West ofEngiandF^mance.

«oohecllcr,
TRURO & FALMOUTH.

^^^2j1

'^

i:

L I G, R A PLY

OF THE

U N IVtR^SITY

Of Ill Noise

8Z3
E)238i

VOL. I.

A WEST OF ENGLAND ROMANCE

AUTHOR OF 'MEHALAH"

IN THREE V L U :\I E S

VOL. I.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



(All rights reserved]

•^

,1

Preface.

addressed TO THOSE WHO ARE NOT OF
THE WEST COUNTRY.)

IN a tale of the West of England in which
are introduced some of the lowest types of
rustic humanity to be found there, it is impossible
to avoid the use of the local dialect.
I- This dialect has, however, been modified, as
much as possible to render it intelligible without
transforming it into the language of the
^ schools. The vulgar dialect is regardless of
sender and reckless in the use of cases. A cow
^ is he, and a tom-cat wags her tail. At a trial
^ in Exeter, at the Assizes, a man was charged
iN with the murder of his wife, a woman with
^ an aggravating tongue. The jury found a

verdict of ^ Not Guilty ' against the clearest
evidence, and, when the Judge expressed his
surprise, ' Ah, your lordship,' said the foreman
in explanation, ' us ain't a-going to
hang he for the likes of she It is perhaps
necessary to explain that ' the Cobbledicks '
are no creation of the imagination — the clan
has only been dispersed of recent years ; the
old man who lived in a cyder-cask is dead,
but he was alive ten years ago. The clan
was Literally one of half-naked savages.

THE FIRST VOLU.AIE

CHAPTER I.

THE COBBLE DICKS.

Log ! ' said the voice of Cobbledick the Old
from a cyder cask.

I be a logging like the blue blazes,' answered
Cobbledick the younger.

Then a dry and dirty hand emerged from
the cask, and with a gorse bush struck at the
girl — that is, at Cobbledick the younger. She
evaded the blow.

Be quiet, whither, or I won't log no
more ! '

You won't? ' with a horrible curse ; ' then
I'll make you, if I whacks and whacks till you
be all over blood and prickles. There, I will,
I swear. Glory rallaluley ! '

On a spur of Dartmoor that struck out
into the proximity of cultivated land, stood a

VOL. I. B

cromlech or dolmen — a rude monument of a
lost race, reared of granite slabs. This spur
of moor was a continuation or buttress of
Gordon Beacon, which, next to Yester, is the
highest point attained by Dartmoor, and is indeed
the second highest mountain in the south
of England.

The dolmen was composed of four great
slabs of granite set on edge, two parallel to
the other two, with a fifth stone closing one
end. The whole ^-^^ supported an enormous
quoit or block, plain on the nether surface,
but un shaped above. Local antiquaries, pretending
to knowledge, but actually ignorant,
called this erection a Druid altar, and pointed
to a sort of basin on the top formed by the
weather, with a channel from it to the edge,
and this they asserted was a receptacle for the
blood of human victims, and a means of lustration
for those who stood below. Other antiquaries,
knowing a great deal, and not ashamed
to confess ignorance where knowledge ended
and guesswork began, said simply that the
monument belonged to prehistoric times, and
that they neither knew who had built it, nor
for what purpose it was raised. The country
folk called it the ' Giant's Table.'

On the lee side of this cromlech was a
cyder cask, tethered to the cromlech by a

piece of cord passed through the bung-hole,
and attached to a stout stick within the monument,
entering between the interstices of the
blocks.

In this cask Heed an old man, named
Grizzly Cobbledick by his neighbours. He
had lived in the cask many years.

Some miles away, to the north, in another
parish, that of Nymet, lived the parent stock
from which he sprung, in an old tumble-down
cottage, sans windows, sans doors, sans chimney,
sans floors, sans everything save the
cob ' — that is, mud walls — and the ragged
roof of thatch.

This hovel was what the Germans would
call the ' Stamp-burg ' of the Cobbledicks.
That is to say, it was the ancestral cradle of
the race; it was also the hive in which they
continued to dwell. They lived there, apart
from their fellows, with whom they held no
communication, never entering a village nor
dealing at any shop, never seen at market or
merry-making, least of all at church.

Their unsociable habits went further. They
allowed no one to invade their hovel and pry
into their mode of living. If any of them saw
a person stand still near the house to observe
it, or to watch a Cobbledick at his
work or his play, a yelp called the whole clan

together, and with howls and curses they set on
the inquisitive visitor, pelting him with stones,
and flinging sticks at his head, so that he was
glad to beat a retreat.

The Cobbledicks were half-naked savages.
They wore, for warmth not for decency, some
wretched rags. When the scanty supply of
garments failed entirely, then the whole crew
dispersed over the country, hunting by moonlight
for a fresh supply ; they stole whatever
same in their way that could be converted
into covering to clothe their nakedness.
Anything served — a potato-sack or a flour-bag.
One or other would change into coat
or gown by making in it slits for head and
arms.

Once a farmer lost an oilcloth stack-covering.
It was deliberately taken off his stack
one rainy night before he had thatched his
wheat. He recognised it torn up and utilised
as curtains to the open holes that served as
windows to Cobbledick Castle. The farmer
prosecuted, but first a rick and then a stack
was burned, and he was glad to stay proceedings
and suffer the savages to keep his oilcloth,
fearing for the thatch of his farmhouse,
and himself, his wife and babes beneath it.

When the neighbourhood was aware that
the Cobbledicks ran short of raiment, old

worn garments were purposely left out at
nio^ht on hero-es for their use.

The migration of Grizzly Cobbledick to
the parish of South Tawton took place in this
wise. It marked an epoch in the history of
the race. The Cobbledicks had not arrived
at that stage of civilisation in which property
becomes personal. Their views as to property
Avere undeveloped. The world belonged in
part to the Cobbledicks, and the rest did not.
What belonged to the Cobbledicks belong-ed
to the family, not to any individual in the
family. They owned land, reclaimed from the
waste long ago, clay land overgrown with
rushes, partly bog ; but this land was not the
property of this Cobbledick or that, male or
female, old or young, it belonged to all, on
the principle of the Russian mir, Not only
so, but the utensils of the house and of the
farm were common, so also were the garments.
The pipkin cooked for the whole family, and
the hoe raised the potatoes for all to eat. The
pipkin was not private property when Poll
stirred it, the hoe was not private property
when Dick worked with it, and the potato-sack
was not owned by him or by her who
wore it. If, by any chance, it were taken off,
it thereby fell back into the common store.
The Cobbledicks never had been civilised.

They were autochthones. The oldest inhabitant
of Nymet remembered them. They did
not increase much, but they did not die out.
Their congeners, named the Gubbins, lived in
the Bedford glens in Charles the First's reign,
when a poet thus described them : —

And near hereto's the Gubbins' cave,
A people that no knowledge have

Of law of God or men \
Whom Caesar never yet subdued,
Who've lawless lived, of manners rude,

All savage in their den.

By whom, if any pass that way,
He dares not the least time to stay,

Eor presently they howl ;
Upon which signal they do muster
Their naked forces in a cluster.

Led forth by Roger Role.

One night a star fell from heaven and
descended into the hovel of the Cobbledicks
through the hole in the roof which allowed
the smoke of the communal fire to ascend ;
and this spark sank into the heart of Old
Grizzly — he was not Old Grizzly then. What
his name was then in the clan never transpired.


That divine spark conveyed to this particular
Cobbledick the idea of personal property.
This idea, once conceived, becomes to the

social body what a backbone is to the physical
oro-anism. There is all the difference in social
conditions between those who have accepted
personal property and those who have not
arrived at it, that exists between vertebrate
animals and invertebrate polypi.

Cobbledick rose from his lair by the fire
where he had been snoring, caught up a female
for whom he had long been sighing, stuffed a
wisp of hay into her mouth to prevent her
from alarming the sleepers, threw her over his
shoulder, and strode out of the Cobbledick
hovel.

The dispersion at Babel was caused by the
discovery of the possessive pronouns.

After having carried his burden beyond
earshot, Cobbledick set her down, pulled the
plug out of her mouth, and said, ' If you
holler, I'll smash your head. So hold thee
gab and come along of L'

The female was overawed into submission,
and she paddled along at his side.

When day broke they found themselves on
a shoulder of down in close proximity to Cos-don.
Rambling over the moor, the woman
hopping and squealing as she touched the
gorse with her bare legs, they lighted on the
grey cromlech, and the male, curling his
tongue in his mouth, produced a loud cluck.

The female, as an imitative animal, clucked
responsive. * Bags ! ' said Cobbledick male,
and by this simple formula be bad claimed
the cromlech as personal property to himself,
his heirs and assigns.

The idea of property had swelled to large
dimensions in his heart since he had first
admitted it. The tract of moor was at that
time — we are speaking of seventy years ago —
wholly uninclosed. Since that date many
encroachments have been made, and much of
the furzy waste placed under cultivation.

Xenophon opens his ' Anabasis ' with the
words, ' The Greeks began it.' In the record
of the conquest and reclamation of the moor
it stands written, ' The Cobbledicks began it.'

First they filled up the interstices between
the blocks of granite of the dolmen with turf
and moss, then they strewed the floor with
bracken, and made bed and seat of heather.
Then they marked out a portion of the
moor, collected stones from off the surface
with infinite labour, and fenced it round with
these stones set as a dry wall. This they
tilled, and, their appetite for property growing,
they inclosed more. The tillage was rude,
but then it was the beginning of tillage to
the whole Cobbledick race. It took that race
six thousand years to arrive at a crooked stick

with Mrs. Grizzly dragging it, and Mr. Grizzly
driving with a switch, and his weight resting
on the tail of the simple plough. When he
took his weight off, to quicken the motions of
Mrs. Grizzly with the switch, the plough levered
out of the ground, she fell, and he also was
thrown forward on his nose. When Grizzly
left the ancestral seat, he carried with him,
in addition to a woman, two ferrets in a bag,
and a sharp whetstone. With the ferrets he
caught rabbits, and with the stone he flayed
them. Grizzly was a neolithic man.

On their first taking possession of the
cromlech, Grizzly fought his wife for the sack
she wore. He wanted to utilise it as a screen
for the entrance. The door was to the south,
but the south wind is a rainy wind and must
be shut out.

Mrs. Grizzly resisted, for the same heavenly
spark that had brought to him the idea of
appropriating one woman as wife, had carried
to her also the idea of keeping as her own, her
very own, the one potato-sack in which she
walked and worked and slept.

This resistance on her part stimulated invention
on his. He devised a screen of wattles
and heather for the door, and this proved a
better shelter than any sack could have made.
Thus we see how the sense of property quickens

invention. The heavenly spark never expired
in the breasts of the Cobbledicks ; they felt no
desire, like the Apostles of old and reformers
of the present day, to revert to the conditions
from which they had escaped. The spark
burned brighter, it demanded fuel. They
proceeded to obtain a cow. How they procured
it nobody knew, though all suspected.
The Cobbledicks disappeared from Tawton
parish for several days. When they reappeared
they were driving a cow before them down
the flanks of Cosdon. Had they fished her
out of the swamps round Cranmer pool?
or had they gone far, far beyond, and acquired
ber in the South Hams, and driven her across
the moor, leaving no traces in the spongy soil
and on the blooming heather whereby they
might be traced, in the event of those from
whom she had been acquired disputing their
right to make off with her ?

But if this latter were the case, what labour
and perseverance it must have cost them to
convey a cow across brawling torrents, over
granite-strewn mountains, and through treacherous
bogs !

This was the way of the Cobbledicks.
When they wanted anything, they went
after it over the moor. Beyond Alas El Dorado,
between the pathless waste, a barrier

forbidding pursuit. They never robbed their
neighbours of anything beyond turnips and
field potatoes. They had made sufficient
advance along the path of social culture to
recognise a sort of fellowship with their neighbours,
and to respect the property of near
neighbours. But this sense of fellowship did
not extend beyond the moor. On the other
side was a sea full of fish, into which whoever
would might dip his net.

One day the female Cobbledick became
a mother, and Grizzly a father.

Soon after this the wife died. Grizzly dug
a hole in the floor of the cromlech, just under
where the fire burned, and laid her there.

She was pleased, when alive, to sit over
the red ashes, spreading out her toes, and
laughing at the yellow flames. Under the
hearthstone she should lie, with her face to
the ashes, and her toes turned to the blaze.
The Cobbledick ideas were growing. The
first dawn of that sentiment which in another
generation might flower into poetry had appeared
in Grizzly's mind.

But the experiment was not happy. At
night, as Grizzly slept, he thought he saw
the old woman working her way up out of
the ground, throwing the earth forth like a
mole, and then peering at him from a corner.

After that she dived again and disappeared.
Presently he felt her heave the earth under
him where he lay, and roll him over, so that
he could not sleep. He was very angry, and
he got a great piece of granite and beat the
floor hard with it. But this was of no avail.
Next night the old woman was heard scratching
with her nails at the bases of the granite
slabs. Once she had been given a hunch of
saffron cake by a farmer's wife, and she had
picked all the currants out and eaten them,
before attacking the substance. She was now
at work on the granite, picking out the horn-blend,
mistaking the black grains for currants.
He'll do with these great stones as her did
with the cake,' said Grizzly ; ^ her got that
all crumbled with hunting the currants, and
he'll treat the stones same way, and bring
the table down on our heads.'

After that he disappeared for three days,
and when he returned he was rolling a cyder
cask before him down Cosdon. This cask he
brought alongside of the cromlech, and attached
it to the old house in the manner
described. He lined it with fern, and retired
into it, along with the child, at night. He
would no longer sleep in the stone mansion
that was being undermined by the dead wife.
He did not object to occupy it by day; and

when he ate, he always threw some crumbs orbits
of meat into the fire, to satisfy the cravings
of the old woman. He supposed that she
picked at the stones because she was hungry.

The child slept with him in the cyder cask
till she grew too big, and made it uncomfortable
for her father. One night he had
cramp in his leg, and kicked out, and kicked
her forth, head over heels ; then he bade her
go for the future to the old house, and sleep
there and be darned, glory rallaluley. Occasionally,
in spring, when all is waxing and
wanton, the Methodists held revival meetings
on the down, and Old Grizzly was accustomed
then to prowl about the outskirts of the assembly,
listening to the preachers, and to the hymns
and rhapsodical outcries of the converted.
These camp meetings reminded him in some
particulars of the ways of the primitive Cobble-ticks.
The new feature, unfamiliar to him, was
the association of religion with these profits.

From such meetings Grizzly had picked
up a few cant expressions which he used for
rounding his sentences without in the least
understanding their import. If he began a
sentence with a curse, he finished it with a
hallelujah, much as a grocer, having put an
iron weight into one scale, heaps the other
with sugar till the balance is complete.

Cobbledick father and daughter were not
in the unseemly condition of nudity affected
by their relatives at K'ymet. These latter sofar
resembled Adam and Eve in the period of
man's innocency that they were naked and were
not ashamed, but with the sense of personal
property came the sense also of self-respect.
The land on which Grizzly and his wife
squatted belonged to the manor of West Wake,
of Yv'hich the Battishills were lords, and the
Squire took care that his tenants should not go
unprovided with old clothes. The Battishills
were very poor, and wore their garments till
the last moment consonant with respectability ;
then they passed them on to the squatters,
whom they made, if not respectable, at least
decent.

Log ! ' screamed the old man from the
cask.

I be a logging ^ like the blue blazes,' answered
the girl, and she spoke the truth.

She was seated with her back to one of the
great stones of the ' Giant's Table,' with a barefoot
resting on the cask on each side of the
restraining rope. She worked her feet alternately,
so as to produce a vibratory motion
in the barrel from left to right. The old man

^ To ' log ' is to rock. Thus a logan stone is a rocking stone,
and a woman logs lier l^aby in its cradle.

liked being rocked to sleep; lie exacted the
task of his daughter : and only when he began
to snore and ceased to swear, dare Joyce Cob-benedick
desist from logging and retire to her
own lair.

The evening had fallen. The sun was set,
but a haze of light hung like a warm hoar frost
over the head of Cosdon, though darkness had
settled down in the valleys, and the village of
Zeal began to twinkle out of all its windows.

The air was still. The rush of the stream
over the granite masses that choked its course
was the only sound audible, save the fretting
of the cask on the turf in its oscillations.

The girl was tired, and one of her feet
was bleeding. She had cut it with a sharp
stone that day.

Joyce Cobbledick was aged eighteen. She
vas a tall, well-built girl, with bright colour,
a low forehead, and dark eyes. Her hair was
as uncombed and uncared for as the mane of
a moorland pony. It was dark brown. Her
jaws were heavy and her cheek-bones high,
like those of her ancestry. There was some
beauty about her — the beauty of a fine animal ;
she was perfectly supple in every limb, admirably
proportioned, easy and even graceful
in her movements, unrestrained by shoes and
cumbrous clothing. Her face was even fine,

but there was nothing like intelligence illumining
her dark eyes.

She wore a thin print gown, and that
was in tatters from her knees by scrambling
through hedges to steal turnips, and brushing
through gorse brakes after rabbits.

Presently the girl intermitted her trampling
movement, believing the old man to be
asleep.

The stars were coming out. The one street
of Zeal, lying between rich meadows and
wood, was like a necklace of diamonds embedded
in black velvet.

Joyce leaned forwards to listen if her
father were snoring. All was still in the
cask, preternaturally still.

She bent her head lower. Then, suddenly,
with a roar, ' Darn your eyes, glory pallas
! ' an old grey, frowzy head and face
shot out of the barrel, and with it a long arm.
A heavy blow of the furze bush fell across
the girl's head and cheek, making her cry outwith
pain.

She recovered her position in a moment,
and dashed her feet together savagely at the
cask. The violence of the action was more
than the cord could endure, already fretted
against the rugged edges of the granite blocks.
It snapped, and in a moment the cask was

driven forward by the impetus of Joyce's
angry kick. It rolled over and over, ran
down a bank, then along an incline of smooth
turf, dashed against a stone which somewhat
diverted its course, bounded into the highroad,
where it shot forth its tenant, and continued
its course in rapid revolutions down
the road that here ascended from the valley.
Joyce uttered a cry, sprang to her feet, and
ran after the rolling barrel towards the highway,
and there saw her father lying stretched
across the road, stunned and speechless.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER 11.

WHAT THE CASK DID.

As Joyce stood on the bank about to leap
down into the road to her father's assistance,
she was arrested by a sight calculated to fill
her with dismay. A chaise drawn by a pair
of horses was approaching from the direction
of Okehampton at a brisk pace. The cask
was in full career down the road, gaining velocity
as it rolled. A curve hid it from the
postillion, and Joyce stood breathless, powerless
to warn the post-boy or arrest the cask,
watching for the result.

The boy was in spirits ; he cracked his
whip, and stimulated the horses — fresh from
the stable at Okehampton — to take the hill in
style. The cask was whirling on. Then it
reached the sweep in the road, and it went
direct against the bank, danced light-heartedly
up it, reeled back, swung itself round and shot
straight down the road at the horses. In
another moment it was on them, leaping

at them like a tiger at the throat of his
prey.

What followed was so sudden, and the
light was so imperfect, that Joyce could not
quite make out what she saw. She heard a
loud cry from the post-boy, who was thrown.
Whether one of the horses went down and
floundered to his feet again she was not sure ;
she believed it was so. Next moment the
chaise was off the road, the two frightened
animals tearing away with it over the common.
Forgetful of her father in the excitement
of the spectacle and in dread of the final
catastrophe, Joyce ran after the carriage, which
she saw bounding over heaps of peat that had
been cut and laid to dry, lurched into hollows,
jolting over tufts of gorse, and jarring
against stones.

Then she saw against the light of the
horizon the figure of a man emer2:ino: from
the window of the chaise, trying to open the
door. Almost simultaneously the wheel of
the carriage struck a huge block of granite,
and in an instant the chaise was thrown on
one side, the horses were kicking furiously,
and the whole converted into a wreck of living
beasts and struggling men and splintered
fragments of carriage.

Ho, heigh ! stay them losses,' yelled the
c 2

post-boy, who had picked himself up and was
running over the down. ^ Sit on their necks;
kip 'em down.'

Joyce ran also, and reached the spot soon
after him.

The postillion went straight at the horses
regardless of everything else, and cut their
traces ; whereupon they ran off, and he careered
in full pursuit after them.

Leave the beasts alone, boy,' shouted a
young man who had disengaged himself from
the shattered carriage, and was helping out a
young lady. ' Leave the beasts and come
here.'

No, no, sir ! The losses must. Them's
my concern.' And away went the boy.

Here, girl,' said the same young man to
Joyce, as she came up; ' help me.' He signed
to her what to do, to raise a man who was
lying motionless among the fragments of the
carriage, to carry him a little distance, and
lay him on the turf at full length.

Stay by him whilst I go for the young
lady.'

Joyce nodded.

The young lady was seated on the rock
that had upset the carriage.

'What frightened the horses?' she asked.

I do not know. Are you hurt? '

^ My foot is sprained. I cannot walk; but
no bones are broken, of that I have satisfied
myself. How goes my father? '

He is seriously injured.'

He did wrong to try and open the door.
The carriage must have fallen over on him.'

Will you remain here whilst I go back to
him?'

Certainly. The moss is soft as a cushion
on this stone.'

Your father, I fear, is seriously hurt. As
you say, he was leaning out of the window
when the coach turned over, and it went down
on the side where he was.'

Bring me my cloak from the chaise. It
is chilly, and the spot is desolate. 1\ me
donne les soissons.' She spoke with wonderful
composure. She might have been on a
picnic, and the dish with the chicken pie
broken ; yet she had narrowly escaped death
herself, and her father was lying dead a few
feet from her. The young man looked at her
face, a little surprised at her perfect coolness.
The face was wax-like, of transparent whiteness
; there was no colour in it. But then
she was cold and possibly frightened, though
betraying no fear in her manner. Her features
were regular and of extraordinary beauty.
Her eyes were large and the lashes long ; her

hair abundant and black. Of emotion in her
face there was none.

'I remember my father said he had suffered
from the rheumatism. Pray take him
from off the grass.' The young man thought to
himself, ' HeVill never suffer from that more ; '
but he made no answer. He went back to the
man lying on the turf, knelt over him, and
examined him. Joyce stood by with arms
folded.

Is there any house near to which this
gentleman could be removed? ' he asked.

Wrest Wyke,' answered Joyce.

MYhereis that?'

She made a motion with her chin, indicating
the direction.

^ And is there a gate to be had on which I
can lay him ? '

She jerked her chin again.

Xow, sir,* said the post-boy, coming up,
I've got the losses cjuiet, what can I do for
you?'''

'- This gentleman must be removed at once
on a hurdle or gate. Run and bring me one.'

Be he hunted cruel bad? ' asked the boy

He is dead.'

Deary me ! ' exclaimed the post-boy,
What a mussy it weren't one of the losses.
Make us truly thankful. I'll get you a gate.'



I'll help you said Joyce. ' You don't
look a sort to carry a gate. Do you call
yourself a man or a rat ? '

Presently the two returned with a hurdle ;
that is to say, Joyce was carrying one on her
head, casting occasionally a contemptuous
glance at the dapper little fellow at her side.

Is my father able to speak yet ? ' asked
the lady.

Xo,' answered the young man. ' Do not
be alarmed. We must carry him to a house,
where he can be put to bed, and then we will
return for you. Do you mind being left
alone, or can you walk as far as to the house ? '

'I have already told you that I cannot
walk. You are forgetful, monsieur.'

Then this girl will remain with you till
we return.'

Very well. If she likes to remain she
may remain. It is her affair.'

The young lady spoke with a foreign — a
French accent, which was pretty. Indeed,
there was a foreign grace in her attitudes, and
taste in her dress, which showed that, if an
Englishwoman, she must have lived a great
deal in France.

The gentleman returned to Joyce ; he was
a tall and fine young man, with dark hair and
moustache and frank blue eyes.

Will you retain here with the lady while
we go on to the house ? '

Joyce nodded and went over to the rock
on which the young lady was seated. She
planted herself before her.

The 'ouse to which we must carry the
gent be yonder,' said the post-boy. ' I seed
him as I wT.nt for the gate.'

Do not be alarmed if we carry your
father.'

^ 1 shall not be alarmed.'

Then the post-boy going before and the
young gentleman following, they proceeded
very gently to carry the motionless form in
the direction of West Wyke.

Joyce remained with the young lady; she
studied her with great attention from head to
foot. The sky was clear, and there was still
much light entangled in the upper atmosphere.
The whole of the north was full of silvery
twilight.

I never seed a born teddy afore so close,'
said Joyce.

'I am a born lady,' replied the other,
haughtily.

'Did I say you-wasn't? Have you any
other rags on but what I sees?'

Rags ! ' indignantly. ' What do you
mean, girl ? '

Look here,' said Joyce, ' I hasn't. Must
comes the gown, and then comes I. Down in
the good land to Zeal and Tawton, where the
lanes be cut deep, I seed there be nethermost
hard rock, then over that comes shells, then
a sort of gravelly trade (stuff), then a top o'
that meat birth ; and over all, like the gown,
the waving green grass. Up here on the
moor taint so. There's the granite and then
the moss, and if you scraps through the moss
you comes right on and on to the stone. That
be like us as lives up here, whither and I, but
wi' the quality it be different, as lives in lew
(sheltered) places; they has more coverings
nor us, night and day, I reckon.'

'• You have no more clothes on you than
that thin gown ? '

Xo, us be like moor rock, must the moss,
then the stone.'

Are you begging? '

I never axes for naught ; what I wants I
takes.'

The lady shivered and drew back on her
seat. She was disgusted with the appearance,
and offended at the rudeness of the girl.

Why don't clothes grow on our backs,
thick and warm as the wool on sheep, the fur on
rabbits, and the moss on moonstone ? 'T would
come handier,' observed Joyce Cobbledick.

The lady made no reply.

Wot's that man, that young man as spoke
to you and I?' asked Joyce.

I do not know his name.'

He don't belong to you ? '

Most certainly not with a contemptuous
shrug.

Where did you get nun? '

'He is travelling with us — that is all.
He joined my father in taking a chaise from
Launceston.'

'Why didn't y' travel by the mail-coach?
Her goes by every day.'

'The coach had left Launceston when
we arrived there from Falmouth, so we
engaged a chaise. My father was in haste to
reach Exeter, and that person joined us. I
do not know his name, neither do I care.
My father satisfied himself, I presume, of his
respectability. That is all.'

Where dory come from mistress ? Over
t'other side of the moor I reckon.'
1 come from France.'
Joyce was puzzled. Her geographical
knowledge was too limited for her to know of
France.

I reckon that be a long way off, t'other
side o' Prince's Town and the prisons, surely.
Be there savages in them parts ? '

Savages ! certainly not

^ There be here. I be one. I be a Cob-benedick,
and the Cobbledicks be all savages.
But whither and I be better nor the rest out
N'ymet. They be savages and no mistake.'

I have no doubt of it.'

I say, young lady, is that man as they
carried on the gate to West ^Vyke your
whither ? '

^ He is my father.'

Did he bang you about much ? Did he
whack you often wi' a bunch of buzz? Not
but you'd mind over much wi' all them pack
o' clothes to your back.'

Certainly not.'

Did you have to rock him to sleep o'
nights in a barrel ? '

'No.'

Mebbe you never had much dodging out
of the way of the stones he throned at your
head.'

Of course not.'

My old whither doth all these to me.
He whacks me wi' bridles and buzz, and
he throws turves and stones at me, and I has
to rock nun every night or he wouldn't sleep
a wink. Of all the proper laggard in the
world there ain't an ekal to whither. But I
reckon fathers is fathers all the world over.

They be all like oak sticks, some crooked
nor others, but none straight. You don't
mind over much what has happened to yours ? '

The young lady only imperfectly understood
the girl, owing to the rudeness of her
speech and her strong provincial brogue.

There be my old whither rolled out of
his barrel right across the high road, and I
don't know if heave a broke his neck or no ;
and I don't hear hover much, no more nor
you does because your whither ha' gone and
done the same.'

What do you mean, girl? '

^ I mean wdiat I ses. I know wdiat broke
necks mean. I ha' broke the necks o' rabbits
scores and scores o' time" Him's just the
same, every bit and crone.'

The young lady shuddered. She did not
cry, but her breath caught in her throat.

Mon Dieu I Ce n'est pas vrai ! Comme
cette fille me fait peur ! '

^ What be that jabber about ? You oughtn't
to mind.'

For the love of God, girl, do not frighten
me. It is wicked — it is cruel. It is not
true.'

Not true ! ' echoed Joyce ; ' I knows it
be. I knows a broke neck in a man as in a
rabbit.'

^ Be quiet. If you want money, en voila,
take and leave me tranquil.'

Joyce struck her hand aside.

That'll you do wi' he now ? Mother
be poked under the hearthstone, where the
fire can warm her. But when Old Grizzly
goes, I shan't put he along o' mother. He
can't sleep under the table now, and her '11
leaden a life of it, if he be put under the
hearthstone along of she. Her never worries
me, but her don't leave old whither alone not
one rainnit of nights. Her does it because he
knocked her, and beat her scores and scores o'
times when her were alive. Now her thinks
her turn be come. But her's got no vice in
her. It be all play, only whither be that
crabbed he don't put up wi' it. When Old
Grizzly goes, I'll up wi' his heels and send
him into a bog once for all He'll be wet
and cold there I reckon, and the moss grows
so thick over them quaking bogs, that once in
there be no getting out, no more than when
you're gone under the ice on Rayborouoh
Pool. Then he'll leave me in peace I reckon.'

You will do that, you long cripple
(viper), you!' screamed the old man, who
had overheard the arrangements planned for
his interment, and disapproved of them.
You will do that ! ' He rushed on Joyce

from behind, raining furious blows on her
with his fists. ' You will stop me in a bog,
will? I'll put you in must, curs'd everlasting
rallaluley if I don't.' The old man
yelled with fury. He stepped backwards and
leaped at Joyce, and beat and swore.

The young lady was frightened, and cried
out for help. The horrible old man seemed
to her to be some superhuman apparition
rising out of the moor soil — a vampire, a
ghoul from a cairn, come to destroy the
wretched girl before her.

You chuck down thick (that) stone,
whither?' cried Joyce, as he stooped and took
up a piece of granite in both hands.

I won't, I won't. I'll mash you first,
you unnat'ral varmint! You nigh upon
killed me by rolling me over and over in the
cask, and shan't I nigh upon do the same by
you ? Glory rallaluley, blast me blue ! '

Joyce was unquestionably stronger than
old Cobbledick, and might have disarmed
him, but the divine spark had been communicated
to her; it flickered faintly in her
dim soul, and a dumb instinct forbade her
raising her hand against her father. She had
borne his brutality for many a year, and had
not resented it. She was his child, for him
to deal with as he thought best. The sense

of property had become strongly rooted in
the minds of this branch of the Cobbledicks,
and as forces are correlated, and heat, and
light, and electricity, and sound are but the
same force acting in different ways, so was it
with the sense of possession. In the breast
of Joyce it had transformed itself into a consciousness
of filial duty.

Joyce put up her hand to ward off the
blow.

Then the young man who had carried the
injured gentleman away arrived, running up,
summoned by the cries, and with one stroke
of the stick he held in his hand, he made the
old man drop the stone.

In another moment he would have beaten
out your brains,' said he, panting.

I reckon he would,' observed Joyce.

The old man howled with pain, dancing
about holding his arm where struck.

Who are you ? What are you doing
here?' asked the gentleman.

Never you heed he,' said Joyce. ' Hers
old whither.'

Help me away from this horrible place,'
entreated the lady : ' I have fallen among
savages in a dreadful wilderness. Am I in
England, in Europe — or is this the wilds of
Northern Canada? '

She is lame,' said the young man to
Joyce. ' Assist me in conveying her to the
house yonder.'

Joyce put herself submissively on one side.

*How is my father?' asked the young
lady.

'No better,' he replied.

This strange girl tells me he has broken
his neck.'

He was silent. He could not tell her the
truth. It must be broken gently to her.

I should wish to know if it be so.'

Let us hope for the best. I have sent
the post-boy to Okehampton for a doctor.
He will know better than I what is the matter,
and what must be done.'

But you can surely tell me whether hebe
alive or dead.'

He is still unconscious.'

I know he be dead,' said Joyce roughly.
What's a broke is a broke, and his neck be
broke as sure as a bit o' cloak. I told her so.'

Is he dead ? ' again asked the young
lady.

She was now being carried to the house.
There was no tremor in the arms that rested
on the shoulders of her bearers.

I asked you a simple question. It is unmannerly
to refuse an answer.'

I believe he is dead said he with an
effort.

I am very sorry was her calm reply.

The young man stopped; the girl Joyce
stopped also. The twilight from the northwest
was full on the white lovely face; there
was no expression of distress on it, none of
grief — not a trace of a tear in her large dark
eyes.

Why do you not go on? I said I am very
sorry, naturally. He was my father. What
else should I say ? '

VOL. I. D

CHAPTER III.

WEST Wake.

The young man and Joyce conveyed the lady
between them under a low embattled gateway
into a small yard or garden — it was too
dark to distinguish which — and halted in the
porch of a house.

Joyce said : ' Stay, I go no murder. I never
ha' been inside a house and under hellenes
(slates) afore, and I ain't a going now

The door opened, and a blaze of ruddy
light fell on them. A young lady had opened
to admit them.

'There be Miss Cicely Battishill,' said
Joyce. ' Sure her will take my place once
for all.'

Another step more, girl,' said the young
man to Joyce, ' and our burden is in a chair.'

Why dory call me a girl ? ' asked Joyce.
I hasn't a girl, I be a maiden. There be
maidens in these parts and no girls. I dun-now,
but the teddy I been a helping maybe

a girl; hers different froDi I, I be a
maiden.'

Never mind distinctions said the young
man, impatiently. ' Go on another step.'

'No, I'll put my head under no hellenes.
I be a savage,' said Joyce, obstinately. ' You
go on yourself, and get Miss Cicely to help.'

I will take your place, Joyce,' said the
young lady at the door ; and she assisted the
strange pale girl to come in.

The young man looked back over his
shoulder, and said, ' Thanks for your help as
far as it went, maiden.'

Joyce stood without, the red light on her,
with the dark garden, the moor, and the
night sky behind, her strange face appearing
even handsome in the glow, and the flicker
reflected in her dull eyes.

The figure struck the young man with an
evanescent sense of pity. She seemed an
outcast — desolate, friendless.

Then the door closed, and the light was
cut off. But Joyce did not leave. She stood
in the porch with her arms folded looking
over the black garden wall at the wild, blacker
moor beyond, over which the wind was soughing.
She was lost in a day-dream unintelligible
to herself.

The light from the window streaked the

D 2

garden and fell on an orange lily that stood
out luminous and fiery against the inky background
of foliage and wall. The stars were
coming out in the sky. Joyce remained motionless,
with her eyes on the fiery flower.

In the meantime the pale young lady was
conveyed to a seat by the fire. The porch
door opened immediately into the hall or
parlour. This was a small low room, irregularly
built, with a bay in which was the
window. It was so small that with twenty
people within it would be crowded inconveniently
; it was so low that a tall man could
touch the ceiling.

The hall was panelled throughout, very
unpretentiously, with plain black oak; there
was no carving except over the great fireplace,
where was a coat of arms, once heraldically
emblazoned, but now obscured by smoke.
The coat was curious. Azure, a cross crossed
in saltire, between four owls argent, beaked
and legged or.

On the walls were hung a few old portraits
in tarnished oval frames. The paint was
cracked and peeling off.

The ceiling was crossed by moulded oak
beams of great size, black with age and smoke.

A tall, very thin gentleman, Mr. Battishill,
the owner of the house, and squire of West



Wyke and lord of the manor, had been seated
in a high-backed leather-covered chair beside
the fire. He started up and offered it to the
young lady with many rather uncouth bows.
This gentleman was old ; he still wore his hair
tied back by a black riband, though the
fashion had gone out. His suit was rusty,
his boots were split in the upper leather, and
the elbows of his long coat were patched.
His face was peculiar. The nose was pointed
and aquiline, and, as forehead and chin receded,
it gave his head the appearance of that
of a bird. The eyes were very wide open,
prominent, and of the palest grey. His hair
was frosted with age.

The expression of his eyes was one of
eager inquiry. His mouth was weak, and
the lips were incessantly quivering. There
was a kindly look about the feeble mouth
which assured those who studied the face that
a kind heart was lodged within, and showed
them that the qualities of this organ were
superior to those of the head.

Mr. Battishill's daughter Cicely was a fine
girl, about the same age as Joyce — eighteen.
She was somewhat stoutly built, with hair of
a glowing auburn, almost red, but not harshly
red, rather of the richest, sunniest chestnut.
Her complexion was of that quality, seen

nowhere but in Devon ; transparent, delicate,
white, with the brightest, healthiest, purest
colour conceivable ; a face in which the
mounting of a blush had all the beauty and
splendour of a sunrise. Her eyes were hazel,
dancing with life and intelligence. There
was buoyant good nature in every line of her
face. At the present moment her expression
was that of distressed sympathy with the
lovely girl just introduced into her father's
house.

The contrast between the two was striking.
The new comer was absolutely colourless.
Her hair was dark, almost if not wholly
black. She was very slenderly built, her
hands were long, and the fingers fine and
tapering. The hands indicate culture and
purity of race ; those at which Cicely now
looked were hands belonging to a lady of high
nervous sensibility and perfect breeding. Her
features were regular, and singularly delicately
and beautifully cut. The eyes, when raised,
sent a tremor to the heart of him on whom
they rested ; they were deep, full, and mysterious.
A soul lay in those unfathomed pools,
but of what sort none might guess. There
was nothing in the expression of the face to
assist in the inquiry. And yet the face was
not a blank page and therefore uninviting.



The expression that sat on it was one of reserve,
and therefore as provoking as those
wonderful eyes.

Cicely was frank and impulsive ; her heart
was visible to all the world, she had no reserve
whatever, what she thought she said;
and her heart spoke through her eyes, a genial,
affectionate heart, fresh and simple.

The pale young lady was evidently relieved
by being placed in a chair by the fire.
Her foot had pained her ; it was now rested
on a footstool.

I beg your pardon,' said Mr. Battishill,
I did not catch the name. It is such a pleasure
to me to know to whom I am able to
offer hospitality. It places persons on a footing
of friendship at once when they are able
to address each other by name.'

My name is Miracle,' said the young lady,
without raising her eyes from the fire or
moving a muscle of her face. ' My mother
was the Countess Garcia. She married my
father, a Mr. Strange. It is not necessary in
Spain to take the paternal name ; I prefer to
be called Miracle Garcia de Cantalejo. Canvas
is territorial.'

Mr. Battishill listened with open mouth
and staring eyes, and drew himself up. A
distinguished guest this.

And Cant '

Cantalejo,' interrupted Miracle, ' is in
Segovia — in Old Castile of course. We
belong to the purest of the ancient Castilian
nobility. Cantalejo belonged to the family
from the earliest period ; it is even said
that when Saint Jacques came to Spain he
was the guest of my ancestor, and that
is why we bear an escallop on our coat.
Cantalejo belonged to us till the sixteenth
century

^ And now ? '

It has ceased to belong to us for three
hundred years. But before that we exercised
sovereign powers in the country, we coined
our own money, and hung malefactors on our
own gallows.'

Your poor father,' began Mr. Battishill,
his nervous mouth working and his eager
eyes staring, ' that is, Mr. Strange — I think
you said Strange — '

Miracle bowed an affirmative.

Your poor father, Mr. Strange, lies, I
fear, in a very sad and precarious state. He
has been placed in the spare bedroom upstairs,
and the doctor has been sent for, but cannot
well be here for an hour.'

I am told that my lather is dead,' said
the young lady composedly. ' I am very

sorry. And what increases my desolation is
that he was a heretic

You love him,' whispered Cicely, looking
pained and puzzled.

I have always prayed for him, and I will
pray for him still,' said Miracle. ' He did not
know the truth, so his invincible ignorance
may save him.'

You would hardly like to see him now,'
suggested Cicely.

No, perhaps tomorrow.'

You love him,' persisted Cicely.

Of course,' answered Miracle. ' It is my
duty. But you must understand that 1 have
not known him except by name till last fortnight.
I had not seen him at all till a fortnight
ago, when he came to Paris to take me
away from the Sacre Coeur.'

The young man had been watching her
face intently. He had seemed more pained
than Cicely at her want of feeling. Now he
drew a long breath, a sigh of relief; these
Avoids of Miracle explained her coldness.

I am sorry that he is dead,' she went on,
but he ought not to have married my mother.'

• We cannot regret that,' said Mr. Battis-hill
with awkward gallantry, ' since to that
we are indebted for the pleasure of making
your acquaintance.'

Miracle considered for a moment, then she
said simply, ' You mean that I should not
have existed. True ; I did not think of this

Mr. Battishill and the young man were
unable to repress a smile. She was a curious
mixture of simplicity, reserve, and frankness.
The reserve was exercised over her feelings, but
she was perfectly frank about her thoughts.

^ Have you ever been to Cantal ? I

have not quite caught the names

I have never been in Spain at all,' answered
Miracle.

Where, then, have you lived? '

In Paris. Where else should I live ?
One lives in Paris, one exists elsewhere.'

But your father ? '

Mr. Strange was a Brazilian diamond
merchant. I mean a merchant of diamonds
living in Brazil. My mother married him
there. It was very good of my mother, but
she was an angel. He was rich — comme qa
mais bourgeois. When I was born, my mother
came to Paris to have me properly educated,
and I lived there till the good God took her.
I have been at school with the English sisters
of the Sacre Coeur. When my father came
to Paris he took me away, to bring me to his
home in England.'
' Where is his home?'

'He lias none; he would make one. He
has retired from his business.'

What relations has he? They should be
communicated with.'

I do not know that he has any. My
mother never spoke of my father's relations.
She knew nothing of them; she did not
want to know them. In this world everything
is on shelves, and the things on each
shelf are kept to themselves. Where they
get mixed there is inextricable confusion.
Above, angels; then kings, nobles, bourgeois,
peasants, monkeys, and so down to the lowest
form of life — those laid on the floor. My
father's relatives were not noble.' Then suddenly,
' Are you noble, sir ? '

Mr. Battishill threw up his head proudly.
My family is gentle, and of ancient degree,'
he said. ' We appeared in the Heralds' Visitation
of 1620 in four descents, but I have
title-deeds that show we were lords of the
manor of West Wyke from the time of Edward
the Third.'

^ Those are your arms?' asked Miracle,
looking at the chimney-piece. 'What birds
are those?'

Owls,' answered Mr. Battishill, proudly ;
owls argent, beaked and clawed or.'

Miracle contemplated the owls, then looked

at the gentleman, with his blank eyes, beak-like
nose, and grey hair. Her lips twitched
slightly, but she was too well bred to smile.

'- The bird is dedicated to Minerva. It is
the symbol of wisdom,' she said.

The Battishills were ever owls,' said he,
proudly. Then he asked, glancing at the
young man, ' Is this gentleman your brother?'

Miracle looked up full for the first time
into the young stranger's face.

He is no relative of mine. I do not even
know his name.'

My name,' said he, stepping forward, ' is
John Herring.' He was interrupted by a
laugh from Miracle.

Herring!' she exclaimed, ' Quel drove de
nom ! That is a fish they split and pickle,
and pack in barrels, is it not?' The young
man coloured.

The name is bourgeois — Herring ! '

The young gentleman drew back, wounded.
He said nothing more about himself, but
asked Mr. Battishill in a low voice for a
lantern.

The trunks and portmanteaus are lying
with the broken chaise, and I must see to
their being placed under shelter and in security.
Are there men about the premises
who can assist me?'

There will be some difficulty about finding
a man,' answered Mr. Battishill. ' We
do not keep one in the house, and the cottages
are at a distance. You will not find
your way to them by night. Do not trouble
about the trunks; leave them till morning.
No one will touch them.'

I prefer removing them. When the postboy
returns from Okehampton with the doctor,
I will secure his assistance.'

Cicely had lighted a lantern whilst her
father was speaking. She offered it to John
Herring. ' I will go for you to the cottages,'
she said ; ' I will send some men to help you.'
She accompanied him to the door. 'It is
quite right that the things should not be left
out all night on the moor. There are tramps
on the Exeter road, and the Cobbledicks are
close by.' She opened the door, and the light
fell on Joyce.

'Why, Joyce, you here still? I thought
you had gone back to the Giant's Table.'

If I were to go back to whither, he'd kill
me. I ha' lost he his old barrel, and him
won't sleep under the table a'cos mother be
there wi' her playful ways, tormenting of
he.'

'What do you mean, Joyce?'

I means this, miss. His barrel be rolled

away down bill, and I dunno where her be
rolled to. Where be whither to sleep?'

Under the Giant's Table.'

That won't do, 'cos o' mother. Her be
lively o' nights when whither be there. 'Ain't
wickedness, it be her playful ways. Her
leaves me alone right enough. But whither
won't go there. Now if he might sleep i'
one o' your linnies,^ he'd be right vast enough
as a nail in a door.'

By all means let him sleep there, Joyce,
at least for a while, till you can recover the
cask.'

^ Then I can go back to he. If I hadn't
that to say, he'd ha' killed me. Now he'll go
snuo-o-le into the straw like a heckamall' in a
rick. That's beautiful!'

Joyce,' said Cicely, ' this gentleman is
going to the broken carriage. Perhaps you
can assist him to remove some of the trunks.
They must not be left out where they are.'

'There be some scott right abroad,'^ answered
Joyce ; ' I seed nun, and the things
be coming out like.'

More the reason why they should be collected
and brought under cover.'

^ Lean-to sheds.

^ A heckamall or heckanoddy is a tomtit,

^ Broken to pieces.

Til go right on end said Joyce. 'And
whither may sleep in the linnet?'

Yes, he may.'

Oh, rallaluley, he'll be glad!'

So Joyce led the way, followed by Herring,
and Miss Cicely Battishill went in quest
of assistance.

When Herring and Joyce reached the
scene of the accident, they discovered Old
Grizzly hopping about amidst the wreck,
pulling the pieces of the broken carriage apart.
He had made some clearance in the confusion,
but not from disinterested motives. Everything
in Xh.Q shape of cushion and cloak had
disappeared, and the old wrecker was engaged
in collecting chips of the broken wood for
firing.

John Herring did not notice particularly
what he was about ; it was too dark to distinguish
much. He went directly to the
boxes.

Of his own goods there was little to take
care of save one valise, and that was safe.
The rest of the trunks and portmanteaus belonged
to Mr. Strange and his daughter. The
trunks lay, some still corded, on the top of
the chaise; others thrown off, one with its
lock sprung. This box had either been very
much shaken by the fall, or Grizzly's arm had

been turning it over, for the lid would no
longer close over the confused and overflowing
contents.

Grizzly Cobbledick decamped when he saw
the lantern brought to bear on the wreck.
Joyce called after lira, but he made no reply.
Then she went in pursuit to announce to him
the glad news that he was to sleep in the
straw of the calves' linnet at West Wyke.

I wonder mused John Herring, * whether
that old rascal can have stolen anything of
value. If he has, there is no one to bring
him to book. The owner is dead, and the
daughter probably knows nothing of the
contents of the boxes.'

If he had known !

CHAPTER IV.

Miracle.

It is aggravating to the reader to be asked to
move backwards when he has been well started
in a story. He resents it, as he resents the
backing of a train when he has left the station
where he took his ticket, and is impatient
to reach his destination.

The author is aware that he is trying the
patience of the reader when he asks him to
turn into a side alley which bends in the same
direction as his starting point. He would
avoid asking him to turn if it were possible todo
so. But it is not always possible. To a
drama, to the farce of half an hour, is prefixed
the list of characters. In taking up one of
Lacy's acting copies, the reader learns at a
glance that Box is a journeyman printer,
and Cox a journeyman hatter, and that Mrs.
Bouncer is a lodging-house keeper. He learns
a great deal about them before he comes to a
word of dialogue. He is informed that Box

VOL. I. E

wears ' small swallow-tailed black coat, short
buff waistcoat, light drab trousers (short,
turned up at the bottom), black stockings,
white canvas boots with black tips, cotton
neckcloth, and shabby black hat ; ' further,
that Cox is apparelled in ' brown Newmarket
coat, long white waistcoat, black plaid trousers,
boots, white hat, black stock ; ' that Mrs.
Bouncer is costumed in 'coloured cotton
gown, apron, cap, &c.' He feels at once that
he knows all about these characters. He
reads their past in their costume, they wear
their souls on their limbs. Note that ' turned
up at the bottom' — the words illumine the
abysses of the character of Box, and make
them clear to us.

But the novelist is debarred what is allowed
the dramatist. He must haul up his
curtain on a situation without an introductory
word, and then, when the reader is
puzzled as to the characters, antecedents, and
purposes of the dramatis personnes he is obliged
to step forward, stick in hand, as in a waxwork,
point out the several personages and
describe them. This is the way of novelists.
It is a bad way, it is inartistic, but it is
exacted by the reader.

Now, in describing the characters of a
novel it is not sufficient to give minute accounts

of the costume — in the case of the
Cobbledicks this is done in a word ; the author
is required to give his readers a key to the
inner mechanism of his puppets, to show
why they walk or pirouette, and what may be
expected to be the limits of their powers.
He can rarely do this without retrogression.

That Miracle may be understood and not
be judged with undue severity, we must step
back to a period before her birth ; but we
shall be as rapid in our survey as we can, and
shall resume the thread of our story after a
very short divagation.

The Countess Garcia de Cantalejo was a
poor Spanish lady sent out to Brazil by her
relatives, who were by no means near, to begot
rid of by marriage, malaria, or mosquitoes,
as might be, but anyhow to be got rid of.

She was handsome, but, like the milkmaid
in the ballad, ' her face was her fortune.'
Now in Spain pretty women abound, and
ugly women are exceptional. Marriageable
men look out more for money, which is scarce,
than for beauty, which is a drug. Money,
moreover, they know, in prudent hands will
wax ; beauty they know, however well conserved,
will wane.

In Brazil she was seen and admired by
Mr. Strange, a diamond merchant, and she cone

2

seated to give him her cold hand, intending at
the earliest opportunity to supplement it with
the cold shoulder. She married him because
no one else would have her, and because he
was well off. She was proud of her family,
and it was a condescension on her part — like
that of the sun which stoops to kiss the
puddle — for her to link the proud name of
Garcia with that of Strange, and Cantalejo —
which was territorial, with a blank, for the
Strange had never owned any more ground
than the six foot allotted them as graves,
and that only till they had smouldered. They
had made,but not coined, their money,certainly
never had hung men on their own gallows.

Mr. Strange and the Countess Garcia de
Cantalejo lived together for a few years like
oil and water. At length the Countess became
the mother of a daughter, who was
baptized Miracle at the font in the Cathedral
of Bahia, by the Cardinal Archbishop himself.
After this Donna Garcia informed her husband
that their separation was inevitable. The
child could not be decently suckled, weaned,
and educated in a colony, certainly not in a
city so mean as Bahia. The child, the heiress
of the coronet and of the name with its territorial
tail, must go to Europe.

The Countess did not purpose returning to

Spain ; there were circumstances attending
her departure from her native country which
had embittered her against her relatives
there. No ! she would go to Paris, the centre
of the civilised world.

Mr. Strange raised no objections. He
was weary of association with a woman full
of caprice, of fading charms, and of intolerable
pride. He was a reserved and a disappointed
man. To every bird comes its time of song ;
to the swan only at death, to the nightingale
in balmy spring while mating ; it is only the
chatterers that chatter ever. The sono: time,
the flowering time, the moment when the
dullest life breaks into poetry, is the moment
of love. Mr. Strange had gone through this
and had been disenchanted, and thenceforth
his life became dull, prosaic, without melody
and colony unimpassioned. His heart had
flamed, and his wife had extinguished its fires
with ice.

Mr. Strange had no love for babies.
Babies are to men objects as offensive as
naked infant rabbits. A doe eats her young
rather than expose them to the strange eye
before then' fur is grown. If women were as
wise as does they would never exhibit the
contents of their nursery till the children
could talk and run about.

Mr. Strange heard a squalling in the
house ; the object his wife had produced was
thrust under his eyes and nose with indecent
haste. It dribbled when teething, erupted
with the thrush, and had a difficulty in
keeping down its milk. Consequently, when
the Countess proposed to remove the babe to
Paris, Mr. Strange gave a cheerful consent,
and this consent was made doubly cheerful
by the certainty that the mother would accompany
her child.

If Mr. Strange acted in a somewhat callous
manner in granting this separation between
himself and his wife and child, he was in
other particulars generous. He made the
Countess an allowance which, for his circumstances,
was handsome, and as the child grew,
and greater demands were made on his purse,
he met these demands without remonstrance.

Arrived in Paris, the Countess Garcia had
not long to swim before her feet touched
ground. She had a perfectly legitimate right
to her title, her pedigree was unassailable,
her manners were polished. She appeared at
the balls of the Spanish ambassador, and associated
with the best French and Spanish
families belonging to the old noblesse. It
was well known that she had married a
moneyed Englishman, of no birth, nor station,

nor religion. It was known that she had
married for money. No one spoke of Mr.
Strange. The great people among whom she
moved would as soon have inquired about a
boil that troubled her as about the husband
whom ' for her sins ' she had saddled on her.
No persons of breeding invite their friends to
introduce them to the family skeleton.

Miracle was brought up by the Countess
to think of her father as a man who had taken
a mean advantage of her mother's poverty.
He was her father by sufferance ; de facto ^
alas, not de jure. She had inherited her
mother's complexion, eyes, and hair ; the blood
in her veins was her mother's, Spanish and
aristocratic ; her sentiments were her mother's,
as also her prejudices and her faith. It was
hard to say what she derived from her father
except her living and schooling for which he
paid. For that she owed him nothing. He
was fulfilling his duty, and a privilege he
ought to value. What was he, to be the
husband of a Garcia and the father of a
Garcia ? He was English, he was a heretic,
worst of all he was bourgeois.

The Countess bought herself silks with
Mr. Strange's money, wore the diamonds he
sent her, hired good rooms in an aristocratic
quarter, and paid for them from his remittances.

She had nothing whatever of her
own. She owed him everything, to her handkerchiefs
and her shoestrings. She knew
this perfectly, and writhed under the knowledge.
The greater the debt she owed him,
the deeper ih^ detestation with which she
regarded him. Each present he sent her
was repaid by instilling a drop of bitterness
into the heart of his child towards him.

One stipulation with regard to his
daughter's education Mr. Strange had made.
He insisted that she should have an English
nurse, and that when she grew older she
should have English playmates and English
governesses. When old enough to go to
school her mother sent her to English nuns,
because Mr. Strange refused to allow her to
go to any other convent than one of English
sisters. Thus it was that Miracle grew upto
speak English fluently and well, and to
thoroughly understand the tongue. But of
English ways of thinking and of feeling she
had not the faintest conception. Proud, cold,
selfish, and bigoted her mother had been, and
the ambition of Miracle was to model herself
on her mother. Thus she, too, became proud,
cold, selfish, and bigoted. It was not her
fault — the fault lay in her training.

The Countess was a Avoman of the world,

who combined religious zeal with .
She was a vain woman, and
though she did her utmost to conserve her
beauty it withered, and the child blooming
into lovely maidenhood at her side made the
contrast distressing, because noticeable. This
was the reason Why she placed Miracle in a
convent in her fourteenth year. She saw the
girl often, but never, if she could help it, was
seen in her company.

This separation from her mother was of
advantage to Miracle. It preserved her simplicity.
There was no craft in her ; she was
absolutely guileless, distressingly frank, and
innocent of the trickery as well as of the
wickedness of the social world. She was cold,
because the spring had not yet come to her
frozen heart. She loved her mother, but
without passion, for her mother was too selfish
to awaken passionate love. Her nurses and
governesses had changed so often that lie
could not count them. Among the cold
sisters, lilies of virtue, the exhibition of emotion
was, if not sinful, yet smacking of imperfection.
Natural affections were weaknesses
of the moral spine, to be conquered by wearing
a perpetual back-board.

Suddenly the Countess died — died in her
chair before the looking-glass, reciting the

Litany of Lore to, whilst her face was being
enamelled. The beautifier entreated Madame
la Comtesse not to draw her mouth down on
one side, it was cracking the enamel before it
was dry —-just when she had arrived at the
tower of ivory Then Madame la Comtesse
gave a gasp and the enamel came off, washed
away from her brow by the sweat of death,
and running in a milky river down her nose
and cheeks, and dripping on the peignoir under
her chin. The beautifier rang the bell, and
said, ^ Sacre mille diables ! To whom shall I
send in the bill ? Madame is no more in condition
to pay.'

When Mr. Strange heard of his wife's
death, he settled his affairs in Brazil. He was
a strictly conscientious man, and he felt that
now it was his duty to look after the child.
He had no idea that the child had sprung up
into maidenhood, and was a tall, lovely girl,
lovelier than her mother had ever been. His
wife had not taken the trouble to send him a
miniature of his daughter. Miniatures are
expensive, and the Countess wanted all the
money she received for herself. She did,
indeed, once send him a bit of her hair, tied
with blue silk ; but then, that cost nothing.
Mr. Strange thought of his child as a limp
piece of mortality in a long white garment,

with a frill round the red head like that put
round a ham-bone — a thing of squeals, that in
its squealing showed a pair of toothless gums,
a quivering red tongue, and a crinkled white
palate. He could hardly believe his eyes
when introduced to his daughter. She received
him with perfect self-possession, without
raising her eyes from the ground to look
at him, for the sisters had taught her the
custody of the eyes. According to S. Paul,
there is but one Man of Sin, and he is in
the future ; to the religious all men are men
of sin, and in the present.

Miracle curtsied gracefully. She spoke
the best copy-book sentiments of filial respect,
and assured him (out of the Catechism) of
the obligation to filial duty under which she
lay.

Then he took her away from the nuns of
the Sacred Heart, and carried her about Paris,
sight-seeing, in the hope of making her unbend.


The decorator sent in a bill for two
thousand francs, his charge for beautifying
madame, hoping to get fifty, and ready to
accept five. Mr. Strange tore the bill, and lit
his cigar with it.

An old woman who had laid madame out
asked five francs for her pains. Then timidly

produced a lock of hair she had cut off madame's
head as she laid her in the coffin. The hair
was beautiful still ! and, oh ! madam e had
looked so sweet, so peaceful, like a holy angel,
actually young again. Then Mr. Strange
took the lock reverently, turned his face
away, and did not speak. Something in his
throat troubled him. He thought of twenty
years ago — of the time when his heart bounded,
of the singing of the nightingale, of the flowering
of the wheat, of the short dream of poetry.
Then he recovered himself, and put something
in the old woman's hand. The old woman
went chuckling away. When she reached the
street she said, ' That was a brave invention.
Madame's complexion was that of a toad's
belly. She was hideous as a monkey. I
could not pick the paint off her skin. Some
adhered, the rest flaked away. That lock of
hair was part of her false front. Mon Dieu !
how soft men's hearts are ! ' Mr. Strange
speedily discovered that he and his daughter
had about as many subjects in common as an
Esquimaux has with a native of equatorial
Africa. She was above all things a Catholic,
he a Protestant. She was religious, and, because
religious, somewhat conscientious. He
conscientious, and, because conscientious, somewhat
religious. His religion was to his life

what stockings are to a traveller's portmanteau,
something to fill corners with where
nothing else will go. With Miracle religion
was the chief packing of her life, and this was
a condition incomprehensible to her father.
She had artistic instincts ; she loved pictures
and music. Xow, pictures and music happen
to be two things not to be got in Brazil, except
in such an execrable state of degradation
as to be unendurable. But he liked the
theatre, and to attend the theatre Miracle considered
wicked. Miracle had learned history
from the sisters of the Sacre Coeur — that is,
she had learned that every modern political
idea is positively evil, that absolutism is ideal
perfection, that the medieval times were the
only times in which it was worth living, for
then the popes gave and withdrew crowns,
kings kissed their feet, and emperors held
their stirrups. She had been taught geography
out of French manuals, and had learned
that France is to the rest of the European
powers as the sun to the planets ; from it
they derive their light, and about it they
rotate.

Miracle had her acquaintances, the Princess
L'Amoureuse, Prince Puncheon, Countesses,
Baronesses by the score, the mothers and
aunts of her schoolfellows and friends of her

mother. Not one of these was known to Mr.
Strange even by name, and when she spoke of
them she might have been, for aught he cared,
reciting the list of European lepidoptera.

Even in their eating their tastes were
opposed. Mr. Strange was fond of pickles,
Miracle loved sweets. Achilles tickled his
palate, chocolate soothed hers ; crystallised
angelica carried her into heaven, and plunged
him into purgatory, for he had a hollow tooth.
Mr. Strange endeavoured to talk to Miracle of
her mother. Now that the Countess was dead
some of the old romance that had surrounded
his wooing reappeared, and his heart softened
to the memory of the woman. Miracle was
ready enough to speak of her, but she had
nothing to say that vibrated a chord in his
heart. She spoke of her mother as a fashionable
lady, living in society, dressing for balls,
driving in the Bois de Bologna, or holding a
plate at the door of the Madeleine — not of her
as a woman feeling, loving, suffering.

This condition of affairs was becoming
intolerable. How was Mr. Strange to live
with a young lady with whom he was utterly
out of sympathy, whose head was where his
feet stood, and her feet at his head ? They
saw different worlds, they breathed different
air.

The first thing to be done was to get her
away from France. That was a plain necessity.
On English soil common interests might
spring up.

Mr. Strange had a friend of former times
living at Avranches, a friend of whom he had
lost sight for many years. He knew his address,
and he knew also that he was married
to a French lady.

Mr. Strange's nearest relative, a cousin,
had lived formerly at Falmouth, and, he supposed,
lived there still. Mr. Strange resolved
to visit his old friend at Avranches, and goon
in the packet from St. Malo to Falmouth.
He would consult both on what was to be
done with Miracle. He had other reasons,
which will appear in the sequel.

So he hurried away from Paris, and went
to Avranches. His old friend was delighted
to see him, shook hands — both hands, with
the utmost cordiality, asked half a dozen times
after his wife and children, and forgot as frequently
when told that his wife was dead,
and that there was but one child, a daughter.
He insisted on carrying his dear friend
Strange with him to the cafe, and on his
drinking with him a glass of eau sucree
flavoured with syrup of orange, and eating
with him sponge biscuits. Would he further,

in recollection of old times, favour him with a
game of dominoes? The Frenchified Englishman
did not introduce Mr. Strange to his
wife, or ask him to bring Miracle from the
hotel to his house, and finally, looking at his
watch, remembered he was due to take his
wife a drive, shook hands with his dear old
friend with effusion, and begged, if he were
again passing through Avranches on his way
to or from Brazil, not to omit to call and
drink again with him sugar and water and
eat a sponge cake.

Mr, Strange departed, his grave face looking
graver. After a rough passage, in which
Miracle suffered extremely, and her father
smoked and looked at the waves unconcernedly,
they arrived at Falmouth. Cato,
when at sea, jumped overboard, ' saying he
would rather die than endure another half-hour
of sickness. Cato was a stoic philosopher,
Miracle was neither a philosopher
nor a stoic. She was profoundly wretched,
and looked ghastly when she landed in a
drizzle at Falmouth. Thus her first arrival
in England was not encouraging. Mr. Strange
inquired for his cousin, and learned that he
was no longer at Falmouth; he had removed
to Launceston. Mr. Strange heard such an
unsatisfactory account of his cousin that he

was greatly disconcerted. His cousin's name
was Trampleasure. He found a universal
consensus of opinion at Falmouth that Mr.
Trampleasure was a man unprincipled and
unscrupulous, and that he had moved to
Launceston only because he had made Falmouth
too hot for him.

Mr. Strange remained a couple of nights
at Falmouth, and then took coach to Launceston.
There he neither called on his cousin
nor stayed. He found at the inn a young
gentleman equally anxious with himself to
push on to Exeter, and he offered him a seat
in the chaise he had hired. Thus it was that
Mr. John Herring was with him and his
daughter when the accident occurred. Before
leaving Brazil Mr. Strange had made his will,
bequeathing everything he possessed to his
cousin, Mr. Sampson Trampleasure, and to
his Avranches friend, in trust for his daughter,
and had constituted them her guardians.
This will was in his desk. He did not unpack
his desk at Falmouth and cancel his
will; there was time enough to do that on
his arrival at Exeter. Man proposes: God
disposes.

VOL. 1.

CHAPTER Y.

THE owls' nest.

West Wyke is a perfect specimen of a small
country gentleman's house of the sixteenth
century. Two or three hundred years ago
every parish in the West of England contained
several gentle families, not acred upto
their lips, but with moderate possessions.
These small squires farmed a large part of
their own estates themselves, gave moderate
portions to their daughters, who were not
ashamed to marry yeomen and even tradesmen,
and their younger sons went to sea,
or were apprenticed to merchants in the
towns

When the heralds came round to hold
their courts and examine into the claims of
gentility and right to bear arms, these squires

^ Thus, in the Visitation of Devon of 1620, a Cholmoudeley
enters his brothers as ' milkman on London Bridge,' and ' prentice
in London,' and a Wotton registers his sisters as married respectively
to a labourer' and a 'clothier'; a daughter of
Glanville married a blacksmith of Tavistock.

rode to court with their title-deeds in their
saddle-bags and their signet rings on their
hands, and showed convincingly that they
had held their acres for many generations
and had borne coat armour. Hard drinking,
gambling, an extravagant style of living, Have
destroyed these little gentry, and the same
causes have effected the extermination of the
yeomanry.

In the parish of South Tawton two hundred
years ago there were seven families of
gentle blood — the Weeks of North Wyke,
the Burgoyness of Zeal, the Northwards of
Will, the Oxenhams of Oxenham, the Battis-hills
of West Wyke, the Milford, and the
Fursdons. All have gone; their place is only
known by the old houses they have left behind,
and a few tombstones with their heraldic
bearings on them in the church. The grand
old mansion of the Weeks is now parted in
twain, one half a farmhouse, the other a labourer's
cottage. The park is cut down, the
ceilings are falling, the panelling is decaying.
The house of the Burgoyness is now a village
tavern; Will, a cottage, its grand old gateway
levelled with the dust; West Wyke is a farmhouse.


If we would know how our gentle 

2

castors lived, let us look closely at West Wyke
it deserves a visit and a description.

The house stands on the moor, in the midst
of a little patch of reclaimed land. The situation
is too lofty and exposed to allow of trees
to flourish. A few ash stems attempt to
live there, and they are twisted from the
south-west. A few feet below the surface
the roots reach the rock, and when the tap-root
touches stone the doom of the tree is
sealed.

West Wyke House was built in 1583 — the
date is on it — by William Battishill. It is a
bouse which a substantial farmer nowadays
would scorn to inhabit. It consists, on the
basement, of one hall, a ladies' bower, a
kitchen, and a large dairy — that is all. And
that is the basement plan of many hundreds
of similar mansions in the West, once tenanted
by proud squires and their ladies, well born,
well bred, and well attired. Look at their
portraits — they were gentlemen of breed and
honour, they carry it in their faces ; they
were ladies of pure and noble souls, refined
in mind, simple in life. It is written on their
brows.

In 1656 Roger Battishill, the reigning
lord of the manor, walled in a garden in front
of the house, and at the side built an embattled

gateway, only twelve feet high to the
crown of the battlements ; a gateway of shaped
granite blocks and carved granite mouldings ;
and over the centre, proudly also sculptured
in granite, the arms of Battishill, the cross
crossed in sal tire between four great owls.
He planted the garden with lilies, white and
orange, with honesty, golden-rod, and white
rocket. These flourished here, sheltered from
the winds by the inclosing walls; and a
monthly rose ran up the side of the house,
about the hall window, and bloomed up to
New Year's day.

No road led to the embattled gateway.
No carriages were used in those days, and for
the horses' hoofs there was the spongy turf.
When a rough track had been trampled
through the moor grass, and made black with
oozing peat water, the riders rode afield and
made another way till the first had grassed
itself over again.

Observe the date on the embattled gateway.
Charles I. was executed in 1649, Cromwell
had issued his edict in 1655 for exacting
the tenth penny from the Cavaliers, in order,
as he pretended, to make them pay the expenses
to which their mutinous disposition
exposed the nation. To raise this impost,
which passed by the name of the decimation,

the Protector appointed major-generals, and
divided the kingdom into military jurisdictions
under them. These men had power to subject
whom they would to decimation, and to
imprison any person who should be exposed
to their jealousy or suspicion. Now Roger
Battishill had been a Royalist, but his twin
brother Richard had been a Roundhead. There
were two other brothers, Robert and Ralph.
Stow, when the commissioner came to Okehampton
to levy decimation, he summoned
Squire Battishill before him ; whereupon the
four brothers, all habited in grey, with very
erect hair, protruding ears, and staring eyes,
and a general puzzle-headed expression in
their faces, appeared before him, and so bewildered
the commissioner with their Roger
and Richard, and Robert and Ralph, and
their extraordinary likeness to each other,
and their profound puzzle-headdress, which
made it impossible for Roger to speak without
involving Richard and Robert and Ralph, and
so through the rest — that he dismissed them
decimated, fully impressed that the Royalist
was Ralph, who, being only just of age, could
not have been in the past a dangerous recusant.
Thereupon the four brothers rode
home to West Wyke, hooting with joy, and
in commemoration of this achievement set up

the embattled gateway, to shut themselves in
and the world and politics out for ever. Over
the gateway they carved the four owls, their
arms, said Roger and Richard, and Robert
and Ralph — their own portraits said the
malicious world of South Tawton.

Some account of the hall has been already
given. In our day the oak panelling has disappeared
as fuel for the great hearth, but in the
granite mullions window is still preserved in
stained glass the cognizance of the Battishills,
the four owls impaled with, azure, three towers
argent, on which are squatted three white
birds.

A gentleman of the present day, if not
exacting, might possibly accommodate himself
in the lower part of the house, but
would hardly acquiesce in the upstairs arrangements,
for there all the bedrooms were
en suite. In the centre slept the squire and
his lady, when he had one ; on the right,
were rooms for the men ; in the furthest
slept the apprentices, in the nearest the
sons and brothers of the family. Oil the
left were three rooms all in communication.
The first was the state guest room, the next
that allotted to the young ladies ; beyond
that, over the cow-shed, the room for the
servant maids.

We have a great deal to learn from our
ancestors, and we are learning much. We
copy their architecture, we reproduce their
dyes, we aspect their costume, but we do not
go back to their sleeping arrangements.

Some days passed. Miracle remained at
West Wyke ; John Herring was lodged in
the inn at Zeal, not far distant in the valley.
He devoted himself to the affairs of Miracle.
Mr. Battishill was most kind, but quite unable
to be of real use. He was prepared to
discuss with Herring what must be done, and
he would undertake to do what he thought
desirable, but he never did anything. The
dead man might have lain a month, three
months, a year upstairs, before Mr. Battishill
took steps for his interment. He had a theory
of his own relative to the disposal of the
dead. He believed that elm was an unsuitable
wood for the making of coffins. Alder
was the proper timber, because alder grew in
swamps, and was presumably damp-resisting.
It was in vain that Herring explained to him
that alders did not attain a sufficient size to
be sawn into planks. That was because alders
were not suffered to grow ; they were treated
as weeds and cut down. ^ Grow them,' said
Mr. Battishill; 'give them time and see for
yourself.' He would have allowed the deadman

to occupy the spare room till the alders
were grown.

Then, again, he had a theory that coffins
ought to be filled with that powerful antiseptic,
brown Norwegian pitch, pitch from the
pine, none of your villainous coal tar, but
brown pitch like old treacle. And so on,
from coffins to alders, and to Norway tar, and
the dead man waiting for the alders to grow
and the pitch to be extracted. John Herring
was obliged to see to everything, to arrange
with the undertaker, and to ^^ the funeral.
Then, again, Miracle might have remained on
till she married or died for all that Mr. Bat-distill
would have done to discover her relations
; perhaps it would have been better had
it been so. We take infinite pains to do what
is just and kind, and find afterwards that
everything would have been better had we
put our hands in our pockets. We give in
charity and pauperise ; we effect reforms
which bring in a state of affairs worse than
existed before. There is more mischief
wrought by doing good than by doing nothing.

Before the funeral, Herring discovered that
the deceased had an account with an Exeter
bank. He found this through a letter in the
pocket-book of the deceased addressed to
him in Paris from Exeter, acknowledging the

receipt of several thousand pounds, transferred
by a Brazilian bank, and notifying the opening
of an account in Mr. Strange' s name.

Herring communicated with this bank,
stated what had taken place, and the banker
allowed him to draw a limited sum for funeral
expenses. The young man requested, even
insisted, on Mr. Battishill being present when
he examined the dead man's pocket-book and
purse, and he required him to sign a statement
of the amount of money found on him.

Miracle remained perfectly passive ; she
took her residence with the Battishills as a
matter of course. The accident had happened
near their house, on their land ; it was only
proper that they should shelter her. If she
gave the matter a thought, this is the result of
her cogitation, but actually it did not trouble
her. She had always been provided for, and
had never had to consider how she was to be
provided for. She did not excuse herself for
taking advantage of the hospitality of strangers,
for it did not occur to her that such an
excuse was necessary. Herring was obliged
to take on himself what Miracle omitted. He
apologised for her. A strange chance had
constituted him her guardian, at least for a
while. She allowed him to arrange everything.
If he asked her to advise him as to

her wishes, she replied that she was without
any ; he must act as he thought proper. She
knew nothing of the ways of England ; he
must do whatever was conventional.

It did not enter her head that his journey
was interrupted on her account, and that he
was put to very serious inconvenience by his
difficulty in leaving her without a protector.
To trust Mr. Battishill to do what was requisite
was to trust a piece of bread and butter
not to fall butter downwards.

Mu-elle took it for granted that Herring
was doing his duty or following his pleasure.
She accepted his services as she accepted those
of the girl who blacked her boots. Each fulfilled
a function for which they were called
into existence. She neither thanked him nor
rewarded him with a look. What he was like
she did not know, neither did she care. He
wore very big and shapeless boots, but that was
proper ; boots like these became a bumpkin.

At the funeral he wore black, and gave
her his arm. He and she were the sole
mourners. She did not wish to attend. She
supposed that only men attended the funerals
of males ; but when it was explained to her
that this was not the custom in England, she
submitted.

Mr. Battishill did not follow the coffin.

There was a difficulty with him about black
clothes. He had one best suit, but that was
dark blue with brass buttons. He was not
provided with ready money, and a new suit
of clothes would cripple him for some years,
as it would have to be paid for in instalments,
a leg and an arm at intervals of a quarter ;
the coat-tails at equal and similar intervals.
Mr. Battishill did not like to admit this, so he
was prostrated with a convenient attack of the
gout the day before the funeral, and sat in his
chair with the lame foot swaddled on a stool
before him. We laugh at the shifts of the
gentle poor, and label them meanness,
whereas they are necessities. Cicely remained
at home. There was but one servant
kept at West Wyke, a cook, housemaid, parlour
maid, kitchen maid, laundress, condensed
into one, and Cicely had sufficient to do to
keep the house in order. A funeral, moreover,
entails extra work — eating, drinking, and doleful
making merry.

Herring gave her some money from Mr.
Strange 's purse, telling her that it was to be
spent on things necessary, and would be accounted
for to the executors. It was not
right nor reasonable, it was not in the least
necessary, that the Battishills should be put
to expense by reason of the funeral of a man

who was an entire stranger. The deceased
was well off, and the small expenses of his
funeral would be nothings deducted from the
six thousand pounds which they knew was at
the bank, and would go to his daughter.

Cicely frankly accepted the money, and
made greater preparations than she could
otherwise have made. She put more saffron
and currants in the cakes, and with these
necessary condiments the luxury of candied
peel. Instead of providing cyder she put
sherry on the table, and gave the bearers and
undertaker cold round of beef instead of squab
pie.

As Herring and Miracle left the churchyard
after the funeral, she took her hand off
his arm, and in their walk back to "West Wyke
she was interested in the ferns and mosses of
the banks. Herring spoke to her occasionally,
trying to begin a conversation ; but she
answered shortly, and either dropped behind
to examine a fern or was arrested by the view
through a gate, plainly showing him that she
declined to converse.

AVhen they were on the moor, John Herring
suddenly stopped and picked a tuft of
white heath. He offered it to Miracle, and
she accepted it indifferently.

Although this be a day of sadness,

Countess, yet here is an omen that some
brightness is in store for you. It is said in
the West that the white heath brings good
luck to the person that secures it

You found it, monsieur, not I.'

But I pass on my kick to you. Keep it ;
I hope it may always spring up in your path
as it has this day.'

She made no reply, but gathered a sprig of
pink heath.

On reaching the gate of West Wyke Cicely
met them ; she had been looking out for their
return.

'Yoyez!' said Miracle, 'I have picked a
lovely bouquet of ferns and moss and wildflowers
on my way. We have no ferns in
France, at least I have never seen such. In
this one particular you surpass us.'

She showed her bunch. The white heath
was not there.

Oh ! ' exclaimed Herring, incautiously,
the best flower of all has fallen — the white
heath.'

So it is,' said Miracle. ' I am sorry; my
hand was full.'

'Shall I go back for it?'

No, it has fallen in the mire, and is
trodden under foot. I shall doubtless find
my own good luck some day myself.'

CHAPTER VI.

THAT OLD TRAMPLARA,

As they entered the garden, Miracle was
about to take Cicely's arm, and walk round
it with her, looking at the flowers, when John
Herring stayed her —

Excuse me, Countess, I must trouble you
one moment. I think it time that we should
make an attempt to find out your father's
relatives or connections in England.'

^ I do not suppose that he had any.'

^ Why not?'

He did not speak to me of any. Besides,
these people do not hang together like persons
who have pedigrees.'

But something must be done. Whither
are you to go ? What is to become of you ? '

Comme le bon Dieu veut ! '

You cannot remain here till some one
turns up to claim you.'

'Why not?'

Mr. Herring was staggered. He could

not reply, and say that she was trespassing
on the hospitality of entire strangers. She
turned to continue her walk.

That is a fine orange lily,' she said to
Cicely.

You must really allow me to detain you,^
pursued Herring. ' All I ask now is, may
Mr. Battishill and I look through your father's
desk that is in his trunk ? His bunch of keys
has been given to you. Will you open the
desk, or shall we do it with your sanction?'

Do what you like, Mr. Fish.'

Cicely looked reprovingly at Miracle, and
ventured on a correction. ' Mr. Herring, you
mean.'

Miracle's cheek tinged faintly.

I beg your pardon, sir. Your name had
escaped me. I am not yet familiar with
English names, which seem to me harsh or
grotesque. I remembered that you belonged
to the fishes, but to which particular family
of fish I did not recall.'

Herring bit his lip, then said quietly,
^ Would you prefer opening your father's desk
yourself, Countess?'

^ Mon Dieu, non ! '

Then will you give me the key, and
allow us to examine the contents of the desk ? '

Certainly. But I do not know which is

the key. Here, take the bunch, and do as
you will.' Then she turned impatiently
round, and walked away.

When Herring had entered the house,
Cicely said gently, ' I think, Miracle, you are
bound to try and remember poor Mr. Herring's
name.'

Why should I ? It in no way concerns
me.'

^ But you hurt'his feelings. I saw he was
pained.'

Oh, but no ! that is not possible. He
cannot care about such a droll name. Herring
! — red herring — pickled herring ! — the
thing is ridiculous. When the name is historical,
then — c'est bien autre chose. But
when it is ignoble, and, in addition, is ridiculous,
what is there to be proud of? If
there be no pride, there can be no wound.
These people, moreover, have not the feelings
that we have — I mean about their names.
I should resent it were I called anything but
what I am. But then the Garciass fought the
Moors. Don Luis de Garcia with one blow
cleft a Saracen through his turban, 'twixt his
eyes, to the very saddle, and the saddle itself
was cloven. We had the saddle and the
sword in our armoury three hundred years
ago. We held the county of Cantalejo, we

VOL. I. G

coined our own money, and hung on our own
gallows. But the Herrings ! they swim in
the vast sea along with the sprats and the
confers, the common plaice and the little
dabs. They have no history. They spawn
ten thousand at a time ; they are the bread
of the nobler fish. No — a Herring has no
cause to be offended if his name be forgotten.
There,' Miracle laughed, ^ I have said my
say.'

'He is a gentleman,' said Cicely, with
some warmth; ' I know nothing of his family,
but I judge by his manners and appearance.'

I have noticed neither. I do not consider
those who in no way concern me. I
cannot describe to you the colour of the eyes
and hair of the postillion who upset us, and I
know and care as little about the nobody who
had the bad fortune to be upset with us. 11
m'ennuie, c'est tout dire.'

'He has been very considerate towards
you. He has done a great deal for you deserving
of gratitude.'

For what else did the good God create
men but to be useful — to assist the ladies ?
He made the dog the servant of man, and
man the dog of the woman. The man does
not thank or consider the dog that fetches
him a stick out of the water, and the woman

has no occasion to pat and praise the man
who executes foolish trifles for her. If the
dog shakes himself near his master, when
emerging from the water, then the stick he
brought is applied to his sides, and when the
man makes himself over officious, woman
turns her back on him

^ You have an odd idea of the reason why
men are placed in the world.'

^I have a perfectly just idea. At the
convent of the Sacre Coeur the good sisters
kept several tame men. There was old Jean
who sawed the firewood for them, and ancient
Jacques who gardened. There was even a
devout sweep who cleaned their chimneys,
and though his face was black, his soul was
white. There was a venerable chaplain who
heard confessions, and there was a domesticated
notary who did their legal business.
The sisters worried these men a great deal,
especially the notary and the confessor ; the
latter made a good end in a lunatic asylum.
They all took it in good part. Their backs
were made to bear their burden.'

You will not forget his name again ? '

Whose name ? What ! ce bon Poisson !
I will remember for your sake.'

John Herring brought down the deadman's
desk into the hall, that Mr. Battishill

and he might examine its contents together.
Mr. Battishill hastily put his leg up as Herring
entered.

^ Sorry that I could not attend the funeral
said the old gentleman, ' but the sins of the
fathers are visited on their children. I endure
the gout because my father and grandfather
tippled port. Sit down, Herring, and I will tell
you a good story. In the grand old days when
there were many squires about here, and the
Knapmans were at Wanton, and the Siddons
at Whiddon, the old Squire Chapman
was getting into a bad way financially, like
me. He was invited to dinner at Whiddon,
and drove there in his great coach. After
dinner, Squire Whiddon saw him into his
overcoat in the hall, and was about to accompany
him to the door when old Chapman
said, '' No, no ! you will catch cold ; keep inman."
But the squire was too hospitable for
that, and he attended Knapman to the coach.
'' Don't come out, for heaven's sake, you will
get your death of cold," said Knapman.
Why ! " exclaimed Whiddon, " what is the
meaning of this, Knapman ? Going to ride
on the box instead of inside, a night like this ?"
I prefer it," answered Squire Knapman, proceeding
to ascend to \}i\^ box. But Whiddon
would not allow it ; he went to the coach-door

and opened it — when, lo ! he found it full of
hay

How came that ? ' asked Herring.

Why, do you not see ? Old Knapman was
badly off for hay for his horse, and when he
went out anywhere to dinner he told his
coachman to fill the carriage with hay from
his host's rick, and himself went home on the
box.'

A good story, sir ; but I think we had
better examine the contents of this desk before
we tell any more.'

Sit down, sit down, man. Do not drive
the willing horse, and let an old man give you
a piece of advice. Let well alone, and do not
precipitate yourself, as Orlando says, " from
the smoke into the smother." '

But you forget, sir, this that you advise
me to leave alone is not well at all. The
young lady is an orphan, and we know nothing
of her relatives.'

Go on, then ! How full of briars is this
working-day world ! What do you propose
to do with the lady ? '

I cannot tell till I have ascertained
whether she has relatives in England.'

^ If she has not, she must be made a ward
in Chancery, or you must marry her, and so
take her affairs into your own hands.'

Mr. Battishill ! ' John Herring flushed
to his temples and looked down.

I am putting an alternative case. Now,
to make her a ward in Chancery is to put a
fly into a cobweb. Her few thousand pounds
will be bled away. By-the-by, talking of
thousands, do you know any one inclined to
speculate in silver lead ? I have a rare lode
on my property, but I have not the means to
work it. I have set three men on the shore,
and they have been engaged there for several
days. There is no mistaking that grey-blue
stuff* that comes up. But I cannot go on myself.
If I could, the property would be cleared
in no time. As it is, I am crushed by that
damned old Tramplara. Do you remember
how Sinbad had to carry the Old Man of the
Sea on his shoulders who picked all the apples
and ate them himself, whilst Sinbad perished
of hunger ? Do what he would, Sinbad was
powerless to dislodge the horrible creature
astride on his back.'

Yes, I remember.'

Well, I am in the same predicament ; I
have got that old Tramplara on my back.'

Who is Tramplara, sir ? '

Tramplara ! Not know Tramplara ? I
thought every one knew and had felt him. He
is a Cornish lawyer, who lived at Falmouth, till

Falmouth passed him on to Launceston, having
had enough of him. He has lent me money.
He knew that I wanted to improve my property
; I was hot on draining at one time,
and thought if I drained my marshes I should
fill my purse. But, Herring, draining does
not pay in all lands. It don't pay in clay at
all. The only thing I drained effectually was
my pocket. Then I was drawn on to speculate
in Cornish mines that old Tramplara whispered
great things of to me. As a particular favour
he put me up to splendid investments before
they were opened to the public. By all the
saints in Cornwall — and they are more numerous
than those in Paradise — that mining did
for me completely.' The old man stamped
his gouty foot on the ground. ' It was a
swindle. And now I am entangled in the
toils of old Tramplara, and cannot get out.
Ah ! Herring, if I could but work the lead
mine myself, I should clear myself of Tram-clara.
But I cannot do it ; the cursed rascal
robs me of all my rents, and I am unable to
nurse the mine until it can run on its own
legs. I must call in strangers to form a company,
and that means they are to swallow the
cup and give me the dregs. Moreover, I am
afraid of Tramplara finding it out. If he
does ; if he suspects what a lode there is at

Upaver, lie will foreclose, take the property,
and work the mine himself.'

'I have no capital at my disposal,' said
Herring.

I do not suppose you have. But only
think ! Supposing that Mr. Strange had come
here alone, to recover of his fall, and that I
could have induced him to sink some of his
thousands here ! Come along with me ; I will
take you to Upaver and you shall judge for
yourself.' The old man jumped up, and
walked across the hall to his hat.

Your gout, sir ! '

Oh, that is all right now. A walk will
do it good.'

Another time, Mr. Battishill. Just at
present we must examine the desk, and see if
we can find any clue to the family of Mr.
Strange.'

To be sure, to be sure,' said Mr. Battis-hill,
returning to his chair. ' You drew me
off our business. Open the box and get the
matter over.'

Herring was trying the keys. Before
he had found the right key, Mr. Battishill
put his hand on the bunch and said, 'By
the way, before we go on with our inquiry,
tell me, do you belong to the Herrings of
Codrington ? '

I did not know there were Herrings
there.'

No ; I do not mean now. In 1620 Hugh
Manning, of Newton Bushell, married Elizabeth,
daughter of John Herring, of Codrington,
in Devon ; so it stands in the Visitation, under
the Manning pedigree. I do not think much
of your family not appearing in that Visitation,
as some good Devon families just emerging
from the yeoman class, or not caring to appear
at the court of the heralds, are left unregistered.
It was so in this parish. Neither the Oxen-hams
nor the Northwards appeared, and yet
they held lands here from time immemorial.'

Had we not better seek out the Strange
family, instead of exploring the past of the
Herrings? The latter will keep.'

You are right, quite right, my young
friend. Good Lord, what pertinacity you have.
It is like that of a ferret hanging on to a rat.
Open the desk.'

The desk contained a considerable number
of papers, almost all connected with business,
and in a foreign language — Portuguese
which Herring could not read.

Mr. Battishill leaned back in his chair and
looked before him out of the hall window, lost
in his meditations. He muttered something
impatiently.

I beg your pardon said Herring, looking
up. ' Did you address me ? '

I? — no,' answered Mr. Battisliill. * I
merely said, Damn old Tramplara ! '

Herring resumed his examination.

The scoundrel has his claws in my neck,
and the mischief is he is dragging more than
myself down. There is poor Cicely as well.'

Can you decipher these letters ? ' asked
Herring, holding out a couple of papers to the
old gentleman ; ' they are written either in
Spanish, Italian, or Portuguese.'

I cannot say. My knowledge is limited.
Ignorance is the curse of God, knowledge
the wing whereby we fly to heaven." I once
read Latin, but that was long ago. I may remember
a few words of French. " Dieu et
mon droit," that means '' God and my right."
'' Boni soit qui mal y pense," that means
something about the Duchess of Gloucester's
garter. No, this is Chinese to me. " There
is no darkness but ignorance." '

Hold ! ' exclaimed Herring ; ^ here is his
will. Shall we look at it? '

By all means. No other document is so
likely to help you to what you want to discover.
Give it to me.'

The will was very short. Mr. Strange had
drawn it up himself before sailing for Europe.

The substance has been already given. Mr.
Strange left everything he possessed to Mr.
Eustace Smith, of Avranches, gentleman, and
Mr. Sampson Trampleasure, of Falmouth, solicitor,
in trust for his daughter, Miracle, till
she attained the age of twenty-three, and empowering
them to expend from it such moneys
as were needed for her entertainment and
education. They were constituted sole guardians,
trustees, and executors.

Mr. Battishill uttered a groan.

That scoundrel again ! '

But, sir, this is Trampleasure, not Tram-clara.'


It is the same. He writes himself Tram-pleasure,
but nobody dreams of calling him
anything but Tramplara.'

He is constituted her guardian.*

Yes ; but associated, fortunately, with
another, Mr. Eustace Smith.'

But should he renounce ? '

Then good-bye to Miracle's six thousand
pounds. It will go down Wheal Polpluggan.'

^ Wheal what?'

Wheal Polpluggan, that engulfed my
money, and me.'

CHAPTER VII.

THAT YOUNG TRAMPLARA.

What is to be clone ? ' asked Herring. There
was a small black square ruler on the table,
belonging to Mr. Strange' s desk. He took it
up and played with it, now balancing it across
his finger, then standing it up on the table,
with the end in his palm.

^ Let things take their course,' answered
Mr. Battishill. * I advise with Gloucester,
'' Thy greatest help is quiet." '

I will write to Mr. Eustace Smith at
once.'

^ Do so. If he renounces, mark my words,
Polpluggan swallows the young lady's fortune.
Friend Herring, I have the eyes of my heraldic
cognizance, and can see in the dark. A wonderful
mine, Polpluggan. The amount of capital
sunk in it must have constituted a silver lode
somewhere.'

When I have heard from Mr. Eustace
Smith I will communicate with Mr. Tram-pleasure

— not before. I suppose I am justified
in doing this ? '

Justified ! Certainly. I have never seen
Polpluggan myself. It is situated in the Scilly
Isles. Of these there be forty ; but I have
been unable myself to make out in which 
lies, whether in Fresher, or Brier,
or Annette, or Than, or Great Gannilly, or
Little Gannilly, or Weal, or Withal, or Gan-norwich,
or '

I beg your pardon. May I borrow some
notepaper ? '

By all means. There is some. The beauty,
or the mischief of the matter is, that the lode
of tin is in the granite and under the sea.
Mining in granite is costly, and the proximity
to the sea dangerous, entailing extraordinary
precautions. The water gets in. Now when
this takes place there follows a call on the
shareholders for pumping it out. Every great
storm drowns the mine and fills the shareholders
with despair ; the pump goes down
into their pockets. Then the tin vein does
not yield as at first. Once there were bunches
like those of Eshcol, the dividends were seven,
seven-and-a-half, eight, eight-and-a-quarter,
going, going, going up, and then, slow but
sure, as the miners sank their shaft so did the
shares sink, and the dividends with them, till

they reached zero. After that, a rapidly
swelling minus quantity.'

I have written the letter. Have you ?
^

There it is. Now the beauty, or the mischief
is — beauty from the Tramplara, mischief
from the Battishill point of view — that old
rascal so fired my imagination, and was so accommodating,
that I borrowed the money of
him to sink in Polpluggan. If I had speculated
with my own little savings — but no ! I
had no savings — that would have been bad
enough, but to speculate on borrowed capital
is ruinous. That rascally old Tramplara led
me on till he led me into his trap, and then
snap, the door shut behind me, and I am fast.
Pool West Wyke ! Poor Cicely ! Poor — '
he looked at the stained coat in the window,
poor ancestral owls ! '

A shadow fell across the table from someone
passing the window.

Good God ! ' exclaimed Mr. Bactishill ;
here comes that young Tramplara.'

A rap with the handle of a riding whip
on the hall door, and, without waiting for a
response, Tramplara entered. He was a young
man, good looking, with dark hair and eyes,
and a dark moustache. His cheeks were florid.
He had been drinking, and that gave a gloss

to his face and an uncertainty to his eye. He
came in with his hat on. He wore a short
coat, knee breeches, and tall boots.

'I say,' he began roughly, 'what is the
meaning of this? There have been those —
with an oath — Cobbledicks inclosing a fresh
piece of the down. I won't have it. They
will establish rights, and it will be hard to
displace them. Their fences must be tore
down.' His pronunciation was West country,
his grammar occasionally so.

Have you observed that Mr. Battishill is
in the room?' asked Herring, quietly. He
had just sealed the Avranches letter.

^ I see him right enough. I was addressing
him, not you.'

Herring looked at the old gentleman ; he
had become limp. His jaw had fallen, and
his hands trembled as he laid them on the
arms of his chair.

Then perhaps you will remove your hat,
Mr. Tramplara.'

I object to be so called,' answered the
young man sharply. ' My name, sir, is Tram-pleasure,
and only those who can't spell call
me otherwise.'

Very well, Mr. Trampleasure ; will you
remove your hat ? '

Who are you? I don't know you. Never

had the pleasure of seeing your face that I am
aware of. What may your d — d name be,

Hey?'

Sir said Herring, rising, ' I will stand
no insolence. When you ask my name properly,
you shall have it.'

Lord ! who cares a brass button what
you be called? Keep your name to yourself
if you like.'

Herring walked straight up to him, composedly
and firmly, looked him full in the
eyes, and said, ' You have been drinking.
Remove your hat, or I will knock it off.'

Tramplara took off his beaver and put it
testily on the table.

^ I am not a bad fellow,' he said, ' when
asked a civil question, but I object to be
bullied.'

Then he seated himself near the table,
looking sulky.

I am Mr. Sampson Trampleasure, junior,
gentleman,' he said. ' Now perhaps you will
tell me your name.'

Herring gave him in return his sur and
Christian names.

Never heard of you,' said Tramplara.
What are you doing here? '

Herring made no reply to his impertinence.

I say,' began the young man again, in a

loud tone, ' I won't have those Cobbledicks
encroaching. I saw that old Bufflehead,
Grizzly, but could not make him understand,
or leastways he wouldn't understand.'

Mr. Battishill bridled up feebly. 'You
are premature, Mr. Sampson ; West Wyke is
my property, and I have the right to settle on
it whom I choose.'

Oh, ah! that's good,' said young Tram-clara.
' Yours on sufferance. You know
well enough that my governor has his foot
loiter your chair, and can kick you over any
day he has a mind to.'

AVhen he does that he can deal with the
Cobbledicks as well. Naked came we into
the world, and naked we shall go out, Battis-hills
and Cobbledicks together.'

That'll soon take place unless you shell
out. You know Avhat I have come about.'

Mr. Battishill's brief indignation and assumption
of dignity expired. He put his
hand into his pocket, and drew forth his
handkerchief, and wiped his lips.

You have come on an unfortunate day,
Mr. Sampson. We have had a death in the
house.'

I don't care whether there be a death ora
birth,' answered the young man rudely. ' I
know one thing, if I do not go back with the

VOL. r. II

interest due last Lady in my pocket, there'll
be pretty summary dealings in a place and
with persons not the other side of London ,

nor in China, nor New Zealand, nor Bra 1

Why ! how in the name of Ginger came this
into your hands ? '

His eye was resting on the will that lay
open as John Herring had left it when extracting
from it the address of Mr. Eustace
Smith. He put out the crook of his whip
and drew it over to him. ' Ten thousand
crocodiles I There is my name in it. Sampson
Trampleasure, of Falmouth, Solicitor.
No ! that is my father. Last will and testament
of James Strange, of Bahia, Brazil!
Why, that's a kinsman of ours. My grandmother
was a Strange. How the devil came
this into your hands ? '

Mr. Battishill looked at Herrino;. Herrino;
was disconcerted. The surprise and indignation
caused by the intrusion and insolence
of the young man had prevented him from
recollecting to fold up and put away the
document.

Writing to one trustee,' said young Tram-clara,
taking up the letter, ' and in duty bound
about to write to the other when interrupted
by me. I will save you the trouble. But how
came this into your hands ? Will you answer
me that ? '

I have already told you, Mr. Sampson,
that there has been a death in the house. An
unfortunate and melancholy accident took
place last Friday, a carriage was upset near
this house, and a strange gentleman killed.
He was brought here, and has been buried
to-day.'

That was Mr. James Strange?'

It was. He was a gentleman who, according
to his daughter's account, lead lived
many years in Brazil as a diamond merchant.'

I know that. He was my father's first
cousin; consequently he was — blowed if I
know — but cousin of some sort, and about
the only relative on that side I had. What
did he die worth ? '

That will be for your father to ascertain
said Herring.

It seems to me a most extraordinary
thing to find a will of one not even remotely
belonging to you lying on your table where
it might be torn to light pipes with.'

The reason is very simple,' said Herring.
Mr. Battishiil and I knew nothing about Mr.
Strange, and his daughter seemed to be equally
in the dark about his relatives.'

What, is that pretty girl in the garden
along of Miss Cicely his daughter?'

That young lady is his daughter. Mr.

H 2

Battishill and I examined the papers of the
deceased. Most were m Portuguese, which
we were unable to read. From the will we
gathered who were the trustees and guardians
of the lady. That was what we sought, and
that was what we have ascertained.'

Well, this is a rise,' said young Tram-clara.
' This is like going out after a partridge
and starting a pheasant. But never mind. I
keep my game in my eye. You will have to
unburden your pockets, Battishill, old boy ! '

Has the sea broken in on Polpluggan?'
asked Mr. Battishill dolefully. He knew well
enough that the visit did not relate to ,
but he tried to put off the worst.

Polpluggan,' said the young man, with a
touch of melancholy in his voice ; ' Polplug-
gan is swamped outright. The mighty Atlantic
has got on top of him, and is pouring
himself down his throat. There ain't no more
pumping to be done there, more's the pity.'

No more calls, then, on the shareholders ?'

No.'

Nor dividends either ? '

Oh dear no. What's lost is lost. 
was a very pretty thing ; but there —
his day is over, more's the pity.' He sighed.
He was as fine a fellow in the way of tin as
you might wish to look on. But with the

best intentions you can't go after a lode into
the bowels of the stormy deep. The public
don't like it; and when you call on them
every month to pump out the ocean, they
turn unpleasant, and apply live coals to your
tail and make you squeak. No — Polpluggan
is no more.' Then with a boisterous laugh
and a slap on the table, ' Never mind the
death of Polpluggan, old chap. We aren't
seen the end of Cornish mining yet. There are
many more, bigger nor Polpluggan, looming in
the future. But that's neither here nor there.
What I've come about is the interest that
ought to have been paid last Lady.'

It has been a bad time, Mr. Sampson.
Tiie sheep have been cawed, and I have done
all I could to save them. It was the rain last
fall and all the winter that did it. I kept
them off the clay land, and I tried every
remedy I could think of. The last, and that
which promised best, was bruised box leaves.
We cut off all our box borders in the garden,
used every green sprout and leaf, but it was
not sufficient. The poor beasts picked up a
little on it, but no lasting cure was effected,
and they just rotted away.'

Oh, blow the sheep ! ' said young Tram-clara,
coarsely. ' It ain't them I want, but
the money.'

^ But I have not got the money,' sighed
Mr. Battishill. ' If I could have sold my
sheep I could have paid. But not only so.
The farmer at Upaver has lost his sheep as
well, and several bullocks to boot, so that he
has fallen behind with his rent. It is a very
extraordinary thing that my sheep should get
cawed, for I have never known such a thing
happen before in this high land. Down in
the valley on the clay is another matter.
But you never saw any of that blue grass on
my upland, which is the signal Nature throws
out that no sheep are to draw nigh. It has
always been said that peat '

Faith ! it is only a matter of time. A
year or two don't matter particularly,' said
Sampson Tramplara, ' sooner or later scott
you go. If you chose to speculate you must
look out for the consequences. You ought to
know what mining means at your age. You
don't think to walk over a bog, and not get
stopped.'

Your own father urged me on. But for
him I would have had nothing to do with
Polpluggan.'

Nor with draining either ? '

^ That was my blunder. Polpluggan was
the pit down which I fell hopelessly, and your
father led me to the brink and pushed me over'.

^ There [are plenty to keep you company,
if that be a consolation,' said young Sampson.
Xow it has just, come to this. You don't
suppose my father hasn't lost also in ,
do y'. I can tell you he has — a
brave bit of money too. He wants his money
as much as you do ; and he will have it too

You must have patience ; all seasons are
not bad.'

But if you nip your fingers you squeak.
My father is nipped pretty tight, all along of
Polpluggan. You see he has another mine
in view, and it wants capital to get that
floated.'

Look heres said Mr. Battishill, desperately.
' If it comes to that, and he wants
another mine to start upon, let him come tome.
I will put him upon a lode, a real lode,
and I stake my life there is silver lead, and
plenty of it, at Upaver.'

That won't do,' said Tramplara. ^ It
isn't what comes out of a mine that makes
it pay, but what is put into it. You don't
understand these things, or you would never
have gone head over heels down Polpluggan.
There is nothing to be had from you, so I
don't mind saying it. And you are an old
friend, and are sucked dry, and about to be
turned inside out.'

• There is no water that can drown my
mine.'

More is the pity. It is just the water
that makes it pay. But come I It is too late
for you to learn the alphabet of mining.'

The bottle of sherry tint had been purchased
for the funeral was on the table, along
with some classes. Without invitation the
you? man poured out and drank.

There's sixty pounds goes home in my
pocket, or it don't. And if it don't, worse
luck for you.' He put his hand to the bottle.
Herring drew the decanter from his reach.

• What do you mean ? ' asked Tramplara.
Give me the sherry this moment.*

You have been drinking before coming
here.' said Herring, ' and you shall not further
insult Mr. Battishill by becoming drunk in
his presence.'

What is that ?' shouted young Sampson.
Hev ! what a moral man we have here. All
for total abstinence, I presume.'

He jumped up. whip in hand, and switched
the whip two or three times before him ; then,
looking Herring full in the face, with an insolent
smirk on his lips, clapped his hat on one
side of his head, and planted himself before
him with legs astride, his left hand on his hip,
and the right hand brandishing the whip.

Instantly Herring twisted the whip out of
Ms hand, and knocked his hat off his head
with it, across the hall. Then he handed him
the whip again, coolly, in a manner that
meant, ^ Touch me with it, if you dare.'

Tramplara's face became mottled.

'- Thank you, Mr. Heroine, thank you,'
said Cicely-who entered at that moment with
Miracle. Her cheeks were prettily dimpled,
the brightest colour flowed in her face, and
her eyes danced with delight.

Tramplara drew back, grasping the whip
by the middle, clenching his teeth, and looking
quickly from one to another in the group.

• Come into the Utile drawing-room,' said
Miracle, composedly, ' I dislike being present
at vulgar brawls. These two young men
have forgotten themselves ; perhaps next they
will proceed to lxix, which is a disgusting
sight.'

Stay one moment,* said young Sampson.
Ladies, you must hear the truth at once.
Miss Strange is my cousin. My father is her
guardian. She shall not remain in this house
any longer. I will take her away with me to
Launceston, where my mother and sister will
receive her. I have just read her father's
will. It is all right, ain't it, Mr. Battishill ?
Besides, this house is not likely to be able to

afford her hospitality and shelter any more.
Is it not so, Mr. Battishill ? So pack u^^ your
duds, missis, and be ready to start tomorrow.
I will bring a chaise out of Okehampton.'

I am not going with you,' answered
Miracle, coldly, and without looking at him.

Oh, ain't you, though ? I am your
cousin. Miss Strange, and am come to fetch
you away.'

I know nothing about you,' said Miracle
with perfect composure. ' You are not my
cousin. I am not Miss Strange. I am the
Countess Miracle Garcia de Cantalejo.'

You have had your answer,' said Herring
to the young man. Then, turning to the
ladies, ' Now, Countess, and you. Miss Battis-hill,
I must ask to withdraw. I want a word
myself with this — person.'

Cicely smiled at him, and drew Miracle
away.

Herring watched them depart, but his
eyes were upon Miracle, not Cicely.

Then, going to the table, he drew a cheque
book from his pocket, and wrote on it an order
for sixty pounds, payable to Mr. Battishill.

Will you kindly endorse this, sir ? ' he
asked of the old gentleman.

Mr. Battishill, hardly comprehending his
purpose, complied.

Xow,' siiicl Herring to young Sampson
Tramplara, ' take this, and write out at once a
receipt to Mr. Battishill.'

I refuse it,' said Sampson, sullenly.
How am I to know that you have so much
money in the bank, and how do I know that
your cheque will not be dishonoured ? '

Herring pointed to the little black ruler.

'You will sign the receipt at once, or I
will break this ruler across your head.'

Tramplara made no further remonstrance.
With a hand that shook partly with anger
and partly with fear, he complied.

Very well,' said Herring, ' now go. Pickup
your hat, it is in the corner, and take yourself
off.'

Tramplara sulkily obeyed. When he
reached the door he turned, his face white,
his hands quivering with passion.

The time will come, Mr. Herring, when
it will be in my power to repay you this, and
then, by God, I swear '

What do you swear ? ' Herring held up
the black ruler.

Tramplara shut the door, and was gone.

CHAPTER Viii.

CICELY.

When John Herring turned to look at Mr.
Battisliill, he found the old gentleman fallen
back in his clair, his face distorted, and
scarcely conscious. He saw at once what had
happened. The excitement had brought on a
stroke.

Herring went into the kitchen and called
the maid.

Make no noise ; help me.' She assisted
him to remove the master upstairs. He sent
her for the doctor, and then tapped at the
door of the parlour that he might break the
news to Cicely.

Two days later, Mr. Battishill was sitting
up in his own room, decidedly on the mend.
The attack had been slight, nevertheless it
vas a seizure, a first — and such are warnings
of others in store. Cicely came down into
the hall to meet Herring, who had walked
up to West Wyke from Zeal, where he was



staying. She went up to him, and he noticed
that there were tears in her eves.

Mr. Herring,' she said, ' my father is
better. I am glad to have a moment in which
I can leave him and speak with you alone.'

I am entirely at your service,' he said.

She looked into his eyes with her frank,
bright smile — a luminous smile that flickered
through a veil of tears.

I know that perfectly, Mr. Herring, and
have no scruple in making use of you. Here
you have remained in our neighbourhood,
instead of going on your way about your own
concerns; you have spent the greater part of
every day with us, instead of seeking to
amuse yourself — all because you knew that
your assistance was needed. That is not the
way with many young men. Another in your
place would have taken his valise and gone
by the next coach after the accident, and left
Miracle to shift for herself. You have been
everything that is kind and considerate to
Miracle — I beg her pardon — the Countess
Garcia.' A smile twinkled in her pleasant
face. ' And this emboldens me to appeal to
you in my trouble.'

Herring was about to protest his own
readiness, but she put up her hand to stop
him, and went on: —

You have been foolishly generous, Mr.
Herring. You have advanced sixty pounds
to my father, to stave off the ruin that is impending.
It is of no use. Do not venture
to do this again. You ought not to have
done it even once. However, let me clear
off the debt in part immediately. I have
butter money — not the entire sum, not even
a half

Dear Miss Battisliill, I will not take it.'
Let us understand each other,' she said ;
^ do not interrupt me. I have had a little
battle with myself upstairs before I could
nerve myself to meet you. I do not know
why it is that gentlefolks shrink from speaking
of money matters one with another. !Now
I am wound up, and can go on ticking, but if
you say a word, it is like putting a feather
among the wheels, it arrests the movements,
and the clock ceases. What I have to say
must be said. Mr. Herring, it will not do to
lend us money, we are hopelessly involved to
the Trampleasures. Nothing that you can
do will save us, without involving you in our
disasters. My dear father has relied on the
hereditary wisdom of the Battishills,' she
looked up at the stained glass in the window,
and the pretty dimple came in her rosy cheek.
^ Those heraldic owls have done us harm.

They have bred in our hearts the belief that
Wisdom went with the cognizance, and had
set up her temple at West Wyke. My dear
father always supposed that he was about to
make his fortune by the application of the
hereditary wisdom to the development of the
resources of the property, or else in speculations
in mines. Alas ! an owl can see in the
dark, but not even one of our owls in the
darkness that envelops Cornish mining. My
father was led on by Mr. Trampleasure, who
flattered him by appealing to his judgment
in various matters, and now we are dipped
past recovery. The Tramplaras will take
from us everything — the dear old house, our
moors, our little farms. I have foreseen this
for some time, and I have known that it is
inevitable. Sooner or later the crash must
come, and it is better that it should come
now, rather than later when my father will be
less able to bear it.'

Herring made another effort to interrupt.

No,' she said again, with a faint smile,
let me 2^0 on ticking. You have advanced
my father sixty pounds. Next Michaelmas
he will have to meet another demand for a
larger amount. There are thousands of pounds
owing to Mr. Trampleasure, of which this is
the interest. He may call in that debt at

any time, and then — how are we to meet it?
All the money my father borrowed is gone
without having been of the smallest advantage
to us — gone in unfortunate ventures which
have engulfed everything. The dear old man
would do the same thing tomorrow if he
were able. He is now full of the notion that
he has discovered a silver lead mine at Up-aver,
and he may try to persuade you to
embark in it. Do not be persuaded. Do not
listen to him. Nothing that my father touches
ever succeeds. As long as I can remember
he has been on the point of making a fortune,
but has invariably missed the point, and
fallen after each venture into deeper disaster.'

I have been to Upaver. I walked there
yesterday, and saw what had been brought
up. There is silver lead there, of that I am
certain.'

'- Have nothing to do with it,' said Cicely.
^ Fortune's wheel has been on the turn for
the Battishills for some time, and always
downwards. Promise me to banish Upaver
from your mind. Promise me not to put
your money into it.'

I have no money to put in.'

And never, never again lend my father
money — or me, however earnestly I may beg
for it. It is of no good ; we must go down,

down, down. Most of us small Devon gentry
are like buoys moored to a sandbank. Every
wave goes over our heads, We are never
wholly above Vater. After a while the canker
gets into our hearts ; we break away from our
sandbank, and drift away — away ito the vast
unknown. We Battishills are about to drift ;
decay has set in. Nothing but a miracle can
save us, and the age of miracles is over.
There, take my butter-money, it consists of
eighteen pounds, no more ; I shall, however,
be able to pay you two pounds in a fortnight,
and you shall have the rest, if I can possibly
manage it, next year. I cannot promise an
earlier payment. Take it.'

Herring drew back his hand.

Take it,' said Cicely. ' It is stocking
money. An old stocking is the surest of
banks ; it never breaks.'

No,' said Herring, ' you want the money.
I am not a rich man, by any means, but I am
not so hard pinched that I cannot lend a
trifle. You will hurt me if you refuse rhe
loan.'

I said to myself when I came down that
we should fight,' said Cicely ; ' but I. will not
suffer you to conquer me. Do you not understand
that I have pride, and that it is the
part of a gallant gentleman to humour it ? '

VOL. I. I

Give me the money,' said Herring. * One
thing, however, I will not promise. You
asked me never to listen to you again if you
begged a loan. This money and more will
always be at your service on an emergency.'

That is settled,' said Cicely with a sigh
of relief.

Now we come to a second matter ; again
I appeal to your good nature. Look at this
letter. My father has received it from Mr.
Trampleasure, requesting him immediately to
bring his ward — Miss Strange as he calls her —
to Launceston, along with her boxes and her
father's papers. The will must be proved and
an inventory of goods taken for probate. Mr.
Trampleasure does not offer to come for Miracle
himself, he expects my father to conduct her
to Launceston ; he knows that the demands
he makes on my father must be complied with.
Now it is out of the question that the dear old
man should take this journey in his present
condition of health, and I dare not leave him.
There is no one we can trust except yourself.
It is true I might write and say that my father
is ill and unable to travel; then Mr. Tram-pleasure
would be forced to come himself, but
I dread an interview between my father and
the man who has ruined him. In his present
weak state and partial convalescence, it would

not be wise. The doctor says he must be kept
from everything liable to excite him. So I
fall back on you. I told you that I knew you
were ready to do whatever is kind, and because
I know this, I make no scruple in using you.
Was I not right ? '

I will do what you wish — gladly.'
And,' said Cicely, hesitating and colouring,
^ as you return on your way to Exeter, you
will call on us again ? You cheer my father,
who quite counts on your visits, and, I am not
ashamed to confess it, I want advice. There
is no one in this neighbourhood I can speak
with on these matters. Accident or Providence
I believe the latter — has brought you here,
and made you a welcome guest, and has constituted
you almost the confessor and adviser
of the house.'

I will certainly see you again.'
^ By the time you return an answer will
have arrived from Avranches, and we shall
then know whether Miracle will have another
protector, or must be left to the uncontrolled
disposal of the Tramplaras.'

Yes,' said Herring impetuously, ' if only
for that I must return. It is too dreadful to
think that she who has been accustomed to the
purest and most refined surroundings should
be thrust into association with persons like Mr.

1 2

Tramplara and his son, and that her property
should be intrusted to a man who plays ducks
and drakes with all the money that he gets a
chance of fingering.'

I am glad you feel warmly in this matter
said Cicely, laying a slight touch of sarcasm
on the Avoids ' feel Warmly.' ' Miracle will
apparently need protector, confessor, and adviser
as much as we, if not more so.'

She is so helpless, so solitary,' explained
Herring.

By the way, chivalrous defender of unprotected
maidens,' said Cicely, brightening
up, ' you come to us like the mysterious
knight in a romance, we know not whence,
nor whither you go. It shows how utterly
selfish we have been, how centred in our own
troubles, that no one has cared to inquire
whether you too have troubles, and whether
you are alone in the world.'

Herring smiled. ' There is no mystery
about me ; I am plain John Herring, nothing
more. I eat, I grow, I sleep, I talk. Troubles!
no, I have none. Alone! — well, yes, that
I am. You and the Countess I find acting
in tragedies, but my part hitherto has been ina
farce?'

And you so little regard your good luck
that you offer it to the first girl you meet.'

What do you mean ? '

Only the sprig of white heath,' said Cicely,
laughing.

Next day Miracle left West Wyke in company
with John Herring in an open caleche.
Cicely parted with her in a friendly manner,
but without great cordiality. The coldness and
pride of Miracle repelled her, and she did not
like her contemptuous treatment of Herring.
Yet — strange mystery that the female heart
is — she would have liked it quite as little had
Miracle gratefully accepted his services.

She resented also her want of tenderness
towards her father. Cicely could not understand
it. But then she had been brought up
with her father, knew him, respected even his
weaknesses, and loved his many virtues. She
was unable to understand that a like great love
could not grow out of the acquaintanceship often
days, passed in coaches, steam-packet, and
hotels. She judged Miracle more harshly than
justly. That is, she judged her as one woman
judges another. As Miracle was driven away
Cicely turned back towards the house, saying,
She is an icicle ; she freezes my blood.'

Herring turned to Miracle and said, ' How

kind, and Q;ood, and simple Miss Battisliill is.'

I have never before seen such red cheeks

answered Miracle. ' Do you think she paints ? '

CHAPTER IX.

DOLBEARE.

A BRIGHT day, with a few fleecy clouds drifting
before a west wind. A sky bri,o;lit as that
which searches a young heart. The prospect
as smiling as that which opens before
youth. Barriers bathed in sunlight and indistinct
in haze. Clouds without threat of rain
casting cobalt-blue shadows.

The wild range of Dartmoor rose into
peaks, with gullies seaming their sides, down
which the Taw and the Documents rushed
foaming from their cradles. A glorious scene
inviting exploration, an enchanted land calling
the traveller to enter its seclusion and dispel
its mysteries. Bathed in sunlight, enveloped
in that finest haze that pervades the air on
the brightest day in the West Country, who
would suppose that all he saw was barrenness
and naked desolation ?

Do you see that castle rising out of the
woods ? ' asked Herring, pointing to some

ruins of a keep on a hill to the left of the road,
after they had passed Okehampton. ' That
castle belonged to the Courtney s. There is
a story of a certain Lady Howard who lived
there in the reign of James L'

^ I have not heard of him. Was he an
English king ? '

He was king of England. He was the
father of the ill-fated Charles I.'

I have heard of him. He married a
French princess, so he comes into history.'

Lady Howard was married four times ;
she had one daughter by her first husband,
whom she hated.'

^ Perhaps she only despised him because
he Twas not noble, and had taken advantage of
her poverty to marry her.'

On the contrary, she was rich, an heiress,
and her first husband was a son of the
Earl of Northumberland.'

Then I understand nothing about it,' said
Miracle, leaning back in the carriage as if history
had ceased to interest her.

When she was married to her second husband
she refused to see her daughter. The
poor girl came here to Okehampton ; some relations
sought to effect a reconciliation. She
was introduced to her mother under a feigned
name — here, in this castle, and Lady Howard

did not know her. But when the daughter
fell on her knees to her mother and entreated
recognition, Lady Howard started to her feet
with an exclamation of aversion, and attempted
to leave the room. The girl chmg
to her, entreating her love, as the im natural
mother was escaping through the door. But
Lady Howard flung together the oak valves
as she escaped, and they caught the daughter s
arm between them and broke it.'

She was a bad woman ; but she is expiating
her crime in purgatory.'

Her purgatory is a strange one,' said
Herring. 'Every night she drives along this
road from Okehampton Castle to Launceston
Castle in her great coach drawn by four headless
horses, with a skeleton driver on the box,
and her favourite bloodhound runs beside the
coach. When they arrive at Launceston the
dog plucks a blade of grass from the mound
on which the keep stands, and then they return
in the same way to Okehampton, which
they reach before break of day. And she is
condemned to do this nightly, till every blade
of grass has been plucked off Launceston Castle
hill ; and that will not be till the end of the
world, for the grass grows faster than the
hound can pluck it.'

Have you ever seen the carriage with the
lady in it?'

Xo. During the war French prisoners
have been confined in the dismantled castle,
parts of which have been converted into prisons
for them, and several who have died in confinement
are buried in Okehampton churchyard.'


Miracle shivered.

I would not, I could not lie here. I
should be wet under this dripping sky. Poor
men ! Why did you not tell me this before,
and I would have visited their graves and
prayed over them in their native tongue? It
contracts my heart to think of them, lying
here, away from la belle France, and the golden
sun, and the vineyards, and the waving
corn, and the scent of incense, and the shadow
of the cross.'

The sun shines here. It is shining now.'

^ /if,' said Miracle. ' You are right when
you say it not he. In France he shines, he
laughs, he illumines, he warms and even burns.
He is always in the sky. Here you have a
phantasm of the sun, without power and blaze
and fire. I do not call that the sun ; it is a
make-believe, a constitutional monarch allowed
to peep out between the clouds now and then,

not reigning by right divine, dispelling the
clouds.'

Herring looked round at the girl in astonishment.
She was echoing sentiments she
had heard in the convent and among her
mother's aristocratic acquaintance. ' And
she went on, ^ your church is the same — a
phantasm, a mock sun. When the servants
of Saul came to seek David, Michael, his wife,
took a log of wood and put on it a bit of goatskin,
and threw over it the bedclothes. Then
the servants said. It is David asleep. And
that was what your Reformation consisted of.
You substituted a log for the living body.
But why should I speak to you of all this?
You and I use the same names for expressing
different ideas. You have never eaten grapes
off a vine, nor figs warm with the kiss of the
sun on their cheeks ; and by grapes you mean
raisins brown and dried, and by figs withered
fruit packed in wooden boxes. When I speak
of the sun, I mean something indescribably
glorious ; you, a round tuft of cotton wool up
in the clouds, that you can see sometimes
when supremely lucky. So in other things ;
what you mean by a king and a church are
altogether different ; pale ghosts of what I
mean by the same words.'

Herring was amused, and not a little perplexed.

She put him down with an air of
superiority, as a schoolmistress would put
down a boy in her class who had made a
stupid blunder, which merited a Whipping,
but was let oiF with degradation.

After some pause in the conversation he
ventured to remark, ' You wall not deny that
this scenery is lovely.'

It is beautiful in feature, but wanting in
colour. 1 could cry out for my paint-box,
and spill the colours over the scene to make it
perfect. My master taught me, when I learned
to paint, that shadows were to be made of carmine
and ultramarine. There are no such
colours here. Shadows must be put in with
Indian ink. I could copy all the tints with a
child's fifty-sous box of paints, warranted free
from poisonous matter, as also from all real
colour. Besides,' she added, ' Venus when
she rose from the sea must have been intolerable
till dried. Your land is fair, but everlastingly
dripping.'

She spoke without a smile. Herring
turned his head aside to laugh.

So they went on ; he telling her traditions
to while away the journey, she setting him
down.

At length they arrived at Launceston.

The town is curious, perched on a height,

rising precipitously out of the valley of the
Ivensey, and culminating in a rock that has
been shaped by the hands of men, and crowned
by a circular keep of concentric rings of
masonry.

The main street of Launceston is entered
under an ancient gateway. Scarcely another
English town has such a picturesque and continental
appearance.

On the steep slope of the hill, clinging to
its side, was the quaintest conceivable house
■ — a honos narrow ranee of sables, roof and
walls encased in small slate-like mail armour.
In front of the house is a narrow terrace,
with, at one end, a sort of summer-house,
furnished with fireplace and chimney. Below
this terrace the rock falls abruptly to the
valley. The foundations of the houses in the
street above are higher than the tops of the
chimneys of ' Dolbeare,' as this picturesque
old house was called.

In Dolbeare lived the Trampleasures, as
they called themselves ; Tramplaras, as the
world called them. Herring knew little of
Launceston, and he had some difficulty in
finding the house.

The door opened to them, and they were
introduced into a hall, with stairs branching
ofi' on either side. Then a stout red-faced

man, with perfectly white hair, burst out of
the adjoining room, with a noisy shout of ' Oh,
here you are at last ! Come to my arms,
Cousin Strange.'

Miracle drew back before the coarse man.

I say,' pursued he With effusion, ' what's
your pet name, darling? Let's be cosy and
familiar at starting. What are you ? Mirrie ?
Nellie?'

Miracle turned to ice. ' You have mistaken
the person,' she said. ' I am no cousin.
I have no other name than that of Countess
Miracle Garcia de Cantalejo. I have come here
till my affairs are settled, and then I shall go
elsewhere. I pray let this be understood from
the outset. I am not a Strange, and we are
not relations.'

The old man stood open-eyed and open-mouthed
without speaking, and then burst
into a roar of laughter, which made his face
blaze a fierce red, horrible against the snow of
his hair and whiskers. His eyes were black,
with a cunning twinkle in them. His hands
were large, the fingers short and fat, the palms
very wide. Altogether a repulsive old man.
to whom the hoar head was no crown of glory,
but he a dishonour to hoar hairs.

Miracle contemplated him with undisguised
aversion. Then she turned to Herring and

said, ' I cannot lodge with this person. Take
me back to the Battishills.'

Herring: did not know what answer to
make.

Pray, who are yon? ' asked the old man.
Brother or lover of the lady? Perhaps a
cousin whom she does condescend to recognise
; a Parley vous Mossou, hey?'

My name is Herring,' said the young
man, gravely. ' Mr. Battishill is ill, and Miss
Battishill cannot leave her father. Consequently
they asked me to escort the Countess
to Launceston.'

'- The Countess ! ' exclaimed Mr. Tram-pin
a. ' Oh, Ginger ! a live Countess in the
house. Lord ! the little rooms won't contain
her. We must throw out bow windows.
Come here, Orange, come here, Polly, and see
a live Countess.'

As he called, a feeble old woman, in a big
cap with lilac ribands and a pink bow under
her chin, appeared at a side door, and with
her the daughter whom he called Orange.
The latter entered the hall.

Father,' said Miss Orange Trampleasure,
reproachfully, 'you are too boisterous with
the young lady. Do you not see? She is
tired with her journey, and your noise
frightens her.'

• Frightens me ! ' repeated Miracle, with,
perfect composure. ' Non, il ne me fait pas
peur — il me revolt.'

Come with me, cousin,' said Orange.
Let me take oiF your things, and show you
your room.'

Miracle hesitated.

My clear,' Orange went on, ^ there is no
help for it. Whether you like it or not, here
you must stay ; you cannot go back to the
Battishills. It is unreasonable to expect them
to take charge of you. Besides, your father
committed you to us.'

My father has left a gentleman in France
my guardian equally with this person here.'

Then you must stay with us till he
has been communicated with,' said Orange.
Come with me.'

Miracle allowed herself to be conducted
upstairs.

Old Tramplara went into a muffled convulsion
of laughter. He winked at Herring
and said, ' She's a queer piece of flesh, ain't
she — full of French hoity-toity? We must
take all that out of her, and make good English
homespun take the place of mouslin-de-
laine, parley vous, bong-soir, mossou ! ' Then
the old man curtsied and grimaced, and went
into attitudes, ' So,' said he, ' you be the gent

that has escorted my Lady High and Mighty
here ! My son said something about you.
You gave him a rap over the knuckles, lie ?
Serve the beggar right. He had been drinking
sf, I'll swear. He said he had come across
a temperance fellow who had insulted him.
And you also, I suppose, are the party that
have been paying sixty pounds for old Battis-hill;
lending him the money — making him a
present of it, I should rather say — for he who
lends to him don't hear the chink of his coin
again. I suppose you have plenty of brass to
throw away. Well, there be better investments
than West Wyke, I can teil'y. I wish
I had been by to have tipped you a hint.
Herring is your name ! I wonder whether
you are any relation to old Jago Herring, of
Welltown?"'

The young man did not enlighten him.

Look here,' said Mr. Trampleasure. ' Stay
and pick a bone of mutton with us at supper.
Don't be shy about meeting Sampson. He
ain't here, now at least — and what's more, he's
not the fellow to bear malice. Lord bless
you ! if he where a bit rampageous, it was because
he had been drinking ; and as Moses
who was the meekest of men said, when the
liquor is in the manners is out. But the
contrary is also true — and I Sampson Tram-pleasure

say it — when the liquor is out the
manners return. And, though I ain't a Moses,
and a prophet, and all that sort of thing, yet
I've a pretty shrewd head of my own, and what
I say is worth attending to. Come along,
Herring, and have a bite with us all, and seethe
young lady nestle into the bosom of the
family. By Grogs ! I've lost my manners
though. Here's Mrs. Trampleasure, and I've
never introduced you to her. Mr, Herring,
Mrs. Tram, the flame of my youth, the solace
of my age — eh, old woman ? '

Have done wi' your funning. Tram,' said
the old lady, giggling feebly. ' Will you step
in, sir? It gets chilly of an evening, and a
fire is agreeable, sir, especially when one is
troubled with a cold in the head.'

Look here, Herring,' said Trampleasure,
familiarly'. ' You are not returning to West
AVyke to-night. That is impossible. You are
going to sleep at the White Hart or the King's
Arms, that is certain. Well, it ain't always
lively of an evening at an inn. You can plead
no engagement, and therefore I will take no
excuse. You stay with us and save sour
pocket the cost of supper. If you are fond
of music, we'll give you some. " Music hath
charms to soothe the savage breast," you remember
the text — in Malachi I believe, and

VOL. I. K

he was the last of the prophets. If that was the
last things he ever said it was the truest. Is her
Serene Highness at all in the tum-tum way ? '

^ I really cannot say.'

Because, if she is, she's where her talent
will be drawn out. I play the bass violin,
Sampson is a Boanerges on the flute, and
Orange can do pretty well on the harpsichord.
But there she comes herself, all along of her
Ladyship. Come in. Herring, this is Liberty
Hall, with no more forms and ceremonies in
it than in the Tabernacle in the Wilderness.'

He drew the young man into the sitting-room.
' There's another musician in the house,'
he said, ' but of him, mum. He don't let
himself be heard often, thanks be.'

Herring reluctantly submitted. He was
repelled by the old man, but he was concerned
for Miracle. Could she endure this association
? Was the daughter, Orange, better than
her father, or was she equally vulgar ? The
mother was feeble and commonplace, not
obtrusively offensive. He would like to be
satisfied that in Orange poor Miracle would
find a refuge and a support against the coarse
father and from the brutal son.

He could learn this only by staying, and
he therefore accepted the invitation, though
not with the best grace.

The table in the little dining-room was

laid with a white cloth, and there Alas a dish
With a cold leg of boiled mutton on it at the
head. Cheese, butter, and bread were dispersed,
not arranged, on the surface of the table. In
the centre stood a plated cruet-stand with old
mustard turned brown in a pot, and a bottle
of sauce down whose sides the sauce had
trickled and caked.

Miracle entered with Orange, pale, her
long dark lashes drooping on her cheek. She
was ashamed, perhaps afraid, to look up.
Herring thought he saw something on the
lash. A tear ? — hardly a whole tear. A
brilliant, not a diamond.

Tiie room was comfortable. It was panelled
with painted wood of Queen iVnne's
period, the mouldings heavy and the panels
laro;e. The room was low. A fire burnt in
the grate.

Orange Tramplara came up to Herring.

You have had a long journey — tedious
also,' she said.

Not tedious by any means. That was
impossible in such company.'

AVell, long. I wish we had known for
certain that my cousin would be here to-night,
then we would have had a warm supper ready.'

Don't bother with excuses,' burst in old
Tramplara. ' Men do not heed what they eat,

but what they drink. Cold mutton is a very
good thing, especially with a glass of hot grog
on the top.'

Herring looked steadily at Orange. She
was a tall, stoutly built, handsome girl, with
black hair, florid complexion, and very beautiful
dark eyes. Her lips were crimson, ripe
and sensuous. She had a fine throat and a
swelling bust. Herring could make out nothing
more. Men cannot read women's character
from their faces. It is v/ell that they are
denied this faculty, or the race would become
extinct. Marriages, says a proverb, are made
in heaven. No — marriages are made in Paradise
— the paradise of fools.

Whilst Herring; studied Orano-e ineffectually,
she was making her own comments on
him. She read more of his character than he
had been able to decipher of hers. But he
had deciphered nothing. She saw that he
was good-looking, honest, and amiable, and
that he did not lack ability. She read good-nature
in every curve, and turned contemptuously
away. Good-nature is weakness.

Come along.' said Mr. Tramplara, ' the
travellers want to peck. Sit you all down.
'' For what we are going to receive." Underdone,
missis? or tasting of the butcher's
fingers, eh ? '

CHAPTER X.

A MUSICAL Walking-stick.

As Herring sat at tabic, he noticed opposite
him, hung against the wall, a large pastille
portrait of a gentleman in a red coat, with
powdered hair. The face was refined.

By way of conversation, Herring asked
Orange, who sat next him, whether this were
a family picture.

What — this, this? ' said Tramplara, taking
the answer out of his daughter's mouth. ' Nobody
knows who the red man is.'

An ancestor, however, I presume,' said
Herring.

Lord bless you ! no ; he don't look like
an ancestor of our family. No flesh and blood
and muscle and go-ahead there ; all thinness
and fine bone and whimsy, very well for show,
but no use for work. Though I do not know
who the party was, yet I do know something
queer about the picture. This house don't
belong to me, I rent it ; and in the lease that

picture goes with the house, and so does a
bundle of old walking-sticks that we keep in
the attic. Now ain't that curious? I reckon
the sticks belonged to that old fellow in the
red coat, but I can't say. He and the house
and the sticks go together. You can't rent
the house without the sticks and the picture.
The sticks are not worth much ; they would
not fetch half a crown, the whole lot of them
at a sale. There is one with a head I thought
was silver gilt, but it is no such thing, it is
gilded copper ; there is a second, mottled with
things like trees on it ; and there is one, and
that the queerest of all, has an ivory handle
with holes in it, like a flute, but with tongues
to them like those in an accordion, so that
any one up to that sort of thing might play a
tune on it. Sampson could do it if he tried,
but there is a reason why he don't try. It is
all cursed superstition, but still it won't do to
tempt Providence ; that's my doctrine, and I
challenge Scripture to make better. What —
no appetite?' he asked, when Miracle declined
a slab of cold mutton placed before her. ' Come,
come, we must get hearty to our meat in Old
England, and have no pecking of crumbs and
nibbling of salads here, like birds and rabbits.'
He ate himself and said, ' Missis ! you don't
get mutton like this in France. I've been in

Paris, and I ought to know. I dined in the
Valley-royal, and I said to the garcon — garçon
! By the way, missis ! what is the name
you call yourself by? Garcon, jargon?'

Garcia,' answered Miracle, haughtily.

Garcia, is it. Well, garçon means waiter,
so I take it Garcia means bar-maid, eh? Why,
there are the boys. I hear them in the hall.
Excuse me a moment, I want a word with
Sampson.' Down went his knife and fork,
and the great fellow dashed noisily out of the
room.

The situation for Herring was not pleasant,
but young Tramplara relieved him of
his embarrassment the moment he entered by
going directly to him with extended hand:
Very sorry I wasn't polite t'other day ; but
there, forgive and forget, as the foot-pad said
to the traveller when he relieved him of his
purse.'

Neo, no, Sampy,' put in his father ; ' you
are out there, my boy. Verify your quotations,
say I. That same sentiment proceeds
from Shakespeare — one of the writers of the
Apocrypha,' he added, in explanation to
Miracle ; ' not quite a prophet, but tinged
with the prophetic fire.'

Herring frankly accepted the apology.
Young Tramplara was followed into the room

by a gentleman, tall, with light hair and very
light moustache, a military air, and a handsome
face and f]2:ure.

^ Miss Strange,' said old Tramplara, ' let
me introduce my friend. Captain Trecarrel.
Captain Trecarrel, bliss Strange, alias the
Countess Garcia de Somethino:-or-other-un-
pronounceable. Same, Mr. Herring. Take a
chair, Trecarrel, and try your teeth on the
mutton. Miss Strange is the daughter of my
first cousin, Jimmy Strange. '' Though lost to
sight, to memory dear," as the sacred penman
has it. The young lady don't fancy her name
somehow, it isn't high-flavoured enough for
her foreign ideas ; however, she is a Strange,
so sure as lamb is young mutton.'

Captain Trecarrel declined.

What — no meat ! Oh, a Friday. You
Catholics '

You eyes Catholique, monsieur?' asked
Miracle, suddenly waking into interest.

Si, mademoiselle.'

Et vous parlez Francis? '

Assez bien.'

Tenez. Quand on salt penser en francis,
on n'est plus bete, et quand on est Catholique,
voila Fame qui vit.'

Herring noticed the look of surprised
admiration with which Captain Trecarrel contemplated

the wax-like face before him. He
saw also the smile that leaped into her eyes
when the Captain confessed his religion and
spoke in French. She had accorded Jdm no
smile. Orange also noticed the admiration
awakened in the Captain, and the encouragement
given him by Miracle. Her cheek darkened
and she bit her lip.

No parley-vous here, please ! ' said old
Trampleasure. ' No one any more mutton ?
AVell, a merciful man is merciful to his beast,
says Holy Writ, and so say I. Bella, take out
the meat for your own supper.' When the
red-haired servant, who walked from her
shoulders, had cleared the table, and had put
another log on the fire, and impregnated the
atmosphere of the room with a scent of yellow
soap, Tramplara said : ' Nov for some music.
Do you tum-tum, missis ? '

Miracle did not notice the question.

Beg pardon. Countess Garcia de Cancels
If you don't play yourself, perhaps
you will enjoy good music when you hear it ?
Now then. Orange, sit you down. Sampson,
get out your flute, and here is my bass viol,
big and burly, and sound in the wind as jolly
old Trampleasure himself.'

Do you play at all. Countess ? ' asked
Herring.

Occasionally ; according to where I am.
I am not Orpbee. I do not pretend to tame
the beasts.'

Come along, Captain, you must not absent
yourself frozen the concerto. Can you manage
any other music than blowing your own
trumpet ? '

If Miss Orange will supply me with a
comb and some silver paper, I can give you a
rude imitation of the pan-pipes.'

Orange became Octave at once. ' Do not
jest on that subject, Captain Trecarrel.'

No, no,' threw in Trampleasure, ' it is all
cursed superstition, but still, " Let sleeping
dogs lay," as Chalked observes in the " Canterbury
Tales." '

AVhat do you mean ? '

You have heard of the old gentleman in
red who is said to walk here,' answered
Orange, in a subdued tone. ' The tenants
who had Dolbeare before us let the walking-sticks
lie at the agent's, and they were fairly
routed out of the house by the noises.'

^ It was rats,' said Trampleasure; 'women
are cowards about noises.'

What has this to do with my impromptu
musical instrument?' asked Captain
Trecarrel.

This,' answered Orange ; ^ whenever there

is any great misfortune about to befall those
in the house, a sound is heard going through
it such as that you proposed to make. What
is singular is that one of the walking-sticks
that goes with the house has some such a
musical instrument in the handle

Who is supposed to walk and pipe woe to
the house ? ' asked the Captain.

That red man hanging: on the wall behind
you.'

Every one turned to look at the picture.

^ He appears harmless enough,' said Tree


Has any one heard his music ? '

None of us have,' answered Orange ; ' but
it has been heard by others before we came
here.'

^ It is a strange story,' said Trecarrel. ' It
reminds me of the tenure of Tresmarro, not
far from here. There the house is let with a
human skull. The farmer there, not liking
the object, buried it ; but noises of all sorts,
voices, knockings, trampling, heard at night,
made the place unbearable, so he dug up the
skull and restored it to its niche in the apple
chamber, where it stands now, and then the
disturbance ceased.'

Come, never mind about the ghosts,'
shouted old Tramplara, ' we want music ; ' and

he drew his bow across the bass viol, making
the room resound.

Captain Trecarrel drew his chair beside
Miracle. Orange saw this, and said, ' Captain,
to your post of duty. I want you to turnover
the leaves whilst I play.'

A look of annoyance came over his face ;
he rose, and took his place by the piano.

The concert began. The flute was out of
tune, the bass viol roared and drowned the
piano. Miracle shuddered, and drew back
against the wall.

^ Are you fond of music ? ' asked Herring,
during a pause.

Of music, yes. Of noise, no.'

'Countess,' said he in an undertone, 'before
I leave allow me to ask of you a favour.
I go tomorrow, and perhaps shall not see you
again.'

Most probably not.'

It pains me to see you thus left with uncongenial
surroundings. Your position here
may become unendurable. Should you, at anytime,
need help, and you think I can give you
assistance, do not fail to summon me.'

You are very good to make me the offer,
but I am hardly likely to make use of it. I
shall not remain in this house a moment longer
than I am obliged. I have another guardian

living at Avranches. As we passed through
the place, on our way to England, my father
called on lira. When he is ready to receive
me I will go to bim. and leave England forever.'


But suppose he declines to act.'

He cannot decline. My father saw him
at Avranches.'

We will hope for the best. But on the
chance of your desiring independent advice,
will you take and keep my card? My address
is on it — that is, the address from which
letters will be forwarded to me.'

I thank you. I will preserve it,' said
Miracle, stiffly. ' For myself it will be needless,
but I will recommend your firm to
my acquaintances, and I hope obtain some
orders.'

Herring looked puzzled. Miracle took the
card and twirled it in her fingers without
glancing at it. She was annoyed with what
she regarded as an impertinence.

With a crash on the piano, a shriek from
the flute, and a bellow from the bass viol, the
symphony concluded.

John Herring rose to depart. The musicians
were engaged on their instruments.
Captain Trecarrel was leaning over the piano,
talking to Orange. As Herring rose, Miracle

rose also. She knew he was going to depart,
and that, perhaps, for ever.

She was relieved to think so.

He ventured to hold out his hand. Purposely
she avoided seeing it, but, raising her
eyes, she looked him in the face. Wondrous,
mysterious eyes they were. They dazzled
Herring. This was the second time only that
he had met her look.

I am very anxious about your future,
Countess.'

I pray you give it no thought. My
future is in my own hands alone ; it cannot
concern you.' She slightly curtseyed.

Then there came a faint musical strain as
on some reedy instrument stealing through
the house. It was heard outside the door, in
the hall, then it passed round the room and
went on into Mr. Trampleasure's office beyond;
a strange music, distant yet near, so distant
that the ear was sensible of an effort to hear
it, yet so near that the vibration could be
felt. The air played was familiar ; a solemn,
quaint old melody, associated with these
words : —

Since first I saw your face, I resolv'd

To honour and renown you ;
If now I be disdain'd, I wish

My heart had never known you.

Orange turned pale. Old Tramplara was
startled. Miracle and Herring did not at first
realise that this was the music that had been
alluded to at table. Some moments elapsed
before those in the room had recovered from
their surprise sufficiently to speak, and then
only Orange had the courage to refer to it.
She turned sharply, almost fiercely, on Miracle,
and said, ' It is you — you ! who have brought
this on us.'

'Brought what?'

Orange was too agitated to explain. ' I
have told you what this means,' she said.

What have we here on the floor?' asked
Tramplara, in a shaking voice.

A card,' answered Miracle. ' Mr. Herring's
address.' She raised it and read : —
Lieut. Herring, 25th Reg.

Wellborn,
N. Cornwall.'
'Why!' she exclaimed, supremely shocked,
he is an officer in the army, and I thought
he was a commis voyageur for some grocery
or drapery business. Where is he?'

John Herring was gone. She had not
even thanked him for what he had done for
her, and he had done for her, and would
do for her, far more than she knew. However
proudly she may have resolved to hold

her future in her own hands, that future Twas
in his.

Herring ! — Welltown ! ' echoed Mr. Tram-pleasure
: ' why, he is the son of old Jago
Herring after all.'

Twenty-fifth!' echoed Captain Trccarrel:
why, he must have been at Waterloo.'

Waterloo, by all the rules of military
science, ought to have been a victory to the
Emperor,' said Miracle. ^ Indeed, it was a
victory, but the arrival of the Prussians, and
thereby the preponderating numerical power
brought to bear against our troops when exhausted,
compelled them to retreat.'

Sampy,' said Trampleasure, in an undertone
to his son, ' I had a peck or two at old
Jao-o, and there must be flesh on the bones of
the son. The old fool has sent his son into
the army to make a gentleman of him. Quick !
run after him, my lad, and beg him, whenever
he passes through Launceston, to give
us a call, and see how the Countess Cancels
is picking up her crumbs.'

CHAPTER XI.

THE giant's table.

Herring drove back next day to AVest Wyke.
He was not in good spirits ; he had not slept
much the night before. The thoughts of
Miracle, of her isolation in the midst of coarse
sordid natures, of her exposure to the impertinence
of Sampson, junior, and the vulgarity
of the elder Tramplara, had kept him awake.
His sole hope lay in Orange, that she mio-ht
prove a refuge and protection for Miracle.
The Countess had repelled him. She had not
even thanked him for what he had done for
her. She had treated him as a travelling bao
man, had absolutely declined his proffers of
friendship. Alas it likely that they would
meet again — that he should again look into
those dark, inscrutable eyes? She filled all
his thoughts. He could give attention to
nothing else. Poor Miracle ! Unsuited utterly
by her bringing up for battling with the
realities of life. Reared in purest cloudland

VOL. I. L

she was translated to grossest proseland.
JSiUrsed in a convent, she found herself suddenly
at its spiritual and moral antipodes.
She had spent her life hitherto secluded from
the rush and roar of life. Now she was
plunged in the swirl of the current, and knew
uot how to swim. Poor Miracle! Herring
sho-hed. He was thinking; of her when he
reached West Wyke, and Cicely's cheerful
voice roused him from abstraction.

She met him in her frank and genial
manner, and showed how pleased she was to
see him. What a contrast between his reception
to-day and his dismissal over night !
Then a frost had fallen on his heart, now a
sunbeam thawed it. And yet he could not
avoid contrasting Cicely unfavourably with
Miracle. Cicely was eminently sober, sensible,
and practical ; perfectly natural, entirely without
disguise. Miracle was dreamy, unreasonable,
unpractical; her nature altered by her
education, her character a riddle. Cicely had
her congeners everywhere. Herring had meta
thousand equally fresh and charming girls ;
hers was the type found in every manor house
and parsonage of Old England. These girls
are sweet, wholesome, but not piquant. Everyone
knows what they are ; the sounding line
goes to the bottom of their souls at once, and

all the way through fresh and crystal waters.
But Miracle was mysterious. Herring had
never met with one like her. He could not
fathom her ; he dare not even cast the plumb.
That she had a shrewd spirit he saw ; that
she had depth of character he suspected; that
she was good as an angel of God he was so
convinced that he would have died for his
faith. He liked Cicely, he loved Miracle. He
could imagine nothing about Cicely; he knew
all. He knew nothing about Miracle; his
imagination could soar in contemplation of
lier, and see her still above him.

Mr. Battishill- was delighted to see Herring.
He took the young man's hand in his.
He would not let it go, but kept shaking it,
and repeating how pleased he was. to see him.
Herring was touched. There was something
in this reception like a coming home. Then
they got to talking about Miracle. A letter
had come from Mr. Eustace Smith, a peppery,
indignant letter, refusing to have anything todo
with executorship to the deceased's will,
trusteeship of his property, and guardianship
of his child. Consequently Miracle was left
wholly at the mercy of Tramplara. Nothing
further could be done by Mr. Battishill or by
John Herring.

L 2

^ Do you understand Miracle ? ' asked
Cicely of the young man.

What do you mean by understand ? I
cannot answer you without a definition of
terms.'

I mean What is your opinion of

her?'

I should like to know yours first, Miss
Battishill.'

That is not fair. However, you shall
have it. I think Miracle has no heart. She
has been brought up by a selfish mother, and
by sisters dio, in their religious way, are
selfish also. She is one of those persons
whom it is impossible to love, for there is nothing
lovable in her. But it is quite possible
to pity her, and pity her I do from the bottom
of my heart. Her character is as cold and
colourless as her exterior.'

You misread her,' said Herring, ' or I am
vastly mistaken. She has a heart, a very
warm and tender heart, but it sleeps like a
flower-bed under the snow It is a heart full
of promise '

How can you say that ? Have you dug
through the snow to explore it ? '

I should say, full of possibilities. She is
not really selfish — I mean, she is not naturally
selfish, but she has not been placed in a position

where she can attach herself to any
person. She has been reared to love ideas,
not individuals — the Church and la belle
France, and to these ideas she has attached
herself Warmly. With us the object of education
is to enlarge the sympathies ; with those
who have trained her it has been the object to
narrow them. Each system has its advantages,
and each its defects. If we enlarge the sympathies
they run shallow, if they be narrowed
they become intense ; and the men and women
who make their mark, who influence the
destinies of their fellow-men, are those of one
idea and fiery prejudice. Miracle is self-restrained
without being reserved. She is
frank as to her thoughts and impenetrable as
to her feelings. What she believes to be true
she speaks with crudeness, because she is unaware
that the world will only accept the
truth cooked and sauced. She is wholly
ignorant of life, more so than a child with us
of fourteen, because an English child lives in
its home, with brothers and sisters, and its
associates are of every sort and degree.
Miracle has had no home, all her associates
have been of one type, of one class, and of her
own sex. She has never been brought into
contact with the poor, and has never associated
with men. The defects you notice are superficial,

and Avill fade as she grows older and
gains experience.'

You judge hf^i' more kindly than I,' said
Cicely. ' ]3ut that is like you. You are always
generous. Men see the good side of women,
and women only the worst side of their sisters.
Woman is to man like the moon, always showing:
one face, and that serene and luminous.
That there is another, systematically turned
from him, passes his philosophy.'

^ I grant the likeness,' said Herring, vehemently.
' But why should that other side be
dark and unsightly ? No ; Paradise is on the
unseen face.'

Omne ignotum pro magnihco,' said Mr.
Battishill ; ' I remember so much Latin.'

• You would like. Miss Battishill, to drag
the moon down out of the sky and turn her
round and show me a desert of lava.'

I should like to see exactly what the
moon is made of. I see volcanoes and
chasms on this face, I cannot suppose green
hills and flowery plains on the other. She
naturally shows us the only decent face she
has.'

There we differ as the poles,' said Herring,
warmly. ' I prefer to see her far, far
above me, and I do not wish to bring her
down to my level. I idealise her hidden side,

and believe I do not see it because of my own
un worthiness.'

Let us change the topic,' said Cicely, ' or
we shall quarrel, and I cannot afford that.'

By all means,' answered Herring, ' and
so, tell me, has anything been seen of that
strange girl who helped me to carry the
Countess to your door ? '

What ! Joyce ? '

Yes, I think that was the name you gave
her;

No, I have been too occupied with my
father to think of her. She is more than half
a savage, and lives with her old father in a
Druidical monument called the Giant's Table,
not far from here.'

If I had not come to the rescue intime,
the wretched old man would have
killed her. I am not altogether easy in my
mind. The father was beside himself with
rage, though what had angered him did not
transpire.'

After he had eaten — for Cicely insisted he
should not go out till he had been given a
meal — Herring went in search of Joyce. His
purpose was to give her a crown for her assistance
; he judged from her appearance that she
was wretchedly poor. Moreover he was desirous
to see that the girl had not been ill-treated

by her father after his protection was
withdrawn.

The moor was ablaze with the gorse in
full flower. The air that is Wafted from the
Spice Islands cannot be more fragrant than
that which played over these masses of growing
gold.

Herring had no difficulty in finding the
Giant's Table. The little clearing effected by
the Cobbledicks lay as an island in the moor.
Their rude stone fences walled out the gorse
gold and the rosy heather. Adjoining this
inclosure was the grey mass of granite stones
set on edge, capped by an enormous . block ;
the interstices were filled in with moss.
Herring looked round. Xot a human being
was visible ; no one worked in the clearing.
A faint sweet smoke hung about the mysterious
old monument, showing that a peat fire
burned Within.

The young man walked round the cromlech
and discovered the entrance. Within it
was. dark. His eyes were dazzled with the
o-orse bloom. He saw the smouldering embers
of a turf fire, and the smoke crept out at the
doorway, which served equally the purposes
of chimney, window, and door. Then he
stooped and entered.

Is any one here ? '

^ Here be I,' answered a voice from the
further end.

'Who? Joyce?'

Yes, sure.'

Why, Joyce, what are you doing here ?
What ! lying down ? Are you ill ? '

I be broke all to pieces,' she answered ;
I be going to die.' Her voice was hoarse.

Good heavens, Joyce ! how has this occurred
? '

He went to the upper end of the cromlech,
and knelt by her. Now he was able to see.
The girl lay on the cushions of the chaise, and
some of the rugs were thrown over her.

How has this come about. Jove ? '

I won't teller, unless you swears not tolet
the constable know. I don't want no hurt
to come to whither of this. Yaither were here
a minute agone, but I reckon he seed you
coming, and so he smoked away. Hers
afeared the constable's be astern all alone; o'
doings this.'

But what has he done to you, child ? '

'He's almost scatter me to. bits,' she said.
Looked here ? ' She held out her arms.
Both were broken below the elbows, and the
hands hung limp and powerless. ' I'd angered
'n ; and yet, thwart my fault neither. The
cord snappt cause the cord were wore out.

But never heed that. You won't tell o' he ?
See now ; say after me, " Hist me blue if I
does." '

My poor gu-1, I will not tell.'

'Say what I ses : "Blast me blue, and
glory rallaluley ! " '

There is no necessity for that. You may
trust my word.'

He'd a right to do it,' argued Joyce. ' I
be his daughter, and a whither may do what
he minds to wi' his child. That's reason.'

I dispute that. He had no right whatever
to maltreat you. But, tell me, have you
had no doctor to you ? Your bones must beset.'


A doctor won't do me no good, maister.
I never seed a animal as had been mashed that
lev come right again. 'Ain't in nature. I
be going to die right on end, I be. But I
don't wish whither no hurt for it. I be his
daughter, and he has a right to do as he
pleases.'

Joyce, when was this done ? '

When were this done ? Why, that night
the carriage were overset and the man killed.'

What ! all that time ago, and nothing
done to your arms ! Did not your father put
splints on them ? '

What be they ? Yaither can't mend nothing.

He'vo abrokecl and tore clown scores
and scores of things, but lieve amended nothing.'


And no one has been here to help you ? '
Nobody never comes here. My whither
be a sight better now than he were. I'll teller
how that corned about. I'll teller the whole
tale rio^ht on end. When I returned home
after I'd a' been to WestWyke wi' you, carrying
the lady wi' the white face, him were a'
lying in wait for I, and when I comet up, then
he set on me wi' a great stone, and he hunted
me all over, and broke what he could break.
You see I'd a angered 'n, and he forgot himself.
I've a forgot myself a times too. After
that I crept in here, and laid me down by the
curve hire. But whither, he wouldn't come in,
he stood and peeped in at the door. I seed 'n
and I sed, " Yaither ! Miss Cicely ses you
may go and sleep in the calves' hinny among
the straw, and it will be warm and comfortable
forty, whither, better nor the old barrel
was. So yon go along, and let me bide quiet
and die in peace." Then he went. In the
night I were that burning hot I could not
sleep, and I opened my eyes, and there I seed
old mother wot be buried under the hearthstone
; her were a heaving up in the midst of
the fire. I seed her head sticking straight

out of the burnings turves, and her looked
hard at me ; her fiice were red as live coals.
Then her went on heaving and pushing till
herd a worked herself right out of the earth,
in the midst of the fire, and the burning
turves tumbled this way and that as her
corned out. Then I seed that her old gown
were flickering wi' blue light, just as you've
seed old touchwood. Pier comet to me and
her kissed me, but sure her lips were like fire,
and they burned me. Then her sed, " Joyce,
tell your whither that I be coming after 'n if
he does you any more harm. I knows Adhere
he be, in the hinny, lying warm in the straw-but
I'll make 'n warmer. I'll throw fiery
turves in among the straw, and he'll burn,
he'll burn, he'll burn ! " As her were a saying
of that her went backers into the fire, and
down through the turves, and they closed
over she just as afore. But I heard her still
a mumbling to herself under the hearth-stone,
He'll burn, he'll burn, he'll burn ! " '

Oh, Joyce, you were fevered and wandering
in your mind,' said Herring, who belonged
to the nineteenth century after Christ. The
condition of Joyce's mind was that of a savage
three centuries before Christ.

After that,' she went on, ' I told whither all,
and he lev come here and been very good to I.

You see he be mortal afeared o' being: cano-lit
asleep in the hinny in the straw by mother wi'
a flaming curve in her hand. He thinks her
won't make much dorrit o' nights, becos of
disturbing me. And then he laughs and ses,
*• Mother be that pleased I lev a given her
summit to play with, and her be a playing
wi' that and won't trouble no more." ^

'Jo^^ce, your father must be very sorry
for what he has done.'

'He is that for certain. All becos you
see heave a got to do everything himself now.
Afore, I did a deal of things. I got up the
toties, and I baked 'em in the ashes, and I
milked the cow, and I did scores and scores
of things. But now that I lev my arms a
broke it puts a deal o' work on whither. Her
lev to do everything from morning to night.
And whither be getting an old man, and not
up to work as he were years by. He feels it,
sure, very much, and wishes he hadn't a done
it now. But wot's the good o' wishing. Wishing
won't mend broken bones.'

Herring was kneeling by her. He could
not understand the girl. \Yas she delirious,
or was this the outpour of her reasonable
soul? He put his hand on her low forehead,
brushing up the shock of coarse hair. He
wished to feel her pulse, but could not touch

the artery in the broken hand. She lay very
still with her eyes fixed on him.

You are feverish,' he said. ' I am going
to fetch a doctor.'

I say,' exclaimed Joyce, vehemently,
you've swore not to tell the constable of
whither. If you were to do that, I'd never
be friends wi' you more.'

Friends with him ! The poor savage and
the lieutenant in His Majesty's service! Herring
was unable to suppress a smile.

Joyce,' he said gravely, ' you must have
those poor arms patched up. The surgeon must
attend you. I shall have you carried hence.
No doubt Miss Cicely will know of a cottage
where you can be received.'

No,' she said hoarsely, even fiercely, ' I'll
go over no drexil (threshold). Let me lie
here and die where I've a lived.'

^ But I insist on a doctor attending you.'

What can a doctor do for me? It ain't
in nature. What be broke be broke ; be it a
leg, or a neck, or a arm, or a heart, it be all
one. What be a broke be a broke for ever
and ever, Amen.'

After some difficulty he persuaded her to
consent. Then he ran off to South Tawton
for a surgeon. He returned with one rather
over an hour later. Then he stood outside

whilst the medical man entered the den and
examined the patient. Presently he was
called.

She is severely bruised, but no other
bones are broken except those in her arms.
She is obstinate, and I cannot induce her to
allow me to put splints on and bandage the
arms.'

Oh, Joyce ! if you wish to be well you
will submit.'

I don't care one way or other,' said the
girl sullenly. ' I wouldn't give the turn of a
turf whether I lived or whether I died. Wot's
life to me? It ain't anything I cares for.'

But I do care very much about it, Joyce.
You must have your bones mended and get
Avell to make me happy.'

You care, dory ? Then I'll live. There ! '
She held out her broken arms, but as suddenly
drew them back. ' I won't lev the doctor
touch me. Blast me blue if I will. If I be
to get well and live, then you must make me
well and live, and none else. Take my hands
and do what you will. You may cut 'em off
and I won't cry. You may tie 'em up and
I'll say not.'

The surgeon said to Herring, ' You had
better humour her. She is not a rational
being.'

So Herring put the splints in place, and
bound the bandages tightly round them.

Joyce watched him with her large animal-like
eyes fixed on his face. A feverish fire
was burning in them, giving them a factitious
light. She did not withdraw them from him
for a moment.

^ You're right for certain,' she said. ' If
I'd ha' died, what 'ud whither ha' done? And
her be growing a brave age.'

Then, still kneeling by her, Herring spoke
with the surgeon about the girl, as to what
was to be done with her arms and what she
Alas to eat. Suddenly he exclaimed with a
start and recoil, ' Good heavens, Joyce ! what
are you doing ? '

He looked at her. A human soul was
struggling to emancipate itself from brute
instinct. He saw it in her feverish eyes. She
had them fixed on him as those of a dog look
at its master — and lie was licking Its hand.

CHAPTER XII.

OPHIR.

Sampy, my boy said Tramplara the elder,
improve each shining hour, says Paul, afterwards
called Saul, and he couldn't have given
a better piece of advice if he'd been paid todo
it. Since Polpluggan has been blown I
have had nothing to do, and I want not only to
follow Paul's advice and improve the shining
hour, but do better, and improve the overcast
and rainy ones. You and I, Sampy, are the
men to whom the future belongs, the representatives
of the age, and it will not do for
the likes of us to keep our light under a
bushel. That ain't Scriptural, and it ain't
advantageous neither.'

^ All right, governor. What is this the
preface to?

Sampy,' said Tramplara, confidingly, ' we
must start another mine.'

'What — tin? lead? manganese? copper?'

Better still, my gosling.'

VOL. I. M

I don't know what you can have better
except coal, and coal don't luxuriate alongside
of granite.'

Gold — the noblest of metals — gold.'

'Oh, ah ! governor, that won't do. There's
no gold to be found here.'

'Why not?'

'Why not? Because no folks are fools
enough to sink it in such a venture as gold
mining.'

You are wrong. There is one quality I
can always rely on — as the Apostle says, "Folly
never falleth, everything else may vanish
away." If you appeal to men's reasons, it is
like looking for ghosts in haunted tenements ;
they are supposed to be there, but never found
when wanted. Human folly is like Dozmare
pool, it is unfathomable, though you let down
into it all the bell-ropes of Cornwall. You
can set up windmills in Essex, for there the
wind always blows ; and you can establish
water wheels in Cornwall, for the rain supply
is inexhaustible ; and you can float speculations
where you will, and the fools will keep
them going. In the story of the Fisherman in
the " Arabian Nights " the fish that have been
scraped and disembowelled and put in a frying-pan
over the coals stand up on their tails and
say, " We are doing our duty. If you reckon

we reckon ; if you fly we mount and are content."
Xow those fish we are told were men.
And men are just the same now. They do
their duty in coming to be scraped and gutted
and roasted, and what you pipe they repeat ;
they have no pleasure apart from yours, and
they rush into your hands to be cleaned out,
just as the martyrs asked to be tortured.'

Sampson junior nodded.

What is it that Solomon said, " A fool
and his money are soon parted? " '

I say, governor, it is dry work listening.
Let us have in some grog.'

Bring the spirits out of the cupboard and
ring for Bella to give us sugar and hot water.
Are you listening to me ? What I say is important.
I am leading you after gold.'

All right ; but you were speaking of
human folly.'

Human folly is the cable ^ that incloses
the ore. It is not for nothing, Sampy, that I
have been regular at chapel and paid for my
pew at Salem. Mr. Israel Flamank, the
minister, is a very good man ; a sort of cedar
in Lebanon, always green, and he is as soft as
butter and as easy to make a pat out of with,
at pleasure, a crown or a goose at top. There

^ The rock altered by the veii of ore it surrounds is termed
by miners the cable.

are in the world good men of whom with
Scripture it may be said, *' It were better that
a millstone had been hanged round their necks
than they should have learned to read and
write." For, you see, Sampy, they read a
great deal without knowing the relative value
of what they read, and they write the first
craze that comes into their heads to set other
fools crazy after them. When there is a
choice of herbs set before an ass, he prefers a
thistle, because, as Shakespeare sings, 'rit is
his nature to." You may take my word for
it, gosling, there is a parcel of people in this
world with an exuberant fund of piety in their
constitutions, just as some children are born
with water on the brain. And as these have
no definite belief, the pious element within
washes about, unable to settle. When you
was a boy, Sampy, it was your delight to make
silver trees. You had a fluid clear as crystal
in a bottle, and into it you introduced a scrap
of carpet thread, and all at once the metal
held in solution crystallised about the rubbish
you had inserted, and built round it a mass of
sparkling metal, hard as steel and shining as
silver. It is the same with folk of the calibre
of Israel Flamank. Their dilute piety is ready
to settle round any trashy notion that gets
into them, and rear about it a tree of fantastic

conviction. Flamank has done a deal of
crystallising since I have known him, about
all sorts of odds and ends. First he was a
total abstainer, then a vegetarian, then he
found the gospel in the pyramids, and now he
is all for the Phoenicians.'

But, father, what does this concern us? *
Everything, my son,' said old Tramplara,
with sunny self-complacency. ' Fill your
glass and listen. Do you know what the
Phoenicians were ? '

I don't know, and don't care.'
Then Pll tell you. The Phoenicians were
next-door neighbours to the Jews, and, what
is a wonder, were on speaking terms, and did
each other little neighbourly acts, which shows
they lived in the Dark Ages. You don't
happen to know anything about the Cassiter-
ides, dory, Sampy ? '

Not a farthing. Had they anything todo
with the Phoenicians? '

^ Oh, what an ignorant boy you are ! You
are living in the midst of the Cassiterides, and
don't know it. Cassiterides is the Phoenician
for Devon and Cornwall. It means the place
whence the Phoenicians drew their tin ; and
where the Phoenicians went the Jews went
also. Marathon, as every fool knows, is called
also Market Jew, because the Jews came thereto

buy metal for Solomon's temple. You
haven't a Bible, haven, Sampson junior, ready
to hand ? '

'• I doubt if there be such a thing in the
house.'

There is, though, only I don't know where
it be stowed away this present moment. I
bought one for taking the level of the Phoenicians
under the guidance of the Reverend
Flamank. Now Solomon ; you've heard of
Solomon ? '

Which, the pawnbroker? '

No ; Solomon the wisest of men, and because
the wisest the richest. He sent a navy
of ships with his own men and Phoenicians to
get gold for the temple at Jerusalem and his
own house. There is one thing strikes an
earnest inquirer like me about King Solomon,
and makes me admire the beauty of his character
greatly. When he were building the
temple he built his own palace at the same
time, and didn't make of 'em separate accounts.
So the Jews gave profusely for the building
of their temple, and how much of that subscription
went to the King's house, I reckon
Solomon himself would have been pushed to
answer. He was seven years building the
temple, and thirteen years over his own palace,
and when you know that, you can guess how

the material went. But that is neither here
nor there. I was just giving you a sample of
the wisdom of Solomon. Weil, the ships of
Solomon came for gold to Ophir, and fetched
thence four hundred and twenty talents of
gold-dust ; that, Israel Flamank tells me, is
nigh on fifty-three thousand pounds weight.
Think of that ! I^ow where gold came from,
there gold is to be had.'

^ But where did it come from ? '
'• From Ophir, to be sure. We must find
Ophir.'

^ Governor, that won't do. You and I are
not going to leave Old England gold prospecting.
You are too old, and I am disinclined.'
Didn't I tell you we were in the Cassia
? '

Yes ; but Cassiterides is not Ophir
But Ophir may be in the Cassiterides.'
Gold never was found in the West,' said
Sampson junior, shaking his head.

There never was any tin in Wheal ,'
said the old man, who turned blazing
red with suppressed laughter. His sides
shook, his white hair gleamed ghastly against
his red skin. Then he broke into a roar, and
slapping Sampson on the knee, he shouted, ashe
waved his glass of grog over his head,
and spilled the contents on his silver hair

and gleaming cheeks, ' To the prosperity of
Ophir! Drink, Sampy, drink ! to Ophir, the
Ophir of Solomon in the "West Country.'

'Polpluggan was tightly salted,' said young
Sampson, ' and salted only with tin. Besides,
Polpluggan was in the Scilly Isles, some forty
or fifty miles from Penzance. There were
many who would rather jeopardise their
money than risk their breakfast in a rough
passage. But gold ' He shook his head.

We'll salt Ophir when we have found the
spot.'

'What! with gold dust? You'll sink a
fortune in that, and the success is doubtful.'

It is bound to succeed,' answered the
father. ' My boy, I've come to see that there
is a pan of cream has not been skimmed yet,
and I hope, if I live long enough, to skim it.
There is not much more to be done at those
pans we have gone over hitherto. We must
try a fresh one. I'll tell you what that big-rich
pan is; it is the big rich pan of religious
fanaticism. I'll take a lesson from the rats.
The rat when he has an eye on the cream sits
down with his back to it, and looking up at
the wall lets drop the end of his tail into the
cream ; then he pulls it up with a shocked and
bashful air, sucks it, and lets it down again,

and in half an hour he has cleared the pan of
all but sky blue.'

I don't see how it is to be done,' said
young Tramplara, meditatively.

You are young and inexperienced,' answered
his father. ' You haven't sounded
the depths of human folly yet. Lord bless
you ! I've been surprised myself at its profundity.
And when we come to religious folly,
my private conviction is that it goes down
through the world and out at the other side.
It is like the well of Zem-zem, that has no bottom.
I have not been an earnest inquirer at
the feet of the Reverend Israel Flamank for
nothing. Whilst kneeling to him I have been
like a shoemaker taking the measure of his
foot. I know the sort of gate he will clear,
and where the bellwether goes all the flock
will leap. You listen to me and I will give
}'ou a parable — a mighty comforting one.
There was an old mano-anese mine long; disused,
and the adit ran level out into a meadow
where some bullocks were feeding. One hot
day, when the flies were troublesome, one bullock
took refuge in the adit, and when the
others saw that in they walked after him, each
thrusting forward the fellow before him.
Presently they got frightened with being sofar

from the light, so the foremost bellowed,
and the second bellowed, and this was repeated
to the last, who, in mighty alarm, dug
his horns into the hinder quarters of the bullock
in front, and he repeated the performance
on the one before him, and so on, driving one
another further and further into the heart of
the mine. Well, they got so far that there
was no getting them out, and the owner had
to kill them where they were. They were too
frightened to back, and to turn was impossible.
Sampy, that good foolish Israel Flamank is
just like the leading bullock. He'll go into
Ophir eagerly, and all his congregation after
him, thrusting one another on, and we shall
have the slaughtering of them. They will
be too compromised to back when they find
themselves in the wrong place.'

But how about the salting? '

There are various sorts of salting. You
only know one sort. You have seen 
salted with tin ore brought from
elsewhere, and basketfuls drawn out of the
shaft that had been previously put in. That
is one sort of salting, and I allow that with
gold this would come expensive. I shall
have to manage more economically. My dear
boy, when fools are hungering to be deceived,
they are not particular about the meat that

feeds their folly. They don't inquire if the
mutton comes of rotten sheep.'

How shall you float it?'

!Nothing easier. Let us find Ophir, and
the Reverend Israel will do the rest. He
conducts a religious paper, entitled ^' The
Western Cornucopia," much read by those of
his persuasion, and throughout the West of
England. I like that word persuasion, Sampy.
When I hear a man talk of his persuasion, I
feel that he is persuadable to any sort of suicide.
Now, let me get my truck on Israel's
rails, and it will run down by the law of
gravity.'

But where will you light on Ophir ? '

^ I do not know yet. I am an earnest
inquirer, and I have been sitting with the
Reverend Flamank many an hour, as solemn
as a Quaker, over our Bibles, making it out.
I'm hard to believe, he eager to convince.
He has no idea that I am leading him on ; he
believes he is driving me. Now and then, as
the light of nature prompts, I throw out a
suggestion, and he snaps at it enthusiastically,
appropriates it, and reproduces it as an original
inspiration. Country folks will tell you
that every cloud brings with it wind. That
is the reverse of the fact. It is the wind that
brings the cloud. So in this case there occurs

a little mistake as to which is the impelling
power. The Reverend Israel has shown me
that the situation of Ophir is pretty accurately
indicated. It is said in Scripture that Ophir
lies between Meshaa and a mountain in the
East called Sephar. Now, with my inventing,
the Reverend Flamank has arrived at this —
that Meshaa is the village of Meshaaaw, near
South Milton, and that Sephar is Sheepstor,
which is a mountain due east of Launceston.'

It is due south of Meshaw.'

Yes, but it is due east of Salem Chapel.
People always reckon from where they are
themselves. You see the line uniting them
passes through Creditor, South Tawton, Cos-don
'

By the way, father, Squire Battishill
told me he had found a silver lead mine at
Upaver.'

Upaver ! — Upaver ! — Ophir ! Ophir !
Sampy! By the wisdom of Solomon, we
have spotted Ophir ! '

CHAPTER XIII.

CAPTAIN TRECARREL.

Captain Trecarrel was Captain only in the
militia, yet he flourished his captaincy with
as much pride as if he were in the regulars.
He was Trecarrel of Trecarrel, the head of
one of the oldest families in Cornwall. When
we say that, we mean that he was head in
the sense of a tadpole's head, which is head
and nothing else. Trecarrel was head and
nothing else. There was no tail of younger
brothers and sisters dependent on the property.
But then the property barely supported
the head, and by no possibility could
have sustained the burden of a taiL

It was not always so. At one time the
Trecarrels were the chief family in the neighbourhood,
and Sir Henry Trecarrel, Knight,
at his proper cost, to the glory of God, and in
honour of St. Mary Magdalen, rebuilt the
parish church of Launceston in the most
sumptuous manner he was able. Not one

stone was set in the fabric that was not the
finest granite, and not one block was un-squared
and sculptured ; the sculpture was
as delicate as the grain of the granite would
allow, with trees distilling balsam, plumes
and palm-branches, with the arms of Trecarrel,
and with minstrels harping and playing the
beck, the tabor, and the bagpipe. Under
the east window in a niche was sculptured
the recumbent effigy of that most yielding
of saints, the Magdalen, wrought in the most
obdurate of stones. The pinnacles and gur-toils
were all cut out of the same material
with infinite labour, and at extraordinary
cost.

The church was not quite finished when
the Reformation came. Then the King's Commissioners
paid a visit to Launceston and
swept from the church its valuables in silver
and gold, for the filling of the royal exchequer
and for the abolition of idolatry. After the
Commissioners had departed, a rabble followed,
headed by one Bunface, a butcher, who
burst into the church and destroyed what the
King's Commissioners had spared. They
smashed the stained glass in the windows,
and broke the legs of the Christ on the rood,
but left the thieves on either side unmolested.
They extinguished the perpetual lamp and

spilled the oil over the chancel floor. They
threw down the altar, and, having broken open
the shrine, cast the sacrament under their
feet. They knocked the heads off the apostles,
and lastly, with a lever, overthrew the font,
and in so doing exceeded the intentions of
the Reformers, who having destroyed five
sacraments, and reduced a sixth to a stump,
elected to maintain the seventh intact. After
that the party rang a peal in the tower and
finished the evening by getting uproariously
drunk at the Pig and Whistle.

Bunface never again appeared in church,
for though the Government passed a law to
force the people to attend divine service and
receive the sacrament, under pains of fine and
imprisonment, just as children have to be
whipped to make them swallow medicine that
is necessary but nasty, yet Bunface could not
be induced to put in an appearance. ' Let me
burn the Bible, or break the Commandments,
or test my cleaver on the minister's head, but
if this be denied me, if there be no more destroying
to be done, then I'd rather pay my
fine than go.'

When Sir Henry Trecarrel refused to sit
in the church under the preacher, and take the
sacrament at the mean table under the pulpit,
the magistrates cautioned him, and when he

disregarded their monition they fined him,
and when he paid the fine and continued recusant
they threw him into the common gaol,
and there, after languishing two years, he died
of the gaol-fever.

Sir Harry Trecarrel was succeeded by his
son, who suffered also in purse and liberty for
his attachment to the old religion. He was
convicted of harbouring a Popish priest, and
of hearing mass in his private chapel. The
priest was hung, drawn, and quartered — that
is to say, he was cut down the instant after
he had been slung up, sliced open, and his
heart torn out of his breast whilst still palpitating.
That was the way in which recusant
priests were dealt with by that bright Occidental
Star, good Queen Bess. Mr. Henry
Trecarrel saved his neck only by the surrender
of one of his best manors.

In the civil wars Trecarrel made large
sacrifices for the King, and was accordingly
dealt with as a Malignant by the Protector.
Confiscation and fine diminished his estates
still further. On the Restoration he went to
London, and laid the record of his services
and sufferings at the feet of Charles II. The
King commended his loyalty, and promised
him, if he would take holy orders, that he
would recompense him with at least a canonry;

but as Trecarrel was unable to do this, being*
a Papist, he was dismissed with, as his sole
reward, a portrait of the royal martyr, full
length, in which the lower limbs were so
adjusted that, had they been true to life, the
royal martyr could neither have walked nor
sat on his throne. The Trecarrel of the reiern
of George I. gambled away everything that
had been left except the house and home
barton of Trecarrel, which were inalienable.
This Captain Trecarrel had inherited from his
ancestors, together with the picture of Charles I.
with distorted limbs, the Catholic faith, and
the Trecarrel blue eyes and beauty — but chief
of all these things, in his estimation, were the
hereditary blue eyes and beauty.

Captain Trecarrel's income was small, so
small that he could not marry on it. He was
obliged, therefore, to look out for a wife with
money.

Now, as has been said, nature and his ancestors
had bestowed on him aristocratic good
looks, and he was admitted by the ladies of
the neighbourhood to be the handsomest man
they knew.

He was aware of his beauty, he knew precisely
the effect he could produce on the
female heart by a look out of his blue eyes,
blue as the borage blossom There was not

VOL. I. N

a marriageable girl who would not have abjured
her faith, have adored Mumbo Jumbo,
if required, to become Mrs. Trecarrel of Tree
The Captain knew his value, and
was not impatient. The young ladies of good
birth in the neighbourhood were neither heiresses
nor well dowered. He looked further
afield, and was caught by the handsome face
of Orange Trampleasure, and by the handsome
fortune with which popular opinion endowed
her.

Old Tramplara was thought to be enormously
rich, and to be eager to marry his
daughter well, and to be ready to pay for the
blood and position that would come to the
family through a good alliance.

Captain Trecarrel was not a man to feel
deeply. He liked Orange, and that Orange
liked and admired him was obvious to his
blue eyes. But then, he was accustomed to
be liked and admired, and he had only to
smile and look languishingly to draw to him
any amount of affection from any number of
marriageable girls. He looked for something
more substantial than liking and admiration.

After much* hesitation, Trecarrel proposed
to Orange Trampleasiire and was accepted on
the spot. But the proposal was only the first
scene in a long drama, and the second scene

did not pass with the same rapidity and success.
Captain Trecarrel had no intention of
being married till he was quite satisfied as to
the sum of money Orange would bring with
her. Old Tramplara spoke grandiloquently,
and made large promises of what he would
leave her when he was not himself in a position
to enjoy his money. But this was not
what the Captain wanted — which was something
present, not prospective. At last he did
get the old man to name a very liberal dowry,
and when he next asked in what shape this
dower would come, he discovered an eagerness
on the part of his prospective father-in-law to
pay it hi Patagoniann securities. stow Patagoniann
bonds were not at par. They had been
declining very steadily in the money market,
and when the South American State deferred
meeting its coupons with punctuality, the drop
had been nearly to zero, for it was anticipated
that Patagonia was meditating repudiation.

Mr. Trampleasure supposed that the Captain
was unaware of this, but Trecarrel was
not as innocent as his blue eyes led people to
suppose. He was one of those few men who
know exactly on which side their bread is
buttered ; and Captain Trecarrel knew further,
what very few people do know, how to
eat bread and butter with most satisfaction to
N 2

himself. An adult eats his slice with the
butter uppermost, but a child turns the buttered
side down. By so doing he extracts
from it the utmost enjoyment it is capable of
giving, for by this expedient the tongue is
brought into immediate contact with the
butter. Captain Trecarrel was not going to
eat his bread with thin Patagoniann scrape
over it, instead of yellow English gold. Those
innocent blue eyes of his could see as far
into a millstone as the keen shoes of Mr.
Trampleasure. Consequently, till that Patagonia
business was satisfactorily settled,
Captain Trecarrel held aloof from hymeneal
felicity.

The arrival of Miracle and her admission
into the family at Dolbeare were opportune.
Captain Trecarrel was struck with her beauty,
but then, he was struck with the beauty of
every girl whose looks were pleasing. But
what struck the Captain far more than her
beauty was the opportunity this arrival afforded
him of rousing the apprehensions of
Orange and her father that he might slip
through the meshes of their net.

He resolved to pay his court to Miracle,
to exhibit a lively interest in her, to wake up
a little convenient jealousy in the bosom of
Orange, and to give the father clearly to

understand that he himself repudiated Patagonia.


The carious mixture of simplicity and
shrewdness in Miracle amused him. It was a
real pleasure to him to converse with her, and
a particular pleasure to look into those deep
eyes and speculate what lay beneath.

Once a month a priest came to Trecarrel
on a circuit through the north of Cornwall,
and said mass in the chapel near the house.
On these occasions Miracle walked over to
Trecarrel. Trecarrel lies, like most old manor
houses, in a hollow. A small stream dribbling
through the hollow constituted the only attraction
which could lead a gentleman to build
his stately mansion in such a spot. A stately
mansion Trecarrel must have been in its
prime. The great banqueting hall was of
hewn granite, with granite windows and doorway
and chimney-piece. A little chapel stood
south of the hall, also of cut granite. The
mansion-house itself is, at the present date,
reduced to a fragment of the great house that
once occupied three sides of a quadrangle.
At the time of which we are writing it was
more than dilapidated, it was falling into utter
ruin. There was no glass in many of the
windows, and the roofs were breaking down.
Next to the hall the glory of Trecarrel was

the gatehouse of granite, with a richly sculptured
doorway of the same intractable material,
moulded deeply, with strawberry leaves
carved in the hollows of the mouldings. The
Trecarrel who gambled pulled down the gatehouse
because coaches could not pass beneath
the arch ; but when he had pulled it down he
had not the power or the means to remove the
huge blocks, and so he left them encumbering
the ground where they had fallen, and thereat
the present day they lie, rankly overgrown
with nettles.

Captain Trecarrel could not suffer Miracle
to walk home unattended when she made her
monthly pilgrimages to his chapel. She was
always pleased to see and converse with him.
He was her equal, a gentleman and a Catholic
the two qualities which made them akin and
separated them from the ignoble and unbelieving
around. In these walks the Captain
told Miracle the story of Sir Henry Trecarrel
and the building of Launceston Church, and
the way in which the work was arrested. He
told her what his ancestor had done and suffered
in the civil wars, and he showed her
one day in the hall the sole reward he had received
for his sacrifices. Miracle was able to
sympathise with the misfortunes of the house ;
she also represented a generous race, that had

fought the Moors, had ruled a county, coined
its own money, and set up its own gallows.
In that last particular the Garciass and the
Trecarrels had differed. The Garciass had
hung men, the Trecarrels had had much ado
to keep themselves from being hung.

The story of the self-sacrifice of the Tree
for Church and King stirred the soul of
ilirelle, ready to warm to all that savoured of
heroism ; and she looked on the Captain as
the noble representative of a glorious line of
confessors and martyrs. She fondly deemed
him made of the same stuff, ready to lay himself
down on the altar if need be. But no !
Trecarrel was wholly free from the spirit of
self-sacrifice. He would not surrender his independence
for five thousand pounds in Patagonia
bonds. During one of these walks the
Captain ascertained from Miracle that her
father had left her six thousand pounds, not
in Patagoniann bonds, but in hard cash. Six
thousand pounds ! That was one thousand
above the sum that Orange was promised. Six
thousand pounds in coined gold, with his
Majesty's head on each piece, God bless him !
Trecarrel's tone assumed more tenderness, a
softer light shone out of his celestial eyes, and
he slightly squeezed the arm that was on his
own under the big umbrella, as he paddled

with Miracle to Launceston under a Cornish
drizzle and through West Country mud.

That night the Captain did not sleep. He
tossed on his bed. He sat up and hammered
the pillow into shape and put it under his
neck. Then he got up and drank cold water.
Then he tried to count sheep going through a
gap in a hedge. All was in vain. He could
not sleep and he could not count the sheep,
because his mind was active. He was stung
into wakefulness by the consideration whether
it would be possible for him to be off his engagement
to Orange, and on with one to
Miracle. It would not be consistent with his
honour as a gentleman and an officer (though
only in the militia) to become engaged to
Miracle before breaking with Orange. It would
also not be proper for him to break with
Orange ; but it would be perfectly honourable
for him so to conduct himself as to force
her to break with him. He made no doubt
that Miracle would have him. No woman
could refuse him, with his eyes and name, his
profile and his position. Besides, Miracle manifestly
liked him. She made no secret of the
pleasure she took in his society. Now the
only means of effecting a rupture with Orange
was for him to pay marked attentions to miracle,
and to wane in his attentions to herself.

Orange would then speak to her mother, and
the mother would communicate her daughter's
trouble to the father, and then a crisis would
be attained. The father would either break
off the match, in which case he would be free
to address Miracle, or, in his dread of losing
such a son-in-law, he would drop the Patagonians
and offer ready money. Orange and
five thousand pounds ; Miracle with six !
There was no comparing the lots.

Captain Trecarrel turned the situation into
an equation. As Miracle is to Orange, so is
6,000/. to X,

Miracle y. x - Orange x 6,000Z.

M 6,000/.

or -^ = -1

U X

Now Orange was of an inferior social
grade, and this difference could not be estimated
under 1,000/. Then Orange had incumbrances,
in the shape of very vulgar
parents and a cur of a brother. This could
not figure at less than 1,000/. Orange was
plump, and plump girls become obese women ;
a serious detriment that could only be covered
with another 1,000/. Miracle was a Catholic,
and her faith was worth 1,000/.

The equation therefore stood thus : —

Miracle + 6,000/. = Orange + 10,000/.

Hah ! ' said Captain Trecarrel, as lie
hammered his pillow with both fists. ' I'll
not take Orange under ten thousand pounds,
I'm confounded if I will.'

It must not be supposed that Orange
Trampleasure was ignorant of the walks
taken by the Captain with Miracle. Captain
Trecarrel did not desire that she should
remain in ignorance of them, and when he
escorted Miracle home he came on with her
to the house to pay his respects to Mrs.
Trampleasure, and inquire after her cold in
the head and her bronchial tubes. He usually
remained on such occasions for the early
dinner, and spent the afternoon with the girls
in the garden-house when it rained, or strolling
with them in sunshine through the Castle
grounds.

At these times he was civil to Orange, and
even attentive, but he let her plainly see that
when engaged in conversation with her his
eyes and thoughts were roving, and roving in
the direction of Miracle. Orange would not
have been a woman, and a loving woman, if
she had not observed and been hurt by this.

Orange had set her heart on marrying
him, not only because she loved him, but also
because she was ambitious. She had more
culture than her father and mother and

brother, and she felt their coarseness. She
disliked their friends. She was a proud
girl, and when the prospect opened before
her of becoming Mrs. Trecarrel, she resolved
to make this the means of shaking herself
free from the sordid society in which she had
been forced to move, and to take her place,
as of right, in a class above it in culture, in
traditions, and in aspirations.

Orange volunteered to walk to Trecarrel
with Miracle on her monthly expeditions,
and the offer was frankly accepted.

Miracle did not know that her cousin was
engaged to Trecarrel, she had not been let
into the secret ; Orange was not of a confiding
nature, and the intercourse between
her and the Captain had of late been strained.
Miracle regarded him as a friend of the family ;
she rather wondered what he could find in
the Trampleasures to make him seek their
society, but she entertained no suspicions of
a nearer tie than friendship.

The jealousy of Orange was roused. She
became less demonstrative in her affection
towards Miracle, but she was not unkind.
She harboured bitterness in her heart, but it
was not suffered to brim over her lips. The
only token she gave of wrath and jealousy
was a heightened colour and a dangerous

flicker in her eye, whenever subjected to one
of those slights which are only perceptible to
the eye of love. Trecarrel noticed this, and
was content. He would achieve his end by
means strictly honourable. Miracle was unconscious
and unsuspicious of what was going
on around her. She liked the Captain, she
told Orange as much, without colour rising in
her transparent cheek or lowering her eye.
She liked Orange, who, if not cordial, was
kind, and who proved a very serviceable
screen against the brutality of her father and
brother. That the Captain was playing her
off upon Orange for his own selfish purposes,
and that deadly jealousy and hate against her
were being kindled in the bosom of her
cousin — of this Miracle was unsuspicious.

UNDER THE HEARTH.

John Herring visited Joyce daily. He had
no choice. She would allow no one else to
touch her bandages. He was impatient to
prosecute his journey, but was detained by
this poor savage, who refused doggedly to
allow the doctor or Cicely to touch her arms.
Herring remonstrated, and insisted that he
must go. Cicely Battishill volunteered to
take his place. Then Joyce became wild, she
tore at the rags nth her teeth, and would
have ripped them off and relaxed the splints,
and undone all that had been done for her
broken bones, had not Herring hastily promised
to remain and attend to her daily, and
so with difficulty allayed her apprehension
and anger. He was particularly anxious to
be in Exeter, but he could not risk the health
of Joyce by deserting her in this juncture.
He was held captive at West Wyke, held in
captivity by Joyce's broken hands. The

reason why he was impatient to go forward
was that he had been summoned to Exeter tc
rejoin his regiment, then quartered there. The
morning following the accident he had applied
for an extension of leave, but no answer had
come to his application. He knew that he
ouo-ht to be with his regiment. He would
get into trouble for his absence, and yet— he
allowed himself to be detained. The call of
humanity was one he was unable to resist.
He was good-natured, that is — weak. The
strong men are the selfish men. Herring's
simple and kindly heart was interested in
Joyce, but perplexed and pained. He had no
experience of life, and no knowledge of its
problems. He had never before been brought
in contact with a character utterly rude and
destitute of that elementary knowledge which
we take for granted is as universally diffused
as the atmosphere. He sat under the Giant's
Table and talked to Joyce, asked her questions,
and endeavoured to draw out the
thoughts of her clouded brain. But the
profound ignorance, the gross barbarism
of her mind and manner of thought amazed
him.

He saw nothing of Old Grizzly, who, as
Joyce expressed it, ' smoked away ' whenever
he came in sight.

Joyce,' said Herring one day, as he knelt
by lier, having just bandaged her arms, ' do
you know the difference between right and
wrong ? '

The question was called forth by some
words of the girl showing a startling ignorance
of the elements of morality.

In course I do,' she answered ; then sitting
up on her bed of heather, 'I'll teller
how I corned to know. I were once in a
turnip-field fetching a turnip for our dinner.
There were a wooddoo (dove) running up
an oak hard by, and he sings out, " Tak'
two, Joyce, tak' two ; " and in an old holm
tree sat a raven, and her shocked her head
and said, " Very wrong, Joyce, very wrong."
But I minded more what the wooddoo sed,
and I took two. Then as I were climbing:
over the hedge, I dropped one turnip back in
the field whence I'd took 'n ; and the wood-doo
called again " Tak' two, Joyce, tak' two."
So I will," ses I, and I pitches on my feet
again in the field where the turnip had fallen
to, and as I picked 'n up, in at the gate corned
Farmer Freeze, and he seed me and set his
dog Towzer on me, and my legs be scored
now where Towzer set his teeth in me. After
this I snowed never to believe wooddoos no
more when they ses '' Tak' two." The raven

were riffbt. I slid ha' looked one or three

o

or five. I knows now that it be wrong to
take even numbers of aught, and right to take
odds For you sees,' she continued earnestly,
if I had taken only one turnip, I'd ha' been
over the hedge and away adore Farmer Freeze
corned in ; but as I minded the wooddoo, and
waited to take two, I were tore cruel bad by
Towzer.'

Herrino; looked in her face with wonder.

Joyce,' he said, ' is this possible ? Pray,
have 5^ou ever heard of God ? '

Who be he ? '

He is above the sky.'

^ What, over the clouds, dory mean ? *

Yes.'

I've seed 'n scores and scores o' times.'
(Here we must note that by this expression
Joyce meant ' any number of times.' She
could not count above ten, the number of her
fingers, and a score was her highest reckon-able
number, for that was the number of her
fingers and toes.) ' You mean the sun as
goes running everlasting after the moon ; she
be his wife, I reckon.'

^ Why so ? ' asked Herring, with a smile.

1 This story was told the author by a poor Devonshire
labourer. He believed he had understood the language of the
birds.

^ Becos her be always a trying to get out
of his way.'

Did your father ill-treat your mother ? '
he asked.

In course he did, though I can't remember
much about it. Her was his wife, and he had
a right to.'

^ Do you mean that he beat and kicked
her, as he has beaten and kicked you ? '

Kicked ! ' echoed Joyce. ' Who ever sed
as he kicked mother or I. It be gentlefolks
and wrestlers as kick ; us has nothing on our
toes, and so us don't kick for fear of hurting
'em.'

Does your father often beat you ? '

As he likes, but that don't matter now

Why not ? '

Becos I don't belong to 'n any more.'

What ! emancipated at last. Joyce ? '

'I belongs to you.'

To me ! ' Herrings drew back, stafrorered
by the thought -

^ A course I do. Yaithcr almost broke
me to pieces, and I'd a died, but you mended
me up and made me to live again. So it
stands to reason that I don't belong to whither
no more, but belong to you. 'Tes clear as a
moor stream. I can see the reason on it as
certain as I can a trout in a brook. I've been

VOL. I. o

a thinking it over and over, and I never could
reckon it right out. Then, one night mother
began to grub her way up by thick stone.
I seed her grey hairs coming out o' the
ground, and I thought 'twere moss ; but after
some'ut white and round like a turnip comes,
and I sed to myself, " How ever comes a
turnip to be growing here, under the Giant's
Table ? " Presently I seed her eyes coming
up, and then I snowed it were mother. Then
I went over and I helped her wi' a rabbit's
legions. I scratched the earth away, so asher
could get her nose and mouth out of the
ground, and her were snuffling like a horned
owl.'

!My dear Joyce, you were dreaming.'
It were true — true as I see you here.'
But, Joyce, how could you have helped
her out of the ground, as you say, with your
arms broken ? '

Joyce was puzzled. Like other savages,
she had not arrived at that point of enlightenment
in which dream and reality are distinguished.


I don't know nothing about that,' said
Joyce, ' but it be true what I ses, I know
that very well. Let me go on. At last when
her could speak plain, her sed, '' Joyce, you
belong no more to Grizzly, you belong to the



young maister." So I ses to her, " How can
that be ? " Then her answers, " You mind
the old iron crock as were chucked away by
the Battishills. They'd a broke 'n, and
wanted 'n no more. Then your whither
found 'n and mended 'n up somehow. There
her hangs now wi' turnips and cambridge a
stewing in her over the fire. Do thick crock
belong to the Battishills now any more ?
No, her don't, they broke 'n and chucked 'n
away. Her belongs to Old Grizzly for become
took 'n and patched 'n up. That be
reason," sed my mother, " for certain." And
what her said be true and right. So I belong
to you.'

But I decline the honour, Joyce,' said
Herring, laughing.

Will you beat and break me and cast me
away, like as did whither ? '

'I beat and hurt you! God forbid, my
poor child.'

^ Then till you does, I belongs tory — that's
certain ! '

She laid herself down on the cushions
with the action and tone of voice that implied
the matter was concluded past contradiction.

Here was a state of affairs ! A state of
affairs sufficiently startling. A few weeks
ago John Herring had been his own master,


with no one depending on him, and without
responsibility. Now he was in a measure
responsible for three girls. Miracle, it is true,
had asserted her independence, but she had
nevertheless imposed on him obligations.
Cicely made no scruple of declaring that she
relied on him for direction, not to be got
from a father never very dependable, and
now enfeebled in mind and body. Joyce now
informed him that she had transferred her
allegiance to him from her father, and he had
seen so far into her dark mind as to perceive
that what she said she meant, and what she
meant she acted on.

Here,' said Joyce, ' you put your hand
on my elbow.'

Why on your elbow? '

I can feel there what I want to feel. My
hands be as hard as my feet, and they don't
feel much. When I wants to know if the
porridge be scalding, or whether I can eat 'n,
I don't put a finger in, I put my elbow. Now
do as I ax'y. Put your hand there.'

She made Herring place his hand above
the splints on the elbow. Then she fixed her
eyes on him and asked, ' Wot's her name ? '

Whose name ? '

Her wi' the white face.'

What — Miracle ! ' The name dropped involuntarily
from his lips.

You may take your hand away,' she said,
I know what I wanted to know.'

'What did you want to know, Joyce? —
the name?'

Ah ! I wanted to know more nor that ;
and I've a learned all in a minute.' She
paused, still intently watching him. Presently
she asked, ' Where did you take her to?
Where do you live ? Did'y take her to your
own home ? '

No, Joyce, of course I did not.'

Why of course ? You likes her more
than any other.'

I — I — Joyce ! are you daft? '

I hasn't daft,' answered the girl. * What
I've a found out I know. My elbow told me
the truth. When you had your hand on my
arm one day I said tory something about Miss
Cicely, and your hand where quiet as if I spoke
about a tate to one wi' a full belly. But
when I axed about the Whiteface — I cannot
mind her name — then you gave a start, and
your hand shocked. We'd friends, you and
I, and you won't hide nothing from me. Where
be Whiteface to now ? '

I took her to some relations — cousins of
hers.'

'Ah! we've folks (kindred) too out to
Nymet, but ours be regular savages. We have
clothes to our backs, and tate ground, and a
new take. I reckon Whiteface's folk be of
other sort.'

Of course they are. She is comfortable
and well cared for by them.'

Why didn't they come and fetch her
away when her father broke his neck, instead
of leaving you to take care of her and take
her away ? '

That was not a question Herring could
easily answer.

Joyce did not wait for a reply. ' No,' she
went on, ' 'twere you as cared for her and did
everything for her, as you've a cared for and
done everything for me. But me you think
on just now and then, and her you'll bethinking
on night and day, I know that very
well. It be natural, and I say not against
it. And how bet wi' her I wonder. Did her
tell you afore her left how good you'd been,
and how herd never never forget what you'd
a done for her ? '

No, Joyce.'

'- Didn't her then look you in the face as I do
now, and if her didn't say it in words, let you
see in her eyes that her thought and felt it ? '

No, she did not look at me at all.'

^ See there now ! ' exclaimed Joyce. ' I be
not but a poor savage, but I be better nor her.
I know what be right and witty (fitting) — and
her don't.'

Of course you know what is right, with
the guidance of woodcocks.'

'It were the raven, not the wooddoo,' said
Joyce, eagerly. ' The wooddoo told me wrong.
The wooddoo sed " Tak two, Joyce, tak two."
But that's no count. It'll come right wi'
Whiteface and you in the end. He'll find
them folk of hers not like you, always a
thinking and caring for her, and then he'll
remember you and think on 370U, just as I do
lying here. Be you a going? '

Herring had risen from his knee as if to
leave.

Stay a bit longer,' pleaded Joyce. ' r)o'y
know what it be after it lev been raining; all
day, and cold and wisht, out comes the sun
afore he goes down, and the clouds roll away,
and Dartmoor seems to be all alight, and then
for the glory and the beauty and the warmth
you forget all the time o' cold and darkness
and rain ? It be so wi' me. Here I lies and
I sees none but whither, and her grumbles
becos I can't work, and when whither ain't
here I sees nobody, and it be wisht, I reckon,
till you comes ; and then I be that full o' gladness

and joy I remember no more the time o'
loneness and pain and trouble. You'll bide a
bit longer, won't?'

'- 1 really cannot stay, Joyce, with the best
will to pleasure you, I cannot.' The demonstrative
admiration and affection of the poor
creature confounded and distressed him.

I've more to teller,' Joyce continued.
I've that to teller which be most particles.
Dory know what whither did to make mother
lie quiet? He give her some'ut. But her
ain't no more a child to be amused wi' toys
like theme May be for a night or two her
sat and turned 'em over and was kept quiet
wi' looking at 'em. But it ain't the likes o'
them as will make mother still and sleep o'
nights, instead of rooting: about in the earth
under the table like a mole.'

What does she want, Joyce? '

Her wants you to do it. You nun lift
the hearthstone and say glory rallaluley, and
Our Either — kinkum kum over her. Her
told me so herself. I cannot do it. I don't
know the words. I've just picked up a word
here and there when the Methodius ha' been
out on the down, singing and preaching, and
hugging and praying. You can say kinkum
kum over mother and make her lie quiet and
sleep.'

Poor dark soul ! Joyce had no knowledge
of God, and very dim, perverted conceptions
of right and wrong. Her only faith was in
troubled spirits, and that was no faith, but a
confusion of mind between death and life, and
dreaming visions and sight when waking.
Her sole idea of prayer was a spell to lay the
restless dead. Herring's heart was softened
by compassion for the girl. She watched the
expression of his face very intently, somewhat
mistrustfully, fearful of a refusal, and.
worse than all, of ridicule. But though Herring
did meditate refusal, no thought of the
ludicrous in her request stirred a muscle of
his mouth. He was grieved for her, and he
was touched by her ignorant simplicity.

Poor Joyce ! ' he said, and knelt down
by her again. ' Poor Joyce ! '

Then he tried to soothe her and turn her
thoughts into another channel. She, however,
persisted in forcing the task on him of saying
sacred words over a dead and buried woman.
When Joyce had made up her mind to anything
she was inflexible. Herring was being
forced into one position, then into another, for
which he was unsuited. Joyce had made him
her doctor, her nurse, her guardian, and now
she made him her priest. He was good-natured,
and good nature is weakness.

After holding back he at length, out of
pity, and to humour the headstrong girl, did
as she required. She made him raise the
hearthstone, and trig it up with a piece of
granite. He could not lift the stone out of
its place, though Old Grizzly had been able-armed
enough to do this unaided. Then
Herring knelt and gravely said a prayer — the
prayer.

Joyce was satisfied.

That be right,' she said. ' Now mother
don't want her toys no more. There be a
stick wi' a crook to the end i' thick corner.'

I see there is.'

^ Fetch 'n, and scrabble with 'n under the
hearthstone.'

'What for?'

Do as I teller. You'll see what for fast
enough. Hav'y got the stick ? Now thrust
it well in, and poke about till you comes to
some'ut hard.

Herring groped as bidden, rather uneasy
in his mind at what he was doing, lest he
should rake out the bones of the dead woman.

'Dory feelnort?'

Yes ; there is something there hard and
heavy.'

Yang 'n in tory.'

Herring obeyed. There certainly was

something there. As the crook struck it, it
sounded like a metal box. After some working
with the stick he managed to get it out.
It was a small box of japanned iron, which
had been locked, but had been battered till
the lock had given way. The lid accordingly
was loose.

Open it,' said Joyce. ' Yaither found 'n
the night o' the axidenk. He found 'n in one
of the boxes that had gone scott wi' falling
from the carriage. He thought there might
be some'ut in him, and so he looked *n away
and brought 'n here, and wi' a bit of stone
knocked the lock all abroad. I see 'n do it.
That were after he'd a broke me to pieces,
AVhen I came by my wits I seed old whither
sitting by the fire and working till he'd a got
the lid started, and then he looked in and seed
what were there, and he sed he'd give me
some if I'd take 'em. But they wos no good
to me, and I couldn't a done not wi' 'em with
both my arms broke. I couldn't move my
fingers, and I were that deadly ill I didn't care
for not but to lie quiet and die right on end.
So then, after a bit, whither said he snowed
what he'd do wi' 'em as they were no good to
he. He'd give 'n to mother, herd play wi'
'em o' nights and be quiet. So he heaved up
the hearthstone — whither be a deal stronger

than you — and he shoved the box under, just
over where mother's heart be. There, looked
what brave fine things they be.'

Herring had opened the box. He looked
in in speechless amazement. Then he raised
a tray and looked farther, and beneath the
tray was more still.

Presently he found his tongue, drew a
heavy breath, and said, ' Good heavens, Joyce,
these are diamonds. There are thousands of
pounds worth of diamonds here.'

They be brave shine stones.'

They are diamonds.'

Well, you may take 'em. They belongs
o' rights to the Whiteface. You can take 'em
and give 'em to her or keep 'em yourself, just
as you likes.'

CHAPTER XY.

Heu, Bones!

When Balboa, from a peak in Darien, discovered
an ocean untroubled by waves, unstained
by the shadow of a cloud, he named it
the Pacific. John Herring's exploration of
life was the reverse of Balboa's course ; he had
left behind him the Pacific Ocean, in which
he had hitherto sailed, and he had sighted
the sea of storms. Balboa had little idea of
the extent of the watery tract he discovered,
and Herring had but a faint suspicion of the
nature and fretfulness of the sea on which he
was about to embark. A few weeks ago the
problem of life had seemed to him a simple
addition sum ; he was about to discover that
it consisted in the extraction of curds, which
when extracted prove dead and dry symbols.
Vanity of vanities,' said the Preacher, after he
had worked at the sum all his days ; the conclusion
of the whole matter is, ' all is vanity.'
With a sense of alarm Herrinof became

aware that Joyce had put into his hands more
destinies than her own. Miracle's future was
contained in a little casket of which the lock
was broken, and which was placed at his
unchallenged disposal. The fortune that had
been confided to the trustee under the will
was certain to be engulfed as the ship that
strikes the Goodwin. Here, however, was
the bulk of her property, providentially saved
from the grip of Tramplara, and lodged in
honest hands. What was he to do with this ?
Was he justified in retaining it till Miracle
should need it, and then delivering it to her
untouched, or was he bound to deliver it to
him who was constituted legal trustee by the
will of her father ?

The conflict stood between moral and legal
obligation. It was a question whether, if he
acted in accordance with legal obligation, he
would not be morally guilty were Miracle's
entire fortune made away with.

A week or two ago, had the question been
proposed. If you find a guinea, should you
return it immediately to the owner or keep
it till you think the owner needs it? Herring
would have been ready with an answer that
cost him little consideration. Now he was
not sure that the ready answer was the right
answer. Life is not a simple matter ; it is a

veritable problem. The problem of life is the
Pons Asinorum.

He met Cicely at the gate of West Wyke.
She was looking distressed, and she touched
his arm. ' I want a word with you. Look
here.' She held out a letter.

I have ventured to open it. The letter
is addressed to my father, but as it has the
Launceston postmark, and I knew the handwriting
to be that of Mr. Tramplara, I did
not show it to my father. I opened it. Was
I right? I feared it might contain something
to distress him, and I found the contents more
distasteful than I had anticipated. I was
right, was I not, to open the letter?'

A week ago, if asked, Is any one justified
in opening another person's letter? Herring
would have answered in the negative. But
now, all the cut and dried precepts of morality
he had learned began to fail him. They
did for copybook slips, not for rules of life.

You have something in your hand, Mr.
Herring,' said Miss Battishill, observing the
iron box. ' Is that yours?'

He hesitated. Is it justifiable ever to tell
a lie? Is it justifiable to evade the truth, and
so deceive? He had no doubts on this head
a week ago. He doubted now, and did evade
giving a direct answer.

The box is broken, and I am going to
have the lock mended.'

But, Mr. Herring, you have just come
from the Cobbledicks.'

Yes,' he answered, and then hesitated.
He was unaccustomed to fence with the truth.
When the accident took place, the box was
lost somehow, and Joyce has found and restored
it me.'

I hope you have lost nothing of value
from it.'

I have lost nothing from it,' he replied.
But never mind the box now, Miss Battis-hill.
Tell me what it is that now occasions
you trouble.'

Old Mr. Tramplara has written a peremptory
letter to my father, calling up all
the money that he has advanced him on the
security of the property.'

And your father is not in a position to
pay?'

I am sure he is not. The letter must be
answered, and that speedily. I need your
advice. I dare not let my dear father see the
letter ; the result might be fatal in his present
state.'

]Neo,' answered Herring, ' he must know
nothing of the demand.'

But if we do not meet this call, and meet

it we cannot, Mr. Tramplara will turn us out
and sell the estate.'

Is there no way of avoiding this ? Cannot
a portion be sold to clear the rest of incumbrance
? What amount does your father owe ? '

I do not know. Will you ascertain that
from him, and then consider with me what
must be done? If we are forced to leave West
Wyke, it will kill papa.' Then her tears
came.

Miss Battishill,' said Herring, in great
distress — he was unaccustomed to woman's
tears, and therefore moved by them — ' dear
Miss Battishill, do not give way. We will
find some mode of escape. I will do my
utmost for you ; be very sure of that.' He
took her hand and pressed it. She returned
the pressure, and, looking up into his eyes
through her tears, said, ' You give me confidence,
you are so strong and sure.'

^I strong; ! I sure!' exclaimed Herrings.
At that moment he was feeling the weakness of
his principles and the uncertainty of his course.

Go in, and talk to my father,' she said,
whilst I try to forget my troubles among
my flowers.' Then with a relapse, ' Oh, Mr.
Herring, I do so love this sunny south garden,
and the old house, and the heathy moors, and
Cosdon reigning like a king over all. It will

VOL. I. P

go nigh, to break my heart as well as my
father's, if I am forced to leave West Wyke.'

We must put faith in the future,' he said.

I did believe in the future till of late, but
now my path lies under eclipse.' She paused
and sighed. ' But after all, is it worth while
deferring to tell my father? He must shortly
know the truth. It is only a matter of weeks.'
She made a little effort to control her
emotion. ' You decide whether he is to be
told or not. I am not competent to form an
opinion. I shrink from agitating papa, lest
it lead to another stroke ; if however this

must be done ' She turned sharply away,

and signed to him with her hand to leave her
and go indoors.

Herring entered the hall.

Mr. Battishill was in his arm-chair. He
was much enfeebled by his seizure, but though
his utterance was not as clear as formerly,
his loquacity was undiminished.

Mr. Herring,' he said somewhat peevishly,
I have been left a long while alone, and yet
not altogether alone, I have had Shakespeare
and my own thoughts to company. But alas !
as Lear says, " My wits begin to turn — I will
be a pattern of all patience, I will say nothing."
Herring, sit down in that chair and have a
talk. 1 wish you had known us in better

days, and when my wife was living. We had
more of an establishment then. Now there
is only a maid of all work, then we had a cook
and housemaid, and a nurse for Cicely. I do
not think we were the happier for having so
large an establishment. I believe it killed my
wife.'

'What, sir?'

The servants killed her. I have puzzled
my brain to know which were created first,
the beasts, or the parasites on their backs ;
but, of course it was the beasts, for they could
do without the parasites, but not the parasites
without the beasts. So I believe that the
common ruck of humanity was made to feed
on the noble specimens of the kind. We, the
aristocracy, exist not for ourselves, to enjoy
our lives and follow our mils, but for our
servants, to support them and be subject to
their whims. That which the palmer worm
hath left hath the locust eaten, and that which
the locust hath left hath the canker worm
eaten, and that which the canker worm hath
left hath the caterpillar eaten. My dear
wife always insisted that this was an Oriental
and prophetical manner of describing the servant
nuisance. That which the housemaid has
left the cook carries off, and what the cook
spares the kitchen-maid embezzled, and what
p 2

the kitchen-maid leaves the charwoman whips
off in her basket under her shawl. My poor
dear wife fought a long battle to keep the
house up, but in vain. The aristocracy I
explained to her are the pigs and poultry of
mankind, kept and fattened to be eaten. She
succumbed at last, and when, dear soul, she
was dying, almost the last words she said
were, " Where I am going there will be no
servants." In this hope she made a happy
end.' The old man paused and wiped his eyes.
^ When the first woe was ended, then came the
second.'

'What was that? ' asked Herring.

That was Tramplara, of course. I was
pretty v^^ell in Tramplara's web before the first
woe was surpassed.'

May I ask the amount of your indebtedness
to Mr. Trampleasure ? '

^ Lord bless you ! — you ask me more than
I can answer. I have borrowed so often, and
when I have not paid as I expected, I contracted
an additional loan, — like an owl that
I was. Pace, Bones ! ' the old man touched
his forehead as he looked at the heraldic glass.
However, if it be an amusement to you I
give you full liberty to overhaul my desk.'

It would be as well if I were to get your
indebtedness into shape,' said Herring. ' If

I can be of any help to you in this way,
command me.'

I don't see that you can help me ; I am
past that.'

It struck me, sir, that by the sale of a
portion of your property you might be able
to wipe off some of the debt.'

Wipe off the debt ! as soon wipe a child's
nose dry. I said to a little urchin one day,
Blow your nose, and cease snuffing."
'' Please, Squire," he answered, " it ain't no
good, it won't bide blowed." It is the same
with my accounts. I have tried to wipe off
my debts several times, but the debtor side
keeps running. Look at my books, you will
find . the figures show as remarkable a tendency
to turn one way as do the heads of the
trees at this elevation.'

You will then allow me to overhaul them.'

Certainly, if it will give you pleasure.
There is no accounting for tastes. There is
an old woman in one of my cottages who hasa
bad leg, and insists on showing it me. I
say to her, " Betty, keep that for the doctor,
it revolts me." It is the same with a gentleman's
accounts. They are his running sore.
But he is wiser than Betty, he covers it up.
If you are a doctor of sick ledgers, by all
means examine, and I wish you joy.'

Herring was now staying at West Wyke.
He went carefully over the accounts of Mr.
Battishill, and found them to be in utter
confusion. The old man kept receipts sometimes,
but not invariably. He received his
rent when he could get it, and by instalments ;
his tenants were always behindhand because
punctuality of payment was not insisted on.
It took Herring some time to arrive at a just
idea of what the old gentleman owed, and he
was startled at the amount. He also obtained
an approximate value of the estate. It was
clearly impossible for him to meet his liabilities.


Herring saw no course open except the
disposal of the property, or of part of it.

The estate was small, it had been reduced,
and the land was of inferior quality. It was
possible that the sale of Upaver alone might
suffice to clear off the mortgages, but then it
was doubtful whether Mr. Battishill and his
daughter could live on at West Wyke, farming
the barton, when Upaver was sold. To
farm without capital, and without being able
to superintend the workmen, meant to sink
deeper into the bog after having been extricated
from it. The wisest course for Mr.
Battisbill would be to sell the entire estate,
and retire to a cottage on what remained of

the purchase-money, after all the liabilities he
had contracted had been discharged. He was
reluctant to propose this, and yet it was the
proposal which would be most advantageous
to the old man.

Well,' asked Mr. Battishill, a few days
later, ' my good friend, what has come of this
pondering over my papers ? You have grown
portentously dull, and left all the talking tome.'


The case is hopeless,' said Herring, sadly.

I knew it was,' said the old man, with a
look and air of discouragement. In spite
of his words, he had nursed a hope that
Herring would by some feat of ingenuity find
a mode of relief, and would assure him that
the situation was not desperate. ' " I by
neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated to
closeness and the bettering of my mind . . .
by being so retired, in old Tramplara waked
an evil nature." My situation is not unlike
that of Prospero — here I dwell with my
Miranda. Well, well ! what will be must
be—

He that has and a little tiny wit, —

With heigh, ho, the wind and the rain, —

Must make content with his fortunes fit.
Though the rain it rained every day.'

The old man, though discouraged, did not
believe that the case was desperate.

Never mind,' he said, * the world of West
Wyke will hold out my time. There is but
one thing that I ask of Providence, and that I
am sure Providence will not deny me. I
desire nothing but to die here and be laid
with my ancestors. Do you know what our
motto is ? You would never guess, " Eheu !
Eheu ! Eheu ! " I suppose that was given as
resembling the hoot of an owl, but it was
ominous. Poor Cicely ! she will not be able to
carry the ancestral house with her when some
Ferdinand comes to carry her off. She will
take with her nothing but the owls, and he
who marries her will bear those owls on an
escutcheon of pretence on his own coat. So
at last, at last, it will come to this, that the
white owls who have nested here in honour
for so many centuries will spread their wings
and seek a perch elsewhere. Eheu ! Eheu !
Eheu, Bones ! '

CHAPTER XVI.

TRUSTEE NOT EXECUTOR.

Although John Herrino; had been devoting;
his attention as closely as possible to the
affairs of Mr. Battishill, and had found them
an engrossing study from the confusion which
pervaded them, he had not been able to shake
off the sense of responsibility incurred by the
possession of Miracle's diamonds. Joyce had
constituted him trustee of the fortune of this
maiden. Miracle had two trustees now, asher
father had intended, but John was trustee
without the knowledge of the other, and over
a fortune of the existence of which that other
was happily ignorant. Tramplara was trustee
by virtue of the testament of Mr. Strange,
John Herring by virtue of the caprice of
Joyce.

Herring satisfied his conscience that he
was acting rightly in retaining the jewels.
He knew that they could not be safely intrusted

to Mr. Tramplara. When he turned
the matter over in his mind, he thought he
could make out the course of events which had
influenced Mr, Strange. This gentleman had
called at Avranches on Mr. Eustace Smith,
the co-trustee, but he had not called on
Mr. Trampleasure when he passed through
Launceston. There must have been a reason
for this. He had probably heard in Falmouth
sufficient as to the character of Tram-clara
to determine him to cancel his name
from the will, as a person not to be trusted
with the fortune and destiny of his only child.
It was clear from Mr. Eustace Smith's letter
that he had not been consulted when Mr.
Strange saw him at Avranches. The deceased
must, therefore, have determined, when
renewing his acquaintance with him, not to
trouble him with the executorship or guardianship
of his child. Mr. Strange had, no doubt,
intended to draw up a fresh will when he
reached Exeter. As we know. Herring's
conclusions were correct. Cruel fate had cut
the father off before he could rectify the error
into which he had fallen. Now a happy
accident had constituted Herring guardian
of the major portion of Miracle's property.

John Herring had confidence in himself.
It was impossible for him to commit a dishonourable

action. The diamonds were as
safe in his hands as in the strongest bank
cellar. He believed the trust was given to
him by Providence. He was a simple-hearted
young man, and believed in Providence. He
recognised in this rescue of the jewels, and
their committal to his custody, an interposition
of Heaven in behalf of the orphan.
Whom could Providence have chosen more
trustworthy than himself, and more interested
in the welfare of Miracle ? The more he considered
the situation the more convinced he
became that a finger out of heaven was pointing
to him a plain duty, and that he could
not shirk that duty justifiably. But he had
no desire to shirk it. He was anxious and
interested about Miracle. He was certain that
Tramplara would risk her fortune in some
rash venture. He had heard of the man.
He now remembered that his father had lost
money by him. Tramplara would take the
coin intrusted him, put it in a handkerchief
over the table before the eyes of his victim, and,
presto ! it was gone, and the kerchief empty.
A clink under the table told that the coin had
fallen into the conjuror's pocket. It was not
possible for John Herring, knowing the character
of Tramplara, and suspecting that the
deceased had desired to cancel his will, it was

impossible, morally, for John Herring to surrender
to him the trust now committed to him.

Of all men, he, John Herring, was the
most calculated to look after Miracle's interests,
for he loved her better than any one
else in the world could love her. John
Herring being, as has been said, very simple,
thought that duties rose to the surface like
earthworms to be taken by the crows. Here
was an obvious duty which had worked up
under his eye, and he swooped down on it, and
made it his own immediately.

But if Miracle was his first care, the
Battishills formed his second. Without answering
on his part, they had thrown themselves
on him, and he could not without
cruelty withdraw his support. He saw a
good and kind, if somewhat fantastical old
man and his sweet helpless daughter, menaced
with the greatest of evils — banishment from
their home, to become outcasts in the world,
with no income, or very little, to sustain
them ; he struck down by sickness, and she
too ignorant of life to know how to meet it,
weighted with the burden of a paralysed
father.

What was he to do ?

Then a bright idea struck him. He would
try to help Miracle and Cicely at once. Todo

this he must go to Launceston, and to goto
Launceston he must obtain leave of absence
from Joyce.

John Herring was now, for the first time,
opening his eyes to the fact that to be good-natured
and ready to oblige all those appealing
to him was to involve himself in many
difficulties. Among swimmers they who are
drowning lay hold of him who maintains himself
above water ; it is necessary, though painful,
to give each a kick in the face and send
him to the bottom, if the swimmer will reach
the shore himself alive. It is only the selfish
man who can sing as he walks in the face of
the robber. He has nothing to give, what he
has is too ingeniously stowed away to be discoverable.
Life is a Hounslow Heath where
footpads beset every road, and, where they
leave a gap, beggars step in. And these
demand and take from the traveller everything
he has, and kick him, when stripped,
off the heath, with a jeer, into the black
beyond.

A kind-hearted man such as John Herring
does good to others as he could be done
by. Would is in the optative and ever unfulfilled
mood. It is not the criminal who is
stung by remorse ; the only crime that brings
self reproach is generosity to brother in need.

The glow that succeeds a good deed is the
sting of repentance for having done it.

Of all this Herring was ignorant. Puppies
are born blind, but when thrown into the
water that is to drown them they open their
eyes. Herring was beginning life. He must
pay his footing.

If Herring had not been ridiculously simple,
he would not have gone to the Giant's
Table and explained to Joyce that he could
not attend to her arms for a couple of days.
Would young Sampson have done this, or
Captain Trecarrel? They had their eyes
open, and allowed none to catch their ankles
as they swam. Herring took pains to make
Joyce understand that she must be patient,
and not by impatience undo the good already
done her.

She was stubborn and despotic.

Joyce,' said he, ' I am going to see
Mr. Trampleasure. Do you know him ? '

'I know 'n,' she replied. 'He were here
yesterday along with whither. Yaither went
off with 'n up the Coomb by Marlborough.'

^ Mr. Tramplara was here ! '

Yes, he were. He came down on
whither hard, and sed he were going to turn
us out of 'our land, and tear down the

Table, and send us out without home or ground
of our own.'

This is strange. He did not come near
West Wyke.'

^ I reckon not. He said as how he were
going to turn the Squire and the young lady
out as well. He said we might give 'em
shelter under the Table for a bit till he
knocked that all abroad too.'

Why did he go to Marlborough ? '

I reckon he were searching after some
mine. But I don't know. He scared whither
pretty smart ; but he got whither at last as
meek he would do anything he were axed.
Then Tramplara made 'n come along of he
on to the moors, and I seed nun no more.'

Joyce, I hope to save West Wyke for
Mr. Battishill, and that is why I am going to
Launceston. If I succeed, then you also will
be safe from disturbance. Your Table will
not then be thrown down.'

Squire won't hurt of us — t' I know by ;
he never did nobody harm, he.'

Then, Joyce, you understand, I shall not
return till the day after tomorrow, and you
must let the doctor or Miss Battishill attend
to your arms.'

I won't.'

But you must. I tell you I cannot be
here.'

You may go.'

Thank you for giving me my furlough
he said with a smile. ' But, as you see, when
I am absent you will have to be attended by
some one else.'

Neither whither, nor doctor, nor Miss
Cicely shan't touch me, not by the blue
blazes. I teller you may go, and my arms
shall bide as they be. They won't take no
hurt. T shan't do not to 'em till you comes
back. There, that's settled.'

Herring informed Mr. Battishill and
Cicely of his meditated expedition to Launceston
to see Mr. Trampleasure. He told
them that he was in hopes of bringing him to
another mind about the mortgages, but he did
not enter into the particulars of his scheme,
nor did he tell them what he had learned from
Joyce relative to Mr. Trampleasure' s visit the
day before and exploration of Upaver. Herring
conjectured that the old man had seen
the ore brought up from the mine recently
opened, and was eager by foreclosing to
secure it for himself, having formed a high
opinion of its value. Herring went again that
evening to Upaver and explored the workings,
taking with him one of the labourers

Mr. Battishill had employed on it. The man
was familiar with mines, and was confident
that the lode was good. The ' shore ' had
led to as beautiful a ' bunch ' as a man might
hope to see in a lifetime. A fortune was to
be made at Upaver.

To his surprise, Herring learned from the
man that though Mr. Trampleasure had
passed the workings, he had not paid them
any attention, but had gone further up the
glen. But then, as the miner said, with a
jerk of the chin, there was nothing lying
about which might lead any one to suspect
what was below. All the samples were buried
or hidden in the gorse brakes.

Herring carried off with him some of the
best specimens of pure ore, and, on his return
to AVest Wyke, showed them to Mr. Battis-hill,
and told him his opinion of the mine.
He said that he was confident, if a respite
could be obtained from Tramplara, and a company
be formed to work the mine, that the
royalties on the lead extracted would speedily
clear the property of its burdens.

The old man was elated. He talked over
the prospect, offering many suggestions, some
utterly unpractical, and his hollow cheek
flushed with excitement.

Ah ! ' said he, ' if Tramplara knows

VOL. I. Q

about that lead he'll not grant a respite, but
be down on me at once if he sees profit to
be got by it.

ril have my bond : I will not hear thee speak :
I'll have my bond ; and therefore speak no more.
ril not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool,
To shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield
To Christian intercession.'

The old man shook his head. ' No, Herring,
sou will not prevail on him with prayers.
It is the most impenetrable cur that ever
kept with men." No, you must attack his
self-interest if you will bend him, and how
you will manage that passes my conception.'

But suppose I say to Tramplara, Here is
the money.'

Cicely looked sharply up from her work.

^ Mr. Herring, you made me a promise.'

My dear,' said Mr. Battishill, ' you have
often let me see that you disapproved of my
speculations, as if I must be blind. But see !
here at last, in Upaver, I have hit on one that
will succeed.'

You have hit on it, father, for others to
make fortunes out of it. You have hit on it
as West Wyke is slipping from us.'

CHAPTER Evil

IN THE SUMMER-HOUSE.

As John Herrino; entered the gates of
Dolbeare, he saw Moselle go into the summerhouse.
This summer-house stood at the edge
of the terrace between the garden-gate and
the house.

He desired to see her alone, and therefore,
before ffoino^ to the front door, he turned to
the garden lodge and stood in the doorway.

Miracle saw him and bowed slightly.
Herring went in, and up to her. Then, after
a moment's hesitation, she held out her hand.

He took it, but he might as well have
touched an icicle. No token of pleasurable
recognition appeared in her face.

You are surprised to see mee,' said
Herring, 'I dare say.'

Not at all,' she answered. ^ Why should
I be? I know nothing of your movements.
If you had told me you were going to
Q 2

Moscow, and 1 had seen you start in that
direction, I should be surprised to see you
here now ; but as I know neither where
you live nor what places you frequent, there
is nothing in your reappearance to justify
surprise

'• I have come to-day from West Wyke.'
Indeed ! I hope you left all well there.'
Only fairly so. You have not heard
what happened to poor Joyce.'

^ I do not know who poor Joyce is.'
^ Joyce is that wild girl who helped you
to West Wyke on the evening of the accident.'


I remember an uncouth and unmannerly
paysanne. Is her name Joyce ? I did not
know it. If I had heard it, the name escaped
my memory. Joyce ! what is the derivation
of the name Joyce ? ^ Joieuse, I presume —
a singularly inappropriate name in this case.'
^ Very much so, poor child. That brutal
father of hers broke her arms, and otherwise
seriously injured her.'

Indeed ! These savages have their ways.'
Herring was shocked at her want of
feeling.

^ In the South Tawton Register stands this entry under

Baptisms : ' Jocose, anglice Joyce, daughter of ,' &c.

It was formerly a common name in Devon.

You do not seem to feel for her, and yet
she helped you, as you may remember.'

Of course I am very sorry. I am sorry
when I hear a mason has fallen off a scaffold,
or a child has tumbled into a well, or a horse
has broken his knees ; I am sorry when a
donkey is roughly treated. But unless I am
acquainted with the mason, and the child,
and the horse, and the ass, I do not feel more
than a transient pity. You possibly have
seen sufficient of this wild girl to possess
some interest in her ; I know absolutely
nothing of her. How, then, can I feel for
her more than I do when I say I am sorry ? '

May I take a chair ? '

Certainly Sit down, and we will talk.
I have something I wish particularly to say
to you. I am sorry that I let you go the
other time without thanking you formally
for having rescued me from the broken
carriage, for having seen to the funeral of
my poor father, and for having conveyed me
hither to the care of these people here.'

She spoke without any expression in her
tone, simply as though repeating a lesson
learned by rote. AVhen she had spoken, she
drew a long breath like a sigh of relief. She
had discharged a duty. It was off her mind,
and she was free.

"- You see for yourself, Mr. Herring, that
the feelings of the heart are too sacred to be
dispersed over the earth, to be scattered like
coins amidst a crowd of bef>:2:ars. One meets
with some thousands of persons in the course
of existence, and cannot cut one's heart into
little bits and present each with a portion.
We must reserve it for true friends, and give it
them entire. Those who pass us by, and whom
we see but for a while, are like the figures
of a magic-lantern slide ; they make us laugh,
or they interest us for the moment, and then
are forgotten. When we hear that a slide is
broken, we ask, which ? The man driving
a wheelbarrow, or the old Avoman who desired
she were pope, or the cabbage that becomes a
tailor ? When we are informed, we do not
weep, we merely say. It can be replaced.'

I hope you do not class the Battishills
among your magic-lantern slides.'

No, I know them, and they have been
kind to me. I even like Mr. Battishill. He
has his ideas.'

And Miss Cicely ? '

She is rustic and good-hearted. But
she does not think. She has no knowledge of
books. She could be made passable if sent to
school, but must be recreated to be given

ideas. Besides, I am not fond of the plump
and the ingenue

'• You have not asked after Mr. Battishill.
If it be not too great an effort for your
memory, you will recall that he had a stroke
before you left West Wyke.'

Do not be sarcastic. I remember that
perfectly welL If you will trouble your
memory, you will recall that I did, on first
learning you came from West Wyke, ask
after Mr. and Miss Battishill. I remember
that he had a paralytic stroke, but I recall as
well that he showed good signs of recovery

• 1 am afraid, Countess, that he stands the
chance of another stroke ; for he is menaced
with a great evil, and any profound agitation
is likely to bring on a second seizure.'

^ I am very sorry to hear it.'

^ His affairs are involved to such an extent
that it will be necessary for his property to be
sold, and he will have to leave West Wyke.'

Then he can go and live in France ;
anywhere must be better than that dismal
old house on a barren moor. It is best that
it should be so. He weill escape from a
dungeon.'

You do not understand that his heart is
bound up with West Wyke, and that to transplant

him from the home of his ancestors will
be to kill him.'

He thinks West Wyke a Paradise only
because he has never crossed the ChanneL
When he reaches a nook where the sun shines
and the flowers ever bloom, he will thank
Heaven for having released him from his
prison and exile in that Wretched house and
on that howling waste.'

Countess, you are young, and have no
conception of the power that association has
on the old. You can begin life anywhere,
and everywhere hopes and interests start up.
To the old it is not so, they are without
hopes, and their only pleasure is in recollection.
To the aged the looking back is
almost as sweet as the looking forward is to
the young.'

Then let him sit down in an arbour of
roses, and dream of the past there ; not in a
dingy old parlour with smoked ceiling, and
the rain pattering against the window.'

I fear that he will be turned destitute
into the world, or, if not destitute, nearly so ;
and to a broken and sick man that means
death.'

He can hardly be worse oiF elsewhere
than he is now.'

He will have to go into a new home and

accommodate himself to that, at a time of life
and in a condition of health unfitting him fora
change. You are unfeeling, Countess.'

^ Pardon me, I am not. I know Mr.
Battishill, and I respect his many good
qualities, but I cannot put myself in his
frame of mind. It seems to me that, were I
he, all thought of being allowed to leave such
a spot, with the world before me, would fill
me, if sick and dymg, with new life. I
would start up in my bed and cry out, Take
me to France ; there I know I shall be well.*

As he does not know France, he has no
such desire. And he is too old to acquire
new tastes. There comes a time when the
mind as well as the body is tired, and all
it asks is to be given rest. New scenes, new
associates, new habits exact too much of the
exhausted spirit. Have you not seen a
feeble flame extinguished by fresh fuel being-put
round it with the hope of coaxing it into
a blaze ? This is not all ; the rupture of old
associations is the rupture of the thousand
filaments the tree root has woven in the soil
about it. Break these, and though the tree
be transplanted from cold clay to richest loam,
it will die. Think of your own forefather
when he lost Cantalejo. Think how his
heart ached, how he turned to take a last

look at the ancient walls, and could sec
nothing, for, strong man as he was, his eyes
were Ml of tears. He knew that with him
his entire posterity was banished for ever.'

I can understand that,' said Miracle,
sadly ; ' never more able to coin his own
money, nor hang any one on his own gallows.'

And your ancestor went forth hale and
able to meet the world, and conquer himself
a new place in it.'

Yes,' said Miracle, raising her head
proudly, ' he was a brave soldier. He
fought, and was killed in the wars.'

'But this poor old man is broken with
years and infirmities.'

It is the will of God.'

He dies, and his daughter is cast adrift,
without means, and ignorant of the world.'

Do not speak to me of her. She is the
embodiment of prose — pleasing and entertaining,
but still prose. The world is prosaic,
and she will always find a hole in it into
which she can fit. It is those with ideas, the
originals and the poets, who are adrift and
homeless. Every gate is closed to them.'

Countess, think of that evening when the
accident took place, and your poor father was
killed. You were left on the moor, knowing
nothing of the place where you were, or of the

people among whom }-onr lot was to be cast.
What if, by an unlucky chance, I had not been
present to assist you, and the Battishills had
not been ready to receive you ? What would
you have done on that moor, alone, without
adviser, without home, and without money ?
The savages would have fallen upon jo\x —
that ruthless man who has smashed the bones
of this own daughter would not have spared
you.'

Miracle shivered.

You may well shudder ; I do not know
what would have become of you. But a
merciful Providence interposed in your behalf,
and raised up to you friends who have cared
for you.'

Yes,' she said, ' I see that. I see that
now.'

Cicely Battishill is like to be placed ina
very similar position ; to be left homeless
and friendless in the world, standing by a
father, who, if not dead, is as bad as dead for
all the help he can afford her. She cannot
become a governess and earn her bread, she
has her father to nurse. Xow, Countess, when
you think of your own condition on that
eventful night, and of what might have become
of you unless the Battishills had thrown open
their door to you and cherished you, then,

perhaps, you will be able to realise the condition
of Miss Battishill, who, though she maybe
prosaic, as you say, is a delicate maiden,
and has the nurture of a gentlewoman.'

Mon Dieu ! que puis-je faire, moi ! You
speak to me as though I could save them. I
can do nothing, with the best desire to help
them. I cannot invite them to make this their
refuge. This is not my home. It is simply
a menagerie in which I am allowed a cache
among the bears.'

I think it is your cluti) to do what you canto
assist the Battishills.'

Show me the way, and I Avill not shrink
from performing any duty. But you must
see I am unable to help these good people.'

Not altogether unable. Countess. Your
father has left sou several thousand pounds,
which are in the hands of Mr. Trampleasure,
in trust. He must invest them for you. He
is also the man who has a hold on the estate
of the Battishills. Get him to take your
money, or as much of it as is needed, in payment
of the sum owed him by Mr. Battishill,
and to transfer to you his claims on the property.
That is, let him transfer the mortgage
on West Wyke from himself personally to
himself as trustee for you. Then you will be
mistress over the estate of the Battishills, and

if you will not foreclose, I can promise you
that the interest shall be regularly and punctually
paid. I am certain that the investment is
sound. By this means you will be benefiting
the Battishills and yourself simultaneously.'

I understand nothing about mortgages,
investments, or interest, I leave that to
others. If this proposal of yours enable me
to wipe ois an obligation I owe to those who
have been kind to me, I accept it gladly, and
if it be a duty I shall make it a matter of
conscience to fulfil it.'

^ It is a duty. At least I think it is.
Judge for yourself. You see your benefactors
the Battishills in distress, and you have it in
your power to rescue them from ruin at no
cost to yourself. It seems to me that no duty
could be put in a plainer form before you.'

Mr. Trampleasure is in the house. He
will have to be consulted. We cannot act
without him. Will you summon him hither,
and we will arrange the matter on the spot.
You will not find me one to shrink fr-om the
discharge of a duty.'

John Herring left Miracle, and did as she
desired. He found Mr. Trampleasure at home,
as she had said. He was eno;ncred with his
son in the dining-room on some plans, and
they had a bottle of spirits and a jug of hot

water on the table at their elbows, though the
time was early m the afternoon.

Old Tramplara greeted Herring with
effusion, the young one sulkily. Herring
told the father that the Countess wanted to
speak to him in the summer-house for a few
moments, if he would oblige her with his
presence.

See what comes of having alive Countess
in the house,' said the old man, laughing ; ' I
have to dance after her. Now, if she had
been plain missis, she would have come hereto
see me.'

Then he accompanied PI erring to the
summer-house. This house was, in fact, a
room of fair size, furnished with a fireplace
and carved mantelpiece, that contained a
quaint old painting on panel. The windows
were large, and that to the south-east overhung
the precipice, and commanded a magnificent
view down the valley of the Tamar and
up that of the Lyd to the range of Dartmoor,
which rose as a wall against the horizon,
broken into many rocky peaks, a veritable
mountain chain.

Miracle had a chair and table in this
window, and was engaged on the manufacture
of tinsel flowers for the chapel at Trecarrel.

The table was covered with scraps of foil

and bits of coloured silks ; and the shipping
strewed the floor.

'Well, Serene Highness de Candlesticks !'
exclaimed the old man, noisily, as he came in,
with a burst of laughter ; ' what does your
consequentially desire ? Some wires to
stick them gewgaws on ? '

Miracle shrank before the uproarious old
man, and spoke in her coldest and most
reserved manner.

I have sent for you, Mr. Trampleasurc,
about my money which has been intrusted to
YOU. Mr. Herrinof has been advising: me how
to dispose of it.'

Oh, indeed ; very good of mr. Lieutenant
Herring.'

I do not myself understand these matters,
and so I have requested Mr. Herring to explain
my wishes to you. It seems that Mr.
Battishill is in trouble, "and owes you money I'

That is true as gospel,' said Tramplara ;
he owes me an imperial bushel of it. There
are some persons who have a liking for borrowing,
and much prefer that to paying. Mr.
Battishill is one of these, and I have been his
victim. And although David does say,
Blessed is he that borrowed and payeth not
again," yet that is one point on which David
and Sampson Trampleasure are at issue.'

Mr. Battisliill is prepared to pay regularly
the interest on the loans he lias contracted
said Herring.

But, my dear lieutenant,' said Tramplara,
^ I happen at this moment to be in immediate
want of a very large sum of ready money. I
call on Battishill to refund what he has borrowed.
He can't do it, and I sell up.'

You are very hard. Are you aware that
he has had a seizure, and is ill ? '

Can't help that, lieutenant, I want money.
You saw sweet Sampy and me engaged on
some plans when you came into the room.
Well, we are in for a venture, and shall want
money to carry it out.'

What the Countess proposes '

Oh, ]plow your Countesses,' said young
Tramplara, putting his head in, and then following
with his body. ' There are no Countesses
in this shop. The lady yonder is Miss
Strange, only daughter and heiress to James
Strange, Esquire, of Bahia, Brazil.'

Shut your trap, Sampy,' said his father.
^ No impertinence here. Manners before
ladies of the tip-top aristocracy, please. What
do you say, sir, about the proposal of the
Countess ? '

I decline to discuss this matter before
your son,' said Herring, indignantly. ' It in

no Away concerns him, and he was not invited
to be present.'

The business is Trampleasure and Son
said young Sampson. * The firm bears that
name throughout the county.'

But the firm has nothing to do with the
affairs of the Countess Alirelle Garcia.'

Oh ! I beg pardon,' said the young man.
'The trustees and guardians of her ladyship
are Trampleasure and Herring — more correctly,
Herring and Trampleasure.'

I have no further right to interfere,' said
Herring, with difficulty retaining his composure,
' than as spokesman for the Countess,
who has empowered me to act in her name.
Have I your authority for what I say and do,
Countess ? ' He turned to Miracle.

My full authority,' she answered. ' I
have requested you to speak my wishes in
this matter to Mr. Trampleasure. As for his
son, I must request him. to efface himself, and
not to trouble his head with my affairs.'

Go, Sampy,' said his father. ^ Good
angels attend you.' The young man withdrew
sullenly ' Now then, Lieutenant Herring, I
am at your service.'

The Countess wishes that her money, left
in your hands as trustee, may be invested in
the mortgages on the Mayest Wyke estate.

VOL I. R

These mortgages you hold. Five thousand
pounds are owing to you, and you are in
immediate need of the mone3\ Take five
thousand of her money, and transfer to her
the claims on West Wyke.'

Oh, ah ! When is she likely to get her
interest ? You had to help the Squire out of
one hobble, and he will be dropping into
another shortly.'

^ I can answer for it that the interest will
be paid punctually and in full.'

I don't approve of the investment. I
don't regard it as sound.'

I wish it,' said Miracle.

My dear pet and pearl of the aristocracy,'
said the old man, ' I am solely responsible
for what is done with the money. I must
look after your interest in the matter. Why,
if I yielded to your request, you would get
only four and a half for your money, and I
can assure you of seven.'

She would prefer the smaller sum on
this security than the larger on one more
risky.'

Risky, risky ! what ! — Ophir a risk !
My dear Herring, I know better than you
where security lies. The young lady's money
will be invested in a gold mine — in the gold
of Ophir ! I said seven per cent., but I am

sanguine of a rise to ten, fifteen, twenty,
twenty-five. What do you think of that,
eh?'

Mr. Trampleasure,' said Miracle, ' if I
have any voice in this matter '

You have none — none whatever.'

And if I particularly entreat you not to
run risks with my money in gold or other
mines, but to dispose of it for the relief of the
Battishills '

Then I shall turn a deaf ear to you. I
am responsible to no one. Your father has
left me supreme judge in the matter, and I
shall act as my own conscience and your
interest direct.'

Surely, Mr. Trampleasure '

^ Surely you cry to a stone wall. I shall
discharge the obligation your father laid on
me with strict fidelity. I am a man of wide
experience, and I venture to think that Mr.
Herring's knowledge of money investments
is recent and partial. I object to his interference,
and, but for the respect I owe to the
memory of his father, Jago Herring, I should
resent it.'

^ I have no right, I admit,' said Herring,

other than that I derive from an interest in

the welfare of both the Countess and the

Battishills, and from the request she has

B 2

made fine to speak in her name and make a
proposal which will benefit both parties.'

I refuse what is offered,' said Tramplara,
his natural insolence breaking through the
varnish of politeness he had assumed. ' I
refuse to be dictated to ; and I shall act as I
choose with both missis's money and with
that owl of a Squire.'

One moment,' said Herring, whose cheek
was flushed with anger. ' I ask one question
of the Countess. Is it still your wish that
the Battishills be saved from ruin ? '

'- Certainly I wish it.'

Allow me to ask further, supposing the
means of relieving them were at your disposal,
would you act in the way I have suggested ?
That is, supposing you had money independent
of Mr. Trampleasure, would you
invest it in the West Wyke mortgages ? '

I would do so.*

You are quite sure of your own mind ? '

I do not speak without meaning what I
say.'

Then, Mr. Trampleasure, you shall not
lay a finger on the estate. It is safe. The
money shall be forthcoming on the day you
name to receive it.'

Are you going to find it ? '

That in no way concerns you.'

If you are, you are softer than I supposed.'


The money will be ready for you.'

Miracle rose, and, stepping up to Herring,
held out her hand. There was more feeling in
her voice and warmth in her hand than before.

I thank you, Mr. Herring. I am not
ungrateful.'

What for ? ' asked Tramplara, rudely.

For crossing your plans,' she said, and
turned to look out of the window at the
view.

CHAPTER XVIII.

SALTTS'G A 3riN"K.

Tea^iplara paid several visits to Upaver
without calling at West Wyke. sometimes
alone and sometimes along with his son. He
did more than visit Upaver; he got some men
to break ground there and begin a mine,
without asking permission of the landlord,
Mr. Battishill. or letting him know what he
was about. The farmer who rented Upaver
held his tongue.

One day. however, old Tramplara came to
West Wake House, along with a person whose
looks betrayed what he was — a dissenting
minister: in fact, the Reverend Israel Fla-man.


Mr. Battishill was by no means pleased to
receive Tramplara. A mouse is not elated at
the sight of the cat.

Nothing. however, could be more friendly
than the manner of Tramplara. He was

L-i:^ :- : rill. H^ presented his friend
Mr. Flamank. under vrhom, he said, to his
5 7- "rlfare lie had sat, one whom he should
alv. disregard as, under Providence, the man
who had brought him to realise the great
value of eternity and the infinite nothingness
of to-day. Then followed a great deal of this
s "" f unctuous flattery, 'laid on with a
T L and sticking wherever applied. Mr.

E " 1 - i 1 1 looked on with amused surprise to
5r ^ " : ? lily Mr. Flamank accepted the
fcpia:M^ci; cuaTse and thick as they were.

Then Tramplara addressed himself directly
to the Squire.

'" You must allow me, BaitishiU, to shake
your hand once more ; you must indeed. My
friend and shepherd, Flamank, has made a
discovery — a discovery of such moment that
I doubt not it wil astonish you That it will
please you. I do not doubt either. Flamank
is a divine who has made prophecy his special
study, and his knowledge of Bible history and
geography is simply surprising. By the way,
before I tell you what his find is, will you
let me know whether you really propose to pay
me back in full what I ; :ed some years

ago ?'

•I shall not be able *:^ io so,* answered
Mr. Battishill-but a ::: i^l has offered to

find the money, and to relieve you of the
mortgages

You mean yomig Herring.'

Mr. Battishill nodded.

'But where the devil' — Mr. Flamank
started and looked remonstratingly at Trara-
clara — ' where in Deuteronomy — I said
Deuteronomy, — he can have come upon the
money, I can't think. I did know something
about old Jago Herring, his father, and I
thought he had been a plate licked pretty
clean. I did not suppose there was much fat
left sticking. But I dare say the old woman
had money.'

What old woman ? '

Mrs. Jago Herring, the lieutenant's
mother. And as there was no daughter, her
money naturally came to him. It is possible
that is how he must have come by it. Where
is he now ? '

In London, I believe. He left a week or
two ago.'

I may take it for granted, I suppose, that
the money will be forthcoming ? ' asked Mr.
Tram pleasure.

I do not doubt it. Mr. Herring is a man
of his word,' answered the old Squire.

I congratulate you, Battishill.' Mr.
Battishill winced each time he was addressed

sith familiarity. 'I congratulate yon. It
Avould have gone hard with me to sell you up.
I would not have done it unless forced to do
so. What drove me to threaten was need of
money, and the occasion of needing it I leave
to my reverend friend here to unfold.
Whether I am wise in trusting him, I cannot
say. But what is a pastor for but to lead ?
But I must open the case, he is too modest to
tell the tale, as it redounds to his honour and
is a brilliant example of sagacity. I must tell
you, Battishill, that I have been privileged to
attend his Bible lectures, and he has deeply
impressed me with the greatness and commercial
enterprise of the Philistines.'

Phoenicians, of course,' said Flamank.

Phoenicians, of course — you see, Squire,
I'm not well up in the story. I follow my
guide, but all this lore is puzzling to me.
Well, you know the Phoenicians came to
Cornwall to fetch tin and gold, and that
Solomon's servants came alone: with the servants
of Hiram for the purpose, and they
brought the tin and the gold to Jerusalem for
the temple.'

Mr. Battishill nuit have heard of the
Phoenicians,' said Mr. Flamank, now on his
particular ground, and able to trot. ' From
them we derive clotted cream. It is a insular

and significant fact that clotted cream is made
nowhere in the world except in Devon, Cornwall,
and Phoenicia. That is a wxll-esta-
blushed fact, and it speaks volumes in favour
of an early intercourse between the Cassia
and the natives of Tyre and Sidon.
The Cassiterides have been for some time
identified in the minds of antiquaries with
Devon and Cornwall. The only difficulty
in the way is this. The Cassiterides are described
by the ancient geographers as islands.
But the difficulty vanishes when closely considered.
The Phoenicians ascended Brown
Willy and Cosdon, and from these heights
saw the sea on both sides, and, not supposing
they were in an isthmus, they hastily and
incorrectly concluded they were in an isLand.
Bat the fact of clotted cream being found only
in Phoenicia and the West of Eng-land is, to
my mind, absolutely conclusive. A point not
considered by antiquaries has arrested my
attention. The point is, that the Jews came
with the Phoenicians, and that they actually
formed permanent settlements in our West
Country.'

elews, Jews!' put in Tramplara : 'they
would go after tin anywhere.'

Look at Marathon,* continued Mr. Flamank
; ' the Bitter Waters of Zion. The place

bears the stamp of its origin in its name.
There is Port Isaac, also, no doubt named
after the patriarch, and Jacobstow, and,
touching memorial, Davidson, so called after
the sweet psalmist by the servants of his son
Solomon. There is a hamlet of Herodsfoot,
and a village of Issey, that is, Isaiah, and St.
Sampson, after the strongest of men. Still
more remarkable is the fact of the Israelitish
colonists founding a parish which they called
Temple, because they were at the time 
on building that wondrous structure in
Jerusalem. Hearth derives its name from
the ancestress of David, and we still sneak of
sending persons to Jericho, which is a farm
not stir distant from Launceston. A careful
study of the Scriptures led me some time
ago to this conclusion, that what the profane
writers call the Cassitcrides are, in the sacred
page, called Ophir.'

Ophir — "over the sea and far away!'^
You recall the text, Squire,' interjected Tram-clara.


Our friend's familiarity with the Scriptures
is late, and not as accurate as might be
desired,' apologised Mr. Flamank, with a look
of pity cast at Tramplara. ' Suffice it that,
led by a delicate chain of evidence as clear
and unmistakable as that of clotted cream, I

was led to seek Ophir in these western
counties. You will recall that the inspired
penman lays down the situation of Ophir With
great nicety. It lies between Meshaa and
Sephar. I^ow Meshaa is undeniably Meshaa aw
in North Devon, and Sephar is Sheepstor in
South Devon. Draw a line between Meshaw
and Sheepstor, and it passes over Cosdon.'

Why, bless my heart,' exclaimed Mr. Bat-distill,
' you are not going to find Ophir here ! '

We have found it,' said the dissenting
minister, gleefully. ' The identification is complete.
Do sou happen to see my " Western
Cornucophir " ? '

Cornucophir, what is that ? '

My paper — a monthly originally entitled
the Cornucopia, because of the abundance of
good things it contained. When this surprising
discovery dawned on me, I changed
the name to Cornucophir — Cornu, for cornelia,
Cornwall, and Ophir, for the Land of
Gold. The combination is happy.'

But you are looking for Ophir in Devon,
not in Cornwall.'

Devon was included in Cornwall till the
time of Athelstan, who drove the Britons
back over the Tamar, and restricted them to
Cornwall. Tamar ' — Mr. Flamank paused
and rubbed his hands — ' there again, the river

its

called after the daughter of David and twin
sister of Absalom. Having arrived at this
remarkable discovery by an exhaustive process
and irrefragable evidence, in which every
step is capable of being demonstrated with
mathematical certainty to Christian believers,
I begged Mr. Trampleasure, who has wide
experience in mines '

Polpluggan,' groaned Mr. Battishill.

As in Polpluggan, as you rightly observe,
to examine the line between Meshaw and that
mountain in the east, Sheepstor. Mr. Tram-pleasure
is not as sanguine in this matter as I
am. He is hard to be convinced even now ;
I am not sure that his faith is firm. Whilst
we were discussing the nature of the land
between Meshaw and Sheepstor — he resolutely
refused to explore the red sandstone and clay
land, maintaining that gold is never found
except in the proximity of granite — he told me
of a farm of yours called Ophir.'

Ophir ! ' exclaimed the old gentleman ; ' I
have no such farm.'

Excuse me,' said Mr. Flamank ; ' you
have, and I have been over it myself, exploring
the ground for gold.'

I believe you call the place Upaver/ said
Tramplara, with a twinkle in his eye, which
watched the Squire intently.

Upaver ! You have Dot been hunting up
my silver lead mine, have you ? '

Silver lead, no ! ' answered the pastor ;
we have been hunting for gold.'

But this is stark nonsense,' exclaimed
Mr. Battishill ; 'the place never was called
Ophir. It is, and always has been, Upaver.'

Upaver and Ophir are all the same, just
as Sheepstor is the same as Sephar. I asked
the farmer the name of the place, and without
hesitation he said that he minded in old times
it was called Ophir, but that the maps spell it
with an U!

He has not been fifteen years on the
farm, and I have been here seventy.'

He has heard from the oldest inhabitant.'

I am the oldest inhabitant,' protested
Mr. Battishill. ' I can show you, moreover,
leases of a hundred and two hundred years
ago, in which it is called Upaver.'

The leases were drawn up by lawyers
ignorant of the pronunciation of the name.
What the farmer told me was confirmed by
another man, an old wild-looking creature,
almost a savage. He also said the place was
called Ophir, and he clenched his statement
with a dreadful imprecation on all those dio
called it otherwise. What is more, he showed
me a silver coin he had found, and I bought

it of him for five shillings. If 3-011 will
examine it, you will see Hebrew characters
on it. I have seen this coin figured in Commentaries
on the Bible ; on the obverse a vase,
the pot of manna, I presume, on the reverse a
flower, Aaron's blooming rod. It is a sliekel.
Now I ask you, how came a shekel to be
found at Ophir unless the Israelites had been
there to drop it ? '

Mr. Battisiiill took the coin, and turned it
over in his hand. He was puzzled.

'- That man you describe is old Grizzly
Cobbledick, who lives under the Giant's
Table.'

I have seen the Giant's Table. It is an
Israelitish monument, a Gilgal. There are
many such in Cornwall, as well as upright
stones — the same that Jacob set up and
anointed with oil.'

^ There are plenty of these upright stones
on Dartmoor,' said Mr. Battishill. ' On the
side of Belton Tor is a circle called the
Nine Maidens. The story goes that they
were damsels so fond of dancing that they
would not desist on the Sunday, and in consequence
were turned to stone. And it is
said that even now on Sunday at noon the
stones come to life and dance thrice round ina
circle.'

I must make a note of this foi my article
in the " Western Cornucopia." I pray you to
observe the continuance of Sabbatical ideas,
an evidence of Jewish teaching ; and of the
resistance to it on Belton Tor, a mountain
dedicated to Bel or Baal, the Sun God of the
Phoenicians.'

But you are holding back from Mr.
Battishill the most important discovery of
all,' said Tramplara, who saw that the old
gentleman was not much impressed by the
biblical and antiquarian theories of his
visitor.

'At my request, and against his own
convictions,' continued Mr. Flamank, 'my
good friend Trampleasure searched Ophir for
gold. A more qualified person could not have
been found, for he is thoroughly conversant
With the metals and their ores. He brought
me one day some sand, granite washings, with
grains in it that certainly looked like gold.
We tested them with nitric acid, and, sure
enough, they proved to be gold. I had no
rest in my mind till I had persuaded Mr.
Trampleasure to accompany me to Ophir, and
to assist me in the examination of the place.
He conducted me to the spot where he had
found the gravel, and there we searched and
I found this.'

He held out some shining yellow cubes.

That is mundi,' said Mr. Battishill ; ' it
looks like gold, but is worthless.'

So Mr. Tramp] easure said. He laughed
at me for my mundi find, but I could hardly
be convinced that it was not gold. However,
later, I found these grains. Here they are
in my kerchief, with the quartz and mica as I
took them up. I did not find much, but still,
enough to show that the metal is present.'

He spread out his handkerchief on the
table. In the midst of the coarse white gravel
were certain yellow granules that looked like
gold.

You found this in Upaver valley ? ' asked
Mr. Battishill, in great surprise.

Yes, I was more successful than Tram-pleasure.
But then I worked in faith, and
he was dubious, so I dare say looked with
less eagerness.'

This is very extraordinary,' said the
old gentleman. ' I never suspected the existence
of gold on my property.'

Why not ? ' asked Trampleasure. ' Gold
is always found in connection with granite.'

That is true ; but none has been found
hitherto in Devon.'

And yet the whole valley has been
streamed by miners in olden times. Their
VOL. I. s

mounds of refuse are traceable all the way to
the source of the stream. Neo gold has been
sought because none was expected to be
found. The Bible has led me, by a course
of inductive evidence, to the identical spot
whence came the gold that overlaid the temple,
and that made the shields with which
Solomon adorned the walls of his palace.'

Whence that gold was got, more gold
must be obtainable,' put in Tramplara ;
especially with our modern appliances.'

It is most amazing,' said Mr. Battishill.
Bless me ! I wish I were well enough to
get out ; but I am stricken, and can only
creep about with the aid of a stick. I should
like myself to examine the place where you
say you found the gold.'

Surely you cannot doubt my word,' said
Mr. Flamank. ' I can give you the best
possible proof of my sincerity. I am ready
to embark my little savings to the last penny
in the mines of Ophir, if you will consent to
their being worked.'

I have no objection whatever, so long as
I am not asked to risk any money in them
myself.'

Look you here. Squire,' said Tramplara ;
let us strike whilst the iron is hot. I amas
anxious as the Keverend Flamank about

Ophir. You can lose nothing, and may make
a pot of money. I have brought with me a
lease ; read it. I will pay you a yearly
rental of a hundred pounds, and you shall
have the usual royalties on the gold raised.
Then I will undertake to form a company to
work the mines of Ophir. Not one penny
can you lose by it. If you choose to take
shares you may run some risk, not otherwise.
If the mine proves a success, sour fortune will
be made, and so will mine, and those other
lucky devils '

Lucky what ? ' inquired the startled
pastor.

Lucky devotees, I said. I said devotees
distinctly. Those lucky devotees who took
shares in Ophir. ^' Out of the hills ye shall
dig brass," said the great lawgiver, and his
prophecy will be fulfilled, for brass in colloquial
English means money.'

Tramplara took a lease out of his pocket
and opened it before Mr. Battishill.

'Head it — nothing can be fairer.'

Father,' said Cicely, who had come in,
^ please do nothing till Mr. Herring returns.
Take his advice before signing any document.'


Nonsense, my dear ; I can lose nothing. I
s 2

shall not take a share, and I may gain
thousands of pounds.'

If you will work the mine yourself, do
so,' said Tramplara : ^ if not, let us work it.
The religious public is already screwed upto
a pitch of screaming excitement. The
Western Cornucopia " '

" Cornucophir,-' ' corrected the pastor.
Besides, I object to the term screaming
excitement.'

It is allegorical and Oriental — Phoenician,
in fact,' explained Tramplara. ' The " Cornu-ophir
" has been leading them on week
by week, expecting the discovery of Ophir.
Now all is ready for the announcement that
it has been found, and with that announcement
we must publish the prospectus of the
Ophir Gold Mining Company. If you do not
accept my terms, all I can say is, the place
will be invaded by religious gold-diggers, who
will turn everything topsy-turvy and carry
off every particle of gold they find without
giving you any share in their spoil.'

I will sign the lease ; it is only for a
year,' said Mr. Battishill, eagerly ; ' but I can
take no shares, I have not the money.'

I will take as many as I can,' said the
minister. ' Ophir must succeed.'

Now then ! ' shouted Tramplara, waving

the lease over his head. ' Xow for the run of
gold. Blow the trumpet in Zion; call the
solemn assembly of partakers together. I
shall be ready for them with my crushing
machines. Hooray for the gold of Ophir,
and the fortunes that will be made out of
it!'

CHAPTER XIX.

TWO STRINGS TO ONE BOW.

Captain Trecakrel had the good luck to
find Miracle alone in the garden house, engaged
on her flowers. She had not been
taught to do useful work. She cut out lace
patterns in paper, and made imitation flowers.
She could play and sing, but there was no
piano in the garden house, and she spent
most of her time there, so as to be away from
the rooms frequented by Trampleasure senior
and junior.

Captain Trecarrel was playing his cards
very carefully. He did not intend to be ofl*
altogether with the old love till he was quite
sure that it was to his pecuniary advantage to
be on with the new. He was curious to know
in what Miracle's money had been invested.
This was not easy for him to find out. He
could not inquire of old Tramplara.

After turning the matter over in his head,

the Captain resolved on trying to ascertain
what he desired to know through Miracle
herself, who was too simple to suspect his
purpose.

He took a seat by her in the window.
She smiled at him, and made room beside
her.

I have been thinking a great deal about
you, Miracle,' said he. He had slipped into
calling her by her Christian name, and she did
not resent it. ' And the more I think of you,
the more I pity you. Your poor dear father
made a sore mistake in confiding you to the

care of these Tramnleasures.'

1.

They were his relations,' she said.

True; but then you are so utterly out of
place among them. You are unable to sympathise
with them '

Fortunately.'

^ Fortunately, indeed, or you would not
be charming. A grievous error has been
committed, I may even say that a great wrong
has been done you, unintentionally, and the
consequence is that you suffer. I see it in
your face.'

Captain Trecarrel,* said Miracle, ' I once
thought to myself, suppose Heaven were to
rob me of all means, and I were obliged to bea
servant maid in the kitchen, then I thought

how utterly unable I should be to live in
such a place, not because it was a kitchen,
but because of those I should have to associate
with. I and they would have no interests,
no pursuits, no ambitions, hardly a
thought in common. To all intents I might
as well live in a stable with horses, or in a
townhouse surrounded by cackling pullets. I
should not mind in the least shelling peas,
for I could think my own thoughts whilst so
engaged ; but to be encompassed with others
who think no thoughts, who have no ideas
worth uttering, who live as to their outsides,
and have no inner life, that would be unendurable.
I find myself now in such a situation.
The Trampleasures and I do not seethe
same sights nor hear the same sounds.
We have not even the sense of smell in common,
for Mr. Tramplara and young Sampson
like to sniff brandy and puff bad tobacco, and
I am convinced that Orange and her mother
do not dislike these, to me, intolerable odours.
In the garden is a sweet rose and a bed of
mignonette. I have not once seen a Tram-pleasure
apply his nose to a flower. We
have the same organic structure, and are
classed together in natural history as belonging
to the same genus, but there the similarity
ends. The likeness is superficial, the

dissimilarity is radical. The likeness is physical,
the dissimilarity psychical. The Tram-pleasures
are animals made in the likeness of
man. I am human, made in the likeness of
God. I can see what is beautiful in nature
and art. I can feel music in my soul, I have
aspirations beyond making money and getting
married. I have interests beyond the claque
of Launceston gossip. But these Tramples
have no sense of beauty, no poetical
instinct, no spiritual aspirations. Orange is
the best of them, but in her I only think I
perceive a soul, I am not sure that it exists.
God took some of the beasts he had made and
bade them stand up on their hind legs, that
they might look at heaven instead of contemplating
earth. But their souls did not stand
up also. The result was the ape. There are
men, likewise, not superior. They walk on
two feet, but their souls run on all fours.'

Poor Miracle ! ' said Trecarrel, looking
tenderly at her out of the Trecarrel blue eyes.
^ Yours is a cruel fate.'

Yes, it is cruel, and, but for this summerhouse
where I can be alone, would be insupportable.
Life to these Trampleasures, and
people cast in their mould, is a harpsichord on
which they drone a strain void of invention,
freshness, and thought. When you have

heard their performance — it is the song of life
you are aware that you have listened to a
succession of notes unworthy of being termed
a melody, in chords undeserving of being
designated harmony. When one with higher
thoughts sits down to the same instrument
and plays a piece like a sonata of Beethoven,
they yawn and say, " Let us have something
out of the Beggars' Opera ! " '

Little did Miracle guess how mean and
commonplace was the barrel-organ tune that
Captain Trecarrel cared to play on his harpsichord
of life. Because he was a gentleman by
birth, and a Catholic in faith, she supposed
that he stood, like Saul, a head and shoulders
higher than the vulgar beings that surrounded
him and her. We shall see, in the sequel,
how egregiously Miracle was mistaken.

Is there no escape for you ? ' asked the
Captain.

I see none. I should like to return to
Paris, to the convent where I was reared,
but Mr. Trampleasure ^vill not hear of it. I
should be quite content to be a nun.'

A nun ! ' exclaimed Trecarrsl. ' Oh no,
no ! dear Miracle, that must not be. With
your gifts of mind and soul and person, you
are suited to live and shine in the world.'

In what world ? This mean, dull English
world ? *

Your place is here. Your heart has not
yet spoken. You are still young. Some day
you will make a good man happy, and you
will find your proper sphere of usefulness,
with a congenial spirit at your side, not in
shelling peas, but in spreading enlightenment
among the dark and erring souls around
you.' His voice shook. He took her hand,
and he felt it tremble in his.

^ No, Miracle, you were not born to wither
in a convent unloved and unloving. Excuse
me if I give you my opinion with great plainness.
You are here without a guide. These
Tramplaras cannot advise you, because they
cannot understand your position. Trust meas
a brother. Let us regard each other in
the affectionate and familiar light of brother
and sister — that is our relationship in the
faith. Allow me to counsel you. My heartaches
when I think of your loneliness. I
place myself at your disposal: trust me, and
suffer me to be your adviser.' He raised her
hand to his lips, and kissed it fervently.
The little hand shrank back, and when he
looked up he saw alarm in her dark eyes.

A brotherly kiss,' he said, reassuringly.

the seal cf our bond, nothing more. Shall it
be so ? '

The seal will not need renevv-al,' she answered.


He saw that her eyes were filling. He
knew that she liked him ; he was doing his
best to make her love him. It would be easy
for him to advance from brotherly to lover-like
affection and it was quite possible to
remain stationary on fraternal regard. This
he thought to himself, and he said in his own
soul, ' Bravo, Trecarrel ! you have not compromised
yourself by a word.'

And now, dear sister Miracle,' he said,
with his sweetest smile, ' the thing I desire to
know is. What has become of your father's
money ? '

She was surprised. He saw it ; but he
went on quietly, ' You see in what a brotherly
and practical spirit I approach your affairs.
I want to know exactly how you stand, for —
between four eyes be it spoken — I am not
satisfied that a certain whitewashed person
who shall be nameless is the most prudent
man to be intrusted with money. He sank a
large sum in Patagonians which might just
as well have been sunk in Cranmer pool.
If he made a fool of himself with his own
money, he may play the fool also with

yours. For how long is he your trustee
? '

For five years. I am eighteen, and I do
not come of age till I am twenty-three.'

Unless you marry.' Trecarrel sighed,
and looked hard at the distant peaks of Dartmoor.


'I do not think there is anything about
my marriage in the will, which I have read,
and I know the contents.'

'Oh!' said the Captain, and his mouth
went down at the corners. ' You do not come
into possession at marriage.'

I believe not — not till I am three-and-twenty.'


The Captain released the tips of Miracle's
fingers which he had seized when he put the
question.

Then Tramplara has the entire and uncontrolled
disposal of the money for eve, years,
and if you were to marry now you would
still have to wait five years till you got it —
if you got it, in the end, at all.'

I suppose so.'

Do you happen to know what the old
fellow has invested your money in ? I ask
as a friend, because I wish to protect your
interests, and to advise you what you should
do.'

I have already had an adviser here — Mr.
Herring : he was anxious about the money.'

He was, was he ? ' Captain Trecarrel
drew nearer, with revived interest, and again
attempted to possess himself of the hand, but
failed.

Yes, he appeared very anxious.'

On what grounds? What possible right
had he to inquire about it ? '

He expressed friendly regard for me.'

A sort of brotherly interest ? ' inquired
the Captain.

No,' answered Miracle, curtly, and drew
herself up. The Captain looked hard at
her.

Have you given him any encouragement?
Have you allowed him any right to
interfere ? '

Miracle' s cheek coloured, and a haughty
flash came into her eye.

Captain Trecarrel, I do not comprehend
you.*

My dear Miracle,' he said in a gentle,
soothing tone, ' do not misunderstand me.
What I mean is harmless enough not to offend
you. Did you ask his advice, and in your
first loneliness give him such occasion as to
suppose that he was necessary, that as a pert
and pushing cock-sparrow he has hopped in

where not wanted, since you have come under
the protection of others ? '

No,' answered Miracle, ' I have always
kept him at a distance. When he has volume
steered help it has been declined. He came
here about the money not for my sake only,
but for the sake of some friends whom he
wanted to assist out of a difficulty.'

Oh ! he wanted to help friends to your
money ! How disinterested and how benevolent
! '

He wished to have my money invested
in mortgages on the estate of West Wyke.'

What did Mr. Trampleasure say to that ? '

He absolutely refused. He said he had
a better investment in view, one that would
render double.'

What was that? — not Patagonia?'

'No; Ophir.'

What ! The gold mines of Ophir? '

Yes, my money is to be put into that.'

Captain Trecarrel vented a low whistle,
and stood up quickly. ' Dear Countess, always
command my cervices — as a friend,' he said.
Excuse my flight, I must have a word with
Tramplara at once.'

He hurried from the summer-house, and
entered the front door of Dolbeare. He was
so often there that he no longer went through

the formality of ringing. It was Liberty Hall,
as Tramplara assured all his friends.

He tapped at the dining-room door and
went in.

There he found Mr. Tramplara smoking
and working at accounts. Orange sat near
the window ; she had been speaking with her
father, and had been crying. Both father and
daughter rose hastily as the Captain came in,
and Trecarrel had sufficient penetration to see
that he had been their topic.

Halloo, Captain ! ' exclaimed the old man,
turning almost purple. ' Talk of the — hum,
and he is sure to appear, as the psalmist says.
The very man I wanted to see. How are
you?'

Orange slipped out of the room.

Sit down. Captain, and let us have a
talk. Fact is, I want particularly to have a
bone picked with you. There is Orange, poor
girl, wasting to a shadow. You are not dealing
fairly by her ; you are engaged, and yet
you won't come to the scratch. She says you
are tateytating with the other party on the
trotters, as Miracle calls the pavement, and
give Orange the gutter to walk in. That
won't do.'

You entirely mistake me,' said Trecarrel,
his blue eye becoming cold ; he drew himself

up, and began to point his moustache, whilst
he looked Trampleasure over contemptuously.
^ Do you dare to insinuate that I — a gentleman,
a Trecarrel — am behaving otherwise than
honourably ? I love your daughter as much as
I loved her at first ; but you and I are men
of the world, and we both know that love and
onions are poor commodities on which to keep
house. You are well aware what my circumstances
are, for I have concealed nothing from
you ; and you must therefore know that I
cannot, as a gentleman and a man of honour,
invite a lady to share my future with me
unless she be prepared to provide pepper and
salt with which to season the onions.'

I know that. Orange is not penniless.'

No, but Patagoniann bonds are not nourishing,
Mr. Trampleasure.'

Who said that Orange would bring
nothing else with her ? '

You offered me eve thousand pounds
with her in securities which are worthless.'

I offered you those bonds before I knew
they would depreciate so greatly. They may
recover any day.'

I incline to wait for that day before setting
up house with Miss Orange.'

Nonsense, Trecarrel. If you won't take
these bonds, you shall have some sounder

VOL. I. T

stuff. I am a man of my word. I said I
would give Orange five thousand pounds, and
five thousand she shall have, the day she is
married.'

In bonds ? '

In shares, if you like, in one of the most
promising of all ventures.'

In Ophir — no, thank you.'

You are a fool to refuse them. Why,
man ! have you read the " Cornucopia " ? Have
you seen the prospectus of the company?'

Mr. Trampleasure, I will have no paper
at all. Give me with Orange the sum of five
thousand down, and insure me five thousand
more when you are dead, and I will ask her
to name the day.'

You are mercenary.'

I am practical. You know that Tree
will support a bachelor — that is, keep
him in mutton chops and fried potatoes, and
a new coat twice a year. I will give you a
sample of my penury. Whenever I have
apple-tart for dinner, I think twice before I
indulge myself with clotted cream over it.
My circumstances will not allow me to support
a wife and family. I am bound to look
ahead, and to consider my wife's interest as
well as my own. I cannot offer her the
humiliations of poverty.'

Well, well said Traraplara, ^ you shall
have the money down.'

Your word ? '

Tramplara held out his hand, ' I give it
you.'

I should prefer it in black and white,'
said the Captain.

You shall have it in yellow and white,'
said the old man. ' And now in return you
shall grant me a favour — your name as a
director of the Ophir Gold Mining Company.'

My name is Trecarrel,' answered the
Captain, freezing.

I know that well enough — that is why I
want it.'

And that is precisely why you shall not
have it.'

You refuse me this favour? '

Emphatically. I do not believe in Ophir.'

The old man drummed with his fingers
on the table, and raised his eyes furtively to
the Captain, met his cold, supercilious stare,
and dropped them again.

Well ! go into the drawing-room, and
patch up the rent with Orange.'

Then, when the Captain was gone, Tram-clara
laughed heartily. ' By Grogs ! ' he said,
who would have thought the fellow so keen ?
He don't look it.'

The Captain found Orange standing in
the drawing-room leaning against the mantelpiece,
tearing a white lily that she had plucked
out of a vase into many pieces. Her fingers
were stained with the pollen. Her cheeks
were flushed, and an angry glitter was in her
eyes, twinkling through tears of mortified
pride.

Trecarrel had not much difficulty in changing
the expression of that handsome face, and
before he left the reconciliation was complete,
sealed with a kiss, and the day was
named.

CHAPTER XX.

GRINDING GOLD.

In a remarkably short space of time two
leats that is, channels of water, had been
brought from Marlborough Pool along the side
of the moor to the site of the gold mine.
Buildings had been erected, wooden sheds run
up and tarred, and a crushing machine was in
operation. One stream of water was conducted
over a wheel, and the wheel set in
motion half a dozen hammers that pounded
the granite ; then the granite thus pounded
was passed under an iron roller which effectually
reduced it to powder. This powder
was made to slide through a trough into
water brought by the second leat, and the
water, as soon as it received the pounded
quartz, became milky. The milky water overflowed
into a second tank, depositing in both
much that was held in solution, and then ran
away into the river, which it discoloured for
some distance down.

Old Tramplara looked regretfully at the
white water. If OpMr had been nearer Plymouth
or Exeter, he might have sold it as
milk.

The deposit in the tanks was subjected
to a second and, indeed, a third washing.
It was washed and rewashed till all the quartz
had been carried away and nothing remained
but glittering gold.

The excitement created by the discovery
of Ophir was prodigious. The neighbourhood
came to see the works. The miners extracted
granite, and placed the pieces under the
stampers, and then transferred the gravel into
which they had been pounded to the roller.
Any one might watch the process. Everything
was above board ; there was no attempt
at concealment. Only, no one was
allowed to approach the precious deposit unattended
by the overseer. Any respectable person
was allowed to follow the washing and
drying to the final process, where nothing remained
but the costly yellow grains. All he
had to do was to write for permission to
Mr. Tramplara, or to send in his card at
the works, and leave to go over the entire
mine — without any reserve — was freely accorded.
The number of crowns and guineas
pocketed by the very respectable overlooker

ripened the fruits of civilisation in him. He
became courteous, eager to instruct, pious, and
sober. Christian graces grew on golden roots.
There was a fixed time in the day when
visitors were given admission to the mine.

The limitation of time was rendered necessary
by reason of the crowd of visitors eager
to examine the works, and the consequent
interference with the working. The regulation
was reasonable and unassailable. Another
rule was made that no one was to be allowed
to go within arm's length of, nor to handle
the gold after final washing. The overseer,
however, made exceptions in favour of every
respectable visitor, letting him understand
that the exception in his case was unique, and
only granted because of his — the visitor's —
really extraordinary respectability. He was
allowed to gather up in his palm and turnover
with his finger the golden dust, and the
polite and pious overlooker always reaped
a rich harvest from this exceptional favour.

Headers of the ' Western Cornucophir '
came from all parts of Cornwall ; serious men,
with heavy brows, big jaws, and firm lipless
mouths. Women also — married women, likewise
serious, (unmarried women, speaking
broadly, are flighty,) in rich but sober dresses,
arrived in chaises, wearing spectacles and

false fronts, and having bibles in their pockets,
and vinegary attendants carrying shawls, and
guardians of their virtue. There were many
Methodical Christian, and Unmethodical Christian,
and Primitive Christian, and Latter Day
Christian, and Universal Christian, and Particular
Christian, and Ne-plus-ultra Christian
ministers, all intensely interested in Ophir,
taking up the matter as one of states vel
cadences ecclesiae. These were treated with
exceptional courtesy at the mine, by express
command of Mr. Tramplara. They were
shown everything. They were set to work
themselves in the adit. They galled their
soft palms in picking at the gold vein, or
granite supposed to contain the vein of gold.
They carried the lumps of their own extraction
to the crusher. They watched then
being pounded and rolled, not turning an eye
away the whole time. They assisted at the
washing. They picked out the gold themselves
from the pan, and were liberally
allowed to carry home with them each at
least a guinea's worth of the precious grains.
Thereupon each became in his special circle
an agent of the company. And Methodical
Christian, and Unmethodical Christian, and
Primitive Christian, and Latter Day Christian,
and Universal Christian, and Particular Christian,

and Ne-plus-ultra Christian applications
for shares, poured in by every post.

But the greatest hit of all was the solemn
opening and dedication of Ophir.

A huge tent had been hired from Exeter,
capable of seating many hundred persons.
Bunting in profusion, of every colour, fluttered
from it. Over the entrance rose a flagstaff
from which waved a gold-coloured banner
adorned with the Seal of Solomon.

A cannon had been brought from Exeter,
and it was discharged at intervals. The
Okehampton band was engaged, and it played
out of tune alternately with a military band
from Exeter, which played in tune, and
rivalled it in the worthlessness of the music
performed.

The day was magnificent. An autumn
day, with a glorious sun illumining the moorland
rosy with blooming heather, as though
raspberry cream had been spilt over the hillsides.
The scarlet uniforms of the band, the
gay colours of the flags, the white tent, the
glitter of the falling water over the wheel,
combined to form a charming; scene. All
Okehampton, all North and South Tawton and
Crawford was there, and many also from
Tavistock, Launceston, Moreton Hampstead,
and Exeter. The people Avere scattered over

the moor slopes, listening to the music which
was not worth listening to, in the way in
which English people do listen — that is, talking
the whole time ; they raced and rolled
over on the short grass, and strewed the hillsides
with sandwich papers and empty ginger-beer
bottles. Granger-beer bottles ! ay, and
bottles of cold tea. For Ophir was a great
Temperance mine, and the dedication of Ophir
a Temperance demonstration, !
Who cannot rolling on ginger-beer?
Who that is by nature inane can fail to make
an ass of himself when out on a holiday on
cold tea?

Ophir was a great Temperance mine. All
the washers were sworn in as total abstainers.
As was stated on the prospectus, the workings
were to be carried on only with water.
We may as well fish in two ponds, Sampy/
said old Tramplara ; ' let us angle for the
Temperate as well as for the Israelites.'

Thus the dedication of Ophir was not
only a grand religious demonstration for all
those who looked for Israel in England, but
also of those who have supplanted the Ten
Commandments by one, ' Thou shalt not
drink fermented liquor.' Old Tramplara was
desirous to have the mines blessed by ministers
of all denominations — twelve, if possible,

to represent the twelve tribes. He had therefore
applied to the bishop of the diocese, and
requested his presence for the opening of the
proceedings. But the bishops of the Anglican
Church are not the tugs that lead, but
the boats that follow, popular opinion. They
bless nothing till authorised to do so by the
daily papers, and as the daily papers had not
yet spoken on the subject of Ophir, the bishop
was in the bewildered condition of the priest
of Delphi when the oracle is silent. If Ophir
were to prove a magnificent success, he would
never forgive himself for not having been
at the opening. If it proved a disastrous
failure, he would never forgive himself for not
staying away. So he temporised, after the
manner of weak men and weak classes of men ;
he discovered that he was due at the opening
of a (barrel) organ at the Land's End on that
particular day, and he wrote a letter full of
apologies, expressive of his warmest interest
in the proceedings, promising his heartfelt
prayers, invoking the most solemn blessings
on the gathering, and then ate his breakfast,
devoured the ' Times,' and forgot everything
about Ophir and the barrel organ at the
Land's End.

But though the bishop of the diocese was
unavoidably absent, representative pastors of

all the Christian denominations in the West
were present, and prayed and harangued to
their hearts' content, and ate and drank to
their stomachs' content as well.

The tent was filled to overflowing. Grace
was said simultaneously by twenty-nine ministers
to avoid giving offence by exalting one
above another. A noble collation had been
provided. Waiters dressed like clergymen
attended on the guests. 'Lemonade, sir?'
Gooseberries, ma'am?' as they uncorked
long-necked bottles with gold foil about the
throats, and poured the effervescing drink
into champagne glasses. ' Temperance cake,
miss ? ' with an offer of an inviting dish of
sponge-cake sopped in — well, non-alcoholic
brandy — and with flummery over it to hide
its blushes.

Reporters were present from every West
of England paper and several London journals
as well. These gentlemen were supplied freely
with ' gooseberries,' and grew cheery in spirit,
and red in face, and watery in eye, and uncritical
in disposition under its influence. They
began to believe in Ophir as much as a reporter
can believe in anything. And when,
on raising the napkins under their finger-glasses,
each found a ten-pound note, the
enthusiasm of the press for Ophir bordered on

fanaticism. After lunch, the entire party
sought the mine, and those who could get in
hammered at the stone, and there was much
ado in wheeling to the stampers the ' goshen '
that had been extracted.

Tramplara particularly urged on the reporters
to dig and wash for themselves, and
they complied with his request. The prayers
and blessings of the pastors of discordant
Christianity had been of avail. Never before
had the rock yielded so much gold. There it
was — in glittering granules — strewing the
washing floor. The rock had been quarried
by ten reporters, seven pastors, and one old
lady, with a grim face and severely plain,
untrimmed costume. The stone had been
wheeled by them to the crushers, at that time
clear of every particle of stone. The grim old
lady had not wheeled, but carried her specie -
mens in her gown, exposing thereby some
elaborate lace frills beneath it. The entire
party saw the granite thus extracted washed
in several waters. They washed it themselves,
no workman touched any part of the machinery,
or dipped a finger into the water, and
there — there was the gold — gold-dust in
abundance. There could be no deception.
There was no room for deception.

John Herring was there also, looking on,

much puzzled. He had not been at the lunch,
but had strolled to Ophir after it. His lead
mine was not advanced. Xo company was
formed to work it. Who would look at lead
when orold was available? He watched the
whole process critically, and was convinced
that there was no deception in what passed
under his eye. There the gold was. Everyone
present was given a grain as a memorial
of that day. The whole affair was marvellous.
The expense to which Tramplara had gone
was prodigious. Would he have thrown his
gold away in shovelfuls unless he were sure of
ofettino- orold out of the mine? Herring was
young and simple. He was right. Tram-clara
would not have gone to this lavish expense
unless he had made sure of getting gold
out of the mine? But then, it did not follow
that he was going to extract it from the granite.
Some things are softer than granite, and the
gold may be got easily enough by those who
can touch the vein.

What ! Lieutenant ! you here ? ' exclaimed
Mr. Trampleasure, coming up to
Herring, looking flushed and glossy. ' Glorious
day, this. Wonderful discovery, this Ophir.
^' Thither the tribes go up ! " said the prophet,
speaking of this day and the way in which
they went into the tent to their dinner. Come

in and have a glass of wi — , of Something
comforting but not exhilarating. Come in, my
dear lieutenant ; there is only the band there,
making clean the cup and the platter, when
their betters have done.'

^ Xo, thank you,' answered Herring, ' T
have had an early dinner. Besides, I must
trouble you no longer to style me lieutenant.'


'Why so?'

Because I have sold out.'

Sold out ! Become a civilian again ! '

Yes. I have things to attend to which
demand my presence here. I am going to
work the silver lead.'

My dear fellow, don't throw money away
on that. Take shares in gold.'

I prefer lead.'

Herring, is that why you are taking up
the mortgages on West Wyke ? '

Partly.'

You'll never work the lead yourself?
You have no experience. However, we will
talk of that another time. Are you likely to
be in Launceston next week ? '

Yes. I shall go there to pay you the
mortgage money.'

Very well . We are going to have a kick
about on Thursday — the first dance in the

season. There is a reason : Orano^e is eno^afred
to Captain Trecarrel. Will you come? '

Herring thought a while before answering.


Look here ! I will tell that little bleached
puss of a missis to expect you, and put your
name down as her partner for the first caper.'

I will come.'

All at once the Keverend Israel Flamank
was seen flying down the valley, with coat tails
expanded like wings, and his white tie loose
and flapping. He was shouting and waving
his arms.

What was it? Had he been bitten by a
serpent? Had he found a nugget?

When he came np, he was breathless and
of inflamed countenance. At length he
gasped — ' I have been privileged to discover
it?' Then he paused again. A circle formed
round him.

A do-deka-penta-hedron/ he said. Then
seeing the reporters with their notebook in
hand and pencils pausing in mid-air, and
fearing that their knowledge of Greek surpassed
his (he need have entertained no apprehension),
he added simply, * Solomon's Seal
carved on a rock.'

The whole crowd went after him. Here
was a wonderful coincidence ! Coincidence !

Avast ! Conclusive evidence that the servants
of Solomon had worked at this identical place.
The symbol of Solomon, the interlacing
triangles, cut in imperishable granite, was
there as an eternal witness to Ophir.

Herring did not follow the troop : he
turned to go back to West Wyke. He was
not eager to inspect the ' Dodekapentahe-
iron.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

London : PRINTED BY

BPOTTISWOOlJE A>U CO., New-street Squat

AXl) PAltLLVilEXT street

VOL. I. U

Fcp. Svo. Limp Cloth,

By the Sisters Bronze.

2s. 6d. each.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronze.

SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronze.

VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronze.

THE TENANT OF Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronze.

WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. AGNES GREY. By Anne Bronte.

With Preface and Memoir of the Sisters, by Charlotte Bronte.
THE PROFESSOR. By Charlotte Bronte. To which are added the Poems of

Charlotte, Emily, and Anne Bronte.

By Mrs. GASKELL.

2J. (id. each,

RUTH. I MARY BARTON.

SYLVIA'S LOVERS. NORTH AND SOUTH.

WIVES AND DAUGHTERS. | LIFE OF CHARLOTTE Bronze.

MY LADY LUDLOW, and other Tales included in ' ROUND THE SOFA.'

By LEIGH HUNT.

2s. 6d. each.

IMAGINATION AND FANCY : or, Selections from the English Poets.

THE TOWN • Its Memorable Characters and Events. Illustrated.

AUrOBIOOKAPHY JF \.:\C,\ HV \V

VI EN, VVQvIEN, Ai>fD BljOK ^ ; a Selection of Sketches, Essays, and Critical

Memoir.
WIT AND HUMOUR: Selected from the English Poets.
A JAR OF HONEY FROM Mount HYBLA .r, .Sweets from Sicily in Particular;

and Pastoral Poetry in General.
TABLE TALK. To which are added IMAGINARY CONVERSATIONS OF

POPE AND SWIFT.

Uniform with the above, 2s. 6d. each.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington. By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering. By Anthony Trollope.

From LEY PARSONAGE. By Anthony Trollope.

ROMOLA. By George Eliot.

BELOW THE SURFACE. By Sir A. H. Elton, Bart.

TRANSFORMATION. By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

DEERBROOK. By Harriet Martineau.

HOUSEHOLD EDUCATION. By Harriet Martineau.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LUTFULLAH.

LECTURES ON THE ENGLISH Humorist OF THE EIGHTEENTH

CENTURY. By W. M. Thackeray.
THE FOUR GEORGES. With Illustrations by the Author. By W. M. Thackeray.
PAUL THE POPE AND PAUL THE FRIAR. By T. A. Trollope.
THE Rose-garden. By the Author of 'Unawares.'
CHRONICLES OF DUSTYPORE. A Tale of Modem Anglo-Indian Society. By

the Author of ' Wheat and Tares.'
IN THE SILVER AGE. By Holme Lee.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Pictorial Covers price Two Shillings each.

By WILKIE COLLINS.

NO NAME. AFTER DARK. ARMADALE.

*^* The above may also be had in Limp Cloth, price zs. 6d. each.

By the Author of
'JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.*

ROMANTIC TALES. | DOMESTIC STORIES.

AGAINST WIND AND TIDE.

SYLVAN HOLT'S DAUGHTER.

Katie BRANDE.

WARP AND WOOF.

Annie Harleigh's FORTUNES.

THE WORTLEBANK DIARY.

By HOLME LEE.

BASIL GODFREY'S CAPRICE.
MAUDE TALBOT.
COUNTRY STORIES.
KATHERINE'S TRIAL.
MR. Win YARD'S WARD.

THE BEAUTIFUL MISS BARRINGTON.

By Captain GRONOW.

RECOLLECTIONS AND ANECDOTES OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS.
ANECDOTES OF CELEBRITIES OF LONDON AND PARIS. To which are

added LAST RECOLLECTIONS OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS.

Uniform with the above.

GRASP YOUR NETTLE. By E. Lynn Linton.

AGNES OF SORRENTO. By Mrs. H. B. Stowe.

TALES OF THE COLONIES ; or. Adventures of an Emigrant. By C. Rowcroft.

Latina. By the Author of ' Dr. Antonio ' and ' Lorenzo Benoni.'

THE MOORS AND THE FENS. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

HESTER KIRTON. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

BY THE SEA. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

THE HOTEL DU PETIT ST. JEAN.

VERA. By the Author of ' The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'

IN THAT STATE OF LIFE. By Hamilton Aide'.

MORALS AND MYSTERIES. By Hamilton Aide'.

MR. AND MRS. FAULCONBRIDGE. By Hamilton Aide'.

SIX MONTHS HENCE. By the Author of ' Behind the Veil.'&c.

THE STORY OF THE PLEBISCITE. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.

THE CONSCRIPT and WATERLOO. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian. In one

volume.
GABRIEL DENVER. By Oliver Maddox Brown.
TAKE CARE WHOM YOU TRUST. By Compton Reade.
PEARL AND EMERALD. By R. E. Francolin.
Seule. By the Author of 'The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'
PENRUDDOCKE. By Hamilton Aide'.
A GARDEN OF WOMEN. By Sarah Tatler.
BRIGADIER FREDERIC. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.
MOLLY Sawn. By the Author of ' Phyllis,' &c.
MATRIMONY. By W. E. Norris.
PHYLLIS. By the Author of ' Molly Sawn,' &c.
MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC. By W. E. Norris.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place. ^«

'M

UNIVERSITY OF ILUN0I9-URBANA

3 0112 040259191

®

^^^^

R\\lt >FEN6LANDRpMANCE

^^ >/■

^v'.^

r,

A

aSooftscller,
TRURO & FALMOUTH.

^J^ifr^5jS^

^^ 1«

\i

OF Thou
N I VLR.S City
or ILLINOIS


M.2 -•

-^

/

^,

A WEST OF ENGLAND ROMANCE

AUTHOR OF 'MEHALAH

I y THREE Y L U :\I E S

VOL. II.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



hall rights reserved

THE SECOND VOLUME

CHAPTER XXL

THE CUB.

MiRELLE was conscious of a change in Tree
towards her. She ceased to engross
his attentions, which were now directed towards
Orange. She could not recall anything
she had said or done that would account
for this change. When the Captain was alone
with her, he was full of sympathy and tenderness
as before, but this was only when they
were alone. Trecarrel argued with himself
that it would be unfair and ungentlemanly' to
throw her over abruptly. He would lower
her into the water little by little, but the
souse must come eventually. Some of the
martyrs were let down inch by inch into
boiling pitch, others were cast in headlong,
and the fate of the latter was the preferable,

VOL. II. B

and the judge who sentenced to it was the
most humane. Miracle suffered. For the first
time in her life her heart had been roused,
and it threw out its fibres towards Trecarrel
for support. She was young, an exile, among
those who were no associates, and he was the
only person to whom she could disclose her
thoughts and with whom she could converse
as an equal. He had met her with warmth
and with assurances of sympathy. Of late
he had dra^^'n back, and she had been left
entirely to herself, whilst his attention was
engrossed by Orange Tramplara.

But Orange, with no small spice of vindictiveness
in her nature, urged the Captain
to show civility to Miracle. She knew the
impression Trecarrel had made on her cousin's
heart, and, now that she was sure of the
(kptain, she was ready to encourage him to
play with and torture her rival. "Women paix*
only cruel to their own sex, and towards them
they are remorseless.

'Do speak to [Miracle, she is so lonely.
She does not get on with us. She does not
understand our ways, she is Frenchified,' said
Orange, with an amiable smile. The Captain
thought this very kind of his betrothed, and
was not slow to avail himself of the permission
Nevertheless, Miracle perceived the

insincerity of his professions. She was unaware
of the engagement. This had not been
talked about, and was by her unsuspected .
Orange was well aware of the fascination
exerted over Trecai-rel by Miracle ; she knew
that her own position with him had been
threatened, almost lost. She was unable to
forgive her cousin for her unconscious rivalry.
She did nor attempt to forgive her. She
sought the surest means of punishing her.
^lirelle was uneasy and unhappy'. She considered
all that had passed between her and
Trecarrel. He had not professed more than
fraternal affection, but his manner had implied
more than his words had expressed.
She became silent and abstracted, not more
than usual towards the Trampleasures, for
she had never spoken more than was necessary
to them, nor had opened to them in the
least, but silent before Trecarrel, and abstracted
from her work at all times. The
frank confidence she had accorded him was
withdrawn, then* interchange of ideas interrupted.
She found herself now with no one
to whom she could unfold, and she suffered
the more acutely for having allowed herself to
open at alL She began now to wish that
John Herring were nearer, and to suspect

B 2

that she had not treated him with sufficient
consideration.

Miracle was not jealous of Orange: she
was surprised that Captain Trecarrel should
find attractions in her. Miracle had formed
her own conception of her cousin's character;
she thought her to be generous, warm, and
impulsive; coarse in mind and feeling, but
yet kindly. How could a gentleman such as
the Captain find charms in such a person ?
Miracle did not see the money, nor did she
measure correctly the character of Orange.

About this time young Sampson Tram-clara
began to annoy her with his attentions,
offered uncouthly. The youth was perfectly
satisfied with himself, he believed himself to
be irresistible and his manner to be accomplished.
He was wont to chuck chambermaids
under the chin, and to lounge over the
bar flirting with the ' young lady ' at the tap,
but was unaccustomed to the society of ladies,
and felt awkward in their presence.

Miracle at once allured and repelled him.
He could not fail to admire her beauty, but
he was unable to attain ease of manner in her
presence. She seemed to surround herself
with an atmosphere of frost that chilled him
when he ventured near. After a while, when
the first unfamiliarity had worn off, through

meeting frequently at meals and in the evenings,
he attempted to force himself on her
notice by bragging of his doings with dogs
and horses, addressing himself to his father
and mother, but keeping an eye on Miracle
and observing the effect produced on her
mind by his exploits.

After that he ventured to address her; to
admire her embroidery, her tinsel flowers, her
cut-paper lace, and to pass coarse flatteries on
them and her ; and when this only froze her
into frontier stiffness, to attempt to take herby
storm, by rollicking fun and insolent
familiarities.

He was hurt by the way in which she
ignored him. He never once caught her eye
when telling his best hunting exploits. His
raciest jokes did not provoke a smile on her
lips. He could extract from her no words
save cold answers to pointed questions.

Her position in the house became daily
less endurable, and she could see no means
of escape from it. She had appealed to her
guardian to allow her to return to the convent
of the Sacred Heart, but had met with a
peremptory refusal. A fluttering hope had
sprung up that Trecarrel might be her saviour,
a hope scarce formulated, indistinctly existing,
but now that had died away.

Once she appealed to Mr. Trampleasure
against his son. She begged that he would
insist on young Sampson refraining from
causing her annoyance by his impertinence.
But she obtained no redress. ' My dear
missis ! the boy is a good boy, full of spirit.
He comes of the right stuff — true Tram-pleasure,
girl ! We don't set up to Carrara
marble here. You must treat him in the
right way. Flip him over the nose with your
knitting pins, or run your needle into his
thumb, and he will keep his distance. You
can be sharp enough when you like, and say
words that cut like razors. Try some of
your smartness on Sampy, and he will sneak
away with his ears down. I know the boy ;
he is not smart at repartee. You should
have heard how Polly Skittles set him down
t'other day.'

Pray, who is Polly Skittles ? '
'The barmaid at the Pig-and-Whistle.'
I decline absolutely to take lessons from
a Pig-and-Whistle barmaid how to deal with
a booby.'

Missis ! ' exclaimed the old man, flaming
red. ' You forget — he is my son.'

Xo one could possibly doubt it,' said
Miracle, and walked away.

After that, so far from old Tramplara

making his son desist from annoying Miracle,
he egged him on to it. The old man's pride
was hurt at the scorn with which the girl
treated both him and his son — a scorn she
took no pains to conceal.

Look you here, Sampy,' said Tramplara,
if the girl is to be had, you had better say
Snap. There is her six thousand pounds,
which must be kept in the family. True by
you, it is now sunk in Ophir; but I expect
some day to bring it out of Ophir turned into
twelve thousand. If she marries, her husband
will be demanding the money, and that
might lead to unpleasantness. As Scripture
says, '' Live peaceably with all men," and I
say the same, when money is involved. I will
tell you something more. I do not believe,
I cannot believe, that six thousand pounds
represent the total of old Strange's estate.
There must be more money somewhere —
perhaps in a Brazilian bQ,nk ; and all that is
wanted is for one of us to go over and find
out. You won't convince me that a diamond
merchant doing a roaring trade for a quarter
of a century made no more than six thousand
pounds. I have always heard that the diamond
trade is a very beautiful and delicate
business, giving rich returns. With caution
you manage to get as many diamonds out of

the niggers as from their masters, and you
pay five shillings to the former where fifty
pounds won't satisfy the latter. I leave you
to guess what profits are made. If we had
not our hands full of Ophir, I would go myself
to Brazil, or send you, to see about James
Strange's leavings. Six thousand pounds !
Why, that is what he sent over to meet
present contingencies. He intended drawing
the rest when settled. Mark this, Sampy.
Should a breath of cold air come down off
the moors on Ophir, and somewhat chill that
warm concern, so as to make it advisable for
either or both of us to take a turn out of
England — Brazil is the word.'

Have you written to Brazil ? '

Of course I have. To the English
Consul at Bahia, and have offered to tip
him handsomely if he sends me word that
old Strange left money there. But I have
had no answer as yet.'

As the attentions of young Tramplara
became more offensive and more difficult to
avoid, Miracle appealed in despair to Captain
Trecarrel.

My dear Miracle, what can I do ? He is
the son of the house, and I visit there. If I
were to quarrel with him, I should be forbidden
the house, and then,' with a tender

look out of the Trecarrel blue eyes, ' I should
see no more of you.'

I thought gentlemen could always take
action in such matters. Yoyez ! In France I
step up to a gentleman, and say, That person
yonder has looked at me insultingly. Then
the gentleman who is a perfect stranger
goes across the street and knocks down the
insolent one.'

^ That would involve an action for assault,
and the estate would not bear it,' said
Trecarrel, sadly. ' If it were worth a couple
of hundred more, I might do it. I know an
excellent fellow who knocked a young farmer
head over heels in the graveyard on leaving
church, because he had looked from his pew
admiringly at the young lady this gentleman
was about to marry. He compromised
the matter by getting a commission for the
young farmer, but it cost him a lot of money.
These are not the days, my dear Miracle,
when any man may be heroic ; heroism is
only compatible with a balance at the bank,
I'll tell you, however, what I can do, and that
I will do, as it falls within my means to doit.
I will invite young Sampson to a supper
at the King's Arms, and I will then talk
the thing over reasonably with him. Put
your mind at ease. I have great influence

with the cub, who looks up to me as a sort of
model, and I do not doubt that I shall induce
him to desist from his attentions.'

But Captain Trecarrel had overrated his
influence. The cub continued his offensive
conduct.

One day when he had intruded on her in
the summer-house, where she was writing at
her desk — her father's desk — she suddenly
recalled Herring's interference at West Wyke.

What — writing a love-letter,' asked
young Sampson, lounging on the table opposite
her, and trying to look into her eyes.
Oh dear, how I wish it was to me ! '

Miracle lifted the flap of the writing-case,
and took out the small square ruler, and with
her finger pushed it across the table in the
direction of Mr. Sampson, without raising her
eyes from the writing.

Young Tramplara looked at the ruler,
then at Miracle. She took no more notice of
him, except that she wrote on a piece of
folded paper the name and address of John
Herring, and when Sampson attempted again
to speak she tossed the paper before him and
pointed to the ruler.

He rose scowling. He perfectly understood
what she meant : another impertinence,
and she would write to John Herring to

break that ruler across his skull. Her coolness,
her utter contempt for him, the galling
of his pride, filled him with rage; but he was
a coward, and so he rose from his seat, thrust
his hands into his pockets, and sauntered out
of the summer-house whistling ' The girl I
left behind me.'

CHAPTER XXII.

MOONSHINE AND DIAMONDS.

MiRELLE and Orange were dressing for the
ball in the same room ; that is, Orange had
come into the room of Miracle for her to do
her hair. Miracle was perfect in this art ; her
delicate fingers turned the curls in the most
graceful and becoming arrangement. This
was an art above the svveep of the powers
of the maid-of- all work. Orange, in return,
offered to do Miracle's hair.

But Miracle, my dear Miracle ! You look
like a ghost, all in white. Xot a particle of
colour ! It does not suit you ; you are so
pale. Good heavens ! let me look at your
hands.' Orange took the long narrow fingers
in hers, and held the delicate hand before the
candle. It was transparent, and thus only
did it show a rosy red.

Unless I had seen it, I would not have
believed that there was blood in you,' said
Orange ; and then she glanced at herself

jn'oiidly in the cheval glass. ' Do look at me,
Miracle. I am glowing with life. See my
lips, my cheeks — how Tvarm they are ! My
eyes flicker, whereas you are as though spun
out of moonshine. There is not the faintest
rose in your cheek, and your lips alone show
the least tinge of life. Your eyes have no
sparkle in them ; they are dark pools in which
nothing lives. I wash you would stand between
me and the lamp ; I believe I should
see the light through you. Whoever saw
flesh like yours ? It is not flesh, it is wax.
You must paint. You are unendurable like
this — like a corpse of a bride risen from her
coffin come to haunt the living.'

I shall put on mv diamonds,' said
Miracle.

What diamonds ? '

My mother's.'

I did not know you had them.'

'- Yes, I kept them with my own things,
in my own box. When my mother died
they where committed to me.'

You cannot wear diamonds ; a girl in
England does not put on jewelry.'

[ am going to wear them.'

Then Miracle opened a little case, and
drew from it a coronet and a necklace of
diamonds.

'Fasten the crown about my head,' she
said ; ^ I can put the necklace on myself.'

Orange stepped back in astonishment.
She had never seen anything so beautiful.

Why, Miracle, they must be very valuable.
How they twinkle, how they will
sparkle downstairs among the many lights.'
Then with a touch of malice, ' What will
Captain Trecarrel think? Now you look
like a queen of the fairies. He will fairly
lose his heart to you to-night.'

She saw a spot of colour . come into each
cheek. It angered her, and she went on
with bitterness in her soul, ' You know that
you belong to his class ; and he will think
so as well to-night. I suppose he and you
weill despise us humble folk who have todo
with trade and business, and you will
have eyes only for each other. What a
couple you will make, side by side, he with
his aristocratic air, and you bejewelled like
a princess ! '

She looked at herself in the glass and
then at Miracle, and was reassured. No
comparison could be drawn between them.
She, Orange, was splendid. She wore pink
with carnation ribands, and a red rose in her
hair, another in her bosom. Her dark and
abundant hair and her large dark eyes looked

well, set in red. The colour in her cheeks
was heightened. Her bosom heaved, she had
a fine bust and throat, and her features were
handsome. There was life, love, heat in her.
^Vho could care for a snowdrift — nav, for a
frozen fog, though it sparkled ?

Come down, Miracle : it is time. I have
already heard one carriage drive up. How
we shall get every one who is invited into this
house I do not know.'

I will go down presently. You go on
without me. I am not wanted as yet.'

Miracle did not descend for half an hour.

When she entered the room where the
guests were assembled, it was full. She did
not look round her except for a seat, and
when she had discovered one she walked to it.
She knew nothing of the persons there : they
were excellent on their appropriate shelf, but
their shelf was not her shelf.

Trecarrel and Herring were both present,
and saw her. They had been watching for
her to come in. Her appearance surprised
them. In the well-lighted room, in her white
muslin, with white satin bows, and with her
head and delicate throat glittering with diamonds,
she seemed a spirit ; a spectral White
Lady. Her face was as colourless as her dress,
save for the fine blue veins that marked her

temples. She seemed too fragile, too ethereal
to belong to the earth. Her beauty was of
an order rare in England, unknown in the
West.

Captain Trecarrel started forward. ' Countess
Miracle,' said he, ' you are unprovided
with a flower. Am I too impertinent if I offer
you one? I thought you might possibly be
without, and I have brought you a spray of
white heath. Will you accept it?'

She raised her eyes, smiled somewhat
sadly at him, and took the sprig with a slight
bow. Then she put it to her bosom. As she
was doing so, her eye encountered that of
Herring, who stood by. She recalled his offer
of white heath made on the day of her father's
funeral.

It brings good luck,' said Trecarrel. The
same words that Herring had employed.
Miracle's hand trembled, and she looked timidly,
flutteringly, at Herring.

Ah ! ' said he, ' all the bells have fallen
off.'

Then she said, in a half-pleading tone,
^ Mr. Herring, I was once very rude and
very wrong when I refused the same from
you. Now I am rightly punished.'

She removed the sprig. ' You see, Captain,'
she said, as she handed it back to Tree

' the heath has rained off all its white
bells. I am not destined to receive good luck
from either you or Mr. Herring. I thank you
^ for the kind attention. I cannot wear the
heath now.'

are you engaged for the first dance?'
asked Herring.

Miracle looked at Trecarrel, who turned
his head away. He must, of course, open the
ball with Orange. After a pause, in a tone
tinged with disappointment, she said she was
not engaged, and Herring secured her.

The appearance of Miracle in the ball-room
caused gendl^al surprise. It was an apparition
rather than an appearance. The prevailing
opinion admitted her beauty, but decided
that it was of too refined and pure a type
to be pleasing ; it was a type suitable for a
statue but not for a partner. Men love
after their kind ; blood calls for blood, not
for ice.

The ladies discussed her diamonds, and
concluded unanimously that they were paste.
No one allows to another what he does not
possess himself.

You know, my dear, she comes from
Paris, and in Paris they make 'em of paste
for sentence to look as natural as real stones
worth a thousand pounds.'

VOL. II. c

But lier father was a diamond merchant.'

True by you, but these stones were her
mother's I make no doubt, and that mother
was a gambling old Spanish Countess, who
would sell her soul for money. I've heard
Mr. Trampleasure say as much.'

She don't look as if she had any constitution
to speak of,' observed one old lady.

That transparent skin,' answered another,
always means that the heart is bad. I ought
io know, for my uncle was a chemist. The
highest person in the land — and when I say it,
I mean the highest — came into my uncle's
place one morning and asked for a seidlitz-powder,
and he took it on the premises, and
he told my uncle that he never took a better
seidlitz in his life.'

She is proud as Lucifer,' said one. ' Look !
she's gone and refused Mr. Sampson Tram-clara.
That is too bad, and she owes her
meat and bread, and the roof that covers her,
to the charity of his father.'

He is getting angry,' said the lady whose
uncle was in the chemical line. ' Sampson
is not one who can bear to be treated impolitely.'


She will dance with no one but that
strange gentleman whom they call Herring,

find Captain Trecarrel. Stuck up because of
her rank. I suppose.'

Ah ! as if her rank was anything. The
highest in the land spoke quite affable to my
uncle, and said his seidlitz was the best seidlitz
he had ever drunk.'

'Do you call Mr. Sampson handsome? '

Handsome ! I should rather say so ; and
better than that, he will be rich.'

Better than all, he will be good,' said a
serious lady, Mrs. Flamank, impressively.

The highest in the land put down twopence
for his seidlitz like any other man.
But that seidlitz cost my uncle five-and-twenty
pounds, for he paid that sum for a Royal
arms, lion and unicorn and little dog all
complete, to put up over his shop door ; and
an inscription, " Chemist (by appointment) to
His Royal Highness." But I never heard that
it brought him more custom. Still, there
was the honour, and if that were a satisfaction
to him, I don't blame him.'

What do you think of Orange Tramplara
hooking the Captain?'

The hooking was quite as much on his
side as on hers. He is poor as a rat, and she
wants position, so the transaction is one of
simple sale and barter.'
c 2

*The highest in the land,' began again
the lady whose uncle had been a chemist ; but
at these words the ladies broke up their party
round her, and escaped to other parts of the
room.

Sampson Trampleasure would not take his
refusal. He stood by the side of Miracle, his
cheek flushed, and his eye twinkling with
anger.

I don't see why you should dance with
some gentlemen and refuse others,' he said
sulkily.

I have refused no gentleman,' answered
Miracle, looking across the room.

He was too stupid to understand the
rebuff. He persisted in worrying her. ' Well,'
he said, * if you won't stand up with me, you
must let me take you to supper.'

She was silent a moment, raised her eyes
timidly and entreatingly to John Herring,
and said, ' I am already engaged.' Herring
coloured with pleasure and stepped forward
to her assistance.

You must not tease the Countess,' he said,
She confesses that she is not strong and able
to dance often. She has fixed on the number
of dances she will engage in, and more fortunate
applicants have forestalled you, and
put their names on her card . You have only

yourself to blame that you did not press your
claim in proper time.'

J say,' observed Sampson, with an ugly
smile on his lips, ' Miracle, don't you go dancing
too often with Trecarrel. Orange won't
like it. When a girl is about to be married
to a man, she don't like to have another girl
coquetting with her deary.'

Mr. Sampson Trampleasure,' said Herring,
stepping forward, ' this is your father's

house, and I ' but Miracle's hand grasped

his arm, and arrested what he was about to
say. He looked round. At the same momenta
pair of waltzers caught Sampson, and with
the shock he was driven into the midst of the
whirling circle, when he was struck by another
couple, and sent flying at a tangent to the
door.

Herring looked at Miracle. She was
trembling slightly, and her face was, if possible,
whiter than before. Dark shadows
formed under her eyes, making them look
unusually large and bright.

She did not speak, but continued grasping
Herring's arm, unconscious what she was
doing ; he could feel by the spasmodic contraction
of her fingers that she was more agitated
than she allowed to appear. He stood
patiently at her side, seeing that she was distressed,

and supposing that the in sole nee of
young Tramplara was the occasion of her
distress.

Presently she recovered herself enough to
speak. She put her handkerchief to her brow,
and then, with feminine address, gave her
emotion an excuse that would disguise its
real cause.

^ He offends me,' she said ; ' I am unaccustomed
to this sort of treatment. Some
persons when they go among wolves learn to
howl. With me it will be a matter of years
before I can school myself to endure their
bark. I have lived hitherto in a walled garden
among lilies and violets and faint sweet roses,
and suddenly 1 am transplanted into a field of
cabbages, where some of the plants are mere
stumps, and all harbour slugs.' She paused
again. Just then Trecarrel came up. She
let go her grasp of Helping's arm. She had
forgotten that she was still holding: it. Tree
came smiling his sunniest, with his
blue eyes fall of languor. As he approached
she shrank back, and then drew herself

I think, Miracle,' said he, ' you are engaged
to me for the next quadrille.' He was
looking at her diamonds and appraising them ;
and he wondered whether, after all, he had

not made a mistake in taking Orange instead
of Miracle.

If I were her husband,' he considered, ' I
could keep a tight hand on Tramplara, so that
he could not very well make away with the
six thousand pounds. I wish I had known of
these diamonds a few weeks ago.'

Miracle looked at him steadily. She had
by this time completely recovered her composure.
' Am I to congratulate you, Captain
Trecarrel ?'

What on ? ' he asked.

I have just learned your engagement to
Orange.'

That is an old story,' he said, getting
red ; ' I thought you were admitted into
the plot six months ago.'

I did not know it till this minute.'

There is the music striking up. Will
you take my arm ? '

I must decline. I shall not dance this
quadrille. See, Orange is without a partner.'

She rose, and to avoid saying more
walked into the hall, and thence, through the
front door, upon the terrace. The moon was
shining, and the air without was cool. In the
ball-room the atmosphere had become oppressive.


Would you kindly open the window ? '

asked Orange, turning to Herring, and casting
him a smile. She was standing up for the
quadrille with her Captain. The young man
at once went to the window and threw it
open.

The night was still without. A few curd-like
clouds hung in the sky ; the leaves of the
trees, wet with dew, were glistening in the
moonlight like silver. Far away in the
extensive landscape a few stars twinkled out
of dark wooded background, the lights from
distant villages.

There was a vacant settee in the window,
and Herring sat on it, leaning on his arm, and
looking out.

Poor Miracle ! What could be done for
her ? Her position was intolerable. The
only escape that he could devise was for her
to return to West Wyke. But was it likely
that Mr. Trampleasure would consent to this ?
And in the next place, would Cicely Battishill
care to receive her ?

Mr. Herring,' said Orange, ' a gentleman
is needed to make up a set. May I introduce
you to Miss Bowdler ? '

Of course he must dance, and dance with
the fascinating Bowdler — a thin young lady,
with harshly red hair, red eyelashes, a freckled
skin, and eyes that had been boiled in soda.

Miss Bowdler was the daughter of a banker,
an heiress, and Trecarrel had thought of her,
but could not make up his mind to the colourless
eyes and red lashes.

Herring danced badly. His thoughts were
not in the figures, nor with his partner. He
mistook the figures. He spoke of the weather,
and had nothing else to say. Miss Bowdler
considered him a stupid young man, and that
this quadrille was the very dullest in which
she had danced. When it was over, he
returned to the window, and as there was an
end of the settee unoccupied, and the rest of it
was occupied by the chemist's niece and a
raw acquaintance to whom she was telling the
story of \}ii^ highest in the land — ' And when
I say the highest, I mean the highest,' — and
his seidlitz. Herring was able to take his place
at the window without being obliged to speak
to anyone. He looked again into the moonlight,
and towards the dark woods of Warrington,
still revolving in his mind the question. What
was to become ©f Miracle ? He saw that she
would take the matter into her own hands and
insist on being allowed to go elsewhere. She
could not remain in a house where the son
was allowed to treat her with insolence. She
would like to return to France, to her dear
convent of the Sacre Coeur. The thought was

dreadful to Herring, for it implied that he
should never see her again.

He fancied, whilst thus musing, that he
heard voices on the terrace, and next that he
caught Sampson Tramplara's tones. He did
not give much attention to the sounds, till
he heard distinctly the bell-like voice of
Miracle, ' Let go this instant, sir !'

He sprang to his feet and was outside the
window in a moment. He had been sitting
looking in the opposite direction from that in
which he heard the voices ; now he turned in
the direction of the g-arden house.

At the door of this summer-house he saw
young Tramplara, and the white form of
Miracle. The moon was on her, and her head
sparkled with the diamonds of her coronet,
but there was no corresponding sparkle about
her neck.

Herring flew to the spot, and saw that
young Sampson had snatched the necklet from
her throat. The diamond chain hung twinkling
from his hand.

Restore that instantly,' said Herring,
catching the young man's hand at the wrist.
You scoundrel, what are you about ? '

Keep off, will you ! ' said the cub. 'I
should like to know your right to interfere
between me and my cousin, Mire Strange.

I only want to test the stones of her chain.
The chaps in the dancing-room say they be
paste and a cussed sham. I reckon their
mothers have put them up to it. I've got a
bet on with young Croaker, and I want to try
if they'll scratch glass, that is all. So now
will you remove your hand and take yourself
off?'

Herring doubled up Tramplara's hand,
and wrenched the necklace from it.

^ Take your chain. Countess. And now
for you, you ill-conditioned cur, I warn you.
Touch her again, and I will fling you over the
wall. Offer her another insult, and you shall
suffer for it. If I spare you this time it is
because this is your father's house, and I have
been his o-uest. But I will not eat at his
table again, that I may reserve my liberty of
action, and have my hands free to chastise
you should you again in any way offend the
Countess Miracle Garcia.' He turned to
Miracle. ' I once before offered you what
help and protection it was possible to me to
render, and now I renew the offer.'

Oh, Mr. Herring,' said she, ' before, I
refused your offer very ungraciously. I said
then that I was able to help myself. I did
not then know the rude elements with which
I should have to contend, and I was unaware

of my own weakness. Now, with my better
knowledge, I accept your offer.'

'Thank you,' he replied: 'you make me
this night a verj'- proud man.'

Mr. Herring,' she pursued, ' I will give
you at once the only token I have that I rely
upon you. This person who snatched the
jewels from my neck, if capable of such an
act as that, is capable of another.' Her voice
came quick, her bosom heaved, the angry
blood was hammering at her temples. ' I do
not believe that these diamonds are secure in
this house. If he could wrench them from
my throat, he would take them from my trunk.
Voyez ! je vous donne toutes les preuves
possibles que j'ai de la confiance en vous.'
She disengaged the tiara from her hair.
'- There, there ! ' she said hastily, ' take
both the crown and the necklace. I intrust
them to you to keep for me. I know that I
can rely upon you ; I do not know in whom
else I can place trust. All are false except
you : you are true.'

Countess ! I cannot do this.'

Why not ? Do you shrink already from
exercising the trust you offered ? '

Not so, but '

But I entreat you,' she interrupted with

a trembling voice. ' Ces diamants-ci apparel
ma mere — a ma chere, chere mere ;
c'est pour 9a qu'ils ont tant de valeur pour
moi.' She forced a smile and made a slight
curtsey, and turned to go.

Young Sampson Tramplara was standing
near, scowling. Miracle's eyes rested on
him.

Mr. Herring,' she said, ' should I need
your help at any time, may I write ? '

Certainly, and I place myself entirely at
your service.'

Young Tramplara burst into a rude
lausfh.

The guardianship of the orphan was
committed to Tramplara, then it passed to
Tramplara and Herring, and now, finally, it is
vested in Herring alone.'

To what extent the guardianship of that
frail white girl had passed to Herring, to what
an extent also he had become trustee for her
fortune, neither she nor Sampson Tramplara
guessed. He had uttered his sneer, but the
words were full of truth.

Then there floated faintly on the air,
whether coming from the house or from without
could not be told — mingling with the dance
music, yet distinct from it — the vibrations of

metallic tongues in a musical instrument like
an aeolian harp, and the tune seemed to be
that of the old English madrigal —

Since first I saw your face, I resolv'd

To honour and renown you !
If now I be disdain'd, I wish

My heart had never known you.

CHAPTER Xxii

PASTE.

MiRELLE was subjected to no annoyance after
the ball, for both old Tramplara and his son
were at Ophir nearly the whole of their time.
They returned occasionally to Launceston,
but never together. One was always left in
charge of the mine, and this was usually
young Sampson. When he did come home, he
kept out of the way of Miracle, and old Sampson
was too much engrossed in his gold mine to
think of her.

She lived in the house, but hardly belonged
to it. Her life was apart from all its
interests, pursuits, and pleasures. She spoke
little and showed herself seldom. Orange
was full of her approaching marriage, and
could give attention only to her dresses. Her
friend and confidante. Miss Bowdler, was constantly
there, discussing the bridal garments
and the costume of the bridesmaids. In her
own little pasty mind Miss Bowdler harboured

much rancour and verjuice. She was
envious of Orange's happiness ; she had herself
aspired to Trecarrel, and she felt no
tender delight in the better success of Orange.
But she disguised her spite for the sake of
Sampson, whom she hoped to catch, now that
Trecarrel had escaped her net. Orange knew
perfectly the state of the Bodleian mind,
but that mattered little to her. Women
naturally hate each other, and are accustomed
to live in an atmosphere of simulated affection.
She wished greatly to secure the
Bowdler for Sampson, so as to bring money
into the family.

Mrs. Trampleasure was a harmless old
woman, who sniffed about the house, being
troubled with a perpetual cold in the head
and a perpetual forgetfulness of the handkerchief
in her pocket. Mrs. Trampleasure had
got very few topics of conversation, for her
limits of interest were few — little local tittletattle,
and the delinquencies of Bella, the 
all-work.

The horrible evening concerts were discontinued,
and Miracle ventured to sit at the
piano and play for her own delectation, knowing
that Orange was too wrapped up in her
new gown, and Mrs. Trampleasure too absorbed
in counting the stitches of her knits



ting, to give her a thought. Whenever the
Captain appeared, Miracle retired either to
her room or to the summer-house. Whether
in one or the other, she sat at the window,
looking out but seeing nothing, her chin in
her hand, steeped in thought.

Any one who had watched Miracle from
her arrival in England would have noticed a
change in her face. It was more transparent
and thinner than before. But this was not
that which constituted the principal change.
The face had gained in expression. At first
it was impassive ; now it was stamped with
the seal of passive suffering, a seal that can
never be disguised or effaced. According to
Catholic theology certain sacraments confer
character, and these cannot be iterated. But
the sacrament of suffering confers character
likewise, and it can be repeated again and
again, and ever deepens the character impressed.
This stamp gave to Miracle's face a
sweetness and pathos it had not hitherto
possessed. Before this time a cold and
haughty soul had looked out of her eyes, now
warmth had come to that frozen soul, and it
was flowing with tears. She was still proud,
but she was no longer self-reliant. Hitherto
she had repelled sympathy because she had
felt no need for it, now her spirit had become

VOL. II. L>

timorous, and though it still resented intrusion
it pleaded for pity.

As she sat, evening after evening; in the
window, doing nothing, seeing nothing, her
thoughts turned with painful iteration to all
that had passed between herself and Captain
Trecarrel since they had first met. For a
few days after the ball she was resentful. She
considered that he had treated her badly ; he
had attempted, and attempted successfully, to
win her heart, and he had gained his end
without making a return of his own. He had
been cruel to her.

After a while, however, she saw the whole
course of affairs in a different light. It struck
ber that in all probability he had been engaged
to Orange — tacitly, may be, and not formally
for a very long while. Something that
Orange had said led her to suppose this, and
she remembered that the Captain had admitted
as much in his answer at the ball when
she congratulated him on his engagement.
That is an old story,' he had said ; ' I thought
you had been admitted to the plot six months
ago.' If he really had been engaged to
Orange ever since she had known him, his conduct
was explicable in a manner that cleared
him of blame. He had looked on Miracle as
one about to become a cousin by marriage.

Miracle was much with Orange, and therefore
it was his duty to be kind to her, and
to act and speak to her as to "fa relation of
her who was about to become his wife. Perhaps
Orange had considered how unpleasant it
would be for Miracle to remain in Dolbeare
after she had gone, and had proposed to the
Captain that she should accompany them to
Trecarrel. If that were so, and it was very
probable, the Captain's solicitude to be on a
friendly footing was explained, so was also the
interest he took in her money affairs.

If I had only known ! ' sighed Miracle.
If I had only guessed that they were engaged,
I would never have been led to thmk of him
in any other light than as a sort of brother or
dear friend and adviser. Why did Orange
not tell me? ' But when she felt disposed to
reproach Orange, she was conscious that she
was unjust. She and Orange had not been
more than superficially friendly. She had
kept Miss Trampleasure at a distance, and had
declined to open her heart to her. What
right then had she to expect the confidence of
Orange ? Both the Captain and his betrothed
no doubt supposed from the first that Miracle
was aware of the ensfao-ement, or at least
suspected it ; and he was friendly because he

D 2

knew that his friendliness was incapable of
misconstruction. The colour tinged Miracle's
brow and cheeks, and the tears of humiliation
filled her eyes.

She endeavoured to undo the past by
forcing herself to think of Captain Trecarrel
as the betrothed of Orange, but it is not easy
to tear a new passion out of the heart that is
young and has never loved before. The heart
of Miracle was not shallow, and feelings once
received struck deep root.

It was a comfort to her that Orange was
too much occupied in her own concerns to
notice that she was unhappy ; it was at least a
satisfaction to be able to bleed without vulgar
eyes marking the blood, and rude fingers
probing the wound.

At first, when she thought that Captain
Trecarrel had trifled with her affections, she
had felt some bitterness spring up in her soul
towards him, but when she had changed her
view of the situation, and his conduct was explicable
without treachery, the idol that had
tottered stood again upright, and, alas ! remained
an idol.

In reviewing the events of the ball, she
saw now that she had acted very unwisely. She
had offered an unpardonable insult to the
family with which she was staying, and which

was, in its clumsy way, kind to her. Young
Sampson had found his way to the diningroom
before supper, and had helped himself to
the wine. She had seen him in the empty
room engaged on the various decanters; she
had seen him, for the room was on the ground-floor,
with large French windows opening onto
the terrace. After he had tried the wines,
Sampson had come out to Miracle, and, attracted
by the sparkle of the diamonds, had
demanded whether they were paste or real
stones. She had refused to answer him, and
he had put out his hand to take the chain,
saying that he would soon ascertain by trying
them on a window-pane. She was not justified
in thinking that he intended to keep them.
She was not justified in supposing that they
would not be safe from his cupidity in her
trunk. When she had said as much in her
anger and excitement, she had offered him, and
through him the whole family, a gross and
unwarranted insult ; and this insult she had
accentuated in the most offensive manner by
giving the jewels to a stranger to keep for
her.

Miracle put her hands over her face. She
was ashamed of what she had done. She had
acted unworthily of herself. If Sampson had
insulted her with brutality, she had dealt him

in return a mortal blow. Her only consolation
was, that neither Orange nor Mrs. Tram-pleasure
knew of the incident, and she hoped
that Sampson, for his own sake, would not
tell his father.

She made what amends she was able, but
it cost her proud spirit a struggle before she
could bring' herself to it. One Sunday that
young Sampson was at home, when he was
alone in the office, she went into the room
and stood by the table at which he was
writing. He looked up, but had not the grace
to rise when he saw who stood before him.
Her eyes seemed peter naturally large, and
her lips trembled ; she had her delicate fingers
folded on her bosom.

Mr. Sampson,' she said, in a voice that
shook in spite of her effort to be firm, ' I
apologise to you for what I said. You had
offended me, but the punishment exceeded
your deserts.'

What did you say ? And when ? '

I am speaking of the evening of the ball.
You acted rudely in wrenching off my necklace,
and I spoke hastily respecting your conduct.
The language I used on that occasion
was injudicious and wrong.'

He looked at her puzzled. Then, with an
ugly smirk, he said, ' So, as you have failed to

catch the Captain, you want to be sweets with
me! '

Is it ever worth while stooping to conciliate
the base? The ignoble mind is unable
to read the promptings of the generous spirit.
Miracle was learning a lesson, as John Herring
was learning his, both in the same school —
the school of life, and the lessons each learned
were contrary to those they had been taught
in childhood. They were finding out that
those lessons were impracticable, at least in
the modern world.

Miracle recognised that she had made a
mistake. The noble mind must fold its robes
about it, and not soil them by contact with
the unworthy. She withdrew with her cheek
tinsrlino; as though it had been smitten.

Young Tramplara began to fawn on Miss
Bowdler, and she to flirt with him, in the
presence of Miracle. This was meant on his
part as a token to Miracle that he was acceptable
to other ladies, and that they had charms
for him. The uncouthness of young Sampson,
the squires and languishing of the red-eyelashes
heiress, his heavy jokes and her
vapid repartees, were grotesque, and would
have provoked laughter, had not Miracle been
too refined to find amusement in what is
vulgar.

Mr. Sampson returned to the ' diggings,*
and his absence brought relief to Miracle.

Captain Trecarrel had been away for some
days, staying in Exeter. On bis way thither
he visited Ophir, and got some of the gold-grains
from the working. Ophir puzzled him;
Ophir hung on his heart. It oppressed his
mind; it was a constant source of uneasiness
to him. He resolved on his return from Exeter
to revisit it. But if he had his doubts, (Others
had not ; that was clear from the current of
visitors setting that way, and the influx of
applications for shares. Shares went up.
Money came in, not in scribblers but in streams ;
it had not to be squeezed out, it exuded spontaneously.


In Exeter Captain Trecarrel had the gold
tested. It was gold, not mundi; not absolutely
pure gold, there was copper with it,
but still it was gold. Trecarrel got rid of
the gold-grains to the jeweller in part payment
for a ring to be presented to Miss Orange. He
also purchased a handsome China mantelshelf
ornament as a present for Mrs. Trampleasure.
He got it cheap because the handle was broken
off. He ordered it to be packed and sent to
Launceston to the old lady. Then, when Xh^
box was opened, the handle would be found
broken off, and the blame would be laid on

the carrier. Unfortunately, however, the
tradesman wrapped the handle as well as
the ornamental jar in silver paper — each in a
separate piece.

When the box arrived and was opened, a
laugh was raised over the handle. Then it
struck Miracle that she ought to make a
present to Orange on her marriage. But what
could she give her ? She had no money.
Then^'she thought of her diamonds, and resolved
to ask Mr. Herring to detach the
pendant from her necklet and send it her.
This she would give to Orange. She took out
her desk and wrote the letter. It was a formal
letter, but the ice was broken, she had begun
to write to him, and cold though the communication
was, the receipt of the letter filled
Herring with delight. He at once complied
with her request.

Orange was profuse in her thanks. She
kissed Miracle, and admired the brooch. Miss
Bowdler was at Dolbeare at the time, and
both looked at it in the window, with many
whispers and much raising of eyebrows.

That same afternoon Miracle was with
Orange and the Borders. ' Thank you so
very much,' said Orange. ' I shall value the
pendant quite as much as though the stones
were real diamonds.'

They are real,' said Miracle.

The French make these things so wonderfully
like nature, that only experts can tell
the difference,' said Miss Bowdler.

I suppose these were some of your
mother's stones,' said Orange.

They were,' answered Miracle.

How generous, how kind of you to give
them to me,' said Orange, without a trace of
sarcasms in her voice — (English can make paste
imitations as well as the French) — 'And
though these are only paste, still, I dare say
no one will know the difference.'

They are real stones,' said Miracle,
haughtily.

My dear,' answered Orange, ' do 5^ou
know what a Cornish compliment is ? '' Take
this, it is of no more use to me." If these had
been genuine diamonds you would have kept
them for yourself; they would have been far
too valuable to be parted with lightly. No
one gives away anything but what is worthless.
Look at Trecarrel's china jar. He got
it cheap because it was faulty. He gave it to
mother because he was bound to make her a
present ; if she had been worth money, he
would not have sent her a worthless gift,
but because she has nothing: he sends her a
nothing. That is the way of the world.'

^ The stoDGs form part of a set my father
sent from Brazil to my mother in Paris.'

Nevertheless they are imitations,' said
Orange. ' I took them to the jeweller here,
because, you see, my dear, if they had been
diamonds, I could not have accepted such a
costly present from you, but he unhesitatingly
pronounced them to be paste. That,
however, does not matter to me; it justifies my
accepting and keeping the charming present,
which will always be valued by me, not for
the intrinsic worth, but as a memorial of your
love.'

Give me the pendant instantly,' said
Miracle, full of pride and anger. ' It is impossible
that my father, a diamond merchant,
could have offered my dear suffering mother
such an insult as to send her a set of sham
diamonds.'

She took the ornament, and went at once
to the jeweller. She came away resentful and
humbled. ' That Mr. Strange should have
dared ! '

Not for a moment did it occur to her that
perhaps her mother had sold the stones, and
replaced them with paste.

CHAPTER Xxii.

THE OXENHAM ARMS.

As the time for his marriage approached,
Captain Trecarrel's uneasiness increased. On
his way back to Launceston from Exeter he
got off the coach at Whiddon Down, determined
to have another look at Ophir.
He had heard a good deal about Ophir in
Exeter, and not much in its favour. His
lawyer whom he had consulted had a rich
fund of reminiscences concerning Tramplara.
Lawyers as a rule are not squeamish, but
there was something about old Tramplara
which was not to the taste of the solicitor
Trecarrel employed. He had been engaged
in a Cornish mining action in which his client
had prosecuted Tramplara ; a good deal had
transpired on this occasion not encouraging
to those about to transact business with Mr.
Tramplara. Much had come out, but more
had not come out, but was perfectly well
known to those engaged in the case.

My advice to you is, give a wide berth to
the man.'

I am going to marry his daughter answered
Trecarrel, ruefully.

Oh ! ' — a pause ensued. ' How about
settlements ? '

I am all right there said the Captain ;
till five thousand pounds is paid down, I do
not put my neck into the noose. They may
bring me to the altar, but I will fold my arms
and sit down on the steps. They cannot
legally marry a man against his will.'

^ How about the family ' began the

lawyer.

Thank God, I don't marry the family,'
interrupted Trecarrel. ' When I have the
money and the girl — she is not bad looking,
and will pass muster when clipped and curry-combed
— I kick the rest over.'

Well, I wish you joy.'

Captain Trecarrel next consulted his
banker, and found that the money world was
shy of Ophir, and held Tramplara in much
the same esteem as did the legal world.

Who are the directors of the company ? '
asked the banker.

There is a provisional list,' answered
Trecarrel. ' Old Tramplara tried hard to get
me on to it, but vainly is the trap set in the

sight of the bird. Here is the prospectus.
You see the names : Sampson Trampleasure, of
Dolbeare. Launceston, Esq., Arundelll Goliath
of Trevorgan, Esq., the Rev. Israel Flamank,
and some others of no greater importance. I
have Tramplara's own copy, that is to say,
one he favoured me with, and, as you see,
he has pencilled in a few more names. Here
is Mr. Battishill of West Wyke, the owner
of the estate, but whether he is ah-lady a
director, or only a possible director, I do not
know.'

who is Arundelll Golitho, Esq., and
where is Trevorgan ? '

Never heard of the man, nor of the
place.'

When Captain Trecarrel got off the coach,
he saw Herring waiting for the coach, to
intrust the diamond pendant to the coachman
for transmission to Miracle.

Halloo ! you here ? ' exclaimed the Captain;
' I thought you lived at the extremity of
the known world, at Bo seas tie.'

So I do ; but I am here starting a mine.'

Not a director of Ophir, eh ? ' asked
Trecarrel, eagerly, his blue eyes lighting
up.

No, I am not so ambitious as to embark
in gold, I content myself with lead ; but if

my lead mine promises less than Ophir, its
performance, I trust, will be more sure.'

Ah,' responded Trecarrel, dismally, ' you
are bitten with the prevailing distrust. I
presume you have not taken shares in Ophir.'

No; have you ?'

I am going to take a big share in the
concern. I marry the Queen of Sheba.
Herring, I say, is there a public house near
where I can get a chop ? I am hungry and
wretched. Come with me for charity's sake
and let us have a talk together about this
same Ophir. I want your opinion ; and
look here, I have old Tramplara's list of
directors, and on it in pencil is the name of
Squire Battishill of AVest Wyke. He is a
respectable man, is he not ? You know
him.'

Yes ; I am staying with him.'

What sort of a man is he ? '

A gentleman every inch, — honourable
and true.'

Oh yes, I don't mean that. They be
all honourable men, especially the Hon. Lawless
Lascar, who figures on the list. Is he a
man of fortune ? If Ophir goes ^' scott," as
they say here, is there property on which the
shareholders can come down ? '

Mr. Battishill is certainly not a director.'

He is pencilled down as one, at all events,
and pencilled by Tramplara himself. Tell
me, is there a decent inn hereabouts ? '

There is a very tolerable inn in Zeal, if
you do not mind descending a steep hill to
reach it — the Oxenham Arms.'

Come with me.'

Zeal is a quaint village of one street, that
street being the high road from Exeter to
Launceston. Since the time of which we
treat the high road has been carried by a new
line above the village, which has been left on
one side forgotten, and has gone quietly to
sleep. In the midst of the street stands a
small chapel built of granite, and before it an
old granite cross mounted on several steps.
The houses are of ' cob,' that is, clay, whitewashed
and thatched, with projecting chambers
over the doorways resting on oak posts
or granite pillars. Below the chapel stood
the stately mansion of the Burgoyness facing
the road, with vaulted porch, mullions windows,
and sculptured doorways. The Burgoyne
family has gone, and now there swings
over the entrance a board adorned with the
arms of the Oxenham family. The manor-house
has descended to become the village
inn.

Into [this inn, clean, but humble in its

pretensions, Herring introduced the Captain.


I say, girl,' called Trecarrel to the maid,
throw on some logs ; the turf only smoulders.
And bring me some hot water and rum. I am
cold and damp, and altogether dispirited and
drooping. Let me have a steak as soon as
you can.* Then to Herring : * 1 am put out
confoundedly. Ophir will not digest. Tell
me candidly your opinion.'

You are not treating me fairly,' said
Herring. ' You have no right to ask me
this question when you are about to become
closely allied to Mr. Trampleasure '

Oh, confound Tramplara. I am not going
to marry him, nor his sniffing wife, nor his
cub of a son, heaven be praised ! nor, better
than all, Ophir. Nevertheless I want to know
something about Ophir, for though I am
going to be allied to the family, I do not want
to be linked by so ever small a link to a concern
that may smash, least of all to one that
is not exactly on the square. What do you
make out about the gold mine ? '

It puzzles me. I have been over it and
seen the gold dust washed out of the goshen.'

So have I.'

^ And yet I am not satisfied.'

Nor am L'

VOL. II. E

In the first place, I mistrust the way in
which Ophir has been puffed and brought
into the market.'

I do not believe a word about the Phoenicians
said the Captain.

^ Again Herring went on, ' who have
taken the mine in hand ? '

That I can tell you. There is Arundelll
Golitho, Esq. of Trevorgan. Do you know
him ? You are a Cornish man, bred in its
deepest wilds. Does he hail from your
parts ? '

Never heard of him.'

Nor has any one else, that I can learn.
Then there is the Reverend Israel Flamank,
but he counts for nothing. He is a crack-brained
preacher, not worth a thousand
pounds, and every penny he has he has sunk
in Ophir.'

Here is another : the Honourable Lawless
Lascar. Who is he? '

I have heard about him from my lawyer
in Exeter,' said Trecarrel. ' Lends his name
to rickety ventures for a consideration, and
when wanted, not at home.'

And Colonel Headlong Mingles ? '
^ Colonel Headlong is a man who has not
been happy in matrimonial matters — I mean,
has been exceptionally unhappy ; this would

not concern us were it not that it has cost
him a good deal of money. He has been
endeavouring to recover moral tone lately by
taking up vigorously with Temperance, and he
has become rather a prominent orator on Total
Abstinence platforms. He has lately edited a
revised New Testament in which the miracle
of Cana has been accommodated to Temperance
views — the wine in his version is turned
into water.'

That is all'

Except those added in pencil. I do not
like the looks of the board of directors. Tell
me, Herring, have you any suspicion of
trickery ? '

Herring hesitated. He had, but he was
without grounds to justify the open expression
of his suspicion.

By George ! ' exclaimed Captain Tree
' if I thought it were not on the
square, I would break off my engagement.
I inherit a respectable, I may say an honourable,
name, and I do not choose that the
name of Trecarrel should be trailed in the
mire. The think; cannot last Ions without
declaring its nature. If the goshen that is
crushed yields as much gold daily as I have
seen extracted at one washing, then the
dividends will begin to run. The working of

£2

UBWkSY

uwvEt«HTv OF \\.mm

the mine does not entail a heavy outlay.
There are not many men on it.'

Very few indeed.'

And the machinery is not enormously
expensive, I suppose.'

'No.'

Then, why the deuce did Tramplara
make a company of the concern, and call for
shares ? If he had been sanguine, he might
have worked it himself, and made his fortune
in a twelvemonth.'

Another thing that makes me suspicious,'
said Herring, ' is that the lease is only for a year.'

For a year ! ' exclaimed the Captain, and
whistled. ' Then be sure Tramplara will
blow Ophir up before the twelvemonth has
elapsed. If he had been sure of gold, he
would have taken a lease for ninety-nine
years. I will have nothing to do with the
family. I will put off the marriage. Listen
to this, Herring. I carried off all the bits of
stone I could from the auriferous vein of
quartz, and I crushed them myself. I borrowed
a hammer from a road maker, for which
I paid him fourpence, and I pounded them,
and then washed the crumbled mass in my
basin, and not a trace of gold could I discover.'


That proves nothing. You could hardly

expect to find the precious metal in a few
nubbs you conveyed away in your coat
pocket.'

There ought to have been indications of
gold. I should not have minded had I found
as much as a pin's point. Xo ! I believe
Ophir to be a swindle, but how the swindling
is done passes my comprehension.'

He sat looking into the fire, and kicking
the logs with the toe of his boot. Then he
threw himself back in his chair.

I shall go to bed, Herring,' he said, ' and
I shall stick there till there is a clearing; in
the air over Ophir. I am not going to be
married whilst the cloud broods heavily. I
shall go to bed.'

'Go to bed ! ' echoed Herring. * It is
early still.'

I always go to bed when I want to get
out of a difficulty. Old Tramplara is not far
ofi; and he can come and see me. Young;
Sampson can come and see me also ; but I defy
both of them to get me out of my bed and
into my breeches and blue coat against my
pleasure. The marriage must be postponed.*

Nonsense. You cannot do this.'

I shalL I have got out of a score of
difficulties by this means. There I stick till
things have come round. My dear Herring,

there is no power in the world equal to non
possumus'

But what of the lady's feelings? '

Oh, blow the lady's feelings ! ' said Tree
coarsely. ' Ladies' feelings are superficial;
that is why they are so sensitive about
dress. Men's feelings lie deep ; they line their
pockets. Orange is a good girl ; but she
won't feel, or, if she does, she will rather like
it. Women like to have their feelings fretted,
just as cats like having their backs scratched.
Orange can come and see me in bed, and
nurse me, if she chooses. Polly ! ' he called
to the maid of the inn, ' get your best bedroom
ready, and the sheets and blankets and
featherbed well aired. I am going to retire
for a week or ten days between the sheets.'

Herrings burst out lauo-hinfi:.

This is no laughing matter,' said Tree
testily. ' I would not go to bed unless
I could help it; but, upon my life, I do not
see any other mode of escape. You will
come and see me sometimes, old fellow, for
time will drag.'

Certainly I will; but what will you say
to the Tramplaras? — to Miss Orange? '

Say — say ! why, that I am indisposed.
That will be strictly within the bounds of
truth, and what is consistent with a gentleman

to say. Indisposed — the word was
coined for my case. I'll send to Tramplara
himself, and get it over as soon as I am in
bed;

'- You are joking.'

I am perfectly serious. I have cause to
be so. I am, or was, not so very far from
my marriage day, and I do not relish the
prospect. Bring old Tramplara here. When
he sees me embedded and indisposed to rise,
he will grow uneasy and the money will be
forthcoming. I have no doubt in the world
that he is meditating a trick upon me. He is
wonderfully clever; but he met his equal in
the matter of the Patagonians — I'll tell you
all about them some day. Herring, by some
infernal blunder I was pricked as sheriff of
the county one year. It was supposed that
I was worth about five times my actual income.
I CO aid not endure the cost of office,
and I did not want to pay the fine for refusal,
so I went to bed, and wrote to the Lord
Lieutenant from bed. I said that I was confined
to my couch, and could not rise from it,
which was true, strictly true, under the circumstances,
and that I could not say that I
would live through the year, which was also
true, strictly true ; and I got off without fine.
On another occasion my creditors were unreasonable

and urgent. I took to my bed
again, and after I had laid there a fortnight,
they mellowed ; at the end of a month they
were ripe for a composition of eight shillings
in the pound. I find that, in difficulties, if
I take at once to my bed I constitute myself
master of the situation. It is the Hougoumont
of all my Waterloo.'

Herring was still laughing.

Tou may laugh,' pursued Trecarrel, ' but
my plan is superlative. Judge of it by the
faces of Tramplara and his son when they
visit me. You know the look that comes
over a chess-player, when his adversary says
"checkmate." I suspect you will see some
very similar expression steal over the countenances
of Tramplara and young Hopeful.
The old man will coax, and the young one
bluster. They can do nothing. Here I lie,
and they bite their nails and rack their brains.
They are powerless. They cannot bring
Orange and a parson here and have me
married in bed. I should bury my head
under the clothes. They would not attempt
it. It would hardly be decent. I do not
think it would be legal.'

You will write, I suppose, to Miss
Orange ? '

No ; I shall send for her father. I do

not put hand to paper if I can help it. 1
never commit myself. Litera scripta manet
You have no idea, Herring, how successful
my system is. Difficulties solve themselves ;
mountains melt into molehills ; tangles unravel
of their own accord. The perfectness
of the system consists in its extreme simplicity.
Polly ! run the warming-pan through
the sheets before I retire. Whilst I am upstairs,
Herring, there is a good fellow, keep a
sharp look out on Ophir.'

CHAPTER Xxi.

A LEVEE.

In France it was anciently the custom for the
Kings to hold lits de justice — that is to say
they lay in bed, and whilst reposing on their
pillows, and the vapours of sleep rose and
rolled from their exalted brows, heard appeals
and pronounced judgments. The royal example
found hosts of imitators. No one
ever dreams of following a good example, but
one that is mischievous has eager copyists.
It was so in France under the ancient regime.
Nobles received their clients, ladies their
suitors, in bed. Magistrates heard cases in
the morning, before rising, whilst sipping their
coffee. So far down, had this habit descended,
that Scarron, in his ' Roman Comique,' describes
a respectable actress receiving an abbe,
a magistrate, and various ladies and gentlemen
in her bedroom, whilst she lay between
the sheets. In the Parisian world, the world
of salt and culture, the bedroom — the very bed
itself — of a distinguished lady was the centre

round which the wit and gossip of the gay
and literary world circled and sparkled.

The getting out of bed of a prince, and of
those who imitated the prince, was as public
as his lying in state. That was not the day
of baths and Turkish towels, and therefore
there was not the same reason against the
admission of the public to a levee that would
exist at present, at least in England.

Whilst the King drew on his stockings,
he heard petitions ; as he encased himself in
his black satin breeches, he determined suits.
When his shirt-frills were being drawn out,
he dictated despatches ; whilst his wig was
being; dusted, he wanted concessions ; and ashe
washed his fingers and face in a saucer, he
conferred bishoprics and abbacies.

In like manner, the toilettes of ladies of
rank and the queens of beauty and fashion
were times for the reception of their favoured
friends. Hogarth's picture of the toilette of
the lady in the Manage a la mode shows that
this custom had extended to England. A
levee was then, as the name implies, an assembly
held during the process of getting out
of bed.

Captain Trecarrel was not consciously
copying the ancient regime. He lay in bed
because it suited his convenience. He received

visitors there because he did not choose to
receive them elsewhere, till he had carried a
point on which his heart was set.

Why, bless my soul, Trecarrel ! what
ails you? Laid up in this wretched inn —
caught cold on your way down? I hope
nothing serious ; not rheumatic fever, eh? '

Severe indisposition,' said Trecarrel, looking
at Mr. Trampleasure calmly out of his
celestial blue eyes, innocent as those of a child,
little spots of sky, pure and guileless.

Good gracious ! ' blustered Tramplara,
not anything gastric, is it ? No congestion
of any of the organs ? '

There is tightness in the chest,' said the
Captain ; ' that is normal.'

Bless my soul ! couldn't you push on to
Launceston ? Were you so bad that you broke
down here?

When a man's a little bit poorly,

Makes a fuss, wants a nurse,
Thinks he's going to die most surely,

Sends for the doctor who makes him worse.

You know the lines, but whether by the Bard
of Avon, or by Chalked in his *' Canterbury
Tales," I cannot recall. Poor Orange ! What
a state of mind she will be in ! '

^ I dare say,' said the Captain, composedly.

The child will be half mad with alarm.

What does the doctor say ? What has he given
you? Something stinging or routing, eh?^
I have not sent for him.'

Not sent for the doctor ? By Grogs !
and you seriously ill. How do you know but
that it may interfere with your marriage on
the eighth?'

That is what I have been supposing.'
^ You must get well, my dear boy. You

positively must.'

'I hope so, but that does not altogether

depend on me.'

^ I insist on a doctor being sent for.'

His coming will be of no use. I know

my own constitution.'

^ Have you sent word to Orange ? '

No, I left that for you. You see I amin

bed, and I cannot write. I don't think the

people of the inn would permit it, lest I should

ink the sheets. Salts of lemon are not always

satisfactory in removing stains.'
Orange will be heartbroken.'
The recuperative power of the female

heart cannot be overestimated.'

Mrs. Trampleasure will be in such distress,
she will do nothing but cry '

And sniff. I says, father-in-law that
want to be, how goes Ophir? '

Oh, my dear boy ! magnificently.'

Like the Laura at Plymouth ? — eh, father-in-law
elect? '

What do you mean ? '

The rendezvous of all the gulls m the
Western counties. Only, with this difference,
the gulls go to the Laura for what they can
get, and they come to Ophir for what they
can give.'

I do not like these flippant jokes,' said
Tramplara, puffing and waxing red.

^ The joke is too near the truth. You
see, father-in-law prospective, I have been
in Exeter, and have talked Ophir over with
lawyers, bankers, mining agents, and men of
the world.'

'Well?'

And I find that the general verdict on
Ophir is, that it is a swindle.'

Tramplara stamped, turned purple in face,
and strode up and down the room.

You insult me. Look at my white hairs.
This is an outrage on my character, on my
age. Do you dare to say that an old manlike
me, with one foot in eternity, would —
would '

Reserve that for the Flanks,' said the
Captain ; ' it is an argument without weight
with me.'

This is intolerable. You wish to break
off connection with me.'

Xot at all,' said the Captain, smiling
and twisting his fair" moustache. ^ I am
only telling you what is said in Exeter about
Ophir. My own opinion is inchoate. Sometimes
I am inclined to believe in the genuineness
of the article, but generally I admit,
what I admire most is not its genuineness,
but the skill with which a spurious article is
disposed of.'

You have seen the gold ? '

But I have not found it.'

You have dug out the quartz yourself
and followed the entire process, to the last
washing and sifting. Will not that content
you?'

I brought home with me some of the
auriferous stone, and crushed it myself, and
washed it myself, but not a particle of gold
was there.'

Simply because you took pieces in which
there was no gold. Gold is not so common
as hornblende.'

Nor, apparently, as discernible in the
stone. Look here, father-in-law that want
to be.'

I won't be spoken to in this style.'

You want me to marry Orange, do you
not?'

I do not care a penny about you. All I
care for is poor Orange, and her feelings.'

You are ready to pay me five thousand
pounds for taking Orange off your hands,
are you not ? ' asked the imperturbable Captain.


I am ready to pay you five thousand
pounds as her jointure, because she is my
daughter, whom I dearly love, and I wish to
provide for her comfort and happiness in the
future when I am dead and forgotten.'

And you were thinking only of her comfort
and happiness when you offered us those
Patagoniann bonds,' said Trecarrel. 'Fortunately,
I was equally interested in the dear
creature's comfort and happiness, and in her
interest I declined them.'

Have done with those Patagoniann bonds,'
said Tramplara, impatiently. ' You will bring
my white hairs with exasperation to the grave.
I shall go down stairs, and leave you to soak
in bed. Do you intend to lie here for a twelvemonth?
1 do not believe you are seriously
ill.'

Seriously indisposed is what I said,' answered
the Captain.

You have done this sort of thing before,'

said old Tramplara, very hot and angry ; ' I
have heard of you. Ridiculous ! not like a
man.'

Trecarrel was wholly unmoved. He
turned round in his bed with his face to the
wall. The old man stamped about the room,
swearing and uttering his opinions freely, without
eliciting a word from the Captain. After
a while he cooled down, finding that his
wrath and remonstrances were ineffectual,
and he seated himself on a chair by the bedside.


Be reasonable. Captain,' he said. ' What
is the drift of this farce ? '

Trecarrel turned round in bed, and faced
him with perfect equanimity in his handsome
features.

I say, Trampleasure, the second Solomon
who draws gold out of Ophir, I give it up.
How do you manage it?'

The fiery flush again came into the old
man's face.

There, there, I do not want to anger
you,' said Trecarrel. ' I have a proposal to
make to you, father-in-law in quibus ! Let
me go with you into the mine. You shall
indicate to me the auriferous vein, and I will
pick out pieces and submit them to you.
Those about which you are doubtful shall be

VOL. II. F

cast aside ; those you approve I will retain.
I will pound them myself, and wash them
myself. '

^ Where — in our works ? '

By no means. Anywhere that suits my
convenience and pleasure. At John Herring's
lead mine, if I choose. Then, if I find
gold, you shall have my name on your list
of directors, and I will go heartily with you
in the concern.'

I do not care to have you as a director.'

That is not true. You have several times
urged me to be one. You want some respectable
names on your list, which is sadly deficient
in them. Will you oblige me with some
particulars about Arundelll Golitho, Esq. of
Trevorgan? By some strange omission he has
not been made a Justice of the Peace and a
Deputy Lieutenant of the county of Cornwall'


I will answer no questions. You want
to force a quarrel on me.'

On the contrary, I want to dispel my
doubts. I am, what I think you call in your
chapel, an earnest inquirer. I can tell you
one thing for certain, father-in-law that may,
might, would, could, and should be, I am not
going to be married to your Orange without
the fulfilment of one of two conditions.'

'What are they?' asked Tramplara,
sulkily.

One is, that I may make the proposed
investigation into the qualities of Ophir.'

I refuse it,' said Trampleasure, hastily.

You refuse to allow me fairly to test its
value as a mine ? '

I do not say that. I refuse the proposed
test, because it is unfair and insulting. You
may come and extract as much quartz as you
like from the rock, and crush and wash it on
my floors, but you shall not carry it elsewhere.'


What is your objection? '

I say the proposal is insulting. Look at
my white hairs. Do you suppose '

Leave the white hairs out of the matter.
What is unfair in my proposal ? '

I will not consent. I will die before I
permit it.'

The old man sprang from his seat. ' Good
heavens ! I shall have every visitor and applicant
for shares pestering me to carry off
specimens.'

Why should they not ? '

Because it is against regulations. I have
laid down a strict rule, to be relaxed to none,
that every specimen raised is to be tested on

f2

the spot, and not elsewhere. I will have the
trial take place where I can see that it is fairly
conducted. How do I know but that behind
tiny back the trial may be incorrectly, imperfectly,
or dishonestly carried on?'

I do not ask to do anything behind your
back. You shall select half a dozen specimens.
We will bring them here. I will
smash them up in the backyard with a paviour's
hammer under your eye, and I will Avast
them in the water-trough there, with you
looking: on. Will that suffice ? '

• ^Yhat is your other alternative ? ' asked
Trampleasure, sullenly.

My second proposal is this. You have
promised me five thousand pounds along with
Orange.'

I know I have, and I shall be ready to
pav it when you are married.'

My good father-in-law prospective, that
does not quite satisfy me. Of course I do not
question your honour and your intention to
discharge what you propose. rout speculation,
above all, speculation in mines, superlatively
such a speculation as Ophir, is risky. I do
not wish to risk my chance of getting that
five thousand pounds (and connubial felicity)
on the continuance of the Ophhian gold
yield.'

You don't suppose I will pay you down
the money now, before you are married.'

• Xo. I do not. and I do not want to run the
chance of getting married, only to discover
that the five thousand points has been sunk
in Ophu% and is only available in the shape
of paper on Ophir. or only to discover that
Ophu^ has collapsed like a pricked bladder
the day before.'

• What, then, do you want ? ' asked Tram-pleasure,
very angrily, rubbing his knuckles
with the palm of his hand in his irritation and
impatience.

What I want is, that you should lodge
the money now in the hands of a thud party,
say of Mr. John Herring. If I fail to fulfil
mv part of the contract within a <2:iven time,
say on the day already fixed for the wedding,
or seven days after, I forfeit it and it returns to
you. When I am married to Orange, then
Herring is empowered to hand the money
over to me.'

'Upon my word. Captain Trecarrel. of all
audacious and exacting men I ever came across,
you are the most audacious and exacting.
And what if I refuse this condition also ? '
Then I remain in bed.'
What is the advantage of that ? '
^ 1 am eno-acred to be married on the

eighth. If I am ill, my illness serves as an
excuse for my absence from the hymeneal
altar when expected there. The world can
say nothing against that ; and I am bound to
maintain my character as a chevalier sans
reproche

Pray how long will this farce continue ? '

What farce ? '

Your lying in bed.'

you will hind a looking-glass yonder,
father-in-law anticipative. Examine your
countenance in it, and see if the expression is
that of a spectator at a farce. It looks deuced
more like that of a witness at a melodrama.'

How long do you soak here ? ' exclaimed
Trampleasure, sulkily.

I shall await events from this commanding
position. Ophir will blow up before long.
It cannot continue, and will send you and
yours head over heels into space, and where
you will drop, heaven only knows. Then, of
course, I shall be free.'

Trampleasiu'e paced the room, his face blazing.
He was very angry, he was also greatly
perplexed. He was particularly anxious to
get Orange married to the Captain. Presently
he turned round, and said in a sullen tone,
and with an angry lower on his brows, ' I will
give you an answer shortly.'

All right, I am in no hurry. The bed is
not uncomfortable. Herring is coming here
this evening to smoke a pipe with me, and I
will ask him to hold the stakes.'

The next visitor was young Sampson.
He came in fuming, and asked the Captain
his intentions. He was Orange's brother. It
was his duty to see that she was treated fairly,
and, by God, he would do his duty. He was
not going to let a militia captain play fast
and loose with the poor girl's affections, and
possibly blight her entire future by his heartless
desertion. Trecarrel listened to him with
the utmost coolness. He had expected this
visit, and knew what its character would be.

Sampson the little and weak,' he said,
your father has sent you here to try what
bluster will effect. May I trouble you to
convey to him a message from me, and say
that the effects are nil ? '

Are you going to desert Orange ? If
you are. 111 shoot you.'

No, you won't,' said the Captain. ' In the
first place, I am not going to desert Orange ;
and in the second place, if I were, the utmost
you would do would be to try to get money
compensation out of me, and that would belike
squeezing a stone for milk. In one particular
I am like Ophir. If you want to

extract gold out of me, you must first put it
into me.'

Sampson's face became mottled, and his
eyes, with a startled expression in them, turned
to the Captain, but, seeing his eyes fixed inquiringly
on him, his fell. Trecarrel chuckled,
and drew the sheets over his head. Presently
he looked out again. Sampson was at the
window killing flies. He had his back turned
to the bed, and was stabbing at the flies with
the pin of his stock.

I have placed two alternatives before
your father,' said the Captain : ' I will marry
Orange tomorrow if he will comply with
either. Either let him give me a fair chance of
testing the ore of Ophir, and satisfy myself
that the mine is genuine, or let him pay five
thousand pounds into the hands of a third
party, to be held till the marriage is concluded.'


I refuse — I refuse each alternative, in his
name and my own,' said young Sampson,
stabbing at a fly with such fury that he broke
a pane in the window.

'There goes eighteen pence,' said the
Captain, ' beside letting a current of cold
air in on me. Leave the room. I need
repose. My indisposition gains upon me.'

The next to visit Captain Trecarrel was

Holm Herring. Herring was not very willing
to undertake the obligation the Captain was
desirous of forcing upon him: however, he
was good-natured, that is, easily imposed on,
and in the end he consented to act as the
third party, and receive the money into his
keeping till the marriage took place.

On the morrow old Tramplara came back ;
he remained some time, and attempted to
coax Trecarrel into good humour and the
surrender of his ultimatum. Trecarrel especially
urged the former of his alternatives, ashe
perceived that it was eminently distasteful
to both the old man and his son. Tramplara
went away, refusing both alternatives.

On the third day Tramplara did not come
at ail, but Trecarrel heard through the
hostess that young Sampson had been thereto
inquire whether he was still confined to
his bed.

On the fourth day the old man came,
very sulky and rude, and gave way —-not to
the first alternative, but to the second.
Herring; was sent for, and the transaction was
arranged to the satisfaction of the Captain.

• Now then,' said Trecarrel, ' my indisposition
is better. King for shaving water.
Clear every one out of the room. I am going
to rise.'

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE SHEKEL.

Miss Cicely,' said John Herring.

Yes, Mr. John,' answered Cicely, with a
smile.

Well— Cicely — if you wish it.'

^I do wish it; I dislike formality. You
have stayed with us so long, and have been
so good to us, and helped us so greatly, that
T suspect a cousinship between us, if the respective
Battishill and Herring ]pedigrees were
worked. The West of England families are
all united by marriage.'

^ My family boasts of no dignity or antiquity,'
said Herring. ' We have been humble
yeomen down to my father, and never
dreamed of calling ourselves gentlemen, certainly
not of tacking an esquire after our
names.'

If your ancestors were humble yeomen,
ours were very humble gentlemen. Do look

at West Wyke. Did you ever see a gentle -
leman's house elsewhere so small, and yet so
full of self-consciousness ? An embattled gateway
in a wall that a boy could overleap,
guarding a garden of hollyhocks. A front
door with a huge beam to close it, running
back into the wall, to protect the family plate,
which consists of one silver caudle cup, and
a whalebone-handled punch-ladle with a Queen
Anne's shilling in the bowl. I believe our
family stood barely above high water mark,
the line where the yeoman ended and the
gentleman began ; but so barely above it,
that we were always liable to be submerged,
and never able to lift ourselves wholly into a
more exalted and secure position.'

I dare say,' observed John Herring, ' that
the smallness of your house has been the
salvation of your family. You have not been
expected to keep a large establishment ; to
entertain much, and to have a stable and
furniture and a cellar.'

I dare say you are right. By the way,
how is the sick gentleman at the Oxenham
Arms ? '

There is not much change in his condition.
He is still indisposed.'

^Whoishe?'

A Cornish squire, Trecarrel by name,

who is engaged to the daughter of Mr. Tram-pleasure.'


^ No doubt Miss Miracle will have had
some of her airs taken out of her in the Tram-pleasure
household.'

This was the first time that Cicely had
voluntarily, and of her own prompting, spoken
of Miracle. Herring had mentioned her occasionally,
but Cicely showed plainly that she
retained no pleasant recollection of the Countess,
and was uninterested in what had become
of her. There was a spice of vindictiveness
in her tone as she spoke. She was
rejoicing that Miracle should have her airs
taken out of her.

The poor Countess,' said Herring, ' has
suffered much annoyance among those
wretched people '

I have no patience with her,' interrupted
Cicely, ' giving herself airs, and calling herself
a Countess. Why, her father was only a
merchant, and I cannot see how she can
inherit her mother's title. The wife of an
Earl is a Countess, and the daughters are
Ladies, not Countesses.'

It is different abroad.'

You ought not to have humoured her.
However, as you see no more of her now, no
harm has been done by your falling in with

her fancy. The Tramplaras are the last
persons m the world to feed her vanity, and
so by this time, it is to be hoped, she has
learned to stand on the same level as those
she is called to associate with.'

^ Do you not think it must be intolerable
for one so refined and sensitive? '

^ Oh, there, there ! ' interrupted Cicely,
again laughing. 'We have had enough of
Miracle ; let us banish her from our conversation.
The very thought of her gives mea
shiver.'

Cicely, tell me, has old Tramplara been
pretty frequently to West Wyke of late?'

He has been to see my father now and
then.'

Do you know that he has put down your
father on his list as one of the directors of
Ophir? His name is not yet printed, but
Tramplara is counting on him.'

Why should he require my father's
name?'

To give respectability to the concern.'
I hope my father will not consent.'
He must not. I am persuaded that
Ophir is a fraud, and your father must be
saved from being involved in A\'hat will cover
with disgrace, and involve in ruin, all who
are connected with it.'

Good heavens ! Do you think my father
has abbacy given his consent? Oh, please
go in and see him, and stop him. I know he
is becoming excited about Ophir. He laughed
at it at first, but he has changed his tone of
late.'

I will go at once,'

Herring stepped into the hall to Mr. Bat-distill.


Well, Herring! ' exclaimed the old man,
brightening up ; ' back from Zeal ! How goes
the sick man — Captain Trecarrel ? Dear me !
he represents a fine old family, de Esse, alias
Trecarrel, argent two cherokees sable, with
a mullet for a difference. A Devonshire
family — the Esse of Ashe, and the elder
branch, died out in an heiress who carried
Ashe to the Drakes ; but the second son, a
long way back, married the heiress of Tree
and dropped the patronymic for the
place name. How is the last limb of a splendid
tree ? '

There is nothing more serious the matter
with him than that he is going to marry the
daughter of old Tramplara.'

Good Lord ! what a mesalliance ! The
Trampleasures are mushrooms — I had almost
said toadstools. I suppose it is a case of
money; the needy gentleman with centuries



behind him takes the daughter of the wealthy
founder of Ophir for the sake of the mountain
of gold she brings. How is it that Tram-pleasure
has not secured Trecarrel as a
director? His name would carry weight.'

Exactly,' answered Herring ; ' that is
what Tramplara wants — he has not got a
name of importance on his list. Do you know
anything of Arundelll Golitho, Esq. of Tree
? ^

Never heard his name before.'

Nor have I, nor has any one else.'

He must be some one of importance, or
Tramplara would not have put him on the
board ? '

I do not believe in his existence. You
were asking why Captain Trecarrel has not
become a director. For the best of reasons.
He does not care to cover an honourable
name with disgrace.'

Mr. Battishill's face changed colour.

that is a strong expression, Herring,
and ought to be justified.'

'Dear Mr. Battishill, you know what
Polpluggan did for you.'

Polpluggan was a disastrous venture,
certainly.'

You told me yourself it was a swindle.'

Well, well, the word was too strong;. I

thought SO at the tie ; but ^Tramplara has
been frank with me about it. Since he has
been here so much, engaged on Ophir, I have
seen his books ; he showed them me in the
most open manner possible, he insists on my
going over them myself. Polpluggan was a
failure, not a swindle. I withdraw the expression.'


And Ophir, I believe, is nothing less
than a swindle, and will cover every one who
lias to do with it with infamy. That is why
Captain Trecarrel will not lend his name to
the concern.'

Why then does he marry the daughter of
Ophir?'

That is another affair. He has been
entranced to her for some time, and cannot
with honour break away.'

What leads him to suppose that Ophir is
a — a '

A swindle ! Because he has been in
Exeter consulting those who are likely to
know ; because he knows the antecedents of
the man who has started it. I trust, sir, you
have not given Tramplara grounds to hope
that you will become a director? '

Well, he has been pressing, very pressing,
1 may say, and I have not positively
said I will not. You see, my dear Herring,

the mine is sure to be a success. The applications
for shares increase instead of falhno;
off; that is a pretty good proof of public confidence.'


That proves nothing, except that there
are many fools in the world ready to part
with their money.'

They would hardly take shares unless
they had convinced themselves that the speculation
was sound. Nothing, I understand, can
be more above board than the proceedings of
Mr. Trampleasure. The gold ore is crashed
and washed before the eyes of the public. I
cannot see where the fraud can be.'

There is roguery somewhere, I am convinced.'


My dear Herring, that is your opinion.
Others equally capable of forming opinions
think differently. The mine is on my property,
it is only reasonable that I should bea
director and benefit by it. As Mr. Tram-pleasure
put it to me — the world asks, Why
is not the lord of the manor on the board of
directors? The absence of his name from it
damages the prospects of the mine. Other
men of position and property hold back because
I do not sanction the venture. It is
necessary that I should lend my name.'

VOL. II. G

You must on no account lend your name,
sir,' said Herring, earnestly.

You are very peremptory, Mr. Herring,'
said the old man, nettled. ' The lead mine
halts; nothing is being done there, no lead
turned out, no machinery set up, no company
got together to work it. And hard by is the
auriferous quartz vein of Ophir '

^ Excuse my interrupting you,' said Herring,
' but may I know whether you believe
in Upaver having ever been Ophir? '

That is a matter into which I do not
enter. I put all these antiquarian theories
aside. I look at the plain facts. Is gold
found there, or is it not ? '

Gold is certainly washed there. How it
comes there I do not pretend to say.'

You mean to insinuate that it is not dug
out of the mine.'

I doubt it, because I mistrust old Tram-clara,
and I think the way in which the affair
has been got up is suspicious Did you ever
hear the old people call Upaver Ophir ? '

^No, but there is a similarity in the
names. However, as I told you, I put all
these antiquarian conceits on one side.'

Mr. Battishill, we must consider them
as an integral part of the swindle, if swindle
it be. You do not, I presume, believe in the

Jews and Phoenicians having worked this
mine in remote ages ? '

I tell you I do not think of this at all; I
am not qualified to enter into and examine
this question. But when it comes to gravel
containing gold dust, why, bless my soul !
my eyes are th best judges. As for the Jews
and Phoenicians, there is, at all events, this to
be said for the theory of their having been
here, that they dropped a shekel — a silver
shekel — I saw it with my own eyes. I have
an impression of it in my desk. Thus where
a Jewish coin has been found, there in all
probability a Jew has been to drop it.'

Who found the coin ? ^

The Keverend Israel Flamank bought it
of Grizzly Cobbledick, who had picked it up
in his garden, or somewhere near the Giant's
Table.'

'I beg you, sir, I entreat you, as you
love your home and respect the name you
bear, not to have anything to do with Ophir
till I have followed this shekel up to its origin.
It may serve as a clue by which the mystery
will be unravelled. I will go and see Grizzly
himself, and ascertain from his own lips where
he found it, or rather, whether he found it
at all.'

g2

Ycu are a sceptic,' said Mr. Battishill,
^ steeped in the spirit of the age.'

'- Well,' asked Cicely, when Herring came
out, ' what is the result ? ' She noticed that
he was looking excited.

Your father is bitten with Ophir,' he
answered. ' He and I have nearly come to
hard words. It is the first time we have had
any difference, and we have been warm on
both sides. I must find out about Ophir, if
only to save him ; for Tramplara has woven
his web round him, and has so dusted his
eyes with gold that he can neither free himself
nor see clearly where he is. He will infallibly
be brought to ruin again by that
wretched old man, unless I get to the bottom
of the mystery of this accursed Ophir.'

Oh, Mr. Herring ! ' pleaded Cicely,
putting her hands together; ' do — do help us.'

Yes, Miss Cicely.'

I beg your pardon,' she said, and the
clouds cleared from her pleasant face. ' Cousin
John, what should we — what should I do
without you ? '

I have done nothing as yet. But I am
determined to expose Ophir, and by so doing
to save your father.'

How will you set about it ? '

I have a clue — a shekel.'

John Herring went in search of Grizzly.
The old savage was now generally to be found
near Ophir. The mine exercised a strange
attraction on the wild old man. The visitors
spoke to him, and asked him questions about
the Giant's Table, and the Jews, and the gold,
and then made him presents. Some of the
more intemperate among the Temperate had
serious thought of setting him up as a representative
of Jonadab the son of Eechab,
and put leading questions to him, to elicit
from him traditions of such descent. But
further inquiries into the habits and peculiarities
of his parent stock at Kymet
damped their enthusiasm. The Nymet
savages, even if temperate, which was doubtful,
were not shining moral lights to hold upas
examples in other particulars. Grizzly had
become somewhat civilised by association
with human beings. When he was tired of
being questioned, he rambled off upon the
moors, and disappeared up the stream in the
direction of Marlborough Pool, but not for
long. The stir of Ophir drew him back. He
liked watching the stampers, and to stand on
the bank above the washing floors, chuckling
and sniggering at the people examining the
sediment and picking out the glittering
grains. . .

There Herring found him. He at once
attacked him on the subject of the shekel.

I found 'n in the birth just below the
great stone to the head o' the Giant's Table.
I found 'n about six foot your inches below
the surpass o' the ground. There was dree or
your more, all alike, but Loramussy ! I didn't
give nun (them) no heed. I thought they
wasn't worth nothing, and I give nun to my
little maid to play wi'. But her, I reckon,
ha' lost the lot, all but thick as I sold to
the Reverend Israelite Flamank, and he sed it
were an Israelitish shekeh I've a- heard the
old vols used to call the Giant's Table a
Gilgal, but they don't do that no more ; and
I can mind how this were always called
Ophir, but the folks as is skollards took to
naming ^n Upaver, and that be all I've a got
to say. I can't say nothing about Jonadab
the son o' Rechab, as were my great-granter,
cos a died when I was a baby. I'll thanked
to remember a poor man as is nigh fourscore
years old, and 'ud die afore he'd let a
drop o' other liker down his throat but pure
water, glory railaluley, harden.' And he
held out his hand. 'Oh! I beg pardon;
didn't think 'twere the young Squire. No
offence.'

Cobbledick,' said Herring, ' have you

ever found any more silver sheets about the
Table?'

No, never ; only once for all.'

How deep down did you say they
were ? '

What did I say ? I found 'n in the birth
just below the big stone to the head o' the
Giant's Table. I found 'n about six foot your
inches below the surpass o' the ground.'

I have heard that already, word for word.
Can you give me any idea of the depth, not in
words, but by showing me about the depth
that you call six foot four inches ? '

Cobbledick looked blankly at him.

What do you take your own height to
be?'

Grizzly was posed.

'I suppose it took a deal of sinking
to reach the depth where — you found the
sheets ? '

Loramussy, maister ! ' exclaimed the old
wretch, ' weeks and weeks ; that shaft yonder
were nothing to it.'

•' That will do, Grizzly.'

Herring was convinced that the old man
was repeating by rote a lesson that had been
taught him. However much he was questioned
and cross-questioned he returned to the same
story, in the same words. Herring gave up

the hope of getting anything more in this
quarter. Cobbledick had degenerated into a
beggar — a wretched, canting beggar, accommodating
his whine to the craze of the persons
who visited Ophir.

But Herring was not going to abandon
the clue of the shekel because he could find
out nothing from Grizzly. He went to the
Giant's Table to catechise Joyce, but she was
not there.

Joyce was now nearly Avell. The splints
had been taken off her arms, and she could
use her hands, and do light work ; but the
hands were stiff, and long inaction had
weakened her arms.

Herring could not spare the time to wait
for her return; he did not know where she
was, and he was due at the Oxenham Arms
for the final settlement of the arrangement
between Trecarrel and Trampleasure, in which
he was a party.

On the morrow. Captain Trecarrel left.
In the evening Herring went in quest of
Joyce and found her hoeing in the little field.
He called, and she ran to him as a dog to its
master, and with as marked demonstrations
of delight at seeing him.

Joyce, I came here yesterday to find
you, and you were away.'

Oh dear, oli dear, though ! ' she exclaimed;
' I were wiring a rabbit

Joyce, I want a word with you.'

You can have scores ; as many as you
wants.'

I know. A woman is free of her words.
You must tell me the truth now, my little
maid, for a good deal depends on it.'

Did I ever teller a lie, now ? ' asked
Joyce, offended. ' You may cut me in pieces
afore I'll say other than what be true to you.'

What I want to know, Joyce, is, where
did your father get that shekel ? '

I don't know what that be.'

A silver coin. He says he found three
or four here under one of the stones of the
Table There is a branch on one side, and
on the other a cup with a flame rising out
of it.'

I never seed nothing of the sort, nowhere.'


Your father says that he gave them to
you, and that you lost all, except one which
he retained and sold to Mr. Flamank.'

Joyce shook her head.

You have never seen anything of the
kind?'

It be just one o' whither's pack o' lies,'
answered the candid Joyce ; ^ whither lev

been lying finely since Ophir began. He
never showed me nothing like that ; he never
give me no silver money. He never had
none to give till Ophir began.'

You are very positive.'

If you doubt, I'll say, Blast me blue '

That will do,' interrupted Herring ;
your word will suffice without the blue
blazes to colour it.'

The old man had lied about the shekel.
He had not given it to the girl, he had therefore
probably not found it at all, but it had
been given him by those who had put the
story into his mouth.

I'll ax whither if you likes,' said Joyce ;
he'll tell me, all right.'

I do not think he will. That is all I
wanted to know, my dear girl.'

I say,' said Joyce, ^ doant'y go off now
riffht on end. Sit you down a mite here in

'&'

yo

the sun and have a chat. I never see nothing
of you now, not as it used to be when I were
ill and scott to bits. I almost wish my arms
was broke again, that you could come and seeme
every day. That were beautiful.'

Very well, Joyce, by all means. I have
nothing particular to do, so I am quite at
your service.' He sat down by the girl
under the lee of the great stones. It was

warm there and pleasant, leaning against the
grey blocks of hoar antiquity and unknown
use, stained orange and silvery white with
lichen, and with white frosty moss like antlers
of elfin deer filling the nooks in the stones.
The ants were crawling over the moss in the
sun ; they were migrating and wore their
wings for that one day. Turf was heaped up
at the side of the cromlech, forming a rude
bench. On this the two sat. As he took his
place the thought came into Herring's head
that far away in the dim prehistoric age, some
such a savage as that which sat beside him
had assisted when it was reared.

'It be lew (sheltered) here said Joyce;
whither lev took to sitting here mostly on
a Sunday when he ain't wanted to the mine.'

He leaves you very much alone now.'

That he does. Either be much changed
o' late. The yokes there ha' taught 'n to
smoke, and they give 'n a bit o' jackie now and
then, and when he haven't got no jackie, then
he flips off this here moss, this black sort o'
trade on the moonstone, and he smokes that.'

A new sort of life for him,' said Herrinof.

It amuses he,' answered the girl. ' He
says he didn't know as Gorolmity had so
many rules in the world. He says they be as
plenty as stones on Dartmoor.'

I dare say they are, and certainly those
are fools who congregate about Ophir.'

Either likes to hear nun talk, and go
sifting and cradling and washings for the soldo

O CO

It makes 'n laugh, it do.'

'Why, Joyce?'

Why, because there hasn't none of 'em
knows where the gold comes from, and there
hasn't one of 'em as don't think himself as
wise as Cosdon is big.'

Where does the gold come from ? ' asked
Herring, eagerly, so eagerly that Joyce
turned sharply round and looked him hardin
the face.

Don't know neither? '

Indeed I do not.'

Either said as you didn't and nobody
didn't. And learned and skolards as the vol
be, whither be too much for nun.'

Joyce, if you can tell me where the gold
comes from I shall indeed be thankful.'

Do you wish very much to know ? '

Joyce was silent. She looked straight
before her. Something was working in her
mind.

Well, Joyce ? ' asked Herring ; he laid
his hand on hers. ' If you will tell me this,
you will repay me for all the little trouble I

took to make your poor hands sound and
strong again.'

Then I'll tell you, come what may. It
is just this that made me doubt to say.
Yaither 'd kill me sure as buzz blooms all the
year, if he snowed as I had told you. Look
here,' said Joyce; 'dory see thick ant there.
Well, he took up a great moonstone, and ses
he, " You, Joyce, be that ant, and I'll treat
you the same," and down with the stone.'

Yes,' said Herring, his blood curdling,
I understand you.'

And after that he sed, Glory rallaluley.'

Joyce, your father shall never know that
you told me.'

Whether he knows or not I'll tell, because
you wish it. If he does kill me, it don't
matter much.' Then she looked him steadily
in the eyes, and said : ' This be the way in
which it be done. Yaither puts the gold dustin.
When the bell rings, that's the signal for
he to be ready up at the head o' the launder *
(wooden channel) ' where the water runs along
to go to the washing pans, and he just slips in
some of the gold into the water. So the stream
carries it down into the washing places where
the pounded stone is ready to be washed.'

Herring almost laughed. The solution of
the puzzle was simplicity itself — so simple

that it lead escaped every one. Every eye had
watched the stone, no one had thought that
the water might be salted.

^ I'll show you some of it,' said Joyce.
There is a little bag hid away under the
table. You understand whither don't put
none in when there be no rules to find it.
Old Tramplara pulls a cord, and that lets the
water on ; and when the water is let on,
whither sprinkles the gold in it. He don't doit
when there be no rules there, for Tram-clara
ses he hasn't got much of the gold to
waste. Then, after it has been washed and
sorted out, he gives it back to whither, and in
it goes again for more rules to find. I've
done it once or twice myself for whither, when
he couldn't go himself. That be how I came
to know about it.'

^ I am lastingly indebted to you, Joyce, for
telling me this.'

You won't bring whither to no harm
because of this, willy now? That 'ud be too
cruel unkind o' you. But no — you'll never
do no hurt to me nor whither, I be sure'

Indeed I will not, dear Joyce. I shall
never forget what I owe to you for having
told me this; and I promise you your father
shall not suffer for it.'

Chapter XXYIL

cobble dick's rheumatics.

John Herein did not go at once to Mr.
Battishill with the account of what he had
heard. He waited till he had himself witnessed
the transaction. Some time before the
public were admitted to the mine, he went in
that direction, making however a wide circuit,
and secreted himself behind some of the
rocks that commanded the head of the
launder.' There he remained till Old Grizzly
arrived, and, after having looked about him,
lay down beside the stream close to the sluice
that let the water into the wooden conduit
for the washing floors.

Herring saw him strew the dust in the
stream as it was admitted ; he remained at
his post of observation till some time after
Cobbledick had departed, and then he went
direct to West Wyke.

He told Mr. Battishill what he had learned
from Joyce, and how he had verified the

account with his own eyes. It was true he
had not arrested Grizzly's hand and taken
the gold dust out of it ; but he had seen some
of the gold supplied to the old man by Tram-clara,
and which he kept secreted under the
Giant's Table, and there was no moral doubt
that what the old man had strewn in the
water was that gold powder which Tramplara
intended should be found in the pans.

The revelation of the fraud made Mr.
Battishill excited and angry.

What,' he exclaimed, helpless in his
agitation — ' what is to be done ? Good
heavens ! what can be done? '

That is what I have been considering.
You are a justice of the peace, and you must
sign a Warrant for the arrest of Mr. Tram-clara
and his son. There can be no question
that young Sampson is involved in the swindle
equally with his father, who is the originator
and mainspring of the whole concern.'

I have not acted for many years. I had
rather not.'

But, sir, I think it most important that
you should take this matter up. Remember,
this fraud has been carried out on your
property, under a lease granted by you, and
that you come out of it without the loss
of a penny. I think it possible — I only say

possible — that some inconsiderate person
may cast reflections on you. Fortunately,
your name is not on the list of directors, so
that you will not be involved in the ruin this
discovery will bring on many ; but your
abstention from becoming one may be commented
on unfavourably, unless you cut the
occasion away. If you issue a warrant for
the apprehension of the wretched swindlers,
and become the main instrument of the
break-up of the company and the exposure
of the dishonest trick that ins ]been played,
no one can wag his tongue against you.'

You are right,' said the old man. He
held out his hand to Herring, and the tears
came into his eves. ' John, I cannot thank
you sufficiently for having protected me
against myself. I confess to you that old
Tramplara had talked my suspicions down,
and had raised in my breast the demon of
cupidity. No, I will not say cupidity, but
speculation. I do not care for money in
itself, but I do delight in making it, or, what
is the same thing, in scheming how to make
it. I suspect I have been too overweening in
my esteem of my own powers, and now you
have given that conceit a fatal fall. Do you
remember the wrestle in " As You Like it ? "
Sir," I sav with Rosalind, " you have

VOL. II. H

wrestled well, and overthrown more than '^
Tramplara. I trust my self-esteem is dead
as Charles. I shall never again venture to
have an opinion contrary to yours.'

But, Mr. Battishill, is not this a little
wandering from the point ? I want a
warrant for the apprehension of father and
son.'

It is no wandering at all. I am explaining
to you the reason of my submission. I
tell you that you have but to propose a
measure, and I carry it out as best I may.
Go to Okehampton, and get a clerk to make
out a warrant, and I will sign it.'

One think' more. I do not wish old
Cobbledick to be arrested. He is too stupid
and too ignorant to know what he has been
doing, and it must be managed that he is
allowed to escape. I have passed my word
to Joyce that he shall not be brought into
trouble. Poor Joyce is in terror of her life
of him, and if he were to suspect that she
had betrayed the secret it would go hard
with her.'

Oh no,' said Mr. Battishill, hastily ;
Cobbledick is my tenant, that is, a squatter
on my land, and I must protect him if I
can.'

It can be managed said Herring. ' I

will go to him, and tell him plainly what I
saw to-day, and threaten that I will have him
apprehended, unless he absents himself tomorrow,
and gets the Tramplaras to appoint a
substitute. After that I will communicate
with the constable, and we shall succeed
in arresting gold-handed the fellow who salts
the water

Poor Cobbledick ! I should be very sorry
for trouble to come on him. He is a beast,
not a man, and these Tramplaras have put
him in shafts and driven him where they
chose to go,'

One thing more,' pursued Herring
'Directly we have caught the man in the act,
I must ride to Launceston at fill speed. Old
Tramplara is not here. He has gone home
because his daughter is about to be married ;
by the way, the marriage is to take place this
week, I believe. If the news were to reach
him before he is arrested, he would draw
every penny of the shareholders' money from
the bank, and make a bolt with it. Before
we knew whether he were gone to Plymouth
or Falmouth, he would be on the high seas,
and those who have invested in Ophir would
lose everything.'

You are right, John, right again. You
take every one's interests under your pro
2

section. I suspect there will be wailing and
wringing of hands when this scandal breaks
on the religio speculative world.'

Herring did not see Cobbledick till next
morning After the interview with Mr.
Battishill, he rode into Okehampton and
obtained the warrant. He did not wish to
speak to Grizzly long before he dealt the
stroke, lest he should give the alarm. When
he did speak, he was straightforward with
him.

Cobbledick,' he said, ' I have long entertained
suspicions of Ophir. I knew it was a
swindle, but how the winding was managed
I did not know till yesterday. I had gone
through every process of the mine attentively',
except one, and I was satisfied that the
trickery was not committed under my eyes
in the mine itself. There was only one
process I had not studied, and that was one
which took place above the workings. I allude
to the letting on of the water that washes the
goshen. Yesterday I watched that, hiding
under a rock, and I saw you steal to the head
of the launder, and I observed you salting the
water with gold-dust. Now I know exactly
how the fraud is carried out. Are you aware
of the consequences? I have only to apply
to a magistrate for a warrant, and you are

arrested and committed to gaol, and there you
will probably lie for many months.'

Cobbledick's face became livid.

I do not want to throw you into prison,
partly because I believe 3'ou have acted in
ignorance of what you were doing, but chiefly
because I wish to fix the noose round the
right throats.'

'Capons Tramplara set me on it,' said
Cobbledick ; ' he sed, if I didn't do 'sickly
as he wanted, he'd tear down the Giant's
Table, and be altogether the ruin o' me.
He'd got that hold on Squire Battishill that
lie couldn't help me. And I did it to save
myself.'

I am quite aware that Mr. Tramplara
made you his tool, and 1 do not want you
to suffer, if it can be avoided, because you
have been an ignorant and unwilling tool.'

Unwilling,' echoed Grizzly, ' I'll swear ;
glory rallaluley.'

I repeat that I wish to spare you because
you were an ignorant tool, and also, and that
especially, because of poor Joyce, who would
be heart-broken were anything to happen to
you, unnatural father though you be.'

^ Ah ! sure-ly it 'ud kill Joyce. Her be
that looked up wi' me, her can't abide as no

^ The head of a mine bears the title of captain.

harm should come to T. What 'ud her do
without me, I'd Hke to know? Where'd her
get meat, and clothes, and hire? If I
were looked and put in the lock-up, herd
die right on end wi' fright and hunger.'

The mean old man enforced this view of
the case, thinking to deepen Herring's reluctance
to compromise him.

^ There may be two opinions about that,'
said Herring : ' suffice it, however, that for
the sake of Joyce I would spare you. Now
the only way this can be done is for you to
decline salting the water tomorrow, when I
and other witnesses will be there to see the
thing done, and I shall be prepared to arrest
the doer.'

If I don't do it, then it be Joyce who does.'

But Joyce must not do it. Who is in
charge of the mine this week ? '

Young Sampson Tramplara.'

every well; tell him that you can't be
there.'

Ow ! ' yelped the old man, ^ I be took
already cruel wi' the rheumatics. I reckon
in another half a wink I shan't be able to stir
neither foot nor hand.'

^ So let it be. Your rheumatism incapacitates
you from attending to your work,
and Joyce is sent far off, on an errand.

Then Mr. Sampson will employ another
man.'

He'll do it himself. He don't let no one
else unto the dodge except me and Joyce.'

So much the better. Then we shall catch
the prime culprit in the act. Now, Cobble -
dick, you understand. Not one word of this
must be repeated. If you let out what I have
told you, then your chance of escape is gone.
I shall have you arrested this evening, and
you will spend the night in the lock-up.
You comprehend this ? '

The old man put his dirty finger to
his eye and winked. ' My grander wasn't
Jonadab the son o' Rechab. I ain't a yule,
it be them as goes to Ophir as be the
vules.^

Herring left him. Then Cobbledick's face
changed. He was fairly frightened. He
sought Joyce at once ; no suspicion crossed
him that she had betrayed the secret.

Joyce,' he said in a hoarse whisper, ' the
thing's a' busted blazes high.'

What be, whither? '

Ophir, as they calls it. The young
maister lev a found out all about 'n.'

Joyce was alarmed ; she looked uneasily at
her father, but there was no anger in his face.

Joyce,' he went on, ' that old Capon

Traraplara lev never give me what lieve a
promised.'

What lev he a promised ? '

He sed he'd a give me as many pounds
o' jackie as I worked days for he, a salting
o' the water. He ain't paid me not these
three weeks. See here, I hit' notched it
on thick stone. Xowhe don't know nothing
o' this here bust-up. And when he do hear,
then he'll not give me no jackie more. And,
I reckon, he won't pay me that he already
owes me. So you cut along to Lanson so
vast as your legs can carry you.'

Yaither, I know nothing o' the road.'

You cut right on end after the tip o'
your nose,' he said, ' and you cut so vast as
you can. You cannot miss 'n. And mind,
you must get there afore the news of the
bust-up do come to the Cap'n, and you tell 'n
this : " Give me the jackie in pounds " — that's
just so many pounds as you've fingers and
toes on your body, and one over for your
head. Now don't you be a jackass and forget
that one over. A head is every mite as much
constance to a human cretur as his little toe.
And you say to 'n : " Give me as much jackie
in pounds as I've fingers and toes, and a
head; " and you hold 'n out all straight for 'n

that he may count main himself. And you mind
you don't forget to reckon your head in.
Then you go on and say, " I'll teller something
mighty particular about Ophir." Say as
whither sent me lopping all the way, so hard
as I could lop. And if he gives you the jackie,
then you can tell 'n all — how the young
maister lev found out all about 'n, and be
going to lock up him and the young Cap'n
Sampson in gaol. But if he don't given the
jackie, then you can just please yourself and
tell 'n nothing. There now, don't bide
about, but cut away.'

But you, whither ! Will you get into
trouble ? '

I — I'm about to be took cruel bad wi'
rheumatics, and what they calls the loinbagey.
Now, afore you goes to Lanson, just you cut
down to Ophir, and tell Cap'n Sampson I
wants to see 'n mighty particular here to the
Table.'

An hour later, young Sampson Tramplara
was at the cromlech. As he approached, he
heard moaning and cries issuing from the
interior.

What the devil is the matter here ? ' he
asked, looking in. ' Who is that howling and
groaning ? '

Oh, Cap'n, it be me ; I be took cruel bad
wi' rheumatics and the loinbagey.'

^ Well, I'm not your doctor.'

'" I sent to teller that I couldn't fulfil my
duty to-day there to Ophir.'

Then your daughter can do it.'

^ Her's off to Lanson.'

What the devil is she gone there for ? '

Sure, after my jackie. Your whither
he promised me a pound a day for the work
I did, and he ain't paid me for a long while.
Looked there, I ha' notched it all on the
stone. There be as many days as you have
fingers and toes, and your head chucked in as
well.'

You fool ! ' exclaimed young Tramplara,
why did you not apply to me, instead of
sending all the way to Launceston for it ? '

Cos, if I'd ha' axed you, you'd ha'
throned a curse at me instead o' a pound o'
jackie.'

You damned blockhead,' swore the young
man, angrily.

There — I sed as much. I'd rather lev
the jackie, though 'tother don't hurt, it only
tickles.'

Curse it,' exclaimed Sampson, in a violent
rage ; ^ there is a particular reason to-day
why I want the water well salted. Damn

your rheumatism ; you must be at your
post.'

^ I can't and I won't said Grizzly, sulkily.

^ It is. You won't, not you can't,' blustered
Sampson; then he gathered his stick short in
his hand, and catching the old man by the
ragged collar of his coat, he beat him well,
pouring forth at the same time a volley of
curses.

This is all sham ; I don't believe in your
rheumatism. This is idleness. You are a
good-for-nothing scoundrel. I'll give you
occasion to moan and cry out.'

You leave me alone, Cap'n,' yelled Cob-benedick.
' You forget, I reckon, that I lev
got the hanging of y in my hands.'

It may be so, but you forget that if I
swing you swing also ; one rope will do for
both of us,' said Sampson. ' And for that
reason I do not fear you in the least. Now
then, will you do your work again to-day? '

I can't

I'll give you five pounds of backie.^

I say what I ses ; I can't do it.'

Then,' said young Sampson, ^ there is
no help for it ; I must manage the job myself.'


You'd better,' assented Grizzly; ' if I
was you, I wouldn't trust nobody else.'

I don't mean to,' answered Sampson.
He was panting after the thrashing he had
administered, and as he cooled he began to
question his discretion in giving way to his
brutality. ' I say, Cobbledick, you mind this;
you and I and my father are all in the same
box, and you in the worst compartment of
it, for it is you who have put the dust in.
My father and I can always put on the look
of innocence and throw the blame on you.
You, if the rope has to be tasted, you will
have the first bite.'

I understand,' said the old man, putting
his finger to his eye. ' Jonadab the son of
Kechab weren't my father. I ain't a yule;
it be they as goes to Ophir be the rules.'

You won't take it ill that I thrashed
you. You put me out, and I am naturally of
a quick temper.'

I say, Cap'n ; I wouldn't let none else
do the job to-day. I'd do it myself if 1 was
you.'

^ I intend to. I told you I did.'

That be right. Do it yourself.'

Then young Sampson left the den. Ashe
was turning away, he thought he heard
loud laughter from within. He was of a
suspicious nature, and he turned back.

What are you laughing at, Cobbledick? '

I ain't laughing ; I be screeching vi'
pain. What wi' the rheumatics, and the ,
and the licking I ha' had, I lev cause
to, I reckon; and I ses glory rallaluley between
the twinges by way of easement.'

CHAPTER XXYIIL

CAUGHT IN THE ACT.

Whilst young Sampson was with Old Grizzly
in his den, Herring was on his way down the
Okehampton road to meet the constable at a
spot already agreed upon. When he came to
the point near the stream where the track to
Ophir diverged from the high road, he found
two post carriages drawn up in the way, from
which were descending a party of grave-looking
persons of a hard appearance of face, as if
they were all in a spiritual and mental ironmongery
trade. They were under the lead
of the Rev. Israel Flamank, who was about
to conduct them over the mine.

The way to it across the moor was rough,
and not good travelling for a carriage. The
chaises were ordered to go to Zeal, and the
party, well supplied with comestibles, prepared
to walk to Ophir, examine the washing
of the gold, and then picnic in a serio-specu-
native mood on the moor.

Mr. Flamank was a veritable decoy-duck
to the Tramplaras. Full of enthusiasm,
earnest in belief, transparently sincere, he
impressed even those who had cool judgments.
He looked on Ophir as his own
discovery, and was proud of it. To hear
him talk, the Bible was written as a husfe
puff of Ophir, and the Christian ministry
called into existence to tout for shares.

Herring was slightly acquainted with him.
He had seen him several times at Ophir, and
he knew that the man was sincere and honest.
He pitied him because he saw him running
head foremost to moral and pecuniary ruin.
As he passed, he raised his hat to Mr. Fla-man,
who responded with a few words on
the weather.

Herring observed him for a moment
or two. Flamank was an excitable little
man, and was specially excited on this occasion.
On this occasion he had brought with
him several men of means as well as piety,
whom he particularly desired to secure for
Ophir. Their faith was weak. They were
ready enough to believe, with a thin kettle -
broth faith, in any folly that would not cost
them money, but when it came to embarking
capital they asked to be established in their
faith.

Herring was so kind at heart that, moved
by a sudden impulse of pity, he resolved to
give Flamank a chance of extricating himself
from the wreck, unhurt in character if not in
pocket. He called the pastor aside, and asked
him to spare him a few moments.

I am very busy,' said the minister, looking
over his shoulder; ' I have a large party
here, I cannot well be spared.'

Sir, what I have to says to you is of the
utmost importance. Send the party on with
the promise of rejoining it. There is no
possibility of their mistaking the way, which
is well trampled like that which led to the
den of the sick lion.'

Very well, as you wish,' answered Israel,
resignedly.

When all had departed, and Herring was
quite alone with Mr. Flamank, he told him
everything with complete frankness, and
assured him of the total and irretrievable
collapse of Ophir within a couple of hours.
To say that the pastor was aghast is to understate
the case; and yet he was unable at once
to realise the completeness of the ruin with
which he and Ophir were menaced.

Nothing will shake my faith in the Phoenicians
having been here,' he said. ' We are
expressly told that Ophir lies between

Meshaw and Sheepstor, and this place is
exactly halfway between them as the crow
flies.'

But it is a honos flight for the crow, and
there are many other places where Ophir maybe
found beside this. Here we have distinct
evidence of dishonesty.'

There is evil always mixed with good,
and falsehood is associated with truth,' sighed
Mr. Flamank. ' It may be — of course, as you
state you have seen it, it must be — that there
is trickery here, but still Ophir is somewhere
hereabouts.'

That of course is possible. But we have
not now to consider the whereabouts of Ophir,
but the whereabouts of your reputation and
your capital, both sunk in this swindle.' Then
the full truth of Herring's words came home
to the Reverend Israel. He sobbed and
clasped his hands convulsively. ' Good Lord ! '
he moaned, ' avert this blow from me. I
am prostrate ! I do not so much mind the
loss of all my little savings intrusted to
Trampleasure for the purposes of the mine, as
the loss of my character, the ruin of my influence,
the destruction of my position. I
have spoken and written about Ophir, and
induced so many to embark their little means
in it ! Believing widows and Christian old

VOL. II. I

maids have ventured their all in Ophir. 1
have urged them to it, assuring them it was
a sound venture; I have shown them the sure
word of prophecy speaking of Ophir ; and
now, what will become of them and of me ? '

My purpose is to ride to Launceston and
have old Mr. Trampleasure arrested before he
hears the news and can decamp with the
money.'

Oh, Mr. Herring, what is to be done ?
What can I do to put myself right ? '

I see one course open to you. You come
with me and the constable and watch the
process of salting, and help us to secure young
Sampson Tramplara, or whoever does it.
You will give evidence against those who
are acting fraudulently. You will assist mein
exposing the rascality. It will not then be
possible for your good name to suffer, though
your pocket may and probably will be
lighter.'

Thank you, thank you so much, Mr.
Herring,' said the unfortunate man ; ' I shall
never be able to repay what you are doing
for me save by my prayers. I accept your
proposal. How is it to be carried out? '

You must go after your friends, and
make some excuse for deserting them. Then
return to me, and I will take you with me*

I must start the constable, who is going to the
same spot by another route. Stay I you
have a brown speckled shawl over your
arm.'

^ It belongs to a lady of my party.'

Take it with you. Your black suit
might be visible, but enveloped in the shawl
you will be unobserved amidst the heather.'

The moor was clear. No one was visible
on the flank of Cosdon or on the hillside
opposite, as Herring and his companion stole
cautiously under cover to a place which commanded
the sluice. Herring placed the pastor
at some distance from himself ; he wished the
constable to be with him, so that they might
make a rush together on the man they desired
to take.

The constable had made a considerable
detour ; he had, in fact, worked round the
hill from an opposite direction. Herring was
on the look-out for him, and signed to him
with a handkerchief fluttered behind a rock
where to rejoin him.

The day was bright, but a cool wind blew
from the north-west, rolling scattered masses
of white cloud, like giant icebergs floating ina
polar sea. Autumn was closing in. The
days were shortening, the fern becoming
russet, the heath had lost its bells ; only a
I 2

few sprigs of heather retained their harsh, dry-blossoms.
The gorse no longer bloomed
throughout, though here and there one little
gold flower still shoved. ' When the furze is
out of bloom, then sweet love is out of tune
says a Devonshire proverb, which acquires
its force from the fact that the gorse is in
flower throughout the year. The whortleberry
leaves were turned orange and
crimson. Out of the peat the coral moss
showed its scarlet incrustations.

To my thinking,' said the constable, who
found silence irksome, ' the words ' (whortleberries)
' of the wood ain't to compare with the
words of the moor. The wood words is the
bigger, but the moor words is the sweeter.
Do you like wort-pie with clotted cream on it
as thick as the pastry ? '

Herring nodded.

He who don't like that don't know wdiat
good living is,' said the constable.

This functionary was a stout man, with
a florid face and very pale blue eyes. He
was silent for a while, and then he began
again.

I suppose I oughtn't stand up and stretch
my legs,' he asked ; 'I'm in such a constrained
and awkerd position sitting here on my
'bunches so long.'

Certainly not said Herring, hastily. ' I
entreat you to remain as you are.'

There was a little fellow ] snowed when
1 was a boy in Tawton — he's dead now. He
had been to sea, but he wasn't good for much,
he were so small in size. Heave a told me
oft and oft the tale how he were looked by
pirates in the Mediterranean, and sold as a
slave at Morocco, in one of them American
States, I reckon. He said that the Moors
couldn't make much of 'n, he were so small.
He were no good to work in the mines, and
he were no good to wheel weights. So, as
they was determined to have their money's
worth out of he, they made 'n sit day and
night in one constrained and unnatural position
— hatching turkey eggs.'

Then he relapsed into silence, but not for
honor.

Presently he spoke again. ' I repose I
mayn't light a pipe ? ' his faint mild eyes
looked pleadingly at Herring.

Certainly not.'

I didn't repose I might. I axed because
it be tedious waiting. No offence meant.'

After a further weary pause, he said in an
undertone — ' You don't think now, master,
that he we be going to take will prove
dangerous ? '

I dare [say lie will show fight. If he be
young Mr. Sampson Tramplara, he probably
will.'

Oh ! ' the rosy apple cheeks looked less
cheery. ' Look here, sir ; my body be as
big as a rhinoceros, but my soul be no bigger
than a nit. There seems a deal o' me, looking
at me cursorily, sir ; but it ain't heart,
sir, it be bacon.'

Hush ! ' whispered Herring, ^ look out.
Here comes some one from the mine.'

That be young Mr. Sampson Tramplara,'
said the constable. ' From battle, murder, and
sudden death, good Lord deliver us.' He
spoke in an undertone. The wind blew up
the valley, and there was not the remotest
chance of his being heard. Then he added ina
whisper, ^ You'll mind what I said, in confidence,
sir, about my courage. I'll back anyone
up, sir, but don't thrust me forrard.
There be diversity of gifts, and I be famous
at backing.'

Herring held up his finger. He looked in
the direction of Flamank, but could not distinguish
him. He was among the tufts of
brown heather, and the speckled cloak was
over him, completely merging him in the
bushes.

Keep a sharp look - out,' whispered

Herring, 'and when I touch you, spring up,
and run with me down on Sampson Tram-pleasure.
We must not let him slip away.'

They saw the young man come stealthily
up the valley, looking right and left, evidently
somewhat uneasy. The ' leat ' or channel of
water came to a grip in the moor-side, and
was carried over it in a long wooden launder
on daddy long-legs' supports. The stream
was conveyed thence, still in wood, and
covered, round an elbow of hill, and reached
the washing-floors by a rapid incline. A wire
conducted on poles from the mine to the
sluice let the water on without the necessity
of ascending to the launder head, which was
invisible from the mine itself.

The stamping-mills were working, and the
drum was revolving and grinding. A second
leat carried the water to put these in motion.
Herring and the constable could hear the
thud, thud of the hammers and the monotonous
crunching of the crusher.

Young Tramplara knelt down by the
sluice, and took a packet from his breast
pocket. Presently the poles supporting the
wire creaked and swung in the direction of
Ophir, and the sluice door was lifted. At
once the water rushed down the wooden
trough, and Sampson was seen, after a furtive

glance round, to sprinkle the advancing stream
with the contents of his packet.

Herring touched the constable, and both
rose and advanced from behind the rock.
Tramplara's back was towards them, and he
Alas unaware of their approach. The wind
was from him, and he did not hear their steps.
At the same time the Reverend Israel Flamank
rose and shook off his brown shawl. Herring
and the constable were within a few paces of
the young man, when he stood up, dusted
his hands, and turned. Instantly he saw them,
and uttered a cry of mingled rage and alarm.
He turned sharply to run; then, thinking
better of it, turned back again, and faced
them, and, cjuick as thought, drew a pistol
from his pocket and presented it at the head
of John Herring. As he fixed him with his
eye, Sampson recognised with whom he had
to do, and Herring saw the flash of recognition
in his evil eye. ' By God ! ' said
Sampson between his teeth, ' I am not sorry
for this. I'll settle old accounts with you
this minute.'

Herring saw the finger twitch at the
trigger, and instinctively bent his head. He
heard the report at the same moment, followed
by a cry and a heavy fall behind him.
He was himself unhurt, and his first impulse

was to close with Sampson, but, turning
his head, he saw the constable lying motionless,
and, with a call to Mr. Flamank to run
after Sampson, he stooped over the prostrate
man.

The constable's face was mottled ; all
colour had deserted it but a dead purple in
blotches in the cheeks. His eyes were closed,
and he was motionless. Seeing the pistol produced,
the worthy man had sprung behind
John Herring, true to his word that he was
good at backing. When Herring bent his
head, the constable had received the charge
which was designed to blow out Herring's
brains.

John Herring scooped water out of the
stream, and threw it over the poor fellow's face.
Then he tore off his neckcloth, and ripped
open his waistcoat in search of the wound.
The freshness of the water brought the man
round. He opened his pale eyes, looked
scarcely at Herring, and closed them again.

'Are you much hurt? Where did the
shot strike? ' asked John Herring.

Again the constable opened his eyes cautiously,
and now he turned his head stiffly.

Where is he ? ' he asked huskily.

He has run away. Are you seriously
hurt?'

Very,' sighed the poor man.

'But where?'

I can't speak yet. Wait a bit, and I will
teller.'

In the meantime Sampson Trampleasure
was running. He stopped his flight after he
had gone some little distance, and looked
back. He saw Herring bowed over the prostrate
man, opening his waistcoat and uncovering
his breast. With a curse, he turned
and ran on.

Flamank, with tails flying, waving the
brown shawl like a lasso over his head, ran
after him, shouting, 'Heigh! stop, Mr. Sampson!
stop! You have killed the constable!
You must be hung ! Stay and let me catch
you ! '

Try to stand,' said Herring to the constable.
He lifted him to his feet.

I be the father of fourteen, and another
coming,' said the poor man. He was dreadfully
frightened ; he peered about him in all
directions.

And the eldest fifteen,' he murmured.
Be you sure the murderous russian be out o'
harm's way?'

Certain. Have you been hit? '

Ay, I have.'

'Then where?'

Here said the constable, holding up his
hat.

The ball had gone clean through it.

Just then Mr. Flamank returned, panting
and very hot.

I can't catch him. I have run and
shouted my best, but he would not wait to be
caught.'

He shall not escape me,' said Herring.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A RACE.

Sampson Tr ample sure ran to the mine,
burst through the assembled visitors, who
tried to arrest him with inquiries after Mr.
Flamank, and about the washings and rawlings
and puddings, and the whips and
whims. He had an oath and a curse for all
who stood in his way. He thrust to the
stable, where he saddled and bridled his horse,
and, in another moment, was galloping over
the rough road.

The shocked visitors shook their heads,
and concluded that there had been a breakage
in the machinery. It did not occur to them
that there had been a break-up of the entire
concern. That fact was revealed to them
later by the Rev. Israel Flamank.

Sampson Trampleasure reached the Okehampton
road and sped along it in the launceston
direction. When he had crossed the
bridge over the Taw at Sticklepath, and was

ascending the hill on the other side, he looked
back and saw some one on a grey in pursuit.
He knew the grey mare — she belonged to Mr.
Battishill, and he was certain that John
Herring bestrode her.

Ah ! ' said Sampson ; ' a race between
us which shall reach Launceston first.'

Mr. BattishilFs mare had been a good
horse once, but was now old. Sampson had
a young and sound cob under him. The mare
would be unable to endure so long a journey,
she must be exchanged at one of the next
stations. Sampson knew he could keep his
distance and get first to Launceston, but that
was not sufficient. He must delay Herrings
long enough to allow him to see his father,
and, with or without his father, to leave
Launceston before Herrings rode through its
gate. Believing that he had killed a man, he
was in great fear for himself, and he would
not have scrupled to fly without warning his
father, but that he was supplied with
money. He must make for a seaport that
same night; an hour would suffice, if he
could gain that.

The sun was setting as he rode over Sourton
Down. There was a turnpike there. He
called the man of the bar to him.

You know me. I am Sampson Tram-pleasure,

j union. I am riding a race with a
gentleman for a wager ; my horse is getting
beat, and I must secure a fresh mount at
Bridestowe. Here is a guinea ; I will give
you four more if you will delay the gentleman
a quarter of an hour.'

All right, sir ! We have to go some ways
for our tea-water ; I'll fasten the bar and go
for mine.'

Sampson did not wait to hear how Herring
was to be detained ; he rode as hard as he
could down the hill to Bridestowe, and drew
up at the inn door.

^ Here ! ' he shouted, ' give my horse some
gruel ; he is beat. Have you a horse I can
hire, hostler ? Mine won't carry me to Launceston.'


'He's not done yet,' said the hostler.
^ Most of our losses be gone on wi' two chaises,
but there be one in the stables that be fresh.
But how about getting of her back again? '

I'll leave mine if I take her,' said
Sampson. ' I'm back again tomorrow, and
I'll ride her here.'

You can look at her,' said the hostler ;
her ain't a beauty to look at, but her can go
brave enough.'

Sampson went into the stable. Presently
he came out.

^ Xo, Daniel, I don't like her looks. Be
sharp with the gruel and put a quart of your
strongest ale into it ; my bay will carry me
with that inside him.'

The hostler went leisurely about his work.

Daniel, this won't do. There has been
a breakage at Ophir, and I must be sharp
and tell my father. We must be back tomorrow
before daybreak, or everything will
be spoiled.'

'- All right, sir ; I'll look peart.'

Sampson was not satisfied with the man's
undertaking to look alert. He went himself
to the bar and gave his bay a quart of ale.

As he was galloping out of Bridestowe,
he heard the clatter of horse's hoofs descending
the hard road from Sourton Down, and he
knew that Herring was at his heels.

Herring had reached the toll-gate, and
found it barred. He had been unable to
make the man hear. He found both the
gate-house and bar locked. He was greatly
annoyed, and, riding back, lashed his grey,
and tried to make her leap the bar. But the
mare was too old and tired to risk it, and she
swerved. Then he tried to get round by a
side lane, and through fields, but found this
also impracticable. Full a quarter of an hour
passed before he could get through. The man

arrived at last, put down his water-can, and
leisurely unfastened the bar. Herring was
in too great haste to waste time in remonstrance.


The grey was failing ; she tripped, and
almost fell several times in descending the
hill to Bridestowe. He drew rein at the inn,
and called, ' Hostler ! here, I say ! '

All right, sir.'

Have you a spare horse? I must ride on
at once.'

There' ve a been a gent here already inquiring,'
said Daniel. ' Be you come from the
same quarter ? '

I want a horse at once. I have no time
for answering questions.'

Because, if you be,' continued Daniel, composedly,
' there be no 'hurry. The gent, that
Idc young Mr. Tramplara, have a gone ahead
already with the news. He says he must tell
his father at once, and they'll be back early
tomorrow morning.'

Have you a horse, or not? '

'He sed, afore daybreak. Them was his
very words.'

Herring was out of his saddle. ' The grey
cannot go on. You must let me have a
horse.'

This grey ain't got the go in her like the

bay Maister Tramplara rode. How old be
her?'

Never mind the age.' He drew the
fellow's hand away as he was turning up the
lips to examine the teeth. ' Is there a horse
available ? '

There be one, sure,' answered Daniel ; ' I
offered her to the young Maister Tramplara,
but he wouldn't have her. Her's not so bad
to go, but the looks of her ain't nothing to
boast of.'

Off with the saddle and bridle, and bring
her round.'

The hostler, a little man, with his toes
turned in, very broad in body but short in
stature, scuffled into the stable, and was a
long time before he reappeared. Herring
was impatient. He took a glass of cyder at
the bar, and then went to the stable and met
the little man coming out.

There be summit the matter wi' the loss,'
he said. ' Her's lame. Bide a wink, and Til
fetch a lantern.'

After having found a lantern, adjusted a
tallow candle in the socket, and lighted it,
Daniel went with Herring into the stable.
The horse that was so good to go could not
go a step. She was dead lame.

Here,' said Herring ; ' hold the light.

VOL. II. K

Take the candle out of the lantern, and I'll
turn up her hoofs. There it is ! '

A knife-blade had been driven into the
frog of the oiF front hoof, and snapped short
in it.

Is the Squire home at Lea Wood ? ' asked
Herring. He set his teeth, and his brow contracted
; his blood was up.

I reckon he be, unless he be away,'
answered Daniel.

Herring ran to his grey, re-saddled her,
and rode out of the village to the house,
situated a mile outside. He rang the bell,
and asked to be allowed to see Mr. Hamlin
for a moment, and the Squire came to him
in the hall. Herring told his story — that he
was in pursuit of a man, with a warrant for
his apprehension in his pocket. He drew it
forth. He related how the horse had been
wilfully lamed at the post-house to arrest
him, and he begged to be allowed the use of
one of the Squire's horses. His request was
at once and readily granted. In a quarter of
an hour he was well-mounted on a fine horse
Squire Hamlin was noted for his good
horses — a horse perfectly fresh, and was in
fiiU and fast pursuit. ' If I do not catch you
now,' said Herring, laughing bitterly, ^ it
will not be my fault.'

But much time had been lost. It was
already dusk. In another half-hour it would
be dark. The heavy clouds that had rolled
in broken masses through the sky all day
had spread out over the entire surface, and
obscured all light from the stars. Only to
the west the declining day looked wanly over
the ragged fringe of Cornish moorland heights.
The road was no longer over open down, but
ran between hedges, with trees on both sides.
It lay in valleys with high hills well wooded
folding round ; the hills cut off the light, the
dark foliage absorbed it. Sampson Tram-clara
was pushing on as well as he could, but
his bay was feeling the length of the journey
and the pace.

Get out of the road, confound you ! '
shouted Sampson, as a dark figure was overtaken
and made his horse swerve. ' What
the devil do you mean by not standing
aside ? ' Sampson had a hunting whij^, his
hand through the loop. He lashed at the
foot traveller, as he trotted by, with an oath.
It was too dark for him to discern a face, but
he saw that the person was a woman. It did
not matter, the lash had curled round her.
She must learn a lesson — so hard to teach
women and pigs — that when a rider is in the
road she must get on one side. He could not

have hurt her, as she uttered no cry. Sampson
was without spurs, but he dug his heels
into the flanks of his bay and urged him onto
a canter. Then he heard distinctly the
clatter of horse-hoofs coming along the road
at a good pace — at a gallop. Herring had got
a fresh mount, and would be up with him
in ten minutes. His bay could not get on
faster — that was impossible. What was to be
done ? '

Sampson looked back along the road. He
could no longer see the foot-passenger. She
had doubtless gone down a side lane. There
was light enough for him to see that the road
was clear. He had come to a place where
heavy oak woods closed in on the highway,
and the trees overarched making it doubly
obscure. If Herring was to be stayed, this
was the place, now was the time ; in another
ten minutes it would be too late. Further on
the road would be lighter and less solitary.

Quick as thought, Tramplara dismounted
and led his horse along the road to a gate.
He unfastened the gate, and took the bay
through into the wood, where he tied him up
behind the hedge. Then he unhinged the
gate — it was a large five-barred gate — and
with some little effort carried it into the
road, and threw it down across it.

He looked at his legs ; he wore light tight
breeches — they would be seen if he stood aside
in the hedge, waiting the result. So he went
through the gateway and leaned his back
against the post, standing inside with his
arms folded. If there had been sufficient
light, and any one had been there to note his
face, an ugly smile would have been seen
covering it. ' By God,' he muttered, ' he
escaped me once to-day : this time he shall
not escape.'

He heard the tramp of the horse approach
nearer ; it was descending a hill, and muffled,
then ascending the next. Herring's voice
was audible, cheering on his horse. Not
another sound but the rush of the Lew
Vater, a petty river, swirling over its stony
bed, and breaking; against snap's of timber
that had fallen from the banks.

Yes ! a night-jar in the wood screeched ;
then was silent, then screeched again intermittently,
as though signalling danger.

Late in the year though it was, in the
hedge, close to Sampson, was a glow-worm.
The light annoyed him. He could distinguish
by it the cranes-bill leaf on which the insect
sat. He put up his foot and broke down the
earth, and then stamped it and the luminous
little creature together. Through the interstices

of the clouds one star was visible. He
would have torn it out of the sky and
stamped it to darkness in the mire, if he
could have reached it.

Louder, more distinctly, came the clatter
of hoofs. The road was level, and the pace
of the horse accelerated. ' On, old fellow, we
shall soon be up with him ! ' .

Sampson heard Herring's voice almost
in his ear. His heart gave a bound, and
then — a cry, a crash, and, for a moment,
silence,

The gate has done it,' said Sampson
Tramplara, stepping lightly into the road.

He was right ; the gate had done it. The
horse had been spurred on to a good speed,
and neither he nor his rider had noticed the
obstruction till the poor brute's legs were
between the rails, and he was down and
floundering. Herring was flung, and lay his
length on the road. Sampson went up to
him ; he was unconscious. Then Sampson
turned his attention to the horse.

"Where did Herring get this brute ? ' he
asked. ' He'll do for me, if he has not hurt
himself. Come up, old fellow, don't lie and
go to sleep there.'

He took the reins, and brought the horse
up on his haunches, but the poor animal was

unable to stand. He had broken or severely-injured
one foot.

No good to me,' said Sampson ; ' lie as
you are. I must force my bay to go on.'

He went back to Herring, and stood over
him, a foot on each side. Then he drew the
pistol out of his pocket.

This time you shall not escape me,' he
said with an oath ; ' I'll take precious good
care of that.' And he put the muzzle of his
weapon to the ear of the unconscious man.
^ Ah ! you're deaf enough now, but I'll bark
into your ear such a bark as will make you
jump into eternity. I reckon I have done for
one man to-day, and if I have to run at all, I
may as well run for two as for one.'

He drew the trigger, but no report
followed.

Curse it ! ' he said, and flung the weapon
on the road ; ' I forgot I had already fired it
off, and haven't had time to load again.' He
paused, still astride over Herring. ' It is just
as well,' he said ; ' I can beat your brains out
as well as blow them out, and then no one
will know but what you smashed your skull
in your fall. Where's that pistol? '

He turned to look for it where he had
thrown it. It was too dark for him to see, so
he groped in the road till he found it.

Then lie came back to Herring, lying unconscious
and without motion.

^I wonder is he dead already?' he said,
and felt him, and put his hand to his
heart.

He's alive for the moment,' muttered
Sampson, ' but not enjoying life now, nor
like to have another and a sweeter taste of it.
So, my boy — one for Ophir — one for me — and
one for Miracle ! You threatened to break a
ruler across my head, did you? I'll break
something a deal harder over yours, or batter
yours in.' He drew a long breath and raised
his hand, holding the pistol by the muzzle.
Ready,' he shouted ; ' here goes ! — one
for '

A scream of fury and fear combined, the
scream of a beast rather than of a human
being, and, in a moment, some one was on
him, grasping his arm, and wrapping him
round in rags rank with peat smoke. He
could hardly make out who or wdiat had
grappled with him. He tried to disengage
himself, but the hands, with long nails like
claws, tore at him, and the rags entangled his
arms, and the hoarse, discordant shrieks in
his ear deafened, bewildered him.

Had a scarecrow assumed life, or leaped
on him from a field, to arrest his murderous

naiad, or had some spectre of the wood,
some dead creature, risen out of the leaf-mould
that had covered it to attack hin? For a
moment fear curdled his heart's blood and
paralysed his arm ; and the creature, whatever
it was, took advantage of the moment to
wrench the whip out of his hand.

'I'll kill you ! I'll rip your heart and
liver out wi' my nails. I'll bite my way
through to 'em '

Then Sampson recovered himself He
knew with whom he had to do.

Keep off, Joyce, you fool ! ' he shouted,
and thrust her from him with a blow. But
like a tiger she leaped at him again, and bit
at his hand and screamed. In her mad fury
she could scarce form and utter words. Sampson
Tramplara backed to the gate, defending
himself with his pistol. He struck her repeatedly,
but she felt nothing. If he had cut
her with a knife she would not have known
it, dominated as she was by her fury.

You fool, Joyce, let me alone, or I will
km you!'

'You've killed the maister, you've killed 'n.
I'll tear you to bits, I will.'

Stand back ! look to your master. If
you want him to live, you must mind him at
once.'

That answered ; that alone could have
answered.

She drew back.

^ I'll see,' she said ; ' if you've killed 'n,
you'll never escape me. I'll hunt you over
birth and under Vater ; I'll go after through
the very fire. You'll not escape me. I'll see
if he be alive or dead, but happen what may,'
she said, and raised his whip over her head,
you shall take that for a first taste.' Then she
brought the lash down with all the weight of lier
arm, and the force her fury lent her, across his
face. The lash cut it, and he staofo^ered back

Co

and put his hands over his ej^es, and cried outwith
pain. Then she stepped back to where
Herring Jay in the road. Young Tramplara
stood for a moment, blinded with the blow
and convulsed with rage. His first impulse
was to rush after her and beat her down and
stamp the life out of her. But prudence prevailed
; he took the opportunity to unhitch
his horse, mount, and ride away.

Joyce flung herself in the road beside Herring.
All the rage and roughness went out
of her instantly. She felt him, to find if his
bones were broken. Then she drew him up
and laid his head in her bosom, and listened
for his breath.

My maister ! my dear, dear maister ! '

she cried, between fear and tears. ' My
darling, my darling maister ! speak now,
speak, dory ? '

She rocked herself from side to side, moaning,
swaying his head in her arms.

Oh, maister, maister ! what can I do ? '
She put her mouth to his, and breathed into
his lungs the contents of her own. ' I'll given
all the life that be in me, and welcome, if only
I can make thee open your eyes again. You
must not die. Speak, and let me know that
3'ou hear me. It be Joyce, your own poor
Joyce, that hasty, and is a rocking of y, and
calling ofy to wake up. Maister, darling
maister, dory hear me ? None shall touch
you but me. I'll die afore I lets another
nearly.' Then her tears broke forth ; she felt
her utter helplessness. ' They'll be coming for
to taken away, but they shall not do it
She laid him back in the road, then stood up,
removed the gate, and put it in its place ;
and then lifting Herring, she partly carried,
partly drew him away, through the gate-opening
into the wood ; there she could hide
both him and herself

She took him again in her arms, and
swayed herself to and fro, moaning and then
breaking into snatches of song. In the wood
she resolved she would remain ; no one should

take him from her. If he were dead, there he
should lie, dead, in her arms, on her lap, and
she would sit over him watching: and waiting:
patiently till she died also, and the leaves
came down — copper-gold off the beech, and
russet-brown off the oak — and buried them
together.

But no! no! — he must not die! AYhat
could she do for him? He had known exactly
what was right to do for her when ' she
were all a broke in pieces.' He had known
how to mend her, so that now she was well and
strong' ao;ain. But then he was a ' pollard,'
and she — she was but a poor ignorant savage.
What should she do? Go to a cottage and
ask that he might be taken in there? Her
heart shrank from this. She could not breathe
in a house. There, others would surround
him, and she would be thrust out. No ! she
would nurse him there, under the sky and the
green trees, where the wind blew, and the
grass sprang up, and the birds sang. All at
once a thought struck her. In her sense of
loneliness, helplessness, misery, an unutterable
yearning came over her for some help that
she could not define, not even understand. It
was a vague effort of the poor dumb soul
within to articulate a cry for help to — she
knew not whom. She threw herself on her

knees beside the body, and stretched her arms
from which depended the wretched rags torn
to shreds, upwards towards the sky, and raised
her face, quivering with agony, and cried
hoarsely, again and again — ' Our Either —
kinkum-kum — kinkum-kum ! Glory rale
! '

The star that Sampson Tramplara had
seen and would have stamped out was shining
aloft, and it smote through the leafy vault
over her head, and sparkled in the tears that
streamed over her cheeks.

So, throughout the night, she rocked her
burden, and moaned, and pressed it to her
bosom, and then knelt and wept, and cried —
• Kinkum-kum ! Kinkum-kum ! '

CHAPTER XXX.

Between CUP AND LIP.

That same evening wliicli had seen Herring
flung senseless in the road was to decide the
fate of Orange Tramplara. She was to be
married that evening to Captain Trecarrel in
the little chapel at his place. A dispensation
had been obtained from the bishop sin 'partibus)
to allow of the celebration out of
canonical hours. The reason for this was that
a priest was on his way to Plymouth from
Camelford, and would arrive only in the afternoon
— deed, somewhat into the evening —
by coach, and he would have to proceed very
early next morning on his way to Plymouth.
Consequently, the only manner in which it
was convenient for the pair to receive the
nuptial benediction from a Catholic priest was
for the function to take place in the chapel
at Trecarrel that evening somewhat late. On
the morrow the Protestant ceremony was to

[43

be performed in Launceston parish church,
followed by the wedding breakfast. Thus it
happened that, about the time the accident —
if accident it may be called — happened to
John Herring, as related in the last chapter,
Orange was dressing for the marriage ceremony
that was to take place in the Catholic
chapel at Trecarrel, and Miracle was assisting
her, at Orange's special request.

Miracle was not to be a bridesmaid. Orange
had asked her to be one ; she could not well
have failed to do so ; but Miracle had declined,
and the request had not been urged. Miracle
was glad to escape thus. She would have to
be present during the ceremony at Trecarrel,
but she would kneel in some shady corner,
where her face could not be seen and her tears
noticed. Miracle had passed a trying time.
A weight lay on her heart which she was
unable to shake off. Even Mrs. Trampleasure
had observed the change in her appearance :
the sunken eyes, and the transparency of her
cheek ; but Miracle had explained this by the
climate, which affected her. She had been
accustomed to sun. Cloud and rain depressed
her, and affected both her health and her
spirits. Orange was elated ; victory was all
but achieved. In a few hours she would be
Mrs. Trecarrel of Trecarrel, and be translated

to another sphere from that in which circled
her father and mother, Miss Bowdler, and the
Reverend Flamank. Bah ! her bridesmaids
expected to be made much of after she was
lady of Trecarrel, to be invited to her dances,
to meet county people at her receptions, to be
still ' Dear Jane,' and ' Darling Sophy,' and
My sweet Rose.' They were very much
mistaken. Once she had risen to her new
perch she would peck at every presumptuous
fowl that aspired to sit beside her.

Mrs. Trecarrel of Trecarrel ! ' repeated
Orange, as she surveyed herself in the glass.
She would become her station, with her proud,
handsome face and erect bearing. She had
the fissure and the dio;nitv of a duchess. At
least she supposed she had. That she was a
fine woman could not be disputed, with a
swelling bust, large and luscious eyes, a bright
colour, ripe and sensuous lips, and magnificent
dark, glossy, and abundant hair. A slight
down, not enough to disfigure, showed on her
upper lip — the badge of a Alarm and passionate
nature.

father will be too much engaged to
worry me,' she thought, ' and mother's cold
will keep her from wetting her feet at Tree
That is a comfort. As for Sampson,
be shall not cross my threshold, unless I

invite him to shoot rabbits when I am sure
no gentleman will be present.'

Miracle was engaged on the rich but coarse
hau' of Orange. The delicate white fingers
trembled, and were less skilful than usual.

Really, Miracle, you are clumsy this
evening,' said Orange ; ' you pull my hair
and hurt me.' She looked before her into
the glass.

Are you crying, child ? '

^ No, Orange.'

I thought I saw something glistening in
your eye.'

Miracle had the strength to repress her
tears. She devoted her whole attention to
that on which she was eno^ao:ed.

You will come occasionally and see me,'
said Orange. ' I shall be so pleased to show
57 ou all I am doing ; and I am certain the
Captain will be delighted. Now, don't run
the hair-pins into my head ! I tell you, you
hurt me. Really, Miracle, you are very clumsy.
What ails you this evening ? '

Miracle made no reply.

Try on the orange-wreath and the veil,
child,' said Miss Trampleasure.

Miracle took up the wreath and adjusted it.

The Captain has always been partial to-vol.

II. L .

wards you,' continued Orange. She was aware
that what she said gave pain, but then, what
triumph is complete without the infliction of
wounds and agonies ?

'- Do you not think Harry is a handsome
man ? I do not believe I have ever seen, even
in a woman, such beautiful and expressive
eyes. There, Miracle, is a pin with a large
Cornish crystal in the head ; put it in my hair
and fasten my wreath with it.'

Miracle did not, could not, speak. It was
as much as she could do to maintain the
mastery over her feelings.

Do you know, you barefaced witch, I
was at one time almost jealous of you. I
thought the Captain was attentive to you —
more attentive than he ought to be, and that
you were trying to draw him away from me.
Of course that was natural. Every girl begrudges
another her lover, and would rob her
of him if she could. It is a natural instinct.
But Harry never really cared for you ; he

told me so ; he was only playing Good

heavens, Miracle ! ' Orange sprang up, and
the tears, tears of pain, started into her eyes.
In a moment, in a flash of passion, she struck
Miracle on the cheek with her open hand.

Do you know what you have done ? You
have run the pin into my head. Look — look ' '

She snatched off her veil. ' How can I wear
this ? There is a spot of blood on it.'

Then Miracle burst into tears. She had
an excuse for them — she had been struck.

I am sorry,' said Orange ; ' but really you
hurt me. Look at the blood, and convince
yourself. I did not mean to strike you ; but
the pain was sharp, and I forgot myself. Do
control yourself. Hark ! I hear horses' feet.
The carriage will be here directly, and we
shall start for Trecarrel. Dry your eyes and
control your feelings. You must not let
people see that you have been crying, or they
will say ' — her malice gained the mastery once
more — ' that you loved the Captain, and were
envious of me.'

Miracle covered her face.

Of course,' said Orange, looking hard at
her, with her red lips twitching, ' there is nota
shadow of truth in this ; still, tongues are
sharp and venomous, and such things will be
said if you give occasion for them.'

Miracle stood up, proud, cold, and impassive.
In a moment she had conquered her
feelings. Her pride was touched, and that
recovered her.

No one shall dare to say such things of
me,' she answered. 'Sit down, and I will
finish your toilette.'

The hoofs on the gravel that Orange had
heard were those of Sampson's bay, nov
utterly tired out, and scarce able to carry his
master up the steep ascent from the valley of
the Tamar.

He sprang out of his saddle, and burst
into the hall as his mother descended the stairs
in a stiff myrtle green satin dress, with a capon
her head adorned with rose-coloured bows.

'Where is my father?' asked Sampson,
abruptly.

He is dressed, Sampy darling, and in the
parlour. I'm going in there too. We expect
the carriage shortly. The bridesmaids will
be picked up at their own doors, but our
carriage is comines here.'

He did not wait to hear her, but rushed
into the drawing-room.

By Grogs ! Sampy,' exclaimed Mr.
Tram pleasure, 'what brings you here? I
thought you were to remain in charge at
Ophir, and give us your visits, as the wisest
of men said, like angel visits, few and far
between. I want you there, and not here,
boy.'

Father, I must speak with you instantly,
and alone,' he added, as he saw his mother
come rustling and sniffing in at the door.
Let us go into the office.'

'Nothing wrong with Ophir, lad, eh?'
asked the old man, his colour changing.

Everything,' answered Sampson. ' For
heaven's sake lead on. Not a moment is to
be lost.'

Mr. Trampleasure was arrayed in evening
dress, with a very white tight neckcloth, and
very stiff projecting frills to his shirt. He
was in a fine black cloth dress coat. His hair
was as white as his frills. He took up a
plated branch candlestick, and led the way.
His hand shook.

Take care. Tram, darling,' said Mrs.
Trampleasure, ' you be a joggling of the wax
all over the carpet, and it do take a time
getting of it out with a iron and blotting
paper.'

He opened the door of the office and went
in. He had been working, and smoking, and
drinking there that afternoon ; there was a
fire burning red on the hearth. The room
reeked with rum and tobacco.

The old man put the candle down, and
then stayed himself with one hand on the
table. ' By Grogs ! ' he said, ' you've given
me a turn, Sampy. What do you mean by
saying that everything is wrong with Ophir ? '

I mean what I say,' answered the young
man. ' Ophir is smashed up. That cursed

fool Herring has found all out. Flamank
knows also. They saw me salting the stream.'

The old man's face turned purple.

That's not the worst — there's worse behind,'
continued young Sampson. He hesitated
a moment, and looked at his father.
Mr. Trampleasure was feeling about him with
the disengaged hand for his arm-chair. He
gripped the table with the left. He tried to
speak ; he opened his mouth and shut it
again. It was horrible to see him, like a fish,
gasping, and nothing proceeding from his lips.
It must come out. But first ; father — we
shall have to run for it. I especially. Where
is the money ? '

The old man pointed with a faltering hand
in the direction of a strong box, let into the
wall. Then he put his hand in his pocket
and pulled out a bunch of keys. He tried to
indicate a single key, but could not take his
other hand from the table. The bunch fell on
the floor.

^ All right, governor,' said Sampson. ' Now
I will tell you the worst, and a cursed ugly
worst it is. You may as well hear it from
me as from another. I must be off to-night
at once ; you suit your convenience. Do
as you like. You have nothing to fear but
the stone jug ; I the wooden horse. I have

shot one man dead to-day, the constable, and
broken the neck of another, John Herring,
so the two can keep each other company ; and
I must make off.'

Then old Trampleasure dropped like a
stone on the floor. There came a sudden
blow within his head, as from a hammer, and
he saw nothing more.

Sampson stood over him for a moment.
No time was to be lost. Every minute was
important. Whatever happened to his father,
he— Sampson — must get clear away. He saw
in a moment what had occurred. His father
had been struck down with an apoplectic fit,
and could not escape. Time was too precious
to be wasted in attending to him. He could
not afford to call for assistance. He stooped
and took up the bunch of keys, and went to
the strong box. Without much difficulty he
unlocked it, and fell to wondering over his
father's wisdom.

Old Trampleasure had feared discovery,
and was prepared for a sudden emergency.
All the money that had come into his hands
had been reduced to the most portable form
possible, in hundred-pound, fifty-pound, and
ten-p und notes. There they lay in thick
packets Sampson took them all. He left
not one behind, and stowed them away in a

travelling valise of his father's which the old
man took with him when he went to Ophir fora
few days.

Then Sampson opened the private door of
the office, and, without another look at the old
man lying prostrate, darted forth.

What a time them two are in there together
! ' grumbled Mrs. Trampleasure ; ' and,
oh dear ! there comes the chaise to take us to
Trecarrel.' She ran to the foot of the stairs,
and called, ^ Orange dear ! Orange ! the carriage
be here ! '

I am ready, mother,' answered the bride,
descending.

The hall was well lighted ; and as she
came down, followed by Miracle, she looked
radiant, proud, triumphant. She waved back
Miracle, lest she should step on her veil, with
an angry, insolent gesture.

My word. Orange ! you are a beauty !
Til run and call your father.'

But he was beyond call.

CHAPTER XXXI.
Joyce's patient. •

Joyce and her patient could not remain concealed.
Her cries had been heard when she
fell — literally tooth and nail — on Sampson
Tramplara, and those who heard them, being
superstitious, thought best to keep away from
the spot whence they had sounded.

Later in the evening the farmer of Coom-bow,
coming home from a cattle fair, heard
the moans and wailing in the wood, and was
greatly scared by the injured horse, which had
thrust itself into the hedge. So sincerely
alarmed was he, and so thoroughly did his
account of what he had heard and seen
frighten his household, that not one of his
sons — no, not all of them in phalanx, armed
with pitchforks and lighted by hawthorns,
would venture that night into the high road
to ascertain the cause of the alarm.

With morning, however, courage came,

and early, when the day began to break,
nearly the entire household, male and female,
went out to see whether there was any natural
explanation to be found for those things that
had, in the darkness, so scared Farmer Face.

The horse was found.

Why ! Fm blessed if this hasn't Squire
Hamlin's roan,' said the farmer. ' I ought to
know 'n becos I reared 'n. Now this be regular
curious.'

Joyce had been unable to retire with her
burden far into the wood. The hillside was
steep, and she could not carry the unconscious
load far up. She had attempted to do so,
fearing lest she should be seen, but when she
raised him he moaned with pain. She was
like a cat playing with a dead bird, putting it
down, then lifting it and carrying it away,
then putting it down again.

It was not long before she was discovered
and surrounded.

^ Who is he ? How comes he here ? How
did this happen ? Why didn't you bring him
to the farm ? '

Questions were poured upon her. She
looked about her angrily, suspiciously, as a
cat would look when surrounded with those
who, she thinks, will deprive her of her bird,
or at least dispute her sole possession of it.

He be mine. I found 'n. I saved 'n.
Capt'n Sampson Tramplara would ha' killed
'n, but I perverted 'n.'

But who is he ? '

He be the maister. He mended me when
I were gone scott. Nobody shan't so much
as touch 'n. I've got 'n fast, and I'll care
for 'n, that I will. There — you can go, and
leave us alone here. What be you a bothering
here for? I didn't called.'

Nonsense. He must be taken into a
house, and put to bed,' said Mrs. Face.
Poor soul ! Dear alive ! '

^ He shan't go under no house. If he goes
anywhere, he shall go home.'

Where is his home? '

Where should it be but AVest Wyke? '

What ! West Wyke in South Tawton? '

Sure-ly. Where else should it be? It
don't jump about, now here, now there, I
reckon.'

After much difficulty with Joyce, who
was unreasonable in her jealousy and suspicion,
it was decided that the farmer should
send a wao^o^on well bedded with straw, and
that Joyce should be conveyed in this, with
the still insensible man in her arms, to West
Wyke.

There was no medical man nearer than

Okehampton, and West Wyke was not as
distant from Okehampton as Coombow, the
place where they were.

I ain't got no money,' said Joyce, ' but
I'll pay you for the Waggon, sure enough.'

I do not expect payment,' said Farmer
Faceyy in a mildly deprecatory tone — a tone
that implied he would yield the point if
pressed. ' I dare say the gentleman, when
he gets well, will remember me. And if he
don't, well — he'll be sure to have relations as
will do what be proper and respectable.'

It be I,' said Joyce, defiantly, ' it be I as
has to pay, and blast me blue if I don't.'

^ Where will the money come from ? ' asked
Faceyy, surveying her rags.

I'll pay wi' thick arms ! ' said Joyce,
thrusting forth her hands. ' See ! is there a
man among you can work as I can? When
the young maister be well, then, sure. I'll
come and work forty two months by the
moon, I will, for the loan of the waggon
to-day ; and I'll ax for no meat nor no housing.
I'll feed myself, and I'll sleep where I
can, in the open air.'

Her must be one of the Nymet savages,
sure-ly,' said the farmer, in an undertone, to
his wife.

Joyce's ears were keen, and she heard him.

'What if I be a savage?' she asked. 'I
saint, like nun [them] to Nymet. Them be
proper savages. Either be a head above
they. He lev a got v^^hat he may call his
own.'

The waggon was brought to the place,
and two men lifted Herring into it. Joyce
climbed in, and, after having seated herself
in the straw, took him again in her arms.

If the cart go over rough stones, it shall
joggle me,' she said ; ' I'll holder, maister
dear, that you shan't feel it.'

I say, maiden,' said Farmer Faceyy, looking
over the rail of the waggon as they were
about to start, ' when the young gentleman
gets better, just tell him he was took home
in Farmer Faceyy's waggon, with his team and
horseman, Farmer Faceyy, to Coombow. He
might like to know, you see, and, being a
gentleman, as I take it, he won't forget.'

Just as the cart was off, he called to the
driver, ' Stay a bit, Jim ! I thhik I'll take a
lift, too, as far as to Bridestowe, and I'll just
up and see the Squire. I'll tell him what has
happened to poor Major ; and, as it chances,
I've another horse out of the same mare, I
can sell 'n — a tidy sort of a dark roan, you
minds 'n, Jim. Mebbe we'll strike a bargain.
I'll go wi' you now on the chances

At Bridestowe the waggon came to a long
halt. Farmer Faceyy descended ; the driver
was thirsty. He had much to tell. A crowd
gathered round the cart. Daniel, the hostler,
climbed up the wheel to look into the face of
Herring, and would have mounted the waggon
had not Joyce beat him off with Sampson's
whip.

Sure it be he, poor young man said
Daniel ' I know by token he forgot to chuck
me a sixpence last night. 'Tis he as went
after the Squire's horse. How came this
about? Dory say as Major lev a foreleg
broke ? Well, now, Loramussy ! how can that
have happened? The young gent may come
round, right enough, but the loss — he must
be shot. 'Tis a thousand pities.'

There be nothing happens but what be
good for trade,' observed Farmer Faceyy.

^ You're right there, maister ! ' answered
Daniel. ' There's not a sparrer falls, nor an
Loss breaks his knees, nor gets spavined, but
what it be good for them as is seminaries, or
has losses to sell. And it be the same wi'
'man beings ; them goes scott at times, and
it be for the good o' the doctors. So the Lord
sends to every man his meat.'

But how did it come about ? ' This was a
question asked of Joyce repeatedly. But Joyce

was uncommunicative. She kept her eyes
fixed on the face of the injured man, and
only now and then turned them with a sharp,
defiant glance at any one who approached too
near.

The hostess kindly brought her a hunch
of bread. She tore and ate it much as an
animal devours its food. She returned no
thanks for it. She could think of nothing
but him whom she held to her bosom, watching
every change in his face, or fearing lest
he should die in her arms.

The journey was long, but Joyce did not
relax her hold nor relinquish her place for
one moment.

'Won't get down and lev a drop o'
cyder ? ' asked the driver, at every public
house they passed. ' It be a faint day for
the horses, and they need refreshing.'

Joyce shook her head in reply. But if
Joyce would not assist in cooling the horses
by drinking herself, the driver was more considerate.


Between each of these refreshment stations,
the man endeavoured to open conversation
with her. He was a young fellow,
fresh in colour, and not bad looking. He
had a sufficiently observant eye to see that
Joyce was a fine girl, though a very rough

one. But she would not answer him ; she
did not even look at him, unless he ventured
too near her charge.

She was patient at the stoppages, which
were many. They rested Herring. She saw
in his face that he suffered with the motion
and was easy when the motion ceased. That
sufficed her.

In the midst of Sourton Down stands a
very humble tavern, backed by a few stunted
trees, twisted and turning from the west ; and
by the roadside is to be seen a tall granite
cross, once a burial monument of a British
chief, and bearing an inscription that was
cut into and rendered illegible in mediaeval
times, when the upright stone was converted
into a wayside cross.

As the waggon halted before this little
tavern, Joyce saw Herring's eyes open. He
raised his arms and waved them in an unmeaning
manner; then, looking intently upwards,
as though he saw something far above
him in the depths of the blue sky, he drew a
deep sigh and murmured ' Miracle ! '

Then his eyes closed again, and his hands
dropped.

Right, right, maister ! ' said Joyce ; ' it
be the Whiteface you want and would seek.
But why dory look up there ? Her be on

earth, not in heaven. I be a nursing of y,
none for Joyce, nor for Miss Cicely, but for
her you cries after and looks for up above.'

At Okehampton they met with no interruption,
and were surrounded by no throng
of inquisitive persons, and the reason was
this. The parson of a neighbouring moorland
parish had been summoned that day before
the magistrates, on a charge of maltreating
and starving a poor boy in his house, his
wife's son by a former husband. The magistrates
dismissed him with a reprimand and
a caution ; but the people were not disposed
to treat the matter so lightly and the man so
leniently. All the fluid portion of the populace
had flowed out on the moor road after
the retiring parson, with hoots, and clots of
earth, and expressions of aversion. The
rabble manifested an intimate acquaintance
with his domestic arrangements, and taunted
him with them. If the reverend gentleman
could have commanded his temper, he might
have speedily tired out his pursuers ; but this
he was unable to do, and unwise enough not
to attempt. He was a remarkably ugly
man, ill-made, short in leg and long in arm,
with large hands and feet, and a lace with
low brow and protruding jaws. He became
mad with rage and humiliation, and turned

VOL. II. M

savagely, whenever the crowd ventured near
his heels, to charge them with his green gingham
umbrella, and smite them furiously,
uttering clerical exclamations of abuse and
contempt. His face was simian in its ugliness
and malignity. The whalebone of his umbrella
were dislocated, and the wires protruded.
One boy was cut with the iron, and
when this was perceived there rose a howl of
indignation, and a moonstone whizzed through
the air and knocked the parson's hat off his
head. He was a poor man, and the injury
done to his best hat and to his umbrella was
more than he could endure. He ran as fast
as his short legs could fly over the ground,
and took refuge in a cottage, the door of
which he barred ; and then, escaping up the
rude stair, he spat at his pursuers from the
window.

Parson-baiting is not an every-day treat,
and the luxury had emptied the streets of
Okehampton. Consequently the waggon
passed through almost unnoticed.

As the waggon crossed the bridge over
the Taw, it encountered the two chaises with
the party of serious speculators returning
from Ophir. They had slept at Zeal. Mr.
Flamank, as a director of the mine, had felt it
incumbent on him to make a complete i've station

into the method of working, and into
the accounts. The men engaged on the mine
had been examined by him, and he had overhauled
the bocks in the office. Among these
he had discovered a private book of the
Tramplaras, which contained a register of the
amount of gold expended in the salting, and
the amount recovered after the washing.
Those serious men whom the Reverend Israel
had taken with him, in the hopes of inducing
them to sink capital in Ophir, assisted him
zealously in the detection of the imposture.

The transaction was humiliating to the
little man, but he was a thoroughly conscientious
person, and he did not shrink from that
which he felt it was at once his duty and his
interest to do, however galling it might be to
his self-esteem. He carried away the books
with him, and dismissed the workmen, warning
them that they would be required to give
evidence in the trial of the Tramplaras, which,
as he supposed, would inevitably follow.

^ I have been considering,' said Israel Fla-man
to those with him in the same carriage,
^ that I have been very blind. Last night I
was unable to sleep, and so I turned prophecy
over in my head, and I saw clearly, at last,
that the whole affair had been foretold. The
name Trampleasure, if rightly estimated — :

that is, with a certain value given to each
letter, and the capital letter T being reckoned
as double a small t^ and the e a \x\ pleasure
being turned into an z, Tramplisure instead
of Trampleasure, which is the way in which
some persons would pronounce the name,
and the e at the end of the name omitted asa
mute — I say, thus valued, the name makes,
when summed up, exactly six hundred and
sixty-six, which is the number of the Beast,
and which is also, we are distinctly told, the
number of a man's name. Now this, I take
it, is a very significant fact. The Beast, weare
further informed, would deceive the very
elect ; and what else are we, I ask, but the
very elect ? '

'That is true,' responded all those in the
chaise, and shook their heads affirmatively.

And he spake great swelling words,' went
on the Reverend Israel. ' Now old Mr.
Trampleasure had a certain pomposity of
manner about him that exactly tallies with
the description given by the inspired penman.'

Very true,' answered the carriage-load,
and the heads all shook together again.

It is remarkable also,' continued the
minister, 'that in the sacred text the Beast
Trampleasure is associated with the Woman,
Babylon — that is, with Rome. For Babylon

is Rome, as every schoolboy knows, geographically,
entomological, and eternally.
Now, I ask you, is not a young Roman
Catholic lady staying in Dolbeare with the
family, and is not Miss Trampleasure about
to be, or already, married to a Roman Catholic
gentleman ? '

To be sure,' responded those in the chaise,
and shook their heads knowingly.

And, remember, the seer of Patmos saw
two Beasts, and the little one derived his
power from the elder, which was wounded,
though not to death. That wound I take to
be the failure of Polpluggan, from which old
Trampleasure recovered. As to the little
Least, there can be no question about him —
Sampson Trampleasure, junior.'

That is certain ! ' exclaimed the chorus,
sand all the heads shook to the left.

But, good heavens, what have we here ! '
cried Mr. Flamank.

The carriage stopped.

^ What's the matter there ? ' inquired the
driver of the chaise, as he drew up.

Why, bless me ! ' said the minister, starting
to his feet. ' As sure as I am alive that
is Mr. John Herring. Stay, young man,' he
called to the waggoner. ' How comes the
gentleman in such a plight? Girl,' to Joyce,

where did you find him ? Is he alive ? Is
he badly hurt ? How came this about? '

The little man jumped out of the carriage
in a fever of excitement, and pity, and alarm.
Joyce gave him no information, but he picked
up something from the boy who drove, and
learned that, in some way or other, Sampson
Tramplara was involved.

Bless my soul ! ' exclaimed Mr. Flamank.
One cannot be too thankful for mercies.
Actually John Herring made me — me run after
this cut-throat murderer — and yet I remain
unhurt ; whereas John Herring, who takes up
the chase, is killed. A really startling interposition
of Providence.'

He be not dead,' said Joyce, fiercely ; ' I
shan't let 'n die, I shan't.'

Then the waggon moved on.

Where be West Wyke to ? ' asked the
driver.

^ I'll teller where to stop,' answered Joyce.
Go right on till I shout Wo ! '

She allowed him to proceed past the turning
over the turf leading to West Wyke, and
then she suddenly gave the signal to halt.

The road over the moor be too bad to
travel wi' wheels,' said Joyce. ' You bide
here, and I will fetch whither, and he'll carry
the maister home, along of I.'

Joyce was not long gone before she returned
with old Cobbledick, carrying a hurdle.
With the carter's help, Herring was lifted onto
it ; and then Joyce and her father departed
over the moor, without another word to the
man, conveying Herring between them.

They be rum folk in these parts,' said
Jim White, the waggoner, ' not to offer a fellow
a glass of cyder, and the bosses ail of a lather
with the journey

CHAPTER Xxxi.

DESTITUTE.

Mr. Trampleasure's death, through the bursting
of a blood-vessel on the bran, and the
escape of Sampson, left the three women at
Dolbeare without a head. Captain Trecarrel
did not appear, except to make a formal call
of condolence, or to offer his services in a
manner that implied that this offer was not to
be accepted.

Lucky dog that I am,' said he to himself ;
saved at the last moment in a manner melodramatic.
There is a sweet little cherub that
sits up aloft, and takes care of the fate of
Trecarrel. By George ! suppose I had been
noosed and turned off before this terrible
scandal came out, what should I have done?
Now there lies before me one clear course of
action. There is an opera company at this
time performing in Exeter, and I am fond of
music. I must positively go to the faithful city

^ The motto of Exeter is ' Semper fidelis.'

by the next coach, and not return till the
clouds have cleared somewhat. But before I
go, there is one duty I must perform. I must
let the directors of Ophir know of old Tram-pleasure's
five thousand pounds lodged in the
hands of John Herring.'

It is needless to say that the marriage had
not taken place. It is needless also to say that
Trecarrel did depart to Exeter to hear the
opera company. It is also needless to say
that he thoroughly enjoyed himself, liked the
music, caught some of the airs, ate, drank, and
smoked, and blessed his stars every day that
he was a free man. He not only blessed his
luck, but he flattered himself that he had
extricated himself by his own shrewdness.
And now,' said he, 'here am I in Exeter,
enjoying myself Had I remained at Trecarrel,
I must have gone to bed, and one may have
too much even of a stood thing.'

The affairs of the Ophir Gold Company
were wound up. All the directors met, except
Arundelll Golitho, of Trevorgan, Esquire, who
did not appear. But that was hardly wonderful,
as no one knew who Arundelll Golitho,
Esq. was, and as the letter addressed to him,
stating the circumstances of the company, the
death of Mr. Trampleasure, and the disappearance
of Mr. Sampson with the funds of

the company, was returned unopened. The
post-office was unable to discover Trevorgan.
When the affairs were wound up, it was discovered
that there were h abilities, but no assets
except the ^-v^ thousand pounds held by Mr.
Herring. The shareholders had lost everything
they had embarked in the concern,
except what little would come to them out of
the five thousand pounds after the liabilities
had been discharged, and the lawyers had
sweated the little sum to a cipher.

Then it was that the Reverend Israel
Flamank's character shone out. The man's
vanity had received a crushing blow, he would
never entirely recover from the ridicule that
descended on him for his discovery of Ophir.
He had lost his small capital sunk in the mine.
He alone, however, had thought and compassion
at this juncture for the orphan and
the widow. He found that Orange and her
mother were left absolutely destitute. The
^-sf^ thousand pounds known to be in Herring's
hands would be absorbed and dissipated, and
the furniture of Dolbeare sold. There was
nothing, absolutely nothing, left, on which
Mrs. Trampleasure and her daughter and
Miracle could live ; for old Trampleasure had
thrown Miracle's money into the same venture,
and it was gone past recovery.

Mr. Elamank exerted his powers of persuasion
on the directors to induce them to
propose to the shareholders a surrender of a
small portion of the money that they were able
to lay their hands on, for the maintenance of
the widow and her daughter. But none are
so remorseless as pious persons touched in
pocket. He pleaded to deaf ears. The liabilities
of the mine were considerable, and would
eat into the little fund. The men's wages
were in arrear. The builders had received
only a trifle on account for the sheds they had
erected. The company owed for the water-wheel,
for the drum, for the stamping-mill, for
the cradles, the buddies, and the whips and the
whims. Nothing, in short, had been paid for.
As for the receipts, they where nil, for nothing
had been got out of Ophir but what had been
pnt in. Old Tramplara, it was supposed, had
smirk his own money in the concern, at least it
appeared so ; for he had drawn everything out
of the bank, had sold all his investments
except the Patagonians which were unsaleable.
The gold employed in salting the mine had
undoubtedly consumed a great deal, and what
remained had gone, with the shareholders'
money, into the pocket of Mr. Sampson. It
was fortunate that only the first call had been
made on the shareholders, and that few of the

shares were fully paid up. Nevertheless the
loss was considerable, so considerable as to
sour the sincerest Christian among them, and
make them indifferent to the woes of the
arch scoundrel's widow and daughter.

When Mr. Flamank found that nothing
was to be saved ont of the wreck for the
Trampleasures, he went about collecting contributions
for them. But his credit was
suffering eclipse, and exasperation against
Tramplara too great for him to do much. He
was unable to get together more than fifty
pounds, given grudgingly, and not obtained
without great personal effort and the endurance
of many humiliations.

The five thousand points lodged with John
Herring lay in the bank in his name. It was
the only sum standing to his account. But
when Herring was written to, no answer was
returned. That was not greatly wondered at,
for it was known that he had been found insensible
on the road, and had been carried in
the same condition to West Wyke.

The directors wrote him to the effect that
the affairs of Mr. Trampleasure, deceased,
were so involved in those of the Ophir Mining
Company that it was necessary to settle both
together. Mr. Trampleasure had died insolvent.
His chief creditors were the directors



of the company, and the administration of his
effects had been granted to them. They were,
therefore, empowered to call in all moneys
due to the deceased, and, as such, they claimed
the five thousand pounds which were to be
repaid to Mr. Trarapleasure in the event of
the marriage of his daughter with Captain
Trecarrel not taking place on a certain day.
That marriage had not been solemnized at
the time specified, nor was it probable that it
would be within a reasonable period, therefore
the money was due to them as a debt to the
late Mr. Trampleasure.

The cheque did reach them after a time,
written with a shaking hand, and the money
was drawn. Herring could not have refused it.
With the cheque came a letter offering to
purchase the entire plant of Ophir, wheel, and
stampers, and crushers, everything in fact, at a
moderate valuation. The offer was too food
to be refused. The directors closed with it by
return of post. There was, consequently, no
sale by auction at Ophir, but everything
Dolbeare was condemned to go by the hammer,
except the personal effects of Mrs. and
Miss Trampleasure, and of Miracle. The
house was to be cleared of everything, except
the clock on the stairs, the crayon portraits,
and the walking-sticks. The ladies could not

remain for the auction. They would have
had no home to go to, had not the Reverend
Israel Flamank intervened and opened his
doors to them. He did this in a gush of
benevolence, and, unhappily, without first
consulting Mrs. Flamank, who, when told
what he had done, went into ' tantrums,' and
made the house so unpleasant for the Reverend
Israel that he spent the rest of the day in
making pastoral calls and eating pastoral
meals with his sheep.

By evening Mrs. Flamank became calmer,
and, when her husband returned late, was sofar
subdued that she yielded a reluctant consent
to giving the Trampleasures shelter fora
month.

You know, Betsy Delilah, dear saint,'
said Israel, ' if we do not take them in, the
poor creatures will be turned into the street,
and that your tender heart would be unable
to bear, sweet angel ! '

I'm sure, Dizzy, we have lost enough by
the Trampleasures already. However, I will
not say nay, because it will look well, and
people will say we practise what we preach.
Only — I warn you, Dizzy ! ' she held up her
finger ; ' mind yourself.'

What Mrs. Betsy Delilah meant by this
warning, he understood perfectly. With his

many excellent qualities, Mr. Flamank had a
weakness : he was o-iven to caress his female
devotees.

In the Established Church there ai-e two
schools differing in their tendencies. The
tendency of the extreme of the High Church
is towards plunging into pecuniary difficulties ;
the tendency of the extreme of the Low Church
is towards lapses into amatory difficulties. If
this be the case in the Established Church — if
this be done in the green tree, what goes on in
the dry ? — in the nonconformist churches,
where the ministers are not independent of
their congregations — where the mercury of
their salary rises and falls with their popularity.
It is natural that in such circumstances
there should be developed a tendency
towards fawning on and fondling of pious
ladies with money. A little coaxing retains
a sheep that inclines to err into another fold.
The pressing of the hand changes a shilling
subscription into a guinea, and an arm round
the waist elevates it to five pounds. When the
habit has been acquired of showing these
tenderness to the well-to-do, old and ugly
ladies, it sometimes extends also to those who
are good-looking and young, and becomes at
last wholly indiscriminate.

Now the Reverend Israel Flamank was a

sincere and good main, and he drevv the line,
with singular moderation, at kisses. These
were scriptural — the Apostle Paul had a fancy
for them, and recommended them wholesale.
But the arm round the waist he did not
allow. He found no warranty for it in Holy
Writ. But he would take a lady's hand in
one of his, and stroke it with the other, and
read and expound to her the Song of Solomon.
There was no harm in that ; and it was really
remarkable how these innocent attentions told
on his income and his acceptableness to his
congregation.

Mrs. Flamank did not like these Familiarities.
Though she knew they were as
harmless as the love-making of actors and
actresses on the stage, and were inseparable
from the position of a minister in an Unestablished
Church, she objected to them.
She was very determined, if she received Mrs.
Trampleasure, Orange, and Miracle into her
house, she would permit none of these Pauline
caressing under her eyes. But it is easier
for a resolution to be taken than to enforce it.
Mr. Flamank was very discreet for a week or
ten days, but after that he began to soften
towards the ladies. Miracle kept him at a
distance from the outset. He had been highly
pleased at the prospect of getting a daughter

of the Scarlet Woman into his house. He
looked on her as an erring sheep, one who
erred through ignorance ; and he hoped to
enlighten her, and lead her into the paths of
truth. He was, however, somewhat puzzled
how to set about it. Miracle withdrew from
family devotion, and declined to assist at his
scriptural readings. She would not attend
his chapel. She allowed him no opportunity
of opening a conversation with her on religious
topics. She was cold, reserved, and silent.
Mrs. Elamank rather liked her : there was no
fear of Israel patting her hand.

The pastor attempted to dazzle her with
his evangelical talk, much in the same way
that young Sampson had attempted to impress
her with his brag of feats performed
with dogs and horses. On one or two occasions
he had the temerity to attack her, but
he came oiF with falls which damped his
ardour. Once, when he assailed her on the
subject of belief, she cut him short with the
observation, ' We do not speak the same
language. When I say, I believe, I mean
that I hold as certain, but I notice that you
use the word differently, as synonymous with
I suppose. We look at different objects and
through different instruments ; I through a

VOL. II. N

telescope at constant verities, you through a
kaleidoscope at vari-coloured and ever-varying
opinions.'

With Orange it was not the same. She
was in trouble. Mortified pride and wounded
love brought frequent tears into her eyes.
She looked very handsome in her mourning
suit. What is the first duty of a pastor, but
to comfort the sorrowful, to soothe the
ruffled soul, to apply the balm of Gilead to
open wounds ? So Mr. Israel Flamank was
assiduous in his comforting and soothing, and
dabbing on of balm, — more assiduous than
Betsy Delilah liked. Orange was coarse of
grit, and did not object to the little attentions
of the pastor which would have been insufferable
to Miracle. She accepted them with
indifference ; she was without religious instincts,
and the words of the shepherd fell
empty on her ear. But there was something
flattering in his efforts to console her, and at
the present time, when her pride was hurt,
any flattery was pleasing. Captain Trecarrel
was not there to staunch her tears, to cheer
her and give her assurance of a future ; any one
who could afford her some alleviation to her
humiliation, and encourage her with a hope of
better things, was acceptable, even though he
were a dissenting minister.

riamank was perfectly sincere. His heart
was full of kindness and devoid of guile. He
was troubled at her distress, and unhappy at
his inability to help her. It was unfortunate
that his mode of expressing these justifiable
feelings did not meet with the approval of
Betsy Elijah. They irritated her, and she
determined to shake herself free of her guests
at the first opportunity.

Captain Trecarrel had returned to the
neighbourhood. Orange heard of it, and
waited several days in expectation of a visit.
But he neither called nor sent to inquire after
her and her mother. She brooded over this
neglect. Did he really mean to desert her ?
He could not behave so cruelly, so unworthily.
Her hot blood raced through her veins. She
resolved that she would go herself to Trecarrel.
She would go alone ; no one should know of
the visit. She would speak to Harry face to
face. When, he had her before him, and saw
her in her black, her face — her beautiful face,
wet with tears, his love would blaze up, his
manly pity and generosity would force him to
assert his right to protect her.

He was staying away only because of the
scandal about Ophir. He was waiting for
that to blow away, and then he would return
to her. She felt sure of that; she measured

his love by her own. Would she have forsaken
him had ruin overtaken him ? A
thousand times no — no — no ! She must
know his intentions for certain. Her future
depended on knowing this. She was unable
to endure the thought that she should be seen
going to seek him, and therefore she resolved
to go by herself after dark. She would not
tell Mrs. or Mr. Flamank, nor her mother,
nor, of course, Miracle. The thing could be
done with ease. The drawing-room had
French windows, through which the little
garden could be entered. The drawing-room
was rarely sat in; it was used for company
occasions. The family occupied the diningroom,
in which they had their meals, and in
which they worked and talked afterwards,
amidst the fumes of meat, cabbage, and cheese.
This was economical ; it saved carpets and
furniture, and an extra fire.

Orange waited till all had gone to bed.
They were early risers, and retired early in
that house. Then she softly descended the
stairs, her shoes in her hand, and entered the
drawing-room. She easily unclosed the
shutters, without making any noise, unlocked
and unbolted the French window, opened it,
put on her shoes, and stepped forth on the
gravel.

The street was deserted ; only a low tavern
at the end had the door open, and a light
shone forth into the road. In that gleam, a
young woman, adorned with gay ribands,
was laughing and romping with two nearly
tipsy young men. The language, the gestures,
were gross and disgusting.

Have another nip of gin, Polly.'

No, you shan't have none of his, Polly,
I'll give you some, my duck. You be my
sweetheart, and not his.'

Who goes there ? ' screamed the girl, and
made a rush at Orange. ' Here's a girl for
you, Tom, and then you let me alone with
Joe.'

Orange flung her off with scorn, and ran
along the road. A burst of laughter and
jeers followed her.

She be going after her young man down
to the lane end,' cried the girl.

Orange's cheek burned. That was true
hatefully true. She was going to seek her
lover, but only because he did not come to
see her. After this incident she was unmolested.
She met no one else on her long
walk to Trecarrel.

Would she find the Captain up ? She
hoped so, she supposed so, for she knew that
he sat up late ; he had often told her as

much. It was as lie had conjectured and
hoped. When she reached the house, she
saw a light from his smoking-room, a comfortable
room, where he kept his whips and
guns ; a room ornamented with stuffed foxes'
heads and their tails, and with the antlers of
red deer. A door from this little room opened
on to the lawn. Orange went to the window,
but the blind was down and she could not
see in ; but she heard Trecarrel within
whistling an air ; it was an operatic air he
had recently heard in Exeter, and which had
caught his fancy. How splendidly La
.Fontana had sung ! What schooling her
voice had gone through, and what quality
was in it ! How graceful she was, and what
passionate action she showed. ' You never
get that sort of a thing out of an Englishwoman,'
he mused. ' Our countrywomen cannot
act ; they have no fire, no passion, they
are dolls, and move mechanically. Their

voices, moreover ' Good heavens ! Who

is that?'

He started up. The door opened, and
Orange came in. He had been seated over
his fire, with his cravat off, a bottle of claret
and a glass on the table at his side ; he had
just finished a pipe.

No fire, no passion in an English girl ! '

There were both before him, flaming in
Orange's eye, and heaving in her bosorn.

'- Bless my soul. Orange, what on earth
has brought you here ? '

You, Harry, you! ' She was out of
breath, and choking with emotion. ' Oh,
Harry, dear Harry, why have you not been
to see me ? '

Come over to the fire. You must be
cold.'

I — I, cold I ' she laughed bitterly. ' I
am burning ; feel my hand. I have run ; but
it is not that. The flame is here.' She
touched her heart. ' It is eating its way, it is
consuming me. Oh, Harry, why have you
not been to see me ? You do not know what
I have suffered.'

We have both suffered,' he answered ;
but there was not much token of pain in his
blue eyes, nor tone in his voice. ' Come
over here ; I am sure you must be damp
with the night air. This is most indiscreet
of you, Orange ; I hope you have come
attended.'

I am alone.'

You ought not to have come. It is
wrong — it is indelicate.' He was fitting on
his cravat as he spoke. ' Good heavens
what would be said had you been seen ? '

^ No one has seen me ; no one knows where
I am.'

This is madness,' he said. He twirled
his moustache ; he was greatly discomposed.
'I wish you had been more reasonable,
Orange.' Then to himself, ' I wish I had
remained in Exeter, or gone to bed.'

I dare say it is madness and unreasonable,'
she said ; ' I am mad. Do you know,
Harry, all that has happened ? Do you
know that my mother and I are beggars ?
We have nothing left to us.'

My good Orange, 1 have been myself on
the verge of that same condition all my life,
and so can sympathise with you.'

You have a house of your own, we have
none. You have land that no man can take
from you, and you can at least dig that and
live on its produce. But my mother and I
have nothing ; no house, no land, no money.
We eat the bread of charity, and how long is
it to last ? Harry, I ask you ? '

He was silent, engaged on his cravat. It
offended his delicacy to be seen and to converse
with a lady without his cravat.

You do not answer me, Harry ; you are
not going to desert me now I am down. If
you had been poor and an outcast, would

not I have taken you, though I were
wealthy ? '

But there is the rub,' said the Captain,
interrupting her. ' If I were rich I would
share it with you and welcome, but I am
not rich ; I am miserably poor, hardly able
to keep my head out of a debtor's prison.'

Harry, I do not mind that. You are
bound to me ; you cannot desert me in my
misery. No, I know you too well. You
are too good, too noble, too true a gentleman.
I cannot, 1 will not believe it. Take me as I
am. "We can but be poor together, and I
will work as your slave. With love labour is
light, and poverty is made rich.'

That is rather a pretty sentiment,
Orange, but it is impracticable.'

It is not impracticable. Try me.'
That is absurd. I cannot try you, and,
if the experiment fails, dissolve the partnership.'


She was silent, and looked him full in the
face. Then her feelings overcame her. She
stretched out her arms to him. ' Harry,' she
gasped, ' Harry, I love you ! '

He did not put out his arms to encircle
her, to take her to his heart ; but he put his
hand to his pipe and began to scrape out the

ashes with a bit of stick — a toothpick that
was on the mantelpiece.

'Be reasonable, Orange; it is impossible
for us to marry now. There is this terrible
scandal about Ophir barring it for one thing;
there is my poverty for another. We must
wait.'

I knew it,' she said, relieved ; ' I knew
the delay was for a time only. But, Harry,
in the meanwhile I have no home. Where
am I to live? What roof is to cover me from
the rain and the snow? Where am I to get
food to put in my mouth, whence the clothes
to cover me? Whilst you are waiting for
Ophir to be forgotten, I am starving.'

This calls for consideration,' he said, still
cleaning his pipe; and now he blew through
it, to assure himself that the passage was
clear.

Harry, you have an aunt at Penzance,
take me to her. I will live with her a few
years, till this trouble about Ophir is passed,
and then you shall marry me from her house.'

That is not possible, Orange. My aunt
strongly disapproved of my engagement.
She is a most bigoted Catholic, and could not
endure the thought of my taking a Protestant
to wife.'

I will be a Catholic ; I do not care.'

But,' said he, coldly, ' that is not all.
Our families are so wide apart in the social
scale. My aunt is very proud of her race,
and you know your stock is not — well, neither
ancient nor gentle. You may change your
creed, but not your blood. I think nothing
of this. If I had considered it, I would not
have sought to marry you, but my aunt — you
see we are speaking of her, and you propose
that I should take you to her — my aunt is very
stiff in these matters. I cannot force you
into her house. So you see this scheme is
impracticable also.'

'Where am I to go? ' asked Orange, desperately
; ' I must live somewhere. You are
my proper protector, to whom I fly. I
ask you, find me, give me a home. See,
Harry, I am poor now, but it may not always
be so. The directors of Ophir have left us
some thousands of pounds in Patagoniann
bonds.'

Oh ! I know them. They were left
because worthless.'

They are worthless now, but they may
become valuable hereafter. Let us wait till
then ; I will be patient, and in time you will
marry me.'

Oh, certainly, when the Patagonians arc
at par.'

But in the meantime, Harry, what is to
become of me ? '

Really. I am at a loss to know. I am
at my wits' end what to propose.'

Then her cheek and brow became crimson.

Harry ! J am sunk so low that I care not
what the world says, and what becomes of mxC.
I will stay here ; you shall not send me
away. I have no pride left. Let me be a
poor serving maid, a kitchen-wench in the
house, and work for you. If the world talks,
let it— I defy it.'

Trecarrel sprang back. This was indeed
madness. She must be cured.

Orange ! ' he said, ' I am too honourable
to listen to such words with composure. Go
back whence you came. Here ! I will accompany
you. You must not be alone.'

No, 1 came alone, and 1 can go alone.
But — what is to become of me ? '

You think only of yourself. Orange ;
you are selfish. Poor Miracle ! how she
must suffer also. What is to become of that
sweet and fragile flower ? '

Orange looked him full in the eyes. A
light flickered and flashed in hers, a terrible
light. She stood as a statue before him fora

moment. Fierce thoughts, wild, dark, like
smoke from the bottomless pit, rose, and
rolled over and obscured her brain.

Poor Miracle ! Sweet and fragile flower ! '
At that moment, with her, Orange, pleading
before him, with her in an agony and
in abasement before him, he could think of
Miracle, and throw Miracle in her teeth.

Then she turned to the door. All hope
was gone.

Let me attend you home,' he said.

^ I have no home,' she answered hoarsely.

Let me go with you to where you are
lodojino^.'

I came alone, I will return alone,' she
said, and left the room.

She hurried into the road. When there,
however, she stood and waited. Would he
come after her? She waited on ; the liszt
in his smoking-room disappeared, it reappeared
at another window, and travelled upwards,
then shone out of an upstairs room. Captain
Trecarrel was going to bed.

Then Orange ran back to Launceston.

As she passed the low public-house, she
stumbled over something. It was the young
woman, drunk, lying in the road. She
reached the house of the Flanks, and thrust
open the drawing-room window and went in.

^ Hah ! ' exclaimed Mr?. Flamank, standing
there, with Mrs. Trampleasure trembling and
sniffling behind her ; ' this is fine goings on in
my house. Out to one o'clock in the morning,
cutting about, heaven knows where, and with
whom. This is a Christian habitation. Out
of my house you go tomorrow.'

Betsy Delilah ! ' remonstrated Mr. Fla-man
from the door, ' the poor souls have no
house to go to.'

She,' exclaimed Mrs. Flamank, indicating
Orange — ' she don't want one. She likes the
street at night, apparently.'

^ Madam,' said Miracle, stepping forward,
and speaking with composure, ' give us but
two days' shelter, and then we will trouble
you no more, I undertake. I have a friend
to whom 1 will appeal.'

Then she went upstairs, and wrote : —

Mr. Herring ! — Come to us. Help us !
Miracle.'

CHAPTER XXXIII.

TRANSFORMATION.

Grizzly Cobbledick and Joyce carried John
Herring to the Giant's Table. Joyce had not
the smallest intention of surrendering her
charge to Cicely. She had feared lest the
farmer should accompany the waggon, and
insist on the injured man being conveyed to
West Wyke House. Fortunately, the chance
of making a bargain with the Squire had
arrested him at Bridestowe, and the young
lout who acted as driver was easily managed.

Grizzly consented to receive Herring into
his den, not because he felt gratitude to him
for having saved him from imprisonment, and
for having cured Joyce of her injuries, but
because he thought that ' jackie ' might be
extracted from him.

Gratitude is not a savage virtue ; but
then, is gratitude to be found anywhere ? It
is a figment of the poet and moralist, like

the unicorn and the mermaid. A simulation
of this ideal virtue is assumed by those who
are cultured, but the genuine plant grows on
no human soil and under no known climate.

Grizzly bore Herring no ill-will, and he
thought it possible that the tobacco which was
lost to him through the insolvency of Tram-clara
might be made up to him by the
indebtedness of Herring. He would see to
that ; he would hold Herring in captivity
till as much ' jackie ' was produced as could
be counted on the toes and fingers, with the
head thrown in. If he died, he died. Speculations
succeed or fail ; there are blanks and
prizes in the lottery, disappointments and luck
in life.

cut off,' said Grizzly to his daughter,
*and go and wire a rabbit. The young
maister, if he comes round, will want some'ut
to eat, sure.'

'But what if he wakes up whilst I begone
? '

Then he wakes — that be all.'

You'll be good and kind to 'n, whither,'
entreated Joyce.

Why not? He ain't done me no hurt,'
answered Grizzly.

It took a little persuading and threatening
on Grizzly's part before Joyce could be induced

to relinquish her place. She would
not have gone, but have sat on in unreasoning
jealousy and fear of losing Herring, unless her
father had insisted on her giving him proper
food.

That'll the likes o' he say to turnips, eh ?
He ain't one to eat nun. The quality eat
not but meat. You may give a horse the
best beef steak, and you may set before a man
the choicest hay, and neither will begin to
bite. You must give nun what them likes,
not what you think best. So wi' the maister ;
he be quality, and, when you offers 'n your
turnip and cambridge, that be there a biting
over the turves, he'll turn his head away. It
be all the same to he as giving 'n hay or a
horse beef. You must give to every creeper
its proper food.'

When Joyce was gone, old Cobbledick
surveyed Herring carefully and examined his
bones. No bones were broken. His head was
suffering from concussion, not from fracture.
The old fellow had wit enough to ascertain
this. Then he proceeded to partly undress
him. It was not the custom of the Cobble-dick
tribe to unclose themselves when they
retired to rest ; but then they were hardly
clothed when about by day. If Cobbledick
now stripped Herring it was not in the interest

VOL. II.

cf the patient, but in his own. Having removed
a portion of the garments of the still
unconscious man, he proceeded to vest himself
in them. Inexperience made him put on the
clothes clumsily, and neither in their traditional
order nor in their proper manner. Still,
the general effect was one of transformation.
He tried on Herring's boots, but was unable
to compress his great flat feet into them ; so
he flung them aside; but he laboriously removed
the spurs, and buckled them on his
own heels. The stockings he left on Herring's
legs; he knew he would be unable to wear
them. His own limbs, from the knees downwards,
were swathed in hay-bands. He assumed
the waistcoat, but not the shirt, and was careful
to set the watch in the pocket — the wrong
pocket, of course — and let the seals dangle
from the fob. The waistcoat was open, and
his brown, dirty skin showed dark against the
nankin. The coat was rather tight, high-collared,
with a roll ; Cobbledick was mightily
pleased with it. He jumped and swung the
tails from side to side, and ran after them,
round and round, like a kitten pursuing its
own tail. He sallied forth to a pond and contemplated
himself in it. The effect was not
perfect. He went back and deprived Herring of
his cravat, which till now he had left about his



neck. This he wrapped about his own throat,
making it very stiff, and holding his chin high
in the air. Herring's hat was there ; it had
not been left in the road ; Farmer Faceyy had
picked it up and tossed it into the waggon as
it departed. Cobbledick put the beaver on,
somewhat on one side, as he had seen Sampson
Tramplara cock his hat when tipsy ; and he
took up the hunting-whip Joyce had brought
with her, and, so accoutred, he lounged in the
door of his den. But Grizzly was not satisfied
with himself. His hay-swathings were not in
character. He proceeded to divest himself of
these. Then his bare legs looked incongruous
with the remainder of his equipment. Now
Herring had worn cloth gaiters over his stockings.
Grizzly had unbuttoned these with
much difficulty. Indeed, it can hardly be
said that he had unbuttoned them; he had
rather torn them off, sending the buttons flying.
To button them on his own calves was
a feat beyond his powers. His fingers were
incapable of performing such work as passing
a button through a hole. He tried, and abandoned
the attempt in despair.

He flung; his own ra2:s over Herrinof, and
went forth to examine himself again in the
pool. The brown shins and calves did not
please him. He sat down and thought.


Then he remembered that the masons engaged
at Ophir had been mixing lime for
whitewashing. What if he stole down there
and whitewashed his legs ! That would complete
his transformation. The old man was
as conceited as a young buck newly accoutred
by a fashionable tailor.

So Cobbledick started for the mine, walking
with difficulty. The constraint of the
garments encasing his nether limbs was to
him as great as that caused by Saul's armour
to David. David, finding he could not go in
■4^this, put it off him. Grizzly was less wise;
he waddled on in suffering and constraint,
and was caught and thrown occasionally by
the spurs that dangled at his bare heels. The
gorse scratched his shins, usually protected by
hay-bands ; but he heeded not these inconveniences.
With his head in the air, one arm
akimbo, and the hand holding the riding-whip
resting on his hip, he strutted on, wishing,
and yet fearing to be seen — desirous of admiration,
and yet shy of the reception he
might meet with from those accustomed to
see him half naked.

He mounted a flat slab of granite, and,
taking off his hat, bowed and waved it, as he
had seen old Tramplara salute distinguished
and wealthy visitors to Ophir. Imitation is

strong; in the savage and in the idiot. Bv the
help of this faculty the social world gets on
without jars, for there are savages and idiots
in all ranks of life, and the deeper their
savagery and their idiocy the more pronounced
is the development of their imitative
powers. They copy the manners of those
around them, simulate their breeding and
virtues, and so disguise their nature and pass
muster. Social education consists in the training
of neophytes ^vhat to copy and what to
disregard in the bearing and manners of those
with whom they associate. But such as are
left without instructors pick up and imitate
all that they ought to avoid, and overlook
what they should copy. Thus it is that servant
maids reproduce in themselves the pretences
and follies of their mistresses, and not
their thrift and good sense; and the butler
apes his master's vices and eschews his virtues.

Left alone in the den, lying on the fern,
with the smoke of the peat fire and the reek
of stewing vegetables filling it. Herring opened
his eyes and looked about him.

It was some time before he recognised
where he was, and then he was unable to
account for his being there. The evening was
stealing on, the sun was setting ; there was a
glow of golden light outside the door, and a

streak of yellow glory came from a notch in
the stone at the back of the table, filled
with moss. Herring's head was painful, and
all his limbs ached. He could scarce move
his arms ; they were sprained and bruised.
He tried to stand up, but the effort gave him
torture, and he was forced to lie down again.
He was, however, satisfied that he was sound
in limb, though sprained and bruised. He
could close his hands and move his feet.
Then he thought of the events that had recently
taken place. He could follow the thread
to one point — after that it was broken oiF.
He had borrowed a horse at Bridestowe, he
had ridden hard in pursuit of Sampson
Tramplara — and then ensued darkness and
a blank.

Had Sampson shot him ? He tore open
his shirt and felt ; there was no wound. He
felt his head ; it was not bandaged.

How came he in the den of the Cobble-ticks
? As he was puzzling over this question,
the entrance was darkened, and Joyce
entered, carrying a fowl by the legs. The
moment she saw that he was conscious, she
uttered a cry of joy, and was at his side, on
her knees, grasping his hands, with tears and
flashes of delight in her eyes.

Oh, maister ! the dear maister ! you be

alive and not going to sleep away dead ! You
can see who be here — your own poor Joyce.
Right glad I be to see the life in your eyes
and the blood in your cheeks again. Oh,
glory rallaluley ! I be joyful ! I could sing
my heart up over my lips, and away through
this great covering stone.'

Joyce ! ' said Herring, ' I do not understand.
What is the meaning of this ? How
came I here ? '

Sure, my maister, it were I as brought
you here. The young Cap'n Sampson Tram-clara
would ha' killed, but I fought 'n
forty, and I were too much for 'n. You
mended my arms and made them strong, and
they were strong enough to keep 'n off from
killing of you. He'd ha' done it. He had
that in his hand would ha' scatter your head
all to smash, and he were about to do it, but
I were too strong for he, thanks be to you for
mending of me up. Glory rallaluley ! '

But how came I here, Joyce ? '

Sure enough, because I brought in a
waggon as grand as a king. Sure,' she said,
laughing and crying in one breath, ' I never
went on nothing but my own bare feet afore,
and but for the grandness, I'd rather walk any
day. But I could not ha' carried you thus far.
That were why I were forced to hire a waggon.

Not but as though I wouldn't ha' done it. I'd
ha' carried you the world over in my arms, if
I could, and never let you drop till I died.
But — Loramussy ! what have become of your
clothes ? By the blue blazes! this be whither's
doing.'

Joyce, how did this take place? I cannot
understand.'

The horse were thro wed and you with
him. Cap'n Sampson had put a gate across
the road ; and you rode quite innocent like
right on to it. After you were down, he came
out from behind the hedge, and would ha'
killed you, but your own poor Joyce were
there, and her fought 'n, and her tore at 'n.
He might ha' cut her flesh off her bones, and
scat her bones, but herd not lev let 'n hurt
you no more.'

Then she seized his hands in a paroxysm of
joy and covered them with kisses, and pressed
them to her beating heart. ' It were I, your
own Joyce, as saved.'

See what self-respect will do — how it lifts
out of the slough ! Once Joyce had licked
his hand like a dog. Now she had learned
her own worth, she had battled for and saved
his dear life ; and her pride had heaved her
from the low estate of bestiality to the level of
a human being. She kissed his hand, she no

longer licked it. That marked a distinct stride
in civilisation.

But she added, as she knelt over him,
still holding his hand to her bosom, and looked
out of her wet and burning eyes into his face,
^ it were none for Joyce, nor for ]\Iiss Cicely,
I did all this — it were for you and the Whiteface.'


Joyce loved him ; her love for him filled
her whole dim soul with light. She was
perfectly humble ; she knew she was a poor
savage, and as widely removed from him on one
side as she was from the fox or badger on the
other. There was no self-seeking in her love.
It was in this simple, pure, unselfish devotion
that the human soul broke into flame and
transformed Joyce. She looked up to Herring
as she might to a star ; she had no thought
of attaining to either. It was enough for her
to look up and be led by the light each shed
on her way.

Her father was also transformed externally,
but remained the same low brute at
heart. There was no outer change in the girl,
the same foul rags, only more ragged than
before, the same dishevelled wretchedness of
aspect ; but within, all was different. God
spake, and there was light.

Herring looked up at her, wondering, but

still much confused; his head could not
endure much thought. She was swaying herself
from side to side, still holding his hand
between hers in her bosom ; and the tears ran
down her tanned cheeks and fell over him — a
soft and soothing rain, a rain bearing balm
and blessing. She had raised her eyes, and
her lips moved.

What are you saying, Joyce ? ' he asked,
thinking she was speaking to him, but that he
could not hear.

• I were saying not to you,' she said ;
I do not know hardly what I were saying,
but my heart were that nigh to bursting wi'
joy, that I felt I must speak — but not to you — ■
sure I didn't know to whom I were speaking
and saying that I were so happy as I never
was afore and never will be again. And I
tried to say glory rallaluley turned backs
but the words wouldn't out, and I
just cried for gladness, and looked up — that
were all.'

What is that noise ? ' asked Herring.

What ? ' she asked, dropping his hand
and listening.

There were shouts and cries approaching.
Then the crash of a stone against the supporters
of the table. Next moment in dashed old
Grizzly, without the hat, wild with alarm, and

threw himself on the ground, where he tore
off his coat and neckcloth, waistcoat and
breeches, and, screaming with rage and terror,
threw each article, as it came off, in the faces
of the men that peered in at the entrance.

Take nun ! take nun ! I will none of
'em ! I will never have none o' the sort
again.'

His legs were torn and bleeding. One was
smeared with white to the knee, the other was
of its natural tan.

Some of the miners had seen Cobbledick
engaged in adorning his shins with whitewash,
dressed out in his borrowed garb, and had set
upon him with jeers. He had fled and been
pursued.

^ I'll lev none of it never more,' he
cried, and swore horribly*. ^ Give me my
rags again.'

That was the end of the transformation
of Grizzly. But the transformation of Joyce,
which was from within, was more enduring.

CHAPTER Xxxi.

hearing's stockings.

Joyce was unable to retain Herring. Those
who had pursued her father saw him lying in
the old cromlech, and the secret was out.
Moreover, she herself began to see that it
was not possible for her to keep him in the
den. Her father's behaviour, when left in
charge of the patient, had shown her how
utterly untrustworthy he was, and Joyce
could not always be there.

Ophir had exerted a deteriorating effect
on Grizzly. He had become idle ; he had
learned to beg; he had acquired a taste for
rum. He expected Joyce to do everything
for him, that he might lounge away his time
about the mine, repeating his parrot story to
the visitors, putting the dust into the water,
and watching them find it.

Old Tramplara and young Sampson had
given him money, and the workmen, supposed

all to be sworn abstained, had indulged him
from their bottles of cold alcoholic tea. Like
a savage brought suddenly into association
with civilised man, he learned their vices, and
unlearned none of his own brutality.

When it was known at West Wyke that
John Herring was lying ill under the Giant's
Table, Mr. Battishill and Cicely sent to have
him removed to their house, and poor Joyce
offered only a faint, though sullen, resistance.
She knew she could not keep him, but she
was reluctant to lose him. She knew that it
was good for him to go, and she did violence
to her own heart in suffering him to be carried
away. She followed him to the doorway of
West Wyke, holding his hand, and without
taking her eyes off him.

Come, Joyce,' said Cicely, ' you have
been so good and devoted hitherto, that you
had best remain as nurse. Come in and
attend to Mr. Herring till he is well.*

But Joyce shook her head.

I'll not go under no hellenes [slates], or
I should smother,' she said. ' Where be you
a-going to take 'n to ? '

We shall put him in that room,' answered
Cicely, indicating the window.

There'll be a light there of nights, I
reckon. I shall see 'n. And of day, when

whither don't want not a-doing, I'll just hop
over and sit down outside, in thick corner o'
the garden wall.' Then Joyce grasped Herring's
hand in both hers, and the tears filled
her eyes. ' It were I, your poor Joyce, as
saved you. You'll not forget that, willy
now ? '

Then she turned away, and wiped her
eyes with the back of her hand. Cicely
looked after her. Joyce did not turn back ;
she walked on with her peculiar free stride,
her head down, and her arm across her
face.

Herring had been jarred and contused by
his fall, and he suffered greatly for a few days.
Every movement caused pain. The doctor
visited him, and insisted on quiet, and that
his head should be kept cool and his mind
unoccupied.

The news of Mr. Trampleasure's death
and of Sampson's evasion were not communicated
to him till it was seen that he troubled
his mind about the result of the exposure of
Ophir. Nothing could be done, at least by
him, in the matter.

Every day Joyce came and sat in a nook
of the garden against the wall, looking up at
the window. Her hands were unoccupied ;
she could neither knit nor sew. She platted

her fingers about one knee and remained in
the corner as still as though carved out of
stone, almost as rugged as though cut out of
granite. Herring's bed was near the window,
and he went to the casement, and leaning on
the sill looked forth and spoke to her. Then
her eyes, in which a strange wistfulness had
risen up, lighted, and she smiled. She had
brought him something, a little bunch of late
wild flowers, some coral lichen daintily folded
in green moss, a cluster of blackberries, old
and incredible, but the sole cluster she could
find. These little gifts she would intrust to
no one to convey to Herring. No other hand
should touch them and divert from him the
something which went out from her with
them. When he came to the window and
looked out, she threw them up at him with
so sure an aim that the bunch of borage and
cranes-bill, the sprig of heather, or the blackberries,
always reached his open hand.

This devotion of Joyce was embarrassing
to Herring. As he lay in his bed he thought
about her, whether something could not be
done to bring her out of her rude life. He
spoke his thoughts to Cicely, and she promised
co-operation.

Next day, Cicely took a chair into the
garden, and seated herself beside Joyce. The

poor girl did not seem pleased with the visit,
she had rather be alone.

I do not think you will see Mr. Herring
to-day, Joyce. His head is worse, and he
will not be able to rise and speak to you from
the window.'

Why don't he get well faster ? ' asked
Joyce. ' He'd ha' been right by this time wi'
me.'

Well, certainly, you treated him very
well. He tells me you gave him capital
boiled chicken. How did you manage to get
that?'

I took her,' answered Joyce.

You stole it ! ' exclaimed Cicely. ' From
whom ? '

'- From you. I know'd the young maister
must have 'n, and so I took 'n. If he'd lev
chanced to want milk, I'd ha' milked anybody's
cow for 'n. If he'd ha' wanted your
head, I'd ha' cut 'n off for him — my own
likewise, for that matter. Would you ? '

^ I do not think I would, Joyce.'

Then he ought to lev been with us out
to the Giant's Table, not here.'

You profess great readiness to do anything
for him, Joyce. He was speaking tome
about you yesterday, and wishing I could
teach you something.'



'I don't want no teaching of north said
Joyce, sullenly.

But would yon not like to learn to
knit?'

No answered Joyce, ' I don't want to
larn not. What dory knit with them long
sticking pins ? '

Stockings, Joyce.'

Yaither don't wear none ; I don't, neither.
Them's no good to us.'

Then the upper casement opened and
Herring leaned out.

What, Joyce ! ' lie called ; ' is Miss Cicely
teaching you to knit? That is right. You
are going to knit my stockings for me in
future. I promise you I will wear none but
those of your knitting.'

Give me the pins,' said Joyce, vehemently.
I'll larn.'

Go back, mr. John,' said Cicely ; 'you
know you are forbidden to rise to-day. Go
back, or you will be worse tomorrow.'

Is the maister not getting better? ' asked
Joyce, anxiously.

He is ; but his recovery is slow. His
head has been injured, and we must take care
that there be no relapse. We can pray to
God for him, Joyce.'

VOL. II. p

The girl looked round full in her face
inquiringly.

Will that make 'n well? '

I trust so.'

Better than the doctor's medicine ? '

It helps the doctor to cure him.'

'- I know nothing about it,' said Joyce.
Did the maister pray for me when I "severe
scat?'

Cicely could not take on herself to answer.

I be sure he did,' said Joyce, confidently.
Why did I ax you about it ? If that would
lev made me well, he'd a done it. You don't
know the maister as I do.'

Do you know about God ? ' asked Cicely.

See there, now ! ' exclaimed Joyce, with

animation, ' that be 'sickly what the maister

once axed of I ; and I sed. Sure I do, I see 'n

every day when it hasn't raining and there be

no clouds. I reckon I thought he meant the

sun. But I know better now", and I'll teller

how I comet to know. Thick night as the

maister were thrown down and hunted by

Cap'n Sampson, I thought he were sure to die

in my arms. And I felt then that I must

say something and ax some one for help —

some one as wouldn't want to take 'n away

from me. It weren't the sun as I spoke to,

for the sun had gone down. I don't know

^zackly what and where he was I called to,
but I snowed very well he were up where
the sun be by daytime, but he as I mean
were there o' night time ekally well. Then,
after that, when the young maister where able
to open his eyes and speak, I were that lifted
up with gladness that my heart were nigh to
starting, and I could do not but cry tears,
and tell he as I mean — but I don't know a
mite who he be — how glad I were. I know
very well he weren't the sun, for, you sees,
the sun were then a-sinking, and I never gave
'n a thought for a minute to look at 'n. I
looked right up, up, up ; and there were over
me the great covering table stone, and I
seemed to go right through thick and see
above the clouds as well, and the stars, and
I'm blessed if I know where to. I be no
pollard I can say not but glory rallaluley
and kinkum-kum.'

Kinkum-kum ! ' repeated Cicely, with a
puzzled look.

Sure — what else? I reckon he begins
with Our Yaither, and he goes on to kinkum-
kum ; but I know not more nor that. I
ha' heard the Method sellers a say it at their
meetings on the moor.'

Cicely laughed ; she could not help it —
she was tickled.

p 2

^ You have made a comical muddle of it
she said, and turned her head to conceal her
amusement.

I don't know, and I don't care,' said
Joyce doggedly. ' He heard it, up there,
when I said it, that I knows, sure-ly ; and he
didn't laugh, that I knows also.'

Shall I teach you what it really is ? '

No,' said Joyce, resentfully ; ' you laugh.
If it be good for me, I'll ax the young maister
to larn me when he be well. I sed them
same words to he once — what make you
giggle — and he didn't laugh ; he didn't even
smile, but I saw that in his eyes was more
like tears. However, the words be good as
they be, and I ses them scores and scores of
times by day and by night, thinking of him
as is sick, and he up there ; ' she pointed
with her finger — not to the window, but
far, far above it. 'He as I knows not
about, don't laugh, but listens, just as the
maister listened when I said them to he at
first ; and he takes off his hat, as did the
maister.'

I wish I could persuade you to come indoors,
Joyce. It is cold out here, the wind
blows keenly over the garden wall, and I cannot
remain here.'

I ain't cold,' said Joyce ; ' you can go

in, I don't wanted here. I'll bide here alone
a bit. But I'll larn the knitting and make
the maister his stockings. I will, sure. He
sed he'd never wear none but what I made,
and what he ses he sticks to.'

•A few days later Herring came down. He
was now much better, though still stiff and
bruised. His mind was perfectly clear, and

he was impatient of his confinement.

I.

Mr. Battishill,' said he, ' now is our
opportunity ; Ophir is done, and Upaver
begins. I will make a bid for the plant of
Ophir, and remove it to the silver lead. I
will rent Upaver of you, and mine there on
my own account.'

Very well,' answered Mr. Battishill, ' I
can say with the shepherd in the " Winter's
Tale," " Now, bless thyself, I meet with
things dying, thou with things new-born." I
was set on Ophir ; you never doubted in
Upaver.'

You forget, sir, you were the finder of
the silver lead.'

Ah, yes ; but I was drawn aside by the
glitter of the gold of Ophir. 1 am sorry for
Ophir, too. It was a dream of splendour.
But again, with Pauline, " To the noble
heart, what's gone and what's past help,
should be past grief." '

You have been at your Shakespeare, sir,
whilst I have been upstairs.'

To whom else should I go, John ? " For
I do love that man," said rare Ben Jonson
of him ; and who that has mind and heart
does not say the same. Shakespeare is-the
common and personal friend of humanity.
By the way, John, there are some letters for
you. We would not let you have them before
now, as, no doubt, they are on business —
they come from Launceston.'

Herring looked at them. Their purport
is already known. They were from the
directors of Ophir.

If Miss Cicely will write for me a letter
about the machinery at Ophir, I will sign it,'
he said ; ' we had better secure it at once. I
knew that Ophir would fail, and that was the
reason why I did not hurry to get machinery
for the silver lead. Now we shall secure the
entire plant under half-price.'

Oh, John, how far further ahead you
see than do I ! But you are calculating on
working the mine yourself. How can you
combine a mineralogical captaincy with military
duties ? '

I have sold out,' said Herring, slightly
colouring.

^ Sold out, my boy ! sold out after having

been in the army only a few years ! That is
a very rash and inconsiderate proceeding.'

I could hardly help myself he answered.
I got into trouble. When the accident to
Mr. Strange and his daughter took place I
was on my way to Exeter to rejoin my regiment.
I had been summoned back. I could
not desert the Countess Miracle, with her
father dead and without a protector ; and so
I wrote to my Colonel for a short extension
of leave. He refused it ; but addressed his
reply to Welltown, my little place in Cornwall,
to which he had written before. At
Welltown my presence here was unknown,
and the letter was forwarded to Exeter, and
it lay at my quarters till I went there, which,
as you know, was not for some time. When
I got to Exeter at last, I found that my neglect
had got me into a serious scrape. Not
only so, but the regiment was at Portsmouth,
under immediate orders to sail for Honduras.
I had difficulty in exchanging. Moreover, I
felt that I must be here, to superintend the
working of the silver lead mine ; so I sold out.'

John,' exclaimed Mr. Battishill, ' it is all
very fine your pretending that interest in the
icy Countess and enthusiasm over a mine
detained you. Nothing of the sort. You
found us in trouble and unable to help

ourselves, and so you sacrificed your own prospects"
for the sake of pulling us through.'
He pressed the young man's hand. ' I owe
you a debt I can never repay.'

Mr. Battishill did not know all. He
knew nothing of Miracle's diamonds consigned
to Herring's trust. He entertained no suspicion
of the interest Herring felt in that
cold and haughty girl. He little dreamed
that Herring had taken on himself the double
office of guardian angel to Miracle as well as
to the house of Battishill. He did not suppose
that even care for that poor savage, Joyce,
had mingled with the other motives in deciding
the young man on abandoning his
military career.

When Herring came out of doors for the
first time, he found Joyce in the garden
awaiting him. She was crying and laughing
for joy.

Maister,' she said, ' you will keep your
word about them stockings.'

Certainly,' he replied with a smile. ' I
give you three months in which to learn to
knit, and after that I will wear no stockings
but those of your knitting.'

Good-bye,' she said abruptly.

Whither are you going ? '

^ To larn to knit she answered.

CHAPTER Xxxi.

BEGGARY.

Hope is hard to kill. One last desperate
effort Orange made to recover the Captain.
That same nio;ht, whilst Miracle was writings
John Herring, Orange wrote to Trecarrel,
but her letter was not as brief as that of
Miracle.

Harry, — Now the last shelter is refused
us. We must leave this house the day
after to-morrow. That is, the day when
the sale at Dolbeare takes place. We cannot
go thither, we cannot stay here. We have
none to look to for advice but you. You
must give it us ; you are bound to assist us.
Remember, had the disclosure and death of
my father taken place one hour later, everything
would have been changed, and I should
have been your wife ; then I would have
opened Trecarrel to my poor mother. You
cannot take advantage of an accident which

intervened to break off our marriage. I do
not ask you now to renew that contract ; I
ask you only to come to the aid of a widow
and an orphan, and to help them to find
shelter for their heads.'

She sent this note to Trecarrel by a boy
next morning. He brought answer that the
reply would arrive later. Then Orange went
out. She was not sanguine of success with
the Captain, for she had failed in a personal
interview, and it is easier to refuse by letter
than by word of mouth. Still, some sort of
hope fluttered in her heart. She could not
believe that the Captain would be so mean as
wholly to desert them, and deny them his
advice. She had not asked in her letter for
more than that. Perhaps she had been too
exacting when she forced her presence upon
him last night.

She went to visit her friend Miss Bowdler.
If the Captain had failed her, Miss Bowdler
would not. Miss Bowdler was a well-to-do
young lady, who lived with her ' Pa ' in a
large, handsome, red-brick house of Queen
Anne's period, a house rich within with
plaster-work of exquisite design and wood-carving
by Grinding Gibbons. The house was
one of many rooms, and it was solely tenanted
by the young lady with the red eyelashes

and her ' Pa.' They were rich, but were not
received into county society; a source of
vexation to Miss Bowdler, though her ' Pa '
was indifferent so long as his creature comforts
were attended to. Surely Miss Bowdler
would give her friends shelter for a few days.
Orange was not aware that Miss Bowdler had
reckoned on using her (Orange) when Mrs.
Trecarrel as her door into society of a superior
class; and that now the marriage was broken
off and this door eras shut, the disappointment
was bitter.

Orange rang the bell, and the sunnuons
was answered by the footman, working himself
into his coat, with unbuttoned waistcoat.
He looked at Miss Trampleasure superciliously,
and proceeded leisurely to button his
waistcoat.

Is Miss Bowdler at home ? '

'I don't know.' Then, with a jerk, he
brought a red hand through the sleeve.

I asked if your mistress were in,' said
Orange, with indignation.

I ain't deaf — I heard,' replied the footman.
' I don't think she is what is called
"At Home'"

She is to be seen ? *

I can't take on myself to say that. You
can stop in the 'all, and I'll go and inquire.'

Slowly, still buttoning himself, the serving
man stalked away.

Orange's cheek flamed, and the tears
mounted. This man had been all obsequiousness
before the crash.

Suddenly a loud voice in her ear startled
her.

You're a beggar, you're a beggar ! Oh,
shock-king, shock-king ! Not a penny. Cluck,
cluck, cluck ! '

Orange recovered herself at once. Near
the door on a perch sat a white cockatoo with
pink feathers on her face, and cold, hard, unsympathetic
eyes, staring at her.

Polly,' said Orange, bitterly, ' what you
say is too true.'

Oh, shock-king! Does your mother know
you are out? What o'clock, you beggar?
Oh, oh! Notapen-ny! Hot cockles! Cluck,
cluck!'

Polly, Polly, don't make such a noise !
Pa !— oh ! '

A door opened, and a red-haired head
appeared. It was that of Miss Bowdler. The
moment she saw Orange she started back.
The footman had gone to the greenhouse inquest
of her.

Oh, Sophy ! dear Sophy ! ' exclaimed
Orange, springing forward.

Miss Bowdler recoiled from the outstretched
hands.

'Good gracious, Miss Trampleasure, what
a time of day for a call ! My dear Pa does
not like to be interrupted at this time ; I read
to him his newspaper of a morning. You
will not, I know, detain me. Yes, Pa !
coming, Pa ! coming in an instant ! There
have been disturbances in the North among
the cotton spinners. Pa is in a fever to hear
the particulars.'

Hot cockles ! ' said the parrot, sentimentally,
putting her head on one side and
winking.

Oh, Sophie, do listen to me. I want so
much to see you. I have a favour I wish to
ask you.'

Pa, Pa ! I'm coming.'

Tol-de-rol-de-rol! ' said the parrot. Then,
swinging herself round on her perch, she went
into convulsions of laughter.

I pray you excuse me,' said Miss Powder
; 'I told John Thomas expressly to say I
was not at home in the morning, because Pais
so particular.'

Do you hear?' asked the footman, who
had appeared on the scene, now in full condition,
every button in its place. ' Miss Bowdler
is NOT AT 'Some.' Then he opened the door

pompously. The red-haired lady took the
opportunity to dart back into her room.

You're a beggar ! ' shouted the cockatoo,
with a look of devilry in her eye ; ^ you're a
beggar ! Xot a pen-ny ! Shock-king, shock-king !
Oh, oh ! ' and then screamed and ran round
and round her perch, laughing.

The door shut with a slam behind Orange.
She set her teeth and stamped her foot.

Would that I were Mrs. Trecarrel for
one day only,' she said, ' that I might insult
this wretched girl before county people.'

Her mother had a friend in the town, a
very intimate confidante, a stout old lady,
Mrs. Trelake, widow of a mayor of Launceston,
a brewer. Mrs. Trampleasure had insisted
on her daughter going to this old lady,
and asking her to receive them for a week.
Orange went thither, with her heart on fire
from the humiliations she had undergone at
Miss Bowdler's house. Orange was received
at once with cordiality by Mrs. Trelake. She
was a lady of moderate stature, with an immense
throat. The throat was not a column
supporting the head, but the face was sculptured
out of the column. There was something
good-natured in the face. Possibly she
may have been good-looking when young;
but it was now impossible, on seeing her, to

observe anything but the solid trunk of
throat. The old lady was stout, but neither
her stoutness nor her throat incommoded her ;
she moved with nimbleness. She was, moreover,
robust in health. Mrs. Trelake was a
woman destitute of vanity. She had a neat
hand, and was ignorant of it. She was aware
that her neck was ugly, but she took no pains
to hide it. She was one of those persons who
make no effort to please, and are themselves
easily pleased. She liked every one with whom
she was brought in contact, but she loved nobody.
She was the same genial person with
every one, rich and poor, with her servants and
with her guests. All she asked of her acquaintances
was that they should amuse her,
and of her servants that they should give her
no trouble. Her sympathy was superficial.
If an acquaintance spoke to her of trouble or
good fortune, of embarrassment or great expectations,
she entered into the situation from
the outside, and without the smallest internal
appreciation. If she cried with a companion,
it was not because her friend had occasion for
tears, but because her friend was in tears. If
she laughed, it was not at a joke which she
made no effort to understand, but because the
joker laughed.

If you who knew her so well had told her

your wife was dead with inexpressive voice,
she would have received the information with
indifference ; if you had told her the same
news with broken utterance, she would have
sobbed ; if sou had told her the same fact
with a smile on your lips, she would have
sniggered. And your wife, remember, washer
intimate friend.

People of this description are more common
than is generally supposed. We have
occupied some time over the portrait of Mrs.
Trelake, not because she acts a prominent
part in this story, but because we desire to
inform our readers what to expect from the
Mrs. Relates of their acquaintance when
they appeal to them for help in their troubles.

Mrs. Trelake received Orange with
warmth and pity. She saw that the girl
was in trouble. The heart of Orange was
full of her reception at Miss Bowdler's, and
she recounted it to the old lady. Mrs. Trelake
was shocked : she held up her hands, she
blessed her stars, she vov>Td she could never
look on Miss Bowdler again with regard ; she
undertook to cut her in the streets. (Mrs.
Trelake dined with Miss Bowdler the same
evening, and, when Miss Sophy told her
version of the story, Mrs. Trelake was indignant
over the dinner table at the audacity

of Orange in presuming to thrust herself upon
the Bodleian privacy.)

To-morrow is the sale at Dolbeare/ said
Orange.

The sale, my dear ! How dreadful ! '
Mrs. Trelake looked round the room at her
pretty china and her case of stuffed humming-birds.
' I could not bear to part with my
things. Every article sold, I suppose. Will
those pretty china jars go, with the dragons
on them ? I wonder whether I could get
them cheap ? '

Even to the beds and chairs. The house
still belongs to us. That is, we have the
lease, but we shall have to let it, so as to pay
the rent.'

'Not able to let the house nor pay the
rent ! Oh, my dear, how dreadful ! '

I said that we should have to let it.'

I understood perfectly, my sweet child.'

We cannot go into the house stripped of
everything. AVe cannot stay longer at Mr.
Flamank's. It was very good of him to take
us in, but we are unable to trespass further on
his kindness.'

Certainly, my poor child, it would not
do.'

'Then — tomorrow, whither are we to

go ?

VOL. II.

^ Really, my dear, I don't know. I have
a bad head at guessing conundrums. Is ita
conundrum, though ? ' asked Mrs. Trelake,
doubtfully. She had not been listening.
She was calculating her chance of securing
the dragon vases at the sale.

You knew and loved my mother. I am
sure you love her now.'

Ardently, tenderly,' said Mrs. Trelake,
effusively.

Will you take it ill if I ask a favour of
you ? '

Not at all.'

Would you receive us for a week? I do
not ask for more. In a week we shall have
had time to settle something as to our future.'

Oh, Orange ! don't say a week ; say a
month. My house is at your disposal. I
really have a fair cook ; and now tell me,
what does your mother like ? For breakfast,
now ? Is it grilled kidneys ? You must put
me up to all her little fancies, and I will
instruct my cook to meet them. She is a
good soul and does what I desire. When will
you come ? To-morrow ? Oh, try to come
this evening. Well — if not, at what o'clock ?
Tell me the time and I will have a dainty
meal ready. Orange ! I have a pheasant in
the larder. I hope you like pheasant.'

ewe shall be with you at noon. How
good and kind you are, Mrs. Trelake ! '

^ Not at all. I am delighted.'

Then Orange left. Ten minutes later
Mrs. Trelake wrote an elaborate note of
apology, to say that her servants objected to
receiving so large a party at once. The cook
would not stay, and how could she replace so
valuable and obliging a servant ? The housemaid
said that three persons extra would
throw too much work upon her, and she
would go. So, she, Mrs. Trelake, was very
sorry, but for peace and quietness sake, she
had to yield, and must withdraw the promise
to receive the Trampleasure party. She herself
had nothing to do with this, but servants
were becoming so masterful that the only way
in which she, an elderly lady, could get on
was to yield to them in every point.

We live in the world, we didn't make it,'
concluded Mrs. Trelake ; ' we must shape
ourselves to the world, not force the world
to fit us.'

Whilst Orange was standing; at the
window, reading this letter to her mother,
she saw a woman whom she knew coming to
the back door. This was a rough girl whc
did the scullery work at Trecarrel. She
brought the answer from the Captain.

q2

Orange at once darted into the garden
and intercepted the girl on her way to the
kitchen.

You bear a letter for me.'

'Yes, miss.'

She handed her a letter. Orange turned
it in her hands. The address was badly
written by some uneducated person.

Who gave you this ? '

Mrs. Kneebone, the housekeeper.'

Is there nothing from Captain Trecarrel ? '

The girl hesitated.

Orange tore the note open. It was written
in the same hand as the address.

Please, miss, the Captain be very series
indisposed, and have a took to his bed. He
cart rite, according lev axed me to say so.
Your's full of respex, Joanna Kneebone.'

Orange looked up, angry, her heart beating
violently. The girl was still there, but
moving towards the kitchen.

What do you want in the house ? ' asked
Orange.

There be another letter, miss, I lev to
deliver.'

Well, give it to me.'

It be for the other young lady,' answered
the girl ; ' and I lev to give it only into her
hand.'

You cannot do that,' said Orange ; ' she
is gone out.'

^ Please, miss, will she be gone for long ? '

^ She will not return till late at night.
Give it me.'

But, miss, I were told by the Cap'n particular
not to let nobody lev it but the young
lady herself ; it were very particular.'

Then you must wait here till night. This
is not my house. I cannot ask you into the
kitchen to sit down ; you must wait about
in the road. It is raining, and you will be
wet through. I cannot help it ; it must be
so unless you let me have the letter.'

You'll be sure to give it, miss?'

Of course I will. Do you mistrust me?'

^ There it be, miss ; but I doubt if the
Captain will be best pleased I haven't waited
and let the lady have it herself.'

The letter was delivered. The address
was in the Captain's handwriting. The seal
was large, in red wax, stamped with the
Trecarrel arms ; Orange knew them well — two
cherokees, a crescent for a difference. The
girl turned to go away.

Good afternoon, miss.'

Orange took no notice of the salutation.
She was looking at the letter. x\s the girl
departed, she glanced back. Orange was turning

the letter, and examining, first the superscription,
then the seal. There was an expression
in her face which made the girl
say, 'I doubt if I have done right now in
giving her thick letter.'

Orange want in. She ascended the stairs
to her own room, or rather, to the room she
shared with Miracle. Miracle was there.
That which Orange had told the girl was
not true ; Orange had told an untruth
deliberately, knowing it was an untruth.
Orange stood in the doorway and looked at
Miracle, and a flash shot from her dark eyes.
Miracle had not raised her head to see who
entered, and she did not therefore encounter
and observe the glance of hatred and jealousy
fluor at her.

Orange quickly shut the door and descended
the stairs again.

She took her bonnet and went out, — went
out into the rain. What cared she for rain ?
She went into a lane where she saw no one,
and would be unobserved. Then she tore
the letter open. It was written in Captain
Trecarrel's best hand, and ran as follows: —

My dear Miracle, — Indisposition prevents
my calling and paying my respects to you as
I should have desired. I am in profound

distress to learn the predicament in which you
have been placed by the unscrupulousness of
a man whom I will not designate as he
deserves, because he is dead. Be mortuus nil
nisi bonum. Observe this maxim strictly,
and Mr. Trampleasure will never be heard of
again. I write now to entreat you to accept
the asylum of my aunt's house. She lives at
Penzance, and is both a charming old lady
and a strict Catholic. I have written to her
to-day, stating your case, and by the middle
of the week will have her reply. I make no
question but that she will open her house and
her heart to you. One little bit of advice I
know you will excuse my offering. I saw, on
the night of the ball at Dolbeare, that you
wore a very valuable set of diamonds, worth,
I dare say, over a thousand pounds. On no
account allow the vultures — you know to
whom I allude — to set their claws in them.
Mrs. T. and Miss 0. are at the present
moment impecunious, and impecuniosity is a
temptation to unscrupulousness, — an infirmity
that runs in the blood of a family that I will
not name. You do not know the value of
these stones, and might be sorely taken in if
you disposed of them to a country jeweller.
Moreover, I presume they belonged to your
dear mother, and it would be unjust to her

memory to get rid of them to relieve the
present pressing necessities of persons in
whom she could feel no possible interest. If
you doubt being able to keep them safely — I
feel convinced that you will be besieged with
entreaties to sell them — trust them to my
aunt or to me. I remain, my dear Miracle,
yours very faithfully,

'Harry Trecarrel.'

Miracle never saw that letter. Orange
tore it with her teeth, and then trampled the
fragments into the mire. She walked up and
down that lane in a fever, regardless of the
rain that fell and drenched her.

Her faith in Trecarrel was gone. She
was a girl who had been brought up to believe
in nothing ; neither in truth, nor honesty, nor
sincerity. But she had believed in Trecarrel,
and now that one faith was in fragments.
She saw him as he really was, in all his
despicable meanness. She scorned him, she
hated him, but with that hate was mingled
love, or rather that hate was but wounded,
writhing, anguished love. During the night
she rose from her bed. Miracle slept with
her. The rain had ceased, the clouds had
broken, and the moon shone into the room.
She left her bed because she could not endure

the silver flare over her face. As she stood
by the bed she looked down on the face of the
sleeping Miracle. It was like the face of a
dead woman sculptured in the purest Carrara
marble, and lovely as the noblest chisel could
cut.

Orange drew the pillow from the bed.
and held it up, that the pillow might shadow
the white face. The heart of Orange beat
furiously. She hated Miracle. She had but
to put that pillow over her mouth, throw
herself upon it, and with her strong arms hold
.down the tossing figure, — that figure so frail
and feeble, and then she could laugh at the
schemes of Captain Trecarrel.

But no. Orange put the pillow back
with a curl of the lip. She could not do that,
easy as it was to do. But as she stood over
Miracle she vowed never to permit Captain
Trecarrel to take that pale girl to the hearth
from which he had cast Orange Tramplara.

You're a beggar ! you're a beggar ! ' that
terrible screech of the parrot came back in
her ear at that moment. ' True, true ! ' said
Orange, between her teeth, ' I am a beggar.
I have asked for love ! 1 have begged for
help! I have begged for sympathy! I have
implored advice ! I have been refused everything,
and given rebuffs and insults. I have

but one thing remaining to me, a hold on
Miracle, beggar though I be, and never shall
he who has refused me all I asked, give to
her what he has denied to me, his betrothed.'


The sleeping girl turned her head away.
The fierce eyes of Orange stabbed her and
distressed her, even in sleep.

Orange put her hands over her heart. It
was bounding noisily, the moonlight throbbed
in her eyes, the thoughts beat in her brain.
That horrible idea of the pillow, and Miracle
under it, came over her again. She saw the
feet beating in the bed in rhythm with the
pulsation of her heart, and her hands clenched
as though gripping the delicate wrists. As
one at the edge of a precipice turns giddy and
feels impelled to throw himself where he fears
to fall, so was it now with Orange. A dread
a dread was on her lest this horrible
thought might in a moment become a fact.
She turned away. She paced the room ; she
could not rest in a bed. She was like a wild
beast in a cage.

Orange ! '

She started. Miracle was sitting up.

What do you want ? ' asked Orange
hoarsely, and stood between Miracle and the

moonlight, that her face might not be seen
and betray her heart.

He is coming.'

Who is coming?' asked Orange, fiercely.

I knew he would.'

Who ? who ? who ? ' Orange clutched
the pillow convulsively.

John Herrino;. I wrote to him. I have
been dreaming, and I saw him open my
letter, and he started up and cried, " I am
coming to you, Miracle. I am coming to you
with help'"

CHAPTER Xxxii.

miracle's guests.

A truce was concluded between the Reverend
Israel and this wife. He undertook to depart
on a missionary circuit during the remainder
of the time that the ladies were in her house.
Mrs. riamank very unreasonably charged her
husband with encouraging Orange in disorderly
ways, the encouragement consisting
in privately combating his wife's attack on
Orange's character, and finding a charitable
explanation for her leaving the house at
night. Mr. Flamank departed early in the
morning as a deputation for the parent
missionary society of the religious community
to which he belonged, to advocate the claims
of a very promising mission to the heathen in
the Imaginary Islands.

Hitherto this station had been promising
rather than performing, but now it had real
cause for congratulation and for appealing to



the charitable. A native chieftain, with his
entire family, consisting of several wives and
a tail of children like the tail of a comet, had
become a convert.

Ho-hum was the capital of the Imaginary
Isles, situated in the largest of them, with a
good port at which vessels from England
called with gowns and novels for the missionaries'
wives and daughters. At Ho-hum
there were four rival missionary churches.
The Imaginary group formed an archipelago,
but as Ho-hum was most considerable of all
the islands, not one of the churches would be
content with evangelising a smaller island,
and thereby confess itself inferior in pretensions
to those communities which occupied
the major island. Penelope by night unravelled
her embroidery of the day. The
work of Christian missions is like that of
Penelope, with this difference, that each is
engaged in unravelling the work of all the
others.

In the island of Ho-ha, a chiefly of indifferent
character, Hokee-Pokee-Wankee-
Fum by name, had proved himself such a
nuisance to the heathen society that he was
expelled the island with his family and took
refuge in that of Ho-hum, where, however, he
met with a chilling reception from his native

friends. Finding himself destitute of means,
and cold-shouldered by his own people, he
lent a ready ear to the solicitations of the
One-ands Only Christian missionary to receive
instructions in his catechetical school. As
this instruction was supplemented with
mealies, he listened and ate. He liked the
chapel of the station, because it was adorned
with pictures and gilding and much frippery.
Then the Reverend the Superior of the establishment
wrote home to the ' Annals of the
Faith ' a letter in the most remarkable English
ever penned. It was to this effect, ' that
Ho-kee, a chieftain of the island of Ho-ha,
having: heard the verities which were at this
time now inculcated at the mission of the
Immaculate Joseph in Ho-hum, had left, like
Abraham, his home, and had come to seek
the verity. This aborigine, passionate with
a vivid desire to apprehend, had commenced
to receive the holy instructions into a heart
truly recognisant,' &c.

But, presently, the rival station of the
Pure and Reformed Christians drew away the
recognisant aborigine,' having offered him
meat as well as mealies with its instructions.
At this station the missionary laboured to
divest his catechumen of the primitive and
erroneous teaching in which his mind had

been enveloped by the One-and-Onlies. And
he wrote home, in good English, an account
of the enlightened ' native chief Poker, who
had been unable to digest the erroneous
doctrines of the sister Church of the ,
and whose soul was refreshed by the
pure and primitive truths (divested of human
accretions); but as some expense had been
incurred,' &c. &c.

Hokee-Pokee-Wankee-Fum was, however,
before long shaken in his attachment to the
Pure and Reformed, by the missionary insisting
on his limiting himself to one wife. This
was more than he could endure, and he opened
his ears to the ministrations of the pastor of
the Universal Christians. By him also he
was told that he must have but one wife, buta
concession was made that the rest might be
retained under the designation of domestics.
With the Universals, the name, not the thing,
was essential. The Universal teacher set
vigorously to work to strip the mind of
Wankee of all the un evangelical instructions
he had received from the Pure and Reformed,
and he wrote home concerning his convert,
to the ' Universal Missionary Reporter,' that
Wankee in testimony of his sincerity had
retained but one wife out of the three score ;
but Fie added, as wives were valuable commodities,

this was much like a farmer voluntarily
abandoning his flock of sheep and limiting
himself to one ewe lamb. Under these circumstances,
it became the duty of Christians to
indemnify this zealous Wankee, therefore he
must solicit subscriptions, &c. &c.

Unfortunately, this missionary was strict
on the subject of temperance, and forbade the
use of spi its. Now Wankee was fond of grog,
and when he had been reprimanded and put
on short commons of food, for yielding to his
passions, he grew sulky and deserted to the
Particular Christians, who allowed grog and
had no sharp and defined belief or code of
morals, but a very decided disbelief in everything
taught in the other churches. Accordingly
the missioner proceeded still further to
divest Yankee-Fum of his acquired faith, and
he was brought to that condition in which he
protested against everything and professed
nothing. To his bewildered mind, Christianity
seemed a bird of paradise on which the
sectaries had fallen with the object of restoring
it to its primitive condition as it emerged
from the egg. One pulled out the gorgeous
tail, another stripped off the coronal of
plumes, a third reft off the wing feathers, and
the last, after having plucked and singed it,

held up a naked and expiring monster as
typical primitive Christianity.

The Particular pastor wrote home to say
that he had converted a native prince of the
name of Fum, with his entire family, consisting
of one hundred and six souls ; that a
great door was open for the advance of vague
and vapid Christianity. He was resolved
(d.v.) to send Prince Fum to his own island
of Ho-ha, as native teacher and founder of a
church. To do this effectually, money was
needed, &c. &c.

This was the glad news received by
Mr. Flamank, and he hastened to divulge it
in missionary meetings of the Particular
Christians in Cornwall, and to collect money
for establishing Hokee-Pokee-Wankee-Fum
in the island of Ho-ha as an evangelist.

On the one condition that the Reverend
Israel Flamank should absent himself from
home did his * sweet soul ' Betsy Delilah
consent to allow Mrs. Trampleasure, her
daughter, and Miracle to remain a couple of
days longer in the house.

Mrs. Flamank was a kind woman in her
way, but that way was a hard one. She felt
pity for the widow, and as much tenderness
as it was possible for her to feel for Miracle ;

VOL. II. R

but lie detested Orange. And the reason
why she liked Miracle was because Miracle
had snubbed her husband, and if there was
one thing in the world that Mrs. Flamank
delighted in it was in seeing Israel suffer
rebuff.

Thus it was that Mrs. Trampleasure and
Orange were left without even the minister to
advise them what to do and whither to go.

The day had come on which they must
depart. It was the day announced for the
auction at Dolbeare. Whenever Orange
went into the town and passed under the old
gateway she saw plastered against the wall
an announcement of the sale, and details of
the desirable lots into which the Trampleasure
furniture had been assorted.

Mrs. Trampleasure was all day in tears.
She was thinking of mats and cushions, worked
with her owen hands, which would go to the
hammer. The cruet-stand, also ; woe !
woe ! There was, moreover, a set of Blair's
'• Sermons ' she had been wont to read on
rainy Sundays — sermons devoid of ideas, and
therefore adapted to a mind incapable of receiving
ideas. She lamented, likewise, a
Rolling's ' Ancient History,' which she had
attempted ineffectually to read for the last
thirty years. Though she had not read

Eollin, the sight of his back on her shelf, in
many volumes, gave her a sensation of solidity
and Avell-groundino;. But the thought that

CO o

especially troubled her was that she had left
behind in Dolbeare two pillow pincushion
fastened to the back of the best bed. In her
hurry and distress at leaving she had forgotten
these treasures, and they would be sold with
the furniture. The pincushion were of white
satin, ornamented with figures and flowers in
coloured beads. They were heart-shaped — of
the size of a bullock's heart, heavily stuffed.
They depended, by white satin ribands, from
mother-of-pearl buttons. These pincushion
had been given to Mrs. Trampleasure on her
marriage by a great-aunt. They would hold,
on a moderate computation, a thousand pins
apiece. What any one in bed could want
two thousand pins for did not enter into the
consideration of the artist who constructed
them. For some years these pincushion had
adorned the head of the bed occupied by Mr.
and Mrs. Trampleasure. But they exhibited
a tendency to fall down on the sleepers in
an unprovoked and startling manner. Mrs.
Trampleasure had sewn them up repeatedly,
passing the stitches through the mother-of-pearl
buttons ; but whether spiders ate the
threads, or the damask bed back was unable
R 2

to support the burden, down one or other
would come, till at length Mr. Trampleasure,
upon whose nose one had pounded whilst enjoying
a refreshing slumber, woke with an
oath, and flung both the guilty and the innocent
pincushion across the room, vowing not
to suffer their re-erection above his head anymore.
After this they were banished to the
spare bedroom, and, though not under Mrs.
Trampleasure's daily observation, they did
not cease to be dear to her soul. These precious
pincushion, through inadvertence, were
doomed to fall into strange, perhaps inappreciative,
hands. The thought made her
weep and sniff.

Mother,' said Orange, ' everything is
packed. All is ready for us to start. We
must decide now whither we will go.'

There was Charity on one, with a 
in her hand — I believe a Florence
flask, and a jackie-pipe stem stuck through
the cork — as nat'ral as nat'ral ; and on the
other was Hope with her anchor, and a serpent
twined round it, as I thought ; but your
dear father would insist it was a rope. '' But,"
said I, "look : it has an eye." However, your
father maintained that was only a loop in the
cord.' Mrs. Trampleasure was thinking of
the pincushion.

^ Whither are we to go, mother ? ' asked
Orange.

1 am sure I don't know,' answered Mrs.
Trampleasure, ' Without my Blair, and my
Robin, and my pinkie.' Miracle was sitting
at the window. The day was passing, and no
signs were seen of John Herring.

'I wonder how them pinkie have sold,'
mused the old woman ; * I shouldn't wonder
if they've fetched a lot of money. I should
say they were cheap at five pounds. If I get
a chance I'll buy them back at that figure.'

We have no money,' said Orange, ' except
a trifle which will be consumed in inn
expenses ; we must go to one, as we have
seen nothing' about lodgings. Miracle, are
you awake ? '

Yes, Orange.'

You will have to give French lessons,
and I will do the housework at home and
take in sewing. So perhaps we shall be able
to keep body and soul together.'

I am waiting,' answered Miracle.

What nonsense ! ' said Orange, impatiently.
' Do you suppose that Mr. Herring
will trouble himself about us ? '

I am sure he will.'

He has not come, and he must have received
your letter.'

Please, ma'am ' — it was the servant who
spoke from the doorway — ' the mistress lev
sent to say, shall I go and fetch a coach ? '

Orange looked at her mother. Mrs. Tram-pleasure
wept.

Yes,' said Orange ; ' we will go at once.
Yes, girl : go and fetch one.'

It is unnecessary,' said Miracle, rising.
A coach has come. John Herring is here.'

A rap at the door, and in another moment
John Herrino; was ushered into the room.

Thank you ! thank you for coming,' said
Miracle, advancing to meet him, and holding
out both her hands.

Herring was not looking strong. His fall,
and a hard ride during the night from West
Wyke to Launceston, had made him look
pale and worn and unwell. But Orange,
her mother, and Miracle were too engaged
in their own troubles to notice the change
in him.

You have come to take us away from
this house ? ' asked Miracle.

^ Yes, 1 have. You called me.'
He held her hands, and looked into her
eyes, and was lost in wonder at their depth
and beauty, and in a dream of love. She met
his gaze frankly, but, as it was prolonged, her
eyes fell.

^ Whither are you going to take us ? '
asked Orange.

But Herring had ears for one voice only ;
he had thoughts at that moment for one
person only, who stood before him.

Oh, Mr. Herring,' said Miracle — and she
looked up timidly again, but, again encountering
his eyes, lowered her dark lashes —
'take us away — anywhere. We cannot remain
here any longer. We are turned out of
the house. We trust you perfectly ; take us
where you will.'

Let me lead you to the coach.'

Then Orange said to Mrs. Trampleasure,
Mother, you must go and thank Mrs. Flamank
before leaving.' But at that moment this
good lady appeared, relieved by the sight of
the carriage standing at the house door. Her
visitors were departing.

She received the thanks given her for her
hospitality with graciousness. She even kissed
Miracle on the brow. ' I hope,' she said, ' condescendingly,
' that you will find a comfortable
and happy home, my child. Aha!' — she
looked at Herring, and then at Miracle — ' I
have my suspicions. Well, well ! Time will
show if they are justified.'

Herring saw the ladies into the coach, and
mounted the box beside the driver.

The carriage drew up at the door of Dol-beare.
Herring descended, opened the coach
door, let down the steps, and presented his
arm to Mrs. Trampleasure.

Mr. Herring,' exclaimed Orange, turning
white, ' what is the meaning of this ? Do
you not know that this is no longer our
home? You have not heard. You have
made a mistake.'

^ Pray step inside, ladies,' said he, smiling.

Bewildered, not knowing what to say, all
three descended. Xo; Miracle was not bewildered
; she was perfectly collected. What
Mr. Herring did was right. Where he led
she followed with confidence ; she had entire
reliance on him.

They entered the hall. Everything was
as it had been : the clock on the stairs was
ticking; the door of the dining-room was
open ; a fire burned in the grate ; on the
table lay a bundle of old walking-sticks, tied
together. Herring took up this bundle.

But, Mr. Herring,' said Orange, passing
her hand across her eyes, ' what is the meaning
of this ? Are we walking in a dream ? '

This is no dream,' answered Herring.
'Countess, I make over this bundle of old
sticks to you; the house goes with them;
the rent has been paid for the current year,

in your name ; the lease is made over to you.
Everything the house contain is yours. Everything
has been bought as it stands, in your
name.'

Orange and Miracle stood silent. Neither
could comprehend the situation.

Herring did not speak to them for some
minutes, he could understand their perplexity.
Orange looked round for her mother, but Mrs.
Trampleasure had not entered the room.

Presently Herring went on : '- You will
find, Countess, that a sum sufficient for the
maintenance of the house, and for your
comfort, is lodged in the bank, in your name,
and that the same sum will be paid quarterly.
You can draw as you require. This house,
with all its contents, is yours. Everything
has been purchased and paid for in your
name.'

Mr. Herring,' put in Orange, speaking
with a flushed cheek and a quivering lip,
what are we here ? '

'You have been kind to her when she
needed a home, you have done your best to
make her comfortable, now you are the guests
in this house of the Countess Miracle Garcia.'

A cry of joy from the upper story, and
down the flight and into the room rushed Mrs.
Trampleasure, laughing and crying. ' They

are there, they are there, my Orange ! Oh,

joy!'

^ What are there, mother? '

My own satin pinkie

They are not yours,' said Orange, with a
curl of the lip and a hard look settling into
her eyes. * They, like everything else, have
been purchased in the name of the Countess
Miracle Garcia de Cantalejo.' She stood and
looked at Miracle from head to foot. A battle
was raging in her heart. Should the rage and
hate boiling there overflow her lips ? She
caught Herring's eye fixed inquiringly, suspiciously,
on her. Then she dropped a profound
curtsey to Miracle, and said, ' We are
not your guests, gracious Countess, but your
most humble and obliged servants.'

Then Miracle threw her arms round
Orange, and kissed her cheeks and brow and
mouth.

^ Dear, dear Orange !' she said, and her tears
flowed, ' do not speak thus. You are nothing
other to me than a sister.'

Then she looked round to thank Herring,
but he was gone.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

A SECOND SUMMONS.

Hearing was gone. He did not remain to
explain how it was that everything had fallen
to Miracle. He went because he did not
desire to explain anything. In his own mind
he had debated what was best to be done.
Should he inform her that she had a fortune,
part of which he had invested in the West
Wyke mortgages, and part he was about to sink
in the Upaver lead mine, and part still remained
in uncut diamonds, not disposed of ?
Should he make over everything to her, and
free himself of further responsibility ?

He hesitated about doing this, and throwing
off a charge he had laid on himself.
Miracle was unable of herself to manage what
was properly hers. Her ignorance of the world
would place her at the mercy of any one who
offered to conduct her affairs for her. Orange
was engaged to Captain Trecarrel, and would
probably marry him when the trouble

about Ophir, and the time of mourning
for her father, was over ; and, though Tree
was a gentleman and, no doubt, of
unimpeachable integrity, still he was a needy
man, and might not be a discreet adviser. So
Herring resolved to retain his hold over the
property, at all events for a while, till the
Captain had married Orange, and he had time
to decide Whether Trecarrel was a man to be
trusted to act as guardian to Miracle.

In a small town every one holds his nose
over his neighbour's chimney-top, and knows
exactly what is cooking below. In Launceston
it was a matter of general conversation that
the Countess Miracle Garcia had come to the
aid of the Trampleasures, that she had arranged
with the creditors and had made such
an offer before the sale took place, that the
auction had been abandoned. Every one knew
this ; the mayor, the chimney-sweep, the
barber, the milliner, and Polly Skittles
behind the bar of the Pig and Whistle.
Every one knew that Miracle had money in the
bank, and multiplied the sum by four. Xo^v,
every one believed that her diamonds were
real, and that they were the outward sign of a
magnificent fortune behind. Every one, we
say, for after the ball at Dolbeare the entire
town knew of the diamonds, but the mayor,

the chimney-sweep, the barber, the milliner,
and Polly Skittles of the Pig and Whistle
concluded they were paste. The one jeweller
had tested them and found them paste, and
the one jeweller had a wife, and the wife
had a tongue. Now, also, every one began
to regret that more attention had not
been shown her. Those mothers who were
burdened with cubs were especially regretful,
and resolute to make amends, and bring
the Countess to their little parties, and
hitch their cubs on to her. Now also Miss
Bowdler began to regret having been inhospitable
to Orange Tram pleasure. Mir ell e was a
Countess — a foreign Countess, it is true, but
still, where titles are rare, a foreign title is
better than none. Hitherto, she, as well as
the rest of Launceston, down to Polly Skittles,
had delighted to talk of her as Miss Strange,
because they supposed her poor — a sort of
hanger-on to the Tramplaras, but now that
the conditions were reversed Launceston
society reconsidered the question of her treatment.
If foreign titles do descend through
the female line — well, this was a foreign title,
and the young lady had a legitimate right to
bear it. So Launceston, from the mayoress,
the chimney-sceptres, the barber's wife, the
milliner, to Polly Skittles behind the bar of

the Pig and Whistle, began to speak of her
as the Countess, and Polly went so far as to
call the Tramplaras Trampleasures, because of
their kinship to Miracle.

Miss Bowdler speedily convinced herself
that she had made a mistake. There were no
baronets and their ladies near the capital of
Cornwall, and if there had been they would
have moved in a sphere unapproachable by
Sophy. There was not even a retired oil and
colourman, who, as mayor, had been knighted
on a royal visit ; for royalty never did visit
Launceston, not even the Duke of Cornwall,
though the city was the capital of the county
from which he drew his title, and in which he
owned estates. It would be something for
Sophy Powder to be able to talk of her
friend the Countess, and to describe her
diamonds, Ashen visiting her relatives in
Eedruth and Bodmin.

She had made a mistake, and she hastened
to repair it. She was the first to visit Dol-beare
after the return of the Trampleasures.
She did more. She offered a holocaust to
secure a renewal of friendship, and the holocaust
she offered was John Thomas, the
footman, who found himself summarily dismissed
for the impertinence of his manner
to Miss Trampleasure.

Sophy Bowdler pushed her way into
Dolbeare, past the maid who appeared at the
door. She herself opened that of the sitting-room,
in the old familiar style, and rushed to
Orange, to take her to her heart.

Orange hesitated a moment, and then received
her overtures with simulated pleasure.
It was not her interest to quarrel with old
friends.

You must excuse me, darling Orange, if
I was abrupt with you the other day. My
Pa, my dear Pa, is, you know, rather short in
temper, and I had begun to read to him an
account of the riots in the north, when I
heard the parrot screaming, and she disturbed
him. He swore he would wring Polly's neck.
You know 1 dote on that bird ; and I was
so frightened. Pa is a man of his word. So
I ran out, and then he called me back, and I
was distracted between my desire to see you,
and my fears for Poll, and my duty to Pa.'

^' Pray do not mention this.'
But I must. Orange. That impudent
John Thomas made me so angry with his
want of manner that I had to dismiss him,
and now we are on the look-out for another
footman. Can you — or can the Countess —
recommend me one ? '

The next to come was Mrs. Trelake, very

pleased to see her dear old friend, Mrs.
Trampleasure, back in Dolbeare again. She
was provoked at not having been able to
receive her ; ' But, my dear, put yourself in
my place ; what else could I do? However,
all is well that ends well ! Hah ! the China
vases with the dragons where not sold after
all ! We shall have our game of cribbage
together as of old.'

Then came Mr. Flamank. His excursion
among the Particular Christians on behalf of
the mission to Ho-ha, under the ministry of
the native prince, Hokee-Pokee-Vfankee-Fum,
had not been crowned with success. Ophir
was too fresh in the memories of men. Some
of the Christian auditors had suffered through
it ; all knew how Flamank had helped to
launch the concern, and, although he had
taken an active part in exposing the fraud, it
was surmised that he had pocketed something
by the transaction. Some rudely asserted
that the Ho-ha mission was but another
Ophir, and that Yankee-Fum was as mythical
as Arundelll Golitho of Trevorgan, Esq. Mr.
Flamank returned from his round much disappointed
and depressed. He heard from his
wife what had occurred. Then he went to
Dolbeare to offer his congratulations. He
was surprised and puzzled. If Miracle were

rich and willing to rescue her kinsfolk from
their difficulties, why had she said nothing of
her intention before ? "Why had she allowed
him to invite the party to his house and embroil
himself with his wife about them ?

Perhaps her remittance had not arrived.

Perhaps But why form conjectures ?

He did not understand her. Her ways were
radically different from the ways of plain
Christians. Where these went straight, those
went crooked. There are persons mentally
shaped like boomerangs. They go out of the
hand in one direction, make a sweep half
round the horizon, and return to the hand
whence they started.

It was possible, as the Countess was rich,
that she might interest herself in Ho-ha, and
Flamank thought that, by dwelling on the
social and moral aspects of the case, and not
pressing the religious, she might be induced
to help Yankee-Fum liberally.

Miracle received Mr. Flamank civilly. She
felt that he had acted with kindness and unselfishness
towards her and the Trampleasures,
and she respected his goodness, though she
did not like its fashions.

After some desultory conversation, Mr.
Flamank broached the subject of the Ho-ha
mission. Miracle at once became chilly.

VOL. II. s

When he asked her for a donation she declined
to subscribe.

You forget, I am a Catholic'

Not at all, my dear young friend, not at
all. But this is distinctly a case of enlightenment,
where all around is dark ; and although
Hokee-Pokee-Wankee-Fum may have embraced
the tenets of the Particular Christians,
still you must remember he is a Christian,
and we are all travelling in the same direction.'


Sir,' said Miracle, ' as I was walking
along the Bodmin road, I saw three children
going along the same way and in the same
direction as myself — only they were walking
backwards. One tumbled into a furzebush
on the right, another fell over the bank into
a ditch on the left, and the third went under
the hoofs of carthorse in the middle of the
road. It would have been better for all those
children not to have travelled along the road
at all, than to have attempted it with perverted
views,' Then she rose, bowed, and left
the minister with Orange and her mother.

The next caller was Captain Trecarrel.
Orange had been expecting him, and had
given instructions to the servant on no account
to admit him. Accordingly, when he
called, neither the Countess nor the Tram-pleasures

were 'at home,' and the Captain
was forced to depart, leaving three cards.

Orange took possession of the cards, tore
them in half, and put them in an envelope.

Dear Miracle,' she said, ' I have been
writing to Harry, poor fellow. He has been
so troubled about our affairs that he has
taken to his bed. He is seriously unwell. I
have been writing full particulars to him of
all that has taken place, but since my letter
was finished I have sprained my hand, and
cannot hold a pen. Would you mind directing
the letter for me, dear? '

So the address was in Miracle's handwriting.
The letter was posted, and reached
the Captain on the morrow.

Now,' said Orange, ' he will be forced to
keep his distance for a while, till I have time
to look round.'

Orange was not satisfied. Miracle was
certain to go to Trecarrel for mass, when
next the priest came that way, and then an
explanation would follow. Orange did not
understand how it was that Herring had
bought in all the furniture in Miracle's name,
and had placed a sum in the bank to her
account. She questioned Miracle thereon.

My dear, how comes it that you have sos
2

much money? that you are able to do so
much, and to live independently? '

I do not know.'

What has become of your diamond necklace
and tiara? Have you sold them? '

No, Mr. Herring keeps them for me. I
do not want them now. I mean — for wear.'

Mr. Herring has them ! '

Yes ; I asked him to take care of them
that was before I knew they were paste.'

But, perhaps they are not paste, but real
diamonds, Mir ell e.'

What I gave you formed part of the set,
and that was certainly paste.'

Yes, that is true ; but it is possible that
the rest may have been genuine stones, in
which case the value must be great.'

I do not know. Orange.'

But, my dear, whence comes the money
lodged in the bank ? Whence the money that
bought all this furniture ? '

I do not know. I have not asked.*

You ought to know. It is imperative on
you to ascertain. Do you think that Mr.
Herring has sold your diamonds for this
purpose ? '

I am certain he has not. He would not
dare to dispose of my mother's jewels without
consulting me. I gave them to him to keep

for me. I did not authorise him to sell
them.'

Have you any means of which we know
nothing ? — money not given to my father
which you trusted to Mr. Herring along with
the diamonds ? '

Xo, Orange.'

Has nothing been forwarded to you of
his property from Brazil ? '

^o. Orange.'

'Then, whence comes this money ? I
suppose Mr. Herring has spent a hundred
and fifty pounds on the furniture. He has
lodged a hundred pounds in the bank, and
promises you as much quarterly.'

Yes, it is so.'

But, Miracle, do j^ou not see that, in this
case, you are living on Mr. Herring's alms !
He is not a rich man. I have heard from my
father about him. I do not believe he is
worth more than six to seven hundred pounds
a year, and he is giving you four out of the
six or seven — nay, he has given you more.'

Miracle looked before her. She had not
thought of this before. Brought up without
care of money, everything she had being paid
for by her father, it had not struck her that
she was now living on the bounty of one who
was no relative.

It is very good of Mr. Herring she said.

My dear Miracle, this must not go on.'
Why not ? '

What right have you to accept and spend
the money of Mr. Herring ? He is no relative.
You have no claim on him.'

Miracle was uneasy. ' Why, then, has he
done so much for me ? '

That is what I ask. Realise what this
means. He is impoverishing himself to support
you ? What will the world say ? What
must it say ? That which Mr. Herring is
doing for you he has no right to do for any
woman except a wife!

Then Miracle sprang to her feet trembling ;
she could not colour over brow and bosom
like Orange, but two rosy tinges came into
her cheeks. Her whole delicate frame quivered,
and her eyes became dull. She placed
her hands over her heart, and looked at Orange
speechlessly.

'• Yes,' said the latter, ^ you cannot ; what
is more, you must not receive all this from
a young man without having a shadow of
claim upon him. The only claim you can
have to justify the receiving of so much is the
legitimate claim of a wife.'

Have done ! ' gasped Miracle, holding out
her hand entreatingly.

^ No, Miracle, I must be plain with you.
In this town it will soon be known that you
are being supported in comfort by a young
officer, who is neither a brother nor even a
cousin. What conclusion will be drawn ? '

Orange said the gu-1, pleadingly, ^ I pray
you to be silent.'

^ I will not be silent,' answered Orange.
One of two things must be done ; must, I
say. Do you hear me, must. Either you
give Mr. Herring a legitimate right to maintain
you, or my mother and I leave this place
and do not speak to you again.'

I do not understand you,' said Miracle.
Why should you cast me off ? '

Orange looked at her, and a scornful
smile played over her lips. She was unable
to believe in the purity and guilelessness of
the soul before her. She thought Miracle a
hypocrite, and as a hypocrite she despised
her.

Oh ! you want further explanation, do
you ? Learn then that it is not the custom
in England for a woman of character to live
on the generosity of a gentleman who is
neither a husband nor a kinsman.'

I see that I have no right to expect this
of Mr. Herring. But he is so good, so
generous, and so thoughtful, that he has not

considered himself, in his pity and solicitude
for me. However, it shall not remain so.
I will tell him that I cannot accept his
liberality.'

Or — that you can only accept it when he
has given you legitimate claims on him.'

I will not accept his liberality.'

^ What is to become of us — of you — if he
hears this from your lips ? Remember, we
have nothing. We must starve. You — what
will you do ? '

I do not know.'

Listen to me, Miracle. There is only one
thing that you can do. ]next time Mr.
Herring comes here, if he tells you that he
loves you, and asks you to be his wife —
accept him.'

I cannot. Oh, I cannot ! '

You must do it. It is the only salvation
for us and for you. Then, no one can say
anything to his furnishing you with every
penny of his income.'

Miracle put her hands over her eyes.
Orange watched her contemptuously. The
girl was very still, but the tears oozed between
her slender fingers and dripped on her lap.

Have you been so blind as not to see
that his heart is bound up in you ? He has
loved you from the beginning, and, you little

fool, you have not known it. He has done so
much for you because he loves you. He
cares nothing for us — my mother and me.
He is a good and worthy man. Make him
happy. Repay him for what he has done for
you. You are not likely to find another who
would make as trustworthy a husband. Do
not sigh after the man in the moon ; he will
not come down to you. Mr. Herring is a
gentleman, an officer in His Majesty's army ;
has a private fortune, not large, but enough to
support a wife in comfort ; and he is honourable,
truthful — and soft.'

Miracle made no response.

Now, suppose that you refuse him, and
tell him, as you are bound to do, that because
you refuse him you will no longer burden
him for your support. What then ? Why,
you and we are placed in precisely the same
predicament we were in before. We shall
have a sale here after all ; have to leave this
house, and be adrift in the world. Will you
hire yourself to be cook to Mrs. Trelake, or
shall I recommend you as parlour-maid to
Miss Bowdler, for her John Thomas to flirt
with in the pantry ? This is not all. After
everything that Mr. Herring has done for you,
you cannot refuse him without being guilty of
black ingratitude. Now, what do you say ?

There seems to me no option as to what
your choice should be. But some persons do
not know on which side their bread is buttered.
Are you prepared to go into service ?
Shall I write you a character to Sophy
Bowdler ? clean, obliging, and steady ; understands
glass and china. There is really no
alternative. Remember, also, that my mother
and I depend on your election likewise. Reject
Mr. Herring, and when you go to Miss Bowdler
as parlour-maid, my mother becomes cook, and
I, barmaid at an inn.'

Miracle rose ; she did not speak, but left
the room with tottering feet, and her eyes so
full that, to find her way, she felt about her
with trembling hands. When she was gone,
Orange laughed.

Now,' said she, ' the next thing to be
done is to bring that other fool here.' Then
she wrote a note to Herring, requesting him
to come to Launceston, as her mother and she
wished to consult him on important business.
She added in a postscript, ' Miracle will be
most happy to see you.'

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

A VIRGIN MARTYR.

In the privacy of her own room, by night, in
the little garden house, her favourite refuge
by day, Miracle considered what Orange had
said to her. She was hurt and ois ended by
the manner in which Orange had [spoken,
without quite understanding why. Her
refined nature winced before the rough touch
of one coarse as Orange, not only because the
touch was rude, but because it sullied.

Miracle believed that Orange was her
friend, a rude friend, but sincere. What had
she done to convert her into an enemy ? She
was not a friend to whom she could open her
heart, and she had no desire to receive the
outpourings of that of Orange. They were
friends so far as this went, that each wished
well to the other, and would do her utmost to
promote each other's happiness.

Orange was the interpreter of the world's

voice to ]\lirelle, the guide through its mazes.
That voice was odious to her, nevertheless
she must hear it. Its ways were distasteful,
nevertheless she must tread them. She knew
nothing of the world, except what she had
been taught in the convent. She believed
it to be wicked and ungodly. The virgin
martyrs had been cast to wild beasts, some
had been devoured by leopards, others hugged
by bears. The world was an arena in which
she was exposed, and Orange the rough but
kindly executioner who offered her a choice
of martyrdom. An angel, a captain of the
heavenly militia, with eyes blue as the skies
of paradise, had been sent to stand by, and
guard many a virgin ; but she, Miracle, must
endure her agony undefended, and see the
angel stand by one who seemed rude and
dauntless enough to fight the battle unaided.

King Alphonse X. of Castile said that, if
he had been consulted at the creation of the
universe, he would have made it much better ;
the sisters of the Sacred Heart had intimated as
much in their instructions. In the first place
they would have made a world without men,
and that world would have remained a paradise.
Men are the cankers that corrode the roses,
the thorns that strangle the lilies in the garden
of the Church, the moths that fret the gar-merits

of the saints, the incarnation of the
destructive principle.

Miracle remembered how her mother had
suffered through union with Mr. Strange.
She thought of Mr. Trampleasure, of Sampson
she really knew very few men, and those
she knew were not of the best type. There
was the Captain, indeed, but he was unattainable,
and Herring was at least inoffensive
and well-meaning. If she must be thrown
to beasts, let her be cast to such a gentle
beast as this. Hereafter, only, will there be
no marrying nor giving in marriage, and
women will be at peace; there, into that
blessed country, the men, if admitted at all,
will be like priests, wear petticoats and be
shaven; above all, will be in such a minority
that they will be obliged to keep their distance
and adopt a submissive manner. Miracle
had a good deal of natural shrewdness, but
no experience of life. Brought up in a convent,
the only world she knew was the little
world within four walls, in which the wildest
hurricane that raged was occasioned by a
junior appropriating the chair properly belonging
to a senior, and the fiercest jealousies
blazed when a father director addressed four
words to Sister Magdalen of S. Paul, and only
three to Sister Rose of the Cross. When she

had gone out, it was on visits to lier mother,
and there she had met very artificial old
gentlemen, and still more artificial old ladies,
persons who looked like pictures in illustrated
story-books, and talked like the people she
read of in the same books. She supposed
that her board and education were paid for at
the Sacre Coeur. She supposed so, she took
it for granted. She considered it probable
that those pupils who could afford, paid, and
those who could not afibrd, were received
gratuitously. The sisters never mentioned
such matters, her mother never alluded to
them, and Miracle had scarce accorded such
sordid cares a passing thought. Bread and
instruction came to her as food and light to
the birds; the birds take what is sent, and
do not trouble their feathery heads about
the how and whence. Now she was driven
to consider how she might live, and whether
it was right for her to subsist on alms,
and those the alms of a gentleman who was
no relation, and how, if these means were
withdrawn or rejected, she was to live at
all.

After much thought, little sleep, and
many tears, she decided that she would accept
John Herring.

She had made up her mind. Now, she

must obtain command of herself to go through
the approaching ordeal with dignity.

As Orange had anticipated, her letter
brought Herring to Launceston. He had
gone to Welltown, his house in Cornwall
on the coast, to look after his business there.
He had let the farm, but he had a slate -
quarry in the cliffs overhanging the sea, and
he liked to keep an eye on it. This slate-quarry
had been worked in a desultory manner,
chiefly to supply local requirements, but
Herring's ideas had expanded since he had
seen the rise and fall of Ophir, and since he
had embarked in silver lead, and he saw his
way to an extension of the business. He
knew that Bristol was a port where he could
dispose of any amount of slate, if he were
able to convey it thither. Below Welltown
the cliffs rose sheer from the beach ; that
beach was a thin strip of sand, only to be
reached by a dangerous path cut in the face
of the rock. "Welltown cove was to some
extent sheltered from the roll of the Atlantic
by a reef from Willapark, as a headland was
called, which started out of the mainland into
the ocean, and was gnawed into on both
sides by the waves, threatening to convert it
into an island.

Herring had a scheme in his head ; he

thought to construct a breakwater on a continuation
of the reef. Then he would be able
to brine: boats under the face of his slate-quarries,
and lower the roofing stone upon
their decks. The idea had not occurred to
him before, because he had been poor and
unable to command a few thousand pounds.
But now he had Miracle's diamonds to draw
upon. He could invest her capital in his own
slate-quarry as well as in Upaver lead mine,
and benefit himself as well as Mr. Battishill.
He would look after both investments himself.
He would hold both the slate and the lead in
his own hands. Miracle's money would not
only be safe, but would bring in rich dividends.
Was he justified in acting thus — in
speculating with the fortune of another without
her knowledge and consent ? He asked
himself this question, and answered it in the
affirmative. Without his seeking. Providence
had thrust on him the charge of
Miracle's fortune, and he must do the best he
could with it. Her father had done what he
thought best, and every penny that had been
intrusted to her guardians had been lost.
Then Providence had overruled matters so
as to constitute him her guardian. He
would act justly by her. He was not self-seeking.
It was true that the development

of the Welltown slate-quarry would improve
his own fortune, but this thought influenced
him far less than consideration how best to
dispose of Miracle's money. He would sink
her diamonds in his slate, not because it was
his slate, but because he knew the security
and value of the investment. He was working
for her, not for himself, to increase her
fortune, not his own, to insure her a future,
not himself. Thus it was for Miracle that he
was erecting machinery at Upaver and planning
a breakwater at Welltown. In the midst
of his schemes he received the letter of
Orange, and the postscript made his heart
leap. He had been too humble-minded to
hope. Miracle stood aloof from him, high
above his sphere. She was to him the ideal
of pure, beautiful, and saintly maidenhood, to
be dreamed of, not aspired to, to be venerated,
not sought. She had of late received him
with more kindliness than heretofore, had
put away her early disdain, and had treated
him as an equal. There had transpired
through face and manner something even of
appeal to him. Was it possible that she had
begun to regard him with liking, perhaps
even with love? He was so modest in his
estimation of himself that he blushed at the

VOL. II. T

thought — the audacious thought — that this
was possible.

Herring posted to Launceston, and went
at once to Dolbeare. Miracle was in the little
garden house as he passed. She saw him, and
knew that the crisis in her life was come. He
was admitted to Dolbeare, and sat with Mrs.
Trampleasure and Orange for half an hour.
The latter had discovered some important
business requiring advice, and this was discussed
; yet Herring saw plainly enough that
this was not of sufficient importance to have
made Orange summon him. Mr. Flamank
could have advised her equally well. There
was something behind. What that was Orange
let him understand.

And now,' said she, ' we must detain you
no longer. Miracle is in the summer-house.
She likes to be alone, dear girl, and she wants
to see you. You slipped away, on the occasion
of our return hither, without awaiting
her thanks. She has been troubled at this;
she knows she owes you some return. Go
and see her; she is expecting you, and angry
with us for keeping you from her so long
over our own poor affairs.'

Herring coloured. Orange had not a
delicate way of putting things. He knew
that Miracle had not asked Orange to act as

intermediary between them, yet this was what
the words and manner of Orange implied.

He bowed and withdrew. ,

Miracle was awaiting him. She had been
given time to school herself for the trial.
Twilight had set in, and but for the fire that
glowed on the hearth it would have been dark
in the little room. The fire was of peat,
without flame, colouring the whole room very
red.

Miracle rose from her seat and stepped
forward to meet Herring. He looked her in
the face. She was very pale ; the colour had
deserted even her lips, but the light of the
burning turf disguised her death-like whiteness.
As he took her hand he felt how cold
it was; it trembled, and was timorously withdrawn
the moment it had touched his fingers.
His heart was beating tumultuously. Hers
seemed scarce to pulsate ; it was iced by
her great fear and misery, and the strong
compulsion she exerted to keep herself calm.

I am glad to see you, Mr. Herring,' she
said. She spoke first, and she spoke, as on a
former occasion, like one repeating a lesson
learned by heart. ^ I was told that you were
coming, and I have prepared myself to speak
to you, and say what has to be said. You
have been good to me, very good. You have

T 2

done more for me than I had any right to
expect. I have no claim on you, save the
claim which appeals to every Christian heart,
the claim of the friendless and helpless. That
is a great claim, I have been taught, the
greatest and most sacred of all. But the
world does not recognise it; it does not allow
you permission to pour on me so many benefits.
You have bought everything the house
contains with your own money — for me.
You have taken the lease of the house, and
paid the rent out of your own purse — for me.
You have undertaken to find me an income
on which I can live in comfort; you rob yourself
— for me.'

She paused a moment.

A conflict woke up in the mind of John
Herring. Should he tell her all? Should he
say that this was not true — he had used her
money, not his own? If at that moment he
had done so, that event which was to trouble
and darken both their futures would not have
occurred. Herring was young; he was without
strength of character to decide in a moment
what to do. He let the occasion slip.
He would wait ; the revelation could be made
later. He did not understand the supreme
importance of the moment. He did not realise
to what Miracle's words led.

Countess,' he ,'

she interrupted hastily, ' do not
speak. You must let me say what I want. 11
me faut me charger le coeur. If I had been
a nun at the head of an orphanage, I would
have said Give all, and God on high will repay
you. Give; no one will deny you the
right, and I will accept with joy. I will be
your almoner to the little ones of Christ.
But, alas ! it is not so. I can spend what you
provide only on myself, and I do not find that
this is right. In the world is one fashion, in
religion is another fashion. You see well
yourself it cannot be.'

Countess, will you allow me to explain? '

'No; 1 need no explanation. One only
question I ask, for there is one thing I desire
greatly to know. That neck-chain and that
coronet of diamonds, have you sold them ? '

No, I have them yet. You intrusted
them to me.'

They are false. Do you know the brooch
you sent me for Orange was all of false stones
of paste? I doubt not the rest of the set
is the same. Did you know this ? '

Certainly not. I have not examined and
proved the stones. I had no suspicion that
they were not genuine.'

My father sent the set as a present to my

mother said Miracle, ' and they were of
paste.'

Herring was surprised.

This cannot be, Countess ; your father
was a diamond merchant, and knew perfectly
the false from the true. He could not have
sent your mother what was worthless. The
stones must have been changed later.'

They were in my mother's keeping,' said
Miracle.

That was answer enough. Her father
might be guilty of a mean act ; her mother,
never.

Herring had his own opinion, but he had
the prudence not to express it.

'- But enough about this,' Miracle went
on. ' I only asked for this reason. If you
had sold my stones, supposing them to be
real, and had used them to relieve me and
the Trampleasures in the moment of our
need, when we had not a house to cover our
heads, I should have been very, very thankful.'


She said this with an involuntary sigh,
and with such an intense expression of
earnestness that Herring caught the words
up, and said eagerly: —

Do you mean this ? Do you mean that
you would have thanked me if I had sold

your diamonds and used the proceeds to relieve
your necessities ? '

Yes, I do mean this.'

Why did you not ask me to do this ? '

Because I supposed the stones were
paste, and worthless.'

Tell me, dear Countess Miracle, if you
had confided diamonds to me knowing them
to be diamonds, you would not be angry nth
me for selling them for this very purpose — to
provide you with the means of living yourself,
and of returning the kindness shown you by
Mrs. Trampleasure and her daughter?'

I would go down on my knees to thank
you. I would be full of gratitude to you.'

He breathed freely ; he had received his
absolution. He had been justified in acting
as he had done ; Miracle had approved of his
conduct with her own lips. He had carried
out her wishes. It was unnecessary for him
to tell her all, now that he was certain that he
acted as she would have him act.

But he did not read her heart. He did
not understand the real significance of her
words. She would indeed have been thankful
to know that she had received her own money,
so as to be free from all obligations to him —
so as not to be forced to take the step the
thought of which killed the life out of her

heart. That hope was gone — a poor hope, but
still a hope. Nothing remained for her but
the surrender ; she must become a sacrifice.

^ It was not so,' she went on sadly, * I
knew it was not so, for you would not have
parted with my mother's set of stones without
consulting me. No, Mr. Herring, I have not
the poor pride of knowing I am my own
mistress, and independent of every one. You
have been to me a generous friend and a
guardian when I needed assistance and protection.'


^ Dear Countess Miracle, I am ready still
to act as your friend, your guardian, and your
protector.'

I know it, Mr. Herring, and I frankly
accept your offer. I am willing that you
should continue such for the rest of my life.'

Countess ! ' Herring's voice shook ; ' how
happy, how proud you make me ! '

^ Let me speak,' she said. Then her heart
failed her. She went to the fire, and rested
her hands on the mantelpiece, folded as in
prayer, and leaned her brow for a moment
on them. The red glow of the fire smote
upwards and illumined and warmed the face.
She was praying. Her strength was ebbing
away ; the dreaded moment had come. '
holy and innocent Agnes, pure lamb! Thou

who didst bow thy neck to the sword, intercede
for me ! Cicely, thou whose heart
was filled with heavenly music, making thee
deaf to the voice of an earthly bridegroom,
pray for me! Dorothy, thou who didst
pine for the lilies and roses of Paradise, plead
for me ! '

She raised her white brow from its
momentary resting-place. The strength had
come. The moment of agony had arrived,
and she was nerved to pass through.

Mr. Herrings she spoke slowly, leisurely,
I have no right to accept your offer, unless
you confer on me the right — the only
right '

She could speak no more. Her white,
quivering face, her sunken eyes, and uplifted
hands that shook as with a palsy, showed her
powerlessness to proceed.

Herring took a step forward. She drew
back, shrinking before him as perhaps the
martyr shrinks before the executioner.

• Stand there, I pray — oh, do not come
nearer! ' she pleaded, with pain in her voice.

Miracle, dear Miracle ! ' he said ; and then
the pent-up love of his heart broke forth.
He told her how he had loved her from the
moment that he first saw her, how, hopeless
of ever winning her, he had battled with his

love, how vain his efforts had been, and how
his highest ambition was to live for her and
make her happy. He spoke in plain, simple
words, with the rough eloquence of passion
and sincerity.

She listened to him, with her hands again
on the mantelpiece, looking at him, with her
dark eyes wide open, and the red glow of the
fire in them. She did not follow his words,
she heard them without comprehending them.
She was full of her own grief and could think
of nothing else.

She woke out of abstraction when he
asked her, ' Miracle, may I think myself so
happy as to be able to count on your being
mine ? '

I will be your wife,' she said.

Oh, dear, dear Miracle ! My whole life
shall be devoted to you. This is the happiest
day I have ever known.'

One thing I must say,' said she ; ' you
know I am a Catholic. I will never give up
my faith. You will assure me perfect freedom
to follow my own dear religion. I could live
without everything, but not without that.'

He gave her the requisite assurance.

You and I,' she said sadly, ' have not
the same faith — that is, as far as I can see,
you disbelieve in more than half of the verities

which are the very life of my soul. We cannot
be united in the holiest and most beautiful
of all bonds, which has eternity before it,
to which both press on together. That cannot
be. You go one way, I another. But
as far as can be, I will be all that you will
require.'

You are everything I desire now. I
have but to look at you, and I think I see a
saint or angel from heaven.'

She put up her hand, and brushed his
words away. They offended her. But they
were sincere ; there was no flattery in them.
Miracle was an ideal to Herring. Again he
stepped forward. He would take her hands,
he would kiss colour and heat into those cold
and faded lips. He had a right to do this.
Was she not about to become his wife ?

But again she drew back, and in a tone of
mingled terror and entreaty said, ' Oh, Mr.
Herring, I pray you do not come nearer tome.
I am so frightened and bewildered.
The thoughts that rise up beat my temples
and contract my heart. I have gone through
a great deal to-day, I have said that I will
be your wife. Do not exact of me more than
I can bear. Do not press the advantage you
have gained over me, I entreat you. You are
kind and considerate. I am not very strong,

and I think not very well. Leave me to
myself, I pray you ; go av\^ay now. If I have
made you happy, I am glad of it; let my
promise suffice. Come here tomorrow, if you
will. No, no ' — again with her fear overmastering
her, she grasped at a respite — ' not
tomorrow. I shall not be sufficiently myself
to receive you. The days after will do. Then
I shall have more strength to speak to you
about the future. Not now. I pray you
leave me alone now.'

Will you not even give me jour hand ? '

She hesitated, then timidly drew near,
with her large eyes on him full of anxiety,
and she held out the long shaking white
fingers. He kissed them. They were cold
as the fingers of the dead.

'I shall return the day after tomorrow,'
he said.

I shall be ready then to receive you,' she
replied.

He went out. Then, when she knew
that she was alone, at once all her strength
gave way, and she fell on her knees, clasping
her hands together, swaying her body in the
agony of her pain, and broke into a storm of
tears.

Miracle did not keep her word to Herring.
She was unable to do so. That night she was

attacked by a nervous fever, and became
delirious. The strain had been too great for
her delicate system.

Herring called, and heard how ill she was.
He did not leave Launceston ; he remained
till the crisis was past.

The doctors were uncertain what turn
her illness would take, and how to treat one
constituted so differently from their run of
patients. In this uncertainty they did nothing,
and, because they did nothing, Miracle recovered.


There was a natural elasticity in her youth
which triumphed over the disease .

Orange sat up with her, night after night.
She would allow no one else to share the burden
with her till Miracle's delirium was over.

During the height of the fever, Miracle
talked. Orange stayed with her, not out of
love for her cousin, but out of fear lest others
should discover, from the rambling talk of
Miracle, the secret which she alone possessed.
The name of Trecarrel was often on the lips
of Miracle ; she prayed, and broke off in the
midst of a prayer to speak of Trecarrel. At
the same time she seemed oppressed by a
great terror, and she cried out to be saved
from what was coming. Not once did the
name of John Herring pass her lips.

When, at length, Miracle was well enough
to be moved downstairs, then Herring was
admitted to see her. He had repeatedly sat
before, by the hour, with Mrs. Trampleasure
or with Orange, talking of the poor girl lying
ill upstairs.

She has been delirious,' said Orange,
^ and, if it were not unfair, I could tell you
how often your name '

It is unfau^,' interrupted Herring, * and I
decline to listen.'

As you like,' said Orange, shrugging her
shoulders ; and, as she left the room, she
sneered.

When John Herring saw Miracle at last,
he could hardly command his tears, she looked
so thin and transparent ; her eyes were very
large and bright, her face like ivory. She
held out her hand to him. He scarce ventured
to touch it. She seemed to him like
the ghost-molli which, when grasped by the
hand, vanishes, leaving only silvery plumes
sprinkled over the fingers.

He kissed the wasted hand with reverence
and love, not with passion, and Miracle smiled.

Mr. Herring,' she said, ' I have had a
long time to myself, whilst I have been ill,
in which to prepare my thoughts. What
must be — must be, and may be soon. It is

now Advent, a season in which it is forbidden
by the Church to marry ; but I will be yours
as soon after Christmas as you like. Do not
doubt. When I am your wife I will do my
duty.'

CHAPTER XXXIX.

Wellborn.

John Herring returned to Welltown. There
was much to occupy him there. He must
prepare the house to receive its mistress. He
must get what he could ready for the extension
of the slate-quarry. The breakwater
could not be begun in winter, but the stone
could be quarried for it among the granite of
Row-tor, and the head taken off where the
slate was to be worked.

Welltown was a bleak spot. It stood
against a hill, only a little way in from the
head of the cliffs. The hill had been quarried
for the stone of which the house was built,
and then the end of the house had been
thrust into the hole thus scooped. The hill
rose rapidly, and its drip fell over the eaves
of the old quarry about. the walls of the
house. If the hill had been to seaward it
would have afforded some shelter, but it was

on the inland side, and the house was therefore
exposed to the raging blasts, salt with
Atlantic spray, that roared over the bare
surface of the land. Not a tree could stand
against it, not a shrub, except privet and the
so-called teaplant. Larches shot up a few feet
and lost their leaders; even the ash died
away at the head, and bore leaves only near
the ground. A few beech-trees were like
broken-backed beggars bent double.

Day and night the roar of the ocean filled
the air, the roar of an ocean that rolled in
unbroken swell from Labrador, and dashed
itself against the ironbound coast in surprise
and fury at being arrested ; beneath its stormy
blows the very mainland quivered.

Welltown was an old house, built at the
end of the sixteenth century by a certain
Baldwin Tink, who cut his initials on the
brimstone terminations of the main entrance.
The Thinks had owned the place for several
generations, yeomen aspiring to become gentlemen,
without arms, but hoping to acquire a
grant. Baldwin had built one wing and a
porch, and proposed in time to erect another
wing, but his ability to build was exhausted,
and none of his successors were able to complete
the house; so it remained a queer lopsided
erection, the earnest of a handsome

VOL. II. U

mansion unfulfilled. Baldwin Tink was an
ambitious man; he expected to be able to
form a quadrangle, and pierced his porch
with gateways opposite each other, so that
the visitor might pass through into the courtyard,
and there dismount in shelter. But ashe
was unable to add a second wing to the
front, so was he also unable to complete his
quadrangle ; and the porch served as a gathering
place for the winds, whence they rushed
upstairs and through chambers, piping at
keyhole, whizzing under doors, extinguishing
candles, fluttering arras. The windows were
mullions and cut in granite, the mullions
heavy and the lights narrow. The porch was
handsomely proportioned and deeply moulded,
but as want of funds had prevented Baldwin
Tink from completing his exterior, so had it
prevented him from properly furnishing the
house inside. The staircase was mean, provisional,
rudely erected out of wreck timber,
and the unravelled walls were plastered white.
As the rain drove against the house, fierce,
pointed as lances, it smote between the joints
of the stones, and, though the walls were
thick, penetrated to the interior and blotched
the white inward face with green and black
stains. There was no keeping it out. When
the house was built, nothing was known of

brick linings, and the only way in which the
builders of those days treated defects was to
conceal them behind oak panelling. Poverty
forbade this at Welltown, and so the walls
remained with their infirmities undisguised.
Our readers may have seen a grey ass on a
moor in a storm of hail. The poor brute is
unable to face the gale,, and therefore presents
his hinder quarters to it, and if there be a
rock or a tree near, the ass sets his nose
against it, and stands motionless with drooping
ears, patiently allowing his rear to bear
the brunt. Welltown presented much this
appearance — a dead wall was towards the sea,
and the head of the house was against the
hill. The furiousness of the gales from the
south and west prevented Baldwin Tink facing
his house so as to catch the sun in his windows,
and the only casement in the entire
house through which a golden streak fell was
that of the back kitchen.

What the house would have been when
completed can only be conjectured ; as it was,
it was picturesque, but dreary to the last
degree.

The Thinks had long since passed away
from Welltown. The final representative of
the family, unable to complete the house, sold
the estate. With the proceeds he started a

Tj 2

drapery shop at Camelford, and died a rich
man. Political economists lament the extinction
of the old race of English yeomen,
and advocate the creation of a race of peasant
proprietors. A natural law has fought
against the yeoman, and will forbid the spread
of peasant proprietorship. The capital that
is sunk in land produces two and a half percent.,
that sunk in trade brings in ten, twenty,
twenty-five per cent. The young yeoman
had rather sell his paternal acres to the squire
and invest the purchase-money in business,
than struggle on upon the farm all his life,
without the prospect of becoming, in the end,
more wealthy than when he started.

Welltown passed through one or two
hands, and then came to the Herrings, who
occupied it for three generations, and, having
married women with a little money, had goton
some little way, not far, in the social
scale. The slate-quarry had brought in
money, not much, for the demand was limited.
The neighbourhood was thinly populated, and
little building was done. But the equinoctial
gales came to the assistance of the Herrings,
for after every gale carts came for slates to
repair the devastation done to roofs by the
wind. The sale of slates enabled the Herrings
to enlarge their dairy by the purchase of

additional cows. They salted their butter,
and sent it in firkins to Bristol by the little
boats that plied up the Channel from the port
of Boscastle.

John Herring had let the farm, on his
father's death, to an old hind, Hender ^
Benoke, who had married John's nurse,
Genefer ; and this couple lived in the house,
and when he was there attended to him.

Xow that Herring was interested in the
slate-quarry, he built himself an office near it,
on the cliff above a deep gulf called Blackapit,
gnawed by the waves in the headland of
Willapark. In this office were a fireplace and
a bed.

Welltown had to be done up to receive
the bride, and whilst it was in the hands of
plasterers, carpenters, and painters. Herring
liA'ed in his office by the slate-quarry. He
was comfortable and independent there.
Genefer came there every day to attend to
his wants ; but he dined at WelltoAvn in the
evening, after the quarrymen had left work.

One morning, after Genefer had made his
breakfast, she stood beside the table, with her
hands folded, watching him.

Genefer Benoke was a handsome woman

1 Hender is the modern Cornish form of Enter. There
"was a Cornish saint of the name. Genefer is Whenever.

still, though over fifty. She had very thick
brown hair, high cheekbones, a dark complexion,
and large, wild, pale grey eyes. She
was a tall, well-built woman, abrupt in manner
and capricious in temper. Hender, her
husband, was a gloomy, sour man, always
nursing a grievance and grumbling against
some one ; a man who considered himself
wronged by every one with whom he dealt ; by
his master, dio treated him liberally ; by his
wife, whom, however, he feared ; by his workmen,
because they were idle. He was dragged
by his wife to chapel, and he grumbled because
he was obliged to pay for his pew, and
he was angry with the minister because he
was making a good thing out of the credulity
of his congregation. He was jealous of the
storekeepers at Boscastle, because they were
making unfair profit on their goods. He was
sulky with his pigs because they ran to bone
rather than to fat, and with his poultry because
they laid their eggs where they were
not readily found. He growled at his Bible
because the printing was too small for his
eyes, and was bitter against his clothes because
they wore out.

Genefer was a strange woman. The Keltic
blood in her veins was pure. A wild, dreamy
woman, who had acted as white witch till she

thought the profession sinful and had given it
up, to throw herself with all the vehemence of
her nature into one of those fantastic forms
of dissent that thrive so vigorously on Keltic
soil. She prophesied, she saw visions, and
dreamed. None hunted the devil with more
vehemence and pertinacity than Genefer
Benoke — the devil-hunting with her was no
pretence ; she saw him, she smelt him, and
she pursued him, now with a broom, then
with her bare hands She went into fits, she
had the 'jerks,' she foamed at the mouth,
she rolled on the floor and shrieked, and
exhibited all the outward signs of a regenerate
and converted person.

There was no hypocrisy in her. If there
had been the least tinge of unreality, her
husband would have fastened on it, and her
power over him would have been at an end.
But her trances and fits and visions were real,
and he regarded her as a person of superior
spiritual powers, almost inspired, gifted with
supernatural clearness of vision.

^ Master John,' said Genefer, ' you've a-
told me sure enough why there be all that
savage (disturbance) in the old house, tit to

1 Devil-hunting is a favourite feature among some of the
wilder sects in Cornwall. Very extraordinary scenes may be
witnessed at one of these chases.

worry a saint of God out of life, what with
the speech (smell) of paint, and the hammering,
and the swings, and the plastering.
You've a-told me, right enough, that there bea
new mistress coming, and I be not that
footy to go against it. The Lord said, "It is
not good for man to be alone," and that settles
the matter ; but I want to know what she belike;


Oh, dear Jenny, she is everything that
she ought to be. You may take my word for
that.'

^ Ah ! all fowl be good fowl till you come
to pluck 'em. There be maidens and maidens,
and you must not take 'em by what they
purses, but by what they be. When the Lord
were by the Sea of Tiberias, He seed a poor
man coming out of the tombs, exceeding
fierce, and He axed. What be thy name ?
Then he answered. Legion, which means six
thousand. But the Lord snowed better than
that, and He sed, sed He, " Come out of him
thou one unclean spirit, and go into the
swine." Ah ! if you listen to what they ses
of themselves, they be Legion — six thousand.
Loramussy ! with their airs and their graces,
and their good looks, and their fortune, and
their learning, and their pianny-playing, and
their flower-painting, and this and that —

they'd make you believe they was possessed
with a legion of graces, but when you come to
get hold and look close, there be naught
there but one mean and selfish spirit, bad
enough to make a pig mazed.'

My dear Jenny, I hope and trust your
future mistress will please you, but you don't
expect that I should put the choosing into
your hands.'

I don't that 'exactly. Master John. ]^o,
I don't go so far as that. But you might
have done worse. There be none but a
woman as can see into a woman. It be just
the same as with the Freemasons. They
knows one another wherever they be, and in
the midst of a crowd ; but you as ain't in the
secret have no idea how. It be just the same
with women. Us knows one another fast
enough, and what is hid from you men be
clear to we. There were a battle against
Ephraim, and the men of Gilead took the
passages of Jordan, and when the Ephraimites
were a-flying, then said the Gileadites to 'em,
Say Shibboleth ! " and they said Shibboleth,
for they could not frame to pronounce it right.
So they took them and slew them there. I
tell you, Master John, there don't at no time
meet two women wi'out one putting the Shibboleth
to the other and finding out whether

her belongs to Ephraim or Gilead. I'd like
to know of the missis as be coming what herbe
like, but I know very well it be no good
my axing of you. You've not took her down
to the passages of Jordan and tried her there

Ask me what I can tell you, and I will
satisfy you to the best of my power.'

^ Master John, it be a false beginning
papering the porch room with white and gold.
The bare whitewash were good enough for
your mother and your grandmother, and it
would be good enough for your wife, I reckon,
if her were of the proper sort. And if her be
not, let her take herself off from Welltown.
Will you tell me this, Master John ; be she a
Cornish woman ? '

No, Jenny, I do not think she is.'

Be she strong and hearty, wi' brave red
rosy cheeks and a pair of strong arms ? '

She is slender and pale, Jenny.'

'A fine wife that for Welltown! Pale
and weak : that be as I dreamed. But it were
no dream — it were a revelation. What sort
be her as to her religion? Be her a Church-woman,
or one of God's elect ? '

That is an unfair way of putting it,'
laughed Herring.

'I put it the way it be written in the
Book of Light,' answered Genefer, doggedly.

She is a Roman Catholic,' said Herring.
I hope now you are satisfied.'

See there ! ' exclaimed Genefer. ' What
ses the Scripture? — "Thou shalt not plough
with the ox and the ass together." What do
that mean but that two of a sort should run
together under the same yoke of matrimony?
If you be Church, take a Church wife ; if you
be a Cornishman, don't fetch an ass out of
Devon to plough the lands of Welltown wi'
you. What ses the prophet? — "Can two
walk together except they be agreed? " Here
be you two ain't agreed about what be chiefs
of all, and how will you walk together along
the way of life ? '

My dear Jenny, you have had the management
so long that you presume. I am not
any longer a boy to be ordered about, and I
must insist on no more of this sort of interference
with my affairs. You acted as a
mother to me when I was deprived as an infant
of my own natural mother, and I shall
ever love you dearly for all you have done forme.
But, Jenny, there are limits to forbearance,
and you transgress.'

Ah, sure ! ' exclaimed Genefer Benoke,
it were I as made you what you 'm be. I
didn't spoil you as some would have done.
You 'm a good and proper squire, because I

trained the sapling. " Spare the rod, spoil
the child," said the wise king. Master John,
when the old miners were seeking a lode they
took a hazel-rod in their hands, and they went
over the ground a holding of thick. And
when they passed above a lode the rod turned
in their hands. It were all the same wi'
hidden treasure. I've a heard of a Trevalga
man, as he went over the monies of Bosinney
wi' such a divining-rod, and it turned, and he
dug and found King Arthur's golden crown
and table. It be all the same with mortal
earth. If you want to bring to light the pure
ore, the hidden treasure, you must go over it
wi' a stick. There be good metal in you,
Master John, and you may thank your old
nurse that her didn't spare the rod. Her
explored you pretty freely with the divining-wand.'


^I am thankful, Genefer,' said Herring,
laughing ; ' I recall many of these same explorations,
and they have left on me an ineffaceable
respect for you, and some fear is
mingled with the love I bear you.'

It is right it should be so. What 'ud
you have been without me? Your mother
died when you was a baby. Your father
couldn't be a nursing of you by night and
day. It were I as did all that. I'd had

a chance child,' — in a self-exculpatory tone,
the lambs o' the Lord must play ; ' then
louder : * and I'd a lost it. I did everything
for you, I were a proper mother to you, and
so it be that I love you as my own child ; and
as the Lord has not seen fit to give me none
of my own body, saving that chance child as
died — and I reckon the stock of Hender be
too crabbed and sour to be worth perpetuating
what have I to live for, and care for, and
provide for, but you? And see this, Master
John. King David said as the Lord rained
snares out of heaven: snares be ropes with
nooses at the end ; and King David ses the
Lord hangs these out of every cloud, whereby
them as walks unawares may hang themselves.
What be them hangman's ropes dangling about,
thick as rain streaks, but all those things God
has made, and with which he surrounds us,
by which we may lift ourselves above the
earth if we be prudent ; but if we be fools,
then we shall strangle ourselves therein. I
reckon the new mistress be one of the Lord's
snares hanging down out of heaven. If you
use a wife properly, and lay hold of her, and
pull yourself up by her, then you will mount
to heaven ; but if you let her get round your
throat, he'll sure to throttle you. That
be what makes me bad waddled* (troubled)

^ about you, now I see you wi' such a rope
before you. Keep your feet and hands a
working up her, and don't you never let her
knot herself round you.'

Such was the house and such were the
persons destined to receive Miracle. John
Herring loved Welltown ; he had been born
there and bred there. Every stone was dear
to him. The dreary scenery was full of
romance and beauty because associated with
early memories. Old Genefer he loved; she
had been his nurse, his guide, his friend. She
was masterful, and exercised the authority of
a mistress ; but this had groan with years,
and was at first endured, at last disregarded.
It had become a part of Welltown, and was
sacred accordingly. Herring was too full of
content with his own home, of admiration for
the barren coast scenery, to suppose that the
same would not equally delight Miracle. He
would explain to Miracle the good points in
Genefer's character, the greatness of the debt
due to her, and for the sake of these she
would overlook her faults.

Alas ! the place and the persons that were
to receive Miracle Avere the most uncongenial
to her nature that could have been
selected.

But to return to the office on Willapark,

and Genefer standing at the table before her
foster child.

I told you,' said the old woman, ' that I
had dreamed ; but it weren't a dream, but a
vision, falling into a trance, but having my
eyes open. I thought. Master John, that it
were a wisht' (wild) ' night, and the wind were
a tearing and a ramping over the hills and
driving of the snow before it in clouds. , And
I saw how that, in the whirl of the wind, the
snow heaped herself up like the pillar of salt
between Soar and Sodom. And I saw how
you, Master John, thought it were wonderful
and beautiful, that you stood before it mazed.
And when the night were gone, and the sun
came out, and it glittered like a pillar of
diamonds, then you cast your arms round it,
to hold it to your heart ; and you looked upto
it for all the world as though expecting
something as never came and never could
come. And you laid your heart against that
pillar of snow, and when I would have prayed
you away you sed, " See, Jenny, how fair and
pure she be ! " But I could not take you
away ; and still you looked up into the snow,
asking wi' your eyes for something that never
came, and in nature never could come. But
wi' the warmth of your heart it all began to
melt away ; and still you looked ; and it ran

between your fingers, and dripped in streams
from your heart, and trickled down your face
like tears ; and so it thawed slowly away, and
still you held to the snow, and looked, and
nothing came. That be the way the heat went
out of your heart, and the colour died from
your cheek, and your lips grew dead, and your
hands stiff, and the tears on your cheeks were
frosted to icicles, and your hair waxed white
as wool ; and when all had melted clean away
still you was the same, wi' your arms stretched
out and your eyes uplifted — not now to the
snow bride, for that were gone, but to a star
that twinkled aloft over where she had been,
and I touched you, for I were troubled, but
could not move you — you were hard ice.'

CHAPTER XL.

NOEL ! NOEL !

Christmas had come, not a day of frost or
snow, but of warm south breezes charged with
rain ; no sun shining, but grey light struggling
through piles of vapour. Miracle was so
much better that she was able to go in a coach
to Trecarrel to mass. A priest was staying
there for a few days.

The mass was early, and she left before
dawn, but the day broke while she was at
Trecarrel, and there was as much light in the
sky, when she prepared to leave, as there would
be throughout the day.

Captain Trecarrel came to her, to insist on
her coming into the house and having some
breakfast. It would not do for her, in her
delicate condition, recovering from illness, to
remain so long without food. She declined,
gently, and the utmost he could bring her to
accept was a cup of coffee and some bread,

VOL. II. X

brought to the carriage in which she had
seated herself, wrapped in shawls, for her
return journey.

Captain Trecarrel, standing at the coach-door,
thought her lovelier than he had ever
seen her. There was none of the proud self-reliance
in her face now that had marked her
when she first came to Launceston. She was
thin, tremulous, and frail as a white harebell ;
with a frightened, entreating look in her large
dark eyes, a look that seemed to confess
weakness, and entreat that she might be left
to herself.

Captain Trecarrel knew nothing about her
engagement to John Herring. If it had been
known in Launceston, it would have come to
his ears, for the Captain was a great gossip.
The secret had been well kept ; it was not only
not known, it was unsuspected. Orange had
not spoken of it, and her mother had been
restrained from cackling by sharing in the
general ignorance.

In case I do not see you before the new
year, I must wish you a happy one,' said
Miracle, holding out her hand. ' Now, please
tell the coachman to drive on.'

The year can hardly be happy for me,'
said the Captain, and sighed. ' Dear Countess
Miracle, suffer me to take a place beside you.

I want to go into Launceston on business, and I
shall be grateful for a lift.'

Business to-day ! Do not these English
keep the feast ? I have heard Orange and her
mother anticipate Christmas, but almost wholly
because of the plum-pudding.'

The bells are ringing,' answered Trecarrel.
And on the warm air came a merry peal of
village bells. Captain Trecarrel saw the
supplicating look in her eyes, a look entreating
him not to take advantage of her weakness ;
but he was too selfish to regard it, he accepted
her silence as consent, jumped into the chaise,
and told the coachman to drive on.

There was no sign in the manner of either
that a thought was given to the return of the
visiting cards. That was Christmas day, a
day of joy and reconciliation, of peace on earth,
and general goodwill. Why rip up a sore ?
Let the past be forgotten, at least for a day.
Captain Trecarrel was puzzled about those
cards. Were they Miracle's answer to the letter
he had written to her ? His offer of protection
under the wing of his aunt at Penzance had
been unnecessary, because Miracle was not
penniless. She had means at her disposal of
which he knew nothing. Probably her father's
money in Brazil had been forwarded to her,
X 2

and reached lier, fortunately, after the death
of her trustee.

Trecarrel was not a man to love deeply
any one but himself His feelings for Orange
had never been strong ; if he cared for an}^ one
beside himself, it was for Miracle. Had he
offended her by his letter ? Was it really she
who had sent the cards back to him ? He
was determined to find out.

You directed a letter to me some weeks
ago,' he said.

Yes ; Orange had sprained her wrist, and
she asked me to address the letter for her.'

I was disappointed on opening it. I knew
your handwriting at once ; it was so unlike
that of an Englishwoman, so French in its
neatness. An Englishwoman scrawls, a
Frenchwoman writes.'

I have noticed that.'

I was disappointed on opening the cover.
I thought it might contain your reply to my
letter.'

AYhat letter ? '

That which I wrote to you when you were
at Mr. Flamank's house.'

I did not receive it.'

The loss is not great. It was sent to
inform you that I was confined to my bed,
and that I was too gravely indisposed to

follow the dictates of my heart and fly to your
succour.'

^ Orange, I am sure, felt your absence
greatly.'

You, also, would have been thankful for
my assistance, surely.'

Yes ; but I had no right to expect it.
Orange had a rio-ht to exact it.'

Trecarrel bit his lip.

^ You seem, dear Countess, to have been
very ill. You look terribly fragile and white.'

I have been unwell '

More than unwell — ill ; dangerously
m ?'

Yes ; my head was bad. I did not know
anything or any person for several days.'

'I fear these wi etched troubles have been
the cause. that I could have been near to
give advice and protection ; but important
business — military, of course — called me to
Exeter, and when I returned to Trecarrel, I
was prostrated by a nervous attack for a week.
I fear you have been embarrassed for money,
but now, I understand, matters are settled
agreeably.'

We are not troubled about money
matters any more, nor likely to be so. '

I trust not.'

Because, if you were, I would say,

command me. I am not a rich man, but still,
bless my soul, I can help a friend at a pinch,
and am proud to do so.'

There is no occasion, Captain Trecarrel.
All fear of pecuniary embarrassment is at an
end.'

I hear everything at Dolbeare was bought
by you.'

^ All was bought in my name.'

And the Trampleasures, mere et July
are your guests. How long will this continue
?'

I do not know.'

^ It is not pleasant to be sponged on,
especially '

I beg your pardon. I feel it a duty and
a pleasure to do everything I can for them.
They have been kind to me.'

Then you saddle yourself with them indefinitely.
I hope the load will not crush you.'

Miracle made no reply. She did not like
the contemptuous tone in which he spoke of
the Trampleasures, and Orange was to be his
wife. She looked out of the coach window on
her side.

Old Tramplara's death was, of course, a
great shock to me,' continued Trecarrel ; ' so
sudden, too, arresting me on the threshold of
my marriage. It was a trial to my nervous

system ; but I am frank to confess, it was to
some extent a relief

Miracle looked round with surprise.

I may as well tell you the whole truth,'
said the Captain. ' You are in the midst of
cross purposes, and do not understand the
game. It is only fair that I should give you
your orientation. I always admired Orange ;
she is a handsome, genial gM, somewhat
brusque and wanting in polish, but good-hearted.
I called a good deal at Dolbeare,
not only to see her, but to keep Mr. Tram-pleasure
in good humour. I am a man of
very small income and with good position in
the county, which I am expected to live up to.
I have been pinched for money, and I wanted
Mr. Trampleasure to advance me a loan. So
I got on intimate terms with the family, and,
somehow, he made my prospects contingent
on my taking Orange as wife. Then the sum
I wanted would be given as her dower. You
understand. Well, being a light-hearted,
giddy young fellow, I fell into the arrangement,
and all went smoothly enough till you came.'

Miracle gasped for breath. She put her
hand to the window.

You want air,' said the Captain. ' I will
let down the glasses.'

Miracle thanked him with a bend of the

head ; she could not speak. A great terror
had come over her.

When you came,' continued Trecarrel,
then I woke to the fact that I had never
loved Orange. I had admired her beauty as
I might admire a well-built horse or spaniel,
but my heart had not been touched.'

Oh, Mr. Trecarrel ! ' exclaimed Miracle,
putting her white fingers together, ' let me
out of the carriage. I must walk ; I shall
faint ; I feel very ill.'

Dear Miracle — you will let me call you
Miracle ? — you must not walk ; you are not
strong enough.'

^ I pray you ! I pray you ! '

Then he stopped the coach, opened the
door, and had the steps lowered.

The lady is faint. Go slowly, coachman.
She wishes to walk a little way.'

Then he helped Miracle to alight, and
pressed her fingers as he did so, and looked
at her tenderly out of his beautiful blue eyes.

No,' she said, as he offered her his arm,
I must walk alone. The road is rough. I
shall be better presently. The carriage jolts.'

You cannot walk,' answered the Captain ;
I see that you have not the strength. I
insist on your taking my arm, or stepping
back into the carriage. I am very thankful

that I came with you. You are not in a fit
state to be alone.'

She turned and looked at him. ' Oh, Mr.
Trecarrel, I should have been far better
alone.'

Why so, Miracle?'

I cannot say. I need not have talked.'

Do not talk [now ; listen, whilst I speak
to you.'

Speak then of something else — not of
Orange.'

I do not wish to speak of Orange. I will
speak only of yourself.'

She held up her hands again, in that same
entreating manner. ' I am too weak,' she
whispered.

Her ankle turned as she stepped on the
loose stones. A mist drifted across her eyes,
so that she could not see the road. The air
was rich with the music of church bells, the
merry Christmas peal of Launceston tower
and the village churches round, calling and
crying, Noel ! Noel ! Noel ! Glad tidings of
great joy ! Roast beef and plum pudding and
mince-pies ! Good Christian men rejoice !
Pudding sprigged with holly, and over the
pudding brandy sauce, blazing blue ! Noel !
Roast beef garnished with horse-radish !
Noel ! Mince-pies piping hot. Turn again,

Whittington, to your Christmas dinner.
Noel ! Noel ! Noel !

Miracle did not hear the bells.

No, I cannot walk,' she said.

Then Captain Trecarrel helped her back
into the coach.

I shall be better alone,' she said.

You must not be left alone,' he replied.
I cannot in conscience allow you to go on
without me to look after you. As you are so
weak after your illness, it was madness to
come out this Christmas morning.'

She sighed and submitted. He stepped in
beside her and closed the door

Miracle,' he said, ' I will not be interrupted
in what I was saying, because T have
determined to throw my mind and heart open
to you. I dare say you have wondered how
my engagement to Orange hung hire. I was
bound to her, but my heart was elsewhere.
You cannot understand the distressing situation
in which I found myself, bound in honour
to hold to an engagement which I detested,
when all my hopes of happiness lay in
another direction. You do not know what it
is to be tied to one person and to love another.
It is now many months since I first
saw you, and the more I have seen of you the
deeper, the more intense has been my love for

you, and my repugnance towards a marriage
with Orange. You and I are one in sympathies,
in rank, and in faith. We understand
each other ; we are, as it were, made to constitute
each other's happiness.'

Miracle put her hand on the Captain's arm,
and tried to speak — to avert what he was
saying ; but the words died on her tongue.
She trembled helplessly. Then she clasped
her hands, and wrung them on her lap,
despairingly. Speak she could not ; but if
Trecarrel had looked into her face, he would
have seen the agony of her soul, and how she
implored him, with her terrified eyes and her
quivering lips, to forbear. He did not look.
If he had, and read that appeal, it would not
have stayed him,

I did not venture to declare to you — no,
not even to allow yon to suspect — what was
passing with me. I am a gentleman of
high and honourable feelings. I knew that I
had allowed myself, through inadvertence, to
become entangled in an engagement to a
person whom I could regard, but could not
love. All at once I became aware that my
heart was elsewhere. I proceeded, however,
as an honourable man, to fulfil that which I
had undertaken. What my misery was, you
can ill conceive. I saw the fatal day approach

with feelings of disgust and despair. That
day would bind me for life to an uncongenial
companion, and separate me for ever from her
whom I felt, whom I knew, to be essential to
my happiness. Is it a marvel that, when
circumstances occurred which arrested the
marriage, I felt relief ? Is it to be wondered
at that now I feel a doubt whether I ought to
go further in this matter ? Ask yourself, am
I further tied — in duty — in honour ? Can
I conscientiously marry a girl whom I do
not love, whom I have even come to regard
with repugnance, with whom I can never be
happy, and whose whole life will be embittered
by the knowledge that though she
has my name and my hand, she has not
gained my heart? No, Miracle ; dear, dearest
kirtle, no ! '

Stay — in heaven's name, stay ! ' gasped
Miracle. ' You must not speak to me thus.'

Why not ? '

I must ask you a question,' she said, and
wiped the cold dew from her lips and brow.
I must ask of you a favour.'

Ask me anything ; it is yours.'

Captain Trecarrel, this is Christmas Day.
After eight days I shall belong to another.
I ask you — allow me to be married in Tree
Chapel.'

Her heart beat so fast that it took away
her breath. She was unable to proceed.

Captain Trecarrel's blue eyes opened with
amazement. He could not believe his ears.

I shall be married to — John Herrings.'

Then she sank back in the coach, and
threw her handkerchief over her face. The
wheels rattled over the pavement of the
street.

Stop ! ' shouted the Captain. ' Damnation
! stop ! ^

He got out. ' Drive on hard to Dolbeare,
coachman ; the young lady has fainted.'

So the coach rattled through the marketplace
and along the High Street, whilst the
bells rang merrily, merrily. Glad tidings of
great joy ! Roast beef and plum pudding and
mince-pies to those who can afford it ; to the
poor — nothing.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

lOKDOK : PRINTED BT

SPOTTISWOODE And CO., New-street Squab

AND PAELIAIIEXT STREET

OF

POPULAR works

Handsomely bound in cloth gilt, each volume containing
Four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. ^s. 6d.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington.

By Anthony Trollope.

Frame PARSONAGE.

By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering.

By Anthony Trollope.

TRANSFORMATION : a Romance.

By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

ROMANTIC TALES.

By the Author of *John Halifax, Gentleman.'

DOMESTIC STORIES.

By the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman.'

NO NAME.

By Wilkie Collins.

ARMADALE.

By Wilkie Collins.

AFTER DARK.

By Wilkie Collins.

MAUD TALBOT.

By Holme Lee.

THE MOORS AND THE FENS.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

carta.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

FOR PERCIVAL.

By Margaret Veley.
London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Each Work complete in One Volume, price Six Shillings.

OLD KENSINGTON. By Miss Thackeray. Crown
8vo. 6s.

THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF. By Miss
Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A YOUNG

PRINCE. By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

TO ESTHER, and other Sketches. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

BLUE BEARD'S KEYS, and other Stories.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

THE STORY OF ELIZABETH; TWO HOURS;

FROM AN ISLAND. By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6^.

TOILERS AND SPINSTERS, and other Essays.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

MISS ANGEL; FULHAM LAWN. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

MISS WILLIAMSON'S Divinations. By

Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

Blandly REEFS. By Lady Verney, Author of
Stone Edge ' <S:c. Crown Svo. 6s.

Lattice LISLE. By Lady Verney. With 3 Illustrations.
Crown Svo. 6s.

STONE EDGE. By Lady Verney. With 4 Illustrations.
Crown Svo. 6s.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

V



Rest OFENGIANDRpMANCE.

36ool!dcllcr,
TRURO & FALMOUTH.

^jT^^fj^iiiiT, . ',r^.>-'-

'^/'me//.

yteu^

leu'^t/i.arh, (jcytr/^^^i

(j/yt/?^6^o//^.


E>238.

A WEST OF ENGLAND ROMANCE

BY THE
AUTHOR OF ' MEHALAH

IX THREE Y L U :\I E S

VOL. III.

LONDON

SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved]

CONTENTS

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER XLI.

WHITE FAVOURS.

The weather had changed abruptly. The
wind had turned north-east, had become
rough and frozen, and whirled snow before
it over a white world.

Eight days had elapsed, and the marriage
ceremony had been performed in the chapel
of Trecarrel. The Captain was not present
at the ceremony : he was in bed, indisposed.

The carriage was at the door of Dolbeare
to convey the bride and bridegroom to Well-town.
A hasty breakfast had been taken. No
friends had been invited. The journey was
long, and the horses must be rested midway
for an hour. The days were short, and there
was no chance of reaching Welltown before
dark. It was bad travelling over fresh snow,

VOL. III. B

and along an exposed road swept by the
furious gale. The horses stamped and pawed
the snow, the post-boys were impatient.
Herring was anxious to start. Miracle was
upstairs in her room alone. All the boxes
were corded and in place. Then Orange, who
was in the hall, called her cousin.

Miracle appeared, slowly and uncertainly
descending the stairs. Orange uttered an
exclamation of surprise. ' My dear, you are
still in white! You have not put on your
travelling dress.'
I did not know.'

But what in the world have you been
doing ? '

She had been weeping and praying. Her
eyes were red and full of tears, and there was
that exalted, luminous look in the white face
of one whose soul has just descended from
heaven, as there was in the face of Moses
when he came down from the Mount. In her
white dress, with her white veil over her dark
hair, and a bunch of snowdrops in her bosom,
just as she had stood at the altar, so she was
going forth into the stormy world — as white
as one of the snow-flakes, as fragile, altogether
as pure.

Her travelling dress was in the box, and
the box was on the carriage. There was no

help for it ; the box could not be taken down
and unpacked. She must go as she was,
wrapped round with many cloaks.

She was reluctant to depart. She had
not spent happy days in Dolbeare ; but,
nevertheless, she did not like to leave it for
the unknown. The future was strange and
feared. Orange and her mother had not been
congenial friends, but they were of her own
sex. What would become of the Tram-pleasures
now? They were without money.
She turned to her husband.

Mr. Herring,' she said timidly, ' my
mother and my sister, what of them ? '

Dearest Miracle, that is as you like.'

Oh, Orange ! and you, Mrs. Trampleasure!
Will you come and live with me where I am
going? I entreat you to do so. Make my
home your own. I do not think you will be
happy here, where you have met with so
many sorrows. And I — I shall miss you.'

She looked at Herring, asking with her
eyes if she had done right.

This was not what he wished. Orange
was not the sort of companion he relished for
his wife. There was an indescribable something
about her which he disliked. Then an
idea struck him. He called Orange and
Miracle aside into the little drawing-room.

B 2

Miracle, everything I have is yours. You
may dispose of all at your pleasure. I know
what has happened here. Orange is engaged
to be married to Captain Trecarrel ; but,
through the sad disaster that has taken place,
her little fortune is lost. Is it your wish,
Miracle, that this sum should be made up to
her? The loss of this fortune stands in the
way of her happiness and that of Captain
Trecarrel.'

Miracle trembled, looked down for a moment,
and then said, ' Yes, dear Orange, it
shall be so. All that sum which was to have
been yours, but which was lost, shall be given
to you. Be happy with Captain Trecarrel.'

Then Orange flamed up. Her eyes sparkled,
her cheeks flushed, and she clenched
her hands.

Never, never ! ' she exclaimed. ' He deserted
and insulted me. Never, never, will I
take him.'

Well, Orange,' said Herring, ' you do as
you think best. The same sum that was
lodged by your father in my hands in trust
for you, to be paid over on your marriage,
shall be placed in the bank in your name. If
you can forgive the Captain, well, so be it.
None will be better pleased to hear it than
Miracle and I; but if not, you will find a

welcome at Welltown. I must not delay
longer. We have a lengthy drive before us,
and cannot reach our destination while there
is light in the sky.'

He handed Miracle into the carriage, and
stepped in himself.

The post-boys wiped their lips — they had
been given a tumbler each of spiced wine —
they cracked their whips, and away whirled
the carriage.

Orange, Orange ! throw rice ! ' called
Mrs. Trampleasure.

Orange stooped, picked up a handful of
snow, and flung it after them, in at the carriage
window, and it fell over Herring and
Miracle, a cold shower.

But the maid was more vehement and
strict in her adhesion to traditional usage.
First one slipper — a red one, then another —
black, whirled through the snowy air, and fell
in their track.

What are you about, Bella ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Trampleasure. ' That's my dear
'husband's slipper — that red one is, and the
other is Sampson's.'

Look ! ' said Orange. The red slipper
and the black had fallen with the toes pointing
in the direction taken by the carriage, and lay
between the wheel-marks.

Mother, it looks just as though the dead
father and the runaway son were after them.'

Hark ! what is that ? A faint, low music,
scarce audible, and when heard at once caught
and puffed away by the frozen blast. Was
that the wind, playing a weird aeolian strain
through the spines of the Scotch fir ? But if
so, strange that the vibrations should frame
themselves into a strain like that of Ford's
old glee : —

Since first I saw your face, I resolv'd
To honour and renown you !

Come in, mother, the wind is cold. It
freezes to the marrow.'

THE SNOW BRIDE.

A WILD road that which leads from Launceston
Boscastle, up hill continuously, for miles
after miles, across barren moor unrelieved
by rocks, studded at intervals by cairns under
which dead primaeval warriors lie. In summertime
the road is rendered tolerable by
the distant views ; the rugged range of
Cornish tors, Brown Willy and Now Tor on
the left; far away south the dome of ,
where the Britons made their last
stand against Athelstan, and which to the
present day is studded with the cairns that
cover their dead. To the south-east the
grand distant range of Dartmoor lost in cobalt
blue.

But that road, on such a day as this, was
unendurable. There was no shelter whatever
; not a hedge, not a tree ; not a village
was passed through. Llaneast, Tresmeer,

Treneglos, Egloskerry, lie buried in valleys
where trees grow and the sun sleeps on
smooth greensward. The road seemed to
be slowly mounting into the skies, hit the
bosoms of the snow clouds which shed their
cold contents over it. White favours ! The
horses were plastered with them, the postboys
were patched with them, the carriage
encrusted with them, the windows frosted
over with them. Miracle sat on the east side ;
she tried to look through the glasses, but
could see nothing but snow crystals.

Herring spoke to her, but conversation
was impossible ; the wind howled and beat
at the windows, as with icy hands, striving to
smash them in. There was no keeping the
wind out ; it drove in between the frames-and
the glass, it worked its way through below
and chilled the feet on the matting.

The horses went slowly ; the snowballed
under their hoofs, and the post-boys
had to descend repeatedly to clear their shoes.
The road was no post-road, and no change of
horses was to be had half-way. There was
no choice, therefore, but to rest the jaded
beasts at the wretched little tavern on the
heath, called 'Drunkards all.' There is a
legend to account for the name. A traveller
came one Sunday to the pothouse, with its

little cluster of cottages around, and saw the
people reeling from the tavern to their homes
in the morning. ' What ! ' he asked. ' Does
no one go to church here ? ' ' No was the
hiccuped reply. ' Sundays we drinks and
drinks — here we be drunkards all.' He
passed the same way one weekday, and
found the cottagers staggering from the tavern
to the fields. ' What ! ' he asked. ' Is no
work done here weekdays ? ' ' No,' was the
answer. ' We drinks and we drinks — here we
be drunkards all.' Once again he passed
that way, and it was midnight ; but the road
was encumbered with tipsy men and women.
^ Does nobody sleep here ? ' ' Sleep ! ' was
the reply. ' No, we drinks and we drinks —
we be drunkards all.' And as he went through
the churchyard of Davidson, he saw tombstones
inscribed "D. 0. D. — Dea." ; and when
he asked the meaning, the sexton said, with
his thumb over his shoulder. ' Them from
where you came from ; Died o' drink —
Drunkards all.' So the hamlet got its name,
and has kept it to the present day.

Herring begged that a great fire might be
made up, and some smouldering turf was put
on the hearth in the little guest room. Firewood
was an unattainable luxury in this
treeless waste ; the only fuel was peat. The

walls were whitewashed, the floor was slate,
on which milk had been spilled, and was
frozen. The turf had not taken the chill out
of the air in the room when the hour for
resting the horses was passed. Herring had
ordered dinner, but nothing was to be had to
eat, save fried ham and eggs, nothing to drink
but hard cyder and muddy beer. Miracle had
no appetite. She sat in her white dress by
the low fire, deadly pale, with dark rings
about her eyes, shivering. She held her
hands to the dull ashes, and thought of the
sunny garden of the Sacre Coeur. How the
bees hummed there, and the hyacinths, blue
and pink, bloomed early and filled the air
with fragrance, and against the wall gold-green
glistening flies preened their wings,
loving the sun, and happy basking in it.

It is time for us to move on, dear Miracle,'
said Herring ; ' we have only made half of
our way, but the worst half is done. The
rest is, for a part at least, down hill.' She
rose mechanically. He wrapped the shawls
well round her, but there was no warmth in
the slender white form to be wrapped in.
There was no colour in her lips, none in the
transparent cheek, only the blue belike veins
in her temples.

He led her to the carriage ; again the

post-boys wiped their lips, this time of sour
cyder, and cracked their whips. The wheels
went round noiselessly, and the carriage was
lost to sight in the driving snow. Not only
did the wheels revolve noiselessly, but the
footfalls of the horses produced no sound ; the
postilions were silent, and those within the
carriage did not speak. Verily that might
have been taken for a bleached phantom coach
drawn by phantom horses, conveying phantom
bride and bridegroom from the grave of one
at Launceston to the grave of another at
Boscastle.

Herring took Miracle's hand. She made
no resistance. He held it in his, hoping that
his warmth might thaw those frozen fingers.
He pressed them, but met nth no answering
pressure ; the hand was possibly too numbed
to feel.

Now ensued hedges. They saw a woman,
head down against the snow, stalking along
the top of one — the usual footpath in these
parts, where the lanes are often deep in
water. Here and there came walls, and here
and there ragged thorns ; then moor again,
and then the carriage began to descend.

Miracle held her breath. Darkness had set
in already ; the post-boys lit their lamps at
a cottage that was passed, and through the

windows could be seen the snowflakes falling
as flashes of white fire, in the radius of light
cast by the lamps. The steam of the horses
was blown back and formed haloes.

Miracle's hand trembled in that of Herring.
She looked round at him. He saw, by the
reflection of the lamp-lights, that her eyes were
wide with fear.

^ What is the matter, dear Moselle ? '
That noise — that terrible noise ! '
What ! the roar of the ocean ? '
The thunder of the Atlantic filled the air.
Driven before the gale, the mighty billows
dashed themselves to dust upon the adamantine
cliffs and flung their shivers high into
the air. The roar was continuous, but with
pulsations in it, as the wind rose and fell. It
seemed to Miracle as if she and Herring were
drifting in the vast void where there was no
earth, no creation, no planets, no light, no life,
no God ; in chaos filled with howling winds
and thundering unseen forces that clashed
purposeless and self-destructive. But worse
still, to the outer answered an inner desolation.
There also, chaos was. She was
drifting in spirit in a void, without a hope,
without an interest, without a purpose, with
heart and brain dead.

The carriage whirled down a rapid descent,

and the roar waxed louder, more
hungry, more terrible. No rocks could withstand
the weight of water hurled against
them. The iron walls must yield before
those Titanic blows, and all the world dissolve
and sink beneath the angry, inky ocean.

Will that not cease ? ' asked Miracle,
timidly.

The waves can always be heard here,'
answered John Herring, ' but, of course,
only as a pleasant mutter in still weather.'

At night — does it go on all night ? '

To be sure ; the sea never sleeps. Intime
you will come to love the sound. It
will be a lullaby, soothing my darling to
sleep.'

Miracle shuddered.

Lights were visible, twinkling below.

There is a little town, Boscastle, lying in
that glen,' said he ; 'we shall pass above it
on our way home.'

Home! The word conveyed no warmth
to the heart of Miracle. Home is a quiet nook
in the sun, among roses and mignonette, with
a kitten purring at your feet, and a blackbird
singing out of a syringa hard by, and the
white cap of Josephine seen through the
kitchen window, and her pleasant voice singing
a cantique of the Mois de Marie whilst she

shells peas. Home ! A cold house in a void
world, without a bush or tree, without stillness,
in the midst of blackness and storm, and with
salt spray and the boom of breaking billows
filling the air with bitterness and thunder.

A scream over the carriage. Miracle cried
out in an agony of fear at that Banshee
note.

Do not be frightened,' said Herring.
That was a gull driven in by the storm.
Poor Miracle ! you will be glad when we
reach home. This has been a trying day for
you.'

She could not answer. She did not think
she would be glad to reach Welltown ; she
was indifferent whether she got there or not.
It was all one to her whether she alighted ina
cold home or went on for ever and ever thus
in storm and snow. Would it not be best of
all to be allowed to descend and lie down on
the white bank, and wrap the white fleeces
round her, and so go to sleep? Then, indeed,
she would go home — to a home she knew, to
a home peopled with dear friends, saints and
angels, with whom she had spoken from early
childhood.

The longest day has its ending. The
carriage drew up at last at the porch door of
Welltown. Herring sprang out ; no lights

were in the windows. He looked along the
front of the house ; all was dark. No cheering
welcome of twinkling candles, of ruddy
fire flash through the panes. He knocked
loudly. Then Genefer came to the door with
a stable lanthorn.

What ! Master John ! Well, to be sure.
I never thought it. The day were so wisht
and wild.'

Jenny,' said Herring, impatiently, ' open
at once. Let me in ; you knew that we were
to arrive this evening.'

The storm raged so bad, I thought sure
you'd put it oiF.'

^ Come in, dear Miracle,' said Herring,
greatly incensed, and led his bride into the
porch out of the wind.

Have sou no fires lighted ? Nothing
ready?' he asked, angrily, of Genefer.

No, Master John. It be bad luck to wed
in snow and storm : snow cools love and wind
blows it away. I reckoned you knew that
well enough, and would have put it off till
the sun shone.'

A cold reception. The hall dark ; only a
little turf smouldering on the hearth, giving
out neither light nor heat.

Miracle came in. She did not look round ;
she was stupefied. It was all one to her. She

had not expected much, and was not disappointed.


Genefer put the lanthorn on the table and
proceeded to light a couple of wax candles.
Herring divested Murillo of her dark wraps.

Then the old woman looked at her. In the
large gloomy hall Miracle stood like a spectral
figure, illumined by the candles, the white veil
hanging over her shoulders and back.

Lord of mercy bless us ! ' exclaimed
Genefer, starting back. ' It be the same —
the same ! God ! — the same I dreamed !
The Snow Bride.'

She looked at her with dismay, then raised
her hands and said, ' That ever I should have
seen the day ! Master John ! Master John !
But the Lord sends strong delusions on them
whom He will bring to naught.'

Go at once, Jenny, and get supper ready.
Heap up wood on the hearth. Is there a fire
upstairs ? '

I don't know whether there he — there was,
to dry the rooms ; but there be nothing ready.
It be a thousand pities you cannot get it all
undone, and, if it must be done, do it another
day, when the sun shines and the air be plum '
(warm).

This is intolerable,' said Herring, now
thoroughly roused. ' You are determined,

Jenny, to drive me beyond the limits of
forbearance.'

The Lord ordains,' answered Genefer :
what will be will be. There ! I'll have the
fire up directly. Now, Hender' — aloud, and
with her head through the kitchen door —
look spry, and bring in a faggot, and clap it
on the turves. Take the bellows,' she said
to Miracle ; ' blow away at them turves, and
they'll glow. I'll be off and get something
warm directly.' But, instead of going directly,
she stood in the door, and looked at Herring,
and said : ' The sheep always goes before the
wind. You may put them in a loo place, but
they won't bide there : they go with the wind
to where they will freeze and die. It be all
the same wi' men. When the Lord blows,
they goes before His breath to their destruction,
and not all the wisdom of the wise will
avail to keep them loo.'

Would you like to go upstairs, Miracle,
to your room ? ' asked Herring.

She lifted her sad eyes to his face and
nodded. He took a candle and led the
way. The boards creaked as they went up
the uncarpeted stairs, and the wind wailed
through the staircase window, clinking the
little diamond panes ; the draught was so
great that the candle was nearly blown out.

VOL. III. c

Against the glass the snow was patched in
masses, as though the window had been pelted
with snowballs, and the white patches reflected
back the candle-light.

Upstairs was a bedroom, above the hall,
and adjoining it a small boudoir over the
porch. There was a Are on the hearth, and
the bedding was ranged as a wall round it,
to be well aired. Some billets of wood were
heaped up beside the chimney-piece, and these
Herring put on. He plied the bellows, and
soon a yellow flame danced up. The room
began to look more cheery. It was a pretty
room ; Herring had thought much about
making it pleasant. The paper was bright,
with roses in sprigs over the walls, and over
the window were sprigged curtains lined with
forget-me-not blue.

'There, dear Miracle,' he said, 'I will
have the boxes brought up ; and I hope, in
half an hour, Jenny will have dinner ready
for us. I am sorry for her neglect. She is
a tiresome, self-opinionated old woman, but
you will come in time to value her. She is
a Cornish crystal — and rough.'

He did not leave the room at once, but
stood and looked round it ; he had not seen
it before, since it had been done up, with firelight
flickering and candles lighted. He was

pleased, and said, ' It is pretty — is it not,
Miracle ? '

She looked up wonderingly at him. What
was pretty? "What could be pretty in such a
place ?

He had lighted candles on the dressing-table
and on the mantelpiece. Over that hung
a picture of his mother — a sweet young face,
vfith a pleasant smile on it.

That is my mother,' he said ; ' she is
looking down on you out of heaven. This
was her room : I was born in it, and she
died here.'

In a corner, near the fire, was a little "prie-dieu
and over it a crucifix. Herring had procured
that, because he made sure it would
please Miracle ; but she did not observe it.
She was cold, and crept near to the fire.

'I should like to show you the boudoir.
I have done it up very nicely for you.'

^ Oh, not now ! another time.'

Very well, Miracle. I will go and hasten
Genefer.'

He left the room, a little disappointed that
no expression of pleasure had escaped her on
seeing how he had thought and prepared for
her. Then he descended to the hall to stimulate
Genefer to activity, and to see to his wife
being given her boxes immediately.

c 2

More than half an hour passed before
dinner was ready ; when it was on the table,
and the room was bright with candles, and a
dancing fire was gambolling through a faggot
of dry sticks, Herring went upstairs to call
Miracle. He found her sitting, still dressed in
white, by the fire, looking into it, lost in a
dream, with her hands folded in her lap, and
tears on her cheeks. A little colour had returned
to her lips, and the flickering firelight,
reflected in her large dark eyes, gave them a
fictitious life. She did not hear Herring enter,
and when he spoke she started and shivered,
as though frightened. She speedily recovered
herself, and descended with him. She had removed
her veil, but was otherwise unchanged
in dress. The snowdrops in her bosom were
crushed, and their bruised heads hung despondingly.
Herring removed the bunch
and put it in his button-hole. Miracle
could not eat much ; she did not speak,
except in brief answers to his questions. She
was apparently thinking, and it was with
an efibrt that she attended to what her
husband said.

Genefer watched her intently. The old
woman's face was grim and dissatisfied. She
was respectful, and attended to her, but
without the alacrity and cordiality in her

manner that might have been looked for in
an old family servant when welcoming to her
home her master's bride.

When dinner was over, and Genefer had
withdrawn, Herring said to Miracle, ' Now,
dearest, come into the ingle-nook, and sit on
the settle. The great back will cut off every
draught, and you will become warm there. I
will bring my chair beside you.'

She rose, without answering, and took the
place he indicated. The settle was of oak,
dark and well polished, with the four cardinal
virtues carved in panels above the heads of
those who sat in it. It had stamped and gilt
leather at the back, a little way up, and a
crimson cushion on the seat. Herring: thrust
a footstool under Miracle's feet, and, taking a
chair, drew it near her.

Dear Miracle,' he said, ' welcome to your
future home.'

- Thank you, Mr. Herring.'

You must not call me Mr, Herring.'

No, I know I must not. I will do my
duty. I will call you by your Christian
name. But you must not be angry with me
it will not come at once. I will do my best,
if you will have patience.'

Miracle ! — nothing could make me angry
with you.'

'" Nothing ? ' Then she sighed and looked
into the fire.

Is there something troubling your mind ? '
lie asked, unable to understand her manner.

Yes,' she said, and looked up timidly at
him, then withdrew her glance before his
eyes ; ' I will do my duty. You are my
husband, and I must let you see all my heart.
It is proper that you should. I will do what
I know in my conscience to be right.'

I will gladly look into that dear heart,
and all I ask and hope is that I may find
there a little sparkle of love for me.'

She shivered, and was silent again, still
looking into the flames, broodingly.

Dear, dear Miracle,' he said, ' although
you are now my wife, bound to me for ever,
you have not yet given me, or received from
me, a kiss. You have not once told me that
you love me.'

Then she looked round full at him, with
her large, sad, dark eyes, and rested them on
him for full a minute without a word ; but he
saw that something was stirring in her heart.
Then she said gravely, ' I respect you very
much, John Herring.'

Respect Avill not do for me. I want
love,' he said with vehemence.

I esteem you above all men.'

'That is insufficient. I will be satisfied
with nothing short of love.'

I do not love you.'

Those few words went like a bullet
through his heart. He could not speak.

She saw that she had pained him unutterably.
She went on. ' I am bound to speak
the truth. I cannot lie ; I cannot dissemble.
What I say is true. I give you everything
that is in my power to give. I am yours. I
believe you to be the best, the noblest, the
truest of men. But love '

She slowly shook her head and sighed,
and relapsed into looking into the burning
wood.

His power of speech was gone from him.

You must not expect too much from
me,' she said ; ' I will do my duty.'

'Duty ! ' he cried, and sprang to his feet.
Duty is not what I ask for. I know you
will do your duty — as an angel of God will do
his duty. But I ask for, and must have —
love.'

'I cannot, I cannot,' she said, in a desolate,
despairing tone, and again shook her head.

Why not ? Is it so impossible to love a
man whose whole heart is yours, who thinks
of and cares only for you ? '

^ I would love you if I could ! It is not

my fault. I am willing, but I have not the
power. I cannot'

Why can you not? '

She raised her large, dark eyes and looked
at him, with a dull despair in them, and her
lips quivered as she answered, ' Because I
love another.'

That went like a second bullet through
his heart, and rendered him speechless again.

You are my husband. I know my duty.
I am bound to conceal nothing from you. 1
am bound to tell you all that is on my heart.
My love is for another. I cannot help it;
you have nothing to fear. None can suffer
from this as I do. I will try from day to day
to deaden it. I will be true to you in thought
as in deed. What I have promised, I will
perform. But there it is — in my heart, burning,
consuming. You could not put out that
roaring fire on the hearth ; it must blaze till
it has eaten itself away. In time the fire
here,' she touched her bosom, ' that fire, will
have consumed itself and be white ashes, and
the hearth cold. Then you may light another
fire on it, but not till then.'

Herring had been standing looking at her,
with one hand on his brow. Now he turned
away.

'Are you angry?' she asked piteously.

I felt in my conscience that I ought to conceal
nothing from my husband ; I knew that I
was bound to tell you all. Are you angry V '

I am in pain he said. His hand was on
his heart. ' I am in deadly pain.'

And I — I too,' she whispered, and her
head drooped towards her lap, like one of
her broken snowdrops.

Herring walked through the hall to the
main door. There he turned.

Miracle ! ' His face was almost as white
as hers.

'Yes, John.'

God be with you. Good-bye ! '

He opened the door. The wind tore in,
and brought snow with it, and the thunder of
the mad sea — mad that it had found a barrier
which it could not demolish nor overleap, and
in its madness tearing itself to spray.

Then the door shut, and Miracle was
alone.

CHAPTER Xlii

HUNTING THE DEVIL.

MiKELLE sat over the fire, looking into it.
Had she done right in telling John Herring
all her mind? She supposed that she had,
and yet she was not quite sure. Her nature
was so entirely frank, she had such a horror
of concealment, that it had seemed to her a
duty, an imperative duty, to lay bare her
heart before her husband. She spoke out
everything, without disguise, to her confessor,
and the husband stood to her, she supposed,
in much the same light. She would be guilty
of a fraud, an impiety, if she allowed him to
live with her without knowing the true state
of her affections. She had thought this over
a great deal, and she had satisfied her conscience
that she was bound to tell him all.
But now that the confession was made, she
was frightened at the results. She had driven
Herring from her. Whither was he gone?
Would he return? Was it always right to

speak the truth? Was not perfect openness
the most refined form of cruelty ?

Miracle began dimly to see that she had
acted unwisely ; that she had been selfish in
her desire to do her duty, and keep her own
conscience clear. She owed a duty to her
husband, a paramount duty, and the duty she
owed him was to make him happy. In her
efibrt to do her duty to herself she had run
counter to her duty to him.

So she sat over the fire, in her white
bridal dress, with her white face, and cold
tears distilled slowly from her eyes.

Without, the wind raged, and splashes of
snow were thro\vn5 like mortar fi'om a trowel,
against the window panes. There was a red
carpet on the hall floor, but the wind got
under it, and it rolled like a sea of blood.
She could see the first roller begin by the
door and travel the whole length of the room.
The Giirtains over the window swayed as
though some one were in the embrasure stirring
from side to side and pulling at the
curtains to keep himself covered, and yet was
seeking a place through which he might peep
unperceived at the Snow Bride by the fire,
melting away in tears.

The hall door creaked, and the latch, to
her fancy, was tried ; but no hand was there.

It was the wind that thrust against the oaken
boards and rattled the latch.

How the ocean roared! No doors nor
windows could exclude that terrible all-pervading
thunder. The sound was not in
the wind alone, it was in the solid earth. It
was not heard through the ear alone, it was
felt by every nerve, for the foundations and
the walls vibrated. In one of the hall
windows was a cracked pane, and through it
the wind screamed, and sobbed, and wailed.
Were there ships at sea, this awful night?
Were they near the coast ? If so, there was
no hope for the vessels, none for the crew.
The stoutest ships must be broken against
the iron cliffs, and the sailors dashed out of
human shape.

There were souls drifting in that fierce
wind and bitter cold — souls of drowned menon
their way to purgatory and hell. What
was that piping, and sighing, and crying at
the window? Poor drowned souls peering in,
and pleading to be admitted ; poor souls still
wet with the brine, shivering with cold,
feeling their desolation, their nakedness, torn
from the bodies they had so long and so
happily tenanted ; poor souls wailing and
gnashing their teeth, because cast into the
outer darkness and eternal cold.

A dog outside began to bark savagely.
Had it seen the wan train of weeping souls
sweep by? Then he lapsed into an occasional
bark of distress, then was silent, then
barked again.

What ailed the dog? The snow was
drifting into his kennel, and he was cold and
could not sleep.

There were rats in the old house. The
cold had driven them in, and they were racing
through the walls in quest of warm corners
and of food. In one place glass had been
put down to block a run ; but the rats had
broken their way through. Every rat that
passed over the glass made it clink. They
were between the ceiling and the floor overhead.
One — two — three, one — two — three.
One of the rats was three-legged, he had lost
a foot in a gin. His footfalls could be distinguished
from those of the other rats. He
went slower than the rest, that old cripple;
one — two — three, one — two — three.

"Where was John Herring? What had
become of him ? Was he still walking in the
snow and wind? Would he press on, thinking
only of his misery, till, numbed with frost
and weary of battling with the wind, he fell
in the snow and slept his life away?

Whither would he go? What would he

seek? Best, and the lulling of the terrible
pain from the wound she had dealt him.
How could rest be got? Only in one way.

Then Miracle sprang up, terrified at her
own thoughts, and clasped her hands over her
face to hide from her the horrible picture that
rose before her fancy. She fell on her knees,
faint with fear.

The three-legged rat had found a bit of
tallow candle end that had been thrust by a
child through a knot in the flooring, and he
skipped about on three paws, uncouthly, in
an ecstasy of delight. But a rat with four
legs came by and lusted after the candle end,
and fell on the cripple, and bit him. He
screamed with pain and for aid. Then other
rats, sound in limb, ran to the scene, and,
finding the cripple getting the worst of it,
took sides against him, and bit and mangled
him, he screaming with rage and pain all the
while ; and, after that, they divided the
candle end between themselves, as their perquisite
for having come to the aid of their
four-legged brother, and left him the rush-wick,
which he could not digest.

On the stairs was a clock — a very noisy
clock, that ticked loud, and made a great
whir before it struck the hours. This clock
had dropped its weight, which fell with a

crash the night John's mother died. The
weight came down but once again, when Jago
Herring, his father, died. A quaint old clock,
with a figured face representing a drooping
flower and a winged hourglass, and underneath
the inscription —

The flower facets,

The hour runneth.

Sic transit gloria mundi.

Twelve o'clock ! Midnight had come, the
hour when the dead are abroad.

Against the wall was a mirror. Miracle
was afraid to look in it. She knew that dead
men peered over the shoulders of the living
when they looked incautiously into the glass
after twelve at night. What face might she
see there ? She took her handkerchief to
put over it; the handkerchief was too small,
and was, moreover, wet with her tears. She
had a little shawl; she took that up — a black
shawl — and went with it to the mirror, with
head averted.

As she was engaged in hitching the ends
of the shawl over the glass, she suddenly
heard piercing cries, then howls and loud
words shouted shrilly.

The shawl fell at her feet; she stood
frozen to the floor ; her heart stood still.
The cries continued, waxing louder, more

agonising ; she heard feet racing along the
passage upstairs, and then a man's voice, in
griiif tones, raised in remonstrance. Then
the door of her room was shaken, and again
the man spoke. She could distinguish now
what he said.

Genefer ! stand off. You may not go in
and scare them wi' your screeching and devil
visions.'

But the door was beaten open in spite of
his protest, and the feet were audible rushing
over the floor of the room. Then again a
cry, a wail, and loud exclamations in shrill
tones ; and in another moment down the
stairs came the feet, with sobs and moans,
and Genefer Benoke burst into the hall, with
a great cloak cast over her, her hair loose and
flowing wildly about her shoulders, her large
grey eyes wide open, and staring blankly
before her, and both her hands extended in
front of her, now scrabbling in the air, then
expanded wide, with every finger apart. Her
feet were bare.

I see un ! I see un ! Look where he
goes ! Ah ! thou foul devil ! thou spirit of
the bottomless pit ! See, see ! where he
goes, the accursed one, with the smoke of the
everlasting torment swaling round and round
him !'

She stooped and picked up the black shawl,
and lashed with it before her.

Where goes thou ? Dory see un,
Hender ? Dory see un ? He be like a black
shadow with no certain shape, stealing along,
and now I sees a bit clear and then another
bit. There be one fiery eye peer out, and
now it be gone, and there shoots out another.
Look in thick corner, where he stands, and
gapes and mows and tosses his arms. The
Lord is my light and my salvation, whom
then shall I fear ? See, Hender ! he has
his fingers in his mouth and is drawing out
the corners, out — wide — wider — like gum
elastic, the whole width o' the room, and the
fire comes out — it be the mouth of hell !
Hender, Hender ! see where he be writing on
the wall, and the letters be letters of fire ? '

Then she uttered a piercing shriek, and
clasped her hands over her eyes, and buried
her face in the black shawl.

Hender Benoke followed his wife.

Come, come back to bed, Genefer. What
do the devil mean by walking o' nights like
this when it be freezing hard, and folks wants
to be warm between the blankets ? Come
back, and if you must run after 'un, run o' a
summer night, indecent though it be — in
your smock.'

VOL. III. D

My boy ! my John ! master, dear
Master John ! the day, the day ! '

Come back to bed ; you're frightening the
young lady.'

Her ! her ! the Snow Maiden that'll
freeze the blood in the heart of un ! Where
be she ? I cannot stay, it will be too late.
I've a read the writing in fire. Let go,
Hender ; do not hold me back ! I see the
devil ; he be making for the door, and I must
after him, and smite him with the Lord's
word. Come on, you — you ! ' She grasped
Miracle by the arm. ' It were you as brought
the devil here to tempt us, and you must
strive along of me to drive un, or he will carry
the dear maister away.'

She made for the porch door, drawing
Miracle after her. Hender again interposed.

Penny,' he said, ' you cannot ; you
must not.'

Very well then — no ! ' exclaimed the
woman, letting go her hold of Miracle. ' No,
no, it be none o' you can drive the devil, for
you be an idolater, and idolaters has their
portion in the lake that burnet wi' fire forever
and ever. I must drive un with the
Word of God. Run, Hender ! bring me the
great black Bible ; quick, man. The devil
be gone out at the porch door.'

She dashed to the window, tore aside the
curtains, and cried : ' I see un, I see un on the
snow, going like a puff o' smoke, and at every
step he takes the snow glints white as a
flash of moon. Bring me my black Bible, that
I may pursue un, and catch un up, and smite
un across the horns, and fell un like an ox.'
Then she came into the midst of the room,
and stood before Miracle, and fixed her eyes
sternly on her.

Down on your knees, maiden,' she said,
and pointed to the floor. ' Down on your
knees if you know how to pray, and pray to
the Lord for a soul, a poor, despairing, human
soul as is brought to great temptation, and
heaven or hell stands on the turn o' a hair.
The Lord hath revealed to me that this night
be fought the battle of Armageddon, and
Apollyon and I must wrestle together for a
human soul. Jacob wrestled with an angel
till the break of day, and he would not let
him go till he had blessed him. And I be
called to wrestle, not wi' an angel but wi' a
devil, and I will not let un go till I have
looked the soul that he be seeking out o' his
hands. Down on your knees and help me if
you can. Give me the Book.'

Hender had come in with the Bible. She
snatched it out of his hands, and in another
d2

moment had slammed the door behind her,
and was flying through the snow, with bare
feet, and her black hair lashed by the wind,
regardless of the cold and storm, holding the
great Bible above her head with both hands,
and crying after the black shadow that went
like a puff of smoke before her, in whose
treading the snow glinted like flakes of
moonlight.

Hender stood in the porch looking after
her and muttering. But Miracle was kneeling
on the red carpet in the midst of the room,
and the Avind got in beneath and lifted and
rolled this carpet about her, so that she
seemed to be kneeling on a red sea.

All at once, Genefer stood still, threw up
the Bible, caught it, and clasped it to her
bosom. Both she and Hender heard a shot.
A gun had been discharged ; the report
entered the room where Miracle knelt, and
she heard it.

Glory be to God ! * cried Genefer ; ' hebe
driven back, but not by me. Sisera were
slain by the hand of a woman, and it were
revealed to Deborah that so it should be. So
she went wi' Bark to the battle, for she
reckoned that the woman into whose hand the
Lord would sell Sisera were herself But it
were not so. Glory be to God ! The devil

be driven back, though not by me ! I saw
Satan as a stream o' smoking pitch run down
Willapark and fall into Blackapit.'

Then she came quickly back, all her excitement
over.

CHAPTER Xlii.

WILLAPARK.

Forth into the storm John Herring had gone.
That day so desired had ended thus ! He
had gained her whom he loved — whom he had
long loved, but only to know that her heart
could never be his. He had taken the Snow
Bride to him, and, as Genefer had warned
him, she was about to chill him to death. No
light would rise in those eyes for him ; no
smile come on those cheeks for him. Those
lips would not meet his ; that heart not beat
for him. She respected him, but she feared
him. Now he understood her conduct towards
him through their engagement and that day.
She stood in terror of him ; she shrank from
his love, because she had no love to give in
return for it.

Herring could think of nothing continuously.
The gnawing pain at his heart
was too intense to suffer him to think connectedly.

He was like one walking in semi-consciousness,
staggering after a stunning
blow, seeing nothing clearly, thinking no
thought out. He did not know whither he
was going.

He was without hat, he was without greatcoat.
He had gone forth in his despair, without
a thought of himself, what he should do,
whither he should go. Did it matter whither
he went ? Wherever he went he must carry
this pain with him. What should he do ?
He could do nothing, he could not staunch
the wound that had been dealt him ; the wound
had cut too deep and had severed the main
artery of life. There was no balm in Gilead
for such a wound as that ; it must bleed, bleed
hope, energy, desire out of him. He cared
nothing for life now. Life was a torture
chamber, and the poor sufferer on the rack
turns and cries out, * Put an end to my
agonies. Use the dao-o-er, la misericorde ! '
What is life, if granted, worth ? After the
rack, what is life with disjointed limbs and
riven heart-strings ? Who would receive asa
boon so worthless a gift ? No ; in the
torture chamber none ask for life, there but
one desire is harboured, and that for death.

Herring had gone unconsciously towards
Willapark, the headland that starts into the

sea, gnawed half through by vast gulfs, in
which the waves boil as in a cauldron. Willa-park,
white with snow, shelved up towards
the sky ; beyond was the void whence came
thundering and roaring, where nothing
could be seen. So hitherto had he been going
contentedly up his white way that led to
heaven, expecting felicity at the top, and all
at once he found himself at the edge of an
unfathomed gulf, and a loved hand touched
and thrust him over, and now he was falling
into the awful void ; whither he knew not,
how it would end he only guessed.

By Blackapit was his little office, a small
wooden erection ; he could see it rising out
of the snow. He had lived so much there of
late, had slept there so frequently, that on
leaving Welltown he instinctively took this
direction.

He drew the key from his pocket and unlocked
the door. Inside all was dark, and the
smell was musty ; the office had not been
opened for some days. He shut the door, and
went directly to his chair near the fireplace.
There was, of course, no fire there, but that
did not matter ; he preferred sitting in the
dark. How the gulls screamed around the
house. The storm frightened them, even
them, accustomed to wind and waves, and

they cried and wailed as they fluttered disconsolately
over the mainland. Perhaps they
thought that in such a raonno^ sea no fish would
live, that all would be beaten to pulp, and
their hope of food destroyed.

Herrino; seated himself in the chair ; it
was an arm-chair. He placed his elbow on the
arm, and rested his throbbing temples in his
hand.

This was the end. She did not love him,
she loved another. Who was that other?
That he did not know ; she had not told him,
and it did not concern him. All that concerned
him was the one fact that she was not his. He
had purchased to himself a precious heart, and
when he knocked to be admitted he was told
to abide outside, the key had been given to
another.

He sat on in his wretchedness, not knowing
how the time passed. He was becoming dead
and cold in his chair, as Genefer had foreseen.


He stood up at last and struck a light. He
kept thither-box and candles in the Willapark
office — tallow candles they were — and he
lighted one and placed it on his table.

Then he opened his desk and took paper,
and a pen. His hand was so cold that he
could not write. He tried to warm it with

his breath, but in viii. He must write to
Miracle. If she had told him her secret, he
must no longer conceal his — he must let her
know that he had taken care of her fortune,
and that it was now her own. to do with it
what she liked. Had she known that she was
wealthy, she would never have accepted him,
John Herring, now in purgatory, suffering
for the wrong he had done her — a wrong
done unconsciously and in good faith. She
had taken him only because she believed
herself to be destitute and dependent on his
bounty. He had acted wrongly from the first.
Light came to him, as to others, when too late
to walk by it. Xow he saw what the proper
course would have been. If he mistrusted
Tramplara, he should have confided all to
Miracle, and allowed her to choose her own
trustee. But no ! that would not have done,
for, had the secret of the diamonds come out,
old Tramplara would have claimed them as
the legal guardian. He was bewildered ; he
did not know in what way he had acted
wrongly, and yet what he had done, conscientiously
believing he was doing right, had
led to disaster — had landed him in a position
from which there was but one escape. He
had been to Miracle a worse enemy than Tram-clara.
The trustee of her father's appointment

had robbed ber of the money intrusted
to him ; he, John Herring, the trustee of his
own nomination, had robbed her of her life's
happiness. Could he doubt for a moment that
had she been free she would have refused him
and have given her hand and fortune to the
man of her choice? Now there lay before
him no remedy save one. He had chained
her to him, and whilst that chain remained
she must suffer. Till it was broken, happiness
was impossible to her. ' Oh, Miracle ! Miracle ! '
the cry broke from his heart. Here was
bitterness past enduring, to be on the threshold
of happiness, and to be thrust back ; to
have the cup at his lips, and to have it
snatched from him and spilled on the ground.
He lit the fire in his grate, and warmed
his fingers ; he did not care for the comfort of
the fire, he sought only to thaw his hand, to
enable it to write. In his despair it seemed
that there was but one course open to him —
to restore to Miracle the liberty of which he
had deprived her. When able to write, he
took the pen and ink, and slowly, with many
pauses, gave her in full the story of the
diamonds stolen by Grizzly Cobbledick from
Mr. Strangers trunk, then given to him by
Joyce. He assured Miracle that he had acted
as he supposed best, with no thought of reaping

advantage to himself, certainly with none
of gaining her by means of her own fortune.
She would do him this justice. He confessed
his mistake, and made the only amends in his
power by restoring her the freedom of which
he had deprived her. He did not date the
account, but he signed it, and folded it. Then
he made an abstract of all her money. He
stated where the remainder of the uncut
diamonds might be found, and what the
amount of money was which he had received
for those he had sold, and how he had disposed
of this money. The room was his office, and
his books were in it. He consulted them ;
and as he went over the accounts he recovered,
to some extent, his composure ; but his purpose
never swerved.

When he had finished his task, he put
the account with the letter, inclosed both in
one wrapper, and sealed it. J. H. was his
stamp ; no arms, for he had no right to bear
any.

Then he rose and went out, closing his
door after him. He walked through the snow,
which was thin on the headland, for the gale
carried it away, and shook it into the sea or
heaped it in the valleys. He could see, or he
thought he could see, the distant lights of
Welltown. Miracle was not gone to bed yet ;

the light was red, shining through the hall
curtains. What was Miracle doing ?

The snow had ceased to fall, and the air
was clear of everything save spray which was
driven over the land in scuds. The headland
shook under the blows of the ocean. On the
left hand was that awful gulf, Blackapit, an
almost circular well with sheer cliffs descending
three hundred feet into the boiling foam
and fury. He approached it ; there was no
rail, nothing to prevent any one from falling
over. On a dark night, when no snow
covered the ground, any one stepping astray
would, in a moment, plunge into that horrible
abyss never penetrated by the sun. At low
water there was an inky tarn below, but now,
through the narrow entrance, mountains of
water beat their way, and when within tore
themselves to froth in their agony to escape,
and rolled back to the entrance, there to clash
against another intruding billow. Then there
rushed up into the air a white pillar of
whirling foam that fell back again upon the
contending surf below, unable to escape upwards.
The roar of the raging water in this
abyss was as the roar from the mouth of hell.
There came upon Herring the thought of
himself falling down that chasm, the hands
extended, clutching at the rocks, and the nails

torn to the quick in frantic effort to cling ;
kittiwakes, gulls, and skuas shrieking and
dashing about him as he went down into that
raging, ravening, thundering void. Rest
there ! — there — there ! in that frantic turmoil,
the very thought of which made a whirlpool
in the brain ! Herring sprang back with convulsive
shrinking before such an end. Xo, he
could not plunge down Blackapit !

He returned to his wooden house. It
was warm and bright, and the sight of the
fire and of the candle composed his nerves
after that horrible dream of Blackapit.
Over the fireplace was his gun — he had shot
p:u11s with it from his window. On a summer
day he had taken a boat and rowed about
Blackapit and Welltown cove, and with a
bullet killed porpoises. There were seals
also in these bays. How horrible was the
head of a seal, so human, rising straight out
of the waves. He had never been able to
kill one, the human eyes had unnerved him
when he took aim.

He resumed his seat ; his candle had a
thief in it, a fungus, and burned dull. He
snuffed the candle. Then he put some fuel
on the fire, and looked musingly into it. He
thought of how he had first known Miracle,
of her coldness towards him, how she had

thrown away, or lost, his sprig of white heath.
He remembered the very tones of her voice
when she laughed at his name, Herring. He recalled
her manner, as she scorned the idea of
his being other than bourgeois. He recollected
how she had cast reproach on the
memory of her dead father, because he, being
bourgeois, had dared to mate with her noble
mother. And he had done the same thing —
had taken advantage of her distress to tie her
to him, — her the ideal of nobility, purity,
beauty, to himself a humble yeoman's son, of
no merit, and with few qualifications to attach
any woman to him. His breathing was short ;
the pain at his heart was very real and
physical. His head had been clear whilst he
was working at the accounts, but now his
brain began again to cloud over.

Then he stood up, and took down his
gun. It was loaded with swanshot for the
gulls. He had bullets in his drawer — for
porpoises.

He drew the shot and went to his drawer;
the bullets were not there. He turned over
papers, and fishing tackle, and sundry odds
and ends. He came upon a little book of
sketches — how came they there? They
were drawings he had made as a child of six
and seven, very rude, and gaily painted with

gamboge and carmine and Prussian blue.
There was Noah's Ark, and the most marvellous
beasts of all kaleidoscopic colours, marching
up a plank into it. There was the Burning
Fiery Furnace, and the three men being
cast in at the top, comical little figures, with
very little bodies, and very big hands and feet,
all the toes and fingers extended. Herring
remembered painting these pictures, at a
table in a window, whilst Genefer was sewing,
and his father was in the hall below, practising
on his violin. He had painted these
daubs in the little porch room, now done up in
white and gold for Miracle. No, the bullets
were not in the drawer. He could not think
where he had put them ; his head was confused.
He sat down again, with the gun
across his knees. When had he last gone out
porpoise-shooting? He could not remember.
Not last summer, for he had been too fully
engaged then at Upaver, and only making
flying visits to Welltown, and then busy with
the slate-quarry. As he sat thinking, the
bunch of snowdrops Miracle had worn fell at
his feet. He had put them in his buttonhole
when he removed them from her bosom,
and now that he stooped they dropped.

He picked up the little bunch. Poor,
bruised, broken flowers, crushed and withered

like his hopes ; pure flowers, white as Miracle.
They had rested all day m her bosom. He
put them to his lips, and a great trembling
like an ague attack came over him. If he
had asked her to give him the flowers, would
she have given them to him? Yes, but with
a needle in them to pierce his hand. She had
given him herself, but with herself his death-wound.


Now, all at once, he remembered where
the bullets were — on a shelf in a sort of recess
or cupboard at the foot of the bed. He went
to the place and found them. He took one,
dropped it down the barrel, and rammed it
home.

God forgive me,' he said, ' but there is
no help for i^. So alone can I undo the
wrong I have done; so alone restore to
Miracle the liberty and the happiness of which
I have defrauded her.'

He leaned his head on the barrel; the
steel was cold to his hot and heavy brow.
He rested it there some moments, thinking.
Then he raised it, and the round red rinof
marked his forehead.

The gnawing pain was not there; there
was trouble there, but the pain was in his
heart. Then he lowered the butt end of the
musket on the floor, and, leaning forward,

VOL. III. E

placed the mouth of the barrel against his
heart, and slid his hand down it towards the
trigger. A sense of alleviation of pain, a foretaste
of rest, came to him, from the pressure
of the gun on his heart.

Grot pardon me, it cannot be otherwise !
May He be with her and bless her ! Miracle !
Miracle ! '

He touched the trigger.

At that moment the door flew open.

^ Maister ! dear maister ! '

With the start, the gun was discharged,
but not through his heart; the bullet whizzed
past his ear, and penetrated the roof.

Then ensued silence for a minute. Herring
was leaning back, hardly knowing what
had happened, and whether he were alive or
dead.

The smoke filled the little room. As it
cleared away, his eyes saw Joyce.

^ Maister ! sure you have frighted of me
dreadful ; but — I've a brought the stockings.'


He did not speak. He understood nothing.


^ Dear maister ! what be thick gun for?
Did'y think I were a robber, and you fired
at me? No, no ! I be no robber, I be come a
long way. See! I ha' done it all myself. I

sed as I would. I've a brought a pair o'
stockings all of my own knitting.'

He remained speechless.

^ Look ! ' she persisted ; ^ put thick rashly
gun away. There be no robbers here ; I be
your Joyce, your own poor Joyce. Look!
the stockings be warm, of lambswool, and
witty, and I did knit nun every bit and room
myself.'

e2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF rtLINOtt

CHAPTER Xli.

KINKUM-KUM.'

^ It be warm and comfortable in here said
Joyce, looking round her. * Surely, I used to
think it snug under the Table when the winds
were loud ; but there us had always a door
open for the smoke to go out at. There were no
chimney there, and there couldn't be none,
for because of the great stone overhead.'

Herring put his hands to his brow. He
was dazed. He could not understand Joyce's
presence there and then.

What a mighty long time you've a been
away from West Wyke, maister ! But, sure, I
have been away a bit too. I've a been with
Farmer Face to CoomboAv. I sed I'd sro to 'n.
and work out the hire of the waggon as brought
you home after you were nigh upon killed
by Cap'n Sampson Tramplara, and I did it.
I went there, and I were there two whole
months by the moon. Both Farmer Faceyy

and his wife sed I did more work than two
men. But, sure, this fire be beautiful. I've
a been out in the snow and wind all day, and
the most of the night too.'

Herring looked inquiringly at her.

Where have you coilie from, Joyce ? '

Where have I come from? Where else,
sure, but from West Wyke. I be come to
look for you, and to bring the stockings
I've a knitted. I sed I would, and I've a
done it.

I do not understand, Joyce. From West
Wyke?'

Sure-ly.'

Not to-day, and in this storm?'

I've not done this all in a day once for
all, but I've been a foot aU to-day, I can teller.

It were hard walking. But see ' she held

out her feet ; they were stockinged and shod.
'Ain't that witty' (tidy), 'and hasn't I peart'
(smart) ? ' You should ha' seen nun, though,
when they was new and beautiful ; but I've a
been so stopped in snow that they be now
wetted through and through, and all their
beauty washed out of 'em.'

You have walked here ? ' Herring was
coming out of his dazed condition into one of
wonder at Joyce.

Sure I have. I'll teller all about it, but

I must sit me down by the fire ; I be that stiff
and tired I can scarce stand

'Joyce, what is the meaning of your
coming ? '

I'll teller all right on end from beginning
tilFnow. I sed I'd a been working for Farmer
Faceyy to Coombow.'

'What for?'

Did you not hear me say it? He lent his
waggon to dray you home to West Wyke,
after you was nigh upon killed.'

'Well, what then?'

Sure he wanted to be paid for it. There
were a waggon and two horses for a day, and
there were that boy, Jim White, along of
them.'

Why did you not tell me ? I would have
paid.'

No,' answered Joyce, ' it were I as had
the care of you. I sed I would do that, and
I did it. I went and worked out the hire of
the waggon and of Jim White myself.'

Herring looked at her with amazement.

I cannot allow this,' he said.

'It be done,' she said, with an air of
triumph. ' It be paid and all ; I paid with my
arms, by work ; and the farmer sed I worked
better than two able-bodied men, he did.
And Farmer Faceyy's wife, her were a good un ;

her learned me to knit. It came about so.
When as first I went there, I were that shy
of going under the hellenes, I thought I'd
smother ; so I sed I'd lie in the linnet, and
I did lie there a night or two. It were comfortable
in the straw. But at last I seed the
woman knitting stockings, and I sed I wished
herd larn me that ; and her said her would
if I'd come inside of the evenings — it were
late in the fall, and the nights were long.
Well, I were that set on learning that I did ;
I went in. I sed to you as I'd knit your stockings,
and I've a done so. See, there they be.
That Jim White were a dorrit. If he'd a let
me alone I'd have learned a deal faster ; but
I learned at last, I did. It weren't so bad and
spifflicating after all in the house by the great
fire. The smoke didn't fill the room; her
went right on end up the chimney. Maister !
when I were learning to knit stockings, I were
that set up I thought I weren't like a savage
no more as I used to be, but were decent
like other folk, and I found like that I could
abide and breathe under hellenes. Miss Cicely
would lev taught me to knit, but I couldn't
wait. I had to go to Coombow and work out
the waggon and Jim White. I worked nun
all out, and the farmer sed I were better to
he than two labouring men. When I comet

away at last. Mistress Faceyy her give me
thick stockings, herd a knit mim herself, and
thick shoes, they be brave and beautiful.
Her give them to me, and would take
nothing for 'em. I didn't reckon much of
'em at must, but I sees now I couldn't have
walked here with bare feet in the snow. So
they be good for more than to look to.'

Why have you come here ? '

^ I've brought you the stockings I've knitted.
I sed I would, and I've done it. You never
came nigh to West Wyke for a long time, and
Miss Cicely were lost to know what had become
of you, and the old Squire be took worse ;
and I'd done the stockings, and I thought as
you'd never come to see 'em. One day when
the Squire were very bad. Miss Cicely comet
to I, and said as how her wondered why you
never came, and as how her wished you could
know how the Squire were, and that he were
axing every day after you. Then I sed, the
stockings were done, and as you didn't come for
nun, I'd carry nun to you. Her told me
where you lived. I were to go right forward
to Launceston, and there to ax my way to
Boscastle. So I sed I'd go, and I'd take your
stockings. The wind were up and there were
going to be ice and snow, and you'd be wanting
them to keep your feet warm. So I came.'

'But, Joyce, how did you find your way
here, to this house ? '

I came about dark to Boscastle, and I
went about and inquired after you, and some
sed they didn't think you was here, and some
sed, if I wanted to find you, I must go to the
office, you were there mostly, and always of
nights ; and they gave me directions, and so
I came

But, Joyce, it is now past midnight.'

I dare say it be. I couldn't get in at the
door when first I found the little house, and
tried, and there was no light in the windows,
and I thought you might not be come yet, and
I'd wait about a bit. So I waited on the lew
side, but the wind were so wild, and the snow
drifted, and I were forced to go away. But
I came again after a while, and still the door
were fast. So then I thought I'd go and find
a haystack or a linnet, where I might sleep,
and I'd come again in the morning. But I
rambled about for miles, and never found
nothing of a place where I might lie. I got
to one house, where there were Hghts in the
windows, but a dog began to bark, and I were
feared he might bite me as Farmer Freeze's
dog had bitten and tore me — you mind that
time as I hearkened to the hooddoo, — so I
didn't venture into the shipping but comet

away, and then I don't know exactly where
and for how long I wandered about, but at
last I saw a light here, and I found my way
back to the office, but I had rare tumbles and
climbing over walls and into ditches. However,
I have found you here to last, dear
maister, and I be glad, I be glad.'

^ Good heavens, Joyce ! is all this true ? '

Sure-ly. Did I ever tell you a lie ? '

Since when have you been afoot ? '

I started afore light, I reckon about five
o'clock.'

My poor, poor Joyce ! '

I be none so poor now. See my stockings
and shoes ! And dory look here what a
sight o' brave clothes I have, as Miss Cicely
gave me.'

Have you had anything to eat ? '

Sure. A woman at a cottage gave me
some bread and a bowl of skimmed milk.'

'When?'

I reckon at noon.'

Twelve hours ago. Have you had nothing
since ? '

No ; I couldn't wait when I comet to
Boscastle, I were that longing to get on and
find you.'

Joyce, you must be starving.' He sprang
up and went to the cupboard, the same

whence he had taken the bullet. A week ago
he had a loaf and some cheese there. The
bread was stale, but still it was edible. He
brought it out, with the cheese and a knife.

Joyce, off with these soaking shoes and
stockings. Sit down at the table and eat
what you can. I will get you something
warmed over the fire to drink as quickly as I
can.'

The thought of what Joyce had gone
through distracted his attention from his own
misery. There were others in the world
beside Miracle, others demanding his consideration
and sympathy.

'The Squire be took cruel bad,' said
Joyce, ' and Miss Cicely be very desirous to
see you, and that you should come to the
Squire. There be Upaver mine. Squire
have a looked after things so long as he could,
but there be nobody to do that now.'

What is the matter with Mr. Battis-hill?'


I dun know, but he be cruel bad ; and
the mistress were looking along the Okehampton
road every day, and hoping as you
would come. You've been such a long, longtime
away, and us can't get on without you
no ways, that you knows very well.'

He was a help to some. His presence was

desired by some. Only to Miracle he was
unwelcome.

Be this house yours ? ' asked Joyce, looking
round. ' I won't say but her's comfortable
wi' fire and can't and all sorts; but her's
none so big as Wesfc Wyke, and not such a
wonderful sight bigger than the Giant's Table.
I know when I gets back, Miss Cicely will be
asking of me about it; what sort of a place
her be, and whether her be big or small, and
built of stone. Her's all of board, just like
some of them places they ruined up to Ophir,
where the gold was. But that be all tore
abroad now.'

Poor girl, she was hungry. The bread
was hard as biscuit, but she ate it eagerly.
Herring gave her some hot wine and
water.

The old Squire be axing after you the
first thing in the morning. And he do fret
wonderful for you. Miss Cicely do say it belike
a child wanting his nurse. He be gone a
'bit bottle' (foolish), ' I reckon.'

I shall go back to West Wyke tomorrow,
Joyce.'

'0 glory rallaluley! I be glad. I'll
have a wink of sleep, and then I'll be fresh asa
buttercup to go wi' you. I may go along
of you, mayn't I now, maister dear? '

Yes, Joyce. You shall not walk, you
shall ride.'

I ridecl once afore wi' you,' she answered,
^ but you know not about that. It were when
you were nigh upon dead, and I held your
head in my arms all the way, and you never
waked but once, and that were on Sourton
Down, and then you held out your hands, entreating
like, and cried something, and that
were all, and never spoke no more.'

^'What did cry out?'

She looked steadily into his eyes, and said
in a low tone, ' Miracle.'

He covered his face, as a spasm contracted
his heart. Joyce had touched too recent a
wound for him to endure the touch without
shrinking. Joyce saw that he was in pain.
She went to him, and, kneeling at his feet,
drew his hands away from his face, and
looked into it; then shook her head.

Her don't belong to you yet then ? '

No, and never will.' He spoke with bitterness.


You be changed, maister dear. I never
seed you afore like as you be now. You look
just about a score of years older than what
you was once. Is it the Whiteface has done
it, or what be it, maister darling? Tell
your own Joyce, and see if her won't go

through ice and snow to serve you any day, if
her can.'

You can do nothing for me.'

Still she looked at him, holding his hands,
trying to read his secret in his face, with eyes
full of earnestness. Then, suddenly, there
came a revulsion in his thoughts.

God forgive me for what I have said !
You do nothing for me ! — Joyce, dear Joyce,
you have done for me this night more than
you are aware of. You saved my life once
before, you have saved my life again to-night,
and something more than my life.'

She did not inter stand him. How could
she?

Maister,' she said, ' put thick rashly old
gun away ; it frightens me.'

He rose at once and obeyed, putting the
gun back in its old place on the crooks.

You be coming back to West Wyke ? '
she asked.

Yes, tomorrow.'

You'll be better there. There the old
Squire be fond of you, and you be so kind tome
; and there be Miss Cicely, too, her's a
pining likewise, cause you be so long away ;
and there be I,' she looked down at his feet,
knitting stockings as fast as I can knit for
you. If I can do nothing more, I can do that.'

Oh, Joyce ! Joyce ! ' He could say no
more, his heart was full. Here at Welltown
wretchedness, coldness, repulsion ; there at
West Wyke — not happiness indeed, but rest,
warmth, and love.

And, maister dear, you'll larn me the
kinkum-kum. I wouldn't let Miss Cicely
larn me. Her began to laugh when I said
kinkum-kum. But when I were bad wi' my
broken arms, and I asked you to say it, you
didn't laugh, but you looked off your hat and
said it as good as a Method. And now, I'll
teller, that night when I prayed you out of
the road into the wood, and thought you was
going to die, and I didn't know what ever todo,
I got such a pain here,* she put her hand
to her heart, ' as I could scarce bear it. And
then I went down on my knees, just the same
as I be now, and I put up my hands over
where you lay, and I cried that same kinkum-
kum, and him as I knows not about, he
heard me, and he did what he could, I reckon.
He made you better, and he set my pain and
trouble at rest. There, maister darling, I can
see you be in pain and trouble now. Just
you do the same ; go down on your knees, and
say the same right on end, and the rest from
pain and trouble will come sure-ly.'

^ Joyce!'

She was still looking in his face, despising
something, with a great distress in her eyes.
Now, a smile broke in her eyes.

rallaluley ! ' she exclaimed. '- Your face
were at first like Cosdon when hard frozen, but
now the springs be breaking.'

The lines in his face had softened, his lips
quivered, and his eyes filled. Then, all at
once, he fell on his knees beside Joyce, and
held up his hands as she had taught him, and
said in broken tones and slowly, ' Our Father.'
Joyce repeated the words.

Which art in heaven — hallowed be thy
name.'

Joyce still followed. ' Thy kingdom come.'

The storm had passed away, almost suddenly.
The clouds had broken ; in the west
the moon hung unveiled, and cast a ray of
purest silver into the little room, and bathed
in her stainless light the poor savage and the
young soldier, kneeling and praying together'.

CHAPTER Xlii.

A BAR OF ICE.

Next morning John Herring returned to
Welltown. He was a changed man. His
lightheartedness, his simplicity of character,
were gone for ever. Hitherto he had been a
big boy, with buoyant spirits and with a belief
that the world was a paradise. He was a
man now, seeing life before him as a sad
desert that must be tramped over, where he
must meet with suffering, and count himself
happy if, at long intervals, he reached and
could rest by a brackish pool. The world is
no paradise, it is a vale of Sodom, where the
pits are bitterness and the rivers brine. It is
no playground, it is a convict establishment.
It is a theatre in which all act tragedies, and
the lookers-on mistake them for farces.

Herring had spent the remainder of the
night by his fire, revolving in his mind what
must be done. Joyce slept soundly on his bed in

VOL. III. jr

the corner, tired out with her trudge through
the snow. Herring had made her take off
her gown, and had thrown an old fishing coat
of his over her. Though he sat over the fire
thinking of his own future and Miracle's, he
cared also for Joyce's boots and gown and
stockings, that were drying by the stove, and
turned them, and took thought that they were
not burnt.

In the morning he sent Joyce into the
village of Boscastle to detain the chaise in
which he had come to Well town the previous
evening;. Then he went to see Miracle once
more.

He was, as Joyce had observed, greatly
ordered and altered. One night had worked
the change in the outer as well as in the inner
man. There comes a time to all when the
rose-coloured spectacles must be laid aside for
those of blue glass. The time comes sooner
to some than to others. It had come now to
John Herring, and the aspect of everything
was changed to him.

Miracle was unaltered. She was j^ale,
indeed, but that was her usual complexion,
and her eyes were red, but they had been red
the day of her marriage. She was more collected
than on the previous ev-ending, and
Herring was more composed.

He entered the house without Genefer
perceiving him, and went upstairs to the little
porch-room. Whilst he was in the hall he
heard Miracle's steps above, and knew she was
there.

She did not seem surprised to see him.
She received him with ease and gentle kindness,
not as a husband, but as a friend. There
was in her heart a sense of relief ; she could
speak with him on an understood footing, and
she would not be subjected to demonstrative
affection. Herring was prepared for this.
She saw that he was looking worn and ill, but
she made no remark. She was the cause of
the change in his appearance, and she knew
it. She regretted it, but it was inevitable.

Miracle was dressed in a sober dark gown.
Every trace of bridal white had been put
away. When he entered, she was engaged on
her trunks.

^ Your jewels are here,' he said, showing
her a secret drawer in a large old cabinet.
I give you the key. Do not leave it about ;
though nothing is to be feared from Genefer
or Hender, yet it is wise to keep articles of
value under lock and key, and not to trust
the key to any one.'

They are of no value. They are paste.'

I beg your pardon, they are not. I took
F 2

them to a jeweller, who examined them.
Some of the stones had been abstracted at
some time, and replaced by artificial diamonds,
by whom and when, I cannot, of course, say. I
have had all these taken out, and true stones
of good quality put in their places. The
necklet and diadem are now perfect as at
first.'

Miracle was surprised.

You think the set of diamonds was originally
complete.'

I am convinced it was so.'

And that the stones had been removed and
paste substitutes put instead into the sockets.'

I believe so.'

Then you do not think my father gave
what was worthless to my mother ? '

^ I cannot suppose so. It is not likely.
The pendant was tampered with more
thoroughly than the rest of the set, because
it was removable. Probably after that had
been altered, one by one the stones of the
necklace were removed. Some person in need
of money disposed of the stones as the need
came.'

Miracle thought.

Yes,' she said, ^ I have no doubt it was
done by Antoinette.'

Who was Antoinette ? '

My mother's maid, who did everything
for her. I am glad to think that my father
was not guilty of a mean act. I thank you
for clearing his memory from such a stain.
Henceforth I shall believe that Antoinette
was guilty.'

So be it ; and from henceforth I hope
you will realise the necessity of keeping precious
stones under lock and key. Show them
to nobody unnecessarily, and, above all, show
nobody where they are kept.'

They spoke to each other with perfect
coolness and self-possession. Pyramus and
Thisbe met and conversed with a wall between
; John Herring and Miracle were separated
hj an invisible wall, but it was one
of ice.

I have brought you, as well, the key of
my office on Willapark. I keep there my
accounts of the slate-quarry. Should anything
from the office be required, the foreman
will come to you. If not asking too much, I
would wish him not to be given free run over
it, and that you should be present when he
wants anything. There are things there
which I do not care for him to turn over,
papers and accounts among which I do not

wish him to rummage. You will do me this
favour ? '

Certainly. Are you going away? '

I am going away for awhile. You know
that I am working a valuable silver lead mine
on the borders of Dartmoor, and it must be
looked after.'

Why did he not say where it was — ' near
West Wyke? where you and I first met,
where your father died?' He did not say
this, because it would be painful for him to
say it, and for her to hear it. The name
would call up recollections they must endeavour
to crush out of their minds.

• You will return again? '

I will come back to see how the slate-quarry
progresses. I had purposed building
a breakwater, but I shall not now carry out
this purpose.'

Why not ? '

The lead mine is sure to engross my
time and attention. I shall be here but little.
My interests will be centred in the silver
lead.'

Very well.'

I shall provide for your comfort. You
will have, as before, your owen account in the
bank, under the same name, Miracle Garcia

de Cautalejo. You will draw from the bank
what you require.'

I thank you, Mr. Herring. You are very
kind.'

You will do with the money what you
like ; you are entire mistress of it. You will
pay for the expenses of the house from it, and
keep what company you like. There are not
many neighbours, but such as there are will
call, and they will be hospitable to you, and
glad to receive hospitality from you. I daresay
you will require additional servants.
Genefer '

I beg your pardon, I do not wish to have
that woman in the house. She frightens me.'

She is a worthy, devoted soul. You are
sure to like her when once you have learned
her value.'

She frightens me ; I thought I should have
died of fear last night.'

I cannot consent to her dismissal. She
was my nurse, she has been with me from my
birth, and loves me as if I were her own
child. When I look back I see how her life
has been devoted to me. Besides, the home
farm is let to Hender, and he and she must live
here : there is no other house for them, and the
outbuildings are included in the lease. It is

unavoidable. If I could have gratified you
in this particular I would have done so, but
I cannot.'

Miracle became, if possible, colder. She
bowed her head stiffly.

Very well,' she said, after a pause, awkward
to both : ' if it cannot be, I must endure
this cross also. But I entreat you, do not
say me nay to my next petition.'

I will not. I would refuse you nothing,
you may be very confident, but the impossible

It will not be impossible for Orange and
her mother to come here and reside with me.'

Herring took a hasty turn up and down
the room. The request vexed him greatly.
There was something in Orange he did not
like, something in her manner towards Miracle
which made him mistrust her professions of
affection, something — a coarseness of mind
which he suspected rather than perceived,
which he shrank from voluntarily bringing
into contact with the unsullied purity and
delicacy of Miracle's soul.

Is this also refused me ? ' asked Miracle.
Then her coldness giving way, the assumed
stiffness yielding to her natural emotion, ' Oh,
John Herring, do not be unkind to me ! You
have been so good, so much better to me than
I deserve.'

I — I unkind to you, Miracle ! ' In a
moment also his assumed coldness cracked,
and the warm suffering heart showed its
blood through the rent, as the black crust of
lava that descends Vesuvius breaks, and the
fire of the core is seen glowing between the
rough edges.

I tell you the truth, my friend,' she said.
I will call you my friend ; that you have
been ever since we have known each other —
that you are still.'

Yes,' said Herring, regaining his composure,
' what I have been, that] I am and
shall be, your friend — nothing more.'

I tell you the truth, that woman Genefer
nearly killed me last night. I was sitting
over the fire till late, after ' she hesitated.

After I left you ; yes, go on.'

After you left me, after I had driven you
away, my friend, my poor friend ! ' She
looked up into his eyes piteously. He turned
his away; he could not bear to look into
the soul that was not his, that never could be
his. She went on: ' After you were gone, I
sat on till very late, thinking. I was unhappy,
and I cried. I sat by the fire ; you
can understand, I was in trouble about myself
and about you. After midnight I was
roused by hearing the most dreadful shrieks

and the rushing of feet along the passage
overhead.'

That was nothing said Herring, forcing
a smile. ' My good Genefer has strange fancies
that take her perversely at unsuitable
seasons. She was only driving the devil.'

But I cannot bear hearing the devil
driven in the depth of the night, in a lonely
house, in the midst of a raging storm. It
will kill me. I have been very ill, you must
remember, with a nervous fever, and it has
left me weak and liable to be shaken by
strange events. I fear that I cannot bear
such an event again. I cannot stand much.'
She looked now full of entreaty and helplessness
— a frightened, feeble girl, in dread of
strange things, she knew not what.

That is true. I will see and speak to
Genefer before I leave. I. must give some
explanation of, and excuse for, my hurried
departure, and at the same time I will be peremptory
with her on this point. She must
not do such a thing again. If she wants to
drive the devil, she must drive him in her
own chapel.'

This house is so lonely and cold. I must
have some one always with me, some one whose
presence will be a protection against fears,
some one whom I can consult about matters

that concern the house. I am wholly ignorant
about these ; I am only a girl just come
from school, and come into a strange land.
When I was at Dolbeare I slept with Orange,
and I should like to have her here to sleep
with me again. Then, if I heard noises in
the night, I would cling to her, and she is so
strong and so brave that she would protect
me and revive my courage.'

I do not like Orange.'

May I not have her here ? I must have
some one, and I had rather have her than anyone
else.'

Herring again paced the room. A great
repugnance to this proposal rose up in his
heart ; he had no real and reasonable grounds
for it, but he had an instinctive dread of the
plan.

You will not refuse me this,' pleaded
Miracle. ' See ! I did not ask you for all
those generous and kind things you have
devised for me. But a man does not understand
the feelings of a woman. You are
strong and unable to comprehend my terrors.
To you they are childish and absurd, but
they are very real and serious to me. I only
ask you this one thing — if Genefer must
remain, let Orange come.'

He could not resolve to give his consent.

'Would it not be better if I were to
find you a suitable companion, some lady,
young, and, if you desired it, of your own
faith ? '

How can I tell that she would suit me?
There were many girls, my schoolfellows, at
the Sacre Coeur. They were of my own age,
and all were good Catholics, but with several
of them I could not live, and with some I
should not care to live. How can I tell that
you would find me just the very girl that I
should like? No, I know Orange. AVe do
not think alike. She has not faith. She is
older than I am, and though companions weare
not intimates; but I know her, and she
loves me ; she has good sense and she can
advise. That is all I want.'

'Was there no girl at your old school
whom you would like to ask to come to
you? You must have had some dear friend
there .'

Yes, there was la Princesse Marie de la
Meillerie ; we were close friends. But conceive
! I could not invite her to this place of
banishment, where there is not a tree nor a
flower. This world here is not nature in
flesh and clothing, it is the skeleton of nature,
and it demands the enthusiasm of a geologist
to admire such a country. My companions



again, were of the haute noblesse
and were not of the sort to become gouvernantes
to young unprotected ladies.'

No, I see that.'

Moreover, who would come here, where
you have a church picked bare to the bones
of all that surrounds and sweetens religion?
My friends are Catholics, and love a living
church, not one which is only bones, though
the smallest of bones be preserved and in situ,
and the entire skeleton be well set up.'

I dare say it is so.'

Then you will allow Orange Tram-pleasure
and her mother to come to me. See
you ! they are at Launceston, and are left
without money.'

I promised in your name to place five
thousand pounds to the account of Miss
Orange.'

Yes, I do wish that. But that is not sufficient.
They are not comfortable at Launceston.
It was there that they met with their
great reverse. It was in that house that Mr.
Trampleasure died. The people of Launceston
suffered by the failure of the gold mine,
and they will not forgive Mrs. Trampleasure
and Orange, though only the old man and Mr.
Sampson were guilty of wrong towards them.
I know that Orange and her mother would

like to leave the town, and go elsewhere,
where they are not known. That also is a
reason why I wish them to come to me.'

Very well,' said Herring : ' if it must be
so, let it be so. It is a compromise, and a
compromise is never satisfactory. I retain
Genefer and you Orange. Ask them to come
here to you on a visit of a couple or three
months — temporarily — not as a permanence,
and only till they have made up their minds
where they will finally settle.'

I must accept this,' said Miracle, with a
sigh: 'you were so very, very kind to me
before — snow that we are married, you are
only half as kind.'

Do not speak like this,' said Herring,
hastily. ' I am what I was before, a friend,
nothing further — I can be nothing further.'

You will be always my friend ? '

Always.'

He drew a long breath. His heart was
swelling and likely again to rend the crust
and show its fires. He conquered himself
and held out his hand.

^ You will find that one drawer of my
desk in the office is locked ; I keep the key
to that. Everything else is open to you.
Good-bye ! '

What, so soon ? *

I am going away in the carriage that
brought us to this place yesterday.'

Ah, well ! — to the silver lead mine.'
Yes.'

What will be your address ? '
You will not need it.'

Shall you soon return ? '

I do not know. Good-bye.'

They shook hands. Miracle's lips trembled
and her eyes filled. She bore Herring a
sincere regard ; she felt her deep indebtedness
to him. She had treated him with great
cruelty, and had caused him unspeakable
suffering. This was a chilly separation. She
felt inclined to say something better than
good-bye ' — that is, to say ' Stay.' But she
could not do this.

They touched hands through the walls of
ice that intervened, and that froze the word
on her tongue.

CHAPTER XLVII.

WELCOME home!

The weather changed with the capriciousness
proverbial in the West of England. There a
week of continuous frost and east winds is
almost unknown. Isle sooner has the snow
been shaken over the hills than the sky repents
of its cruelty, and brings a warm breath
over the face of the land, before which the
white mantle vanishes as if by magic, and the
grass comes forth greener than before.

It was so now. The wind had changed
after midnight, and a rapid thaw had set in.
Herring returned to Launceston in the carriage
in which he had left the day before.
The post-boys had removed their favours, and
the earth was putting off hers as well. Herring
took poor Joyce back with him. When
she came to Launceston, she desired to push
on. She wished, she said, to go to Coom-bow
and see Mistress Faceyy. Herring was

obliged to remain the night in Launceston ;
he had to make the arrangements with the
bank that he had undertaken.

He did not go to Dolbeare. He saw no
one but the banker ; and then he went on his
way by coach. He did not pick up Joyce.
Perhaps he overtook and passed her on the
road without noticing her ; his mind was full
of his own troubles, and he had no attention
to bestow on the road and those who were
on it.

When he passed Okehampton his thoughts
took a turn. The grand bulk of Cosdon rose
before him. The soft glory of the evening
sun was on it, the snow had not thawed off
the mighty head, though it had gone from the
valleys, except where drifted and screened
from the wind and sun. The rooks were
wheeling and cawing, they anticipated fine
weather, and were thinking of overhauling
their last year's nests. Valentine's Day, for
birds as well as for maids and men, was only
a month off. The rooks blackened a field, the
worms had come out after the frost to enjoy
the sun and soft breeze, and the rooks were
enjoying the worms. ' Caw, caw ! '

Then the guard blew his horn, and away
they went, a rush of black wings, but to no
great distance. They settled in a couple of

VOL. It. G

oak trees, and waited till the coach had sone
by. The coachman cracked his whip. That
alarmed them more than the horn, it resembled
the report of a gun, and they sprang
into the air with loud remonstrances against a
repetition of the St. Bartholomew's Day of last
rook-shooting. ' Caw, caw! ' They danced a
minuet against the blue sky overhead, a minuet
of incomparable intricacy. There be three
things, said the wise king, too wonderful forme
— the way of a bird in the air, the way of
a ship in the sea, and the way of men and
maids. The ship darts from side to side,
tacking against adverse winds, aiming at a
port which she seems to avoid ; and the way
of maids with men s wee their ting, in the
Valentine days, in sweet spring, is much the
same, full of tricks and evasions, disguises and
cross purposes, wonderful as the way of a ship,
wonderful as the mystic dances of the rooks
overhead.

The air was warm, the sounds were springlike,
the beautiful moor was glorified by the
sun, setting in a web of golden vapour. The
scene was familiar to Herring, associated with
pleasant days. He got off the coach at the
bridge over the Taw, that he might walk
quietly up the hill and over the downs to
West Wyke. Windows were glittering in the

sun like gold leaf. There was one that was
open and swinging in the light air. It flashed
across the valley shafts of fire, welcoming
flashes to the broken-hearted man toiling up
the hill. In a thorn-bush the sparrows were
chattering — hundreds holding parliament, all
their little voices going together, and none
attending to what the other sang or said.
Lo ! in the hedge, already, a celandine, the
glossy petals as glorious as those flickering
windows. A sense of rest after long trouble
came upon Herring. He stooped and picked
the celandine — January, and these bright
heralds of sunshine out already, come forth
to welcome him home to West Wyke.

How soothing in his ear sounded the
murmur of the Taw, rushing over the old grey
granite boulders, breaking from the moor to
run a quiet course through rich meadows
and among pleasant groves. The gentle rush
had a lullaby effect on the troubled heart of
the walker. A very different sound this from
the boom of the Atlantic against Willapark
and the churning of the imprisoned billows in
Blacksmith

track led off the road to Upaver. How
was the mine getting on ? The track was
well trampled and the wheel marks many ;
that was a cheering sign. Hard by stood a

G 2

post which Tramplara had set up, painted
white, with a board on it and a hand pointing
forwards, ' To the Gold Mines of Ophir
Some one had scrambled up the post, scratched
out the ' To,' and written in its place ' Damns
giving thereby coarse but emphatic expression
to the general sentiment. Herring
smiled bitterly as he noticed this. Next he
came to the cottages.

Good evening, sir ! Glad to see you home
again.'

The speaker was a labourer returning to
his fireside, his day's work over. Herring
did not remember him, but the man knew
him, and his tone showed pleasure.

Home ! — was this home ?

How is all going on with you ? ' asked
Herring.

Well, sir, my missus lev given me another
little maiden. That makes fourteen chiltern.
Eight maidens and six boys, but we've a
buried three.'

You have your quiver full.'

^ They bring their love wi' them, sir ; and
that, I reckon, you'll find when you've a
home of your own, and a wife, and the little
uns coming every year.'

Herrino; wished.

Good evening, sir. Here be my nest.'

^ Good-nights Then Herring went on —
home ? Before him was West Wyke, and
the last glimpse of the sun was on it. The
window of West Wyke it was that had flashed
the welcome to him.

The old ash trees, the old gateway with
the grey owls, the old chimneys, the old
ivy-mantled porch, the old firelight flickering
through the hall window. A moment more,
and the old welcome.

With an exclamation of delight. Cicely
sprang from a stool by the fire to meet him,
as he entered without knocking ; entered ashe
would to his home. He was no stranger,
to knock and ask for admission. He went
straight in, and in a moment felt that ho
ought to have more hands than two to give
to those who grasped them.

The old Squire and Cicely held him.

Oh, John, dear cousin John, you have
come at last ! '

John, John, I am so glad to see you again.'

But who was that, also, on her knees,
insisting on having his hand to cover it with
kisses, sobbing and laughing, with tears and
joy in eyes and voice ? ' Oh, rallaluley. The
maister be come back from that whist place ! '
Yes — Joyce. The true, devoted Joyce, who
had only stayed an hour at Coorabow with

Mrs. Faceyy, and then had walked on, all
night, and had come in — nay, burst in, on the
Battishills in the morning, with the tidings
that the master was on his way back to
West Wyke. Over the chimney-piece, about
the pictures, wherever it could be stuck, was
bright holly with red berries. And see !
hanofins: from the black beam, a bunch of
mistletoe.

Herring's heart was full. He could not
speak, but he took Cicely's head between his
hands and kissed her ; he stooped and lifted
Joyce and pressed his lips to her cheek ; and
the old Squire's arm encircled him, and drew
the young head down beside the old grey one.

The tongues of all failed. Herring raised
his eyes, over which a mist was forming, and
saw above the doorway an inscription in red
holly berries —

Welcome Home.

By degrees only did the flush and fever of
joy in these good simple souls subside, and
Herring was able to recover his composure.

Then the young man stood by the Squire's
chair and looked at him. His heart reproached
him for having deserted him for so long a
time.

We hoped you would have dropped in
and eaten your Christmas dinner with us,

Holm,' said Mr. Battishill. ' We set your
clair at the table, and a sprig of holly by
your plate, in hopes you would arrive

I am very sorry, sir, that I was not
here. I should have been far happier here
among such dear, kind friends.'

It is you, John, who have been a kind
friend to us,' said the old man. ^ Just consider.
If you had not rescued the mortgages
out of Tramplara's hands when you did, they
would have fallen to the creditors, the directors
of Ophir, and we should have been
turned into the cold.'

You repay what little I have done for
you a thousand fold,' answered Herring.

There was a flush on the old man's cheek,
caused by excitement.

Now we have you here again,' he said,
you must remain with us, at all events, for
some time. Consider this as your home.'

Yes,' answered Herring, ' I have no home
elsewhere.' He spoke sadly. Cicely looked
hard-it him. He went on, ' I will stay on
With you till I tire you out with my society.'

That can never be. There is Upaver
crying out for you ; I am past attending to
that. I am not what I was a few months
ago. The wheels are becoming rusty and the
gear breaks.'

Cicely looked from her father to Herring
questioningly. Did John note the change in
the old man ? A change there was ; he Alas
failing in many Avays. Just now the delight
of seeing Herring again had revived him,
nevertheless the change was observable enough.
The eager look had gone out of the eyes, and
the lips had become more tremulous than
ever.

As Cicely turned her eyes from one to the
other, there dawned on her the truth that a
change had come over John Herring — a change
greater than that which had passed upon her
father. She had not been apprised of this by
Joyce, and was prepared for it. She noticed
it first with incredulity, then with perplexity,
and she resolved to speak with him on the
subject. The man was not the same. The
same in outward feature, in colour of hair
and eyes, but he was not the same in expression.
He was aged. A wave had passed over
his head, and he had come forth half drowned.
The elasticity was gone from his tread, the
sparkle from his eye, the dimple from his
cheek, the laugh from his lips. The eye had
become more steady, lines had formed on
his brow and in his cheeks ; the lips had
lost their flexibility, they were closed and
firm. He no longer held his head erect with

strong self-consciousness ; he seemed to have
acquired a slight stoop, the head was somewhat
bowed.

It was clear to Cicely that Herring had
undergone some grievous trial, of what sort
she could not guess, and that he had emerged
from it with a strengthened character, though
with a saddened heart. Cicely did not indeed
take this in all at once. Her curiosity was
roused and her attention fixed, and by degrees
the greatness and significance of the
change forced themselves upon her.

The old man observed nothing;. But now
Joyce, who had been thrust into the background,
insisted on asserting herself.

See, dear maister, what be come to your
Joyce. Dory look here ! '

She stood forward in the light — the light
of several candles, lit to welcome Herring
home. She wore a dark-blue serge gown, and
a white kerchief round her neck, and crossed
over her bosom. Her luxuriant dark hair
was combed and pruned, and fastened up
under a white cap. The gown was short, and
showed white stockings and black shoes. Her
wild face was subdued and softened, the rudeness
had gone out of it, and a strange tinge of
sweetness and modesty had come in place of
the savagery. She was really a handsome

girl, of splendid physique, easy in every
motion.

Did'y ever see wonder like this ? ' asked
Joyce, holding out her skirts and apron, and
showing her white stockings. ^ And see how
grand my hair be. What dory say to this,
maister dear ? '

^ Why, Joyce, I congratulate you with all
my heart. This is what I have been wishing
for, but never hoped to see.'

You have wished for it — you ! glory
and blazes ! I be glad.'

I told you as much, Joyce,' said Cicely
Battishill.

^ I know you did, miss, but I couldn't
believe it. I thought you sed it just to persuade
me on.'

Cousin John, we have enlarged our household
to-day. We have taken Joyce in. Her
dread of going under the "hellenes" has given
way. She will learn to make herself useful.
Now, Joyce, you may go back to the kitchen,
and help Charity to get supper ready.'

What has become of the old man —
Grizzly ? '

'We allow him to sleep in one of the linnets,
and he is given broken meat once a day.
He has fallen into bad ways of late. Ophir
injured him as much as it injured his superiors.

only in a different way. He learned from the
workmen to drink, and now lie loafs about
the country trying to get something given
him by inconsiderate persons to keep his
throat wet. He is at Upaver a good deal;
there the miners make game of him, and treat
him. He has taken to smoking. I have
threatened that if he carries his pipe into the
shipping, I shall refuse him the linnet as a
bedroom, and he will have to return to the
Giant's Table.*

^ I am salad that he and his daughter are
parted.'

^ There was no chance for her as long as
she remained under his thraldom. Fortunately
she had set her head on going for two months
to a place called Coombow, and that opened
the way to her leaving Grizzly altogether.
He is a hopeless savage. We did believe atone
time that he was capable of improvement.
He worked hard on his patch of land. But
Ophir diverted him from the upward path,
and since then he has been going down hill
nearly as fast as his barrel when it broke from
its tether.'

'Well, John,' said Mr. Battishill, 'I must
not let Cicely engross you. Come and talk
to me. I will tell you what we have been
doing at Upaver. We have got the leat cut,

and the wheel and crushers in place, and a
smelting house run up. I have not been able
to go there myself, but the foreman, a very
worthy, sensible fellow, comes up every other
day and reports progress. I have seen to the
accounts as you desired ; but I am not what
I was. My head has become confused, and I
have had to ask Cicely to help me out with
the accounts. I hope you will not find them
in a great muddle, but I was never very precise,
and ladies do not understand the difference
between debit and credit sides of a balance
sheet. The table of work is left with me, and
I pretend to look it over, but have not the
means of verifying it. I do not think much
has come out of the mine yet. I cannot say
the profits are large. Indeed, the credit side
of the book is blank.'

I do not expect anything yet. -I am content
that the machinery should be in place
and in working order. stow I am here, we
will attack the lode.'

^ There is the rub, John; the machinery is
up, but not in working order, the leat is cut,
but the water won't run along it.*

That will soon be rectified, and then the
profits will come in freely.'

I hope so, John.'

'I am sure of it, sir. Do not you lose
heart.'

I have made such a failure of life, John,
that I have ceased to be sanguine. I can see
nothing in the retrospect but blunders and
losses.'

^ No, sir, you have made mistakes, but all
must do that before reaching success. Upaver
was your own discovery.'

That is true, very true. I think we will
christen this mine Wheal BattishilL'

'Do you not think Wheal Cicely would
sound better ? ' asked John Herring.

My suggestion is the best,' said Cicely,
colouring. ' Let it be Wheal Friendship.'

A bright and cosy supper. The great fireplace
full of crackling flame. A white cloth
on the black oak table near the fire, and silver
and glass upon it sparkling in the candlelight,
and the flicker of the flames embracing a huge
faggot.

Good luck never comes alone,' said the
Squire. ' What do you think ! My dear old
friend, John Northmore, has sent me a couple
of pheasants. I have not seen him for many
years, and I do not know how he comes to
remember me now ; however that may be, he
has, and most opportunely. Here comes one

of his pheasants to table. I thought I was
forgotten of all the world, but — I hope it
is an omen of coming success to Wheal Friendship
— old friends are beginning to remember
that there is such a man as Richard Battishill,

j.p;

Shall we sit down ? ' asked Cicely. ' Everything
is ready.'

Although my cates be poor, take it in good part,
Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart,'

quoted the Squire. ' You are godfather to
the wine, John. It is some of the case you
ordered down from Exeter. We will drink
in it success to Wheal Friendship.'

The old man was garrulous and cheerful
during supper. The family plate was brought
out in honour of John Herring, and the Spoke
china, red with burnished gold in leaf and
scroll. How bright and comfortable the table
was, how warm and cheery the room ! What
kindly happy faces were round the table!
This was something like home.

The pain did not leave John Herring's
heart, the cloud did not remove from his
brain, but, under the influences now brought
to bear upon him, the pain lost its first poignancy,
and the cloud hung less deep. At the
conclusion of supper, Cicely persuaded her

father to go to bed. The old man was obstinate
at first. ' He liked to be with John, and
to chat with him over the fire. He had just
begun to enjoy his wine. The room had only
now become warm — why should he be banished
to his cold chamber upstairs? He had not
seen John for months, he had business to
discuss with him. There was a good story he
remembered, which he wished to tell him;' and
so on, a string of reasons why he should not
go to bed. But he was weak, and, though
he was obstinate for a few minutes, yielded
to his daughter's perseverance, and she helped
him upstairs. John Herring remained by
the fire. He was glad to be alone ; he stood
with his back to the fire, thinking. Two
nights ago — forty-eight hours only — had passed
since he had gone home to Welltown with his
bride. Home ! — was that home ? The house
half buried in snow was cold within, the reception
was cheerless, no fire, no table spread,
and, worst of all, no love from her whom he
had taken to be his wife. He had been driven
from that home with despair in his heart.
He returned to West Wyke : the sun was
shining, the birds singing, the flowers opening:,
the house was decked to receive him, and
the kind hearts therein bounded to meet him.
Which was his real home ? He raised his

eyes to the door as it opened to readmit
Cicely Battishill, and read over it, in scarlet
letters, ' Welcome home ! '

Cicely seated herself opposite him in the
ingle nook, and the soft firelight played over
her pleasant face and glowing auburn hair.
She was a thrifty body, and she had put out
all the candles save two on the great table.
These were not really needed — the firelight
filled the room.

How do you think my father is looking?'
she asked.

He is greatly altered. I fear that his
anxiety about both Ophir and Upaver has
been too much for him.'

Ophir did upset him greatly, but Upaver
Wheal Friendship, I mean — has done him
good ; it has occupied him, and taken his
thoughts from his own infirmities. He
thinks he is deep in business, and that
amuses him. He schemes all sorts of things
and suggests them to the foreman, who is too
civil to say that they are impracticable. No,
Upaver has been to him not a care but a distraction.
That which ails him is general
failure of power. The doctor has visited him
and is very kind, and he can do nothing.
The new parson at Tawton, Mr. Harmless
Simpleton, has also called, and seen my

father. Pie is a very admirable and agreeable
gentleman.'

Your father seemed cheerful this evenings.'


Yes, he was excited by your return. It
has given him the greatest pleasure to see
you here again. You do not know how he
clings to you. Cousin John, I cannot express
myself as I ought, but I feel very
deeply thankful to you for having relieved
and brightened the closing days of my
father's life. We were threatened with
disaster, and it seemed at one time as if he
would sink, and utter ruin would cover and
blot us both out. You have saved us, and
now the dear old man's evening; is like one
which succeeds a day of cloud, when suddenly
all the vapours roll away, and a blaze of
golden sun glorifies the landscape. I believe
that my father is as happy as he possibly can
be now that he has you here.'

Herring made some commonplace remark
in reply.

Yes, we owe a great deal to you — more
than we can ever repay,' said Cicely.

You are going to make my fortune at
Upaver,' said he, half jestingly.

Oh, John ! that is nothing to you. You
<lo not care about that.' She paused for a

VOL. III. H

couple of minutes, with her eyes on the fire,
rocking her foot, her hands clasped over her
knee. Presently she turned towards him,
with sympathy in her honest eyes and in her
trembling mouth. ' Do not be offended if I
tell you what T have observed. There is a
great change in you. I am sure you have
gone through a time of great trouble. We
were selfish, and vexed, and impatient, because
you did not come to us. We thought
you were amusing yourself elsewhere, and
had forgotten us, and how much we depended
on you. We had no suspicion that you were
unhappy. I can see that you have had your
cup of bitterness. Neither my father nor I
have asked you any questions about yourself
at any time, and wee really know nothing
about yourself and your belongings. I do
not want to know anything now that you do
not wish to tell me. Indeed, indeed, I would
do or say my best to comfort you, if I
thought that I were capable of making you
happier by my interference. There was
something you said just now to my father
it was only one sentence, but I saw that
it contained in it the kernel of much trouble.
My father bade you look on this house as
your home. Then you answered that this
was the only home you had. Did you really
mean what you said?'

^ Yes, Cicely. I have no home anywhere,
except this that you offer me

You have lost Welltown ? '

He hesitated. Then he said in a low
tone, ' I have lost it in one sense. It has
ceased to be a home to me ; the acres remain
that is all.'

Oh, John, I am so sorry for you. I
know you loved the place. I know what an
ache it would give me to lose West Wyke.'
She did not in the least understand what his
loss really was. He did not enlighten her —
indeed, it was not possible for him to do so.

Presently she returned to the charge.

Have 3^oa any brothers or sisters? '

E'one.'

And your father and mother are dead ? '

^ Yes. My mother died when I was
born, and I was reared by a nurse. I know
her only by her picture.'

John, tell me,' she looked at him very
earnestly, and with her expressive and sweet
face full of compassion ; ' tell me — have you
no one then to love you ? '

He shook his head. ' No one.'

At Welltown — no one ? '

My nurse. Xo one else.'

^ How lonely in the world you must be ! '

Utterly,' he answered.

Then she brightened up, and, dashing
some tears from her eyes, held out her hands
to him laughingly across the glowing hearth.
^ There, there, poor boy! We have been
talking of Cornwall. There you may be
alone and unloved, but here, in old Devon,
under the shadow of Gordon, you have a
home, and hearts that care a great deal for
you ; there is my father, here am I, then
there is Joyce, and lastly my white cat ! See !
he is up on your knee this moment. There !
never again say that you are solitary and
unloved. It is not true, it is utterly false.
Good-night, Cousin John ! sweet sleep, happy
dreams, and a glad awaking to you ! '

CHAPTER Xlviii.

TWO BEQUESTS.

Next morning John Herring went early to
TJpaver. The wheel was up, and the leat had
been cut. But the wall supporting the axle
of the wheel was improperly built, and the leat
was improperly levelled. Much that the contractor
had undertaken to do had been left
undone, and most that he had done was done
so badly that it had to be done over again.

Herring called for the day-books, and soon
saw that the men working for day wage had
taken three days to do what might have been
done in one, and that was work which need
not have been done at all.

Ophir had demoralised the entire neighbourhood.
The object aimed at there had
been to make a great display of activity, but
to produce nothing. What had been begun
at Ophir, the workmen supposed was to continue
at Upaver.

Herring rang the bell of the mine, and
called the men together. He dismissed the
foreman on the spot — that civil and intelligent
foreman whom Mr. Battishill esteemed so
highly. He told the men that henceforth
he would be their captain ; he would be at
Upaver every day, and would set every man
his work, and what he set each man he expected
him to execute. A fair day's work fora
fair wage, and no payment for idle hours.
Those who disliked his terms might go elsewhere
in quest of new Ophir. There was one
subsidiary matter he wished to speak of. Old
Grizzly Cobbledick was much at the mine,
and was treated by the men. He disapproved
of this. He would not have the old man given
drink and made sport of there. If he would
work, he should be given work; if he were
determined to get drunk, he must get his drink
elsewhere.

Then Herring examined the adit.

Much the same story there as outside.
The work had been gone on with anyhow, the
ore thrown out with the cable.

He did not return to West Wyke to
dinner in the middle of the day ; he was too
busy. He remained in the mine, and made
the men dig whilst he was present. The
vein launched,' and the bunch of nearly pure

metal was before him. A rich profit was a
certainty.

When the men knocked off work, he
turned to go to West Wyke. He was covered
with dirt, but he was in good spirits. He had
not been mistaken. Upaver mine would clear
the property of its incumbrances, and repay
every penny that had been sunk in it.
Miracle's money had been invested in the
mortgages, Miracle's money had been spent
on the mine. Her money was not only
safe, it was where it would yield excellent
interest.

As Herring came away, he found Grizzly
awaiting the men leaving work, to beg of them
tobacco, a draught of cyder or spirits, or some
coppers.

I want to speak to you,' said Herring.
Come along with me.'

Grizzly trudged at his side. There had
been a rude savagery in the man when
Herrino: had first known him which was not
without its dignity. Old Cobbledick had then
worked on his own land, grown his own
potatoes, lived in his own house, and thrashed
his own child. The consciousness of independence
had given him an upright carriage
and an open and haughty look. All this was
gone. Ophir had robbed him of the one

redeeming element in his nature. He had
found it easier to beg than to work. He had
abandoned all attempt at labour for a livelihood,
and with that had lost independence. Formerly
he had been defiant in his sense of freedom,
he was now cringing in his submission.
He had been a temperate man, drinking only
water; now he drank whenever he could find
any one to treat him, and whatever was given
to him. Association with men higher than
himself in civilisation had lowered, not lifted,
him. It is so with all savages when brought
in contact with civilisation ; some seize the
moment, and mount, others are cast into
deeper degradation than they knew before.
It is so with ourselves when set within the
orbit of higher and nobler forces than we
knew before. They exercise on us a centripetal
or a centrifugal energy. Cobbledick
was debased. His rags of old had become
him, they now made him repulsive ; he had
ceased to be a man, and had become a scarecrow.


'- I want to speak to you, Cobbledick,' said
Herring, walking on his way, the old man at
his side.

Your honour ! I be all ears. It be the
jackie sure-ly has a come into your head.'

It is the drink, Grizzly ; the drink.'

Oh ! ' exclaimed Cobbledick, ' to think I
lived these scores and scores of years without
a knowing what it were. But now — glory
rallaluley! Praises be! I can get drunk
when I meets a real german.'

Grizzly, I have forbidden the men at the
mine to give you anything. If you choose to
come there and work, I will find you work
that you can do, but if I discover that the
men give you drink, and encourage you in
your idle, vagabond ways, I shall dismiss
them, and find others who will obey me.
]\Iark this, Grizzly, not another drop of anything,
in treat or otherwise, do you get at
Upaver. Go back to the Giant's Table, and
dig your fields there like a man, instead of
slouching about, picking up halfpence and sips
of gin, a wretched beggar.'

I ain't to get nothing to Upaver ? ' asked
Cobbledick, incredulously.

'Do you not understand plain words?
Not a drop. I will not have Upaver a curse
to you and others, such as Ophir was. If you
will work, I will give you tasks equal to your
powers.'

Ekal to my powers ! ' roared Grizzly ;
look at my hands. See, the be two, three
times as big as yours. I could break every
bone in your body with nun. I be strong;

I reckon, stronger than most of they fellows
down to Upaver.'

Very well, then, work.'

I won't work. I ain't forced.'

JN"©, I am sorry for it. It is a mistake
that you are given broken scraps from West
Wyke. That keeps you from famishing, and
emancipates you from the necessity of working.'


You'd cut me off that next, I reckon.*

Yes, I would.'

You would ! ' repeated the old man malevolently.
' You takes away my liquor, and
my meat, and my daughter as ought to work
and keep me in my old age, and — ' he turned
and looked up in Herring's face — ' you took
the box from under the hearthstone.'

Herring started. The old man observed
his advantage and chuckled.

Grizzly, it is quite true that I took the
box. You had no right to it ; you had
stolen it from the carriage that was upset. I
took it that I might return it '

Oh, in course, in course, you returned
the box at once, and all that was in it, to the
young lady with the white face.'

Herring could not answer. The old man,
with his natural shrewdness, saw that he had
gained an advantage. Of the value of the

contents of the box lie had no idea. He
determined to improve his advantage.

You took thick box, as you take to
plundering me of everything I has. I reckon
you'd like to take from me the chance of
sleeping in the linnet.'

Yes, I would. Grizzly. Whatever I deprive
you of is for your own advantage. It is
not safe for you to lie in the straw of the
linnet. I know that you have gone in there
more than once, tipsy, and smoking your pipe.'

Well, what then ? '

Why, you may be setting fire to the
linnet, and burn that and the house, and
yourself as well. However, to return to the
box. If that box had been found in your
possession by any one but myself, you would
have been sent to prison. The box was not
yours. It was stolen. If I desire now to
deprive you of drink, it is because drink is
degrading you. I want to force you to
work.'

I won't work no more,' said Cobbledick,
angrily. ' There be the jackie, also. You've
never paid me that.'

What tobacco ? '

Ah ! when you was sick, and my Joyce
nursed you under the Table, you got in debt
to me a score pounds and one more, that be

as many as you've a got fingers and toes, and
your head throned in to make another. That
be what you've owed me a long while, and
never paid yet. There were that old Tram-clara,
he owed me scores and scores of jackie,
but he never paid me none at all. He went
scott. I did think you where a german, and
would serve a poor man better.'

I do not understand about the tobacco.'

Loramussy ! it be easy enough to understand,
sure-ly. You was brought here in a
waggon ; well, that waggon had to be paid
for, and my Joyce paid with her work, and
then she was a neglecting of me. You were
brought to my house, and I had to clear out
and go elsewhere, and after that Joyce did
nothing more for me. You expect me and
my Joyce to work forty, and you never pay a
brass farthing ? No german be like that. I
call that a proper laggard trick, I do.'

Good heavens, Grizzly ! If you want to
be paid for the use of your house because it
served as my hospital, by all means name the
price. I will pay you in tobacco if you desire
it. How much do you require ? '

'As many pounds as you've fingers and
toes, and your head chucked in.'

You shall have them.'

And then,' pursued Grizzly, ' there be

Joyce. What lev you gone and tooke 'er
away from me for ? Oli ! all ! you've not ?
That be fine. Her worked peaceable enough
for her poor old whither till you come by and
turn 'er head with your talking and sweet-hearting
'

Grizzly ! ' exclaimed Herring, angrily,
hold that villanous tongue of yours at once.'

Ah, you don't want to be told of all the
wrongs you've a done to me. Oh dear ! the
deal of pains and expense as her lev a put
me to, what with her rearing, and her feeding,
and her clothing, and — that is to be all
for not. When her be good full growed
and able-bodied, and might work for her old
whither, then you draws 'er away for reasons
of your own, and leaves me without a child.
Now her can't think of me, nor work for me,
nor light a fire for me, nor cook a biting of
turnips, nor wire a rabbit — all becos you've
a turned her head so a3 her can think, and
talk, and work only for the young maister, and
I'm to bide content with a score and one of
jackie. That ain't in reason. That ain't
how a german would act. Why, there were
a man t'other day to Okehampton market
brought his wife there with a halter round
her neck and sold 'er there for half a crown
not for jackie, but for a real half-crown in

silvered Her were oldish, and not like my
Joyce. If I be to part wi' Joyce, I'll take
not but silver for her, and I won't be content
wi' less nor four half-crowns. I've got to
make my own lire now, and do everything
myself. Not yon, nor j\iiss Cicely, nor the
old Squire shall stay me. I won't sell 'er nota
penny under four half-crowns and some'ut
over to wet the bargain with. If you don't
accept my terms I'll have her back, and if her
ses her won't come back I'll do by her as I
did afore — I'll just scott all the bones she has
to her body. Her got her bones o' me, and
I've a right to do what I will wi' my own. I
can scott nun or I can sell nun. And I
won't sell nun a penny under five half-crowns,
that be my figure, and blast me blue if I takes
a shilling off. I'd rather break her bones
first and dung may petty ground wi' 'em.
Feel my hands, how strong they be.'

He suddenly laid hold of Herring's wrists,
and his grasp was as an iron vice. Herring
was a strong man, but he was unprepared to
meet and resist such strength as the old
savage exhibited.

Did her give you the shining stones in

1 The author knew the woman thus purchased, and the
man who bought her, and with whom she lived till her death.
The transaction took place about forty years agO; as described.


the box ? I reckon it were so, and her knows
what to expect for doing that, and I'll do it.
Did I go and take the box from the carriage?
And can the constable come and carry me off
to gaol for that? Then surely, if I say to
un, there be the young Squire to West Wyke
have a been to the Giant's Table and have a
took away my daughter, then if there be
justice for one there be justice for another,
and the constable will come and carry you to
gaol also.'

Herring walked on quicker. He was
alarmed for Joyce. It would be wrong to
send her back to her father. She had risen
to a higher level than he ; she could not
associate with him longer. Moreover, he was
uneasy at his threats, for the wretched old
man, as he knew, would execute them without
compunction.

Six half-crowns I sed, and if you won't
buy her of me for yourself, and give me the
money in silver, I'll fetch her home to the
Table, and I'll scott every bone in her body, I
will, glory rallaluley 1 You ain't a going to
take everything from me, and give nothing in
returns

There ! ' exclaimed Herring, angrily ;
take that.' He drew his purse from his
pocket, and dashed it at the old man. It

struck him on the chest, and Grizzly had his
hand on it in a moment.

I can catch,' said he. ' The men chucks
me bits of their pasties, and I can snap like a
dog. I never lets nun drop.'

Take that and torment Joyce no more.
You will find ample in that purse to supply
you with tobacco, and drink too, if you will
have it. Take it, you despicable scoundrel,
and leave the poor girl alone.'

A sale be a sale,' said Grizzly. ' If
you've a bought her, you have her and I've
not more to say to her. I sed seven half-crowns.
Dash my brains out if I sed a penny
less.' Cobbledick opened the purse and
peeped in. '* Oh, rallaluley ! them be guineas !
golden guineas ! they be worth more than
eight half-crowns, the price I axed for Joyce,
I reckon. Shan't I only smoke jackie and
get drunk. Glory ! glory ! '

Do as you will. Some men cannot be
helped. One must let them go to the devil
their own way. You are one, and the sooner
you go the better.'

I be going. I be going as fast as I can,'
exclaimed the old man, misunderstanding:
him.

Then go, and do not trouble Joyce anymore.'


Oh no. I've a sold her to you. Don't
come and try to cry off the bargain, and want
your guineas back. This be scores better
deal than that of the man with his wife in
Okehampton market. Now, what about the
linnet? '

You may not sleep there, not on any
account, if you are bent on getting drunk and
smoking. I'll send you down some straw
with which to litter the Giant's Table.'

Oh, rallaluley ! this be fine games.' And
the old savage dashed off over the moor.

Thus ended Herring's attempt at reformation
of Grizzly Cobbledick. He had gone
forth that morning resolved to check the old
man in his downward career by cutting off
the occasion of drinking, and he had supplied
the man with the means of drinking himself
to death.

However, he went his way, relieved in
mind, to West Wyke. He had saved Joyce
from further unpleasantness from her father.

Cicely met him in the porch.

You have been a long time out,' she
said. ' My father has been calling for you all
day. He is very feeble ; you will notice how
different he is from what you saw him last
night. The excitement of your return stimu-

VOL. III. I

lated him, and now has come the relapse.
Hark ! I hear him calling.'

Herring went in, with her.

Papa has only come down this afternoon.
I persuaded him to lie in bed during the
morning, but when he thought you would be
returning from Upaver he insisted on being
dressed and descending to meet you.'

John, is that you? ' called the old Squire
from his chair by the fire.

Yes, sir. I have been all day at Upaver.
I have got news to tell you. We have come
on a bunch of metal which I hope will clear
you of all care.'

Mr. Battishill nodded. ' Yes, yes ! '

The news did not seem to interest him
greatly. Herring saw with concern that he
was looking feeble and old. He had fallen
back sadly after the flicker of last night.

^I am not strong,' said the Squire ; 'I cannot
speak loud or long to-day. Come here.'
He took John Herring by the hand. ' Come,
Sissy.' He beckoned Nicety to draw near.
'John, I fear my time is coming to an end.
I have been trying to-day to become interested
in Upaver, but I cannot. I can only fix my
mind on one thing. Perhaps when that is
settled, then I may be able to hear about
Upaver, but not till then.'

'Do not lose heart, Mr. Battishill, now
that you are on the threshold of success.'

It is this, John. Should I have another
stroke, or be unable to attend to matters,
what is to become of Cicely ? What is to
become of West Wyke? I want your promise
that you will stand by her and the old place.'

I will do all I can for her, and for West
Woke. You may rely on me, sir.'

I felt convinced in my own mind that I
might do so, and yet I desired your promise.
I became troubled, and clouds came over my
spirits. As Sebastian says, " My determinate
voyage is mere extravagancy." It always has
been so with me. I have set my mind on the
wrong things, and gone the wrong ways to
work when I took anything in hand. But it
is not so now. Owls can see in the dark, and
so can I. If I have made blunders hitherto,
I will hit straight this time. I have your
promise, have I not, John?'
Yes, Mr. Battishill.'

You mil not desert poor Sissy. She has
no relations, and I have positively no one in
the world to look to except yourself, whom,
upon my word, I have come to love and
regard as a son.' The old man patted Herring
affectionately on the shoulder.
I give you my promise, sir.'

There ! that makes me content,' said the
old man. He had taken Cicely's hand in his
left, he held John by the right. All at once
he put their hands together. ' There ! ' he
said, and chuckled, ' as Hamlet says, " There
is a kind of confession in your looks, which
your modesties have not craft enough to
colour." I know you love each other. I
give Cicely to you, John, and my blessing.
You will take care of her — and, you will
quarter the owls.'

He leaned back and his eyes closed. He
was satisfied that at last he had done the right
thing at the right time. The fatal faculty of
making muddle and mischief followed him to
the end.

Herring turned to Cicely and released his
hand. She was trembling.

You, Cicely, insisted that we were cousins.
You have heard your father : he has made
the relationship closer. We are henceforth
brother and sister.'

She looked up, then her eyes fell, and the
colour rose and sank in her face.

Yes,' she said faintly ; ' I understand
perfectly, brother John.'

CAST UP.

^ It be good for the soul to see men die
said Genefer, entering ]\Iirelle's room. ' Come
alon: of me, mistress.'

\^

'What is it, Genefer? Do not frighten
me.'

In the midst of life we are in death. It
teaches us how frail and uncertain our life be.
Come and see 'em die afore your naked eyes.'

Genefer, I will not ! ' Miracle held back
in alarm.

You must come. The wreck is drifted
right into Welltown cove, and it will be your
own rocks as will break the ribs of the vessel
and cut the flesh oiF the bones of the drownded.
If there be a chance to save any of
the poor creatures on board of her, then you
must be there to direct what is to be done.
You be mistress here now. I know my duty;
so do Render. When the master weren't

here, and afore you corned, it were different.
But now, it be not Render nor me as be
answerable. It be you as is put in authority,
and have to say to this man, Come, and he
Cometh, and to another, Go, and he goeth.
If you bide at home and do nothing, then let
'em be drownded, and them as has done good
shall enter into life, and them as has done
evil shall go into everlasting death, and the
blood of the souls that be lost shall rest on
your head.'

But what is it ? '

^ I tell you there be a vessel drove by the
storm right in, and her be drifting into Well-town
cove. It be no good her trying to get
into Boscastle Harbour, with the white horses
galloping. Her comes side on upon the reef,
and will go scott afore your eyes.'
Can nothing be done ? '
^ You must be there and see,' answered
Genefer Benoke : ' if there be lives to be saved,
they will be saved, but you must be there to
see to it.'

Miracle put on her cloak and hat, and
went forth. This was a duty, and Miracle
had a strong sense of obligation to do her
duty, whenever it was presented before her.

The storm of last night had subsided, and
the wind had shifted. A thaw had set in, and

the sun was streaming over the melting snow.
The blue sea was strewn with foam streaks.
Though the wind had abated, the sea was still
churning. The passion of the night could
not abate at once ; the pulses of the Atlantic
were throbbing. The sio;ht was magnificent.
The billows that rolled upon the
headland were at once shattered, and sent up
columns of foam white as the snow upon the
ground. Earlier, the morning sun had
painted rainbows in the salt drift, but now
the sun hung over the sea, and, if he painted
them still, did so unseen by those on land.
The whole coast was fringed with a deep
border of fluttering white lace. The air was
salt, and the lips of all who faced it became
briny. Out at sea stood the Henchard, an
islet of inaccessible black rock, capped with
turf On this no snow rested. The waves
besieged the Henchard on all sides, like the
rabble of Paris attacking the Bastille ; they
appeared to explode on touching the rock
into volumes of white steam, that rushed up,
whirling, and swept the crown. The reflection
of the sun in the sea was shivered into
countless, ever-changing flakes of fire. Over
the surface of the water the gulls were fluttering
in vast numbers — they seemed like sea
foam vivified.

This was the sea after the storm, already
exhausted, and with relaxed power. What
must it have been in the height of its rage,
during the night?

Where is the ship ? ' asked Miracle, looking
in vain for a vessel on the uneasy surface.

Look ! ' old Genefer pointed.

What, that? It is so small.'

There be men aboard, living and calling
on God now, and in ten minutes they'll be
standing afore their Judge. They can lookout
of their eyes now, and see you up hereon
the cliff in your black gown, and in ten
minutes their eyes will be full of salt water,
and able to see nothing. They can cry aloud
for mercy now, and in ten minutes the time
of mercy will be over for each, and the time
of retribution will be begun ! '

Miracle could hardly believe that the little
cockleshell drifting on the rocks before her
could contain men in jeopardy of their lives.
It was but a cockleshell, a child's ship made
of a walnut. But there were men and
women on the headland watching intently
and with interest the fate of that petty boat,
and an excise officer stood there with his
telescope to his eye.

She is the ^' Susanna " of Bristol,' said
he.

^ Her's never been in our harbour observed
a Boscastle man. ' I reckon there be
about four aboard. Her be about the size to
carry four.'

What be the lading, Pentecost ? '

That don't matter to you or I, Germans
answered Pentecost. ' Times be altered when
an honest man might profit by what the Lord
sent us.'

It do seem a deadly shame that a man
may not accept the good gifts Providence
showers upon him, but the Government must
interfere.'

Ah ! ' put in Genefer, ' that be the way
of things. Tiie sower sows his seed, and the
fowls come and carry it away. The Lord
sows His word, and the Church passons come
and take it away that it can bring forth no
fruit, and leave not in its place. It is the
same when He sends a storm and casts a ship
ashore. A Christian man may not stoop and
take up a keg of brandy the Lord has rolled
to his feet, but the 'wiseman must come and
take it away, so to speak, out of his mouth.'

There be five shillings for every corpse
as be picked up and brought to burial,' said
another. ' But I'd rather have a keg of spirits
than a corpse any day. Besides, who's to
earn a crown like that ? They may do it on

the shores of Essex that be mud and sand.
Bnt here ! old Uncle Jacky goes about after
a storm with a sack, and picks up what gobbets
of human flesh he can find on the shore,
but the parish won't give un more than half
a crown for as much as he can carry up the
cliffs, and that takes a sight more picking up
than would a whole corpse. These hasn't
times in which honest men may live.'

I say, maister ! ' called Pentecost to the
preventive man ; ' spoke her be laden with
sea coal, and the coal come ashore. Dory
put your foot down on that and say nobody
ain't to shovel that up, it belongs to his
Majesty, God bless him ? And next tide the
coal be all licked down into the belly of the
ocean, and is no good to none.'

^ What be the good of us keeping donkeys ? '
asked Germans ; ' I reckon they cost us something
for hay in winter. Us don't keep donkeys
for not ; us keep 'em to bring up the
cliffs whatever comes ashore. And us is to
have the expense of keeping donkeys and not
to put 'em to no use ! We are to keep the
donkeys for the delight of our eyes, as beautiful
objects of nature.'

I reckon her be laden with cloak '
(earthenware) ^ ovens,' said Pentecost. ' I
wish his Majesty joy of them when they

comes ashore. If Job were here and wanted
a shard to scratch himself withal, and ventured
to pick up a bit of scatter cloak off the
beach, you'd be down on him in a jiffy,
wouldn't you now, maister ? '

The preventive officer took no notice of
the gibes cast at him ; he kept his telescope
on the vessel.

Her be on the breakers now,' said one of
the men.

What be the good of staying here ? ' asked
another. ' There be no chance of getting nothing
unless us was to chuck this chap over
the cliffs first.'

Don't say that, Pascho ; there'll be ^-si^
shillings for every corpse we can bring up the
cliffs. And if we manage to save one alive,
surely the young lady here will give us a
trifle and a drop of cyder to drink her health
and the corpse's. I sees it in her eye.'

I will give you ten guineas for every
man you save,' said Miracle, vehemently, ' and
as much as you can eat and drink.'

Didn't I tell you so ? ' exclaimed Pentecost.
' Look alive, boys ! There be the ship
gone scott ! Down the cliffs with you all, and
see if we cannot earn a few gold guineas and
drink long life to the lady and the corpse as
we brings up alive.'

The ship had struck. The waves and
foam swept over her, and in a few moments
she went to pieces. Some figures were discernible
battling with the water. It seemed
to Miracle impossible that these tiny ants
were sufferers, that they were of human flesh
and feelings like herself — they seemed so
small. There was nothing horrible in the
sight ; it was not so shocking as the drowning
of mice turned out of a trap into a bucket.
"When Tulliver cried with pain in Brobdingnag,
the giants laughed. In a microscopic creature
the agony of death must be microscopically
small.

Miracle looked on the drowning pygmies,
quite unable to realise the awfulness of the
event, her sympathy stirred by her reason,
not by her heart, for the appeal was not such
as could move the sympathy save through
the brain.

The first to sink was the mate. We will
fly over the water with the gulls, instead of
straining our eyes from the cliffs. Are the
gulls about us screaming or laughing ? The
first to sink was the mate. He was an old
seaman, a offering man, honest of heart,
who had left the sea because he had earned
enough to maintain himself on land in his old
age. But he had lent his money to a younger

brother, to enable him to set up a small shop
in Bristol. The brother failed and ran away,
leaving a wife and four little children wholly
unprovided for. So the old man went to sea
again to earn enough to support his brother's
deserted wife and children. He sank. The
gulls are cynics — they laughed.

The second that sank was the captain ; a
fine man, upright, rough in exterior, but
soft-hearted. He had been an unlucky man.
Engaged to a girl he had long loved, after
many years of waiting, in which both turned
the corner of life, he was now making his last
voyage before he married her. She was at
Bristol, preparing the little house they had
taken. She had put flower-pots in the window,
and was this morning setting a geranium thereto
make the place look bright for the return
of William and her own marriage. Then he
sank. She would not see him again. The
gulls laughed.

The third who sank was a boy, the only
son of a widow. The boy had wanted much
to go to sea, but he was the darling of his
mother, and she would not suffer him to go
with any but our captain, whom she knew
and could trust with the only being on earth
she loved. Now he was gone, and the widow
must weep. The gulls laughed.

The fourth who went down was a sailor, a
careless fellow, drinking and heeding neither
angel nor devil ; but there was a vein of gold
in his heart waiting to be brought to the
surface. It is said that on midsummer night
all buried treasures rise and shine. Midsummer
night had not come to him yet.
Another year, and he would be a better man,
but this other year was denied him. He
sank, and the gulls laughed.

These were all who sank, but there was
one who came ashore. He and the boy were
clinging to the same piece of timber. Then
this man kicked the boy on the chest and
so he fell off and went down, and this man
had the balk to himself. The waves went
over him, and he lost consciousness, but not
his hold. He was saved, and the gulls,
wheeling above, laughed and scoffed more
loudly than before.

Up the narrow track cut in the face of the
cliff this man was carried.

By gold ! ' said Pascho, ' I hope the chap
ain't dead, but he looks cruel bad. It makes
all the difference to us between ^\'^ shillings
and ten guineas.'

Now look here, you niggers ! ' exclaimed
Pentecost, angrily. ' What be all you a coming
up and making believe you are helping ?



You've had not to do with the saving of this
chap, and so don't you come putting in your
claims for a share. Go back and see if you
can't pick up a corpse or two as will find you
in liquor or jackie for a week or a fortnight.
The ten guineas is to share between five of us
and that will be four too many. I lugged un
out of the water.'

Ah, but I squeezed the water out of his
chest,' said Pascho.

And if I hadn't held the rope,' said
Germans, ' you'd have all been swept into the
water and become crowners' sittings.'

^ There !' said Pentecost, 'chuck him across
a barrel, and let the water run out of him.'

There be no barrel here ; lay him flat.'

Yes, in the snow indeed. Do you think
I want to risk my honest earnings that way?
He must be took to bed and hot bricks be put
to his feet.'

Where is he to go to ? ' asked Pascho.

To Welltown, of course ; where else?
There ain't no other house nigh.'

Let the young lady see un,' said Genefer.
It be a rare fine sight for the soul to see a
man hanging atween life and death. Let her
see un.'

The men laid their unconscious burden at
the feet of Miracle.

She looked into the face with mingled
sympathy and terror. The figure seen
battling with the waves had grown big —
human size now, it was no longer an ant.
She could feel pity.

As she looked, she started and shrank
away, holding up her hands to shut out what
she saw.

There ! ' said Genefer, ' it be a brave
and improving sight. I reckon it do as much
good to the soul as a lump of sugar with a
drop of peppermint on it does to the stomach
when out of sorts. It warms and strengthens
and gives tone. He be a young man. Well,
the Lord, I reckon, has got a work in store
for he, as He has called him out of the deep,
and has given him the life back as were
trembling at the door of his heart to leave.
As for the rest, they be cut off in their sins.
Take him to Welltown.'

Stay, stay ! ' exclaimed Miracle, interposing
with vehemence. ' He shall not — he
shall never go thither. Never, so long as I
am mistress there.'

'Is he to lie here on the snow?' asked
Genefer. ' You will have to give an account
of it if he do, and die in consequence.'

He shall not be taken to Welltown.'

The men looked at each other.

Where be we to carry uri to, then?'
asked Pentecost.

If he die, I'm danged if it be fair if you
deny us the ten guineas. He has life in
him now, and if he lose it, it will be your
fault, young lady. We've done our parts and
earned our money.'

Take him where you will, but not to
Welltown.'

There is no other house near.'

Here,' said Miracle, her hand trembling ;
here is the key ; take him into the slate-quarry
office. There is a bed there.'

Ay, let him go there,' said Genefer ;
'he can be cared for there just as well as at
Welltown.'

The men stooped and raised the unconscious
man again. Miracle covered her eyes
the man saved was Sampson Tramplara.

She had promised ten guineas — and that
ten guineas had saved his worthless life. Well
for her had she at this juncture offered fifty
to have him tossed back into the sea. The
men would not have done it for twenty — there
were too many present ; they would have
hesitated for thirty. But for fifty, he would
have troubled her no more.

VOL. Il K

CHAPTER L.

TWO Disobedience.

Next day Orange arrived. Miracle had sent
for her ; she could not remain longer alone
at Welltown, especially now that young
Sampson was so near. She did not go to
the office on Willapark to see him ; she did
not inquire after him. But she told Genefer
that he was to be supplied with whatever he
needed, and vas to remain where he was till
he was well enough to leave, and then he was
to go his way.

As soon as Orange arrived Miracle told
her that Sampson had been saved from
drowning after shipwreck, and was at the
office ; and Orange went immediately to see
him.

Sampson was now quite recovered from
his submersion. The fire was lighted in the
stove, and the room was warm.

Oh ! you have come, have you ? ' he
asked, when Orange entered. ' Not wise, I

reckon, unless you are bent on bringing observation
on me. What is this I hear ? I
am on Herring's land and in his office ! This
is a queer state of affairs ; but the wheel of
fate in its revolutions lands one in strange
places, and places where one would least like
to be. How came you here ? '

Orange explained to him what had taken
palace since his disappearance ; how Miracle
had been married to John Herring, and she
had been brought to Welltown.

That's queer. I haven't seen either him
or her.'

I am told that he has been called away
on business — military, I suppose — and you
cannot be surprised if she has not chosen to
see you. She knows well enough who you
are. But now, Sampson, about yourself.
How came you here ? And — are you safe,
quite safe, here ? '

Xo, I ain't, that's the cussedness of it all.
I can't stay here, especially now the Countess
Candlesticks knows of my presence and has
got a tongue in her head. If I stay here 1 shall
be taken, and I can't go, because I have no
money to go with.'

How came you here ? '

Cast up by the sea, I reckon,' answered
Sampson.

'But how came you to be wrecked
asked Orange.

Why, because I was aboard ship.'

You may as well answer me civilly
said his sister. ' If you get away from this
place, it will be by my help, and I must know
all about you, and whither you want to go.'

Curse it,' said Sampson, ' if you want
to know whence I have come I will tell you — •
from Bristol, and if you want to know why I
left, it is because Polly Skittles has blown on
me. If you want to know where I am going,
you must be content to remain in ignorance,
for I don't know myself.'

But, Sampson, how came }^ou to be in
Bristol ? '

Because it was not my intention to run
to France, or any place where I could not
speak a word of their damned parley vous. I
don't see why a fellow should not lie snug in
England instead of o^oino- into exile abroad.
So, when I had to leave Launceston, I cut off
first to Plymouth ; but there I became funky,
that was too near home, and so I made for
Bristol, and there I've been enjoying myself
ever since, and might have been living at
ease like a fighting cock but for Polly
Skittles.'

You behaved abominably. Sampy. You

carried off all the money that was in the
house, and left mother and me absolutely
destitute.'

Oh, ah ! I was not such a fool as to leave
anything. Every one for himself is my maxim.
But be reasonable ; if I had left money you
would not have had it, the creditors Avould
have been down on you and have carried off
everything. By George ! I have had many
a laugh over that Ophir since I have washed
my hands of it. That was a rare plant, better
than Polpluggan. And father did come out
splendid in it. The way in which he beat
old Flamank's covers and bagged his game
was superlative. Well, he died like Wolfe at
Quebec. " They run ! Who run ? " '' The
Ophirites." And didn't they run ! '

Sampson clapped his knees and roared.

^ It strikes me that it was you who ran,'
said Orange, sullenly. ' Now, tell me, what
are you going to do ? '

I'll tell you one thing I have learned,
and I had to go to Bristol to learn it. Orange,
never trust a woman. I might have been all
right now but for Polly Skittles. J was an
ass, I allow that. I sent word to her at the
Pio; and Whistle where I was, and asked her
to come to me and share my fortune with me.
Well, she couldn't keep her tongue in her

head, but was bragging about the rich man
she was going to marry, and so from hint to
circumstance, and all was blown. The beaks
were on the scent and after me, and I had
to make a run for it. I got on board the
Susanna " for Port Isaac. I thought if
I managed to get there, I might give them
the slip again. And now, damn it all, here
am I stranded at Boscastle, and when the
news reaches Bristol that the '^ Susanna " has
been lost, it will be known also that I am
saved, and the beaks will be after me again «^
What has become of the money, Sampson
? ' .

Oh, blast it ! there is the mischief. I
brought away all I had with me, and it has
gone down in the " Susanna*' I did have
some trifle about me when I came ashore, but
those who saved my life relieved me of my
purse. That was natural, and I cannot
complain ; I'd have done the same. But I
am mad to think that all the gold of Ophir
lies at the bottom of the Atlantic'
What is to be done now ? '
You must provide me with money.'
Nonsense, Sampy. I — I have nothing.
You know that well enough.'

I don't know anything about it. You're
clever enough to get what you want. You

hooked Captain Trecarrel fast enough when
you had set your mind on having him.'

Orange became scarlet. ' You are cruel,
Sampson ; you are worse, you are brutal. I
will have nothing more to say to you.'

Yes, you will,' said he, insolently. ^ If
you don't I'll go myself to Welltown, and
force that pale-faced fool to give me money.'

You know that she was plundered as
well as others. Her money was sunk in
Ophir.'

I know that she can take her husband's
money now. I suppose she has wit enough
to keep the keys of his cash-box. Women
are not such fools as to omit that.'

I cannot ask her for money ; indeed I
cannot, Sampy.'

Look here. Orange. How the devil am
I to get away from this place without blunt ?
And how am I to live when I get away without
ditto ? You don't suppose I can dig and
plough, do you ? '

I tell you I have nothing.'

Then you must get me something. I've
been overhauling this office and I can find
nothing in it. There is a drawer locked in
the desk that I have not opened and examined,
but I shall know its contents before long, even
if I have to break the lock. I don't, however,

expect to get much out of it. A man does
not leave money in such an uninhabited place
as this.'

^ If I get you a little you must be content
with that.'

If you get me a little I will be content
with it only as long as it lasts, and when
spent, then I shall want more.'

^ What folly this is ! You carried off
every penny you could lay hands on, and now
you ask for money from those you have
plundered.'

I do not ask you for your own money, I
know you have none to give. I want some of
Miracle's money, or her husband's — it is all the
same. Get me her diamonds if you can. Do
you not understand ? I dare not remain here
above a day longer ; I must be off before the
beaks are on my track. How is a man to get
away without a penny in his pocket ? He
must halt and beg on his road, and where he
begs there he is observed. I must double on
the hounds on their way hither. If I make
for Bath I shall do. They are sure to run to
Port Isaac, Whither the '' Susanna " was
bound.'

I wish you were safe away. I do not
relish your being here. It would be exceedingly
unpleasant for me were you taken

whilst I am at Welltown. I do not want
ugly stories to get about this neighbourhood,
for here my mother and I will have to live.'

I don't suppose you do,' answered
Sampson ; ' more the reason why I should
be given facilities for clearing off.'

I really do not know what to do. I
might represent to Miracle that you had lost
everything, and ask her for a little money, a
few pounds; but I cannot, I will not, entreat
for a large sum.'

Why not ? '

Because it is against my own interest.
I am not yet settled into the house. I have
but arrived to-day, and if my mother and I
are to take up our quarters here, I must not
begin by making myself disagreeable to the
hostess. You know what Miracle is. She is
simple in some things, but when you think
you are going to turn her round your lingers,
you discover that she is the most impracticable
person you ever had to deal with.'

I say, Orange, what about those diamonds
of hers ? '

They are paste.'
I don't believe it.'

She gave me part of the set, the pendant,
and the stones in that were all artificial.'
You fool,' said Sampson, ' that was why

she gave you the brooch. If they had been
real, do you suppose that she would have
made you such a handsome present ? '

^ I do not know,' answered Orange,
sullenly. She was angry with Sampson, and
she wanted to get " rid of him. It would
suit her very well to live with Miracle. She
hated Launceston, and wished to leave it.
She trusted that something was going to
be done for her by Miracle in fulfilment of
the promise made by John Herring on the
wedding day, but she was not certain. At
all events it was most convenient for her to
live with Miracle, and, if she were given
money, to lay it by. She had indignantly
rejected the suggestion of taking Captain
Trecarrel, but she loved him still, and she
entertained a lingering hope of future reconciliation.
If he wanted her, he would come
after her. She had sufficient sound sense to
know that he could not marry her if she was
without private means, because he was poor
himself. She was jealous of Miracle. The
Captain had hovered about her ; Miracle had
drawn him off from her. She was not at all
sure that the Captain would desist from his
attentions now that Miracle was married. She
wished, therefore, to be with her rival so as
to watch her.

Orange ! '

Well, Sampson.'

I say. We were always allies.'

^ To what does this introduction lead ? '

Where does Miracle keep her diamonds ? '

I do not know. I have come here to-day
for the first time.'

I wish you would find out.'

I can find out fast enough.'

I say, Orange, If I could finger them,
you wouldn't see much of me for many a
day, and that is what your sisterly heart
desires.'

I wish I could be sure of that.'

^ You are not over fond of the Countess
Candlesticks, I reckon.'

I hate her,' answered Orange, vehemently.


You would not mind getting those diamonds
for me, would you ? She don't want
them. What use can she make of them ina
desert like this ? She would not miss
them.'

I tell you, Sampy, i do not know where
they are, and what is more, if I did know, I
would not give them to you. I am not going
to risk my place in the house for you.'

Who is to see you take them ? Lay the
blame on me. Find out where they are and

tell me, and if accessible I will work my way
into the house and get them.'

It won't do ; it won't do indeed. If I
knew where the stones were, I would not
mind telling you ; and if you could get them
without risk of detection, and without in anyway
involving me, I would not care. But I
will not help you to them.'

If I had them, I'd be off to America at
once.'

There — I must go now,' said Orange,
rising. ' I will try to get you something, but
you must not expect much.' She turned to
go out. She was flushed and annoyed. The
presence of Sampson was vexatious to her,
and might prove inconvenient.

Stay a moment, Orange. Have you any
keys about you ? '

I must go — yes, I have. I brought
away the bunch from Dolbeare, in my haste.
What will mother do without them?'

She can send for the blacksmith, I cannot.
Leave them with me. I want to look
inside that drawer. There is a file in the
cupboard, and I can make a key fit the lock I
intend to open. Thank you. Orange. You
are a good sister — worthy of me. You do
credit to your father also. Now you may
go.'

In the night a tap sounded at the door of
Willapark office. Sampson had been working
hard and was tired. He was snoozing in
the chair over the fire. He started instantly
to full consciousness and in alarm. His fears
subsided when the door opened, and he saw
Orange enter, very white and trembling.

Well,' he said, ' what have you brought
me?'

^ A little money,' she answered, 'not much.
I could not get much for you. I have had a
quarrel with Miracle — about you.'

Have you brought me the diamonds ? '

^ No, and did not intend to do so ; but I
know where they are, and they are where
you cannot get them.'

Where is that?'

In a very strong oak bureau in the room
over the porch, and in a secret drawer in the
well of that. That room cannot be entered
except through the hall, main stairs, and
Miracle's bedroom. So put the thought of
the diamonds out of your head. The bureau
is always locked, and Miracle keeps the key.
Even if you got into the room, which is not
possible, unobserved, you would not be able
to open the cabinet. There — that is the end
of that foolish dream, and I am glad of it.
Had you taken them, I might have been suspected.

I have had a quarrel with Miracle —
about you. But I must sit down a
moment, Sampson, and then run back.' She
was out of breath; she spoke in short sentences,
breathing hard between each. 'When
we were together, she began to speak about
the pendant she had given me, and to ask for
it back. She said she would have the paste
diamonds removed, and real stones put in
their places. She told me that her necklace
had been examined, and that it had been
found that some only of the stones in it
were false. A lady's maid of her mother had
tampered with the jewels. Then she desired
to compare my brooch, with its paste diamonds,
with the real stones in her necklace ;
she got up and went to the bureau \ she took
the key out of her purse. There was a
secret drawer opening out of a sort of well in
the middle, and she brought the set of stones
out of that. After that we had compared the
false with the real diamonds she returned the
necklace to its place locked the cabinet, and
replaced the key in her purse. Then we
began to speak about you. I told her that
you were without any money, that you had
lost everything in the ship, and had been
further robbed by the men who saved your
life. She asked what of ? — of the stolen

money ? I then begged her to let you have
something to help you to get away. She set
her lips, and put on that stubborn look I
know so well. She would give nothing.
You had robbed Mr. Flamank and many
others, and it was your duty to surrender
yourself and suffer for your misdeeds. If
you had any conscience and honour, that was
what you would do, and she would not help
you to evade the consequences of your own
acts. My blood rose, and I spoke sharply.
She was cold, hard, and obstinate. At last I
got her to give me something, not for you,
but for myself. She and her husband had
made me a promise on their wedding day
to give me some trifle, and I asked her if
she purposed fulfilling that engagement,
or whether it was only an empty promise.
Then she replied that Herring had made
the promise and would fulfil it, and that, if I
was in immediate want of money, she would
give me a small sum, all she could spare, for
she had not more coin in the house. I was
forced to be content. Here are twelve
guineas ; take them and be off. I can get
you no more. There is no more to begot.'


'sell, Orange, I must take what I can
get. The diamonds can wait. I have found

something better than them in the locked
drawer.'

What is it, Sampson ? Money ? '

No, not money. Do you like John
Herring, Orange ? '

'No.'

I hate him,' said Sampson. ' You do not
love Miracle, I believe? '

'I hate her!' answered Orange, passionately.


What I have found may serve to wipe off
mutual grudges.'

I am glad of it ; use your knowledge.'

I intend to do so on the proper occasion.'

Well, good-bye, Sampson ; I must return.
Miracle must not know that I have been here.
I hope I have seen the last of you for sometime.'


I do not know. I must have a word with
John Herring before I disappear entirely.'

foolish Miracle ! Herring, before leaving,
had laid on her two injunctions, to intrust no
one with the secret of where she kept her
jewels, and to allow no one to enter his office
unattended by herself. She had disregarded
and disobeyed both injunctions.

CHAPTER LI.

TWO EXITS.

John Herring said nothing to Cicely in
allusion to what had passed. He could not
do so. He was naturally reserved about himself,
and he could not tell her of his marriage
without telling her also of his separation from
his wife. The questions would spring to her
lips : ' When were you married ? Why have
you left her? Why are you now staying at
West Wyke instead of at Welltown ? ' These
were questions she would naturally ask, and
which it would be impossible for him to explain
to her. His trouble was his own. The heart
knoweth its own bitterness, and a stranger
intermeddle not therewith. A woman
delights in pouring forth her griefs into a
sympathetic ear. A man hides his sufferings,
and resents sympathy as an insult. Herring
had said enough to let Cicely understand the
position in which he stood towards her — that of

VOL. III. L

a brother, a position he would never abandon;
she had recognised this, and had accepted it.

Herring thought night and day of Miracle.
He could not shake the burden off his heart,
and, whatever his distractions, it remained
oppressing him, an ever-gnawing pain. He
wondered what Miracle was doing ; whether
she liked Welltown — that place he loved so
well. When the sun shone out of a clear skye
thought, it is fine to-day at Welltown, and
Miracle will go upon the cliffs and hear the
gulls scream and look at the twinkling sea ;
she will inhale that wondrous air which to
him who breathes it is the inspiration of life in
long draughts. Would she dare to go in a
boat to Blackapit,when the sea was still, and
look up those walls of inky rock striped with
ledges on which the sea birds nested, up into
the blue sky above, in which even by day
stars can be discerned ? Had she wandered to
Minster Church, down in a valley embowered
in trees, with the ruins of the old monastery
crumbling about it? how happy he would
have been to be able to accompany her to the
loved spots, wild and picturesque, that had
been his delight in boyhood! Would she
venture on an excursion to S. Leighton's
Kieve, and pick there the maiden-hair fern,
dancing in the draught of the falling water?

Would she visit Pentagon, that glorious cove
with precipitous walls of rock black as night,
over which a stream bounds in a long fall to
meet the sea?

He thought of her sitting by the fire, in
her white bridal dress, so lovely, so sad, so
like a phantom from another world. Miracle
haunted him. She filled his whole heart.
Later, he would return to Welltown, when
he and she had had time to realise the relation
in which they stood to each other, and
the first poignancy of the disenchantment
was past.

Miracle was to him the ideal of purity and
perfection. He knew his own unworthiness.
He was not the man who ought to own her as
wife ; he was rude and simple. She should
be placed on a pedestal in a temple, to be
approached by worshippers on bended knees.
The snowdrops were out in the West Wyke
garden. Herring plucked one every morning
and wore it all day. Miracle had worn snowdrops
in her bosom when she married him.
The snowdrop was her appropriate flower,
white and fragile.

Herring was at Upaver all day. The mine
was turning out better than even he had anticipated.
There was no question now about
the extinction of the debt on West Wyke.
L 2

Mr. Battishill's profits would blot that out
and redeem the mortgages. Miracle's money
sunk in the machinery would yield a dividend
before the year was half out. Herring saw
to everything himself. He inspired the men
with energy. The contractor's bad work at
the buildings was made good. His mind was
occupied from morning to night ; but he never
forgot his trouble for one moment. It was
ever there rankling in his heart ; it took the
gloss off success.

Mr. Battishill had sunk into a condition
of mental feebleness and bodily exhaustion
that engaged his daughter's constant attention.
The old man could not be left alone. He no
longer rose from his bed to take his old seat
in the hall.

When Herring came back from Upaver,
he went upstairs to the Squire's room, where
he found Cicely knitting, and he sat there for
an hour talking to the sick man, trying to
interest him in what was going on at the
mine. After dinner with Cicely in the hall,
he went up again, and read Shakespeare to
Mr. Battishill. The Squire was always ready
for that. He had his favourite passages, and
these he repeated after Herring, but his power
to follow the movement of a scene and to distinguish
characters was gone. Old familiar

sentences caught his ear, and he murmured
them after Herring, as he might follow a
prayer, but his mind did not take in the
sense. Yet he never wearied of this Shakespeare
reading ; it was like well-remembered
melodies striking his ear and lino; him to
sleep.

When the Squire had had enough, he
always laid his thin hand across the book,
and said in the words of Coriolanus, ' I am
weary ; yea, my memory is tired.' Then
Cicely, John Herring, and Joyce knelt together
by the old man's bed, and he folded
his hands and said the one familiar prayer ;
and then Cicely and the rest bade him goodnight
and left him.

Sometimes the old man would become
uneasy, and ask John whether he would
protect Cicely. ' You will always stand by
her, will you not, John ? '

Herring was obliged to give him the
assurance he required.

You are my children.'

Yes, sir ; brother and sister.'

Brother and sister,' repeated Cicely.

Then the old man murmured, ' And she
is fair, and, fairer than that word, of wondrous
virtues.'

The Vicar of Tawton, the Reverend

Harmless Simpleton, was frequent in his calls.
He was an amiable and well-intentioned man.
The Simpletons are a large family, that have
never thriven at the bar, in medicine, in the
army and the navy, but the Harmless Simpletons
(the two surnames united by a hyphen)
have for several generations made the Church
their happy hunting ground. They have
gone up in the Church like corks in water.
The fattest livings, prebendal stalls, and even
bishoprics have been showered upon them.
As Napoleon won all his battles by one rule,
so the Harmless Simpletons acquired promotion
by one simple principle. In the field of
doctrine they never taught a truth without
first treating it as a taxidermist treats a frog,
killing, disembowelling, then blowing out the
fleshless, boneless skin with wind, and varnishing
the empty nothing. In the field of morals
they never attacked a real enemy, but discharged
their parks of ordnance, brought
down charges of heavy dragoons, and displayed
the most skilful strategy against imaginary
foes.

When the Reverend Harmless Simpleton
called, he divided his visit into two parts, one
of which was devoted to Mr. Battishill and
the other to Miss Cicely, in the ratio of three
to seven. Mr. Battishill was pleased to see

and hear him, and Miss Cicely became deeply-impressed
with the reverend gentleman's
amiability and good intentions.

So, little by little, the old Squire faded
away.

There was another old man, who, much
about the same time, made his exit from the
staofe, but in an alton-ether different manner.

Grizzly Cobbledick had been denied the
linnet in which to lie at night, ' like a heckamal
in a haystack.' He was obliged, much ashe
objected to it, to return to the Giant's
Table. As he feared that his old woman
would be disposed to trouble his repose there,
he provided himself with the means of sleeping
soundly, in the shape of a stone jar full
of spirits. Moreover, he paid a libation to
her manes every night. He threw some
drops of gin into the fire, saying, ' There,
old cat ! take that, and lie quiet.'

Grizzly was so far civilised by association
with men that he knew the value of money.
He had lost his shyness in the presence of
men and his reluctance to appear in the
neighbourhood of houses, and he would go
into Zeal and hang about the taverns for drink
and tobacco.

Now he had money of his own, and he
launched into extravagance. He purchased

a jar of Hollands, and carried it oiF with him
to the Table, to comfort him at night — that
he might lie in the straw and suck and nod,

CD '

then suck and doze, open an eye and suck
once more, and then drop off into a drunken
stupor.

That which amused and puzzled him
greatly was to see the spirit flame when he
cast some drops on the lire. Water quenched
fire: how came a liquor to leap into flame?
This was more than his dull mind could take
in. But it seemed to him that the essence of
fire must be in the spirit, that was why it
warmed him within, and danced and glowed
in his veins. John Herring had been as
good as his word. He had sent him straw,
and the straw was heaped up at the back of
the chamber.

Take care, Grizzly,' said the man who
brought him the bundles. ' Take care that
your fire don't get to it ; keep it well off.'

Grizzly had sense enough to do this.
When he was sleepy the old man went backwards
into the straw, disappearing entirely
with the exception of his head and the hand
that held the stone jar. The only firing was
peat, and that did not flame.

When Herring cast him his purse, it was
with the words : ' Some men cannot be helped.

One must let them go to the devil their own
way. You are one, and the sooner you go
the better.'

Then Grizzly replied, ' I be going — I bea
going as fast as I can.'

He kept his word. He went even faster
than he intended, and the way he went was
this.

He was sitting: over the hire one evenings.
He had his stone jar under his arm, and he
was patting it.

Her be running dry, her be,' said he.
Poor thing ! let me holder up and try again.'
He spoke to inanimate objects as though they
were endowed with souls as reasonable as his
own. ' There ! ' said he, as he cast a few drops
on the fire, and laughed at the flames that
leaped up ; ' that be the blue blazes I've a
swore by all my live and never snowed 'n,
to see to, T reckon. Xow there hasn't
another drop left. What ever shall I do ? I
have got more money, but no more spirits,
and what be I to do all night long ? Ah ! I
be a poor lorn creature, I be. My old woman,
her deserted me first, and a mighty shabby
trick that were. Dory hear me a speaking
of 'y, old cat? Then my daughter Joyce, her
left me — that is, I sold her when herd a gone
of herself. 'Twere good for me I got some

money out of the deal: if I hadn't, herd have
cut and run all the same.' He sat and poked
the red turves together. ^I wonder he said,
what there be in thick barrel I took from
Ophir? Like enough there be first-rate
drink in her. Old Tramplara weren't one todo
things by halves. Her be hid away under
the fern. I reckon I'll have her out and try.'

He groped beneath the straw to a nether
layer of bracken, and from under that rolled
a small keg.

There ain't much comfort to be got out
of she,' he said, ' her be so rashly small. I
wonder what there be in her? Her be hard
to open.'

He put the little barrel down by the fire.

^ I reckon I could manage a hole wi' my
old stone knife. Then he got the flint tool,
and worked it between his palms on the
end of the keg. The fire was getting
low ; he threw on some more turves. Then
he ventured on a wisp of straw to make a
blaze and assist his eyes.

^ Oh, rallaluley ! ' he exclaimed, ' I've got
the hole drilled through at last.'

He had stolen this little barrel from Ophir
during the disorder occasioned by the discovery
of the imposition. It was the only
thing that he thought might possibly be of

service to lira. He took it away, and hid it
under the fern at the back of the cohen,
intending to examine its contents at his
leisure.

Why, there be no drink here at all,' said
he in disgust, when he had put his lips to the
hole he had made. ' What be this? I've a
got my mouth full of grit ; it be black as
coal. Blast me blue, but I will let my old
woman taste it too.'

He let the contents run out in a little
stream; then he gathered a handful of the
grains and cast it in the fire to his ^ old woman.'
The contents of the keg then found their way
out in a more expeditious manner than
through the hole he had bored. Thebes; contained
blasting powder.

Thus it came about that he fulfilled his
promise faster than he had intended. Thus
also it is that one of the most interesting
monuments of a prehistoric age will not appear
on the Ordnance Map of Devonshire now
in process of execution.

CHAPTER Il

THE RETURN OF THE WANDERER.

John Herring bad fulfilled his promise. He
had made over five thousand pounds to Orange
Tramplara. No sooner was this effected than
it was whispered in the ear and the same day
proclaimed on the housetops of Launceston.
The proclamation reached Trecarrel. When
Captain Trecarrel heard it, and had satisfied
himself that this was not an empty report, he
began to reconsider the state of his feelings
towards Miss Orange. Five thousand pounds
was a sum for which he might dispose of
himself. It was not much, but more was not
to be had in that neighbourhood. The Captain
was without sisters and cousins scattered
over the country, beating the covers for heiresses
for him and blowing the horn when they
had started one. He was forced to hunt for
himself.

Five thousand pounds at five per cent, is
two hundred and fifty pounds a year. Two

hundred and fifty pounds per annum would
enable him to keep his head above water —
only his head, not his shoulders, but that
would be better than to be overhauled by
every wavelet. Now that old Mr. Tramplara
was dead, there was no one to look closely
after settlements — that was something. Captain
Trecarrel was then in very particular
want of money, and there was no money to
be got through any other channel than the
hymeneal ring. The property was already
mortgaged, and the Captain could not encumber
it further without cutting off his only
means of subsistence.

He heard that Orange, followed after a
fortnight by her mother, had moved to Well-town,
near Boscastle, and was staying with
Mr. and Mrs. Herring. The report was not
quite accurate, for Mr. Herring, as we know,
was not there. Report has the knack of interjecting
into the best substantiated information
an element of inaccuracy. He knew Herring,
and thought that through him he mio-ht o^et
the quarrel with Orange patched up — at least,
through him he would obtain admission to
the house where she lived. Herring would
know nothing of the flirtation with Miracle,
and therefore would not scruple to admit him ;
and, once in, he would manage Orange. What

girl could resist his handsome profile, his
moustache and blue eyes !

Trecarrel knew that Orange loved him,
and he knew also that when a woman loves,
her pride and resentment give way whenever
it pleases the lover to resume the assault
would not be precipitate ; he would be
friendly at first, with a tinge of restraint and
a savour of coldness in his manner towards
her. This would yield by degrees, and they
would soon recover their old intimacy and
stand towards each other on the same footing
as of old.

I know perfectly well,' said the Captain,
that there are hundreds, I may say thousands,
of girls with fortunes who would give
their ears for me, but the provoking thing is
that they have never heard of me, nor can I
obtain access to them. There are Birmingham
and Manchester manufacturers' daughters,
there are the girls of Bristol and Liverpool
merchants, without family position, and with
vulgar names, who would jump with all their
moneybags into my arms, if I could only offer
myself to them. But how am I to do so ? I
know nobody in Birmingham, Manchester, or
Liverpool moneyed society, and I am unacquainted
with any bridges. Between me
and them there is a great gulf fixed, and

though I would fain go to them, and they as
gladly come to me, yet my tongue must parch
in penury, and they must yawn in the bosom
of Croesus. The means of intercommunication
fail. I. am getting on in life, I am
thirty-four, and I ought to be doing something
towards paying off my mortgages. I
had rather have a girl with ten thousand than
one with ^n^^ for then I should be twice as
comfortable and connubial affection twice as
strong ; but if the girl with ten be not
obtainable, I must be content with her who
has only five. I wonder whence that five
thousand came? I suspect old Tramplara
put away money in his wife's name, and she
has it; and that this ^m^ thousand has been
placed to her daughter's account as a bait to
draw me. If the old woman has money, it
will come to Orange in the end; she is bad
every winter with her throat, and this is a
trying climate for throats, the temperature
changes with such rapidity. The old woman
would surely not be such a fool as to act the
King Lear, and make over all she has to her
daughter. She must have a reserve fund of
at least five thousand more. By George, I'll
risk it ! '

So Captain Trecarrel took the Camelford
coach as far as ' Drunkards all,' and walked

from that point to Boscastle, making a man
carry his valise. This was the cheapest way
of travelling, and the Captain did everything
as cheaply as he could, not because he liked
it, but because he could not help himself.
He put up at the Ship, where was a cosy
little parlour and a clean bedroom. He would
be comfortable there. He had brought his
drawing materials with him, for the purpose
of making water-colour sketches. When
making his drawings he painted his subject
in Indian ink, and then gave a Prussian blue
wash to the sea, and a wash of Prussian blue
and gamboge together over the grass and
trees, and a wash of sepia to the rocks. Then
he imagined a woman in a red cloak to
be standing in a suitable position, and the
picture would be complete. Gulls could be
added ' to taste ' by two little wet dabs with
the brush and flicks with his handkerchief.
When an evening light was wanted, by way
of variety, the picture was submitted to a
wash of pink-lake and gamboge in equal proportions.
That was how water-colours were
managed seventy years ago.

Captain Trecarrel sketched in the harbour,
then he sketched in Willapark, and crept onto
Welltown, where he found the old house
so picturesque that he sketched it also. But

the hedge was damp to sit on, so he ventured
to the front door to borrow a chair, and having
got one from Genefer he seated himself opposite
the house, and began his drawing. He
was a long time over it, as he was scrupulous
about the details, and before it was completed
Orange Tramplara came towards him. She was
returning from Boscastle, where she had been
making a few purchases. It was not possible
for her to reach the front door without passing
Trecarrel, and she had no hesitation in doing
so, as she had no idea who was there sketching;.
He had an umbrella open to screen him from
the wind; but there was a little hole in the
umbrella, and through that he had perceived
her. She was abreast of the Captain before she
recognised him. He uttered an exclamation of
surprise, started, and upset his sketchbook,
box of colours, and glass of water into the road.

I am very sorry, Captain Trecarrel,' said
Orange, much agitated. ' I fear I knocked
your things over with my cloak.'

Not at all. Orange. Bless my soul ! Who
would have expected to see you here? In
the name of all the seven wonders, what has
brought you to this place, which I supposed
was inhabited by wreckers only?'

Orange had recovered herself, and made
as though she would pass on with a bow.

VOL. III. M

No, Orange, I will not permit you to slip
away thus. I want you to be in the foreground
of my picture, as you have ever been
in my thoughts. A marvellous piece of good
fortune has brought us face to face. On a
desert island those who have been cast up by
the sea forget old grudges and shake hands.
I will not be thrust aside in this wild and
lonely spot, because once upon a time we had
a lovers' quarrel.'

I am surprised to see you here, Captain.'

The surprise is mutual. I heard that
you and Mrs. Tramplara had retired to Falmouth.
Are you lodging at this old farmhouse
for your mother's health?'

This is Welltown, the house of Mr.
Herring.'

This ! bless my soul ! I thought he lived
in a stately mansion in a deer park, not in an
old ramshackle box like this. The world is
smaller than I imagined. I have been making
a sketching tour of the North Coast from
Portland to Boscastle, and I intend continuing
it to the Land's End. I have some
thought of publishing my sketches in mezzotint,
coloured by hand. You know my impecuniosity.
I thought to turn an honest
penny this way without degradation,'

Have you been long here ? '

Only a few days.'

Where are you staying ? '

At the Ship.'

What sort of entertainment do you meet
with there ? '

Ham and eggs to-day ; tomorrow, byway
of variety, eggs and ham. Those are
the changes. Nothing else is procurable all
down the coast from Portland to the Land's
End. I am told, wherever I go, that next
week a sheep or a cow will be killed, and
then mutton-chop or beef-steak will be had.
But the cow or sheep moves before me as I
proceed on my journey, and I never overtake
it.'

We dine early. Will you join us ? '

So peace was concluded. The difficulty
in concluding it was not great, as Orange was
as inclined to meet the Captain as he had
been to meet her. Indeed, her readiness to
strike hands and forget the past alarmed him.
He was of a suspicious character, and her
manifest desire to renew the old acquaintanceship
made him dread a trap.

He did not know that Orange was getting
deadly tired of Boscastle. Of society in the
neighbourhood there was little. The only
gentlefolks of county position were the
Phyllacks of the manor. Old Sir Jonathan

was a stately gentleman of the past generation,
somewhat pompous, who moved surrounded
by his seven daughters, as the judge
encircled by the javelin men. The daughters
were extraordinarily alike, and though the
utmost effort had been made to distinguish
them at the first by giving each two or three
names, nevertheless Orange felt she might
spend a lifetime in their company without
being able to know Miss Grace Pomeroy from
Miss Anna Maria Amy, or Miss Elizabeth
Gilbert from either or from Miss Catherine
Penhelligan. They never called separately,
but called, all seven together, with Sir
Jonathan in the midst. They never walked
in batches, but walked in a system rotating
round Sir Jonathan like the planets round the
sun. When Miracle and Orange returned
their call, they found Sir Jonathan sitting at
the fire in a hollow square composed by his
daughters, and when one rose to shake hands,
her place was occupied by another, whilst Sir
Jonathan remained, bowing but inaccessible,
behind their petticoats. The extraordinary
thing about the Misses Phyllack was that they
all seemed of the same age ; their manners
were alike, the expression of their faces
equally sweet, the tones of their voices equally
soft, like the cooing of wood-pigeons. They

were all equally resolute never to admit a
stepmother.

Even if Orange bad contemplated it
seriously, it was hopeless to break through
this bodyguard of daughters, capture and
carry off Sir Jonathan. After the call the old
gentleman ventured to remark, ' A fine girl
that ! ' whereupon Miss Grace Pomeroy objected
that she was coarse, and Miss Anna
Maria Amy that she had bad feet, and Miss
Elizabeth Gilbert that she had a temper, and
Miss Catherine Penhelligan that she was inelegant
in her postures, and so on to the
seventh, when Miss Grace Pomeroy took up
the subject again, and poor Orange would
have been picked to the bone, had not Sir
Jonathan withdrawn his provocative remark
with, ' Very true, my dears, very true ; my
eyes deceived me.'

Orange would have been glad enough to
become Lady Phyllack, but to become Lady
Phyllack the knight must be got at, and to
get at him the circle must be broken. There
was no Arnold of Winkelried at Boscastle to
open a road through which Orange might
dash in. Not a single Miss Phyllack had
been lured from her post, all still were Misses
Phyllack and coheiress. It cannot be said
that the ladies looked upon marriage as an

evil to be avoided in their own persons, but,
unfortunately for them, there were no marriageable
young gentlemen in the neighbourhood.
To find them they must go afield to Exeter
or Bath, but to go there was to expose Sir
Jonathan to fascinating widows and designing
old maids ; and though the knight occasionally
suggested a migration to some fashionable
resort, the daughters unanimously refused
their consent, in their dread of it leading to a
stepmother.

The seven young ladies received Miracle
readily into their society, but were cool
towards Orange. The seven bosoms instinctively
and together felt suspicious of Orange,
and, after the remark their father had made,
hostile towards her, as a dangerous person
who must be kept out of Sir Jonathan's
sight.

Orange had found that storm-beaten coast
a very dull world. When Captain Trecarrel
appeared in it, she felt relief and saw a chance
of escape from it. Poor Miracle was not prepared
to receive the Captain with composure.
The remembrance of what had passed between
them on Christmas morning was too fresh, and
she felt too keenly that it was her confession
of love for him that had separated her from
her husband, and would remain as a barrier

keeping hint away. She had been living a
peaceful and lonely life at AVelltown, and from
seems; no more of Trecarrel her feelings towards
him had become less intense. In time
she hoped that this acuteness would be sufficiently
blunted to enable her to think more
of John Herring. She knew that it was her
duty to love him, and she would try to do so,
but to do so she must first forget Trecarrel.
She was struggling with her heart, to hold it
down, and bend it towards her husband. She
allowed no thought to recur to Trecarrel.
She shut her eyes against every flash of recollection
that illumined him, as if to remember
him were a sin. Stone suspected
what was passing within, under that frozen
exterior. She seemed wholly emotionless,
and yet Orange knew that she was unhappy,
was suffering, though she neither knew the
extent nor the occasion of her suffering:.
Orange, who had never striven against any
inclination or current of thought, had no suspicion
of the systematic, deliberate, and obstinate
battle Miracle was fio-htino' with her
own heart.

And now, when the first resistance was
broken, when she had gained some little successes,
preludes of a complete victory, the
Captain reappeared, introduced into the house

by Orange to turn the scale of battle against
her conscience. Miracle received him with
courtesy, but with coldness. She listened to
his conversation without seeming to take
interest in it, but out of civility she ventured
to say a few words and ask a question, and
directly dinner was over she withdrew to her
boudoir with an apology, and without a request
that he would renew his visit. Captain
Trecarrel was a little disappointed at his
reception. He had been profuse in his expressions
of delight at accidentally renewing
acquaintanceship, and had been pathetic on
his distaste for ham and eggs alternating with
eggs and ham.

When Miracle left the hall, she hastened
to her own room, and threw herself on her
knees. The trial was more than she could
bear. The sight of Trecarrel had undone in
one moment the work of months.

Orange made amends for Miracle's neglect.
She begged the Captain to come there again
for early dinner, whenever he was sketching in
that direction ; and as Captain Trecarrel found
that the beauties of the portion of the coast
south-west of Boscastle were superior to those
on the north-east, he was there a good deal.
He was surprised to find that neither Miracle
nor Orange knew anything of the sights of

the neighbourhood. He volunteered to escort
them. He insisted on taking them to S.
Leighton's Kieve, on driving them to Tintagel,
and on their exploring the ruins of
King Arthur's Castle together. They must
visit Blackapit in a boat. There was a seal-cave
that ought to be seen — it was a long
way off and must be visited by boat — but the
weather was splendid, and the sea was as
calm as the Atlantic can be on this coast.
The weather was indeed delightful, and the
saddest heart could not resist the spring
influence which swelled the buds and inspired
the birds with song.

Miracle allowed herself to be drawn on
these excursions only with extreme reluctance.
Orange was bent on going, and it was not
proper to allow Orange to go alone with the
Captain. A third person must accompany
them, and Mrs. Trampleasure could not be induced
to leave the house, her Blair's Sermons,
and Robin's ' Ancient History.' Miracle felt
that the place was dull for Orange, who, with
her fulness of life and spirits, needed amusement.
She was unable herself to provide her
with distractions, and she therefore yielded to
Orange's solicitations that they should accept
the Captain's offers, and make these expeditions
with him. But Miracle hoped that each

would be the last. The Captain was always
on the eve of leaving to prosecute his tour,
nevertheless there he remained. This was
becoming unendurable to Miracle ; the strain
on her was too great. Captain Trecarrel was
very civil to Orange, but in her presence
never more than very civil. Orange gave
him every possible encouragement, but he
still hesitated. He would not speak till he
had sounded Miracle as to the source and
extent of Orange's property and expectations,
and Miracle never gave him the opportunity
of speaking with her alone. Till he knew for
certain what Orange was worth, and whether
the five thousand pounds were really hers, or
merely fluttered in his face to lure him on, he
would not commit himself. Nor was this the
only cause of his hesitation. Since he had
come to Boscastle, he had heard of the Misses
Phyllack, seven coheiress, and he had done
himself the honour of calling on Sir Jonathan.
There was some remote connection between
the families which justified him in paying a
visit now that he was in the neighbourhood.
He was graciously received by the young
ladies, whose hearts were set in a flutter by
his languishing blue eyes, and cordially by
Sir Jonathan, who was delighted to have
some one to talk to. So he dropped into the

manor-house of an evening to take a hand at
whist, and to talk about remote cousins, and
to be an apple of discord among the seven
sisters. If the seven Misses Phyllack had but
one hand between them on which he could
put the ring, Captain Trecarrel would not
have hesitated to marry them all; but one
out of seven coheiress meant one seventh
of Sir Jonathan's property when Sir Jonathan
was dead, and the old knight looked remarkably
robust ; it meant also very little indeed,
should the old gentleman marry again, and
beget a son. Now, over the walnuts and
wine one evening, when the daughters were
out of hearing, Sir Jonathan had ventured on
a remark about Orange : ' Fine woman that
deuced good-looking ; my daughters won't
let me look at a handsome face, but I may
give them the slip some day.' This made
Trecarrel uneasy, and next day he redoubled
his attentions to Orange, and made no call
at the manor.

Orange watched Miracle, and saw that she
loved Captain Trecarrel. She saw it in the
struggle made by Miracle to escape his society,
by her reluctance to join in the excursions he
proposed. Orange was suspicious of the Captain.
Was he there for her sake, or because he
was still attracted by Miracle? She watched

him closely. He was attentive to Miracle, and
his eye rested on her inquiringly now and then,
when he thought he was unobserved.

Why, unless he still loved Miracle, did he
not ask Orange to be to him what she had
been before? What stood in his way?. That
he was waiting till he knew all the particulars
about her five thousand pounds, and>till he
had made up his mind about the Misses Phyl-
lack, never occurred to her.

CHAPTER LIII.

A PRIVATE INTERVIEW.

For some time the stress of work at Upaver,
and anxiety about both the success of the
mine and the decline of Mr. Battishill's
health, had kept under the yearning of John
Herring's heart to see Miracle again. Love
was ever paramount, pain ever present, but
he resolutely suppressed his desire to be with
her. Duty kept him at West Wyke, and
away from Welltown.

When, however, Mr. Battishill's life had
ebbed away, and the first grief of Cicely was
surpassed, and when Upaver mine was in
full working order, when the spring was well
on, and earth and sky were full of love, and
joy, and hope, then the hunger of his heart
became exacting. He must return to Well-town,
see Miracle, and maybe renew his pain.

The spring flowers were very lovely, and
he brought bunches of them to Cicely; but
that was not the same as offering them to

Miracle. It was pleasant to hear Cicely's
gentle voice, with the faintest touch of Devonshire
brogue in it ; but that was nothing to
the delight of listening to the tones of Miracle's
English tinged with French. He must see
and hear her again. He could endure his
banishment no longer.

The lodestone mountain drew ships toit,
and when they came near extracted from
them their bolts and nails, and the vessels
went to pieces at its feet. Miracle was his
lodestone, and, even at the risk of a final and
fatal wreck to his happiness, he must see her.

He still entertained the hope that in time
Miracle might learn to desire his presence,
might come to think that life at Welltown
would be pleasant were he there to enliven
it, might cease to shrink from him in that
vague terror she had shown when he had told
her his love, and when he had married her.
She regarded him. Might not this regard
deepen into a warmer sentiment?

Herring had told Cicely nothing. She
had not made a second attempt to force her
way into his confidence. It is difficult to say
to what extent she suspected the state of his
heart. She certainly had no knowledge of
his marriage. Miracle was never mentioned
by either of them. He knew that Cicely instinctively

disliked her, and lie knew that he
admired her, though she hardly suspected that
he did more than greatly admire her.

Herring's position at "West Wyke was
anomalous. The people — that is, the workmen
at the mine, and the farmers and cotters
on the estate — called him the young Squire,
and supposed that he was a near relative, and
the heir to the property. They sometimes
spoke of him as young Squire Battishill.
There were few neighbours of the class of the
Battishills, and those that were had long
ceased to call on the old gentleman and his
daughter. They themselves were mounting
in the world, and the Battishills were falling.
He gave no entertainments, and kept no
carriage, not even a gig. This class therefore
did not concern itself with the affairs at West
Wyke, after it had done the civil thing of
attending his funeral. Nevertheless John
Herring felt that the situation was unsatisfactory.
He would have liked to take Cicely
to Welltown to stay with Miracle, for change
of air and scene, and to have persuaded Miracle
to return with them to West Wyke, when
he was recalled by the concerns of the mine.
But, as matters stood between him and his
wife, this was not possible.

At times he fell into a daybreak, which

brightened his spirits for a few hours. He
thought that perhaps now Miracle might bid
him stay by her. Then his future would be
changed, the spring would burst forth in his
heart, as in surrounding nature. Till then
the frost must lie within. He must go home
and learn his fate. He could stay away no
longer. No — no ! West vVyke was not home.
He must see if the ice were thawing at Well-town.


So he bade farewell to Cicely and Joyce,
set the men at Upaver their tasks, and departed.


There was another motive in his heart
drawing him back to Welltown — another beside
his desire of again seeing Miracle. In
the locked drawer of his office desk he had
left his confession to Miracle — his confession
of the fact that all the money that had been
spent to buy up the West Wyke mortgages,
that had been sunk in Upaver, and that which
had been given to Orange, and that also which
Miracle was now enjoying, was her own, the
proceeds of the sale of the uncut diamonds
her father had brought to England from Brazil
the diamonds in which he had invested his
fortune as a convenient and portable form in
which to transfer it from one country to
another. He did not wish Miracle to see this.

He did not wish it, for his own sake and for
hers. For good or for ill — it seemed wholly
for ill — the thing had been done, and could
not be recalled. By no means could the effects
of the mistake be avoided. If she knew the
circumstances, nothing she could do would
alter them, and the knowledge would only
give her additional and renewed pain, for she
might well suppose that had it come to her
earlier she would have been saved from taking
the fatal step that could not now be retraced.
Putting his own wishes aside entirely, Herring
could see that the only chance of happiness
open to Miracle was for her to accept the
situation, draw towards him, and learn to love
him. Were the truth now to break on her,
the breach would become irreparable. He
knew that he had acted towards her unselfishly
and conscientiously, and the error into
which he had fallen had been an error of
judgment. But would she believe this? Was
it not far more probable that she would suppose
he had acted with selfish premeditation
from the first, and thus become for ever embittered
against him

His anxiety about the confession grew ashe
thought this over and fevered him as he
walked. He resolved directly on his arrival
to destroy the document. Why had he not

VOL. III. N

done so before instead of leaving it? Because
tie had been flurried at leaving, and had
thought that it might be useful on some future
occasion. The drawer was locked, and therefore
he had no cause for fear, but nevertheless
he was uneasy. Other keys besides his own
might unlock it, and though he did not believe
that Miracle would wilfully and knowingly
pry into what he wished to keep concealed,
yet it was possible that his words relative to
the locked drawer when he left her had been
unheeded, and that, finding a key wherewith
to open it, she might look in for some mislaid
paper or account needed by the foreman of
the slate-quarry, and when the drawer was
opened she would see the packet lying in it addressed
to herself. Herring went accordingly
to Willapark first, and with his private key
unlocked the office, and then locked himself
in. The office was much as he had left it,
and yet not entirely. Some one had been
there. The chairs were in unusual places.
The position of the desk was changed. Probably
Genefer had done this in dusting or
cleaning. He opened the drawer immediately,
and saw that the packet was gone.

Herring sat down on his bed to think.
He was almost certain that the letter had
been put in the locked drawer, and yet, when

he came to revolve in his mind the events of
the night and morning when the letter had
been written and put away, he found that he
could be certain of nothing about it save that
he had written, made np, and addressed the
packet. He had purposed putting it in the
drawer and locking it up. He believed he
had done as he purposed, but it was possible
that, in the confusion and distress in which he
then was, he might have omitted to do so. If
the letter had been put elsewhere, it must
have been put in his cupboard. This cupboard
consisted of a set of shelves that had
been run up in a recess, combined with an
extemporised wardrobe, where he kept his suit
in which he went out boating and shooting.

The cupboard was not closed with a door,
but had a curtain on an iron bar in front of
it, which latter turned on a crook. He went
at once to this closet and thrust the bar and
curtain aside so as to get into the recess and
examine the shelves. To this place he had
gone for the bullets on that turning night in
his life. He mounted a stool to explore the
upper shelves. He would not leave one un-searched
till he had found the missing packet.
Whilst thus engaged he heard a key put into
the lock, and the door opened. He was sure

2

prised, and remained where he was, screened
from view.

Then he heard Miracle say: ' Captain Tree
I sent for you to meet me here in
private, as I have something to say to you
which I do not wish Orange to hear, because
it concerns Orange.'

Miracle,' replied the Captain, ' I also have
been desirous of seeing you in private, as I
also have something to say to you which is
not for Orange's ears.'

The first impression on Herring's mind on
hearing these words was surprise at Miracle's
indiscretion in arranging a private interview
with the Captain. Not a shadow of suspicion
of other motives than what were honourable
crossed him. It had never occurred to him
that Trecarrel was the man Miracle loved.
Had he known this, nevertheless not a thought
of anything unworthy of her would have
entered his mind. He saw that she had acted
in ignorance of conventional proprieties. His
first impulse was to step forward and show
himself. On second thoughts he refrained from
doing so. He refrained for Miracle's own sake.
If he were suddenly to emerge from behind
the curtain it would bring home to her at
once the impropriety of her conduct, embarrass
and distress her. and place both her and the

Captain in a very awkward position. The
interview was about Orange, and there could
be no reason why he should not overhear it,
and indeed take part in it, unless it were, ashe
supposed, concerning the Captain's engagement
to Orange. If that were so it would be
kindest to allow Miracle to have her few words
about it with Trecarrel, and he — John Herring
— would tell her immediately after that
he had overheard the conversation.

Je vous donne le pas, Monsieur le Capitaine.'


Je le trends de bon gre, madame,' replied
Trecarrel. ' But as I think in English and
not in French, perhaps you will allow me to
say what I want in my native tongue.'

Certainly.'

In the first place, then, let me speak about
my book on the Cornish Coast scenery. I
think it advisable that you should possess
early copies — proofs before the plates are worn.
I think you offered to take three copies at
five guineas.'

1 believe I did. Have you secured a publisher?'


Xo, not yet, but that is a matter of
secondary importance. A publisher can always
be secured for drawings such as mine, of
scenery that has such historic interest — King

Arthur, Uther Pendragon, Whenever, and
so on

1^0 doubt

If not inconvenient to you, would you
mind letting me have your subscription at
once ? I want, you understand, to secure you
rubbed copies.'

You shall have the money tomorrow.'

You quite see that I am pressing this
entirely in your own interest. There is a
material difference between early copies and
late impressions, and first subscribers who
have paid up will, as a matter of strict justice,
be given the best and sharpest copies.'

Quite so.'

There was another matter on which I
wished to speak to you. A man was saved
from the wreck of the " Susanna " in the
winter. That man gave out his name as
George Bidgood. You, I understand, gave
him shelter. You are aware who he is ? '

I saw him brought ashore.'

You know then that he is no more
George Bidgood than I am. George Bidgood
was the seaman on board the " Susanna,"
and was lost in it. The man who was rescued
from the waves was Sampson Tramplara, but,
as he desired to disguise the fact that he had
been saved and was alive, he took for the

occasion the name of the drowned man, and
there was no one in Boscastle who knew otherwise
except yourself. Sampson disappeared
after that, but he has just turned up again, as
it happens, at an awkward moment for himself,
for the '' Chough " has come into harbour,
and the mate of the " Chough " — a little smack
that trades between this place and Bristol —
knew Bidgood intimately, and the same man
had learned in Bristol that a swindler had
made off in the " Susanna," and was supposed
to have been lost in her. Last night Sampson
was at the Ship Inn drinking, when the mate
of the " Chough '^ came in and joined the
party. In the course of conversation Sampson
was spoken of as Bidgood ; this led to an explanation,
and then the mate charged him
with being the man whom justice was pursuing,
disguising himself under Bidgood's
name. There was a disturbance, Sampson
was drunk, and m the scuffle he stabbed the
mate, and made his escape.'

Mon Dieu I le pauvre homme ! est-il mort ? '
No. The man is not dead, but he has
been mortally wounded. However, the condition
of the mate concerns us only in a
secondary manner — the fate of Sampson is
that with which we have to do.'

He must suffer for what he has done.*

Will you speak to Orange, and tell her
what has taken place ? '

Miracle hesitated a moment, and then said,
If necessary I will do so.'

sit is necessary. Sampson must not betaken
here. The mate is mortally wounded ;
Sampson must be helped to escape. If he
wants money and means of escape he must be
provided with them.'

I will not assist him with money or means
of escape. He has done wrong, and must
take the consequences.'

You are right, no doubt, in principle, but
the world cannot go on upon principle, it must
have its workings eased to suit convenience.
It will never do that he should be taken here,
and your relationship to the scoundrel come
out.' I

It cannot be helped.'

But you must consider Orange and her
mother. By the way, there is another matter
I must mention. I have had a talk with
Sampson — of course, before this last unpleasant
affair with the mate of the " Chough."
He was not shy of me, for he knew I would
not betray him. During our conversation he
let drop some insinuations against your —
against Mr. Herring. He says that Mr.
Herring robbed you of the greater portion of

your fortune, without either you or Mr.
Tramplara, your guardian, knowing or suspecting
it'

Stop,' said Miracle, haughtily; ' not another
word, Captain Trecarrel. Mr. John Herring
is incapable of acting otherwise than honourably,
and I refuse absolutely to listen to slanders
that issue from the mouth of Sampson
Trampleasure.'

You are right, Countess, quite right. I
was as indignant as you are now. I positively
refused to believe it. But he proceeded to
enforce his hints with circumstances.'

'■ Captain Trecarrel, you must have understood
me very imperfectly. I refuse to hear
another word on this offensive and insulting
topic. If you have done speaking about the
escape of Mr. Sampson Trampleasure, let me
say what I desire to say. Mr. John Herring
is an honourable man, and in his absence I
am the guardian of his honour.'

I also shut my ears when Sampson said
what he did,' continued Captain Trecarrel ;
^ I had no intention of saying anything to you
about the reflections he cast on the character
of your husband which might be disagreeable
for you to hear, I mention this only as supplying
an additional reason for getting Sampson
Tramplara out of the way, even by helping

him with money. It would be most unpleasant
for you were he to make disclosures
affecting John Herring's character '

'• He can make no such disclosures. John
Herring's character cannot be impeached.'

Certainly — I used the wrong term: were
he to hint '

The hints of such as he can do no harm.'

There you are wrong ; they would be
eao;erlv listened to, and believed. John
Herring is not here to defend himself, and as
you say you are the guardian of his honour,
I think it is your duty to save him this annoyance.'


^ If that be so, let him escape. It goes
against my conscience, but, to save my husband
unpleasantness, I will do what you ask.
I will give him money. You may take my
purse.'

Excuse me. I shall not see the fellow.
He is not likely to show again at the Ship,
nor am I likely to come across him anywhere
in my walks. But he will not leave without
having seen Orange. She must have provided
him with money before, and his return
to Boscastle now means that he has spent all
she let him have, and wants more.'

I will speak to Orange, and give her
money. But now that this hateful subject is

settled, you will allow me to speak to you
about Orange.'

I am ready to hear anything you may say.'

Miracle hesitated. She began to tremble,
and cast her eyes on the ground. ^ Orange,'
she began — ' that is to say, I mean — but.
Captain Trecarrel, it is hard for me to say
what I want, and you ought not to have put
the necessity on me of saying it. You are
not acting fairly by Orange, or — by me. I
am sure that — that Orange regards you very,
very much; you were engaged to marry her,
and I think — I do think you are bound in
honour to do so. She is not happy; I can see
that she frets. You are trifling with her
heart. Why are you here? Why do you
not prosecute your journey? Time presses;
you must finish your series of sketches whilst
the fine weather lasts. Why, then, do you
remain here, and come up to Welltown every
da', and make excursions with us, and — why
do you not leave us in peace?'

You, you, Miracle, urge me to make
Orange Trampleasure my wife after '

She cut him short. ' You are bound to
marry her. Do you not see that yourself?
Y'^ou were eno-ao-ed to her before that miserable
affair of Ophir intervened to destroy her
happiness.'

After what I told you, Miracle, that
Christmas Day ? '

Forbear ! ' said Miracle ; ' never recur to,
nor allude to that again. I have forgotten it
that is, I try, I pray to forget it. Yes, I
entreat you to take Orange.'

There are several objections,' said Tree
' In the first place, I cannot afford it.'

Orange has five thousand pounds.'

Has she no more?'

^ JS^ot that I am aware of.'

What puzzles me is, how did she come
by the money? I thought everything had
gone when that scamp Sampson bolted.'

That is easily explained. John Herring
gave her the money.'

He gave Orange five thousand pounds !
This is incredible. What claim had she on
him?'

She had been kind to me. I asked him
to do it.'

'An exemplary husband! But how the
deuce did he come by so much money? I
know what Welltown is worth. He cannot
have saved it — men in the army spend, they
do not save; he cannot have made it. He did
not inherit it. Whence did it come ? '

That concerns neither you nor me to
know.'

^ Orange then really has, of her own, ^yq,
thousand pounds

Yes.'

Has she prospects of more ? '

I believe not.'

Five thousand pounds ! By the way,
would it be possible to organise a picnic conjointly
with the Misses Phyllack to Cracking-ton
Cove ? The old knight to stay at home.'

Captain Trecarrel, you are evading the
point. You are trying to turn the subject.
I am anxious ; I am troubled. Do not play
with me. It cost me a severe struggle to
make up my mind to speak to you alone, and
on this subject.'

Why should it cost you a struggle ? '

It has — that is enough. Do you not
see ? I am pleading for a — a sister ; for her
happiness. Can you not understand that I
am shy of doing this, and that I only do it asa
duty, and for the sake of a sister ? '

Miracle ! ' said the Captain, slowly. He
looked hard at her. ' That is not it. I can
read your heart more clearly than you think.
You are desirous of getting me to marry
Orange so as to erect a double wall of duty
between yourself and me — it is because you
doubt your own fortitude unless double -
steeled with a sense of twofold duty '

^ Captain Trecarrel ! ' exclaimed Miracle,
in deadly terror — for lie had divined and
given expression to her real motive. ' I pray
yon say nothing about me. Pnt me altogether
out of your thoughts. Speak only of
Orange.'

You see there is this confounded business
about Sampson in the way. Suppose the
fellow be apprehended — and the whole of Bos-castle
is alive and out after him — and suppose
the mate dies, as is most probable, Sampson
Avill swing. Do you not see that I cannot
well quarter the cherokees with a gallOws ? '

He shall escape — he must escape.
Orange shall have the money ! Captain
Trecarrel, either take Orange, or go your
way to the Land's End.'

^ I want time to consider.'

^ Take time, but not too much. Now leave
me.'

Oh, Miracle, is not this cruel of you — of
you who knew the state of my heart, what I
have suffered, and am suffering still '

^ Leave me ! ' said Miracle. She trembled
in every limb. ' Leave me ! — leave me ! '

He hesitated a moment, and then went
out.

She stood looking at the door. Then her
pent-up feelings burst forth. She cast herself

on her knees, and sobbed and cried, * My
God ! my God ! forgive me ! I love him still !
I have striven against it ! Thou knowest the
secrets of the heart. I love him still ! ' Then
the door burst open, and Orange came in, her
face livid with rage, and her large eyes
flashing hate.

What is this ? — is this ? — you meet
Captain Trecarrel in secret and alone here ? '

I beg your pardon, Miss Trampleasure,'
said Herring, stepping forward ; ' not in
secret, nor alone. I have a right, I presume,
to see any one or two in my own room that I
choose.'

Miracle looked up dazed. Her eyes were
blind with tears. She understood nothing of
what was going on, neither how Orange had
come in, nor whence Herring had risen.

Orange looked first at Herring, then at
Miracle, still kneeling and with tears in her
eyes and on her cheeks, and laughed scornfully.


• I apologise, Mr. Herring. I have intruded
on the confession of a penitent.'

CHAPTER Lii.

THE PORCH ROOM.

Herring gave his arm to Miracle to conduct
her back to Welltown. He did not say much
to her, as his own heart was full, and she, he
knew, needed time to recover herself.

Now he knew all. He had never suspected
an attachment for the Captain, but had
supposed that she had lost her heart to someone
in France. What he now learned increased
his trouble. Separation from a lover
on the other side of the Channel might, intime,
have effaced or obscured his image, but
Trecarrel was too near to be forgotten. Herring
saw that Trecarrel had perceived that
Miracle's efforts to bring about a reconciliation
and re-engagement with Orange were
dictated by alarm for herself, by her desire to
erect a double barrier between herself and the
man she loved, so as to afford her conscience
a double reason for mastering her affection
for him.

Herring did not wish to speak with
Miracle on this subject till later — till he had
had time to think over the situation in which
he and she were now placed. He therefore
said a few words on ordinary topics during the
walk to Welltown. He observed that she
seemed even frailer and more bloodless than
before. The strong air of the coast had not
braced her into vigorous life, but seemed to
overpower the feeble life that pulsated in her
veins.

You do not grow stronger, Miracle ? '

I am well in body,' she said.

I do not think so. You ought to see a
doctor — you look so thin and white.'

The only doctor I need is the sun,' she
answered, ' and his visits are so few that they
must be costly.'

But this wonderful stimulating air '

• There is too much air. It is never at
rest — always blowing. I dislike the wind.
And the sea is always tossing and thundering.
The leaves on the plants, the blades of grass,
are never still, but always fluttering and
swaying. The waves are ever battering and
marino; at the rocks. for a Mediterranean —
a tideless sea ! I want peace, stillness, a calm ;
with the sun shining, and no sea near, and no
noise save the hum of bees. Here there are

VOL. III. o

no bees ; the wind carries them out to sea and
they drown in the brine. You do not understand
me. Here there are no butterflies ; the
wind breaks their wings. You do not comprehend
my state of mind.'

Yes, I think so. You like a hot climate.*

I love warmth, but I love stillness better.
That is what my soul craves for and cannot
obtain. Here the flowers do not bloom — they
blow away. Here the birds do not sing — they
scream. Here we have weeks of gloomy
skies. I want no shadow at all save that of a
cross flung over a hot white road. But one
sees no crosses here, only signpost. We bear
our own crosses hammered red-hot into our
lives.'

The evening was beautiful. The sun was
setting over the sea, making a road of quivering
gold upon the waves. The air was warm.
Herring looked round. The scene was grandly
beautiful. He wondered that Miracle could
not love it.

He went into the house, and had tea in the
hall with her and Mrs. Trampleasure. Orange
feigned a headache and did not appear.

Then he ascended the stairs with Miracle
to the little boudoir or porch room ; he must
have a conversation with her in private before
again leaving.

The room was small ; it was pleasant,
prettily furnished with rose-coloured satin
curtains, the walls white and gold. But the
damp had come through the paper and formed
black fungoid stains, disfiguring all one side.
There was no fireplace in the room, so that it
could only be used in summer. In the corner
stood the bureau in which Miracle kept the
jewels, a bureau of inlaid wood, with ornamental
breastwork about the locks and handles.
The chairs were white and gold. Herring had
spent a good deal of money on this room,
hoping that it would please Miracle, and that
she would be happy in it.

He took a chair. She seated herself in
the window on the low seat. She opened the
casement, and the summer air was wafted
in, bearing; on its winojs the murmur of the
sea.

^ Miracle,' he said, ' I overheard all that
passed in the office on Willapark. I was
there when you came in, but I did not show
myself, lest by so doing I should cause you
embarrassment. Excuse my saying it, but
I do not think you acted wisely in inviting
Captain Trecarrel to meet you there.'

No, I do not think I did, but I could not
in any other way get a word in private with
him.'



'• And you wished to urge him to marry
Orange. I think with you that in honour he
is bound to take her.'

^ Yes, I wish that very much.'

At the same time I think your interference
miscalculated to advance the cause
you have at heart. It was indiscreet of
you, Miracle.'

Perhaps so. You are always right, and
know what ought to be done, and do it.'
After a pause, she said : ' Yes, it was not wise
of me. I will never do it again. But then,
consider, I was alone, and had no one to advise
me, for in this matter I could not consult
Orange. When I was at the Sacre Coeur, I
knew my way about the dear home in the
dark, but here I am in a world without
orientation. All the familiar landmarks fail
me, all the ways lead in unknown directions.
I am translated, morally, into a country that I
am expected to travel through without a map
or a guide.'

Miracle, if you like, you have only to say
the word and I will stay here as your adviser.
You are too weak.'

No, my good friend, I am not weak.'

'Weak in body, Miracle — not weak in
character.'

No ; I will always do my duty, as I see it.^

You are too inexperienced to be left
alone

I have Orange with me

But what is Orange as an adviser ? You
confessed as much just now when you admitted
you were without a guide. Miracle !
I am sure Orange does not like you. She is '
she was about to add 'jealous,' but he
checked himself — ' she is not a desirable
person to have about you perpetually. I do
not trust her sincerity.'

I do. I have never done anything to
make her dislike me.'

He remained silent. It was difficult for
him to speak the truth, and yet it must bespoken
for her sake.

Orange is strongly attached to Captain
Trecarrel ; that you know,' said Herring.
Now a loving woman is a suspicious woman.
He will not renew his engagement with her,
he shirks doing so ; and she seeks an explanation
of his conduct, and finds it where she has
no right to look for it.'

Miracle turned her face to Herring.

I told you all, that evening after we had
been married. You know that something
passed between him and me, not much, just
enough to '

Yes, Miracle, you told me that your heart

was a treasure I might not possess, but you
did not inform me to whom you had surrendered
it.'

I did not ! I failed in my duty. I intended
to do so, my friend.'

You did not, but now I have found it
out.'

Oh, John Herring, do not say that I surrendered
my heart. That I never did. It
was drawn from me, and I fought against it,
I prayed against it. God help me ! I have
been very miserable : I am miserable still.
You are not angry with me ? I could not
help myself.'

I — I angry with you ? No, Miracle,
never ; you have done me no wrong. If
wrong has been done, it has been done by
me to you.'

I have suffered, because since I married
you I knew it was wrong to think of another
man, and I do believe I should have conquered
in the end had not Captain Trecarrel come
here. I thought he came after Orange, and I
have done my best to promote her interests.
I want him to go away, and then I will begin
my battle over again. He will leave now, and
in time I shall have conquered the thoughts I
ought not to harbour.'

Miracle — one word. Shall I stay here ?

I shall not trouble you with my presence
more than is absolutely necessary. My old
office shall be my home, but I shall be at
hand to advise and to help you.'

She shook her head.

I have no right to say Go, or Stay. You
must act as you see fit. You are master
here ; you are my husband ; this is your
house. But if you will listen to my prayer, I
will ask you to go away again — not for long,
for a little while. I want rest ; I want to be
quite alone with God and my own heart. I
have got a wrestle to go through, and I had
rather undertake it without a spectator. Do
not be afraid for me. I shall come out victorious
in the end, I do not doubt that.
Only, these wrestles take a great deal of
strength out of me. When I feel better, and
know that the worst is over, I will write to
you, and then come and I shall be able to see
you. You are still my friend — nothing I
have said or done has altered that ? '

No, no— Miracle.'

I always respect and honour you. I
know that you are upright and good, and I
would love you if I could. I may do so some
day, but the weed must be rooted out before
the grain is sown.'

Very well, Miracle. You said as we

walked back from Willapark that here we
have the cross hammered into our lives. You
have yours, I have mine. It must be so.
Perhaps a better time may be in store for
both of us.'

Perhaps.' She looked sadly out of the
window. The sun had set, and the golden
path on the sea was turned to quicksilver.
She rose and moved towards the door into
her own room.

I am very tired. Shall we say Goodnight?'


And good-bye. I leave before mornings

It is best so.'

She hung about the door, looking timidly
at him. Her hand was on the latch, and it
shook; she removed it, but presently put it
on again.

'When am I to return? In a month, or
two months?' he asked.

She shook her head. 'I cannot say; I
will write to you. Give me your address
before you leave.'

There are one or two little matters connected
with our affairs here that ought to be
discussed.'

Here is the key of my bureau. Will
you write your instructions? They shall be
carried out faithfully. I am very tired. You

said I was weak ; I am weak in body. Write
at my desk, and leave the note in it, and the
key in the lock.'

Very well, Miracle ; good-bye ! '

Then she raised her great dark eyes to
him, and came tremblingly towards him.

Kiss me,' she said ; ' yon have a right to
that.'

He took her pale face between his hands,
and reverently kissed her cheek, and a salt
tear off it was received by his lips. He knew
that she did not love him. He knew that her
cheek was offered him only because of the
strong sense of duty at her heart, and because
she felt that some reparation was due for the
bitter pain she had caused him.

When he had let her go she bowed her
head, and with lowered eyes and a hectic spot
of colour on the cheek that he had touched,
without another word or look, she disappeared
through the door.

Herring sat for a few moments with his
hands over his face, and then went to the
bureau, opened it, and, taking some paper,
wrote on it his address, and various memoranda
relative to the house and quarry. When
he had done he closed the desk, turned the
key, descended the stairs, and left the house.
As he went through the gate he thought he

saw a man behind the wall near the entrance
to the yard, and, supposing this was Hender,
Herring cast him a good-night. There was
no reply, but this caused him no surprise ;
Hender was a surly man, not addicted to the
courtesies of life. Herring did not give him
another thought; he had enough to trouble
his mind without care for Hender's manners.

His conversation with Miracle had been,
in a measure, satisfactory ; as satisfactory ashe
could expect. There was some faint hope
before hun ; she was doing her best to overcome
that unfortunate passion which stood asa
dividing wall between them. Time would
assist her efforts, which Herring knew were
sincere, and then perhaps she might come to
care for him. She valued him now; she had
not shrunk from him as before, but had freely
volunteered a kiss. She had assured him that
but a short while would elapse before she
would recall him. When the weed was eradicated
then the corn would groan. The hope
set before him was not a great one ; still it
was something to have a hope at all. He
went back to Willapark, resolved to examine
the quarry accounts, write instructions to the
captain, and depart that night on his return
to West Wyke. He would walk back, and
therefore not go by Launceston, but strike

across country into the Noteworthy and Okehampton
road.

Xot many minutes after Herring had left
Welltown, that man whom he had observed
behind the yard wall crept forth with a ladder
that he had taken from an outhouse. He
looked cautiously about him, and then planted
the ladder noiselessly against the porch. He
threw off his shoes, and swiftly ascended.
The window of the boudoir was open, as
Miracle had left it, and the man lifted himself
in through it. He stole across the room over
the soft carpet to the bureau. The sky was
full of twilight, and everything in the room
could be distinguished. The window faced
north, and the northern sky was illumined
with silvery light. A streak of yellow light
beneath the door showed that Miracle's candle
was burning in her bedroom. The man
listened. He heard steps coming along the
passage. Then a door was opened. It was
that into the adjoining bedroom, and a voice
was heard speaking. The man smiled; he
knew the voice well, it was that of Orange
Trampleasure, and she was speaking to Miracle.

Then he turned the key in the bureau,
opened it, and searched the well. He soon
found the secret drawer, and removed from
it the diamonds. He was about to close the

desk when lie noticed the papers Herring had
written, his address, and memoranda. The
man caught these up hastily, and then with a
low, bitter laugh, and a look full of malignity
in the direction of Miracle's door, he put in
their place the packet containing Herring's
confession to his wife, written the night of
his marriage, and stolen from his drawer by
Sampson Tramplara. That man who now
placed the letter where Miracle must find it
was the same who had stolen it — Sampson
Tramplara.

All this was the work of a few minutes.
As rapidly as he had ascended the ladder and
entered the room, so did he descend, replace
the ladder where he had found it, and disappear.


CHAPTER LY.

NEMESIS.

John Herring was engaged on the accounts
in the office for some hours. Whilst thus
engaged he heard the door open behind him,
and, when he turned to look who had come
in, saw Sampson Tramplara.

'What brings you hither?' he asked,
springing to his feet, and flushing with anger.

What brigs me hither ? ' repeated Sampson,
and laughed. ' You, Mr. John Herring.
I want a quiet talk with you.'

Go away at once ; I have nothing to say
to you.'

^ But I have something to say to you,
Mister John. In the first place, I want a
change of clothes.'

You must go elsewhere for them.'

']^o, I am going nowhere else. I have
set my heart on a boating suit hanging in
yonder cupboard, or wardrobe, or whatever
you call it. I have come for that. There

are reasons that prevent my appearing in
public, and in the costume that I now wear,
becoming though you may think it. Those
reasons are, that if I am seen, I shall be arrested,
first for that confounded Ophir, and
secondly, because last night I stuck a knife
into a man with whom I had a brawl in a
tavern. So now I call you to find me the
suit of clothes in which I may escape. The
reason, because it is not to your advantage
that I should be taken here. Remember, I
am the cousin of your wife ; you have married
into my family. Miracle gave me shelter when
shipwrecked, and though she knew who I was,
like a sensible girl, she held her tongue. My
mother and sister are your guests. If you
refuse me clothes, 1 shall go to your house,
and be taken there, in the society, in the
presence, of Mrs. John Herring and her cousins.
That will be nice and creditable to the family,
will it not ? That will be highly entertaining
to the ladies, will it not? I reckon that fellow
whom I stuck v^ill hardly recover, and if he
dies I must swing for it. Creditable to the
family, to be able to boast of Cousin Sampy
who was allowed. I suppose I shall be
hung in chains here. Pleasant to have a
cousin of Mrs. John so exalted within a sniff
whenever she walks abroad.'

^ Take the clothes you want,' said Herring;
be quick, and be off.'

Tramplara went to the recess, and took
the garments he required, and proceeded to
divest himself of his own clothes, and invest
himself in Herring's boating and shooting
suit.

They fit me as if made for me,' said
Sampson. ' A good substantial suit this.
And here is J. H. on the buttons ; that is
in style. Look at me. AVe are the same
height, and about the same build ; we have
about the same coloured hair. It is a d — d
pity that I have not your luck. I want something
more now.'

Sampson proceeded to roll up his old
suit.

'It will not do to leave these garments
about ; they would betray my change ot
skin. I must throw them over the cliffs. It
is a fortunate thing that there are no sands
here on which a bundle confided to the waves
can be washed ashore. Here the waves and
rocks worry what is given them past all recall,
within a surprising short time. Look at me.
This suit becomes me. We might be brothers.
Now, brother John, I want something wherewith
to line the pockets, which I find are
empty.'

Whilst talking, Sampson transferred the
contents of the pockets of his old coat to the
breast pocket of the waistcoat of his new suit
an inner pocket. As he did so he laughed,
and looked contemptuously at Herring, who
was not observing him. That which lie
transferred was the case containing Miracle's
diamonds. He put that in the inner pocket
of his waistcoat, which he buttoned tightly
over it.

Look here ! ' said he ; ' this is all the cash
I have, a crown and a halfpenny. Is a crown
and a halfpenny enough to carry me across
Cornwall and out of England ? I want some
blunt, and I will trouble you to find me
some.'

Go along, you scoundrel ! It is enough
for me to have allowed you my old clothes — I
will give you no further assistance.'

That is a pretty name to give me —
scoundrel! Pray what reason have you for
thus entitling me ? '

'Every reason. You and yours robbed
Miracle of what her father had left.'

Sampson laughed.

Oh, this is beautiful ! Virtuous innocence
condemns impenitent vice. Brother John,
we are both in the same box. It don't
become you to ride the virtuous horse ; it

trots beautifully along a smooth road, but I
think I can lay something in its way will
trip and tumble it over. You have had your
pickings, and a d — d richer find yours was
than mine.'

Herring looked at him speechless. Was
this a random shot, or did he know anything
?

You are a proper person to act the moral
character. James Strange left my father sole
trustee of everything, did he not ? How
much of all he left did you allow him to
finger, eh ? How much did you keep
back for yourself ? ' Sampson paused for a
reply. He stood opposite Herring, with his
hands on his hips. ' Don't you think it possible
that Cousin Strange, in leaving Brazil,
sent over as much ready money as he thought
he might want, and put the bulk of his property
into diamonds, which he could dispose
of in London at any time ? By his will he
constituted my father sole trustee of everything
— that is, of money and diamonds. My
father never caught sight of the diamonds,
never laid a finger on one of them, for a very
good reason, they were stolen by virtuous
John Herring.'

This is false.'

No, it is true. You did not rummage

VOL. III. p

the trunk of Cousin Strange, or take them
out, that I'll allow ; but you received the
stolen jewels, and the receiver is as bad as the
thief, is he not ? '

Herrino; could not speak.

My father was constituted trustee. If
you had been honest, when you received these
diamonds you would at once have taken them
to him. You were not honest. You kept
them.'

Sampson Trampleasure, I kept them
only for Miracle, in her interest. I knew the
character of your father, I knew what he was
doing with the rest of the money intrusted to
him, and I would not risk the rest of her
property.'

^ Who authorised you to keep it ? '

I acted as my conscience directed.'

Conscience ! ' exclaimed Sampson, derisively,
' I like to hear that word pleaded ; it
always means, when interpreted, self-interest.
Some men follow their consciences as a
gardener follows a wheelbarrow, by pushing
it alone: before him. Answer me, would the
law have authorised you to keep back the
diamonds ?'

^ No ; the law would not.'

Then who authorised you? Did Miracle?
Did you consult her about them ? I am at a

loss to know what other authorisation you
could find.'

No, I did not speak of them to her — and
that for reasons of my own.'

No, I know you did not. You acted on
what you call conscience, and I, self-interest.
I will tell you what you did with Miracle's
money. You were soft and sweet on Cicely
Battishill '

Hold,' said Herring, angrily ; ' I dare
you '

I will not be stayed. You pitied the
girl ; you were constantly with her, you
were tender and foolish. I do not dispute
your good taste. White and roses, and
auburn hair — a young fellow might do worse
than pick up with Cicely. Well, for her sake
you sold some of the stones, and bought up
the mortgages on West Wyke, held by my
father. Was that fair ? sly father had
refused to invest Miracle's money in that, and
you took her money im known to him and
thus employed it — only for the sake of pretty
Cicely.'

I will not suffer such words to bespoken,'
said Herring ; ' I have never regarded
Miss Battishill in any other light than that of
a sister.'

A very affectionate brother you have

p 2

been ! So very fond of this dear pink-and-white
sister that you desert your wife and
spend all your time with her. You ran away
the day after your marriage, and have not
shown your face to your wife since till this
day, and now you are off again, allured back
to West Wyke by the superior attractions of
Cicely BattishilL'

Herring's blood boiled up, and he struck
Sampson in the face between the eyes, and
sent him stas^o^erino^ back against the wall.

Dare to say another such word again ! '

I will dare,' answered Sampson, when he
had gathered himself together. He quivered
with rage. ' I will dare, because it is true.
Are you not going back now to Cicely ? You
know you are.' How did he know this,
Herrino; wondered. He had no idea that
Sampson had possessed himself of the address
left in the bureau.

^ Who bought his wife with her own
money, eh ? ' pursued the enraged Sampson.
Cobbledick told me once of a man who
bought a wife in Okehampton market for a
crown. You have bought Miracle. That
man paid a crown for her out of his own
pocket ; but you, you picked Miracle's pocket
for the purchase money. Is not this true ?
Was ever a more dastardly act done than

that ? You called me a scoundrel. I may
not have always acted on the square, but, by
God, I never did such a crooked job as this.
Did you know that Miracle was over head
and ears in love with Captain Trecarrel ? Of
course you did. You knew that well enough,
and, lest he should marry her, you kept from
her the secret of her wealth. You let her
and the Captain suppose they were too poor
to marry, and so he was ready to sell himself
to Orange for five thousand pounds, when in
heart he was tied to Miracle. Was that
honourable — was that gentlemanly — was that
honest ? Eh ! Answer me that. No, no,
my friend, virtuous John. You were too
clever. You wanted to steal the fortune and
wipe the guilt off your conscience, and so
you marry Miracle whilst spooning that other
one. But how do you manage this ? Miracle
don't care a snap of the fingers for you.
When the failure of Ophir brought ruin on
my family you allowed my lady to feel the
misery of beggary, and then you came to
the rescue and overwhelmed her with your
generosity — mind you, generous you were
with her money. You relieved her necessities
out of her own purse, and never let her suspect
it, in the hopes of rousing in her the
feeling of gratitude to her great-hearted protector.

What could the poor girl do but
accept you as a husband ? She could not live
on your alms ; that would not be decent,
would it ? A lady cannot receive four
hundred a year and a house from a young
officer and preserve her character. She must
marry him, or relinquish what he has given
her, and that latter alternative she cannot
take without involving Orange and my mother
in poverty. Thus it was that you drove
Miracle to accept you. A very ingeniously
contrived plan, certainly. Look how all the
parts hang together, very perfect, and faulty
only in this, that I was not consulted. A
very ingenious plan, but cursedly wicked.
By God ! Even I would have shrunk from
so dirty and scoundrelly a trick, and I am not
squeamish. Give me some money.'

Herring held out his purse — a steel purse
of interwoven links, with steel clasp, a present
from Miracle. His head had fallen on his
breast ; he was broken with shame and
humiliation. This that Sampson had said
was true, but Herring had never seen his
conduct in the light that Sampson turned on
it. It had never occurred to him that Miracle
could not accept his bounty without accepting
him — that he had, as Sampson had said,
driven her to take him, using her necessities

as the whip, and that he had m fact bought
her with her own money. He saw this now
vividly, and the sight overcame him. He had
been led by his conscience into conduct unworthy
of a man of honour ; he was degraded
in his own eyes. Sampson took the purse,
counted the money in his hand, returned it to
the purse, snapped it, and slipped it into his
pocket.

That will do for a time. Well ! you
called me a scoundrel. Which is the bisfofest
scoundrel of the two. Blackguard Sampson or
Virtuous John ? You regard my father as a
robber of orphans ; which robbed the orphan
most? My father lost her six thousand
pounds, you plundered her of more than
twice . that amount, and with it you carried
off her happiness. Faugh ! Virtuous John !
even T turn away in disgust from you. I
stand white and shining as an angel beside
you. Nor is this all. No sooner is Miracle
yours and you can conscientiously keep her
money, than you break her heart by deserting
her for another girl with more pink in her
cheeks than my Lady White Lily.'

Herring looked up ; he was deadly pale,
and his lips trembled. ' This is false.'

What ! is it false that you left Miracle
directly you had brought her hither? ' Sampson

waited for an answer. There could be
none. It was true.

Is it false that you returned at once to
West Wyke?' He waited again. It was true,
Herring had returned.

Did you inform your wife whither you
were going?' Silence again. Herring had
not told her ; he had declined to do so.

No, you evaded telling her. You went
back to West Wyke — to Cicely the rosebud,
and you have been with her — your pretty
pink-and-white sister — ever since. How kind
to Miracle to rescue her rival from ruin with
her money ! You think Miracle will appreciate
this when told. And told the whole story
of your dealings she shall be this very night.'

Have done,' said Herring, in a low tone.
Leave me alone.'

No, not yet,' answered Sampson, triumphantly.
' You have insulted and injured me,
and I shall not leave you till I have made
you sting and writhe. You robbed Miracle
of that which ought to have been put into
the hands of my father and me, her diamonds ;
that is offence number one. You insulted
me at West Wyke, and threatened me with a
ruler ; that was offence number two. I took
a fancy to Miracle, and might have contrived
to win her and her money, but you stood in

the way by retaining her diamonds, and with
them you kept a hold over her destiny ; that
was offence number three. You exposed
Ophir — you brought that pretty and flourishing
affair to an end before it was ripe ; that
was a bad offence, number four. To you I
owe the vagabond life I have been living ever
since, number five; and to you a blow just
now received, to make up the number to six.
Shall not I repay these when I may ? Do you
not know that now my father is dead I step
into his position as trustee of Miracle's fortune,
till she is three-and-twenty? There is no
provision in the will relative to marriage. If
you, curse you, had not brought the dogs of
justice out of kennel and set them after me, I
would claim the diamonds of you, and exact
every penny you have spent. I cannot do it
now, situated as I am. You have hunted me
down for that very reason — you dreaded me,
lest I should find out your fraud as you found
out mine ; you forestalled me, and now you
drive me out of England to prevent me from
reclaiming from you what you have no right
to retain. You are very clever ; I never
gave you credit for half your talent. But for
all your cleverness, you shall not escape.
You think that your wife need know nothing
of what has taken place. She shall know

everything. Do you remember a confession
you wrote to her? Well, I took it from the
drawer where you had hidden it, and I have
given it into her hands. That was the first
mouthful, she shall receive next my commentary
on it.'

What ! ' exclaimed Herring, white, trembling,
the sweat standing in beads on his
brow.

'Ah! you may well be scared at the
thought. That trustful Miracle, who believed
in you as the most honourable of men, has
learned this night what you are — a despicable
thief. She has discovered what you really are,
and how you circumvented her, and robbed
her of her liberty, and forged out of her own
gold the chain that binds her to you. She
knows now the man she has married — and
from this night forward she loathes him.'

Herring could not speak ; his heart stood
still.

She is now, I doubt not, pacing her bedroom,
cursing that man whom she once
respected, but whom she now knows to be
dishonest, untruthful, and treacherous, the
man who has blighted her entire life.'

Then Sampson laughed at the poor, paralysed,
broken wretch before him. eyed him
from head to foot, turned his back, and with

his one hand in a pocket, and the other
swinging his bundle of old clothes, he left
the office.

Without was night, black and starless.

^ I have given him a worse blow than he
gave me, I guess,' said Sampson; ^ now all I
have to do is to dispose of this bundle and
then make off to Falmouth as fast as I can.
By heavens, I wish the night had not fallen
so dark, I cannot make out whither I am
going. I can hear the sea, and when I reach
the edge I shall see the foam, and then over
goes the bundle. It makes me laugh to think
how John Herring looked. I might have been
stabbing him all the time with a little knife;
but, faith, 1 reckon my words went deeper
than knives. I wish it were not so confoundedly
dark. Curse it ! — where am I?'

Where ?

Below was Blackapit, with the waves leaping
in that cauldron of darkness.

One minute more and the leaping waters
were flinging Sampson Tramplara from side
to side, and the gulls were flapping their
wings and screaming applause over a bruised
and lifeless body.

CHAPTER LVI.

A DEAD MAN.

Herring was back at West Wyke. Everything
went on there as usual. The mine
was worked systematically. The absence of
John Herring for a. few days mattered little.
West Wyke never altered. Since it had been
built, no Squire had added a room or an outhouse.
But from year to year it ripened and
mellowed, the lichens spread over the stones
in wider patches of orange and white, and the
stones became more wrinkled, and the ribs of
the roof more prominent through the slopes
of small slate.

Cicely was the same — sweet, sunny, simple.
Herring thought that nowhere in the wide
world could a more restful spot be found than
this, or more soothing society. Cicely saw
that he looked more broken after this last
visit to Welltown than after the former.
What was the mystery that hung over his

life — what the grief that consumed his
heart? His former visit had transformed
him from a youth to a man, but this had aged
him almost to decrepitude. Cicely observed
this, but she said nothing. She troubled him
with no inquiries, she did not even allow him.
to perceive that she noticed a change. The
change was not so much in his exterior as
within. A cleavage had gone down into his
moral native. On the former occasion his
hopes had been shattered, now his faith was
shaken. Before he had been broken-hearted,
now he was broken-spirited. His interview
with Sampson had shaken his confidence in
himself, he could no longer rely on conscience
as a safe guide, and he knew of no other
prompter to action. He reviewed his course
of conduct again and again, and always came
to the same conclusion, that he was justified
in what he had done. What was the alternative
course — the course from which conscience
had turned him? That was to have given up
the box to Trampleasure and washed his
hands of all responsibility. But that would
have been selfish conduct ; it would have been
cruel as it was heartless. No doubt he had
been influenced by his love for Miracle when
he concealed his discovery from the legal
trustee, but he would have done the same for

any other helpless person similarly situated,
knowing as he did that to betray the secret
was to ruin the ward. And to what had he
been led? To the wrecking of two lives, of
his own and that of Miracle. If he had acted
according to legal instead of moral right, this
would not, perhaps, have taken place. How
is a man to govern his life — what is to bethe
mainspring of his actions? The statute
law, or the law of God written in the heart?
Herring had lost faith in the guidance of
conscience, in the directing hand of Providence.
He remembered the words of Miracle on
the walk to Welltown, ' All the familiar landmarks
fail me, all the ways lead in unknown
directions, I am translated into a country
that I am expected to travel through without
a map or guide.' Those words, which were
void of meaning to him when spoken, precisely
described his present condition. The framework
of his moral consciousness was shaken
and out of joint. In time, perhaps, he would
recover, but at present the shock had thrown
him out of his perpendicular. In Japan, the
land of earthquakes, every tower is held
upright and together by a huge pendulum of
beamwork hanging free. The moral conscience
is the pendulum in man. When that
is strapped and braced to the girders and



buttresses without, a little shock throws the
whole system into ruin. It must hang free if
it is to serve as a source of stability, otherwise
it precipitates ruin. The human heart can
endure any amount of disappointment so long
as it maintains its faith in the eternal Providence,
but, when that fails, its powers of endurance
are at an end. Then the wave of
bitterness rises and washes over the soul and
leaves it like the Desert of Nitre, strewn with
bones. The dew of heaven may drop, the
showers may fall on it, but the white, bitter
surface thenceforth can never laugh into
verdure.

John Herring did his work mechanically.
He took neither pleasure nor interest in it.
The mine might prosper, it probably would,
and the result would be evil. He would
clear the estate of Cicely from its encumbrances.
What for? — good; nothing led to
good — to find that he had done mischief in
his effort to help her. Everywhere men and
women are striving to amend wrongs, and
only succeed in shifting the suffering from the
shoulders of one class on to another. Everywhere
dirty pools are being scraped out, only
to discolour and defile the water that is
disturbed. Everywhere tortured humanity is
being inoculated with matter that will expel

one disease by preparing the soil for another.


Please, miss,' said Joyce, one Sunday, to
Cicely, who had just returned from church,
^ there be that fool of a Jim White from
Coombow have a come all the way, and what
he be come for I don't know.'

'What Jim White?'

A bareheaded sort of a chap,' said Joyce,
in a tone between shyness and disgust ;
he it were as brought me and the master
here that day as he were nigh upon killed
by Sampson Tramplara.'

Herring looked up ; he was at the table.
He had not been to church ; why should he goto
church to be bidden follow conscience when
conscience leads astray? Why should he seek
for light when the only light afforded is that
of Jack o'lanthorns that lead into mires? He
said bitterly, ' Joyce, why did you bring me
hither?'

'I couldn't do not other — I did it to
make you well again.'

She had followed her conscience, and her
poor light had led her to save his life. What
for? — to make Miracle miserable and himself
miserable. Better a thousand times had he
died then.

but, Joyce, what about Jim White?
What does he want?'

Well, miss, I dunno exactly what he
wants, but here a walked all these miles, and
heave a got to go back again, so what I want
to know is, may he have his meat here, as he
ain't a going to get not else ? '

• Certainly.'

And he may have a drop o' cyder to his
meat? Jim White be one as can't get on
without that. And he smells o' cyder now
like as old whither's cask did when it were
fresh.'

By all means, Joyce,' said Cicely, ' and
you may invite him to come here once a
month.'

Joyce flushed up. ' I — I don't want the
bufBehead to be coming here. I've a told 'n
so scores and scores o' times, and I'll tell him
if he comes again he'll get neither meat nor
cyder. He were here about a month ago, I
reckon, and he sed he'd that particles to say
as could only be said between four eyes. So
he sat in the kitchen on one chair, and I on
another, a full two hours by the clock, and he
never opened his mouth all that time but
once, to ax why the great beam went across
the ceiling. There ! he shall have his meat
this Sunday, and, by the blue blazes, he shan't

VOL. III. Q

have it of me no more.' Then she stepped upto
Herring. 'Please, maister,' she said, 'Jim
White have a brought you a paper from
Okehampton, a '' Saturday News " ; he ses he
thought you'd a like to see 'n. I didn't think
the chap had it in 'n.'

Thank you, Joyce, and thank Jim White,
and here is a present to him for his mistaken
kindness to me on a former occasion.'

But,' said Joyce, ' I may tell 'n that you
don't want the paper again. He be that
stupid he might make the bringing of a paper
an excuse to come here every Sunday. I
know,' she exclaimed brightly — ' I know what
I'll do. I'll tell 'n if he comes again you'll
up with your gun and bang off wi' it as you
did at me to Welltown that night.'

Very well ; as you like.'

When Joyce had retired, Herring took up
the paper indifferently. It could not interest
him, for nothing interested him now.

I wish you had been at church to-day,
John,' said Cicely ; ' Mr. Harmless Simpleton
preached us a very good sermon.'

Indeed — on what text ? ' asked John
Herring, carelessly.

After death, the judgment.'

Herring laughed bitterly. ' Cicely,' he
said, ' the order is inverted. The judgment

comes first, and after that — after a long and
weary interval — death. At least that is my
experience.'

She looked at him with a distressed and
puzzled expression. ' Dear Cousin John,
what has come over you ? you are so different
from what you were.'

What has come over me ? ' he echoed ;
the judgment and condemnation. There !
ask no more questions. Take the paper and
look at it ; there is nothing in it to interest
me.' He pushed it across the table to her.

*Do you take no interest in politics,
John ? '

No ; they are only Ophir over again.'

John, I cannot understand you. Why
are you so changed in your view of life ? Atone
time you were hopeful and believed in
good, and now you despair and believe only
in evil. You make me unhappy.'

Then I am fulfilling my destiny. The
curse is laid on me to blight all I come
across.'

That is utterly untrue.'

We see life in different lights. Cicely.
In after years you will recognise that my view
is the true view. Fortunately, the young who
start in life are nursed in delusions, or they
would refuse the race.'

^ John,' said Cicely, ^ what is the meaning
of this ? ' She lead been turning listlessly
over the paper, listening to Herring's words,
and troubled in her mind about him. ' Here
stands your name — and Welltown, your place
in Cornwall.'

What ! ' he asked ; ' let me look.' And
he took the paper hastily out of her hands.

He read of the discovery of Mr. John
Herring, late of Welltown, who had disappeared
from home on a certain night, but
without any suspicions having been raised
till his body was found in Blackapit at low
water a few days later, terribly mangled and
defaced. It would not have been possible to
identify the body but for the clothes worn by
the deceased, and which had been taken from
the place in his office where they usually
hung. Moreover, the pocket contained a steel
purse known to have belonged to the deceased
gentleman, and in the breast-pocket was discovered
a magnificent set of diamonds, the
property of his wife, which she always kept ina
concealed drawer, the secret of which was
known only to herself and Mr. Herring.
According to what had transpired, the last
time the deceased was seen alive was by his
wife, seated at the bureau in which these
diamonds were. Apparently he had removed

the jewels before leaving ; for what purpose it
was impossible to conjecture, especially as it
was suspected that the deceased gentleman
had committed suicide. It was reported that
he had written a farewell letter to his wife at
the bureau where she saw him, intimating his
intention ; but this letter she absolutely refused
to produce at the inquest. This melancholy
event had cast a deep gloom over the entire
neighbourhood, &c. &c.

Herring read this paragraph over twice
before he could understand it, and even then
he understood it only imperfectly. But the
main points flashed out. Sampson Tram-clara
had fallen over the rocks, and his
body had been mistaken for that of himself
because of the clothes he wore and the purse
in his pocket. How Sampson had obtained
the diamonds he was unable to divine, but he
suspected that the letter alluded to was that
containing his confession, which Sampson had
told him he had given to Miracle. He sat
looking mutely at the paper, his mind working.

What is it, John ? ' asked Cicely ; but
he did not hear. Then she came to him and
looked over his shoulder.

John,' said she, putting her hand on him
and shaking him ; ' John, what is the ixkeaning
of this ? '

Cicely, it is as I said — after judgment,
death. Do you see ? I am a dead man.'

There was silence in the room. She was
collecting her thoughts. What did this all
mean ?

John,' she exclaimed, ' what is this ? —
you have a wife ! '

^ No — a widow.'

Then he stood up, and walked twice up
and down the room, his face white as ashes,
his hands behind his back, and his head
bowed. Cicely followed him with her eyes ;
she was bewildered.

It is best as it is,' said he to himself.
Miracle is set free. John Herring is dead.'

Then the truth rushed in on Cicely's mind.

Oh, John, John ! Was she — Miracle, your
wife ?'

He looked at her. He did not answer ;
she saw the mute agony in his face.

Oh, John, poor John ! now I understand
all ! Now I know why you have been so unhappy.
I am sure she never loved you.'

No, Cicely, she never loved me.'

She could love no one.'

You are wrong ; she loved another.'

Again there was silence. Cicely's eyes
filled.

Herring paced the room again. Cicely

could not see him now, her eyes were too
ful.

Oh, John ! dear, poor John ! '

Cicely,' he said, standing still in the
midst of his tramp, ' what has happened is
best for every one. Let it be. From henceforth
John Herring is dead. If you will, I
am John Battishill, your brother.'

CHAPTER Liii.

AN Arrest.

A BLUSTERING day ; the rain splashing against
the windows of an inn at Plymouth. Miracle
sat in the window; there was a balcony
with balustrade before it, and the water
dripped incessantly from the rail upon the
swimming balcony.

Miracle was in mourning ; her face looked
preternaturally white in her black dress. Her
eyes were sunken, her lips thin and tremulous ;
Dut there were spots of almost colour in her
cheeks, speaking of feverish excitement, not of
health. Genefer Benoke Alas with her.

'Mistress,' said the old woman, 'be it still
too late to bid you turn back ? I teller I
don't believe as the master be dead. I don't
believe it, though I saw him dead with my
own eyes. For the eyes of the understanding
be keener and clearer than they of the flesh.
When Saul the persecutor were cast to the

ground on his way to Damascus, he opened
his eyes and saw no man. That be the state
of most. They've their eyes open, but they
sees naught that they ought to see. They
goes through the world and they don't see the
snares that be set on every side, and the
angels that compass them about, and the
Providence as is leading of them. The eyes
of the flesh be open, but the eyes of the
understanding see nothing. With the eyes of
the soul I see the master still alive. Afore
you came to Welltown I saw you ; and I saw
what was to be, in a vision, and whether I
were in the body or out of the body at the
time I cannot tell — God knoweth ; but this I
do say, that what I then saw with the spiritual
eye don't accord no ways with what the
natural eye declares. But what do I speak
of this to you for as if you snowed naught
about the spiritual eye? Sure alive, you lead
a life of prayer as do I. Well, I will teller
what were revealed to me. I fell into a
trance, having my eyes open, and I saw the
master with his arms round you — the Bride
of Snow — and he looked up to you, seeking in
you that he never saw.'

Miracle bowed her face in her hands.

And with the warmth of his heart you
melted away, drop by drop. I've a seen how

you've a been thawing right away ever since
the day he brought you to Welltown, tear by
tear — as see ! you be melting now. And in
my vision I saw that you dissolved clean away
and your place knew you no more ; but
nevertheless the master remained, with his
arms extended and his eyes uplifted, as
though still seeking you, till he grew cold,
and his hair white, and his tears ice, and his
heart were frozen dead. You was gone first,
and, after a space, he ; it be against the truth
of my vision that he should die first and you
after.'

Genevieve, there can be no doubt whatever
about what has happened. I would
cheerfully give my life to restore his, but that
cannot be. I know for certain that he is
dead. I have many and weighty reasons for
so believing.'

What reasons ? It be true enough that
your diamonds and the purse were found on
him, as well as his own old clothes that I've a
sewed the brass buttons on — I know them
well. But what about that? The devil be
crafty, and given power to deceive.'

I have other reasons.'

^ I ask you what ? You may tell me, for
we shall never meet in the flesh again.'

He wrote to me the night he died. He

had been talking to me in my boudoir, and
was very unhappy. Then he told rae he
would write me something, and I gave him
the key of my cabinet, where were my diamonds
and my writing materials. When I
opened the desk next morning the jewels
were gone, and I found his letter, In that
letter he told me that he bade me farewell forever.'


He meant to go abroad.'

^ No, Genevieve, the letter said more than
that. It intimated that, when I received it, I
should be '

what?'

^ What I now am — a widow.'

^ It be a temptation of the devil,' said
Genefer, ' who is mighty to deceive, who
be come down with great wrath for that he
hath a short time. You never let no one seethe
letter ? '

No. Unfortunately I spoke of it to
Orange, and that is how anything come out
about it. I thought she would have been
more discreet.'

Well, well ! ' sighed Genefer ; ' the
world be full of delusions. Now you be
going back to France and to wicked idolatry.
There be no call of God in that, to leave the
land of light for that of darkness.'

Genevieve, do not speak on this subject.
You and I cannot see alike. I am seeking
rest, I am weary, utterly weary of the life I
have led in England. It is useless your
attempting to argue with me, and to dissuade
me from it. I am weary of the wind and the
clouds and the rain and the roar of waves
without, and of the troubles that toss and
overcast the soul within. I must go back.
I must find peace. I count the hours till I
am within those blessed happy doors of the
Sacre Coeur again ; and, when once within, I
will never, never, never leave that home.
Come, Genevieve, help me on with my cloak
and hood. I must go out ; the rain has
ceased, and I will see if there be a chance
of the storm abating.'

Mistress, the packet won't sail with a
gale on shore such as this. It would be
tempting of Providence.'

You will come with me. I am impatient
of the delay. I must see what the sky and
sea look like, and you must attend me, as I
cannot stand unassisted against the force of
the wind. Oh, Genevieve ! where I am going
I shall feel no storms — I shall be in perfect
shelter, and at rest.'

Miracle was, as she said, on her way to
France. From the time that she knew she

was free, one absorbing desire had taken hold
of her — the desire to fly from England and
return to the convent of the Sacred Heart,
there to bury herself from the world. The
world, against which the sisters had warned
her, she had seen. It was full of unrest,
brutality, self-seeking, and imposture. She
thought all day of her escape, she dreamt of
her return all night. So completely had this
idea taken hold of her that it excluded all
other thoughts ; it possessed her like a fever.
She could not think of John Herring. Even
Captain Trecarrel was far from her mind.
She wanted nothing for the future but perfect
quiet within the sacred walls of the Sacre
Coeur.

Those of old who were accused of witchcraft
were kept without sleep till they confessed.
They were denied a moment's doze,
till, in the craving for rest, they admitted
whatever they were charged with, ready to
face the flames if only they might first fold
their hands and close their eyes and sigh away
their spirits into oblivion.

Some such a craving had come over
Miracle. She had been denied the rest she
desired, she had been distracted by responsibilities
she did not understand, buffeted by
rude associates, placed in situations full of

bewilderment, deprived of the ministrations
of religion, and. now that the possibility of
escape opened to her, she became almost mad
to seize it.

Miracle had told her intention to Orange,
who warmly approved of it, and Orange and
Genefer had accompanied her to Plymouth,
where she was to take passage to France.
They had spent a night on the way at
Dolbeare, and Genefer was to return with
Orange the day after Miracle had departed.

An arrangement had been proposed by
Orange, and readily acquiesced in by Miracle,
that Mrs. Trampleasure and Orange were to
remain at Welltown, at least for a while, and
take charge of the estate ; they were to retain
a certain portion of the receipts, and forward
the rest to Miracle.

Miracle ^yas to have sailed on the day
when we have reintroduced her to the reader,
seated in the inn window at Plymouth, but the
storm had prevented the packet from sailing.
Her passage was paid, her berth taken, and
her luggage was on board. If the weather
abated, she would leave England for ever on
the morrow.

Attended by Genefer Benoke, Miracle went
out upon the Hoe and looked forth on the
noble bay. There was then no breakwater

across its entrance, arresting the violence of
the swell. The waves, driven by a southwesterly
gale, rolled in from the sea and
foamed about the headlands that jutted into
the harbour. They tossed and danced about
Drake Island and Mount Batten, and ran
hissing upon the white marble shore beneath
the Hoe. The rain had abated, bat fresh
showers were coming on, stalking over the
angry sea and staining it to ink beneath them.
There was no sign of a cessation in the gale.
It came on in furious gusts, before which
Miracle cowered and clung to Genefer. As
she turned on one occasion, a gentleman
standing near, also observing the sea, saw
her face, and uttered an exclamation of surprise.
She raised her eyes and met those of
Captain Trecarrel.

Miracle ! ' he exclaimed, and hastened to
interpose his umbrella between her and the
wind. ' How unexpected ! What brings you
to Plymouth ? It is my fate to light on you
where least anticipated. I have completed
my excursion and filled my portfolio. I
returned by the south coast to see whether it
furnished material for a second issue of pictures,
and here I am at Plymouth meditating
a return to Launceston as soon as the weather
clears. I was so shocked to hear of your loss.

I always respected John Herring as a worthy,
well-meaning man. There was no pretence
about him, no affectation of being other than
he was. I have no doubt that his death was
an awful blow to you — so sudden, and the
manner so dreadful. You have my warmest
sympathy. Poor fellow ! poor fellow ! Well,
well, the world is short of a good sterling
man it could ill afford to lose. I hope his circumstances
were all right, no money trouble? '

Miracle shook her head.

You do not think that distress about
over-expenditure can have affected his brain?
Inability to meet calls ? '

He was well off — rich — much richer
than I thought,' said Miracle, sadly. ' But
pray, Captain, spare me now.'

Allow me your arm,' said Trecarrel ;
the wind is so high that I am in momentary
fear of your being blown off the cliff
and being carried out to sea.'

The wind is on shore,' said Miracle,
drily.

True, true ; I had not observed it. Bah !
here comes the rain, driving as you say on
shore, and irresistible. Under these circumstances
there is no cowardice in beating a
retreat and evacuating the Hoe to the enemy.
Shall we descend ? Where are you staying ?

At the Royal? Let me accompany you
home. AVhat ! Genefer Benoke here? How
do you do, Genefer ? Sad time you have had
at Welltown. My heart has bled for you aU.
I would have flown to the spot to offer my
services, but some sorrows are too sacred to
be intruded on. I never was more shocked
in my life than when I heard of the accident,
if accident it may be called, but I suppose it
really was that, if he was unembarrassed in
circumstances.' So talking, asking questions
and getting no answers. Captain Trecarrel
accompanied Miracle back to the inn. He
did not wait to be invited to enter, but accompanied
Miracle upstairs.

Now tell me all about it,' he said. ' I
would not return to Welltown after the sad
event, through delicacy of sentiment ; I
thought it might augment your trouble. So I
continued my sketching tour, and really made
some capital drawings. The weather, however,
proved detestable, and after a while I
gave up the north coast and took a flying
survey of the south. And now, tell me why
you are here. What can have brought you to
Plymouth?'

Captain Trecarrel, I am on my way to
France, to the convent of the Sacre Coeur,
where I was educated.'

VOL. III. R

^ Nothing of the sort. You are going to
stay in England.'

Miracle shook her head. ' No ; my mind
is made up. Indeed, from the moment that I
knew my husband was dead, and that I was
a free agent, I had no doubt as to what I
must do.'

You are not dreaming of shutting yourself
up in a convent ? '

'I am going home.'

Home ! what do you mean by home ? '

I mean whatever you associate with rest
and fragrance and holiness, with love and
innocence and happiness. Some find this
ideal in a family. I have never had any
experience of home in this sense ; the only
family I have been with was that of the
Trampleasures, and that in no way comes upto
my ideal. I will not say more about that.
No ! what I mean by home is that which I
know — the convent of the Sacre Coeur.'

Trecarrel rubbed his chin musingly, and
then pulled his moustache. ' If you become a
nun, what is to become of Welltown? You
are, I presume, well off. Herring had no
brothers and sisters, and that falls to you I
suppose. Are you thinking of selling John
Herring's property, of calling in all your

available funds, and bestowing everything on
the convent and the beo:D:ars of Paris ? '

I have not this thought. Orange and her
mother will reside at Welltown and manage
the estate, and let me have the money I
need.'

And who will check their accounts —
who look after your interests ? '

Orange will send me what I want. I do
not require much.'

What did my poor friend John Herring
die worth? That is — how much has come to
you, Miracle ?'

I do not know the value of the Welltown
estate.'

But I do,' said Trecarrel, sharply. ' Six
hundred nett, on the outside. Is that all ? '

No,' answered Miracle, ' there is a great
deal more money than that. Many thousand
pounds. There are the mortgages on West
Wyke, and there is a mine somewhere about
there, and money beside.'

^ All yours ? ' asked Trecarrel, turning his
melting blue eye on Miracle, and stroking his
moustache.

I suppose so.'

And this is all to be left to the unchecked
management of Orange? '
e2

Yes, Orange is so kind and sensible, she
will know better than I what ought to be
done, and how to do it.'

Miracle ! ' exclaimed the Captain, standing
up, and placing himself before the fire,
occupying the entire rug ; 'you are not
going to leave England. You are not going
to shirk your duty.'

My duty ! I have done that to the best
of my powers, which are small. No, Captain
Trecarrel, I must go back whence I came.
You cannot conceive how abhorrent to me
has been the life I have led since I came to
England. It has nearly killed me. Look at
my hands ; they were plump when I left
France, compared to what they are now.
My strength is gone ; a very short walk
now tires me out. I was strong before. I
have had no illness whatever except that fever
at Dolbeare before I was married, but my
soul has been sick ever since I left France,
and now I feel a sort of instinct in me that if
I am to live I must spread my wings and
escape over the water to dear France and
nestle into the old convent home again.'

^ No, Miracle, you would not find rest
there, you may take my word for it. You
would carry thither something in your heart

which would forbid your finding rest there.
Look me in the face and say that this is not
so.' She could not do this ; there was truth
in his words. ' No, dear Miracle, that old
convent life is no more to be returned to
than childhood. You may, as an adult, go
back into the nursery, and buy a rattle and
feed yourself with pap out of a spoon ; but
you cannot revive the old childish buoyancy
of heart and brightness of hope, you go back
into infantine surroundings with the care-furrowed
heart of age. You would not be
happy in the convent, because you return toit
a woman and you went out a child. There
is something more to be considered ; you
have contracted obligations which you have
no right to cast off. You own an estate and a
fortune, and this gives you influence and power
for good ; this you have no right to ignore.
You have been transplanted by Providence to
a place where religion is as dead or diseased as
when Saint Morwenna came to the same coast
twelve hundred years ago. Do you suppose
she came to it by choice ? Do you think that
she never yearned to be back in the stillness
and indolence of her dear convent at Burton ?
She came to our Cornish coast from a
sunny home in the midlands, among lime-trees

and buttercup pastures, and from' a
church where there was sweet music and rich
sculpture and all the splendours of Catholic
worship, and inhabited a rude hovel overhanging
the sea, into which the storm drove
between the ill-jointed stones ; away from
trees and flowers, and music and worship,
simply and solely because she was called to
live there, and duty tied her to the spot.
Now we venerate Saint Morwenna as a
Virgin Apostle of the Cornish Coast, as one
who brought liszt to those in darkness, the
truth to those in error. You are a Catholic.
Was it any choice of yours which took you to
Welltown? You were taken there by Providence,
and Providence has set you a task
which you have no right to leave undone, has
given you a post which you dare not desert.
Those poor wretched Cornish are like shipwrecked
men lost in night and storm, not
knowing whither to steer, and led astray by
wreckers' hawthorns. You are sent among
them as a second Morwenna, to lead them to
the true port, to show them the only true
light.'

I — I — I ! ' Miracle trembled, and her
heart sank within her : she had not strength
and courage to execute such a task.

^ Yes, you. With your means and position

you can do a great deal. Who is there at
Boscastle to oppose you? Sh' Jonathan?
He will do nothing. How do you know but
that you may win his daughters, and so save
their souls? Who is there of influence for
miles round except yourself and the Phyl-
lacks? Build a Catholic Chapel at Boscastle,
down in the midst of the people. Establish
there a priest and a mission, and every soul
brought into the true fold will bless you.'

Miracle was silent.

^ I am pointing out to you a duty. You
have seen no priest since you were married ;
you must suffer me to be your director.
Has not what I urge struck you before?'

'No,' answered Miracle, faintly. 'But
see ! I can do much that you say, and yet
live in France. I will endow a mission at Bos-castle
and build there a church.'

You cannot set a missioner there without
a soul to support him. He must have one or
two Catholics near, or he can do nothing.
Xow you understand what I said. If you fly
abroad you take trouble along with you, and
you will not rest in your convent. It is the
story of Jonah over again, and see — see this
storm sent to arrest you, to send you back
to Nineveh, from which you were flying.'

How cruel you are — how cruel ! I

have been so hoping, longing, sighing to
escape.'

Cruel indeed he was, and mean beneath
conception. He used the words and arguments
which he knew would tell with her,
not that he cared for the souls of the Boscastle
people, or for the advance of the Catholic
Church, but because he coveted her money
and the estate of Welltown.

That is not all,' continued Captain Tree
and his tone changed from that of
exhortation to that of pleading. His voice
melted, and sounded as though tears were
welling up in it ; it became soft and tremulous.
' You have no right to run away, dear
Miracle, for another reason. You know — you
know ' — his voice became broken ; then, with
a gulp, swallowing his agitation — ' you know
what I mean.'

Miracle trembled. She did know what
he meant.

You have no right to sacrifice another as
well as yourself You know, Miracle, how I
have loved you '

Stay, stay ! ' exclaimed Miracle, piteously.
Do not speak to me again like this. I must —
I must go. If only to pray for my poor
husband's soul, I must go.'

Miracle, tell me — do you believe that he
wilfully destroyed himself ? '

ado;

For what reason ? There were no money
troubles ? '

None whatever.'

Why, then, did he commit suicide ? '

She was silent. She could not explain.
He considered for a while, and then said,
^ How is it that there had been such an
estrangement between you from the beginning
? I understand he left you the day after
the marriage, and did not return till that
day which ended in his death. This is very
mysterious, and points to some great cause of
trouble between you. Did he love you ? '

Indeed he did. Too well.'

Did you love him ? '

She did not answer, but her head sank on
her bosom.

Tell me, Miracle — is it true that he wrote
to you the night of his death ? I heard a
report to that effect.'

Yes, it is true.'

What did he say in that letter ?

She hesitated. ' He said that he bade me
farewell for ever. He said that when I read
the letter I should be free.'

Why did he write thus ? '

She made no answer, but covered her face.

Tell me, Miracle — did he know of my —
of our '

Spare me — spare me ! Oh, Captain Tree
if you must know all, he knew that I
did not love him in the way in which he loved
me, and the knowledge of this made him so

miserable that You know the rest.

And now, do you not see that I have his
death on my conscience, and I must do what
I can to expiate this sin, and do what I can
for the poor despairing soul that I drove to
despair ?'

Set your mind at ease. I do not in the
least believe in his self-destruction. A man
about to commit suicide does not first fill his
pocket with diamonds worth several thousand
pounds. The finding of the jewels upon him
is conclusive evidence that he did 726*^ meditate
self-destruction, but, on the contrary, meant
to live comfortably on the proceeds of their
sale elsewhere. John Herring — you may
take my word for it — made up his mind, ashe
could not be happy with you, that he
would go elsewhere, probably to America.
Now, a man cannot start afresh in life penniless
without great inconvenience and discomfort
: so he laid his hand on that which was
convertible into money, to start him in the

!New World. You do not suppose Join
Herring intended to strangle himself with a
diamond necklace, do you ? If he did not,
the supposition of his having meditated self-destruction
is untenable beside the fact of his
having taken the jewels. lso\ he possessed
himself of them because he had not sufficient
cash in hand, and as he made his way over
the cliffs — it was a dark nis^ht — he missed his
path and fell down Blackapit. There you
have the solution of the entire mystery. Set
your mind at ease ; the guilt of his death
does not weigh on you, and there is no need
for you to expiate it in a convent.'

Miracle breathed more freely. This explanation
did really seem the correct one, and
the relief it gave her was great.

Now, then,' said the Captain, ' I have
knocked this nonsense of clustering yourself
on the head.' He rang the bell, and, when
the servant appeared, he said, ' Send to the
packet, and have the Countess Garcia's boxes
brought back. She is not going to sail in
her.'

Miracle raised her hand in protest, but in
vain. The strong will and determination of
the Captain was more than she could resist in
her present weak condition.

Listen now to me, dear Miracle,' he said,

and, leaving the fire, came towards her. ' The
barrier that has stood between us has fallen.
What is there now to hinder you from becoming
my wife ? I have loved you from the
first moment that I saw you, and — do not
deny it — you have loved me. You married,
a man for whom you did not care — a worthy
man, but not one a heart like yours could
cling to, even if disengaged ; and disengaged
it was not. Duty obliged you — obliged both
of us — to smother and conceal our mutual
love. But the fire was not extinguished, and,
now that the obligation to keep it under exists
no longer, it bursts forth in flame once more.
You shall not go to France. If you do, in
spite of me, I will follow you, and claim you
from the sisters of the Sacred Heart. You
have no right to run away; you owe me
reparation for the suffering I have undergone.
Shall I own to you something ? I knew that
you were going to sail in the packet ; I knew
what you purposed doing ; and I came to
Plymouth to prevent it.'

Miracle looked up at him with surprise.

Yes, dearest, when I knew that you were
free I had no rest. I saw my hopes of happiness
revive. Hender Benoke was in my pay.
He kept me informed of what was taking

place and what was meditated at Welltown.
In love as in war, all things are lawful.'

Miracle was now standing near the window,
leaning against the angle of the window splay,
with the curtain behind her. Her face was
turned away. She could not look at the
Captain, but she saw nothing through the
window panes.

Captain Trecarrel came towards her. She
felt his approach, she did not see it, and
she trembled violently. She was powerless.
The events of her short life in the world had
broken down her force of character and power
of resistance to a superior and resolute will.

Miracle, dearest Miracle,' he said, in a
voice vibrating with pathos, ' you said, a little
while ago, that the only knowledge you had
of home was a cloister ; there is another and
a fonder home — in the arms, on the heart, of
a good and honourable man.' He put his
arms round her and clasped her to him.

At the same moment the door opened, and
Orange came in, very wet, with cheeks glowing'
with exercise ; but v.^hen she saw the
Captain holding Miracle in his arms, and
stooping to imprint a kiss on her lips, she
turned the colour of parchment.

Orange ! ' exclaimed the Captain, recovering
himself at once. ' Delighted to see you.

Miracle is not going to France; she is not
going to immure herself in a cloister ; she returns
to Launceston, and thence to Welltown
tomorrow, and she has very kindly offered
me a place in her carriage as far as Launceston.
I do not in the least object to a seat
with my back to the horses.'

CHAPTER LVIII.

E.I.P.

The chaise was ready to take Miracle back
again. She was depressed. A strange sinking,
a sickening fear had come over her heart,
the reaction after the excitement she had gone
through, the eager expectation of a return to
the convent, and then the arrest on the threshold
of escape. She had painfully schooled
herself not to think of the Captain, and even
now she shrank from thinking of him lest she
should be committing a mortal sin. Even
now, with the knowledge before her that he
whom she had loved would claim her and be
to her more than friend and support, she failed
to feel anything but disappointment that she
was not on her way back to the Sacre Coeur.
She loved Trecarrel, but her love for him was
not now the predominating feeling of her
heart ; her craving for rest and shelter prevailed
over the other passion. Even now, if

she could, she would have prosecuted her
journey, and it was with a lingering, longing
look that she gazed on the sea. Only duty,
that supreme sense of submission to duty,
drove her back. Captain Trecarrel knew her
character perfectly when he appealed to this.
The prospect of enjoying his love, of leaning
on him, blunted the edge of her disappointment
: it did no more than that.

Miracle had not slept that night. Indeed
she had not slept for several nights. Hitherto
she had been kept awake by her fever of
excitement at the prospect of return to the
home of her childhood ; last night she had been
wakeful from other causes, disappointment,
and bewilderment at the new landscape spread
before her eyes. She looked like a girl convalescent
from a long and dangerous sickness.

Do you think, miss, her be fit to travel ? '
asked the hostess, compassionately, of Orange.
Her looks almost like death herself.'

She suffers from the heart,' answered
Orange, coldly.

Orange Trampleasure was not herself. A
hard look had come over her face. The ripe,
sensual lips were set and contracted, and a
threatening light glimmered in her eyes.

That other young lady do have a temper.
I wouldn't be the one to cross her,' said the

hostess to the chambermaid when the chaise
departed.

Xor was Genefer herself the confident
person she had been. Genefer was wont to
speak as the oracle of the truth, to speak and
act as though whatever she said and did was
inspired. She had no doubt about her own
infallibility, and every contrary opinion to hers
she regarded as instigated by the devil. But
this morning her confidence was gone ; almost
for the first time in her life she did not see
her way clear before her. She had urged
Miracle to return to Welltown, and Miracle
was returning; ; but now Genefer doubted
whether the advice she had given was wise
and good. She did not like the Captain, and
the Captain had succeeded in convincing her
mistress when she had failed.

The Lord have hid the thing from me ! '
she muttered as she mounted the box. She
sat looking before her, waiting for the light,
that she might see her way ; but it did not
come. At intervals she sighed, and muttered,
*I misdoubt me sore. But the Lord have
closed my eyes that I cannot see.'

Strange as it may seem, the old woman

had taken a strong; liking' for Miracle, and it

was not only because she thought Miracle's

object in returning to an idolatrous land was

VOL. in. s

wrong that she opposed it, but also because in
her ruo-o-ed but warm heart she was attached

CO

to her and did not like to lose her. There
was a singleness of mind and a spirituality of
vision in the Snow Bride which impressed as
well as puzzled Genefer. How one who was
not a Dissenter could live an inner life, and
pray much, perplexed her, but she recognised
in Miracle a good deal that was akin to herself,
and she found that Mirelie entered into
her spiritual experiences with interest and
sympathy.

Orange sat by Miracle, and Captain Tree
was opposite the latter. He made
himself very agreeable, had a fund of conversation
on a variety of topics, but found his
companions in no responsive mood. He tried
to interest ^lirelle in the scenery, which was
lovely, but Miracle was absorbed in her
thoughts and disinclined for conversation.
The day was fine, the views looking back over
Plymouth Bay and the woods of Mount
Edgcumbe, the Amaze crowded with ships,
and the winding estuary of the Tamar, where
charming — hardly less beautiful were those in
front, of Dartmoor. Miracle leaned back in
the chaise, the hood of which was thrown
back, and the air fanned her face and soothed
her.

Captain Trecarrel could hardly withdraw
his eyes from her ; she seemed to him the
most lovely woman he had ever seen. He
had an artist's appreciation of beauty of
feare. The delicate and perfect chiselling
of the nose and nostril, the finely formed,
sensitive mouth, the pure brow, and, when
she looked up, the solemn depth of ber large
eyes, filled him with admiration. A little
lock of her dark hair had strayed over her
forehead, and the soft warm air trifled with
it in a tender, playful manner. Miracle put
up her fingers to put it in place, but unsuccessfully
; it stole forth again, again to
flutter in the light air.

Orange watched Trecarrel jealously ; she
saw how his eyes turned to ^lirelle whenever
he dare look at her without rudeness, and
how his admiration of her beauty grew. The
Captain spoke to her occasionally, but only by
the way, his remarks were mainly du-acted to
Miracle, and when he turned to Orange she
felt that he was doing so out of civility alone.
His thoughts were not with her, but with her
companion. Orange was not herself on this
day ; her usual colour had deserted her, and
the sensuous fulness of life which throbbed in
her seemed to have ebbed, and left her flaccid
and pulseless.

Captain Trecarrel was aware that he had
behaved badly to Orange, and had incurred
her resentment; this made him nervous in
her presence, and to hide his discomfort he
redoubled his efforts to be agreeable. Finding
that no conversation was to be got out of
Miracle, he finally turned his efforts to Orange,
and endeavoured to amuse her with his adventures
at the little inns on his sketching
tour.

But still, as he talked, his eyes reverted to
the face of Miracle, and Orange's life returned
in a throb of spleen. She rose in her seat and
said sharply, ' We will change places, if you
please, Captain Trecarrel.'

Hush ! ' said he ; ' do not disturb her.
She sleeps.'

The fresh air puffing in her face, and the
warm sun, after the sleepless nights, had
operated on the weary brain, and Miracle had
dropped off into unconsciousness. Orange
was aware of this without looking round, by
the confidence with which the Captain allowed
his eyes to rest on her face. Miracle was
breathing gently, and her face had become
wonderfully peaceful and deathlike under the
influence of sleep. The stray lock wantoned
in the air on the pure white brow, but could
not wake her.

Do you really wish to sit with your back
to the horses ? ' asked Trecarrel in an undertone.
'" You will then have the sun in your
eyes.'

Yes, let us change places.' Her voice
was metallic.

Then, for the love of Heaven, do not
wake her with moving. Stay ! here we are
at a long hill. I will get out and walk up it
to relieve the horses, and then you can change
without disturbing Miracle.'

If you are sroinof to walk. I will walk
also.'

They both alighted at the bridge over
the Waltham, and fell behind the carriage.
Trecarrel was uneasy ; he feared that Orange
was going to speak to him unpleasantly, on
an unpleasant subject.

She is so deficient in breeding,' said he
to himself, ' that she persists in forcing herself
and what she regards as her wrongs upon
one.'

How lovely she is ! ' exclaimed the
Captain, with want of tact ; ' but terribly
fragile. She looks as if she were as likely
never to wake out of the sleep into which she
has fallen, as she is again to unclose her
beautiful eyes.'

Orange made no answer. Her heart was

beating'! the rush of life had returned to
her gems. She walked at his side in silence
for some little way, then suddenly burst forthwith,
' What is the meaning of this, Captain
Trecarrel ? '

The meaning of what, my good Orange ?
You must be more explicit.'

Why is Miracle returning ? How have you
succeeded in changing her from her purpose?
What inducement have you held out to her
to lure her back to hated Welltown ? '

'- The highest, the purest of all,' answered
the Captain, with dignity. ' For what is
higher and purer than duty ? '

Orano^e looked round at him.

What do you mean by that ? ' she asked
harshly. ' Duty — duty to whom? '

^ To self — to conscience. I have pointed
out to her obligations she must not cast off.'

^ Duty — obligations ! ' echoed Orange,
roughly. ' What farce is this ? Have you
turned preacher?'

I have advised Miracle as a friend. She
has no one else capable of giving her counsel.'

Indeed ! I am nothing ! '

^ I beg your pardon. Orange. I do not
ignore your high qualifications for advising
her as to her social duties ; but when we step
out on moral ground, there I must beg leave

to observe that only one of her own faith is
calculated to direct her.'

Orange stood still and stamped her foot.
Her hands clenched convulsively.

Captain Trecarrel ! do you suppose me
such a fool as to believe you when you take
up this tone ? I know you too well. I have
suffered too severely from your selfishness
and cruelty not to know that you are working
in your own interest, disregarding everything
and every one save some mean and selfish aim.
Captain Trecarrel, you where bound to me by
the most sacred vows, short of those made at
the altar ; you took a base advantage of my
misfortunes to shake me off, when a man of
honour and chivalry would have blushed to
desert me. I humbled myself before you
into the dust. I am covered with shame at
the thought of such self-abasement before
one so unworthy. You were without feeling
for me, without love, without compassion,
without generosity. After that you sought
• me again, when I had fled from Launceston
to conquer my own heart in seclusion. You
sought me out, you followed me to my place
of retreat, to trifle with me again, to weaken
up in me what was going to sleep, to torture
me, and to sting me to madness. Take care !
take care ! What have I done to you, that

you should do this great wrong to me? I
was a good-hearted and gay girl, without gall
and bitterness, and you have turned my heart
into a cauldron boiling with furious and hateful
passions. Take care, I say ; take care lest
you drive me to desperation.'

My dear, dear Orange '

Have done with "my dear, dear Orange ! " ^
she almost shouted. The anger was boiling
in her heart and puffing out the veins in her
throat and temples. ' I am " dear " to you
no more. Captain Trecarrel, you have had no
mercy on me, and I appeal no more to you to
consider my wrongs ; but I do appeal to you
on behalf of Miracle, whom you so greatly
admire, whom you profess to consider so
lovely, whom you are guiding in the way of
moral obligation. Have you no pity? Do
you know to what you are driving her back?
Can you not let her alone and allow her to
escape whilst she may? Her heart is set on
return to France and to her convent. Why
should she not follow her heart and go?
Why should you stand in the way, and lay
your hand on her and arrest her? Let her
go. It is not now too late. Let her follow
her own wishes and leave England. Do you
not see that, tossed as she has been into a
turmoil of troubles, they are killing her? It

is a whirlpool sucking her in and suffocating
her. Do not you incur the guilt of her
destruction as well as mine, you moral instructor
! You have ruined my happiness,
and with it my moral sense. You are thrusting
her back out of happiness into death.
She has been like a captive escaping from a
dungeon, catching a glimpse of sun and
laughing for joy, and now you, as a savage
gaoler, come and drive her back into the
rayless vault again, and cast a stone over the
door. Cruel ! cruel man ! ' She panted for
breath. ' See,' she continued, ' see how fine
the day is ! The packet is now at sea with
her prow turned towards France. But for
your interference Miracle would be on board,
she would be standing on deck looking eagerly
forward to catch the first sight of the loved
land, her heart beating high with hope, her
eye bright with returning happiness, her
cheek flushed with renovated life. Let her go
back to Plymouth and take the next packet.'

Captain Trecarrel said nothing, but, drawing
a silk handkerchief from his pocket, he
dusted his boots and faintly hummed a tune.

Orange's passion increased at his insulting
indifference.

Captain Trecarrel,' she said, ' have you
no regard for any one but yourself? You

think, do you, that some day Miracle will be
yours, and with her all she has ? '

Orange said the Captain, coldly, ^ as
you pretend to know me, I may return the
compliment, and admit that I know you.
Now what is the meaning of this sudden
sympathy with Miracle ? I know you do not
love her ; I have eyes in my head which
have long ago convinced me that you do not
even like her. This outbreak of zeal for her
welfare and happiness, I am led to believe,
covers — as you were pleased coarsely to remark
to me — some selfish aim. And that
aim I can discern without difficulty. I understand,'
he added with a sneer, 'that
Miracle had constituted you treasurer and
agent and plenipotentiary over all her property,
landed and funded and invested, with
perfect liberty to deal with it as you listed,
and without any one to control your proceedings
and check your accounts. And that after
her experience of how the Trampleasure
family deals in trust matters ! sancta
simplicity I '

Orange looked at him sullenly.

Think so if you will, but I tell you you
are mistaken.' She stepped before him, barring
his road, and held out her hands.
Captain Trecarrel, I give you one chance

more. Let her go. Send her to her convent.
Have pity upon both her and me.' Then her
rage swelled into a paroxysm ; she grasped
his shoulders with her strong hands, and
shook him. ' Captain Trecarrel, will you be
advised, will you be ruled? Do not think
in your heart that ever she will be yours,
and Welltown joined to Trecarrel ! That will
never, never be. Let her go. You alone
can save her. The carriage has halted for
us at the top of the hill. Now call to the
postilion to turn his horses and drive back
to Plymouth.'

Captain Trecarrel released himself, with a
feeling of disgust at her violence and ill-breeding.


'Let us catch up the carriage, Orange,'
he said coldly : ' we have dropped far behind.
You are excited, and hot, and unreasonable.
If you wish to hear what directions I shall
give to the driver, you must wait.'

They walked on hastily, side by side,
without speaking. Orange's breath was like
a flame between her lips.

The post-boy had drawn up the horses at
the head of the hill. As they prepared to
step into the chaise, Captain Trecarrel remarked
—

She is asleep stilL Bless me, she looks

as if she might sleep away into death without
those looking on being conscious of the
change.'

Orange took her place opposite Miracle,
and Captain Trecarrel sat by the sleeper's
side.

You really wish this ? ' he asked of
Orange.

Yes ; give the word to the post-boys
she answered, looking him hard in the face.

Drive straight on,' shouted the Captain ;
^ we are ready.'

Orange sank back in her seat and said no
more. Trecarrel looked about him, and admired
the richness of the scenery, as the road
descended to the beautiful valley of the Navy,
rich in woods, with glimpses of granite moor
ridges rising picturesquely above it, and
below the little town of Tavistock, with its
grey church and abbey nestling by the foaming
moorland river. The scene was charming,
and the Captain wished he had time to
sketch it.

Presently Miracle woke — woke with a start
and shiver.

Orange ! ' she said, ' you frighten me.
Why do you look at me in that strange
manner? '

I did not know that I was looking at you

at all,' answered Orange, and she turned away
her face.

I am cold.' said Miracle ; ^ we have our
backs to the sun.'

You have been asleep, and have become
chilled,' said the Captain, sympathetically.
Let me wrap my warm cloak about your
shoulders ; you must not catch cold. We are
now half-way to Launceston.'

Then Genefer murmured, ' The Lord put
a lying spirit in the mouth of the prophets,
and they said unto Ahab, Go up unto Ramoth
Gilead and take it ; and he went up and fell
there. I cannot see; my eyes are holden. The
Lord hath not spoken unto me by word or signor
revelation, and I know not if I counselled
right when I said, Return.'

Nothing of interest and worthy of record
occurred during the rest of the journey.
Miracle was brighter, refreshed by her sleep,
and she tried to enter into conversation with
the Captain, but Orange remained obdurately
mute. At the gate of Launceston Trecarrel
descended and offered profuse thanks to
Miracle for the drive which had saved him the
expense of coaching home. The evening had
fallen and it was dusk ; the chaise was driven
rapidly into the gate of Dolbeare, and drew
up on the terrace.

The house was locked ; no one now lived
in it. Orange had taken the key with her to
Plymouth ; she handed it to Genefer, whilst
the post-boy let down the steps, and she descended.
Genefer went, with the key in her
hand, towards the door, when suddenly she
stopped, uttered a cry of terror, and fell
back.

AVhat is the matter ? ' asked Orange, impatiently.


Dory see un ? Dory see un ? There he
stands.'

^ Who ? what ? No one is there,' answered
Orange in a tone of irritation. ' You foolish
woman, go on.'

'I see an old man in red; he be there
standing with his walking-stick waving it, and
sisrninof to us not to come in. He has his
hand out, as though to thrust us back. He
stands in the doorway.'

This is sheer crazy folly,' exclaimed
Orange. ' Here, give me the key ! ' She
snatched it from Genefer's hand, and thrusting
her aside went forward.

Genefer turned her head and uttered
another cry. Miracle had fainted.

She saw him too, I reckon — that man ina
red coat, with the white hair and the gold-headed
cane,' said the old woman. ' Lord,

enlighten me ! "What be the meaning of all
this, I cannot tell.'

Orange threw the house door open, and the
unconscious Miracle was borne into the hall
by Genefer and the post-boy, and placed in
an arm-chair, where she gradually recovered.

I'll be quick, darling,' said Genefer, ' and
get a fire lighted and something warm, and
I'll bring you your supper up to your own
room.'

You are over tired,' said Orange. 'Genefer
is right ; go to bed.'

When the Trampleasures had removed to
Welltown nothing definite was settled as to
where they would permanently take up their
abode ; the furniture and all the contents of
Dolbeare had therefore been left there undisturbed,
to be removed should they elect to
live elsewhere. It was convenient to them to
have the house in condition to receive them at
any time for a short or lengthy stay as suited
them. On their way to Plymouth Miracle and
Orange had spent the night there, and Genefer
had attended to their requirements. Now
that they had returned, the old servant's hands
vere full of work. She lighted the fire in the
kitchen and in the dining-room, filled the
kettle and set it on to boil, and began to
prepare for supper. This occupied some time,

during which she was unable to attend to
Miracle. When the supper Alas ready she
brought it into the dining-room, and found
Orange there seated musing by the hearth.

How be the mistress now ? ' asked
Genefer.

^ I do not know. I have not been upstairs.'


Genefer looked up at the pastille portrait
above her head, and said, ' Him it was that I
saw in the doorway with a warning wave of
the hand, and he sought to bar the door
entrance with the stick, that we might not
come in. I durst not have passed, but when
you went forward. Miss Orange, then he
seemed to vanish away like smoke. I reckon
the mistress saw un too, for her fainted with
fright at the same moment. Did'y ever hear,
now, who he might be ? '

No, I know nothing of him,' answered
Orange, shortly.

I reckon he don't come for naught,' said
Genefer. ' But a veil is on my face in the
reading of events, as there be on the hearts of
the Jews in the study of Scripture, and till
that veil be taken away I see naught plain.'

ego about your work,' said Orange, impatiently,
' and do not trouble me with your
foolish fancies.'

Genefer looked at Orange, and shook her
head, and muttered, ' There be some folks like
the fleece of Gideon on which the dew never
falls though the grass around be wet.'

Then she prepared a tray, and carried
some supper upstairs to Miracle. ' Ah ! ' she
continued, ' and there be others on whom the
dew drops in plenty whilst all around is dry.'

She found her mistress seated in a hio-h-
backed, old-fashioned chair covered with red
baize. She had her shawl wrapped about her.
• There, my pretty,' said the old woman ; ' see,
I've a brought you something at last.'

Oh, Genevieve, I am very cold,' said
Miracle.

Shall I light the fire, darling '

I should like it. I do not think I am
well. I am exhausted, and sick at heart. Feel
my hand how it shakes.'

Genefer took the little white hand between
her own, stroked it, raised it to her lips and
kissed it.

You love me, Genevieve?' Miracle lifted
her large eyes and looked earnestly into the
old woman's face.

Ah, I do, I do, sure-ly.'

I am so glad, Genevieve, because I do
not think there are many who love me.'

Dory think it was the red man in the

VOL. III. T

doorway that frightened you ? ' asked Genefer.
You seed un, did you not ? '

'I do not know,' answered Miracle. ^I
hardly remember what occurred. I had a
sense of a great wave of terror coming over
me, but what caused it I no more remember,
for my consciousness went from me

Here a got a kindly enough face, there
be no vice in it,' said Genefer, as she knelt at
the hearth and was eno^ao-ed on the fire.
I reckon he don't walk for naught ; it ain't
only the bad as wanders. Samuel appeared
to Saul before the battle of Bilboa. Many of
the saints that slept arose, and appeared in
the holy city. We have Scripture to show
that it be not the bad only as walks. I've a
seen my mother scores of times, and her were
a God'fearing woman. But father were a
darning blaspheming drunkard, and I've
never seen him once. I reckon the red man
were a peaceable sort of a chap, and if he
walks, 'ain't along of his sins, but because hebe
sent to fulfil the wise purposes of Heaven.'

Genefer put the poker against the bars of
the grate.

There, mistress, I hope you'll be warmer
soon, but the kindling be damp and the
chimney has cold air in it, and the fire won't
draw kindly. Now I must go.'



Oh, Genevieve, must you really go? I
do not like to be alone, I am frightened.'

^ Is it the red man you fear ? Dory think
he'll walk through the room while you belying
in bed ? Lord blessed, I think naught
of such spirits. It be the black devils is the
chaps to scare one ; I've a seed them and
hunted 'em many a time.'

No,' said Miracle, ' I am not afraid of
him. I do not knoAV exactly what I fear,
but something that I cannot describe has
come over me. Oh, Genevieve, I wish that
you could sleep in this room with me.'

I don't see how to manage that, my dear.
I couldn't move my bed myself up here. But
you've no occasion for it, neither. There be
Miss Orange close at hand, and only a door
between. You ask her, and he'll leave the
door open between you.'

No, no,' said Miracle, nervously. ' Could
you fasten that door, Genevieve ? '

Which ? There be but two doors, one
is on to the landing, and the other into Miss
Orange's bedroom.'

I mean the latter door.'

Genefer went to it.

I cannot fasten it. It be locked already,
and the key on the other side.'

Is there no bolt ? '

No, mistress.'

Never mind, it cannot be helped,' with a
siofh.

Then the lock was turned, the door opened,
and Orange came through carrying a bolster.

You like to lie with your head well
raised. I have brought you this ; you will
sleep the sounder for it.'

Then she went up to Miracle's bed and
placed it with the pillows.

Thank you. Orange. How very kind
and thoughtful you arc ! ' said Miracle.

Orange went up to her. Orange had lost
her colour, and a hard, restrained look had
come over her face.

How are you now ? '

A little better ; not much. I feel very
cold.'

It is heart,' said Orange, ' that ails you.
That will stop some day — or night. Stop ina
moment wien least expected.' And without
another word she went back through her door
and re-locked it.

Shall I unpack your box, mistress ? '
asked the old woman. ' Jt won't do for you
to stoop. It might bring the swimming in
your head again. It is only for me to stay
up a bit later to finish the housework.'

Thank you, dear, kind Genevieve. I am
much obliged, I shall be very glad of it.'

Genefer unforced and unlocked the trunk
and removed from it what she thought would
be necessary for the night.

Shall I bring out this Christ on the
cross?' she asked, holding; up the crucifix
Herring had bought for his bride.

Oh, please do so. I shall be glad to have
it.'

Ah I ' said the old woman, ' if the fear
and sickness of heart come over you again,
you can look to that and take comfort. I
be not that set against images such as this,
that I would forbid and destroy them. Since
you've been to Welltown I've a looked on
this here many scores of times, and it have
done me a deal of good, it have.'

Then she planted the crucifix in the
middle of a small table at the head of the bed,
between a couple of wax lights that were
burning there.

Miracle shivered. ' Oh, Genevieve ! what
have you done ? Do you know that with us
we put a crucifix and candles in that way at
the head of a bed where some one is lying
dead?'

Let be,' said Genefer. ' Sleep is a figure
of death, and if you cannot sleep under the

cross you are not fit to die under it. Remember
what Miss Orange said. You suffer
from the heart, and it may stop at any hour ;
so be always ready.' She went again to the
hearth. ' Drat the fire, it won't burn, leastwise
not readily; there be too much cold
air in the flue. There, mistress, now I must
go ; I've my work to do downstairs.'

May I have a rush light for the night,
Genevieve ?'

My dear, there be none in the house ;
I'd go gladly and fetch you one, but the shops
be all shut in the town. There, good night,
and God be with you.'

Where do you sleep, Genevieve ? '

At the far end of the house, up the other
flight of stairs.'

If I should want you ? If I should call
in the night ? ' Miracle looked anxiously,
pleadingly at her.

My darling, it would be no good. I
should never hear. But what do that matter ?
Miss Orange be close at hand, and you've but
to call if you feel ill, and he'll run and wake
me up, and I'll go for the doctor fast as
lightning, so there, don't fear any more.'

Miracle sighed. ' Give me a kiss, Genevieve,
before you go.'

With all my heart, precious ! ' and the

old woman kissed her fondly on the cheek,
and then raised and kissed both her hands in
succession.

Then Genefer left. It was not possible
for her to tarry longer with Miracle. There
was much that had to be done : the supper
things to be removed and washed up, some
kindling to be got ready for the fire next
morning ; the kitchen fire to be put out, and
a little tidying to be done in the parlour and
the hall. Genefer would have enough to do
next morning, getting breakfast ready, and
she would leave nothing till then that she
could possibly get done that night.

Whilst she was in the dining-room clearing
away the supper things, she looked hard at the
pastille portrait.

"Whatever did the old man mean by
walking, and standing in the doorway with
that warning gesture ? '

She stood in front of the picture for sometime,
trying to decipher something in it which
escaped her. At last, hopeless of discovering
what she sought, she resumed her work.

There, there ! ' she said, ' I've been
wasting the one bit of candle I have, and
he'll hardly last me out all I have to do.
Whatever be hidden now from me, the day
will bring forth.'

After the old woman had finished the
washing-up in the kitchen and had extinguished
that fire and raked out the fire in the
parlour, she went into the hall, which was
littered with packages, boxes, trunks, cloaks,
and clashes. Genefer disliked disorder, and
she set to work putting the sundry articles
into some sort of order, though the next day
all would attain be removed to the carriage
for the continuation of the return journey to
Welltown.

I wonder what time of night it be ! ' she
said, as she looked up at the clock. ' Twelve !
But no, sure it cannot be. Her's not ticking.
Her's standing still. To be sure, her's not
been wounded up for ever so long. Lora-
mussy ! the candle will never last me out.
I shall have to go to bed in the dark, and that
ain't pleasant where there be spirits of dead
men walking. But ' — she shook herself — ' is
that seemly of thee, Genefer Benoke, to be
afeared of spirits? The Lord is my light and
my salvation, whom shall I fear ? The Lord
is the strength of my life, of whom shall I
be afraid ? '

Genefer's confidence was somewhat shaken
by hearing a door opened, and by seeing a
white figure on the stairs, slowly descending.

^ Lord, mistress ! ' she said, after she had

recovered from the first shock of alarm, when
she recognised Miracle ; ' sure enough you did
give me a turn.'

Miracle was in her long white lightness,
her dark hair was unbound, and fell over her
shoulders. The white, delicate feet were bare.

What be the matter, darling ? '

Miracle took each step on the stair hesitatingly,
with foot poised before her, as though
feeling in the air, before she lowered it. She
descended in this way very leisurely, as one
walking in a dream, or one blind, groping the
way in an unknown place. Her hand was on
the banister, and the bar trembled.

She reached the landing, and stood under
the clock. She made no attempt to descend
farther.

Oh, Genevieve, the fire is gone out.'

'I reckon the wood were damp,' said the
old woman. ' It be too late, and not possible
to light it ao^ain now.'

And the candles are flickering in their
sockets.'

There is not another in the house. Look
at mine.'

'It will be so dark.'

Do not be afraid. The Lord will give
you light.'

It will be so cold.'

You will be warm in bed.'

'0 no ! it is colder there than outside.'

She remained without speaking, waiting
for Genefer to say something, but the old
woman offered no remark, not knowing what
to say.

Still she stood there, hesitating, and the
banister rattled under her hand laid on it.

There, there ! ' said Genefer, ' lie down
and shut your eyes, and you will soon be
asleep.'

I cannot sleep.'

She still stood there, irresolute.

'Is the fire burning in the parlour? I
should like to go in there, and sit there.'

I've just put him out.'

Then — that in the kitchen.'

He's out likewise. There, there, go to
bed like a good dear. There is no help — it
must be.'

Genevieve, I asked Mr. John Herring
to send you away. You frightened me. I
am very sorry. Will you forgive me for
doing so?'

To be sure I will. I am not one to bear
malice.'

Do you really think, Genevieve, that he
is alive ? '

I do. I cannot doubt it.'

Oh, promise me, fever you see him, and
I not, tell him ' — she paused — ' tell him that
now I wish, with all my heart, I had loved
him as he deserved.'

Then she went upstairs again, in the same
slow, reluctant manner, step by step, ascending
backward, feeling each step behind her
with her bare foot before planting it, and
raising herself to the higher level, and she
kept her eyes fixed on Genefer as though
dreading to lose sio^ht of her. At last Miracle's
hand, feeling behind her, touched the latch of
her door, and the chill of the metal sent a
shiver through her.

Slowly, very slowly, she pressed the door
open behind her, walking backwards still,
with a sad despairing look in her large dark
eyes fixed on Genefer.

And Genefer, standing below, said, ' Sweetheart,
go to your bed, and, may you rest in

PEACE ! '

CHAPTER LIX.

DIVIDING THE SPOILS.

Never was more shocked in my life ! ' said
Captain Trecarrel; ' I really have not recovered
it yet. So young, so beautiful, so good ! and
you, my sweet Orange, I observe, are greatly
overcome. It does you credit ; it does, upon
my life.'

Captain Trecarrel was seated in the parlour
at Dolbeare with Orange ; the latter was looking
haggard and wretched. 'And it was heart
that did it,' said the Captain ; ' I always said
that heart was her weak point, and that it
must be economised to the utmost, spared all
excitement, everything distressing. There has
always been that transparent look about her
flesh that is a sure sign of the heart being
wrong. Poor angel ! I have no doubt in the
world that she was greatly tried. She has not
been happy ever since she came to England;
one thing or another has risen up to distress
her, circumstances have conspired to keep her

in incessant nervous tension. She felt the
death of poor John Herring severely ; that
alone was enough to kill her. Do not take on
so much, Orange; there is moderation in all
things, even in sorrow for the dead.'

'Leave me alone said Orange, hoarsely.
Do not notice me.'

I see this painful occurrence has shaken
you,' continued Captain Trecarrel. ' I knew
you regarded her ; I had no idea that you

loved her. Indeed '

Leave me alone,' said Orange, emphatically.


Well, well ! When will be the funeral ? '
To-morrow.*

I shall certainly attend, to show the last
tribute of respect to one whom I greatly
esteemed. Licked I may say that next to
you, Orange, I never admired any woman so
much. She has taught us one lesson, poor
thing, and that is not to trifle with the heart,
which is a most susceptible organ, and must be
guarded against strong feeling and excitement.
Do not be so troubled about this matter,
Orange ; it is bad for the health, over much
sorrow debilitates the constitution. You are
really not looking yourself. Think that every
cloud has its silver lining, and this fleeting
affliction, I make no scruple to affirm, is

trimmed throughout with gold. Have you
reversed it ? Have you studied the other
side? Have you looked into matters at all?'

'What matters?'

'Well, to put it broadly, pecuniary matters.
One is reluctant to advert to such things at
such a solemn time, but it is necessary. The
sweet luxury of grief cannot be indulged in
till these concerns are settled, and they considerably
accentuate or moderate it. You and
I, Orange, are practical persons : we feel for
what we have lost, but we do not let slip the
present or overlook the future. You are her
nearest of kin, and therefore of course everything
she had will fall to you. By the greatest
good luck her husband predeceased, and Well-town
came to her, and from her will doubtless
pass to you. Beside Wilton, what was she
worth ? '

I do not know — 1 do not care,' answered
Orange, in a tone of mingled impatience and
indifference.

This will not do, Orange,' said Captain
Trecarrel ; ' you really must not succumb.
Good taste imposes its limits on sorrow as on
joy. If you come in for ten thousand pounds
you do not dance and shout, and if you lose a
friend you do not sink into the abyss of sulky
misery — that is, if you make any pretence

to good breeding. I know what a sensible,
practical girl you are. Come, pluck up heart
and help me to look into her concerns. I have
done my best, my very best, for you so far,
and I will not desert you now. The moment
I heard of the event I flew to your assistance,
I offered my aid, and I have been invaluable
to you. You cannot dispute it. But for me
there might have been an inquest, which would
have been offensive to your delicacy of sentiment.
I explained to the doctor her constitution,
and the troubles she has gone through ;
how she felt her husband's sudden death, the
languor that has since oppressed her, her
fainting fits, the swoon into which she fell
after her exhausting journey; and he saw at
once that heart was at the bottom of it all. I
settled with the undertaker, saw to everything,
made every arrangement, and you have not
been troubled in the least. I even went after
the milliner about your mourning. You cannot
deny that I have been of service to you,
and I am ready to do more. All that is
nothing : now comes the most trying and
difficult task of all — the settlement of her
affairs ; but I am ready to undertake that also,
to save my dear Orange trouble, only I ask,
as a preliminary, that all the requisite information
shall be placed at my disposal.'

^ Later,' said Orange, uneasily ; ' after the
funeral.'

^No,' answered Captain Trecarrel, 'not
after the funeral, but now. My time is
valuable. I shall have to go to Exeter in
three days, and I should like to have everything;
ready to take with me. If there be a
will, which I do not suppose there is, I will
prove it for you. If there be not, I will
obtain letters of administration for you. You
must really let me know what her estate was
worth. Have you the means of ascertaining? '

I do not know.'

But you must know, or rather you must
put me in the way of ascertaining. Have
you looked whether there is a will ? '

No, I have not.'

Have you got her desk ? '

It is upstairs.'

Bring it down, and we will overhaul it
together.'

Orange rose and left the room. She returned
a few minutes later, with the large
desk that had belonged to Mr. Strange, and
after his death had been appropriated by
Miracle. Miracle had removed from it all his
Portuguese letters, tied them in bundles and
put them away, and had transferred to it her
own treasures from a school waiting-desk full to

overflowing. It was a strange thing that this
desk was thus explored in search of a will at
so small an interval of time since we saw
John Herring seated at it, at the opening of
this story.

This is the sort of thing I detest,' said
the Captain. ' It jars with one's feelings and
vulgarises bereavement. However, it does not
become us to give way to our emotions, we
must do our duty. Give me the key.'

He unlocked the desk, and turned over the
contents ; he removed many articles and placed
them on the table. What trifles were there ! —
trifles that had been collected at school and
were preserved as treasures, each made precious
by some innocent association and sunny
memory. A little book in which her school
companions had inscribed verses and signed
their names. Wrapped up in silver paper and
tied with white silk, a lock of hair from the
head of Marie de la Meillerie, cut on the day
of her first Communion. In a pill-box a
raisin out of Miracle's birthday cake, many
years old. Some lace-edged pictures of
saints, spangled red, and blue, and gold with
foil stars, a medal of Notre Dame de Bon
Secours ; some feathers ofi* a pet bullfinch
that had died and cost many tears, a twig of
blessed palm, John Herring's notes, and some

VOL. III. u

little presents he had made her — but not one
relic of Captain Trecarrel — all such had been
burned on her marriage, she had kept them
till then. Also a little deal box in which, softly
nested in cotton-wool, was a glass peacock
with spun glass tail — a memorial of one happy-day
spent at the house of the Countess La
Gave, who had taken Miracle and her daughters
to see a glass-blower, and the man had made
the peacock under their eyes, and had presented
it to Miracle. All this rubbish Captain
Trecarrel tossed aside carelessly. If
it ever had any value, it had it only to her
who could appreciate those trifles no more.
Then he pounced, with trembling hand, on a
paper in John Herring's handwriting — a
statement of the property of the Countess
Miracle Garcia de Cantalejo ; and with it a
much larger paper in many folds. He opened
this latter, glanced at it, and tossed it aside
with an expression of disgust. It was a
pedigree of the family of Garcia de Cantalejo
with heraldic reasonings. The smaller paper
soon engrossed his whole attention ; Captain
Trecarrel's eyes opened very wide. John
Herring's confession was not there. Miracle
had destroyed it, lest it should ever be seen
by any one but herself. She had, however,
preserved the statement.

My dear Orange! — my dear, dear Orange ! '
his voice shook with emotion and excitement.
I had no idea that the lining was so warm
and so rich. There are the West Wyke
mortgages, there is a silver lead mine, about
which 1 knew nothing — well, I was aware
some time ago that he Alas padding in
something of the sort near Ophir, but I did
not know that it was being worked ; when I
heard of it, it was not begun. Then there
are uncut diamonds. Bless my soul ! uncut
diamonds ! How did they escape the fingers
of your excellent father, I wonder ? Where
can they be ? Oh, I see, at the bank. We
must take out letters /of administration to
authorise you to withdraw and realise. Why,
Orange ! my dear, dear, dear Orange,' be put
his hand under the table, took that of Miss
Trampleasure, and pressed it with fervent
affection ; ' the barrier that has stood between
us has fallen. Happiness is in view
before us. You will forgive and forget any
little past lovers' quarrels. Amantium ice
amoris integration est as the syntax says.
Let me tout all up as well as I can. Welltown
is worth six hundred nett, as far as I can
judge, and it is unencumbered. Then there
are your five thousand, which will bring in,

say, two hundred and fifty. It is impossible

u 2

for me to estimate the value of Miracle's
own property, as the silver lead mine is only
now beginning to give dividends, I suppose —
I see by the paper that money has been sunk,
and there is no entry of return, but then
Upaver is quite a new affair. What it is
worth I cannot conjecture. Then there are
the West Wyke mortgages, and the uncut
diamonds, and I suppose money in the bank.
The estate must be worth at least a thousand
per annum, without including Welltown. My
dear, dear, dear Orange, my heart overflows
with affection. I will tell you, Orange, what
will be the best plan of all for both of us.
Let us get a special licence and be married at
the earliest time possible, privately, of course,
because of the affliction under which you are
suffering, and then I can manage all the
matter of Miracle's estate with the utmost
simplicity, as my own. It will save a world
of trouble, and possibly some expense. By
Jove ! this is not all. We had left out of our
calculation the set of diamonds. Where is it ?
Oh, here it is in its etui on the other side of
the desk. Orange, do look at the stones !
they are magnificent. They must be worth a
great deal of money. I am no judge of stones,
but these strike my uninitiated eye as being
of the purest water — not a tinge of yellow,

not a flaw in them. I can see this, Orange,
that our income is likely to be some two
thousand a year. I could cry tears of joy at
the thought. Did you ever hear anything so
ridiculous as the supposition that John Herring
had committed suicide with this set of
diamonds in his pocket ? The thing is psychologically
impossible. With such a source of
wealth in one's pocket one would begin to
live ; all previous existence would be tadpoles,
now only would one stretch out legs and
arms and begin to jump. My dear, dear
Orange, I do believe that you and I are only
now about to sip the nectar of life. Here —
try on these jewels.'

I had rather not ' said Orano^e, shrinking


I insist. I want to see you in them.
Lord bless you ! they never could become that
pale little thing; colour, warmth, flesh and
life are wanted to carry this. Here, Orange,
let me try it on.'

He rose to put the diamond chain about
her neck, when a hand interposed and
grasped it.

Trecarrel and Orange looked round,
startled, and saw John Herring standing
before them, with hard, bitter face, very pale,
with contracted brows. He had entered the

room without their hearing him. The Captain
had been too much engrossed in his
discoveries to have ear for his footfall on the
carpet, and Orange too abstracted in her own
gloomy thoughts.

At the sight of Herring, Trecarrel drew
back, and his jaw fell. He looked at Herring,
then at Orange, then at the diamonds, and,
lastly, at the schedule of Miracle's property.

By heavens ! ' he gasped. ' Confound
it ! you alive ! Then Orange is only worth
^N^ thousand.'

Orange had recoiled into a corner, blank,
trembling, speechless.

Herring was perfectly collected.

Put everything down,' he said in hard
tones. ' Do not lay finger on anything again.
Leave the house at once.' He looked at the
Captain with contempt and anger.

^ And you. Orange Trampleasure, already
engaged in dividing the spoils of the dead
before she is laid in her grave ! You will
find a carriage at the gate. Rejoin your
mother at Welltown, and leave me in the
house alone with Genefer and — my wife. I
cannot suffer another presence here.'

He gathered the little scattered trifles
together, the lock of hair, the raisin, the glass
peacock, the tinsel pictures, with soft and

reverent touch, and placed all together in the
desk. The jewels he re-laid in their etid^ and
relegated it to its proper compartment. Then
he locked up the desk. His face was cold,
collected, with hard lines about the mouth,
and a hard look in the eyes, in which no sign
of a tear was manifest. He removed the desk
to a shelf in the cabinet, then he went out and
ascended the stairs.

At the sound of his step, a door at the
head of the staircase opened, and Genefer
came out, with her eyes red, and tears glittering:
on her cheek.

It be you, to last. Master John. I knew
it. I knew you wasn't dead. God be praised !
Even out of the belly of the whale ; when the
waters compass me about, even to the soul ;
when the depth hath closed me round about,
and the weeds are wrapped about my head, I
will say. Salvation is of the Lord.'

Herring was about to pass her, but she
stayed him, barring the door, looking hard
into his face.

Oh, Master John ! you must not go in
looking like that, as the fleece of Gideon without
dew. Stay and let me tell you, afore you
see the sweet flower of God, His white lily,
what was her message to you, the last words
her uttered in this world. Her was standing

where I be now, and her said to me : '' Promise
me, if ever you see him, to tell him that I wish
with all my heart I had loved him as he deserves."
That were the olive leaf in the
mouth of the dove as her flew back to the
ark;

The old woman opened the door and went
forward, leading the way, with her arms uplifted,
saying, ' The dove found no rest for the
sole of her foot, and she returned into the ark,
for the waters were on the face of the whole
earth : then He put forth His hand, and took
her, and pulled her in unto Him into the ark.'
As the old woman said these last words, she
touched the crucifix and the right, transfixed
hand of the figure on it.

Genefer drew back.

The white blinds were down in the room,
the atmosphere was sweet with the scent of
violets. At the head of the little bed was a
table covered with a linen cloth, and the crucifix
between bunches of white flowers and
lighted wax candles was on it. Upon the bed
lay Miracle, her face as the purest wax, and a
wreath of white and purple violets round her
head, woven by the loving hands of old Genefer.
The hands, contrary to the usual custom, were
crossed over the breast. Genefer had seen
this on a monument ' of the old Romans,' and

she had thus arranged the hands of Miracle,
thinking' it would be rio:ht so for her.

Herrings stood bv the bed looking at the
pure face. Then he signed with one hand to
Genefer to leave. The old woman went out
softly. Herring still looked, and drawing
forth a little case opened it and took out a
sprig of white heath and laid it in the bosom
of his dead wife.

Miracle ! once you refused it when I
offered it you, once you refused it when
offered you by Trecarrel, now you will keep
and carry with you into eternity my good
luck which I now give you.'

CHAPTER LX.

INTRODUCTORY.

Several weeks had passed. John Herring
was back at West Wyke, grave, calm, with a
gentle expression in his face and a far-off
look in his eyes. The hardness and bitterness
had gone, never to return. The Snow Bride
would not freeze him to ice. He, in time,
would thaw away like her. On his first return
to West Wyke he had come back with blasted
hopes, on his second with dislocated faith.
Now he returned with recovered moral balance,
not indeed hopeful, for hope is a delusion of
youth, but able to look life in the face without
a sneer.

Cicely received him with her usual brightness
and sympathy. It was always pleasant
to see her kind, sweet face, and to know what
a good and honest heart beat in her bosom.

Herring had never been to her other
than uncommunicative, partly out of natural

modesty, partly because they were out of
harmony over Miracle, But Cicely had a
woman's curiosity, and would not be left in
the dark as to what had taken place ; and she
felt real sympathy for John Herring, only she
did not know how to exhibit it, because she did
not know what course it should take. So she
put to him questions, and with tact drew from
him the entire story.

Where does she lie, John ? ' she asked in
her soft tones, full of tender feeling for his
sorrow. They were sitting together in the
porch, looking out on the old walled garden,
with its honesty, and white rocket, and 
all allow, ' Have you laid her
in Launceston churchyard, or removed her to
VVelltown ? '

He shook his head. ' No, Cicely. neither
under the shadow of Launceston church, nor
exposed to the winds and roar of Boscastle.
She lies in the sunny cemetery of the Sacre
Coeur.'

Cicely said nothing. Indeed, neither spoke
for some time. Presently, however, Cicely,
who had laid her needlework in her lap, and had
rested her folded hands on it, and was looking
dreamily across the garden, said, ' Miracle was
your ideal, John.'

She is my ideal, Cicely.'

Miss Battisliill looked round at him. She
was very pretty, with her copper-gold hair,
and the reflection of the sunlight in the garden
illumining her sweet face of the most delicate
white and purest pink. ' I remember your
speaking to me — almost when first I knew
you, about Miracle as your ideal, and I thought
what you said was extravagant and unreal.
But I was in fault. There was no exaggeration,
and all was real to you.'

It was, and is so still. '

^ Now, tell me the truth, honestly, cousin,
does the possession of such an ideal in the
heart conduce to happiness ? '

On the contrary, it saddens.'

Then why do you not shut your eyes to
such alluring but unsatisfying fancies ? Why
are you not satisfied with what is instead of
sighing after what may he ? '

Cicely, it seems to me that the world is
divided between those with ideals and those
without. When I say without, I mean that
the great bulk of mankind are, as you say,
content with things as they are. They are
without ambition after the perfect, they are
satisfied with the defective. Such men put
forth their hands, and without effort gather
happiness. They ask for nothing very high,
and certainly nothing above them. They are

vulgarly happy, enjoying what is on their
level and attained without effort. But there
are others who are not thus easily satisfied.
They form in their minds an ideal from which
every imperfection is cast off, and the formation
of this ideal in their hearts deals it its
death wound. The ideal is the ever-unattainable,
and if happiness consists in obtaining
the desired, happiness can never be theirs,
because the ideal can never be reached. Hope
also is killed along with happiness, for how
can you hope for the unobtainable ? The
ideal may be of various sorts — it may besought
in moral, social, political, religious
perfection ; in Woman, in the State, in the
Church, in Art ; but is always pursued with
disappointment — I had almost said with
despair. When I was a child, I was told by
my nurse that under the root of the rainbow
lay a golden bowl, and many is the rainbow I
have run after in hopes of finding the golden
chalice from which could be quaffed immortality.
As I grew older and always failed, I
found that the rainbow moved before me as
I advanced, and that the cup of supreme
felicity could never be pressed by my lips.
That is the picture of all idealists. We have
given up every hope of attaining the Iris we
look on, but we still follow it.'

I think yours is a sad story, John.'

Perhaps so, but I do not know. Miracle
has been my ideal, and therefore unattainable.'

But, John, suppose she had really loved
you, and been everything you could wish as a
wife — you would have been happy.'

I should have been happy — yes. But my
ideal would have died. I remember a story
that Genefer — by the way, you do not know
her — my old nurse told me many years ago
of a man of Trevalga, who saw a pity, a
beautiful fairy who haunted the glen and
waterfall of S. Leighton. He saw her when
she was bathing, and took away her white
garment, and refused to restore it till she
allowed him to kiss her lips. She wept and
pleaded, but in vain. Then she suffered him
to draw her to him and to touch her lips, but
the touch of mortal flesh withered her. She
shrivelled like a faded rose, and lost all beauty,
and became as a wizened hag. And he went
from his mind and drowned himself in the
Kieve. I cannot conceive of Miracle other
than one far, far above and distant from me.
It is possible, had things been as you say, that
I might have discovered imperfections.'

Of course she had her imperfections, '
interrupted Cicely, with a slight touch of impatience
in her tone. ' I do not wish to say

a word that may wound you, but, my dear
John, nothing human is perfect, and certainly
Miracle had her short-comings apparent
enough to me.'

Then, better a thousand times that things
should be as they are, that these imperfections
should not have been seen by me ; and now,
I know they are swallowed up in a faultless
splendour. If Heaven gave me my choice, I
would choose this.'

Do you mean seriously to tell me that
you would not have Miracle restored, and
restored to be yours entirely ? '

'I would not. I had rather have my
unapproachable ideal shining down upon me
from afar, than have my ideal dissolve in my
arms into the commonplace. The ship sails
by the star but never attains to it. I can
look up, and I am content. I ask for nothing
more.'

This frame of mind is to me inexplicable.
It is unworthy of a man of reason to strive for
the unreachable. When a person of sense sees
that what he or she has wished is not to be
had, that person makes an effort and accommodates
herself to circumstances.' She coloured
a little.

'That is to say — some weary of pursuing
an ideal, and settle themselves down to enjoy

what they can obtain. I can quite understand
that ; and perhaps it is the most practical
course, but it is, to some, impossible.'

But that is the most — it is the only,
sensible course. The other offers a mere
treadmill round of duties, without hope to
spur you on, and happiness to reward you.'

'- No doubt you are right ; and yet it is
impossible to some. I have set up pure and
perfect womanhood as my ideal; but others
have ideals of different nature. The young
politician starts with an ideal of a perfect commonwealth
before him, and he is sanguine of
redressing grievances, of elevating politics to
a noble patriotic passion instead of mean
party rivalry. But after a while he finds
that every reform brings in fresh evils, and, if
it does away with some wrongs, it inflicts
others; he finds that it is impossible to be
patriotic without partisanship, and that those
whom he strives to raise are unworthy of being
raised. I believe the leaders of the Revolution
in France were earnest men with their
ideal before them, and, striving after a perfect
state of liberty and fraternity, they called up
a Reign of Terror. I saw once an enthusiast
who had taken to educate a pig; he taught it
letters, he washed the beast clean, and dressed
it in a coat, but, when left to itself, it wallowed

in the next mire and forgot its alphabet. I
have no doubt that a young curate starts on
his sacred duties with the sincere hope and
belief that he will do good : he preaches with
earnestness, thinking to waken the religious
sense of his people, he establishes schools to
instruct the young, and presently finds that
all he has done is absolutely useless — the
people will not be regenerated, his sermons
are profitless, and his educated children read

only vicious literature. It is the same

But I see I weary you.'

I do not understand you.'

They were silent awhile.

Presently Cicely said : ' John, do you not
think your own weakness may be at the
bottom of all the trouble you have met with?
I do not speak with any intention to be unkind.
You will allow that.'

Herring thought a moment. ^ I do not
know, Cicely, that I could have acted other
than I have, and been true to my conscience.
I might have taken the selfish line, and cast
aside those responsibilities which seemed tome
to be forced upon me, and, no doubt, then
I should have been light-hearted and boyish
to the present moment, laughing, shooting,
riding, spending money, a careless young
officer without much thought of the morrow,

VOL. III. X

But I had rather have my sorrows and walk
uprightly. I am better for having an ideal
and following it, though I shall never catch it
up.'

Cicely did not pursue the subject: she
stooped over her work, took it up, and averting
her pretty face said, as the colour mantled
her white throat and deepened in her rosy
cheek, ' John, you have been candid with
me : I will be equally frank with you. 1 will
make a confession to you.' She hesitated a
moment, and then said, ' Mr. Harmless Simpleton
has asked me to be his wife.'

I wish you joy with all my heart, dear
Cicely,' said Herring, warmly. ' He is a good,
well-intentioned, amiable man, with whom
you are sure to be happy.'

Vulgarly happy,' said Cicely, drily.

Herring coloured. ' I beg your pardon.
I meant no disparagement when I used that
term. I meant only ordinarily happy, happy
as the buttercups, and the birds and bees, as
all nature that is content with the place God
has given it, and the sunshine and sweet air
that surround it. Why should you not be
so ? It is no privilege to have an ever-aching
void in the heart, to be ever stretching after
the moon. You will be happy in a sphere
where you will do good and be beloved.
When^^do you intend to be married? '

I do not know. There is no occasion
for delay, and there is nothing to precipitate
matters. But now — when I am married and
settled into the Vicarage at Tawton, what is
to become of that queer Joyce ? Is she to
come with me ? '

^ I — I ! ' Joyce was there in the door to
answer for herself ' Wherever the maister be,
there be I too. He sed as how he'd never
wear no stockings more but what I'd knit;
and you wouldn't have he go barefoot ? '

John Herring turned his head, and looked
at Joyce.

You had better remain with Miss Cicely.
I do not want you.'

I will not,' answered Joyce, resolutely.
I go with you.'

Then, I dare say, Genefer will find work
for you on the farm, or in the house at Well-town.
But you will not be so comfortable or
happy as here.'

I care not,' said the girl. ' I must follow
you. I belongs to you. You bought me of
whither for shining gold. No, Miss Cicely, I
follow the maister.'

'Go your ways,' said Cicely: 'you are
each of you, in your several ways, idealists,
and each following the unattainable.'

And now, beginning life,' said Herring,

^ all that has gone before is introductory to
the real life; a rough and painful initiation
into the axioms on which the problem will
have to be worked out. We know now where
we stand, and which is the direction in which
we must set our faces, to plod on our way
forward, hopeless indeed, but still, conscientiously
forward.'

THE END.

LONDON ; Printed BY

QFOTTISWOODB ^S^a CO., NEW-street BQUAKBI

AND Parliament Street

"N'VfRflTYOFILLINOIS.URBANA


