Fj{ANK BAimETT

FRANK BARRETT,

AUTHOR OP
Lieutenant BARNABAS," "FOLLY MORRISON," ETC.

IN Thee VOLUMES,
VOL. I.

LONDON:

Richard BENTLEY AND SON,

NEW Burlington Street.

1882.

fall rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

ClIAPTKK Page

I. The Prodigal . . . 1

II. What happened at the Cock Inn 25

III. An Extraordinary Encounter which
happened on the Road to Kock-
FORD . . . ••• 53

lY. John Hutchins makes a Curious

Revelation . . . 08

V. In which the Scene is shifted to

THE Bag o' Nails . . 86

YI. The Little Bookseller tells a

Story . . ••• 1^^

YII. Captain Covenant . . 124

YIII. Aunt Gertrude . . . 142

IX. Of the Grave Discussion which took
place in Captain Covenant's
Closet . . . 156

CHAPTER Page

X. Mr. Tickle takes Supper at Red-water
House . . 172

XI. Blase goes amongst his Foes, and is

Discomforted . . . 191

XII. Blase returns to his Friends, and

IS Comforted . . 217

XIII. In which is set forth Captain

Covenant's Folly . . 232

XIV. How Blase was tempted by the

Parson . . . 245

XV. How Blase was tempted by a '

Pretty Maid . . . 267

XVI. In which Blase makes his Escape 287

CHAPTER I.

THE Prodigal.

Try this pigeon pie, mj young friend ;
I never tasted a better in all mj life," said
the Reverend Joseph Tickel, tilting the
dish to get the last spoonful of gravy.

*' The beef is excellent, but this is "

Words failing to express adequately the
merits of the pie, he concluded the sentence
with a smack of his full lips ; then
delicately taking up a piece of crust with
the fingers of one hand, he dished the
dish with the other across the table to
Blase Godwin.

VOL. I. 1

Blase took no notice of the suggestion.
He sat with his chair turned from the
table, his legs crossed, his fingers knitted
over his knee, and his eyes fixed upon the
fire in moody meditation. His plate was
unsoiled ; the ale which his companion had
poured out for him was untouched.

The rattle of the parson's knife and fork,
accompanying his frequent remarks upon
the excellence of the food he ate, continued
without interruption for some minutes ;
then Blase raised his head with a deep-drawn
breath and said :

It shall finish." (Mr. Tickel made no
comment, but collected the last morsels
on his fork and transferred them to his
capacious mouth.) " I will reform."

Again, my boy ? " said the Reverend
Joseph, with his mouth full, and scraping
his plate. " Why, it can't be but a fortnight
from the last reformation."

'• I will not touch the dice again."

A good resolution ! A capital resolution
! When a man has such damnable
ill luck with the bones as you have, he
would be a fool to persevere with 'em.
Try something else."

I intend to try something else. I will
try sober living, decent pleasures, and, Mr.
Tickel, reputable companions."

Blase looked across the table significantly
as he spoke ; but the stout divine
met his glance without wincing, though
he knew full well for whom the thrust was
intended.

I wish to Heaven you would stick to
that last article, Blase," . said he. '' I
sometimes blush to be seen in the company
of such fellows as you herd with. I risk
my reputation every time I go out with
you ; upon my soul I do."

Go into the next room and fetch my
pocket-book from the coat I threw off when
we came in."

Mr. Tickel rose, wiping his mouth, and
fetched the book. Blase opened it, saying :

Sit down, parson. You will find that
I am more serious than you think. How
much money had I last evening ? "

A couple of hundred in your pocket,
and a thousand in the funds, roughly told."

And how much do I owe ? "

Four or five hundred, not more ; all to
respectable tradesmen, and as not a debt is
older than Michaelmas Day, and there's a
clear two months to Christmas, you haven't
a dun to fear.

How much do you owe ? "

Not a groat, my young friend — not a
mag." Mr. Tickel pulled out his snuff-box
and drew himself up with an air of conscious
rectitude.

That is to say, your debts are included
in the four or five hundred set to my
account," said Blase, 'ciphering in his
pocket-book, Mr. Tickel was too occupied

with his pinch of snuff to take any notice
of this imputation.

Tradesmen — five hundred," continued
Blase ; " notes of hand to my Lord Fatherly,
Mr. Saloman, and others — seven, six,
nought. Seven sixty and five hundred are
twelve sixty. That puts me sixty pounds
in debt when all is paid."

Fatherly must be paid ; he's a peer, and
only holds paper for a hundred or so. But
as for that Saloman, who has the major
part of your acknowledgments, why, I
would discharge my obligation to such a
Jew scoundrel as that as a Christian
gentleman should."

"How?"

Why, you know the fellow's a cheat.
Blase."

"Well!"

Tell him so to his face before his
friends, and give him a tweak of the nose,
if that's all."

^^ What follows?"

There's not one of his friends but owes
him something, and would be glad to have
him out of the way. They'll force him to
send you a message."

'' Go on."

Why, the fellow has no more courage
than a partridge, and he'd sooner send you
back your notes of hand, and a handsome
apology, than meet you. But if he dares
to measure swords with you, you may
profit by the hotte you learned of the little
French master."

Good God ! " cried Blase, springing to
his feet, " have I sunk to such a level of
contempt that you dare to offer me such
villainous advice ? "

Respect my cloth, sir ; respect my
cloth ! Villainous advice ! Is that the
term you apply to the counsel of a minister
of religion ? Are rogues, my young
friend, to go unpunished ? Are we to

wink at villainy, and encourage fraud?
Is it not written, * The wages of sin is
death?"

"We need but a text to rob on the
highway respectably," said Blase, with a
harsh laugh ; then stopping before Tickel
he had been pacing the room to and
fro — he said, in a tone of mingled remorse
and reproach, " Parson, I do believe you
have done more to bring me to destruction
than my own hot blood and lawless inclinations.
For eight years you have been
my constant companion, and in all that
time have you never once exerted the
authority which position and age gave you
to turn me from evil ways. You have
removed the obstacles from my downward
path; not once have you supported mein
my feeble struggles to do right. You
have flattered and fooled me to the top
of my bent. You have put a gloss
upon my sins, and dulled the fine edge

of conscience. You have made duty
a bye-word, and shown me no higher
object in life than the gratification of my
impetuous desires. Eight years ago I was
a decent, healthy lad, and now I am —
what I am!"

This is generosity with a witness toit
! " cried the Reverend Joseph Tickel.
"What! to turn round upon your Mthful
follower when you get into a slough, and
cry, ' This is thy fault!' Is that manly ? I
am not your keeper, my young friend. I
ceased to be your governor five years ago,
when you came of age, and since then I
have followed you through thick and thin,
from sheer love and pity, and served you as
no other man could. You do not say how
I have suffered by my foolish attachment,
or what degradation I might have escaped
by a little consideration on your part.
You take no notice of the services I have
rendered. It is nothing that I bit the

bad shilling the hackney coachman would
have passed off on yon o' Friday. No, you
only blame me for not tripping you up in
your mad course, and getting myself kicked
out of your friendship for my pains."

Blase had dropped into a chair, and,
deep in his own reflection, seemed heedless
of the parson's protest.

I might have been a better man," he
said.

And / might have been a bishop ! "
the parson exclaimed with a sigh.

Where is Granger ? "

Below, waiting to know at what hour
you will ride."

Let him take the horses to Tattersall,
with a letter bidding him sell them."

Mr. Tickel shook his head disapprovingly.

And you, parson, go to the agent and
get me eight hundred."

The parson took a deliberate pinch of
snuff, and having carefully shaken his frill,

said, ^^ This reformation will cost you a lot
of money, Blase. You won't get above half
that you paid for that pair of horses, and
when in about a fortnight you want a

couple more "

I shall not want them in a fortnight."
Then my name will not be Joseph
Tickel, and you may tell me I know
nothing of human nature. Come, Blase,
pluck up courage and have done with these
sickly fancies. Take a blue pill and I
warrant this megrim will pass, and you
will see life in warmer tints. Remember,
lad, how you were cast down by the faithlessness
of Mrs. Kitely, and vowed in this
very room you would be duped never
again by a woman ; and remember how,
a week later, you where wooing the pretty
wench from the King's Theatre with all
the ardour of first love,"

"Yes, I remember that, and a dozen
other follies ; and I will try to bear 'em in

mind, parson, to keep me from the like
again. I am in earnest for the first time —
from no praiseworthy motive, but because
necessity compels me to a different mode
of living."

He rose again from his chair, took a turn
or two up and down the room, as if to bring
himself to a painful task, and then stopping
before Tickel, he pulled out his purse and
said :

That's pretty much as it was last
evening, parson. Take it, and find some
better task than that of waiting upon a
ruined spendthrift."

The parson looked at the purse and then
at Blase, in silent astonishment for a
minute; then, speaking in a lowered voice,
and with the tears in his little blue eyes,
he said :

You don't mean that we're to part,
Blase ? "

Blase nodded ; he could do no more.

Looking at the parson's great fat face,
which had dropped into an expression of
the most mournful dejection, the memories
of pleasant days and jolly nights filled his
mind, and left no space for reproach. He
had laughed at the parson's faults ever
since he first saw through his shallow
virtues, and liked him for them. He could
not harden his heart against him, or hiring
himself to break their old companionship
with even a show of indifference.

The parson saw the tenderness in his
friend's face, and his own opportunity.
I'm a leaky vessel. Blase," said he, " and
I have enough vices to answer for, God
knows, without that of ingratitude. I have
helped you to spend your money, and I'll
help you to hear poverty if it needs he.
I won't leave you, that's certain. Take
hack your purse, lad ; the first bottle I
thought with it would choke me. What !
I am none of your fair-weather friends !

I'm not a rat, to sneak out of the sinking
ship. Nay, come to that, yon may find
me as good a hand as any to help keep
her afloat : and not mutinous neither.
Come, tell me your will, and test my
trustiness. Sit you down — nearer to me —
there, so. Now, you are fixed on carrying
out this notion of reform ? "

I am ; by George, I am ! "

"■ Then I'll help you, though every principle
of my nature should rise against it.
Granger shall have the note, and take the
nags, and I'll to the agent and bid him sell
out eight hundred of stocks to pay that
thief Saloman — and may Heaven forgive
us. For the other bills, we may leave them
until payment is demanded, without lapsing
into profligacy; and then, my young friend,
we have a matter of five or six hundred or
thereabouts to begin our new life with.
You're resolved against the dice ? "

I will not touch them again."

What then ? Shall you try the
lotteries ? "

"No. I shall not hazard the little I
have left."

Then, begad, Blase, living at the rate
of fifteen guineas a week, we're not likely
to clear off our trades folks' accounts by
Christmas."

We must give up this establishment,
and live cheaper."

With all my heart. Nothing suits me
better than a snug chamber in a tavern.
Hang these fine rooms, where a man can't
stretch without flinging over a hundred
pounds' worth of china pagoda ; and a
pretty penny you'll have to pay for breakages,
my young friend, when you give up
this house ! Here is expense without
comfort. I sit me down as gingerly asa
goose on her eggs for fear I may burst
the chair ; there's not a room where I dare
smoke an honest clay pipe ; and the lazy

vagabonds we call our servants are our
masters — they'll do nothing without their
wails : it costs me a crown or a rap on my
bunion every time I want my shoe tied.
Give me a snug chamber in a tavern, my
corner by the coffee-room fire, with a
rummer shelf o' one side and a spittoon o*
t'other, a smiling hostess, and no servant
but a neat, clean, pretty little black-eyed
rogue of a chambermaid — ah ! "

The parson's face expanded in a genial
smile as his imagination dwelt on this
picture ; but presently, seeing that Blase
did not share his enthusiasm, and sat
looking again upon the fire with brows
bent, his thoughts took another turn, and
a look of perplexity came over his face.
Scratching his ear, he said :

The devil of it is that even a modest
life of that kind costs money, and at present
it looks as if we shall have to begin modest
living on nothing at all."

Nothing. Fifteen thousand pounds all
spent, and in eight years ! Have I been
mad?"

Not very, Blase. A little frisky at
times. Something too easy with the
rascals, something too generous with your
friends — that's how the money has slipped
through your fingers."

•• Would I could live those years again!"
Blase said, with an accent of remorse.

•• And so do I," responded the parson
devoutly.

I might have learnt a profession, or
risen to some laudable eminence amongst
men, earning my father's love instead
of his aversion. Oh, if I could look back
but on one single act and say, ' That was
well done ! ' There's not a memory but
that I would blot out. Decent people shun
me. The few that really loved me I dare
not face for shame ; I can only hope that
they have forgotten me, and ceased to
grieve."

The ready tears sprang to the parson's
eyes, for he could weep Eke a woman when
it was expedient. He pnt his hand kindly
on the young ma:- holder and said :

"Take heart, mj boy. If there is no
recall with pride, 'tis because
y: : ' has not known that which

tl: ni Laid. Only the meantreasnre

t: *:^ memories the sacrifices they

: v'r'iie : the generous make

I : : : i : i : . Has ever an appeal
{<yr ':■:-■:;. :::v ::-:-::. — - \-.-:i^. or carelessly ford"
T? Have ev : ; i. I :» support ther
Ox an a; sent friend? Have ever
TO 11 shirked to do a kindly action because
it - ':- ::- ": irksome? In fine, have
y :he character for truth

ai :: \ ji^^ r :.::.:. : :* E: land?

That for remorse ! " The parson snapped
his fingers. " I say you have lived welland
spent your money royally; and the
only regret I have in thinking of the

VOL. I. 2

money that's gone is, that we haven't it now
to spend over again in the same manner."

Blase laughed, despite his cares.

"Oh, confound your careful young gentry,
I say," exclaimed the parson. " I'd birch
every lad that saved his pocket-money ;
and every young fellow of five and twenty
who could not acknowledge to some act of
folly, I'd make to wear a badge, that his
fellow-men might have caution in their
dealings with him."

Then you take it I am ruined by being
over virtuous ? "

Why, Blase, I cannot but admit that
you've overstepped the limits of prudence.
But let those who have resisted temptation
call you hard names ; I can't."

The parson's eye chancing to fall upon
the ale-jug, he filled his glass and emptied
it.

Who says the offences of youth are
unpardonable ? " continued the parson.

"None but the dyspeptic — sour within
and without — whose only temptation has
been to avoid the cup and the petticoat.
Give one of the bilious, ugly rascals a
stomach like mine, that feels the better for
eating and drinking, and a bold handsome
face like yours, Blase, that never a woman
can pass without a wishful side-glance, and
I warrant his morality will relax."

Parson," said Blase, rousing himself,
if you preached until tomorrow morning,
your sophistry would not convince me that
I have not reason to be ashamed of my past
life. However, let the past pass ; 'tis the
future that concerns us now, and how weare
to do that which should be done."

To be sure. Blase. There's a text fora
pretty homily ! "

We've no time for it now. Let us
think how I am to earn an honourable
living."

'Tis a puzzling question — how to make

money without capital, my young friend.
Commerce is closed against you. The son
and heir of a baronet could hardly be expected
to measure silks in a mercer's ;
though I wager all the ladies would flock
to your counter. What do you think of
Art ? You're counted an admirable critic."
A strong argument against my being
a respectable painter. No ; I have no
special ability."

Well, what do you think of Literature ?
There's a profession that requires no money,
and as far as one may judge by what one
reads now, no special ability either."
Try again, parson."
I am at a standstill, for all the other
professions require money to begin with."

A long silence ensued, in which both
men looked vaguely at the flickering flame
of the coal fire ; then the Rev. Joseph
Tickel, turning in his seat, and bringing
his big fist down upon the table with a

thump that set the plates and knives
rattling, cried, " I know what must be
done. Blase ; that is, if this idea of repentance
will hold out long enough."

I promise you it will."

Then we will go down into Dorset-shire
to your father, and make the old
gentleman kill the fatted calf."

'^ I haven't been near him for eight
years."

Why, you haven't wanted to go near
him ! "

He refused point-blank to let me have
any more money when last I wrote."

That was reasonable enough, when he
knew 'twould be spent in riotous living."

He said he would give no more."

You're not bound to believe him — he's
your father."

Father ! He cares less for me than if
he were my son. Never once has he
expressed a wish to see me, or shown the

slightest interest in my welfare. He has
not even written to me under his own
hand, but always through his chaplain."

Confound his chaplain for an accursed
Jesuit ! "

He is under the influence of that man.
He may have become fanatically pious, and
then what favour should I get from him ? "

Favour ! You don't ask him to do you
a kindness ; you simply demand that he
shall perform his Christian duty. I'll tell
him the parable of the prodigal son, and
we'll see how he gets over that."

I don't like the idea."

Why not ? 'Tis easy, and as moral
as you could wish. You go there and say
you have come to ask forgiveness, and
intend never more to desert the paternal
roof. And I'd keep my word, too, were I
you, unless he made it worth my while to
retract."

'Tis a mean thing to go home and

plead penitence when you have no more
money to spend ; and I won't play that
part of the prodigal son's career if I can
help it."

"But you can't help it, my young
friend."

We shall see. If in a week's time no
better alternative can be found, I will throw
myself on my father's mercy."

There the conversation ended.

Mr. Tickel, on his way to the City to
get the money required by Blase, called in
at Wills' and spent a very pleasant hour
in gossip there.

I would not willingly change this
mode of life for seclusion in that damp
moaned house in Dorsetshire," he said to
himself, as he left the coffee-house. " And
I pray for the best. It may please Providence
to change my young friend's luck
at play, and then we shall be at liberty to
postpone reformation."

But Blase was determined to change
his long run of ill luck without trusting
to adventitious help. He stoutly resisted
the temptations of the tables, and at the
end of the week he bade the parson pack
his valise, and book two seats on the
Exeter coach.

CHAPTER IT.

WHAT HAPPENED AT THE COCK INIf.

The Exeter coach stopped for two minutes
at the cross roads not far from that point
where the three counties of Dorset, Devon,
and Somerset meet, and then continued its
journey, leaving the two London gentlemen
hj the finger-post.

Overhead a clear sky, underfoot a clean
hard road ; a bright atmosphere, with a
keen wind from the north, that carries the
golden leaves fluttering from the boughs,
and sweeps them into the tangled, ragged
growth of bramble and brake by the roadside
; a long vista of richly tinted oak and
beech, with a patch of pink cloud at the

end, against which the speeding coach
stands out in sharp-cut silhouette — these
things were worth a lingering look.

Blase Godwin thought so as he stood
there slowly drawing the rings of his
purse. " There's a picture we may not
see again for a twelvemonth," he said.

And a d d good job too," replied

the Rev. Joseph Tickel, with energy; "I've
seen enough of that road and that coach
to last me to my dying day without a wish
to see them again. Turn about, my young
friend, and tell me if you don't find that
a more agreeable picture." He pointed
down the Rockford road, where, beyond
the curve by the horse-pond, and above
the neatly trimmed box hedge, appeared
the gables and smoking chimneys of the
Cock Inn.

"Do we not value a picture for what it
suggests ? " continued the divine. " And
what, pray, does your coach and your

straight road convey to the mind but the
thought of a cramped seat and aching
bones, agues and rheims, upsets, highwaymen,
and — death ? But that thick and
well-kept thatch bears a promise of shelter
and warmth ; and the smoke from those
chimneys conjures up the vision of a cool,
snowy table-cloth spread with substantial
fare — an aitchbone of beef, for example,
fat and not over-dressed, a brown toby of
foaming ale, with a crusty loaf and a blue
cheese in the background."

Nature made a mistake when she put
your eyes in your head," said Blase, drawing
on his glove and still looking at the
landscape.

Plague take the landlord, I say ! He
must have heard the horn ; then why
hasn't he sent a lad down for the luggage ?
Well, well ! poor old Tickel must carry
the things, I suppose."

With these words the reverend gentleman

took up the two valises, which
contained his own and his companion's
travelling requisites, and trudged off towards
the inn.

They were large, well packed, and
heavy, those bags, and the parson was on
that side of fifty when a man begins to
feel the effects of free living in an absence
of muscular vigour and sustaining power.
Doubtless he found his burden burdensome ;
but he did not complain, for exertion compelled
him to economize his breath, and
he was sufficiently philosophical to bear
unavoidable ills with resignation. A whispered
curse when he came to that part of
the road which had been lately dressed
with large and many-cornered stones, and
another when the bags, from merely
scraping his calves, took to swinging round
and dodging endwise between them — these
were all that escaped him.

Blase, although he suffered from none of

those natural disadvantages which, handicapped
the parson, made no attempt to
relieve him of his load, or carry his own
share. He would as soon have brushed his
boots. He sauntered easily and lightly along,
whistling a cheerful air and serenely indifferent
to the parson's difficulties. When
Tickel stopped to set down his load,
straighten his back, and get breath, he still
sauntered whistling onward, leaving him
to catch up as he might.

Beyond the curve in the road the inn
came fairly into sight — a long, irregular
building, half-timbered, with tall gables,
each surmounted by a shining gold
weathercock. Everything bespoke a good
inn — clean paint, bright windows, spotless
curtains of dimity, a stand of geraniums
over the bay front of the long public room,
and in the bow window of the bar parlour
a goodly show of bottles and glasses, interspersed
with red apples, lemons, sticks of

cinnamon, and sprays of bay laurel. The
stable yard was full of carts and waggons,
showing that it was a busy day at the
Cock, and thereby explaining how the
coachman's horn had escaped notice. A
lad was carrying a faggot into the house,
and the windows of the parlour and long
room reflected the dancing light of the
fires within. It was a sight that gave
strength to the labouring parson, and he
struggled up to the side of Blase, saying,
between the necessary pauses for fetching
breath :

There, my young friend ! — will you
talk to me now — of your highways, and
your coaches — and the like abominations ?
Can im — agitation conceive a — more
thrilling subject for — painter or poet, thana
— good comfortable English inn after
a fast of four hours — and a ride of forty
leagues — on a rumbling, jolting coach ? — ■
Devil take the bags."

But pleasant as the inn was externally,
it was still more delightful to the sensuous
soul of Mr. Tickel within. He raised his
head and inhaled the savoury odour that
came from the kitchen, which could be
seen at the end of the passage, with many
women-servants bustling to and fro, and
a laden spit turning slowly before a large
fire. He looked round with approval at
the cases of stuffed birds and beasts and
fishes that covered the walls, and lent his
ear to the cheerful clatter of knife and fork
and plate, which formed the accompaniment
of laughter and high-pitched conversation
that came from the long room,
where the company was assembled.

A servant led Blase to a private room,
while Mr. Tickel made his way into the
kitchen to make sure of their dinner.

Just in the very nick of time," he said,
when he rejoined Blase ; " another five
minutes and the gentry in the long room

would have cleared the spits for us.
However, I've secured half a roast pig,
and as pretty a little goose, with sage and
onions, and apple sauce, as ever you could
wish to see."

That's very well to begin with."

Oh, I looked after the accessories.
There's a damson tart and a boiled custard
to follow ; to say nothing of half a
Cheshire cheese, young celery, and a dish
of walnuts to go with the port."

You shall ask a blessing, parson ; for,
without that, I fear this little dinner will
make us ill."

'^ I fear nothing. With a nip of French
brandy in the middle, and a pipe of tobacco
after, one may eat such a dinner and think
with gusto of a snack before going to bed."

What's the company in the room
below. Did you hear ? "

'' Ay, and saw too. I caught a glimpse
of them as I passed from the kitchen ; as

jolly a crew of rogues and vagabonds as
you'll find out of Tapping. There's been
a ring fight between Devon and Dorset,
for fifty guineas a side, and the victor and
his friends are being regaled by his backer
and patron, the squire''

What squire ? Is he of this county ? "
I suppose so, for Dorset is triumphant
below, and Devon is taken off to the
nearest doctor. I didn't hear his name,
but I saw him — a bloated pig of a man,
with a face so bleared and red, that I
should not have known him from the
boxer by his side, but for the dress of
the former, and a slice of raw beef tied
over the eye of the latter. The hero's
a butcher, if I may judge by his smock ;
and the squire's one of your old-fashioned
English gentlemen, who pride themselves
on being about thirty years behind the
times. He wears a full-bottomed wig and
a flowered coat. He had his arm round

VOL. I. 3

the butcher's neck, and was feeding him
from his own plate like a child, the fellow's
knuckles being so cut about that he can't
help himself. It was enough to make one
die of laughing to see him."

Enough to make one sick of disgust,
rather."

"Why, so it is, to be sure. Blase ; and the
sooner these rustics can be taught to fight
and get drunk like gentlemen the better."

Here the conversation was turned into
another channel by the arrival of dinner,
and was wholly gastronomic until the last
plate had been carried away. Mr. Tickel
loved to talk upon any subject, but most
he enjoyed that kind of table-talk which
refers to eating and drinking. It made
no difference to him that Blase only
answered direct questions, and these in
monosyllables ; he enlarged upon geese
and roast pig, with their sauces and
stuffings, and being well contented with

what he himself said, had no reason to
remark his companion's silence, or think
the conversation uninteresting. Indeed,
Blase paid no more attention to the
parson's talk than he did to the noise
in the room below ; he heard both without
distinguishing the meaning of the sounds.
He had fallen into a reverie, and pursued
a vein of thought, irrespective of the
parson's endless disquisition. Suddenly, ashe
was cracking a nut, and Tickel ceased
speaking to empty his glass, he said :

How did you come to know my father,
parson ? "

Know him, my young friend ? Why,
I know him no more than the pope. To
the best of my knowledge I've never
clapped eyes on him."

Then how came you to be my governor
eight years ago ? "

Sir Gilbert's chaplain, Father Dominick,
engaged me."

What do you know of him ? "
Almost as little as I know of your
father."

How did you become acquainted ? "
"Through a Mr. Pinxx, who was a
gentleman commoner — a merry fellow,
and my friend in the old Oxford days.
But I was speaking, my young friend, of
an excellent method for the dressing of
mushrooms."

And while you have been talking of
mushrooms, I have been thinking on my
past life. Had I enjoyed a sober moment
since coming to man's estate, I should have
thought upon it before now."

You have much to be thankful for."
Come, parson, be serious. I want to
know how you came to be my governor."

Mr. Tickel hesitated, first humming a
bar of " Bobbing Joan " as he peeled his
walnut, then casting a furtive glance of
his twinkling little grey eyes at Blase, as

if to make sure that he was in earnest,
and again fixing his attention upon the
walnut. Finally, he finished his port,
turned his chair about, set his feet on
the high brass fender, and twiddling his
thumbs slowly, said :

There was a time, my young friend,
when your demand would laye necessitated
prevarication, but now that we know each
other so well, I see no occasion for reserve.
I was in trouble, Blase — in such trouble
that I could no longer look upon hardship
with philosophical resignation. It seemed
to me that Heaven was unjustly severe in
punishing my faults, and I was tempted to
brave the everlasting displeasure by leaping
into the Thames, and terminating my
mortal misery. Fancy what starvation is
to a man of my stomach. I declare I have
eaten crusts that the beggars had cast
aside."

But how came you to be so ]Door ? "

By my natural deficiency in cunning,
avarice, misanthropy, and such-like vices,
Blase. I will not pain you with a detailed
account of the events that led to my degradation
from the office of vicar in the parish
of St. Bidulph ; 'tis a tragic story of a bottle
and of a faithless woman, of a squeamish
congregation and of a heartless bishop ;
suffice it that I was compelled to quit the
vicarage, and all the little household
treasures it contained, together with my
wardrobe and library, in the dead of night,
and with not a penny in my pocket. For
the news having got abroad that I was
suspended, my creditors took out a writ
against me and put it in the hands of a
bum-bailiff, whom by a happy chance 1
saw from my parlour window lurking
under the tavern arch t'other side of the
road ; otherwise, instead of being here now,
I should probably have been rotting in the
Fleet. The shifts I was put to in order

that I might live without money, would
make but a stale story, more instructive
than amusing. Let it pass. There came
a day when my last expedient failed, and
I starved. Then it was that I had the
good fortune to see my old fellow-commoner,
Pinxx. He had altered greatly, but
the eyes of the needy are ever quick to
recognize the traits of an old friend. It was
with more difficulty that I brought Pinxx to
believe that I was in truth Joseph Tickel.
When, however, he was assured of my
identity he took me into a tavern, treated
me to a handsome dinner, promised to do
his best in my behalf, and slipped a couple
of guineas into my hand for present necessities.
I saw he was a comfortable man,
and he told me he had settled at Rockford,
in Dorsetshire, as an attorney. He promised
to write as soon as he could find anything
to suit me, and four days after I found a
letter at the coffee-house bidding me meet

him at Squire's coffee-house the following
Saturday, by eleven o'clock in the forenoon.
You may he sure I was not behind time.
Just after the stroke of the hour Pinxx came
in, followed by a tall sallow man, whom
he introduced as Mr. Dominick. We sat
down all together at a table, and Mr. Dominick
opened up the affair at once. He
told me he had heard the history of my
misfortunes, and found by inquiries that
the account of my transgressions was not
exaggerated. He said that although his
creed was opposed to mine, yet as it was
the duty of every Christian to raise the
fallen, and lead into the path of virtue
those who had strayed from it, he felt
moved to give me what assistance was in
his power, trusting that the punishment
it had pleased Heaven to inflict upon me
would serve as a warning for the future. I
assured him with all the eloquence I could
command that my penitence was sincere

and indeed, Blase, I did not overstep
the truth ; for who should more repent
his follies than he who is paying the
penalty of 'em ? Mr. Dominick then told
me that the post he intended for me was
that of governor to a young gentleman
who was leaving college to make the grand
tour. If yon believe me, Blase, I was
like one stupefied to hear this unexpected
announcement ; for I had looked at the
best to being made a clerk, a bailiff, a
butler, and I assure you I wouldn't have
rejected the office of turn-spit at that time.
The name of the young gentleman about
to be placed in your care,' said Mr.
Dominick, ' is Blase Godwin ; he is the son
of Sir Gilbert Godwin, baronet, whose
chaplain I am. Mr. Blase has estranged
himself from his father by the violence of
his temper, by the wildness of his inclinations,
and by his apostasy to that religion
which it has been the pride of the

Grodwin family to sustain ; nevertheless he
desires that his education shall want nothing
to make him worthy of the title he
must one day possess, and to that end he
would have him visit the principal cities
of Europe not closed by hostilities, and
partake freely in those amusements which
are suitable to young men of his age and
condition. For these purposes he will be
amply supplied with money. Should he
require more than he carries with him,
you have but to write to me and bills for
the sum wanted will be forwarded by
courier. Your own expenses will of course
be paid, and in addition you will receive
sixty pounds per annum. Your debts in
London shall also be discharged.' These
were the very words he used, for they
made such an impression upon my mind
at the time, that I do believe they will
never be effaced from my memory. And
thus, my young friend, was I raised from

disgrace and destitution, to a position of
ease and trust."

And this he did, knowing how you left
St. Bidulph's ? "

This he did, maugre the most damning
facts, and the most damnable fiction
my enemies could find to my discredit.
Such was his charity."

Such was his villainy rather," cried
Blase, grasping the poker and giving the
fire a furious dig.

*' I have since considered his action imprudent.
Blase."

Nonsense ! That papist is too crafty
for imprudence. 'Twas a scheme for my
destruction."

What then, lad ? " cried Tickel in an
altered voice, turning with affectionate
warmth towards Blase. " What has the
furnace done but proved the metal sterling
? "

Blase laughed contemptuously. The

parson after a minute of grave silence
said :

'perhaps my meaner vices have served
in the place of virtues, Blase, and warned
you from following in my footsteps."

I have never thought so unkindly,
parson. God forbid you should be worse
than I deem myself. But I say again,
'twas a villainous thing to do, and the act
of Father Dominick was only less cruel
than his intent. For what surer means
could a man desire for the ruin of a high-spirited,
reckless lad of twenty, than to
put an almost unlimited supply of money
at his disposal, and place him under the
sole control of a man with the reputation
for loose living that you bore ? "

Looked at from your point of view,
'twas as sinful a piece of charity as one can
imagine. But it seems to me your father
was not blameless."

"My father was ever under the dominion

of his chaplain. What the priest advised,
my father acceded to. You may be sure
Father Dominick was not wanting in
specious arguments to justify his actions."

What reason has he, think you, Blase,
for wishing your ruin ? "

That is what perplexes me. But I'll
find out, and expose his villainy to my
father."

For the Lord's sake be careful, my boy.
Let us get the old gentleman's forgiveness
before we show him what a fool he's been."

Blase made no response, and both became
silent.

The mirth in the long room below had
grown more and more boisterous during
the last half-hour ; and now a song was
succeeded by such a roar of acclamation,
mingled with clapping of hands, stamping
of feet, and jingling of glasses, that they
could not have conversed had they been
minded to. The clamour was intolerable

to Blase, whose irritated mind needed calm
for reflection. Turning impatiently to Mr.
Tickel, he said :

This is insupportable. Go downstairs,
parson, and if you judge that the riot is
likely to continue, order a chaise and let
us get on at once."

After a brief absence Mr. Tickel returned,
and said that as far as he could
judge the company was not likely to give
over drinking until the cellar was empty,
and that no conveyance was to be had
for love or money, every nag in the stables
being engaged — " Thank Heaven ! " he murmured
under his breath.

But," added he, " the squire, hearing
there were visitors in the house, very
civilly begged the host to present his
compliments and ask us to do him the
honour of drinking a sneaker of punch
in his company."

As Blase had not yet overcome his love

of company, and, like an old soldier, greatly
preferred mixing in the thick of the melee
to standing hard by inactive, he consented,
after a few moments' consideration, to accept
the invitation — an invitation, by-the-by,
which originated entirely from the
landlord, the squire being too drunk to
compose an intelligible sentence or to distinguish
one of his guests from another.

The two gentlemen then descended and
entered the long room, where the landlord
was at that moment singing the concluding
stanza of a new song upon the victory
of Lord Howe over the Dutch, set to the
old tune of " When friends combine," and
seated themselves beside him at the foot
of the table, in the chairs placed for them
by the drawer.

A dense , cloud of tobacco smoke hung
over the company ; the four candles sluggishly
burning in the heavy atmosphere
gave so feeble a light that the eye had

to grow accustomed to the obscurity to
distinguish the surrounding objects. A
confused glimmer of faces along the sark
oak table turned towards the singer was
all that Blase saw at first. The landlord,
a burly man, stood with a candle drawn
near him, and the song, printed on a long
slip of thin paper and folded, held at arm's
length, and a little beyond the wick of
the candle. His cravat was loosened, and
he marked emphasis to the words he sang
with the stem of the long clay pipe in
his left hand. A bowl of punch stood
before him. Another bowl was placed at
the further end of the board before the
squire, whose bald head was pillowed on
his arms, which were crossed upon the
table : a careful waiter had tied his wig
to the back rail of his chair. Down the
table were opposite rows of brown mugs
and papers of tobacco ; behind them lines
of white pipes led up to lines of red faces.

all more or less brutal in their fleshiness
and their absence of expression.

Chorus, gentlemen, if you please," said
the landlord, having finished his stanza ;
and he held the song so that Blase and the
parson might get the benefit of it. Then
there was a movement in the lines of pipes,
and the company roared out in such words
as they could remember, and such melody
as they could make, the chorus in which
the new-comers were supposed to join.

Mr. Tickel fell into the humour at once,
and lifting up his voice sang :

"Then fill up your mugs to the health of Lord
Howe,
And so let our enemies come ;
While long may They flourish, the spade and the
plough.
So here's to the fife and the drum."

When this had been repeated twice,
there was a moment of stillness only
broken by a loud snore from the squire,
and then the applause rose in a deafening

VOL. I. 4

tumult of sound, while the landlord, radiant
but self-possessed, seated himself and relit
his pipe with the philosophic calm of a
man accustomed to singing a good song,
and receiving due acknowledgment.

As pretty an inconsequent chorus as
ever I read," said Mr. Tickel.

Yes. sir, 'tis a noble song ; and if I
could only find a rhyme to Duncan, it
would fit well for this new victory, as our
fleet has made over the foreigner."

Some one rose at the further end of the
table and said

Master landlord, sir, you do ought to
zing this there song again."

A smoker on the other side of the table
seconded the proposal, adding that 'twas a
mortal pity the squire slept so sound he
couldn't hear it.

Eight you are. Master Tokens ;
specially as 'tis all about lighten. 'T would
suit his honour s hardship better 'an most.

Tor I du think there bennet a mortal man
so Yond o' lighten as what he be."

'• Why. I do mind as he's guv two
hundred pound to this there subscription
for lighten the French ; and like enough
'tis true, for I've known un to spend a
matter of ten pound a night on a covey of
partridges and a zettun dog. Lor' a mussy.
how he do snare, to he sure ! "

•• Well, if you will have the song again,
gentlemen*' the landlord said, seeing that
the conversation was drifting away from
his performance.

Squire should hear it, though," remonstrated
Mr. Tompkins. " Gi* un a dig i'
the ribs, butcher."

•• Ha Her in his ear ; he'll be right mad
marrow man to think there's been a song
about lighten and he not learn it. Cry
Tallow ; that'll rouse un ! "

The butcher, whose hands, still suffering
from the encounter of the afternoon, were

rvX^OMLUNO-S

bandaged with a beecher, gave the squire
a vigorous nudge in the side with his
elbow, at the same time crying —

Yoicks ! Your worship, Tallow !
Tallow ! Sir Gilbert."

At this sound the squire lifted his head,
and before he could drop it again the
landlord recommenced his song.

Blase looked steadily at the dazed,
bloated, sensual face at the other end of
the table, and then pushed back his chair
and marched out of the room.

What's the matter, my young friend ;
what's amiss ? " asked Mr. Tickel, overtaking
him at the door.

What's amiss ? " cried Blase, fiercely.
Don't you see ; didn't you hear ? The
pig you spoke of is my father."

CHAPTER III.

AN Extraordinary ENCOUNTER WHICH
HAPPENED ON THE ROAD TO ROCKFORD.

How far is it to tile next inn on the road
to Rockford ? " Blase asked of the landlady,
who was reposing after her labours in the
bar parlour.

A matter of four mile, sir."

We will walk it, parson."

"With those bags, Blase?" asked Mr.
Tickel, in a tone of dismay.

Curse the bags ; let a boy carry them."

"I'd rather carry them myself; there's
not a stable-boy in the kingdom that isn't
in league with a highwayman."

As you please. Stay here if you will.
I cannot."

Stop here without sou ? Not I. Wait,
I will put a few things in one valise, and
we can send for the rest tomorrow."

Blase turned away impatiently, paid his
score, and left the inn. Outside he walked
up and down until Mr. Tickel, having hurriedly
made his arrangements, joined him.

I have brought your pocket-pistols,
my young friend," he said, handing the
weapons carefully to Blase. " Have a
care ; they are charged. Look to the
priming before we get out of the light.
Heaven grant you may not have to use
'em ! Won't you borrow a lanthorn,
Blase ? 'tis awesome dark."

Pooh ! The road is clear enough.
We've need neither of pistols nor lanthorn
; we shall meet no one. Come, you
are not an old woman."

I wish I were with all my heart ; I
shouldn't be called upon to walk four
country miles along a murderous bye-road

at seven o'clock of a dark night. And let
me tell you, Blase, that you are doing
wrong to leave your father in this manner,
and that I consider your action inconsistent
with your professions of reformation."

What do you mean, sir ? "

Don't be angry, my young friend.
You have laid the blame of your ruin
upon my shoulders, and reproached me
with having neglected to put a check upon
your youthful follies. I may have been
over lenient ; but I cannot see you evading
what I may call a sacred duty without
protest. It was your duty to reconcile
your father and obtain his forgiveness, and
you have neglected your best opportunity ;
for what better could you have than when
the old gentleman is in his cups. You
should have stuck to him Blase, gone home
with him, and never left him till you had
his forgiveness and a thumping bill on his
banker."

'Tis no longer a question of asking his
forgiveness," Blase said sternly.

Why, no. You have the advantage of
him now, to be sure ; and if you can only
get at him before he has got over this
bout, you may make a merit of overlooking
his faults and taking a couple of thousand
or so to say no more about it."

Blase gave himself up to his own sombre
reflections, and paid no heed to the parson,
who. from his early vocation as a preacher
at St. Bidulph's, had used himself to
inattention, and was content to deliver
his wise observations to his own appreciative
ear, and so beguile the tedious hour.

They proceeded in this manner for
about a couple of miles, and then coming
to a steep hill the parson's monologue
became disjointed, and finally stopped as
they approached the brow. There his
laboured breathing attracting the attention
of Blase, he proposed that they should

rest awhile, and the parson being nothing
loath they seated themselves on a felled
tree by the roadside.

The road before them was level and
straight. On one side it lay open to a
patch of ragged, waste land ; on the other
it skirted a wood. The moon had risen
above the horizon, and although it was
yet shrouded by a bank of cloud, it shed
sufficient light to reveal " the road for
some distance ahead. There was not the
slightest motion in the trees or the fallen
leaves by the roadside, for the wind had
dropped. Suddenly the T'O.rsL'n. who had
been mopping the perspirLi::-;. :: jm his
face with an occasional "pish" and phew**
stopped abruptly as a sharp metallic click
caught his ear. and turnips to Blase asked
in a smothered tone of alarm :

*' What was that. Bla>e?''

Blase had his hands in his pockets,
whence came another click as he replied :

Nothing to be alarmed about ; as I
carry pistols they may as Avell be cocked.
There's somebody on the road before us ! "

Good Lord, deliver us ! " murmured the
parson fervently, as lie looked along the
road.

Come along," Blase said, rising.

"What madness ! Let us get behind a
thicket until the road is clear."

Nonsense ! " laughed Blase. " What,
man ! afraid of a couple of yokels returning
from their labour ? "

Labourers going home two hours after
sundown! Nothing of the sort. There's
not an honest rustic that isn't abed and
asleep by this time."

This is odd," said Blase, stepping on
one side and looking along the road. " I
saw two figures distinctly when we were
seated a minute ago, and now I can see

none."

'san ambush, I'll stake my life. For

the love of Heaven let us get into the
wood."

Not I. The probability is that they
are as afraid of us as you of them, and
have taken to the wood themselves."

Let us hide t'other side, then. Here's
a thicket most convenient."

Disregarding the parson's suggestion,
Blase walked on with his hands in his
pockets and his fingers on the triggers of
his pistols, while Mr. Tickel made for
the protection of the thicket. Thence he
watched the advance of Blase until his
figure grew indistinct and it seemed to
him that he had passed the dangerous
point at which the two men had disappeared.
Then the dread of being left to
follow alone, and the possibility of being
discovered in his hiding-place, forced him
to the desperate resolution of taking to
the road again and overtaking Blase as
quickly as possible. His tongue clave to

the roof of his mouth, his knees knocked
against each other as he moved, the hood
sang in his ears as he stepped out into
the open part. It was, however, encouraging
to see that Blase was waiting
for him, standing in the middle of the
road a hundred yards in advance, and he
hurried forward as quickly as his trembling
legs could carry him.

But scarcely had he made a dozen steps
when there was a flash that seemed to
blind him, a bang that stunned him, and
from the wood in front a couple of men
sprang into the road roaring to him to
yield his money or his life. With a
presence of mind which, when he came to
look back upon the affair, the parson
regarded as nothing less than astonishing,
he dropped the valise, turned about, and
took to his heels.

The footpads made no attempt to overtake
him, being more concerned in their

own safety ; for scarcely had they scrambled
through the brambles and into the road,
than they perceived Blase bearing down
upon them with all speed.

He who had fired at once made a leap to
get over the briers and into the wood, and
the other, grabbing up the valise, was about
to follow, when Blase, having got within a
dozen yards, stopped, fired, and had the
good fortune to send a ball through the
rascal's leg. With a howl of pain and
fright he dropped the valise, leapt into the
wood, and disappeared.

Blase listened. A faint " tippet-top,
tippet-top " down the hill told him that
the parson was still in full retreat ; but
for a second or two no other sound reached
his ear. Then a movement among the
brambles by the roadside, with the snapping
of twigs, attracted his attention ; and
as he drew towards the spot a voice cried,
Quarter, your honour — quarter ! "

Come out, rascal," said Blase ; and
at this bidding the man who had first
fled disentangled his foot from the growth
that had tripped him up, rose from the
ground, and presented himself before Blase
with his empty hands extended. "Who
was it fired ? " asked Blase.

I fired, sir."

Is the other rascal armed ? "

No, sir ; we had but the one pistol,
and that's in the bush there somewhere."

Satisfied of the parson's safety. Blase
bade the man pick up the valise and march
on in front, promising to put a ball into
his body if he attempted to escape.

Without a word the man took up the
valise which his fellow had dropped, and
then marched on in front. Blase tried to
get a glimpse of his face, but the light
was insufficient, and moreover the man
hung his head either from shame or purposely
to conceal his features. It was

noticeable that he did not speak like a
countryman, nor with the raking voice
of an habitual criminal ; his figure was
that of a man of forty ; a rolling gait
and a pigtail gave him the appearance of
a seaman. It seemed to Blase that he
must be a footpad rather from necessity
than choice, and he was beginning to question
what he ought to do with his prisoner,
when the man, stopping and turning about,
said :

Master, what are you going to do
with me ? "

My present intention is to hand you
over to the first constable I can find."

That is to say, you will have me
hanged. But you spoke just now of
putting lead into me."

If you try to escape, I certainly will,"
said Blase ; and he took out his pistol, for
the man had set down the valise.

You are a fair shot, master — I saw that

by the way you nicked my mate under
disadvantages — and the only favour I'll
ask you is to cover me well on the head
or the heart before you fire, kick my corpse
into a ditch after, and say nothing about it
at the inn along the road here. Do this for
the sake of charity, and Grod will bless you
for it. Take aim, master, for I am going."

He moved slowly towards the ditch by
the road as he spoke, with his arms behind
him and his head up, that Blase might not
miss his aim.

Wait," said Blase ; " I am not an
executioner. I shall not fire to kill
you."

'Twill be a refinement of cruelty, sir,
to wound me with a ball to-night that I
may be hung with a rope tomorrow."

The words and the manner in which
they were spoken were to Blase conclusive
evidence that the man was no ordinary
footpad.

And if I kill you, why do you wish
the people of the inn to know nothing
of it?"

"My daughter lies there, and" — he spoke
with effort — "the poor child loves me."

Then she does not know the way of
life you have taken to ? "

Not she — a little fool ! " He passed the
back of his forefinger over his cheek.
She's just as fond as her mother was ;
though perhaps other women are no wiser,
for which of 'em will believe wrong of a
husband or a father that she loves ? "

Blase put the pistol in his pocket.

If this is not a lie you shall get no
harm from me," he said. " Come, we will
go to the inn together."

The man accepted this proposal without
the slightest sign of reluctance, and further
expressed his gratitude in a few broken
sentences with such emotion that Blase
felt convinced of his sincerity, and was

VOL. I. 5

prompted as much by sympathy as curiosity
to inquire, after they had walked
some paces side by side in silence, through
what accident he had come to attempt the
robbery.

"Is this the first robbery you have attempted
? " he asked.

The first, upon my soul, as it shall bethe
last," replied the man.

Who was your accomplice ? "

A man of these parts, whom I met by

one of those unfortunate accidents which

have beset me through life, and brought

me to my present condition. 'Twas he

who proposed the expedition, setting forth

how, by a little noise and bluster, we might

succeed in extorting a few crowns from a

party of country gentlemen, who about

this time should be returning from a ring

fight, and would in all likelihood be so

overcome with liquor that they could osier

no resistance, nor detect that our intentions

were less murderous than they appeared.
For I assure you, sir, the pistol which my
acquaintance had employed for the scaring
of crows was charged only with powder.
The events which led to my accepting this
proposal, although they cannot exonerate
me, might be accepted as an excuse for my
fault; and for that reason, sir, I shall be
glad to recount them if you will have the
patience to hear me."

CHAPTER IV.

JOHN HUTCHINS MAKES A CURIOUS Revelation.


Blase said he should be glad to hear of
any redeeming circumstances.

Well, sir," said the man, " I will begin
by telling you that my name is John
Hutchins, and I was born on the day
his present majesty came to the throne.
My father was a mercer in Holborn, and
although himself a thrifty and industrious
man of business, he was excessively indulgent
to me, and allowed me to indulge
in pleasures which gave me an abiding
distaste for hard work. When his friends
remonstrated, he would say, ^ Let the lad
have his fling; many a good horse is

spoiled by being put too young to the
collar.' And so matters went on until my
poor father being seized with a disorder
of the inside which carried him off in four
and twenty hours, I, at the age of eighteen,
was called upon to direct a business of
which I knew nothing, and which I
cordially detested. For some months the
new pleasure of gaining money kept me
to my shop, but at the end of that time
the old pleasure of spending it took me
away. Little by little I neglected my
affairs, flntil the time came when I spent
every night of the week in idle pleasures,
leaving my shop to the mercy of servants,
who, I need not tell you, sir, fleeced me
right and left. To cap my folly, I became
enamoured of a young lady. Miss Betsy
Warren, who was then playing small parts
at the little theatre in the Hay market, and
before I was twenty years of age, I made
her my wife, and insisted upon her retiring

from the stage, where she received too
many compliments from the gentlemen for
my peace of mind. To reconcile her to her
loss in that respect, I took a handsome
country house at Hackney, and set up a
chariot in which I drove to my business
in Holborn. You can understand, sir,
that no business in the world can be conducted
long in this fashion, and that the
tradesman who cannot reconcile himself to
living over his shop, need take but a short
lease of his house. My custom fell off, my
creditors became suspicious, and such was
the state into which my books had fallen
that I could not tell how I stood. However,
one morning, while I was still abed
at Hackney, a foot messenger came with
the news that my house in Holborn was
burned to the ground. Then my creditors
took my affairs into their own hands, and
after some little delay, it was found that
my debts exceeded my assets by a thousand

pounds, and it was only by the leniency of
my creditors that I escaped being thrown
into prison for debt. With tears of mortification
and regret in my eyes, I put my
Betsy, and our daughter, then an infant
in arms, into a hackney coach, and bade
the driver carry us to Dean Street, in Soho,
where my wife's mother was then living.
From her we could expect but little, for the
old lady was paralyzed and had no more
money than was sufficient to maintain herself;
but I proposed to leave my wife and
child in her care for a few days, while I
went into the country to beseech the help
of my sister-in-law, Harriet. This sister,
I must tell you, had also played at the
theatre, but, with better fortune than my
poor Betsy, had married a country baronet.
Sir Gilbert Godwin, who has a seat about
a dozen miles from here, and is the very
man my confederate and I were about to
waylay this evening."

Involuntarily Blase made an exclamation
of surprise at hearing his father's name in
connection with this history.

'Tis odd indeed, sir," continued Hutchins,
putting his own construction upon the
cry — " yes, odd indeed, that you find me
this night prepared to rob a man whom I
may call my brother-in-law ; but I hope to
explain it clearly to you. I myself had
seen neither the baronet nor my sister-in-law
Harriet, for she was married and
removed from the stage some time before
I became acquainted with my Betsy ; and
the reason that I went instead of my wife
to beg her assistance, was, that Harriet
being of a violent temper, and my wife
none of the most submissive characters in
the world, the two hated each other intensely,
and never met without quarrelling.
At Godwin's Moat — which I must tell you,
sir, is the name of this baronet's seat — I
was met by the baronet's chaplain, a papist

named Father Dominick, who refused to let
fine see the baronet or his wife, but promised
to help me if I would return to London
immediately and await his arrival. I accepted
this condition, and the day after my
return to London, he met us in Dean Street,
and offered to give us three hundred
pounds if we in return would give him our
solemn promise never again to importune
Harriet or make ourselves known to her
husband. I would have taken my oath on
the spot, but my wife stoutly refused to
make any such promise. ' Very good,' said
Father Dominick, ' then I shall trust to
your generosity and to your self-interest ;
for mark me,' said he, laying the notes on
the table and holding up his forefinger in
admonition, ' if you attempt to interfere
with the peace of Sir Gilbert Godwin or
his lady, I shall terminate the persecution
in a manner which will cause you to repent
your act to the end of your life.' My

wife was greatly impressed with this
threat, for she knew something of the
man's temper and disposition, and was
convinced that he would hesitate at no
means that would answer his purpose.
'Twas his axiom that the end justifies the
means.

My wife went back to the theatre,
where I also obtained employment at a
small remuneration ; but poverty could not
cure me of extravagance, and my wife was
just as careless as I ; so that when, in the
spring of 1790, I fell sick of the small-pox,
we hadn't enough money between us to
pay a nurse to watch by me while my wife
went to the play-house, and but for the
generosity of Mr. Coleman, I know not how
our immediate necessities would have been
tided over. When my wife dared not tax
his kindness any further, she resolved,
despite her fear of Father Dominick, to
apply again to her sister. Eleven years

had passed since we received the first gift,
and during that time we had neither seen
nor heard anything of Harriet or Father
Dominick; but my wife still feared the
man, and only her concern for me made her
overcome her disinclination to encounter
his displeasure. She wrote to her sister :
Father Dominick replied to her letter in
person. He refused to give anything, but
offered to lend another sum of three
hundred pounds on her note of hand payable
at three months. My poor Betsy
wrote the note as he bade her, and took
the money.

Well, sir, the consequence of this act
you shall presently see. Three months
later, I was allured into Tapping by a
letter holding out the prospect of an
engagement, and there seized by a press-gang
; and in reply to a letter I addressed
from Spithead to my wife, I received the
terrible news that she was imprisoned in

the Fleet for the debt to Father Dominick.
Thus had this man executed his threat. Ill
luck attended me even at sea, but of that I
will say nothing. I have only to tell that,
my time being up, I obtained my discharge,
and hurrying on to London arrived there
only in time to see my poor Betsy's corpse.
She had died of privation, and a disease
of the lungs brought on by the miasma
of that dreadful prison. I had not even
the sad consolation of hearing her bid me
adieu, or of catching the parting smile
upon her wasted cheek — once so fresh and
full. Happily for her, poor soul, our little
Peggy was with her at the last, and received
the sweet message of remembrance
she left for me."

Hutchins ceased to speak, but after a
few minutes' silence, he sobbed once or
twice like a child that has wept. Then he
pulled out his handkerchief, and wiping his
eyes, impatiently said :

Where's the use of crying ? the poor
soul suffers no more. There's an end of it ;
nothing can bring her back to me, or undo
the past. Well, sir, to get back to my
yarn, as we sailors call it. When I had
buried my poor Betsy, I left my child in
good hands, and went to the pay-ofSce to
draw my money, where I met a couple of
my messmates, who persuaded me afterwards
to go to a tavern, and forget my
troubles over a can of flip, and drink better
luck for the future. But the drink was
far from bringing me better luck, and
when we separated, I felt that I had taken
more than was good for me. As I was
going along, trying to walk straight and
look sober, and fetching myself up against
a post when I found myself steering out
of the course, a sleek old gentleman with
a clergyman's hat and bands took me by
the arm, and begged me to take a cup of
coffee to dissipate the effect of the strong

liquor, telling me that lie was a missionary
set to watch for tars leaving the pay-office,
and protect them from the robbers that
beset them. I thanked him for his kindness,
telling him that I had great need to
take care of my money, and was sorry to
find I had drunk too much ; and we stepped
into a coffee-house, when he called for two
dishes of coffee, and was particular to stir
up my portion, and see that it was not too
hot before I tasted it; then he bade me
drink it off, and began a long sermon, in
the midst of which I fell asleep. When I
awoke he was gone, and so was my money.
I thought I should go mad under this combination
of misfortunes, and indeed I believe
that I was for some days not master
of myself. An awful desire to take the life
of the man who had been instrumental to
my wife's death possessed me, and I believe
that if I had met him then I should have
torn him to pieces ; and this mad thirst for

vengeance was still upon me when I set
out from London with my daughter to
walk hither. I had some loose silver which
had escaped the hands of the wretch who
drugged me in the coffee-house, and this
afforded us shelter and food until we
arrived here, where the last shilling was
paid for our dinner. But, thanks be to
God, my bloody intentions towards Father
Dominick have passed away, through the
influence of my Peggy; for, looking in her
young face, I think of her mother's fate,
of the dangers that surround her, and my
duty to shield her. But do not conclude,
sir, that because I have overcome my inclinations
to do that wicked papist a bodily
mischief I hate him less, and cease to
harbour feelings of revenge. I have not
the Christian temper to forgive him the injuries
he has done me and mine. I will not
leave this place until I have punished him."
"My poor fellow," said Blase kindly,

what power have you to punish this
man, except by brute force ? Could you
prove that he was instrumental to your
imprisonment, and that the loan to your
wife was but a trick to confine her within
the walls of a prison, the law would not
touch him, and he can defy public indignation
while he is under the protection of
Sir Gilbert."

"It is that protection that I will overthrow.
It is through Sir Gilbert he shall
be punished. I have not told you why
Father Dominick was so anxious that I
should be shot at sea, and that my wife
should end her days in a gaol — why he
insisted upon our entire separation from
Sir Gilbert Godwin. It was because we
possessed a secret which he feared my
wife's impetuous tongue would reveal ;
a secret which, revealed to Sir Gilbert,
would have ruined his priest. The three
hundred pounds he gave us in our first

need was hush-money. This secret you
shall know, and you may then judge if
I have no power to punish that villain.
I have told you that Harriet played at
the same theatre with Betsy, that they
were rivals, and hated each other. They
vied with each other in the costliness
of their dresses, but Harriet was the
less scrupulous in the way she obtained
them. She received presents from a
gentleman who came up at intervals from
the country, on the pretext of business ;
and she was in effect his mistress. These
facts were known to Betsy, for it was
impossible for one sister to guard a single
circumstance of her life from the jealous
eye of the other ; and she discovered,
further, that the gentleman's name was
Dominick, and that he was the chaplain of
Sir Gilbert Godwin of Godwin's Moat, in
Dorsetshire. This acquaintance lasted fora
year, and then Harriet won another lover,

VOL. I. 6

and this was none other than Sir Gilbert
Godwin himself. The fact was perfectly
well known to Father Dominick, but the
baronet of course knew nothing of his
priest's previous acquaintance with Harriet ;
and to keep this secret from him she conciliated
her sister with repeated gifts. The
baronet took a house for his mistress in
Hampton, and there he spent the best part
of his time — leaving her for a few days in
each month to go into Dorsetshire, where
he had a young wife and child. His
estate, his household, and his unfortunate
wife he left completely under the control
of Father Dominick. The priest once or
twice took the occasion of the baronet's
presence in Dorsetshire to post to Hampton
and visit his former mistress. My wife,
Betsy, bribed Harriet's servant to keep a
watch on her, and send all the news she
could gather. Six months of this double
dealing went on, and then, while Sir

Gilbert was at Hampton, Father Dominick
brought word to him that his wife had
been murdered."

Murdered ! " exclaimed Blase.

Murdered, sir. God forbid I should
charge that wicked priest with one more
crime than he has to answer for, but the
events that followed have led me to believe
that if Father Dominick did not actually
strike the blow himself, he was party to
the murder."

What did follow ? "

Within two months he married his
mistress to Sir Gilbert, thus promoting her
to an honourable position, and bringing
her under the same roof with himself."

Great God ! " exclaimed Blase. " Can
such iniquity escape punishment ? "

Not if I have power to bring about
a retribution."

'' Are you sure my — are you sure that
Sir Gilbert's first wife was murdered ? "

There is no doubt of it, sir. The landlord
of the inn we are coming to remembers
the facts, for he was on the jury at the
inquest. 'Tis a fact well known in these
parts."

Was it for that reason, Blase asked himself,
that he had never been suffered to
remain for long at Grodwin's Moat, or to
promenade in its vicinity unaccompanied
by Father Dominick ?

These speculations yet occupied his mind
when the lights of the inn came within
sight.

"Here is the Bag o' Nails, sir," said
John Hutchins, uneasily ; " the inn where
my daughter lies. I left it under the
pretence of seeking a loan from a friend
in Eockford. What excuse shall I make
for returning empty-handed, and with
you?"

"Make your mind easy on that score,"
replied Blase; "I will satisfy the landlord's

demands. And look yon, Mr. Hutchins,
I shall make inquiries into the truth of
your story to-night, and if I find you have
not deceived me, I may be of use to you
tomorrow. In the meanwhile, keep guard
upon your tongue, and let no one know
what you have revealed to me."

John Hutchins promised discretion, and
renewed his expressions of gratitude ; and
then having reached the Bag o' Nails, the
two entered that inn.

CHAPTER Y.

TX WHICH THE SCENE IS SHIFTED TO THE
BAG O' NAILS.

The Bag o' Nails, which stood just outside
the village of Eockford, was the house of
call for those respectable tradesmen and
gentlemen who managed the affairs of the
parish ; and this being the evening for the
discussion of parochial politics, the parlour
was well lit with candles and a glowing
log that burnt in the chimney, around
which a dozen worthy men were seated
in settles and armchairs, the landlord —
himself a churchwarden, and a man much
respected for his sagacity, experience, and
honesty — occupying a chair in the centre

of the semicircle. Each man had his dram
and his pipe, and tempered the rigors of
public duty with innocent indulgence in
creature comforts.

At the sound of the little bell attached
to the door the landlord rose and went
out into the sanded passage, where Blase
and John Hutchins stood.

Your servant, sir, your servant*' he
said, respectfully taking in with an accustomed
eye those niceties of dress and
mien which proclaimed Blase a gentleman
by birth and breeding. " What may it
please you to command ? "

Accommodation for the night."

"• The best I have, sir. — Thomas, wait
upon this gentleman to the rose chamber,
and light a fire quickly. — But mayhap it
will please you, sir, to join our company
in the parlour, while your room is a-
warming ? "

With pleasure ; and, landlord," Blase

added, dropping this voice, " this good
fellow tells me he is in your debt."

'' That is true, sir. He and his daughter
have had bed and board since yesterday,
and I have seen but a shilling of his
money."

*' Be good enough to let him have what
is necessary, and charge the expense to me.
He has rendered me a service on the road."

''I am heartily glad that he has made
a friend, for surely he needs one badly
enough. I am not hard-hearted, sir, though
I may have given him a sharp word or
two ; but we who live by our gains must
gain by our living, as I say. I assure you,
sir," he added, as they left Hutchins and
walked towards the parlour, " I have a
great pity for him and his daughter, who is
a decent little body, and seems greatly concerned
for her father. May I make bold to
inquire what service he has done you, sir?"

^' My friend and I were attacked by a

couple of footpads, about two miles from
here."

'^ Goody heart ! Footpads ! And what
has become of your friend, sir ? "

"He saved himself by his heels, and probably
has returned to the inn from which
we started an hour ago. Of the rascals
who attacked us, one, I believe, is marked
with a ball from my pistol ; the other — got
off scot free."

They entered the parlour, where the
landlord introduced the visitor to his
friends, and placed a chair for him by his
side. Naturally the attempted robbery
formed an admirable subject for discussion,
and Blase was still occupied in answering
questions relative to the affair, when a
sound of wheels and many voices outside
was followed by the tinkling of the doorbell
and a noisy irruption of sturdy
countrymen, armed with stout sticks and
pitchforks. These men formed a bodyguard

to the Reverend Mr. Tickel, who
seemed to be in greater peril from the
officious care of the friends he had called
upon for protection, than from the foe he
had fled from ; for being still three parts
drunk, they hustled him about from side
to side in their anxiety to stand by him,
and by their good intentions threatened
every moment to put his eyes out with
a pitchfork.

For some minutes nothing was to be
gathered from the confusion of tongues
but at length it appeared that the parson
having entered the long room of the Cocky
pallid and breathless with the news that
his young friend had been set upon and
murdered by a gang of rascals on the road
the assembled company, all true men and
lovers of sport, rose on the instant, harnessed
their nags, and started for the scene
of battle, resolved to fight it out fairly
with the murderous crew.

Having contrived to extricate the parson
from the crowd, Blase took him aside and
said quickly in a low tone :

Where is my father ? "

He follows. He was being lifted into
a waggon with the other incapable when
our cart started. Good lord ! my young
friend, what a night ! ''

You have not mentioned my name ? "

No ; or if I did the men were too
drunk to notice it''

''I do not wish it to he known. Be
silent."

At this moment a voice above the rest
called :

"Dore bring a light, someone, vor I do
think's how squire's dead or suthin, been*
I can't get a word often 'n nohow."

Blase seized a candle, and pushing his
way vigorously through the crowd of
muddled rustics, got out into the air, and
hastened to a waggon, where he presumed

his father must be, by hearing repeated
cries of " Yoicks!" and '^ Tallow!" which
he remembered had been used at table as
an infallible means of arousing him.

A knot of three or four men were
gathered behind the waggon. The tailboard
was let down, and the butcher,
bending down, was using his vocal efforts
to send consciousness into the drunken
head. Thrusting him aside. Blase held
the candle forward. As the light fell
upon the drunkard's face the butcher burst
out laughing.

'^ Dang my bottons," cried he, " vor a
silly yule as I be ! If I bennet been dingun
tallow into the wrong 'n's ear. Haw !
haw ! haw ! Who, it bennet the squire
at all, but Master Jenkins the flycatcher,
and he's stan deaf."

With a shiver of disgust Blase scanned
the faces of the men who lay huddled
together upon the straw at the bottom of

the waggon. He knew this father so little,
that even the drunken fighting man was
quicker than he to recognize his face.

Their he he, Lord love 'n. I knows 'n
bv the rise of lies nose. Yoicks ! your
honour. Tallow ! "

Sir Gilbert opened his eyes, and looked
at the light in dull stupor.

There lev been another might, your
worship, twixt a german and a robber."

Back the winner vur fifty guineas,"
murmured the baronet, and closed his eyes.

"And this is my father! " said Blase to
himself, turning away. " This the representative
of a race of gentlemen, the
descendant of a man who earned his
knighthood by noble deeds ; a drunkard,
and pigging in the same straw with rat-catches
and the scum of stable yards ! If
the name is to be saved from disgrace 'tis
time that one of us gave up the life of
debauchee."

The noisy crowd slowly dispersed when
it was at length made evident to them that
the pleasing excitement of fighting was
not to be enjoyed ; but it was long before
the last cart moved away, and the respectable
frequenters of the Bag o' Nails
settled down into their seats around the
parlour chimney.

Mr. Tickel was the first to appreciate the
blessings of peace and quiet. Ensconced
in a warm corner, with his legs stretched
out to catch the heat of the glowing
members, and gently crushing the sugar ina
large glass of hot rum and water which
he nursed tenderly upon his knees, he
watched the departure of his protectors
with that feeling of profound yet ungrateful
satisfaction which a convalescent
experiences in seeing the backs of the
nurses and physicians who have attended
him through his painful malady.

Sir Gilbert again ! " said the landlord,

?is lie closed the door and returned to his
clair. " Sir Gilbert Godwin," he continued
in explanation, addressing Blase ;
^' a baronet of these parts who, instead of
setting a good example to his tenants and
neighbours, uses his influence only for to
strengthen their vices and confirm 'em in
their bad habits. There's fairy a riotous
crew but the knight's at the head or the
tail of it, which is a scandal to the county,
and, as parson says, a thorn in the side of
decent church-going folk."

"A mighty deal he cares for decent
folks," said a parishioner, taking the pipe
from his lips. " He'd as hef draw a
badger or bait a bull Sundays as week-days."


Ay, and liefer too ! " said another
speaker. " But what can you expect, seeing
he's led and governed by a papist
priest? I do believe this here Father
Dominick encourages him in his wicked

ways to prevent this listening to parson's
sermons."

I wish that may be his whist intent'
said the landlord. " What say you, Muster
Rudd?"

Why, as to the matter o' that," replied
Mr. Rudd, with an uneasy glance from
Blase to Mr. Tickel, " there bennet no harm
in wishing any man maj be no wus 'an
he seems."

This equivocal reflection was followed
by a silence intimating that the company
entertained suspicions which they did not
care to openly express.

As a stranger in this county, sir, and
a clergyman of the Church of England,"
said Mr. Tickel, addressing the landlord,
with a pompous air that commanded respect,
and an effrontery which even
astonished Blase, " may I ask what worse
design you can attribute to the papist
than that of precluding the unhappy

baronet from the beneficent teaching of
our Church ? "

The landlord inclined his head respectfully
toward Mr. Tickel, drew a couple of
long whiffs from his pipe, and then said ina
low oracular tone :

Some men be wus 'an they seem, and
others seem wus 'an they be ; and, as I
say, if pigs was called by the smell on
'em pork 'd be cheap ; which is as much as
to say as we don't ought to judge of this
here Father Dominick by the unpleasant
side of un ; not but what the man as
trustees himself wi' a adder because some
on 'em don't sting is a yule, as I say."

There was a little thin old gentleman —
a bookseller by trade — in the corner
opposite Mr. Tickel, who seemed, by the
expression of his face during these two-sided
observations, half inclined to be
angry. He good humoured suffered the
general expression of approval which fol-vol.

I. 7

lowed the landlord's speech to subside, then
he said in a clear highly-pitched voice,
looking from Blase to the parson :

It is said here, gentlemen, that to bean
enemy to Father Dominick is to be an
enemy to one's self ; and this local proverb
originated, I believe, with our excellent
landlord, to whom we owe many such
shrewd apothegms." The landlord accepted
the compliment with becoming
dignity. " And truth to tell, many have
suffered who have spoken their minds
freely about him ; their sufferings in one
or two instances, at least, being fairly
attributable to the hand of this priest, and
for that reason some of us dare not speak
out before strangers. But, thank God, I
owe no man a farthing, my position is
independent, and having nothing greatly
to repent, I have nothing greatly to fear
from Father Dominick ; and so I will,
if you choose, tell you all I know and

think concerning him, without demanding
secrecy, but rather with the hope that
you may help to publish facts which
should bring the wicked ultimately to
punishment."

The little gentleman took a pinch of
snuff while Blase and Mr. Tickel thanked
him for his confidence, and then proceeded
to fulfil his promise.

CHAPTER VI.

THE LITTLE BOOKSELLER TELLS A STORY,
WHICH MUST NOT BE SKIPPED BY THE
READER, AND CONCLUDES WITH SOME
OBSERVATIONS NOT VERY FLATTERING
TO MR. Ticket.

I FEAR, gentlemen, my story will be
rather long." The bookseller looked at his
watch. " But we are still early — it wants
five minutes of nine — and I will endeavour
to be brief. For you to comprehend this
history fully, I must go back many years,
to the time when I was a lad. Let me tell
you that I am the same age to a day as this
baronet Sir Gilbert Godwin ; and when
he came of age, my father improved the
occasion by bidding me take the young

man as my model, and for that reason, perhaps,
I have watched his career with keen
and painful interest. His personal gifts I
could never hope to obtain, for he was a
splendid specimen of a young Englishman,
and excelled at all manly games. His
mental accomplishments I hoped to rival;
but his disposition, despite my father's
eulogy, did not command my respect. He
was generous to a fault. I had nothing
wherewith to be profuse, and doubtless
for that reason considered his free-handed
liberality rather as a reckless indifference to
the future, than the outcome of that generous
spirit which sometimes restricts wastefulness.
He seemed to me feeble, and wanting
in manly decision, for even at the age
of twenty-one these characteristics show
themselves. However, this is not brevity.
I will come to facts. At the age of
twenty-two he came to the estate and
title by the death of his father. The

next two years he spent in London, and
plunged deeply into the pleasure of that
wonderful city. I am speaking, sir, of
thirty years ago, when there was even
more license allowed to young men than
at this time."

Lor' deary heart, how things have,
changed ! " observed the landlord.

Satiated with such dissipations," the
bookseller continued, "young Sir Gilbert
returned to the Moat."

Godwin's moat, 'tis called," said the
landlord, in an undertone to Blase ; *' and
if you are for staying in these parts a few
days, 'twill well repay you to look at the
house, which is prodigious old and curious."

With him he brought a priest of his
own age," continued the bookseller, " this
very Father Dominick of whom we were
speaking."

The Godwin have been papists time
out of mind " — this from the landlord ina

confidential whisper behind the back of
his hand.

My young gentleman had not been at
home long, before he fell in love with the
daughter of Captain Covenant, a sweet,
pretty young lady, whose innocence and
purity had possibly a double attraction
for Sir Gilbert, by comparison with the
affected coquettes he had met in London."

Forrard hussies ! " murmured the landlord.


Captain Covenant was a poor officer,
who, having lost an arm at Quebec, had
been forced to quit his Majesty's service,
and lived at Redwater, about twenty miles
from this. The young baronet would
marry Miss Covenant, despite her want
of fortune, and the fact that her family
were staunch protestants. Eager and
impulsive, he would take no denial, and
was willing to sign any agreement in
order that he might obtain her — for I must

tell you Captain Covenant was opposed
to the match. It was settled that the
children of the marriage should be brought
up according to the tenets of the English
Church. After three months wooing he
wedded her. It was a love match, and
most people thought that the result could
not fail to be a happy one."

Ah ! you can't make good cider of
green apples, as I say," said the irrepressible
landlord.

Will you finish the history, landlord ? "
asked the bookseller.

No, sir, not I. I leave it in better
hands, and I humbly ask pardon for
interrupting of you."

In due course a child was born, a son,
of whom I shall have to speak presently ;
and for a time it seemed as if the general
belief was to be verified as to the happiness
of this union. Father Dominick was
frequently absent from Godwin's Moat

during the first eighteen months of Sir
Gilbert's married life. Business connected
with the Romish Church in London called
him away ; but at the end of this time
Sir Gilbert undertook to transact this business,
and leaving the priest at the Moat
he himself went up to London. From that
day his ruin began. The poor young wife
was left in that isolated house with her
child, her servants, and Father Dominick.
Sir Gilbert spent most of his time in
London, and his visits to the Moat became
fewer and briefer. Then it was rumoured
that he was living in infamy with an
actress in an establishment near London.
It is my belief that this report was secretly
spread about by Father Dominick. Captain
Covenant heard it, and finding by
inquiry that it was true, he was for taking
his daughter away from the Moat ; but
she refused, saying that it was her duty to
stay there while God gave her strength

to support her misfortune. Poor soul, she
had not long to suffer ! "

As I say, when you get to the bottom
you can't sink no murder," whispered the
landlord.

One morning the news came to us that
the baronet's lady was dead. She was
murdered, sir. Mrs. Garston, the nurse of
Master Blase, had helped undress her lady
the night before. At four o'clock in the
morning she, sleeping in the servants'
wing, was awoke by the screaming of the
poor lady, and the crying of the child who
lay in the same bed with her ; the screaming
continued whilst she struck a light,
and then she heard the voice of Father
Dominick calling, " Help ! help ! "

Ah ! help indeed, a villain ! " muttered
the landlord.

When Mrs. Garston, with the other
servants, reached their mistress's room
they found her lying in the middle of the

room upon the floor, dead, and Father
Dominick kneeling by her side supporting
her head on his arm and holding a crucifix
before her face. The bosom of her
night-dress was stained with blood, and a
long pointed dagger-knife lay by her side.
The window opening over the moat was
open. As soon as he could get away
Father Dominick threw himself in the
saddle and departed for London to find
Sir Gilbert, albeit the morning had not
then broken. At the same time the butler
started off to fetch Captain Covenant from
Seawater. There were then left in the
house two maids and Mrs. Garston, with
the child and the dead mother. The two
girls ran terrified to their rooms, and as
soon as it was light fled from the house
and came half dead with terror to Rockford.
Captain Covenant took the butler's
horse — he had none of his own — and
bidding him seek Mr. George, the captain's

brother, a doctor having a practice near
Seawater, he galloped off to the Moat.
There he found his murdered child, with
Mrs. Cranston alone in that grim house."

She was a good body, and the fright
aged her wonderful," said Mr. Tickel's
neighbour, aside. " Nevertheless, she
didn't die till last Christmas was a twelvemonth,
and Captain Covenant treated her
like one of the family, he did."

Soon afterwards the doctor arrived,
but the poor lady, his niece, was past all
mortal healing, and all he could do was to
come down to Rockford to find the serving
maids and send them back to the house.
But they wouldn't return, and he could
find no one who would go there. For
thirty years ago, sir, the people here were
in a barbarous state of ignorance and
superstition, and when I tell you that
no one dared to pass the churchyard at
night you can understand that no one had

the courage to lie in a lonely house with
a murdered lady, especially as Sunday
after Sunday the parson had preached
against popery, and told them of the evil
doings of papists. Seeing, therefore, that
he could get no one to perform the fitting
offices there. Captain Covenant and his
brother, with the aid of Mrs. Garston and
the butler, carried the murdered lady in a
carriage to Rockford."

Ah ! I mind what a fuss that made at
the inquest ; " said the landlord, " for you
see, sir, Redwater lies in Devonshire, and
Godwin's Moat stands in Dorsetshire."

It was ten days before Father Dominick
and Sir Gilbert appeared, for it
seems the baronet was out a pleasuring at
the moment of his wife's murder, and he
could not be found for some days. His
wife had been buried three days before his
return. Meanwhile the sheriff of the
county, and some gentlemen from the office

in Bow Street, London, had been making
inquiries in every direction but the right
one to find out who had done the murder.
They could tell nothing but what every one
knew ; and the jury returned a verdict
against some unknown person or persons.
And there, so far as the law was concerned,
the affair ended. But one of the
maids, who at the inquest could not be got
to open her mouth for yea or nay, said
afterwards that dien Father Dominick
rose from holding the crucifix over the
dead lady she noticed, despite that he held
his head down, blood upon his throat, and
it was then remembered that at the inquest
he wore his throat covered, complaining of
having taken a cold in it ; and this girl
further affirmed that her lady's finger-tips
were stained."

She had held the villain, I warrant,
until his knife touched her heart," said one
of the listeners.

My father," continued the little bookseller,
" who took great interest in the
affair until his last day, went over to
Redwater and laid this information before
Captain Covenant ; but the captain, albeit
he expressed his own belief in the guilt of
Father Dominick, said it was now too late
to use this evidence, which, even if it were
trustworthy, would be insufficient to bring
the priest to justice."

What became of the woman who gave
this information ? " asked Blase.

She left Rockford the following week,
and has not since been seen. Sir Gilbert
appeared to be greatly shocked by this
tragic event. He met Captain Covenant
at the inquest and openly proclaimed his
remorse for neglecting his wife. He
readily accepted the proposal that his son
should be kept under the care of Mrs.
Covenant at Redwater. Then the Moat
was shut up. But how sincere his contrition

was you may judge when I tell you
that at the end of two months he returned
to Godwin's Moat with his priest, and the
mistress whom in that short space of time
he had rejoined and married. The woman
must have obtained a most powerful hold
upon his affections. This indecent haste set
all the county families against him ; and
those who had been most inclined to forgive
him, and extenuate his fault, became
now his most bitter enemies. I cannot
think that the baronet committed this
outrage upon good taste of his own freewill.
I believe he was pressed to do it by
the woman and the priest to whose interest
it was that he should be cut off at once
from society and thrown completely into
their hands. In this purpose they succeeded
perfectly. Xo one of his own
standing visited him or received him ; he
was not permitted to join the hunts.
Even the tradespeople and farmers of the

better sort avoided him. He was thus
driven to find amusement in the society
of the lowest classes. In a word, he ceased
to be a gentleman."

Is it possible," said Blase, " that a man
could sink so quickly to such a depth of
degradation ? "

Sir, from good to evil the descent is
swift," replied the bookseller.

Very true, sir ; very true," observed
Mr. Tickel.

You must consider, sir," the bookseller
said, addressing Blase, "that Sir Gilbert
was still quite young, that his passions
were stronger than his reason, that his
character was possibly exceptionally ductile,
and that he had fallen into the hands of a
Jesuit, who, in the sacred name of religion,
justified his errors, and forgave him his
sins as fast as they were committed, and of
a woman voluptuously beautiful, unscrupulous,
selfish, and cunning. A young

VOL. I. 8

man who makes himself the slave of his
passion, and has not the strength to throw
off the chains a subtle woman winds about
him, is lost."

That's gospel true ! " exclaimed the
landlord. " Look you at Master Colter,
the blacksmith, a most masterful man, that
could throw a quoit with any player in the
county, to say nothing of his singing like
a thrush from morn till night. Well, what
has happened to him since he married old
Smith's daughter ? Why " — in a tone of
deep commiseration — ■ " he's joined the
Methodius."

I cannot imagine, sir," said Mr. Tickel
to the bookseller, "what object the priest
and his accomplice had in degrading the
baronet."

I hope to show you, sir. In six months
from the death of the first wife a son was
born to Sir Gilbert by the second. From
the first this child was like neither Sir

Gilbert nor the mother ; but as be grew
the resemblance between him and Father
Dominick became so marked that it was
impossible to doubt the paternity."

Like as two peas in a cod," put in the
landlord.

It was as if Providence had stamped
the child to prove the parents' crime, and
wean Sir Gilbert from his fatal infatuation.
That warning, however, was lost upon him
either because by the time he came to
note the likeness he was so stripped of self-respect
as to be indifferent, or so sunk in
uxorious slavery as to pardon the outrage
rather than part with his wife. It is hardly
possible that he could see the priest and
his son side by side without detecting their
resemblance."

The landlord took the pipe from his
mouth as if about to confirm this view of
the case, but the little bookseller, seeing his
intention, withheld his pinch of snuff, and
continued :

Having ruined the baronet, the object
of the priest — for I take him to be the
leading character in this diabolical drama
was to ruin his son Blase. At the age
of twelve the child was withdrawn from
the guardianship of his grandparents at
Redwater, and sent to a public school."

"Ah, these public schools are the devil
and all," said the landlord.

Possibly Captain Covenant would have
refused to give up his grandson under a
less plausible demand. Thus he was withdrawn
from the control and gentle guidance
of this excellent family. Nevertheless, he
spent his holidays at Redwater, and for this
simple reason — he would not abide at the
Moat. Neither coaxing nor thrashing could
keep him there. He hated his mother-in-law,
his pretended half-brother, and the
priest equally ; and, young as he was, he
must have held his weak father in contempt.
The boy was never permitted to

leave the house alone when he could be
prevented. His mother-in-law or Father
Dominick accompanied him even in walking
the grounds of Godwin's Moat. This
surveillance galled Master Blase, for he
was, I am told, a lad of high spirit and
daring, and on the very first opportunity,
he would escape and walk over to Seawater.
Thrashing innumerable he got for
this rebellion, but harsh treatment only
made him hate the Moat and the people
there more, and he would have risked his
miserable life to escape the hated rule. We
scarcely ever saw him in Eockford, for he
disliked the company of Father Dominick
and Mrs. Godwin too greatly to desire
anything which compelled him to be in
their society. For two years he continued
to come home to the Moat at holiday times,
to run away to Seawater, to be brought
to the Moat and be thrashed, and to runaway
to Seawater again ; then he gave

Father Dominick warning that he would
take no more thrashing from him, and
soon after proved his words by knocking
him down with a chair when the priest
attempted to strike him ! "

Bravo, boy ! " say I, exclaimed the
landlord.

That put an end to his visits at Godwin's
Moat. Thenceforth he spent term
and vacation at school. But Captain
Covenant took apartments hard by during
the holidays, and had the lad with his
family whenever it was possible. Well,
gentlemen. Master Blase was kept at this
school until the age of twenty ; then a
surer blow was struck at his welfare. He
was suddenly removed from all restriction
and I believe restriction of some kind
was necessary, the young fellow being wild
and reckless — and sent out into the world
with full liberty to do what he liked and
spend what he would. I cannot conceive

a more devilish device for ruining him than
that. It was worse than any previous
cruelty to give a lad of his temperament
unbounded liberty; and the result proves
how well the effect of it had been gauged.
Eight years ago he was sent away, and
from that time to this he has never been
seen here or at Redwater. What has
become of him ? "

Murdered, I should say," remarked the
landlord.

No, sir, he has simply gone to ruin.
He is in London, a profligate and a penniless
wretch. As I learn from the attorney
who has furnished me with many of these
particulars, Sir Gilbert divided his disposable
property into four equal parts. Three
parts he has bestowed by will upon Father
Dominick, his wife, and Eugenius, the bastard
son of his wife ; the fourth he has
given to his son Blase. This portion being
spent, the baronet refuses to give him anymore,

and has told him to expect nothing
but the acres and title which must become
his at the baronet's death. Long before
that time — mark my words — every tree on
the estate will be felled, every farm be allowed
to fall into a waste, and every penny
raised by confiscation or saved by neglect
of the estate, will be in the pockets of the
priest and his family. Now, gentlemen,
you see the motive of this false papist
for contriving the ruin of Sir Gilbert and
his son."

Let us hope," said Blase, '' that the
profligate son may see his folly and reform."


I respond to that wish with all my
heart. But, sir, how can that be expected ?
The young fellow has already so far lost
his self-respect as to avoid the very means
of reformation. Although he has returned
from continental travel three years, he has
not been near his good friends at Redwater.

That is nothing less than base ingratitude ;
though I own that shame may well account
for his avoiding them. I do not wish to
judge him uncharitably. He deserves our
compassion. That he should run into extravagance
is only natural."

You are in the right, sir," said Mr.
Tickel.

Youth is the season for indulgence."

"Very true, sir," said Mr. Tickel — he
did not yet reo-ard himself as being; beyond
that season.

Our age, although a vast improvement
upon the past, still gives great latitude
to young men, and they are scarcely to be
blamed if they accept what is natural to
them."

As the little man paused to refresh himself
with a pinch of snuff, the parson said
in a widely audible whisper to his neighbour
: "A very exact, discerning, and just
gentleman, this ! "

And, as I have said," added the bookseller,
^' a surer method of sending him to
destruction than that employed by this
priest, man or Satan never devised. For
not only was he freed from restriction and
given unbounded liberty and means, but a
man was selected to serve as his governor
who deserves to be whipped at the cart's
tail and exposed in the public pillory.
This man, originally a parson as I learn,
was unfrocked for drunkenness and profligacy,
and fled his parish to escape the
prison."

There's a fellow for you," said the
landlord.

A man steeped in vice, without one
particle of principle, and with scarcely sufficient
wit to conceal his sins under the
cloak of sanctity."

Hang such rascals, say I," cried the
landlord; "I would I could lay my hand
on him. He should see the bottom of my
horse-pond, I warrant you ! "

Even parsons are subject to the same
natural laws that govern mankind," said
Mr. Tiekel faintly, " and the excuse you
have made for the young gentleman he
accompanied, might be urged in his extenuation."


What, youth, sir ? Why the fellow was
forty or forty-five, as I am given to understand.
The very accumulation of his sins
should have made him conscious of his age,
and directed his thoughts rather to the
grave than the indulgence of his sensual
appetites. With Mr. Godwin 'tis different.
He has all excuses in his favour, and I
pray God to deliver him from evil and lead
him to grace. But now, gentlemen, I see
by my watch I have overstayed my customary
hour ; so I will beg you to excuse
me."

CHAPTER TIL

Captain PAVEXAyi.

With the little bookseller's departure there
was a general movement to the door, Blase
and Mr. Tickel alone remaining before the
fire.

Here's a revelation, my young friend,"
said the parson in a low tone, taking the
chair beside Blase. " it puts the game in
our own hands : we have the knight, your
father, under our thumb, as it were. But
did you ever know such a scurrilous,
venomous little wretch as he who told the
story ? One would say that he knew you,
Blase."

'Tis more than possible he guessed who

you were, parson ; and before the same idea
strikes the landlord, it will be well for jnii
to get to bed."

'' I am drowsy, lad. But tut. tut I A
penniless profligate — there was a thing to
say of you ; as for what he said of me I
do not value it of a straw. Tis a trifle.
Let the world, that judges by externals,
condemn poor old Tickel as it will, so that
you see beneath the surface and know the
gold that lies here " — the parson smote his
breast — •* I am content."

•• 'Tis another fault to my account that I
do not hate you. Go to bed. parson."

•' "We will say no more. Blase. Good
nio'ht — though I shan't sleep for thinking
of those cruel words — a penniless profligate
! Tell, well .' "

With these expressions of commiseration
Mr. Tickel left the room, and avoiding
the landlord, who was standing on the
threshold in conversation with ■ ' 'tins:

guest, he sneaked up to the bed chamber,
where he had prudently seen a fire lit
before settling down in the parlour.

Blase was about to follow, for he had no
desire to have the conversation reopened
by the landlord, when John Hutchins, who
had been permitted to rest himself at the
further end of the room, rose from his
chair, and approaching him said :

I trust, sir, you are convinced of the
truth of my story, and do not regret the
mercy you have shewn to an unfortunate
wretch driven to desperation by the
villainy of that man whose character has
been presented to you this evening by an
impartial judge."

You have my sympathy," said Blase
in a gentle voice, " and if this," slipping a
note into the man's hand, " will help you
through your present straits and lead to
better fortune, 'tis no more than I desire."

Wait — wait I beg you, sir," exclaimed

Hutchins, catching at Blase's coat-sleeve ashe
was moving away. " You must wait
to hear my thanks — poor as my words
may be. I — I — no — 'tis useless, I cannot
find one word to speak ; my heart "

You have said enough," said Blase.
*' You may have stronger claims upon my
sympathy than you imagine."

These words spoken carelessly were full
of meaning for Hutchins.

Is it, then, true, sir," he said eagerly,
— the suspicion that flashed upon me
when I saw the stout gentleman who said
he was a clergyman speaking to you just
now, that you are the son of Sir Gilbert
Godwin ? "

I am ! "

Then, sir, you have as'much reason as
I to curse Father Dominick."

'^ You have heard my character from
an impartial judge," Blase said, smiling.

I do not allude to your character, sir.

I hold here in my hand a proof of your
virtue that no words can refute. But the
loss of your fortune, your alienation from
your father, his disgrace, and possibly the
murder of your mother — these are calamities
which that priest must answer for."

Blase was silent. He saw the necessity
of keeping cool in encountering such a foe
as Father Dominick.

Heavens, sir, you will avenge these
wrongs ! " cried Hutchins, taking the set
expression in the face of Blase to imply
apathy.

Please God," Blase answered.

You can at least expose the intimacy
that existed between the priest and Harriet
at the very moment when Sir Gilbert was
making love to her. Take me as your
witness, sir."

"That will serve no purpose. My father
must have discovered that such a liaison had
existed by the resemblance between Genius

and the priest, wliicli lias been spoken
of to-nio^ht. We must be careful what
we do — you especially. He may have the
power to throw you into prison for the
unpaid debt of your poor wife."

"That maybe so, indeed," said Hutchins,
his courage dropping in the moment.

'- Here comes the landlord," said Blase.
Keep what you know a secret and — wait.
I will see you tomorrow."

Blase went to his bed-chamber. In the
passage a placid and regular snoring fell
upon his ear. Looking on the floor by
the door of the room from which this
sound of repose issued he saw a pair of
shoes — shoes of the best leather, square-toed,
large, and with comfortable hollows
for tender parts — there was no mistaking
them, or the sleeping wearer. They
belonged to the parson, and he slept,
despite his sins, for he was blessed with
an elastic conscience upon which the

VOL. I. 9

heaviest blow might fall without leaving
the slightest impression.

Not so was it with Blase. He did not
fairly sleep at all that night. He tried to
think collectedly : he tried to not think at
all, and between these impatient endeavours
his thoughts may have become more vague
and incoherent, but they never ceased to
hover about one subject. That subject,
strangely enough, was not his meeting
with Sir Grilbert, the attack upon the road,
nor even those remote yet striking incidents
of the past which had been revealed to
him so freshly, but simply his own ingratitude,
heartlessness, want of feeling, or
whatever the fault was which had caused
him first to forget, then to neglect, and
finally to avoid, the only people in the
world who loved him. Their familiar
faces haunted him. He saw them all ashe
had seen them in the old better days
when he had escaped from the tyranny

of Father Dominick and sought an asylum
at Redwater — this grandfather tall and
erect, his grandmother with her moi-cap,
her old-fashioned roan dress and black
mittens, and aunt Gertrude with that
sweet sadness on her face, which in a
pretty old maid tells of early loss.

With the first sounds of movement in
the house Blase put an end to these regretful
memories by springing from his
bed. He had decided which duty must
be first done. He rang the bell, and when
the astonished waiter came to his door he
bade him prepare breakfast and get ready
a chaise at once. He could but just see
to dress himself by the feeble grey light,
the clock below was striking six as he
left his room. Outside the parson's door
lie paused, and knocked once — twice —
thrice, but still the sleeper snored with
unaltered regularity.

"I wager the old rascal will have the

impudence to tell me that lie has not
closed an eye all night," said Blase to
himself as he gave up the attempt to
wake him and ran downstairs.

The landlord was also a comfortable
sleeper, and entrusted the early management
of his house to his wife, a notable
good woman, who concerned herself chiefly
in the affairs of her kitchen ; so Blase
took his breakfast alone and made a hearty
meal.

For the feeling that he was about to
amend his ways and begin a new and
better era in his life invigorated him in
mind and in body and gave him a zest
for life which had for some time been
sadly wanting.

So eager was he to carry out his good
intentions, that he laid aside his knife the
moment the chaise was brought to the door,
and took his seat without delay.

But as he was sitting there pulling on

his gloves, while the boy who was to drive
him buttoned up the apron, his eye was
attracted to a bedroom window by the
flutter of a curtain, and there he saw a
girl's face peeping over the curtains which
she held gathered up under her chin ;
whereupon the young libertine's blood
began to dance in his veins and he lost
sight of every good resolution that had
occurred to him since the moment he
vowed to reform.

The girl had clearly arranged the
curtain thus that she might have a good
look at the handsome gentleman in the
chaise ; and this desire she seemed resolved
to gratify even when she found herself
observed.

She was pretty, although somewhat pale
and thin ; she had a small white nose
and a pair of roguish black eyes ; and
these pretty eyes blinked as Blase looked
up at them, just as if a ray of sunlight

had fallen into them. As the chaise
moved on Blase turned his head to look
back at the girl, and she bringing her
face closer to the window turned her eves
to follow him while the prettiest smile
just parted her lips. For ten minutes
after Blase could think of nothing but
that girl's face ; which shows how difficult
it is for a man with the best of intentions
to lay aside his loose habits.

A mile from Rockford the road is struck
by the footpath from Godwin's Moat and
from this point was familiar to Blase :
there was scarcely a distinctive feature
which did not recall some incident of his
boyhood and of his flights from home —
the brook at which he used to drink, the
places where he rested, the wood in which
he hid one day when he fancied himself
pursued — these and many such spots filled
his mind with reminiscences which occupied
his thoughts until the little village

of Eickliam came in sight, with the great
cedar towering over the chestnuts of Seawater
beyond.

He stopped at the ale-house in Buckram.
and bidding the boy await his return,
walked through the village and approached
the old house which had been more to him
than home, with feelings that seemed buta
repetition of those he had experienced
so long ago. He remembered to have felt
the same choking feeling in his throat.
the same misty tears before his eyes, the
same yearning for love and sympathy, and
the same dread that the old kind faces
might look upon him sternly.

Was anything altered? not to the eye.
There were the great gates thrown back —
partly to tell the world that Captain
Covenant was at home and open to receive
company, partly to save the servant the
trouble of walking down from the house
to answer applications ; there at the end

of the broad chestnut avenue was the old
red brick house, the well-polished panes
of the bay windows glittering in the
golden light of the sun just peeping over
Rickham wood ; and there was the bent
old villager sweeping with slow and careful
movement the fallen leaves into little
mounds by the side of the drive.

Morning, sir, morning," said the old
man, stopping to take off his hat to the
early visitor.

Is Captain Covenant risen ? " Blase
inquired.

Sees, sur. There he be, ooj) away
by the cedar-tree, a taking of lies morning
walk."

Looking across the lawn, Blase perceived
his grandfather ; and with his heart
beating quicker he hastened his steps to
overtake the old gentleman. When he
was within a dozen paces the captain
caught the soit of his footstep, halted,

and turned about. He had aged since
Blase last saw him. He was less erect,
his complexion was whiter, the wrinkles
in the angles of his eyes deeper. He put
Tip his glass as the young man approached,
and then let it fall, as Blase came to a
stand before him and dropped his chin
upon his breast in silence.

Mr. Grodwin — Blase — my boy ! " he exclaimed,
his voice falling to a quavering
murmur upon the last word ; then drawing
himself up and controlling his emotion by
an effort : '' May I ask," he said, " what
has brought you here ? "

I have come to ask your forgiveness,"
said Blase humbly.

Why, sir, one would think it is not
required by the length of time that has
passed since you first offended. Don't
mistake this agitation for a weak and
misplaced tenderness towards you, sir.
'Tis passion, sir, 'tis choler. When a

man forgets the women who love him ;
when he siifiers fond hearts to yearn and
despau' without one efibrt to soothe them ;
nay, when he values not the tenderest
affection at the cost of a sheet of paper
with a kind word written upon it, he has
more claim to punishment than pardon,
for he not only ceases to be kind, but becomes
cruel. I am angry, sir ; I have
a right to be angry ; I ought to be angry.
'Tis well I have steeled mv heart against
you. sir. or it mio-ht ache even now when
you are here to excite my indignation, to
think of all I have thought and suffered
on your account during eight long years
or at least part of that time. Thank
Grod, I am not a woman. Happily forme
a soldier's heart gets toughened
early, and gives no hold to the roots
and fibres of a clinging love. . . . Good
God, Blase ! what are you doing — crying ?
Why, there, there ; put your arms about

my neck, boy. Embrace me, dear, dear
lad."

Indeed, tears of repentance bad sprung
from the young man's heart, and flowed
down bis face ; and thus was be forgiven.

Come, my boy, we will go within
doors," said Captain Covenant when be
could again speak. " I bave done my
duty, wbicb was to upbraid you, and now
'tis but a common act of Christianity to
forgive. Do not let the remembrance of
my bars words burt you."

'Tis your tenderness that wounds me,
sir."

•• Well, well, 'tis a sign that your heart
is yet good. But I promise you I shall
be severe by-and-bye. I shall demand a
very thorough explanation after breakfast.
As you know, boy, I can be firm and stern
when circumstances require. You must
be hungry. Blase. "Were bave you come
from this morning ? "

Rockford, sir."

G-ad's my life ! How often about this
very hour have you come hither covered
with the dust of that road, poor boy !
And now you are a man, and, by George,
a devilish good-looking sort of a fellow,
too. You've a fine deep chest, and as good
a pair of shoulders as ever I've seen. But
you don't look happy. Blase — you don't
look happy."

How should I, sir, having to fiice the
women who have loved me in vain ? I
dread my grandmother's tears."

Captain Covenant dropped his head, and
then said in a low voice —

'' The last is shed, my boy. Here you
will see neither her smile nor tears again."

How, sir ? " Blase said under his
breath.

She has been dead two years."

Blase dared not trust himself to speak.

She spoke of you almost at the last.

poor soul," continued Captain Covenant.
' Tell my dear Blase when he comes,' said
she, ' that I wished him farewell, and may
Grod bless him.' She left a trinket for
your chain. I have kept it in a drawer of
my desk for you."

I am punished," said Blase in choking
tones ; then presently he asked, trembling,
and Aunt Gertrude ? "

She has been spared to me ; otherwise
I think you would have found this old
house closed, for I could not have lived
alone."

CHAPTER YIII.

Aunt GERTRUDE.

'' 'Twill he well'' said Captain Covenant,
'^ to prepare Gertrude for the meeting ; so,
while I go up to speak to her — for I see
by her closed window that she has not yet
left her room — do you go into my closet
and wait there."

Blase passed through the hall and
entered the little room where Captain
Covenant spent his hours of retirement.
In his boyhood he had always considered
it a great privilege to pass an hour in this
apartment, for here he could gratify, if not
satiate, the appetite which he in common
with most robust boys had for heroics.

On two sides of the room were shelves
filled with books relating to the use of
arms and the art of warfare ; many of them
were illustrated. Two books were a joy
to study and a pain to quit. One was a
treatise on fortifications, fully a hundred
years old, with graphic pictures in which
the course of each particular shell was
traced through the sky to the bomb from
which it was discharged, and the disastrous
result measured in heads, limbs,
and bricks scattered around. The other was
a more modern work upon the duel, with
admirable outline drawings of successful
hits, showing the combatants at the
decisive moment of their battle, and
sparing no detail. Besides these thrilling
works there was a collection of weapons
which had belonged to Covenants now
dead and gone, and been used by them in
good and loyal fight. There were stains
upon them which might be of rust, but

which the boy fervently hoped were of
blood. There also, below these trophies,
was Captain Covenant's sword which he
had fought with at Quebec. There was
no mistake about that having killed somebody.
When the boy was permitted to take
it from the scabbard he would do so with as
much care as if it were glass, and his eyes
would grow round with eager speculation as
they dwelt upon a notch in the blade. With
regard to this notch Captain Covenant had
one day ventured to suppose that he must
have struck a bayonet with it, whereupon
Blase, shaking his head, replied solemnly,
Bone, / should say, grandfather."

These things had now no interest for
him; they failed even to recall the old
sensations to his mind He could think
only of the woman whose affection had
outlived his neglect. With hung head he
paced from end to end of the room until
the sound of voices reached his ear, then

he stood trembling and weak as a girl.
Footsteps pattered quickly over the tiled
hall, the door opened, and then, with a
little fluttering inarticulate cry of joy,
Aunt Gertrude ran across the room and
fell into his arms.

She was a little lady — Blase had to
bend his head to kiss hers as it lay
against his breast — with a sweet fair
English face, and pretty white hands,
plump and dimpled at the knuckles. Her
hair was quite white, and contrasted oddly
with her face, which was still that of a
young woman. It was said that her hair
was grey when she returned from Italy,
where her betrothed husband died in her
arms. A casual observer would not have
dreamt that she had suffered so cruelly. Her
disposition was lively rather than morbid ;
she was less sentimental even than most
women. She sought constantly to find a
fair side to dark things, and did her best

VOL. I. 10

to ameliorate the hardships of life by endeavouring
to overcome them. She had
pretty dark eyes, and arch winning ways ;
and the goodness of her heart was a
proverb in the country round about Red-water.
To many it was a matter of
surprise that she did not marry, for it was
known that she had refused several good
offers of marriage. But those who knew
how tenaciously natures like hers cling to
their first ideals, how deeply she loved her
father, how still more intense was the
love bestowed upon her dead lover, saw
that it was merely consistent fidelity which
kept her an old maid. Perhaps the matrimonial
troubles and awful end of her sister
Grace, which occurred about the time of
her lover's death, strengthened her subsequent
antipathy to marriage. She had
loved Blase from the first with a maternal
fondness. Pity for the motherless child,
tender love for Grace, his unhappy mother.

and possibly those yearning dreams of
offspring which had come to her mind in
the earlier days of her betrothal, all combined
to make him dear to her.

She shed a few womanly tears as she lay
against his heart, then brushing them
away resolutely she stood back a little, and
with her eyes yet moist looked at him in
pride and joy.

'' How you have grown, dear ! " she
cried. " What a fine handsome man you
are."

I wish I had better reason to be vain,"
Blase replied. " 'Tis all the worse to have
a manly face and an unmanly heart."

Who but you dare tell me that your
heart is unmanly ? You have come back
to us. Oh ! I knew you would come
again, only the time has seemed long tous."
A shade of sadness passed over her
face as she thought of the long months and
years of suspense and doubt, and then she

went back to his arms, nestling her face
against his breast again, and smiled.

I have been possessed, I think," said
Blase ; " and, like an opium eater, I have
forgotten everything, cared for nothing
but my own enjoyment. Then when I
began to awake from this stupor I was
ashamed and dared not face you — thinking
it better that you should believe me to be
dead than know me to be ungrateful."

'Tis as you say, dear, pleasure is a
narcotic to the young. Men are not tame
things to fawn about those who have
reared them, to stay within narrow limits,
to obey the wishes of others — they will be
free. And you could never brook constraint.
'Twas that drove you to an
opposite extreme. Oh! you are a young-lion,
dear ? "

And still a brute."

Say that you have your faults, they
are faults of youth and manhood. I would

not have you less a man to be an angel.
And there is enough said. Now lead mein
to breakfast. Let me hold your arm,
so. Oh ! what a mite I seem ! " she
looked up at him sidelong. '' You shall
take me to church tomorrow, and may
Heaven pardon me if I be puffed up with
pride."

Blase led Aunt Gertrude into the diningroom
— a beautiful old room with a deep
bay window at the end in which the
Covenant coat, crest, supporters and motto
were displayed in coloured glass. The
breakfast cloth was laid on one end of
the long table which, with the panelled
wainscot, and the floor, were of dark oak,
polished as bright as beeswax and patient
labour could make them.

Captain Covenant sat in the embrasure of
one of the side windows reading Milton in
order to compose his mind ; he rose as the
door opened, and after a few kind words

led the way to the breakfast table with as
much ceremony as if he were a prince
leading his company to a banquet.

Aunt Grertrude would fain have sat close
beside Blase, that she might more readily
minister to his wants, but etiquette compelled
her to take the seat opposite to him,
and on the right of Captain Covenant,
who took the head of the board, whence,
however, she had the advantage of being-better
able to see Blase.

A feeling of constraint must undoubtedly
have oppressed Blase during the meal,
but for the tact of Aunt Gertrude, who
contrived to find subject for continued
conversation which bore no reference to
the past, and was interesting alike to him
and Captain Covenant ; so that while the
talk wandered from London fashions to the
victory over the Dutch fleet, and the
prospects of the cider yield. Blase came to
feel himself at home once more, and found

himself sufficiently at ease to take part in
the conversation, and at the same time
follow out an under current of silent
observation and reflection. He noticed that
the coat his grandfather wore was threadbare
in parts and faded, like the coverings
of the chairs, to a pale neutral tint ; that
the table-cloth was darned at the corners,
and in those parts where it had worn thin
by long usage ; that the old man who
served the chocolate on a silver salver,
was the same old man he had seen sweeping
the drive, but now rendered painfully
ludicrous by a Ramillies wig and a livery
which probably his predecessors had worn
from the commencement of the century,
and which hung upon his shoulders inlarge
folds, the skirt nearly touching his
heels, and the cuffs falling over his
knuckles. He perceived also that the
chocolate was woefully thin ; that the
rashers of bacon were ridiculously out of

proportion with the large silver dish on
which they were served; and that his aunt
and grandfather took the slightest modicum
of butter with their bread. These facts
were trifles, but the deduction to be drawn
from them was that Captain Covenant was
extremely poor, and this it was important
to Blase to know. It was a discovery to
him. For although these signs of poverty
were of old standing — the antiquated livery,
the worn clothing, the mente d linen were
familiar to him — they had not borne the
significance to his boyish intelligence which
they carried now to his more comprehensive
understanding.

Captain Covenant had too much dignity
to make his limited means the subject of
comment. He had never done a mean
action nor entertained a mean thought in
his life ; he was ashamed of nothing ; he
feared no man. In the old days he had
tipped Blase magnificently. He had not

the slightest hesitation in begging the
Duke of Rockingham to eat bread and
cheese with him when his grace did him
the honour to call at Rockford one day at
lunch time. He made no pretence to
riches, nor any attempt to conceal his
position. When visitors came they were
treated alike, no matter what their rank or
position, to the best he had, and that was
all that the richest or most generous of men
could do. He owed no man a farthing,
and his estate was in such condition that
if he died at any moment his heirs
would find it as he had received it. Nota
tree had been felled, not an ounce
of silver melted, not a foot of ground
mortgaged ; the house was in good repair,
the grounds in decent order. He lived
frugally, and to the extent of his means
he gave to the poor. In a word, and to
sum up all, he did his duty in the manner
which he conceived was consistent

with the character of a soldier and a
gentleman.

Will you have your old room, Blase
dear ? '' Aunt Gertrude asked when breakfast
was ended, and her father made a
movement to leave the table.

That must depend, my dear," interposed
the old gentleman. " Blase will
give me a few minutes in my closet before
deciding that question. Shall it be now,
sir i

I am at your service, sir," Blase
replied.

Aunt Gertrude looked at Blase in silent
compassion, then her eyes turned in supplication
to her father, as if begging him to be
merciful. But Captain Covenant, with the
serious business of this interview before
him, could take no notice of sentimental
appeals against justice; he made his
daughter a stately bow and led the way
out of the room. Blase followed. Quickly

and stealthily Aunt Gertrude whipped
round the end of the table, and over taking-base
by the door she, with the ardour of
a young sweetheart rather than the coldness
of an old maiden aunt, caught his
hand in hers and pressed a silent kiss upon
his cheek.

I don't think papa can be very cruel to
you, dear," she whispered.

CHAPTER IX.

OF THE GRAVE DISCUSSION WHICH TOOK
PLACE IN CAPTAIN Covenant's CLOSET.

"' I AM conscious that I was over hasty in
giving you my pardon, Blase," said Captain
Covenant when they were together in his
closet. " I was led away by my feelings,
and in forgiving you your neglect of me
I overlooked the possibility of your having
committed offences which it would be less
easy to pardon. Therefore, sir, before
asking you to stay at Redwater, I must
beg you to tell me if, in the pursuit of your
pleasures, you have done anything which
should exclude you from my house."

I have lived a loose and profligate life,"
Blase said, the blood suffusing his face and
neck.

The manners of this age and the laws
of private society justify, if they do not
even encourage, such faults. I do not wish
to know what soles you have committed.
Only tell me, in one word, my boy, that
you have not been guilty of — of — of —
Confound it, sir, you know what I mean ! "

Indeed I do not, sir."

Guilty of — my tongue refuses to hint
such a thing to my grandson ; but, in fact,
Blase, one of those busybodies, who are
never content unless they be meddling in
other people's business and setting friends
by the ears, brought me word — and near
enough it was of coming to your aunt's
ears — that you were to be seen any night
at Brooke's or White's ''

'"I have played, and lost, and paid.
Great heavens, grandfather, you don't
think I would cheat ? "

Not I, my boy. Grive me your hand.
Thank God, that's all over! I told you

I should be severe, but I had to screw my
courage up to this, I assure you Honourable
play is a good thing. G-erty and I
play cribbage for twopence a game every
night of our lives, except Sundays. And
as for the other follies — hard drinking and
gallantry — well, well, the less said about
them the better. Phew ! how warm this
has made me. Thank Heaven it's allover,
again say I. Ah ! if you knew how
it makes my old heart swell — here. Blase,
here — to see you again sitting in this old
room, you young rascal ! " His voice
trembled and broke ; then he gathered
courage, and in firmer though yet shaky
tones he said, " There, there ; 'tis nothing.
Bring your chair closer, boy. See, there
are the two books you loved to look at.
I've kept 'em in the same place all these
years, and last Christmas I took 'em down
to look at ; but Lord ! their charm was
gone. Will you have one of 'em down

now? 'Monk on the small-sword,' that
you coloured so well, though, to my
thinking, you j)^'^^ too much red in the
designs considering what a little blood
flows from such wounds ; nevertheless, they
were capitally done. Shall it be 'Monk,'
or will you have ' Bailey's fortifications ' ? "

"I think I will defer that pleasure, sir,
for there is a subject which weighs heavy
on my mind just now, and upon which I
wish to talk with you."

No confession I hope, my boy."

"No, sir. 'Tis not now the subject of
my own faults, but of the crime that
deprived me of a ]parent who might have
saved me from them."

The expression of childish gaiety that
had irradiated the old officer's face left it
suddenly, and he said quickly —

What loss do you mean ? "

The loss of my mother."

What do you know of her ? "

That she was murdered."

Was it this brought you from London ? "

No ; I knew nothing of it until I came
to Rochford last night. I left London to
ask my father's forgiveness and yours. If
the history I heard is true, my father
stands in greater need of forgiveness than
I. Grandfather, I want you to tell me
what you know."

Captain Covenant looked at Blase
steadily for some moments without speaking.
He seemed to be gauging the
strength of his grandson's character, to be
weighing the advisability of complying
with his request. Finally he said ;

My boy, I am sorry that you know
so much. I would have spared you the
pain of this useless knowledge. In a
quarter of a century the recollection of
this family disgrace should have died, one
thinks. That was my hope. But for
some people these unhappy matters have

a lasting interest, and they fondly believe
that they are forwarding the ends of
justice by their incessant tattle. They
are like the old woman whose hands I had
the misfortune to fall into after Quebec.
She fancied if she could find the ball in
my shattered arm I should recover, to her
lasting glory, and so she probed and
probed my poor arm, giving me infernal
tortures, until the surgeon came and took
it off. Into the company of such a person
you have fallen, I expect. There is such
an one at Eockford I know to my cost.
However, Blase, you are no longer a boy ;
and although I would still keep you in
ignorance, I cannot refuse to answer the
questions you think it right to ask."

'' I understand your reluctance to make
the disgrace of our family subject for
vulgar curiosity, grandfather. I will ask
you only one question : Do you know if
any evidence exists which could bring

VOL. I. 11

Father Dominick before a judge for the
murder of my mother ? "

^' No, Blase, I do not," answered Captain
Covenant.

Blase sighed. "I thought my mother's
woman, Mrs.Garston,or uncle George, might
have discovered some fact to prove his guilt."

^' Both are dead."

^' Then I have no further questions to
put," said Blase. " Still I believe I have
sufficient presumptive evidence to crush
that villain ! "

Heavens ! my boy, you do not think of
going to law ? " cried Captain Covenant in
alarm.

No, sir ; my sole object is to save my
father, to make him see if possible the
villainy of those wretches who killed my
mother, and brought disgrace upon our
family."

Pardon me, my boy. I forget that Sir
Gilbert is your father. Your consideration

for him who has shown so little kindness
to you does you honour. Twenty-five
years of hitter regret that he was ever
born have made me cease to think of him
with common charity. 'Tis your duty
to attempt to reclaim him, though" — he
shrugged his shoulders — " I fear he has
grown too callous and too brutal for any
effort of yours to be effectual. With no
sense of shame, no feeling of self-respect
or affection, what threat or entreaty can
move him to cast off the creatures who, by
alienating him from the world, have made
themselves necessary to his existence ? "

I must do my best."

You must," said Captain Covenant ; and
then, after a pause, ''I would I could help
you, but 'tis not in my power. You sjDoke
of proofs. Blase ; what proofs have you ? "

By a curious accident I fell into conversation
with a man upon the road to
Rockford last night, who was bent on a

mad project of revenging the injuries he
had received from Father Dominick. This
unhappy man, whose name is John
Hutchins, is the brother-in-law of my
father's second wife. He knows that she
was the mistress of Father Dominick at the
very time that she married my father.
To prevent the betrayal of this secret, the
priest contrived to have him impressed and
carried to sea, at the same time throwing
his wife — the sister of the woman my
father espoused — into the Fleet prison for
debt. When John Hutchins' term of five
years was expired, he returned to London,
to find his wife dead, with one mourner —
her child. By an unfortunate accident
Hutchins lost his money on the very day
he received it from the pay office. These
troubles for a time seem to have bereft
him of reason, and with his child he left
London to walk to Grodwin's Moat, and
revenge himself upon Father Dominick."

Unhappy wretch ! Where is he now,
Blase ? "

I left him at the inn, at Rockford."

'ewe will send for him, my boy, this very
day ; for though I would fain hear that the
villain who injured him is dead, I would
not that this poor fellow added to his misfortunes
by committing an act of violence
in his desperation. As for his proofs, I see
not what good they can serve you."

I will show you. Soon after we reached
the inn at Rockford, where I stayed the
night, a cavalcade composed of stable-helens
and such riff-raff stopped at the inn. They
had with them Sir Gilbert Godwin. He lay
in the bottom of the waggon too drunk to
get out of it, with others in the same condition.
When they were gone a respectable
company of men, sitting in the parlour, fell
to talking upon Sir Gilbert, and one more
intelligent than the rest, not knowing who
I was, told me the history of my father."

'Tis a little man, with sharp eyes''

He is, sir."

"I know him, and have had to forbid
him my house. 'Tis the man I likened to
the old woman who probed my wound.
Well, lad?"

One part of his story seemed to me to
furnish strong presumptive evidence of
Father Dominick being the murderer of
]ny mother, and that was the fact that my
father's wife gave birth to a son soon after
her marriage, who, by the faithful likeness
he bears to Father Dominick, proves his
paternity."

Except that it swells the mass of shame
and disgrace, what does that fact do ? "

It proves the motive which is wanted
to explain why my mother was murdered.
It was to provide a home and a fortune for
the priest's son, and to silence the tongue
of his mistress, who otherwise might have
betrayed him to my father that my mother
was killed."

Captain Covenant took a turn up and
down the room, while he reflected upon the
matter in silence, and then pausing before
Blase, he said :

My boy, I do not wish to discourage
you in your laudable desire to free your
father from the dominion of these evil
people. I hope with all my heart you
may succeed ; but I would warn you from
relying too strongly on the effect this evidence
will have upon your father, lest its
failure might disappoint you unduly.
The busybody who told you this, has
drawn the same conclusions as 3'OU^ and
shown them to me as an inducement forme
to accept his assistance. It seemed tome
then, as it seems now, a weak reed to
rest on. For surely this resemblance
between son and father — I do not doubt
for a moment Father Dominick's culpability
— must have struck your father, and
forced him to form a tolerably just estimate

of the virtue of these people. And if a
man can tamely brook such a palpable
offence against him, believe me he will not
be greatly aroused by the refutable charge
of injury against a woman whom he long-since
ceased to love."

Blase could make no response.

'' Great God ! " ejaculated the captain,
as lie again paced the little room, "is it
possible that any of Thy creatures can be
so insensible to Thine awful justice, that
even at the close of life they are not moved
to repentance ! Think, my boy, what this
man must have had before his eyes these
five and twenty years — the recollection of
a young and beautiful woman still bearing
her first infant in her arms, whose life he
took. When his guilt first appeared tome,
I said to my brother George, who
would have had me take the law against
him, " Let him go. His sin is too great
for the lenient punishment of our laws.

Heaven will avenge the wrong he has
done, and through his own conscience mete
out a retribution more just to his offence.
Yet, lo ! twenty-five years have passed,
and for all we know he suffers not one
pang ; nay, so little is he touched with
remorse, that he perpetrates sin on sin,
crime on crime, as is shown by the history
of this poor fellow, John Hutchins."

There is the reason, sir, for my endeavour
to overthrow him. By George !
might not one take such a rascal by the
throat and squeeze the life from him as
from a venomous adder ! "

Govern the impulse, Blase. All maybe
lost and nothing gained by violence.
You will not attempt this task to-day. Do
not, I beg of you. Stay with me and think
it coolly over, and go when you feel that
you are master of yourself, for then only can
you be master of such a man as that."

^'I will abide by your counsel, sir. A

day's delay can make but little difference
to my father ; and I do not think I could
stand just now in the presence of that
villainous priest with folded hands."

"Good, very good, my boy," said Captain
Covenant, with a sigh of relief. Then his
countenance brightening with the transition
of his thoughts to a pleasant subject, he
added, "We will send over to Rochford at
once for John Hutchins and his child. Aunt
Gerty will be mad with joy, having you in
the house and a couple of unfortunate folks
to befriend. She won't be able to play a
sober game at cribbage for a month. 'Tis
wonderful how that good soul's feelings
rule her play. I have known her to overlook
a flush of five on account of a lying-in
; and Christmas time plays the deuce
with her arithmetic, so that she will peg
herself seven when she shows three fifteens
and six by pairs. AVell, well, could we
play cribbage at all times without mistakes,

there would be little joy or care in
the world. Bailey shall borrow a cart in
the village, and go fetch the poor souls."

"As for that, sir , I came over in a chaise
which is put up at the ale-house. But —
there's a little difficulty "

Out with it' my boy.

You must know, sir, that I have a kind
of half servant, half companion, who accompanies
me ; a churchman, and he also
is at Rockford."

A churchman — whv he shall be welcome,
be sure. There's nothing I like
better after dinner than a good stiff theological
discussion."

And there's nothing," thought Blase
that the parson likes better after dinner
than a good stiff glass of gin and water
and light conversation."

CHAPTER X.

MR. Ticket TAKES SUPPER AT REDAVATER
HOUSE.

Blase wrote a short note to Mr. Tickel,
bidding him dine at the inn — it was now
past eleven o'clock — pay the bill, and come
on without further delay to Redwater,
bringing with him a man named John
Hutchins and his daughter, and the valises.
This note was sent by Bailey (who, having
removed his livery, was once more engaged
in sweeping the drive) to the driver of the
chaise at the ale-house in Rickham.

About five in the afternoon a comfortable
coach-and-pair brought the luxurious
parson, with John Hutchins and his
daughter, up the drive. It surprised Blase
to find that the daughter was a young

woman, for lie had somehow formed an idea
of her as being still a child ; but it surprised
him still more upon drawing near to find
that her pretty face was the same he had
seen peeping through the bedroom curtains
of the Bag o' Nails, in the morning. It was
dusk, yet he saw that a blush suffused her
cheeks with crimson, that her eyes were
downcast, and that there was a pretty embarrassment
in her manner as she curtseyed
to him and Captain Covenant.

I hope you will accept my hospitality
and consider my house as your home during
your stay at Seawater, Mr. Tickel," said
Captain Covenant, when Blase had introduced
the parson.

I am your humble servant, sir," replied
Mr. Tickel, " and proud of the privilege of
being introduced to one whose name and
eulogies I have heard so frequently from
my young friend here." Then finding
opportunity for an aside, he said to Blase,

with a wink of approval, " I only hope weare
to stay here. 'Gad I smell the roast
already, and the ride has given my appetite
a whet as you shall see."

Mr. Hutchins," said Captain Covenant,
^' I have heard with sorrow the history of
your misfortunes from my grandson ; and
if you will not take it amiss to receive
assistance from strange hands, my daughter
and I will endeavour to find you some
remunerative occupation which will obviate
the necessity of your returning to the seafaring
life, for which it seems you have a
disinclination. For you, my dear," he said,
addressing John Hutchins's daughter, " I
believe my daughter can provide, if you
are disposed to accept service. Until suitable
arrangements are concluded, I beg you
both to accept the shelter of my roof."

Sir," said John Hutchins, fingering the
hat he held in his hand, " I know not how
to thank you. I have received so little

kindness in my life that I have not learnt
the common expressions of gratitude. But
believe me, sir, the generosity of Mr. Godwin
and this unlooked-for kindness on your
part, makes me desire no greater happiness
than to make you aware of my due appreciation."


This proper address gave the old captain
complete satisfaction, for happily he could
not know that the latter part had been
laboriously studied from the dictation of
Mr. Tickel in the carriage, and so he dismissed
the father and daughter with a
gracious smile and nod of approval, signing
to Bailey to lead them to the servants' hall.

We take supper at eight, Mr. Tickel ;
but if you would like a glass of home-made
wine and a slice of cake in advance "

Thank you, Captain Covenant. I thank
you with all my heart ; but I have that
respect for your cook which forbids me to
play such a trick upon my appetite."

'' In that case, sir, Blase shall show you
your room at once."

They entered the house ; the parson expressed
rapturous admiration of everything
that met his eyes, and paused in the hall ta
examine the old pictures, which in that
light there was no possibility of seeing.
What's this I hear ? " he whispered to
Blase, as they ascended the stairs — " ' Cake,'
cake ! cake, for a man like me."

*rand home-made wine," said Blase,
gravely.

'' Hemlock rather ! Home-made wine !
Not while my name's Tickel. Home-made
wine ! 'Twas a jest, of course. Why the
house smells of the buttery. I catch a whiff
of cobwebs and old oak sawdust every time
I inhale a breath. Wait till the port
appears, I shall give the old gentleman my
opinion upon home-made wine. I shall
have my little joke ready."

I don't think my grandfather cares for
jokes of that kind."

"Thanks for telling me. I know some
of these old soakers have their hobbies ;
but to think of a man with a house like
this talking of home-made wine. Hum ! "
They had come to the bedroom. "No
fire ! "

My grandfather never lights a fire, except
in the dining-room, until December."

"A devilish long while to wait for a
warm. But / don't complain ; for happily
my nature is one which accommodates itself
to the irregularities of life; and so that I
have but my stomach well filled with substantial
cheer, and my system thoroughly
warmed with wines or spirits, I can manage
to keep warm in such a bed as this.
Look you. Blase, 'tis an ell thick of goose
down. Ha ! ha ! I see our rigid host's
weakness."

'Tis not for feathers. I believe he
sleeps on a mattress by preference."

Tut, tut ! The prejudices which lay

VOL. I. 12

hold upon old men are prodigious, and ten
times more terrible than the natural diseases.
I would rather die green, my
young friend, than live to be tormented
by crotchets whereby the very salt of life
loses its savour. See what this worthy old
gentleman misses by his fancies ; for is
there anything: more soothing to the soul
than to he half buried in a downy bed.
watching: the flickering reflections of a fire
on the wall, until the eyes, subdued by the
grateful glow, close in delicious languor,
and the soul melts with an exquisite sense
of beatitude into unconsciousness."

Come, you old heathen, are you ready
to descend?"

"One moment, Blase. There's nothing
like a good rinse of the face before eating.
By the way, my young friend, 'twas an
unhandsome trick you played upon me this
morning, leaving me alone and not a word
to tell what had become of you. That

slandering little inaii was round again this
morning, and I expected every minute that
there'd be violence done by that viHain of
an innkeeper, ^ii:.: chance think yon a
man of my ^ii: mid have of getting out
of a horse pond ? ^n v did yon not rap at
my door?"

"' Kicking the door could not wake yon''
'^ A^L, 11 j wonder I slept heavy when
I did drop off, which was not till day was
breaking, for believe me. Blase, I could not
get a wink all night for thinking of the
vile things said against yon last evening.
Well, I am determined 111 worry myself
no more about that. I srr.: a lad to the
inn "where "we ?";''^":^ vf^Trriav, for the
th:::^- I 'f- Z >. my young

^^iri. .1. :'-:.' t;-;,^ :, pc::;r :"::^-le we had on
Z Did yon see how the rascals
r : r iris valise? Bnt I managed to
:?c: : em off; 'tis astonishing

w:, : i:ian can do when he's pnt to it. I

should have killed the rascal if he had
stayed."

You unblushing old rascal ! Did t 3'ou
drop the bag and run before the fellows
were out of the bush ? "

"Not I," said the parson stoutly; "I
didn't budge till I saw you in danger ; and
then 'twas but to fetch help for you. However,
we will say no more of that ; I am
not boastful. But 'twas mighty odd that
just as I ran for succour in one direction,
assistance should come to you from t'other,
wasn't it ? I fell into conversation with
John Hutchins, and to my surprise, heard
how he came up and carried your bag for
you ! "

Now T see how the cards lie. You
have given this precious version of your
story to him, and repeat it to me to forestall
discovery."

"Be sure I told him nothing but the
truth. You should know me well enough

for that, mj young friend. Pslia ! I detest
this cat-and-dog conversation. Let us be
genial, Blase, let us be pleasant. "What do
sou think of John Hutchins's daughter,
little Peggy, eh, my boy ? There's a pretty
round, white, little chin, eh? and what
eyes ! What merry little twinklers ! As
sweet a little rogue as I should wish to see.
The father's a good, honest fellow. He
told me how he lost his prize-money ; and
it seems he's willing to accept any honest
means of obtaining a livelihood. If you
take my advice. Blase, you will have him
fitted with a decent suit of clothes, and
make him your body servant."

Have I not just discharged all my
servants because I could not afford to keep
them?"

That's true. But you have given this
Hutchins a guinea or two, and I would
like to know low you can get rid of him
after that ? "

Blase was deep in thought, and 
reply.

'' Tf you must be generous' continued
the parson, drawing on his wig neatlj'^
"and are hard dressed, it is necessary to
be economical ; and I ask you, as a rational
being, if it is not better to keep Hutchins
as your servant on ten shillings a week
than to give him some four or five guineas
once a inonth because the poor wretch can't
get employment ? He's a sturdy, strong
fellow, and we're in a lawless ydvt of the
country, where one can't walk a couple of
miles without being set upon by footpads.
Your birth and position require that you
should have one servant at least ; and I
can tell you. Blase, that it is not quite
consistent with my character as a churchman
to be lugging travelling bags at your
heels."

I have one word of caution to give
you," said Blase, who had paid no heed

to the latter part of Mr. Tickel's observations
— "Do not let it be known to my
grandfather, or any one in this bouse, that
I am in need of money."

My young friend, you may rely upon
my discretion. 'Tis an unpleasant fact
wbicb I will not acknowledge to myself
whilst there's a chance of the difficulty
being overcome. There's no other bint
that may serve us ? "

None."

On the top of the staircase the parson
sniffed the air critically, and said in a low
voice to Blase :

Haunch of venison, or I'm a Dutchman."


Candles were lit upon the table in the
dining-room, and the twinkle of the
polished silver and glittering glass arranged
on the snowy cloth were reflected
in the parson's eyes as they dwelt upon
these magnificent preparations for a repast.

Captain Covenant introduced his daughter
to Mr. Tickel, and they sat before the
fire until Bailey, having finished the
arrangement of the table, came towards
them and, with a low bow, announced that
this mistress and master were served ; then
they took their seats, and Captain covenant,
in deference to Mr. Tickel's cloth,
said :

'' Sir, may I ask you to bless our meal ? "
IMr. Tickel, who was sitting beside Aunt
(gertrude, with a broad, bland smile upon
his face, heard the request with as much
astonishment as an exile, after many, many
years, might listen to words spoken in the
land of his birth. Then, suddenly comprehending
the situation, he dropped his
head, and an awful gravity overspread
his countenance. In the long silence
that ensued Blase found it difficult to
look serious. For full three minutes
they sat with bowed heads in silence

before the parson could recollect fitting
words for the occasion.

Ar-inn ! " said the old servant impressively
when at length grace was
said.

The parson raised his head with a profound
sigh of relief, and glanced across the
table at Blase, who however carefully
avoided meeting his eye for fear of betraying
his feelings.

Then Bailey, pulling back the cuffs from
his knuckles, removed the cover from the
great dish, but with some difficulty, because
of its size and weight ; and Blase had to
fix his eyes more steadfastly than ever on
his bread, lest he should catch a glimpse
of the parson's face.

Indeed, it was a study at that moment,
for, eagerly following the first movements
of the servant to see what rich and luscious
meat that grand cover concealed, his eyes
fell first on a large space of silver, then on

a moderately broad space of white napkin,
and finally on a dozen snippets of toast
spread with melted cheese.

It was a dish such as the parson had in.
this recollection never before sat down to.
Astonishment for a moment held his
tongue ; then, curiosity overcoming that
feeling, he said timidly :

May I ask — ah — what this dainty little
dish is ? "

Harlequins, sir, harlequins," replied
Captain Covenant ; '' a favourite dish of
my daughter's."

Then it must be excellent indeed," Mr.
Tickel said gallantly ; after which he added
in a reflective murmur, " Harlequins."

Captain Covenant served his daughter
with three of the snippets, then he offered
three to Mr. Tickel.

One, Captain Covenant, if you please,"
said the parson, who was not quite sure
whether he should like the Iiors cToeuvre.

'' Oh, sir, no ceremony I beg," cried the
captain. " You admitted that you were
hungry."

My appetite is unabated I assure you,
Sir.

Then I shall insist upon you taking
your full share."

Mr. Tickel made no opposition. What
was one or two mouthfuls more or less to
one who intended to eat till the courses
were all removed ?

"Welsh rare-bit, as I live," said the
parson to himself, as he tasted the delicacy.
Well, of all the thugs in the world to
begin a supper with this is the strangest."

The servant coming behind him with
two large tankards, asked if he would " lia'
some ale or some cider."

No cider, thank you," said Mr. Tickel,
feeling a painful twinge in his stomach
with the ver' suggestion, " A little ale —
not much."

Alien Blase had eaten this toast and
cheese, lie cut himself a crust and buttered
it. Mr. Tickel looked across at him in
silent wonder. Captain Covenant followed
the example, and helped himself to a
morsel of bread and butter, and passed
the loaf to the parson, who, not to look
dainty, cut a crust and made a pretence
of eating it.

If I ruin my appetite with any more
nonsense of this kind may I be shot," said
Mr. Tickel to himself. ^' They take it
pretty leisurely to begin with ; but if we
go on at this rate when shall we finish ? "

Captain Covenant now started the subject
of Catholic disabilities, and as this
was a subject on which the parson was
supposed to know something, he had to
concentrate all his thoughts on the subject
for a while in order to conceal his ignorance;
but a faintness came over him at the
thought that they had come to the Church

and State before a glass of wine had
been emptied. It somewhat restored his
courage to see the great dish removed, for
he counted on the next course to open a
new subject of conversation. When the
old servant returned he carried off the
silver and glass piece by piece, and finally
took away the table cloth, when the
curiosity experienced by Mr. Tickel during
the earlier part of the proceedings gave
place to a feeling of intense dismay.

Not a sign of hot grog, not a sign even
of more ale followed the withdrawal of the
cloth, and when at length the trying conversation
upon ecclesiastical subjects was
brought to an end, and Mr. Tickel retired
to his bed-chamber, he was in a condition
to eat cake and drink home-made wine
with a relish.

Three little harlequins and a glass of
table beer," he groaned, as he laid his head
on the pillow. In the night he awoke from

a hideous dream, produced by the cravings
of linger, and as he turned over upon his
side, he murmured once more :

Three harlequins and a glass of table-beer."


CHAPTER XI.

BLASE GOES AMONGST HIS FOES, AND IS
DISCOMFORTED.

Godwin's Moat was one of those ancient
fortified dwelling-houses of which but few
exist now in England. It stood in a
valley — a quadrangular building with
high pointed gables at the four corners,
a square watch tower on the eastern side,
commanding the low stone arched way
which replaced the ancient drawbridge,
and the upper story half-timbered in the
early English style overhanging the moat,
which surrounded the house and gave it
its name. On the western side another
bridge communicated with the garden,
which extended beyond three sides of the

moat, and was enclosed by a, thick holly
hedge. The eastern front was open to the
road. A low stone parapet ran round the
outer edge of the moat, and a pair of iron
gates closed the way by the bridge to the
east entrance below the watch tower.

It was to these gates Blase Godwin
came. Finding them fastened he rang the
deep-toned bell, and, waiting for admission,
looked about him for those signs of disorder
which he naturally expected to see.
He found nothing to bear out his anticipations
; there were no indications of confiscation
and neglect such as the little
bookseller had predicted. The house was
in perfect repair, the gardens neat and well
kept, the woods rising from the valley
showed no significant gaps, and the arable
lands belonging to the estate through
which the road passed were still under
cultivation.

A servant came to the gate.

Is Sir Gilbert at home ? " Blase asked.

^' Sees, master, lie be."

Open the gate."

Be you Master Grodwin, sur ? "

Yes."

The servant at once unlocked the gate,
while Blase threw himself off his horse,
speculating on the means by which his
visit had been anticipated.

"Where is Sir Gilbert?" he asked,
handing the reins to the servant.

"He be a taking of his lunch in the
hall, but you be to go in to the liberty, sur."

Blase strode through the gateway beneath
the tower, and passing the passage
which led to the library, crossed the
paved quadrangle towards the steps which
fronted the door of the long dining hall.

It was not possible that he could feel
any strong affection for the mother he had
lost before he was of an age to remember,
but a feeling of awe came upon him as he

VOL. I. 13

glanced up at that part of the building
where the unfortunate lady had been murdered
; and she was still in his mind when ,
opening the door, his eyes fell directly upon
the man who had murdered her.

Father Dominick was seated at the table,
a bilious looking, lean man, with eyes and
an expression that reminded one of a
hawk, with a narrow head and a few locks
of grey hair which fell from a little black
skull cap, and were taken back behind his
ears.

He rose from his chair and bent his head
low as Blaze entered. Taking no notice of
this salutation. Blase turned his eyes to the
head of the table where his father sat. Sir
Gilbert's fists were planted on the table,
holding upright his knife and fork ; the
latter supported a piece of brawn. The
baronet, slowly turning over a huge mouthful
of food, looked at his son with stolid,
heavy eyes, which expressed about equal

parts of curiosity and indifference. He
seemed to Blase like an ox who turns from
his manger, and without ceasing to munch,
regards an intruder.

Blase had time to glance at Mrs. Godwin,
and her son Eugenius, before Sir
Gilbert spoke.

Mrs. Godwin was, as he had seen her
before, a handsome, showy woman, with
quick intelligence in her long sly eyes.
She was dressed in the latest and most
voluptuous fashion, which displayed her
fine white arms, and a large proportion of
her bust. She made a familiar inclination
to Blase, and only smiled when he stared
with unbending front in response.

Eugenius had risen from his seat, facing
Father Dominick, and now making a step
towards Blase, extended his right hand.
Blase put his hands in his pockets, and
stared him in the face. Eugenius was a
boy when Blase had last seen him ; he was

now a man. The resemblance between
him and Father Dominick, although
naturally much modified by the distinguishing
characteristics of age and youth,
was yet sufficiently pronounced to be unmistakable.
A peculiarity in the eyebrows
of the priest was repeated in the son's, and
was in itself sufficiently unusual to strike
a careless observer. The curved ridges of
the brow were marked only in their ascent
from the nose ; and this gave them the
appearance of being shaved away in half
their development. For the rest the young
man was of good figure and not ill-looking.

He dropped his hand by his side when
Blase refused to take it, and stood with
bent head and downcast eyes in an attitude
of humility before him.

He knows he's a bastard, poor hound,"
thought Blase, with a feeling of compassion.

'* Well, Blase," said Sir Gilbert, having
partly disposed of his mouthful ; then he

clapped the morsel on this poised fork into
his capacious mouth, and champing that,
set his fist on the table again, and fixed his
sluggish gaze upon his son.

I wish to speak to you, sir, when you
are disposed to give me a few minutes in
private."

Sir Gilbert moved his lips as if he
wished to speak, but finding it impracticable,
he made a significant gesture with his
fork, and confined his efforts to mastication.

I heard that a gentleman from London,
in the company of a stout man, who said he
was a clergyman, had been attacked upon
the road by footpads, and that they had
gone to Seawater," said Father Dominick ;
and concluding that you were that gentleman,
and would in all probability come to
visit your father, I instructed the servant
to show you into the library."

In this house," said Blase, " I go where
I please, unless forbidden by my father."

"I was about to add," said Father
Dominick quietly, "that I gave this
order, thinking that you would like better
to talk with Sir Gilbert in private, than
in the presence of those with whom you
find him now."

You were right, sir, in supposing that
I should wish to see my father alone rather
than in your company," said Blase.

Enough of this wrangling ; 'tis a mean
sort of fisticuffs," said Sir Gilbert, pushing
his chair back from the table. He drank
off a glass of ale, wiped his mouth with
the corner of the table-cloth, and rising
continued, " we will get this business over
and be done with it at once. Wife, give
us a buss."

His wife kissed him, and he, having
returned her salute and bestowed an
admiring glance upon her charms, thrust
his hands in his breeches pockets and
slouched into the adjoining room, where

he dropped into the big chair before the
fire, set his feet on the dogs, and fell to
whistling a jig softly between his teeth.
When he had finished this overture, which
was expressive of a determination to make
the best of a bad job, he turned his head,
without taking his hands from his pockets,
and casting a glance at Blase, who had
closed the door and seated himself a couple
of yards from his side, he said :

Well, Blase, here you are back again,
like a bad sixpence."

'Tis a matter for regret, sir, that I feel
as keenly as you do."

We can't both talk at once, so the
question is, will you speak first or shall
I?"

Blase bowed in silence, and his father
continued :

We all knew you would come back
with your tail between your legs sooner
or later ; and as I saw no advantage to

myself or you by spinning out the length
of your tether in London, I refused to let
you have any more money when you had
run through the amount set aside for you.
And here you are sure enough. I needn't
tell you that I'm ashamed of you. You
know well enough whether you've done
anything to earn a father's respect or not.
You haven't even run a horse at Newmarket.
For eight years you have had
the finest chances of distinguishing yourself
that ever a young fellow could desire.
You have had unlimited means and liberty.
You might have gone into parliament and
thundered with all your lungs at that arch-traitor,
Fox ; you might have won a
title ; you might have bred the finest
stud of horses in the country. But no,
you chose to sneak about the sinks and
gullies of London, punting at faro, or some
such miserable pastime. Howsoever, there's
an end of that. To forgive is the duty

of a father, and a d — d hard duty it
is. So to come to the point at once, if
you choose to lay aside your company
manners and tragedy airs, and behave
with decent civility to the people in this
house, you shall have your chamber, and
your servant, and your horse, and as much
to eat and drink as you can wish for in
this house ; and if you are for joining mein
good honest English sports, you shan't
have to ask twice for pocket money.
These be the terms I have to offer you,
and you may thank Father Dominick and
my wife that they are so liberal ; for of
my own part I should have given you
nothing, being I bear you no love, for
you never showed either affection or respect
for me, but was ever a rebellious
young cub, breeding discord at home and
carrying your whining grievances to my
enemies. So there you are. I hate a lot
of words, so you needn't trouble yourself

to reply. If you want money to spend
elsewhere you won't get it, and if nothing
else will suit you, waste no time here but
go at once. But if you're for striking
a good bargain while you have the chance,
give me a slap o' the hand and cry
done.' "

Sir Gilbert took his fat hand from his
pocket as he said this, seeming to expect
that Blase would close with the offer at
once.

I have not come to make a bargain
with you, sir," said Blase. " I have not
come even to ask you for money. My
object is to reclaim you, if possible, from
your present debased and contemptible
position."

Well, this is a good 'un, upon my
life ! " exclaimed the baronet, pushing
back his chair to face Blase, and crossing
his arms upon his great chest. '' As
pretty a case of pot and kettle as ever I

feared on. Will your impudence have the
goodness to point out where I am in
fault?"

It is unnecessary, sir, to tell you that
the company you keep is disreputable, and
that you are shunned by every respectable
family in the county. I shall only "

That for your respectable families ! "
cried Sir Grilbert, interrupting Blase, and
snapping his thumb and finger. " What
care I for the pragmatic coxcombs, the
hypocrites who avoid me because I have
the courage to do in public what they
practice in secret? The company I keep
is composed of honest lads of thew and
muscle, ready at any moment to turn outwith
sickle and scythe to meet the invader,
while these sneaking gentry would be
fleeing the country for safety. I am an
Englishman, and an Englishman of the
old school, and I value an honest labourer
above your dukes and your marquises.

and I don't care a snap for any man in the
world, damme ! "

There are rules of living wliicli you by
your rank as a gentleman of England are
bound to observe."

I will do as I please ; and what I
think fit shall be my law."

'' Sir," said Blase, altering his tone, for
he saw that nothing could be done while
his father was in a state of irritation, " I
learn that when you came of age, fathers
bade their sons be like you."

Well, well ! " said the baronet, greatly
mollified ; ''I had my good points, I'll
admit."

If your principles were admirable then,
they should be no less admirable now, when
you have a title and a name to support."

As for my principles, I warrant I was
as arrant a puppy as you ; though let me
tell you, sir, I hadn't the impudence to take
my own father to task."

Did you ever hear a word said against
your father ? "

No. Begad I'd have broken the head
of any one who dared to utter as much asa
word against him."

Would to heaven, father, there was
nothing but a shirt between the breast of
him who assails your honour and my sword."

Ad's my life, that's well said. What,
you have courage, lad ? "

Prove it, sir. Give me the right to
say to the next who tells me that you are
not a gentleman, ' You lie.' "

Blase sprang from his seat with these
words, as if he were actually throwing the
lie in the teeth of an adversary. His
finely cut handsome features, his admirable
manly figure, were seen at that moment to
their greatest advantage.

I didn't know you had this kind of
stuff in you, Blase," said the baronet,
looking at his son with pride.

Father," said Blase, this voice trembling
with emotion. " Let us begin again, you
and I. Let us live clean lives, and use
the courage that we have to subdue the
evil within us. Let us live together here,
and make the name of Godwin as famous
for its honourable associations, as in the
days when our ancestor won his knighthood."


A mighty tough job. There's a wrestling
match o' Wednesday, a fight of two
bull dogs o' Monday to follow ; why, I've
matches made for ten weeks to come."

*' In a good fight docs a man flinch
before odds ? "

'' Not he, if he's worth backing. This
is an unlocked for turn ; it wants considering
of. I must take time. I don't
say you're altogether wrong ; but I won't
say you're right neither. I'm a rare man
for considering'*

I take it, sir, you wouldn't take long to

consider before resenting an insult put
upon you."

Not I. Word and a blow is my motto.
But this is no affair of insult, and I must
talk it over with Father Dominick."

"It is an affair of insult and of injury.
The most outrageous injury has been put
upon you, and the only words you have to
say to the priest are — leave my house."

'• What ! tell Father Dominick to leave
my house ? "

"Yes. It is he who has done us the
foulest wrong; he and the mistress for
whom he has provided the shelter of your
roof."

•' Are you speaking of your mother ? "

No, sir ! " cried Blase, in a passion.
I refuse to acknowledge that she is even
my father's second wife. I speak of the
woman who gave birth to Father Dominick's
son, after he had married her to
you."

Sir Gilbert turned his eyes from Blase
and looked sullenly upon the floor.

Blase waited.

** Go on, if you have anything more to
say," said Sir Gilbert doggedly, after an
uncomfortable silence of some minutes.

I want to know if you consider it an
insult that the son of a faithless priest
should be foisted upon you, and made to
bear your name ? "

*' There is no proof of infidelity. As
for the likeness, I am convinced 'tis accidental.
The matter has given rise to the
only quarrels I ever had with my wife and
my friend ; and 'tis all settled. I have a
hundred printed testimonies to resemblances
as extraordinary. I'll hear no more of it."
Sir Gilbert struck the arm of his chair
angrily with his fist.

"I have a witness to prove the priest's
falsity. A man whose wife was cast into
gaol, and who himself was impressed and

sent to sea by Father Dominick in order to
conceal their knowledge from you."

You speak of John Hut chins, a liar
and a vagabond. Father Dominick has
told me of him, and of the story he invented
to obtain money."

Did he tell you of this invention before
he sent Hutchins to sea ? "

Have done, I say. I will hear no
more. I have said I am convinced, and
I will listen to no further argument. I
hate the subject."

He thrust his hands deep in his pockets
again, stretched out his legs, his head sunk
in his shoulders, and an expression of
sullen dogged obstinacy settled upon his
heavy face.

If you will not resent insult to yourself,"
Blase said, " you must at least do
justice to my dead mother."

What d ye mean ? " Sir Gilbert asked
in unfeigned surprise.

VOL. I. 14

I have heard within the last two days
the secret that Father Dominick has so long
and by such subtle means prevented me
from knowing. My mother was murdered."

I know nothing about subtle means.
But if he has kept you from the knowledge
of the murder, 'twas done in kindness.
He believed it would give you pain to
know it."

"Who murdered my mother ? "

A disappointed lover, mad with revenge
because she married me."

'Tis a falsehood ! Father Dominick
took her life, to provide a home for his
mistress, who threatened to expose him to
you, and made that deed the price of her
secresy."

What stuff is this ? " cried Sir Gilbert,
aroused from his stolidity.

'Tis the truth ! "

'Tis a lie ! The fabrication of that old
idiot at Redwater."

He has told me nothing. He would
have concealed the disgrace from me. I
learnt it from the people at Eockford, who
have but one opinion on the matter, and
declare that villain Dominick to be the
murderer."

Bah ! Not a word has been breathed
to me."

Would the fellows who fatten by your
degradation do anything to alter your
condition ? Those who might have shown
you the true character of the people about
you have been prevented by the priest."

'^ How ? "

By intimidating some, and making
your own disgrace a barrier between the
rest and you. Answer me one question,
father — Was it by your own wish that you
set that woman up in my mother's place so
soon after her death ? "

What does it matter ? "

Judge for yourself by the consequences

of that indecent conduct. It separated you
at once and for ever from those who were
inclined towards you in compassion and
forgiveness. 'Twas a sure means of
throwing you completely into the power
of the priest and his mistress."

The baronet sprang from his chair with
an oath.

"I'll hear no more. 'Tis a pack of
falsehoods to separate me from the woman
who has never crossed me by a single word
or look, and from the man who has been
to me the truest friend I ever had. I see in
this story which you have builded up so
artfully a specimen of the cunning which
report has attributed to you. You have
your own ends, I warrant, in this ! "

To save you from "

Do I want saving ? Is not my estate
admirably managed, and every farthing-spent
accounted for ? Is not my house
well ordered ? Am I not well served ?

Is not everything done for my ease and
comfort that a loving and true wife can
devise ? Have I ever found her doing a
mean or false action ? Have I ever had
any convincing proof of my priest's falsity?
'Tis you whom I have to suspect and
guard myself against. Having spent all
your money you have a necessity for
more, an itch for the acres and title that
I am sorry to say must be yours one day.
You would be tasting the honey before the
hive's empty, and I wager would hesitate
at no means of getting 'em out. Why,
'tis all clear to me ; and I was a fool to
give patient ear to a word of your cunning
plot."

Father, I implore you to be reasonable."
Ha ! ha ! you whine and beg now that
you find hectoring and bombast fail. You
would drop down from your former proposal,
that we should live together alone, and
fight, and the rest of it, to begging a gift of

twenty pound. Out of this, I say ! your
sneaking voice suits me less than your
trounce. Out of it, I tell you ! or, big as
you are, I'll punish you in the old style
with an ash stick. Ad's life, I'll have no
more of it ! "

There was something of the savage and
the beast in the baronet's sudden accession
of fury. He showed the ungovernable
ferocity which possesses a dog when he has
once made the attack. Blase himself found
it difficult to control his temper ; white
and trembling with suppressed passion he
stood for an instant in silence before his
father; then he turned his back upon him,
feeling for the moment careless of his fate,
and willing to abandon him to the creatures
for whose society alone he was fit.

Mrs. Godwin and her son had withdrawn
from the dining-hall ; Father Dominick
remained in his seat on that side
of the table opposite the door by which

Blase had entered. A couple of sturdy
linen servants were near him making a
pretence of clearing the table.

Instead of walking to the door Blase
passed round the end of the table and
walked towards the priest ; instantly the
two men placed themselves before him
barring the passage. Blase halted.

'' Father Dominick," he said, " Sir
Gilbert has left it to me to sustain the
honour of my family. Had you not taken
precautions for your safety I should have
taken you by the neck and flung you into
the moat. I accuse you of murdering my
mother, and disgracing my father, in order
to provide for the welfare of your mistress
and your son, and I call upon you to prove
your innocence by meeting me at once
with swords in the quadrangle."

'you are fully aware, Mr. Godwin,"
replied Father Dominick, speaking slowly
and distinctly, " that my respect for your

^

father and for the Church, of which I aman
ordained priest, must prevent me from
accepting your challenge, even if I felt
inclined to attach importance to a charge
made in a moment of anger."

I am not surprised at your refusal. A
wretch who uses the dagger against a
woman could not have the courage to face
the sword of a man. Keep a guard about
you, for, by the Lord, if we meet man toman
you shall not escape the punishment
of your crimes."

CHAPTER XII.

BLASE RETURNS TO HIS FRIENDS, AND IS
COMFORTED.

With a rueful countenance Blase trotted
back to Rickham, left his nag at the
ale-house whence it had been hired, and
walked on to Redwater. He found
Captain Covenant walking in the drive.

Thank God you are safe home again,
my boy," the old gentleman said. He
turned towards the house, and let his
handkerchief flutter in the wind ; from
one of the upper windows a handkerchief
was waved in reply. " Poor Gerty," said
the captain in explanation, " divined
whither you had gone, and has suffered
great anxiety in consequence, imagining
nothing less terrible than that you would

be assassinated. I myself unreasonably
shared her fears to some degree, for age
makes women of us — the reason growing-feebler
than the heart. Give me your
arm, sir — so," he pressed the young man's
arm affectionately to his side ; " now tell
me what has happened."

Blase recounted all that had taken place.
Captain Covenant listened in silence.

'Tis as we feared," he said, when Blase
had finished. " Your father is the slave
of his passion for this vile woman, and
were her guilt proved he would not have
the strength to abandon her. The devilish
cunning of Father Dominick provides a
fair show of reason to justify Sir Grilbert
in the course to which his passions incline
him. And against his position thus fortified
what can our efforts avail ? "

'' Nothing," said Blase in a tone of deep
despondency. " His enemies and ours are
too strong for us."

Had it been otherwise I should have
avenged my poor child's wrong when my
blood was fired with a feeling of revenge.
I was a yomig man then, and even the
shame of making a family misfortune the
theme of public scandal would not have
stayed me from appealing to the law had
I seen a chance of crushing the conspiracy
and separating Sir Grilbert from the woman
who was the cause of this crime. We can
do nothing, Blase. For you, my boy, 'twill
be more to your profit to make your own
name honourable than to attempt to redeem
your father's."

Blase did not reply. " 'Tis natural,"
thought he, " that the old boy should hate
my father ; " and then he fell to wondering
by what means he could make for himself
an honourable position in the world, with
which unfruitful speculation he was yet
occupied when they came to the steps of
the house. • On the top stood Aunt Gerty,

her pretty face and sweet eyes radiant
with gladness, a bright ribbon in her
bosom, and her soft white hair drawn
back from her brow under one of those
hoods now going out of fashion but which
in her younger days were much commended
by Mr. Spectator. As she caught
sight of her dear nephew's gravely anxious
face, her expression became as full of care
as his.

You are not hurt, dear ? " she said in a
tone of tender anxiety. '' Nothing terrible
has happened ? "

Nothing, dear," said Blase, smiling.
"Matters are only just as bad as they
were, and the result of my expedition is
neither worse nor better than wee expected
it to be. 'Tis not a cheerful business, and as
it's all over I ought to be gayer than I seem."

Aunt Gerty kissed him, and so concealed
from him whatever emotion this result
produced in her mind, then taking him

away from her father, she drew him into
the house, nestling as close to his side as
possible and linking her fingers over
his arm.

You must be tired and famished," she
said. " But you shall not be kept waiting
for dinner. 'Tis taking off the spit at
this moment."

We shall dine alone to day," said
Captain Covenant. " Our conversation
after breakfast turning upon ecclesiastical
architecture I spoke of the ruins of Milton
Abbey, whereupon the good man, who
seems to be an enthusiast in these matters,
begged permission to visit the ancient
monument without delay. He was not in
the least retarded by hearing it was twelve
miles distant. He borrowed a chaise in
the village and left here at ten o'clock,
taking John Hutchins with him. Grerty,
you provided him with some refreshment
to take upon the road ? "

I cut some sandwiches, and insisted
TijDon his taking them, although he declared
he could go very well until supper-time
without them so long as his mind was
occupied. He has suffered greatly, Blase
dear, I should think."

Not lately, I think," replied Blase.

I assure you at breakfast-time I
watched his face with painful interest.
He wore a most deplorable expression : it
may be only the effect of study."

That is possible, dear."

You cannot tell how glad I am thjit
you have such a man for a companion,"
said Aunt Gertrude. " There are moments
when all of us feel the need of serious
conversation ; and it must be doubly gratifying
to you after the giddy whirl and
turmoil of the day, to listen to his edifying
discourse in the calm close of evening."

He seemed reluctant to express any
decided opinion last evening upon the

religious topics of the day," remarked
Captain Covenant.

Great thinkers are sometimes but poor
talkers, I believe, sir," said Blase, not seeing
a better excuse for the parson's natural
silence with regard to a subject which he
never touched upon from year's end to
year's end.

Modesty is also the characteristic of
wise men," said Aunt Gertrude ; " and I
am convinced that he is wise, and that he
studies a great deal. For I have observed
that most of our eminent divines are stout,
and 'tis not to be wondered at — the mental
occupation required by their function precluding
physical exercise."

I'd give ten guineas," thought Blase,
for the parson to hear this."

The more eminent a divine is," continued
Aunt Gertrude, " the stouter he
must be."

Then Tickel deserves to be a bishop,"

said Blase, laughing as he took his place
at the table.

With this break in the conversation
Blase fell into the sombre mood to which
his spirits were most inclined. It was so
clear that he was thinking of his father,
and suffering from the humiliation of his
recent discovery, that his affectionate relatives
could not but suffer with him and
for him. Reference to the subject was forbidden
by Captain Covenant's repugnance
to open discussion upon it, and Aunt
Gertrude's ready wit so forsook her in
this emergency that the more she endeavoured
to find some topic which would
lead her dear nephew's thoughts into a
pleasant channel the more impossible
she found it to speak at all. Often she
raised her eyes furtively to glance across
the table at him in anxious sympathy.
Captain Covenant, on the other hand,
firmly repressed his own instinctive movements

of commiseration, and after clearing-his
throat once or twice renewed the conversation.


"Talking of Mr. Tickets' he said, "I
spoke with him this morning touching an
employment for John Hutchins, and he
tells me you intend to engage him as your
servant."

John Hutchins — ah, yes — there was
some talk of it last night, I recollect."

I think you will do well to have him.
He is an intelligent and fairly educated
man, and your kindness has already attached
him to you in a remarkable degree.
He assured me that he desired no better
fortune than to serve you."

I suppose I must have a servant."

No gentleman in your position is without
one, dear," said Aunt Gertrude.

"The parson shall settle matters with
him, in that case."

His daughter I shall keep with me.

VOL. I. 15

She is a lively, pretty, little body. Haiinali
is getting old, and this young girl will
help her and make the house gay. I
heard lier singing very prettily this
morning. I think lie will be happy
with us."

She will be, dear, if happiness arises
from the kindness of those we love." And
with this compliment Blase closed the theme
and relapsed into his moody meditations ;
whilst those who loved him turned his
words over in their minds and put serious
constructions upon his most careless observations.


After dinner, when Captain Covenant
retired to his closet to take his habitual
doze, and Aunt Gertrude was thus placed
in sole and happy possession of Blase, she
poured out her heart to him, making him
feel how small his merits were by her
lavish yet sincere praises. Her father had
spared her the knowledge which he possessed

of this grandson's faults. The only
fault she knew was his neglect, and that
was forgotten now that he was with her.
She was blind as women are to the sins
of those they love, and Blase had not the
courage to open her eyes to his un worthiness.
He repented heartily, and vowed to
himself that he would henceforth deserve
her love and trust.

'Twas good and noble of you, Blase,"
she said, " to try and turn your father's
heart. You have failed, and 'tis but
natural in a good son to grieve that such
should be the result. But do not despond,
dear. The ways of Providence are sometimes
slow to our impatient view, but
surely and unerringly the great work of
Justice is wrought to its conclusion. Only
when the harvest is gathered can we
measure the benefits of rain and heat. Be
patient, dear, and do that which seems to
you highest and best, and the reward

must follow. Who knows but that the
fame of your good life reaching your
father's ear may awake the dormant goodness
in his heart ? "

Would it might be so ! " said Blase
pressing the hand that lay trembling on
his arm. " 'Tis the wish nearest to my
heart. But what can I do ? I have not
thought of the future until now ; I have
not thought of being anything but what
I am — an idle gentleman. I have not the
special gifts which make the statesman,
the artist, or the man of science. I know
not which way to turn. I am like a vessel
in the midst of a sea without a notion of
the course I am to steer''

Be patient, dear, and watchful. Floating
trifles guided Columbus to a new
world. It is not possible for every ambitious
soul to attain to greatness ; but
goodness is within the reach of all. Do
not believe that I would discourage your

aspirations, or have you rest with us a
simple country gentleman. Dearly as my
heart desires that you should live here,
I would not have you stay a day after
you have decided upon a higher career.
-Nature has not made you for inaction, my
dear, dear Blase. You have a noble brow ;
your features distinguish you from ordinary
men ; your character, even as a child, was
not that of other children. Wait patiently
until the moment comes when your eye
detects the advantage of quick action. The
smith stands idle till the iron whitens ;
then — he strikes."

Blase was silent, wondering how long
he could afford to wait idle. Gertrude,
watching his face, seemed to catch his
thought, for she said, with a little hesitation
:

I want to speak to you upon another
subject, not altogether disconnected with
what we have been talking about."

I am all attention, dear."

You said at dinner-time that you supposed
you must keep a servant, in a tone
which seemed to imply that — that, if you
could dispense with one, you would."

Why, how you catch at my words ^
you anxious, kind soul ! " cried Blase,
'Tis likely enough my tone represented
my feelings, though I have no remembrance
of them. Servants are a plague,
and I have felt less worried since I left
London with none than I did before with
half a dozen."

Is that the sole reason for your doing
without them ? "

"Why — you see — they are, to be sure,
expensive ; and one must study economy
somewhat, be he ever so hairbrained."

I thought it might have something todo
with the expense. Your father maybe
less liberally disposed towards you after
the visit of to-day, and so, dear, I want

you to accept this*' Lie slipped into this
hand a little silk-covered purse, with the
initials B. Gr., neatly embroidered in the
centre. It might have contained notes
for ten thousand pounds, or merely a few
crowns ; that mattered nothing to Blase.
He knew that all the sweet woman had
in the world to give him was there — the
savings of many years, the tangible representation
of a thousand tender, loving
thoughts, of many joyful acts of self-denial,
of constant care for him.

He took it, and thrust it in his bosom,
but he could not see the giver for the tears
that filled his eyes ; he could speak not
even a common word of gratitude for the
swelling of his throat. He could only
think that never was fabled angel so near
divinity as this poor old maid.

CHAPTER XIII.

ix which is set forth captain covenant's
folly.

Captain Covenant had (as most elderly
gentlemen have) a hobby which, from a
general point of view, was just as irrational
as purely selfish, and as ridiculous as
other hobbies. His favourite pursuit was
the collection of ancient coins, of which he
had amassed some eight or ten score in a
cabinet, made after his own design, and at
a cost which he was ashamed to confess to.
His collection was of no earthly use to anyone
at Redwater but himself. Blase in his
young days had a hankering for them at
those seasons when the game of dumps
was in ; but when he found that his grandfather

was not likely to prostitute his coins
to the uses of that game, he ceased to
regard them with any interest whatever.
Aunt Gertrude, despite her amiability,
cordially detested them, and dreaded the
production of the cabinet, which meant a
tedious exposition upon matters resembling-politics
in their complexity, which she
could never clearly understand, but felt
bound to appreciate highly. A practical
numismatist would have laughed at the
collection, and would have proved quite
half of them to be false and worthless ; for
the captain, with his perfect truthfulness,
could believe no one guilty of falsehood
who had the commonest ability in dissimulation,
and so he became the easy dupe of
a well-dressed gentleman of Jewish origin,
who called upon him at intervals, and
always had the good fortune to have found
the very coin the captain most needed.
Bat the cabinet was a source of great

amusement and of pride also to the captain.
He had been given to understand, and he
fairly believed, that by the time it was completed
his collection would be unique — as
indeed, in one respect, it certainly would be
and he had a secret gratification in thinking
that he should leave behind him a not
unworthy heirloom. One day in the week
he spent in cleaning and arranging his
collection ; and at these times the old
gentleman was a suitable study for a figure
painter as he sat erect in his high-backed
chair, looking at the coin in his hand, which
he had been gently polishing with a piece
of chamois leather, as his mind dwelt on the
curious vicissitudes through which it had
passed in coming to him. For each coin had
its history, and some of them had truly
remarkable histories — thanks to the vivid
imagination of the gentlemanly Jew.

It had never occurred to him to inquire
how much his hobby cost him until this

very afternoon, when the question struck
him as being of such importance that, instead
of going to sleep, he brought out the
little book in which he kept an account
of his expenditure, and made a careful extract
of the sums paid to Mr. Jacobs during
the past ten years for coins, and those
scarce, dilapidated, but invaluable works
on the science which he sought and bought
with such indefatigable zeal. The total
astonished him ; and for the first time he
perceived the selfishness of a pleasure
which restricted expenditure in a more
beneficial direction.

It owns some consolation to know that
every item on this list of payments was
considerably less than the actual value of
the coin or book for which it was paid —
Mr. Jacobs being, as he never failed to
explain, not a dealer, but an amateur who
was glad to sell his duplicate coins at considerable
less than they cost him ; — therefore,

if ever he should have need of a hire
sum of money, he could sell his cabinet and
realize a profit. Yet the prospect of
making a large profit did not impart
cheerfulness to the old captain's face. He
unlocked the cabinet, carefully took out
that beautiful specimen of a Jacobus, whose
only fault was an unseen flaw which gave
it a peculiar leaden sound when it was
struck, and turned it over in his hand, inspected
it closely through his glasses, then
held it further away and looked at it under
his glasses, and in both positions with
evident satisfaction. Then he put it back
in its place with a sigh, closed the doors,
and turned the key upon his treasures.
Looking up, he found Blase in the room.

'^ I was afraid of waking you, sir," Blase
said, in explanation of his noiseless entrance.
" I find you are occupied."

Only with my cabinet ; a toy, an old
man's toy."

Ah, I recollect. You had a collection
of coins when I was a boy."

I have enlarged it considerably of late
years. There are some quite remarkable
specimens, which I will show you one day
when we have nothing better to do,
though it is a study which can have but
little charm for a young man. As I say, 'tis
a toy, and a toy which necessitates, perhaps,
a waste of time and money. 'Tis not
unlikely that I shall give it up one of these
days and — and turn my mind to something
of more serious importance. However, that
is immaterial. Sit down, my dear boy. I
want to say something to you concerning
your affairs if you will allow me to do so."

I am your grandson, and your servant,
sir," Blase said, seating himself.

I am reluctant lo refer to an unpleasant
subject ; but it was suggested to my
mind by an observation that fell from you
at the dinner table, that possibly the breach

with your father, widened by what took
place this morning, will stop the supplies
of money that you have hitherto received
from him. I do not wish to talk of that.
I hope never again to hear your father's
name until his title falls to you." With
these bitter words the captain paused.
After a moment or two he continued in his
habitual soft tone : '' What I wish to say,
my dear Blase, is, that whatever happened
this morning to alter your pecuniary prospects,
you must continue to support with
befitting dignity your position as a gentleman.
If it is customary for young men of
your quality to have servants, you must
not be without them ; and if the expenses
of maintaining a becoming equipage are
beyond your means, you may be sure that
any bills you may find it convenient to
draw in my name will be duly honoured."

'^ Thank yon, sir. I thank you with all
my heart," Blase said, drawing nearer and

taking his grandfather's hand. " I hope,
however, before my present resources are
exhausted, to have hit upon some career
which shall secure my independence."

Well said. Blase ! " said the old gentleman
warmly ; then, with anxiety only half
concealed : " You have not yet fixed your
mind upon any vocation, any profession ? "

Not yet, sir. 'Tis a subject I have
never looked at from my present point of
view."

Ah, well ; all in good time," the old
gentleman said, with a sigh. " There is no
hurry. Sooner or later every man finds to
what use he should apply his endowments ;
and 'tis better for him to wait until he sees
clearly what it is his dut}/- to do than
rashly to accept at haphazard the first
suggested course, and to follow it in a despondent
or half-hearted fashion. Let this
house be your home while you will, and
when you weary of our rustic simplicity.

leave us for awhile ; and remember what T
said touching money, my hoy."

I am not likely to forget it, sir."

A little notice of a couple of weeks
is all I ask, that I may have the money
ready at my agent's to meet your hill.
And now to something else. There are
your favourite authors not yet looked
into."

'' One's tastes alter with age. I should
like better to look into your cabinet, if you
have a mind to explain its contents."

With all my heart ; though let me tell
you, Blase, the study of weapons and war
is more suitable to a young man."

The old captain spoke with significance ,
but the hint was lost upon Blase, who was
just then speculating on the means by
which his grandfather intended to raise
money if necessary.

He would not wear a threadbare coat
if he had money by him," thought Blase.

"He is not a man to invest in speculations.
If he had funded property, he would not
require two weeks to transfer it to his
agent. He could not make this offer so
cheerfully if it involved a mortgage upon
his estate. What other resources can he
have ? "

The cabinet was opened, and Captain
Covenant at the very sight of the neatly
ordered shelves became excited. His enthusiasm
increased as he went from one medal
to another, explaining the rare merits
of each to his appreciative companion.

Natural good nature made Blase sympathetic
at all times, but, warmed with
love and gratitude, he found actual pleasure
in the baubles which gave his grandfather
so much delight. It struck him, as he
listened to the histories of the coins, that
Mr. Jacobs' name came in with suspicious
frequency, and that the prices paid were
excessively high ; but he said not a word

VOL. I. 16

to destroy the old gentleman's happy
illusion that Mr. Jacobs was an honest
gentleman, and his transactions of a most
straightforward and generous description.

You see, my dear boy," said Captain
Covenant, when the last piece was examined
and replaced, " 'tis not alone the actual
value of each separate coin, but their connection
which makes them valuable. For
here " — he spread out his hands towards his
treasure, leaning back in his chair, and
looking at it with a simple pride — " here
is an almost unbroken chain of the coins
found in these realms, from the denarius
of the Romans to the new seven-shilling
piece."

'Tis a valuable collection, sir, I doubt
not."

My good friend, Mr. Jacobs, assures me
that I may sell the collection at any time
for twice the sum I have paid for the
coins — twice the sum ! "

"Surely you do not contemplate selling?"

I am not sure but that I shall, Blase,"
replied the old gentleman gravely, as he
closed the doors of his cabinet with tender
care. " It takes me a whole day once a
week to polish them, and I might spend
the time more profitably in reading Milton ;
besides, as I have been told, 'tis so much
capital lying idle, and — and I do not
approve of idleness."

Egad, sir, your lawn lies idle ; three-fourths
of your rooms lie idle. I would
as soon see beasts grazing on the one, and
t'other let off in lodgings, as have you
dispose of your cabinet. 'Tis a worthy
appendage to your estate, sir."

I am glad to hear you say so," cried
the captain warmly, " for so I have
thought. Yet," said he, checking himself,
I warrant I shall get rid of it, for all
that ; for 'tis astonishing how reckless I
am when a caprice takes hold of me."

If there was one man less capricious
than another, it was Captain Covenant, and
Blase knew this. He sat in silent perplexity
as his grandfather, humming a
tune, turned away to restore his cabinet
to its place. Suddenly the truth dawned
upon him : it was to supply his necessities
that the brave old gentleman would sacrifice
his own pleasure. Then Blase vowed in his
heart that no privation should make him
reveal his poverty to Captain Covenant.

The opportune return of Mr. Tickel and
eton Hutchins put an end to the interview,
which at that moment was embarrassing
both to Blase and his grandfather.

CHAPTER Xii.

HOW BLASE WAS TEMPTED BY THE Parson.

In the course of the afternoon Blase found
an opportunity of speaking in private with
John Hutchins, when he told him briefly
that he had failed to move his father from
his obstinate faith in Father Dominick,
and bade him, for the present at least, to
lay aside all thoughts of vengeance, since
it was but too clear that he was powerless
against the priest, and that any punishment
he, Hutchins, might attempt to inflict
on him would only recoil upon himself,
and increase his misfortunes.

Sir," said John Hutchins, " I am convinced
that you are in the right. I thank
you very sincerely for your advice, which

is a further proof of your kindness to me,
and I assure you that I shall at all times
abide by your counsel." He then begged
to know if he was to enter Mr. Godwin's
service, as Mr. Tickel had led him to hope ;
to which Blase replied in the affirmative,
and then hastily escaped from the effusive
thanks which the grateful fellow poured
out.

Shortly after supper Mr. Tickel went
to bed, excusing himself on account of a
severe headache brought on by the excitement
of examining the ruins of Milton
Abbey, and taking with him the cup of
cordial which Aunt Gertrude desired him
to drink. When a couple of hours later
Blase was entering his chamber, he heard
a slight cough, and, looking across the
corridor, perceived Mr. Tickel standing
at his bedroom door with a beckoning
finger extended.

*' Come in, my young friend, come in,"

said the parson, drawing Blase into Lis
room and softly closing the door. " There's
a world of things to talk about. Lord ! I
thought you were never coming."

I thought you were abed of a headache
? "

Not I, Blase. I have been sitting in
the chimney with a paper of tobacco, and
there's still a morsel if you're for a pipe.
As for my headache, I've a cordial here
that cured me at once of all that ever was
the matter with me. Put your lips to it,
my boy. Nay, don't be afraid of the cup ;
I washed it out well, be sure ; and this is
none of your pinching herbal waters, but
as fine a sample of red rum as ever came
from the Indies."

He led Blase to the capacious chimney,
where he had set chairs, and on one of
them a paper of tobacco, a couple of long-pipes,
a jug, a bottle, and a small parcel
of sugar.

"Relics from Tilton Abbey," Blase
observed.

"The best I could find. Where they
came from you shall hear presently. But,
pry thee, sit down and be comfortable.
There's a clean pipe. God bless the architect
who built this chimney, say I. Old
Tickel don't forget his young friend."

Nor himself."

Why, Blase, are we not one, and is it
not by thinking of my own comfort that
1 know what is necessary to yours ? Will
you mix your spirit with hot water ? "

How did you get that ? "

'' Hutchins brought it five minutes ago ;
he saw the light in my room, and thought
I might like to shave. There's a delicacy
about that man which is admirable, and
an excellent servant you'll find him."

If you don't spoil him. Be careful,
parson; these old habits don't suit my
new temper."

"I do not fear your displeasure while
I serve you faithfully with heart and brain,
lad ; and as for your new temper, 'tis but
the natural effect of spare diet, and you'll
be yourself, I wager, when you get back
to London and a more generous table. A.
man's character does not alter in a day,
and 'tis something more serious than a
dull fancy which can change your pleasant
disposition. Lord, how I do love ye, Blase !
One would think I was your brother, if all
were known that I have been at for your
sake to-day. However, that in good time.
Empty this, my young friend, and let me
hear what has befallen you since we parted
in the morning. What has the baronet,
your father, given you ? "

Nothing."

"Nothing, Blase! Humph. This comes,
I expect, of your new temper. I warrant
}'0u weren't over pleasant with the old
knight."

"I did not feel pleasantly disposed'

I knew how it would be if you went
alone, Blase. You wanted me behind you
to jog your elbow when you were going
wrong, and put a pleasant interpretation
upon your words when they irritated your
father. A man like that wants managing
like a restive nag. You must wheedle
him along the road you want him to go,
and only lay on the whip when you know
you have the master-hand of him. But
you are so headstrong. Blase. You've no
more tact than a bull in a china shop."

Well, that's all over."

What a chance you've lost ! — the best
that ever a son had, I do think. You had
your father in a corner, and let him go.
Oh, if I had been there ! Begad, he
would have given me something before
I left him. Did he offer you nothing ? "

Yes — board and lodging."

And you refused ? "

I promised to accept on condition that
he would remove Father Dominick and his
family. These terms my father refused,
and there was an end of it."

And there was an end of it," echoed
Mr. Tickel, in a tone of mournful reproach.
And what an end ! You couldn't expect
any man to accept such terms."

Do you think a man could have
accepted his ? "

Why not ? 'Twas your duty to save
your father ; but because you couldn't doit
your own way, you give him over to
the Philistines. Well, dear, dear ! there
are some men who are for ever trying
to beat 'in the wedge by the thick end.
Look, you — what chance would he have
had if you had once installed yourself therewith
me and Hutchins to support you ?
You could have tackled your father. I
would have got his wife into trouble ; and,
as for the priest, I wish him no more harm

than to be left alone for half an hour with
John Hutchins. We couldn't have done
everything in the first week, but in six
we would have been masters of the field.
Little by little, great things are done. If
ever you're in a crowd, my young friend,
you will do well to study it, and take the
moral to heart. 'Tis not your strong,
blustering man that gets to the front, withall
his force and froth : all know he is
there, and combine to resist him. 'Tis
your little, oily man that silently worms
his way from shoulder to chest, and chest
to shoulder, by imperceptible degrees."

Thank Heaven, I am not a little, oily
man !

Thank Heaven, your prosperity does
not depend entirely upon your efforts ; and
thank Heaven that sent old Tickel to be
your guardian angel "

Show me what I have to be grateful
for."

I will. As you may suppose, Blase,
my object in going out this morning was
less to study antiquities than to get something
to eat. My first inquiry on the
road was where I could find a good inn,
and my driver, nothing loath, carried me
to the ' George,' a most excellent house,
about three miles this side of Tilton Abbey ;
and, truth to tell, that was as near the
abbey as we got."

Why, you astounding old humbug !
You discoursed for a good hour on the
abbey — its crypts and its cloisters, its style
and its origin, with all the long-winded
wordiness of a pedant."

As luck would have it, I found a tract
on the subject at the ' George,' from which
I learnt in half an hour more than I could
have discovered for myself in a month ;
and as I only read half of it, there's matter
for another excursion to the same fountain
of knowledge. This, by the way, and in

confidence. I arrived there about one, and
my host, at my request, clapped a piece of
smoked bacon with some young greens
into a pot, and prepared a couple of fat
fowls for the spit at once. I was seated
in a good roomy Windsor chair before the
fire in the coffee-room, waiting for dinner
to be served and studying Tilton Abbey,
when mine host bustles in, and says he,
Sir, your dinner is dressed, but I have
to ask a favour of you, which is that you
content yourself with a single fowl, for
two ladies have just arrived in their
chariot, and desire to be served with some
victuals forthwith, as they have to push
on as far as Cambridge before sundown.'
You know my disposition. Blase, and how
I detest eating a good dinner alone ; so I
bade the good man carry my compliments
to the ladies, and say that if they found
it agreeable to dine with me I should consider
myself very highly honoured by their

company. He returned, saying that the
elder lady of the two thanked me for my
civility, and would gladly accept my invitation
; hut that the younger preferred
to lie down on a bed, as she was suffering
from a megrim brought on by the jolting
of the carriage. Without more ado I
walked into the sitting-room where dinner
was laid, and in a couple of minutes the
lady descended. ' Madam,' says I, ' travellers
must dispense with ceremony, and,
for fault of a better means, I must introduce
myself. My name is Joseph Tickel,
and I am a minister of the Protestant
religion.' ' Sir,' says she with a courtesy,
you oblige me to be equally frank. My
name is Romsey, and I am a widow.' "

Very pretty," said Blase ; ''' but as weare
not dining now, you can be a little less
tedious. What was the upshot of all this
civility ? "

*' This impatience does you no credit,

Blase. You are like one of those critics
who would sit down to a play as the fifth
act is a-finishing."

Time enough too, parson, when you
are author."

You shall take it as it comes from me —
prologue, dramatis persons, and so on to the
epilogue. Being sat down to dinner, I found
Mrs. E-omsey a marvellous chatty woman,
although of a cautious, not to say suspicious,
nature, and somewhat reticent at
first with regard to her own affairs ; but
after putting a few searching questions,
this hesitation disappeared. I know not
how it is. Blase, but something in my face
or my manner inspires confidence. I make
no merit of it. There are some whom
nature stamps with a certificate of worth.
It may have been that my candid and
straightforward answers to the good
woman's questions dissipated all doubts ;
suffice it to say that, before we came to

the end of the first bottle, she had given
me the history of her family in all its
ramifications."

"Is it necessary to repeat the details ? '
Blase asked, with a movement as if he
were about to go.

No. Sit down, boy. It is only necessary
for you to know that the family is
as good and honourable as any in the
county of Monmouth, that Mrs. Romsey
has a jointure of eight hundred a year
unencumbered, and that her niece was left
an orphan, with an independent fortune
of eighteen thousand pounds, by the death
of her father, Admiral Liston, in Hopes'
victory of '94."

And up to this point what had you
told her?"

'' Having assured myself that she knew
nothing of the parish of St. Bidulph's or
of this county, I told her frankly that I had
given up my living to accompany a young

VOL. I. 17

gentleman of fortune, heir to a baronetcy
and the finest estate in Dorsetshire. If
I told you what else I said to our mutual
credit you might accuse me of prolixity
or boastfulness."

Or falsehood. Come, finish."
A bottle of the champagne wine which
I opened on the landlord's recommendation,
still further increased Mrs. Romsey's trust
in me ; and she told me that Miss Liston,
being fourteen years of age at her father's
death, chose her for her guardian, and
that their position was still the same,
although the young lady is now actually
entitled to be her own mistress. ' But,'
says Mrs. Romsey, with a modest blush,
as one knows not what may happen to
make our separation necessary, I am
anxious to see my charming Lydia married
to a deserving gentleman without delay.'
You meditate taking a second husband
for yourself ? ' T suggested. With a pretty

confusion she professed that at present she
had seen no one worthy to replace the late
partner of her joys. ' But there is no
knowing what may happen,' she added,
and therefore I am taking my niece to
London, where my agent has furnished
us a genteel house in Piccadilly with a
view to providing happily for her future.' "

And for her own future as well," said
Blase, laughing.

And for her own future as well,"
replied Mr. Tickel slowly, and fixing his
eyes expressively upon Blase.

Well, parson, what of all this ? Why
are you staring at me ? "

A widow with eight hundred a year
and a maid with a plum of eighteen
thousand ! " said the parson impressively
and slowly, and without moving his eyes,
which regarded Blase from an angle.

You can't run away with them both."

"My boy, I love you too well to runaway

with either till you've made your
choice."

Oh, I'm to marry one ! "

"You are. I as good as promised the
old woman I would take you to her house
in Piccadilly."

Supposing I have no inclination for
marriage ? "

There are many things we have to do
without inclination, my young friend. We
sometimes have to eat dry head because
we cannot afford butter, for instance."

Blase sat in silent contemplation for a
moment, then :

Which am I to marry — the aunt or the
niece ? " said he.

Which you will, my boy. These they
are to your hand, fresh and innocent from
the country, aud knowing no one in
London. I haven't seen the niece, but
I suppose she is none too healthy by her
choosing to lay a bed after a ride instead

of sitting down to a good dinner ; but the
aunt pleases me. She's a fat, comfortable
soul, with a wondrous fund of conversation,
for she'll say the same thing over
half a dozen times rather than be silent,
and an apoplectic expression^the kind
of woman who might go off at any
moment."

Begad, you offer me the choice of two
invalids for a wife ! "

^' I do ; and if you take my advice, you
will begin on the aunt with a view of
finishing off with the niece."

'' I don't care for that joke, parson."

Joke. Do you call my advice a
joke ? "

No, I don't call it a joke ; and if you
intend it for one, you have a deplorable
sense of humour."

I was never more serious in my life.
Blase ; and with good reason, for I must
tell you the note you gave me t'other day

is spent, and there are precious few to
follow."

"And seriously, you advise me to marry
for money ? "

Well, as you can't have much tender
feeling for women you've never seen, what
else should you marry for ? "

You told this woman I was a man of
fortune."

I told her I gave up my living to
travel with a young gentleman of fortune ;
that was near enough to the truth, I hope.
And if she jumps to the conclusion that
you have the wealth of Golconda, 'tis not
for us to undeceive her. Your estimable
grandfather teaches you a better lesson
than that."

"And you propose that I shall take
advantage of this foolish woman's mistake,
to marry her, or her sickly niece, to secure
myself from want."

That's it, Blase. There you have it.

plan and elevation, and all you have to dois
to work out the design. I demand no
thanks ; I ask no recompense save this,
that when you stand on the summit of
your good fortune, you will remember that
the foundation was laid by your good old
parson."

Mr. Tickel's voice was husky as he
spoke, and his little eyes were filled with
tears. It may have been that he actually
felt emotion in thinking of the future he
had provided for the young man whom
he loved better than anyone else in the
world — himself excepted. On the other
hand, a little of the fiery spirit might have
caught his throat, and been turned to
sentimental advantage.

Blase knew the parson too well to be
moved by his false sentiment to compassion,
or by his unprincipled suggestion to anger.

Do you think T am a gentleman ? " he
asked coolly.

''To be sure, I do ; but a cursed poor
one, let me tell you. But what of that ? "
cried the parson hopefully. " You have
the marks of birth and breeding, together
with a face and person which no woman
can look upon without losing her heart.
You must win."

Blase rose with a short laugh.

Get thee behind me," he said, and turning
his back upon the parson, he took up
his chamber candle and left the room.

The audacity of Mr. Tickel's proposal
was to Blase a striking demonstration of
the desperate position in which he stood.
He reckoned that the expenses of returning
to London would leave him with half a
dozen guineas ; and when these were spent,
what was to be done? That was a question
that Blase sat down, resolved to answer ;
but an hour's earnest thinking only proved
to him the impossibility of finding any
satisfactory means of escape from penury.

The flickering of the candle by his side,
warned him that he would soon be left in
the dark. Then he took from his bosom
the little silk covered pocket-book Aunt
Gertrude had put into his hand, and untying
the ribbon, opened it. It astonished
him to find how much it contained ; there
were notes for four hundred and fifty
pounds. She could not have saved so
much from economy in household matters ;
for her father's sake, she would not have
subtracted so much from his small income.
Suddenly the true solution of the mystery
revealed itself to Blase.

'Tis the poor soul's dowry," he said to
himself, ^' the slender portion she was to
have taken to her husband. She has
renounced all hope of marriage in giving
this to me." He sat with the little book
in his hands for some minutes, his heart
melting in love and pity, as he thought
of that gentle woman cheerfully sacrificing

the great hope of womanhood for his sake ;
then he said, half aloud, '* dear soul if I
abuse thy gift, may I lose even thy love."

This discovery dwelt in his mind, and
soothed his spirit ; he recalled her words,
and they did more than all his previous
speculation to make the future hopeful.
He felt that good must ultimately come
by doing right, and he fell asleep with the
agreeable conviction, that by keeping the
pure idea of Aunt Gertrude before him he
could do no wrong. He was too drowsy,
perhaps, to reflect that there are certain
conditions under which the best of aunts
must be lost sight of. That conviction
was for the morrow.

CHAPTER XY.

HOW BLASE Alas TEMPTED BY A PRETTY MAID.

In the morning John Hutchins, having
shaved his new master and tied his hair,
left the room, walked briskly down the
corridor, and descended the great stairs at
the end. As his head disappeared from
view, his daughter Peggy stepped from
behind a door at the other end of the
corridor, where, through the chink, she had
watched his movements. In a smart cap
and bib which she had sat up half the night
to make out of material given her by Miss
Covenant, in a calico skirt looped up over
a short petticoat, dark worsted stockings,
and well polished ankle shoes, Peggy

looked as pretty and neat a little chambermaid
as was ever seen off the stage or on
it. She carried a feather brush in her
hand, and with this she busied herself
upon the wainscot, which, truth to tell,
she had thoroughly dusted half an hour
before when her father passed on his way
to Mr. Godwin's room, working from
panel to panel towards the staircase, and
humming a pretty little tune in a very
soft voice as she went.

There were only two panels between her
and Mr. Godwin when he came from his
room ; but he turned towards the staircase
without seeing her. Perhaps at that moment
Aunt Gertrude was still before his
eyes.

Brushing more vigorously than ever,
Peggy sang a little louder; then suddenly
stopped, with a slight exclamation of fright
and surprise, and made a becoming courtesy
as Blase turned to see who it was that sang.

For a moment Blase was in doubt. The
girl had been out of his mind altogether.
The corridor was dark, and at first he saw
only a pretty girlish figure, standing in
bold relief against the strong light from the
great window at the end of the gallery,
then he recognized the face he had seen for
the first time peeping through the curtains
at the inn. He nodded to her, and went on
his way, feeling a thrill of pleasure as he
recalled the coquettish impudence with
which her eyes had followed him from the
inn window.

He descended the stairs slowly ; at the
angle some bewitchment caused him to
look up, Peggy with her hands resting
on the balusters was looking down. She
just smiled and blushed when their eyes
met, but she made no attempt to move
until Blase, with a glance below, turned to
reascend, then she fled. He did not pursue
her, but from that moment her pretty

face and long dark eyes took possession
of his thoughts to the exclusion of Aunt
Gertrude.

He caught glimpses of her several times
during the day, for he found frequent occasions
to go from one part of the house to
another, but it happened always that her
father was somewhere within sight. He
hoped to find her dusting the wainscot the
next morning, and for that reason, dismissed
John Hutchins some five or ten minutes
before leaving his room ; but he found no
one in the corridor, except John Hutchins,
who himself was busy with the feather-brush.
To a man of gallantry obstructions
only serve to give piquancy to the pursuit,
and Blase thought considerably more of
Peggy, by reason of not seeing her, than
if the freest scope had been given to their
meeting.

The experience was not new to him.
He never had refused the invitation of

bright eyes to engage in an amour ; and it
made no difference to him, whether the
petticoat was of silk or of homespun, so that
the wearer was tolerably young and pretty.
To do as he did, was merely to obey an
article in the peculiar code of honour by
which the polite world was governed. To
want gallantry was to want manliness.
And so doctrine, and habitude, and a still
vagrant inclination, drew Blase back into
the past he wished to abandon. His hotblood
was incompatible with a cool reason.
Once it occurred to him that he was
neglecting duty for Peggy, and that his
whole attention should be devoted to the
discovery of a suitable career ; but he dismissed
the thought impatiently, saying
to himself, that a few days or weeks could
make no difference, that it was useless to
make himself and everybody else wretched,
and that the wisest course was to wait
patiently till something presented itself.

It seemed, however, that the amour was
to die out from Peggy's disinclination to
sustain her part in it. That day and the
following morning passed, and he saw
nothing of her. This indifference irritated
Blase, as indifference irritates most
of the stronger sex when they are gracious
enough to throw the handkerchief, and he
resolved that when he saw Miss Hutchins
again, he would have his revenge, either
by taking no notice of her at all, or treating
her as if she were merely a pretty
child. An opportunity came when he was
descending from his room, after dressing
for dinner. Aunt Gertrude was coming
up stairs, and behind her was Peggy
carrying a work-basket. The girl's eyes
were quicker than her mistress's, she saw
Blase the moment the angle of the stairs
was turned, and her eyes beamed upon him
with all their full warmth. Blase met the
melting gaze with stony indifference, and

then "hailed his aunt in the most tender
tones of affection.

Aunt Gertrude stopped to speak to her
dear boy. Peggy placed herself so that
she could be seen by Blase only. The
blush had faded away and left her cheek
pale ; her pretty white teeth clasped her
nether lip ; there was a look of apprehension
in her face which Blase either did not
or would not see.

Why, my dear Blase, where did you
get that rose from ? " asked Aunt Gertrude
; "I thought there was not one
left."

One, and one only," Blase said, in
some confusion. " I found it — dear me,
where did I find it?"

It seemed to be very difficult for him to
remember where he had found it ; he stammered
and hesitated, and grew as pink as
the bud itself, which, as a matter of fact,
he had found lying on his dressing table,

VOL. I. 18

and had stuck it in his coat, fancying
that it was laid there by Aunt Gertrude.

Why, you surely did not find it on the
bush by the gate?" said she, coming to his
assistance.

That is exactly where I did find it,
though," said Blase.

"Well, do you know, I thought I saw a
bud there the other day, but this morning
when I looked, I could not find it."

Which is not to be wondered at, as I
had been before you, is it?" said Blase,
with a very hearty laugh ; and then he
took out the rose and put it in Aunt Gertrude's
knot, and kissed her with unfeigned
amiability, for there was now no thought
of vengeance in his heart. He knew who
had laid the bud on his table, and as Aunt
Gertrude passed on, he turned his eyes,
glowing with passion, upon Peggy's sweet
eager face. He snatched up her disengaged
hand and pressed it, whilst with his lips

he formed the words " This evening'*
The girl dared not linger an instant, but
as she moved av^ay she shook her head
and raised her eyebrows, as if not understanding
the words he had shaped. He
repeated them, and she shook her head
again, looking back with the most woebegone
expression, as if she had lost the
dearest object of her wishes.

He looked about from side to side when
he went upstairs at night-time, half expecting
to catch some sign of the girl,
albeit Hutchins preceded him with a light.

'Tis better so," he thought, and yet not
without a secret feeling of disappointment;
^' if she had caught my meaning she might
have contrived to elude observation, and
met me, and Heaven only knows what
would have followed, for 'tis clear she is
more in earnest than I thought."

Those who deceive are always suspicious,
and Blase felt certain that there was more

than a mere desire to serve him in the
assiduity of Hutchins to fulfil the office of
a valet ; and he was not slow to resent this
kind of surveillance. He refused to have
his hair undressed, or his shoes removed,
and dismissed the man curtly, saying ina
cavalier tone it might not suit him to goto
hed for another hour or so.

Hutchins bowed respectfully and withdrew.
Blase threw himself in a chair, and
closing his eyes, gave himself up to one of
those fascinating reveries — his was shadowed
by regret — which follow the
accidents of an unaccomplished amour. He
saw again, in imagination, the dark eyes,
round with anxiety lest he should betray
where he found the rosebud, and then the
quick eager joy that shone upon her face
when Aunt Gertrude's back was turned,
and he and she were hand in hand, face to

face, and then the reverie was broken

abruptly. A low creaking sound from the

opposite side of the room caused Blase to
open his eyes. Facing him was an ancient
wardrobe with heavy folding doors. One
was partly opened. He thought it moved
as he looked. Another creak and all doubt
ceased. Someone was concealed there ; he
could imagine only that it was a housebreaker.
He rose, strode across the room,
and flung the door back, and there stood
revealed Peggy, looking only less scared
than he. She raised her finger to enjoin
silence, and stepping lightly out, came close
to him and looked up timidly in his face.
You !" was all Blase could say.
*' Did not you say 'this evening?" she
asked in a faltering whisper.
But 'tis night, child."
I could not escape before. My father
suspects me cruelly. Oh, you can't tell
how he watches me. He seems to know
my very thoughts. He made me go to my
room two hours ago, and since then he has

been watching the stairs, so that I could
not creep up until you called him into the
dining-room,"

Blase was grave. He began to be sensible
of his own fault.

Did you expect me before ? Have you
been waiting ? Are you angry with me ? "
asked the girl, looking up imploringly.
She had expected a reception so different.

No, I am angry with myself," said
Blase ; '' you have only too well responded
to a wish that I ought never to have
expressed."

*' But you did wish to see me ?" she
asked with eagerness.

Yes, I — I wished to — to thank you for
the bud," stammered Blase; but she waited
to hear only the first half of the sentence,
and then said :

'' Then if you wished to see me you
need not be angry with yourself or me,
for I am here."

As she spoke lie raised lier hands involuntarily,
and they fell trembling upon his
shoulders, her cheeks aflame and her eyes
twinkling as though his dazzled them.
Blase need have had a temperament of
steel to withstand such temptation. He
circled her with his arms and drew her to
him, while her hands sliding from his
shoulders, linked behind his neck.

You pretty angel ! " he whispered
thickly, bending his lips down to her burning
cheeks. She made a little moan of
delight.

He held back his head to look at her
face, and she drew hers away to look at
his, loosening her hands. Her eyes did not
falter now, but looking into his with fearless
fervour, seemed to pierce his very soul.
Her parted lips showed the little white
teeth set close; then, as she still looked,
her eyes lost their wide expansion, her
lips curved, the strenuous look upon her

face melted into a soft delicious smile, her
limbs trembled, and she sank as if all
strength had gone from her. As Blase
took her to his breast again he raised her
so that her feet scarcely touched the
ground. He felt that the girl was his todo
with as he would. Intoxicated with
passion, powerless to do either right or
wrong, he held her thus raised in his arms
for a moment, then, his better nature awaking
to a sense of shame, his arms relaxed.
"Coward!" cried conscience, "would you
ill-use the child that lies helpless on your
breast ? " There was a chair beside him ;
he bent and gently placed the girl in it,
and then stood back, breathing heavily and
quick like a man who pauses in his struggle
to collect his forces. The 2:irl was trembling:
violently ; she dared not look him in the
face, she covered her eyes with her hands.

This must finish. God help me ! "
muttered Blase.

She did not catch his words though she
heard him speak. She trembled more
violently, and daring to raise her head
she looked significantly towards the door.
It was unlocked. The conflict between
passion and principle still raged in the
man's bosom. He went towards the door
with the intention of locking it. There he
stood irresolute and turned to look at the
girl ; she was toying with the kerchief
crossed upon her bosom. Abandoning all
scruples he sought the key and then —

Why must I lock this door ?" he asked
himself. " For fear of the servant who
ties my shoe ? For dread of the father
who has thrown himself upon my protection
? No, by the Lord I am not yet so
base ! "

He left the door, and as he approached
the girl pity and compassion came into his
heart and sanctified his love.

My dear," he said, coming to Peggy's

side, " I have done most ill to lead you to
deceive your father, and to bring you here.
Grod forgive me for the harm I may have
done."

You have done me no hurt," she said

eagerly, " 'twas I who " she stopped

short and buried her face in her hands.
Presently there rose a little sob, and a tear
trickled down her cheek.

Blase was powerless to comfort her.
He dared not check her salutary grief.
He was too guilty to reprove, too honest
to condone, too wretched in seeing those
tears to comfort her. His tenderest feelings
were aroused ; yet he dared not trust
himself to touch even her forehead with his
lips.

Impatient with himself he rose, and,
taking the candle, went out into the
gallery. " Who knows," thought he, " but
that my servant may be waiting to call me
to account." The passage was empty and

silent. He returned. The girl had risen
from her seat, and stood white and terrified
in the middle of the room.

Come," he said. " ^o one is in the
corridor. I will take yon downstairs and
there you will be safe."

He held out his hand ; she took it
without a word, and he led her towards
the door, as though she were a little child.
He heard her teeth chattering with the
cold of reactionary emotion ; the clinging
coldness of her fingers was deathlike.
Near the door she stopped, and spoke
in a trembling whisper :

You intend to part from me, and never
to look at me again," she said.

Blase could not deny it, for the intention
was in his mind ; he bowed his head.

It is so — it is so," said she ; " you
cannot tell a falsehood. Wait. You shall
not go down with me. I came in the dark.
I can go in the dark. If you tell me to go,

I will go. I will be quite good — quite
obedient." She looked out into the dark
passage despairingly as if it were perpetual
night she was about to enter, and then the
trembling fit seized her again so that she
had to cling to the door for support. She
looked up into his face with the most
piteous yearning in her eyes, and she said :

You will say good-bye to me, now."

Blase hesitated for a moment, and then
he took the poor shivering soul into his
arms and pressed her to his breast. ^

Oh, if you could love me but a little,"
she murmured, clinging to him and kissing
his coat between her words.

Poor child, I love you but too much ! "
thought Blase, but he did not speak.

Good-bye," she said.

Good-bye," he answered.

He would have kissed her forehead, but
she stood on tip-toe and sought his lips
with hers.

She lay for a moment with her head
upon his breast, then she slowly detached
her quivering fingers from his neck, and
fell to wailing in a subdued manner as
though struggling to overcome her feeling.

You cannot go in this condition," said
Blase. " You will fall. Poor soul you are
ill ! " He still supported her for it was clear
she was incapable of standing alone. " Sit
here," he said, and placed her in a chair.
He fetched a cushion from the sofa ; then
he wrapped his riding coat about her
shivering little body and limbs. "Rest
here until you are composed and strong
again," he said. She smiled with ineffable
tenderness as he did these kindly offices, and
then, worn out with passion and grief, she
turned her cheek upon the cushion and closed
her eyes. It was happiness to be there.

Blase, looking down at her pale pretty
face, would have given ten years of his life
to have knelt by her side and laid his head

beside hers. It was as sore a temptation
as a man with passionate blood and a
tender heart could be put to. But he
overcame it manfully, only he dared not
trust himself to maintain the struggle, and
leaving her there half asleep he lit a second
taper, passed her noiselessly, and left the
room.

CHAPTER XVI.

IN WHICH BLASE MAKES HIS ESCAPE.

Blase passed the night in Captain covenant's
closet. About midnight he crept
softly upstairs to his room ; the girl had
fallen asleep, and had not moved. Again
about five he went to the room : she was
gone.

It is all over," sighed Blase ; " the song
is sung, and nothing is left but the memory
of sweetness and tears." And an aching
heart was the only reward he could find
then for his virtue.

He could not stay in the room. Every
object that met his eyes made him
wretched. He returned to the little room

below, where he had lit the reading lamp.
A dozen Looks were on the table, all tried
and found wanting in sustaining interest ;
he got down a dozen more.

It was a strange sight that met the eyes
of Captain Covenant when he opened the
door at eight o'clock — the room littered
with books, a lamp burning the daylight,
and Blase haggard and yellow standing
with the sword in his hand, which had
so excited his boyish fancy long ago.

Good God, Blase, my boy ! what is the
matter ? "

Blase dropped the sword, which he had
but the moment before unsheathed, back
in its scabbard, laughing.

Nothing alarming, sir." He shook his
grandfather's hand. " I could not sleep, so
I came down and read. And the result of
my reading is that the old spirit is revived
in me. I — in a word, sir, I would be a
soldier."

His hand was still in his grandfather's.
The old gentleman pressed it warmly.

The wish of my heart is fulfilled," he
said, and drawing himself up he looked
proudly at his grandson and shook his
hand again. '' I congratulate you, sir, on
your choice. 'Tis a profession which, at
this moment when our shores are menaced
by the invader, every able man should take
up, and I know of none other so suitable to
a man of your rank. Again let me tell
you, I am glad of this determination. I
saw the martial spirit in you when you
were a little lad, and it gave me pride
then and since to think that you would
one day wear the sword that was struck
from my hand too early. 'Twas my hope
when you spoke the other day of choosing
a career that you would choose this, and
the reason I did not speak the wish in my
mind, was that I desired you to have all
the glory of making a noble choice, and to

VOL. I. 19

make this step from an innate sentiment of
duty to yourself, to your king, and to your
country. Come, let us sit down and talk
upon this matter."

They seated themselves, the old captain
with a look full of admiration for his
grandson, Blase with a long face, feeling
himself a kind of impostor and undeserving
of such high approval. Duty to
himself might have helped him to his
decision, but his king and country had
not entered into his consideration. His
main object was to cut his way out of the
net in which he had got entangled. It is
true that, as he said, the old thirst for
martial glory had seized him in looking
through the books which had stirred his
young spirits ; but it was not until he read
that a pair of colours could be bought for
four hundred pounds, and reflected that
Aunt Gertrude's gift might justly be used
in such a purchase, that he resolved to
become a soldier.

Captain Covenant entered into the subject
with enthusiasm, and to the pile of
books already upon the table, added a
dozen more volumes to explain the means
by which Blase was to obtain an ensigncy.
Aunt Gertrude's astonishment was great
when, coming to see what detained the
gentlemen from their breakfast, she found
them side by side, poring over a book,
with the lamp still burning.

My dear," said the captain, rising,
you will excuse us for forgetting you
when you learn the cause of our neglect.
Blase has chosen the soldier's path to
glory."

Aunt Gertrude listened and grew deadly
pale, yielding to the instincts of her sex ;
then mastering her weakness, she walked
with a fairly firm step to Blase, and kissing
him said :

I'm proud to hear this, dear." She
couldn't say she was glad. '' When must
you leave us ? " she asked.

'' To-day,"

So soon ? "

^'To-day, dear."

And in effect, at eleven o'clock that
morning Blase left Red water. But of
those who watched his departure, only
the broken-hearted little maid looking
through her tears from an upper window
of the old house, knew truly why he had
left Red water so hastily.

END OF VOL. I.

'Printed KY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. >S". <5-' //.

& ?5

AT URBANACHAMPAIGN

BOOKSTACKS

BY

FRANK BARRETT,

AUTHOR OF
LIErXEXANT Barnabas," "FOLLY MORRISON," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
Richard Bentley AND SON,

NEW Burlington STREET.

1882.

(J.ZJ rights reserved.)

CONTEXTS OF TOL. II.

Chapter PAGE

I. Ix WHICH Blase yields to Mr. Tickel's

Persuasions . . . 1

II. Of Mrs. Romsey . . 25

III. Of Lydia . . . 36

TV. In which Blase and the Parson take

the Ladies to Drury Lane Theatre 53

Y. Blase and Lydia talk about Marriage st

VI. Blase finds Thorns in the Primrose

Path . . . . 104

YII. Captain Dayenant and his Daughter

COME TO Town . . 120

YIII. In which all goes "Well for the

Prodigal . . . 141

IX. In which all goes III for the

Prodigal . . . 154

CHAPTER PAGE

X. The Departure of Captain Covenant 175

XI. Ix WHICH Blase discovers his Benefactor
. . . 201

XII. Mr. Tickel takes his Young Friend

to Task . . . 218

XIII. Of a Strange Disclosure which led

TO A Separation between Blase and
Eusebius . . . 236

XIV. In which Blase gains the Hand of

Lydia . . . 249

XV. In which Blase looses the Hand he

HAD WON . . . 265

XVI. Short and Sharp . . 277

CHAPTER I.

IX WHICH BLASE YIELDS TO MR. Ticket's
PERSUASIONS.

Blase wrote in a letter to his grandfather
under date Dec. 20th :

and here are six weeks gone, and

not a word from the agent concerning my
commission. Indeed, sir, I fear that I
might wait as many years and be no
nearer m}^ colours for any advancement I
am likely to get in that quarter ; for I am
given to understand that his Grace the
Duke of York's lady has the traffick entirely
in her hands, having by means of under-vol.

II. 20

selling the agents virtually stopped the
authorized way of communicating with the
Commander-in-chief. To place myself on
a footing with other candidates I have obtained
an introduction to Lord Crompton,
whose father, the Marquis of Carbury, has
the honour of being intimately acquainted
with the Duke's favourite, and through his
good offices I hope soon to be relieved from
my present anxieties."

He did not say how feeble this hope was.
He had never put great faith in Lord
Brompton's assertions of influence, and his
belief grew less every day under the persistent
attacks of the Rev. Mr. Tickel.

The parson hated soldiering as he hated
fasting, or travelling, or anything else
opposed to the tranquil enjoyment of life
and its good things, and he conscientiously
believed that it was his duty as a wise and
affectionate friend to prevent Blase from
adopting a profession which he himself so
heartily detested.

*' My boy," said Mr. Tickel, in a tone of
paternal tenderness, '' it will not do to
go on in this manner any longer. You
are throwing away money upon worthless
friends when you need every penny for
yourself. 'Tis like clapping on a dozen
leeches when you are fainting from loss of
blood. What did last night's junketing-cost
you ? — Bill Shakespeare and Ben
Jonson in fifteen volumes and a French
binding. And tomorrow another row of
books must go to feast my Lord Brompton
and his friends ; and so on, until there's
nothing on the shelves but a ghastly
puppet show of China images, and then
Lord help us to a ten pound note. And what
do you get for your money ? Nothing.
What had you last night in exchange
for a decent shelf of books but the satisfaction
of losing all your ready money
and giving an acknowledgment for fifteen
guineas to a man you never saw before in

all your life. And here we are this morning
with the doldrums again."

There never was such cursed luck as
mine. No matter what I touch, 'tis alike
in the result."

This playing a game of ecarte one
night, and a hand of ombre the next, can
do you no good. The only success possible
is by playing steadily at one table against
gamesters whose strength you know."

If you want me to go back to White's
you may argue as you like without avail.
I swore I would keep from the house, and
1*11 keep my word."

Heaven forbid I should counsel you to
break it. All I protest against is your
playing with any men Lord Brompton
chooses to regale at your expense."

I must keep in with him. You know
how he can serve me."

A short acquaintance is sufficient to
show that; and I doubt not but he will

continue to serve you in the same fashion
till you are fleeced to the skin. What is
he ? — The seventh son of a marquis who
keeps his head above water by hanging onto
the tail of the Duke of York's hussy.
I warrant the father and son never exchange
two civil words in the course of a
year, yet you expect him to persuade his
father to put himself out of the way on
behalf of a young gentleman he has never
clapped eyes upon. Why, this is an unconscionable
tax to put upon the memory
of a man with so many affairs to look after.
He would require a memorandum of your
want writ on the back of a bill for a
hundred guineas to think of it at all. So
much for the Marquis of Carbury ; as for
Lord Brompton, do you think he values
your hospitality so little that he will put
himself out of the way to get you sent off
to a garrison ? Pish ! Blase, where's your
common sense ? 'Twould be time better

spent to make the acquaintance of the
courtezan's woman, and give her a guinea
to represent you to her mistress as a cousin
who would be a soldier, you might then
stand a chance of getting your colours."

There was truth in what the parson said,
and there was no getting rid of the unpleasant
facts. They were a sort of burrs that
the pardon never tired of pelting at him,
and they had their effect. Blase grew
weary of being a butt. He began to suspect
not only that he was being duped,
but that he was being ridiculed by those
who duped him. That made him lose
his temper ; he ceased to invite Lord
Brompton to iris house, and peremptorily'
bade the parson say no mori, upon the
subject of his commission.

Mr. Tickel was too wise to disobey this
command. He perceived that it wanted
but a little more discomfort to make the
route which Blase at present pursued so

detestable to him that he would diverge
from it by the first opening that was presented.
So he left things to take their
own unpleasant course.

Adversity had already made Blase acquainted
with a money-lender — one Mr.
Phillips, an unctuous, over-dressed gentleman,
who dealt in wines and many other
things of uncertain value. He disliked
and mistrusted the man, but he knew that
sooner or later he must accept the assistance
which had been so freely offered by
him. And now it was impossible to pat
off the evil day any longer.

During the past two months he had run
into debt with his tradespeople freely to
keep up the appearance which was said to
be indispensable to his obtaining a commission
; and with quarter day came bills
by the dozen. They must be paid. He
would need money for an outfit when his
commission came, and he should need more

money afterwards to live in the same style
as other officers. Moreover, he felt heartily
ashamed of the means he had permitted
Tickel to employ in raising funds for immediate
use. It was mean and disgraceful
that his own servant should be sent out,
his livery concealed under a roquelaure, to
sell a trinket or a parcel of books ; and
however loyal and faithful Hutchins might
be. Blase had no desire to accord him the
equality which exists between accomplices.
It was bad enough to have Tickel on the
footing of an indispensable ally. So Blase
wrote to Mr. Phillips, and that man of
business came with the promptitude of the
evil one to the summons of Faustus.

Mr. Phillips, I wish you to lend me
some money," said Blase.

Delighted, my dear thir " — Mr. Phillips
spoke with a peculiar lisp — " delighted
if I can be of any service to you."
• " How much can you let me have ? "

Well, thir," with a bland smile, '' a
man can't be buyer and teller too. How
much do you want ? " He cast his eyes
round to see what security there might be
in the shape of seizable property.

Three or four thousand points."

'' Three or four thousand pounds ! —
whew ! "

Or less, if the sum is too much for
you."

I don't that with too heavy for me ;
but I should like to know how you are
going to pay it back, my dear thir."

At my father's death I inherit an
estate with a rent roll of ten to fifteen
hundred pounds. When I succeed to this
estate 1 will pay you the sum you lend,
with reasonable interest."

Mr. Phillips put his hat under the chair,
nursed his hands and twiddled his thumbs,
repeating the words he had heard.

Well, sir ? " said Blase impatiently.

How long do you think the old gentleman's
going to live ? "

I cannot say."

Mr. Phillips whistled a little tune.

"Do you think the dear old gentleman
would lend you half the thun you want ? "

Certainly not. I have quarrelled with
him."

Mr. Phillips continued his little tune.

Thuppothing I get the money, could
you let me have a bill payable at three
months ? "

No. What use would it be to give such
a bill ? If my father lives I can't pay."

Look here, my dear thir ; put a bathe
jutht for the take of argument. Thuppothe
when the bill cometh due your father thrill
enjoy th the blethingth of health, and
thuppothe for a joke — only for a joke — I
pretend that if you don't pay I'll put you
in prison — only for a joke, you know —
your father, to have you from dithgrathe,

would pay the little bill, and you'd be hath
free hath the little birdtli in the hair — and
there you are, don't you thee?"

No ; I refuse to sign any bill payable
before my father's death."

Mr. Phillips whistled another thoughtful
prelude, and then asked :

How old may the dear gentleman be
now ?

About fifty."

Fifty! Blessed Abram ! I might have
to wait fifty year for my money ! "

Blase shrugged his shoulders.

*' Heath more likely to live fifty y earth
than you are. I should have to bind you
over to keep the pestle, and all manner of
things."

Well, if it can't be done — " said Blase,
rising sharply, for he was sick of Phillips
and his vulgarity, and began to see that
the loan was impracticable.

Not too fatht, my dear thir ! not too

fatht ! I don't tliay the thing can't be
done ; but the rithk with aw — ful ! Give
me your father th name and address, and
if I find heath delicate, or likely to drop off
sudden, or if thereto any hope at all, I'll
help you."

I do not wish my necessity to be
known."

'' God beth me, no thir. Not a Having
creature shall hear a whither of it from
me.

TTith a secret reluctance Blase wrote his
father's name and address ; Mr. Phillips
took it, and after a vain endeavour to make
Blase buv a few dozen of old sack at an
absurdly low price, left the room, promising
to come again as soon as he had informed
himself of Sir Gilbert's physical condition.

In a fortnight the money-lender reappeared.


*' I can't let you have four thousand,"
were his first words ; '' but thereto two

thousand for you at ten per tient when
you like to take it, my dear thir."

Two thousand will do," said Blase with
a sigh of relief.

I've then Thir Gilbert — unbeknown of
court — and I like the hookah of him.
Heath like a coach wheel, ray dear thir —
he may drop off at any moment, and jutht
when it'th heath expected."

Can you let me have the money now ?"

To morrow morning, my dear thir —
firth thing. And I'm going to make it
earthy for you to pay it back ; firth fair,
ain't it ? "

"Well?"

There with a cantle that you and me
will both die before Thir Grilbert, ain't
there ? "
"Goon."

And you don't want me to run a rithk
of nothing my money, and you don't want
to run a rithk of being put into prison

for debt. Now look here, we can makeup
a note between uti that will become
payable twelve month' from now. A
month before that time you can take a
little trip on the Continent and leave me
to get my money beth way I can. If
Thir Gilbert diet beforehand tho much
the better for both of uti ; if he don't, I
mutht truth to with generosity to pay
your debt."

No," said Blase, after a moment's
thought ; " I refuse to receive the loan on
any conditions which make me liable during
my father's life."

Think it over, thir ; think it over.
Don't hurry. If you find that the tenth
I offer are fair and reasonable, and you'd
like to accept 'em, then a line by your
servant, Mr. Hutchins, and you shall
have the money within four-ands twenty
fourth."

The mention of Hutchins' name gave

Blase a suspicion of the motive with
which Mr. Phillips had made his last proposal.
He rang the bell when the moneylender
was gone.

Do you know the man who has just
left the house ? " he asked.

He stopped me in the street about a
week ago, sir, and would have me drink at
his expense."

And talk at mine, I expect ? "
No, if you please, sir ; I know my duty
to you. He would have had me tell him
all about your father, but seeing that, I
swore I knew no more about him than the
man in the moon. I vowed I had never
seen a relative of yours but Captain
Covenant, your grandfather, and Miss
Covenant, his daughter."

What did you say of them ? "
I could only say what a fine old
gentleman the captain was, and how he
seemed to love you, sir ? "

'• That is enough," Blase said, with a
short laugh.

Hope I did no wrong, sir ? "
None. You may go."
Blase thanked heaven that he had not
fallen into the trap. "To get me out of
the wav, and in my absence to present the
bill for payment to my dear old grandfather
— that was the Jew's intention. He
may have heard of the old captain's simplicity
from that brother rogue who sells
him the coins. Heaven be praised, I suspected
the rascal." Thus thought Blase,
and resolved to have no further dealings
with Mr. Phillips. But Mr. Phillips was
not willing to lose so fair a chance of
making money as he had suggested, and
therefore did his utmost to make his
assistance indispensable.

It was not difficult to discover Mr.
Godwin's creditors. Mr. Phillips' plan was
simple. He went to the most genteel

shops in the neighbourhood of Stanhope
Street, where Blase lived, and made inquiries
Truth respect to Mr. Grod^vin; communicating
with much show of confidence
to those shopkeepers who admitted their
dealings with him just so much of his
position as made them anxious to get
their bills paid at once. Consequently,
about the middle of January. Blase was
pestered each morning with dunning
letters couched in terms of entreaty, remonstrance,
and menace.

Personal applications for payment were
answered by Mr. Tickel. who resorted to
every artifice which a fertile ingenuity
could beget to make the creditors wait —
taking a high hand with the weak, using
persuasive argument with the strong,
giving promises to the credulous, but
money to none. He seemed to enjoy
heartily the office which had fallen to
him. and never tired of recounting in a

VOL. II. 21

humorous fashion the shifts to which he
had been put to get rid of the unfortunate
claimants. To Blase all this was degrading
and miserable in the extreme.

'' This is insupportable ! " he cried one
morning, throwing down a letter on the
breakfast table. '^ Here's a rascal of a
tailor threatens to put me to prison if I
don't settle his bill in a week."

Mr. Tickel burst into a fit of laughter.

'Tis no laughing matter," said Blase
angrily. " What is to be done, Tickel ? "

Take no notice of the letter ; let him
call at the end of the week. I'll fob him
off, I warrant. Fifty years ago one might
have dealt with such a villain in a summary
manner ; but the cursed levelling influences
of these republican times prevent a gentleman
kicking his own servant even. Don't
spoil your digestion by giving the matter
another thought, my young friend ; we shall
tide on for another month or so yet."

And then ? "

'bolt, or do what I would have had
you do a couple of months ago."

What is that ? "

Mr. Tickel drank his chocolate and carefully
wiped his mouth before answering.
He saw that the time for which he had
been waiting had come.

Take a wife, Blase. Marry and settle
down to the peaceful enjoyment of a
decent fortune. You are not fitted by
nature for the kind of life you are leading
now. You have no relish for its vicissitudes
and perilous adventures. There's
many a fine gentleman finds ease insipid.
To him the chance of being haled off to a
sponging house is what the risk of being-discovered
by an outraged husband is to
a gallant. Peril is the salt which gives
a savour to the life of the adventurous.
But you are no adventurer. There's the
stuff in you that sober worthy gentlemen

are made of. I see you in tiny mind's eye
Blase, with a family of children playing
about your knee, and an honest pride in
showing your contempt for the jests of
little wits by loyal devotion to a worthy
wife."

"• The picture pleases me," said Blase.

Then why not realize it ? Why stand
silly shall betwixt the Fleet prison and
the temple of Hymen ? Here are two
women whom with patient care I have
kept all agog with expectation, either of
them ready to snap up the handkerchief
when you choose to throw it."

You speak of Mrs. Thingamy and her
niece."

Mrs. Thingamy if you will, though
Komsey is her name, and her niece Lydia
Liston. There's no reason to pish ! and
phew ! like that, Blase. What mortal objection
can you have to a couple of unoffending
women whom you've never seen ?

The widow's as comfortable a woman as
ever walked, and the niece is as pretty as
paint. And I'll let you know, my young
friend, that had I not put myself to infinite
pains to prejudice the good woman against
every man that has thrust himself into
their company, the pair of 'em would have
been snapped up ere this. Three and four
times a week have I been to the little
house with the bow front in Piccadilly,
just to keep the coast clear for you ; and
a mighty job I have had to reconcile 'em
to solitude."

'' You have promised them that you
would introduce me ? "

Yes ; and a pretty string of excuses I
have had to make for your want of
manners in not accepting the invitation
to visit 'em."

You say the girl is pretty ? "

"Pretty as a john-quill, and, which is
more important — wealthy. But the widow

I recommend to viii ; there's none of this
confounded tetcliiness that you find in your
green maids and a fortune every penny
as o:ood as her niece's I warrant."

"Do they know that I haven't ten
guineas in the world ? "

*^ Thy bless me, no ; how should they ?
They know no one in London but their
man of business and me ; and it is not
likely I should proclaim your deficiency
any more than you will if you are sane."

'^ Xo, parson," said Blase after a few
moments spent in thought ; " I can't doit.
To take a mean advantage of the
simple credulity of these two silly rustics
is a piece of dishonesty which "

Dishonesty, sir," exclaimed Mr. Tickel
with a magnificent air of injured innocence;
'' dishonesty! Did I ever propose anything'
contrary to the precepts of the Church I
have served ? You need not laugh, Blase,"
he added, dropping his voice to a tone of

remonstrance ; ** you know well enough
that old Tickets the last man in the world
■o wish yon to violate your conscientious
principles. But just look at the matter in
;. reasonable manner. I have said you are
heir to a baronetcy and an estate worth
more than a thousand a year. It is not
necessary for you to profess you have
riches, nor to declare that you have none.
If a woman chooses to give you her hand
knowing no more nor less than the bare
fact as you tell it. where is the harm that
you have done ? And tell me this, my
young friend, is it more dishonest to
marry and pay off your debts than to
remain single and incur further liabilities
which you and I know full well there is
no likelihood of your being' able to discharge
? ''

Blase could not reply. He rose impatiently
and took a turn up aud down
the room ; then stopping suddenly, as if

he had at length brought his wavering
resolution to a stand —

"When are you next going to Piccadilly?"


This afternoon ! "

Then, I will go with you."

CHAPTER II.

OF MRS. Ramsey.

^' I FEEL like a sheepstealer," said Blase
when he stood with Mr. Tickel before the
door of the little house in Piccadilly.

"Then upon my soul your looks belie
you," replied the parson ; " for you look
vastly more like the sheep than the stealer.
Pluck up your courage, my young friend."

A maid opened the door, and led the
two gentlemen into the sitting-room, wherewith
a bow she left them to inform her
mistress of their arrival.

"Look around you, Blase," said Mr.
Tickel in a low voice ; " do not the objects
which meet your eye speak more for the

character of the mistress here than any
verbal eulogy ? "

There were indeed abundant proofs of
the genial and comfort-loving character of
the inmates of the house on every side.
The bleak and cheerless wintry sky was
shut out by thick curtains, that lent a
warm soft tone to the light that entered
by the window, and gave effect to the
dancing flame and glowing embers of the
fire reflected in the polished furniture and
the cut glass upon the side-board. A sofa
and two easy chairs, covered in rich red
plush, were drawn up to form a semi-circle
before the fire, A cat sat upon the
hassock on the hearth rug, blinking at the
fire ; a couple of kittens played with
the tassel of the sofa-cushion. Sprays of
holly decorated the chimney glass. Upon
the side-board were decanters of wine
and many plates of winter fruits, cakes
of all sorts, nuts, and preserves in much

variety — a slow that made the parson's
little eyes sparkle like the facets of the
crystal which they dwelt on. There were
sand-bags in the windows, and a sand-bags
at the foot of every door, and to still
further protect one from any vagrant air
that found its way into the room there were
screens to extend behind the chairs and sofa.
Blase had scarcely finished his observation
when the door opened and Mrs.
Romsey entered. As he bowed in response
to her very elegant and deep
courtesy he obtained a fairly good impression
of her personal charms. She was-stout
yet not ungainly, fair and fully forty,
with blue eyes and a little turned-up nose
a rather long upper lip, a large and
capable mouth, ruddy cheeks, and a pronounced
double chin. There was unmistakable
evidence of good temper and jollity
in the expression of her face — and that
was all. Indeed, there was little more in

her mind to indicate, for it was of that
happy lower order which is exempted from
suffering except in a transient fashion. It
was this molhiscous character of the woman
which caused the heart of Blase to sink
as he contemplated making her his wife.
How could he fill the part of a decent
husband to her ? How could he make a
constant and life-long companion of a
woman who had no mental charm to compensate
the absence of youth and beauty ?
^' If this is the better of the two women,"
he said to himself, " the Lord preserve me
from t'other."

I trust, Mr. Godwin," said Mrs. Romsey,
when the parson had formally introduced
Blase, "that you are not suffering now
from the delusions."

I thank you, madam," answered Blase,
not a little astonished at this opening to conversation,
'' I was never better in my life."

Thanks to the excellent cordial which

you were good enough to send him," said
Mr. Tickel, nudging Blase by the elbow ;
and then he added in a whisper, " cough
a little, Blase, for heaven's sake ! "

Yes ; thanks to your excellent cordials
said Blase with a cough.

Ah, you are still troubled with the
asthmatic cough ! " cried the good lady.
Sit upon the sofa, I entreat. Let me
arrange the cushion for your back. Mr.
Tickel, do bring the screen forward. I
must have a pillow for your head, and
make you some warm negus at once."

'* Indeed I, as I said, never felt better
in my life — thanks to your cordial," Blase
protested, greatly embarrassed by these '
fussy attentions.

A glass of port, with a rusk or a few
dried muscadel," said Mr. Tickel gravely,
will be better than anything else for
our convalescent."

^' To be sure ! How stupid of me not

to think of that at once. I remember our
vicar, the Reverend Samuel Shagbag —
don't discommode yourself I beg, Mr.
Tickel, you must be quite fatigued with
coming here, which I consider as a great
honour, considering how slippery the roads
are. I counted four hackney coaches down
within an hour, and if you had heard the
coachmen swear, Mr. Tickel, your ears
would have been shocked ; and Mr. Godwin
still suffering from the cold too. I ought
to feel very flattered I am sure, and I do ;
for as I said to Lydia, which reminds me
that she will be down almost immediately,
Mr. Godwin, and I shall have the pleasure
of introducing my niece to you — a pleasure
which we have looked forward to for a
long time, I assure you, but could hardly
expect, considering how many affairs you
have had upon your hands lately. By the
bye, I trust that your troublesome litigation
is at an end, Mr. Godwin."

Troublesome litigation ? " Blase said
in a tone of inquiry.

''I ventured to tell Mrs. Eomsey," explained
the parson, "• of the vexatious suit
you have had to bring against that vagabond
Pulley."

Ah, true — Pulley, to be sure. A mere
trifle ; I had almost forgotten it. The
fellow hadn't a leg to stand on," said
Blase, taking up the clue laid down for
him by the parson.

I am so glad. Dear me, what was I
saying? I remember, I was speaking of
poor Mr. Shagbag ; when he was suffering
with the gout he would drink nothing but
port. If you will permit me, Mr. Godwin,
I will put a few Jordan almonds on the
same plate with some rusks and the
muscadel, though if you would like to
try a piece of home-made cake, or a Christmas
pie "

And so the good lady ambled easily on,

furrowing the fair field of conversation,
and dropping the seeds of a mighty
harvest of talk, while she busied herself
in preparing a collection of delicacies
for Blase, and pouring out wine for three.
Meanwhile, the parson took the stand of
a privileged friend, and warmed his back
at the fire, occasionally winking at Blase
and nodding approval of the lady at the
sideboard with glances that seemed to
say, " There's a woman for you ! That's
the sort of wife to make a man contented
with his home."

When Mrs. Eomsey had used all her
powers of persuasion to make Blase eat
what he did not want, and gave up the
attempt in despair, she took the arm-chair
facing Mr. Tickel, for she would by no
means permit Blase to quit the sofa, and
then ^dth a plate and wine-glass on her
lap she began to talk in earnest, confining
herself more rigorously to the first subject

on which she entered, but diverging from
it in innumerable parentheses, of which
each presented a tempting theme for conversation,
which might at any moment be
resumed and enlarged upon. She seemed
to Blase like a swollen stream, that overflows
its banks at every shallow, and forms
a hundred rivulets, which wind in and out
and trickle on until they find their way to
the lowest point, and then fall into the
main current.

Blase sat patiently for half an hour, but
when Mrs. Romsey broke off to beg he
would try another glass of port, or some
other remedy for the malady which rendered
him so silent, he rose, protesting
that an appointment compelled him to
terminate his visit.

But you have not seen my niece, Mr.
Godwin!" cried Mrs. Romsey. 'dear
me, where can she be ? I have forgot all
about her ! How very strange ! I beg

VOL. II. 22

you to sit down while I seek lier. She
would never forgive us if you left without
an introduction. She slipped quite out of
my mind, I declare ; but then that is not
astonishing when Mr. Godwin is my
visitor."

What say ye, Blase ? " said Mr.
Tickel, when Mrs. Romsey had curtseyed
herself out of the room. " Is she not a
woman of a thousand ? "

Why, yes ; and 'tis a mercy she is.
With a woman like that no man would do
well to make his dwelling in a fulling
mill."

What inconsistent stuff is this, my
young friend ? Why you are hard to please
indeed ! You yourself do not care to talk,
yet you take exception to the pretty prattle
of a woman which relieves you from all
exertion. You don't have to open your
mouth above once in an hour when Mrs.
Eomsey enters into conversation. You

will not let such a peevish objection stand
in the way of your marriage, I hope."

I will remain a bachelor rather than
marry that fair lady, though I have to
earn my living as keeper in an aviary of
macaw."

Tut, tut ! This is a bitter disappointment."


Not to Mrs. Eomsey, I am happy to
think."

"Well, may the niece please you better,
is my prayer."

The entrance of Miss Liston put an end
to the discussion.

CHAPTER III.

OF LYDIA.

Miss Liston and Mr. Godwin stood face
to face looking at each other with a mutual
curiosity.

Miss Listen saw in Blase a young man
tall, well built, elegantly dressed, and
strikingly handsome, with a face in which
interest seemed to make a faint struggle
to overcome lassitude and indifference.
Whether it was the fashion in polite
society for a gentleman in the presence of
a young lady to affect indifference or
interest was what Lydia wondered.

Blase saw in Miss Listen a youno- lady
of faultless shape, of graceful carriage, and

pleasing features. If lie did not see more
than this at that moment — if lie did not
see that she was the most beautiful divinity
that ever took the mortal form, it must be
attributed to the fact that the waning light
from without, and the glow from the fire,
did not reveal a twentieth part of her
charms.

Mr. Tickel stepped forward and solemnly
introduced Mr. Grodwin; whereupon he
bowed, and she dropped a most profound
courtesy, after which she put her arms
behind her and stood demurely still, as if
she were there for inspection.

Do you think I shall suit ? " she asked
in a quaint, modish little voice, after standing
there for the. space of half a minute.

"My dear Lydia — my dearest child,
think of the proprieties," expostulated Mrs.
Eomsey.

But Lydia did not move, and waited for
Blase to reply.

I — I — I do not," stammered Blase, " I
do not quite understand you."

'^ Are you not Mr. Blase Godwin ? "

Certainly."

And will you not probably be Sir
Blase Godwin, baronet, and enjoy an estate
in Dorsetshire with an income of fifteen
hundred pounds a year ? "

If I live long enough."

And have you not travelled all over
Europe, and lived like a prince, and escaped
from the toils spread for you by intriguing
ladies of title, and lost night after night
heavy sums at the gaming tables, until,
shocked at your own immorality, you forswore
play for ever, and travelled a long-long
way to ask the pardon of your grandfather
? "

Something of this is true," said Blase,
shooting a glance at Mr. Tickel, which had
it been anything more lethal than a glance
would have silenced that unfortunate
gentleman for evermore.

"And finally," pursued Lydia, relentlessly,
" having decided upon taking a
wife, have you not, after many tiresome
delays, come to see if you could like my
aunt or me sufficiently to marry one or the
other ? "

Lydia ! " exclaimed Mrs. Eomsey, turning
away in indignation.

But Lydia did not move ; and Blase,
greatly embarrassed, was bound to answer
the question put to him.

It would be to my discredit to deny
the charge," he said.

Then now you will understand me
when I repeat my question. — Do you think
I shall suit ? "

Blase wished himself in the centre of
the earth as he stood striving to find words
to reply to this extraordinary and unlooked-for
question. Suddenly Lydia brought
her hands from behind her, and clapping
them together she burst into a peal of

Iaia2:liter that sounded like a clime of fiiirv
bells, as, suddenly checking herself, she
said in an altered voice :

Mr. Godwin, if half the good things
that have been told me to your credit are
true, I ought to be punished for causing
you such embarrassment. Indeed, I feel as
guilty as one of those naughty little boys
who mocked the good old gentleman with
the grey hair, and were afterwards eaten
by the she-bear. Poor little fellows ; I
used to think it was too severe a punishment
for them, because it is natural for
boys to be thoughtless and cruel — and
girls too," she added, laughing again.

"It is unbecoming to speak lightly on
such subjects, especially in the presence
of a clergyman," said Mrs. Romsey. " But
then, as I have said before, Mr. Tickel, you
are more indulgent than most divines ;
especially the late vicar, the Rev. Samuel
Shagbag, who I well remember dien he

lead the gout was " And then Mrs.

Romsej started upon a conversational
voyage carrying the parson with her, and
so leaving Lydia and Blase to pursue their
separate course.

'' But why did my question embarrass
you ? " asked Lydia, seating herself by the
window.

It was so unexpected' Blase answered,
taking a chair near her.

'' Then you did not give me credit for
being straightforward ? "

"That question is more embarrassing
than the other," said Blase, laughing.

And yet when you decided to see me
you must have felt satisfied that I must
be straightforward and good, or you
wouldn't have taken this trouble upon
yourself."

"I may have well credited you with
every good quality, and yet not expected
you to put a question to me which perhaps

no other young lady under the sun would
have asked."

But the question being asked, I do not
see why you should be so troubled to find
an answer. Could you answer it now ? "

I can only answer — I do not know."

That is the answer I hoped for the
moment I saw you. I have had two
wooers • — country gentlemen, and it took
me, oh, such a time to find out what they
wooed me for ; and at length I discovered
that one was in love with my money, and
the other with my prettiness, and neither
thought for one moment whether I had the
heart and soul which would make one a
good wife. If I had put the question to
them that I asked you, they would have
said yes at once, and saved me a great deal
of trouble."

Your ideas are very original, Miss
Liston."

Original ! How ? "

They are unlike the ideas of most
young ladies of your age."

'rare you sorry that I am not like other
girls ? " she asked quickly.

Not at all."

She looked at him thoughtfully for a
moment, and then she said, '' I daresay I
shall get more like ordinary girls in time.
I should not wish you, I should not wish
anyone, to think me wanting in modesty."

It would make me unhappy to be
suspected of doing you such an injustice."

Tell me how you expected me to
behave myself."

I expected you would meet me with
a simper and a blush, sit very upright on
your chair," — Miss Listen was leaning
back easily, and her pretty feet were
crossed and just peeping from the hem
of her skirt — " agree with me that the
weather to-day is not what it was yesterday,
and say yes and no to the string of

questions which I should make ; this, with
a little more simpering and blushing, was
as much as I expected of you in the first
interview."

Then you must think me forward and
boil to take the initiative ; put all the
questions and leave the simpering and
blushing for you to perform."

Blase laughed.

Most young ladies would prefer to
play the more agreeable part that you have
chosen but for their timidity."

"I never was timid, and I cannot understand
Why good and pretty girls should
be so."

Why do you particularise good and
pretty girls ? "

Because they have nothing to fear ; one
can see that a girl who has thoughts she
is ashamed of, must fear to reveal them,
and that a plain girl should be silent for
fear of ridicule. But all girls are not quiet

from timidity ; in some it springs from a
natural modesty. Ob, I have known girls
unobtrusive and reserved, whose charms
were only known to those wbo sought
them ; like the first violets that one finds
beneath the foliage, and which are ten
times sweeter for the seeking, and infinitely
preferable to the later scentless flowers that
lift themselves up boldly for everyone to
see, and lack the deep rich sweetness of
their modest sisters." She sat musing fora
moment, then, " I suppose every girl hasher
faults, and wishes to be better than
she is."

There are very few who would admit
it.

"" I do. I should like to be a nice
violent kind of girl. But I have been
spoilt."

Blase saw his way to a compliment here,
but before he could speak she resumed :

Poor pa2Da spoilt me. He liked to seeme

tearing about on a pony ; he never
whipped me when I got into mischief.
Then I was always so strong and well : I
could not keep quiet. When I went to
school it was just as bad ; I was never
smacked. I deserved punishment over
and over again, but the dear old Misses
Twitches were paid to be kind to me by
poor papa, and they never made me go
without my supper, or stand in a corner,
or wear a dunce's cap, or stay in the schoolroom
on half holiday, for fear I should
dislike the school. And the girls were
never spiteful to me ; that was because
I had so much pocket money to give away.
Everything I did was right, and if it
hadn't been for one clear sweet girl that

I loved with " She stopped, her chin

twitched, she gulped down a sob, one of
many, many like testimonies of love that
had risen from her tender heart to the
memory of that dead friend, and then

wiping her eyes with a little hysteric
laugh at her own folly, she said — "I should
have been a worse girl than I am. I do
believe T was the most ill-mannered girl in
the whole school, but no one would see it ;
and I stayed there till T was seventeen
that was in last February — getting
thoroughly confirmed in my badness.
How could I help it? I knew no better.
A French gentleman came every week to
teach me dancing and polite deportment,
and oh, what a stupid little gentleman he
was. He couldn't do anything with me.
I could dance ten times better when he
was gone ; and in revenge for having to
turn my toes out for half an hour in the
afternoon, I turned them in for the rest
of the evening, so that it is a wonder I
don't walk like a duck. He never told us
how girls should behave in society ; very
likely he did not know ; and when I went
home for the holidays I saw no one but my

aunt, and a few middle aged people, whose
manners were middle aged too. There
was no one I cared for, or who cared forme
sufficiently to give me good advice.
Always I did what I liked, and if it was
wrong people carefully concealed it from
me. So I got into the way of fearing no
one, and saying straight out what I thought,
and obeying without reflection the first
impulse that I felt. I had not left school
and been at home with my aunt a month
before one of the middle aged people
brought a young gentleman, who professed
to fall desperately in love with me. That
made me feel that I was a woman, and
a school girl no longer. For the first time
I began to think seriously. When I discovered
my lover's motive, I thought more
seriously ; and the motive of the second
made me think still more seriously. I had
no one to confide in ; I had to fight it all
out alone. Then I felt the want of a

friend, felt that a true friend was the need
of my life."

She was silent again. Blase dropped
his eyes from her face ; they fell on her
hands, which were clasped over the elbow
of the chair. It struck him that he had
never seen such beautiful hands and fingers,
not even in the fine exhibition of pictures
at the new Somerset House.

It is the need of every woman's life,"
continued Lydia ; " and to have a friend
all to one's self is the end of marriage, as it
seems to me. And as the country gentleman
turned out so bad, I said to my aunt
that I would come to London and find a
better. But another thought struck me —
if I am to have a good husband I must
deserve one. For the best men will
naturally take the best women ; and if
I am not particularly nice I shall have
to content myself with a not over nice
companion'" She laughed merrily and

VOL. IT. 23

then checking herself suddenly, as a
grave thought came into her mind, she
continued :

I thought if Mary had lived she would
have won the best husband in the world ;
and to win as good I must be as sweet and
lovable as she. And that is why I do not
wish to be odd or peculiar, and wdiy I
want to cure myself of the habits that
have grown upon me by being always
encouraged to do what comes first to my
mind. So I'm rather ashamed at this
moment of the manner in which I behaved
just now." She spoke with droll gravity.
But you see it was not all my fault.
You had told Mr. Tickel that you mio-ht
marry me or aunt, which ever suited you,
and Mr, Tickel told my aunt, and my aunt
told me, and so there was really no secret
about it ; and it seemed to me quite foolish
to pretend we did not know what intentions
we had, and islay at cross purposes for a

long while to no good end. It is just in
keeping with my old stupid habit of saying
straight out what I meant. I am not surprised
now that Mrs. Romsey was shocked ;
and I should not he at all surprised if you
liked her better than you like me."

Indeed," said Blase, dropping his voice
discreetly, " I have no partiality for her."

You are quite sure ? Do not fear that
you will disappoint me, because, of course,
at present I have no sort of feeling for
you.'

But I already have for you."

I should like aunty to marry again.
She must have someone to talk to when
I go away."

She won't have me," Blase said in low,
impressive tones.

Well, I will tell her so. For one thing
she cannot say that I did not give her the
first chance, can she ? I would not comedown
until she fetched me."

LIBRARY

IIMn/rnoiTw /-.#-

My gracious me ! *' exclaimed Mrs.
Romsey, in a shrill tone of terror. '• Mr.
Godwin sitting near the window, and not
yet recovered from the delusions ! ^Vhat
have I been thinking about ? *'

CHAPTER IV.

IX AVHTCH BLASE And THE Parson TAKE
THE LADIES TO Drury Lane THEATRE.

*' Tell. my young friend' said Mr.
Tickel. when they were walking away
from the house in Piccadilly. •• which is it
to be."

•• bliss Liston, if she will have me ! "
•• Hum. Tis useless. I suppose, to raise
objections ; yet I wish it had been
t'other way about. The fair widow would
have snapped at you. and you might have
married her before she knew where she
was ; whereas the Lord only knows how
long the younger lady will keep yon
dano'lino' about. A o-irl is as fickle and
as finnikin as a butterfly in its pursuit

of sweets ; first fluttering hither then
thither, now np in the air, now clown on
the earth, backwards and forwards in one
everlasting giggle, and at the close of the
day is as ill content as at the opening ;
whereas your widow is as sure as a hawk.
She spies her quarry, swoops down on it —
crack ! and in a twinkling the business is
finished. However, one mustn't expect the
wisdom of Solomon in a young fellow of
your age, and we must make the most of
a chance when we let slip a certainty ; so
follow my advice, Blase, stand no nonsense,
take the upper hand, and bring missy to
the scratch before Lady-day."

The manly thing to do," said Blase,
answering some inward question rather
than replying to the observation of Mr.
Tickel, to whom indeed he had given
but slight attention, " The manly course
would be, to tell these people exactly how
I stand with regard to fortune."

And destroy my character for candour
and honesty, after I have striven for two
mortal months to set np yours. That is
manly with a witness to it, isn't it ? "

The girl herself is candid and frank,
she will like me none the less for telling
the plain truth."

It seems you are troubled With a deaf
ear this morning, my young friend. I ask
you again, if my character is not to be
considered. The girl may be simple
enough, but hang me if her aunt is.
You think her a fool, but she is not. She
is as cautious as a cat at a milk-pan. She
would not believe that you were heir to
your father's title and estate, until she had
made inquiries through her agent. A
pretty piece of work I have had to bolster
up her faith. And if you undo what I
have done, she will close her door to us,
and there's an end of it for you and forme."


To save your credit, I can stay away
from the house and leave you to make
any explanation that will support your
character."

Let's have no more of this niminy
pining stuff, Blase. Have we not settled
already that your bills are to be paid ?
Common honesty demands no less. As
for the girl, if she is willing to marry you,
why should you oppose obstacles that none
but a ninny would dream of? If she finds
out after you are married that you are
not so rich as she expected, 'tis no fault of
yours. You never said you were rich.
Lay all the blame on old Tickel's shoulders
if you will — they're broad enough to bear
the load. But for the sake of the poor
devils that you owe money to, let the
revelation come in the natural course after
you are married."

Blase was not deceived by the specious
argument. He knew right from wrong,

and in yielding to the temptation laid before
him by Mr. Tickel, he knew that he
was committing a fault.

He called the following week at the
small house in Piccadilly, and was received
with a hearty welcome ; and from that
time his visits became more frequent. Yet
he said nothing to show his real ]position ;
on the contrary, he did what was necessary
to sustain the illusion that he had ample
means at his disposal. The small voice
of conscience ceased to be heard, as the
necessity for deception increased. The
necessity arose from his rapidly growing
love for Lydia, and his perception of Mrs.
Eomsey's character and her influence over
her niece.

Mrs. Romsey had the strong prejudices
of weak judgment. It required but slight
proofs to win her esteem or to provoke her
aversion. She liked and disliked with
equal thoroughness. While her mind was

undecided whether to trust a person implicitly,
or not to trust him at all, she was
suspicious of the worst. Blase saw that if
he removed the tinsel which Mr. Tickel
had so liberally laid on him, Mrs. Romsey
would jump to the conclusion, that the
metal beneath was still more worthless,
and use all her efforts to make Lydia
believe as she did.

That her influence over Lydia should be
great was only natural. Lydia doubted
herself, she loved her aunt, and her aunt
was an indefatigable talker. And a powerful
factor can be made of even the silliest
talk if it is employed in large quantities.
Possibly Blase over estimated Lydia's submissiveness,
by feeling how readily he in
her position should yield a point to obtain
silence.

How could he risk losing Lydia — he
whose nature it was to love the primrose
path and hate the thorny way ? He never

met her but that the hoy of meetmo; was
shadowed by the thought that in a little
hour he must leave her ; he never left her
but that his sadness was tinged with joy
to think that in twenty-four hours he
should meet her again. Every day he
discovered some fresh charm in her. Now
it was the beautiful oval of her face, now
the lovely outline of her head, the rich,
soft texture of her skin, the curling lashes
of her eyes, the wanton waving of her
hair, the line of her chin and throat, the
Cupid's bow of her lips, their ruddy fulness,
and the pearly teeth they could not hide ;
and tien the compass of her voice, now
pathetically deep and low, now gaily clear
and high. And oh, the downy softness
of her long, rounded arms and the subtle
curves of the wrist ! and oh, the gentle
heaving of her perfect bosom ! Her eyes
where an endless source of wonder and
admiration. He was their slave. Their

glance was his law. As they shone, so
he was gay or sober. At any time since
he came to manhood a warm glance had
kindled his susceptible heart; but Lydia
eyes, when they were mischievous, set his
very soul aflame. " There is not a woman
in the world so beautiful as Lydia Liston,"
he declared; and perhaps his judgment
was better than Mr. Tickel's, who would
have given the apple to Mrs. Romsey.

But it was not alone the physical beauty
of Lydia that entranced him. Her disposition],
her heart, her soul were unlike
any other girl's, and therefore, of course,
the better. She was so downright honest
in all she did and said and thought; so
free from conceit and vanity and meanness
of every kind ; so deeply affectionate, so
earnest and good, and yet so free from
sentimentality and priggishness. He saw
no single fault in her; but then, he was
neither a sculptor nor a woman.

He loved her none the less because she
showed, as yet, no sign of love for him.
Sometimes he thought she never would
love him. But that very hopelessness
made him love the more. It was despair
that gave piquancy to the love of Pygmalion
for his beautiful cold statue ; it was
despair that made Apollo weep over the
branches of poor metamorphosed Daphne.
Then, again, sometimes he believed that
she would ultimately love him. He felt
convinced that, although she talked of
marriage and of love, she had only a
theoretical knowledge of the grand passion
of life. He was so sure that she had
cared nothing for her country suitors that
he could think of them calmly and without
jealousy. A girl full of health, and with
a strongly emotional temperament such as
she had, must one day love, and with a
vigour and intensity impossible to a less
earnest nature than hers. She was distilled,

lie believed, not to cut up her heart
ill a thousand fragments and to scatter it
freely amongst her admirers, but to give
it whole to one, and to one only. It was
an intoxicating delight to think that he
of all men should be the chosen one to
be so loved by her, who was of all women
the most lovable. And, with that prospect
before him, how could he give up the
chase ?

Lydia as yet did not love him, it is
true ; but she liked him, and that was a
good way towards loving him. She liked
him ever so much more than she liked Mr.
Tickel ; she liked him better than any man
she had ever seen except poor papa. She
admired his appearance as much as in her
school days she had admired the head of
Doomed put before her to copy in crayon ;
she liked his gaiety, his gentleness, his
courage, his generosity ; and she was conscious
of a certain indefinable pleasure

which possessed her when she felt his eyes
upon her. She could not remember any
similar sensation when poor papa gazed
at her ; from which it will be seen that
it wanted only a little more perception,
on her part, for Blase to supplant even poor
papa from his supremacy.

It came out one day that Lydia had
never seen a play acted.

Shouldn't you like to go to a theatre ? "
asked Blase.

Oh ! " she cried, clapping her hands —
'^ oh ! I should like to go — but " — she
pursed up her lips and glanced significantly
at Mrs. Romsey, who was sipping
tea and talking with Mr. Tickel.

Have you any objection to theatres,
Mrs. Romsey ? '' asked Blase.

Theatres ? " said Mrs. Romsey in a
tone of grave consideration. " Well, I
have scarcely made up my mind on the
subject. In the country, you see, I was

taught to consider them as vastly immoral ;
but since coming to London I have found
country morality to be so greatly at fault
in many things that I cannot directly tell
whether to believe my early teachings in
this respect correct or otherwise. Still
I am told that the side boxes are quite free
from draughts and excessively comfortable ;
but what is your opinion, Mr. Tickel ? "

Madame," said Mr. Tickel, catching a
glance from Blase, 'rit is true that some
performances are unfit for ladies to attend.
Such I consider the Italian Opera." This
was a species of entertainment that the
parson detested, for he could neither keep
awake nor asleep during the performance.
Such also I consider those performances
where live and dangerous beasts are
brought upon the scene ; but those houses
which present the classic works of master
minds, such as Wycherley,' Congreve, Vanbrugh,
Shadwell, and others, are deserving

of support by all who would expand the
reason and elevate the affections."

"You find no moral objection to Shakespeare
? " said Blase.

No ; Shakespeare is good, in moderation
; I except, however, the play of
Julius Caesar.' "

Then will you permit me, Mrs.
Romsey, to take a box at the Drury Lane
Theatre for tomorrow night, when Mr.
Kemble and his sister are to play in
Shakespeare's tragedy of ' Macbeth ? ' "

The proposal was agreed to, Mrs. Romsey
stipulating only that the body should
be fortified against the mental strain by
a good dinner beforehand.

Lydia threw aside her knitting and
stood up before Blase, her eyes aglow
with the eager excitement of a child. Fora
moment she felt as if she must give him
a hug and a kiss, but she was restrained
through those notions of propriety she had

VOL. 11. 24

been learning from books and observation,
by which she bad set herself resolutely
to govern the actions of her Hfe.

•• Oh, if yon were only my brother,"
she said in a low voice and with a sigh of
regret, and then she ran off to bestow
her kisses on Mrs. Romsey. From those
caresses she broke off abruptly, crying in a
tone of dismay, " Aunty ! we have nothing
to wear ! I must run upstairs at once and
have a good rummage ; " and therewith she
ran away, leaving Blase to regret that he
had deprived himself of half an hour's
delight by broaching the subject so early.

Of the four hundred and fifty pounds
given by Aunt Gertrude to Blase, four
hundred had been lodged with the agent
to pay for the commission when it was
forthcoming ; fifty remained in the silk
purse. Pressing as the need had been,
Blase had not yet used one of the sacred
notes, but now to give pleasure to such a

good, sweet girl as Lvdia, lie felt that he
might use a few pounds without compunction
; and surely if the end can justify the
means, he did no wrong in this. Slipping
the purse in his pocket the following
morning, he hurried off to Drury Lane,
where he found that hy a most fortunate
accident the best box in the house was tolet,
though all the rest had been taken. He
paid the price without wincing, happy indeed
at his good fortune, for nothing less
than the best seat in the house for Lydia
would have satisfied him. Then he went
to Jacob Reeves the florist, and ordered the
handsomest bouquet that was to be had.

^* Oh ! how lovely ! " exclaimed Lydia,
when the flowers were put in her hands.
Oh, how nice ! — how very nice " — she
looked up at Blase — '* you are. Look,
aunty ! did you ever see such lovely

flowers in your life ? "'

«/

'' Sweetly pretty, my dear," replied

Mrs. Eomsey. " Delicious ! " she added,
speaking to Mr. Tickel, with reference to a
sweetmeat from the box which she was
tasting.

Lydia, turning the bouquet round and
looking at it first with her head on this
side then on that, seemed at a loss for
words ; presently she said :

I have not thanked you for this gift,
Mr. Godwin, for indeed I don't know how
to. If you knew how fond I am of flowers,
and how sensible I am to kindness, you
would understand how difficult I find it
to put my thoughts in proper words. All
I can say is — thank you." She held out
her hand, and looked him full in the face
with her sweet, open eyes.

He took her fingers trembling to his
lips ; and when he raised his head he saw
that she was looking down at the flowers,
and that a flush of pink had covered her
face.

Does she love me ? " he asked himself,
as without a word, without daring to lookin
his face, she turned away to put the
bouquet in the box from which it had
been taken.

She scarcely spoke during dinner ; she
ate nothing. But this was not surprising,
as Mrs. Eomsey fully explained, narrating
many instances of her own abstemiousness
before going to feasts and fetes, and happily
making Lydia's silence unnoticeable
by her own garrulity.

The ladies withdrew directly after
dinner to make their toilettes ; and in this
delightful occupation Lydia forgot her
strange embarrassment, forgot Blase and
all minor things. She was as pleased with
her own appearance as Narcissus with his.
Everything she added to her toilet was
a triumph ; and she smiled at herself in
the glass like the veriest coquette. She
was even annoyed to find that her slippers

went on too easily, though certainly when
they were on it gratified her to find that
her feet still looked small and pretty in
them. Her gloves pleased her greatly ;
she had it from the glover that they were
of the very latest fashion ; they came
almost np to the elbow, and were of the
most delicate turquoise blue to harmonize
with the trimming of her white satin and
muslin dress ; the colour made her arm
above the kid look whiter than ever. It
was difficult to decide whether she should
wear the new fashioned turban and ostrich
feathers which she had bought in the
morning, or the little lace cap which everyone
had so admired at the party given in
her honour when she left school. Very
naturally she ultimately decided upon the
uglier but more fashionable head-dress,
which undoubtedly had a stately effect if
one held the head high. Deeply concerned
in such absurd trifles as these she

Spent a whole hour, and with such interest
to herself that when her maid came up
with the terrifying news that the chariot
was at the door, it seemed that she had not
left the dining-room but a quarter of an
hour before. Had she possessed all those
admirable qualities with which the fancy
of Blase endowed her, she would have been
heartily ashamed of herself; but being
only a woman — whatever Blase might
think to the contrary — she felt extremely
pleased with the result of her endeavours,
and ran down to the drawing-room with
an eager desire for admiration, and presented
herself before those who had been
waiting so long and patiently for her
with a flutter of pride and pleasure in her
heart.

Beautiful she was judged even by such
an impartial critic as Mr. Tickel ; but her
beauty bewildered Blase. It was not,
perhaps, because her charms were displayed

to greater advantage in this dress,
for he could not take his eyes from her
face ; it was the exultant and radiant
happiness of the girl that dazzled him.
Lydia enjoyed the loud admiration of Mrs.
Romsey and Mr. Tickel, and even the
whispered approval of the servants peeping
through the door, and she felt disappointed
that Blase said nothing ; for now that
vanity had driven sentiment from her
mind, she failed to appreciate the more
sincere homage of his silence.

How quiet you are," she said, as he led
her down to the chariot. " Don't you like
my dress ? "

To tell you the truth, I have scarcely
looked at it," Blase replied.

Because you see nothing in a woman's
dress to admire."

On the contrary, when in the woman's
dress I see you, I find so much to admire
that my eyes can feed on nothing else."

That is gracefully turned ; now wliy
couldn't you say that before ? "

I cannot say. I plead guilty to being
silent when I feel deeply. "Who that has
an ear for music would cry 'how beautiful
! ' when his senses were drinking in a
lovely harmony ? And then all exquisite
objects make the beholder feel his insignificance.
I fancy the Patmos shepherd dared
not open his lips when the goddess first
stepped from her crescent to his side."

If that shepherd boy atoned for his
silence as you have, Mr. Godwin, the
goddess ceased to scold him, I daresay."

They stepped into the carriage, and
there was an end to the conversation, for
the rattle of the wheels over the stones
silenced even Mrs. Eomsey.

The approaches to the theatre were filled
with handsome carriages, and a crowd of
curious idlers was collected by the entrance
to see the company set down. To Lydia,

whose experience of London life had been
limited — thanks to the discreet management
of Mr. Tickel — to looking in shops
and walking in the park, the lights moving
in every direction, the collisions and narrow
escapes of collision with other vehicles, the
hoarse cries of the drivers, the bustling
crowds of people, of whom many threaded
their way amongst the vehicles at the
imminent peril of being crushed or runover,
the banging-to of doors, and the roar
of human voices was not a little terrifying.
"If it is like this outside, what will it be
within ? " she asked. It was like being-transported
suddenly to a fairy palace to
pass from this tumult into the quiet and
orderly crush room, with its splendid
decorations, and its multitude of beautiful
lamps that shone down on a throng of
ladies and gentlemen moving with graceful
composure, and who, from the elegance
of their manner and the richness of their

costume, might all be princes and princesses.
It seemed to lier that she must
look quite plain and poor in the presence
of ladies so richly jewelled, and she felt
heartily ashamed of her recent vanity.
This humiliation might have damped the
pleasure of the evening had she not
fortunately caught sight of herself in one
of the long mirrors, and felt convinced that
there was nothing there to be ashamed of ;
but that the womanly fault of her nature,
her vanity, may not be overrated it is
only fair to say that she came to the conclusion
that the graceful and elegant girl
on whom her eyes rested was becomingly
dressed, before she recognized that she
was criticising her own reflection.

Prodigious fine, upon my word ! "
exclaimed Mrs. Eomsey, as she stood in
the box and looked round the house.
*' And they have given us a most convenient
place."

''Mr. Godwin took care of that, madam,"
said Mr. Tickel. "Yonder is the king's
box, and this is the next best."

"He must have paid a high price for
it?"

"A hundred guineas or so, not more,"
said Mr. Tickel, cavalierly.

"A hundred guineas for a night's amusement
! I fear Mr. Godwin is a sad spendthrift."


I will not deny that he is a spendthrift,
when his friends' convenience is in
question, but only then. Will you believe
it, madam, that the chariot we came in
was hired, and that the fellow who has
just left the box is the only servant he
will keep."

I like him none the less for that, I
assure you. Now Mr. Romsey was a man
of quite another sort, as you may judge
from what I am about to tell you "

Lydia looked round the house in wide-eyed

wonder, and asked a hundred whispered
questions of Blase before her curiosity
was satisfied. Then she sat down and
became conscious that many spy-glasses
were turned upon her.

Everyone seems to be looking at us.
I think it must be my bouquet."

I think it must be you," said Blase,
laughing.

Lydia raised one hand carefully to assure,
herself that her head-dress was not out
of order, and said anxiously :

Can you tell me why they look at
me ?

"Because there is nothing else in the
house so pleasant to look at."

With a long-drawn " Oh ! " Lydia
flushed. " But 'tis rude to stare in this
manner, right in my very face," she said.

Here gentlemen are privileged to stare
at ladies, and ladies for the most part
submit pretty willingly to observation.

If they object to staring 'tis when some
young and pretty upstart comes amongst
them and draws all eyes to her."

"But to stare so openly — you would
not be so rude ? "

Indeed, I would."

Lydia smiled. She did not seem displeased
by this candid confession. She
looked down at her bouquet, and arranged
a flower with the end of her little finger.

How foolish ! " she said softly.

Then the play began, and her attention
never wandered for an instant from the
scene. Blase sat at the end of the box, and
so with his back to the partition, he could
keep his face towards the stage and his
eyes upon his sweetheart's face. How
exquisitely beautiful it was, not only in
its colour and form, and as a mere object
of physical beauty, but as the index of a
sweet and sympathetic soul, a delicately
sensitive mind. Thus thought Blase, and

only he perhaps could have seen so much,
for, from the first, Lydia's features were
set in an expression of awful interest. He
might have found a much wider range
of expression in the countenance of Mrs.
Eomsey, whose mobile features seemed to
reflect every gesture of the actors on the
stage, while her sympathetic soul was
made evident by subdued ejaculations such
as, " There now ! " " Tut, tut, tut ! " '' Oh,
dear, dear, dear ! " " Poor fellow ! " " Oh
my, oh my, oh my ! " " Another dead ! "
Shocking to be sure ! " and the like.

A very melancholy business, madam,"
said Mr. Tickel, when the curtain fell on
the first act.

"Dreadful indeed, sir," said Mrs. Eom-
sey. " 'Tis quite a relief now the curtain's
drawn that it is not real. I cannot say
I like it so fir. There never was such
a fool as I am with regard to taking life.
I assure you I never would accept an

invitation to a farmhouse before I was
assured that there was to be no pig killing.
The sound of the poor creature's sufferings
even when he is having a ring put through

his nose Thank you, I think I will

try one of the sweetmeats. Lydia dear,
will you ? "

Lydia shook her head. Since the fall
of the curtain she had not said a word.

Would you like to go home, dear ;
you look pale, and I don't think we've
come to the worst of it ? "

Nos no ; oh no ! I am quite well, and
I am very much interested ; but I can't
talk and don't ask me to have any sweetmeats,
please," she said, with a feeling of
disgust for everything that was commonplace.
" How great and grand it is," she
said to Blase, who had wisely refrained
from speaking ; and she could say no more.

In the next terrible act Mrs. Eomsey,
after watching the preparations for

Duncan's murder up to the appearance of

Lady Macbeth in the second scene, took

her chair to the back of the box and

covered her ears with her hands. There

were, indeed, many who, from the entrance

of Mrs. Siddons, followed the acting of the

tragedy with painful unwillingness — who

would have turned their eyes from the

scene, but for the irresistible fascination

which the culminating horror exercised

over their minds. The effect of reality

was so great that at times the audience

was betrayed into sympathetic movement

with the actor. When Lady Macbeth took

the dagger and entered the murdered

Duncan's chamber, there followed a silence

of fully two minutes, Macbeth saying nota

word, but watching the door by which

she had gone ; the audience watched also

with a feeling of apprehension that was

simply terrible. Had the theatre been

entirely empty the silence could not have
VOL. II. 25

been more complete. Then the awful stillness
was broken by a single knock, causing
Macbeth, and with him every creature in
the audience, to shrink back in terror. As
Lydia recoiled in her chair she stretched
aside her hand unconsciously, as if for
protection. Blase took it in his, and held
it until the curtain fell, and then she looked
down wondering how it had come there.

You were frightened and seemed to
need an assurance that you were amongst
friends," he said, in explanation, as he
regretfully relinquished her hand.

Indeed, I felt like a child," she replied.

In the next act he did not wait for
her to stretch out her hand ; he stole it
stealthily from her lap ; and she knew
it and made no attempt to take her hand
away. It was pleasant to be thus warmly
linked with life and safety in the midst
of so much death and peril. Her mind
was too fully occupied with the play tolet

lier think whv this slioiilcl be so, or
to trouble itself with questions as to the
strict propriety of suffering her hand to
be held by lira. She only knew that it
gave her courage and happiness. After
a while she went so far as to exchange
thoughts in a mute language through the
medium of their united fingers. In the
more terrible situations the pressure on
his side was a little greater. That surely
meant, " do not fear, I am beside you,"
to which she replied by another pressure
which she intended to say, '' thank you,
I feel quite safe." And it astonished her
to find how agreeable this simple intercourse
was. One other thing gratified her
in an equally incomprehensible manner,
and that was to observe that Blase kept
his eyes upon her much more than he did
upon Mrs. Siddons.

CHAPTER Y.

BLASE AND LYDIA TALK ABOUT MARRIAGE.

"Oh, I am so glad to see you to-day ,'*^
said Lydia when Blase met her the day
after going to Drury Lane.

"More glad to-day than yesterday?"
Blase asked, his eyes responding with
fervour to the girl's warm greeting.

"Yes. Yesterday I had the theatre to
look forward to and my dress to think
about; but to-day there was nothing to
hope for but your coming. That doesn't
sound very flattering does it ? " she said
with her gay laugh; "but it is just the
truth. You can't tell how miserable I ha ye
been all the morning — thinking about last

night and regretting that it was all past
and over. If it had not snowed so heavily
I should have hired a hackney coach to
drive me to Drury Lane simply to look
at the outside of the theatre. And I
wanted somebody who thought just as I
did about that noble tragedy to speak
to me and make me unconscious of the
commonplace stupid things about me ;
but Mrs. Romsey has been provokingly
talkative upon uninteresting subjects, and
has said nothing nice about last night,
except — " she checked herself abruptly.

Except what ? " Blase asked after a
moment's silent anticipation.

'^ Oh, something agreeable about you
which it might not be quite right for me
to repeat as you are a gentleman. She
does not understand tragedy and dislikes
it. So you see why I looked forward to
your visit ; and now let us talk all about
Macbeth."

I tlioiiglit possibly you miL;-ht like to
read the play, so I brought a copy. Will
you be good enough to accept it ? "

He offered a volume, the best he had
been able to buy in a morning devoted to
its discover'.

'Tis the very book I longed for when
I opened my eyes this morning. It shows
how much our sympathies are alike for
you to have guessed my wish. What a
beautiful little book. Mr. Godwin, 1 don't
think I ever knew anyone more kind than
you are ! *"

'Tis a sort of selfishness''

Selfishness ! — to be thoughtful of another's
happiness."

^' There is no greater happiness for me
to seek, than that of making you happy."

Lydia's face was grave for a moment
and then, as she got to the root of this
paradox, the beautiful curve of her lips
altered, the dimple deepened in her chin

and a thousand twinkling lights danced in
her happy eyes, and as she bent her head
she smoothed the cover of the book in her
lap as if it were sentient, and could appreciate
the significant caress.

They were alone and seated face to face.
By leaning forward Blase could possess
himself of that white caressing hand.
Had any other woman sat in Lydia's
place he would have done so at once
after such encouragement ; but he hesitated
now" because he loved Lydia as he
had never loved any other woman. This
reluctance seemed to himself inconsistent.
He had taken her hand last night : why
should he not take it now ? If he loved
her better than all other women why
should he be more backward in winning
her than them ? The experience of many
conquests had taught him to attack boldly,
and take advantage of the first opportunity.
Lydia was silent, still occupied with her

thoughts, and the cover of the book ; was
that not an invitation for him to go on ?
He determined to think it was ; and
bending forward put out his hand to take
hers. Lydia perceived the movement and
neatly raising the book on which her hand
rested she said :

Will you read to me Mr. Godwin ? "

That is what — " the lie died upon his
lips — " If it will give you pleasure," he
said.

It will give me pleasure*' she said,
looking at him now with soft grave eyes.
There was not a sign in her face of the
smile that had so lately played upon it.

He took the book and sat abashed, turning
over the pages aimlessly for a minute
or so, then suddenly closing it he said
looking up into Lydia's face.

"Will you take back the book? 'tis
happier in your hands. I cannot readjust
now."

She took the book back on her lap, and
waited for bim to continue.

'• I think you knew my intention when
I approached your hand," he said.

'' I think I do. 'Twas to take mine."

And that displeased you ? "

It gave me pain to think I had lost
your respect."

Why should you think me wanting
in respect in seeking to take your
hand?"

Because I should feel myself wanting
in respect if I permitted it."

You did not think so last night."

'' Last night I did not think at all — that
must excuse me if I did wrong."

But you did not do wrong ! I fancy
you obeyed the impulse of a generous
heart."

"■' There are conditions which oblige us
to restrain our impulses I think."

*' I do not. Can anything that is

natural be wrong ? and was it not natural
that I should wish to take your hand ? "

The feeling is also natural which
makes me shrink from a familiarity our
present position does not justify. Our acquaintance
is scarcely three weeks old :
why my Exeter swains had known me
twice as long before they dared to go
so far'*

*' Did they take your hand ? " asked
Blase fiercely.

Oh, they where quite as eager as you :
one indeed was for putting his arm round
my waist and kissing my cheek."

A hound ! you — you didn't suffer that,
did you Miss Listen?"

'' Suppose I did resist — at first," Lydia
said dropping her head to hide the mischievous
twinkle of her eyes, " but persuaded
by arguments such as you have
used I came to see that I might at least
give up my hand without indelicacy "

"But YOU have said you did not love
either of them."

Have I said that I love you ? '' she
asked quickly.

Blase blushed to the roots of his hair.

Will you forgive me ? " he asked
presently, " I was wrong from the first,
and I knew I was wrong, and I have made
my fault worse by trying to defend it."

Joy lit up her face again ; she was glad,
not because she had vanquished him in
argument, but because he had re-established
her belief in his honesty and candour.

Now you shall have my hand," she
cried with fervour, giving him that pretty
object of contention.

He took her hand and bent over it in
tender reverence and then restored it to
her lap. He might have retained it, he
might even have drawn, her to him and
kissed her, and she could not have been
angry in the humour that now possessed

her. Her heart was full of love and
kindness, and she was blind to the
inconsistency of her own moods. But his
self-restraint did more than any kisses to
strengthen their mutual love and knit
their hearts together.

She leaned back in her chair twining
her fingers until they whitened with the
strain, and gave herself up to the full
enjoyment of this new and exquisite
delight with which her bosom heaved.

She imagined that her feelings were
known only to herself, but Blase sitting
opposite and looking into her tell-tale face
read her heart. More sweetly than the
softest voice her dark eyes said, " I love
3'ou.

His eyes were not slow to respond, and
the result of this communication of ideas
might have been fatal to the control that
Lydia so prized but that in this critical
moment the kitten which had been playing

at Lydia s feet scrambled up into lier lap,
and broke the spell. Lie lifted it in lier
two hands, and nestling her soft round
chin in its fur murmured her affection in
that strange woman's language which is
supposed to be comprehensible to the intelligence
of kittens and babies alike.

Now let us talk about Macbeth," said
Lydia, when the kitten had scratched its
way to independence over her shoulder
and got on to the table behind.

Don't you think it will be more agreeable
to talk about ourselves ? " asked Blase.

With all my heart," she replied gaily.
Whom shall we talk about — you or me ? "

Let us begin with you. I want you
to tell me all about those fellows at
Exeter."

With pleasure. One was the son of
a squire who had I can't tell you how
many acres he intended to give his son —
one dav. The other was the son of nobody

in particular, I believe. He was said to
be the handsomest man in Exeter — and
you know we Exeter people are rather
vain of our beauty. I think he was taller
than you and stouter, and he had a very
fine voice for singing. He was tolerably
well read, and had all his coats cut in
London. He was "

I am not anxious to have their
portraits," said Blase. " Hang 'em ! " he
added under his breath, grinding his heel
into a particular spot in the carpet, which
he steadfastly regarded.

1 thought you wished to know all
about them," said Lydia demurely, casting
a malicious glance at the sombre countenance
of Blase.

That was merely a figure of speech," he
laughed, and then, in desperation, rushed
to the point. '* I say. Miss Listen, you
didn't let them have your hand, did you ?"

Only one." Lydia bent low over her

knee. It was much as she could do to
restrain her laughter.

Blase, glancing up, saw only the top of
lier head.

'' That was the handsome buck, I
suppose ? " he said ruefully.
Lydia nodded her head.
What did her silence and her bowed
head imply ?

Blase tapped his foot upon the floor in
moody silence.

I couldn't help it," pleaded Lydia.
'^ Of course you were not to blame. A
young girl just home from school could not
be expected to know about that sort of
thing."

'' And when he put his arm round me,"

she faltered, " I— I "

'* You let him have your hand," said
Blase, anxious to get to the worst.

I did. It was rude, and unladylike,
and unbecoming, and I thought then, as

yon think now, that I couldn't do wrong*
to obey the impulse of my heart."

*^Ah, but I frankly admit that I was
wrong in saying so ; and there are conditions
in which restraint is proper."

"I did not see it then, and I gave him —
oh ! such a slap in the face."

You did ? " exclaimed Blase, springing
from his chair. " Oh, you noble, brave
girl ! " and then he joined heartily in
Lydia's laughter, although it was at his
own expense.

And the other ; did you smack his
face too ? " Blase inquired, still laughing.

No ; I dismissed him the first day he
took the liberty to call me Lydia."

Thought Blase, " This is a narrow
escape for me," for he had it in his mind
a moment before to address Miss Liston by
her baptismal name.

When do you think I may allow myself
to call you Lydia ? " he asked.

When I am sure that I shall be your
wife."

'^ Will you be my wife?" Blase said,
bending forward and speaking low.

She looked at him earnestly, but without
speaking.

Say yes, and that little word makes me
the happiest of men," said Blase.

That little word may make us both
for the rest of our lives happy — or
wretched."

"Who could be unhappy with you ? "

Any one that I hated," cried she
quickly, with a flash from her eyes that
gave significance to her words.

But you don't hate me ? "

Xo, but I should if you were my
husband and I found that you were not
the very best man in all the world ; and
that is what every man must seem to his
wife if she love him, I think. I am sure
I could not be indifferent. I must either

VOL. II. 26

hate or love my husband with all my heart.
It seems reasonable, does it not, that a
woman who confides herself and all she has
to a man should first be sure that he is
quite good, and that she is not foolishly
sacrificing the happiness of her whole life*?
It is not so serious a matter to a man, perhaps,
because, if he finds that he has made
a mistake in choosing a companion, he can
get another. A woman can't. And so,
you see," she said, smiling, " I don't find
it quite so easy as you do to settle this
question of marriage."

'' How strange you are ! " said Blase,
regarding her with mingled wonder and
admiration.

Strange ! I am sorry for that. I do
not wish to be odd. I should like to belike
other girls. How am I strange ? "

Strange in having by turns the simplicity
of an ingenuous child, at others the
wisdom of a thoughtful woman."

Is that the only respect in which I am
strange ? "

In that alone, except that just now I
think you strangely beautiful."

I don't mind that," she laughed. " I
think I can account for my being sometimes
childish, sometimes womanly. I am
no longer a grub, and I'm not yet a moth,
but I am just a little of both."

Blase smiled, then grew grave and
thoughtful, saying nothing. The kitten
scrambled up into Lydia's lap again, and,
tired with playing, turned its paws in and
purred drowsily under the gentle caress of
Lydia's finger.

''Do you think there is any man good
enough to be your husband ? " Blase asked
presently in a despondent tone.

I hope so. I have no wish to be an
old maid, I assure you."

I know a good many men, but there's

not one that I should like to see your

%/

husband."

'* I think I can understand how that is,"
the said, laughing again.

Candidly, I don't know one man who
has not some fault."

'• I don't think we can see anything to
reverence in that little dumpy pagoda on
the chimney-piece ; " said Lydia, " but the
heathens who worshipped it, perhaps, saw
no imperfections in it ; and women are
heathens in their husband-worship."

'' I am afraid my imperfections are too
glaring to be overlooked."

I am sorry for that," she said seriously.

Are you sorry ? 'Why ? " he asked
eagerly.

Lydia hesitated a moment. It would
not do to tell him why that admission made
her heart sink.

"Because I shall have to beirin

o-

my

search all over again," she said.

That is not your only reason," he said
earnestly.

'' It is one reason, and a very good one.
Indeed, I would not marry yon if I could
not excuse your faults ; and, as I told you,
I do not intend to die an old maid."

"Do you know any of my faults ? "

"Not yet. Mr. Tickel left them out
of the inventory. He gave me a very full
account of your virtues, of which, in truth,
you seemed to have the exclusive enjoyment,
for every other pretty gentleman
whose character came in question had
nothing but the vices."

Tickel's an old f — I beg your pardon,
Miss Liston."

Lydia enjoyed that slip immensely. The
views of Blase in this respect, perhaps,
coincided with hers.

'^ "Will you supply the deficiency of mr.
Tickel ? " she asked. " Will you tell me of
your imperfections ? "

"It requires little inquiry to find my
faults. I have been wild and extravagant ;

I have lost money at play ; I have been
]profligate and wasteful ; I have neglected
the best friends I had, and shown disregard
where gratitude was most due."

"These faults are of the past. Mr.
Tickel hinted at them, and he did so
because they made your repentance a
radiant virtue. The prodigal son was
dearer to his father than those who never
left his roof. Captain Covenant, whom
you had neglected, forgave you and loves
you now."

'' Oh yes, dear old man ! "

"" Then should not I forgive you, who
have not suffered by your fault ? 'Tis of
the present and the future I have to think."

Oh, for the present I live soberly enough,
and for the future I can do no wrote if I
have your happiness to think of."

Why, you are even better by your own
showing than by Mr. Tickets," said Lydia,
smiling, yet with a tender kindness in her

eyes that showed how willing she was to
believe the best.

^' The fact is, a man never sees his own
faults," said Blase.

Then you must leave me to find them
out."

Be merciful to me, a sinner," said he
imploringly.

She did not answer him in words ; but
her eyes looking into his, said : "Do I
not love you ? "

CHAPTER YI.

BLASE FINDS THORNS IN THE PRIMROSE PATH.

If at that very moment Mrs. Eomsey had
not entered the room and made it impossible,
Blase would probably have told
Lydia about his pecuniary difficulties, and
the purpose with which he had first come
to her, trusting to her love to forgive him
even that.

'' Would to heaven she knew all," he
said to himself, on his way home. " She
has enough strength to resist the influence
of Mrs. Romsey ; I believe she loves me,
and would not let a merely pecuniary difference
separate us. I will certainly tell
her the very next time we are alone."

This decision he communicated to Mr.
Tickel in the evening.

"And how about the unpaid bills ? "
asked the parson.

Curse the unpaid bills," cried Blase,
his rage rising at the thought of them.

"And curse the unpaid bills say I, withall
my heart," retorted Mr. Tickel. " But
curses won't pay 'em, or you had been free
of debt long ago. Look at the position
calmly, and measure the result of carrying
out your notion. If I know anything of
Miss Liston's character, she will insist upon
knowing your real position the moment
you tell her it is not what she and Mrs.
Romsey have chosen to imagine it."

Very well, I shall tell her that I have
nothing — that I have squandered my fortune,
and can expect no help from my
father."

"And thereupon you think she will consent
to be your wife ? I don't. I believe

that young lady has too much pride to
take a Island who must come to her for
every penny he wants."

"And d — it, sir, I have too inch pride
to take a wife on those conditions," cried
Blase, banging his fist on the table.

"What, then, do yon propose doing?"
cried Mr. Tickel quickly.

I shall ask her to wait until I have
found some means of earning a living."

That will be asking a good deal, considering
your poor chances."

You will allow that I have intelligence
and a pair of hands."

"And a pretty pile of unpaid bills upon
'em. Don't kick the furniture about like
that, Blase ; it will only make the matter
worse when the settling day comes."

*' Why must you keep talking about the
confounded bills ?"

Because it is the very thing that we
must talk about. You will have to confess

that you are in debt to Miss Liston, if you
carry out your idea."

"Well ? "

^'And when she finds that you have
been spending money upon her amusement
instead of paying your bills with it, I am
much mistaken if she does not insist upon
your taking from her purse every ]denny
she has cost you at the expense of the shopkeepers."


*' By the Lord, that shall not be ! "

How will you avoid it ?"

I will conceal my debts."

"Actually employing deceit in an absurd
attempt to be candid. The girl will despise
you for attempting to win her sympathy
so cheaply."

This is good, parson ; your argument
shows me that I do wrong to think of
marriage."

Listen patiently, and I will convince
you that you must marry. You talked of

earning money. I warn you, Blase, that
unless these sneaking tradespeople hear
you are about to marry a fortune, they will
lodge you in the Fleet before you can earn
a single sixpence. And who is to get you
out of prison ? Not your father, certainly.
You can only hope that your grandfather,
Captain Covenant, will cut do\vn a row of
old oaks to pay your debts."

'' Never ! " cried Blase.

How can you prevent him saving his
name from disgrace, except by marrying
Miss Liston ? "

Mr. Tickel took out his snuff-box and
indulged in a copious pinch, giving Blaze
time to digest the hard truth.

The girl's not ill-looking," he said presently.
*' She's her own mistress, and is
eager to jump into your arms. There's no
mortal reason why you shouldn't whisk,
her off in a post-chaise before the end of
the week, to the happiness of every one

concerned. A little tiff when she comes to
see the bills is the worst to be expected ;
and she'll love you all the better when the
cloud has blown over, and be proud to
think she could help the man she loves.
On the other hand, there is sorrow for
]Miss Liston, heart-breaking mortification
for Captain Covenant, disgrace for yourself,
and the bitter humiliation of seeing a
less scrupulous and deserving man carry
off the girl who wished to marry you. "We
will say not a word about poor old Tickel,
and the disappointment which must shorten
a life too faithfully spent in the service of
an ungrateful young friend."

I would to heaven old Tickel were the
only person whose happiness I had to consider,"
said Blase, and with that he left the
room, and presently the house. Soon after
Mr. Tickel strolled out, and spent a very
pleasant evening with some sociable friends
whom he found at Welsh's. Blase spent

some miserable hours in walking about the
streets and striving to find some loophole
of escape from his difficulties.

They met in the breakfast-room the next
morning.

Hutchins brought in a pile of letters
with the chocolate.

'' Grive them to Mr. Tickel," said Blase,
as the man took them from the tray.

Mr. Tickel received them with a nod,
and tucked them under one end of the dish
of beefsteak that the gravy might drain
down to the other end, and there they
remained until the parson's appetite was
appeased. Blase did not complain of this
treatment of his letters ; it was the only
useful purpose they were likely to serve if
they resembled the usual budget of dunning
requests.

Slowly picking his teeth, Mr. Tickel
passed the letters in review, determining
their contents by the superscriptions.

I know 'em all, Blase, butchers, bakers,
and candlestick-makers, every one except
this." The parson handed a letter across
the table.

'' Captain Covenant's hand," said Blase,
breaking the seal. " Begad, the old gentleman
is coming up to town," he added,
reading the letter ; ^' ' I find by my newspaper,'
" he writes, " ' that General Sir
Philip Armytage is now lying at his house
in Park Lane, London. If this be, as I
believe, the Philip Armytage who served
as lieutenant with me in America, I feel
sure that he will do all that lies in his
power to hasten your preferment at my
request. I cannot tell you how overjoyed
I am with the hope of terminating your
anxious suspense. That no time may be
lost I shall set out for London tomorrow
morning, God willing ; and if the roads
be passable, I shall arrive at my destination
some time on Saturday.' "

All ! " grunted the parson. Not a
pennyworth of good can he do. That
sweet old Duke of York wouldn't interfere
with his mistress's business for all
the generals in the British army.

*you will not let Captain Covenant
know that," said Blase.

*not I. Did ever you know me willingly
to give pain to any one ? "

Blase read the continuation of the letter
to himself.

My dear Gertrude, who enjoys with me
the blessing of good health, is deeply concerned
for your welfare," the letter ran ;
not a day — I might almost say not an
hour — passes, but some act, or look, or word
reveals that you are in her thoughts. I
cannot deprive her of the opportunity
which now offers of seeing you once more
before you are called to join your regiment.
I shall bring her with me, as also her little
maid, upon whom the solitude of a country

life lias seemed to weigh heavily since her
father's departure."

"What on earth is to be done ? " cried
Blase in desperation when he came to
this passage. "Why do you sit there
like a log, Tickel ; can't you suggest
something ? "

I'm ready to lay down my life for yoa,
as I have been any time these ten years.
Only let me know where your difficulty is,
and I'll help you, I warrant."

The difficulty is clear enough. Here
am I forced to accept a part that I have
no ability to play."

From that I conclude that you have
given up the notion you had last night
of revealing your situation to Miss
Liston."

I settled that last night," said Blase
with a groan. " It would break my grandfather's
heart to hear I was in prison ; and

I love that girl too well to lose her, and not
VOL. II. 27

well enough to sacrifice my own happiness
for lies — Grod pardon me. I must marry
her — if she will have me — and trust to
her goodness of heart for forgiveness of
my treachery."

And believe me you will not trust in
vain. What ! will not a young girl forgive
a pretty fellow for setting aside a few
paltry scruples to win her ? She must
love you all the better for the sacrifice you
make. Pshaw ! the only thing she would
not forgive would be your setting her
aside for your scruples. I congratulate
you, Blase, on your choice. You've done
the brave thing."

Don't talk of bravery ; I feel like a
cii that knows he merits a whipping."

'•' Tush ! Let's have no more of that,
but give our minds to something deserving
of more serious thought. Now then, my
young friend, about Captain Covenant."

''He is coming here ; and how am I to

keep my debts secret with duns hammering
at the door half the day ?

Take the captain out betimes, and
leave the dans to me."

Miss Covenant is coming also."

"And a dear, sweet, simple lady she
is. You need have no fear on her account.
I'll be bound she doesn't know what a
creditor is. But you can take her out too.
You will introduce both to Mrs. Eomsey,
who will find food enough for their minds
to stave off their cravings to know your
private concerns. Gad ! my young friend,
when you come to think of it, nothing
could be more propitious for your fortunes
than this visit. The love of two such
estimable people will convince our friends
in Piccadilly of your worth if they have
any doubts. Why, wee could wish for
nothing better ! "

The parson rubbed his hands gleefully,
but still Blase looked rueful.

That little girl's coming, also," lie said
with awkward hesitation.

What little girl ? " asked Mr. Tickel
in blank astonishment.

Miss Covenant's maid — Hutchins'
daughter — you know."

Mr. Tickel looked askant at Blase, who
was diligently scraping up a heap of
crumbs on the table cloth with a knife.

And a nice little body she is too," he
said. '' Father prone to hanging about
that corridor and staircase, hey ? As neat
a foot, and as pretty a pair of black eyes
as ever I saw. Hum ! There's nothing,"
the parson sniffed significantly, " nothing
to fear from her Blase ? she will do you no
harm, hey ? "

Harm ! She would do me none, poor
little soul. The only thing I have to
fear is that — that, from a few words in
this letter I am led to believe that she
likes me a little too well."

"Oh!" Mr. Tickel spoke with care
not to hurt Blase's sensibilities. " You
liked each other a little before you left
Seawater."

"Yes. Captain Covenant tells me she
has seemed low spirited ever since. The
bother of it is, that she must be in the
house here with Miss Covenant."

Well, my young friend, you ought to
know more about this sort of thing than
I do ; but be careful, Blase, be careful.
'Tis a risky business drinking from two
glasses at one time. You should make the
little rogue understand that 'tis all over
with her the moment the affair ceases to
be secret."

What do you mean ? " asked Blase
sternly.

"Oh, nothing, nothing ! " answered the
parson hurriedly, frightened by the look
and tone of Blase.

You don't suppose I shall make a fool

of myself again with this girl You don't
imagine that I am base enough to make
]ove to her and Miss Liston at the same
time ? "

Of course I don't," cried Mr. Tickel,
With more emphasis than sincerity.

'' What I fear is, that this poor chill,
when she hears that I am in love with
some one else, will be unhappy, and
perhaps make a scene and — and that sort
of thing."

'' Just so — tell Miss Liston. That's what
these jealous stupid young hussies do the
first thing — tell their rivals and upset the
whole apple cart."

'' She wouldn't do that. But she maybe
unable to resist crying, and then she
will be questioned by Miss Covenant and
her father, and how is she to account for
her tears ? "

••' I can tell you, Blase. If the girl likes
you well enough to screen you, let her lay

everything to poor old Tickel. I won't
deny it ; for by George I shouldn't mind
if it were the truth. But to admit the
honest fact, the only time I chucked her
under the chin she had the sauciness to
say that if I did it again she'd tell my
master. ' I'll tell your master those
were her words, and she meant you. An
impudent young baggage. But I like 'em
impudent : don't you, Blase ? "

CHAPTER VII.

CAPTAIN Covenant AND HIS DAUGHTER
COME TO TOWN.

Mrs. Romsey was enchanted to hear that
Captain Covenant and his daughter were
coming to London.

Naturally I am very anxious to see Mr.
Godwin's relatives," said she to Mr. Tickel
in one of those confidential conversations
which was the fit accompaniment to a dish
of tea taken in the gloaming. " For
although Lydia is self-willed and capricious
to a distressing degree, and will tell me
nothing definitely respecting her feelings
or intentions, I perceive pretty plainly that
her heart is already engaged to Mr.
Godwin, and for that reason I look forward

with delight to a closer acquaintance
with Captain and Miss Covenant; not
because I have any doubt of their being
fully as amiable, as genteel, and honourable
as you have represented, for my agent
confirmed all that you said in their favour ;
but because it may remove that feeling of
indecision which possesses Lydia at the
present moment, and to my great surprise
; for I assure you when I was her
age I had only to see a young man to
know whether I could love him or hate
him for ever. But then we are not all
alike, and I may say, without vanity, that
my judgment was from childhood always remarkably
clear ; and this makes me greatly
troubled when I think of her future, for
I am perfectly certain Mr. Godwin is nota
man to be coquetted with ; there's a
decision and firmness about his character
that I remarked the very moment I first
saw him, and he's just as likely as not to

take offence at Lydia's perversity ; and lie
might search the world over and never
find so good a husband as he would be,
as I have told her frequently ; and I
assure you the very thought of an estrangement
taking place troubles my mind to the
last degree. Do you think asparagus is to
be had now ? "

I saw a truss in the florist's this very
day, and a pretty penny they will ask for
it, I warrant."

That does not matter when hospitality
is in question, for of course Captain
Covenant and his daughter must be made
to dine with us on Sunday, and I love
asparagus above everything. Is white
sauce considered genteel in London, Mr.
Tickel?"

On the other side of the room Blase was
watching Lydia's pretty fingers swiftly
moving at her tambour frame. Neither
he nor she had spoken for some minutes.

Tell me about Miss Covenant," said
Lydia, without raising her eyes from her
work.

It was a pleasure to Blase to talk about
Aunt Gertrude. He told of her wonderful
love for him, of her sweet, patient, gentle
nature, and her goodness ; how in the old
days she had welcomed him with joy, when
he ran away from home to the shelter of
Redwater ; how she had wept over his
early sorrows, and how, while her tears
still flowed with sympathy, she counselled
him to honour and obey his father to the
utmost in his power, and bear with
patience the treatment which seemed to
him so harsh. All that he could remember
he told, even to her giving him the
purse containing, as he believed, her little
marriage portion. Lydia did not say a
word during the recital, and she remained
silent when Blase ceased to speak.

Perhaps she appears more beautiful to

my eyes than to others' said Blase, after
a pause. " That should be so, since I,
above all others, have cause to love her ;
yet I believe that you will like her when
3'ou come to know her"'

I have no doubt of that. "Will she
like me ? that is the thought that makes
me silent."

Who that finds anything in me to
like, can fail to love you?" murmured Blase
with fervour.

Lydia expressed her appreciation of this
compliment by a smile, but she said
nothing. Her silence was unusual, for
generally she made no secret of her
thoughts. If she had spoken she would
have said : "It is because Miss Covenant
loves you, that I fear she will not like me,"
but that woidd have revealed more than
she wished any one to know.

The forthcoming introduction gave her
much more concern than one knowing her

fearless independence would have imagined.
At nio'lit lie locked her door and laid out
every one of her dresses to find out if
possible which would be most suitable to
wear on Sunday. After looking at them
with a critical eye from a distance, she
picked out the plainest amongst them,
and turned it about and about, regarding
it with disparaging glances.

I never did like it," she said to herself.
*' I should have cut it up for aprons long-ago,
if I hadn't been so lazy. 'Tis hideous,
and that's the fact ; but then those sweet,
quiet old maids always do manage to find
the ugliest dresses in the world. That
violet is not quite so unpleasant," she
dropped the brown one on the floor and
took up the violet. " It's all right for
sleeves and neck, but of all the ugly waists!
The blue's better than that," the violet was
thrown on the top of the brown, and the
blue taken in hand — ^' but short sleeves

won't do. Yet they're pretty when one
has fair arms, and I don't see what there
is to shock good people in showing them ;
perhaps if all the hows were cut off it
would look a little more serious, and then
it wouldn't he very unbecoming. But oh !
for a darling of a dress give me my white."
Down went the hue and she approached
the white with clasped hands. " He liked
it. I forget what his words were ; hut
I know they were nice. Something about
Diana, or one of those people, I think. It
fits me beautifully — but the sleeves are
all wrong, and the neck is all wrong, and
the bows are not made to take off, and it's
too fashionable and too lovely by half."

The important question was not decided
when she laid her head on the pillow and
turned her attention to another subject of
equal importance, contained in a duodecimo
volume entitled " The Drawing-room Compendium,
and Young Ladies' Mentor; a

complete Guide for Young Persons of
the Fair Sex about to enter Polite
Society, with Directions for Genteel
Behaviour in various situations, serious
and delicate." Having arranged her
lamp, and well tucked the clothes under
her chin, Lydia opened this important
work and glanced at the index. There
was such fascination in " Rules for deportment
on receiving an offer of marriage
from a young gentleman of pleasing exterior
but questionable morals," that she
turned to the chapter with that heading
before grappling with the graver object
of her studies. She read a column ; once
or twice her young shoulders shook with
suppressed merriment, and finally the book
dropped from her fingers and she burst
into a peal of laughter. " Oh, what fun
it would be to talk to Mr. Godwin like
that," she thought. " How puzzled he
would look, and what an affected little

piece of goods he would think me." She
wasted no more time over this part of the
book, but turned to the solemn chapter
headed, " Rules for deportment on being
introduced by a favoured suitor to his
relatives." This was no laughing matter.
"Dear me!" thought she, coming at length
to the end of the speech set down for her
use ; " how shall I ever remember all this
prodigious long sentence ? " She turned
with a firm resolution to master the difficulty,
and read until the book once more
slipped from her fingers, her eyes closed,
her pretty lips parted, and sleep put an end
for that night to her anxiety.

When Blase, with some ill-concealed
confusion, told Captain Covenant on Saturday
evening that he had ventured to accepta
very pressing invitation for the morrow,
given by a lady of his acquaintance who
desired to be better acquainted with his
family, the captain replied that he should

be glad to be introduced to any friends
of his grandson, and thought very little
more of the matter ; but it was otherwise
with Miss Covenant. Her woman's intelligence
was quick to catch the signs of
embarrassment in her nephew's face, and
to divine their origin.

What lady is this, dear ? " she asked.

A lady of Exeter, who is now staying
in London with — with her niece. Miss
Liston, the daughter of Admiral Listen,
who fell in '94. The Listens of Monmouthshire.
— Do you know the name,
sir ? " Blase asked, escaping from the
inquiring eyes of Aunt Gertrude.

'' I am trying to recollect. I think I
remember some account of a captain of
that name, who distinguished himself off
Trincomalee in '82 ; if I am not mistaken,
he was promoted soon after that gallant
action."

"" 'Tis the same, sir."

VOL. II. 28

It will increase my pleasure in making
the acquaintance of this lady to know she
is the daughter of so brave a man," said
the captain.

Miss Covenant noticed the flush of pride
that rose in her nephew's face. " I hope
the young lady was well provided for ? "
said she.

She has a considerable fortune at her
own disposal."

Miss Covenant heard this with a sigh
of satisfaction. She said no more then,
but when her father engaged Mr. Tickel
in conversation upon the enthralling subject
of transubstantiation — the captain,
under the belief that it would be interesting
to the parson and instructive to
himself, invariably broached some abstruse
subject of this kind, very much to the
perplexity of Mr. Tickel, and not greatly
to his own educational advantage — she
said in a low voice :

I feel quite interested in Miss Listen
already. Is she pretty, dear ? "

She is lovely ! " answered Blase, ina
tone of fervour.

I suppose she is quite surrounded by
admirers ? "

Not one," said Blase, with much satisfaction
in his voice and manner, " except
myself."

Again Aunt Grertrude sighed and smiled.
Perhaps after all her darling Blase would
not have to risk his precious life in battle,
if this young lady were really worthy to
be his wife. That was a question that
admitted of grave doubts, considering
how splendid a fellow he was — in Aunt
Grertrude's estimation ; clearly Lydia had
not overrated the necessity of being " very
nice indeed," to obtain favour in the eyes
of a critic so biased by affection.

Lydia had scarcely taken off her church-going
dress on Sunday when a knock at

the street door told her the expected
visitors were coral. She opened her door
and listened. First she heard the babble
of Mrs. Eomsey's swiftly flowing voice,
then a low measured murmur which she
concluded was Captain Covenant's, the full
fat tones of Mr. Tickel succeeded, then the
clear, incisive, manly utterance of Blase,
and more babble from Mrs. Romsey's lips,
after which a soft musical ripple that
scarcely rose above the silence was identified
by Lydia with Miss Covenant.
^' That is just the little voice I like," she
said, as she closed the door and hurried
back to her toilet.

The three gentlemen only were in the
drawing-room when she descended, Miss
Covenant having been carried off by
Mrs. Romsey to remove her bonnet
upstairs.

The captain had lost nothing of the
gallantry which was fashionable in his

youth, and he rendered homage to Lydia's
beauty and youth in an elaborate and well-rounded
sentence, which reminded her at
once of "The Drawing-room Compendium;"
but this old-fashioned courtesy harmonized
exactly with the dignity of his bearing,
and the rich, though faded, costume which
he wore. Just such distinguished and
stately-looking old gentlemen, with just
such courtly manners must wait upon
royalty, Lydia conceived ; and it did not
displease this vain young person to be
treated like a princess. She responded to
his address with a natural grace and
dignity that established her at once in the
old gentleman's esteem as a young lady
of good birth and breeding.

Then she rose and turned to face Miss
Covenant, whom Mrs. Eomsey ushered
into the room. The simple little lady,
who for many years had seen no prettier
face than was shown in her own glass, was

for a moment fairly dazzled by the girl's
bewitching beauty. To her natural charms
her dress gave extra grace, especially ina
woman's eye ; for Lydia, after all, had
put on her lovely white dress, despite the
short sleeves and low neck, very wisely
resolving to have nothing to do with " The
Young Ladies' Mentor " or any other artifice,
but to present herself in her natural
character and be judged by her inherent
merits.

Lydia caught in a moment the look of
admiration in Miss Covenant's face, and
smiled very sweetly in acknowledgment.
That smile made her look more charming
and lovable than ever.

She is amiable and good ! " said the
impulsive little lady to herself, carried
away as every one else is by the charm
of physical beauty ; and therewith, instead
of making a formal courtesy, she stepped
forward quickly and held out her two

hands, very much to the astonishment of
her father.

If Aunt Gertrude was impulsive, Lydia
was so likewise ; and so, not content with
taking Miss Covenant's two hands in hers,
she bent forward and kissed her new
acquaintance. The significance of this
warmth was perhaps only known to themselves.


After dinner, when they gathered round
the fire in accordance with Mrs. Romsey's
desire, Lydia got Miss Covenant on the
bergere by her side, and this gave them a
kind of seclusion which both ardently
desired. Then Mr. Tickel, for fear Captain
Covenant might reopen a theological conversation,
broached the subject of Bonaparte's
movements, demanding of Blase
whether any later despatches had been
published. And while the gentlemen
were discussing this matter, and Mrs.
Romsey was watching an opportunity to

turn the talk into a channel where her
voice might be heard, Miss Covenant and
Lydia, in low undertone, carried on a conversation
apart.

What a terrible thing war is," said
Miss Covenant.

Yet how grand. 'Tis like a tempest
that one watches with awe and admiration,"
said Lydia.

Can you watch a storm ? "

I cannot help watching. It is too
sublime to be passed without notice."

I shrink away, not because I am afraid
of the lightning, but because every crash of
thunder seems more terrible than the last,
and my thoughts go out with the poor
souls at sea who lie at the mercy of the
waves. Does not that thought strike you,,
dear ? "

I don't think it does. I always think
how the brave men must exult in making
their boats obedient to their will, and

going steadily on despite all that the
heavens can send against them. If I were
a man I should be a sailor, as my father
was."

"Ah, it is natural to you to be brave.
You inherit courage from your father. I
know not what excuse to make for my own
cowardice, for my father also braved peril.
Perhaps I may attribute m^' want of
courage to want of youth."

I don't believe you want courage. I
don't believe that any woman is cowardly,
really. She would stand between death
and the one she loved as boldly as any
man."

Yes, bat that is so different to the
courage of a man, who can fight when
there's nothing particular to fight for,"
Miss Covenant said gravely.

They fight to protect us — at least they
say they do."

Miss Covenant, on behalf of the thousands

of Austrian and French women at
that moment mourning for the loss of their
protectors, thought that such protection
might well be dispensed with. But she
knew that the reflection was heretical and
unworthy.

I suppose we ought to be glad," she
said sadly, " when we hear that there is to
be a war for our protection, though the
women of our nation can be none the
better off for it in the end ; but somehow
/ am not. When I read in the Gazette of
a regiment leaving England, I think of
the mothers who have watched these men
grow up from little babes, who have wept
and smiled over them, treasured up their
words, cared for them, and taken pride in
their manly strength and promise, and I
wonder if they shall ever again clasp those
dear ones to their hearts."

Miss Covenant's eyes grew moist, and
her voice trembled as she spoke.

It makes one's heart ache to think of
them; and they are not the only sufferers,"
said Lydia, wondering why this maiden
lady should think more of the mothers
than of the wives, whose loss must be
even greater.

'Tis true, dear ; young hearts must
break as well as old." She turned her eyes
towards Blase, and for a few minutes
listened in admiration as he eloquently
and briefly settled the European question ;
then in yet lower tones she said to Lydia :

If my father's object in coming to
London fails, I hope my nephew will
relinquish the intention of being a soldier,
and serve his country in another way. If
he were in Parliament I feel sure he would
be able to overcome the difficulties which
harass the nation ; and what a source of
pride and happiness that would be to all
who love him ! "

Lydia did not know much about politics,

and she knew nothing about Mr. Godwin's
private troubles, so she saw nothing ridiculous
in Aunt Gertrude's supposition that
he would be able to manage the affairs of
the nation to perfection. She thought it
would be very nice to have a house in
London while Parliament was sitting, and
receive the felicitations of great people
upon her husband's admirable statesmanship,
and then at the close of the season to
fly away to some peaceful rural solitude,
and have him all to herself. And already,
despite her abstract bravery, she felt her
heart quake at the thought of Blase being
sent away to be shot at. So she took Aunt
Gertrude's hand, which happened to belying
near hers, and squeezed it for a
reply.

CHAPTER YIII.

IX WHICH ALL GOES WELL FOR THE
PRODIGAL.

In the evening Blase begged Lydia to play
some music, a request with which she at
once complied. Miss Covenant, who herself
played the harpsichord very prettily,
had never before heard a pianoforte, and
she was charmed with the instrument, but
still more with Miss Liston's exquisite performance
of Mozart's requiem. " One must
have very deep feeling to play with such
tender pathos," she thought. Lydia proposed
that they should sing, and having
found a collection of hymns, she selected
some of the best known of those simple,
yet very beautiful compositions, and all

joined in singing them with great delight,
even to the lethargic parson and Mrs. Romsey.
To the latter it was always a great
treat to hear her own voice ; while Mr.
Tickel and Blase were loth astonished by
their own ability, and highly satisfied with
their addition to the general harmony, for
perhaps there is nothing of which men are
so generally vain as their own vocal powers.

Emboldened by his success, the parson
volunteered to sing the bass in Haydn's
Creation " if any one would venture to
support him in the other parts. Owing,
however, to his d — d glasses, as he afterwards
explained to Blase, his performance in
the oratorio was a failure, but his deficiency
was amply compensated by Lydia's charming
rendering of " With Verdure clad,"
and the timidly sweet singing of Miss
Covenant in the solo, " On Mighty Pens."

'' Oh, dearest girl," said Miss Covenant,
the tears of happiness springing in her

eyes as she bent down to kiss Lydia, and
thank her for playing, " Oh, if we only
lived quite close together, and could
join our voices in happy song of Sunday
evenings as we have to-night ! "

The pleasure of this music reminded
Blase that there was to be a performance
of " Elijah " on the following Tuesday at
the concert rooms in Hanover Square, and
without a moment's hesitation he invited
the company to be present at the performance
which was to take place in the
morning, and to dine afterwards with him at
his house — a proposition which was gladly
acceded to by every one but Mr. Tickel,
who, standing in the background, thrust his
hands in his pockets, and said not a word,
but looked at Blase in dismay and pity.

How the deuce you are going to do it
/ don't know," he said to Blase when they
were alone. " We may manage the dinner,
but for half a dozen seats and a couple of

coaches you must have ready money, and
where shall you get that ? You had best
make some excuse and get out of the
oratorio."

Oh, bah ! " cried Blase impatiently.
"Hutchins shall pawn my watches if
necessary."

And the watches were pawned accordingly
on Monday.

Betimes on that day Captain Covenant
with Blase set out for Park Lane ; and Mr.
Tickel conducted Miss Covenant to Piccadilly,
where, in agreement with arrangements
made the previous evening, Miss
Liston and Mrs. Romsey were in readiness
to walk into the City and look at the shops
a trivial amusement, which was as full of
delight to Miss Covenant as to the most
frivolous of her sex.

With little difficulty the house of Sir
Philip Armytage was found ; and on
Captain Covenant giving his name, the

servant cashiered the two gentlemen into a
sitting-room, where shortly afterwards they
were joined by a young gentleman who
announced himself as General Armytage's
secretary, and begged to know how he
might be of service.

I wish to see the General," said
Captain Covenant.

General Armytage is confined to his
bed and forbidden to receive visitors, but
any message you wish to send shall be
delivered," replied the secretary.

Captain Covenant as briefly as possible
explained the object of his visit, and the
claim he believed he had upon Sir Philip's
consideration. This statement the secretary
carried forthwith to the general, and after
an absence of ^yq minutes he returned, and
in very courteous terms said that although
Sir Philip Armytage failed to remember
Captain Covenant, he would do all that lay
in his power, so soon as he should again be

VOL. II. 29

about, to obtain Mr. Godwin's commission,
and would write to Captain Covenant the
moment he had any favourable news to
convey.

This was as much as Blase expected,
but Captain Covenant was greatly disappointed.
He, however, did his best to
conceal his feelings, and to buoy up his
grandson's hopes. He expatiated on the
excellent character of Sir Philip Armytage
wien a young man, and declared that those
qualities, which could only have ripened
and grown stronger by age and service,
must recommend him to the consideration
of the Commander-in-chief, and would certainly
ensure the prompt fulfilment of his
promise.

'Tis but a question of a few weeks
more or less," said he, " and I have no
doubt that I shall receive a letter from my
old companion in arms before the buds on
these trees are expanded into leaves."

It greatly gratified the old gentleman to
see no signs of disappointment or anxiety
in Blase's face. The result of this application
was, indeed, a relief to Blase, for
if by any accident the general had been
able to offer him a pair of colours on the
spot, he, in debt and with no means to
supplement his official pay, would have
been greatly embarrassed to know what todo
with them. He had made up his mind
to marry Lydia, and wilfully blind to the
penalty incurred by his deception, reckless
as to the sacrifice he was making of his own
self-respect, and concerned only with his
present happiness, he saw nothing to regret.

Things seemed to be going right for him.
Even his creditors had been quieter during
the past few days than they had been for
some time previous. He had anticipated a
painful scene with Peggy, but in that he
found himself agreeably in error. The girl
had kept out of his way as much as possible,

and except that she looked thin and
pale, made no sign which could convey the
flattering impression that she still thought
of him.

Poor Peggy ! She had well prepared herself
for the pain she was to suffer. Every
time she thought of him, from the moment
Miss Covenant told her that she was to goto
London, she had said to herself, " I must
not cry. He must never know how I
suffer, or even how I delight." And these-words
she repeated when her heart leaped
as she first caught sight of his handsome-figure
where the coach was to stop, and
again when her father told her that probably
Mr. Godwin would shortly marry a
beautiful and rich young lady, and again
when she heard him carelessly humming
in his closed chamber. She could not huma
tune or forget the past. She never once
looked in his face : she dared not. If she
passed him it was with a quick step, and

eyes fixed straight before her. She never
hngerecl in his Vv^ay now. If she watched
his coming and going, it was from coins
where she knew he could not see her.

Miss Covenant liked to chat with the
girl, and after the evening in Piccadilly,
she told her what a charming lady was
Miss Liston ; and Peggy listened eagerly,
not losing a single word, while jealousy
ate her poor heart away. " What a fool I-
am to love him ! " she said, when he ran
down to breakfast the next morning, laughing
because Hutchins had been unable to
awake him without alarming the whole
house. She, foolish child that she was, had
not slept for thinking of him and beautiful
Miss Liston. "It is madness to think of
him : how can he care for me ? Oh, w^iat
a fool I am." So she had said many a time
before, but the conviction did not help her
to forego her folly. She wished sometimes
that she could die, and forget Blase, but

she never wished for the time to come
when she could return to Redwater, and
suffer less. In those wildly hopeful day-dreams
which broke the dull monotony of
her despair, she used to fancy herself
Lydia's servant in the future, when Lydia
should be Mrs. Grodwin, serving her loyally
and truly, yet loving Blase still ; enduring
still the agony of unrequited love, and
right until the last concealing from all the
world the passionate devotion and hopeless
yearnings that fretted at her heart.

Knowing that her quick wit would
speedily lead her to discover Mr. Godwin's
true position, John Hutchins thought
it advisable to tell her all he knew, and to
warn her against making any allusion to it
in her conversations with Miss Covenant.
"Remember," said he, in conclusion, "that
Mr. Godwin is our benefactor; but for him
I might have been in prison, and you an
outcast in the streets at the present monsieur

; and we are bound in gratitude to
consider his welfare above everything."

Peggy's eyes flashed and the colour rose
in her pale cheeks. She did not fully comprehend
the significance of her father's
warning, but she was indignant to think
that she could be suspected of doing anything
inimical to Mr. Grod win's welfare.
To her he was something far more than a
benefactor, and joyfully she would have
laid down her life for him. " I do consider
his welfare above everything," she said.

The revelation of his pecuniary embarrassment
opened up a new field of speculation
to her, and gave a new turn to her dreams.
Did Mr. Godwin love Miss Liston as fora
few brief hours he had loved her? she
wondered ; or was he about to wed her
merely to free himself from poverty and
obviate the sacrifice which Captain covenant
must make to save him from disgrace
and a prison ? She grew giddy with the

wildest hopes and the wildest jealousy as
she thought of this probability. It was in
her power to prevent him sacrificing himself
to a woman he did not love. A letter
revealing the truth to Miss Listen would
break off the match. But from the meanness
of sending such a letter the girl recoiled.
Then she understood what her
father meant by his appeal to her sense of
gratitude to consider above all things Mr.
Godwin's welfare. But was it not for his
welfare to prevent the marriage he contemplated?
That entirely depended upon
whether he loved Miss Listen. If she were
good and sweet, and he truly loved her,
there was nothing to hope for, but
that they might marry and live happily.
Then the girl dreamed that she was rich as
rich could be, and that she had paid off all
Mr. Godwin's debts, and secretly put him
in possession of all she had, and that then,
free to marry whom he would, he had sought

her out and taken her to his heart, only
at last to learn that she had given him his
freedom. She knew that such dreams were
wild and absurd, but what did that matter ?
To be a little fool was her only happiness,
and she alone suffered in waking to the
reality.

Blase had good reason to think that
things were going well for him, when the
one with the greatest temptation to ruin
his matrimonial project had only such merciful
feelings towards him. But, as Mr.
Tickel sagely observed : " We are more
frequently tripped up by the cursed little
pebbles that we never give a thought to,
than overthrown by the rocks we dread."

CHAPTER IX.

IN WHICH ALL GOES ILL FOR THE PRODIGAL.

It was about five o'clock in the afternoon
when Blase and his friends returned in a
couple of hackney coaches — for the weather
that day was execrable-from the concert
in Hanover Square.

Although not a musician, Captain covenant
had given his most strenuous attention
to the oratorio, and derived from it the
most sublime emotion which a mind carefully
trained to appreciate the expression
of noble and lofty sentiments can experience
; he could not have forgiven himself,
he said, had he failed to appreciate the
beauties of a performance which had won

for the composer the esteem and patronage
of His Majesty King George. More tender
emotions had filled the hearts of Lydia and
Miss Covenant as they Hastened ; indeed
the latter lady had felt more than once an
overpowering sense of ineffable love which
brought tears of joy and happiness to her
eyes. Blase had found exquisite enjoyment
in watching Lydia's rapt face, and Mr.
Tickel and Mrs. Romsey, who towards the
close of the performance had found it rather
difficult to keep their eyes open and
simulate an appearance of interest, were
exceedingly delighted when it was all over.
'Tis just like a sermon," Mrs. Eomsey
declared, her thoughts turning with a feeling
of devout gratitude to that which
usually follows a sermon — dinner.

Therefore it was a very happy group
that gathered by the doorstep of Mr.
Godwin's house as Mr. Tickel applied
himself to the knocker.

Hutchins opened the door; Mr. Tickel,
offering his arm to Miss Covenant, led the
way in.

Will you be good enough to step into
the dining-room, sir ? " said Hutchins ;
there's visitors for my master in the
<lra wing-room . ' '

Mr. Tickel moved towards the diningroom,
which was on the ground floor,
giving a blank look over his shoulder at
Blase.

"Dining-room, nonsense!" cried Blase,
catching sight of a confectioner carrying
in a pile of plates. " The drawing-room if
3'ou please, Mr. Tickel ; I have no friends
whom it will be unpleasant "

I beg your pardon, sir," said Hutchins ;
"the visitors are not your friends. I
believe they have called to see you on a
matter of business."

Business, indeed ! what business have
3'ou to show them into the drawing-room?"

Don't be vexed, dear," interposed Aunt
Gertrude. '' We ladies must go up to my
room, and whilst we are removing our
things you can discharge your affairs."

This arrangement the ladies proceeded
to carry out without further delay.

What excessively unpleasant-looking
men ! " said Mrs. Eomsey in a low voice
as they passed the drawing-room, into
which curiosity had prompted her to cast
an inquiring eye. " But then, to be
sure, men of business generally are."

No ceremony, my dear Blase," said the
captain. " Your affairs must be attended
to. I will sit in the dining-room while
you go up to your visitors."

"There is no necessity for that, sir,"
said Blase, who bv this time had divined
the character of his unbidden guests ;
^^Tickel manages my affairs. You and I
will have a chat downstairs if you have
no objection. Go up, parson, and get rid.
of them as quickly as possible."

'height, Blase, right; and I shall take
the liberty to give that Hutchins a bit of
my mind ! " cried Mr. Tickel wrathfully ;
and then turning to Captain Covenant,
What a plague these servants are, sir,"
he added.

Hutchins was conveniently waiting outside
the door.

Bums ? " was all Mr. Tickel said in a
low tone of expectant interrogation.

Hutchins nodded.

Tipstaff, and a warrant. Couldn't keep
'em out, I suppose ? " continued Mr. Tickel,
ascending the stairs slowly and taking off
his gloves.

Aren't make any fight for it, sir.
"Obliged to take 'em up in the drawing-room,
'cause I expected the confectioner
every minute ; and if he had got wind of
'em, what should we have done for dinner?"

You did quite right ; whose account is
it?"

Eclgebone's, the butcher's. He came
himself with the bailiff, and he's there
now."

Mr. Tickel groaned. "There's no feeling
in a butcher," said he. " Be handy
when I ring the bell, Hutchins, my goodman."



With a brisk step he entered the drawing
room, and as he closed the door he
turned to the men at the other end of the
room, and cried in much astonishment —

What ! Edgebone — my old friend,
Edgebone. How do you do, sir ? "

The two bailiffs rose from their chairs,
but the butcher sat doggedly still, and in
reply to Mr. Tickel's hearty greeting
replied :

I want eighteen pounds three and sixpence,
if you please ! "

What ! only eighteen pounds ; I
thought it was eighty, I am sure. Are
these your friends, Mr. Edgebone ? "

My particular friends : they've come to
see that I get what's clue."

'you don't mean to tell me, my good
sir, that you've given yourself the trouble
of taking out a warrant for this twopenny
halfpenny bill of yours ? "

"I do. Show the gent your warrant,
master bailiff, if he's in doubt''

'' Tut, tut ! What an unnecessary expense.
If you had only called upon mein
a friendly way you should have had
your money without a question." He rang
the bell.

*' The last time I called here in a
friendly way, that young man there" —
pointing to Hutchins, who stood at the
door — " promised to kick me head over
heels in the kennel if I came again, and
slammed the door in my face."

Do you hear that, fellow ? " cried Mr.
Tickel indignantly. " You will ask Mr.
Edgebone's pardon, sirrah."

Don't want no pardons," said the
butcher ; " give me mj money, and we'll
cry quits."

Why, that's spoke like a generous
honest man. Here, fellow, take this key,
and fetch a green pocket-book out of my
escritoire — but first of all fetch me a bottle
of wine to drown all animosity — quick !
There's nothing so contemptible as animosity
; and neither you nor I, Mr.
Edgebone, would be the comfortable man
each is, if we harboured the feeling.
Now, how many children have you, Mr.
Edgebone ? "

Ten," responded the butcher, after
considering whether the promise of payment
justified this amicable advance on his
part.

"Ten, hey! and Mrs. Edgebone still a
fine woman. My heavens, what a healthy
honest woman she looks ; and as good as
she looks, hey ? "

VOL. n. 30

Yes, she's a good un."

'' A heart as tender as your own steaks,
I warrant. And what a bust ! There's
some shape in her: now, what do you
think she'd weigh, Edgebone ? "

Nigh on five-and-twenty stun, carcase
weight, and as sound as a roach ; " the
butcher smacked his thigh in worthy
pride.

Bless my soul ! Well, Mr. Edgebone,
I envy you, and that's the truth, upon my
soul ; but envy shan't prevent my drinking
to your very good health, and to the
increasing charms of your good lady.
Fill up Hutchins, bumpers."

Hutchins, who had brought in the bottle
and glasses, obeyed. " Glasses, too, for
these good fellows," he added, " bailiffs
though they be."

We only does our booty," said the
tipstaff apologetically.

Your duty is not disgraceful," said

Mr. Tickel ; and then looking at the bailiffs
as if he had never seen the Hke before, he
added, " though I had no idea that bailiffs
could look such honest men.

The butcher and the bailiffs, with a
respectful nod to Mr. Tickel, emptied their
glasses at a gulp.

'' Fill up again for Mr. Edgebone and
me," said the parson ; " we will finish this
bottle together. You have daughters, I
suppose ? "

Seven on 'em, and all take after their
mother."

You must introduce me to them,
though, begad, if they're anything like Mrs.
Edgebone, you'll do well to keep your eye
on me. Here's to their good health."

The butcher grinned, emptied his glass,
and smacked his lips approvingly.

Another glass, Hutchins ; the bottle is
not empty yet. And how do sheep go now,
hey, Edgebone ? "

Wus 'an ever, sir. Not an old yeo
but that'll fetch her three - and - four to
three-and-eight."

Bless my soul ! three-and-eight for
yes, hey ? Fill up Hutchins. I'll warrant
a kind Providence sticks a bit of fat
to the bottom of the scale now and then,
hey?"

The butcher burst into a loud guffaw
at this intensely good joke, and laughed
till the tears trickled down his cheeks, ashe
acknowledged that this accidental advantage
occasionally was on his side.
Then he swallowed his wine and smacked
his lips again. Mr. Tickel thought the
time was ripe for action.

Well, now, Edgebone," said he, *' as
we've no further need for the services of
these honest fellows you can send them
about their business, and Hutchins shall
go fetch the green purse, and well finish
the business."

At this descent from pleasure to business
Mr. Edgebone grew suddenly serious.
Putting the glass carefully on the table, he
shook his head, and said firmly —

No ; I won't send these honest fellows
away, neither. Not till the business is
finished. Not me. Oh no."

What, sir ! " cried Mr. Tickel with
much indignation. " Do you suppose
a gentleman will submit to a show of
force ? Do you suppose I will pay by
compulsion ? "

*'If you don't pay by compulsion, I'm
pretty certain you wouldn't pay any other
way. I likes your civility, and I likes your
wine, but I don't like 'em well enough to
make a fool of myself. Oh no. One
word's as good as a hundred ; and I tell
you plainly, sir, those honest fellows, as
you call 'em, won't get my permission to
leave this house until my bill's paid. So
there ! "

Indignant and persuasive by turns, Mr.
Tickel used his eloquence to the utmost,
but in vain. Mr. Edgebone became only
the more stolid and firm by these efforts
to move him. At length the parson
descended to the dining-room, uncomfortably
conscious that the enemy was too
strong for him.

As he got to the foot of the stairs Blase
came from the dining-room, pale with
anxiety.

Look here," said he angrily, in a low
voice, " this must finish. The ladies have
been upstairs half an hour."

'^ 'Tis that plaguey Edgebone, the
butcher. I have done my best, and he
won't go without his eighteen pounds
odd."

What is to be done ? We can't keep
the ladies upstairs any longer. 'Tis
shameful. And the dinner is ready to
be served."

The butcher must have his money.
Have you anything to pawn ? "

Nothing ; my trinkets went yesterday."

The confectioner's man approached.

If you please, sir," said he, " cook says
the fish is spoiling."

Blase replied with an angry gesture,
and, stamping his foot, turned away.

The dinner must be served," said the
parson ; " that turbot must not be spoilt.
Go upstairs, Blase, and write the man a
draft upon Hooker, of Lombard Street."

I have no money there."

No matter ; write the draft ; and while
the butcher goes a wild-goose chasing let
Hutchins go round to Welsh's, Blake's,
Will's, White's, Brooke's — anywhere that
it is possible he may find a friend who will
lend you assistance until tomorrow. If he
gets back before the butcher, all will be well'*

What chance is there of his getting the
money ? "

"• The only one ; and on that chance
depends your honour and happiness.
Don't lose a moment. As soon as you
have written the draft and shoved the
butcher out of the house, send up word
to the ladies and order the dinner to be
served. Think of that turbot ! I will go
in to the captain, and if he asks. Blase,"
he added, returning to Blase and speaking
in a low voice, " I shall tell the old gentleman
that the men upstairs are a deputation
of the parishioners waiting upon you
to stand for churchwarden, so be careful
how you lie when you come down."

It was not until he had carried out these
instructions, and was sitting at the head
of the table with his guests, that Blase
reflected on the consequences of this last
desperate act of folly. Edgebone, the
butcher, was out of the house, certainly,
but the bailiffs remained in the drawing-room
awaiting his return. And return

he would most assuredly, and the climax
must ensue.

Enraged with the trick put upon him,
the butcher would loudly proclaim that
Blase had attempted to put a fraud upon
him. And was it not a fraud that he had
committed ? Blase was uncertain. Even
if the butcher could be kept out of the
house, it was impossible for him to take
his visitors up into the drawing-room.
This fact was evidently obvious to Mr.
Tickel by the manner in which he prolonged
every course. But the dinner
could not be protracted to an indefinite
length ; and what apology could he make
for keeping his company in the diningroom
until it was time for Mrs. Romsey
and Lydia to go home ? After that his
grandfather must know all. Of the possibility
that Hutchins would succeed in
finding any one willing by the mere asking
to send him pecuniary assistance he had

no hope whatever. Friends he had none,
and his acquaintances he had latterly
avoided.

Never had he felt so utterly ashamed
and miserable. The dinner, thanks to Mr.
Tickel's judicious arrangement, was excellent;
Mr. Tickel was in the gayest
spirits. Miss Covenant and Lydia were
still under the charm of the music they
had heard, and Captain Covenant had
sufficient to occupy his attention in listening
to Mrs. Romsey's never-failing
discourse ; but Blase failed to draw consolation
from these facts. It seemed to
him that every one must see his embarrassment,
and be wondering what troubled
him. He dared not look at Lydia ; he
could not look fixedly at any one. He
drank more wine than was good for him,
in the hope that it would give him
courage : it only increased his nervousness.
Then he began to listen for the bell or the

knocker to sound ; and when at length his
ear caught the ringing of the street bell,
his hand shook so that he had to set down
the glass he had taken in his hand.

The waiter came to his side and whispered
that a gentleman wished to see him.

Mr. Tickel, I must trouble you," said
Blase.

The parson, apologising, rose from the
table and left the room.

With a desperate effort Blase said something
intended to be facetious. The joke
fell flat. No one saw the point of it, and
he felt that he was a fool and an idiot.

Mr. Tickel shortly returned, whispered
to Blase, and then said, in suave and
amiable tones :

I feel sure that no apology is needed
for your leaving the table. When I tell
you," he added, looking round the table,
"that an old friend, lately fallen into
distress, claims Mr. Godwin's services, you

will permit him to withdraw for a few
minutes."

Blase mumbled a few-unintelligible
words of apology in addition, and escaped
from the room.

In the hall he found Mr. Phillips.

Thorny to intrude, my dear thir," said
that gentleman ; " but I happened to hear
that you have bailiffs in the loathe,
and I thought you might like a little
athithtanth."

Have you twenty pounds with you ? "
asked Blase.

Tithe twenty, my dear thir."

Then, for God's sake, let me have it."

With all my heart. You've only to
write a little bit of paper and the money
shall be youth."

Follow me," said Blase in desperation,
and he ran upstairs to the drawing-room,
and caught up a pen.

Heareth a bit of paper written all ready

for you," said Mr. Phillips, taking out a
folded sheet from his note-book. " Only
got to fill in your name."

Blase took the paper, sat down at the
table, and dipped his pen in the ink.

Another ring at the bell reached his ear.

Mither Edgebone, the butcher ; " remarked
Phillips, " we're jutht in time for
him."

The pen was dry. With a curse Blase
threw it away, and looked for another.

Heareth a niche pen — always carry
one with me," said Mr. Phillips, producing
a short quill.

Blase wrote his name, and took up the
pounce-box. Mr. Phillips set a roll of
guineas on the table. As Blase was
scattering the powder over the wet ink the
door opened, and Hutchins entered, breathing
quickly with the haste he had made.

Here's the money, sir," he cried eagerly,
setting down a purse before Blase.

Mr. Phillips had his fingers on one edge
of the paper. Blase looked at the purse
for a moment incredulously, then, snatching
the paper away, he cried :

Heaven be praised ! I have no need
of your money, Mr. Phillips ; " and with
that he crumpled up the paper and threw
it on the blazing fire.

CHAPTER X.

THE DEPARTURE OF CAPTAIN Covenant.

The little party broke up late at night, for
with the departure of the bailiffs and Mr.
Phillips went every compunctious sentiment
from Blase's excited mind. He was
exuberantly gay in the drawing-room,
which was rid of the unbidden guests
who had troubled his peace ; and his gaiety
was participated by those about him. It
never once crossed his mind to ask of
Hutchins how and from whom he had
obtained the purse, or to consider that the
loan must be paid off. It was only when
he was alone with Mr. Tickel, after Captain
and Miss Covenant were gone to bed, that
these thoughts were presented to him.

Where on earth did Hatching get the
money ? " asked Mr. Tickel.

I have not the slightest idea. Being
the bell, parson, and we will inquire."

He drew out the purse and counted
what was left in it. In notes and gold
there was over sixty pounds.

"What is the name of the gentleman
who sent me this purse ? " he asked, when
Hutchins responded to the bell.

I have no notion, sir."

You surely know who gave it to
you?

A gentleman I have never seen before.
'Twas in this way, sir. I had been to
White's and Brooke's without finding any
gentleman of your acquaintance ; but at
Will's I found my Lord Brompton, with
young Mr. Bannister, the actor, and two
or three other gentlemen, sitting over a
bottle. I begged the favour of a word
in private with my lord, and told him of

YOur necessity, begging the loan of twenty
Pounds for a fey days. ' Upon my soul,
that's as cool as any demand of yours
Jack cries my lord, turning to the table ;
and then he told them what I had asked.
^ He's a man after my own heart,' says
Mr. Bannister ; ' what's his name ? ' ' Blase
Godwin,' says my lord, ' the son of a
country baronet ; a would-be buck, who,
haYing spent all his money with a reprobate
old parson

There's no need to repeat all these
details," said Mr. Tickel. "My lord was
in liquor, doubtless."

I shouldn't repeat this, sir, but for what
it led to," said Hutchins.

Go on," said Blase ; " finish."

My lord bent OYer the table and spoke
low, so that I couldn't catch what he said,"
continued Hutchins ; " but as he finished a
young gentleman of the company jumped
up, and says he to Lord Brompton, ' You

VOL. II. 31

are in error sir : Mr. Grodwin is incapable
of the conduct you impute to him.'
What do you mean by that ? ' cries my
lord. ' Do you say I lie ? ' 'I say,' says
the young gentleman, 'that Mr. Godwin
had good reason to discontinue playing
with you.' ' Do you imply that I didn't
play the cards fair ? ' asks my lord. ' If
Mr. Godwin's losses were greater than he
could support he was fully justified in
desisting from play. For the rest,' says
the young gentleman, taking out his
pocket-book, * I assert that Mr. Godwin
is incapable of a mean or ungenerous
action, and in support of his honour you
will find me ready at any moment to give
any individual proof you may require.'
With that he lays a card on the table
before Lord Brompton, and, bidding me
follow him, left the house. In the street
he called a hackney coach, and, getting in,
bade me take the seat beside the driver

and instruct him where to go. ' Is your
master alone ? ' he asks, when we stopped
outside the house here. ' No sir,' says I.
^ He has company to dinner which makes
him doubly anxious to get rid of the
bailiffs upstairs.' ' Then,' says he, ' I will
not trouble him with a visit to-day. Beg
him to accept this purse from one who
has no greater desire than to be of service
to him.' And with that he stepped into
the coach, spoke a word to the coachman,
and was driven away as the door opened
to me.

And at the last you did not recognize
him as anyone you have seen here ? "

Not with certainty, sir. I seemed to
know his face, yet I couldn't for the life
of me say where I had seen him. I have
a bad memory for faces. But I should
know his again if I saw it."

'ras I pray devoutly you may not,"
said Mr. Tickel.

'' That will do. You may go to becl^
Hutchins," said Blase gloomily.

What's amiss, Blase ? " asked the
parson. " There's nothing now to make
you look glum."

Nothing — except a sense of humiliation
that you cannot understand."

The descent was not easy for Blase.
Every step brought him into greater
difficulties, and in the midst of his troubles
he had not even the satisfaction of knowing
that he was going in the right direction.
It seemed to him particularly hard
that with the strongest desire to be worthy
of Lydia's love he should be forced unavoidable
contingencies to strip away
the manly virtues which were his best
claim to her affection.

After lunch on the following day Blase
conducted Miss Covenant to Piccadilly,
where she had promised to spend the
afternoon which was to be her last in

London ; and this gave her the opportunity
for which she had dearly longed of having
some private conversation With him.

You cannot tell how delighted I am
that you have such agreeable friends in
this great town, where the absence of
flowers and trees must make the heart
desire human companionship," she began.

Why, you have seen but two of my
friends," said Blase, with a smile.

And is not that enough, dear ? Is it
not better to centre one's affection u^^on
two or even one friend than to divide it
among many ? "

Indeed, I think so."

'' And Miss Liston is so charming "

Isn't she ! " said Blase in a tender tone,
turning his eyes to Aunt Grertrude.

She is so sensible and yet so sweet,
so bright and so good."

And so beautiful."

I suppose I should have mentioned

that first," said Miss Covenant, smiling;
then, with that abruptness which makes
so apparent the artifice of people to whom
artifice is not habitual, she went on with
assumed distress oddly at variance with
the smile that had the moment before lit
up her face, "Do you know, dear, I am
afraid General Armytage will not be able
to get your commission. I feel sure papa's
confidence in him is only assumed. What
icill you do ? "

Ah, what shall I do ? " Blase spoke
with mock solemnity. Aunt Grertrude
looking up into his face found such an
odd twinkle in his eyes that she could not
but laugh though she did her best to look
serious.

"tis wrong to jest about this. Blase
dear," said she. '^ I am sure papa is sadly
disappointed. And I think 'tis that
which makes him anxious to get home
again."

'' I wish it were otherwise, and that you
could stay longer."

So do I, for my own sake and yours ;
there must be so many occasions when I
could be of service to you." Not seeing
her way to follow up this observation at
the present moment, Aunt Gertrude, after
a little pause, continued : " I suppose, dear,
you are beginning to think of some other
career, now that it is almost certain you
cannot be a soldier. Miss Liston agreed
with me, in speaking on this subject, that
it would be a great and good thing if you
went into parliament."

Blase heard this with such evident
satisfaction that Miss Covenant was emboldened
to come to the point without
further delay.

Do you intend to make Miss Liston
your wife ? " she asked.

'' Well, you see, the question is, will she
be my wife ? "

"I think she will say yes," said Miss
Covenant, with a sigh of relief; "I feel
sure that she loves you."

'' Do you ? " said Blase, in a tone which
clearly asked for further information upon
the subject. Miss Covenant with much
pleasure described the observations she had
made which had led to this conclusion,
and did not blush for her treachery in
disclosing all that Lydia had said in their
confidential conversation. It surprised her
to find that despite the eager pleasure
with which Blase listened, his face grew
grave at the conclusion.

She would like anyone who made himself
commonly agreeable," he said ; " but
it is not sufficient that I should love her
and she should like me. She has clear
sense and deep feeling, although she is so
young and inexperienced ; and the man
she will marry she must love and trust
with her whole heart, feeling sure that

she can love no one better. And how
can she feel so towards me, knowing that
all she knows is merely superficial ? "

Aunt Gertrude did not dare to dispute
the conclusions of her admired Blase,
although she felt that a girl's decisions
were generally influenced by her heart
rather than by her head.

She knows your past history, doesn't
she, dear ? " she asked timidly.

In a partial sort of way. Tickel gave
his version of it to Mrs. Romsey ; but you
may be sure that was one-sided."

*' Of course it was. A man cannot seethe
fine points of character that a woman
perceives. That is why I wished, for your
sake, that I could stay in London and
give Miss Listen a truer notion of your
character."

Blase laughed at Aunt Gertrude's misconception,
and at the idea of her speaking
of him impartially.

I think," said he, " that Miss Listen s
wits are quick enough to find out, despite
your praises, that there are many better
fellows in the world than I am."

She couldn't I " cried the little lady
emphatically. "' And you shall prove that
there is no better man than you when the
chance comes for you to show your courage
and the nobility of your nature."

Blase said nothing in reply. He was
thinking what this fond proud soul must
suffer when the truth became known.

Of course nothing should be concealed
from Miss Liston," said Miss Covenant,
after some minutes of reflection ; " I mean
concerning your family relations," she
added, as Blase turned his eyes towards
her with quick suspicion.

Yes, yes, dear," he said. '' Certain
events relative to my poor mother, and to
my last visit to the Moat are unknown to
her. That is a subject upon which I

could not speak freely to a young lady,
still Miss List on should know'

She shall know, if I can find means to
be alone with her; and I dare say, my dear,
that papa will talk to you upon this subject
in the course of the day, for I thought
it right to tell him what was in my mind
when we were together this morning."

And Captain Covenant did speak to-base
in the afternoon when he returned
from the Pictish Museum, whither he had
begged Mr. Ticket to accompany him in
the hope of profiting by his learning.

My dea]^ hoy," he said, " Gertrude tells
me that she has reason to know that your
feeling towards Miss Listen is warmer
than that of mere friendship ; is it so ? "

"Indeed it is, sir; I love Miss Listen
with all my heart."

I am very glad to hear it, and I congratulate
you upon your choice. I do not
know that I have ever seen a young lady

more graceful in manner, more charming
in personal appearance, or better suited by
birth and education, to be the wife of my
grandson ; and it would therefore give me
great pleasure to render any service in
your behalf, which honour, or etiquette
to use a new but explicit word — demands."
The old captain, speaking with
some constraint, continued : "In my time
it was customary for the near relative of
a suitor to demand a lady's hand for him ;
but the habits of polite society have so
altered in the last thirty years that this
formality may be no longer necessary ;
nevertheless there are events intimately
connected with your history, which, painful
as it may be to disclose them, and
much as I desire to avoid their revelation,
should be known by Miss Liston before
she is asked to take your name."

Blase, who had been listening with his
eyes upon the floor, looked up at his

grandfather, wondering if there was any
revelation to make of wliicli lie was ignorant.
The set expression upon Captain
Covenant's face showed him that the subject
was distasteful to him, and that he
approached it only from a sense of duty.

'Twould be premature, I think, sir,"
said Blase, " to mention the affair at present."


That is my opinion also," Captain
Covenant said in a tone of relief, " for
how can you ask the young lady to be
your wife whilst it is still uncertain that
you will be able to marry her? 'Tis too
early to despair of obtaining your commission,
and you cannot choose a second career
until the first is definitely abandoned."

Blase must have looked very wretched
at this moment, for the captain's voice
dropped to a tone of tender sympathy as,
laying his hand on his grandson's arm, he
said :

I know how Wearying this delay is
to you ; it would be to any young man of
spirit. I have seen in your face more than
once in the last few days signs of care
and anxiety, which are fully explained by
the hopes held out by love and ambition
that can neither be relinquished nor encouraged.
Such a condition of uncertainty
is not to be borne with patience ; it would
be unreasonable to prolong it indefinitely.
Come, let us be practical and put a period
upon your endurance. We are half through
February ; if by the end of March the
prospect of obtaining the colours are no
better than at present, we will abandon
the hope altogether. What do you say to
that, my boy ? "

It is very reasonable," said Blase,
gloomily ; for every word and act of kindness
made him feel his own unworthiness.

I have it in my mind," said the captain
cheerfully, ^'to beg the two ladies to

-visit US in the spring. By the second
week in April we may hope that the
woods will be beautiful with primroses
and anemones, and then would be a very
proper time for you to make your declaration
to Miss Liston."

'• 'Tis prodigious kind of you, sir."
I have no greater pleasure than to layout
schemes for your welfare, my boy ;
the idea of your marrying has not escaped
me, though I have concealed my thoughts
on that subject from Grertrude, because
naturally her hopes tend in that direction,
and if she thought that I forwarded them
she would raise a thousand objections to
your being a soldier. 'Tis a hard matter
at the best to make her admit that your
honour is of more importance than your
happiness, and in her heart she disbelieves
what she is forced to profess. Of course
you know what my feelings are in that
respect. Blase."

There was something in his voice and
manner that led Blase to doubt whether
the old captain's feelings were entirely
what he himself tried to believe they were.
All his life he had made it his duty to like
what was right, and often in good faith
he professed to be following his inclinations,
when in truth he was being guided
by principle.

To see you a soldier is my first wish,"
continued Captain Covenant ; " for the
noblest thing a man can do is to offer his
life in the protection of his king and his
country. But if I may not live to see you
famous as a soldier, I may hope to see you
in the enjoyment of domestic happiness.
That is Gertrude's dream ; and it has been
mine also, when I have felt the winter
evenings long, and the house has seemed
unusually empty and silent. At these
times. Blase, I have thought — always
supposing that you did not obtain your

commission — what joy it would give me to
see you the master of Seawater. At
Christmas some village children came to
the house singing carols ; Gertrude had
them in the house — you know her passion
for children — and gave them cake and
wine. They were only the children of
common folks, but you have no idea, Blase,
how sweet the young voices sounded in
the old house ; and since then more than
once I have found myself longing to hear
the pleasant sounds again. 'Tis a silly
fancy, mayhap, but such voices are what
the old house seems to want."

Blase murmured a few words of acquiescence,
and then was silent, wondering
what under current of thought ran through
his grandfather's mind.

And there are improvements to be
made on the property," pursued the
captain, " which I am too old to undertake,
which require modern notions and youth-vol.

II. 32

fill energy for the proper carrying out. I
can only keep it as it was, but you might
make it what it should be. And 'tis high
time these improvements were made. I
walk over the house sometimes conscious
that something is wanting, that there is
need of something which I cannot supply.
Nothing has altered in the last fifty years,
and yet the rooms never before seemed to
be so dull and cheerless. I was impelled to
alter the regularity of the furniture one
day, and, upon my honour, the effect of it
having been recently used by visitors gave
the room a more cheerful aspect. These
senile fancies will make you laugh, my
boy."

Indeed, sir, they will not," replied
Blase, who felt more inclined to cry at this
picture of the old gentleman's solitude.
'Tis natural that people with loving hearts
should find solitude intolerable."

"That is what has struck me in respect to

poor Gertrude, Blase. I have my resources
my coins, my books, and my affairs; but
she has little to occupy her thoughts, and
they must dwell almost continually upon
the outer world. But she never murmurs.
'Tis in the nature of such women to bear
their regrets and unsatisfied yearnings
patiently. When the weather is fair she
goes into the village and interests herself
in the cares of the village folks ; but
between them and her there is only the
bond of simple humanity. The tastes of
these unlettered people are not hers ; and
then, again, women have such strong
family feeling. It is necessary that there
shall be some mingling of blood for their
relations with other women to be perfect.
They are not capable of friendship in the
sense that we men understand it, at least
so my observations lead me to suppose.
And so, my boy, I have been thinking —
though I beg you to say nothing of it

to Gertrude until it is absolutely certain
that a military career is impossible of
attainment — I have been thinking, that
instead of holding the house at Redwater
until I am called away by our Heavenly
Master, I would put it in your possession
on the day of your marriage, to the end
that I might see with my living eyes
the fulfilment of the visions I have
seen in imagination."

"Oh, sir ! " cried Blase, and he could
say no more.

'Tis my dearest wish — next, of course,
to your taking arms — that I should see you
in the possession of Redwater ; a wish
which I fear I have unduly encourage-ed cons

CD

ordering the secondary importance in your
welfare of that I desire. 'Tis part of that
second childishness of which our great poet
speaks, to think of one's own happiness
before all other, and to turn to those about
us for love in our helplessness. The old

house must be yours sooner or later ; and
if you are to lead a domestic life 'tis to my
own interest that you should take it at
your marriage, that for the few remaining
years of my life my eyes may be blessed
by the sight of happy faces, and my ears by
the pleasant sound of young voices. And
so if in the spring you make Miss Liston
your wife, I hope you will gratify my
desires, and make Seawater your home."

The response of Blase is not worth
writing down, being made up of broken
sentences and unintelligible words of
gratitude.

In the evening the two gentlemen went
to the little house in Piccadilly, where they
found Miss Covenant and Lydia alone in
the drawing-room. A severe headache,
and other painful symptoms of a disordered
digestion, which Mrs. Romsey attributed
to a cold taken in the concert room, had
compelled that good lady to go to bed

early in the morning, and there, at the
entreaty of her niece, she had stayed all
day, to the great secret satisfaction of Miss
Covenant and Lydia also. Lydia was
sitting before her tambour-frame, and
when Blase, who pretended to take great
interest in the progress of the work she
was doing, drew his chair near to look at
it, she said :

I have been working all day ; don't
you think I have done a great deal ? "

That is clear."

And the colours — do you like them ? "

They are perfect."

You great goose ! Why, I have done
only that tiny piece, and 'tis all wrong ! "
she said, laughing, " and I wonder I have
done so much," she added in a low voice,
considering how my heart and soul have
been given to that dear little lady over
there."

It seemed to Blase that there was more

tenderness in Lydia's eyes this evening
than he was accustomed to find there.

As this was Captain Covenant's last
visit, Mrs. Romsey, despite her indisposition,
came down to say good-bye, and the
captain then formally invited the two
ladies to come to Seawater in the middle
of April, and stay there as long as they
found it agreeable.

Lydia accepted joyfully. " I begin to
hunger for green fields," she said. Mrs.
Romsey accepted also, only making the
proviso that it should please heaven to
spare her until that time, for like most
robust people she regarded the slightest
ailment of her own as the beginning of a
fatal illness.

At nine o'clock the next morning
Captain Covenant and his daughter, with
her maid, took their places in the Exeter
coach. Early as was the hour, Lydia was
at the starting place with Blase and Mr.

Tickell, to bid her dear new friend farewell.
Both were tearful, as affectionate
friends must be on such occasions ; but
they did their best to look cheerful when
the coach began to move, as indeed everyone
else did except the little maid who sat
beside Aunt Gertrude ; and as no one gave
a look or a thought to her, why should she
make a show of hiding her dejection ? Her
heart might break, but not a tear would
fall in pity.

In two months," said Aunt Gertrude,
waving her hand ; then all nodded in
acquiescence, for each was thinking what
might happen at the end of that time.

CHAPTER XI.

IN WHICH BLASE DISCOVERS HIS BENEFACTOR.

In two montis," thought Blase, as he
walked homewards after leaving Lydia at
her house. " Shall I be able to keep up
the deception so long ? "

It seemed exceedingly doubtful.

You'll have to finish the business
before a couple of months, my young
friend," Mr. Tickel had said to him the
night before, when they returned from
Piccadilly. " There was a pretty business
in the house whilst you and Captain
Covenant were chatting this afternoon.
If there was one there was a dozen greasy
tradesmen came, and every one with the

same cry of taking out a writ. They've
heard how Edgebone got his money, and
they'll take the same means of getting
theirs. This is that Jew money-lender's
work, and one of two things must be done :
either you must accept the Jew's terms, or
you must marry Miss Liston at once."

Two months ! Two weeks, two days,
two hours even, might not pass before he
was haled off to the debtors' prison. " At
this very moment," thought he, as he
knocked at his door, " the bailiffs maybe
waiting within to lay their hands on
me."

And it looked greatly as if this supposition
was to be verified, to judge by the
excitement in the face of Hutchins as he
opened the door.

A visitor to see you, sir, upstairs," said
the man, speaking in a loud voice, but
making gestures of caution at the same
time.

A constable ? " asked Blase, in the firm
voice of a man prepared for the worst.

No, sir," Hutchins dropped his voice,
"the gentleman who sent you the purse
t'other day."

He ? "

'• Him, sir. But he bade me say nothing
of that to you."

Here was a new surprise. For what
purpose had this unknown friend come if
not to reclaim the money he had lent ?

Is Mr. Tickel with him ? "

"No, sir. I have not seen Mr. Tickel
since he left home with you."

Mr. Tickel had wisely excused himself
on the plea of business when the coach had
started, and left Blase alone with Lydia.
He was now in a coffee-house.

Blase slowly ascended the stairs, not a
little perplexed as to how he should meet
his mysterious visitor. He opened the
drawing-room door.

A gentleman was seated, with his back
to" the door, before the fire reading; his hat
and cane lay on a chair near. As Blase
closed the door the gentleman rose and
faced him. Blase stopped in his advance,
and stood as if petrified.
His visitor was Genius.
Blase recognized him instantly, though
he had seen him but once since he had
come to manhood, and then only for a few
moments. But independent of the strong
likeness existing between him and Father
Dominick, the face of Eugenius was sufficiently
remarkable to make an impression
upon the mind of a merely casual observer.
The meagre long jaws, the prominent chin,
the straight cut mouth, the long hooked
nose, which formed with his retreating
forehead an almost unbroken curve, the
deep-set eyes with their odd half-developed
eyebrows, these were features which, under
the shadow of a cowl, would have realized

one's Idea of an ascetic monk, but which
looked strangely at variance with a modern
peruke and the habit of a gentleman about
town.

Laying the book upon the table, he
stepped forward and stood before Blase,
with his hand extended, precisely as he had
stood when they last met at Godwin's Moat.
Blase wished with all his heart that he
could treat him now as he had treated him
then, for his first feeling was of strong
aversion to the son of the man to whom
he attributed his father's ruin and his own.
But both reason and gratitude called upon
him to overcome his unjust, though natural
prejudice. For a moment he stood irresolute,
his will swaying between the opposing
forces of like and dislike, and then
his generous feelings predominating he
took the hand which Eugenius had kept
extended, as he watched the varying expression
in Blase's face.

I will not attempt to conceal my
knowledge of your generosity," said Blase.
"I am aware that 'twas you who placed
your purse at my disposal."

That is evident," said Eugenius, in a
phlegmatic tone. " You would not have
given me your hand but for the sentiment
of gratitude."

Blase was glad to get his hand away
from the cold, tenacious fingers of his
visitor. He knew not what to say. He
would have been glad to pay off his debt
and finish the interview at once, but that
was impossible.

Sit down," he said, approaching the
fire.

With priestly humility Eugenius stood
until Blase was seated, and then took a
chair at some distance apart. With the
same air of submission he waited for Blase
to speak, which was embarrassing, since
Blase was entirely at a loss for words.

"Yon have rendered me a great service,"
Blase said at length, in desperation. " But
upon my life I don't know how I am at
present to repay you."

I trust you do not think that I came
here with any mean hope, Mr. Godwin,"
said Eugenius, in a tone of remonstrance.

No. That was a slip of the tongue
that I beg you to pardon. The precautions
you took to keep your service secret proves
that you had no mercenary motive. And
my fellow told me how you defended my
name at Will's, that is sufficient to show
that you are kindly disposed towards me.
But the fact is, I do not know — that is,
I shall be much obliged if you will tell
me what motive you had in paying me

this visit, Mr. "

"I call myself Mr. Eugenius," said the
young man humbly, bowing his head as
if to conceal his shame in having thus
to own himself a bastard.

Poor wretch," thought Blase, " 'tis no
fault of his that he is of such birth."

My object in coming here, Mr.
Grodwin," continued Eugenius after a
pause, " is twofold — to free myself from
undeserved reproach, and to render you
assistance. Will it trouble you to listen
to an explanation of the cause from which
these desires so separate from my material
advantage sprang ? "

'' On the contrary, sir, I shall listen
with much interest."

From the time I became capable of
understanding the brutal jokes and innuendoes
of the villagers and the servants
about the Moat, I have recognized the
shame of my birth. My mother and Sir
Gilbert have not been able to cheat me
into the belief that I am their legitimate
son — even though sell-love and ambition
made me eager to credit the assertion. I
am a bastard, and I know it. My voice,

my face, my very finger nails," he
stretched out his hands as he spoke,
proved me to be the son of Father
Dominick. This knowledge crushed my
pride, and made me shun all communication
with the world outside my home. I felt
that I was a branded impostor for all
honest men and women to scorn. At times
my soul rebelled against the cruel hardships
I was forced to bear ; I felt disposed
to quit this home and seek to make my
independence abroad. But my crushed
spirit was not equal to the necessary effort
of breaking the ties of affection which
pound me to my affectionate mother and
Father Dominick. I joined my father —
for I acknowledge him, though he, for my
mother's sake, refuses to acknowledge me
I joined him, Father Dominick, in studies,
and books supplied the place of friends.
With them I forgot to think of myself,
and could blind my conscience to the
VOL. II. 33

future. News was circulated freely at the
Moat that you were a gamester, a spendthrift,
I know not what; and it was
prognosticated that soon you would come
to your father for forgiveness and money.
Then the hope came to me that if you had
committed grave faults you would have
compassion on me, suffering also for a
fault. Sir Gilbert said he should give you
part of the Moat to live in, and treat you
as his first son should be treated, and I
thought that I might serve you as a
younger brother, and obtain, if not your
affection, at least your tolerance and
sympathy. You came, and I was first
to meet you. You refused to take my
hand, and I felt as if no hope were left
to me."

Poor wretch ! " again thought Blase,
looking with compassion upon Eugenius,
who sat silent with his head bowed.

'that rebuff, Mr. Godwin," continued

Eugenius, '' made an impression upon my
mind that study could not efface. I saw
you constantly as I saw you when you
refused to acknowledge me — standing
against the light like a giant whose path
had been stopped by a presumptuous
pigmy — for indeed, sir, you did seem
actually to tower over me in your indignation.
Let that pass. Shortly afterwards
I heard that inquiries were being
made in the neighbourhood concerning
your relations with Sir Gilbert. The
inquirer was a Jew ; and from him I
learnt that you intended raising money,
if possible, on your future estate ; and I
also discovered how little likelihood there
was of your obtaining money from him.
I resolved then that I would go to London
and seek you out, and offer what help was
in my power. I do not wish to conceal
that an ardent desire to obtain your
sympathy, if not your affection, was at

the bottom of my wish to help you. On
the plea that I required recreation I left
the Moat, taking with me all the moneys
I possessed. For weeks I sought you in
vain. At the gaming • houses they spoke
of you as of one who had ceased to be, and
I might ere this have given up my quest,,
but that one night I saw you in a theatre.
It was Drury Lane. I was in the pit and
nearly opposite the box in which you sat ;
but your attention was too much occupied
to notice me. After the performance I
tried to follow you. You passed me at
the entrance, but a lady was on your arm,,
and I could not speak to you. In the
street, as I was following your carriage, I
was struck down by a horse and narrowly
escaped being run over. I saw no more
of you ; but I was encouraged to seek
again. Concluding that your tastes were
theatrical, I consorted with players, and
it was whilst I was in the company of Mr

Bannister that I heard of your necessity.
Through your servant I discovered where
you lived, and having waited until I
thought the obligation I had the o'ood
fortune to render you was gone from your
recollection, I ventured to call upon you,
for I desired to win, if possible, your
consideration and sympathy by an appeal
to your generosity rather than to your
gratitude''

With this peroration Eugenius concluded,
and put Blase once more in the
perplexing condition of having something
to do without knowing how to do it. He
was not at all disposed to open his arms
and embrace Eugenius ; he did not feel
that he could even shake his hand heartily.
But this repugnance arose from some
inner feeling, and not from any distrust
aroused by the recital he had listened to.
There was nothing but what seemed
reasonable and rio-ht in that. The motives

Eugenius professed to have could not be
called in question since, as lie had said
they were so clearly apart from his
material interests. He saw nothing im-natural
or strained in the avowed principles.
It was an age of false sentiment, but, for
that age, the " confession " of Eugenius
seemed unstudied and particularly free
from artificial embellishment. Blase was
ashamed that he could not respond without
reluctance to this appeal to his
generosity.

I beg you to believe," he said, forcing
himself to speak, " that I sympathize with
your misfortunes, and that if it is in my
power to do more than repay your disinterested
service in my behalf "

"It is in your power," Eugenius said
interrupting him. " You can make me
your debtor by giving me that which is
incomparably more to me than the guineas
I have to offer you."

"I am dull, Mr. Eugenius; will you tell
me what it is I can give you ? ''

Your friendship."

I cannot command my emotions," said
Blase uneasily ; " and it were hypocrisy
to pretend a feeling which, to speak
truly, is absent from my heart. Friendship
is a sentiment of slow growth with
me.

As all things that are to live must beat
all times. I ask you to give me the
consideration that I deserve, and I do not
doubt that in time I shall earn your entire
affection. I am confident of the future if
you weill have but the patience to put my
fidelity to the test. Make me your companion,
your servant, if you will ; and if
you find me undeserving even of a servant's
place, dismiss me at the moment
as you would a faithless servant. Nay,
more, Mr. Godwin, suffer me to be near
you only while my services are indispensable,

and you will find that for a better
reason you will desire to keep me by
you afterwards;'

A peremptory knock at the door below
gave force to the latter part of this argument.
With a bailiff demanding admission
to the house it would have been, to say
the least of it, unreasonable to refuse
friendship to a man who desired nothing
better than to help him out of his difficulties.


Be it so," said Blase, and he gave his
hand in token of amity.

Eugenius rose to take the offered hand,
and with an air of profound respect bowed
over it in silence ; then raising his head,
he said —

*now, Mr. Godwin, I will pay your
creditors as they come until my little store
is exhausted."

It would have been much better " said

Mr. Tickel, when he heard of this arrangement,
" if he had given you a lump sum
down, and gone back to the country."
And so thought Blase.

CHAPTER XII.

3111. Ticket TAKES HIS Young FRIEND TO
TASK.

During the three weeks that followed,
Eugenius was constantly with Blase. He
paid the creditors who came to the house ;
he paid the tavern scores and hackney
coachmen when they went out. He was
indispensable to Blase, and yet there was
not a day passed but that Blase wished
him at the other end of the earth. He
was Blase's old man of the sea ; there
was no shaking him off. Eugenius was
merely carrying out the contract Blase had
accepted.

I can't tell why I hate that man's

said Blase, speaking to Tickel one night
after Eugenius had left the house.

'• Nor I neither," replied the parson.
He has paid off a dozen bills at the least.
Unfortunately they are only the small
debts ; I only hope the large accounts
may come in before he takes offence at
your treatment of him, and leaves you to
pay them yourself. He must have the
temper of a saint to stand, as he does, your
short words and sour looks. He never
reproaches you by a single word."

I should like him better if he did. I
should have some sort of respect for him
if he would turn round like a man, and
say — Look here, I'll not stand this treatment
from you. But all he does when I
feel mad with anger, is to fold his hands
and bow his head."

That is the resignation of a Christian."
Then hang me if I like Christians."
He is well read," continued the parson,

in meek expostulation. " He has wit
enoiigli to see a joke, and lie's not too wise
to laugh at it. He is not a fool, lie knows
good wine from bad ; he plays the music
very prettily, and there's a certain charm
in his conversation which everyone appreciates
save you."

Granted that in all externals he is to
be admired, there must be an underlying
cause for my dislike. 'Tis an instinctive
antipathy, like that which all have for
reptiles. Why do you hate a snake ? Its
form is perfect, its skin is beautiful, its
movement is graceful ; and the only reason
you can give for loathing the snake is —
because it is a snake. Why should I hate
this man Eugenius but for the same intuitive
knowledge of evil ? 'Tis not in
nature for a man to turn in hatred against
the friend who has helped him."

Humph ! " said the parson, opening his
snuff-box. " I am not so certain of that,
my young friend."

Blase thrust his hands in his pockets,,
and stretched out his legs, frowning at their.


As for your instinctive reptile loathing
theory," continued the parson, after taking
his pinch, " the antipathy is not sufficiently
general to be taken as a positive
fact. For example, I have no instinctive
dislike to Mr. Eugenius, especially when
he's for a bottle ; nor do I think," he
added, quietly looking aslant at Blase,
that any strong feeling of repugnance
is shown towards him by the ladies in
Piccadilly. 'Tis a thousand pities you
can't play the music. Blase, though I
doubt if you're not too big for a graceful
player at the piano ; it wants someone
thin, and hollow-eyed, to arouse a tender
sympathy."

Blase drew his legs up with an angry
jerk, and taking a hand from his pocket
rested his chin in his palm, and his

elbow on his knee, glaring steadily into
the fire.

And I wish to the Lord, Blase, instead
of singing about Polls, and Sues, and
Jacks, and Bent, and all this Dibdin
rubbish of bullets and dacca-boxes, you
would get hold of some il los, or madre
cV amors, or some such Italian trash, for it's
ten times more agreeable to the fair sex.
Who on earth but you would sing about
Tapping stairs, and mending breeches,
before delicate ladies ? and then to roar
the thing as if you were proud of it is
barbarous. It might pass if you could
squeak it out in a little high voice, with
a run here and a shake there, to make the
words less distinguishable. Now Eugenius
might sing you a dozen such songs, and
for the life of you you couldn't tell \^iat
one of 'em was about. Last night for
instance "

I ought never to have let him enter

that house," Blase said, cutting short Mr.
Tickel's illustration.

And I warrant you wouldn't if you
could have helped it. How could you
refuse to introduce him when you had
promised him friendship, and taken his
money. But I wish you could have fobbed
him off, with all my heart ! There would
have been none of this natural antipathy
if you had kept him out of that house."

Good heavens ! " exclaimed Blase, with
a brusque laugh, " Do you think I am
jealous of the fellow ? Do you imagine
I dislike him because his singing and
playing happens to please Miss Listen and
her aunt?"

"' I do," Mr. Tickel said emphatically.

Then I beg to assure you that you are
in error. I have a better opinion of myself
and Miss Listen than to fear that such a
man as Eugenius can usurp my place in
her regard."

More fool you."

You had better leave the room if
you can't hold your tongue," Blase said
angrily.

I shan't leave the room, Blase, and
I shan't hold my tongue, and 1 shan't
be mealy-mouthed neither. If you detest
Eugenius for his complaisance you shan't
have cause to detest me for the same
reason. A man doesn't stand upon
ceremony when his friend's a drowning,
but takes the readiest means to save him,
no matter how rough they be. And I tell
you that if you let a foolish feeling of
pride blind you to your danger, you're a

fool, and a d d fool into the bargain.

There ; if strong language will awake you
to a sense of your peril my turn is
served."

How much has Eugenius paid on my
account ? "

"A couple of hundred at the outside.

'Tis the little gnats, and not the great
hornets, that plague us."

Good heavens ! to think that for a
petty sum like that I should be the slave
of a man I hate ! Are there no means of
raising a couple of hundred, that I may
pay him off?"

None that I know of, short of going
on the road ; and if you paid him off, that
would not get you out of your dilemma."

What will ? "

I'll tell you, my young friend. Just
rouse yourself out of this surly humour
you have fallen into of late ; for 'tis that
will bring you to grief."

"What does it matter whether my
humour is surly or otherwise ? "

Everything. In the first place, it may
cost you the support of Mr. Eugenius, for,
failing to derive any satisfaction from such
a friendship as you show for him, he may
naturally decline to continue the friendship

VOL. II. 34

lie at present shows for you. You must
admit 'tis a precious bad bargain for him
just now."

Well, supposing I lose him ? " said
Blase, in a tone which signified that he
could support the loss with complacency.

The next thing would be that you
would lose Miss Listen."

Blase started, and looked at the parson
for explanation.

'' I don't profess to know much about
the fair sex," continued Mr. Tickel, " sofar
as genteel young misses are concerned ;
but I know very well that, was I in Miss
Listen's place, and were called upon to
choose between you and Mr. Eugenius, I
shouldn't hesitate a moment in accepting
him ; for, while he does his utmost to make
himself interesting and agreeable, you do
your utmost to show the unamiable side
of your character. At one time you were
lively and gay ; now you are sullen and

morose. You were absolutely rude to her
t'other night."

"When?"

When you were sitting* by her side
at the piano turning over the music, and
she asked Eugenius to sing the duet with
her. You got up from your seat, and
turned your back on the piano."

You don't suppose I would play the
lacquey for his amusement ? "

That is precisely what you did do ;
for undoubtedly he found more amusement
in being alone with Miss Liston than if
you had remained, and I know nothing-more
distinctive of a lacquey than rudeness
to those who are not in a position to resent
the affront." Mr. Tickel took a vigorous
pinch of snuff, as if he were conscious of
having said a right and manly thing.
^' You give more of your time, and all your
gossip, to Mrs. Romsey," he continued.
^' Xow, look what madness that is. Blase.

It gives your rival a chance of displaying*
his airs and graces, and forces Miss Listen
to attend to them ; and 'tis clear to ni}^
eyes, if it is not to yours, that she finds
more pleasure in his society now than she
did when you first introduced him. I
don't think she liked him at all for
the first week, but I am sure she does
now."

'Tis pique'"

Call it what you will, the effect's the
same. Now, how must this end ? "

I haven't troubled myself to think."

*' That is your fault. You never do
think how things are to end, and thus
have arisen all your troubles. I'll tell you
how it will end. His patience worn out,
Eugenius will tell you that, as he finds
it impossible to make himself agreeable
to you, it will be best to give up the-attempt."


"Good."

^' He will tell Miss Listen why he can
no longer visit them as your friend."

'' Good again."

'' To exonerate himself from blame, he
may explain what pains he has been at to
secure your affection."

"Do you think he would be mean
enough to tell them of the money he has
lent me ? "

I don't see why he should conceal it.
He will have no reason to be silent out
of love for you. I should out with everything
was I in his place ; then over you'll
go, and there'll be every likelihood of his
stepping in your shoes."

Oh, she could never marry such a
fellow as that," cried Blase.

Why not ? You hope she will marry
you."

Do you see no difference between him
and me ? " Blase asked haughtily.

Yes, and for your sake I wish I saw

less," retorted the iniclaunted parson. " Let
us compare yoii impartially. You have a
straight, good forehead, a pair of devilish
handsome eyes when you're in fair humour,
an aquiline nose, a pretty mouth, a fine set
of teeth, a splendid chest, and as neat a
leg as I wish to see. You are fairly
educated, not particularly wise, and excellent
company when things go right.
You have a warm, impulsive disposition,
the physical courage of a hull-dog, and
the moral weakness of a woman who,
by reason of a too sensitive affection,
shrinks from a duty that would give
pain ; and that's about all I can say for
you."

And enough, too. Half-a-crown could
win no higher praise from a fortuneteller."


Unfortunately, about half of your
virtues are hidden from Miss Liston. She
sees only that you are a fine, healthy

specimen of an Englishman, who can make
himself confoundedly unpleasant if it suits
him. Now for Eugenius. He is not
absolutely ugly or deformed. He has a
countenance with what Mrs. Eomsey calls
character ' in it. There is an intellectual
expression in his face which is rather
wanting in yours, my young friend. AVith
those deep-sunk eyes, and lantern jaws,
and thin flexible lips, he might be a saint
or the veriest conspirator that ever plotted
the destruction of a State ; and this uncertainty
gives a fascination and interest
to his features. He has a pretty knowledge
of music, and can talk you into-silence
upon art and poetry. What his
inner feelings are it is impossible to say,
for he has the art, which is entirely wanting
in you, of concealing what he feels.
I don't think the Inquisition would have
racked much out of him if he had lived in
the good old times and been subjected to

question. And 'tis this resignation and
calm submission under your obvious ill-treatment
which gives him the air of a
martyr. Girls like martyrs. He takes
care that Miss Liston shall see all his
good qualities, and I shouldn't be surprised
if he lacks some of those he affects
to have.

There you are both. Now, which is
Miss Liston to choose? If she were
merely a pretty girl, I should say she
would choose you ; but I take it she has
too much sense to marry a man merely
because he is handsome. There's a wonderful
deal of teachings about that girl,
as I warned you at first — ambition, right
feeling, self-respect, and all that sort of
thing ; and, more than that, she has a clear
sense that her life will not end on the day
of her marriage, but begin, and that as it
begins so it must continue ; at least, so I
gather from my observations and Mrs.

Romsey's remarks. Girls of lier kind are
societies shy in taking handsome men.
They have reason to know that they are
not so dependable as the ugly ones.
Happily, she has had no experience; but
still she may have a notion that yon will
become fat and heavy in middle life, and
rather a dull companion ; while, on the
other hand, she may safely reckon on
Eugenius keeping slim and spiritual. She
may find, in his thin face and spare habita
kind of beauty that goes deeper than her
eyes. She may believe him capable of
gratifying her ambition, her religious
instincts, her intellectual aspirations "

Have done, parson," cried Blase.

Mr. Tickel folded his hands on his
stomach, and was silent.

"You are right," continued Blase.
"With her sentiment and her inexperience
she might yield to the fascination of such
a man. But how am I to stay her from

such an awful mistake, for, by the Lord
I feel that he is not true ? "

"Take the advice I gave you at the
beginning of this long talk — lay aside
your sullen humour. Put your pride in
your pocket. Leave pique for girls to
play with. Show a bright face, an amiable
disposition, a gay heart to Miss Liston ;
try to ]make her laugh instead of doing
your best to make her cry. Eclipse the
sickly glimmer of Eugenius by your own
manly lustre. Treat him, as you treat
me, so that he cannot quarrel with you —
laugh at him. Make fun of his sentiment,
and his lackadaisical melancholy."

Good God ! " cried Blase. " How can
I act the part ? I have no more turn for
strategy than this poker. How can I
banter and be on laughing terms with
Eugenius when I am longing to have
him out on the grass with my sword
against his ? and how can I be gay before

her when I feel so cursedly ashamed of
myself that I could fling myself out of
the window to put an end to my falsehood?
]Neo, parson, I've come to the end
of my skill as a trickster."

The parson said nothing in reply ; he
sighed heavily, and shook his head as
with raised eyebrows he looked into the
fire.

*' More work for poor old Tickets''
thought he.

CHAPTER XIII.

OF A STRANGE DISCLOSURE WHICH LED TO
A SEPARATION BETWEEN BLASE AND
Eugenia.

It struck Mr. Tickel that it would be well
to get as many bills paid as possible before
there came about a rupture of the relations
between Blase and Eugenius ; so on his
way to Will's the next morning, lie called
in upon the tailor, to whom Blase owed
sixty or seventy guineas, and had himself
measured for a new suit.

By the way," said he, when the tailor
showed some reluctance to cut into a cloth
that the parson had selected as the best
in the shop, " Why don't you send in

your account ? Mr. Grodwin objects to long
credit."

Why, sir, to tell you the truth, I have
called nigh on a dozen times for my money,
but Mr. Godwin has alias been lout."

He's at home now, and is likely to befor
the next half hour. I should carry
the bill to him at once, if I were you."

The grateful tailor made no further
demur to cutting the cloth Mr. Tickel
desired, and as soon as the burly parson
was out of the shop put on his hat and
started off with alacrity to demand payment
of his bill.

Blase was seated on one side of the
breakfast-table reading the Times newspaper,
Eugenius on the other reading a
thin red-edged octavo of Spinoza's ethics
when Hutchins brought in the bill, and
handed it to Blase.

Blase glanced at it, Eugenius looked
over the top of his book.

Is it for me ? " lie asked.

If you please," answered Blase, giving
the paper to Hutchins to carry round the
table.

You can tell Mr. Shears to wait," said
Eugenius after looking at the bill.

Hutchins left the room. Eugenius rose,
went to the door, opened it and closed
it again softly. His suspicion of eaves-droppers
and his precaution against being
overheard were a constant source of annoyance
to Blase. He turned his chair
and fixed his attention on the newspaper
to avoid expressing the irritation he felt.

May I trouble you to give me your
attention ? " said Eugenius.

Oh yes, what's the matter ? " asked
Blase sharply, looking over his shoulder.

This bill is for sixty-eight pounds
five shillings, and my little capital is not
sufficient to meet it by some pounds. Two
hundred and fifty pounds was all I had."

It was with a certain degree of satisfaction
that Blase heard this announcement ;
it seemed to him that anything would be
better than a continuation of the present
state of things.

Well," he said, throwing down the
newspaper and turning round to face
Eugenius.

'' I foresaw that before long this would
happen," said Eugenius in his calm
measured manner. " From Mr. Tickel's
memoranda and the bills he has saved, I
found that your liabilities amount to fifteen
hundred pounds, and knowing that sooner
or later some greater help than it is in my
power to render would be necessary to save
you from — from inconvenience, I took the
liberty to write to Sir Gilbert Godwin
stating your position and imploring him
to save his son from — " again Eugenius
paused.

From public disgrace," said Blase.

"That was considerate of you and kind."
He was ashamed that despite his obligation
he could not feel more grateful. " I
suppose," he continued, " your application
was useless."

'not entirely. Sir Gilbert authorized
me to pay every debt you have, and to
offer you besides, the sum of three thousand
pounds."

Good Heavens ! " cried Blase, " are contesting
? "

No. I have since assured myself that
the money is lying with his agent in
Lombard Street, ready for your acceptance."


And when did you receive this intimation
of my father's generosity ? "

A week since."

Then why on earth did you not let
me know before ? "

Eugenius hesitated to reply. Blase who
was white hot with excitement, felt exasperated

by the cold imperturbability of
his companion.

"What motive had you, sir," he asked,
for concealing this fact front me ? "

"I concealed it because it seemed tome
possible that you might succeed in
clearing yourself from these embarrassments
by other means."

What other means ? " Blase asked,
assuming a boldness which his quick blush
and shifting glance belied.

By marriage with Miss Listen."

Blase dropped his glance to the table,
and faltering said :

You might have known that any
method would be more acceptable to me
than a mean one."

Any method ? " — clearly he knew of
Mr. Phillips's offer.

Any that did not involve the misery
of those I love," said Blase.

You will forgive me for not thinking
VOL. II. 35

worse of your intentions than you yourself
considered them."

Let us come to the point," Blase said,
knitting his throws as he pushed the breakfast
things aside to make place for his
arms on the table. " What is the condition
my father imposes ? "

The conveyance of your hereditary
right to his estate."

'^ What ! " Blase exclaimed, " he asks
me to sell my heritage ? "

In effect. You now understand why
I hesitated to lay his proposal before you."

Blase pushed his chair back and fixed
his eyes on Eugenius as he tried to
comprehend all that this offer implied.
Eugenius met his gaze with unflinching
calmness.

'' Where is my father's letter ? " Blase
asked presently.

Eugenius drew out his pocket-book, and
opening it said :

The letter is written in the hand of
Father Dominick, but it bears your father's
signature."

I don't want to see it. I begin to
understand now. The proposal comes in
reality from Father Dominick ; it is the
final blow which is to complete my ruin —
the ruin he has meditated from the hour
you were born."

Eugenius dropped his head in humiliation,
as he invariably did when reference
was made to his father's sin.

Tell me honestly," cried Blase fiercely,
if you can be honest, that you knew this
proposal was to come, that you came to
London to turn my misfortunes to your
own advantage, that you know full well
this conveyance is to make you heir in
my place to my father's estates."

"You are heated, Mr. Godwin," said
Eugenius rising ; " I will leave you until
you are cool enough to see that nothing

Ill

my conduct justifies your harsh suspicions.



Wait ! " cried Blase. " There's one
thing that's best done in heat and that is
self-destruction. How is this conveyance
to be made ? "

Sir Grilbert encloses in his letter a
paper."

Written by Father Dominick ? "

Written by Father Dominick," Genius
answered.

'' I knew it," laughed Blase ; " and what's
in this paper ? "

A promise on your part to sign the
legal instrument conveying your hereditary
rights to your father, when it shall
in due course be presented to you. Sir
Grilbert's agent is instructed to pay all
your present debts, and to give you three
thousand pounds the moment you present
this paper with your signature."

That's simple enough, isn't it ? " Blase

said bitterly. " The devil takes care to
make suicide easy. Where's the paper ? "

Here."

Blase rose from his seat, and fetched a
pen and the ink.

Well, where's the paper ? " he asked,
glancing savagely at Eugenius, who stood
with the pocket-book unopened in his
hand.

'' God forgive you, sir," said Eugenius
sadly ; " for you do me a cruel wrong to
punish me thus for my parents' fault. Is
it by my sin that I bear the brand of
bastard ? ' Is it to myself I owe these
faculties and features which excite your
antipathy? Can you justly charge me with
any offence, save that of striving with
too much perseverance to win your love ? "

Thought Blase, " What a hound am I ; "
and he hung his head.

"I shall weary your patience no more,
Mr, Godwin," continued Eugenius in deep

melancholy. " I have done wrong to
trouble you so long. From the first, I saw
that you disliked me, and that dislike has
increased with time ; why I struggled so
obstinately to gain your esteem in the
face of such a deep-rooted prejudice you
could understand only by suffering as I
suffer."

I beg you to pardon me," said Blase,
in a husky voice. "" My misfortunes have
made me so desperate, that I forget I am
still a gentleman ; " he turned to where
Eugenius stood, and held out his hand.

This heals my wound," said Eugenius,
1)0 wing over the hand he had taken in
his. '' I am glad to part thus, since
probably we shall never meet again. Our
lives run in diverging lines. Farewell."

Blase bowed in silence. He felt that he
ought to say something kindly, but his
heart refused to speak. Even farewell
stuck in his throat.

Eugenius, in turning the handle of the
door, paused, looked at the pocket-book in
his hand a moment, and then :

I still have Sir Gilbert's letter, and the
paper," he said reflectively, " and whether
you shall use the power they confer is not
for me to decide. You have a sufficient
safeguard in your mistrust of Father
Dominick. I leave them with you to
destroy or employ as you think proper."

This anti-climax spoilt the piece, so far
as Blase's sympathy with Eugenius was
concerned.

After all, is he a martyr or a sham ? "
he asked, when the door had closed upon
Eugenius, and he found himself alone with
the papers in his hand. " With his subtle
knowledge of me, would he have left
temptation in my way if he thought I
could resist it ? "

Some question on that score might still
have dwelt in the mind of Eugenius as he

lingered in the street, keeping a furtive
watch upon the door that had closed upon
him. He had not long to wait for an
answer. The door opened, and Hutchins,
coming down to the kerbstone, hailed a
distant coach.

When the hackney coach drew up at
the door. Blase stepped into it, and Mr.
Shears, the tailor, took his place by the
driver ; and then the coach turned round
and rattled off in the direction of Lombard
Street.

CHAPTER Xii.

IX WHICH BLASE Gains THE Hand OF LYDIA.

Blase was in high spirits when he arrived
at Piccadilly that night. His pockets
were full of money, and he had eaten a
famous dinner with Mr. Tickel, and drunk
freely to his own health. The wine had
warmed his blood, and tinged his vision
with its rosy hue. He saw everything
in bright colours. He turned a deaf ear
to the still small voice that had so worried
him of late, and gave all his attention to
the parson. As for Mr. Tickel, he could
have seen Death itself in lively colours
over that last bottle of Burgundy.

'you never made a better bargain in

your life, my young' friend' said he.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the
bush, any day. Your father's but a score
of years older than you, and I warrant
he'll not die till eighty, and what use
would an estate be to you at sixty, when
all a man needs is a nurse and a mess of
gruel ? I will drink the baronet's health
in a full glass, if you will have the goodness
to pass the bottle, Blase, for I no
longer grudge him the blessing of a sound
constitution. Here's to him ! . . . Rid of
your incubus — Eugenius, your debts, and
your scruples, you awake to a new life !
Finish the bottle, my boy, and so to Piccadilly
with a gay heart. March to victory
like the whats'enames, laughing ! Take
your sweetheart by the waist, and hold
her your prisoner until she accepts your
terms ! "

Mrs. Romsey was delighted with the
vivacity of Mr. Tickel and Blase, and fell

at once into their cheerful humour ; but
Lydia, knowing nothing of what had happened,
looked at Blase in silent, large-eyed
astonishment, and seemed frightened by
this sudden and unlooked for change in
his behaviour.

There was a small and comfortable room
adjoining the drawing-room, where Mrs.
Romsey had lately spent her evenings, the
distance lending a certain charm to the
music, and enabling her to engage freely
in conversation without interruption ; and
thither Mr. Tickel adroitly led her, leaving
Blase and Lydia alone.

Base had already touched upon half a
dozen subjects, dismissing each with a joke,
and now a little subdued by the departure
of Mrs. Romsey and the parson, he turned
to a basket of growing spring flowers that
he had bought in the afternoon at Covent
Garden and sent to Lydia, and talked of
them. As he was running on he suddenly

lifted his eyes and found Lydia looking at
him. He saw by the expression of her
lovely soft eyes that she was thinking
more of him than of what he said.

How grave, and still, and full of
wonder you look," he said in tender admiration.
^' 'Tis so this graceful narcissus
will look, I think, when its petals unclose,
and it sees for the first time the marvel of
the moving world."

Lydia smiled with a little inclination of
her head ; she liked compliments.

Thank you," she said. " I love the
narcissus above all flowers."

I think you must love all things that
are beautiful and sweet," said Blase, trembling
with love as he looked into the girl's
young earnest face.

Do not you ? " she asked innocently.

With all my soul ! " he answered, and
in such a manner which told her that she
was to him all that was beautiful and

sweet. The colour ran up her cheeks,
which had been of late a little pale ; and
looking down at the basket in some confusion,
she said —

Did you send me these flowers ? "

I was passing through Covent Garden,
and the flowers stared me in the face,
and "

*• And you thought of me ! " Lydia
laughed.

"It is not necessary to see beautiful
flowers to be reminded of you. 'Twas
thinking of you that led my steps to
Covent Garden. There's scarce a step I
take but owes its motive to a thought of
you."

The colour deepened in Lydia's cheek.
She was beginning to forget the pain she
had secretly suffered by his coldness in the
pleasure she derived from this returning
warmth. But she could not quite forgive
his recent neglect : so just as Blase was

about to follow up the advantage he
thought he had gained, she said abruptly —

'- Is Mr. Eugenius coming to-night ? "

I hope not," Blase replied in a harsh
voice ; and then to obviate any discussion
upon a subject which seemed at once to
throw a damp upon his spirits, he turned
to the tambour-frame, and said : " How
does the work go on ? "

Lydia turned back the cover.

You seem to have made a prodigious
advance," he declared.

That, perhaps, is because it is so long
since you took any interest in it."

The rebuke was well merited, but Blase
felt it necessary to defend himself.

You have been so occupied lately," he
said.

Not so much occupied but that I would
gladly have given a few minutes to you if
you had shown any desire to see what I
had been doing during the day."

"I am afraid I have been very ill-tempered
for some time past," he said, ina
tone which seemed to demand commiseration.


And is that the reason why you were
careless of my happiness ? "

"Have I given you pain?" he asked
quickly.

She looked at him in silence ; but there
was a reproach in her eyes that went
straight to his heart.

"Oh, I am sorry!" he said. "I am
ashamed that I thought of myself and not
of you. But I have been worried and
troubled — will you go on with your wool-work
now ? "

Yes — unless you prefer music. I have
learnt the accompaniment to Mr. Dibdin's
last song."

You cannot like those rough songs,"
said Blase, remembering Mr. Tickel's
observation.

*' I do like them. They are manly and
good. I like them better, perhaps, than
you like sentimental music."

Not better than I like that music when
you render it. But I would rather you
took your needle now — we can talk, and I
have so much that I feel I must tell you."

Lydia sat down at once and took her
needle, while Blase arranged the light for
for her.

Now I am ready," she said. " You
were saying that you have been in trouble
lately."

''Do sou know. Miss Liston," he said,
thinking to surprise her by a confession,
that I have had to borrow money ? "

I knew that you could not have
much," Lydia said, going on with her
work calmly. " Miss Covenant told me
that she thought you were poor, and that
you concealed it for fear Captain Covenant
would sell his coins to supply your needs.

I think it was very good of you to keep
your difficulties secret from them."

Blase was astonished, not Lydia. " What
a fool I have been, and how unjust to
think she would like me less for my
poverty," thought he.

Did you owe much ? " asked Lydia.

Fifteen hundred or two thousand
pounds, I daresay."

That sounds a good large sum."

There were bailiffs in the drawing-room
when we came home from the
concert."

And is that why we had to stay in the
bedroom so long ? " she asked, looking up
from her work with fun sparkling in her
eyes.

Blase nodded.

Oh, how droll ! " cried Lydia, laughing.
How I wish I had known it ! Aunt said
that they were dreadful looking gentlemen."
With that quick transition from
VOL. II. 36

gay to grave, wliicli was characteristic of
her disposition to regard the feelings of
others as well as her own, she grew
suddenly serious, and bending over her
work, said : " But I wish I had known it
for another reason. And was it these
troubles that made you so strange and
cold?"

"Not entirely. To keep out of the
debtor's prison I was compelled to accept
the assistance of Eugenius,"

Ah ! That is why you introduced
him to us."

Yes. I did so with the utmost reluctance.
For although against him individually
I knew of nothing discreditable,
and know nothing now except that he
has the misfortune to be the son of a
villain "

"Miss Covenant told me about him,"
said Lydia quietly.

Yet," continued Blase, " I had from

the very first an instinctive antipathy to
him, which made his services an insupportable
obligation."

I see. It was his presence that made
yon so unhappy here."

Ye — s, it must have been this antipathy,
although Tickel says "

What does Mr. Tickel say ? "
He says that my antipathy was
nothing but — but jealousy."

Lydia smiled over her work, not displeased
with Mr. Tickel's explanation.

I am glad 'tis nothing worse," she said.
'^' At first I thought you were regretting
the loss of Captain Covenant and his dear
sweet daughter; and then when I saw
it could not be that, I began to wonder if I
had done or said anything to grieve you,
and I thought of it a good deal and — and
but that's all past now. Yet I wish I
had known this before."

I could not tell you before, for 'twas

only this morning I got clear of my debts
and parted with Eugenius."

But I could have lent you the money.
You don't know what a sum I have in the
bank, and I am sure I don't know what todo
with it. Why didn't you ask me ? "

Do you think I have no pride ? " asked
Blase abashed.

Pride ! " said Lydia in surprise. " I
don't think I can have any pride of that
sort, for if I wanted a thing that you could
get me, I should ask you for it, knowing
that you would be only too glad to help
me. But my pride would prevent me
from accepting anything from anyone I
disliked. It is not as if you were appealing
for charity, or as if I should make you
take this money as a gift. That would be
debasing indeed! But there is nothing
mean, to my eyes, in accepting a loan
which you would repay when you inherited
your estate."

Blase bowed his head.

Great God ! " thought he, " What have
Host!"

I am afraid you did not look upon meas
a very true friend," continued Lydia.

I think I shall never cease to discover
new proofs that you are more beautiful and
more generous than any other woman."

Lydia smiled again.

You are not in danger of being sent to
prison now ? " she asked.

"No. Every debt is paid. That is
why you find me so changed to-night.
And I have quite a lot of money ; and do
you know my dear old granada wants me
to make Redwater my home when I marry,
that he "

Oh there, I have done that all
wrong ! " cried Lydia, turning her burning
face away from Blase, and trying to keep
her fingers firm as she picked out the false
stitch. Her scissors fell, and in picking

them up Blase found the thread of his conversation
broken. He was not long in
starting another.

** How is it you do not wear a ring ? "
he asked.

"We weren't allowed to wear any
jewels at school, and since then I have not
thought about them much."

I wish you would wear this," said
Blase, fumbling his finger and thumb in
his fob, and finally bringing out a glittering
ring that he had given sixty guineas
for five minutes after leaving the agent's
in Lombard Street.

Lydia turned from her work and took
the ring in her tricksy fingers with that
eager delight which girls and women feel
in looking at gems.

'^ Oh, that is lovely ! " she cried.

May I put it on your finger ? "

She looked up from the ring to his face
with sudden gravity'.

But that means a great deal, doesn't
it ? " she asked.

That depends. I did not think of its
meaning when I bought it. I only saw
that it was handsome, and thought how
much more beautiful it would look on your
white finger."

"But it does mean a great deal," said
Lydia seriously. " We used to talk about
serious things — that dear dead friend that
I have so often told you about and I ; and
once I remember we talked about rings.
And she said that gold was the symbol
of most precious love, and the hoop a
symbol of eternity. And if I let you put
that ring upon my finger, it would mean
that you gave and that I accepted undying
love."

•' And if I give, will you refuse undying
love?"

She looked in his face for some moments,
and read there the earnest, strenuous love

that was in his souL She did not smile ;
her cheeks were quite pale ; her eyes had
in them an intense anxiety. It seemed as
though she were waiting for some inner
guidance ; and suddenly, as if that guiding
voice had spoken, a ray of joy shot from
her eyes, her lips trembled, and she raised
her hand from her lap.

Lydia," murmured Blase, as he held
her palm and slipped the ring upon her
finger ; " my Lydia, darling Lydia ! "

Dear Blase," she answered trembling.
And then she bent forward and lifted up
her face to be kissed.

Well, if you're not going to play the
music, we may as well sit altogether
sociably ! " cried Mrs. Romsey, coming
through the door of communication.

"D the old woman," muttered Blase.

CHAPTER XY.

IX WHICH BLASE LOSES THE HAND HE
HAD WOJ?-.

Despite the remonstrance of Mrs. Romsey,
Lydia insisted on accompanying the gentlemen
to the street door when they departed.
She threw a lace shawl over her head and
round her throat, and that made her look
more witchingly pretty than ever.

I must see you alone tomorrow,"
whispered Blase, as they descended the
stairs side by side.

Come tomorrow afternoon," she said.

Blase found her hand as it hung by her
side in the folds of her dress and pressed
it, and felt with a thrill of delight the
pressure returned. And she stood at the

door and looked after him as lie went
away. He, looking back, saw lier face
peeping out, and it seemed to him that
Heaven had opened to him ; but with his
joy was mingled an uneasy feeling of
unworthiness — a consciousness that if all
were known the gates might not have
been opened to him, and that he owed his
felicity to Heaven's blindness rather than
to his own merits.

'' If I had told all at first," he thought,.
or if I had even told her how I had sold
my heritage, before I asked her to take
the ring, I should have nothing to fear.
She does not value wealth, and she would
have found an excuse for what I really
was compelled to do. She loves me. By
George, how sweet she was ! There's little
she'd not forgive me. I'll out with the
whole truth tomorrow, and then all will
be over." He accompanied this reflection
with a sigh of relief, from which it was

evident that he concluded all would be
over on the right side for him.

Lydia was alone when he entered the
drawing-room in the afternoon. She had
risen at the sound of his footsteps and
stood in the centre of the room to receive
him.

"Lydia," he said, stretching out his
hands.

She stood still for a moment with that
same expression of anxious questioning in
her eyes which he had seen there before
she accepted his ring ; only for a moment
she stood thus irresolute, and then with
a little murmur of delight she ran to him
and suffered him to encircle her with his
arms. His lips touched her shining soft
hair, for she had bent her blushing cheek
upon his breast. She blushed in happiness
and not in shame, she was proud of her
love, as he saw when presently she raised
her face and looked up into his eyes.

I want to talk about the future, Lydia
dearest," he said when his rapture was
somewhat subdued, and he sat beside her.

About the future ? *' she repeated with
a tone of anxiety in her voice.

About Seawater and all that' he said.

Ah, yes, let us talk about that," she
said cheerfully, as she nestled closer to his
side.

Blase hesitated a little. " Better get it
out at once," thought he; so after caressing
her whilst he sought for words to
make his confession easy, he said :

^'I did not tell you, darling, how I
managed to get rid of my debts, and shake
off Eugenius."

Has that anything to do with Red-water
? " she asked.

'well — not exactly — but I think I ought
to tell you of this matter at once."

She raised herself from his side, and
turned her eyes upon him with such a

queer little air of fear, that Blase could
not but laugh.

"You look as if you thought I was
about to hurt you," he said. "What a
dear little Aipvii face you have. At one
moment 'tis all sunny warmth, and at
another 'tis almost sad. A minute asfo
your eyes seemed to tell me I was the
finest fellow in all the world, and now
they seem to say that you are not quite
so sure about it."

"I should not love you if I did not
think you were the best man there is,"
said Lydia. " And when I looked at you
a minute ago I said to myself, I would
trust you, and you alone, with all my heart
though all the world speak ill of you."

And do you not think that at this
moment ? "

"Yes, or I should take my hand from
yours. Something you said made me
anxious for the moment ; what was it ? "

•' I was saying that I tlioiiglit I had
better tell you how I got rid of my debts.
]\Iy father paid them and gave me a pretty
sum of money as well, in response to an
appeal made in my behalf by Eugenius."

She bent her head so that he could
scarcely see her face ; but he felt that
her hands trembled when he relaxed his
fingers. He paused. Suddenly she looked
up with a return of confidence in her face.

That was a free gift, wasn't it, dear ? "
she asked.

Not entirely ; the fiict is there was

a stipulation which What is the

matter, love?"

"Nothing. Go on; your father made
a stipulation."

A stipulation that I should sign a deed
of conveyance which would enable him to
dispose freely of his estate."

And you signed that deed ? "

"Virtually. I signed a paper promising

to put my signature to the deed. After
all, dear, as a mere business speculation
the advantage was on my side, for the
estate would not have come to me until
my father's death, and he may outlive me."

Lydia drew her hand from his.

Was your welfare only to be considered?"
she asked.

Blase could not reply for some seconds.
It was his turn to tremble and grow pale.

Lydia ! " he faltered, " why have you
taken your hand away ? "

Because you have valued my love less
than a business speculation to your advantage."


I protest, dear, I never thought of the
affair in that relation," he stammered.

But you should have done so. Would
you value my affection at all, if I did
anything without first thinking whether
it would give you pain or pleasure ? "

"You will not love me less because I

have relinquished my right to this estate,
dear ? Happiness is not dependent on
money."

No, but it is upon the honour and
truth of those who are near us."

Dear child," he began in a tone of
expostulation.

I am not a child ! " said Lydia, with a
movement of impatience.

Your anger is out of proportion with
my offence ; for it seems to me that 'tis not
the loss of my estate, but the concealment
of my difficulties which you resent. You
make me wish I had kept the secret until
you were my wife ? "

It had been so much the worse for you.
I would never have trusted you again."

She rose from her chair as she spoke,
seeming to scorn to sit beside a man who
could be guilty of such baseness. Blase
followed her in alarm.

Oh, Lydia," he cried, " be kind, be

reasonable ! I have done wrong and I
have confessed my fault. 'Tis not as
though you had heard the truth from
another. If, for instance, Eugenius had
been hound enough to tell you "

He did tell me ! " said Lydia, turning
quickly. ^' He told me this morning, and
I would not believe him." She stopped ;
the tears sprang up into her eyes, and she
added in a pitiful tone, ^'I had such faith
in you."

She brushed the tears away quickly, as
though she were ashamed of her weakness ;
and before Blase could avail himself of her
momentary tenderness to plead for forgiveness,
she continued :

He told me that failing this help from
your father you would have married me to
pay your debts with my money. Was that
true ? "

Blase hung his head ; he would not try
to excuse himself.

VOL. II. 37

** When he told me that," said Lydia,
"I ordered him to leave the room. All
that he could say — all that my aunt could
say — could not overcome my faith in you ;
and when I looked at you but a little while
ago I felt that I had not trusted you
wrongly. I would have staked my life
upon your truth ! I told Eugenius to his
face he was a liar. Now with shame I
must confess to him that I was unjust,
and that he is more to be trusted than the
man I loved."

She pulled at the ring which Blase had
given her but the night before ; it clung to
her finger.

Oh, Lydia ! " cried Blase in supplication,
" you do not mean to be so hard
upon me."

I will not love a man I cannot honour.
There is your ring, sir ; " she said, laying
it with trembling fingers on the table. '' I
thought to have worn it till my death, and
I can rear it now no more."

He took the ring mechanically, and
looked at it with a sort of stupid pity for a
while ; then, raising his eyes to Lydia, he
said :

You saw in this the symbol of true and
faithful love. If you will not take it, none
shall laye it," and he went to the chimney
and dropped the ring into the fire.

Then without a word, without a look,
with his head bowed in shame, he went
from the room. He felt that all was oyer
between them, and that remonstrance
would only add to his unworthiness.

Lydia followed him with her eyes until
the door closed, her lips quivering, her
fingers twitching. A mad desire to go to
the door and call him back seized her ; but
her voice failed her, and she stood as if
spell-bound. The sound of a falling cinder
seemed to break the charm. With a little
cry of dismay she ran to the fire, and raked
between the bars with desperate energy

until the ring fell through the grate into
the hearth.

It burnt her fingers when she took it
np, but she held it nevertheless between
her folded palms in silent endurance until
what with the physical pain and her
breaking heart, her sufferings could be no
longer hushed ; then she fell upon her
knees, and burying her hands and her face
in the pillow of the couch, she burst into
tears.

CHAPTER XYL

SHORT AND SHARP.

Blase went along the street like one in a
dream until by Whitehall he caught sight
of a recruiting sergeant with a cockade of
coloured ribbon in his hat.

Here, fellow ! " said he, going up to
the sergeant and turning him round
roughly by the arm, " do you want a
recruit ? "

Yes, your honour, and I want 'em bad
enough," replied the sergeant, saluting
Blase, whose dress warranted the supposition
that a pint of ale might come out of
the joke.

Can a man enlist in any regiment he
likes ? " asked Blase.

To be sure be can. Tis all one to
King George."

'' And is there a chance of bantling a
r>rown-Bess at once ? "

No better chance in the world, your
bonoiir."

"' Is there an office near were a recruit
could be registered ? "

Close bandy. I could take you to it ina
brace of shakes."

Then do so," said Blase, '' for I'm your
man."

END OF VOL. II.

{I.NTEU BY William CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. S. ^^ H.

mm.

LI B RAR.Y

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of Ill Noise

Bags

i

FRANK BARRETT,

author of
"lieutenant barnabas," 'folly morrison," etc.

i

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

NEW BURLINGTON STREET.
1882.

(sall rights reserved.)

CONTEXTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER F.AGE

I. j\Ir. TlCKEL Maces A Final Appeal 1

II. How Blase went to Piccadilly for

THE Last Tie . 17

III. Lydia meditates a Bold Stroke 29

IV. Ix WHICH Lydia takes her First

Step . . . . 46

Y. Ix WHICH ]\[r. Tickel comforts the

Ladies . . . 64

VI. How Lydia bade her Lover Goodbye
. . . . 76

VII. The Parson gets a Letter from

Dublin . . . i'o

VIII. Ix WHICH Lydia undertakes a Desperate
Venture . . 114

IX. Ix WHICH THE Attacking PaRTY SETS

out 126

CHAPTER PAGE

X. How THE Party were received at

Godwin's Moat . . 140

XI, The Terrors of the Moaned House 153
XII. Of Lydia's Impatience and Mr.

Tickel's Sagacity . . 170

XIII. Of Lydia's Extraordinary Behaviour
in the Chapel . 183

Xii. Concerning the Prisoners in Godwin's
Moat, and how they were
held . . . 190

XV. Of Further Discoveries made by

the Parson . . . 217

XVI. Containing some Unlooked-for

Events . . . 237

XVII. In which Nemesis does her Work at

Godwin's Moat . . 261

XVIII. Which ends this Eventful History 277

CHAPTER I.

MR. Ticket MAKES A FINAL APPEAL.

About three hours after Blase had left the
b- small house in Piccadilly where he had
spent so many hours of happiness, hut
which he was never again to revisit, Mr.
Tickel entered it. Without ceremony he
walked up to the drawing-room and
rapped at the door.

No one is in the room, sir," said the
maid.

'' Then will you take my compliments to
Miss Liston, and tell her that I wish to
see her ? "
VOL. III. 38

Yes, sir." And the maid closed the
door upon Mr. Tickel, who had entered the
room. Ill a few minutes she returned to
him, and with a respectful bob, said :

And you please, sir, mistress says that
Miss Lydia has a headache this evening,
and can't see anyone."

Will you tell your mistress," cried the
parson warmly, '' that 'tis not an affair of
a headache, but a matter of life and death
that Miss Lydia has to consider ; and look
ye, my dear, here's a crown piece to carry
my message to the young lady herself."

In response to this message Mrs. Romsey
presently entered the room.

With a coldly ceremonious air, and a
most stately courtesy, she replied to the
parson's stiff bow —

You are not perhaps aware, Mr. Tickel,
of the events which have taken place
to-day."

I beg your pardon, madam, I am perfectly

aware of what has taken place
to-day."

Then I am astonished that one professing
an acquaintance with the usages of
polite society should insist upon an interview
after receiving the message that I
sent."

If I had come to see you I should have
been very content to leave the house with
such a fair excuse ; but as my business in
no way concerns you, you will forgive me
if I stay until I receive an answer to my
message from the person to whom it was
sent," said the parson stoutly.

You are vastly polite upon my word,
sir ; and your behaviour is of a piece with
that of the person you have represented asa
gentlemen of fortune, but of whom I had
my doubts at first, which doubts, though
they may have been for a time appeased,
have now become positive convictions,
whatever you may think to the contrary."

I am not so unreasonable as you suppose,
madam. I neither expect consistency
in you nor stability in a weather-cock."

Do you compare me with a weathercock,
sir ? " cried the lady with indignant
emphasis.

No, madam ; for a weather-cock has
the advantage of silence, a quality which I
fear you are likely never to acquire ; for a
garrulous woman is like an old gate with a
rusty hinge, and the older she grows the
more noise she will make."

An old gate with a rusty hinge — upon
my word ! " And Mrs. Eomsey sank into
a chair in such astonishment that it really
seemed as if she would be unable to support
the character Mr. Tickel had given
her. How on recovering from this surprise
she might have continued the skirmish
cannot be said, for at that moment
the door opened and Lydia entered.

Happily for the poor girl the lamp upon

the table was shaded, and so she could
hojoe that her swollen red lids, and her
ashy cheeks would escape Mr. Tickel's
observation. She had given her face a
good bathing before she came down and
now she took a seat that placed her between
the parson and the lamp. It was
difficult for her to maintain an appearance
of composure, and as Mr. Tickel seated
himself silently she thought bow different
this was to other evenings when he had
come with Blase bringing laughter and
happiness into the cjuiet house ; and then
she bit her lip to check its quivering and
bent her head to hide the tears that flooded
her eyes again.

Miss Liston," the parson began, in a
tone of voice quite unlike that habitual to
him, " I have not been sent here as an
envoy. I have not even Mr. Godwin's
consent to speak to you in reference to
him. I come here solely on my own

responsibility to ask forgiveness for the
mischief I have clone, and to render justice
to the best friend I ever had — the best,
the kindest, truest-hearted gentleman that
lives."

As Lydia bent forward, her head bowed,
a great tear plashed down upon her
fingers, which were knitted together upon
her knee.

Mr. Tickel was silent for a moment, then
o-lancing towards Mrs. Romsey, he said :

•• I think, madam, that as I may have
something unpleasant to say about you,
it would be well for you to leave Miss
Liston and me to finish our interview
alone."

On the contrary, if you have anything:
to say concerning me'' said Mrs. Romsey,
"' I consider it my duty to stay."

'• As you please, madam. I must tell
you, Miss Liston, that Mr. Godwin's pecuniary
difficulties commenced Ions: before he

saw von. They were plaguing liirn at tHe
moment when I had the honour to make
the acquaintance of Mrs. Eomsev. In that
first interview Mrs. Horsey was so indulgent
as to give me a full description of
her own affairs, and of those of all the
members of her family. From her observations
concerning the inconveniency of
being a widow, and the eagerness with
which she pressed me to introduce Mr.
Godwin to you upon our return to London,
I concluded that she wished to marry again.
I may permit myself to say in my own
defence that in speaking of Mr. Godwin
on that occasion I confined myself strictly
to the truth. I said that he had spent a
fortune, and that he was heir to a baronetcy
and a fine estate ; that he possessed a
present fortune was a supposition on the
part of Mrs. Eomsey which I did not find
myself bound to correct. Here, thought
L is a chance for Mr. Godwin to release

himself from his difficulties. You perhaps
know the generous feelings which compelled
him' to keep his poverty a secret
from Captain Covenant. But his debts
had to be paid, and to pay them some
sacrifice was inevitable. He was not, however,
prepared to make so great a sacrifice
as that I proposed to him. He refused,
despite my constant persuasion, to visit this
house with a view to marrying Mrs.
Eomsey. I employed every means I could
think of, even to the extent of making his
debts seem more pressing than they were
in order to bring him here ; and it was
only when he saw no means of escape that
he accepted to be introduced, and then
rather to oblige me than with any hope or
intention of marrying Mrs. Eomsey. I
wished him to marry Mrs. Eomsey in
preference to you, because I saw it would
be much easier of attainment. The conscientious
objections he might have in

marrying a young and beautiful girl for
money would not arise in paying his
addresses to Mrs. Eomsey. The advantage
would be on her side, and her consent was
to be had for the asking."

Insupportable ! " cried Mrs. Romsey.

But, unfortunately," pursued Mr.
Tickel, "the appearance and conversation
of your good aunt settled the business.
After a very brief conversation he rose
to terminate an acquaintance which had
been sufficiently long for him, when you
entered the room, and made for him a new
destiny. He loved you at once. The
warmest, sincerest, most faithful love gave
new life and quickly throbbing vigour to
that poor heart that had grown dull and
heavy with care. He loved you so well
that when he left this house that day 'twas
with the resolve to re-enter it no more — to
lose you for ever rather than to win you
under false pretences. I believe from my

soul that but for me you would never have
seen Blase Godwin after that first visit.
Twas I who persuaded him from that
honourable act of self-denial. I was like
the genius in the play — always at his
elbow with plausible excuses, and urgent
incentives ; and so between us, Miss Liston,
we brought him to do that which was
utterly opposed to the guidance of his
conscience."

Lvdia raised her head to look at the
parson in surprise and inquiry.

I say we," continued the parson,
because without that chain of love which
you wound round him he would have broke
away from the feeble hold I had upon him.
I brought him to your feet, but you alone
had the power to hold him there. 'Twas
not your money he wanted ; that ever
stood as a block between him and happiness
; and 'twas alone from fear of losing
you that he acted upon my advice and

concealed his poverty. That concealment
I believed necessary, and persuaded him to
believe so likewise. I did not think that
you would marry a poor man ; and I did
not know that you had sufficient strength of
character to act in opposition to the endless
arguments which Mrs. Eomsey was certain
to raise against Mr. Godwin on finding
that he was not what her foolish imagination
had led her to suppose. I am all to
blame. Had he been a rascal he would
have won you against all odds. But he
could do nothing well against his conscience.
Had I let him go his own honest
way there would have been no tears to
shed. Oh, Miss Lydia, had you seen the
poor wretch as I saw him ere I came here
I should have no reason to devour
mercy. He showed no sign of giving
way while he knew I was in the room.
He was only very white and silent. He
had told me the facts calmly, and without

adding one word of reproach for the mischief
I had led him into ; and I left him
sitting in the room with a single candle
burning, and a book in his hand. But
going back to the room for my walking-cane
that I had laid in the corner, I found
him with one of your violet o-loves in his
hands, and his face laid on his arm, crying
and sobbing so that it seemed his very
heart strings would snap ! "

At this Lydia's handkerchief went up to
her eyes, and she sobbed in sympathy.
Here was an opportunity for Mr. Tickel
which was not to be lost.

Surely, my dear young lady," said he,
knowing all, you will forgive that
unhappy man."

'' I do forgive him, with all my heart ! "
cried Lydia passionately, looking up while
the tears still streamed down her cheeks.

And may I tell him so ? "

Oh yes. Tell him that, and tell him

that I wish I had not spoken harshly ; and
tell him that I am — oh! so, so sorry ! " and
then she could say no more.

'' Why, that's everything. You will see
him here in half an hour, and he shall kiss
the colour back into your cheeks, " cried
Mr. Tickel iovfullv.

Lydia shook her head and sobbed, her
face being buried in her handkerchief.

'not?" exclaimed the parson in astonishment.
•' But now you forgive him, you
will love him again, and there'll be a marriage
and that sort of thino\ If tou are
not quite in the mood to see him to-night,
you will let him call upon you tomorrow?"

'' Xo, no, no ! " sobbed Lydia.

Good girl," whispered Mrs. Eomsey ina
tone of melancholy sympathy.

But do you know what will happen if
you won't see him tomorrow ? '' cried the
parson, raising his voice.

Lydia looked up in alarm.

If I may not tell him to-night," Mr.
Tickel said, " that you will be his wife,
he'll go to-sorrow morning and shoulder
Brown Bess."

Let him shoulder her, my dear — a
hussy ! " exclaimed Mrs. Romsey.

You may not understand what I
mean," said Mr. Tickel. " Mr. Grodwin has
taken the king's shilling, and tomorrow
morning will be sworn in before a magistrate,
and will be sent away with a parcel
of other poor devils to be shot at by the
French."

He has enlisted ? "

'' Yes ; and he must serve in the common
rank and file with all the scum of the land
■ — he, a born gentleman — my .poor Blase ! "

Lydia had sprung up from her seat at
the first cry of her womanly nature to save
from the peril of death the man she loved.
For a moment she felt as though she must
run down the stairs and out into the street,

and through them to the house where her
lover was in grief, and pray him on her
knees not to leave her. Then reason
showed her how foolish and useless it
would be to offer such a prayer, and how
ignoble it would be in Blase to accept it.

You will come with me in a coach and
speak to him," said Mr. Tickel persuasively,
catching the first tender pity of
her expression.

No," said Lydia firmly, " I will not
speak to him — I will not even see him ; "
and she sank into her chair again, for the
thought of never again seeing Blase
seemed to tear her heart.

And this is your final word ?" said Mr.
Tickel, rising. " You will not see him
again ? "

Yes ; that is my final word." And the
girl lifted up her face bravely, for she felt
it was for her honour and his that this
word must be kept.

Very well," Mr. Tickel said, taking up
his hat and stick in wrath, " then you shall
hear my last word. I tell you, my pretty
miss, that you are a heartless young cat,
and no more worthy of my loving boy
Blase, than that flabby old frump behind
you!

And with this not very dignified adieu
the parson flung out of the room.

CHAPTER II.

HOW BLASE WENT TO PICCADILLY FOR THE
LAST TIME.

When Mr. Ticket got home he found Blase
writing letters. He sat down in silence
before the fire, and engaged himself for the
next ten minutes with the tongs, arranging
the coals and cinders one by one in a
glowing pile, as was his habit when
thoughtfully disposed.

'' Been to the coffee-house, Tickel ? "
asked Blase kindly, as he finished closing
a letter.

*' No ; Piccadilly," answered the parson,
still constructing the fire.

Piccadilly ! " exclaimed Blase, stopping

suddenly, in the act of addressing the cover.

What have you been there for ? "
VOL. III. 39

I wanted to see Miss Listou, and let
her know what my share was in this
unlucky business."

I wish you had stayed at the coffeehouse,
parson. It can do her no good."

It hasn't — a heartless young "

What happened ? " Despite himself
Blase was eager for news.

I told her it wasn't your fault."

And what did she say ? "

Nothing. Cried a little, you know."

She cried," Blase said in melting notes.

In course she did. 'Tis as easy for a girl
to shed tears as 'tis for a robin to whistle."

Did she say nothing ? "

Said she forgave you with all her heart.
What of that ? There's nothing to forgive
you. Said she regretted she had spoken
harshly — said she was ever so sorry."

Go on, parson ! "

Then, says I, there's nothing now to
keep you asunder ; Blase may come, and

you'll make it all up. But she shook her
head. Then I told her you were thinking
of this soldiering foolery, and asked her if
she wouldn't save you from it — asked her
to come and speak to you. She wouldn't.
Said she wouldn't even see you. Whereupon,
seeing she had no sort of feeling for
you, I made my respectful adieux, and
came away."

Of course she wouldn't speak to me.
If she loves me at all she would give me
credit for sufficient pride and decent feeling

to Why, good God, parson ! you don't

think I would marry her after what has
happened ? "

Not half so bad as enlisting for a
soldier," the parson remarked with a sententious
grunt.

The two sat silent for some minutes ;
then Mr. Tickel said :

'• That reminds me. Blase, I've been
talking to Ensign Eagerly about you —

didn't mention names, of course. He was
Imgely diverted at the notion of a gentleman
entering the ranks."

Was he ? " said Blase, who had turned
with a sigh to his letter, and was finishing
the address.

I suppose there's no shaking your reso-
lution—you must be a soldier of some sort?"
'' I must. By-the-by, Hutchins has got
hold of the news somehow ; and he came
to me a little while since, and said if I
entered the ranks he should come and fight
by my side."

There's a pretty thing for you ! Your
own servant can put himself on an equality
with you. He may rub elbows with you,
eat with you, drink with you, sleep with

you for aught I know "

"- 1 hope my comrades may be as faithful
as he. But he must be kept in London.
Miss Covenant says, in her last letter, that
her little maid, his daughter, is restless and

unsettled. If the girl should leave Red-water
who is to protect her ? I have told
Hutchins he rust stay with you until you
have got rid of the house, and settled all
my affairs. You must keep him with you.
"What do you intend to do ? "

'the Lord only knows. It doesn't much
matter what becomes of poor old Tickel.
But that's neither here nor there. What
we have to think of is this precious
soldiering ; and if you must go, why, the
long and the short of it is you must enrol
yourself as a gentleman volunteer."

Blase had begun another letter ; he made
no response, and the parson continued —

You will be amongst men of decent
condition ; you will have a certain amount
of liberty, and you won't be obliged to
black your own boots. I wonder you didn't
think of that yourself. Blase."

I have thought of it," Blase said, without
ceasing to write.

And what's your objection to it? AVith
tho Trisli o' one side and the French o'
t'other, isn't there sufficient hardihood of
your beings shot ? "

•' 'I've objection is, parson," said Blase,
laying down his pen and turning towards
Mr. Tickel, '' that a gentleman volunteer is
at best but half a soldier, and 1 would be
wholly a soldier or none at all. 'Tis time
to he in earnest when one conies to grief
by ]faltering."

But think of the hardships, Blase ; to
say nothing of the degradation of your life
as a common soldier."

'' 'Tis as honourable to serve the king
with a musket as with a marshal's baton.
And as for the hardships, I doubt if I shall
iin<l any so degrading as sneaking down
a by-street to escape a creditor, or telling
lies to support a false character. Physical
hardships, long marches, heavy drills and
the rest, they will be welcome ; and the

more grievous they are," he sighed, " the
less I shall suffer. Have these letters
carried to post in the morning, parson — one
to Captain Covenant, one to his daughter.
There's no one else to write to." He was
silent awhile ; then he said : " She said she
was very sorry — did you tell me ? "

The parson nodded callously. Blase
mused. The silence was complete.

She cried, I think you said," Blase
asked. Again the ill-humoured parson
nodded, and then he began to whistle in a
low tuneless fashion. Blase, with a sigh,
aroused himself from his useless retires,
and turned again to his desk. A few
letters he took out, tied them in a bundle,
and slipped them in his pocket.

I shall take a few guineas with me,"
said he, closing the desk ; " the rest of the
money you will find in the drawer here.
You will know what to do with it. Here's
the key." Mr. Tickel ceased whistling,

took the kuv, and slipped It In silence on
its seal ring. Then he took up the tongs
once more.

l>lase stool in the middle of the room
wondering what eut should do next. He
had expected to lind so much to occupy the
few remaining hours; and now everything
was done, and it was still early. Going to
hed was out ol' the question; he had no
mind tor reading, and clearly conversation
was impossible with the parson in his
present humour. The only thing to he
done was to go and walk about the streets
tor a tin'. W^ left the room. Mr. Tickul,
hearing the door shut, looked over his
right shoulder and then over his left;
then he went on with the everlasting
arranging of the coals upon the fire. lie
heard Blase go downstairs ; he heard the
door bang, and knew that he was alone, as
lie must be in future. From the manner
in which he continued fiddling the fire

about one would have imagined that he
was merely sullen and surly because he
couldn't have his own way ; but presently
a tear slipped from his eye, and trickled
down his fat cheek in testimony of his
hidden sorrow.

Young and old alike," cried he, flinging
down the tongs, " what fools we are! And
stupid old fools some of us," he added,
blowing his nose vigorously as he rose
from his chair. He ran; the bell. " A
logical proceeding upon my word," he
grumbled as he pulled the table closer to
the fire " to show one's love by playing
the bear in this way."

Hutchins opened the door.

Where's your master ? " asked the
parson savagely.

Gone out, sir."

Then why did you let him go ? Don't
you hear the wind and the rain ? What
an ass you are, Hutchins ! Don't you

know that tomorrow he leaves ns ? Bring
up that big chair to the corner of the fire,
and set the screen behind it. Where's his
slip-shoes ? "

Here, sir."

Give 'em to me, do. Now fetch the
little copper kettle, and lay a clean pipe on
the table by the chair there for him against
his return. Good Lord ! he may never
smoke another with me ! And then let me
have a couple of lemons and the sugar, and
my punch-bowl. Your master and I will
make a merry night of it — for who knows
but it may be our last. And look you,
Hutchins, when you open the door just let
your master see you with a cheerful face,
for he has enough grief of his own to bear
without being plagued with yours. 'Tis
your duty, do you hear, to do all you canto
send him away with a blithe heart.
God only knows if ever he'll come back
to us ! "

For Blase there was but one pleasant
pati in all London, and that led to Piccadilly.
Thither he walked through the
wind and the rain, and coming near the
small house he crossed the road. It seemed
strange that he could not go to the door as
usual. There was shadow under the park
trees, and there he stood and looked across
at the house where his heart lay. His very
soul yearned to see the familiar rooms once
more, even though he might not see
Lydia, and he felt like a banished man
looking on the land he may not enter.
'' If I might hear her voice ; if I might see
her face once snore — only once more ! " he
thought. But there was no sign of her.
There was no light passing from room to
room — all was dark and dead. And so
with his yearnings ungratified he stepped
out of the shadow and turned to walk
homewards.

It may have been purely accidental, or

it may have been by some subtle communication
of ideas ; but just as lie was passing
under the lamp to cross the road again,
Lydia raised the corner of her window-blind
and looked down into the street. His
head was bent to meet the driving wind ;
but she recognized him at once.

Oh, my darling ! " she whimpered.

The wind and the rain had cleared the
streets. There was not a soul in the way
but Blase. He and the night were alike
cheerless and cold and miserable and
desolate.

'' Oh, if I might comfort him ! — if I
might bear this grief alone ! " sighed
Lydia.

She drew a chair to the window, and sat
straining her eyes to catch sight of him.
She felt that if he passed again she should
not have the courage to drop the curtain.
She must let him see that she also loved
and longed. But he came no more.

CHAPTER III.

LTDTA MEDITATES A BOLD STROKE.

The parting was over. Blase went one
way and the parson went the other.
Mr. Tickel's heart was as heavy as it is
possible for a stout, selfish old gentleman's
heart to be. 'who shall I talk to of
evenings now ? " he thought. " What
appetite shall I have for breakfast and
supper with no one t'other side of the
table ? 'Tis the first time I have had to
say good-bye to the fellow, no wonder the
word stuck in my throat. 'T has become
a habit to love him, and 'tis hard to give
up one's habits at fifty. I'd rather have
given up my bottle after dinner than his

company. Well, he's gone, and there's no
more to be said ; but a plague take pretty
wenches, I say ! " Thus ruminating he
dropped into Welsh's ; but there was no
one there with whom he cared to stay, and
the drink was tasteless, so in an ill-humour
he turned his steps homewards for lack of
interest elsewhere.

A coach was standing before the house
when Mr. Tickel knocked at the door.

There is a lady waiting to see you,"
said Hutchins. " Miss Liston, I think."

Miss Liston ! What the deuce can she
want of me ? '*

*' Can't say, sir. I told her my master

was gone ; and I said you were not likely

to return till late. But she would wait,

and she's been upstairs best part of an

lOur.

Mr. Tickel went upstairs with a slow
and heavy step. Lydia was sitting near
the fire at the further end of the room.

Her cheeks were pale ; there were dark
circles round her eyes. As she heard a
step outside the door she dropped her grey
crape veil and rose from her chair and
stood there with one hand upon the chair
arm, the other upon her heart. She seemed
to look beyond Mr. Tickel, as if in hope
that someone followed him. As he closed
the door, making her a stiff bow, she said :

Is he gone ? "

Yes, young lady ; and 'tis ten to one
we shall never see him again," replied Mr. •
Tickel, knitting his brows ; then he closed
his lips with uncompromising firmness.

The blow was too harsh. Lydia sank
into the chair, and her two poor trembling
hands went together as if in supplication
for mercy.

"Have you come to stop him from going
a soldiering ? " asked the parson.

Lydia shook her head.

"That's as well," said Mr. Tickel,

savagely ; " for if you entertained any hope
of such a thing you would have had to put
up with disappointment. I don't believe
he would marry you now, if you went
upon your knees and asked him."

Lydia made no response, but clasped and
unclasped her clinging hands in mute
distress.

And pray, my pretty miss, what did
you come for ? " Tickel asked, little moved
by a woe which he considered more merited
and less deep than his own.

I — I couldn't stay away," murmured
Lydia. *' It was too hard to sit alone
thinking of him — thinking that I might
not see him ever again, and that, by a little
sacrifice, I could come here to bid liii
farewell."

Had you sacrificed your pride a little
earlier, it might have been to some
purpose. You might have led him how
you liked if you had dropped in about

half-after eleven last night. He was
broken down ; he had no more strength
than a chick. But 'tis a different matter
to-day. He's a man again, and a stouthearted
man, too."

"And he is gone," Lydia said plaintively.


Yes ; gone to Woolwich in the same
barge with a company of starved hedgers
and ditchers, thriftless artisans, carriers,
porters, and the like gentry."

Lydia sat some time in silence ; the
parson wondered why she waited. At
length she asked timidly :

Now that he is gone, Mr. Tickel, what
shall you do ? "

Heaven only knows, young lady. I
doubt if I shall eat a bit to-day."

Lydia was nervous, and when she spoke
again it was with embarrassment.

"Mr. Tickel, will you be my friend?"
she asked.
VOL. III. 40

No, madam, I won't," said the parson
stoutly. " Whatever faults I may have,
I have not the fault of being a turncoat ;
and I loved poor Blase too well to like
any one who is an enemy of his."
An enemy ? "

Yes ; for when I asked you yesterday
to save him from the peril of death by a
single word, did you not refuse ? "

''If I had spoken that word, would he
have accepted it ? "
Mr. Tickel was silent.
I did not come to-day," she continued,
^' with any hope that I might turn him
from his purpose. I could not wish him
to do anything that would cause him to
feel shame and regret. But I did wish
to say good-bye to him ; and the wish was
stronger than my reason, which told me
that I ought not to let him know how
much I love him while it is uncertain that
he can marry me."

Is it uncertain ? " asked Mr. Tickel.

Yes," lie said, her voice trembling a
little ; and then she raised her veil as
though it impeded her speaking freely.
She looked so ill, so wasted and wan, so
changed, that the feeling of humanity in
Mr. Tickel's heart was touched. He rose
and fetched from the sideboard a bottle
of mountain and a couple of glasses. " Had
there been no hope," continued Lydia, " I
should not have waited here after hearing
that he was gone."

Drink that, my dear," said the parson.
'^ You aren't well this morning. As for
hope, to be sure 'tis not certain the fellow
will be killed ; but I see no harm in letting
him know that, if he returns safe, you will
marry him. It might tempt him to keep out
of danger, whereas, with nothing to live for,
he's likely enough to seek it, poor wretch."

"It is not that," said Lydia. "Mr.
Godwin has too much honour, I believe,

to marry me after what lias passed, unless
he can recover his hereditary right to the
Godwin estate."

Then there's little hope of his marrying,
for he's sold his right to the enemy who
has patiently toiled to obtain it. The conveyance
has been obtained by the subtle
scheming of Father Dominick, in order that
Sir Gilbert may be cozened into willing
the property to the wretches who hold him
in their power."

'' I know that," Lydia cried, her eyes-glistening
with a feverish excitement.
But the will cannot be made until the
conveyance is signed, and Mr. Godwin has
only promised to sign."

Ah, and there's no shaking him from
that promise," sighed the parson. 'i've
tried."

But suppose," cried Lydia, the colour
rising to her cheeks and every muscle
quivering with excitement — " suppose that

we can induce Sir Gilbert to renounce this
claim upon his son ? "

Mr. Tickel leaned back in his chair
astonished.

My dear, what scheme is this you have
in your head ? " he asked.

A scheme to save Blase from his
enemies. And now, will you be my
friend ? "

'^ Why, that I will, with all my heart,"
cried the parson, stepping forward and
taking the girl's trembling fingers in his
great fat hand; "and I'll beg you to forgive
my cruelty and rudeness into the bargain."

I like you all the better for being rude
and saying uncivil things to me," Lydia
said, with a little hysterical laugh. "It
shows how true you are to /^/m."

"You're the first woman I ever knew,
my dear, that could pretend to such just
philosophy. And now for your scheme,
my brave little lady."

Mr. Tickel had a great belief in the art
of women. He maintained that a clever
woman could get just Whatever she set her
mind upon getting ; and the bright intelligence
in Lydia's eyes led him confidently
to hope that, by some cunning plan, she
intended to force Sir Gilbert to give up
the papers Blase had signed. It was
therefore with great mortification that he
listened to the explanation of Lydia's
simple scheme.

We must appeal'' she said, " to Sir
Gilbert's natural affection and his sense of
justice."

You might as well appeal," said he
"to the affection and sense of justice of a
gatepost."

I am of a different opinion," said Lydia
firmly. " Only I cannot carry out my
notion alone. I want someone to help me.
I am afraid. I have never attempted to
match my strength against any one ; and

here we may count upon two, perhaps
three, powerful enemies. You will be mv
friend and help me, for Its dear sake ? "

Oh, I'll help you, my dear," said the
parson rather carelessly, for his belief in
woman's cunning had gone down to the
feeblest glimmering. " 'Tis only a matter
of writing a letter or so''

Letters would be useless ; Father
Dominick would intercept them."

'' Why, you're right there, to be sure ;
but hang me if I see any other mode of
appealing to him." Mr. Tickel's belief
began to revive.

He must be appealed to personally."

Ah, to be sure. Catch him when he
goes out a-pleasuring, and leaves that jack-priest
at home."

That would not be practicable. Mr.
Eugenius is still in London. It will be
well to consider him as possibly a friend,
but probably an enemy. If he suspects

our intention and is an enemy he will
eommnnioite with Father Dominick, and
we shall then have but a slight chance of
addressing onr appeal to Sir Gilbert."

•• Bv George ! you're in the right, my
dear ; but who would have thought that you
could foresee these things ? Well, and how
are we to get at the baronet? We can't
ofo into his house without an invitation."

"I think I can feet that," said Lvdia
quietly.

*• And then, my dear, what next ? If
his own son Blase failed to arouse his
afFection and sense of justice. how can you
hope to suc-creed ? *'

Lydia hesitate*! a moment, whilst she
seemed to gauge the depth of 31r. Tickel's
fidelity through his little grey eyes : then
she said :

•• By going to work in a different manner.
Air. Tickel."

But Lydia reHe<i on something more

than her method of proceeding. There
was some secret } :ver: : he employed
which she did not c: :— : present to
reveal to 31:. Tiikrl. Ot this the parson
was convent I " ^ searching look she

had fixed upon him in the very moment
wliezi Le w :^ ''':::: z "hat a pleasure it
W(V k' ' - ]V - : : : ive a foil describe:
r. : isis miiigue on his behalf.

He : - Tr: ed to assure Lydia of his

^* ^r ^-g: lady," he said, "^ I shall

be ]: '^ '"'^ to help yon in any

€chei„- i: /:.::: :: ^ welfare of onr dear
Blase is concerned ; and I perceive dearly
that yon have an extraordinary intelligence,
for which I : . :^?t eve yon credit; and
with that intelligence, supported by the
worldly wisi^m. of a man who has seen
a great "ife, my dear, I have no

doubt you will succeed. I beg you to have
confidence in me."

'' I shall, Mr. Tickel — when I need your
help. At present there is very little that
you can do. It is when I am at Godwin's
Moat that I shall need you. I am a woman,
and you know what happened to a woman
in that house."

"I know quite well."

*' Then you can understand my fear in
visiting Godwin's Moat — an enemy, and
possibly a suspected enemy, of the man
who did that deed."

Gads my life ! You are a brave girl
to dare so much."

I do not think I could dare," she said
with a little shudder, " if I had not a
friend upon whose physical protection I
could depend."

On that score, my dear young lady,
you may make your mind perfectly easy,'^
said Mr. Tickel not a little flattered. " No
harm shall come to you while old Tickel's
in the house. Besides," he added, with a

sudden apprehension of the danger he
himself must encounter, 'there's Hutchins;
we can keep him at hand."

That is just what I want. Xow I
shall have no fear." She paused awhile,
her eves fixed in thought. '' The first think*

Iso o

is to obtain the invitation," she continued ;
that must come through Mr. Eugenius."

How ? "

'^ Bj letting things go on as if nothing*
had happened to shake my belief in his
honesty, and — and," she dropped her eyes,
"by taking advantage of opportunities.
That he may not suspect our intentions
you must come frequently to Piccadilly."

"But Mrs. Eomsey?"

"You must apologise to her for your
rudeness."

"A bitter pill, that. I'll swallow it
however." Mr. Tickel had more than
once, in thinking of his misfortunes,
numbered among-st them the loss of Mrs.

Eomsey's admirably served table. '• Go
son, my dear yomig lady. I submit myself
to your guidance."

*' To still further allay suspicion, do you
think you could pretend to like Mr.
Eugenius ? "

Of course I can. I've stood his friend
over many a bottle."

And could you pretend that you were
Mr. Godwin's friend merely for the sake
•of what you could get out of him ? "

Mr. Ticket looked up quickly to see if
there was any sign of sarcasm in Lydia's
face, and satisfied with her perfect simplicity,
he said —

I daresay I could do that."

Then for the present only one thing more
is necessary, and that is perfect secresy.
For if Mr. Godwin should hear but a whisper
of this he would upset my plans, to save
me from encountering danger."

'• Upon my soul he shall hear nothing
from me ! "

Lyclia rose, her limbs strengthened, her
face animated with the new hope.

'Tis wondrous ! " exclaimed the parson,
regarding her with admiration. '• Tell me,,
mv dear, when you planned this out."

In the night," she answered simply.

Mr. Tickel reflected that Its grief had
not prevented him sleeping. And as he
thought of this young girl lying awake
in the night, subduing her feeling that
she mio'ht think out how bv risking her
own life she might succeed in saving her
lover's, his admiration of feminine character
rose to a degree which it had never
before come near.

There was at that moment an earnest
devotional look in Lydia's face which led
Mr. Tickel to believe that she was in
prayer ; as indeed she was.

"Oh, gentle Father*" rose the silent
prayer, " watch over my love till I maybe
his wife*'

CHAPTER IV.

IX WHICH LYDIA TAKES HER FIRST STEP.

Lydia was impatient to play her cards.

The prospect of winning back all she
had lost, and more, made her forget what
her loss had cost her, and heedless of the
disastrous consequences that must attend
defeat. She had undertaken to play a
bold game — an audacious game for oue so
young and inexperienced in worldly affairs
■ — and the knowledge that success depended
mainly upon her own discretion
and address acted as a stimulant upon her
faculties. As Mr. Tickel in the language
of that day said, the Apathy of Despair
gave place to the Excitement of Hope.
She shed no more tears, and if the pangs

of sorrow and regret pierced her heart, she
suffered in the still hours of the night,
when her thoughts were detached from the
object she had set herself to achieve, and
were free to dwell upon her banished lover
and his misfortunes.

It was a great comfort to Mrs. Eomsey
the following morning when Lydia met
her in the breakfast parlour to find a
marked improvement in her niece's appearance.
The girl's cheeks were still
pale, and her eyes dark, as these might
have been had she only suffered from a
severe headache ; but the expression of her
face was not without a certain amount of
liveliness, and the lids of her eyes were
no longer swollen and red. And she ate
two slices of dry toast.

Mrs. Eomsey disliked sorrow ; she knew
of no greater happiness than to be comfortable.
Her nature was deficient in that
feminine sympathy which finds its highest

satisfaction in sharing the sorrows of
others. Her religion was identical with
Mr. Tickel's — she believed in a perfect
future, where the unhappy and the happy
should be separated widely, the one abiding
at the bottom of a very deep pit, the
other at the top of a very high heaven ;
and it was only logical to make the present
life approach as near as possible to the
future, as far as she was concerned.

You can't tell how glad I am to see
you eat, Lydia," she said. '' I shall make
some posset for you to drink about eleven
and I bade cook stew you a dish of beef-tea
for lunch, for I don't think you ought to eat
solids, unless it were the lean of a mutton
chop or the breast of a boiled chick, with
a custard to follow. I should lie on the
sofa with a soft pillow from my bed, and
sip a little white wine, was I you, until
dinner-time, and then some chicken broth
and "

"why do YOU insist upon treating
me as an invalid, aunt ? Mj health is
good."

'' Ah ! " with a deep sigh ; "if there
had been a death in the house it couldn't
have been more dreadful than it has been
for these last two days, every one walking
about on tiptoe, no one to speak to, an-l
such a smell of cooking in the house. 'Tis
the first time I have heard the sound of
my own voice since that man left the house
who shall never more enter it again with
nvj consent, although what we are to do
for society now, I really don't know''

*' I suppose we shall see Mr. Eugenius,"
said Lydia calmly.

If you do not forbid him the house,
my dear."

Why should I forbid him the house ?
The statement he made was in this own
defence, and for my protection. As I
accused him of falsehood wronaiv the least

VOL. III. 41

I can do is to atone, as much as is possible,
for the injustice I have done him."

That is very reasonable indeed, Lydia ;
and I must say it shows greater wisdom on
your part than I gave you credit for.
Why should we make ourselves uncomfortable
? Well, we shall have one person
to talk to, though 1 admit he is not so
cheerful a visitor as I should like. When
I look at him I can't help thinking I amin
church, and ought not to laugh, or talk
above a whisper."

"Perhaps Mr. Tickel may call," Lydia
said with affected indifference.

I should think he would hardly have
the impudence to do that after what he
said the other day ; and if he did we
certainly could not receive him."

Why not ? "

My love, do you remember what he
called me ? "

Yes ; and I don't forget what he called

me," Lydia said, with a little laugh. " But
I like him none the less for losing his
temper in defending his friend."

To be sure that proves his fidelity asa
friend, and there never was such a man
for recipes. He is the most agreeable man
in conversation that I ever met with. His
remarks upon the future state are most
comforting ; and he knows where the best
of everything is to be got. The very day
before this unhappiness had begun, he told
me he had bespoke a dish of green peas for
Saturday. Fancy, my love, green peas at
this time of the year, and now we shall
have no peas for Sunday. I must go to
church hail, blow, or snow ; and that Mr.
Gravely talks so much about the brimstone
fire that I have felt quite glad to stay at
home and listen to Mr. Tickel's satisfactory
explanation of that distressing Book of
Revelation — which was quite justifiable
with such weather as we are having

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

now. I wish I had written down all he
had said upon that subject, and how he
told me maccaroni should be dressed ; but
I don't in the least see how we are to
receive him after confessing that he attempted
to dupe us."

He has not asked us yet. If he does
he will be better able to apologize for
his conduct than I am," said Lydia, and
then she rose from the table and broke
off the discussion for fear of saying too
much. Already she felt the necessity of
controlling her impatience and concealing
her hand. It was above all things important
that her collusion with Mr. Tickel
should not be suspected.

She was in her room when Eugenius
called to see her. Learning from the
servant who announced his arrival that
Mrs. Romsey was with him in the drawing-room,
Lydia sent a message to say that
she would descend shortly; then she took

out her watch and timed herself to wait
five minutes, feeling sure that in that
space Mrs. Romsey would recount the
particulars of what had happened and
unconsciously assist the deception which it
was necessary to put upon the young man.

My dear Mr. Eugenius ! " Mrs. Romsey
said, meeting the visitor with effusive
warmth. " How do you do ? Pray do not
stand — take the chair by the fire."

I have your permission ? " he said ina
tone of inquiry and with a look of
surprise.

Certainly. And I may as well tell
you at once that you are a welcome visitor
here to my niece as well as to me."

Here the servant brought Lydia's message,
and left the room.

I am astonished," said Eugenius, as he
slowly seated himself, speaking in a tone
that supported the assertion — " I did not
look for a reception of this kind."

I dare say you don't know all that has
happened. In the first place, it is all over
between Lydia and Mr. Godwin ; they
have separated for ever, and he has enlisted
and gone away as a common soldier."

Enlisted ! Separated for ever, and
through me ! Oh, madam ! "

My dear Mr. Eugenius, do not take it
to heart. Depend upon it I should have
found out everything if you had not spoken.
I have had my suspicions all along."

I beg you to tell me what has
happened."

'' To begin with, sir, Mr. Godwin came
to see Lydia in the afternoon after your
visit in the morning. What they actually
siiid I cannot tell you precisely, as I vas
unfortunately out a shopping at the time ;
but when I came home I found Lydia ina
state of mind bordering on madness, and
I could get no explanation from her. All
she could say was, ' He's gone ! he's

gone ! we shall never see him again.'
She was inconsolable, sir ; she would take
nothing. She shut herself up in her room,
and refused to be comforted. I could hear
her sobbing, sobbing, sobbing, and all the
negus, and cake, and mutton broth, and
tea I could think of would not induce her
to open the door, until in the evening
who should come to see her but Mr. Tickel ;
and very violent and very rude he was,
and if it were not for the sake of peace
and quiet, and the fact that he was beside
himself with the thought of losing Mr.
Grodwin, I don't think I could pardon his
behaviour to me. Well, sir, he protested
that he was chiefly to blame for Mr.
(godwin's misfortunes, and that Mr.
Godwin had no choice but to do as he
had done ; finally, he told Lydia that
!Mr. Godwin was about to become a soldier,
and that she alone had the power to save
him from the peril of death, and with

that lie begged her to forgive the unhappy
gentleman, which she very readily
did ; but at the same time she gave him
distinctly to understand that she could no
longer think of being his wife. And her
word she maintained although Mr. Tickel
protested that her consent to the marriage
could alone save Mr. Grodwin. I am sure
it gave her great pain to make this
decision, for she liked Mr. Godwin very
much, but the girl has a proper pride and
I am sure would not marry a penniless
gentleman if he were the smartest in the
three kingdoms. She fretted a good deal
after Mr. Tickel was gone, despite all I
could do to cheer her ; and yesterday
morning before I was down — I kept my
bed till mid-day for there was no inducement
to get up — she took a coach and went
to Mr. Grodwin's house to bid him goodbye.
She never once thought of complying
with Mr. Tickel's entreaty — she is

too proud for that — she went there simply
to bid him good-bye, because she could
not abide the idea of his going away in
the belief that she was cruel and unforgiving.
However, when she reached
the house she found that Mr. Godwin had
gone, and Mr. Tickel had accompanied
him, and so she had her journey for
nothing. However, 'tis quite as well for
them both ; for had he seen how Lydia
had been crying he would have nursed
up the hope that when he came back
from the wars — if ever he is to come back
the old relations might be renewed ; and
Lydia, with the knowledge that he entertained
that hope, would have found it
difficult maybe to accept another and better
offer of marriage. Happily my dear niece
has extraordinary good sense, and having
come to London with the intention of
marrying advantageously, she is not likely
to retire into the country an old maid for the

sake of an unfortunate attachment, which
was not, I believe, of the deepest kind. And
then again, his ill-temper and sour looks
during the past two or three weeks have
lessened her interest in him to a noticeable
degree. This morning she is quite collected
and calm, and I promise you she
looked not at all displeased when there
was question of your calling to day. Tut,
tut, what a world this is, Mr. Eugenius !
what ups and downs, what twists and
turns. I suppose from what you have
told me of Sir Gilbert's affection for you
that he will make you his heir."

*' I cannot say what Sir Grilbert's intentions
are."

Well, well, if he should you would
stand a good chance of winning Lydia,
for she is prodigiously taken with your
music and talk about poetry, and she's a
chance of here and there one — for what
with the money her father left and the

interest that's been accumulating since his
death her fortune may be reckoned as close
upon two thousand a year. Hush ! I hear
her coming down. — Let's be talking about
something else. Yes, upon my word I do
not think this horrid weather can continue
much longer." The last phrase was spoken
in a high voice as Lydia opened the door
and entered the room.

Eugenius made no attempt to support
this very palpable subterfuge. He cast a
penetrating glance at Lydia, and made a
low bow, dropping his eyes with characteristic
humility.

I have been listening," he said in a
tone of respectful sympathy, " to an account
of what has taken place since I was
here last."

Then I have only to apologize for
doubting the truth of your statement,"
said Lydia, trying in vain to control the
nervous quivering of her muscles.

A doubt which simply proves the
sincerity of your friendship requires no
apology; and believe me, Miss Liston, I
ventured to call upon you with no mean
hope that I should receive such an
apology, but rather that you would accept
from me an explanation to vindicate my
loyal attachment to Mr. Grodwin and
to you."

Prodigious polite, upon my word," said
Mrs. Eomsey to herself. The good lady
had accompanied the final speech with
approving nods; she now thought it
discreet to retire to the sofa, where she
sat with her back to Lydia and Eugenius,
and her ears wide open.

With an inclination of her head Lydia
seated herself; Eugenius remained standing
until by a gesture Lydia invited him
to take a chair.

That explanation, however," Eugenius
pursued, *' is now unnecessary ; since the

justice of my conclusions is confirmed by
the event."

Simple Lydia could not quite see this,
and she said so.

I concluded that the greatest misery
that Mr. Grodwin could suffer would arise
from a concealment of the real position
in which he stood. Was I wrong ? "

No," Lydia replied after a moment's
consideration.

So I believed," said Eugenius. " And
that you also recognized the fact is made
clear by your preferring a painful separation
to a yet more painful union. And
since this is so I need not seek to exculpate
myself for making known a fact which it
was necessary for your mutual happiness
that you should know."

Lydia bowed in assent. It suited her
to accept this logical exposition as satisfactory,
otherwise she might have found
many objections to it, despite the conclusive

reasoning of Eugenius. His easy-victory
was a surprise to him, and fora
couple of minutes lie said nothing.
Then with some hesitation :

May I hope that you will permit me
to call upon you at intervals, Miss
Listen ? " he said.

Why not ? " she replied. " Have you
not shown that you still merit our
esteem ? "

I hope so. But hitherto I have visited
you as Mr. Godwin's friend."

And you are still his friend, are you
not ? "

Undoubtedly, so far as my feelings are
concerned."

Then why should you doubt our
welcome ? "

"Because I have regarded your reception
hitherto as a privilege accorded in
courtesy to Mr. Grodwin, whose companion
I was ; and because," he added with an

air of deep dejection, " it has been my
bitter misfortune to inspire dislike in those
whom I most wished to please."

I beg, sir," said Mrs. Romsey, turning-round
on the sofa, "that you will not credit
us with any such wicked prejudice ; and
if you wish to please me, the oftener you
come and see us the better you will
succeed."

CHAPTER y.

IN WHICH MR. Ticket COMFORTS THE LADIES.

Early on Saturday morning, as Mrs. Romsey
was sitting before the fire in dismal
solitude, the servant announced Mr. Tickel.
At that name the good lady's heart leapt
up with joy ; but she assumed an expression
of cold severity, and rose from her
chair with dignity when the parson entered
the room.

Mr. Tickel held his hat and stick in
one hand, and in the other he carried a
basket covered with a certain bluish kind
of paper, peculiar to the use of fruiterers.
He made a most profound bow, and appeared
to be no less grave than Mrs.
Romsey; then he seemed to be embarrassed

as to what he should do with the
little basket, until at length, with extreme
care, he set it upon the corner of the sideboard,
where it was well in sight. The
solemn silence was broken only by a faint
click as Mrs. Romsey unconsciously turned
her tongue in watching the manipulation
of the little basket. Having embarrassed
himself, Mr. Tickel turned about, and with
as much gravity as if he were reading the
burial service, said :

Madam, it is my duty as a Christian,
and my desire as a friend, to ask your
pardon for certain words which in the heat
of anger escaped my lips at our last
meeting. Anything more cruel, more
undeserved, or more false man never said
of woman. To-day, madam, is Saturday —
a day on which we settle up our accounts
for the past week, and lay in a stock of
provisions for the week to come, in orders
on Sunday no uneasy reflections with

VOL. III. 42

regard to the past, no anxious doubts with
respect to the future, may disturb the
tranquil enjoyment of that day of rest
and its concomitants." He coughed, and
glanced towards the sideboard. *what
day, then," he proceeded, " could be more
appropriate than this for begging you to
discharge your mind of the unpleasant
recollections of the week, to provide for
your sociable wants of the time to come,
and so ensure for tomorrow that peace of
mind without which it were impossible to
thoroughly enjoy the dish of green peas
which I promised to bring you, and which
is contained in that little basket on the
corner of the sideboard ? "

You are very eloquent, Mr. Tickel, and
I daresay it is also my Christian duty to
forgive you ; but really, you said such
things. You know you compared me to
an old post with a rusty hinge, and a
weather-cock also."

Madam, I will not attempt to defend
myself. I will not say that you aggravated
me beyond endurance ; I frankly confess that
I was guilty of the grossest calumny that
the worm ever put into the mind of man."

Well, sir, we will let bygones be bygones
; and so we will shake hands and
be friends again." With these words Mrs.
Romsey gave her hand, and heaved a deep
sigh of relief. " I will call Lydia," she
continued, " for you have to obtain her
pardon as well."

Mr. Tickel had undone the paper, and
being too deeply engaged in uncovering
the peas to take any notice of Mrs. Eom-
sey's observation, he now turned, and
offering the basket, exclaimed, " There,
madam ! "

Quite a picture, indeed ! " said Mrs.
Romsey; "but I hope you don't think I
was influenced in forgiving you by the
sight of your present ? "

Not in the least. But do you know
what I should have done with those peas
if you had refused your forgiveness ? "

'No, indeed," said Mrs. Eomsey, rather
terrified by the severity of the parson's
mien and voice, thinking that he possibly
meditated trampling them under his
heel.

'why, madam," cried Mr. Tickel, "I
should have taken 'em away with me ! "

This was not what Mrs. Romsey had
expected ; nevertheless, it was a sufficiently
unpleasant alternative to make her more
pleased that amity was once again restored.

'rand now," said Mr. Tickel, "if you
will be good enough to take them downstairs
and tell cook to keep them in the
dry end of the pantry, and at the same
time send Miss Lydia to me, for I have to
obtain her pardon, I shall be very much
obliged to you."

Left to himself, Mr. Tickel had scarcely

time to whistle a couple of bars of his
favourite melody, " The Lass of Richmond
Hill," when Lydia came to him.

Have you seen him ? Have you heard
from him ? " were her first words as she
put her hand into the parson's, and looked
into his face with eager anxiety.

Yes, my dear young lady, I have seen
him. I was at Woolwich yesterday. He
was in a yard with a squad of raw recruits,
drilling ; but I picked out our dear Blase
at once, though he wore the same coat as
the rest. For not only was he the finest
man of the company, but his presence was
that of a gentleman which neither dress
nor surroundings could disguise." Lydia's
face flushed with pride hearing this. " The
drill being over," continued the parson,
he came to me and, curiously enough,
his first words were almost identical with
yours. ' Have you seen or heard anything
of her ? ' says he. It seemed a cruel shame

to tell the poor fellow a lie, and make him
believe that you had let him go to his
death without a word of farewell ; and
while I was hawking and stammering to
find words — ' You have seen her! ' cries he.
For God's sake, parson ! tell me the
truth ! ' Whereupon I told him how you
had come to bid him good-bye. ' God bless
her ! ' says he."

Lydia dropped her head and felt for her
handkerchief

' She's the sweetest, noblest girl that
breathes ! ' says Blase. ' Yes,' says I, * she

5 J'

IS.

Lydia sobbed.

' But,' says I, ' 'tis all over between
you, Blase. You mustn't think that
because she likes you still, the girl would
marry a beggared gentleman.' ' What ! '
cries he in a fury, ' do you think I'd ask
lier to, you stupid old fool ? ' I give you
my word, my dear, he called me a stupid

old fool ! " the parson said, laying bis hand
gently on Lydia's shoulder.

The poor girl laughed through her tears
hysterically.

' I'm a man now he went on, ' and
I love her as a man should. No deed
of mine shall ever make her love me
less.' Then having leave from the officers
we went out of the barracks, and drank a
bottle together at a tavern, where he told
me of the regulations to which he had to
submit, and hard enough they are for a
gentleman of his condition ; but he seemed
not displeased with the life, and said he
had made the acquaintance of one or two
very honest fellows, bricklayers by trade,
who had been thrown out of work by the
hard frosts. 'And now,' says he, 'that we're
all washed alike and dressed alike, I find
the relative merits of an honest bricklayer
and an indolent gentleman pretty fairly
balanced.' "

That's nonsense," said Lydia, drying
lier eyes briskly, and looking up with a sort
of indignation that any comparison should
be thought possible between Blase and an
artisan.

To be sure it is, and so I told him
flatly. And then, time being up, we went
back to the barracks and parted. ' If you
should see her again,' says he, as he held
my hand, ' you may say, that no matter
how I end my days, my last thought shall
be of her.' "

Lydia hung her head once more, and it
seemed as if she must bring her handkerchief
again into use ; but Mr. Tickel, to
avert her thoughts, took her hand, and
leading her to a chair, said :

Come, we are forgetting our own
affairs. Tell me what has happened. Has
Eugenius called upon you ? "

*' Yes. He came on Thursday."

Ah ! and I warrant he gave a good
account of himself."

AVhat he said in justification of his
action has since seemed to me so reasonable
that I cannot think he is Mr. Godwin's
enemy."

He'd be a clumsy rogue indeed if his
tricks were to be seen through at the first
glance. Whatever he be, you must think
of him only as an enemy."

'Tis so difficult to think that, and at
the same time to give him my hand and
speak to him in a tone of friendship."

'Tis difficult, and repugnant to your
feelings also, I'll be bound, my dear young
lady. It must go to the heart of a soldier
if he be a feeling man — when first be
levels his piece to take the life of a man
that has never done him harm ; but 'tis his
duty to play the part allotted him in the
cause he has undertaken to defend. And
so it is with you, my dear. You must
leave your feelings behind you if you
would fight this battle to any purpose."

That is quite true. Don't think that I
am faint-hearted, or that I repent of having
undertaken this task. I ivill succeed," she
said, with a little stamp of her foot, '^if
success depends upon my perseverance and
thought ; but it is natural that one should
recoil from treachery — isn't it ? "

Why, to be sure, for a little lady like
you there must be some such hesitation at
first, but I'll be bound 'twill wear off, as
the soldier's qualms disappear when he gets
into the thick of the battle. At present
there's little treachery needed. If you are
inclined to think Eugenius a friend — as he
may be for all we know certainly to the
contrary — treat him as a friend ; that will
be all to the good ; but for heaven's sake,
my dear, do not let him know anything of
your motives and your hopes. If he is an
enemy, be sure he is a cunning one, and
'tis the nature of such enemies to be as
suspicious and to have as many turns asa

fox. You accepted his explanation, I
suppose ? "

'' Yes."

"And consented to his calling upon you
aofain ? — for I doubt not he asked that
favour."

Yes."

Then I warrant he is already puzzling
his long head to find an explanation of
your indulgence."

Why should he ? His explanation was
very logical and rational."

Doubtless, but very few young ladies
in your position would listen to reason.
Depend upon it, he will try his best to
make you believe he is the sincerest friend
Blase ever had, in order to sound your
thoughts on the subject. Match cunning
with cunning, my dear, and you may succeed
; happily, you will have old Tickel at
hand when there's more lying to be done
than you are equal to. Mum ! — Here comes
aunty ! "

CHAPTER YI.

HOW LYDIA BADE HER LOVER Good-bye.

A Month passed away, and to Mrs. Romsey
it appeared that the stream of life was
running as smoothly as if its even flow had
never been broken by a turbulent whirl of
passion. To be sure, Mr. Godwin had
dropped out of sight ; but he never interested
her greatly, at least so she tried to
believe, and Mr. Eugenius had taken his
place. It was also probable that they
should see no more of Captain Davenarit
and his daughter. Lydia had written to
bliss Covenant, saying that under existing
conditions it might be advisable to postpone
the visit to Redwater ; and Miss Covenant

had replied in a very cold and formal
manner, saying that in this regard she was
perfectly in accord with Miss Liston. That
was no great source of regret to Mrs.
Romsey, for she had learnt from Mr. Tickel
that the table at Redwater was poor and the
bedchamber cool. She had a much stronger
desire to see Godwin's Moat and its inhabitants,
who, from what she could discover,
were a pleasant, free-living sort of people ;
and it was quite within the range of possibility
that they should receive an invitation
from Lady Godwin if Lydia would be
reasonable, and if Mr. Eugenius could lay
aside a little of his natural diffidence.

Lydia was not unreasonable. She made
Eugenius welcome when he came, and by
her frank cordiality did much to remove
the humiliating sense of unworthiness
which oppressed him. He read well, and
she was pleased to work and listen to him ;
he was a good musician, and frequently

when he was at the piano she would raise
her eyes from her work and let them rest
upon his earnest scholarly face. He played
from memory mostly, and at these times
he would close his eyes and assume an air
of rapture. He must have observed more
than once in raising his lids, that Lydia's
fingers were lying idle on her work and
that she was gazing at him with a sort of
childish awe. A man must be absolutely
destitute of vanity who cannot be cheated
by the eyes of a pretty woman.

Lydia was careful not to overact her
part, and though she showed a growing
interest in Eugenius, she suffered him to
see that she had not forgotten Blase. "If
you can make him jealous, my dear," said
Mr. Tickel, in one of his confidential chats
with Lydia, " so much the better. It will
do him good, and us also."

But Eugenius showed no disposition to
be jealous ; it was quite as often he that

spoke of Blase and his misfortunes as
Lydia, and always with an unstrained
generosity which kept Lydia in doubt as
to his real character, and occasionally
shook Mr. Tickel's convictions.

Eugenius and the parson usually left the
house in Piccadilly at the same time. One
night Eugenius said :

Mr. Tickel, may I ask if you have
heard any ill news to-day ? "

Yes, I have heard ill news. But pray
how did you come to know that ? "

You have a tell-tale face, sir. Something
concerning Mr. Godwin has disturbed
your mind, I fear."

"Yes. They consider him ripe enough
to be cut down, and on Friday he is to
march off from Woolwich to Chatham, and
thence he and his fellows are to be shipped
off to a convenient slaughtering ground.
I shall see the last of him o' Friday."

Will there be time for Captain covenant

to come to London ? " asked Eugenius
after a pause.

I believe so. Blase tells me that he has
despatched a letter to him. I shall go to
Woolwich, of course. But I beg you,
sir, to say nothing of this matter to Miss
Liston."

Eugenius walked in silence for a few
moments ; then he asked —

'' Why not ? "

Why not ? " echoed the parson. " Because
the poor soul still thinks of him with
tender regret, and she'd be for going down
to see him off as like as not."

*rand why should she not see him at
that time, if it is her desire? We maybe
sure poor Blase will be scanning the
women's faces with the hope of getting
one last glimpse of hers. It will be some
consolation to him, perhaps ; and I believe
that Miss Liston would grieve to think she
had not given him that consolation."

That's true," said the parson, and then
he thought, "one would fancy this man was
the poor fellow's best friend to hear him ! "
After a few paces in silence, he said,
Shall you go, sir ? "

No. It would give him no pleasure to
see me. He might even believe that I was
there to insult him, so perverted are his
views by the antipathy which it has been
my misfortune to provoke."

'Tis the strangest prejudice that ever a
man of sense and honest disposition ever
took into his head ; and all because you
happen to resemble a man whom, rightly
or wrongly, he takes to be his enemy''

Rightly or wrongly," Eugenius repeated
with a sigh. " But that is not what
concerns us at present, sir. It is the happiness
of Blase and Miss Liston we have to
think of. Could you not take Miss Liston
with you on Friday ? "

I might make the suggestion to her,

VOL. III. 43

for her to accept or decline, as lie thinks
fit. For Blase 'twould be an unspeakable
joy. By George, sir, 'tis an odd sort of
revenge you take for all the ill-treatment
you have received."

I seek but one revenge," Eugenius said
fervently, " one triumph to balance all that
I have suffered ! and that is to put into his
hands the covenant he has signed, and
force him to acknowledge that I am his
friend ; and who knows," he added, dropping
his voice so that he seemed to bespeaking
to himself rather than to Mr.
Tickel, " who knows but that I may
succeed ? "

Give me your hand, sir," cried the
parson, who seemed to be greatly moved
by this generous avowal, " and let us drop
into the tavern over the way, and drink a
glass to your success."

Mr. Eugenius accepted the proposal, for
despite his Christianity and his ascetic

look, lie had a taste for wine and other
mortal pleasures, if Mr. Tickel did not
wrongly construe certain covert glances
cast upon the women that they passed in
the street.

'^ I never expected to see a saint in knee-breeches,"
said the parson to himself, when
he had parted from Eugenius and was
walking slowly homewards, " but certainly
this Eugenius is a saint — if he isn't a sinner.
He is one or the other, and not like
most of us, a little of both. He doesn't
come of a line of saints, that's certain ; and
I am inclined to think there is a good deal
of hereditary talent in Master Eugenius —
he has a certain amount of subtle shrewdness
from his father the priest, I should
say, and a fair portion of deceptive ability
from his mother the actress. He is clever
without a doubt; but if he thought a
shallow show of generosity would get
more out of a simple old parson than a

glass of Vine, lie was very much in
error ! "

The following morning Mr. Tickel called
upon Lydia, and told her that Blase was
about to leave Woolwich for Chatham,
where he might at once be put on board a
transport. The colour faded from the girl's
cheek as she listened, and she sat looking
with fixed imploring eyes at. the parson, as
if he had pronounced a sentence which
might be revoked.

I have told you of his departure beforehand,
my dear," said the parson, '' because
if you don't think it amiss, you and I might
go to Woolwich, and see our dear Blase
march off."

With a little cry of joy Lydia sprang
from her chair, her eyes full of tears and
her face radiant with happiness, and then
she threw her arms round Mr. Tickel's
neck and kissed his fat cheek.

But," she said suddenly, releasing him.

can this be done without injuring our
plans for his happiness ? Will not Eugenius
suspect us ?"

'not a bit, my dear; for 'tis his proposal."


Then he cannot be an enemy to Blase."

'' That remains to be seen. I have more
to tell you on that head by and by. At
present we must think about the journey.
The company marches at nine o'clock tomorrow
morning ; so we had better goto
Woolwich this afternoon before the light
fades. You can take your maid with you,
for I warrant Mrs. Romsey has no fancy
for the expedition, and we will put up at
the Anchor, which is an excellent hotel.
And now if that's settled I'll go to my
friend in Long-acre and order a good
stout coach and a pair of strong horses."

It was half-past five when they entered
the main street of Woolwich. Mr. Tickel,
whom the motion of the vehicle had sent

to sleep soon after passing Hertford, was
peacefully reclining in one corner of the
coach, Lydia was pressing her face against
the glass scanning the people on the footway.
The coach moved at a walking pace
over the rough stones with which the street
was paved. A good many people were
walking, and there was enough light to
show their features with tolerable distinctness.


Suddenly with a cry of alarm Lydia
threw herself back and clutched at Mr.
Tickel's arm.

"What's the matter my dear?" he asked,
withdrawing his arm from the girl's convulsive
grip.

Look, look ! " she said, pointing to the
footway, and then putting her hand up to
her face as if to hide it.

Rubbing his arm, which still suffered
from Lydia's pinch, Mr. Tickel winked his
heavy eyes and tried to see things clearly.

"Don't you see? there!" whispered Lydia.,

Then Mr. Tickel made out a soldier
walking a little way in advance of the
coach and in the same direction, with a
thin old gentleman on his right, and a
little lady on his left.

'^ Why, to be sure," said the parson, " by
the size of him that might be Blase."

It Z.5," Lydia cried emphatically.

Ah, and the old gentleman and the
lady may be Captain Covenant and his
daughter."

Very likely." She clasped her hands
together and watched them for a minute
in silence, then turning to Mr. Tickel, her
pallor making her look almost ghostly :

May I get out ? " she asked.

"No, my dear," said the parson firmly,
that must not be."

She seemed to know that he was right,
for she made no further appeal, but with
a deep sigh turned to the window.

At that moment the little party stopped
before the door of the George Tavern, and
as Captain Covenant fell back and Blase
led Miss Covenant into the house Lydia
caught a glimpse of his face, which seemed
to her more manly and handsome than
ever she had seen it before.

The Anchor stands a little higher in the
street, and Lydia spent the evening in
watching from the window ; but as the
barracks lay in the other direction she saw
no more of Blase and his friends that
day.

A very admirable dinner was served,
but Mr. Tickel had little assistance from
Lydia in eating it.

The girl did not sleep a wink all the
night, and when her quick ear caught a
distant bugle call, she could lie in bed no
longer, though the hour was but five.

She was in an agony of fear all the time
Mr. Tickel was at breakfast lest the company

should march before they were out
in the street ; and the slow and steady
manner in which he drank and ate provoked
her to such a degree that she could
not look at him.

There never was such a glutton ! he ate
a great deal of everything, and even
soaked up the gravy with his bread. It
seemed to her unfeeling to eat like that at
such a time, but according to Mr. Tickel's
philosophy this was the very time a man
should eat, in order to forget care, and
counteract the effect of mental depression.

At length he laid down his knife and
fork, and Lydia ceasing to tap the floor
with her pretty little foot, rose from her
chair. She had been dressed and gloved
half an hour.

My dear," said he, '^ you made me
come down to breakfast too early; there's
eight just striking and nothing more to do
for another hour."

Yes, there is. Come out into the
street," she said ; and she took his arm
and never left go of it until she had him
out in the open air.

Just as they turned their faces towards
the Gravesend road they perceived Captain
Covenant and Miss Gertrude coming down
the street, and not a dozen paces from
them. Blase was not with them. Lydia
trembled and Mr. Tickel pressed the hand
which lay on his arm to his side. Captain
Covenant was more upright than ever ;
Miss Covenant had been crying and her
eyes were yet red and swollen. This was
all Lydia had time to remark before they
passed. It was clear that the recognition
was mutual, for the captain saluted Lydia,
though without the least attempt to stop ;
but Miss Covenant looked straight into her
face and made no sign of acquaintance,
though both Lydia and Mr. Tickel bowed.

This hostility wounded Lydia's susceptible

heart, though she knew it was
unmerited.

She did not even how to me," she said
in a low tone, after they had walked for
some distance in silence.

My dear, that little lady cant forgive
you. I warrant Blase did his utmost to
make her love you ; but women would not
he guided by Solomon when their feelings
are concerned. Don't take it to heart, my
dear ; there'll be a day, I hope, when that
angry little lady will kneel to kiss the
ground you have trodden."

They had determined to go a little way
from the town, and to see Blase pass where
there was no throng of people ; so they
walked along the road until they had
reached the open country outside the town,
and there they paced up and down near
a gate that opened upon a field, catching
the sounds that came from the town.
Suddenly they stopped.

They heard the drums and fifes.

Then there followed a roar of voices
which made even the sound of the shrill
fifes indistinct. Nearer and nearer the
sounds came — now a little louder, now
less distinct as the angles and breaks in
the streets modified them; but gradually
the fifes grew louder and the voices fewer.

Lydia's knees shook together, and her
teeth chattered as though she were attacked
with ague ; and the parson putting
his arm around her held her close to his
side, or she must have fallen.

Then all at once the fifes grew much
more shrill, and half a dozen urchins ran
into sight ; and the next moment the redcoats
were in view.

There they are ! " cried Lydia, and
with a suddenly acquired strength she
sprang from the parson's side and
went running along the road towards the
advancing column, with Tickel behind

begging her to stay. A dozen or so of
men and women still marched beside the
column ; but the main body of friends who
had collected to bid the men good-bye was
left in the town.

Lydia passed the deafening fifers and
along the column, her eye scanning each
rank she passed until presently, with a cry
of delight, she dashed right between two
ranks of men and flung herself upon the
breast of her lover. There was a good
deal of rough laughter, for her impetuous
charge had broken up the line, but the men
made way for Blase to carry the sobbing
and laughing girl into the sideway.

My darling, my darling, my darling ! "
was all she could say.

May Grod bless you for this, you beloved
soul," murmured Blase, and then he closed
his lips upon hers saying good-bye.

As he lifted his face he made a sign to
the parson.

Take her," he said, and he put the girl,
who had fainted away, into the parson's
arms, gave a nod of recognition and adieu
to his old friend, picked up his piece, and
ran to overtake his rank.

And the drums and the fifes mocked his
sorrow with their gaiety.

CHAPTER VII.

THE PARSON GETS A LETTER FROM DUBLIN.

When they parted on Friday night in
Piccadilly Lydia promised Mr. Tickel that
she would " be a good girl and not cry ; "
and as it was for the sake of Blase that she
should conceal her deeper feelings from
Eugenius, she succeeded in stemming the
natural outflow of her grief. Her eyes were
bright and clear, if they were not happy,
on Saturday ; and she took pains to make
her toilette attractive when the hour drew
near for her visitor to call. But Eugenius
did not come that evening.

Why has he stayed away ? " she asked
of Mr. Tickel when she left the drawing-room
to accompany him to the door.

Probably he wishes you to see how
delicately considerate of your feelings he
is at this moment."

Lydia was silent awhile ; then, in a
despondent tone, she said :

A month has gone, and I have done
nothing."

"Pardon me, my dear young lady, you
have done wonders. You have prevented
his seeing your design. Be patient, for
without patience and constant care you
cannot hope to succeed. If Mr. Eugenius
is what we take him to be — a very sly
fox — he won't let you catch him if he
thinks you are anything more dangerous
than a little duck."

Lydia saw the wisdom of this advice ;
but patience seemed impossible to her with
her lover's happiness, nay, his life even,
dependent on the speedy execution of her
project.

If Blase himself had been expected she

could not have been more particular in
her choice of dress and adornments than
she was the following day. She declined
to go to church in the morning, thinking
it just possible that Eugenius might call
to inquire after her health. She was at
the piano the whole morning, playing from
a selection of Bach's fugues that Eugenius
had brought for her. As soon as the early
dinner was over she returned to the piano
and Bach, and she was still playing Bach
when the door opened and Eugenius was
announced.

I am so glad to see you ! " she said,
with a truthfulness which was supported
by the tone of her voice and the expression
of her face, and she gave him her hand.
Why have you not called to see me since
Friday ? "

I feared that intrusion would be unwelcome
at this time," Eugenius said.

"You thought that it would be less

VOL. III. 4-i

painful to lose two friends than one,
perhaps," Lyclia said, with a little laugh.

I have not ventured to think that I
might be classed with Mr. Godwin in your
esteem."

You make me fear that I have ill repaid
your regard for me. Have I seemed cold
and distant in my manner ? "

Far from that. You have given me
such proof of friendship as it has never
before been my happiness to receive."

She looked at him in seeming perplexity.

'' I can't quite make that out," she said,
seating herself. '' If you know that I am
glad to see you, why should you stay away
at a time when I most need a friend to
chase away the useless regrets that on
must feel in losing a dear friend ? Supposing
my aunt and Mr. Tickel had served
me in the same manner, what could have
become of me ? Surely," she added, with
another little laugh, "you don't mind

thinking you stand as high in the scale
of friendship as Mr. Tickel ? "

If I am too diffident, Miss Liston, it
is because my hopes exceed the scope of my
audacity, and hold me in trembling inaction,
like the wretch who would leap a
gulf but that he fears to fall."

What hopes ? " asked Lydia, with most
innocent wonder in her eyes.

Eugenius hesitated for a moment, then :

Hopes," he said, " which I dare scarcely
whisper to myself, but yet are present in
my mind, like the light which penetrates
the closed eyes to tell the sleeper that the
dark night is past and a glorious day at
hand."

Lydia looked still at him in perplexity ;
then she let her eyes drop.

Emboldened perhaps to an unexpected
degree, Eugenius drew his chair closer to
Lydia's.

"What is he going to do? Does he

mean to touch me ? " thought Lyclia in
alarm, her whole nature revolting against
an event which she had taken such pains
to bring about. " No, that shall be
never ; " and she rose from her chair
quickly, with an instant perception that
her repugnance must in some manner be
marked.

Mrs. Eomsey is in the next room ; shall
we join her ? " she said.

** One moment, I implore. Miss Liston,"
said Eugenius, rising. " I beg you to
forget what I said a moment since. I was
hurried by my feelings into a confession
of presumptuous hopes, which now I deeply
repent. I beg you to be seated."

Lydia sat. Her cheeks were yet aflame
with the blush that had risen at the mere
thought of Eugenius taking the hand she
had given to Blase.

That she was not angry with Eugenius
seemed clear by her again seating herself

at his request. What could he suppose
but that this green girl was flattered and
secretly pleased to find a second lover now
that the first was gone ? That she did not
deeply regret the loss of that first lover
was evident, not only from what she said,
but by the absence from her face of those
signs of grief which might have been
expected there after the late parting.
But unless she were so thoroughly worldly
as to reckon already on Eugenius being
heir to the Godwin estate, she could have
no serious thought of accepting his addresses.
Certainly she had encouraged
him to speak as he had, but probably she
had done so without any premeditation
whatever, and solely under the coquettish
impulse of the moment. Or she might
be so simple — and the supposition was not
absurd considering how little she had seen
of the world — that she merely looked upon
him as an amusing friend, and considered

that a friendship, and nothing more, could
exist between them as it existed between
her and Mr. Ticket These thoughts must
have passed through the mind of Eu-genius,
for when he spoke it was with
that caution which such conclusions would
dictate.

Miss Liston," he said, " I beg you to
regard me simply as an humble friend. I
spoke of higher hopes, but, believe me,
they shall never again be referred to unless
some unexpected turn of fortune gives me
the right to encourage them."

*' Thank you," said Lydia ; " I am to
blame. I speak too often without reflection,
as if I were still a schoolgirl ; and
it seemed so natural to welcome you as a
friend when I so felt the need of one.
It is so dull here. My aunt and Mr.
Tickel don't care for music, or poetry and
literature, and I don't care very much for
eating and drinking, so there is but little

sympathy between us ; and we know absolutely
no one else in London. And I do
like human beings. And when one is all
alone one thinks of absent friends, I felt
as if I must cry once or twice when I
thought of poor Mr. Grodwin."

You saw him on Friday ? "

Yes ; he looked so funny in his tall hat
and red coat. It was so odd to see him,
who used to be so particular about his
appearance, dressed just the same as the
other soldiers. Of course I couldn't help
crying a little when I saw him marching
away ; but the music was very cheerful
and lively. Poor Mr. Tickel was dreadfully
dull afterwards. He spoke scarcely a
word all the way to London."

That did not help to diminish your
grief."

No ; and what added considerably toit
was the behaviour of Miss Covenant and
Captain Covenant."

All ! you met them ? "

We passed close by them in the street
at Woolwich. You know how fond I am
of Miss Covenant ? "

Mrs. Eomsey told me that you became
strongly attached to her during their brief
stay in London."

*' Oh, you cannot tell how fond I was
of her. She is such a sweet, soft, pretty
little lady ; and she seemed equally fond
of me. Well, can you believe it, she would
not acknowledge my bow ? Captain covenant
saluted us in his stately manner, but
his daughter looked in my face and passed
as though she had never before seen me.
Was not that cruel ? "

It seems to me unkind and unjust."

Of course Mr. Godwin would not have
enlisted had I accepted his offer of marriage
; and so in a certain sense I am the
cause of this unhappiness. But how could
I accept a husband without money and

without expectations ? It seemed to me as
if I was losing all my friends, and through
no actual fault of my own ; and I had
looked with such pleasure to spending a
few weeks at Seawater next month. Now
that is of course out of the question."
You are very fond of the country ? "
Extremely ; and in a few weeks the
wild flowers will be plentiful. A woman
passed this morning with a basket of primroses.
Miss Covenant said that the country
about Redwater is beautiful ; but Mr.
Grodwin declared it is still more lovely
around the Moat."

"I think Mr. Grodwin was right."
Lydia sighed, and looked across at the
unpromising park.

I don't think I shall be able to stay
in London when the days grow bright,"
she said.

You have a house at Exeter, have you
not ? "

^' Yes ; but Exeter itself is as dull as
London, and the people there are so stupid
and uninteresting." The hint was broad
enough ; but its significance was redeemed
])y the admirable simplicity with which it
was given.

What you suggest, Miss Liston, is very
true," said Eugenius. " A generous mind
is incapable of obtaining the full enjoyment
of Nature or Art in solitude or unsympathetic
company."

That is just what I thought as I was
playing one of the preludes before you
came."

Does not Mrs. Romsey like the
fugues ? "

They send her to sleep ; and that is
the only charm Bach has for her," she
laughed. " I am beginning to feel happy
again," she said. ^' Will you play tome?


With a very gracious bow he rose and

went to the piano. Lyclia took a seat at
some distance from the player, but commanding
a profile view of his face. As
usual Eugenius played from memory, and
also as usual he seemed to lose himself ina
musician's ecstasy, and to be oblivious of
Lydia's fixed regard. With his meagre
body thrown back, bis long arms extended,
his eyes closed, and his face turned upwards
in rapture, he looked as if he were
posing for a mediaeval picture.

That is very beautiful," said Lydia
when Eugenius had concluded his musical
and picturesque performance.

It is still more admirable played on the
organ, for which instrument Bach composed
it."

Do you play the organ ? "

Yes. There is a small org-an in the
chapel at the Moat."

How I should like to hear it. Does
Lady Godwin like music ? "

She adores it. She is herself a musician."


Oh, how I wish I knew her ! "

That is a wish which she would be
only too glad to gratify."

Do you think she would like me ? "

She would not be my mother if she
did not share the sentiment which is part
of my nature," Eugenius murmured with
fervour.

Play to me again," said Lydia softly.

Eugenius turned again to the piano with
an unwonted flush in his face ; and for
some time he played with little expression
and without attitudinising. The arrival of
Mr. Tickel, and the consequent awaking of
Mrs. Romsey, precluded further progress ;
but Lydia was well content with what had
passed.

Mr. Tickel was less satisfied. He shook
his head when Lydia had given him a
faithful account of what had been said.

You're running too quickly, my dear
young lady," he said, " and a stumble will
lose you the race. Those hints of yours
were ingenious enough, but they're too
open to escape suspicion. ' Why did she
fish for an invitation to the Moat,' he'll ask
himself; and then he will divine your
motive or I am a Dutchman."

'' No he won't," said Lydia with quiet
decision.

And may I ask why he won't ? " asked
the parson.

Because he believes I am in love with
him."

I don't see how you are to know that,
my dear."

Perhaps not," said lydia, with a
smile ; " but if you were a woman, it is
possible you would."

I'll grant witchcraft to every one with
an eye like yours, you pretty rogue. Well,
I hope you are right in your divination.

for if it be as you say you may twist my
3^oung gentleman round your finger."

In the following week Blase, with his
regiment, was despatched to Dublin — a
rising of the disaffected Irish being
expected — and from the barracks there
he sent a letter to Mr. Tickel.

There was nothing inside for me ? "
said Lydia timidly, when Mr. Tickel told
her that he had received the letter.

Not a scrap," said the parson in a tone
of satisfaction.

Lydia sighed.

'< Why, surely, my dear, you did not
expect a letter ? "

I — I — half hoped," Lydia replied with
hesitation as she looked wistfully at her
fingers, which she was twining together in
her lap.

He wouldn't be the honest gentleman
we take him for if he had writ to you,"
said Mr. Tickel. '' 'Twas a womanly weakness

in you to see him again after it was
known that you could never be his wife ;
but 'tis not in Blase to take advantage of
that weakness for the selfish gratification
of sustaining your hopeless love."

'Twould have been like a woman to
write after such a parting, wouldn't it ?

Of course it would, my dear."

Then I am glad there's nothing forme,"
she cried with pretty emphasis. Then
dropping her voice to soft persuasive tones,
But you can show me his letter, can't
you ? "

Well, I don't know that I can very
readily ; 'for you see Blase has a knack of
speaking his mind pretty plainly when hein
choler, and these Irish ruffians have
moved him to use a few words not exactly
fit for a young lady to read."

I don't want to know anything about the
Irish ; I can skip that part, or you can turn
down the letter where it is objectionable."

"Well, I'll see. There's a bit at the
end about Eugenlus that isn't altogether
what you would find in your ' Polite Letter
Writer.' But 'tis a good manly letter for
all that ; and I don't know but that a
few rough words are more fit for your
reading: than the innuendoes and covert
meanings with which less honest writers
sprinkle their letters, and so I think I'll
let you have the letter to read or skip as
you will, my dear. There's not a word of
maudlin sentiment, or sickly repining, or
the like ; he bears his burden like a man,
and, by George, I find more beauty in his
plain prose than in all the stuff of poetry
that was ever hashed up."

Lvdia drew her chair a little closer to
Mr. Tickel.

Have you that letter in your pocket ? "
she asked in a coaxing tone.

No, my dear ; but I'll not forget to
brine: it tomorrow. There is one item of

news that is curious, though not unexpected,
which we'll discuss at the first
conveniency. But hither comes your good
aunt, so no more on the subject just now."

VOL. III.

CHAPTER YIII.

IN WHICH LYDIA UNDERTAKES A DESPERATE
VENTURE.

Mr. Tickel was seated in his favourite
stall at Welsh's, smoking his afternoon
pipe, and complacently reading the day's
news, when Hutchins came to his side, hat
in hand, and attracted his attention by a
modest cough.

Ha ! my good man, and what do you
want ? " asked the parson.

'' If you please, sir, two visitors have
called — Mr. Eugenius and Miss Listen's
maid. They both left letters for you, but
Miss Listen's maid said hers must be
given to you at once, and so "

Well, where are they ? "

Hutch ins extended his hat in which he
had placed the letters, for the fellow was
very nice in the etiquette of his office.

Mr. Tickel opened Lydia's letter. It
was brief :

My Dear Sir,

Will you have the goodness to
come to me at once ? You will find me in

the Finer's Walk.

'&

Lydia Liston."

Mr. Tickel rose at once from his seat.

Does the maid await an answer ? " he
asked.

No, sir."

Very good ; you may go."

The parson took his hat and stick,
thrust the note from Eugenius in his
pocket unread, left the coffee-house, and
stepping into a coach bade the driver
carry him to the King's Walk, St. James's
Park.

There he quickly descried the graceful
figure of Lydia walking with her maid.
She came hastily to meet the parson, the
maid falling back a dozen yards in her
rear.

It is very good of you to come so
speedily," said Lydia.

To tell you the truth, my dear, I feared
something ill had befallen you ; but I am
glad to see by the expression of your face
that my fears are ungrounded."

No, I am quite well, and nothing
serious has happened — at least, so I hope.
But I am perplexed."

Take my arm, my dear. Now tell me
what perplexes you."

Have you seen Mr. Eugenius today
? "

No ; but I have a note from him, now
I think on't, in my pocket."
What does he say ? "
I'll tell you in a moment." The parson

found the letter, opened it, and read
aloud : —

Dear Mr. Tickel,

I am compelled to return summarily
to Godwin's Moat, and, as my
business will not permit of delay, I beg
you to accept this as an apology for not
awaiting your return to take leave of you
personally. I quit town at once, but shall
take the very earliest opportunity of
writing to you more fully.

I am, my dear Mr. Tickel,
Your most obedient humble servant,

Eugenia."

Why on earth has he gone away in
such a hurry ? " Mr. Tickel asked when he
had finished the letter.

Sir Gilbert Godwin is ill."

Ha ! Eugenius has called upon you ? "

"This morning; and Sir Gilbert's ill
health is the cause of this departure. Mr.

Tickel, has lie ever spoken to sou of Sir

Gilbert being ill ? "

Not a word, my dear."

Do you think he told Blase ? "

I'll take my oath he didn't, or Blase

would have told me. Besides " Mr.

Tickel stopped short.

'' What were you about to say ? "

If Blase had known his father was ill,

he would have forgiven every wrong he

has suffered, and would not have gone

away without seeing him once more."
That was what I thought."
And another thing, if I had suspected

such a thing I should not have been fool

enough to urge him into signing that paper.

AVhat is the matter with the baronet ? "
Eugenius described his affection as a

paralysis.

Great Heavens ! a palsy ! Why 'tis a

disease in nine cases out of ten fatal !

When was he struck ? "

At the beginning of the year."
And why was not Blase told of this ? '*
I could not ask that. I dared not even
ask if he had been told."

'Twere all one had you asked. I
warrant the cunning rascal had a plausible
reason at the end of his tongue ready if
reply was needed. Consideration for
Blase, or some such wicked falsehood.
Hey ! we know this Eugenius for a villain
now, whatever doubt he may have
imposed upon us hitherto. For look you,
my dear, the fact is not divulged until
Blase is in Ireland, and unable to go to
his father. It was known to this wretch
weeks before he forced Blase to sign
away his patrimony. That concealment is
nothing less than an iniquitous fraud."

'' Would Blase be compelled, even by a
sense of honour, to fulfil a promise made
under such conditions ? "

Mr. Tickel, who under the influence of

his indignation had been striding along at
such a pace that Lydia could scarcely keep
up with him, stopped abruptly, as if a
barrier had been thrown across the path.

My child," he said, turning to Lydia,
the promise is fulfilled."

"Fulfilled! When?"

Let us sit down on this seat. Tile
villainy grows clearer and clearer. I told
you there was news in the letter not unexpected
but strange enough. Here is the
letter, and here the passage, look."

He put the letter he had received from
Blase into Lydia's trembling hands, and,
pointed to the passage : '

The vultures have lost no time in
scenting me out. Since writing the above
I have been called upon by a little gentleman
of the law, whose face was yet green
from the effects of sea-sickness, with a deed
of conveyance which only needed my signature
to disinherit me. He told me very

civilly that lie lead come by way of Milford,
and had set out the moment he learnt
that our regiment had embarked at
Chatham for Dublin in order to reach me
before any fighting took place. I signed
it, and he said that he should not have to
trouble me any more ; to which I replied
Amen very heartily, and thank God there's
an end of that business."

Thank God there is not an end of that
business ! " cried Lydia, when she had read
the passage, springing to her feet as she
spoke.

Mr. Tickel rose with a despondent sigh,
and drew the girl's hand through his arm
in silence. His indignation had given way
to a feeling of utter helplessness.

I don't for the life of me see what we
can do now," he said. " This sudden
departure of Eugenius signifies that some
grave change has taken place in the condition
of Sir Gilbert Godwin. He would

not have told you of his past illness, but
that he thought it necessary to prepare
YOU for the news of his death, and the
revelation of previous illness which must
then leak out. A second stroke of the
palsy is nearly always fatal. The villains
may only have kept the old man alive
during the delay of the law, and now that
the conveyance is signed, they will put an
end to his life as they did to the life of
Lady Godwin. Gads me, his life isn't
worth a week's purchase."

Then we must act immediately."
We ! My dear child, what power
have wee against such enemies ? How can
we undo what they have done ? "

^' We don't know that they have done
anything yet beyond securing the signature
of this deed. It is not certain that
Sir Gilbert has made a will. The precautions
they have taken to conceal the
illness until Blase was incapable of seeing

his father — does that not suggest that they
are still doubtful of his intentions towards
them ? "

There is something in that truly. But
how are we to get at the baronet ? "

By going to the Moat."

I expect there are doors to the house,
ray dear ; and if Lady Godwin chooses to
keep them shut, I don't see how we're to
make her open them."

That is a matter for secondary consideration.
The first thing is to get there.
When does the coach start ? "

My dear, dear child," Mr. Tickel said
in a soothing tone, " think but a moment,
and you will see that the notion of starting
off at a moment's notice for Godwin's Moat
without any invitation or plausible pretext
for the invasion is perfectly ridiculous."

And what then ? " asked Lydia.

What then, my dear ? " echoed the
parson in a feeble tone of bewilderment.

Yes ; what then ? Supposing it is a
ridiculous notion, is that any reason why
we should do nothing at all ? You are
no friend to Blase, and you are no friend
of mine ! " she said angrily, withdrawing
her hand from Mr. Tickel's arm.

Upon my soul, you do me wrong,"
said Mr. Tickel with emotion.

Then why do you throw difficulties in
the way ? If the only chance we have of
saving Blase is weak 'tis your duty to
strengthen it. Are thou afraid of ridicule?"


Not I," Mr. Tickel affirmed stoutly.

Nor am I. So we will make this
attempt, however ridiculous it may be.
Now take me to the booking-office, and
we will secure seats in the coach."

Mr. Tickel obeyed with the best grace
he could assume ; but he was very far
from sharing in Lydia's heroic recklessness.
She inherited daring from her father, and

her courage rose with the danger — his
sank.

'Tis a forlorn hope," thought he ; and
certainly he was not by nature the sort of
man who would have volunteered for such
a service.

CHAPTER IX.

IN WHICH THE ATTACKING PARTY SETS OUT.

There was not a seat in the coach to be
had for the next day, but only two insides
were taken for Thursday. The delay was
unavoidable, so Lydia paid the deposit and
secured five seats — two in and three out.

You will take Hutchins, and I shall
take my maid," said Lydia.

And the fifth place is for Mrs. Romsey,
if she will go," Mr. Tickel observed.

I daresay she will make a thousand
objections, but — she will go," Lydia replied
with decision.

And in effect Mrs. Romsey did make a
thousand objections.

My beloved Lyclia," she cried, when
Lydia had announced her intention of
leaving London on Thursday morning,
What are you thinking about ? Going
into the country at this season, when the
roads are knee deep in mud, and the
weather is so variable that one is afraid to
leave off winter clothing, not to mention
those dreadful highwaymen who think
nothing of stopping a coach in broad daylight.
And anything more dreary and uncomfortable
than the country before the
month of June it is impossible to imagine ;
besides which we have never been introduced
to Lady Godwin, and to visit her
without an invitation would be quite impossible,
especially when Sir Gilbert is an
invalid. And the house being surrounded
by water, as Mr. Eugenius assured me it
is, and as we've only known him for some
weeks, it will really look as though you
were following him for fear he might fix

his affections elsewhere — conduct, my love,
which I wonder you yourself do not shrink
from as being open to a suspicion of indelicacy.
So that the rooms, as I say, must
he damp, and you know what a horror I
have, Lydia, of linen that is not thoroughly
aired. And after all, if we get there safe
and sound — which is quite a question, fora
coach turned over and a stout lady and
the guard were most seriously injured on
the Sevenoaks road only the day before
yesterday — if, as I say, we have the good
fortune to reach the Moat uninjured, and
Lady Godwin does not invite us to stay,
what are we to do but to turn round and go
back to some inn where they may be quite
unprepared for visitors, and have nothing
in the house but ham and eggs, which I
detest."

"If I am not received at the Moat I
shall go on to Redwater."

Redwater, Lydia ? Why, this is worse

and worse. Yon yourself wrote to put off
our visit there, and your suggestion was
accepted in that very cold letter which
Miss Covenant sent by return post ; besides
which you told me that Miss Covenant did
not acknowledge your bow when you
passed at Woolwich ; and as they did not
call upon us, though they must have
stayed in town that night, it is clear that
they cherish an ill-feeling towards us."

"That is a good reason for visiting them,
since the ill feeling is unmerited. And I
am certain they will not refuse us hospitality
when they know what I have to tell
them."

I would sooner stay at an inn, for you
know what Mr. Tickel has told me about
their table. And after all, Lydia, why
should you want to go against all these
adverse conditions ? "

I must go, aunt. I cannot stay in
London. Attribute my purpose to what

VOL. III. 46

you will — a caprice, ill-health, anything.
You said when I came in that I looked like
a ghost ; you have told me every day for
weeks that I look thin and white. I am
ill. Loss of friends, or the effect of this
thick atmosphere, makes me so ; and I must
have friends or a purer air to restore me to
peace. Say it is so, or say that it is but the
waywardness of a spoilt child ; but let me
have my way."

Mrs. Eomsey sighed bitterly, and cast
her eyes upwards as much as to ask of
Heaven what she had done to deserve so
much trouble.

** If it is painful to you to travel," continued
Lydia, " do not go. I shall take
my maid, and I shall feel quite safe under
Mr. Tickel's protection."

"Will he go?"

He has promised."

And do you wish me to stay herewith
not a soul to keep me company ? "

I would very much prefer yon " to
accompany rae." Lydia put her arm about
the full waist of her aunt, and in her soft,
coaxing manner said : " Come dear, it will
not be so terrible as you think. You shall
write one of your nice little letters to Mr.
Eugenius that will ensure our reception at
the Moat, where I am sure everything will
be done to ensure your comfort."

What can / say, my love ? "

'' I will tell you," and quick as thought
Lydia got a sheet of paper and a pen and
wrote a copy of the '' nice little letter " her
aunt was to send.

There, aunt, I think that will do," she
said, handing the paper to Mrs. Romsey.

Mrs. E-omsey put up her glass and read
aloud, with a running commentary —

' My dear Mr. Eugenius, — You will
doubtless be surprised to hear that we are
about to leave London for awhile.' I
should think he would indeed. ' My dear

niece, Lydia, has, as you may be aware,
taken deeply to heart Miss Covenant's
cruel resentment of her unavoidable action
in refusing the offer of Mr. Godwin's
hand. Her spirits' — Ah, I shall put in
there what my opinion is upon that subject.
'Her spirits have been very low all
this afternoon, indeed ever since your departure
this morning ; for having no
friends to distract her thoughts, she broods
upon the loss of Miss Covenant's affection,
which she prizes to an inordinate degree.'
That is exceedingly true. ' As there is
nothing to detain us in town, and as I
think her suffering arises as much from the
need of pure air and active exercise as
from an affection of the sentiments, I
have suggested to her the advisability of
seeking a personal interview with Miss
Covenant.' Why, my love, / suggested
nothing of the kind."

"No, but you would, auntie, had you

known how necessary it was to my happiness.
Besides, it sounds so much
better, and one is always allowed a little
license in letter writing."

Well, well, where was I ? Ah ! ' Miss
Covenant ; and she has accepted the proposal
with readiness. We shall leave
London by the early coach on Thursday,
Mr. Tickel having kindly offered to accompany
us, and I hope wee shall have but
little difficulty in finding our way safely to
Redwater. We shall break the journey at
Basingstoke on Thursday, and on Friday
at Dunham, where we shall lie at the inn
near the cross-roads.' How do you know
there is an inn by the cross roads, Lydia ? "

Mr. Tickel says there is an excellent
inn there ? "

I had better say so. ' Cross roads, and
the following morning we intend to give
ourselves the pleasure of calling upon you
in the hope of hearing a favourable account

of Sir Gilbert Godwin's health.' Ah, my
love, I think I shall insert a few lines to
the effect that having heard from Mr.
Tickel that we must pass the Moat on our
way to Need water, we shall feel it our duty
as it is our inclination to pay our respects
to Lady Godwin."

Capital ! That is exactly what was
wanting in my letter ; but you always did
write elegantly ! " said the sly flatterer,
kissing her dupe's cheek.

'Tis an accomplishment which is becoming
shamefully neglected in the education
of young women. I think with a few
additions the letter will do. Lady Godwin
cannot do otherwise than invite us to stay
a few days ; and better the Moat than Seawater,
if we must go to one or the other."

And we must," said Lydia, setting a
desk on the table and opening it. " The
letter is perfectly true in substance. I
must have an explanation with Miss

Covenant, unless my thoughts are diverted
by the company we shall find at Grodwin's
Moat. Will you sit down and write the
letter now, dear ? Then it shall be sent to
the booking-office, to be carried by the
coach tomorrow."

Mrs. Romsey sat down at once to her
task with a feeling that, after all, the expedition
might end more pleasantly than
at first sight it promised.

This also was the feeling of Mr. Tickel,
when he heard from Lydia of the letter
and its contents.

That was a famous notion of yours, my
dear," he said ; " for the more reason
they have to fear intervention, the more
strongly will they desire to keep us at the
Moat. For if the news were carried to
Redwater, Captain Covenant might insist
upon seeing Sir Gilbert in behalf of Blase.
No, I don't see how they will be able to
keep us out of the Moat."

"And once in the house, the victory is
more than half won," Lydia said, unconsciously
striking a valorous little attitude.

I'll stake my life you win it wholly,
you brave little beauty, if it be mortally
possible," cried Mr. Tickel, thrilled with
admiration.

Nothing occurred to delay their departure
; and on Thursday morning the party
left London. A bright sky and a soft air
put every one in good humour ; but this
April aspect of nature was regarded by
Lydia, who was not too wise to be superstitious,
as nothing less than a propitious
omen. She seemed to feel that the heavens
were smiling upon her undertaking. Nor
was the weather less auspicious when they
left Basingstoke the following day by the
Exeter coach. She rode on the outside
with Mr. Tickel; and as they passed
through the pleasant country, which was
everywhere gay with young life, the parson

told her low half a year back he had
travelled this very road with Blase.

Then, my dear," he said, " 'twas a
season in which I failed to see any beauty.
'Twas wretched cold; the cattle cowered
under the naked hedges ; leaves were
falling ; acorns and chestnuts littered the
road; and the banks were a mass of
tangled, faded rubbish, and everywhere
was dissolution and decay ! What wonder
if the heart grew melancholy at the hopeless
prospect. But now the temperature is
kindly ; the woods are besprinkled with a
pleasant green ; I know not how many
young lambs we have counted skipping in
the meadows ; the Ijanks are patched with
primroses and such like herbs, and all around
one sees the earnest of Nature's sweet and
bountiful intentions. And thus, my dear,
I note a change for the better, not only in
the landscape that I saw six months ago,
but likewise in the companion who sat

beside me then. The old life is dead, and
a new life has sprung np — a strong and
pure and healthy young life, whose ripe
perfection I shall live to see, please God."

Lydia slipped her hand under the parson's
arm and pressed it for reply. They
were both silent for a while, and then Mr.
Tickel said, looking to the right and left :

''If I mistake not, 'tis somewhere near
here we stopped ; and over thereabouts
should be that excellent inn I have spoken
to you about. Can your young eyes see
any signs of it, my dear ? "

I can see a man standing in the middle
of the road, down there."

Hum ! I don't think the inn can be
anywhere near there, for were it so the
man would certainly not be standing in
the road — if he be of my way of thinking."

I think it is Mr. Eugenius," said Lydia,
with excitement. " I am sure it is ! And
there is a chariot drawn up by the side of

the road. Oh, if he has come to can us
to the Moat at once ! "

Ah ! " said Mr. Tickel gravely ; for
considering that this arrangement would
necessarily postpone the hour of dinner,
he could not participate in the feeling of
unmingled satisfaction with which Lydia
regarded it.

CHAPTER X.

hoar the party averse received at
Godwin's moat.

Lydia was not disappointed ; Eugenius had
come to meet them, and to take them at
once to Godwin's Moat.

'^ Lady Godwin is sensible of your great
kindness in promising to visit her," he
said, " and she begs that you will accept
her hospitality so long as it is agreeable or
convenient to you to stay in this neighbourhood.
She is impatient to see you,
and will not forgive me if I return alone."

Mrs. Romsey replied to this formal
speech, which was in courtesy addressed to
her, by declaring that Lady Godwin was
prodigiously kind, but that she could not

think of making more than a passing call
upon her unless she were assured that Sir
Gilbert's health would allow of the presence
of visitors at the Moat.

I beg you, madam," replied Eugenius,
to set your mind perfectly at rest in
that regard. The indisposition which so
alarmed Lady Godwin — for she took it to
be a return of his previous malady — is
found to be nothing more serious than a
fugitive distemper arising from the acrid
humours which a few days' care will
doubtless remove."

In that case, sir, I shall have a greater
pleasure than I anticipated in being sour
mamma's guest," said Mrs. Romsey, with
her most gracious courtesy.

Lydia's satisfaction in hearing this
account of Sir Gilbert's condition was
unfeigned, and, as Eugenius led Mrs.
Romsey to the chariot, she shot a glance
from her sparkling eyes at Mr. Tickel, who

replied by a look cautioning her to be
discreet.

A cart was waiting to follow with the
servants and the baggage ; and when
Eugenius had given the necessary instructions,
he took his place beside Mr. Tickel, on
the front seat, and the carriage started off.

I trust, Miss Liston," said Eugenius to
the young lady who faced him, '' that you
no longer suffer from the depression of
spirits which I heard of with so much
anxiety."

'' Oh, T am cured already," answered
Lydia gaily. '' The fresh air, and the
excitement of traveling, and recovering a
lost friend, have combined to work a
marvel. Do I look unhappy ? " And she
smiled in the young man's face, and so
bewitched him with her wonderful eyes,
that, instead of replying with the elegant
compliment he wished to make, he returned
only such an incomprehensible answer as

Blase or any other susceptible young man
in the same position would have stammered
out.

''I am so glad Sir Grilbert is better,"
said Lydia, "' for his own sake, and yours,
of course, but for my own as well," she
laughed. ^' If he had been seriously ill we
could only have made a formal call, and
that would have been only to whet my
already sharp set curiosity, and leave my
dearest wishes ungratified. But now, I
hope, before we go to Redwater, to explore
the romantic old house that Mr. Godwin
has described to me, from end to end."

You will find us very unwilling to
satisfy your curiosity if that alone is to
keep you with us."

I did not say that curiosity alone would
keep me your guest."

Lydia spoke in a low tone; and as
the rumbling of the chariot made hearing
difficult, the heads of the speakers were

necessarily brought pretty close together.
Noting this fact, and that the lean face of
Eugenius wore an expression of unwonted
animation, Mrs. Eomsey thought it proper
to look out of the window, and call Mr.
Tickel's attention to the bank by the roadside
which cut off all view of the country.
But Mr. Tickel was not willing to let
matters go on so quickly ; and because he
saw through Lydia's artifice, he imagined
that Eugenius also would detect the motive
of her excessive amiability, for he had
settled in his mind that Eugenius was a
cunning rascal, and he could not perceive
that even a cunning rascal may have the
human weaknesses of his more simple
fellow creatures. So having replied briefly
to Mrs. Eomsey 's enthusiastic comments
upon the beauty of the country, he turned
to Eugenius, and said :

Sir Grilbert is able to get about again
I suppose, sir ? "

He is not confined to his bed," replied
Eugenius. " But it can scarcely be said that
he can get about. He has not been able to
move without assistance since his first
illness. He has lost almost entirely the
use of his limbs upon the left side."

'Tis curious that Mr. Godwin told me
nothing of this, Mr. Eugenius."

*'I purposely refrained from telling him,
sir. It had been a heartless cruelty to add
to those troubles which already overwhelmed
him."

I do not for a moment doubt the generosity
of your sentiments," replied Mr.
Tickel ; " but I'm of opinion that you
allowed your feelings to unduly influence
your judgment. For it seems to me that
Blase ought to have been told of his
father's disorder to the end that he might
perform his filial duty, and seek a reconciliation
with Sir Gilbert, while it was yet
possible. 'Tis a terrible thing, sir, for a

VOL. III. 47

son to know that lie can never acquit his
conscience of obdurate disobedience to
paternal authority."

Your remarks are very just ; and I
beg you to believe that I did not overlook
these important considerations. But, alas 1
sir, a reconciliation was impossible ; for Sir
Gilbert declared he would neither see nor
hear his son again. If letters came from
Mr. Godwin they were to be destroyed,
and the doors of the house were to be
closed against him if he came to the Moat
in person."

That alters the case," said the parson.
*^ For my part," said Mrs. Romsey, " I
consider, Mr. Eugenius, that you acted
with perfect consideration and propriety;
and if every one were like you the world
would be much happier than it is, for one
half of what we suffer arises from our
knowledge of other people's misfortunes."
The good lady enlarged upon this subject

with great volubility, and as lie addressed
her observations to the gentlemen on the
opposite seat, Lydia reclined in her corner
and gave herself up to speculating on the
possible issue of her venture.

A girl with half her wit would have
perceived the hold she had upon Eugenius,
and that hold she determined to maintain,
for through him her visit at the Moat was
to be prolonged. She expected to be narrowly
watched by Lady Godwin and Father
Dominican, but she felt tolerably certain
that she should be able to elude their
vigilance, sooner or later. It was but a
question of time and strategy. She must
meet Sir Gilbert at the table, and she
trusted to her ingenuity to contrive an
occasion for speaking to him privately. If
no better means were presented, she would
one day boldly ask him to give her a private
interview, and if this was denied her
she would speak before her enemies and

tell what she knew, and then seek the
assistance of Captain Covenant, or even
make an appeal to the law. It was still
light when they came in sight of the grey
walls and pointed gables of Grod win's Moat.
At their approach the great gates were
thrown open, and the chariot crossing the
moat by the bridge, passed under the
watch-tower and drew up in the quadrangle
before the entrance to the dining-hall.


Father Dominick and Lady Godwin
stood upon the steps to receive them.

When the usual commonplaces had been
exchanged, Lady Godwin conducted the
ladies upstairs to adjoining rooms, which
had been prepared for their reception,
and Father Dominick led Mr. Tickel into
the great dining-room, where the table
was laid for dinner, and a great fire blazed
upon the hearth. Mr. Tickel rubbed his
hands cheerfully as he approached the fire

and eyed the table. There were high-backed
oak settles on either side of the
chimney, and a great chair was placed in
front ; but the seats were empty. Sir
Gilbert was not in the hall.

You and I can scarcely be called strangers,"
said Father Dominick, as he seated
himself opposite to Mr. Tickel.

'• No, sir," replied the parson ; " indeed I
took the liberty to regard you as an old
friend ; for I do not forget that I owe to
you my acquaintance with Mr. Godwin,
and the affection that has sprung from that
connection."

'your affection for Mr. Godwin does
not extend to sharing his antipathies, I
hope ? " Father Dominick spoke with
measured slowness, leaning his elbow on
the arm of the settle and his lean cheek
against his fore-finger, whilst his deep-set
eyes fixed upon Mr. Tickel's face, read the
expression there.

My presence here must convince you
of that, sir. His prejudice has ever been
inimical to his interests, and as my welfare
and his were closely bound together, you
may readily conceive that I never regarded
it with favour. I would have had him
take the offer made by Sir Gilbert six
months ago, and I implored him to accept
my mediation ; but he would not listen to
reason. The fellow is young and hot tempered,
and high spirited, but there's no
more harm in him than there is in that
loaf of bread upon the table. He'll need
no prompting of mine to ask your pardon
for the injustice he has done you ; for he
will outlive his faults if some cursed bullet
doesn't cut short his existence."

Have you heard from him lately ? "

I had a letter from him the morning I
left town, sir ; two words to tell me of his
safe arrival at Dublin."

Father Dominick raised himself from his

observant attitude and turned the conversation
upon the state of Ireland and the
probabilities of an insurrection.

Lady Godwin presently descended with
her guests, and at her request the company
seated themselves at the table. In entering
the room Lydia had glanced round, expecting
to find Sir Gilbert. There was a chair
at the head of the table which she supposed
was placed there for him, but now Lady
Godwin took this seat. Lydia looked across
the table at Mr. Tickel.

I hope you are not greatly fatigued
with your journey," the parson said blandly
in response to this look, for he felt that
Father Dominick was observing him.

"Are we not to have the pleasure of seeing
Sir Gilbert at dinner to-day, madam ? "
said Mrs. Komsey.

Oh no. Unfortunately Sir Gilbert is
such an invalid that he never dines with
us now' replied Lady Godwin.

I consider lie is very wise ; it is so
much more comfortable for sick people to
take their meals unobserved." Mrs. Eomsey
had felt that the sight of an invalid at the
table would considerably lessen her own
enjoyment.

My husband," continued Lady Godwin,
never quits his own set of apartments.
Since his attack he has taken a strange
aversion to society; he will see no one.
And to this rule I am afraid he will make
no exception even in honour of my present
guests."

"I hope, madam," said Mr. Tickel
readily, for he felt that Father Dominick's
eyes were again upon him, " that you will
enable us to forget the loss we suffer in his
absence by giving us the pleasure of your
society."

CHAPTER XI.

THE TERRORS OF THE :violated HOUSE.

The announcement made by Lady Grodwin
was a rude check to Lydia's expectations,
and she found it difficult to conceal lier
mortification and appear at ease. A new
plan of action must be made, and fresh
measures concerted with Mr. Tickel. But
how was a private conference with him to
be obtained ? Eugenius never left her side
the whole evening ; that was not unnatural,
perhaps, but it seemed to her that her
intentions had been foreseen and that the
young man was posted by her to prevent
any communication with Mr. Tickel. It is
easy to be cheerful when one is playing a

winning hand, but only a cool and practised
player can see this best cards trumped
with equanimity, and maintain a perfect
appearance of good will towards the
triumphant adversary. Lydia had never
before felt such a decided hatred for
Eugenius, and feeling that she could not
even pretend to like him with any resemblance
to truth, she wisely assumed an air
of fatigue as an excuse for her coldness and
silence.

Lydia's silence was not less noticeable
than that of Mrs. Romsey, upon whose
mind uneasy doubts and vague apprehensions
had been growing since the conclusion
of dinner. She knew nothing of the
tragical event that had taken place in the
house, but the antiquity of the building,
its complete isolation, and above all, the
mystery that surrounded the people in it,
excited indefinite fears which were augmented
by the saturnine face and stealthy

manners of Father Dominick, who devoted
himself to her entertainment.

It was a great relief to her, as it was also
to Lydia, when Lady Godwin, disengaging
herself from a conversation with Mr. Tickel
who alone had maintained his habitual
liveliness — proposed that the ladies should
seek the repose so much needed after the
fatigue of travelling.

Well, Lydia," said Mrs. Romsey, when
they were alone in that lady's bedchamber,
what do you think of our hosts ? "

They are very hospitable, and clearly
they are doing their utmost to make us
comfortable."

Yes — but do you like them ? "

I think it is too soon to answer that
question," said Lydia evasively.

"don't, my love; and I can tell you
candidly that I like neither the house nor
the folks in it. It does not take me long to
find out the value of people and things.

Lady Godwin is excessively coarse and common
and vulgar ; and one might as well be
in a ship at sea, for there's water all round,
and the floors are so uneven that I felt
quite nervous in passing the windows in
that horrid corridor, and if anything were
to happen one might scream in vain for
help. I think her arms and neck are
perfectly indelicate, and if I were of her
age I should take more pains to conceal
them than to display them. There are too
many corners to please me, and what with
the corridors, and four houses as it were
put end to end in the form of a square,
with a chapel on one side and a tower on
the other, and a dining-room with the roof
showing, 'tis more like an almshouse or a
public institution than anything else.
What Mr. Tickel can find to admire I cannot
say, and I am surprised at his bad
taste, for he has done nothing but talk to
her all the evening, and I feel sure from

the way in which she laughed — did you
ever hear anything more imladyHke and
loud in all your life ? — that he was telling
her something impudent. I should not be
surprised if there were rats and mice,
Lydia ; but what astounded me the very
moment I saw them, was the astonishing
resemblance between Father Dominick and
Mr. Eugenius, and never in my life was I
more deceived than I have been by him."

"I do not see in what he has deceived
you. He told us long ago that he bore a
most unfortunate resemblance to Father
Dominick."

I allude, my dear Lydia, to his parentage.
He led me to believe that he was
the son of Lady Godwin by a former
marriage."

I don't think he ever said so."

Xo, but he never said he wasn't ; and
as to the likeness, I thought that was due
to one of those accidents which occur to

married ladies, and of wliicli you will
know more when you are older. I have
seen children marked in the most peculiar
way, but for Eugenius to be marked with
the identical features of Father Dominick is
not to be accounted for by her having
received a fright, though I protest he is
capable of terrifying anyone to an extraordinary
degree. His eyes, my love, and
the manner in which he moves about,
remind me of nothing but the serpent we
saw at the tower. I happened to mention,
at the beginning of the evening, the
suicide that was committed in Hatton
Garden last week, and he talked of suicide
and nothing else until we rose to say goodnight,
and in such a cold-blooded calculating
manner that my very flesh crept
to hear him. There's a most cruel crafty
look in his face, and 3'Ou may be sure that
there's more in the illness of Sir Gilbert
Godwin than the priest wishes us to know.

or he wouldn't be shut up in one part of
the house where no one can see him ; and
from what he said respecting the action of
poison I should not be astonished if he
were slowly killing the baronet for the
sake of his money, especially now that
poor dear Mr. Godwin is disinherited.
Upon my word it did not strike me before,
but now I feel thoroughly convinced that
it must be so. I wish I had not thought
of that, for I am sure I shall not be able to
sleep a wink all night, for who knows but
that we have been decoyed here to be slain
in our beds."

My dear aunt ! " expostulated Lydia.
I hope I may be wrong, though I can
scarcely believe that I am. You'll look
under your bed, and bolt the closets in
your room, dear, and leave the between-door
open, and if you hear any sound be
sure and wake me, though as for that I am
more likely to be awake than you."

Notwithstanding this j)^'^&^^^^'i^^'ti^i^
the poor lady's head was scarcely laid
upon the pillow before her heavy breathing
showed that she was no longer conscious
of the dangers which menaced
her.

Lydia rose from the chair in which she
had been sitting in deep abstraction during
the concluding part of Mrs. Romsey's discourse,
which was but an amplification of
what has been recorded, and went into
the adjoining 3^oom, where her maid was
waiting to dress her hair for the night.

Lydia opened her window and looked out.
It was so dark that for the first moment
she thought she must be looking over the
open country, and she leant forward and
looked down thinking the waters of the
moat must be below. Then a light from
windows below falling on a stone pavement
showed her that she vas on the
inner side of the building and looking into

the court-yard formed by the quadrangular
construction of the house. The light on
the ground-floor must be coming from the
room she had left ; this was proved by
a hearty laugh that reached her ears, and
which she knew at once to come from
Mr. Tickel. And now. her eyes being
more accustomed to the obscurity, she could
make out against the starry sky the outline
of the roofs before and on each side of
her, and the square watch-tower rising
from the centre of the wing upon her left.
The building was in entire darkness, for
the light from the room below was but a
narrow shaft which escaped through a
parting in the heavy curtains.

Isn't it a curious house, miss ? " said
the maid timidly, coming to Lydia's side.

Yes ; have you been over it yet."

Oh ! lor' no miss ; and I shouldn't like
to after dark ; they say there's been murders
here, and ghosts, and all manner."

VOL. III. 48

Who told you that ? "

The servants, miss."

How many servants are there ? "

Five — two maids, a nurse, a gardener,
and a coachman."

'- Were they here when the murder took
place ? "

'dear no, miss! Except the old
gardener none of 'em's been here longer
than three months, and the two maids
less than that ; and they says they won't
stop, miss, for they say there'll he another
murder, and that awful things goes on
over there."
Where ? "

In the rooms over there." She pointed
across the court-yard. " There was a light
there a little time aa'o, but it's prone. The

^t)^?

gone.

maid pointed it out when she came up
with me."

What goes on there ? "

'high words, miss, and swearing, and

awful. The master's shut up there, and
he's been heard to call out, " help ! help ! "
in the middle of the night."

Did the nurse hear this ? "

Lor' ! no, miss. The nurse is stone
deaf. It was the last servant as was here
before xVnne, the cook, who heard it."

What does the nurse say to that ? "

"She don't say nothing, miss ; she
don't know nothing. She never sees the
baronet. No one ever sees him except the
priest and Lady Grodwin. The rooms all
run into each other, as these do, and
there's a corridor outside just the same.
But the corridor doors is locked, and when
the nurse goes in to make the bed the
master is shut in another room. She's
called a nurse, but she ain't a real nurse,
miss ; she only keeps the rooms in order,
and fetches the baronet's meals from the
kitchen, which is down there on the right
hand side, because none of the servants is

ever allowed to enter that side of the
house ; and the nurse keeps the only door
that isn't screwed up shut fast, locking it
when she comes out and when she goes in.
Ah! look, miss," she dropped her voice
and pointed down to the courtyard,
there she goes. She's been down to
the kitchen for something — her supper,
perhaps."

Lydia looking doAvn saw a woman, with
a basket in one hand and a shaded light
in the other, cross slowly from the 
the right to the centre of the wing
opposite, where she paused under an archway,
and setting down her basket took a
key that hung by a light chain from her
waist and fitted it in the lock of a door
opening laterally out of the covered way.

The archway leads on to the garden ;
there's a wooden bridge there," whispered
the maid.

The woman opened the door and passed

through. Lydia heard the key turn, and
a couple of minutes later a glimmer of
light appeared in one of the windows
opposite.

'' That's her room," said the maid, still
whispering.

A sense of awe not unmingled with
terror kept Lydia at the window looking
at the glimmering light as if some dreadful
thing were about to happen. Would
the silence be broken by a sudden cry for
help ? Would a light appear in another'
window, and some awful struggle be revealed
in shadow upon the curtain ?

"In the room alongside of that tower,
miss, the murder was done," whispered
the maid. " Oh ! " she cried clinging to
Lydia's arm with a sudden access of terror.
Lydia also made a quick movement of
fear, her hair seeming to crisp up upon
her head and her heart to stop beating
With affright, for in that moment of silence

and vague expectancy of horrors the stroke
of a bell in the tower telling the hour had
fallen on her ear.

She closed the window hastily, and
turned away ashamed of herself for participating
the fears of her servant.

You must take no notice of what the
servants tell you," she said. '^ Sir Gilbert-godwin
is ill, and dislikes visitors ; that
accounts for everything. It's very stupid
to be frightened by idle stories," Lydia
said in a tone of reproof which she felt she
had little right to use.

Yes, miss. I'll try not to be frightened
any more. Will you have your hair
dressed now, miss ? "

Lydia sat down, and the maid uncoiled
the rich tresses which falling in heavy
weaves nearly touched the floor.

Do you know where Mr. Tickel's
servant is ? " Lydia asked after some
minutes of silence.

"" Mr. Hutchins was in the servants' hall,
when Bess the chamber-maid and I came
away, miss."

'' Never mind my hair ; get me a sheet
of paper from the pocket of my valise and
a pencil that you will see there."

The maid found the paper and pencil
and brought it to her mistress, who was
still sitting in the chair wrapped in
thought. Lydia threw lier hair back over
her shoulders drew her chair to the dress-unstable
and VN^rote :

'dear Mr. Tickel,

"I beg you to meet me at seven
o'clock tomorrow morning in the garden.

Lydia."

Do you think you can give this note
to Hutchins without being seen by the
other servants?" she asked, as she folded
the paper.

I daresay I can, miss. I will pretend

I want him to show me where he put
your valise, and so get him outside the
room."

"Very good. Give him this, and tell
him he is to let Mr. Tickel have it to-night,
and bid him be careful that nobody but
Mr. Tickel sees it or knows anything
about it. Do you understand ? "

Quite well, miss''

Take it at once. I shall not need you
again to night. Go to bed, and come tome
in the morning at half-past six — not
later. There is no occasion for you to
tell anyone that you are coming to meat
that time."

Oh, I'll take care no one shall know,
miss. Good-night, miss."

Good-night."

Lydia sat for some time in thought ;
then combing her hair she went to the
window once more and looked out. The
light still glimmered from the window on

the opposite side of the house, and the
sound of mingled voices came up from the
room below. She finished her preparations
for the night with the unconscious
haste of one whose mind dwells upon a
course of speedy action ; but before extinguishing
the light she went round the
room and carefully examined the fastenings
of doors and closets to see that they
were secure, for with all her bravery she
was but a girl.

CHAPTER XII.

OF LYDIA's Impatience AND mi. Ticket's
SAGACITY.

The clock in the turret was striking six
when Lydia woke the following morning.
She sprang out of bed and went to the
window, and her first glance was directed
to the window opposite. The blinds were
all drawn down ; neither there nor in the
courtyard below was there any sign of life
or movement. She examined the building
with curious interest and with the vain
hope of discovering some means by which
access might be obtained to the imprisoned
baronet. She had fully made up her mind
that he teas imprisoned and not merely
secluded by his own will. The building

opposite was of stone, and consisted of two
floors with a long gabled roof. The upper
story projected beyond the lower rooms in
the style of early English domestic architecture,
and was pierced with windows
irregularly disposed. Separations had
been made without any regard to uniformity
; some of the upper windows
were fitted with leaden sashes and lozenge-formed
panes of glass, others had more
modern wooden sashes with small square
panes. All the windows below were long
and mullions, and surmounted with the
Tudor label mouldings. The only entrance
from the court-yard was by the
gateway in the centre leading to. the
garden, which she had seen the night
before faintly illuminated by the light
carried by the nurse.

Lydia had little hope that she could
bribe that deaf servant into letting her
through the guarded door. She had

greater expectations of finding some means
of communication from the wings on the
left or right of the side facing her.

She turned her eyes to the right, and at

once recognized the flight of steps and the

door at which they had been received by

Father Dominick and Lady Godwin. On

the left of the doorway she identified also

the great window, divided by mullions

into five parts, which gave light to the

dining-hall. There could bo no entrance

from that part of the building. She

looked to the left. That side of the house

was distinguished by the watch-tower with

the great gateway below. On the right

of the entrance was a pointed Gothic

window which Lydia concluded must

appertain to the chapel. There might

certainly be a way from that to the

closed wing. That gave her hope. She

would ask Eugenius to play the organ ,

and while he was at the instrument she

€oulcI use her eyes. She finished her
observation of the building by a glance
at that end of the wing on the left of
the watch-tower. Here again the building
was in two floors. The windows above
as far as the range of vision went, were
closed with shutters ; below, a pair of
large doors recently painted seemed to
show that the ground-floor was now used
as a coach-house ; possibly this portion of
the house had not been inhabited since the
time when its principal room was stained
with the blood of Sir Gilbert's first wife.

Lydia was dressed, when at half-past
six her maid tapped gently at the door.

You gave my note to Hutchins ? "
Lydia asked.

Yes, miss, and nobody see me. Mr.
Tickel didn't go to bed until twelve
o'clock and past : but he told Mr. Hutchins
to call him at twenty minutes to seven ;
but Mr. Hutchins says he don't know how

in the world lie shall get his master up
at that time."

You did not let the servants know
that you were to call me."

No, miss. Lady Godwin told the servants
they were on no account to disturb
you, as you would be tired after your
journey, and breakfast would not be served
until late."

Lydia waited impatiently until the clock
struck seven, and then she left her
room, passed noiselessly along the narrow
corridor which skirted the rooms on the
outer side, and descended the stairs. A
servant was dusting the room below.

'' I want to walk in the garden ! " said
Lydia.

If you will cross the court-yard and
pass through the archway you will find
the bridge, miss. The gardener has just
gone through, so you will find the gate
open."

Lydia followed these instructions. x\s
lie passed through the arched way she
glanced at the door by which the nurse
had entered. It was of dark wood, with
long heavy hinges, and looked as if it had
been made to resist a siege.

She had been in the garden five minutes
when Mr. Tickel appeared with a very
long face.

"I have risen at this untimely hour,
my dear, because you desired it," he said,
•'but I think you are imprudent. It is
quite enough to excite suspicion."

"Never mind that," said Lydia with
impatience. " 'Twill be easy to make an
excuse. There was no other means of
speaking to you privately."

"Well, my dear, and what have you to
say ? " asked the parson coldly.

Lydia told all that she had heard and
seen since the night before.

You see," she said in conclusion, " Sir

<jrilbert is kept a prisoner that he may
not communicate with those who might
release him from his enemies."

That is not evident," said Mr. Tickel.
''' If all that yon have heard is true, there
is nothing to prove that the baronet's
seclusion is not voluntary, and that these
precautions are not taken at his request.
It is not surprising that he prefers to be
waited upon by his wife, to the attendance
of a stone-deaf nurse. His cries for help
may be due to the lively imagination of
a timid servant, or it may be that they
were the very natural result of a helpless
invalid finding himself in need of assistance."


It exasperated Lydia, who was burning
with excitement, to listen to the cold
objections of Mr. Tickel. Twice or thrice
he stopped speaking to pick a flower from
the border.

'' Perhaps, sir," she said angrily, 'you

have lost your inclination to help Blase,
after profiting by the hospitality of his
enemies."

That conclusion, my dear," replied Mr.
Tickel, bending down to pick a jonquil,
is I venture to think a little premature.
Ashen the time comes for action I don't
think you will find me wanting in energy.
If we are to succeed by strategy we must
not let the enemies of Blase see that
they are also ours. You are not so good
an actress as Lady Godwin, who by the
bye I find played at the King's Theatre
before you were born. Unless you mask
your feelings better than you did last
night, missy, there will very soon be a
coolness between you and our hosts which
will compel us to take our departure before
any chance can be found of approaching
Sir Gilbert. That is why I wish to make
you think the best of the people here,
rather than the worst. What you heard
Vil. III. 49

from your maid, I heard from mj man ;
so that accounts a little for my hearing
the news from you with complacency."

I beg your pardon. I was hasty and

unjust. But it seemed to me " Lydia

stopped.

That old Tickel was either too careless
or too careful. Well, my dear, I think I
shall show you that I cannot be too
careful — and I feel it my duty to show
you this that you also may be on your
guard. And I may as well tell you, my
dear, that had you not written to me
last night I should certainly have written
to you, though not to appoint a meeting
at this hour you may be sure." Mr.
Tickel paused to pick another flower, then
continued : "I suppose Blase never by any
accident told you a word respecting the
history of his servant Hutchins ? "

No."

It was scarcely likely, unless as a sort

of explanation. He never told me ; but
then there were many things he never
told me. However, Hutchins last night
when he brought me your letter, made
the startling announcement that he is
Lady Godwin's brother-in-law."

Hutchins ? "

"Hutchins. And it seems he knows
enough about the murder of the first Lady
Godwin and Father Dominick's behaviour
at that time to have a powerful influence
on Sir Gilbert if ever we get at him, or
upon a jury if we have to go to the law
for Father Dominick's punishment. That,
however, does not concern us immediately.
What we have to fear is, that Father
Dominick will see him. He would suspect
complicity at once, and take measures that
might be disastrous to our hopes. Of
course Hutchins had no notion that we
were coming here, and he seems to have
been in a pretty taking when he found

that he was to follow ns with the baggage.
Hitherto he has managed to keep out of
Father Dominick's sight, but the discoveries
likely to be made at any moment. The
mention of his name, though not an uncommon
one, may arouse the curiosity of
Lady Godwin and Father Dominick, and
albeit they have not met the man for years,
they are likely to remember his face well
enough to identify him."
** What is to be done ? "
I dare say I shall find a plausible
excuse to get Hutchins out of the house
in the course of the day. His daughter
is at Redwater. It is natural he should
wish to see her."

'' And after he is gone ? "
"Ah!" said Mr. Tickel with a shrug
of his shoulder. " With respect to other
difficulties to be overcome, I am afraid I
can offer no useful suggestion. It struck
me when I first heard Hutchins's story that

we might take him to Redwater and
demand Captain Covenant's interference on
behalf of his grandson. But how could he
force an entrance if the gates were closed
against him, and the servants told him
that they were shut by Sir Gilbert's orders ?
Your idea is the best, my dear ; and it
would be unwise to abandon it until every
ruse and stratagem to get the better of our
foes has been tried and has failed. One
advantage we have, and that is that the
servants, as I learn from Hutchins, have
no love for Father Dominick. With the
aid of Providence and the servants we may
in time do something. But you see how
necessary it is to play your part well.
And now, my dear, take these flowers in
your hand and put on a pretty air of rustic
innocence and joy, for hither comes Mr.
Eugenius, who seems to be quite as wide
awake as we are."

Lydia smiled sweetly as she took the

flowers which Mr. Tickel with such prudent
foresight had plucked for her ; and then
raising her head assumed an air of surprise
and pleasure in seeing Eugenius.

CHAPTER XIII.
OF lydia's extraordinary behaviour in

THE CHAPEL.

I AM delighted to see you looking so
much better this morning, my dear Miss
Liston," said Lady Godwin when they met
at breakfast.

I was very tired last night," replied
Lydia. " Rest and fresh air have given
me a new life."

"Hum!" said Mr. Tickel. "There's
more due to fresh air than to rest, my
dear. Will you believe it, my lady, this
young person sent me an imperative order
at half-past six o'clock this morning to getup
and join her in the garden ? Half-past

six, I give you my word ; and I usually lie
until nine. May I trouble you, my lady,
for a little more cream ? — 'tis excellent."

Mrs. Romsey is not seriously indisposed,
I hope ? " Father Dominick said, turning
to Lydia, who sat this morning by his side.

My aunt is very frequently troubled
with a headache, when it is time to rise ;
but that does not prevent her making a
very good breakfast in bed. I do not
think her indisposition is more serious
than Mr. Tickel's would have been under
the same conditions. I foresaw that, and,
you see, if I had not obliged him to get
np and keep me in countenance for rising
so early, I must have stopped in my
chamber to keep him in countenance for
lying so late. My charity was not broad
enough to sacrifice my own pleasure for
his. The morning is the most charming
part of the day in the country. And oh,
sir, what lovely country this is ! Mr.

Eugenius took us through a wood thick
with wind-flowers and bluebells, and thence
to a hill side where a most handsome landscape
spread before the eye."

A still finer view is obtained from the
top of the watch-tower," observed Lady
Godwin.

"For my part," said Mr. Tickel, "I
expect to find nothing more worthy of
admiration from the outside of your watchtower,
my lady, than I find inside your
breakfast parlour."

And can one really ascend to the top
of that tower ? " Lydia asked in a tone of
simplicity, which harmonized with the air
of innocent gaiety she had assumed at the
parson's bidding, and maintained with very
fair ability ever since.

There is a staircase built in the wall,
with an entrance from the chapel," replied
Eugenius.

Oh, how romantic ! I should like to

ascend if I dared. And the chapel — you
can't tell how desirous I am of examining
it. The whole house is so quaint and
picturesque that I shall not be satisfied
until I have explored it thoroughly. I
hope you will not take it ill, Lady Godwin,
if I attempt to gratify my curiosity."

On the contrary, my dear Miss Liston,
I shall have the greatest pleasure in
showing you all that is to be seen in the
old house. The north wing, which is
occupied by Sir Gilbert, I cannot show
you, for in regard to his wishes the only
entrance is kept constantly locked, and
even the servants, with the exception of
a nurse, are not admitted. But all the
rest of the house is open to investigation."

"If it is agreeable to our friends," said
Father Dominick, " we might make the
exploration after breakfast this morning."

Oh, that will be delightful ! " exclaimed
Lydia with childish glee.

What do you say, Mr. Tickel ? "

The project is most agreeable to me,
sir. But the prospect of one pleasure will
not induce me to cut short the enjoyment
of another, my dear," Mr. Tickel said,
addressing Lydia. " So I beg you to
control your impatience while I drink
another cup of chocolate and eat a second
rasher of this very excellent ham."

When Mr. Tickel's appetite was at
length satisfied, and Lady Godwin had
assured herself that Mrs. Eomsey had no
inclination to rise from her bed and join
the party, they left the breakfast parlour
and crossed the courtyard to the gateway
below the watch-tower, from which a door
opened into the chapel, Mr. Tickel giving
his arm to Lady Godwin and leading the
way, Lydia escorted by Father Dominick,
and Eugenius following.

Lady Godwin, who carried a bunch of
keys, unlocked the door in the gateway,

and then led the way up a short flight
of stairs to a second door, which she threw
open, and the party entered the chapel.

A most interesting monument," exclaimed
Mr. Tickel, standing in the centre
of the chapel, and looking about him with
the air of a man who was expected to know
something about what he saw. " A fine
specimen of waggon-roofed ceiling. The
gridiron and the forked flames that I see
so frequently repeated is, I suppose, a cognisance
of the Godwin house ? "

No, sir ; that is a portcullis, the badge
of Henry YII. ; the thunderbolts are the
Grodwin cognisance."

*' Ah, just so. Your altar is very rich,
and the pulpit, I take it, is a very ancient
piece of carving, if I may judge by the
fashion." Mr. Tickel knew nothing whatever
about wood-carving, but he saw that
the wood was very black and worm-eaten.
And that is a truly artistic specimen of

coloured glass, so is t'other. May I ask,
sir, what saint that figure is supposed to
represent ? " he asked in a tone of great
interest.

Which figure, Mr. Tickel ? "

The man in red, sir, who is spitting
a goose."

That is St. George and the dragon."

Precisely so. Prodigious curious, upon
my word ! "

"While Mr. Tickel was making these
observations Lydia had approached the
organ, which stood against that end of
the building abutting on the north side
of the house.

"You will play something, Mr. Eu-genius
? " she said. " I am dying to hear
that piece of Bach's which you mentioned
when we were in town."

I shall have the greatest pleasure in
playing to you this afternoon. At present
there is no one about to work the bellows."

Lydia desired to see the bellows, and
while this part of the instrument was being
shown her she contrived to cast furtive
glances over the wall, where, however, she
saw nothing to encourage her hope of
gaining access to the north wing through
the chapel. Leaving the organ, she walked
slowly round the building, accompanied
by Eugenius and Lady Grodwin, pausing
at every object to make some girlish
exclamation of astonishment or admiration.


Oh, what a quaint old door ! " she cried
suddenly as they approached the end by
which they had entered. *' Do look, what
a beautiful design is formed by the scroll
work of the hinges ! "

"• Ah, that is the door that opens to the
tower staircase," said Eugenius.

Oh, how remarkable ! Mr. Tickel do
come and look at this ! " cried the girl
eagerly. Lady Godwin standing a little

back glanced sidelong at Lydia with a
momentary expression of contempt. Was
this little fool to be feared ? she might have
been asking herself.

Do look at those lovely scrolls, Mr.
Tickel, and these great bolts ! I don't
think I could move them, could I ? "

They are not so difficult to move as
you think," said Father Dominick. " Will
you try ? "

Lydia put her two hands upon the bolt
and drew it back ; then she drew the
second.

"Now pull the ring," said Lady Godwin
in the encouraging tone with which
children are sometimes addressed.

Lydia pulled the ring and the door
swung slowly back, disclosing a perfectly
dark space. She started back with unfeigned
terror, for at that moment the
thought crossed her mind that this might
be a trap for her, and that Father Dominick

intended to imprison her as he had imprisoned
Sir Grilbert. It was a foolish fear
doubtless, but not unnatural to a young girl
ill her strange position. Lady Grodvvin
laughed heartily at her fears, and even
the saturnine priest smiled grimly.

It looks like a dungeon'* said Lydia.

I am afraid then," said Eugenius, " you
will hardly care to enter it even to get a
view from the top."

Is there no other entrance ?" she asked.

None. There is a small hole half-way
up to admit light, but there is no other
outlet until you reach the top of the tower.
Would you like to look upwards, you can
see the loophole, and you will find that the
stairs are sufficiently clear after the first
half dozen are passed."

"You — you won't shut the door," Lydia
said drawing near the entrance timidly.
Mr. Tickel and Lady Godwin laughed ;
Eugenius assured her that no cruel practical

joke should be played. She put her head
through the doorway and looked upward.
Withdrawing she said :

*sit is not so dark as I expected; will
you look Mr. Tickel ? "

"No thank you, my dear. I once was
induced to go inside the monument on
Fish Street Hill, with a faint idea of going
to the top, but a glance up those stairs was
sufficient for me."

Shall we go up ? " asked Eugenius.

Not for me ! " said Mr. Tickel emphatically.
" It makes me giddy to lookout
of a first-floor window."

I should like to go," said Lydia. " But
are you sure the stairs won't give way,
and precipitate us all into some dreadful
pit ? "

'the gentlemen shall take the first
chance of a disaster," said Lady Godwin,
laughing again.

Father Dominick and Eugenius at once
VOL. III. 50

entered the staircase, and their feet were
heard ascending. Lydia held back.

^' Why, my dear child, you are absolutely
white with fear." And indeed the girl
was as pale as ash, but not with the feeling
Lady Godwin attributed to her. " Come,
pluck up courage ! "

The feet on the stairs had stopped. The
voices of Eugenius and Father Dominick
came to Lydia's ear in a muffled undertone.

You are coming with me," said Lydia
faintly.

Of course, my child."

Then if you will give me your hand
as soon as you get inside."

Why you are a timid little goose,"
cried Lady Godwin, and with these words
she boldly stepped into the dark entry.

Quick as a flash of light, and with a
shrill little scream, Lydia caught hold of
the door by which she stood and slammed
it to, and then with hands strengthened by

desperate energy she shot the bolts one
after the other. And this done the girl
half delirious with excitement threw her
slight weight against the door and called
frantically to Mr. Tickel to come and add
his weight.

CHAPTER Xii.

CONCERNING THE PRISONERS IN GODWIN'S
MOAT, AND HOW THEY WERE HELD.

Mr. Tickel was not less astonished by
the audacious act of the girl than were
the three people imprisoned in the tower.
He stood for a moment aghast and, to use
his own expression, unbounded ; but he
answered at once to Lydia's call for help.

My dear," he said, " there's not the
slightest fear that these bolts will yield,
but "

Lydia herself was now conscious of that,
and she slid to the ground as helpless and
weak as an infant. Mr. Tickel bent down
and lifted her flaccid body in his arms.

Her head drooped upon his shoulder, her
lips were colourless, her eyelids fell.
Her nerves were overstrained by the
violent tension put upon them ; her force
was gone. Mr. Tickel had a terrible
suspicion that she was about to faint away,
and he had not the slightest notion of
what was to be done to restore her.

For the Lord's sake don't swoon, my
dear," he cried. " The servants will come,
and then all the fat '11 be in the fire ; think
of the danger ! " Unconsciously he had
hit upon the very best restorative to revive
Lydia's fainting courage.

'' Danger ! " she said, opening her eyes
quickly and raising herself in his arms.
Tell me what I am to do."

"There's a brave girl," said the parson,
greatly relieved to see the return of animation
in the girl's face* "Do you think
you can walk without my assistance ? "

Yes, yes ; I am quite strong now.

My heart seemed to stop. I am myself
again, only my thoughts are confused.

Tell me to do something."

<

•• Go as quietly as you can to the
kitchen, find Hut chins, and bring him tome.
I will stop here and guard the door.
Have no fear, and don't let your face alarm
the servants."

Lydia pushed back her hair from her
temples, gave her head a little shake as
if to disperse the signs of agitation fi'om
her face, and left the chapel with a
tolerably firm step.

Meanwhile the prisoners had recovered
from their dismay, and were not dormant.
Lady Godwin was alternately thumping
the door and demanding to be released
immediately ; while from the top of the
tower Father Dominick and Eugenius were
shouting vigorously for some one named
Beagles.

'' Have you lost your senses ? Are you

mad ? I order you to undo the door at once,

or bitterly you shall repent this outrage,"
screamed Lady Godwin. Mr. Tickel made
no response, but carefully examined the
bolts upon the door.

Thud, thud, thud, thud, thud I at the door.
•• Do you hear me ? "" screamed the lady.
Mr. Tickel nodded in silence.
'- Beads ! Beetles ! Bear-les ! " from
the top of the tower.

Bang, bang, bang. bang, bang !
Let me out at once, infamous
wretches ! "

Then there reached Mr. Tickel's ear the
sound of imperative orders called from the
tower top, a muttered response from the
court-yard, and the sound of heavy footsteps
ascending the chapel stairs. The
parson set his back against the door, his
lips closing firmly and his nostrils whitening"
with distension.

The gardener entered the chapel — a

grizzly-bearded tall old man of sixty.
Instinctively he touched his hat to Mr.
Tickel.

'master ses I be to open this there
door, sir," he said.

'' Who is your master, my good man ? "
asked the parson.

Why, sir, in a manner o' speak, Sir
Gilbert be my master."

Did he tell you to open the door ? "

Tell 'ee the truth, sir, he didn't."

When he does tell you to open it, you
may open it, but by God no one shall lay
a hand on it before."

Open the door at once. Beagles," cried
the muffled voice of Lady Godwin.

B' 'angel ef I know what I be to do,"
said Beagles, scratching his head.

'' I'll tell you what you shall do," the
parson said in a voice of authority. " If
you are the honest God-fearing Englishman
I take you to be, you shall help me

to save Sir Gilbert Godwin ; for I cannot
think you will be concerned with these
wicked papists in his murder."

Goody heart ! I dont hold wi' no
popes for certain sure, master."

At this juncture Lydia returned, followed
by Hutch ins.

Hutchins, I am about to leave you to
guard this entrance," said Mr. Tickel. " In
my absence you will neither open the door
at the request of those within, nor permit
any one else to open it."

"No one shall lay a finger on the door
while I'm here," said Hutchins stoutly.

Mr. Tickel gave a last look at the bolts,
and then giving his arm to Lydia, he said :

Now, my dear, we will go and speak
to the servants, and so make sure of our
garrison. Come with me if you please.
Beagles." He spoke with an air of such
severe authority that the gardener, despite
some unquiet doubts that yet lingered in

his heavy mind, had no option but to
comply, and signified his obedience by
touching his hat.

Mr. Tickel, with Lydia upon his arm, left
the chapel and crossed the court-yard with
a majestic port towards the steps of the
dining-hall where the awe-stricken servants
were clustered in a group peeping
up at Father Dominick and Eugenius
who stood upon the top of the watchtower.


Mr. Tickel, will you listen to me ? "
shouted Father Dominick.

Yes, sir! " replied the parson, stopping
and looking upward ; "I will listen to you
when I have heard what Sir Gilbert
Godwin has to say." Then he resumed
his march.

*' Beagles, if you do not instantly open
the tower door you shall be discharged,
and your family shall be turned off the
estate," called Father Dominick.

Beagles, without malting any reply,
plodded steadily on behind Mr. Tickel.

Have the goodness," said Mr. Tickel
addressing the servants, " to come with
me into the hall." He led Lydia to the
head of the long table, where, keeping herby
his side, he turned about to face the
servants who had followed him and stood
in a knot at a respectful distance. He
looked at them as in old times he had
looked at his congregation, to gather from
their faces some idea of the kind of sermon
that would suit them. The cook and the
housemaid were buxom, and their stupid
faces expressed but stupid alarm ; the
coachman, a clean-shaven, curly-haired,
fair-skinned young fellow, with round blue
eyes, and a very large mouth, which he
kept Avell opened, wore a look of amused
expectancy as if he anticipated that Mr.
Tickel was going to say something funny.
Beagles alone showed signs of an intelligent

perception of the grave responsibility
of his position. His brows were knitted,
the corners of his lips were drawn down,
the whole cast of his countenance revealed
the deep reflective mind of a man
habituated to considering the advisability
of precarious courses, of deciding between
the prudence of planting out seedlings at
once, or of holding on for another fortnight,
and settling such like knotty
questions.

In the first place," said Mr. Tickel,
are any of you papists ? "

Beagles had already asserted that he did
not hold with the pope ; the rest of the
servants expressed the same sentiment by
shaking their heads in reply to the parson's
question.

In that case I may conclude that you
are all favourably disposed towards your
master, Sir Grilbert Godwin, and have no
complicity with the wicked people whom

we have succeeded in securing in the
watch-tower. You know that Sir Gilbert
is confined in the north wing of this house ;
you know that no one is ever permitted to
approach him except a deaf woman, and
that even she is not allowed to see your
unfortunate master. Why she should be
admitted to that part of the house in
preference to you is obvious : you might
be moved by his prayers to communicate
with his friends. We are his friends. This
young lady will one day be the bride of
Sir Gilbert's legitimate son who, through
the wicked devices of that unholy priest,
has been banished from his father's house.
No doubt your intelligent minds have
conceived that Father Dominick has imprisoned
Sir Gilbert with an evil motive.
Your suspicions are just. Father Dominick's
intention is to make himself the
master of Sir Gilbert's estate. What
tortures have been employed to force that

poor unhappy gentleman to consent to such
a disposition of this property we cannot
say. Perhaps when all the household
have been wrapt in slumber some cry for
help may have been raised."

We've leered 'un, sir," said the coachman.


Then my supposition is not unfounded.
My good people, there has been a murder
in this house ; it is possible there may be
another when Sir Gilbert has signed his
will, unless you help us to prevent it by
giving the baronet his liberty. If after
this warning you should do anything to
assist the escape of the three persons now in
the watch-tower, and so to defeat our
endeavours in behalf of Sir Gilbert, you
Avould undoubtedly be punished by the
law as accomplices of those interested in
the ruin and death of Sir Gilbert. The
punishment of murder is death by hanging
in this world, and everlasting brimstone

fire in the next. I am a clergyman
in the Church of England, and I know."

These words struck a deep impression
upon the minds of the servants. The two
women shrank in terror behind the coachman,
whose breathing grew audible, as if he
already felt the pressure of a cord about
his throat. Even Beagles showed symptoms
of agitation.

I don't side wi' no popery," he said,
^' an' if zo be as you be clergyman we be
bound to do fewer bidden. What wi'
early blights, and late frosts, I weel
mortal certain there's zomeut wrong somewheres."


Well said, Beagles. And you, my
good women, may we depend upon you ? "

Oh la ! yes, sir ; zo be you won't let
'em loose."

'' They will remain in the tower until
Sir Gilbert himself orders them to be set
free. In the meantime you will take your

orders from Miss Liston here. And now.
Beagles, to prevent any assistance being-given
to the prisoners from the outside, we
will close the gates. Do you know where
the keys are kept ? "

"I do, sir," said the coachman gleefully.
Then let us go and shut the gates at
once. My dear," he said turning to Lydia,
you will make inquiries of the servants
relative to the nurse. If she comes down
we may get the key from her; if not we
must force the door."

Mr. Tickel left the hall with the two
men and crossed the court-yard to the
great gateway, under the eyes of Father
Dominick and Eugenius, who still stood
upon the tower. The young coachman
treated them to a broad grin as he looked
up, and observed that they looked for all
the world like a pair of " jack-cas."
When the iron gates beyond the bridge
were shut and the lock fastened, Mr. Tickel

23ut the key in his pocket for safety, and
then returning by the court-yard he took
the same precaution to prevent either ingress
or egress by the gate in the north
wing which opened upon the garden.

These movements were watched in
sombre silence by Father Dominick and
Eugenius, but Lady Godwin, who had
joined them, could not contain her rage,
and showered down a volley of invectives
which Mr. Tick el bore with unruffled
dignity as he solemnly marched from the
northern gate to the dining-hall. The
young coachman, however, had no sense of
dignity, and falling back behind his new
master he retorted in pantomime, imitating
very fairly the vehement gestures of
the enraged lady on the tower.

Well, my dear," said Mr. Tickel, meeting
Lydia on the threshold of the hall,
'• have you seen anything of the nurse ? "

No. I find that Lady Godwin visited

vor. iiT. 51

Sir Gilbert this morning before eight,
while we were in the wood, and that the
nm-se fetched as usual a dish of chocolate.
I am told that it is customary for Father
Dominick and Lady Godwin to cross to the
north wing at half-past eleven o'clock, and
stay there until one ; at twelve the nurse
fetches the lunch prepared for him in the
kitchen."

Mr. Tickel looked at his watch ; it was
half-past ten.

At what hours are the meals served
here usually, do you know, my dear ? "

"Breakfast at eight — it was late this
morning — lunch at eleven ; dinner at two ;
a dish of chocolate or tea at five, and
supper at eight.

"Have you given any orders to the
cook ? "

None. I am waiting for your advice."

Very well, my dear ; then I advise that
the ordinary rules shall be followed as

closely as possible. Let his keep the women
quiet. If they are frightened they will be
wanting to go away before nightfall, which
would not be pleasant for us. For that
reason it will be better to get the key
from the nurse than to break open the
doors."

Lydia made no response : she was
feverishly impatient of inaction.

*' You see, my dear, pursued Mr. Tickel,
•^' we do not at all know in what condition
-we shall find the baronet. For anything
we know to the contrary he may be too ill
lo take any action in this matter ; his mind
may be deranged ; it may be a more
tedious business than we imagine ; aud if
the servants become terrified unlocked for
complications may arise that will overthrow
our best laid schemes."

^' I dare say you are right," said
Lvdia.

I believe I am, my dear. After all, it

is but a matter of an lion's delay. And
now order lunch to be served in half an
hour ; and then go up and look after Mrs.
Romsev. Let her know everything before
she comes down, so that she may eat her
meal in peace. Meanvvdiile, I will go out
and devise some plan of conveying food to
the prisoners, for, bad as they are, we must
not starve them."

A consultation followed between Mr.
Tickel, Hutchins, Beagles, and the young
coachman as to the best means of conveying
food to the prisoners in the tower.
The young coachman was fertile in suggestions.
He first undertook to fling the
victuals up, and then volunteered to '' stand
by wi' a sark " in case any of the inmates
of the tower should have the temerity to
come out when the door was opened. But
mr. Tickel was averse to opening the door
on any consideration. Ultimately it was
agreed that Beagles should get a certain

I

long ladder, which, after much careful
consideration, he reckoned would reach
between a foot, a foot and a half, or two
feet of the little square window in the
side of the tower, and that a basket containing
the food should be handed through
the window to those within.

This arrangement was carried out.
Beagle's discriminating eye was not deceived
; the ladder, placed at a suitable
angle, came exactly to the spot his imagination
had marked, which was not surprising
as he adjusted it ; and Hutchins
carried up the basket containing a lunch
for three, selected with great care and
generous feeling by Mr. Tickel from the
good things in the larder. The young-coachman
was anxious to perform this
service ; but as he, seeming to think the
whole thing a huge practical joke, had
suggested substituting a bottle of horse
physic for the claret Mr. Tickel had chosen,

the parson deemed it wiser to let lily
stand below and hold the ladder.

Having deposited the basket in the
embrasure of the window, Hutchins
descended, and the ladder was removed.
Mr. Tickel returned to the dining-hall,.
where lunch awaited him ; and Hutchins
posted himself on guard before the door in
the chapel. Here he was visited at intervals
by the young coachman, whose
ingenuity in devising means for the annoyance
of the captives was not checked by
repeated rejection of them. Covertly he
brought a large horse-pistol, which he
proposed to fire under the door; then a
cage of ferrets — animals that Lady Godwin
had expressed the utmost dread of — •
which he desired to set at large in the
tower, "just to sheer 'em up a bit*' as he
said. But these offers Hutchins declined
with persistent firmness, though doubtless
as he remembered the wrongs put upon

him by Father Dominick and Lady Godwin,
he was restrained from accepting by
no feeling of pity or mercy.

Mrs. Komsey had a great deal to savouring
koch upon the revelation which
Lydia had made to her. As a matter of
course, she had suspected Eugenius from
the very beginning, and felt certain that
something was concealed from her knowledge
which she ought to have been told.
She was very certain that the worst was
yet to come ; and if they were all murdered
in their beds she, for her part, should not
feel at all surprised. Her unerring instinct
had warned her before ever she left
London that it would be much better to
stay at home, and this was a warning to
be guided in future by her own judgment,
which she should not forget initial her
dying day. With much matter to the same
purpose she occupied her thoughts if not
the thoughts of those to whom she addressed

lier remarks, until the waiting-maid
entered the hall in haste with the
information that the nurse was below in
the kitchen.

Making a sign to Lydia to remain where
she was, Mr. Tickel rose at once and left
the hall with the servant ; in five minutes
he returned carrying a key in his hand.

'' You will stay here, my dear, with
your aunt," he said to Lydia. '^ I have the
key, and I am now going to find Sir
Grilbert. Be sure I shall return as soon as
I have any news to bring you."

CHAPTER XY.

OF FURTHER DISCOVERIES MADE BY THE
Parson.

Beagles was waiting with the nurse outside
the door. The gardener carried a bunch
of keys that he had collected from the many
doors in the unclosed portion of the house.

Father Dominick, standing on the tower,
his tall narrow figure slightly bent, his
arms crossed, his chin upon his breast,
watched them cross the angle of the courtyard
between the hall and the gateway in
the north wing, with an aspect of cold
impassability.

Entering by the side door in the gateway,
Mr. Tickel and the gardener followed
the nurse up the flight of stairs to a

corridor which, corresponding to that in
the south wing, skirted the line of
chambers which looked upon the courtyard.
Two doors were open, one was the
entrance to a small chamber occupied by
the nurse, the other, not far removed, led
into a more spacious apartment.

This is Sir Grilbert's sitting-room," said
the nurse as Mr. Tickel entered. " His
bedroom is throng there," she pointed to
a door on one side of the room. Mr. Tickel
crossed quickly and tried the latch. The
lock was fastened. He signed to Beagles,
and while the gardener was slowly trying
the most likely keys in his collection, the
parson had time to glance round the room.
A fire burnt in the chimney ; by the side
a large elbow-chair was drawn up, and
near that stood a table ; a few newspapers
and one or two books lay on a sideboard.
Dull thick curtains before the window casta
gloom over the bare room.

That's got un, I clem think," said
Beagles, and the next moment the door
was open.

Make the woman understand that she
is to prepare Sir Gilbert's lunch in the
ordinary way. Beagles, and see that she
does it," said Mr. Tickel ; then he passed
through the door and closed it securely
behind him.

Why have you kept me here so long?"
said a tremulous voice in a tone of complaint.
" I heard the clock go eleven

long " The speaker stopped short, for

Mr. Tickel had drawn back the heavy green
curtains, and was looking down at him.

Mr. Tickel had seen a couple of portraits
of Sir Gilbert that hung in the dining-hall.
One represented him a bright-eyed
vivacious young fellow of eighteen ; the
other a hale and hearty man of forty, with
a double chin, full sensuous lips, and a
lickerous eye. This latter picture had

pleased the parson. There were evident
feigns that the portrait had been painted to
flatter ; the nose especially bore witness to
very laborious efforts on the part of the
artist to keep it pale without destroying-its
harmony with the high tone of the
general complexion. Looking at it with
half-closed eyes, ^fr. Tickel had seen Sir
(gilbert as the artist might have painted
him, and found a verification of the
description Image had given of his father,
as a free-living, headstrong, weak-minded,
rusty country gentleman. With this
picture in his mind he wondered for a
moment if this could ])e the original whom
he now regarded.

The baronet leaned upon his right elbow,
and looked up at this visitor with an expression
of feeble astonishment and apprehension.
His beard had been allowed to
grow ; it was white, and covered the
lower part of his face ; from below the

border of his night-cap a silvery curl fell
over his temple. His skin was of a leaden
hue, streaked upon the cheek-bones and
nose with tiny red filaments. The flesh
had fallen away from his cheeks, and the
skin was puckered in the angles of his
sunken eyes, and formed loose sacs below
the under lids. Many men of seventy
would have looked younger than he.

Mr. Tickel was not a sentimental manor
one who naturally took the misfortunes
of his fellow creatures deeply to heart ;
but it touched his soul with compassion
to look at this poor old wreck and think of
the pictures in the hall.

Who — who are you ? " asked Sir
Gilbert in quavering tones.

"I doubt if you would know me byname,
sir ; but believe me, I am your very
sincere friend."

"Ah, that's what the other attorney
said ; but I wouldn't have anything to do

with him ; and I'm very sorry you've had
your pains to come here for nothing, sir;
but I won't put my name to any paper."

What, sir, d'ye take me for a lawyer? "
cried Mr. Tickel, laughing; •' a lawyer with
a waist that the tailor has to measure half
at a time ! No, sir, 'tis t'other way about :
Fm a parson."

A parson ! " said Sir Gilbert incredulously.
-^ Why have they sent you
to me ? "

We'll talk about that presently. The
first thing to be done is to get you up
and dressed. Now then, sir, how do we
manage ? — which foot first ? "

Half-dazed with the strangeness of the
situation, and seemingly suspicious of a
treacherous intention in the parson's presence.
Sir Gilbert accepted Mr. Tickel's
assistance in silence, only speaking when
response to a question was demanded. He
was powerless to move without help ; he

could with difficulty raise the foot and
hand upon his left side ; he needed support
even to stand upright. Mr. Tickel showed
great tenderness in helping him to dress,
and maintained a cheerful flow of small
talk all the time, avoiding for the present
any reference to grave matters.

What, sir, don't you wear a wig ? '' he
said. •• Well you're perhaps in the right,
for your own hair is prodigious fine and
silky, and has a curl in it like any young
lad's. But you must have that beard oft'
before long ; you find it mighty inconvenient
for drinking I should say, to have
a mass of hair on your lip like that. By
the way, sir, what have you had in the
basin I see by your bedside ? "'

They brought me a dish of tea."

••A poor stuff for drinking of a morning.
A mug of good October ale, sir, would be
better for you in my thinking*'

Sir Gilbert looked sideways at Mr.

Tickel with, a curious expression of
astonish iiient and mistrust.

I warrant you'll relish a good solid
lunch after such a washy breakfast, and
the sooner you get it the better. Now,
sir, are we about ready ? "

Yes, thank you."

Then let me get my arm round you,
so — is that easy sir ? Right. Then now
we'll toddle along."

The gardener was waiting in the adjoining
room ; his surprise to see Sir Grilbert
was not more than that of Sir Grilbert to
see him.

Turn that chair round, Beagles. You
don't object to your servant being in the
room?" asked Mr. Tickel.

"No, no; I am glad, quite glad," replied
the baronet, still seeming much perplexed.

'you hear that. Beagles. Come, haven't
you a civil word to sav to your master
after his illness ? '*

Thus called to a sense of duty Beagles
touched his forelock, shuffled his feet, and
a smile like a wintry gleam of sunshine
touching his earthy face, replied :

Right glad to zee you about again
Sir Gilbert ; no' but what you do seem
room to seed a good deal since the fall."

There, sit you down there, sir ; and
now — halloa, what's this ? " The parson
had turned to the table, and as he spoke
he took up a porringer and holding it to
the light looked at its contents with blank
amazement. " What on earth is this ? "

Lunch," replied Sir Gilbert.

Mr. Tickel sank silently into a chair, put
the porringer to his nose, and then looked
at Beagles, and from him to Sir Gilbert,
and back again to Beagles for an explanation.


Ness, she fetched it," Beagles said ina
tone of apology.

Porridge ! " said Mr. Tickel, after
VOL. III. 52

putting the mixture again to his nose.
a Porridge for a man's lunch after a breakfast
of tea ? "

I always have porridge for lunch and
for supper."

And what do you have for dinner ? "

Mutton broth."

And what do you drink ? ",

Toast water, tea, and sometimes a dish
of chocolate."

Do you never have a roast sirloin of
beef, nor a saddle of mutton, nor a capon,
nor a bottle of red wine, nor a pipe of
tobacco ?"

Sir Gilbert shook his head to each
suggestion.

Nothing but slops ? "

Nothing."

And how long have you been kept
alive on this diet ? "

Since my illness. 'Tis by the doctor's
orders, I am told, that I have this food."

When did the doctor see you last ? "

I don't know, two or three months
since."

And are you one tittle the stronger
since he left you ? "

Sir Grilbert shook his head.

Mr. Tickel glanced at the feeble invalid
for a minute in silent pity, and dropped
his eyes once more upon the porringer.
Then his lips closed, the spread nostrils
of his great nose grew white, and rising
from his chair without a word he went to
the window, thrust back the curtains with
an angry jerk of his hand, opened the
window, and flung the porringer down
into the court-yard with all the force that
indignation could lend to his arm.

Go down to the hall, Beagles," he said,
turning round, " and bid Miss Liston send
up a tray of lunch such as / can eat, and
enough for two men ; and go yourself and
fetch up such a bottle of claret as was

served at dinner yesterday. And look you,
let that red-cheeked wench carry the tray,
for your master's done with the nurse ;
and bid the cook step up and pay her
respects to Sir Grilbert."

"To be sure, sir, right gladly." And
with that Beagles, now radiant with
delight, shuffled quickly towards the door.

And hark ye," cried Mr. Tickel, " tell
Miss Liston that when she's set out the
lunch I shall be glad to see her here."

I will sir."

'' And — Beagles ! If you can make the
nurse hear, bid her make mutton broth
for three to-day ; for by the lord Father
Dominick and his family shall have nothing
but mutton broth and porridge while I
command their commissariat."

I'll make her hear that, 'pend on it,
Sir 1

Mr. Tickel took a seat opposite to Sir
Gilbert, breathing quickly, and with but

little of that calm in his mind which he
prided himself upon maintaining.

"I don't understand," Sir Gilbert said
in his timorous, tremulous tone.

I have taken the liberty, Sir Gilbert,
of sending for such food as a man in your
condition should have, and I shall give
myself the pleasure of eating with you, if
you have no objection ; and if you will
permit me I'll first have those curtains
back and let a little of Heaven's brightness
into this gloomy hole of a room."

It is gloomy, but it inspires a man with
religious thoughts. If you are a parson,
sir, as I judge by your coat, I should like to
talk to you about religion," the baronet said
with more eagerness in his feeble voice.

Mr. Tickel had pulled back the curtains
as far as they would go, and he now
returned to his seat.

'with all my heart, sir," he said — "after
lunch. For I take it, sir, 'tis better in a

man to turn his thoughts to the Highest
when body and heart are fresh and strong
than when sickness saps his courage and
lie is prone to mistake that for devotion
which is only fear."

Sir Gilbert's mind was certainly not
strong enough to contest this point ; it
had already wandered from the subject of
religion.

"Where are they'' he asked, looking
about him.

Father Dominick and his family ? "
His family?" faltered the baronet. "I
don't know what you mean. My wife,
Lady Godwin, and my second son
Eugenius."

Bah, sir, you have no second son.
Eugenius has not the impudence to claim
your name out of this house ; and as for
the woman who calls herself Lady Godwin,
I have a witness to prove that she was the
priest's mistress up to the very day you

married her, as I wager she has been
ever since."

A witness to prove that ? "

"Aye, and more than that. He will
prove, or I am much mistaken, that Father
Dominick murdered your first wife, to
make place for his mistress."

Oh no ! I — I thought so at one time,
but they have disproved it. What a
wretch should I have been else. Could
I ever hope for Divine pardon ? "

Well, well, we will talk of that by and
by. At present these worthies are shut
up in your watch tower, and there they
shall stay until you are strong enough to
judge them fairly and treat them according
to their deserts."

It is our duty, our Christian duty, to
forgive. You, as a parson, should know
that."

I do, and no one better. We'll forgive
them with all our hearts — when they're

punished, and can do you no more m-

jury-tis

all a whirl ! " the feeble old man
said, passing his hand over his eyes. " I
cannot see it, how — how "

"How did they come to be shut up?
you would ask. I'll tell you, sir, in a few
words if we must broach the subject before
lunch. The affair turns upon the misfortunes
of your son Blase."

Blase — my boy Blase ! He would not
come to see me in my illness. When I lay
dying, as I thought, he would not be
reconciled."

My God, sir ! your boy Blase at this
very moment believes you to be as strong
and hearty as when you sent him about
his business half a year ago."

They told me he refused to see me."

They are liars, sir," cried Mr. Tickel,
bringing down his fist with force upon the
table ; " they told him nothing of your state,

and for a very good reason. Had he known
you lead been so sick lie wouldn't have
been fool enough to sign a conveyance of
his heritage."

What conveyance ? "

"Did you not order your agents in
London to pay him a sum of money on his
signing a conveyance of his hereditary
rights to your estate ? "

No. I am quite certain I did no such
thing. I was asked to sign a will leaving
the disposition of my property to my wife,
but I refused ; for I know I have done my
son great wrong, and I — I have," he hesitated,
" I have mistrusted my wife since I
was struck down."

"And with good reason. There's forgery
to add to her other crimes. A paper bearing
your signature was brought to Blase
to sign ; it was a covenant binding him to
sign a deed of conveyance when it was
prepared. That deed was carried to him

only last week, and signed by him at
Dublin, were lie is quartered with his
regiment."

His regiment ! Is Blase a soldier ? "

"Aye, sir, and the handsomest, stoutest
fellow in the army ; and I warrant he'll
give the leagues a dusting if they rise, as
'tis expected they will."

The old man rubbed his hands together
and his eyes twinkled faintly.

Do you see, sir, it was after this covenant
had been signed that we — the friends
of Blase — heard of your illness ; that
aroused our suspicions, and concealing our
intentions, we came hither as the friends of
that young devil Eugenius, with the hope
of seeing you. But arrived here we found
you had shut yourself up in this wing that
nobody might come near you, and forbidden
your doors to be unlocked to anyone."


I never gave such orders."

Of course you didn't. They couldn't
have kejDt you in this feeble state, and
gradually starved you to death under the
plausible pretext of obeying the doctor's
orders, had anyone visited you. They
couldn't have concocted their forgery, and
the plans they laid for getting the whole
of your property into their hands, if you
could have made your thoughts known.
Oh, it was a subtle and well-laid plan for
your ruin and the ruin of your son. Who
was to save you if by your orders the doors
were closed against all who sought to see
you ? Who could have proved the crimes of
forgery and murder against them had you
succumbed to their insidious treatment ?
They merely obeyed the doctor's orders
and your wishes. The woman who attends
to your rooms was chosen because she was
stone deaf and could hear nothing. Do
you see the villainy now ? "

It seems suspicious," said the baronet

timidly, " but we must not judge hastily —
it is wrong."

Thank the Lord, sir, we're not all of
your opinion. Well, well. It was seen, sir,
that the only way of getting at you was
to lock up those who would have prevented
us. So they were fastened up in the towerlike
rats in a trap, sir ! "

"And who — who had the courage to do
that?"

"A maid, sir : the bravest, sweetest, best
maid under the sun. And here she is, sir,"
he said, pointing to the door where Lydia
stood, " your son's sweetheart ! "

CHAPTER XVL

Containing SOME Unlooked-for EVENTS.

Lydia sat beside Sir Gilbert with his hand
in hers, looking up in his face now and
then with that wistful tenderness which is
natural to most good women in the presence
of a suffering man.

I cannot say much in my own defence,"
the old man murmured, touched by the
beauty and gentleness of the girl beside
him ; "I have so much to think on and so
much to regret. But you must not consider
too harshly of me. I have done great
wrong in my life, but I repent, and I have
become very religious. You see there are
no gloves nor candlesticks about — no wicked

pictures of race horses and boxers. And I
read the Bible a great deal, and I never
skip) the long chapters full of names, and I
mean to have a long talk with the parson."

'rafter lunch, sir," said Mr. Tickel.
And now let us fall to, for the girl has
laid that which will do you good."

The parson moved Sir Grilbert's chair to
the table and seated himself opposite, for
he had not such a poor stomach but that
he could eat a second lunch to keep:) the
baronet company.

Sir Grilbert seemed to enjoy the solid
food, although at first he hesitated, as if
dubious whether it was consistent with
repentance and his religious purposes to
indulge in such a repast. His appetite was
soon satisfied, and he drank no more thana
glass and a half of claret ; and even that
seemed too much for his enfeebled digestion,
for his eyes grew heavy before he lay
down his fork, his chin fell upon his breast

and he slept a minute after Mr. Tickel
had turned his chair about to face the fire.

Mr. Tickel recounted in a low voice to
Lydia what had passed between him and
Sir Grilbert.

You see, my dear, pretty clearly now
how the land lies," he said in conclusion.
These cunning wicked villains have been
doing their best to kill Sir Grilbert without
running the risk of being charged with his
murder. Another month of melancholy
gloom and porridge would very likely
have finished the business. Happily, low
diet, inaction, solitude, and dismal surroundings
have worked an effect upon his
mind infinitely stronger than the most
conclusive arguments would exert upon a
man in vigorous health and lively circumstances.
Thus his enemies have served his
friends to their own undoing He is well
disposed towards Blase — not as I take it
from any strong feeling of affection, but

from a fear of the hereafter, which commonly
seizes persons of slender morality
when they are suddenly bereft of the
exuberant animal forces which made them
careless."

'' Oh, don't you think his heart is really
turned ? " asked Lydia sadly. To her Sir
Gilbert's " conversion " had seemed very
beautiful and true.

"There's no doubt that his temper is
altered. I think his physical condition
will never permit Lin to return to his old
courses. As for his heart, my dear, 'tis
not governed by morality. Men may be
strictly conscientious and yet heartless.
But that which the highest sense of rectitude
cannot do may be done by the subtle
power which gentle women possess. 'Tis
their tears and smiles that soften and
expand our hearts."

Lydia made no response. After a
minute's pause Mr. Tickel continued :

To come back to the practical business
we are upon, my dear. Excited and dazed
by what has happened this morning, Sir
Grilbert will be unable to take any action
with regard to his enemies to-day. It
would be unwise to bring them face to face
with him before he is thoroughly convinced
of the course he ought to take. We know
not what arguments they might bring
forward in their own defence, or how
those arguments might affect the weak
judgment of Sir Grilbert. When he wakes
he will expect to talk about religion, and I
shall take care to bring chapter and verse
against the party in the watch-tower. Tomorrow
will be quite early enough to fetch
them up for judgment. And remember,
Lady Godwin will claim her right to stay
with her husband whatever becomes of her
her priest and his son. Happily we can
produce a strong witness on our side in
Hutchins."

VOL. 111. 53

Lydia, starting up, said :

I will produce a stronger witness than
Hutchins."

What do you mean, my dear ? " the
parson asked, his eyes opening wide.

"You will see," answered Lydia, her
eyes sparkling. "Although I am a woman
I am not obliged to tell all my secrets. I
am going to leave you for awhile."

Where are you going ? " he asked, as
she went towards the door.

For a drive," she said, and slipped out
of the room smiling.

Is she going to Ked water to fetch that
old captain ?" wondered Mr. Tickel. " Hang
me if that will do any good. The old
fellow's dread of a public scandal will lead
him to oppose anything like justice being
meted out to these forgers. I must go and
tell the girl that she'll do better to stay at
home, if that is her object."

Having assured himself that Sir Gilbert

was still asleep, the parson left the room
and descended the stairs. At the foot he
found Beagles.

Go up stairs, my man, and sit in the
room with your master," said Mr. Tickel;
if he wakes hail me from the window."

That I will deu, sir, readily. And, ain
your pardon, sir, I ha' made bold to carry
a pit cucumber in vor fewer dinner,
hearing' from young missy's wench as you
be a bit gluttons like, and so been' we
all owes ye suthin' for kindness to Sir
Gilbert."

Thank you, my good fellow, I am a bit
gluttons in such matters, and a pit
cucumber I shall enjoy immensely."

Lydia had given her orders, and the
energetic young coachman was bestirring
himself to get out the chariot with an
alacrity which could not have been exceeded
had it been one of Mr. Branch's
patent engines and the hall in flames. He

perceived that his operations excited considerable
curiosity to the prisoners on the
tower ; and, looking up, he shook his head
gravely at Father Dominick, as if to signify
that his last hour was near at hand, and
with his lips shaped the word " Constables."

By the time Lydia appeared upon the
hall steps in her hat and pelisse he had
harnessed in the horses, and was buttoning
up his livery coat.

My dear," said Mr. Tickel to Lydia,
I implore you not to be rash. I conclude
that you are going to fetch Captain covenant
; but, believe me, his presence here
may do more harm than good."

Perhaps I am not going for Captain
Covenant," said Lydia, laughing. '' Will
you open the gates for me ? "

'' Well, my dear, you are a little sphyux,
and I will not attempt to read your riddle.
But will you not take any one with
you t

'' No ; there is no danger, and I have no
fear." And the parson tried but in vain
to get any farther explanation from her.

Lydia stepped into the carriage and the
parson hurried off to the gate, while the
young coachman, having folded up the
steps and shut the door, sprang up into
his seat and shook the reins. In a couple
of minutes the gates were passed, and the
chariot was speeding away from the Moat as
quickly as the horses could be made to go.

Returning in perplexity from the gate,
Mr. Tickel looked into the chapel.

^' Some of them have been scratching
with a knife or something at the bolt
through the chink," whispered Hutchins,
pointing to the door.

Gro find me a hammer and a couple of
stout nails," said the parson.

Hutchins went off at once, and shortly
returned with a box of tools. Mr. Tickel
selected a suitable nail, and, setting it

behind the top bolt, drove it into the door.
Then he did the same by the lower bolt.
The heavy blows resounded through the
chapel, and doubtless ascended to the ears
of the prisoners in the tower with grim
import.

^' You need not watch here any longer,
Hutchins," said the parson when his work
was finished satisfactorily to himself.
'' Come with me. 'Tis half-after one,
and about time we bea*an to think of our
prisoners' diet."

The basket was still in the embrasure
where Hutchins had placed it. At mr.
Tickets request the ladder was set up
against the tower and the basket brought
down. The dainties so carefully selected
by Mr. Tickel had not been touched.
He took the basket to the kitchen and
emptied it.

'• Have you made the mutton broth I
ordered, cook ? '' he asked.

*• Yes. sir : here it be in the ztew-pot.*"

•• Put it on the board here. Show me
what quantity of the stuff has been given
to Sir Gilbert for his dinner."

•• This here mogul. sir."

•• Let rne have three <jf those rags. cook,
and a stone bottle and a funnel."

Then these articles were placed before
the parson he said :

Tery good. Xow make three pints of
toast-water and put it in a bottle."

TVhile this beverage was being prepared
Mr. Tickel carefully measured out three
porringers of the broth, and poured them
into the bottle.

Sir Gilbert is in the habit of taking a
mess of porridge for his supper, I believe ? "

'• He deu, sir ; poor gentleman."

•• You will prepare sufficient porridge for
three this evenings cook." said Mr. Tickel :
and then, putting the two bottles, three
porringers, and a beaker into the basket.

he carried it up to Hutchins, and desired
him to place it in the embrasure. This act
of justice performed, he helped to remove
the ladder, and then returned to Sir
Gilbert's room.

A little later Sir Gilbert awoke. When
he had collected his thoughts and recalled
what had taken place, he looked round the
room, and said :

Where is my boy's sweetheart ? "

She has gone for a drive, sir."

She will come back ? She is not bitter
against me ? "

'Tis not in her nature to be bitter.
She would forgive her worst enemy if he
suffered and sorrowed as you do, sir."

There is forgiveness above for those
who repent, parson — you believe that ? "

"1 do thoroughly, sir, if those who have
done vv^rong do also, beside repent, strive
their utmost to undo the ills they have
done. But this is a subject, sir, which

time will not permit us to enter upon just
now. Dinner will be served in half an
hour, and I hope you will permit my man
to take your beard off before you go down
to the hall"'

"Go down to the hall?" repeated the
baronet in a faint tone of astonishment.

To be sure, sir. You'll take your place
at the head of your board now the usurpers
are turned out, and order your servants,
and do the honours of your house to your
Visitors ; for I may tell you there's a lady
related to your son's sweetheart who is
punctilious in such matters."

The baronet's eyes glistened with the
thought of being recognized once more as
the head of the house. It was like being-recalled
from banishment.

Mr. Tickel called to Hutchins, dio had
received his orders, and was waiting in the
adjoining room. The man responded at
once, and appeared with a towel, a soap-dish,

and a razor. Sir Gilbert looked at
him in silence for a moment, then, with
a chuckle and a nod, he leant back in his
chair. In a few minutes Hutchins had
the beard off, and Sir Gilbert, passing his
able hand over his chin, felt the smooth
skin with evident satisfaction.

You look a dozen years younger," cried
the parson. " Bring a glass, Hutchins.
And I warrant you'll eat and drink with
satisfaction now your lips are disencumbered
of their savage growth. Now, with
a new neckcloth, and a coat instead of this
gown, you'll be fit to be seen by your
household, od's bobs ! "

Shall I have my hair off for a wig ? "
asked Sir Gilbert, pleased as a child with
the encouragement.

No, sir ; I wouldn't. Believe me, your
little silvery curls are as pretty as a boy's,
and the mode now is for natural hair
amongst our young London bucks."

With the support of Hutchins and Mr.
Tickel Sir Gilbert descended the stairs and
reached the court-yard. At that moment
the shadow of a emulous cloud was swept
away and the sun shone out. The baronet
stood still and drew a long breath of the
fresh air, his face flushed in the genial
light with the emotion produced by a
renewed sense of freedom and hope.

Half way to the hall his movement
attracted the attention of those on the
tower. For a minute they were silent.
The sight of Sir Gilbert, thus dressed in
his best and with his face shaven, may
well have struck them with astonishment.
Then Father Dominick and Lady Godwin
both began to speak together.

Sir Gilbert stopped, turned towards the
tower, and looked up at them.

'• What do they say ? " he asked.

I know not," replied Mr. Tickel with
a lauo-h. " The make so much noise one

against the other that 'tis doubtful if they
can hear their own words. But I'll tell
you how you may answer them, and be
understood. Shake your fist at 'em, sir,
and let 'em know that you defy 'em and
their efforts to rob you of your life and
liberty."

Bending his shaggy brows Sir Gilbert
raised his right arm and shook his clenched
fist up at his enemies, silencing them at
once.

He was led to the head of the table and
seated in his own chair. Then he looked
to the right and left with lordly and
becoming dignity. Beagles, who had, since
the baronet's illness and the consequent
reduction of the household which had been
made by Lady Grodwin, served as butler,
stood at some distance smiling broadly and
rubbing his thighs in glee. An imperious
look from his master brought him at once
to a proper sense of his position.

Sir Grilbert received Mrs. Eomsev with
a pompous formality that awed that lady,
and ordered a seat to be placed at his right
hand for her. Then he commanded dinner
to be served, and despatched Beagles to the
cellar with particular orders as to the wine
he was to bring — all with an ostentation
which was comic and tragic also. It was
ludicrous as the likeness to a man in a
child, pitiful as the likeness to a child ina
man.

He ate of the meats Mr. Tickel cut up
for him, but he grew languid and inattentive
as the mental excitement abated, and
his feeble forces relaxed. Unconsciously
he laid down his fork, his chin dropped,
his head fell back, and he slept.

If you will excuse me, Mr. Tickel,"
whispered Mrs. Romsey, laying down her
knife and fork, and rising in alarm, " I
will go up to my room. I feel certain
something dreadful is going to happen

to the poor lame gentleman. I will send
Anne down to see if lie can be of any
nse.

Do, madam," said Mr. Tickel gravely,
as he went to Sir Gilbert's side.

Mrs. Romsey fled at once, while the
parson, having put the baronet's head ina
comfortable position, returned to his seat,
carrying with him the bottle which Mrs.
Romsey had been rapidly emptying.

You can assure your mistress, Anne,"
said he to Lydia's maid when she came
down, " that there is no immediate danger,
and that I will call Beagles if the symptoms
become more alarming."

Mr. Tickel calmly finished his dinner
and the bottle, and was smoking a pipe of
tobacco when Sir Gilbert awoke.

In the course of the afternoon Mr. Tickel
fulfilled his promise and talked of religious
matters to the baronet, quoting many passages
from Holy Writ to stimulate his

feelings of justice and revenge, and pointing
out that his duty was not only todo
right himself, but to punish others for
doing wrong. As a practical corollary to
this exordium he proposed that they should
search Father Dominick's rooms at once for
written proofs of his guilt.

The baronet acquiescing, Hutchins was
called to give his assistance to the baronet,
and they made their way to the priest's
private apartment. The door was locked,
but on Hutchins throwing his weight
against it the catch burst. Everything
within the room was in perfect order ; and
as the writings were not likely to be anywhere
but in the escritoire, Hutchins was
sent to fetch a punch and a hammer and
force the lock. This was done, the baronet
sitting near and watching the operation
with trembling interest.

The desk was as neatly kept as the
room. The papers were arranged alphabetically

in pigeon-holes. Mr. Tickel examined
them one after another.

You have Lad a careful steward, sir,"
said Mr. Tickel. " He has regarded your
interests in the management of your estate
as if they were his own. A far-seeing,
deep rogue. Here are your leases and
agreements all in admirable order ; and
better kept, I warrant, than if you had
done 'em yourself. Frugally and well has
he managed matters I dare say, and all to
your own advantage as it turns out.
Every penny he saved in your name he
reckoned for himself. Sly knave. Hum,
here's a book showing how you stand with
your banker, and very pretty figures they
look. If you take my advice, sir, you will
despatch a messenger to your banker tomorrow
morning, bidding him pay no one
a farthing of your money until he has seen
you personally."

It shall be done — whatever you think
is right shall be done."

"Remind me of this the first thing tomorrow,
Hutchins. Ha ! Come to the
end of the pigeon-holes and no sign of the
forgeries yet. It was scarcely likely they
would he placed with the other papers.
We must look now for false bottoms and
secret drawers." And the parson tapped
and hammered the sides of the desk with
the handle of a chisel brought by Hutchins,
his head aside to catch the sounds
and with the air of an expert.

Tap tap tap, tap tap tap, tap tap taj),
top top top.

Ha, ha ; what's this ? " cried he, and
he hammered again.

Top top top.

Satisfied with the sound, he turned the
chisel round without wasting time in
searching for the secret fastening, and
drove the blade into the thin wood that
formed the bottom of one of the pigeon-holes.
The wood split, and under the
VOL. III. 54

H Id: IE-FHT, ^ ^eiiii lias -^

- i. SET ^ ynTTifr i^ lif^Lofc- I £iii

x'-idjeL I - I mm

-If- T— - - " ''' '^ 1-

^ ifc r

t'^a

Iir "V"5ft "the rpf^T IE ^fTTT'-^' ^rrr^ -

•*" JLtlll 3iiw '^ '♦rdlier' jf "n:ii: mr sit

MTTeiOirL-still 1^- ZTi::!/- - T"th?T "Tie:

uiinnisi jiitL -: - : ,-"th?tt^

Tr»ii£si : 1 . - ~" ^- \, ,iet- Tffi^^^ liar

Z- , :^ ^t^ IE :ill

rv. Tel I " " ^m^ *»fsti-it i^

~ : ~ - jznc.

~t— ^ufr him SHI .~^

In the chariot Captain Covenant sat
opposite to Lydia, and by her side was
Miss Covenant. Lydia's left hand and
Miss Covenant's right were tightly clasped
together.

Supported by Mr. Tickel and Hutchins,
Sir Gilbert limped along the rooms towards
the hall, where a greater surprise awaited
him.

CHAPTER Xiii.

ix which ts^emesis does her work at
Godwin's moat.

The following day at twelve o'clock,
Hutchins and Beagles left the hall, crossed
the court-yard, passed through the gatehouse,
unlocked the outer gates, and threw
them open. Then they went up the steps
into the chapel, and there Hutchins with a
hammer and chisel cut through the nails
which Mr. Tickel had driven in behind the
bolts, drew back the fastenings and opened
the door.

The three captives were waiting at the
foot of the staircase. They came out of
their prison in silence — Lady Godwin first.

Father Dominick, and after him Eugenlus.
Lady Godwin and Father Dominick
descended the stairs without looking at
Hutchins or the gardener ; Eugenius
lingered behind, and turned his back as if
to walk in the chapel.

It is ordered, sir," said Hutchins, *' that
you are to go into the hall or out by the
gates at once."

Who orders that ? " asked Eugenius.

Sir Gilbert Godwin."

Eugenius bowed and descended the stairs
to the gateway, whence he followed Father
Dominick and Lady Godwin who were now
ascending the steps to the dining-hall.

A long table had been drawn across the
hall at that end from which a door opened
into the room where the interview had
taken place between Sir Gilbert and Blase.
Behind the table sat Sir Gilbert Godwin ;
upon his right hand was seated Captain
Covenant, upon his left Mr. Tickel.

A strange mixture of apprehension and
determination appeared in the baronet's
grey face. He tried to dose his mouth
firmly, and the trembling lips refused.
His brows twitched as he bent them ; and
as he fixed his eyes upon the entrance by
which his enemies were to appear, the lids
contracted in the painful manner of one
awaiting an inevitable blow. Mr. Tickel
spoke in a low undertone to him, but he
seemed not to know it. Presently the
sound of footsteps quickly approaching
were audible. Sir Gilbert bent his right
arm upon the table and lowered his head,
still keeping his eyes upon the door, but
looking under his brows. He did not
change his position as Lady Godwin,
followed closely by Father Dominick,
advanced up the hall.

Lady Godwin looked like a fish-wife.
There had fallen a shower of rain the
preceding evening and she had stood out

in it obstinately. When she could bear
the chilly night air no longer she had
descended to the bell floor and thrown
herself down in the accumulated dust and
dirt of years. Her face now was smirched
and grimed with dust, her hair dishevelled,
and her dress covered with cobwebs and
clinging wisps of straw. Furious with
anger her coarse and sensual features were
simply repulsive. Looking at her now.
Sir Gilbert might well wonder what
madness had possessed him to be her
slave.

Father Dominick was scarcely altered.
Even in the supreme moment of his defeat
the cautious observance of order in every
action had not been neglected. He had
neither given way to irrational fury, nor
stood in the rain to get wet, nor thrown
himself in the dust. His saturnine face
was saturnine still ; the only difference
that could be seen was that the characteristic

expression of each feature seemed
more pronounced.

Eugenius looked scarcely more pleasant
to the eye than his mother. There was
the sullen vicious look of a well whipped
cur about him. Between the fury of his
mother and the pitiless sarcasms of his
father, it is probable that he had passed
through a very miserable stage of his
existence during the last twenty-four
hours.

What is the meaning of this ? " cried
Lady Godwin approaching the table.
What is this mummery ? Why am I
treated thus ? " She struck the table with
her fist and leaned forward towards Sir
Grilbert. " Do you know that I have been
caged up like a rat, mocked at by your
servants, and shamefully abused ? I demand
instant redress, and the punishment
of those who have put this insult
upon me."

Sir Gilbert, without changing his position
in the least, attempted to speak ; his
lips moved but only an unintelligible
sound came from them.

Lady Godwin glanced along the table
and seeing a space at one end between it
and the wall strode towards it. Hutchins,
who had followed Eugenius into the hall,
stepped into the gangway and stopped it.

Stand aside, fellow," she cried. " My
place is beside my husband."

It is," said Captain Covenant ; " take
that place." And he pointed to Father
Dominick.

"It is for Sir Gilbert alone to dictate tome
; I am his wife and second only to him
in this house. I will listen to none but
him."

Speak, sir," said Mr. Tickel aloud to
Sir Gilbert, and he added instructions in
an under tone.

Sir Gilbert with an effort said :

You are not my wife. I have done
with you."

He is mad," Lady Godwin cried with
a sardonic laugh, " and I alone am mistress
here. What ! do you think to shake me
off with a word because you have lost
your senses ? "

"No. Sir Gilbert shakes you off because
he has recovered them," said Mr.
Tickel.

Let him try ! Use your present advantage
to thrust me from this house, and I
will return with the law's support to
overturn your pitiful petty attempts, and
to revenge every insult I have received.
Why should I waste time to reason with
a madman and fools like you," she shouted,
bending over the table in rage towards
Mr. Tickel. "I will go to the nearest
magistrate and he will at once restore me
to my position here as the wife of Sir
Gilbert Godwin." She raised herself and

turned as if about to act on this notion
forthwith.

Sir Gilbert still leaning heavily on his
right arm and looking under his brows,
being nudged by the parson, said once
more :

You are not my wife. I have done
with you."

The words exasperated her beyond endurance.
Turning to the table and
striking it again lie cried.

Not your wife, madman ? Are there
not proofs that I am lawfully wedded
to you?"

Sir Gilbert turned his head helplessly
towards Mr. Tickel.

'' Madam," said Mr. Tickel gravely,
there is incontestible proof that you are
not Sir Gilbert's lawful wife."

The woman who had borne the title of
Lady Godwin so long, turned aghast to
Father Dominick.

The marriage was made according to
the laws of this country," said he ; " the
certificate and registry exist."

What do you say to that ? " cried the
woman.

Mr. Tickel turned to Sir Gilbert. The
baronet, who seemed incapable of entertaining
more than one idea, repeated :

'' You are not my wife. I have done
with you."

Captain Covenant spoke.

What Sir Gilbert Godwin has said is
sufficient," said he. " You are not his
wife, and he has done with you. Why
he resolves to disburse himself of you,
the consciousness of your own ill deeds
should explain. Why you are not his
wife it is not compulsory on him here to
tell. To end this scene, however, and to
close with silence a shameful history I
will venture to make known to you some
facts of which you at least are ignorant."

He addressed the woman. " You remember
what your relations with Father
Dominick were before your marriage with
Sir Gilbert. It was not sufficient that the
priest possessed you ; he dared also to
desire my daughter, then Lady Godwin.
To facilitate her ruin, he ruined her
husband by bringing him under the influence
of your charms. While Sir Gilbert
was in London paying his addresses to
you, his chaplain was here subtly striving
to turn Lady Godwin from her fidelity.
Failing in these endeavours he crowned
his villainy by attempting to violate her
honour. In that attempt a knife caught
up by Lady Godwin in defence was turned
against her by the priest, either in accident
or with the design of saving himself from

discovery "

If this was so," said Father Dominick
with contempt, " why was I not arrested
for the murder of Lady Godwin ? "

'' There is no proof that you intended
to murder lier."

There is no proof to justify any detail
in your accusation."

There is proof," said the captain
fiercely ; " a witness exists."

Who ? That fellow ? " Father Dominick
indicated Hutchins with a scornful
glance.

He was in London at the time. My
witness was present."

Produce your witness."

I will, when it is necessary." Captain
Covenant turned to the woman. " When
Sir Gilbert returned to this house he
brought you with him. He announced
that you were his wife. But at that time
I knew his marriage was invalid."

Why, I want to know ? " asked the
woman stamping her foot impatiently.

Because another wife existed."

Another wife ! " she screamed.

"Your witness can prove that also, no
doubt," said Father Dominick with a cool
irony that contrasted vividly with the
excited tone in which his companion spoke.

She can," said Captain Covenant, and
he rose from his chair. He passed through
the door in the end of the hall. The door
was watched with eager interest even by
the cynical priest. Sir Gilbert, rising for
the first time from his moody position,
leaned back in his chair, and his face
expanded under the influence of gentler
emotions as he turned his eyes towards the
entrance.

The rustle of a silk dress was heard, and
Captain Covenant returned, leading his
daughter, the Miss Covenant of this
history. She came to Sir Grilbert's side
and stood there with her hand upon his
shoulder.

This is my witness," said Captain
Covenant.

Father Dominick fixed this eyes upon her
for a moment, and then dropped his chin
upon his breast.

And who is that woman ? " cried the
late Lady Godwin .

My daughter Margaret, the first and
only wife of Sir Gilbert Godwin."

"His wife?" She turned to Father
Dominick who made no response by word
or gesture. " She was murdered — she was
buried."

"She was not murdered. She recovered
from the wound. 'Twas her sister Gertrude
who died, and whose death suggested
the change of name adopted."

'Tis false ; 'tis a trick to cheat me !
If she lived why did she not claim her
right as Lady Godwin ? "

For several reasons : because, while
you retained your hold over the mind and
body of Sir Gilbert she could never take
her place here ; because her son Blase was

VOL. III. 55

allowed to remain with her and me at
Seawater ; because a public exposure
would have done no good ; because it
would have precipitated Sir Grilbert's ruin,
and so have destroyed the only hope there
was of triumphing over you, and restoring
the fortunes of her son and her husband."

'Tis a lie ! I will not believe that the
woman standing there is the wife who was
stabbed in the west wing," said Mrs.
Warren, for the woman may no longer be
called Lady Godwin, crossing her arms.

Captain Covenant's daughter wore a net
handkerchief crossed upon her bosom. She
drew it down and exposed a red scar upon
her throat.

Mrs. Warren turned to Father Dominick.
He took no notice of her ; but the expression
of his face gave her no hope. She
turned her furious eyes upon Eugenius.

'Tis you ! " she cried ; " you cursed
fool, who have brought us to this pass."

And with that she flung back her right
arm striking him in the mouth with her
clenched fist and with all her force, and
causing the blood to flow from her own
hand and his lips. And then she turned
about and strode from the hall. Eugenius
slunk out after her.

"You will permit me to remove my
property from this house ? " said Father
Dominick.

No part of this house is open to you,"
said Mr. Tickel, " excepting the exit."

Very well, sir. I will go ; but understand
I shall return with authority to
remove all that is mine from my rooms."

You will do better to decamp while
your shoes are good," said Mr. Tickel.
delays are dangerous. And I warn you
that if you are not out of the country in
twenty-four hours you will be arrested for
having appropriated five or six thousand
pounds of Sir Grilbert Godwin's money in

purchasing the conveyance of an estate by
means of a forgery, the proof of which is
contained in this document which I hold
in my hand." Mr. Tickel held up the
deed and shook it warningly at Father
Dominick.

The game is yours' said Father
Dominick with a forced laugh ; and he
walked from the hall, and in silence led
his discomfited family out of Grodwin's
Moat.

CHAPTER XVIII.

WHICH ENDS THIS Eventful HISTORY.

"The next thing, my dear," said Mr.
Tickel, when he met Lydia after the scene
in the hall, '' is to save our Blase from
bullets and bayonets." And to this fresh
demand upon her energies Lydia was
eagerly responsive.

Mr. Tickel was for sending a letter
begging him to come home at once, at
whatever cost, and share the general joy ;
and had his advice been followed Blase, in
all probability, would have contrived to
gratify all wishes, and so have escaped the
ball which laid him low ; but Lydia would
accept no such weak conclusion to her

triumph. Nothing would satisfy her vanity
but that she must see with her own eyes
the surprise and wonder with which Bliss
would hear of her bravery and devotion.

Therefore, with many a groaning complaint,
Mr. Tickel packed his valise, and
bade adieu to the flesh-pots of Godwin's
Moat. Lydia could not go alone, and Mr.
Tickel was nothing less now than her
slave.

The regiment was still stationed in
Dublin. Blase was sitting in a corner of
the mess-room reading, when a messenger
brought word that a gentleman at the
George Hotel wished to see him upon a
matter of importance at his first conveniency.
The message unaccompanied byname
was odd enough, but Blase having
nothing on hand saw no reason why he
should not comply with the request. He
readily got leave of absence, for " Gentleman
Godwin," as the men called him, was

Oil the best terms with the officers which
their relative positions would permit.

The lad who brought the message was
standing at the door of the George and led
Blase at once upstairs to the rose chamber,
where he threw open the door announcing
Mr. Grodwin.

Blase entered the room and found himself
face to face with Mr. Tickel.

Oh ! " he exclaimed with a smile, " 'tis
you that want me."

No, no, 'tis I that want you 1 " cried
Lydia, springing from behind the door,
sphere she had hidden herself, and throwing
her arms about his neck — " 'tis I, my
darling ! my Blase ! "

For a moment Blase was stupefied with
astonishment ; but it took him no longer
to recover and to meet with his lips the
kisses Lydia showered on his cheek.

Yes, dear, yes," she cried. " You may
hold me quite tight to your heart now

for I am. yours, all that there is of me,
for ever and ever."

Amen ! " said the parson rubbing his
hands cheerfully.

Why, my sweetheart, how " Blase

cried in wonder.

I have done it — nearly all myself. I
shut them up in the watch tower, though
I thought I should have died with fright
when I had done it, and I've got it back
again — here, where is it ? " she searched
hurriedly in her pocket and brought out
the deed already known to Blase. " There
there it is, dear. I've won it all back
for you, your heritage and your father's
love — and there's nothing now to prevent
my being your wife. And your Aunt
Gertrude is your mamma, and I knew it
when she came to London, and that was
why she hated me so because I would let
you go away as a soldier rather than make
you my husband. For of course she couldn't

feel as we do, and did not know that you
were too ^ proud, you dear love, to marry
me when you really saw low our honour
and happiness depended upon your independence.
Because they did not murder
her after all, you know, dearest, though
they nearly succeeded in killing your
father, poor dear old gentleman, and would
too, if it had not been for me."

"And the parson," suggested Mr. Tickel.

"Oh yes, he has been very good, the
parson. But he wouldn't have done anything
without me ; and really it was I
who did all the terrible part of it, and
who won you back for my dear, dear husband."


It was some time before Blase could
make head or heels, as the parson put it,
of Lydia's rambling rhapsody; but when
he saw clearly all that Lydia had braved
for his sake, he sat down in a chair and
looked at her in silence, while the tears

started from his eyes and rolled down
his cheeks.

You brave, you dear, you glorious
girl ! " he cried at length in broken tones ;
and then he caught her to his heart again,
wetting her cheeks and lips with his tears,
while Mr. Tickel turned away and looked
out of the window.

And now that all the difficulties are
overcome," said Lydia presently, "you will
sell out or buy a substitute or whatever is
necessary, and go back to England with
us at once, won't you ? "

He was silent for some minutes, then
shaking his head he said :

Into, Lydia love, I can't go back to
England with you yet awhile. My good
qualities are so few that I dare not spoil
the only one which claims my self-respect."

Devil take me if I know what you're
driving at with your fine phrases," said Mr.
Tickel, turning sharply from the window.

I cannot quit my regiment at the-moment
when my service is wanted," said
Blase. " I have taken up the musket and
I shall not lay it down until the danger of
rebellion is past, or the rebellion quelled."

Or you get a " Mr. Tickel stopped

short as he caught sight of Lydia's face,,
which had grown colourless at his suggestion.


It was a struggle for Lydia to overcome
her womanly fears and weakness, but the-courage
of her father was in her spirit, and
she triumphed after a while.

'' You are right, dear love ! " she said ;
and then with a little smile, " it won't do
for all the bravery to be on my side."

D the soldiering ! " muttered the

parson.

The lovers parted once more, but with
greater courage on the part of Lydia than
when they separated at Woolwich. In the
course of a fortnight the rebellion broke

out. Blase fired his first shot at Nags ;
and it was hoped that the rebels would be
satisfied with this beating; but the rebellion
spread with the prospect of help
promised by France. Blase fought again
at Ballynahinch and came out from the
battle scatheless. But at Castlebar he was
hit early in the fight, and after manfully
keeping on his feet and firing his piece for
some time with the blood running from his
shoulder down his arm and over his hand,
a giddiness overcame him and he dropped.
When he recovered consciousness he found
himself in a hut with a dozen other wounded
fellows. Weak as he was he managed
to write on a page of his pocket-book these
words, " Hit, but strong enough to write —
I love you, darling'' This news he found
means to have put under cover and sent
off with the despatches.

His wound was not serious. The ball
had cut the fleshy part of his shoulder

Without touching the hone ; hut it put an
end to his campaign, and as soon as he
could be moved he was taken home, his
sweetheart nursing him all the way with
a wonderful gentleness and care. Her
loving tenderness on this occasion was in
earnest of that abounding wealth of compassion
and patient helpfulness which
later on she bestowed upon her husband
and her children.

She married Blase as soon as his wound
was healed ; and with their marriage ends-this
chapter of the story of their lives.

* * «-5^

One day in the early part of December
Mr. Tickel, at the conclusion of a visit at
Redwater, went on to Exeter instead of
returning to London. He spent some time
in walking about the streets examining the
contents of the shops rather than the
architectural beauties of the city. At
length spying a particularly fine brace of

pheasants that hung in a poulterer's, he
stopped, bought them, and turned his steps
at once to that part of the town where
Mrs. Horsey's house was situated.

Mrs. Romsey was sitting alone in her
parlour, with a mournful expression upon
her face, when her servant opening the
-door announced Mr. Tickel. The good
lady greeted the parson with genuine delight,
and as she warmly pressed his hand,
east a covert look of pleasure upon the
birds attached by a string to his finger.

If you will allow me, madam," said he,
when the mutual civilities were exchanged,
^* I will lay these pheasants on that little
side table, for they are so heavy that the
string cuts my finger."

By all means. What prodigious fine
birds."

You will find none like 'em in this part
of the country, I wager. I was to have
took 'em to London," the parson said,

without a blush, " hut I preferred to hriuo;
'em hither in the hope that you would
accept 'em of me, madam."

'' Oh, Mr. Tickel ! That is so like you !
You always were so thoughtful ! And
pheasants that come straight from the preserves
are so different to those one buys
at the poulterer's. I declare 'tis most
wonderful kind in you."

I fear, madam, I scarcely deserve to be
-so warmly thanked, for what use would
the birds have been to me in London
where now I have no home, and am forced
to eat my meals alone at a tavern."

Tut, tut, tut ! To think of that now,
sir! And you so fond of company. Well,
solitude is hard to bear for all who have
genial natures."

It is," said Mr. Tickel, with a sigh
that echoed Mrs. Eomsey's. " But let us
not think on it ; for sadness is worse thana
bad cook for disordering the stomach."

'^ That is too true, and if you knew what
I have suffered in that respect during these
past few weeks — but no matter. What
news have you of my niece, dear Mr.
Tickel."

Your niece, my dear Mrs. Romsey, and
her husband are as gay as crickets, and
they deserve to be. They have made
the old house at Need water young again.
Captain Covenant spends best part of his
time there, and I promise you he takes
very kindly to the good things with which
Blase loads the table, and looks all the
better for his generous diet ; but they
spend Sundays with Sir Gilbert and Lady
Grodwin at the Moat, going there o' Saturday
and returning o' Monday."

And that poor old baronet ; is he any
better ? "

He never will recover of his infirmity.
But a calm and reasonable happiness reigns
in his mind. 'Tis a peaceful sunset after a

stormy day. But what would his closing
days be, madam, but for the tender comfort
and tranquillizing assurances administered
by a wife ? "

To comfort a husband is the privilege
and the joy of a good woman, Mr. Tickel.
Have you any other news ? "

No, madam, except that the young
coachman who distinguished himself during
those terrible days at the Moat, after winning
the esteem of Hutchins, won the
affection of Hutchins' daughter, the pretty
maid who attended Lady Godwin. You
may remember her ? "

Perfectly well. Dear heart ! Tut, tut !
So they will be marrying, I suppose ? "

Yes ; their banns are to be put up for
the first time next Sunday. It seems,
madam, as if mankind was destined, like
pheasants, to go in braces.'

Why should they not, when solitude is
found to have no charm ? "

VOL. III. 56

"Sophia."

Oh, Mr. Tickel ! "

The parson had put his arm as far
round her waist as it would go.

Sophia, shall we, akin in sympathy,
alike in our antipathies, live asunder and
in solitude ? "

Indeed, dear sir, this is so very
sudden."

Do not let that consideration move
you to reject me. If it is distasteful to
you to give me your hand at once, permit
me at least, Sophia, dear Sophia, to encourage
the hope that about the middle of
next March "

Next March ! " exclaimed the widow,
frightened out of her propriety ; and then,
with a blush and a sigh, she held out her
hand to the parson at once.

THE END.

PRINTED BV WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. S. &> H.

The person charging this material is responsible
for its renewal or its return to
the library from which it was borrowed
on or before the Latest Date stamped
below. You may be charged a minimum
fee of $75.00 for each lost book.

Theft, imitHotlMV ont undermining of books ore reasons
for disciplinary action cid may result in dismissal from
the University.
TO RENEW CALL TELEPHONE CENTER, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

NOV 3 1998

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. L162
