i^iAiii|Mi ^^ III I I ni i M ii^iii f
i n i innjiiiiiiiiiyiy i i i iir i il r i i nliinin hin

ittSiMliMfeMHi

*IIW*Wf«l*»»*"

OF THE

U N Veracity

or ILLINOIS

V. \

A NOVEL.

BY

FRANK Barrett.

AUTHOR OP " FOLLY MORRISON," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

1881.

Right of Translation Reserved.

THE FIRST VOLUME,

CHAPTER I.

A ROGUE AND A FOOL.

KNIGHT - ERRANT and his

Squire rode along the Green
Lanes, Hornsey. The Knight
had a face deeply pitted with small-pox,
a short nose, a square jaw, a straight
mouth, high cheekbones, large ears, and
eyes so close together that they were of
necessity unusually small. He wore a
mangy beaver hat with a military cockade,

YOL. I. 1

a bob-wig, a long coat with a cape, and
a pair of riding-boots. There had been a
hard frost for four days, nevertheless coat
and boots were plentifully bespattered
with dry mud ; and their dilapidation was
such that they looked better with mud
upon them than without.

He had the facial expression of an old
man — a cunning old man, who has seen
all that there is to be seen of the worst
side of life ; but he sat in the saddle like
a young man, and whistled an Irish air
with lively turns in a jaunty and youthful
style.

He whistled, not for want of thought,
but because his reflections were of a
speculative, agreeable sort.

He was a knight, not in the old chivalric
sense, but by reason that his life was devoted
to adventure. He was not in the
Green Lanes to redress the wrongs of suffering
virtue, to help the weak, to relieve

the oppressed ; far from it. He had no
sympathy with virtue ; if he were lucky
enough to meet with an unprotected lady
he would pick her pocket, and if anything
were to be got out of the weak and
the oppressed, he would get it.

The squire was of quite a different
kind of man ; a stout, young fellow of
eighteen or twenty, with hair of an honest
red, and a face turned out of Nature's
simplest mould — a face broad and expansive,
with no undercut, and which one
might model pretty easily by making a
few indentations on the surface of a round
Dutch cheese ; he wore a long livery coat,
sound boots, and a hat worth, say, about
forty of his master's. The horse he
bestrode was an excellent animal, whereas
the knight's was as sorry a flea-bitten
grey as ever shambled along the road,
and habitually carried his head down
in dejection, as if looking with sorrow

1—2

upon the abnormal proportions of his
knees.

The squire did not whistle; indeed,
he looked as miserable as if he were
already on the road to Tyburn, and occasionally
he opened his mouth to let a sigh
escape. Beyond the fact that he had
accepted service under the knight, there
was no point of resemblance between him
and the ancient squires. He had no reverence
for his master, except such as arose
from fear, and he had no taste for the
profession he had adopted. The experience
of twenty-four hours had completely
changed the colour of his views, and he
heartily wished that he had never been
born. He trotted along about fifty yards
behind his master — a distance he would
fain have increased but that the knight
occasionally turned in his saddle to see
how he got on, and constantly kept one
hand under his cloak on his pistol holster.

The had passed Wood Green, and the
grey tower of Hornsey Church could be
seen above the red-brown branches of the
intervening trees, when the squire drew
up to his master, and spoke.

Here be another 'pike, master," he
said.

You may go on in front and pay."

Please, your worship, I can't."

What, disobedient already ! Can't pay
—how's this ?"

It's because I haven't any money, for
I spent the last of the crown-piece you
gave me for myself to pay for your
honour's bread and cheese and ale at the
Jolly Butchers ' ; and so being, my
money's all gone, I haven't any left."

Hum ! Here take this shilling, pay
the toll and keep the change."

It's something to serve a generous
master," said the squire to himself, as he
trotted forward to the toll-gate ; "that

makes six shillings lie's given me for myself
to-day ; if I had not to spend it I should
get rich quickly at this rate."

Is there ever a good inn along this
road, where a gentleman can put up for
the night?" asked the knight of the toll-keeper.


The toll-keeper was a heavy-eyed, phlegmatic
man : he looked at the knight from
head to foot, keeping his hands in the
pockets of his short apron, and turning
over his money before he answered.

There's a house good enough for you
about a mile murder on. ' The Black Boy,'
West Green— keep to your left," he
said.

The knight dug his heels viciously in
the ribs of his horse, and made a sign to
his squire, who stood by the gate waiting
to take his place in his master's rear, to
come to his side.

We are getting near London, and I

don't know the inns hereabouts, so you
will have to be careful," said he.

Yes, your worship."

In the first place, you must drop that
habit of addressing me as your worship.
I have told you my name a dozen times,
Lieutenant Barnabas Crewe."

Lieutenant is such a long name to remember
; I could think of captain, if it's
all the same to you."

Captain won't do. Every rascal on
the road calls himself captain now. I
don't mind your calling me ' your
honour.' "

I can recollect that, because Justice
Thornton is always called your honour,
and I can think of nothing but the bench
of magistrates since I stole this horse."

Haven't I told you that you didn't
steal the horse ? The horse was given
you when you entered Admiral Talbot's service,
and so in leaving it you were justified

in taking the horse with you. That's
plain ain't it."

It would be right enough if everyone
looked at the thing as generously as your
honour ; but you see, all folks haven't got
the same way of giving and taking, and
if Master Blake the steward caught sight
of me, I wager he'd have me hanged for
not thinking as he does."

Well, my lad, just to ease your mind,
we'll change horses at once. You can
ride my mare with a light heart, for you
may be certain no one will accuse you of
having stolen her. It's as good as giving
you ten guineas, my man," he said, as he
dismounted and handed the rein over to
his servant, "I've had as much offered for
her again and again."

That makes ten guineas and six
shillings in one day," said the squire to
himself; " why that's more than some
servants gets in a year."

I wonder I didn't think of that
before," thought Lieutenant Barnabas.
He looks more like my servant on the
old mare, and there's less chance of his
giving me the slip. I could run him
down in five minutes on this horse."
'Turning to his servant, he surveyed him
with satisfaction, and then said : " And
now about your name."

Tobias Slink, your honour. Toby for
short."

Tobias won't do. Toby is too
familiar. Slink — well, there's a sneaking-sort
of sound about that, but Slink must
do. Now, Slink, if anyone at the inn we're
going to asks questions about me, you
must say I am Lieutenant Barnabas Crewe,
late of the Royal Blues ; that I sold out
upon coming into my present estate, which
is situated in Leland — Crewe Castle,
County Cork. No, you'd better say
Munster, that's not so well known — that

I think of settling in England, and am
looking about for a suitable seat."

Your honour had better write that
down, for I shall never remember it all.
I was always backward in learning."

On second thoughts, it would be advisable
to give an evasive answer."

What's that, your honour !"

You can give indirect replies — and
intimate that I am a nobleman wishing to
travel incog''

Incog. Is that in Ireland too, your
honour?"

No, fool 1 Look here ; if anyone says
to you, ' Who's your master ?' you can
answer, ' He's a nobleman travelling in
disguise, and I can tell you no more than
that.' Now do you understand that ?"

'' Oh, if its only telling lies, I understand
well enough."

Very well. Now fall back, for I seethe
sin-board of the inn."

AT THE " BLACK BOY."

lEUTENANT BARNABAS
CREWE trotted into the stables
yard of the '' Black Boy," followed
by this servant, and having seen his
newly-acquired horse well stabled, and
given instructions to Slink relative to the
feed, he cocked his dilapidated beaver
rakishly over one eye, and marched into
the sanded passage of the inn, smacking
his leg with his riding-whip, and looking
about him with an assumption of arrogant

authority, calculated, as he thought,
to inspire respect.

Your best room, madam, if you
please, and what can I have for dinner ?"
he asked, still smacking his boot, and
looking at the landlady fiercely from
under the corner of his beaver.

The hostess, a fat widow, with a healthy
face and short ringlets projecting from
the front of her cap, carefully set her
glasses on her nose, and then looked at
her interrogator critically before responding.
It was annoying to be examined
in this manner, but Lieutenant Barnabas
was accustomed to it. Everyone looked
at him thus before replying to his first
questions.

'' Ah !" she said, taking off her glasses
and putting them in her pocket. " The
best room for you is the parlour. And
as for dinner, there's no butcher's meat
in the house, so you must make shift with

eggs and bacon, if sou choose to stop
here."

It would seem that you are not in
the habit of seeing gentlemen at your
house, madam."

'' Oh, we see as many of your kind
as we want, thank you, Sir," replied the
hostess, tartly.

Without replying, the Lieutenant swaggered
into the parlour. There he stirred
the fire, piled more coals on the back,
drew a Windsor chair well in front, seated
himself, stuck his feet on the hobs, and
then having with some difficulty determined
which was the top and which was
the bottom of a newspaper, pretended to
be deeply engrossed in its contents when
the hostess came in to lay the
cloth.

Will your companion dine with you r"
she asked.

My servant will dine in the kitchen ;

and I will trouble you to bring candles,
and light a fire in your best bedroom."

Are you going to stay all night ?
London is only five miles off."

It pleases me to stay here, madam,"
replied Lieutenant Barnabas, turning his
chair to give his hostess the full benefit
of his frown. He refolded his paper, still
looking at her, then returned to a deep
study of the news, blessedly unconscious
that the paper had got upside down.

Hum !" murmured the hostess as she
left the room. *' Four o'clock, and bright
weather — a strange time for a gentleman
keeping a servant to put up at a small
village inn so near London."

The old hostler was breaking the ice
in the horse-trough in front of the house,
she opened the half-door and beckoned
him.

'billy, is the stable closed?" she
asked.

No, mari. Young chap's a-grooming
the losses down."

You go round there at once, and
when the young man's done, lock the door
and bring me the key ; and don't you let
those horses be taken out until I tell you
the bill's paid."

These words coming to the capacious
ears of the studious lieutenant, he
snatched his wig off and dashed it on the
floor, with an oath — 'not loud, but
deep."

Slink groomed his horses, and forgot
his sorrows in the pleasure of his occupation.
The stolen horse he got away
from as quickly as possible— it wanted
little grooming, and despite his master's
assurances, he felt uneasy every time he
touched the beast ; but the horse that
had been presented to him, required more
attention.

'' It'll take a sight of brushing to make
you look worth ten guineas," he murmured,
and then he hissed as grooms do,
and rubbed the wretched nag with all his
strength, until nothing more could be
done to improve appearances. Afterwards
he washed himself in a bucket of
water, reduced his shock of hair to
smoothness by means of a wet mane-comb,
and betook himself to the kitchen,
where he sat by the fire-side in his shirt
sleeves, and gave himself up to silent
meditation. The kitchen-maid, who was
cooking the eggs and bacon, did not disturb
him — she was deaf and busy; so he
sat there with his hands on his knees
looking into the fire, where he conjured up
the saucy face of the girl who had won
his heart by her kindness, and then driven
him away from her by cruelty.

To say that he frequently heaved a sigh
would be less correct than to say that a

sigh frequently heaved him, for on these
occasions his whole frame expanded, his
body rose, the gusts sigh came from his
parted lips, and then he subsided into his
normal condition.

What's the matter, young man — are
you hungry ?" asked the cook, her attention
at length attracted by these signs of
distress.

Slink nodded; the natural cravings of
nature were not yet removed by love.

Well, you can draw up your chair to
the table and begin. Your master's
served, and this is for you. There's a
mug of beer, and if you want more you
can go up to the bar and ask for it. I'ni
going up to light a fire in your master's
bedroom."

Slink cut himself a huge slice of bread

and attacked the food with avidity, and

did not pause until he had wiped the dish

clean with the last crust of his half-vol.

I. 2

quartern loaf; then he turned again to
the fire, taking with him his brown mug
of ale, and resumed his melancholy contemplations,
sighing and drinking in fitful
alternation, until the beer was all gone,
when he set aside the empty mug, rested
his arm against the chimney-piece and his
face upon that, and gave vent to his
sorrow in copious tears. He was weeping
thus when the kitchen-maid returned.

Haven't you had enough to eat?" sbe
asked, in a tone of sympathy.

It isn't the victuals, it's my heart,"
sobbed Slink.

The words were indistinct, and she
was deaf ; but she divined the cause
of his wretchedness accurately enough.
For what woman needs more explanation
than a man carries in his face, as
to the state of his heart. Love is the
study of her life, and she detects at a
glance the types of its votaries, as a

naturalist knows by a single bone the physical
aspect of the creature that possessed it.

'' Never mind, young man !" said she.
'' It comes to all of us, cooks and grooms,
just as it comes to lords and ladies, to
fall in love, and to laugh, and then weep.
Dry your eyes, lad, and run up-stairs,
your master has sent for you."

Slink ran up-stairs, rubbing his eyes
with his sleeve, and, touching his forelock
to the hostess, entered the parlour.

Lieutenant Barnabas had resumed his
place before the fire — his feet on the hob,
his chair tilted back, a long clay pipe in
his mouth, and his wig over his eyes, so
that the tie stood out from the back of
his head, exposing the lower part of his
shaven skull.

'' Is that you. Slink ?" he asked, without
changing his position.

"Yes, your honour." Slink was content
that his master did not see his face.

2-z

Open the door sharp, and see if that
old cat of a hostess has got her ear at the
keyhole."

No one there, your honour," said
Slink, having opened the door and looked
at the keyhole.

I want you to tell me about your late
master, and the family, and all that."

Slink gasped a sigh. '' You want me
to tell you why I left— and all about
Jenny."

'' Hang Jenny — we had all about her
yesterday. I see I must cross-question
you as if you were in the dock. Now
then — how long have you been at Talbot
Hall ?"

Four years come Christmas, I went — "

Admiral Talbot resided at the Hall,
then?"

'' Him and Mr. Thomas — I was "

Mr. Thomas was the Admiral's only
son ?"

I think so."

You think so," — the Lieutenant turned
hastily and spoke with eagerness. " You
only think so — why do you think so ?"
*' Because he hadn't got any other."
A fool ! How old was Mr. Thomas
Talbot ?"

Never axed him, your honour."
How old do you think he was ? plague
take you."

Slink considered for some time, and then
said he thought about eight and twenty.
He does not stay at Talbot Hall ?"
'* 'No, he is always travelling in foreign
parts ; sometimes London, sometimes
Cambridge, and such like. He comes to
the Hall for a few days to shoot pheasants
and things, and off he goes again. It was
just the same with his father. He'd send
word a couple of days befor maybe to
have a couple of rooms got ready, and
then "

There was never anyone constantly
living in the Hall, no women ?"

Oh ! yes, there was."

Again the Lieutenant turned quickly,
saying :

You never said a word of that before,
what kind of women ?"

The prettiest that ever lived, and her
name is," — with a sigh that made the
candles flicker — " Jenny !"

The Lieutenant bit an inch off his pipe
stem and dropped a few oaths.

You told me yesterday that Doctor
Blandly came to the Hall to tell the
steward of Admiral Talbot's death, when
was that ?"

'yesterday."

I mean, when did Doctor Blandly
come to Talbot Hall, with that news ?"

Two months ago," answered Slink,
after performing an arithmetical calculation
with his fingers.

The Lieutenant finished this pipe without
putting further questions.

*' It is something more than a mere
coincidence" he muttered, as he rose and
threw his pipe on the fire.

"What did your honour say?" asked
Slink.

Nothing. You never heard the
steward, or the Admiral, or Mr. Thomas
Talbot, or anyone, ever mention anything
about the Crews ?"

T never heard the old Admiral talk
about anything else."

What !" exclaimed Barnabas, suddenly
arresting his hands in the act of setting
his wig straight. " You never mentioned
a word of that, what did he say?
quick !"

He said such a lot," answered Slink,
confused by his master's manner, " sometimes
he'd say ' we've had a plaguey
bad cruise,' and sometimes he'd say "

Oh ! go to the . Fetch me my

cloak and hat !" he growled.

Slink brought the cloak in silence,
without attempting to fathom his master's
petulance.

The Lieutenant stood before the glass
arranging the ragged lace of his cravat,
to hide its worst edges and conceal the
dirty shirt beneath.

Snuff the candle," he said. " This
confounded light makes me look as if I'd
had a barker blazed in my face."

As Slink extended his hand to take the
snuff from the candles, the Lieutenant
caught sight of his clean stout shirt.

That's a good shirt, Slink," he said,
taking a part of the sleeve in his fingers
to feel the texture ; " did you buy it yourself?"


No, your honour ; shirts was given
me with my livery."

'' Like the mare, eh ? Ah, Slink, you

won't get the magistrates out of your
mind while sou wear that !"

"IhaVt gotno other."

'' Well, we must arrange that for you,
my good fellow ; I will give you one of
mine — the one I've got on my back. You
leave yours in my room to-night — and
those boots, Slink !"

They're just the same as the mare,
your honour," Slink whimpered.

Don't snivel, my lad. Your foot looks
about the same size as mine, and I'll give
you mine rather than you shall go without.
Off with them. What, do you wear
socks. Slink ? You will find my boots
more comfortable without any, that's why
I haven't worn them, but with yours it
will be different. Pull them off."

There's my coat and hat downstairs,
perhaps your worship wouldn't mind
taking them."

'' No, Slink ; you must wear them yourself;

and don't override the willing horse,
my man. I've given yon a horse and the
best part of a suit of clothes. Don't ask
for more !"

Slink, painfully conscious of his own
ingratitude, blushed as he helped the
Lieutenant put on his coat.

'' You can sit here in my absence," said
Barnabas, '* and if the old woman asks
any questions, you know how to answer
her. You can have whatever you like to
call for." He cocked his hat on one
side of his head, took his heavy-handled
riding whip, and opening the door, added,
I'm going out for a stroll. Pish ! what
a stench of stale beer." Then with a
fierce glance at the hostess, who was
sitting at the door of the bar-parlour
with her knitting on her lap, he strolled
leisurely out into the open air.

Ah, you wouldn't go a-foot, if sou
could get at your horse, I'll warrant,"



soliloquised the hostess, looking after her
ill-favoured guest.

She was quite right in this conjecture.

PH. BLANDLY.

lEUTENANT BARNABAS

lounged along idly until he had
passed the little general shop
which marked the end of the village, then
he pulled up his collar, set his hat firmly
on his head, and smartened his pace.
Ten minutes brisk walking brought him
to the end of Black Cap Lane, and into
the high road opposite the cluster of trees
known as the " seven sisters ;" here he
turned to the left, and continued his
stroll," passing Tottenham Cross, Lower

Tottenham, and Upper Edmonton with,
undiminished speed until he reached the
Bell " Inn, where he paused to recover
his breath and wipe the perspiration from
his face. Five minutes later he rang the
bell at the garden-gate of Dr. Blandly' s
house.

'' No light to be seen," he muttered,
looking over the gate at the house which
stood back behind a large cedar. '' He
can't be in bed yet awhile, it has only
just gone seven ; yet he's such a queer
old put. Ah, thank goodness, there's a
light."

A bent old man came from the house,
and opening the little square door behind
a grating let into the gate, peered
through.

'* You needn't be afraid, Jerry, it's* only
your young friend. Is your master at
home ?" said the Lieutenant, who spoke
civilly to no one unless he was obliged.

Ah !" grunted Jerry, who evidently
recognised the speaker, " if it's only you
you can wait there while I go and see
if master be at home." He closed the
grating and walked slowly back to the
house, chuckling audibly in response to
the curses of the gentleman on the other
side of the gate. The old servant scraped
his shoes carefully, closed the door, and
rubbed his feet on the mat in the same
methodical manner, stopped in his passage
across the hall to see what the time was
by the dark-faced, long-bodied clock, and
finally tapped at the door of Doctor
Blandly 's sitting-room.

'come in," said the Doctor ; " fifteen,
two, fifteen four, a pair's six, and jack,
queen, king — that makes nine. Is that
you, Jerry?"

"Yes, master; shall I wait till the

game's finished?"

What do you want?"



Jerry stood by the door ; a screen stood
between him and Doctor Blandly. He
stepped forward to the side of this screen
and stood there, smiling blandly on the
comfortable tableau before him, while
Doctor Blandly continued to count his
crib."

A sea-coal fire was blazing cheerily up
the chimney. A dog sat behind the high
brass fender, with his muzzle resting on
the top. Between the fire and the folding
screen which shut out the darkness and
cold draughts, a card-table was set. On
one side of it sat Doctor Blandly, pegging
his score on the cribbage-board ; opposite
him sat the Reverend John Baxter, with
a churchwarden pipe in his mouth, and a
stern eye fixed on the Doctor's pegging. A
kettle sang merrily on the fire, and its purpose
was betrayed in a couple of steaming
rummers set within reach of the players
upon brackets adjusting from the side of

the fire-place. The Reverend John Baxter,
Vicar of Edmonton, wore his clerical
dress and bands; Dr. Blandly wore a
plum-coloured coat, a long, embroidered
waistcoat, a snowy shirt frill and neck-handkerchief,
knee-breeches, and thick,
grey knitted stockings. Both were comfortably
fat and red ; the vicar had a jolly
cheeriness upon his pleasant face, as, indeed,
at this moment. Dr. Blandly had
also, but it had not the same expression
of habitual content and sleepy satisfaction.


Well, Jerry, what is it ?" said Doctor
Blandly, looking up.

You look so comfortable and cosy,
master, I don't like to disturb you. Shall
I come again m five minutes ? It'll do
him good to wait."

"Him! Who?"

It's only that there Mr. Barnabas
Crewe. He's not in the house, Sir."

A loud ring of the distant bell added
confirmation to this announcement.

'' Show Mr. Crewe into the library,
Jerry."

When you've finished your game,
Sir ?"

No ; now. The Yicar threatens to
go after this game, and I know he won't
before, for I have not turned the corner
yet, and it is his crib next time."

"Well done, Doctor; and it's past
seven," chuckled Jerry, leaving the room.

That Jerry makes himself too familiar.
Blandly," said the Vicar. " Dear me,
past seven ! Mrs. Baxter will be growing
anxious."

I'll warrant she's not half so anxious
as you are, Jack. I declare that when
the clock strikes seven you look as if the
Day of Judgment was dawning."

Ben ! Ben ! I'll give you a sermon
next Sunday upon profanity !"

VOL. I. 3

Do, Jack ; and I promise to keep
awake if you can invent any greater
punishment for the wicked than that of
having a scolding wife and faint heart."

Faint heart, Ben, what do yon mean ?
Do you think I'm afraid of Mrs.
Baxter ?"

I'd give my best punch-bowl to hear
you tell her you're not. If your sermons
were only half as powerful as hers, what
a well-ordered congregation you would
have."

Ah, Ben, you're not married !"

** Thank Heaven!"

*' But you're as big a fool as I am."

That's saying a great deal."

Let me speak. I contend that you
are every bit as weak as I am. Grant
that I — that I — well, that I yield to the
wishes of my wife "

*' Oh, that's beyond dispute."

You dare not listen to me, knowing

what evidence I can bring to convict you
of the fault for which you condemn me.
I may yield to my wife, but you yield to
everyone."

You must admit that I only give way
where I see something to admire."

Hem ! that's a dig at Mrs. Baxter ;
thank you ! Tell me what you see to
admire in old Jerry, for you submit to
his guidance entirely. If he tells you to
go fishing for the day you go, though you
catch nothing but a cold, and have to
stop in bed all the next day by your
servant's orders. He talks to you as
though he were your equal."

'' And so, by George ! he is. A more
faithful, honest, good-hearted man never
breathed. Not a word against Jerry,
Jack, for I love him, and he doesn't
take me away from my friend at seven
o'clock."

"I find fault with you, not with Jerry ;

3—2

though I admit his charms are less apparent
to my eyes than to yours."

"If you appreciated charms with my
eyes, you would have more reason for
self-congratulation ; there would be no
Mrs. John Baxter."

'' You would have me believe that you
were always a woman-hater, but you
won't succeed. I believe that you are not
married just because at one time you loved
too well."

A kitten was sleeping on the Doctor's
broad knee ; he lifted it gently and put it
on the rug, rising from his chair without
replying to the Vicar. The genial smile
passed away from his face for a moment,
as the old wound bled under the rough
touch. The Yicar, inhaling the fragrant
steam of his grog, noticed only the silence,
and continued in a tone of triumph :

Ha ! ha ! I've hit this time ! It's
clear now why you think all women mean.

cunning, deceitful ; you have trusted and
been deceived."

The Doctor, drowning his old memory
in the remainder of his grog, set down
the empty glass, and with his former
cheerfulness responded :

If your conjecture is right, I have
still the advantage over you. Jack. Say
that I awoke one day to the fact that the
woman was a fiend whom I had foolishly
taken for an angel, one thing is certain
"

"Well?"

*' I did not marry her beforehand."

With this Parthian shot the Doctor left
the room.

There was a solitary candle alight in
the library, where Barnabas Crewe walked
up and down impatiently, while at the
door sat old Jerry with a grim smile of
satisfaction on his face. The Doctor dismissed
the janitor with a nod, entered

the library, and closing the door behind
him, said in a cold, formal tone :

Now, Mr. Crewe, what do sou want
with me?"

Barnabas regarded the sturdy Doctor,
who stood with his feet parted, his hands
in his pockets, and a stern unflinching
expression in his face, as he might have
looked at a constable while determining
whether he should show fight or bolt, and
then he growled in sullen remonstrance :

*' IVe been waiting, outside and in, half-an-hour
and more."

*' For your own convenience, I suppose.
No one asked you to come, or requested
you to stop. What do you want ?"

Money."

'you might have saved yourself the
trouble of coming to me for it; I have
none for you."

But I must have it. There's my
horse locked up in an inn stable at West-green,

and I can't get it out until I have
payed my score."

'' Then you must do without a horse,
or get a friend to help you ; I am none."

'' You will let me have a few guineas ?"

JSTot a farthing. I gave you fifty
pounds in September."

'' And it was gone in October."

You should have guarded it better.
I constantly warned you that the allowance
might be discontinued."

"A deal of difference that makes tome
! When I have money I spend it like
a — like a gentleman."

"It is a pity you do not sustain that
character in other respects. However,
that is not to the point. You came here
six weeks ago for money, and you did
not get it ; you will get none to-night."

"It is December now, the next fifty
will be due on the 25th ; I only ask for
an advance."

'' I told you when you were last here
that the individual who has made you
this quarterly allowance, no longer lives ;
and that the continuance of the payment
depended upon the generosity of his
son."

And is the son disposed to be
generous ?"

I cannot say. I hope to know his
decision before the quarter day."

Will you tell me why this money is
paid me ?"

No." The Doctor spoke with emphasis.


Supposing this money is mine by
right, and supposing I choose to take my
fortune in a lump, instead of having to
come here like a beggarly tax-collector to
take a fourth of my income every three
months."
'well?"
And supposing I know from whom I

have received this money." Barnabas
fixed his eyes on the Doctor to see what
impression his words made. " And supposing
I went to a certain hall, not
ten miles from Sevenoaks in Kent "
the Doctor started, and Barnabas,
satisfied with his observation, continued :
*' and asked Mr. Talbot the question I
have put to you — what would be the
result ?"

Mr. Talbot would say to you, ' I know
nothing about it.' "

Know nothing about it, when he pays
me two hundred a year !*'

Exactly so."

But you know Mr. Talbot — it's no
good denying that — Mr. Thomas Talbot,
son of Admiral Talbot."

Who was killed in the battle off Cadiz.
Certainly. Now listen. If you go to Mr.
Talbot he will say, ' I know nothing about
it— you must ask Dr. Blandly,' and when

you come to me, I shall say, ' I will give
you not another farthing so long as you
live.' Do you understand me ? I will make
it clear to you. I desire that you shall never
speak to Mr. Thomas Talbot. While you
conform with my wishes in this respect, I
will continue the payment of two hundred
pounds per annum to you and your brother
Gerard, supposing that Mr. Talbot consents
to pay the sum granted by his father ;
but the moment I find you have departed
from this condition, I shall stop the payment.
Is that plain to you ?"

Do you mean to say that it is optional
to you ?"

'' I do. So now, Mr. Crewe, you will
see that your policy is to behave yourself
decently. I do not suppose that you understand
what gratitude is, or I would point
out to you that you have reason to be
thankful you have not an ordinary man of
law to deal with. There are few men

who would take the trouble I am taking
to secure you two hundred a year after
receiving such impudence as I have
endured."

With the bad grace of a hound who
swallows an unsavoury morsel, fearing the
consequences of refusal, Barnabas Crewe
gulped down the moral of this lesson and
departed. He refrained from cursing the
old servant who let him out, and turned
moodily to return to the " Black Boy."

He felt no gratitude towards anyone in
the world, but at the same time he was
not disappointed with the result of his
visit to Doctor Blandly. He had assured
himself of a fact which might serve as
the stepping-stone to fortune ; there was
the hope of many things — money, ease,
orgies.

Coming into the warm glow of light
shed from the window of " The Bell," he
paused. Walking and subsequent talking

had made him dry ; waiting had also
made him cold. Never in his life had he
felt more inclined to drink hot spiced ale ;
but not a penny-piece could he find in any
of his pockets, he had given his last coin
to Slink. So he was compelled to make
the long return march — thirsty, which he
took as a warning to be less generous in
future.

Brothers.

EST GREEN is now a busy settlement,
with a railway station in
its midst. Possibly it has lost
even its name. At the beginning of this
century it was a quiet rustic village on the
edge of a pleasant green, where geese fed in
the summer morning, and young fellows met
to play cricket and quoits in the evening.
In one corner stood a village pump, the
village stocks, and the cage just where
Black Cap Lane made a junction with
Throttle Street — significant names, which

the builders of genteel villas have emphasised
considerably.

The stocks were in good repair, and the
cage had lately received a new set of
stout bars. These facts were noted by
Lieutenant Barnabas Crewe as he returned
to the " Black Boy," for he stopped by the
pump to refresh himself, and were remembered
the following morning when he
came to consider what was next to be
done.

I'm not afraid of the old hostler, and
I'm not afraid of the old woman," he
reflected, shoving his chair from the
breakfast table. " When Slink goes to
feed the nags we might clap the saddles
on and bolt ; that's the simplest way out
of the difficulty. But there's a baker
o' one side and a blacksmith t'other —
and there's that cage and the stocks on the
green. I'll warrant the old woman's on
good terms with her neighbours. She's

outside talking to someone now. Wonder
who ? Oh, there you are, you old tabby,
are you ; talking to two men, and one
as like a constable as needs be. Bolting
won't do with these gentry about. Might
take the mare and leave Slink here with
the old screw ; but I shouldn't get anything
by that bargain. Besides, I don't
want to lose my young friend Slink yet
awhile. He may be a plaguey good cat's-paw
for me. Halloa, a man on a horse to
add to the party, and he looks as much
like a cursed catch-thief as the other. It
would be pleasant to sit in the stocks a
day like this ! I must pay my reckoning
somehow. I wonder if Gerard's in town.
I must go and see ; it's my only chance.
Shall I attempt to get the mare out ?
Ten to one she'd refuse to let either leave
the house until her bill's paid. Better
not try ; it might lead to unpleasant consequences."


The result of this decision was that
Lieutenant Crewe presently lounged out
of the inn to take another stroll. After
walking from one end of the village to
the other with affected carelessness, he
turned down Hanger Lane leisurely,
whistling a tune and slashing the air
with his whip. At the bend of the lane
he turned round, and seeing no one, at
once ceased whistling and strode out
rapidly. From Hanger Lane he turned
into the West-end Road, passed Hornsey
Wood, and so after an hour's stiff walking
he came to Charing Cross. Thence he
walked to St. James's, and at length
arrested his steps before a highly-respectable
private house in St. James's
Street.

*' There's a dry march and violence to
follow if Gerard's not at home," he muttered,
as he pulled the bell.

A servant opened the door.

"Is Mr. Gerard Crewe in toTvn?"
asked Barnabas.

The man looked at him from top to toe,
and then asked :

What do you want ?"

Want to see him. If he's in town
I'll run up to his rooms. I know them,"
answered Barnabas, putting his foot in
the doorway.

Take your foot away, and I will see.
What name ?"

You can say Mr. Barnabas," replied
the Lieutenant, withdrawing his foot
reluctantly, after looking at the servant as
if he would like to strangle him. " It's
always the same," he muttered, as the
door closed, leaving him on the safe side
of the threshold. " If I was a bum-bailiff
they wouldn't look at me more suspiciously
or take greater pains to keep me
out of the house."

The servant presently returned, and led

VOL. I. 4

the way to the first floor, where he opened
a door and admitted the scowling visitor.

There was no one in the room. Barnabas
threw himself in the most comfortable
chair he could find, tilted his hat
forwards to rest his head against the back,
crossed his legs, and looked round the room
from under his hat with envious discontent.
The apartment was heavy and
dark, the furniture and appointments were
ugly, but all was in keeping with the
taste of those days, and betokened the
proprietor's wealth and " elegance."
While his eyes were yet wandering
from one costly article to another,
a door communicating with an inner
chamber opened, and Mr. Gerard Crewe
entered.

Mr. Gerard Crewe was a tall, delicate-looking
gentleman of five-and-twenty,
with sharp clean cut features, a pale complexion,
and dark brown hair tied with a

ribbon. The expression of his face was
cold and severe ; his dark grey eyes were
well sunk ; his mouth was firm ; his teeth
particularly white and regular. He looked
like a student, a poet, an artist, anything
indeed but the brother of the heavy-bowed
rascal before him. A fine cambric
handkerchief was round his throat, secured
with a long, narrow diamond-set brooch,
the ends edged with lace, fell upon his
embroidered waistcoat. He wore an open
dressing-gown, black silk stockings and
morocco shoes.

Well, Barnabas," he said, closing the
door behind him.

And well, Gerard," answered the
Lieutenant, still examining the expensive
articles of furniture, and not moving his
position in the least. " We won't
embrace. That would be about as unpleasant
to you as me. I'll warrant you're
not pleased to see me."

4 — 2

LIBRARY

UNiVERSITYnP in [Mm

The fact was too obvious to need comment.
Mr. Gerard Crewe sat down,
crossed his legs, clasped his thin white
fingers over his knee and looked at his
brother with a faint expression of disgust
in the angles of his lips.

Pictures, books, chanej, gimcracks,
gewgaws, everywhere*' growled Barnabas,
then turning his evil eyes upon Gerard
and scanning him, he continued, " silk
and satin, cambric, lace, diamonds."

Do you want an inventory of my possessions
?"

Barnabas brought his hands from
behind his head, sat upright, and with a
sudden accession of malice, struck his fist
on his knee, exclaiming :

"It's a cursed shame. Here are we,
brothers, and the younger lives like a
prince, while the other fares like a dog,
and worse. One has to read books and
look at pictures, and dangle about my

lady this and my lord t'other, to pass the
time away, while the other has to trudge
a dozen miles, to beg a few pieces to pay
for his night's lodging."

'' You have no one but yourself to
blame, Barnabas. You never would be
led, and if of your own accord you insist
upon walking in unclean places you must
put up with soiled clothes. We started
with the same advantages — except that
your ambition was to be a blackguard, and
mine was to be a gentleman. You always
scorned my ambition, why do you envy
me the result. You have no desire apparently
to become a decent member of
society."

Oh ! plague take your decent society.
A pothouse and plenty is my motto. You
keep your scents and civets, your powder
and lace, your sneaking, cringing, bowing,
scraping, lying, fiddling, squalling — What
are you laughing at ?"

At your envying me the possessions
you detest so heartily."

Hang your possessions, I wouldn't give
a fig for them all. It isn't them that
galls me."

Then what does ?"

Why it galls me that two thieves
should be so unequally paid. Here am I,
who drudge in the profession and starve,
while you — "

Control your tongue, or leave my
room !" said Gerard, sternly.

'' A man may tell the truth, I suppose,"
said Barnabas, dropping his voice, and
speaking with dogged sullenness. '' You
don't want me to believe that you live
like this on two hundred a year.
Why, those diamonds in your handkerchief
are a year's income at that
rate. I'd have stuck to ciphering and
reading, and quids and quod, had I
known that they would show me how to

cheat and keep a clean face to the
world."

Do you want me to throw you downstairs
? That is not the purpose with
which you usually favour me with a visit."
Barnabas gnawed his dirty thumb-nail in
silence, and Gerard asked :

What have you come for ?"

'' Money."

'' What have you got in your pockets ?"

Barnabas thrust his hand into his pocket,
and then held up a piece of black crape,
with a coarse laugh.

Gerard took a couple of guineas
from his fob and laid them on the table,
saying : " Take them, and go."

Wait, I've something more to say.
Sit down."

I can listen, standing."

Barnabas finished his thumb-nail, and
said :

Did you ever wonder why Doctor

Blandly pays us two hundred a year,
a-piece ?"

I have never troubled myself to
consider."

'' I have. You may take your oath he
wouldn't pay me unless he was compelled
to."

"What then?"

Barnabas began upon his other thumbnail,
and instead of answering the question,
put another.

Do you know anyone named Talbot ?
Thomas Talbot — the son of Admiral
Talbot, of Talbot Hall, near Sevenoaks."

'' I may have met him."

Will you take your oath you know no
more than that ?"

I know no more."

Barnabas gnawed silently for a minute,
then put another question.

How far back can you remember ?"

*' I can remember nothing beyond the

school where we lived from year to
year."

Nor I, worse luck ! Have you

ever heard of penitence penny ?"
"No."

"It's a penny that thieves give to the
poor when they have stolen a pound. I
know men who never pass a church without
slipping a penny under the door. They
think it will make it all right, and square
them at the last. Well, I'm pretty sure
that its the same thing which led our
benefactor,' as Doctor Blandly, an old
fool ! calls him, to provide for us while we
were youngsters, and give us our present
income. It relieved his conscience. We
were cheated and robbed when we were
too young to know anything about it, and
this paltry two hundred a year is a restitution
to me."

To you ?"

To me. I am the elder, and if anything

was taken, it belonged to me. Now,
mark my words, Gerard — if you help me
to recover it, I will give you half ; we will
share and share alike, and I'll put my
mark to any paper you like to draw up."

That would be a valuable voucher,"
laughed Gerard.

*' Don't you sneer at it ; I may be a
fool, but I've got cunning for all that.
I'm on the true scent; and if you find
anything out about young Talbot — if you
meet him in society, and can get at his
history — it shall be to your good. I'll
go on my knees and swear to go halves, so
help me "

Take your guineas and go. I know
nothing of Mr. Talbot, and I refuse any
kind of partnership with you."

The objectionable visitor was gone, but
Gerard Crewe sat in the room still in
sombre meditation. He was not thinking



of Mr. Talbot, nor of the source from
which he had derived his education and
part of his income, the subject had gone
from his mind the moment that Barnabas
quitted the room. He was asking himself
if the charge brought against him by his
brother was not true. His eyes were fixed
upon a piece of rusty black crape that
lay upon the rich carpet — the crape that
Barnabas had exhibited, which had by
accident slipped from his hand in returning
it to his pocket.

Are we alike, we two ; thieves tainted
and damned in our own conscience, and
differing only in fortune ?"

He rose and took up the crape with
the tongs and put it upon the fire, and
watched it smouldering away in moody
abstraction. " And that is all the difference,"
he murmured, coming to the end
of his reverie ; "a piece of crape ! He
wears the villain's mask : I don't."

He turned from the fire with an
impatient movement, and returning to
the adjoining room with a quick step, sat
down to breakfast.

THE First VIEW.

Ill

HE hostess of the '' Black Boy "
crossing the stable-yard to cut

Ei^iSL' a savoy in the garden beyond,
found Slink vigorously grooming his
horse.

'' A decent looking young fellow that,
and works well," she said to herself, stopping
to watch him.

Finding himself under observation,
Slink raised his hand and touched his
forehead with his knuckles respectfully.

"Where's your master?" asked the
hostess.

Gone for a stroll, raarm."

He seems mio^lity fond of strolling.
What is his name?"

'now what did lie tell me?" SUnk
asked himself, scratching his ear thoughtfully
with a corner of the curry-comb.
'' It wasn't captain, and it wasn't mister
nor squire, for I can remember them."

He is a gentleman, I suppose ?"

"I'm not so sure of that," answered
Slink, suddenly recollecting the caution
his master had given him ; '* and now I
come to think of it I'm sure he isn't."

Well you know what he is then ?"

He's a nobleman travelling in — what
the Dickens did he tell me he was travelling
in? I've got such a plaguey memory
that unless everything's written down forme
in my book it all goes clean out of my
head."

You can read ?"

''No, I'm no scholar; but if I've got

a thing written down in my book, and
anyone asks me a question, I just let him
read my book till lie finds out what he
wants to know. It's not a bad notion
for a young fellow just turned nineteen."


I should like to see your book," said
the hostess, trying to keep a grave
face.

"So should I. I forgot to bring it
with me. However, I've hit on another
capital notion that I'll be bound will
answer as well. I've put a dozen horse
beans in my near-side pocket ; my off-side
pocket's empty — no it isn't, there's one
there. Now what's that for ? Oh, I
know. The young woman in the kitchen
told me not to forget to wipe my feet
when I came in. You see how it acts ;
and I'm bound to find it out, because when
I'm not doing anything I have a knack of
putting my hands in my pockets."

The hostess nodded approval, and
Slink, highly-delighted with this testimony
of his sagacity, continued :

I'll just get his honour to tell me
what he is, and what he's travelling in ;
then I'll clap a couple of beans in my
pocket to remember by. Thais pretty
good for a young chap, isn't it."

Hum. And how long have you had
this master ?"

Ever since the day before yesterday."

*' Where does he live ?"

"Im pretty certain he told me, but
don't remember now. If I'd only thought
of my beans before !"

And where did he engage you ? Do
you remember that ?"

•'' Oh, yes, well enough. It happened
we were both waiting at the blacksmith's to
have our horses shod, and his honour came
up and patted the mare, and beginning
to talk in a sociable way about one thine

and t'other, asked me where I came from,
and so on."

And what did you reply ?"

I said I came from Talbot Hall, but
I hadn't got a master, seeing that Doctor
Blandly had wrote to the housekeeper to
say he was killed in a battle by the
French — plague take them ! Then he
seemed more interested than ever, and
more kind, and said, seeing as I hadn't a
master, he would take me into his service,
and give me four times as much for wages
as I had at the Hall."

And you agreed ?"

Yes ; but it were not for the wages
altogether." Slink gave vent to a deep
sigh, and hung his head.

Mary tells me you've been crossed in
love."

'' And so I have ; Jenny, the steward's
daughter, the loveliest, prettiest maid in
all Kent. She's pretty near broke my

VOL. I. 6

heart ; one day smiling at me till I felt
prouder and happier than the king on his
throne, and the next day making fun of
me, till I wished I was dead and buried.
I threatened to leave her often, and she
was always asking me why I didn't, and
daring me to it, and the day before yesterday
she crowned it all by calling me a
fool, so feeling right down desperate, I
accepted his honour's service."

Tell me what has happened since."
Well, we took a long ride that night,
and stopped at an inn to sleep. Yesterday
we crossed a river by a ferry, and
then we rode until we came here."
'' Did anything occur upon the road ?"
Nothing. I jogged and thought of
Jenny all the while, except when I raced
the baker."

''Eacedthe baker?"
"Yes, while master went into an inn
to drink something, and I was waiting

outside minding the horses, a baker
stopped to give his nag a drink at the
horse-trough, and he began to make fun
of this horse as I'm a-grooming on now.
Why don't you get a pair o' crutches for
him?' he says. 'Because,' I says, 'he
can run faster without 'em.' Then his
honour came out, and says he, ' I'll wager
a pound my man can strip you and your
cart between this and the next milestone,
and give you up to yon elm for a start.'
I hasn't got but a crown, but I'll wager
that and start level,' says the baker.
'Done,' says his honour, 'jump up; but
mind, if there's anything in the road we
make a fresh start.' ' All right,' says the
baker, chuckling and laughing, and up he
gets into his cart, and up I gets in the
saddle. His honour got up on the mare,
and says ' One, two, three, off, you
devils !' There wasn't nothing on the
road, for why, it was nothing but a

5-2

ragged, country-side, out-of-the-way kind
of a place. By the same token there
wasn't any mile-stones. Well, the baker
went ahead like the wind, and whack
my horse as I might I couldn't gain on
him, seeing that every moment he got
more ahead of me. However, master
kept up with the baker, and I just
managed to keep in sight, when the baker
pulled up his horse, for why, we'd run a
couple of miles at least. When I came
up I found his honour and the baker was
having high words. ' I've beat him,' says
the baker. ' No you hasn't,' says master.
'I've done a couple of miles and more,
and your man's been getting murder and
murder behind every minute,' says the
baker. 'What do that argufy?' says his
honour, ' you hasn't come to the first
mile-stone.' ' And shouldn't for a couple
of hours if we keep along this plaguey
road,' says the baker. ' Then you've lost,'

says his honour. ' Perhaps,' says the
baker, ' but, anyway, I don't pay ; why
the horse ain't had a chance.' ' We'll put
a end to this discussion,' says his honour ;
gentlemen always pays their debt of
honour, and I'll take care you pay your.
Just lay hold of the horse's head,' he
says to me. The baker made to hit his
horse and bolt, but his honour outs with
his "

Slink's narrative was interrupted at
this point by the approach of his master.

'' Madam, I will trouble you to let me
have my bill at once. Slink, saddle the
mare," he said, looking angrily from one
to the other.

'' You don't want a bill, my fine fellow ;
I reckon you're not likely to pay twice.
Your score comes to six shillings," said
the hostess.

And dear too, for a scurvy pot-house.
Take it out of that."

He pulled out a guinea with an air of
contempt, and as the woman went off to
fetch the change, he said to Slink :

*' What have yon been gossiping
about?"

She wanted to know your honour's
name, but for the life of me I couldn't
remember it, but "

"Is that all?"

I was just saying how we raced the
baker, and I was just coming to the part
where you promised to blow out his brains
if he didn't behave like a gentleman "

*' Hang you for a fool ! Didn't I tell
you you were to hold your tongue or give
indirect answers ?"

To tell lies ! to be sure you did ; I
forgot it altogether, but it shan't occur
again, your honour," and to remember it
well Slink transferred a bean from his
near-side to his off-side pocket.

When the hostess returned with the

change the Lieutenant and his servant
were in the saddle. Giving a key to the
hostler, she said :

You can open the yard gates, Billy,
the bill's paid." Then addressing Slink,
she added, " You take an honest woman's
advice, my lad ; go back to your Jenny
as soon as you can, and leave your fine
gentleman to wait on himself."

Barnabas raised his whip as if to
execute the wish of his heart, and strike
the speaker, but prudence prevailed, and
he let it fall upon the bony back of Slink's
gift-horse instead, and the two sallied out
of the yard.

They returned by the road they had
come the day before as far as Southgate,
where they dined ; afterwards they left
the main road, striking out towards
Ware.

Let me see what kind of a whip you
carry," said the Lieutenant.

'' I stand a good chance of getting
another present," said Slink to himself,
as he obeyed.

"Not a bad whip," said Barnabas,
testing it on his leg, " but you will find
your horse answer better to this," — lie
handed his own — *' he knows it."

God bless your honour !" Slink replied,
knuckling his hat. " My word !
It's as heavy in the handle as if it was
loaded with lead." !

"All the good whips are like that.
Now listen to me. Slink; I'm looking
about for a man that owes me money, or
his wife."

And your honour expects to find him
in these lanes — well I never?"

Perhaps. However, I'm bound to
find him sooner or later. I daresay he
will pretend he don't know me, and
doesn't owe anything, but I shall make
him pay all the same."

*' In the same way you made the baker
behave like a gentleman ?"

That's it ; and if it comes to an
argument, or he tries to bolt, you'll just
step in and give him a rap with the butt
of your whip."

'' Aye, if we're not lucky enough to
have a constable near us."

That's not probable, so keep your
wits together." Barnabas flicked the
mare, and they trotted forward.

They traversed the lanes without meeting
anyone but a labourer, who, to give
the approaching riders more room, scrambled
through a gap in the hedge, and
passed them on the other side.

It was getting dusk when they came
into the high road, between Waltham
Cross and Cheshunt. The Cambridge
coach passed them at full speed, the
horses' hoofs ringing sharp and clear upon
the frost-bound road. The Lieutenant's

mare was resting, Slink was fifty yards
behind him. The moment the coach had
passed, Shnk put his horse to a trot, and
not daring to look behind him, said in a
tone of fright :

Master, is the coach stopping?"

"No; what's the matter?"

'' Is anyone looking round ?"

Yes, the passenger behind the driver."

It's the Admiral's son, Master Tom.
For mercy's sake let's take to our heels."

But Lieutenant Barnabas Crewe waited
until the coach was out of sight, trying
to fix in his memory all he could see of
Mr. Thomas Talbot.

ON THE COACH.

HE coach had left Cambridge with
four insides and two outsides,
besides the driver and guard.
One of the outsides was a burly farmer,
who sat on the seat next to the driver; the
other was Mr. Thomas Talbot.

As they neared Boston, three female
servants suddenly darted into the middle
of the road, and with unanimous cries and
gesticulations signalled the driver to
stop.

Peter !" called the driver, raising his

chin from his collar and turning his head
about three inches.

Halloa !" responded the guard from
behind.

*' It's the gals' school; your insides is
full, benefit?"

Yes, but as three of the insides is
males, I'll be bound they can make room
for some gals. Males can be wonderful
obliging sometimes."

As the coach pulled up, the servants
threw wide open the gate of the garden
as if they expected the coach to enter,
and ran up to the house beckoning and
calling at the same time in a state of great
excitement. There was a group of girls
standing at the door of the large square
house kissing and bidding farewell to one
in their midst. One meagre lady of
middle age stood on the path imploring
Miss Elizabeth to hasten, while a second,
equally meagre, though possibly more

middle-aged lady consulted with the
guard.

Can you make room for one young
lady as far as Edmonton ?" asked the
guard, in an insinuating tone as he opened
the coach-door.

'' No, guard," cried a shrill voice that
came from the further corner, behind the
shoulders of an extremely stout old
gentleman who sat with his hands on his
knees and his arms akimbo, " we are
already four, and that's too many."

'' As for me," said the stout old gentleman,
" you may stick in as many as you
like ; it will make no difference tome."


What sort of young lady ?" demanded
a mild-looking young gentleman, who
wore glasses and a simper. The guard
slipping back allowed him to judge for
himself.

The young lady had left the group, and

with a composed and stately gait was
walking down the path ; a young lady
apparently about eighteen, with a little
white impudent nose, a saucy mouth, and
large dark eyes.

I've no objection to her sitting on
my knee," said the gentleman who had
not yet spoken ; " but I tell you candidly,
guard, I'm not going outside to oblige
anyone."

Nor I neither," said the young gentleman
with the simper ; *' especially if the
young lady intends coming inside."

*' I shall ride outside," said the young
lady, after a glance at the closely-packed
interior.

'' But my dear Miss Elizabeth !" said
the two meagre ladies in a breath.

The afternoon is fine — I shall ride
outside," answered the young lady, firmly.

Well, guard, you must take great
care."

The guard bustled off to unhook the
short ladder and place it.

I shall sit on the front seat."

'' But, my dear Miss Elizabeth, there is
a gentleman there."

That is precisely why I intend sitting
there. I prefer gentlemen to guards.
Place the ladder here, if you please,
guard." Having given this instruction,
the young lady turned round to the
house.

Good-bye, Lady Betty!" called twenty
young voices.

The young lady made the three steps
and curtseyed to the ground, with the
majesty of a princess.

Thank heaven, we're not to have anymore
inside," said the shrill voice from
the corner ; " the coach is insufferably
small."

Large enough for me," said the fat
man, " and it makes no difference how

many they choose to pack in. I always
take my share of the room."

The coach started, and Tom Talbot
commenced making his companion comfortable.


Permit me to give you one of my
rugs," said he.

'' You have two?"

Yes ; would you like two ?"

Yes ; but I would like you to have
two also. They look large enough for
both," she said, coming a little closer to
his side, with a laugh.

That is admirable economy I Tuck
the edge under you — so. Are you
comfortable?"

'* Quite. Are you ?"

For the first time in my life I am
content."

Content ; is that all, Sir ?" asked the
young lady, pouting her pretty round
under lip.

Happy, if you will ; the words are
synonymous in my mind. When I am
content I want nothing to alter, and so I
should like this coach to run on and on,
until — until I saw you growing weary.
Then my content would end."

The young lady smiled very sweetly.

Such a pretty sentiment is worthy a
more elegant name than content," she
said.

'' But you see I am not elegant," said
Tom ; ''I am the son of an English
sailor, who to his last hour fought the
nation whose fripperies our fine gentlemen
imitate, and I think I have inherited
from him my hatred of elegance — the
elegance of society, which leads men to
cloak kindly thoughts and generous
actions in such trappings that one cannot
distinguish them from the artifices of the
entirely heartless and selfish ; that is the
elegance I mean, and not the elegance

VOL. I. 6

which is born in the lily and the lady
alike."

Again the young lady smiled ; then
looking at Tom, she said with an accent
of regret :

'' You don't like society."

'' I like the society of Esquimaux ; I
prefer the society of Red Indians ; I like
the society of Swedes, of Dutchmen, of
Germans, of all simple people. I like the
society of horses and doors ; but I hate
the society of men who powder and paint,
who have only just given up wearing
muffs, and who still shave their heads that
they may wear the hair of somebody
else."

Everyone hasn't such nice hair as
yours."

'rit's a good serviceable crop — keeps
my head cool in summer and warm in
winter, and so serves the purpose that
Nature intended it for."

'* You have travelled much ?"

'' Yes, ever since I left college."

'' College !" said the young lady to herself
; '' he can't be the son of a common
sailor, then."

I prefer travelling to hunting, and one
must do something," continued Tom.

He must certainly be rich to travel
for amusement," thought the young lady.

"And I have no particular talent."

It seems to me you are in every way
fitted for society," said she, responding to
her own train of thought rather than to
his last observation.

Well, in being a fool, perhaps I am,"
he replied, laughing.

The young lady looked vexed ; she was
not accustomed to being laughed at.

I fear you are annoyed."

Into ; only I don't agree with what

you say. Society, with all its faults, is

not below the horses and dogs which you

6-2

prefer ; and, if I may be allowed to say
so, one who relinquishes the society of
English ladies alone, for Esquimaux and
Need Indians, is not himself without a
fault."

Tom opened his eyes in astonishment
to find a pretty young lady, who was
clever besides, and sufficiently wise withal
to see the weak point in his character.

I accept your reproof," he said.
*' Conscience has accused me before now
of egotism in setting myself apart from
the society which includes much that is
good and admirable. After all, it is innate
repugnance rather than reason which has
actuated me. But I owe you my apologies
none the less; will you accept
them ?"

She drew her hand from under the
rug and gave it to him with a gracious
smile.

'* And now our hands are linked," said

Tom, " may we not introduce ourselves ?
My name is Tom Talbot."

"And mine Elizabeth St. Cyr, better
known as Lady Betty."

I am your ladyship's humble servant."


They chatted on with increasing pleasure,
for Lady Betty found that her
companion was not half so ill-mannered
nor so priggish as she had at first believed.
His dress was not fine, she felt
no ring through his glove when he shook
hands with her, but still he was a grand
figure of a man, and his brown face, if it
was not handsome, had yet a frank
honesty and genial kindliness that won
her favour. Had he been a fine gentleman
she dared not have spoken to him so
freely ; but it was impossible to maintain
silence or reserve with one who had so
much to say, and spoke his mind with
such candour.

As for Tom Talbot, he was following
in the footsteps of Hercules and Samson,
and other mighty heroes, and having for
ten years defied beast and man, and, be
it added, woman also, he was willing
now to set his neck under the dainty
foot of the pretty young lady at his
side.

What bewitches me ?" he asked himself,
becoming absorbed in his own reflections.
"Not her face; her features
are not handsome, they are only pretty,
though prettier never existed. Her complexion
is exquisite, but the tint and
texture of a skin are not sufficient to
enthral one. Till the present moment T
preferred dark complexions and hated
red hair, but angels in Paradise should
have a brow as white as hers, and such
soft gold red hair should curl upon it for
an aureole. Her voice is sweet, but I
doubt if she could sing like that girl I met

in Rome, yet she had no charms for me.
T have said I could never like clever
women, yet she is not so simple as a
hundred I have known and forgotten.
She is absurdly vain, that is certain,
and affects, in her school-girl way, the
airs and graces of a fine lady. What is
there to admire ? I know not, unless it
be that her charms and faults are so
blended as to make her at once human
and divine."

'' I believe you are not listening to meat
all," said Lady Betty, laughing. " Do
you know you are staring quite rudely at
me, and have not answered the question
I put to you?"

'' To tell the truth, I was not listening
to you. Abstraction is the fault of men
who live too much alone."

I may demand to know what you
were thinking about."

I can scarcely tell you. At this moment

I am wondering if I shall ever see
you after to-day."

It is not likely, if we are to meet only
on the tops of stage-coaches."

When do you return to Boston ?"

To school ? never. My education
finished last night, and in a few months I
am to enter that society which you so
much dislike ; are you sorry ?"

'' Sorry that I may meet you no more ?
yes. Sorry that you are going into
society? — no !"

Not sorry that I am going into society !
why ?"

Because I see you look forward to it
with pleasure."

That again shows a sweet feeling on
your part, but "

'but ungraciously expressed. Well, to
be elegant, I might have given you another
reason for not regretting your
entrance to society."

*' Tell me your other reason."

Because it cannot fail to improve
society. Which expression do you prefer?"

The first. What a nice brother you
would be."

Tom laughed.

«« Why do you laugh ?" she asked.

I laughed not at your compliment,
that I accept with gratitude, but at the
nice distinction suggested by it. I suppose
I am altogether too rough and
unornamental to be thought of as a sweetheart
?"

Lady Betty blushed, then tossed her
head, saying to herself, " Sweetheart !
what a shockingly vulgar and old-fashioned
expression ! why couldn't he say admirer
?"

Peter !" called the driver, raising his
chin from his buttoned over-coat collar,
and moving his head two inches to the
left as before.

Halloa !" responded the guard.

'^ Do you know him coming along on
the brown loss ?"

Know him, ah ! and better pleased to
see him in daylight than by a Ian thorn."

'' Why, it's Capon Small-pox, bent
it?"

Yes, but he's got a new loss, and a
groom, if you please. Ho ! ho !"

They passed Captain Barnabas Crewe,
and the guard called out :

'' You're got your hay-decking, Capon."

And a lively hay-decking he looks
too," said the driver. *' There's more of
the calf than the fox in his face."

Tom Talbot, looking down at the " hay-decking"
in question as they passed, exclaimed
:

Toby ! my servant, or I'm very much
mistaken."

Did you say he was your servant.
Sir P" asked the driver.

Yes, who is the man lie is with, do
you know ?"

"Don't know what he calls himself —
we call him Capon Small-pox. He's on the
road, if all we hear is correct."

'' A highwayman ?"

Highwayman — ah !" The driver
buried his chin in his collar.

FROM EDMONTON TO WINCHMORE.

RE there robbers about here —
so near London ?" asked Lady
Betty, timidly.
Robbers — ah !" responded the
driver. '' Plentiful as blackberries.
The clerk at the ' Flower Pot,' in
Bishopsgate, was reading the ' Times '
yesterday as Capon "Wallis, as I've met
scores of times twixt here and Stoke
Lexington, was fetched at Publico turnpike
with a brace of loaded pistols on
him, and he's to be put to the bar for

stopping a Mr. Snowdon five o'clock in
the afternoon, twenty-third of last month,
in King's Road, Chelsea, and lifting off
him a silver watch, two guineas, a seven-shilling
bit, and some small pieces."

'' Five o'clock in the afternoon !" said
Lady Betty, faintly.

*' Five o'clock in the afternoon — ah !
Don't matter to them, so long as there's
no one about. Why here the other day
my old friend Johnny Clifford, a poulterer,
as higgles round the country for chicks to
take to Leadenhall, he was jogging along
in his cart with his wife — it's his third
wife — about this time of the day when,
out of the cross road comes one of these
captains and sings out, 'Money or your
life.' Johnny just give his horse a crack to
get off by running. ' Stop, dash your
eyes ! stop,' sings out this here capt'n, and
blazes away with his barkers. Johnny's
wife gives a scream and faints right away,

and lie being a tender-hearted sort of a
man, pulled up for her sake, and just
turned out his pockets. Howsomever, as
this capon was holding out his hand for
the money, Johnny snatched the piece of
crape off his face, and snowed him at
once for Capon Guard, as had been prowling
about Southgate and Winchmore and
away to Hounslow for weeks and weeks.
Well, he give information "

'' You look frightened — there is not the
slightest fear of the coach being stopped,
and I think I am strong enough to protect
you in an emergency," said Tom, seeing
the terror in Lady Betty's face.

'' Hush — I am listening !" she replied,
leaning forward to catch the driver's
words.

'' Well, they bound my friend Johnny
over to prosecute. This was wus than
being robbed by Capon Ballard. 'My
lord,' says he to the Judge, ' if you

please I can't prosecute, for I'm a poor
man, and I've thirty-five children !" And
that's a fact, he's had three wives, and
you can read it in the ' Times.' The
Judge ordered him to have half a guinea
for his expenses in coming to London, and
expenses of prosecution paid. But, lor
bless me, what's that to this galloping
Dick that everyone's talking about ?
Breaking a man's arm in Clapton one half
hour, and robbing a lady of her earrings
in the Marsh the next."

Are you going on to London ?" Tom
asked of his companion, whose eyes were
round as a frightened fawn's.

She shook her head and listened eagerly
to the driver, who having began to talk,
seemed inclined never to leave off.

Bless my soul, they'd rob anyone as
they happened to find unprotected, and
the worst of it is a gentleman don't know
how to be safe. He takes a hackney

coach, or a po-chaise to be safe, and ten
to one the driver's in partnership with the
highwayman — and there you are !"

Lady Betty put her muff up to her
mouth, with an involuntary movement, and
looked straight before her with scared
eyes, as if she saw a dreaded highwayman
threatening her.

'' I ask you again. Lady Betty, where
you are going to stop ?" said Tom Talbot.

*' At Edmonton. But oh ! I have done
a thoughtless thing — and — and I don't
know what I shall do."

Tell me what you have done."

I insisted on going home to-day and
mamma doesn't expect me until tomorrow."


Do you live in Edmonton ?"

"No, at Winchmore Hill, where that
dreadful galloping somebody was seen — and
there will be nobody to meet me, and it is
getting dark, and I thought I should be

quite safe if I hired a fly to take me from
The Bell.' "

You need be under no alarm."

How can you say that ? don't you hear
that all the post-boys and drivers are in
league with the wretches."

Do you think that I am in league with
them?"

You are not a post-boy."

"No, but I can drive."

Lady Betty's face lit up with eager
hope, and she ceased to give half her
attention to the driver's narratives, which
had gone by natural transition from highway
robberies to highway murders.

'' And will you — that is, are you going to
drive — ?" she hesitated, in some confusion,
and looked into his face with a conflict of
hope and fear in her mind, for he had said
nothing of stopping nor offered her his
protection.

I am going to drive from Edmonton

VOL. I. 7

to Winclimore, and I will take you with
me and deliver you safely to your mamma

if " lie paused to prolong the suspense

which gave light and shadow to his companion's
young spring face.

"If what?" she asked with impatient
anxiety.

If Lady Betty pleases."

What more was needed to make him
seem to her the most amiable, as he was
the most handsome man she had ever seen.

Her gaiety returned, she chatted and
laughed gaily, and ceased to attend to the
driver's conversation, albeit his theme
was now arson.

They alighted at 'the Bell," where
Tom ordered a tilbury to be prepared,
and while the horse was being put in, he
persuaded Lady Betty to drink a little hot
negus, which she accepted with becoming
reluctance, but drank with evident satisfaction.


It was but half an hour's drive from
Edmonton to Winchmore, and Tom
Talbot never used the whip once — he
wished to lengthen the pleasant journey,
rather than to shorten it ; the edge of the
red sun could yet be seen setting in a
yellow glow beyond the delicate fretwork
of purple boughs and woven twigs that
bordered the horizon when they came insight
of The Chesnuts, which was the
name Mrs. St. Cyr had given to her
modest estate.

'' There, there ! Do you see the chesnut
trees on the right, and the house lying
back from the road with the blue smoke
rising from the chimnies ? That is my
home," cried Lady Betty with excitement ;
•* and there, above the apple-trees at the
back, you can just seen the pigeon-house.
Ah, look ! there they go, my pigeons, with
Maggie, the black and white one, leading
just the same as ever. And hark ! that

7-2

is Chloe barking. I believe she knows I
am coming." A tear twinkled in her eye,
and stood on her long dark lashes as she
recognised these familiar sounds, and felt
the full joy of returning to them. Tom
groaned.

Why do you make that noise ?" she
asked, turning to him and laughing, with
a blush in her cheeks for the tear that
dimmed her sio^ht.

Chloe, who hails your coming with
pleasure, will whine when you leave. Do
you take it I am less sensitive than a dog,
Lady Betty?"

I take it you are less faithful or you
would not run away from, me," she
replied, archly. Turning her eyes
again towards her home, she cried :
Ah, there's the gardener's boy sweeping
up the dead leaves, and the gate
is open. Drive right up to the door,
and I'll keep my face behind my muff,

and astound mamma by my sudden appearance."


Lie leaned back in the tilbury as Tom
drove past the gardener's boy and by the
circular sweep that led to the front of the
house ; but before they reached the door
she had abandoned her idea, and was
craning her neck to catch the first glimpse
of the window.

She is peeping behind the curtains to
see who her visitors are. I can see her
pretty hand. Ah, there she is ! Mother,
dear mother !" she cried, and scarcely
waiting for the horse to stop, she leapt to
the ground and ran to embrace her mother
at the door.

Talbot descended from the tilbury
slowly, reluctant to approach in this
meeting of mother and daughter. A
mother's embrace, which he had never
known, seemed to him to partake of a
sacred character, and he feared to hear

the enthusiastic young girl pouring out
tender words of endearment intended only
for her mother's ear. The first words that
he heard were these :

So you have had the palings painted
green !"

There is a moment in the most joyful
meetings of ordinary people when the
expression of pleasure being exhausted, it
is necessary to return to plain matter of
fact. Tom had come within hearing
distance precisely at this juncture. His
illusion was dispelled, and his embarrassment
also.

My dear, you have not introduced this
gentleman," said Mrs. St Cjv.

Lady Betty turned in some confusion,
for, to tell the truth, she had forgotten
all about him in her excitement; then,
recovering her self-possession, she introduced
him with becoming formality. As
suddenly she broke away from stately

etiquette and said, with impulsive volubility
:

"Mr. Talbot and I are friends. He
has shared his rug with me on the coach,
he has saved me from robbers, and he has
brought me home to you. eye must show
our gratitude, mamma. A short time
since he groaned. He was polite enough
to attribute his sufferings to the prospect
of leaving me, but I believe in reality he
felt the pangs of hunger. When will
dinner be ready?"

'eat five o'clock, and if Mr. Talbot
will accept our hospitality, he will not
lessen our obligations, but at least afford
us an opportunity of expressing our gratitude."
Mrs. St. Cyr curtsied.

'Now I ought to return some longwinded
compliment, but for the life of me
I don't know how to do it," said Tom
Talbot to himself, so he bowed in silence
and murmured an unintelligible sentence

expressive of his pleasure in accepting the
invitation.

'' It is too late to see the chicks, and
the rabbits, and pigeons to-night I suppose,
but I must run and say ' how do you
do ' to Chloe," said Lady Betty, and away
she ran, leaving Tom Talbot with Mrs.
St. Cyr.

The gardener's boy was instructed to
take the trap into the stable, and a maid
led Tom to the visitor's room, where he
proceeded to make his toilet, pausing
occasionally to listen to the voice of Lady
Betty, who at one moment was calling to
the servant and her mother, at another
laughing, and filling up the interval by
singing snatches of ballads.

When he had washed, re-tied his hair,
and flicked the dust from his boots, Tom
left his room. At that very instant, Lady
Betty issued from hers upon the other
side of the passage. He had lingered

over his preparations, she had hurried
over hers. Each carried a chamber candle,
and as they bowed. Lady Betty, tickled
by the oddity of their position, laughed,
and said :

What a capital subject for a picture
we present, Mr. Talbot."

A subject that makes me regret I am
not a painter," answered Tom, regarding
her with unfeigned admiration.

Lady Betty looked more charming than
ever in her simple evening dress. Divested
of her furred pelisse and thick travelling
coat, she naturally appeared taller and
more graceful. Her dress was of pale
lilac muslin, short-waisted, high in the
throat, with a white tucker, short in the
sleeve, which was looped up with ruby
ribbon, and showed a snowy frill beneath.
Every movement of her supple figure
made a new, delightful curve, the clinging
folds of her dress following the delicate

lines of body and limbs. Her long arms
were exquisitely rounded and white.

She knew that she was beautiful, and
stood a moment to be admired.

This little exhibition of vanity explained
how she had come to be called Lady
Betty. Tom offered his arm, which she
took with the grace of a princess, and
descended the stairs. It was the first
time she had received such attention, and
being led down in this manner exalted her
imagination.

Oh, fancy," she said, '' if there were
candelabra all down the walls, and
servants on either side of the stairs " —
she stopped, looked at the candlestick she
had in her hand, and with a sudden transition
from grave to gay, added : *' why
then we shouldn't have to carry each our
brass candlestick, should we ?"

CHAPTER A^III.

AT '' THR Chestnuts.

MAID executed a rapid flight
from the drawing-room with a
dust-pan in lier apron and a
brush under her arm, and Mrs. St. Disappeared
at the door, composing her
features with a smile of welcome, as Tom
Talbot and Lady Betty came to the foot
of the stairs.

In the drawing-room Tom looked
about him with fear, for the light was
only sufficient to show him the danger of
his position. Cabinets of bric-à-brac surrounded

him on all sides, and tables
loaded with china made two steps in a
straight line perilous. The candles sputtered
over the difficulty of maintaining
their new-born light, and the smoke and
flame of the fire in the chimney seemed
not yet to have settled the question of
ascendency. Tom would have infinitely
preferred the kitchen, but as he perceived
the room had been prepared in
his honour, he concealed his thoughts
and piloted Lady Betty to the fireside
with no greater disaster than the smashing
of a very ugly china dog, which seemed
rather to gratify than displease Mrs. St.
Cyr, who declared it would be worth
double mended, the fashion having set
in for pieced china.

Tom felt a little shiver run through
Lady Betty's arm as it rested upon his,
and seeing at once that if they were to
be comfortable he must break through

formal restraint, he took up the tongs
and attacked the fire at once.

You will pardon me, madam," he
said, " but I am habituated to making
myself at home under less hospitable
roofs than yours, so I take in our first
acquaintance the privilege of an old
friend."

He knew how to make a fire and coax
it into its most generous mood ; so the
temperature of the room quickly mounted.

Dinner, which was to have been served
at five, was not announced until half-past
six — a delay which Tom could
regret on Lady Betty's account solely,
since all that they were called upon to
suffer in the form of cold and hunger
was entailed by his own rashness in
accepting an impromptu invitation. However,
the interval was not insupportable,
for Mrs. St. Cyr was half the time absent
the production of a '' genteel dinner "

calling for her personal superintendence —
and Tom and Lady Betty found it just as
agreeable chatting before a fire as upon
the top of a stage coach.

Lady Betty did her best to charm the
hungering visitor, and when a sweet girl
smiles only a Goth or gourmand can look
and think of eating. Nevertheless, Tom
led the ladies into the dining-room, and
took his place at the round table with a
lively feeling of satisfaction.

The dinner was elaborate with innumerable
side dishes ; however, there was
plenty to eat, and Tom's appetite was ina
condition to appreciate everything. He
would not listen to Mrs. St. Cyr's profuse
apologies, but praised everything, and
declared that the King of France had no
better cook than hers.

It was not until the desert was served
that Tom found time to examine the
character of Mrs. St. Cyr, who, now that

the culinary cares were removed from her
thoughts began to display the qualities of
her mind. It was not long before he
formed an estimate. She talked of
nothing but fashions ; of the movements
in polite circles ; of court balls ; of forthcoming
marriages in high life, and tattle
about the aristocracy, whose names and
family connections she seemed to have at
her fingers' ends.

"I am agreeably surprised to find
from the fact that you wear a ribbon, Mr.
Talbot," she said, '' that the ' Lady's
Mirror ' is in error respecting the fashion
in which people of ton wear their hair. It
was actually stated that peruses, except
for evening wear, had gone out, and that
the Prince of Wales has had his hair cut
close behind and curled low on the forehead."


That may well be, madam," replied
Tom, smiling, '' for I haven't had my head

dressed for ten days, and then by a rustic
at Cambridge. Previously I had been
absent from England for five years, so I
cannot profess to know anything of our
fashions."

'' You have travelled a great deal," said
Mrs. St. Cyr, led by curiosity to diverge
from her favourite theme.

Yes, my father was scarcely ever at
home, and I stood as good a chance of
meeting him in a foreign port as in
England."

Your father was a sea-captain, I
presume."

An Admiral. He fell in the King's
service before Cadiz."

An Admiral !" Mrs. St. Cyr cast an
expressive glance at her daughter, and
said, with a sigh, '' Poor gentleman !
But could not your friends or relations
persuade you to stay amongst them."

'' Relations; I have absolutely none

that I know of. My old friends are
scattered ; I found only two of my old
companions at Cambridge, and my new
friends are only just discovered."

Mrs. St. Cyr bowed, saying to herself,
No friends, no relations, and his father
an admiral, dead ! poor young man, he
deserves to have friends, and he shall not
go without while I live."

It must be dreadful to have no
home," murmured Lady Betty, looking
at Tom with pity in her soft, sympathetic
eves.

You make me think so by showing
me how delightful a home may be,"
answered Tom.

May I presume to offer you my hospitality
while you remain in England, Mr.
Talbot ?" asked Mrs. St. Cyr.

'' I shall be delighted to avail myself of
it whenever a chance permits ; but for sometime
business must occupy my attention to

VOL. I. 8

the exclusion of pleasure. I have come to
England to settle with my father's legal
adviser as to the disposition of the estate
which comes to me. I stand in the peculiar
position of a man with a white
elephant — I don't want it, and I can't
conveniently give it away."

Mrs. St. Cyr itched to know more, but
Tom was thoughtfully engaged in scraping
crumbs into a heap with his dessert-knife.
Lady Betty came to her mother's
assistance.

You excite our curiosity, Mr. Talbot,
and it is only fair to us poor women that
you should tell us more. We have no
white elephants," said she.

It is very simple. My wants are
supplied by a yearly expenditure of three
hundred pounds ; I could have lived content
on half that sum. And now I am
told that I have to make use of a yearly
income of three thousand pounds, besides

a Hall with tliirtj-iiine rooms, and a park
and grounds of a thousand acres. What
am I to do ?"

Mrs. St. Cyr held her breath ; Lady
Betty's eyes sparkled like the diamonds,
her mind dwelt upon as a possible elucidation
of the vexatious problem this interesting
young gentleman was called upon
to solve.

"An estate, a Hall with thirty-nine
rooms, and three thousand a year !" murmured
Mrs. St. Cyr.

*' I cannot — I should not wish — to dispose
of the old Hall ; it has borne the
family name since John Talbot received
Queen Elizabeth in it."

It would be sacrilege !" exclaimed
Mrs. St. Cyr.

I certainly cannot live in it. Odd as
I am, I could not abide the solitude of
living alone in a great place like that."

The ladies did not see the necessity of

8-2

living alone, but tliej held their peace,
and Tom continued :

*' I shall expect Doctor Blandly to help
me out of my difficulty."

Doctor Blandly ! the name is familiar
to me."

It is quite possible ; he lives at Edmonton."


I know a Doctor Blandly, of Edmonton,
who is a surgeon; he attended
to my gardener when he hurt himself
with a scythe. I remember the fact by
the extremely uncivil answer he returned
when, seeing how well he had cured my
gardener, I wrote to him bidding him
call to advise me on the palpitations to
which I am subject. He sent word to
say he could give me no better advice
than to eat moderately and not lace
tight."

It is probably the same," replied
Tom, maintaining a becoming gravity

with an effort, " Doctor Blandly was originally
a physician, but amassing a competence
while yet a young man, he gave
up his practice and retired to his present
residence at Edmonton to devote himself
to botany and fishing. He is an odd,
sweetly-disposed old gentleman, who professes
to be a cynic and a misanthrope ;
but, nevertheless, his innate goodness
asserts itself on the slightest occasion,
and is so well known, that he has almost
as much employment in ministering gratuitously
to the maladies of the poor
around him, as he previously had in
attending to his wealthy patients. He is
a shrewd and honest man, and his friends
have taken his advice whenever they found
themselves in difficult positions. My
father was his school-fellow, and it is
thus that Doctor Blandly came to conduct
the management of his property and
estate. I hope he will continue his services

in my behalf. I intend seeing him
to-night, if you will permit me to leave
at an early hour."

Oh, Mr. Talbot, you will not leave
to-night, the roads are dangerous," said
Lady Betty.

"I shall have less fear in encountering
danger than this afternoon, for you will
not be imperilled."

Mrs. St. Cyr had been musing ; she said
suddenly :

Mr. Talbot, I am about to ask a
great favour of you, one that I feel
scarcely warranted in asking upon such
short acquaintance."

You will do me great honour, madam,
by such a mark of confidence."

"Will you introduce me to Doctor
Blandly?"

There is only one reason for hesitation,
and that is the Doctor's avowed
repugnance to the society of ladies."

'' But you said that he professes a
repugnance to mankind, yet he assists
them."

That is quite true."

** I should like to tell you my reasons
for wishing the advice of such a man as
Doctor Blandly, if it will not trouble you
to hear them."

Tom Talbot made a gesture of complacent
attention, and Mrs. St. Cyr, after
a few minute's thought, continued :

Since my husband's decease I have
lived in retirement, and, as you see, with
economy, in order that the fortune he
left should accumulate by interest, and
enable me, when Elizabeth left school, to
introduce her to society and give her an
opportunity of forming suitable connections
and friends before my death."

'mamma, dear, don't talk of dying,
you are a young woman now," said Lady
Betty, the tears springing in her eyes.

''My dear, you do not know what I
suffer with the palpitations."

Lady Betty drew her chair nearer to
her mother, and shipping her hand under
the table, took her mother's, and held
it with loving pressure, while Mrs. St. Discontinued
:

The attorney who has hitherto
managed my affairs died last week, and
his partner is so old and stupid that I do
not care to trust my financial arrangements
to him. I know no one else, but
it is absolutely necessary that I should
find some honest adviser at once; my
child's fortune depends upon it."

'' In that case I feel sure Doctor Blandly
will advise you."

If you would introduce me as your
friend."

'' I shall have great pleasure in doing

so.

But mamma cannot go this evening !"

exclaimed Lady Betty ; " and so, Mr.
Talbot, you must stay all night, and take
her to Edmonton in the morning."

Tom accepted without waiting for
further persuasion. He who would go
out of his way to oblige an old woman,
could not hesitate to stay in comfortable
quarters to give pleasure to a young
one.

NIGHT AND Morning.

RS. ST. CYR kept a genteel pony-chaise,
and as this would serve
to convey her and Mr. Talbot
the following morning to Doctor Blandly' s,
the tilbury was sent back to Edmonton,
the gardener, who took it, being instructed
to fetch the valise which Tom
had left at the '' Bell."

What time will you be called in the
morning, Mr. Talbot?" asked Mrs. St. Cyr,
when they were separating for the night ;

we usually breakfast at ten. Will nine
o'clock be too early for your hot water ?"

'not a whit, madam."

'' I rise at half-past seven," said Lady
Betty, archly. *' Good night."

Mrs. St. Cyr followed Lady Betty into
her room, and having closed the door
silently and carefully, her first words,
spoken in a low, impressive tone, were,
What a pity he hasn't a title."

«« Why, mamma ?" asked Lady Betty,
with a blush.

'' Because then he would be absolutely
perfect, my love. The son of an admiral
with an estate, a Hall with three thousand
rooms, and an income of thirty-nine
pounds — I mean a ball with thirty-nine
rooms, of course, and an income of three
thousand pounds. I am sure he deserves
a title, and it is ten thousand pities he
hasn't one. However, he has a pedigree,
and that is a great thing. His figure is

quite superb, and he is extremely
beauteous."

I don't think one can call him
beauteous, mamma."

'' Well, my love, we may differ in that,
but I assure you when he was telling us
that he was absolutely without relations,
and had more money than he knew what
to do with, I thought I had never seen a
more handsome man in my life. And then
his manner !"

I do not think his manners perfect.
He is at times brusque."

"It is that which gives him such an
air of distinction. One cannot expect a
man in position to agree with everything
one says, and have a perpetual smile on
his face as if he were measuring off a
dozen yards of bombazine like your Uncle
William. By the bye, my love, you must
be careful never to mention your Uncle
William's name ; it would ruin our prospects

to be known as the connection of a
man in the drapery line."

Mr. Talbot seems to entertain a
thorough dislike to society."

'' My child, it is not of the slightest
importance what a man likes or dislikes
before his marriage ; it is afterwards that
a woman has to conform them with her
own."

You have already settled that I am to
marry Mr. Talbot then," Lady Betty said,
laughing.

*' Hush, my darling, you will be overheard.
I certainly know no one more
eligible than Mr. Talbot at present. It is
certainly a great drawback his having no
title, and to be sure many merchants have
thrice his income ; at the same time there
are many noblemen who are as rich as the
wealthiest commoner. I should like my
son-in-law to have a title if it was only
baronet; a lord would be better still,

but my taste lias always been for
earls. I read the other day that the
Marquis of Westminster's fortune is prodigious."


'' Then there's Httle hope for Mr.
Talbot," Lady Betty laughed again.

My love ! Mr. Talbot will think you
are laughing at him, and I would not
for the world displease him. He may be
of the greatest service to us, for though
we take the most genteel house in Piccadilly,
we cannot obtain friends without an
introduction, and Mr. Talbot must have
acquaintances. Besides, it is a great advantage
to a young lady in society to have
an admirer to start with ; it attracts
attention and collects others, like a fly on
a treacle-paper."

"But Mr. Talbot will leave England as
soon as his affairs are settled by Doctor
Blandly. He has only seen me once for a
few hours, and I am not sure that he

likes me even. I believe he thinks me
silly on some points."

*' A very good sign. He wouldn't like
you depend upon it, if he thought you
wiser than himself. And there's not the
slightest doubt you have made a conquest.
Perhaps you didn't notice how he blushed,
faltered, and finally tried to conceal his
emotion by drinking a glass of wine after
you had induced him to try my pickle."
It was too hot for him, perhaps."
'* Oh, no, my love ; a mother's eye is
not to be deceived. And besides, what
pretty girl is there who cannot make a
man like her if she sets her mind to it ?
You have made your first conquest, and
as to any fear of Mr. Talbot leaving
England — well, he may think what he
likes about it, but I know he will not. T
shall ask him to dine with us on Sunday,
and if he refuses, you may tell me that I
know nothing of human nature. Now kiss

me, my darling, and go to bed, for you have
to rise at half-past seven, remember."

At that moment Tom Talbot was saying
to himself :

She has certainly the most beautiful
arms I have ever seen in my life ; she is
graceful and fascinating to a degree, but
may Heaven preserve me from ever
being fool enough to marry a girl with
such a mother. She is absolutely vulgar
with her eternal prattle about fashions,
and her yearnings after the society of
b.ongtong,' as she calls it. I pity the
poor girl, for I fear she has not sufficient
force of character to resist the pernicious
influence of such example and teaching.
She is already a little touched with her
mother's mania. As for myself, I must
be careful how I yield to the witcheries of
the little siren, though there's little danger
in that. She wouldn't be likely to fall in
love with me under any circumstances,

and I suppose I shall never set eyes on her
again after tomorrow morning. One is
never romantic before breakfast, and she'll
find me as chilly as the morning, I warrant."


With this satisfactory reflection Tom
Talbot turned upon his side and fell
asleep.

Tom Talbot was sitting in the drawing-room,
gravely reading one of Mrs. St.
Cyr's favourite magazines — '' The Court
Gazetteer and Lady's Indispensable Compendium
of Life and Fashion " was its
title — when Lady Betty came down the
following morning.

*' Are you improving your mind, Mr.
Talbot?" asked Lady Betty, after salutation.


Possibly ; but not my temper. You
have come in time to save me, I hope,
from the worst effects of the book's splenetic
influence. A few pages more would

VOL. I. 9

have made me doubt if there was anything
in woman to admire but her
beauty."

'' You are more exacting than most
men to want more than that. It is too
early to be serious, and I am going to
visit my pets. Are you ready to accompany
me ?"

Quite — and you ? I did not hear you
enter the room. Have you your
shoes?"

Lady Betty extended her foot with its
neat shoe, giving a glimpse of a dainty
ankle in a clocked black stocking.

It is no wonder I failed to hear the
fall of such a foot !" said Tom.

Lady Betty acknowledged the compliment
with a coquettish courtesy, and led
the way into the garden.

'* Oh, what a lovely morning!" she exclaimed,
'' and no signs of the frost
giving. Mr. Talbot, can you skate ?"

Fairly. As I clo most things— not
well."

Will you teach me ? There is a
famous pond at the foot of the
hill."

'' Have you skates ?"

Not at present ; but mamma can buy
them to-day."

*' You forget that after breakfast we
part."

No ; you are going to take mamma
to see an old gentleman who does not
like ladies ; but after that "

After that I leave England."

On business ?"

No, for pleasure."

They had come to a wicket, which Tom
opened ; Lady Betty turned, and with one
hand on the gate and the other on the
post barred the way. She wore a tippet
and a hood bordered with fur, which made
a suitable frame for her pretty face. She

held her head a Httle on one side ; a smile
made her eyes bewitching.

Would it not give you as much
pleasure to stay in England and teach
me to skate ?" she asked.

'' Undoubtedly ; but there are some
pleasures that one should avoid to be
happy. It will take me some time to
forget you, though our friendship is not
yet a day old."

Lady Betty ceased to smile. She
looked up in Tom's face with unwonted
gravity.

It is a selfish kind of happiness that
depends upon your not liking anyone
very much," she said.

Yet I do not feel as though I could
be selfish when I look at you," said Tom.

Then for my pleasure you would
stay and teach me to skate?"

Tom bowed. " Where are my resolves
of last night ?" he asked himself.

At that moment Chloe barked, and
Lady Betty, clapping her hands, cried,
"I have been forgetting all about poor
Chloe," and away she ran to the
outbuildings where the dog was
chained, leaving Tom to follow as he
would.

"Hum!" said Tom to himself, "that
shows how much she values the sacrifice.
Forsaken, at the very moment
when I should be most dear, for a
yelping hound ! If the frost breaks up
she will not want me. And that I see
is the best thing that could happen tome."


Turning a corner beside the orchard,
he found lady Betty on her knees with
her arms round the neck of a Newfoundland,
caressing the animal, and talking
such unintelligible nonsense to it as
dogs in common with babies seem to
understand and enjoy.

Oo members me all this time, Chloe,
00 faithful old pet ! and oo wants to
come with oo's little Lady Betty, and oo
shall ; but oo won't frighten Lady Betty's
pigeons, will oo ?"

She unfastened the chain-snap, and
Chloe, faithful to canine instinct, took
to her heels and bolted off to the
kitchen.

It was a moment of disappointment to
Lady Betty; but her eyes following
the deserter fell upon the hutch of her
favourite rabbit, to whom she at once
transferred her affection. Presently, with
a whirl and a flutter, the covey of pigeons
settled on the roof of an adjoining
shed.

Oh, my pretty pigeons," she cried.
Then she called Tom, whom she had sent
off to the garden. '' Mr. Talbot, Mr.
Talbot ! never mind about pulling up anymore
cabbages— run into the stable for me

quick, and bring some grain for my
birds."

Tom obeyed, and brought a sieve of oats
from a bin in the stable, which she took
without so much as a single word of
thanks, for she was talking to the
pigeons in terms of tender blandishment,
to which they responded in voices not
more soft than hers, as they strutted and
pirouetted on the ridge tiles. At the
sight of grain they came fluttering to
her feet, and Maggie, a black-and-white
patriarch, bolder than the rest,
flew up, and ate from her extended
hand.

It was a pretty picture — the young
girl amidst her pigeons — which Tom
looked upon with silent delight.

And she is to be torn away from
these innocent delights, and taught to like
the heartless pleasures of a senseless
world !" he said to himself, with a sigh.

She is a child and 'tis a shame to make
her a coquette."

He did not recognise that the beauty of
Lady Betty's childishness owed its piquancy
to her coquetry, and that had she been
merely childish, she would have been as
uninteresting as the peasants of Flanders,
whose extreme innocence he had frequently
condemned for stupidity. Had she not
been very pretty, it is tolerably certain
he would not have cared a jot whether
her tastes were simple or otherwise.


He still felt sentimental when Lady
Betty, setting down the sieve of oats,
said :

Feed yourselves now, dears. Lady
Betty's fingers are getting blue in her
gloves. Come, Mr. Talbot, I will leave
all my darlings for you, because — I am
cold. Let us have a brisk walk, there is
still plenty of time. We can walk down

the hill and see if the ice bears. By-the
bye," she added, stepping along beside
Tom with a quick, springy step, " we
were talking about the ice — ah, yes, and
you promised to teach me skating, at my
earnest entreaty."

When Chloe barked, and you forgot
all about me."

That was decidedly rude," Lady Betty
laughed ; " but you don't look very vexed
with me."

*' One could not see you so innocently
happy and remember one's vexation. Will
you not be very sorry to leave your pigeons
and domestic creatures ?"

'' Oh, I shall be more than sorry to
leave my pets. I do not mind admitting
to you that I shall have more than one
long cry when we separate."

These simple pleasures seem to harmonize
so perfectly with your disposition."


'' As for that, my disposition is of an
accommodating kind, and harmonizes very
well with nearly everything that is
agreeable."

Seeing yon among your present pleasures,
I cannot imagine how you will relinquish
them."

'' Ah ! you should have seen me with a
doll," said Lady Betty gravely. " You
might have thought it would have broken
my heart to give it up. I buried it with
tears, Mr. Talbot."

'* Buried it!"

Yes, the day mamma said I must have
a long frock made, I made up my mind for
the sacrifice, and the morning it came
home from the dressmakers, I buried my
doll — and many a time I was tempted to
exhume it. It lies in the grave next to
my canary."

'' But a doll is not the same as living
creatures."

"No." Lady Betty sighed, and then
with a tone of resignation : " Everything
in its turn. First sugar-sticks, then dolls,
then pigeons and rabbits."

You will not make a good exchange
I fear, for the latter."

"Why? Do not you think men and
women are more interesting than rabbits
and pigeons ?"

I imagine that you are not debarred
from either in the country."

"Ah !" said Lady Betty, sententiously,
that is because you know so little about
it — look at poor mamma, she has lived
here ever since papa's death — nearly
fourteen years, and she knows absolutely
no one but the clergyman, who only talks
about the lake of brimstone and fire, and
the deaf gentleman that lives in the house
down there, and his chief recommendation
is that he never talks at all. A country
life is delightful if you can always have a

friend staying in the house, and if you
can leave it for five or six months in
the year."

Tom laughed, despite himself — Lady
Betty continued :

Why do you think a country life so
suitable to me — because people living in
the country are usually so intensely
stupid ?"

A country life is allowed to be innocent
and beautiful, and therein it seemed
suitable to you !"

Don't you think its charms are overdrawn
? Poets who wrote most about it
live in towns and exaggerate the Httle they
have seen to admire. I should like to see
it as they see it — a little. Oue would
think that the sun always shines, and
roses continually fill the air with perfume ;
and lambs skip about to the tunes played
by clean shepherds. They do not know
what six weeks bad weather in an isolated

house is, they never saw a shepherd in the
stocks for being drunk and using bad
language, and they never mention the
cries of a pig having a ring put in his nose.
And what constitutes its innocences —
highwaymen in the lanes to keep you indoors,
with a fear of burglars that make
you doubtful if it wouldn't be better to
stop in the lanes ?"

"Do you wish me to believe that the
country is disagreeable to you ?"

No. I love the country as well as you
do — perhaps better, Mr. Talbot, or you
would settle down as a respectable
hermit with less fear of encountering
the lively members of society whom you
so detest. What I wish you to think is,
that I have aspirations to a higher form
of life than that whose most agreeable
representatives live in hutches and
kennels."

Tom was astonished by the warmth

and strong sense of Lady Betty. He
had seen her face coquettish and childish,
but now he found it animated with an
intelligent light, and almost severe in its
earnest expression.

There is nothing prettier than a brood
of young rabbits, or a nest of blue eggs —
no sound sweeter than the first song of
the nightingale, but it would be wicked to
limit my senses to the enjoyment of them
when Providence has given me the intelligence
to appreciate Raphael and Mozart.
I do not profess that for high objects alone
I prefer life to seclusion. I am fond of
dress, fond of talking nonsense, and
laughing at trifles, fond of farce as well
as tragedy — though I have never yet been
to a theatre except in my dreams — fond of
gaiety and movement, fond of dancing,
fond of having my eyes wide open for
eighteen hours out of the twenty-four.
I hate yawning, and now you know why

a country life is not suitable to my disposition."


You are very earnest," was all Tom
could say in comment.

I feel very earnest. You have roused
me by your contempt for society."

'you will give me credit also for
sincerity."

Yes, but not for impartiality. You
are quite narrow and prejudiced. You
adhere to an opinion which by your own
showing, was formed ten years ago,
and which has been exaggerated by
seclusion and — if I may add it without
offending — ignorance of what you condemn."


I am afraid that you are only too
just — I was a young man, and I believe,
even more conceited than I am now,
when I settled that I was too good for
society."

"In that case you ought, in justice to

yourself, to reconsider the subject, and so
when you have taught me to skate, you
will yet have something to do before
leaving England. Ah ! here is the pond.
Hold my hand and let me see if the ice is
strong."

Tom took her hand and held it firmly
as the urgency of the case required, while
Lady Betty ventured across the frozen
water with timid steps.

The ice did not crack, but the surface
was wondrous slippery, and Lady Betty's
foot slipped more than once, causing her
to laugh and fear at the same time.

It would be safer if you held my
arm ?" she said.

Safer indeed for her, but not for Tom.
A thrill ran through his veins as he
clasped the beautiful arm, of which he
had dreamed, and he felt a strange gratification
in sustaining their mutual position
of dependance and support.



Before he relinquished his hold he
had reconciled himself to the necessity of
postponing his departure from England.

VOL. I.



A VISIT.

R. TALBOT, how do I look ?"
asked Mrs. St. Cyr, as the
chaise drew near Edmonton.
Tom looked at his companion in order to
give a fair answer to a question which was
asked with the utmost gravity. Mrs. St.
Cyr was still pretty ; her complexion was
particularly fresh and fair which, but for
her stoutness, would have made her appear
ten years younger than she was. The
few artificial touches of pencil and powder
were unnoticed by Tom's unpractised eye,

and lie answered wish perfect candour,
and in a tone wliicli carried conviction
:

Madam, you look extremely well."

'' T am glad to hear it, for I assure you

I attach a great deal of importance to the

interview with Doctor Blandly, and when

a woman wishes to interest a gentleman

in her business affairs, she cannot be too

particular about her personal appearance."

Tom smiled. Mrs. St. Cyr continued :

I assure you there is truth in my

assertion. How is it that charitable ladies

can never raise subscriptions ? it is because

charitable ladies as a rule are dowdy. Can

you tell me if Doctor Blandly sees many

ladies ?"

Scarcely any. A lady never enters
his house — if he can prevent it — and he
refuses invitations where it is possible he
may meet ladies. I have heard him speak
occasionally, and not in amiable terms, of

10—2

Mrs. Baxter, the wife of the Reverend
John Baxter, a particular friend of his."

Mrs. Baxter ! I know her by sight — a
woman who looks as if she had been
buried for a week, and unfortunately resuscitated.
If Dr. Blandly has seen only
that woman, I am not surprised at his
aversion to the sex."

I hope you will convert him,
madam."

I am not without hope. It is a great
advantage, to know his character beforehand
— he is very fond of botany you said,
I think?"

Yes; and of fishing also."

Unfortunately I know nothing about
fishing ; happily I have some knowledge
of gardening. Aught ! what a horrible
smell."

Some one is burning weeds."

"It is shameful to allow such a public
nuisance; it is worse than a brick-mihi.

I shall carry the odour in my dress, and
that will undo everything. And now
look at the smoke ! John, John !" she
called to the gardener who, dressed in
livery, was driving the chaise. '' Drive
quicker. Beat the horse ! Quick, quick,
I shall be smothered. I must be
covered with smuts."

I assure you your complexion has not
suffered."

And my bonnet, Mr. Talbot? I tried
on half a dozen before I found one to
my liking, and this light beaver must
catch the blacks, I am sure."

Not a speck, madam, and we have
passed the smoke."

'* Dear me, we are just in the high-road,
and close to Doctor Blandly's house. Let
us drive the other way for a few moments
that the smell may escape from my
clothes. Turn to the right, John. And
after all the precautions I have taken."

Doctor Blandly being a gardener may
not dislike the smell of burning weeds."

'rit is impossible any human being
can endure such a stench as that. However,
I have my lavender-water with me,
and if I sprinkle some ef that over my
dress it may at least counteract the
smoke. Ah, I have brought civet by
mistake ; but it will have the same effect.
'Tis an elegant perfume. Can you tell
me if Doctor Blandly has any other
likings, Mr. Talbot ?"

He likes cribbage, and punch, and a
pipe."

Thank you. If I were a general I
should never offer battle to my enemy
until I was thoroughly acquainted with
his weak points. I think we may turn
now. John ! turn round — stop at the
first house past the ' Bell.' "

A sudden change in the wind wafted
the offending smoke down the lane which

ran between Dr. Blandly' s garden and
the *' Bell," and blew it across the highroad
at th very moment the chaise was
passing.

Oh, if I were a man !" said Mrs. St.
Cyr, through her closed teeth, " how I
would swear !"

The condition was not much better
when they stopped in front of Doctor
Blandly's house, a thick cloud of smoke
filled the garden.

We will pass through it as quickly
as possible," said Tom, handing Mrs. St.
C3^r from the chaise. '' I know the secret
of opening the front gate, and I may dispense
with formalities in visiting the
Doctor."

Mrs. St. Cyr kept her handkerchief to
her mouth, and said nothing.

Halloa, who's there ?" called out old
Jerry, as he came from among the evergreen
shrubs, on hearing the gate open.

A friend, Jerry. Where is your
master ?"

Oh, 'tis you, Mr. Talbot, hey— right
glad to see you. Sir." He suddenly
stopped, and looking at Mrs. St. Surpassed
his hand thoughtfully over his
mouth and chin.

Is your master in the house ?" Tom
repeated.

No, he's looking after the bon-fire in
the kitchen garden ; but do he know. Sir,
that you are bringing all the world with
you?"

Tom passed by with Mrs. St. Cyr, only
saying, '' I will find him," and opening a
wicket by the side of the house led her
into the garden at the rear, taking the
weaker side of the dense column of smoke
which filled one half of the garden and
swept over the wall.

In the murky distance could be seen
the outline of a stout man forking

litter from a barrow on to the smoking
heap.

That is Doctor Blandly," said Tom ina
low voice, to his companion.

Doctor Blandly ! I expected to find
an old gentleman with white hands and
silk stockings examining botanical specimens
through a magnified ; and it is his
fire that is making this smoke." In a
moment Mrs. St. Cyr took the handkerchief
from her mouth, and assumed as
amiable an expression as could be arranged
in the time.

Doctor Blandly did not hear the
approaching footsteps, for he was singing
and working at the same time, with his
back to the house.

Up came a pedlar whose name was Stout,
And he cut her petticoats all round about.

Singing, Fol dol de rol ! hi, fol de rol !"

At this point Tom, not knowing what
lengths the pedlar whose name was Stout

might go in the following verse, thought
proper to interrupt the Doctor's song by
a tolerably loud cough.

The Doctor ceased to sing, and turned
to see who his visitor was. Mrs. St.
Cyr looked at him incredulously. Could
this be the lawyer, the physician, the
retired gentleman of whom she had heard
so much praise. Indeed Doctor Blandly
looked very unlike the popular conception
of a gentleman. He wore a brown
cloth sleeved waistcoat, a pair of fustian
breeches, grey worsted stockings, a
coloured handkerchief, and a red worsted
night-cap, drawn well over his ears to
compensate the absence of his wig, a pair
of well-worn leather garden gloves completed
his dress.

What, my boy Tom ! " he cried,
thrusting his fork in a heap of weeds.
He came forward, pulling the glove off
his hand, looking from Tom to the lady

on his arm in blank astonishment. He
gave his hand to Tom, who said :

Let me present a lady to you, Doctor
Blandly— Mrs. St. Cyr."

'' Mrs. St. Cyr !" said Doctor Blandly,
in a tone of deep relief. " Ah, my boy, I
was afraid you had made a fool of yourself.
But you are still a bachelor, I can
see that by your face — cheerful and content,
thank Heaven !"

He made a stiff bow to Mrs. St. Cyr,
who responded with her sweetest smile,
and said :

'' I am charmed to make your acquaintance.
Doctor Blandly. I assure you I
take this introduction as the greatest
favour that my dear friend, Mr. Talbot,
could render me."

Mrs. St. Cyr struggled bravely to the
end of this speech, and then began to
cough violently, a gust of wind having
driven the smoke across the garden.

'' Dear friend, eli ?" said the Doctor, in a
low voice to Tom, while Mrs. St. Cyr was
still coughing. " Looks like a widow.
Nothing foolish going on, Tom. Not
going to be caught by such a fly as that,
eh?"

Nothing of the kind, I assure you,"
Tom whispered.

Thank Heaven ! We will go in the
house now my mind is easy on that point.
I am afraid the smoke irritates your
throat, madam."

'' A little ; but it is of no importance,
and I assure you T quite like the smell."

"I don't, madam; there's a bone or a
piece of flannel got into the fire. Rough !
Don't you smell it, Tom ?"

** No, Sir ; nothing but the ordinary
smell of burning weeds and earth."

'' Oh, there's something else'* said the
Doctor, sniffing the air about him with
dissatisfaction, and pulling his snuff-box

from his breeches pocket. " Take a
pinch, my boy ? Hum ! Do you snuff,
madam ?"

No. I hear that snuffing for ladies is
going out of fashion in polite circles."

Mrs. Baxter snuffs."

'' Mrs. Baxter ! One cannot be surprised
at her doing anything that is unpleasant."

*' That's what I say, madam, and the
parson can't deny it; all he can say in
her behalf is that she's no worse than
other women. Rough ! Hang that bone !
I can't get the smell of it out of my
nose."

I am sure I can't tell what there is to
object to in the smoke. Doctor Blandly,"
said Mrs. St. Cyr ; "it is very — oh, very
refreshing and agreeable."

That is not the only subject on which
we should probably disagree, madam."

On the contrary," said Mrs. St. Tyrannous
to provoke a controversy which

might offer lier an opportunity of yielding,
I think we should agree upon most subjects.
To begin with, I am passionately
fond of botany."

'' Do you dig, madam ?"

Dig ! Oh, Doctor, how can you ask
such a question ?"

Because no persons can love botany
unless they do. I advise you to try digging.
Well, my boy Tom, so you have come to
see me at last. And the Admiral has paid
the debt of Nature — the only debt he ever
had — and I have lost an old friend and
you a father."

Tom nodded in silence.

*' Poor dear old gentleman !" sighed
Mrs. St. Cyr.

I see no reason to pity him, madam ;
he fell as he wished to fall, giving his life
for his country, a gallant English gentleman.
May I ask, Tom, why you have
brought a visitor with you ?" The Doctor

put the question in a tone of unconcealed
irritation.

Mrs. St. Cyr has urgent need of your
advice ; that is a sufficient explanation."

'' Oh, you are in trouble, madam," the
Doctor said, with less acerbity in his
tone.

Indeed I am. The legal adviser I
have relied upon exclusively for many
years is dead. I have lived in seclusion
for so long that I know absolutely no one
to whom I might apply for advice, and
my affairs are of a delicate nature, which
I should hesitate to lay before an ordinary
a selfish — a "

Enough, madam, we will go in the
library at once. Tom, yoa know the
house ; make yourself at home, my boy.
By this door, madam. Hugh ! I'll be
hanged if that stench hasn't got in the
house !" Opening the library door to
Mrs. St. Cyr, he called to the gardener's

wife : " Martha tell Jerry to go and look
to that fire, there's something got into it
that's stink — that's poisoning the house
out. It must be the bones of that pike I
caught last Tuesday."

Mrs. St. Cyr pressed the cork deep
into her bottle of scent, and as Doctor
Blandly closed the door, said :

Ah, you are a great angler, Doctor
Blandly. T must say I know very little
about the science."

Thank Heaven !" murmured Doctor
Blandly, in parenthesis.

I have only fished once, and then sat
all day in a punt and caught nothing."

'' Nor any one else on that occasion, I
imagine." Then he added to himself,
Good Lord, how she would talk ! A
woman in a punt for a day's fishing. One
might as well have a boy with a set of
clappers and a horse pistol."

To tell the truth I prefer domestic

amusements. Cribbage for example. I
could spend all my time playing cribbage."


'' Glad to hear it, madam. I'm sure
you couldn't spend your time to greater
advantage. Now, if you please, we will
come to the purpose of your visit."

Doctor Blandly sniffed the air, looked
around him fiercely, took a pinch of snuff,
and pulled his chair up to the table.



OIL AND Vinegar.

HAT I am about to reveal is
in strict confidence, Doctor
Blandly, in perfect reliance
upon your secrecy." Mrs. St. Cyr said,
laying emphasis on the words secrecy
and confidence.

"You need be under no apprehension
for in the first place a man knows how to
hold his tongue, and in the second he very
seldom hears anything from a woman that
is worth repeating."

Mrs. St. Cyr seemed to gulp down her

feelings with difficulty before recommencing.


I must tell sou at the commencement,"
she said at length, lowering her voice,
*' that my husband's name was Brown.
At his death, for reasons which will be
obvious to you presently, I resumed my
maiden name. This fact is unknown to
anyone, my daughter being too young at
the time to understand matters of this
kind, and my life for the past fourteen
years having been a secluded one. There
is nothing culpable in changing one's
name; nevertheless, I have kept the fact
secret even from my daughter."

She paused, expecting perhaps that
Doctor Blandly would express his disapproval
; but he said nothing. He
nodded as a sign for Mrs. St. Cyr to
continue. A doctor and a lawyer
are accustomed to hearing confessions,
and are only anxious to avoid

11-2

increasing the embarrassment of their
clients, which too frequently prevents
them from a candid statement of their
case.

'' My father held a good position in
society. He lived constantly up to his
means. I had many lovers, for I was considered
pretty then, Doctor Blandly."
The widow paused again for the Doctor to
make a compliment, if there was a spark
of gallantry in his nature. Doctor Blandly
fished out a stick from the miscellaneous
collection of rubbish in his left hand
pocket and a knife from his right, and
looking at the stick thoughtfully, opened
his knife and proceeded to trim it up for
the purpose of marking the spot where he
had sowed some seed.

With a sigh, Mrs. St. Cyr continued :
My father died suddenly, leaving me
penniless. My lovers forsook me — all
except one whom 1 had encouraged the

least. He was the poorest, and his name
was Brown. There was no choice
between marrying him and starving. I
married him; three years after our marriage
my husband died."

The wisest thing he could do," said
Doctor Blandly to himself, as he carefully
shaved his stick.

"You follow me, Sir?" asked Mrs. St.
Cyr, seeing no sign of interest in the
Doctor's face.

Perfectly. I never heard a woman
keep to the point so well. Three years
after marriage your husband died."

Mrs. St. Cyr, thus encouraged, proceeded
:

*'I loved my husband, and did my best
to make him happy ; I also loved my child,
loved her with all my heart, and I love
her now — not with the passion of a young
mother and a widow, but still with all the
love of my heart."

The Doctor ceased to scrape the stick
as he heard these words, which were
littered with honest warmth, and looking
up, found that the powdered and painted
lady's lips were twitching, and her eyes
wet with standing tears.

'' I hope your daughter deserves your
love, madam," he said kindly.

"It is impossible not to love her.
Doctor, for she is not only good and
affectionate, but also clever and beautiful ;
and I assure you, has a prodigious fine
air."

The Doctor turned again to his former
occupation, with no other expression on
his face than that of attention to the
careful shaving of his little stick.

"You are straying from the subject,
somewhat," he said quietly. " Let us
return to the time when your husband
died."

I found myself, at his death, in the

possession of ten thousand pounds.
Thinking of mj child's future, I determined
to put this sum in the public funds,
to retire from society, and live within the
income yielded by the interest on my
money. With three hundred pounds per
annum T have lived comfortably in my
seclusion, and given my daughter a good
education."

I never dreamt a woman could be so
reasonable," thought Doctor Blandly.

Her education is now completed, and
the time has arrived for realising the
purpose with which I left society, and
which has encouraged me for so long to
support the dulness and solitude of my
life. I am about to re-enter society, and
introduce my daughter to the world of
fashion and elegant society."

'' A fool, and no better than the rest
after all," said the Doctor to himself with
a vicious cut at the stick.

I am aware that to take a genteel
house in the West-end, and live in polite
style, more than three hundred a year is
requisite'"

The Doctor responded with a nod of
satisfaction.

'' Rents and living have gone up so of
late years, that I doubt if we could make
any appearance under six hundred a year,
and if one kept a coach, it would mount
to eight hundred. Now, Sir, you know
the position in which I stand, and why I
am so anxious for your advice."

*' Do you wish me to advise you for the
happiness of your daughter and your own
welfare?"

Yes, Doctor Blandly."

Still trimming his stick. Doctor Blandly
replied :

My advice is, madam, that you continue
to live within the income arising
from your invested capital. Have nothing

to do wish fashionable society, and content
yourself with a good, stout-stringed pony-chaise."


You misunderstand me. Sir, I wish to
know how to live at the rate of eight
hundred a year with a capital of ten
thousand. For I have already decided
upon living in London, and nothing can
move me from my decision."

The answer to that question is very
simple — cut your ten thousand pounds into
twelve pieces, and spend one piece every
year until all is gone."

But what am I to do after that ?"

Regret that you did not accept my
first advice."

Mrs. St. Cyr waited a few moments
while Doctor Blandly, unmoved, patiently
scraped away at his seed marker, then
she said :

"Is it not possible to buy an annuity
with my money ?"

Yes. What sort of annuity have you
been thinking about?"

'' An annuity terminable with my
life."

What advantages, in your mind, has an
annuity over the simple plan of taking as
much as you require until you die or your
capital is used up ? the individual paying
an annuity always calculates to gain by
his work."

But all whom I have known have been
disappointed."

Hum ! Then you fancy you would
get the best of the bargain."

Yes, for I am certain I shall live to bean
old woman. I feel as young as ever I
felt ; but I should not tell everyone so —
and people paying an annuity are influenced
by hope, and think their annuitants
haven't ten years to live."

Doctor Blandly looked up with half-closed,
critical eyes at Mrs. St. Cyr, shut

up his knife, put the stick in his pocket
and asked quietly :

How old are sou ?"

After a little hesitation, Mrs. St. Cyr
replied :

'' Forty-four."

You are too stoat. Do you suffer inconvenience
from your stoutness ?"

No. Of course if I run up-stairs
quickly, or over-exert myself, I feel it —
then I have the palpitations."

Doctor Blandly never took his eyes
from her face as she spoke.

If I told you, madam, that you are
likely to die suddenly — that you might
not live twelve months, would that deter
you from your scheme ?"

Not at all. On the contrary ; if you
could impress that on anyone wishing to
sell an annuity, I should have a greater
inducement m buying one, as I should get
more for my money."

*' You told me that you still loved your
daughter ; how is that consistent with
your making an arrangement which will
leave her penniless at your death."

When I die my daughter will be well
married, and in no need of my money'

*' Is your daughter engaged ?"

Well — that is— not precisely."

Doctor Blandly was silent for a time,
then :

If I understand your character at all,
Mrs. Brown, you wish to go into fashionable
society in order that your daughter
may secure a husband with a fortune;
for this end you are ready to risk the loss
of your whole fortune, and expose your
daughter to the peril of absolute poverty."

I see no risk."

'' That is to say you are blind. But I
trust for your daughter's sake you are not
so perversely obstinate that you will not
refuse to be led."

*' Doctor Blandly, no one in the world
can divert me from my intention of taking
my daughter into society. It has been
my constant solace in the weary solitude
of these past years. It is now my proudest
hope to see my child married and in a
station worthy of her beauty and goodness.
She shall not endure what I for her sake
have endured."

'' Then, madam, accept my second proposition.
Draw from your capital as much
as is necessary for this speculation ; your
daughter may marry before your decease ;
if not, she may have something left of
your fortune to support her when you are
gone."

I will never be a burden on my
daughter's generosity — never expose to
the world the fact that her mother is not
what she seemed."

You oblige me to speak plainly. You
will not live to be forty-five."

If the Doctor expected to terrify the
widow by his brusque statement, and
check her in a course which he saw
might be ruinous to her child, he was
mistaken. Mrs. St. Cyr smiled calmly
and shook her head."

'* I know better," she said.

Ah !" muttered the Doctor. " Here is
a type of woman I have seen before. Your
fair, fat fool, complacent and self-satisfied,
is as obstinately stubborn as a veritable

pig-mrs.

St. Cyr, on her side, was equally

aggravated by the opposition of Doctor

Blandly, which she conceived arose solely

from his antipathy to women and natural

perversity. She spoke tartly when next

she opened her lips.*

I don't want to know what I am todo

with my money. I want you to tell me

how I am to obtain an annuity. And

perhaps as you seem to think it will be

such a losing bargain for me " she

paused.

'' I know what you would say, madam.
But I can assure you I have no taste for
such commerce, and never hope to wish
for the death of the meanest of God's
creatures."

Mrs. St. Cyr rose hastily, as if to terminate
the fruitless interview. Doctor
Blandly calmly crossed his legs, set his
elbow on the arm of his chair, rested his
nose against his forefinger, and closing one
eye looked thoughtfully at the floor with
the other.

There are scores of men," said he, as
if talking to himself rather than to Mrs.
Cyr, " scores of 'em who would jump at
you and your ten thousand pounds, as a jack
jumps at a gudgeon. With the doctor's
certificate before them they would let you
have what you want for your money;
without a certificate dozens would take

your money and promise you your annuity.
Dozens of 'em would rob you — fleece you
turn you inside out— and show you
your folly for the mere asking. The
scoundrels believe they are justified in
robbing fools. But you must be saved
from such a punishment as that."

Mrs. St. Cyr listened, and her indignation
gave way to alarm. She looked at
Doctor Blandly, and waited silently for
him to end his cogitation and speak.

'' Hum !" said be at length, raising his
head and turning to Mrs. St. Cyr, without
the slightest sign of ill-feeling or good-feeling
in his expression. '' Madam, I
know several dealers — professional dealers
in annuities, who would satisfy your
demands with little question ; but I know
none whom I would trust. For myself,
I am content to live without anxiety, and
hope never more to receive a penny-piece
at another's cost ; but I am frequently

desired to show a good investment to
people who, like yourself, fancy I may be
of service to them. If I see a means of
providing you with an annuity upon
terms which I consider just and worthy,
I will do my best to negotiate for
you."

Oh, Doctor Blandly, I did not expect
this kindness from you."

It is not kindness ; common humanity
will not suffer a man to see a snail crushed
if he can help it," answered Doctor
Blandly.

VOL. I. 12

COUNSELS.

HOPE your interview has been
satisfactory," said Tom, as he
conducted Mrs. St. Cyr to the
chaise.

Yes, Mr. Talbot ; Doctor Blandly has
promised to assist me. That is especially
satisfactory, because I feel perfectly certain
that whatever he does in my behalf
must be absolutely disinterested — disinterested
humanity on his part."

Tom felt inclined to smile : it was so

clear that the Doctor had disclaimed
any feeling of kindness towards the
widow.

It is difficult at first to know how to
conduct oneself with Doctor Blandly,"
pursued Mrs. St. Cyr, *' but when one
gets accustomed to his — his original manner
one cannot feel anything but respect
for him, and confidence in his judgment."


The better you know him the more
you must admire him."

As you see, I am not yet composed ;
indeed, I feel agitated to the last degree.
Doctor Blandly has warned me of a great
danger from which I should scarcely have
escaped but for him. I cannot tell you
how deeply grateful I am to you for the
introduction, for not only my own welfare
is concerned, but that also of my dear
child. You will give me the opportunity
of thanking you in a more elegant style

12—2

I hope soon. Shall we have the happiness
of seeing you to-night ?"

I shall stay with Doctor Blandly until
tomorrow, then I shall give myself the
pleasure of visiting you. I have promised
to procure a pair of skates for Lady
Betty."

"We shall be enchanted to see you,
and desolate until you come," said Mrs.
St. Cyr, with a gracious bow, as the chaise
moved on.

Doctor Blandly hastily changed his
working costume, and in his best wig and
plum-coloured coat stood at the door to
receive Tom when he returned to the
house.

*' You have got rid of her, my boy," he
asked.

She is gone. Sir."

*^ That's a mercy. How long have you
known her, Tom ?"

*' Since yesterday."

Yesterday ! and she had the audacity
to speak of you as a dear friend, and the
impudence to express pity for the admiral !
Well, she has one excuse, and that is
scarcely sufficient — she is a fool, a
downright fool, and an obstinate fool,
and an ill-scented fool, too. If I had
but known she was but an acquaintance,
and not a dear friend, Tom, I'd

be hanged if " Doctor Blandly

paused.

'' You would have refused to help
her'*

I won't say that, my boy, for these
fools are to be pitied. Heaven help them !
but it is hard that a man seeking peace
and quiet can't get two minutes to himself.
I shall have to see that woman again,
more than once, perhaps. I had a kind
of presentiment when I was shaving this
morning that I ought to go for a day's
fishing."

And you stayed at home expecting

me ?"

'' That's it. However, you shall pay
for it. We will have dinner as soon as
the light fades, and a clean hearth and
the cribbage-board after. I will send
round for Baxter, and he shan't go home
till his wife comes for him. Now, my
boy, lunch is waiting, and old Jerry is
coming with the bottles."

Here am I, master," said Jerry,
coming up from the cellar with a basket
which he carried as though it were of
egg-shell china."

What have you got there, Jerry,
port?"

"Yes; two on 'em for you and two
for Master Tom, to begin with, and I'll
go down for the Madeira as soon as I've
got these safe out of my hands."

I told you claret for lunch, you obstinate
old man," said the Doctor.

"All in good time, Master; the port
won't be a bit too warm by when it's
wanted. Tliej are out of that dark
corner on the right hand, Master Tom,
and you know I don't go there for everyone.
Lord, how you will enjoy yourselves
presently, to be sure ! Why, Master
Thomas, you look more of a man than
ever."

There, go along, you old chatterer,"
said the Doctor, " and when you've
brought up what wine you think fit to
make us drink, lock the gate and tie up
the bell."

I'll do that first," said Jerry, in a
serious tone.

And don't you hear anyone calling or
knocking until you see Baxter's red nose
shining over the top of the gate."

If Baxter is coming I shall have to
bring up twice as much port, but he shall
have his own bottles, and they won't

come from the dark corner. That parson
would drink new port and not know
the difference when he's playing cribbage."


Doctor Blandly laughed heartily at his
servant's observation, and sat down to
the table, which was bountifully covered
with fish, flesh, and game.

It was not till the substantial meal was
finished, and the two gentlemen had
turned their chairs to the fire, that the
Doctor could bring himself to speak with
gravity upon any subject.

'*AYell, now," said he, when Jerry having
arranged the sand bags in the windows,
and placed the coal scuttle close to his
master's hand, had withdrawn. " Now
my boy, let us talk about your affairs."

Tom was silent ; his thoughts naturally
reverting to his father — the gallant
old gentlemen whom he had seen so
seldom ; and of whom he knew so

little. The Doctor's tlious^lits turned
also in the same direction, and he recalled
his friend as he remembered him a gay,
lively boy and fellow scholar. With a
sigh and a quick movement of his head,
he banished these reflections, and returned
to the subject that had to be discussed.


*' His will is there," said Doctor
Blandly, taking a folded sheet of parchment
from his pocket and laying it upon
the table. '' You will take it with you
and read it at your pleasure, Tom. It is
simple and clear. Excepting a few unimportant
legacies your father has left
all to you without restraint or stipulation
as I told you in my letter."

Is there no one to share it with
me?"

No one. Your mother died at your
birth, and I never knew of any relations
either on her side or your father's who

have any claim to participation. The
lawyers have had the will in hand, and your
signature alone is wanting to finish the
formalities. Virtually, you are now in
possession of the Kent estate, and property
yielding nigh upon three thousand
a sear. I have visited Talbot Hall. You
have a very good steward ; his accounts
are quite correct. The Hall itself stands
in need of repairs — an expense which
must be undertaken under any circumstances.
The property is safely invested
and all you have to settle is — what will
you do with it ?"

That question has been continually
in my mind since I received your letter,
and I am unprepared with an answer
to it now. I must follow in my father's
footsteps, and be guided by you, if you
will let me tax your kindness."

Don't talk nonsense, Tom. You know
that I should break my heart if you ceased

to accept my services. Are you tired of
travel ?"

"Neo, I prefer it to staying in one
place."

'' Good. You have to live another
score of years before you can content
yourself with a world bounded by four
brick walls. Unfortunately a man cannot
begin to enjoy his bachelor estate in its
fullest comfort until he is fifty. He has
to acquire sufficient wisdom. So you will
travel again ?"

I have thought so."

You can't do better. A young man
with a decent appearance, an amiable
condition, and money, is never safe. A
designing woman can flatter him into the
belief that she loves him better than
anyone else, and he is betrayed by the
generosity of his nature into offering her
marriage. Then he is lost — made overhand
and foot to the Philistines. I would

have every boy made to learn the history
of Sampson by heart. Thanks to your
natural taste for never staying in one
place longer than half a day, you stand
a good chance of being happy in your
declining years. Of course, you have no
intention of marrying ?"

None."

And you do not feel disposed to live
at Talbot Hall.

"No."

Then my advice is, that as soon as you
get tired of my port, you shall go abroad
again."

Tom looked at the fire dreamily, without
answering. He scarcely heeded what
the Doctor was saying at that moment,
for his hand which had slipped into his
pocket rested on a shoe — the shoe Lady
Betty had taken from her foot for his
guide in the purchase of skates, and he
was thinking of the winsome maid.

Doctor Blandly looked at him, and saw a
smile play about this lips, and a soft
tenderness in bis eyes, which alarmed
him.

'' Hum ! and where do you think of
going next, my boy ?" he asked briskly.

'^ I have not the slightest notion," Tom
answered, arousing himself.

I thought of going to South America
next, but I have changed my mind.
Somehow I seem to have lost my relish
for new places, and the old — well, the
best of the old is here. Doctor. Perhaps,
after all, I shall stay a few months in
England."

What is that you keep turning over in
your pocket ?"

A maid's shoe," answered Tom,
drawing it out and looking at it with
admiring eyes — " isn't it pretty ?"

The Doctor took it in his hands, turned
it over, and fiercely said :

I'll be hanged if I think it a jot better
looking than mine."

I cannot agree with you," said Tom,
laughing, as he slipped the shoe gently
back into his pocket.

That woman said she had a daughter ;
now I'll wager the shoe's hers."

You win ; it is."

*' Ah ! I thought so ; a chip of the old
block. Pretty of course, and a fool."

On the contrary, I think she is
clever."

So much the worse — Baxter wife's
clever."

Tom laughed.

There the comparison ends," said
he.

'' Tom, I don't like it. The mother is
designing, and has been pretty enough,
and if the girl has as much cunning and
more prettiness, she will just marry you
for your money, if you give her the

dance. My boy, it is more necessary
than ever that you should go to South
America — to Jericho — anywhere, that you
may be safe from a clever, pretty girl,
whose very shoe-leather makes you forget
that you are a man and a bachelor."

Tom thought a moment, then emptying
his glass, he cried in a reckless spirit :

Well, perhaps it will be wise. And
what am I to do with all my money — that
has yet to be settled."

I can manage that for you, as I
managed it for your father. I will let
you know when you overdraw your
income and trespass upon capital."

No fear of that. My expenses will
not increase. The money can accumulate,
and when the time comes for me to
write my last will and testament, I can
settle it all on a charity."

'' What could be better ?" asked Doctor
Blandly.

Perhaps Tom was thinking it might be
better to leave it to one's own children
than those of others, for he said somewhat
sadly :

And the Hall — one can't sell a house
that has descended from father to son
for a couple of hundred years."

It may stand as a monument to their
memory, my boy."

Tom nodded his head in thoughtful
silence.

*' And now I have to speak on another
matter," said the Doctor, altering his
amiable tone of voice and speaking with
cold precision. '' It is a subject which is
new to you, and one that is unpleasant to
broach ; but it must nevertheless be discussed.
Give me your close attention
for a few minutes. During the later part
of his life, your father paid an annual sum
of four hundred pounds to two individuals
— two hundred to each. It was

entirely an act of generosity on his part.
He never mentioned the fact to you— he
wished you not to know these individuals
or their history. They themselves are
ignorant of the source from which this
annual payment arises. With the Admiral's
death this payment naturally
terminates, for they have no place in his
will. He could not mention them, for
that would have betrayed, or led to the
betrayal of a secret which for your own
peace of mind he wished you not to know.
Nevertheless, I believe he would have you
continue to make this small yearly allowance
at my discretion. He might have
simplified the matter by leaving me a
sum to discharge this payment ; but he
had some forced notion of delicacy in
doing that."

Which I fully participate. It would
be an ungenerous return for your kindness
to make you appear his debtor."

VOL. I. 13

My boy, what on earth does it matter
how we appear to others. "We do our
duty, we satisfy our own conscience, we
sleep o' nights, and it matters nothing
how we appear. We are not women."

'' I do not wish to discover my father's
secret," said Tom, after a few minutes' reflection
; " but I should be glad to know
if the amount paid to these two persons
is sufficient for their wants. I would
willingly double it."

There is no necessity. One of them
would not be satisfied with all your
money, and I am sometimes inclined to
stop his allowance altogether ; the other
is not in need of any assistance. Give
them two hundred a year a-piece if you
will, but give them no more."

Be it so. And you will let me leave
the disposition of my property in your
hands to invest as you will, and take that
difficulty off my hands ?"

'' Willingly."

Tom held out his hand, and pressed
Doctor Blandly's in silent acknowledgement
of his gratitude.

*' One word to conclude that subject,"
said the Doctor, holding the young man's
hand ; '' I shall write to the lawyers tomorrow
morning, and they in answer will
fix a day for yoU to attend at Lincoln's
Inn. I will bid them name a day as early
as possible. Then your signatures being
made, nothing need delay your departure.
Until that time you will be my guest, will
you not r"

I have promised to visit Mrs. St.
Cyr."

'' Ah, I had forgotten that shoe. Well,
well — return it as quickly as possible, and
have no more to do with those designing
persons than is absolutely necessary.
Mark me — nothing good can come to you
from that acquaintance. And now let

13—2

US talk of something more agreeable."


The chatted without interruption, until
old Jerry on half entering the room
said:

Are you disengaged, master ?"

'' Yes, what is it ?"

I don't wish to trouble you, Sir. I
can come again in five or ten minutes."

*' What do you want to say ?"

It's only the parson. He's kicking at
the gate. You can see him from the
window."

Open the gate at once; and look here,
Jerry, my man ; you will do well to have a
little more respect for my visitors. If I
was the parson, I'd never give you another
sixpence."

'' Lord love you, master," answered
Jerry, lingering at the door, " I wonder
who'd help him over the garden wall when
Mrs. Baxter comes to the garden-gate for

bim if I was to forsake him in his hour of
need. Hark to him, master !"

Open the gate at once, you old fool !
don't stand there grinning and rubbing
your hands."

The Reverend Mr. Baxter, standing on
tiptoe, whistled and knocked alternately to
attract attention. From the window Tom
could see his two hands clutching the top,
and half of his jolly red face shining
above it.

PREMONITORY SYMPTOMS.

T was with satisfaction that Tom
Talbot found ice in the river
when he rose the following
morning. If the frost had broken he
would not have been called upon to teach
Lady Betty to skate, and nothing might
have taken place to prevent his following
the counsel of Doctor Blandly. Scraping
the frost from the window, and looking
over the gently undulating English landscape,
where every twig and branch stood

out sharp and distinct against the still, cold
sky ; he had less desire than ever for the
expansive grandeur and fervid mists of
South America. Solitude had lost its
sublimity — or sublimity its charms for
him.

After breakfast he took the stage to
London. He bought a pair of strong,
useful skates for himself at the first shop
he came to, but he found nothing sufficiently
light and pretty for Lady Betty
until he had examined the stock of half a
dozen shops. It was half-past two when
he reached the Chesnuts.

Lady Betty must have seen him coming,
for the door opened before he reached it,
and she ran to meet him, her open face
aglow with sparkling delight. Suddenly
she checked herself, seeming to remember
that she was no longer a child, and waited
for him to approach with a blush upon
her cheek and eyes that sought now the

ground, now his face, in pretty bashfulness.


"You are glad to see me?" Tom said,
looking in her face.

Yes ; and are not you glad to see me
also?"

Tom did not answer ; his tongue seemed
to refuse its office.

Are you afraid to flatter me ?" asked
she.

Lady Betty," said he, " I know not
how it comes that I am silent when I so
wish to speak, unless it be that there
are no words to express my happiness."

With a little cry of gratification Lady
Betty slipped her hand under Tom's arm,
and her step seemed to gain in elasticity.


It is a new happiness to be so welcomed."


Mamma says that Doctor Blandly was
prodigiously glad to see you."

Hum ! why that's true," said Tom,
with some hesitation ; then, looking sideways
at Lady Betty's face to see what
there was in it which should make her
greeting so much more effective than
Doctor Blandly's, he added, " but your
welcome is not the same as his, and you
are not in the least like him."

I am very glad of it if mamma's description
of him is exact — lie says he looks
like an hostler and speaks like a bear,"
said Lady Betty, laughing.

At this moment they came to the door,
where mamma stood prepared to receive
him — all smiles and feathers.

My dear Mr. Talbot, I am so overjoyed
to see you. I hope you are quite
well — and that dear old Doctor Blandly. I
protest I am quite infatuated with him —
his manly, straightforward way of speaking,
and his honest English face, are ever
present in my memory."

Lady Betty withdrew behind her
mamma to hide her mirth, and put
her finger on her hips as a signal of
silence to Tom.

'doctor Blandly is quite well," said
Tom, '' and he begged me to say that you
need not trouble yourself to call upon him
as he intends writing to you in the course
of the day."

'' It will be no trouble, but, on the contrary,
a pleasure'*

'' I am afraid you would be disappointed
if you went with the hope of
seeing him, the — the bell is out of order,
and — and when the Doctor is working
in the garden he invariably — that is
he will invariably have the front gate
locked."

'' Ah, he is a little shy at present, but I
daresay that will wear off after we have
exchanged a few letters."

Not to flatter Mrs. St. Cyr with celui



sive hopes, Torn asked Lady Betty if she
would take her first skating lesson before
the light faded. Lady Betty wished for
nothing better.

A man must have his wits about him to
nicely adjust a skate on the small surface
of a pretty girl's foot. Tom's wits
deserted him from the moment he took
Lady Betty's foot in his hand. He felt
never more clumsy in his life. He
grew warm, his fingers trembled and
slipped, grazing his knuckles against the
sharp steel ; he twisted the straps, and
buckled them first too loose then too
tight ; in a word, his bungling efforts
were sufficient to tire one's patience, yet
Lady Betty only laughed. She seemed
to enjoy his confusion; she did not find
fault or attempt to help him, though it
was perfectly clear that she could have
done the whole business for herself in a
couple of minutes. It inspired her with

delightful hopes of conquest, to have him
kneeling at her feet, for she was a tyrant
at heart. And what man could she prefer
for her slave to one who had vaunted his
independence, and talked lightly of leaving
her.

As for Tom, he felt he was no longer
master of himself from the moment he
bent his knee ; but he took on his chains
readily, not knowing how soon they would
gall him.

Thank you," said Lady Betty, when
he had finished buckling on her skates,
and proceeded to strap on his own ; " my
feet have given you a great deal of
trouble."

'Tis my faulty hand that gives me
trouble, and not your foot — that is faultless."


So I have been told," said Lady Betty,
demurely.

Tom did not answer.

Now who on earth can have told her
so ?" he asked himself, giving a vicious
tug at his skate-straps ; '^ clearly someone
whose opinion she values. A woman
would not be likely to tell her of her perfections.
It must have been a man, and
as she hasn't any relations, who the deuce
has a right to pass remarks upon her
feet ?"

Women are quick to make deductions
from the slightest actions of men in whom
they take interest. Lady Betty drew her
own conclusions from Tom's silence and
that intemperate pull at his skate-straps.
Had he looked up at that moment he
would have seen mischief sparkling in her
pretty eyes.

I could make him wretchedly jealous
if I chose," thought Lady Betty. The
thought, however, was transitory, for she
was eager to learn, and as Tom rose to
his feet he found nothing but sweet expectancy

in her face, and under the influence
of her smile his brow grew smooth
again.

'' Give me jour left hand, Lady Betty,"
he said, " now your right."

What great, strong hands you
have !"

'the better for serving you. Keep
your arms firm. Your left foot forward,
now your right, left — not too fast, left
again — so !"

Lady Betty required little teaching, she
was fearless and quick, and following Tom's
movements, she got on rapidly. After a
time, Mrs. St. Cyr came to the edge of
the pond and regarded her daughter's
movements with proud satisfaction.

There, mamma, what do you think of
that ?" asked Lady Betty, when Tom led
her up to Mrs. St. Cyr.

Prodigious, my love !" answered Mrs.
St. Cyr. *' The grace and the elegance

are astonishing, and I am not in the least
surprised that the skating has become a
fashionable pastime. I hear, Mr. Talbot,
that the Prince has performed the cotillions
in company with the Duchess of
Donegal, and Mrs. FitzHerbert, upon the
waters at Windsor."

«< Very likely, madam, I have seen
women, carrying baskets of butter on
their heads, skate to market in the low
countries," answered Tom.

*' Take me away again," cried Lady
Betty impatient of delay, " the sun is
already behind the trees "

Mrs. St Cyr stood on the bank, watching
the skaters until her feet were numbed,
and she had reason to fear that the end of
her nose was growing vulgarly red, when
she waved an adieu and returned to the
house, leaving the young people to follow
by themselves — an arrangement which
agreed well with their inclinations.

Am I a good pupil ?" asked Lady
Betty, when the dark compelled them to
leave the ice, and Tom was removing her
skates.

'' You are too apt. I fear you will be
able to dispense with your teacher too
soon."

You were anxious to leave me,
and only undertook to teach me by
compulsion, I believe. Have you abandoned
your intention of leaving England
soon ?"

*' To tell you the truth, I was never so
disinclined to leave it. After another
lesson you will be able to skate alone;
then I shall have no excuse for staying
here''

Oh ! I can supply you with as many
excuses as you need. In the first place,
I do not want to skate alone — in the
second, it would not be safe for me — I
should be nervous and timid the moment

I felt there was no one to save me if I
were in peril."

"You do not seem wanting incourage."


That is because you mistake my confidence
in you for self-reliance. I should
never feel afraid while a gentleman was

near me."

I am afraid you flatter our sex unduly.
We are not all to be trusted in emergency.
In danger women are frequently braver
than men."

"I don't think so," Lady Betty said
emphatically.

*' You judge men by the fictions they
have written of their own heroism ; I
judge by experience."

So do I," said Lady Betty, drily.

Tom looked at her in surprise and
found her with her eyes fixed on the path
they were treading, and the delicate lines
of her brows bent in a frown.

VOL. I. 14

There were twenty-one of us,"
pursued Lady Betty. " Some girls o£
my own age, others older, and three
governesses, as old and as tough as — as
Oliver Cromwell; regular Ironsides all
three. We were out taking the air, and
had to cross the Lea river by one of the
lock gates. There where two boards and
an iron rail. We were told to hold the
rail in crossing with both hands — and
that was just sufficient to make me not
hold it at all, as there happened to be a
gentleman on the bank looking at us.
And I tripped over a horrid nail, and fell
in.

'' The young girls cried, the elder hid
their faces in their hands, and the three
governesses fainted away — and I was left
in the water to get out by my own efforts
or drown. Luckily Philip Norman saved
me. And so, Mr. Talbot, I think my
experience proves by twenty to one, that

female courage is less reliable than you
tMuk it."

Philip Norman was the name of the
fellow on the bank who looked at you as
you were crossing, I suppose?"

'rit was !" answered Lady Betty, in a
grave voice, casting a rapid glance at
Tom's sombre face. " And I shall never
forget him," she added, bending her head
to conceal the merry twinkling mischief
of her eyes.

Lucky rascal," muttered Tom.
'' Well, of course, the girls couldn't
swim ; and if there was a man there he
was compelled, in common decency, to
plunge in and rescue you."

"Yes," Lady Betty said, with a soft
sigh.

'' He would have deserved thrashing
if he had not."

From Tom's tone of voice it seemed as
if he thought Philip Norman ought to

14—2

have a thrashing all the same for having
done his duty. Lady Betty who felt as
if she were being tickled in church, had
the utmost difficulty to keep a grave face.
She put her handkerchief to her eyes, and
sighed again.

He did not lose his life in saving
yours, did he ?" Tom asked, remarking
this sign of grief.

Lady Betty shook her head in silence,
and turned her face aside.

*' Then hang him !" said Tom, to himself.
*' She knows his name, so it is clear
he took advantage of the accident to
"pay himself for his trouble "

I haven't seen him for three months'*
said Lady Betty, her face still averted,
and a corner of her handkerchief in her
mouth.

You saw him frequently afterwards,
then?"

** Every week," murmured Lady Betty,

her shoulders making a convulsive
movement: which passed well for subdued
grief, but owed its origin to suppressed
laughter. Tom's tone increased in moody
suspicion with each word.

'you saw him every week — here?"
he asked.

Xo. Mamma has never seen
him."

'' A clandestine affair !" said Tom to
himself. " It is scandalous the amount
of harm that is done to simple girls by
the neglect of those to whom they are
entrusted by over-confiding parents.
Here is some idle vagabond ogling a
girl's school, when fortune gives him the
opportunity of fishing a girl out of the
water. He presumes upon the impression
this trivial service has upon her
romantic disposition, to contract an
acquaintance with her, unknown to her
mother. He deserves to be kicked !"

Lady Betty had changed her elastic step
for one of sentimental slowness.

Tom broke the silence.

I suppose this young man, this Philip
Norman, has no occupation ?"

He is only a poor artist. But if you
please we will change the subject. Let us
talk of something more interesting to
you."

No subject can be more interesting
than that which concerns Lady Betty's
happiness."

Lady Betty made a courtesy, drew along
sigh, put her handkerchief in her pocket,
and in a tone of assumed cheerfulness,
observed that she thought it would freeze
again in the night.

I am of your opinion," answered Tom,
and then relapsing into silence, he said to
himself : " An artist. I know the sort of
man — waving hair over his shoulders,
moustaches and a chin tuft, after the style

of Vandyke — a big list and a ribbon to his
breeches. And I'm to take his place and
to amuse my Lady Betty until she makes
another romantic attachment. Ha ! we
shall see. Perhaps I'm not such a weak
fool as she thinks me. By George, I wish
the frost would break, I would be off

bv the first vessel that leaves the

t/

docks !"

Is it colder than this in Russia ?" asked
Lady Betty, demurely.

'' Yes— considerably."

Silence again, while Tom continued his
train of thought. " I would like to see the
fellow though, just to tell him what I think
of him. A poor innocent, thoughtless
child — she is scarcely more ! By heaven !
I would have him out on the grass if he
dared to come within five miles of her
after I have warned him off."

I don't think we shall have snow'*
observed Lady Betty.

PREMONITORY SYMPTOMS.

With a struggle Tom brought himself to
talk upon meteorology, and they were still
exchanging questions and answers on this
expansive subject when they reached the
house.

^'^

CHAPTER XR'.

*' THE BEST LAID SCHEMES."

ES. ST. CYR was in lier room

reading a letter which had been

delivered by old Jerry, with a

brief message to the effect that Doctor

Blandly did not require an answer.

The letter ran thus :

Edinontoiij December 15th, 1800.

"Madam,

If yon are yet minded to invest your

money in an annuity, you may take your

papers to Mr. Goodman, of Lincoln's Inn,

whom I have instructed bv letter to-daj

to pay you the sum of eight hundred
pounds per annum during the term of
your life, in consideration of receiving the
capital which you purpose sinking.
Proper guarantees being exchanged, you
will be entitled to draw your first
quarterly payment on the 24th day of this
month. This you may do if you will, but
I repeat that it is directly opposed to your
own interests, as I judge them, and to my
advice. Your heirs can claim nothing at
your death, even though accident or
disease should terminate your existence
on the day of signing the contract.

'* If you will be guided by reason — live
plainly, avoid excitement, and draw what
income is necessary for your wants from
your capital without investing it unwisely
in an annuity.

I am, Madam,

Your servant,

Benjamin Blandly'*

A very satisfactory letter indeed !"
said Mrs. St. Gyr to herself, as lie folded
the letter after reading; it. " It seems too
good to be true. Eight hundred a year is
at least two more than I expected, and
more than I should have been likely to get
from anyone else.

I have made a prodigious good
bargain for a certainty, thanks to the
old gentleman's high opinion of himself
and his own judgment. I suppose
I looked anxious and pale at our interview
— indeed I felt exceedingly uncomfortable,
what with the smoke from his
horrid bonfire, his unpleasant behaviour,
and the fear that he would discover the
scent he objected to was my essence of
musk and coromandel. I never had any
serious illness. I never felt better in my
life than at present, and as to disease —
the most objectionable word he could
possibly find — it is a preposterous supposition.

I am a little stouter than I could
wish, but that is because I am, if anything,
too robust in health. If I had
known that he would grant me an annuity,
I should have taken pains to appear more
delicate than I feel, an attack of the palpitations
in his presence might have
procured me another hundred a year.
However, I have every reason to be
satisfied. With eight hundred a year
one can live in a very genteel
style."

Mrs. St. Cyr read the letter through
once more, then hearing voices in the
room below, she hastily slipped it into a
drawer, locked it up carefully, and descended
to the drawing-room.

She was too occupied with her own
affairs, and elated with the prospect of
speedily realising her long cherished
hopes, to notice that Tom and Lady Betty
were more silent than usual—indeed she

allowed them no scope for exercising their
conversational powers, for no sooner had she
entered the room than she began to speak
upon the subject uppermost in her mind,
with a volubility which might be likened
to a torrent into which side streams
naturally flow and lose their individuality.


Embrace me, my love," she said to
Lady Betty, " embrace me. I have received
a most satisfactory letter from
Doctor Blandly, and my fondest wishes
may be put into execution immediately.
Mr. Talbot, you will excuse me for introducing
my personal affairs before you;
but I am sure you will be interested in
that which concerns the welfare of my
darling child and myself."

Madam, I can assure you I
feel "

*' Oh, you have a right to my confidence,
for you have been instrumental in

producing my felicity, and I regard you
as a dear relative and an old friend rather
than a new acquaintance. I cannot tell
you how highly I appreciate your friendship,
but you can understand how deeply
grateful I am to Providence that sent you
to my assistance, when I tell you that
without you my dear child and I might
have been utterly ruined."

Oh, mamma — ruined !"

Kiss me, my darling, it is the truth ;
but for Doctor Blandly' s intervention I
should have placed the whole of my fortune
and yours in the hands of some one who
would have robbed us. We are singularly
placed, Mr. Talbot. I have neither relations
nor friends on whose judgment I can
rely. My only acquaintances are one or two
neighbouring families, composed of women
that are perfectly idiotic, and men who
are no better. I have lived in a state of
isolation while my child has been at school,

and we know absolutely no gentlemen — do
we, Betty ?"

Lady Betty did not reply.

Tom, coming with chivalrous promptitude
to her assistance, said :

** I am sure any man so fortunately
placed as myself, could do no less
than "

'* Mr. Talbot, you have given such proof
of disinterested regard for us two unfriended
women that it would be unjust
for us to place you in the same category
with ordinary acquaintances. You are
our friend, a dear friend on whose support
and guidance I feel that we may
rely with confidence in the critical position
we shall shortly occupy, and, as a
friend, I shall claim rather than solicit
your assistance."

But, mamma, you have not asked Mr.
Talbot whether "

Mrs. St. Cyr sealed her daughter's

lips with a kiss, and said, in a gentle
tone :

'' Do not interrupt me, darling. Give
me your best attention, my charmer, for
this is a subject which closely concerns
yourself. The questions I have to put to
Mr. Talbot will come in their fitting place.
My husband, Mr. Talbot, died while Lady
Betty was still an infant. The fortune he
left was not large enough to permit of
retaining a large establishment, and I had
no longer the inclination to live in a
grand style.

*' I was a young mother and a
young widow, and you can well imagine
that in my position the only thought I
had was for my child. To provide for
her future was my first care, and I
retired at once to this secluded part.
I placed my money in the public funds,
drawing only sufficient to provide for
my own wants and Lady Betty's education

in order that principle and interest
should accumulate, so as to allow of her
taking a suitable position in society when
she left school. Anxious to obtain as
large an income as possible, I intended
to remove mj capital from the bank and
place it in the hands of a financial agent,
who would invest it to the best advantage.


You now see the risk to which
I should have exposed myself, but for
Doctor Blandly. He kindly warned me
against the public adventurer, and promised
to find, if he could, some profitable
aud safe investment. That promise he
kept, and this afternoon he writes to
inform me that I may rely on receiving
eight hundred pounds a year for the
use of my capital. 1 shall accept his
offer without hesitation."

'' You may do so with perfect confidence,"
said Tom; "your property

VOL. I. 15

in his hands will be as safe as if
it were his own. Not only will the
interest be promptly paid, but the
capital, should you wish to withdraw it,
will "

I am perfectly satisfied," Mrs. St.
Cyr, said hastily. " And now, Mr. Talbot,
wee come to a more interesting part of
the subject. I am to receive my first
quarterly payment on the ensuing quarter-day."


That is to say, three months from the
present date."

'' No ; on the twenty-fourth of this
month. Is that unusual, Mr. Talbot
?"

I have never known interest on
capital to be paid in advance, although
1 believe payment is occasionally made on
annuities, on the day of capital being
transferred ; but I know little if anything
about financial arrangements, and

I can quite believe that Doctor Blandly
would procure all the advantage for
you "

Precisely ; that undoubtedly accounts
for everything. What a dear, good man !"
Mrs. St. Cyr gave a deep sigh of satisfaction
as this dangerous joint was
rounded, and proceeded, " I am to conclude
the business through Mr. Goodman,
of Lincoln's Inn."

Doctor Blandly' s solicitor. I myself
am to see him shortly."

He is a trustworthy man, of
course. For although I have no hesitation
in telling you my affairs, I
should not like them divulged, you understand."


*' Mr. Goodman is as discreet as Doctor
Blandly himself."

*' How charming it is to have to do
business with such people ! Well, Mr.
Talbot, I intend to carry out my 



pose without delay. I shall sell this house
at once."

My poor pigeons !" sighed Lady
Betty.

My darling, you are no longer a child.
Pigeons are very well in a pasty, or asa
side dish !"

'' Fancy my Maggie as a side dish !
I will never eat pigeons again. Go on,
mamma. I will bid my pets good-bye
tomorrow."

'with the proceeds of the sale one
might buy a very elegant chariot and pair
a rich yellow chariot. What do you
think, Mr. Talbot ?"

I think it is quite possible,
madam."

'* With respect to a house. I cut an
advertisement from ' The Times ' newspaper
which I think very appropriate.
I have it here in my purse. You are
near the light, will you read that

and tell me what you think of
it."

Tom took the cutting, and read it with
some perplexity.

Will you be good enough to read it
aloud for Lady Betty's benefit ?" said
Mrs. St. Cyr-

* It is pleasing to observe in these
enlightened times,' " Tom read, '' ' that
the eulogies of all classes hath been bestowed
upon Dr. Solomon's Cordial Balm
of Gilead and Elixir of Guaiacum, prepared
only at the repertory, and considered
by the faculty as the most
soothing ' "

Mrs. St. Cyr interrupted him, and
with many apologies for her mistake,
produced and offered the advertisement
she intended for him; he read it
aloud while Lady Betty smothered her
laughter.

* To be let, from Christmas, a neat

house, known as Mr. Johnson's, Park
Lane, suitable to a modern genteel family,
at a rental of ninety-five pounds per
annum.' "

"That is it. What do you think of
Park Lane, Mr. Talbot?"

■' It is a very agreeable part of
London."

I am delighted with your approval,
and if you will be so good as to escort
us we will go and see it tomorrow.
I hope and trust it may not be taken.
I shall want some additions in the way
of furniture, but as I am pretty well
supplied with china, that will not cost
me a great deal. You think I have
enough china to appear genteel, Mr.
Talbot ?"

Ample," said Tom, and he added to
himself, " and enough besides for a
genteel museum."

Well then, I consider the house in

Park Lane as good as taken and furnished,
and all that we now want is an
agreeable circle of acquaintances —
and that, Mr. Talbot, I shall count
upon your successful efforts to
obtain."

At this moment dinner was announced,
and whatever Tom might have had to say
in objection to this arrangement, remained
unsaid, for Lady Betty, who had a capital
appetite, which she was not ashamed of,
rose from her seat with a cry of satisfaction
as soon as the maid appeared at
the door.

In obedience to the dictates of " good
breeding," Mrs. St. Cyr gave a general
turn to conversation, and allowed it to
meander slowly along during the repast,
without either hindrance or assistance
from herself — her mind still being
engrossed in the one great scheme
of her life.

The moment they returned to the
drawing-room she re-opened the subject
with renewed vigour, starting with the
assumption that Tom had agreed to give
his time to making acquaintances at the
clubs, coffee-houses, and assemblies, whom
he would forthwith introduce to the ladies
in their new home, the neat house in Park
Lane.

Tom would have been dull indeed had
he not detected from Mrs. St. Cyr's
observations the principal object she
had in view, and that did not
encourage him to look more favourably
at the prospect of a season in
London.

Hum !" said he to himself. '* Perhaps
I shall be lucky enough to meet with
Lady Betty's interesting preserver — the
artist she has lost sight of for three
months, and when she has him at her
feet, and as many suitors besides as I

can rake together, I maj be permitted to
retire from the scene."

Tom's discontent was stimulated by
perceiving that his gloom served only
to divert Lady Betty. She had seated
herself at the table with paper and pencil
at the commencement of the evening, and
devoted herself to sketching; but more
than once when she raised her head their
eyes met, and he found a merry twinkle
in hers which he knew was not provoked
by any mirthfulness in his. His dulness
was at length perceived by Mrs. St. Cyr,
who taking it as a sign that he would
be glad of a little variety, brought her
discourse to a conclusion with a sigh.

*' My love, what have you been
designing ?" she asked of Lady
Betty.

A portrait from memory, mamma
dear — the portrait of a dear, dear
friend."

Tom pricked his ears, for Lady Betty's
voice was sad.

'' Let me look at it, my sweet one.
Lady Betty has great skill with the pencil,
and excels in the water-colours — she has
taken several prizes, and been highly complimented
by her master. Oh, my dear !
this is too bad of you — you are really
too satiric ! Yet 'tis an excellent portrait
of the dear old gentleman, I
protest. Mr. Talbot, you shall, give
me your opinion of the production."


The sketch was a spirited caricature
of an elderly gentleman in an antiquated
costume.

"It is admirably drawn, and very
droll," said Tom. " Do I understand
that it is the portrait of a
friend ?"

The portrait of her own drawing-master
— the brother of the ladies at

whose school Lady Betty has received
her education. But he is something
more to her than a teacher, for when
she was quite a child he saved her from
drowning."

With a boat hook !" exclaimed Lady
Betty, clasping her hands in mock
emotion.

** And his name is Philip Norman.
I trust, my love, he has got better of
the lumbago."

What a fool I have been ?" said
Tom to himself. Then his spirits revived
; he became gay, and spoke of
the coming events in London with positive
enthusiasm.

When they separated for the night —
Mrs. St. Cyr being occupied in trimming
the wick of the candle for Tom's use —
Lady Betty gave her hand to him, and
said in a low voice and with an arch
smile :

'' You will never be jealous again ?"
And be answered, "Never;" snatching
ber finger tips to bis lips, and
pressing a silent kiss upon them, while
bis very soul seemed to flame in ibis
eyes.

Never ! What solemn word is more
lightly used?

THE ESTABLISHMENT IN Park LANE.

Y love !" said Mrs. St. Cyr to
Lady Betty, as she sat surrounded
by tier china in the
drawing-room of the neat house in
Park Lane, " I must admit that I
am greatly disappointed in Mr.
Talbot."

Why, mamma? He has not
altered."

That is precisely my reason for
feeling disappointment. Except that he
has had his hair cut in accordance

with the fashion, he is not a pin better
than he was the first day we saw him.
He dresses as plainly as a Quaker,
and he absolutely laughs at the Prince
of Wales. Now what sort of society is
likely to be introduced to us by a man
who makes a mock of the finest gentleman
in Europe?"

He has introduced us to all
the friends he knows in London."


And we should have been quite
as well without them. Two of them
were bearded like savages, a third
could talk of nothing but the wild
beasts he had shot in foreign parts,
a fourth wore a coat that was threadbare,
and their main object seemed to
be to eat as much as possible at
dinner, and make fun of the aristocracy.
I declare Mr. Talbot seems to draw
his friends from the meanest classes of

society, and I consider he is wanting
in respect to bring such men here at
all."

He only did it to oblige you; he
appears ill at ease the whole time they
are with us."

"It is as much on their account as
ours."

'' Possibly. But he warned us that
his friends were unused to ladies'
society. You have one consolation,
mamma — from the evident satisfaction
these gentlemen had in bidding us
adieu, it was clear that they intended
never to trouble us again with their
society."

'Tis extremely provoking. Here
have we been in London a month, with
one of the handsomest chariots in the
West End, a servant in livery, a home
furnished at an expense which I should
have considered it impossible to incur,

spent all our available money and got
into debt besides, and haven't seen a
man that's worth more than eighty
pounds a year."

You forget Mr. Talbot, whom we see
every day."

My love, we did not go to all this
expense for him. In my opinion, you
might have made him engage himself
to you before ever we left Winch-more."


"It is not too late now, mamma,
perhaps."

There is no doubt he would marry
you tomorrow, if you encouraged him,
but you know that I have more
expanded views. I would have you
marry a title, my love — with money of
course, and it is for that purpose alone
I came to London, and undertook all
these terrible expenses. Why do you
shake your head, my dear?"

Because I think you are not quite
truthful in saying that."

I admit I anticipated certain pleasures
for myself — but what have we
found ? What enjoyment is there in
riding about in our chariot when there
is not a soul to bow to ?"

"I find enjoyment in looking about
me — in seeing people and rich dresses —
in feeling the fresh air — in the rapid
motion — in everything."

That is the fault of youth — when you
get my age "

I hope I shall be just as faulty," said
Lady Betty, concluding Mrs. St. Cyr's
sentence, and laughing cheerfully.

'* 'Tis no better at the play-house,"
continued Mrs. St. Cyr, still in a tone of
discontent. " What is the use of a side-box
? I protest we should be as well off in
the pit."

'' Better for seeing, I think."

VOL. I. 16

People who can afford the side boxes
don't go to the play to see so much as
to be seen ; to run in and out of each
other's boxes, banging the doors to attract
attention."

'' I never enjoyed anything more than
The Road to Ruin'"

And I never anything less. A comedy
they called it. It might have been the
most doleful tragedy for any amusement
1 could find in it. I felt perfectly wretched
to see everyone laughing, staring at each
other, and nodding at friends. When
people spy at us through their glasses,
'tis with a kind of who-the-Dickens-can
that-be look on their faces, and no one
even bowed to us, except one of Mr.
Talbot's bearded savages in the back row
of the pit ; a fine compliment indeed —
and I with feathers on my head that cost
twelve pounds."

*' Perhaps he would not have bowed,

if they had. not attracted his observation."


That is not what we are talking
about. I repeat I have reason to be
disappointed in Mr. Talbot. I am sure
I miss no opportunity of hinting my
wishes to him, but he takes no notice.
He will not be gay and spirited."

Mrs. St. Cyr fanned herself in silence
for a minute, then continued :

'' A gentleman with money can always
make friends. If he would only go into
some of the card-rooms — Brook's or
White's, he would find many fine gentlemen
only too glad to make his
acquaintance."

*' Gentlemen seeking his acquaintance
because he has money, would do so chiefly
because they have none ; and they are
not the kind of gentlemen you wish to
know."

There you are in error. These fine

IG— 2

gentlemen without money are bound to
know fine gentlemen with money, or they
could not live at all ; and when they
cannot afford to pay for a dinner to
their rich friends, they are only too
glad to take them to dine at somebody
else's expense. And that is how your
fine gentleman without money makes
himself useful, and contrives to keep
himself in favour with all parties."

Lady Betty laughed.

'' I see nothing to laugh at, my love.
As 1 have said — all I can do by hinting
I have done without effect; and I think
you now ought to suggest in a pleasant
manner to Mr. Talbot, that you would
like him to go to the card-rooms and —
and -"

Lose his money in making friends
to be his rivals — hey, mamma? Well, I
will — that is he knocking at the door
now — I will ask him when he comes in."

Then for Heaven's sake let me get
out of the room as quickly as possible !"
cried Mrs. St. Cyr, starting up from her
seat in alarm.

TOM Proposes — LADY BETTY DISPOSES.

ADY BETTY was tambourine
continued working with
a grave expression on her
young face until the door opened and
Tom Talbot entered the room; then she
raised her head, stuck her needle in the
canvas, and holding out her hand, welcomed
the friend with a smile.

Come and sit beside me. I have
something to say to you. Mamma and I
have been talking about you. She has
this moment left the room."

Tom seated himself on the sofa by her
side, while she taking her needle again,
resumed her work.

Do you know mamma's motive incoming
to London — in spending more
than she can afford — in keeping a yellow
chariot, and selling my poor pigeons ?"
she asked, when Tom after making a few
conventional remarks, waited for her to
speak.

I believe I do," he replied.

She wishes me to marry well."

No one knowing you could wish
anything else than that, Lady Betty."

'' The difficulty is to find a suitable
husband for me. The friends she knew
fourteen years ago are dispersed and
lost. She knows no one except the
gentlemen you have introduced, and
they are not altogether satisfactory —
from her point of view."

Her point of view may not be yours,

and it is you who are chiefly to be considered."


I may not agree with mamma on
all points, but I am quite at one with
her in regarding your friends as unmarriageable.
Is there any one of them
whom you would have tried to make my
husband ?"

JN^o ; but I would not willingly give
your hand to the noblest, worthiest man
in the world, though he were my dearest
friend."

A smile stole over Lady Betty's face
as she leaned over her tambour.

Mamma wishes you to go to one of
the card clubs and find me a husband
there."

Does Mrs. St. Cyr take me for a
perfect fool?" asked Tom, with a
laugh.

Lady Betty made no reply, but worked
on steadily.

"It is odd," continued Tom; "I was
at White's last night, and lost fifty
guineas to the prettiest gentleman in
the room. A charming man — handsome,
polite refined, and becoming the dress
of a gentleman so well as to force
one to admiration. I never lost my
money so willingly in my life, and
when we parted I begged him to
exchange cards that we might meet
again under more amiable conditions."


Do you intend to see him a second
time?" asked Lady Betty, looking up
from her work.

I have seen him a second time. I
sought him this morning, so much had
he fascinated me. We walked together
in the park, and separated — ten minutes
since, and not a hundred yards from
this house."

Lady Betty returned to her embroidery,

and worked in silent thoughtfulness.


"He is exactly the kind of man
your mamma is continually talking tome
about, the sort of man she would
make you marry if she could, and for
that reason I did not ask him to come
with me here."

That was ungenerous," Lady Betty
said, calmly.

It is ungenerous, selfish, mean —
what you will," he cried ; " say that
withal I lose my self-esteem — what
then? A man will sacrifice more than
that to possess a diamond, and if he
will sacrifice so much for a mere
stone that has its value in so many
pounds, shillings and pence, shall I
hesitate at losing so little to gain that
which is above all price !"

He took her hand from the frame
and pushed the tambour away, and

she, awed bj the earnestness with which
he spoke, and the passion which burned
in his eye and trembled on his lips,
looked with large-eyed wonder in his pale
face.

I have thought of you day and night,"
he continued, " and tried not to think.
I have left this house saying, ' I will
return no more,' and ere the night had
come counted the hours until morning,
impatient to see you again. I
have said, ' I will not love,' and I
love."

You frighten me, and you are crushing
my hand."

"I am not master of myself," he
said, relaxing his close grasp, yet retaining
her hand between his palms
with a gentleness that corresponded to
the tender tone to which his voice
sank; "I did not intend to say
what I have said ; 'tis my heart

and not mj brain that governs my
will."

"Would you unsay your words?"

Not for the world," lie cried,
quickly; ''I say again — I love you,
dear."

He did not fall upon his knee, he
did not attempt to kiss her, for there
was no blush upon Lady Betty's cheek,
no bashful yielding of her eyes, to
show a responding love. Lady Betty
was struggling to overcome her astonishment,
and look at the situation
in a clear and reasonable manner.


'' Say something to me, dear ; do
not look at me in such chilling
silence."

"I do not understand; I am still
confused," said Lady Betty, touched
by the sadness of Tom's voice, and the
piteous supplication in his eyes as he

looked upon her blank face. " Tell me
why you wished to leave me if you
loved me, and why, loving me, you
wished not to love me."

It was because I feared I could
not make you happy, the end of loving
being marriage and life-long union.
Our tastes, I saw, were at variance.
The whirl of life and fashion that you
sigh to gain I thought I might sigh
to quit."

Ah ! " exclaimed Lady Betty,
her eyes quickening with intelligent
light.

But that is a trifle. I can conform
my tastes with yours, make your pleasures
mine ; follow the world from
London to Cheltenham, Cheltenham to
Bath, and dress myself, if you will,
in any extravagance that fashion invents.
What will that matter if I
love ?"

Lady Betty looked at Tom no longer
with astonishment or coldness in her eyes,
but in kind compassion and tender sympathy
; yet he dared not take her in his
arms.

Tom," she said, after a moment's
silence, and she spoke with frank
freedom, " Tom, I love you better than
anyone in the world, and so I will not
conceal a single thought from you. You
have made a woman of me, and in a
few words taught me to look at the
great event of a woman's life seriously,
as one should look at it. I have talked
of marriage as a school-girl and a child,
with no thought for the time when the
orange-blossom fades."

She felt the two strong hands trembling
above and below her fingers; she
took her disengaged hand and laid it
upon the back of his.

I have said I love you better than

any one in the world — that may be no
flattery to you," she said, with brief
return to her customary tone of badinage,
'' for you have taken pains to show me
only your least attractive friends, but I
do not love as you love. I forget you
frequently, and if I do foolish or ungenerous
things it is not for your sake.
'Tis gratitude more than anything that
animates me, a maturer form of cupboard
love, the affection of children for those
who make them presents and take them
about to spectacles. I am thoughtless,
hair-brained — neither wise nor experienced,
yet I feel that if I loved as
you love, and my soul were bound to a
dead heart that absorbed the generous
warmth and returned none, I should wish
myself dead."

'' But yours is no jiead heart,
'tis one that even now responds to
mine ; its warmth is in this gentle

hand, in your cheek, and moistening
eye."

Lady Betty shook her head. " Yon
mistake my sentiment," said she. " Be
guided by your sense, Tom. What am
I ? A young and untried girl. I have
flesh and blood like yours, and one day
I too may love with all my soul —
wildly, irrationally, desperately, even to
the loss of all I hold now most dear.
And if the one I love is not my husband,
what happiness in this world can
there be for him or me? No, Tom,
dear — for I may call you by that name
and not be misunderstood, feeling so
tenderly towards you, sympathising with
you, quite yearning for yoiu^ happiness,
as I do — it would be the cruellest, most
heartless act of my life to accept your
love, to give you my hand, doubting as
I doubt."

Do not think of me," Tom cried, " or

if you will, think only of the happiness you
can give me. I ask for no more love
than you have now. It is more than ten
thousand wives have to give their
husbands. Think only of yourself, and
that in marrying me you secure a faithful
friend whose only thought will be to
make you happy'*

And looking at it from that selfish
point of view, can I believe that you
will make me happy ?"

*' Can you doubt it?"

"Yes. You are twenty times more
jealous than the Moor in the play.
You are angry if a man looks at me
though I do you the justice to think
you would be equally angry if they
didn't — you look as if you would like
to kill the young gentlemen who put up
their glasses at me in the crush-room
of the theatre, and will find a dozen
excuses to avoid passing a knot of

VOL I. 17

dandies in the park. That amuses me
very much now, and I may tell you
that I take a great delight in making
you fume with rage against some
poor harmless military gentleman, or
over-dressed fop ; but I assure you
it would distress me greatly to
be doubted if I were your loyal
wife."

I will cure myself of jealousy — 'tis
a contemptible, unmanly fault," cried
Tom.

*' Do, Tom," said Lady Betty, withdrawing
her hand, and subtly drawing
the tambour frame between herself and
him, while he was still thinking over his
own failing. " Do, and by the time
you have overcome that weakness, if 1
am not married to somebody else, it is
very possible I shall be glad to marry

you."



She said this with a light laugh,
and her fingers were once more engaged
upon the tambour.

17-2

GERARD CREWE.

OM TALBOT sat in his chamber
with a book in his hand. Suddenly
he closed the work and
flung it to the other end of the room,
albeit it was the '' Paradise Lost " of
John Milton, and deserved more reverential
treatment. But when a man is
disgusted with himself, Paradise itself
would fail to please him.

I deserve contempt," said he, " for
who with a spark of manliness would

grudge a sweet girl the homage she
deserves, or descend to mean shifts for
depriving her of admiration. And how
on earth can a woman love a man she
cannot respect ? What is the hour ?
Two. I will find Mr. Crewe, and induce
him to go with me to Park Lane this
very day."

Tom caught up his hat — made a couple
of strides towards the door, paused with his
hand on the latch a moment, then turned
about, looked at his legs, at his sleeves,
and at the reflection of his face in the
glass at the other end of the
room.

The result of this inspection was that he
made his way into the adjoining chamber,
where he changed his breeches half-a-dozen
times, tried the effect of every
coat he had in his closet, and spent a
quarter of an hour in arranging the
curls of his hair.

There's no reason why we shouldn't
start fair," said he.

In pursuance of this idea he entered
the shop of a dealer in fashionable trifles,
on his way to Gerard Crewe's house, and
demanded a walking stick of the kind
most used.

'' Ah ! this is too short by four inches ;
it would do for a boy, but it is of no use
at all to me."

'' I'm sorry I have none other, Sir,"
said the dealer, "but long sticks went
out of fashion last year, and short sticks
are in. I may be able to let you have a
long stick next week — if the fashion
should change."

'' If it is the fashion — I'll have it,
though I have to walk with it like a
monkey."

The stick is not used to walk with
now, but to carry under the arm."

Ah ! then the shorter the better. A

little extension of the fashion and one
may carry one's walking stick in the
breeches' pocket."

*' Just so, Sir. We inst live in
hope, Sir. Eye-glasses are in again,
Sir."

Thank Grod, I can do without
them."

'' Pardon me, Sir. No one can do
without a glass now. They are not for
the wearer's eye, but for the eye of the
public, and are intended to hang down
gracefully from the fob."

*' Then hang me a glass from my
fob."

Now, Sir — there — so you look quite
the go. You have a snuff box, I
presume ?"

I never take snuff."

Not take snuff ! Dear me. Sir,
where have you been these last three
months ?"

*' Give me a snuff box and some snuff,"
said Tom, with a gulp.

'' There's a beauty. Sir, for ten
guineas — worth twelve."

That will do — where is the snuff?"

The apprentice has gone out to the
'balconies to buy it. Sir."

Bj the time the apprentice returned
Tom had purchased two finger rings, a
diamond for his cravat, and half a dozen
seals to keep company with his glass,
and with these acquisitions he left the
shop, highly gratified with his purchases.


At Gerard Crewe's house he was
informed by the servant, who answered
his knock, that Mr. Crewe had gone to
take the air in the park, as was his daily
habitude from the hour of two till four,
when he was not detained at home by
visitors.

Tom made his way to the park, where

he was fortunate enough to meet his
new acquaintance — whose tall, graceful
figure he detected in the distance the
moment he passed the King's Gate.
He was alone, walking with his hands
crossed at his back, and looking from side
to side of the alley as he passed slowly
along.

Tom pursued and came up to him ashe
stopped iii front of a thorn whose
buds were just pushing through the
sheaf.

The greeting of the men was warm
for those who had so recently become
acquainted.

*' I hoped to meet you to-day," said
Gerard, *' indeed, I hoped to see you
yesterday, but was disappointed. You
were not at Brooke's last night.

"No You were?"

*' I am there every night."

You like play."

On the contrary, I dislike it as much
as any man can."

'' That is a strange reason for frequenting
a gaming-house."

*' Not at all; for it is because I dislike
play that I win. Success or failure
never excites me. I play with unvarying
equanimity, and that gives me an advantage
over the generality of players. T
should not have won your money had our
tempers been alike."

Tom looked at his companion and was
silent. Gerard, with perfect calm upon
his pale thin face, walked along with his
hands still behind him. After a few
moments' silence, he continued :

Mr. Talbot, I am a gambler — not in
the ordinary sense. I do not play from
infatuation, weakness, inclination. I
have no such, excuse — I play from purely
mercenary motives — and the only difference
between me and the common

wretch who plays with three cards at a
fair is, that T use no fraud."

"Why have you told me this?" asked
Tom.

Because, in the grasp of your hand,
in the expression of your eyes, I have
found a warmth something more than
common ; because if we are to be friends,
it is necessary you should know at the
outset, what sort of man I am."

Your honesty, at least, commands
respect ; and there's my hand again, Sir,
as a proof that my friendship is not
lessened by your candour. For a truth
1 cannot like the manner in which you
live, but since one fixes no blame on the
lawyer who saves the man who deserves
to be hanged, and hangs the man who
ought to be spared, T see no reason for
being too critical upon you. Yet for all
that, I wish you were of another trade,
and it seems to me that the faculty

which makes you successful at the
gaming-table would make you a creditable
name in a higher vocation — 'tis a
thousand pities" — Tom paused, to muse
in silence with his thumb and finger on
his chin — his eyes upon the ground.
Gerard seemed unwilling to influence him
by a word.

You would make an admirable general,"
said Tom, looking up suddenly.

*but a bad soldier."

'' True, and that would hinder you
from rising — even were it possible to
rise — to such a rank. Your abilities
would serve you as a financier, a
banker."

For response, Gerard stopped by the
park paling, and turning to a soot-grime
sheep browsing by the side,
said :

God made you as good as other
sheep. On the downs mayhap you

would be white, certainly you would be
healthier and happier, but inexorable fate
brought you to London, and set you to
graze on a pasture foul with soot, and
mud, poor devil ! and one is puzzled to
know whether you were not by nature
born a black sheep. I have thought
of what I might have been and what I
am so often and so long that I am weary
of the theme."

I don't believe in fate governing a
man," said Tom, bluntly. " If a sheep
had the faculties of a man he would
give his master the slip and scamper
back to the downs. But there is no
reason because a sheep cannot behave
like a man, that a man should behave
like a sheep. It isn't English to be a
slave without making a stout fight for
liberty."

Can you give a coward courage ?"
asked Gerard, quietly.

Mr. Crewe — Gerard, I have said
what I thought freely to you, for my
feeling towards you is not of a lukewarm
kind. 'Tis our custom to say unpleasant
things to our friends, and make
Ourselves agreeable to those we care not
two pins for. But if I said that you
were cowardly, I refuse to believe that
you are a coward."

Yefc I am. Not physically perhaps. I
am too cold for that. I felt no more
agitation in walking along this park with
my seconds to meet Henry Grattan, than
I feel in walking with you now. But
morally, I am a poltroon, and to one of
your robust constitution, that kind of
feebleness will seem more despicable even
than the other. I dare not face the
possibilities that must attend relinquishing
my present mode of existence."

What are they ?"

'' The possibility of being compelled

to serve in a draper's shop — lying to
sell a few yards of stuff to a suspicious
woman, or to sit from morning till night
at a desk in a dreary office — leading the
life of a broken horse that grinds a
mill and stops only to eat and to sleep.
The possibility of having to eat coarse
food, to wear unpleasant clothes, to live
with vulgar people, to sacrifice the
delicate pleasures of art, and music,
and literature, to be parsimonious and
niggardly, of avoiding one's creditors,
of grudging half-a-crown to a servant—"


Enough ! You have said enough
to convince me that a man may be
as wretched with three hundred a year,
as another with nothing at all."

Tom turned the conversation to a general
subject which allowed him to pursue
an undercurrent of thought. He was
not narrow in his judgment of men.

For Gerard, he had a liking undiminished
by the revelation he had chosen to make.
He divided men into two classes, those
who had faults and concealed them, and
those who had faults and confessed them ;
and he preferred the latter. Nevertheless,
he could not make up his mind to
carry out his intention of introducing
Gerard to Lady Betty. Gerard might
be a gentleman, and as good as any
who did not pursue his vocation, but
he was a gamester, and in that very
word there was something which made
it distasteful to associate him with the
girl he loved. Accident disposed the
event, for while he was still in dubitation,
they turned into the promenade,
and came face to face with Mrs. St. Tyrant
Lady Betty.

Mrs. St. Cyr stopped, and after a
glance at Gerard Crewe, gave Tom her
hand with a more gracious smile than

she bad accorded him for many days,
and then made a profound courtesy to
the companion whom he was thus compelled
to introduce.

*' Our chariot wheel has broken a spoke ;
so we are compelled to take the air on
foot," Mrs. St. Cyr, explained — " which
is inconvenient, having no escort.
However, I trust, Mr. Talbot, that if you
and Mr. Crewe have nothing more
engaging on hand, you will remedy the
default."

The gentlemen replied with a suitable
compliment, and the ladies resumed
their walk, flanked, Mrs. St. Cyr by Tom
Talbot, Lady Betty by Gerard Crewe.

Mrs. St. Cyr engaged Tom in a per-personal
conversation to the end that
Gerard should have the exclusive pleasure
of Lady Betty's society, but this
did not prevent Tom from making use of
those arms which he had so recently

VOL. I. 18

acquired for the purpose of winning
the admiration of Lady Betty. He
flourished his cane, rattled the seals at
his fob, and did not forget to use his
snuff-box, giving it a very pretty tap
before returning it to his pocket. Mrs.
St. Cyr smiled approval, and whispered
low :

'' Quite the hel air, I assure you, Mr.
Talbot."

Highly flattered, Tom repeated the
application, and would have had no reason
to regret his elegant performance, but
that Lady Betty turning towards him,
put a question at the very moment
when his features were paralysed by a
vain effort to sneeze.

When they came to the end of the
promenade and changed their positions
to return, Lady Betty contrived to place
her mamma next to Gerard, and to fall
back in their rear with Tom.

This is kind of you," murmured
Tom, pressing the hand that Lady Betty
laid on his arm to her side. " You have
made me happy."

'Tis more than you deserve. Not
only would you deprive me of seeing
your charming friend, but your ratan,
your seals, your tobacco-box— everything
that you know I adore, you conceal from
me. Cruel man ! If I had only seen
you taking snuff before you made your
proposal ! — "

Tom did not reply to Lady Betty's
badinage. He saw nothing to laugh at
in being rejected.

^ vM

18—2

SOUCI ET SANS SOUCIE.

ERARD," said Tom, some
fourteen or fifteen days after
the introduction in the park,
You must come with me to Park
Lane."

*' And why must I, my dear Tom ?"
Because I have not the ingenuity
and impudence to invent any further
excuses for you. Every day, for the
past fortnight I have been charged to
bring you to dinner, to lunch, to tea, to
look at the china, and what not, and

every day I have told a lie to extenuate
your refusal."

A little more practice, and you will
be perfect in the art," said Gerard,
laughing.

On the contrary — I get more nervous
every day, and stammer over my fabrication
to such an extent, that no one
could believe me. And now it is
thought that I purposely keep you
away from my friends— from a jealous
motive."

Gerard laughed again ; then grew
grave. Tom continued :

'' I know the delicate feeling that has
kept you from the house, but you may
waive all objections on that score, for
this morning, failing to find any plausible
pretence for your absence, I ventured to
hint the truth to Mrs. St. Cyr, who no
sooner heard you were a gamester than
she burst out into an eulogy of gaming

and placed you on a level at once with
the finest gentleman in Europe— intending
that of course as a compliment to you.
I assure you that instead of regarding
your profession as a disadvantage, she
looks upon it as the necessary qualification
of a fine gentleman. Knowing
what you are, she is more than ever
anxious to become intimately acquainted
with you."

"And you, Tom, hoping to make
Lady Betty your wife — are you willing
that I should associate with her ?"

There is but one answer to that,"
said Tom, and he held out his hand to
his friend.

The following morning Gerard accompanied
Tom to Park Lane, and from that
time he became a frequent visitor.

He did not attempt to conceal from
Tom that he visited Mrs. St. Cyr for the
pleasure of Lady Betty's society; and

Tom did his best to accept his position
with manful resignation — albeit that
position became more difficult to sustain —
his trials harder to bear each succeeding
day.

The weather continuing fine, the little
party walked frequently in the park, and
scarcely ever without Mrs. St. Cracking
one or two names to the rapidly
increasing list of acquaintances. For
Gerard was well known to the fashionable
loungers there, and Mrs. St. Contained
introductions to them by plain,
straightforward audacity.

Here comes' the gentleman who
bowed to you the day before yesterday,
Mr. Crewe — I beg you will introduce
me," Mrs. St. Cyr would say, and Gerard
had no option but to do as was demanded
of him. The audacity, however, was
never resented, for the gentlemen were
only too delighted to have the opportunity

of speaking to pretty Lady Betty. So
the proud mother began to experience the
delights sbe had anticipated ; and on the
day a real live Marquis paid a visit to them
and made eyes at Lady Betty, whenever
mamma pretended to look another way,
she felt that her cup of mortal happiness
was well nigh full.

It was only natural that Tom should
sink in her estimation as others rose ;
indeed it may be said in her extenuation
that he was less entertaining than he had
been, and suffered by comparison with
the fashionable young bucks who presented
themselves in their most agreeable
aspect.

I protest that Mr. Talbot is getting
perfectly objectionable," she said to Lady
Betty. " He is always three or four
days behind the fashion, and when he
wears a new coat he seems ashamed of
it. The first day he wore his diamond

ring lie turned it round to hide the stone.
He is perfectly incomprehensible ! and
then his face is sometimes the colour of
parchment — his eyes dull — and his nose
is inclined to be red. ' He cannot help
that' — did you say. My love, what
nonsense you talk. We are not barbarians.
And what would be the use of
science and discovery, if one could not
remedy the defects of nature. If London
does not agree with him, I wish he would
go away. No, my dear, I did not say so
two months ago, it is very true; but Mr.
Talbot did not require change then. He
was bright, and cheerful, and amiable.
Now, he says nothing — or if he does it
is so extremely sarcastic and unpleasant,
that one wishes he would do the other
things — and whenever wee have a visitor
he is sullen, he scowls, and his complexion

grows worse than ever

Well, he may do his utmost to be

agreeable — I will not contradict that —
and he maj be faithful and kind. I
don't forget the presents he gave us on
New Year's day, but he can give you
nothing more before your birthday, and
that is not until the autumn — as for me,
one does not have birthdays at my age —
and so I repeat, it would be better for
him if he carried out his intention of
going abroad for a time ; and I do not
think in speaking of him you ought to
call him * dear Tom.'

Two or three gentlemen already have
asked me what relation he is to you inconsequence
of your addressing him as
Tom,' and his position here must seem
altogether anomalous and unpleasant to
our visitors. ' Tom' is far too familiar,
and encourages the young man with
hopes that are not likely to be realised ;
Mr. Talbot or Thomas would sound
better, my love. You might suggest in

an amiable manner, of course, that
a little change would do him
good

*' Mj dear, who does want to discard
old friends when they cease to be
useful — what a preposterous idea ! lot
I, certainly. But I cannot consider Mr.
Talbot an old friend ; he is not more
than three-and-thirty, and we have only
known him two months or so. It is
entirely for his own good that I wish
him to leave us for a while — say until
July — your birthday is in August. . . .

Well, I declare, that slipped my
memory — he is useful when there are
four. But 1 object to that term
harpooning,' sweetest. If I take

Mr. Talbot's arm in order that you
may walk with Mr. Crewe or another,
that cannot be called harpooning. 'Tis
a vulgar phrase.

To be sure he does take the place of

a brother, and without some such kind
of attendant, we could not well go
about as we do, and accept attentions
from gentlemen we know so slightly — there
is something in that.

And then he is liberal and suffers us
to pay for nothing, and the expenses
attending play-going are more than I can
afford — the tradesfolk are quite irritating
in their demands for payment.
Cash will oblige,' is wrote at the foot
of every bill that comes in

'* Ah, well ! perhaps it will be better to
say nothing to Mr. Talbot about leaving
England at present. Don't laugh, my
love. I am thinking how unhappy he
would be to leave us."

And so poor Tom was tolerated by
Mrs. St. Cyr, and permitted to make
himself useful — to take a back seat in
his own box — to carry the ladies' shawls

and cloaks — to escort Mrs. St. Cyr,
while one more favoured, conducted Lady
Betty, and to pay whenever it was possible.
More than once lie secretly discharged
a tradesman's bill, an obligation
which Mrs. St. Cyr carefully overlooked
rather than to wound his feelings by
acknowledgment, or to encounter Lady
Betty's indignant protest.

He was not happy — far from it. It
would have been well for him if he had
been banished from Park Lane. A few
months of travel might have restored
partly his old equanimity, and indifference.
But what lover ever seeks forgetfulness
of his woes ?

Lady Betty was familiar with him,
playful with him, neglectful of him, and
occasionally compassionate to him. But
the girl was brimful of life and high
spirits; she could not be sentimental —
far less serious for more than five minutes

at a time. Lady Betty Sans-soucie, Tom
called her. How could she be to him
other than she was, being so thoughtless,
so sensitive to pleasurable emotion, so
delighted with variety, so intoxicated
with flattery, and the glitter and excitement
of the life around her ?

Tom struggled gallantly through all
to suppress the jealous revolt of his
nature. He knew that his fault was
jealousy, and he bravely set himself not
to subdue the object of his jealousy, but
to subdue himself ; to be generous to the
girl he loved, and bear his misfortunes
manfully. The tear that Lady Betty
one night shed for him was merited.
For the successful effort of a strong man
to suffer and not cry out — to put up with
neglect, and conceal his sorrow is more
touching than the most eloquent poetry.
It is more pathetic than death itself, for
is it not harder to live and endure, than

to give up one's breath and cease to
suffer — to fight than to fly ?

Tom was a hero — not of the perfect immaculate
kind, but of the order of English
gentlemen. He had faults, not a few —
but his virtues outweighed them, and sent
that end of the scale to kick the beam.
Few of those who knew him recognised
his heroic qualities. It was significant
of his loveliness that his friends, at the
very offset called him " Tom." There
are men who are never known bj their
Christian name; they are to be pitied
and — mistrusted.

Lady Betty admired him for his
virtues — his strength and honesty — and
loved him for his faults — and they formed
the larger constituent in the sum of
qualities for which she valued him. It
was a fault to be jealous — a fault to
submit to her neglect, a fault to forgive
the slights she put upon him, a fault to

patiently follow her in the path which
was all rose petals for her, all thorns
for him, a fault to submit to the selfish
tyranny of mamma — but did not each
of these faults carry a proof of his love
for her that was wanting in all the compliment
and flattery of the brilliant train
of her admirers ?

THE INVITATION.

NE afternoon in the beginning of
April, Tom arrived at the
house in Park Lane, carrying
two bouquets. He had engaged a box
at the opera, and the bouquets were for
Lady Betty and Mrs. St. Cyr. Lady
Betty was always grateful for flowers,
and never failed to reward her lover fora
bouquet with five minutes' sweetness ;
and so expectant of happiness, Tom ran
up-stairs, and entered the drawing-room
with a light foot and a cheerful face.

VOL. I. 19

Gerard Crewe was sitting with the
ladies, who were talking with much
excitement.

"Oh, Tom! what do you think?"
exclaimed Lady Betty, springing up
from her seat and clapping her hands, ashe
entered.

Not the slightest idea," answered
Tom, standing still with the bouquets
in his hands.

"Why, Mr. Crewe has obtained
invitations for us from Mrs. Walker, for
her mask ball."

Tom turned to a side-table and laid
down the bouquets, conscious that they
could claim no attention in the presence
of this strong centre attraction — in fact
he received never a word of thanks for
them— saying as he did so :

Gerard is fortunate."

An invitation for Lady Betty and
me," said Mrs. St. Cyr, in order that



Tom should at once understand that he
was not included.

I am sorry I could not get one for
you also, Tom," said Gerard. " But you
know how difficult they are to procure for
Mrs. Walker's entertainments at all times,
and this is to be especially brilliant," said
Gerard.

The Prince of Wales is to be there, and
the Marchioness of Donegal, and Mrs. Fits
said Mrs. St. Cyr impressively.

You are going, of course," said Tom
to Gerard.

Yes. The ladies will go under my
protection, and be introduced by
me."

Tom seated himself, and said quietly,
raising his eyes to Lady Betty :

I hope you will enjoy yourself very
much."

He found that she had become suddenly
grave. In her own delight she

19—2

bad not thought how the prospect of
her going to a ball without him would
affect him. There was regret in her
eyes as she looked at him, and she said
with tender earnestness, taking a chair
close beside him :

I am so sorry that you are not
going with me, Tom," and she just
touched his hand as it rested on the
arm of his chair.

His face lit up with gratitude in the
moment, and he murmured a few words
which were unintelligible to every
ear but Lady Betty's. A vocabulary
of three words is sufficient for
lovers.

Mrs. St. Cyr was already discussing
the great question of dress, in which
Lady Betty quickly joined, and in the
course of the next half hour the relative
merits of every costume in Europe,
Asia, and the northern part of Africa

were argued pro and con. A temporary
diversion was caused by the announcement
of dinner, when Mrs. St. Corrode
promptly and took possession of
Tom's arm, while Gerard of necessity
followed with Lady Betty.

The conversation was renewed as
soon as the party were seated at
table, and continued with such vivacity,
that it was late when the ladies were
ready to go to the theatre ; nevertheless
Mrs. St. Cyr ordered her coachman
to drive round by Stanhope Street
in order that they might see Mrs.
Walker's house, which stood at the
corner, and which was to be thrown
open for the reception of masks on the
first Monday in June.

The performance had commenced when
Mrs. St. Cyr, in a gorgeous turban with
nodding plumes, took her place in the
front of the box with Lady Betty.

'' I declare the Prince is in the Royal
box," said Mrs. St. Cyr, in an excited
whisper ; " and there is Mrs. Fits
and who is that very destine
gentleman with him,
Mr. Crewe?"

My Lord Castlereagh," answered
Gerard.

Tom was disposing of the ladies'
mantles at the back of the box.

Bring your chair between us, Mr.
Crewe," said Mrs. St. Cyr. " Be careful
of my fur if you please, Mr. Talbot.
How charming the Prince looks— what
a dear man ! and to think we shall
have the felicity of seeing him dance.
I am told he performs both the Irish and
Scotch steps to a marvel. My darling,
look straight before you, and keep
perfectly still. The Prince has his spyglass
up, and is looking at you. Oh,
I feel all of a flutter — my scent-bottle

if you please, Mr. Talbot. There's a
gentleman in the box on the right
looking straight across at you, my love —
who can he be ? My spy-glass if you
please, Mr. Talbot. There's Lord Forth
bowing.

'' My love, your front tuft wants
a touch on the right. The Prince is
looking again. Ah, there's the Marquis
Doggedly in the omnibus wanting to
bow. My bouquet if you please, Mr.
Talbot. Here's all the rank and fashion
to be sure. What a charming opera !
I never enjoyed one so much in my
life. The Prince can't keep his eyes
off you, I protest. Oh, I adore the
opera — such sentiment, such — what is
it all about, Mr Talbot? you understand
the Italian."

In this manner Mrs. St. Cyr gave
herself up to the delights of music,
and continued to chat in a tone sufficiently

loud to prevent anyone in the
box following a bar of melody until a
tap at the door of the box announced
visitors, and Tom, in his customary
function of useful friend, opened the
door and admitted three gentlemen who
had come to pay their respects to
Lady Betty. When they left, Gerard
rose and withdrew, giving his chair
to Tom, with a significant look of
sympathy.

'' I hope you are enjoying the
music," whispered Tom to Lady
Betty.

'' To tell you the truth, I have heard
nothing but mamma's voice yet awhile,"
said she.

*' My darling, the Prince has his
spy-glass up again. Mr. Talbot, will
you see if the door is closed."

The door is perfectly fast, madam,"
answered Tom, tartly, without moving.

and glaring across the house at the
Prince.

What an air the Prince has," exclaimed
Mrs. St. Cyr.

Yes, and a very unpleasant air fora
man who has a suffering wife, and
should set an example of fidelity and
honour to the people he is to
govern."

Mr. Talbot ! I beg you will not
intrude your republican notions here.
There are circumstances in connection
with that unfortunate marriage
which should be hushed up and
concealed."

I am precisely of your opinion,
Mrs. St. Cyr," answered Tom, still
scowling at the Prince, who was now
toying with Mrs. FitzHerbert's glove.

Further discussion was precluded by
the fresh arrival of visitors, who occupying
the front of the box, left Tom at

liberty to amuse himself with his own
reflections at the back.

It was useless endeavouring to overcome
the discontent which agitated him
now. He fancied that he was justified
in regarding the course of events with
mistrust and suspicion. It was not
the laughter of Lady Betty listening
to the wit of her admirers that agitated
him, but the frequent observation
cast upon her by the finest gentleman
and the greatest libertine in Europe.
He could not contemplate with composure
the prospect of Lady Betty meeting
the Prince at the mask-ball. He
knew the license accorded to those
wearing masks, and his jealous love
for Lady Betty stimulated his imagination
to conceive as probable a thousand
impossible accidents which might happen
to her, and what protection would the
giddy young girl have in her foolish

mother ? worse than none. When the
Prince again took np his opera-glass,
Tom, tormented to a degree bordering
on desperation, quitted the box hurriedly,
unable to stand there and seethe
privileged rake fix his greedy eyes
upon Lady Betty.

He was walking in the corridor, with
his eyes on the ground, completely unconscious
of the people he met and
passed, when Gerard came to his
side.

What on earth is the matter, Tom?
Your face is the colour of ash, and
and your hand is cold as ice. Come
and take some cognac," said he.

Cognac will do me no good.
Never mind me, Gerard, go to the
ladies."

Are they alone ?"

*' No, there are three chattering idiots
to amuse them."

"What is the matter?" Gerard repeated,
quietly. " Out with it, Tom ;
you're not jealous of idiots ?"

Gerard, can anything be done to
prevent Lady Betty meeting the Prince
of Wales at Mrs. Walker's mask-ball?"


Gerard was silent a minute, less
astonished by his disease — for he had
seen for some time what was going on
in his friend's mind — than perplexed
as to the remedy to be given.

Yes," he said, " the actual cards
of admission are not yet in my possession
; I will tear them up when I
get them, if you will. But first of all
you shall come with me into the air,
you shiver as if you had an ague
upon you. Wait here a moment."

Gerard left his side, and Tom advanced
to an open door, from which
he commanded a view of the boxes

I

on either side of the house. Lady
Betty was looking through her glasses,
and it seemed to him that she was
looking at the Prince, which was not
improbable. The Prince was looking
on the stage, for a wonder, but that
did not greatly lessen Tom's perturbation
: it was enough that Lady Betty's
glass was fixed on him.

'' Come," said Gerard, " here is your
haec ; put it on. I have told Parker
to wait in the box until you return.
Now, Tom, let us talk of this affair
seriously. Do you actually wish that
Lady Betty shall not go to this
ball ?"

I cannot bear the thought of that
libertine approaching her. He has been
looking at her ever since she entered the
box, and she at him."

What is more natural ? She is
the prettiest woman in the house, and

he the prettiest gentleman, as the phrase
goes. What then ? I do not wish to
defend the Prince's character, but I
ask you, is he worse because his faults
are public, than dozens of the men
who can keep their faults secret, and
must be met in any ball-room or
assembly ? Look at the possibilities of
the case from the most extreme point
of view. Supposing the Prince dances
with Miss St. Cyr — which is one of
the most improbable things I can
imagine, will she in consequence love
you less, or be less worthy of your
love ? If she deserves your love she
will always be loyal to you, but any
restriction you put upon her actions
must lessen her esteem for you, and so
shake her loyalty."

They had entered a tavern close by
the theatre, and there Tom sat in
apathetic silence, while Gerard used

argument to bring him to reason. At
length he shook off the mood, and rousing
himself, said :

Say no more, Gerard ; my prejudice
is not to be cured by appeals to my
reason, for that is paralysed by these
paroxysms of jealousy. My own conscience
accuses and condemns me of
something worse than folly. When the
fit is upon me I am the slave of my
evil passion, a slave meaner to my
own perception, perhaps, than to yours.
Let us return to the theatre; see,
my hand is firm again. The madman
has his lucid intervals. Nothing shall
hinder Lady Betty following her own
inclinations, while they are harmless to
herself."

Unhappily," said Gerard, laying his
hand on Tom's shoulder, " you are not
always capable of judging whether they
are harmless or not."

*' Then you shall be my guide, Gerard.
When I am in doubt I will come to
you."

Gerard pressed his friend's hand
encouragingly, but he said to himself:


My poor Tom ! when can you be
in doubt ? ' Trifles light as air are to
the jealous confirmation strong as proofs
of holy writ.' "

WHO SHOULD Wear A DIADEM BUT SHE ?

HE forthcoming ball was the
sole topic of conversation at
Park Lane. Every visitor was
taken into Mrs. St. Cyr's confidence,
his advice accepted with unequivocal
expressions of approval, and discarded
the moment a fresh proposition was
advanced. The house was littered from
the lumber-room to the kitchen fireplace
with plates of fashions and
"elegant designs." It was noticeable

VOL. I.



that each new adviser attempted to
out-do his predecessor by the gorgeousness
of his fancy, and that as the
ornaments proposed advanced from beads
and paste to pearls and diamonds,
Mrs. St. Cyr grew more thoughtful and
dissatisfied.

However, at the end of a week the
dressmaker pointed out the necessity
of an immediate decision, and then ina
grand final consultation it was
agreed to adopt Gerard's suggestion,
that Mrs. St. Cyr should represent
Night, and Lady Betty Morning. The
great recommendation of this dress to
Mrs. St. Cyr seemed to be that she
could wear her plume of feathers,
which might be dyed for the occasion
at a trifling expense.

The dressmaker made her calculations,
and speedily furnished Mrs. St.
Cyr with a list of the materials —

silk, satin, muslin, fine crape, sprigs
of flowers and diamonds — which she
must be supplied within a couple of
days.

Mrs. St. Cyr took the list, and having
jotted down the possible cost of each
article, and summed them up in a
grand total, she hurried up to her
bed-room, had an attack of the palpitations,
and could speak to no one for the
rest of the day.

The next morning when Tom called
to inquire after her health, he found
Mrs. St. Cyr alone in the drawing-room.
She rose from her seat and
greeted him with effusive warmth.

I knew you would be the first to
call upon me after my indisposition,"
she said. "You are ever so thoughtful,
and considerate and kind ; and I
have sent Lady Betty into the sitting-room
because I wished to have you

20—2

all to myself for five minutes. It is
so seldom now that I can have the
pleasure of a little confidential conversation
with a real friend. One's
time is so occupied by visitors, acquaintances
with whom one can have
no sympathy whatever. We have quite
decided about the dresses for the ball;
Lady Betty is to wear a skirt of
pink and saffron, covered with fine
muslin looped up with sprigs of
flower-buds studded with diamonds —
Morning, you know. The pink and
yellow sky with fleecy clouds, and
opening flowers sprinkled with dew, is
the fancy."

A poetical and pretty fancy."
Nothing to be compared with your
idea, Mr. Talbot; but still Lady Betty
is imperious, as you know. I shall
wear a simple robe of the dark ultramarine
spangled with stars, a plume

fastened with a crescent, a wreath of
poppies, a dark veil gathered in with a
spray of paste to represent a comet,"
she paused for a moment and then recommenced.
'' You have noticed, I have no
doubt, with some surprise, that I have
been ill at ease for the past few days,
Mr. Talbot, have you not?"

"Nothing to excite surprise, madam,
considering how much you have had to
think on."

I have had something to agitate me,
which I was bound to conceal even
from my own daughter, but I should
feel myself wanting in gratitude if I
made any reservation from you, who
have always manifested such friendship
for us."

*' I assure you I have no curiosity,"
said Tom, eagerly; " I beg you not
to open any subject painful to yourself."


But I want your advice, my dear
Mr. Talbot."

If I can be of any help to you the
case is altered."

'rit is your advice only that I ask
for, but I must beg as a favour that
you will not mention a word of what
I say to Lady Betty — she would never
forgive me. You know how proud she
is, and would I am sure refuse to let me
accept any — any advice you may give
me."

Tom bowed acquiescence, and Mrs.
St. Cyr proceeded.

My property is so bound up that
I can draw only two hundred pounds
a quarter for my requirements. My expenses
in London exceed my expectations,
and the tradesmen demand cash
payments, as we are only recently established
here. To satisfy their claims
I had spent nearly all of the money

I received at the spring quarter before
we received the invitation to Mrs.
Walker's ball, and I find myself with
no more than sufficient to supply our
absolute necessities. In this extremity
T wrote to Dr. Blandly begging him tolet
me have a quarter's payment in
advance. He refused. I then wrote
asking if he would grant me a loan,
taking as security a written instrument
empowering him to appropriate my furniture
and china at my death. Again he
politely but firmly refused to assist me."

"Mrs. St. Cyr," said Tom, greatly
embarrassed, " I beg you will not enter
into these details. You may spare
yourself and me unnecessary, pain by
telling me at once what assistance you
require."

"My dear Mr. Talbot, you know all,
and all I ask of you is — what am I todo?"


Will you tell me how much the costumes
will cost?"

Mrs. St. Cyr hesitated a moment,
afraid to mention the grand total, and
then for answer took from her pocket
the piece of paper on which she had
made her calculations and handed it to
him to read. Without looking at it he
slipped it into his pocket and merely
said:

'' T am going in the City now ; I
shall return in two hours, when I
hope to be able to allay your
anxiety."

Mrs. St. Cyr accompanied him to the
door with a thousand broken sentences
of protest, of gratitude, and apology, and
finished, as he hastily withdrew, with a
deep sigh — partly of satisfaction, partly
of regret.

'' Had I only known beforehand," she
murmured, '' I should certainly not have

put down everything at the lowest possible
price, nor should I have sent that
plume to the dyer's."

That was not the only error she had
committed, for when Tom came to open
the piece of paper on which Mrs. St. Myriad
written her estimate, he read, in the
bold, legible hand of Doctor Blandly,
these words :

*' Madam,
I decline to accept your proposal,
which I consider both senseless and
wicked.

Your servant,

Blandly'*

This was the polite refusal referred toby
Mrs. St. Cyr.

At Lincoln's Inn Tom procured notes
sufficient to cover the requirements of
Mrs. St. Cyr, and from thence he went

into Cheapside and gave orders to a
jeweller's to make a coronet of stones to
represent an aurora.

There's not a gem will sparkle like
my Lady Betty's eyes when she sees
my present," he said to himself as he
left the shop ; and indulging his fancy
with a picture of Lady Betty in her
happiness, he stepped along lightly. He
had a habit of repeating a phrase again
and again as he walked, while his
thoughts played about a central object,
and these were the words he said to himself
as he trudged from St. Paul's to
Piccadilly :

Who should wear a diadem but
she ?"

At the corner of Park Lane he stopped
beside a butcher, who was gazing at an
approaching party of equestrians — two
gentlemen and a lady, with servants .in
their rear. The lady was Lady Betty,

the gentlemen fashionable acquaintances
who, in their visits, treated Tom with
tacit contempt.

Lady Betty was laughing, the young
bucks were simpering. They did not
see Tom ; he was unnoticeable enough
standing there in his plain dress beside
the butcher. They passed him, turned
the corner, and went off in a canter at
Lady Betty's command, Tom heard her
voice.

He watched until her pretty figure was
lost to his sight, and then he turned away
with a sigh, walking now with heavy
steps and a heavy heart to the house
where he had hoped to find her and catch
a smile.

They will be at the ball, perhaps ;
and maybe now they are arranging
to dance with her," he said to himself.


It occurred to him that if he chose

to withhold the notes he carried in
his pocket, she could not go to the
ball and dance with his rivals. But
his better genius ruled his heart that
morning, and Mrs. St. Cyr got the
notes.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

London : Printed by A. Schulze, 13, Poland Street. (S. & H.)



^:©K^ET-^

U l iM)LtiJ^ i>I WT.IJl' i , ' .M i|i!i 'P»" alii ' i (i.i' il .i i i i

[ill!W( l itfflliMl i W!li p [1W|iiJ[BfJ »|

JlMiiflPfffiMK^^

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or Ill Noise

V. 'a

i

A NOVEL.

BY

FRANK BARRETT.

AUTHOR OF " FOLLY MORRISON," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

1881.
Eight of Translation Reserved.

OP

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

I.— The Night of the Ball 1

11. -A Second Offer 13

III.— An Evil Genius 26

IV.— Before the Fight 43

V. — Dr. Blandly 's Opposition . . . . QQ

YL— The Fight 75

VIL— After the Fight 85

Viii.— At the " Lone Crow" 100

IX.— In the Loft 115

X.— Blarney 123

XL — Revelation 137

XII.— A Retrospect 148

Xii— Premeditation 176

Xii.— Bousing the Lion 190

XY.— Sweethearts 199

XYL— Escape 218

Evil— An Afternoon's Work 226

XYIIL— Blake and Tom's Conclusions . . 243

XIX.-A Love Letter 257

XX. — Barnabas Prepares for Business . . 276

XXL— The Business is Done 292

CHAPTER I.

THE NIGHT OF THE BALL.

ADY BETTY was dressed and
waiting in her mamma's bedroom,
while that lady vainly
endeavoured to get her foot into a
shoe several sizes smaller than her
foot.

I know I told him to make them
small, but I didn't tell him to make them
too small," said Mrs. St. Cyr, pettishly;

VOL. II.



-^ ^

'' I can't go without shoes, that's certain,
and I have no others. I have got my
toes in, that's one comfort, though the
pain is most excruciating. A knock
at the door ? Come in. Iso, wait !
Who's there?"

I," answered Tom, from the outside.
" Gerard waits, and the carriage
is at the door."

'* Tell him I shall not keep him a moment.
I have only to get on my shoes,
and one is nearly half on already. I
shan't be ten minutes. My darling, I
can never get them on." To the heated
maid, " Pull, you stupid thing, pull !"

Presently, Lady Betty unable to assist,
and her stock of advice exhausted, left
the room to descend to the drawing-room.


Tom was sitting on the stairs.

"Are you ready?" he asked, slipping
one hand behind him.

Quite. You have the first view :
what do you think of me ?"

You are beautiful !" he answered
in a murmur. " But the liszt is insufficient
here ; will you come down to the
dining-room."

'' Why not the drawing-room ?"

Gerard is there." She looked at him,
laughed low, and laving: her hand on his
arm, said :

*' We must go past the door silently, or
he will be jealous, too."

They stole past the drawing-room door.
Lady Betty with her red nether lips
under her pearly teeth, and an expression
of innocent wickedness in her lively
eyes.

Now, what do you think of me ?" she
asked again, as they came into the
light of the dining-room, and closed the
door.

*' You, or your dress?" asked Tom.

21-2

Both — individually and separately."
There are no words rich enough to
express what I think of your beauty ;
but your costume seems to me imperfect.
Something should crown the perfect
brow."

'' Ah. !" said Lady Betty, with a sigh.
"I thought of a tiara — but mamma
pleaded poverty. I did think of the
light with which Aurora's head is represented."


So did I," said Tom, bringing his
hand from behind him, and putting a
large case in Lady Betty's hands.

She opened it, looked at it in breathless
surprise and delight for a minute, then
lifted her eyes to Tom's face, and the
next moment— laid the box on the table
and burst into tears.

"What is the matter, dear girl?"
asked Tom, in terror.

She did not reply. A girl does not

make fine speeches when her heart is
full, and sobs rise choking in her throat.

'' Dear Betty — what moves yon so ?" he
asked, again.

Your heart," sob " is too — too good,"
sob, '' dear Tom, and I — I am a" — sob
'' selfish girl — I know I am" sob — " and I
think only of my own happiness, and
forget my dear" — sob "dear — dearest
friend."

She came close to him, suffering him
to put his arm around her and wipe the
tears from her eyes with his handkerchief,
as he said soothingly :

Come, Betty dear, smile. I bought
the toy to please you, not to make you
cry."

I wish with all my heart you were
going with me, Tom," she said, still
looking grave.

He looked down upon her sweet face,
then bent and pressed a kiss upon her

waving hair. It was the passionate kiss
of a lover, but it imparted no more
emotion to lier than a other's caress.
Another moment's regretful silence, and
then her eyes wandered to the table
where she had deposited the gift, and
she smiled again. It was yet April
with her.

He released her, and she took the
diadem — set it on her head, and looking at
herself in the glass, gave a deep sigh of
satisfaction.

'' 'Tis charming," she said. '' I must
go and show it to mamma at
once."

Can't you wait here till she comes
down ?"

It is getting so late, Tom — and
mamma must be hurried. Poor soul, she
has to put on a pair of shoes, and the two
are only large enough for one foot. Ah !
there is her voice — she has done it !"

"Mr. Talbot," called Mrs. St. Cargill
sou be good enough to bid the
coachman lay down the carpet and open
the door of the chariot ?"

And while Lady Betty ran np to the
drawing-room to display herself before
Mrs. St. Cyr and Gerard, Tom did his
duty, and saw that the necessary arrangements
were made ; afterwards he had the
happiness of taking Lady Betty down,
and placing her in the carriage, Mrs.
St. Cyr following slowly, supported by
Gerard and the maid.

It required the combined efforts of
Tom and Gerard to hoist Mrs. St. Corinth
her seat, for her shoes seemed to have
deprived her limbs as well as her feet of
power.

Tom closed the door, gave a last
glance at Lady Betty's radiant face — and
then signalled to the coachman, and saw
the heavy chariot roll away.

Shall I leave the door open for you.

Sir?" ,asked the maid, when lie had

awaited a reasonable time after the

departure of the carriage, for Tom to

make some movement.

Aroused from the lethargy into which
he had sunk when the chariot disappeared
from his sight, Tom shook his head
without turning, and slowly walked away.
He had nowhere to go, nothing to do, the
customary resources of entertainment
were unpalatable to him, and so he
wandered about purposelessly, until it
suddenly struck him that it would be
agreeable to walk in Stanhope Street, and
look at the house where Lady Betty was
enjoying herself.

Thoroughfare was stopped in the
approaches to Mrs. Walker's house.
Carriages blocked the streets, and the
masks made their way on foot escorted
by liveried servants with flambeaux. In

front of the house a company of musicians
in costume received the visitors,
a detachment of the Royal Guards kept
back the mob. Tom threw himself into
the crowd, and partly by the exertions of
those around him, partly by his own, got
a place in the front rank, nearly facing
the house.

There was very little to see. The
masks entering the house were the
attraction for most people ; but Tom
fixed his eyes on the windows of the
ball-room, and saw nothing else in trying
to define the outline of one beloved
figure in the moving throng shadowed
upon the rose silk blinds. He had no
doubt that Lady Betty was the centre
of admiration, and a feeling of pride
stirred his heart, as he thought, erroneously
enough perhaps, that all the
commotion about him was but a tribute
to her beauty.

Suddenly the Body Guards began to
back their horses, the hum of voices rose
to a roar, and the royal carriage drove
up to the door. The Prince of Wales
in a grey silk domino with a deep lace
edged cape, and Mrs. FitzHerbert, in a
pale lilac silk domino alighted, and entered
the house. Tom then ceased to exult in
the beauty of Lady Betty.

The mob thinned quickly after the
departure of the royal carriage. In
half-an-hour visitors ceased to arrive,
in an hour the idlers had gone to
their homes. Probably no one would
leave the ball for three hours at the
least. Yet Tom still paced the pavement,
his head down and his hands
behind him. Time was nothing to
him.

The gaiety in the ball-room was in
its zenith. Passing the house strains
of music reached his ears. The sound

displeased him; he could not look up
at the rose-pink blinds ; he feared
shadows now, and his mind was again
tormented with turbulent jealousy. He
turned up Stanhope Street to escape
the sounds of music. At the upper
end all was still, the coachmen slept
inside their carriages, and there was
not a sound, except when a horse
pawed the ground or champed its bit.
Suddenly the silence was rudely broken
by hurrying footsteps, and voices raised
high.

Mrs. St. Cyr's chariot ! Mrs. St. Cyr's
chariot !" was the cry.

Tom stopped in amazement, and turned
to see who called.

A man in a white satin costume,
without his hat, ran past him, looking
at the carriages and calling as he
went, 'mrs. St. Cyr's carriage!" It
was Gerard Crewe.

Tom recognised him, and running
after him, caught hold of his arm.

What is the matter ? where is Lady
Betty?" he cried.

'' She is quite safe," answered Gerard,
without stopping, and still glancing from
carriage to carriage, while three or four
men still woke the echoes with their cry
for Mrs. St. Cyr's chariot.

"Then why have you left her ? answer
me, Gerard. You promised to protect
her. Have you left her with her
mother ?"

Her mother," answered Gerard, " is
dead !"

•t^% J2^^^t4^r

A SECOND OFFER.

RS. ST. CYR had taken a seat
in a corner of the ball-room,
which commanded a good view,
and had not moved from it. She was
pale, and complained of " the palpitations,"
but Lady Betty, who knew nothing
of Doctor Blandly's warning, had
treated these signs 'and words lightly,
and attributed them to nothing more
serious than to the torture of wearing
tight shoes.

Mrs. St. Cyr's excitement was followed

by a strange drowsiness. A dowager
who sat next to her observed that she
dropped her fan without noticing it, and
her head sank forward slightly as if
she were dozing. At that moment she
thought it right to awake her, as
Lady Betty was approaching with the
Prince.

Rise, madam, rise," she said ; " the
Prince of Wales and your daughter are
before you."

Mrs. St. Cyr opened her eyes, to see,
perhaps, the consummation of her dream,
rose with a faint cry, and then fell forward,
dead, at the very feet of her
daughter and the Prince. The subsequent
inquiry proved that her heart was
diseased, and its action had been so weak,
that the excitement of the scene was amply
sufficient to produce death.

It was the most severe shock Lady
Betty had ever had. For some days her

faculties seemed numbed and paralysed
by the terrible catastrophe ; she received
the condolence of visiting friends with
slight emotion, almost with apathy, as if
she could not yet realise that the event
was actual and real ; then her spirit
awoke from its lethargy, to suffer all that
a womanly heart can endure in its first
experience of loss. For a week she was
disconsolate, refusing to see anyone
except her maid and Tom.

In the hour of grief Tom had a manly
incapability of saying anything, which
made him a more acceptable companion
to the sufferer than any wordy comforter.
Beyond bringing her presents of flowers
and fruit he offered no consolation, he
was too wretched himself, but she knew
that he sympathised with her to his soul's
extent, his face was constantly long, his
complexion bad, and more than once
when she burst into tears he kept her

company ; for be it remembered men at
that time were either softer of heart or
less ashamed of tears than now.

After Mrs. St. Cyr's funeral Lady
Betty's grief diminished, she assuaged
her tears, and began to look about her.
One fine afternoon she consented to walk
in the park with Tom. It surprised her
to find all the trees in young leaf, and
delighted her also. They walked in the
alleys removed from the promenade, and
to Lady Betty's mind there was nothing
more beautiful than the look of the tender
green foliage, the bright soft light, and
the occasional glimpse of gaiety in the
distant promenade. The retirement harmonized
with the lingering sadness in her
heart, while the occasional snatches of
colour and life upon the promenade suggested
hope and pleasure.

Let us sit here," she said, when they
came to a seat.

They sat in the soft umbrage,
and Lady Betty, looking around her,
said :

*' Ah ! if poor dear mamma was beside
us !"

Tom responded only with a sigh, sighing
not because of Mrs. St. Cyr's absence
— he had an idea that Mrs. St. Cyr
would not have chosen that pleasant
retreat to rest in — but in sympathy with
Lady Betty. Her face was pale and sad,
she looked sweeter than ever in her
mourning dress.

Neither spoke for some time ; a sparrow
struggling to carry away a long straw
to its nesting-place presently attracted
their attention. Lady Betty became interested
in the efforts of the sturdy
little creature, and her face grew
animated.

Pretty dear !" she murmured.

Would you not like to go in the

VOL. II. 22

country?" asked Tom; "to hunt in the
woods for primroses and anemones ? 'Tis
not too late."

Oh, there's nothing I like better than
hunting in the woods for wild flowers !
Daffodils — don't you Hke daffodils, with
their great, bold yellow blooms and
tender green leaves ? Oh, yes, I should
like to go in the country !" She clasped
her hands with delight, then with a
return of gravity. '' But how can I go
now, Tom, alone ?"

*' You are not alone," said Tom, gently
resting his arm on his knee, and looking
into her face.

She looked at him gravely, dropped her
eyes, and twined her fingers in silence.

'' Be my wife, dear, and let us go
away where nature is sweetest," continued
Tom. " By the time the wild
roses are in bloom your cheeks will be
pink again, and your heart light."

She lifted her eyes and looked straight
before her, her mind gradually wandering
from the subject of Tom's remarks.
The thick trunk of a tree stopped her
view ; moving a little from Tom and
inclining her head to the side, she just
caught a glimpse of the promenade — of
carriages moving rapidly, of ladies gaily
dressed, and dawdling dandies. Then
a lady on horseback passed, and she
craned her neck a little farther to see
if she sat well, if her figure was good,
and her habit becoming. Perhaps it
was that glimpse that decided her
fate.

"Be it yes or nay, give me an
answer," pleaded Tom.

"No, Tom — I cannot marry yet," she
answered, looking him full in his earnest
face. " When I am sad I feel as if I
would like to be a sober wife, and
think of no one but you, and settle

22-2

down to the steady routine of a domestic
life. But I don't want you to
have a sad, dull wife, and I don't want
to marry for a mean motive— a selfish
end. I must give my husband love for
love, or we shall be mated but not
matched. Give me time, Tom. I do
believe I shall marry you one day, for
I can imagine no one so loving and
true as you."

'' Will you not give me your pledge
that you will marry me and no one
else."

'' No — that would never do," she
smiled. '' I can do nothing under restraint.
It is the fault of my nature.
If I had been in Eve's place, I should
have made myself ill with eating apples,
without waiting for any serpent to
advise me. Wait patiently a little
while. Fruit is best gathered when
ripe."

*' But you cannot live alone in that
bouse."

Lady Betty thought of the lonely house,
and shuddered slightly.

Everyone admits that," pursued Tom.
'' It will expose you to observation if
I visit you more frequently than
custom allows to ordinary friendship."


*' That is not your idea, Tom. Who
told you so ?"

Gerard." Tom hesitated a moment
or two, then continued. " He has
argued the matter clearly, and convinced
me against my own opinion."
He paused, then with an evident
struggle recommenced. " I'll tell you
all. The fact is, while you have refused
to see your friends they have
been thinking a great deal about you,
and failing to see you themselves,
have sent a message through me."

How mysterious you are — why
did you not deliver your message
before ?"

• *' You will see presently. Mrs.
Walker " — Tom groaned — " Mrs. Walker
desires you to live with her while she
remains in London."

*How kind," said Lady Betty, her
eyes sparkling.

And Gerard has pointed out that
it will be the best things in the world
for you, if — if you won't marry me.
You know now why I delayed giving
her message."

You are a selfish, cruel — dear.
Be cheerful, Tom. Don't you see that
the prospect makes me happy. Why
are you crushing that herb under your
heel, and looking as though you wished
that spot of ground comprised all
London."

'' Because I hate London," said he

with emphasis, grinding a hole and
burying the unoffending herb with his
heel.

"That is to say you hate Mrs.
Walker."

There is no love lost between us.
We have spoken to each other only once,
and parted with a mutual desire to see
each other no more."

*' If she was rude to you, Tom, she
was rude to me, and I will speak to her
no more."

No. I think it was the other way.
I was rude to her. I believe 'tis
nothing but mutual antipathy. Do not
let my ill temper prejudice you against
her — it is my belief that her intentions
towards you are of the kindest — and —
and I believe you will be happy if you
accept the invitation."

Tell me why the proposal is unpleasant
then to you ?"

Consider what I lose ! I may see
you by chance now and then in the
Park — at the theatre — in a picture-gallery
— you may pass me in her
carriage, or on horse ; but virtually
you are lost to me — for a season at
least. Yet that may be no more than
the beginning of a still wider and more
complete separation."

Oh, Tom, how can you say so —
sitting here by my side, knowing me as
you do. Am I heartless and false
utterly. Did I say that I loved you better
than anyone in the world that my
words should be forgotten or mistrusted?
if so I wish the admission
unsaid."

Forgive me for saying anything
which could make you imagine me so
ungrateful. What I meant is this :
I cannot visit you at Mrs. Walker's."

And why not ? Listen, Tom — if I

may not see my friends as freely as I
wish — if you are not to be as welcome
as myself, I will not accept this invitation."


Lady Betty meant what she said.
Nevertheless at the end of six weeks
she had been a resident in Mrs. Walker's
house for a month, and had seen Tom
three times and no more.

CHAPTER III.

AX EVIL GEXirS.

EAR TOM,

Have you forgotten me so
soon r I have not seen you
for three weeks ; it is not my fault.
Come and beg my forgiveness. Tomorrow
afternoon I shall be quite alone,
and, I think, gently disposed.

Very affectionately yours,

Lady Betty."

To this point Tom read with a flow
of happiness to his heart, which was

sadly in need of such a tender influence.
He put the letter to his lips, for her
hand had touched and hallowed it.
Then he read the foot note :

Postscript — Don't come to-day."

Tom folded the letter in sombre meditation.


shy are you not to go to-day ?"'
asked his evil genius.

And the evil genius having obtained
great power over Tom in the past unhappy
fourteen or fifteen days, he lent
ear. and against all the better promptings
of his mind, he determined that
he would call upon Lady Betty this
very afternoon. If Lady Betty was out
no harm could be done ; if, on the other
hand. Lady Betty had visitors to whom
she gave the preference, harm might
be done, '' and so much the better,"
hinted the evil genius.

He allowed no time for his blood to

cool; in hot haste he made his way to
Stanhope Street. As he approached the
house at the corner, the Prince of
Wales's carriage passed him, empty.
He stopped and looked after it,
trembling in every limb with the fever
of jealousy. Poor fool ! if the Prince
had been seated peaceably in the carriage
he would have felt no less
emotion.

The footman, in reply to his question,
answered that Miss St. Cyr was in the
house, and conducted him into the library,
where he found himself alone. The reflection
flashed upon him that perhaps
after all he had deceived himself. It
was not impossible that Mrs. Walker
was unwell and wished to be alone. He
sat down wondering how he should excuse
himself when Lady Betty came to him
if this were the case. He listened to
an approaching footstep with agitation.

The door opened, and there entered —
Gerard Crewe.

Ah, Tom," he said, closing the
door.

The catch seemed difficult to fasten.
He stood still with his hand on the
lock.

You have come at an unfortunate
moment. Sit down," he said, crossing
the room.

'' One word. Is Lady Betty upstairs
?"

"Yes; she is in the reception-room,"
answered Gerard, standing between Tom
and the door.

'• Then I will go up to her."

Tom tried to pass, but Gerard, quickly
shifting his position, faced him still, and
said:

Sit down, my dear Tom ; be reasonable.
It is impossible for you to go upstairs
at present."

'' And why ?" asked Tom, in a harsh
voice.

The Prince is there."

I knew it — I knew it," muttered
Tom, his face growing livid, and his
teeth clenched tightly together. "I
knew it the moment you entered the
room. We shall see if it is impossible
to go into the reception-room."

He pushed brusquely past Gerard, and
attempted to open the door. It was
locked and the key taken.

"Who has locked this door?" he cried,
fiercely.

I have. The key is in my pocket.
You shall have it the moment you are
calm."

What authority have you to put conditions
upon my liberty ?"

The authority of a friend."

I refuse to consider you my friend.
Give me the key."

Not until you are reasonable, and
know what you are doing."

You villian ! give me the key !" Tom
cried in a fury, seizing Gerard by the
arm.

Gerard was far the slighter man. Ina
struggle he would have had no chance
against Tom; but he did not budge an
inch. He looked in Tom's face with unflinching
calmness, and said :

Take your hand from my arm, Tom.
What do you expect to gain by this
violence ? I will fling the key through
the window rather than suffer you to
disgrace yourself and insult Lady Betty.
I am her friend no less than you ; at
this moment I am a better friend than
you."

'' You, a "

Tom checked himself. Mad as he was
with passion he was ashamed of the taunt
at his tongue's end.

A gamester by my own confession,"
said Gerard, completing Tom's sentence.
'' Well ?"

Tom dropped bis hand from Gerard's
arm abashed. Gerard took advantage
of the momentary calm and continued
:

''A gamester may yet have the feelings
of a man — pity for another, blind
and reckless with jealousy, and for a
helpless, sensitive girl. Listen to me,
Tom."

There was the sound of a door opening
in the room above, and of voices, which,
falling on Tom's ear, re-aroused the devil
in his breast.

I will not listen to you," he cried.
'rit is by listening to your sophistry
that I have been cheated into error —
that I suffered Lady Betty to come into
this — this den "

'what on earth do you mean ?"

I say that this house is vile, and
you know it. Who is this Mrs. Walker
this fashionable beauty? A second
Mrs. FifczHerbert. And between you you
would make a third of Lady Betty. You
play the part of jackal to a marvel,
guarding the royal beast with the hope
of getting what is left when his appetite is
glutted. Send me your friends tomorrow,
you shall not live if there is justice in
Heaven !"

Tom threw himself in a chair, as if
exhausted by the paroxysm of his rage.
The street door had closed. Gerard
made no answer to Tom except by a
formal bow. He walked across and
across the room, with his eyes on the
floor.

There was a knock at the door, and
Lady Betty, in a lively tone, cried, "May
I come in, gentlemen?"

Gerard glanced at Tom, who sat sulk

II. 23

lely in his clair and heard the voice
without moving a muscle, and then took
the key from his pocket and opened the
door.

Lady Betty entered with a bright
smile on her face, caught sight of Tom,
checked herself in the very act of making
a courtesy, and becoming instantly serious,
said to Gerard :

*' Mrs. Walker is alone ; will you be
good enough to join her?"

After a moment's hesitation, Gerard
bowed and left the room. Tom still
sat.

"Do you know that I am in the room?"
Lady Betty asked.

Tom rose to his feet, and said coldly :

'* You did not expect to see me, it
seems."

No ; I wrote asking you not to come
this afternoon. Evidently you did not
receive my letter."

On the contrary ; it was that request
which brought me here."

In that case you owe me an explanation."


"It is very simple. I suspected your
reason for wishing me away."

You are so amazingly candid that
I should not be surprised by your
adding that the main object of your visit
is to insult me."

There are insults, less pardonable
than the plain speaking of an honest
man, which you appear to accept with
willingness."

If you think I feel any sort of pleasure
in submitting to yours, you are in
error."

I am in no humour to bandy words.

Lady Betty, the subject is too serious

to treat with drawing-room levity. You

know the insults to which I refer."

** In the matter of insults you must

23-2

necessarily have the advantage of
me. At present I have experience of
only one kind of insolence, but doubtless,
with Mr. Talbot to enlighten
me, I shall soon know every possible
variety."

'' I would that you knew no worse than
I can offer — the rudeness of a rough and
angry man." Tom spoke with a soft
inflexion of the voice, and his eyes rested
for a moment on Lady Betty with a
tenderness which did more to shake her
than his fiercest words. '' The insult
which should make your virgin blood
rise in choler to your face, and stir
your soul with indignation, is that which
men, wanting in principle and honour,
put upon you when they claim equality
with you'*

I do not understand you," said Lady
Betty, with grave perplexity in her voice
and features.

"My meaning is this — the men who
visit this house, to whom you give your
hand in friendship, whose conversation
you listen to are roues — rakes — men loose
in thought and principle, who wouldn't
hesitate to take advantage of your
innocence, seeking by insidious means to
shake the foundation of your self-respect
and delicacy."

Tom, I should laugh if anyone but
you talked such extravagant nonsense ;
but I feel more inclined to cry when you
suffer your reason to be so warped by
prejudice and jealousy. Is it possible
that a society can be formed entirely of
perfect men and women. Is each individual
to be examined and to carry a diploma
of merit for presentation on his introduction
to a new acquaintance. And
do not you think that if an examination
of that kind could be made, the society
founded upon it would be very hypocritical,

xerj narrow, and excessively
stupid ?"

'' While men conceal their vices they
have yet a sufficient decency to
claim our respect ; but others, whose
vices are flagrant, whose immorality is
public "

Whom do you refer to ?"

The man whose society you prefer to
mine — the man you were closetted with,
while your friend Gerard, held me a
prisoner here."

Lady Betty's cheeks flushed red, and
she cried — "Have you no shame, Tom?
I was closetted with no one. The Prince
was Mr. Walker's visitor, not mine. It
is a struggle to think gently of you when
you wrong me by suspicion, and hard to
bear in mind that you have Men good tome
when you treat me so ill. It was
love for you that made me ask you to seeme
when we should be alone and free

from the interruption of visitors — ix was
consideration for you that made me add
the postscript ; but love and consideration
are powerless against your morbid
jealousy. I sacrifice my pride in adopting
this explanatory tone, for with all
my faults, I am not ungrateful nor forgetful."


If you knew the danger in which you
stand, you would forgive me for my
savage eagerness to save you — even if
I had no other claim upon your tenderness."


"I do know the danger in which I
stand — the peril that menaces every
attractive woman, and I tell you this —
knowledge is a better arm to virtue than
ignorance."

Tom did not respond. The fact that
he had been shamefully unjust to Lady
Betty, and made a fool of himself began
to dawn upon his mind.



To think you should misdoubt me
so !" said Lady Betty, then her courage
giving way, she sought her pockethand-
kerchief, sobbing'' I — I believe you
would shut me up in a convent if you
could."

No, not that — I would shield you
from harm, not with cold walls, but with
these two loving arms, dear girl. Give
me by a word the right to be your champion
and defender."

'' No, Tom, no." Lady Betty said with
resolution, as she wiped her eyes and put
her handkerchief away. " No. I will
not marry until I feel quite certain that
my husband and I shall make each other
happy. And just at this moment" — she
added with a gleam of her habitual
humour — " the prospect is not very
promising."

You are right," said Tom. Then he
held out his hand and she gave him hers,

and the J stood looking into each other's
eyes sadly for some seconds.

Their thoughts were not in the same
train, yet the thought of each was pregnant
with regret.

Lady Betty had expected their meeting
and their parting to be so different. For
instead of thinking harm of her lover,
she had put a favourable construction
upon his absence, and half determined
that when they met she would let him see
just how much she loved him ; and if inconsequence,
he should repeat the offer
of marriage, she thought she might say
yes. She had surveyed mankind during
her residence with Mrs. Walker, and
found no specimen at all comparable
with Tom. Now, this little scheme
must be abandoned — and the chance of
making him happy or of being happy
herself for a long time to come, seemed
slight indeed.

Tom did not know the cost of this
jealousy, or how much he had lost by his
inopportune visit; what concerned him
was poor Lady Betty's grief, and he said
to himself, that it was shameful to treat
a sweet, unoffending girl with groundless
imputations, and cruel doubts, and that
he would take himself right away from
her until he could think of her justly and
well. He would not go out of the
country — that would be too hard — but to
Talbot Hall supposing he came off
luckily from his forthcoming encounter
with Gerard Crewe.

Then they parted, and were utterly
wretched — both.

BEFORE THE FIGHT.

Doctor BLANDLY, sat on a firm,
wooden stool, conveniently
placed among the alders,
beside the admirable preserves adjoining
the old Ferry House Lm, Tottenham.
His right hand grasped a rod ; he raised
his left hand gently and pressed his spectacles
a little closer to his nose ; his lips
were tightly closed ; his eyes were fixed
upon the float ; he scarcely breathed. His
left hand slowly descended to his knee, and

he gradually rose from his seat ; then as the
quill dipped once more he gave the line a
snatch and felt his victim jerking and
pulling at the hook.

Ha ha, my boy. I have you this
time," said he, raising the fish carefully
to the grass.

And you deserve him ; you haven't
relaxed a muscle these last ten minutes."

Doctor Blandly turned to see who spoke,
and found Tom Talbot at his back.

'you, Tom!" he cried, wringing the
young man's hand, and holding it in the
affectionate manner of a sincere old
friend. '' I thought you were off on your
travels again, my boy."

Here I am. Sir, with as little chance
of leaving England as that poor devil of
a fish."

He spoke with unusual gravity, and
fixed his eyes on the fish that was gasping
feebly in the grass. Doctor Blandly

scanned his face attentively, and laying
down his rod, said to himself — '' There's
more than common meaning in those
words, or my name is not Blandly ;" then
as he raised himself he said in a low tone
of anxiety :

What's the matter, Tom ?"

'' A matter. Doctor, in which I require
your assistance, you may be sure, by the
fact that I come to break in upon your
sport."

We will go into the house."

There is no hurry for an hour or two.
Throw out your line, and I will sit on the
grass here by your side, and tell all that
you have to know."

If you think fish are to be caught
while one is talking to the angler, you do
an injustice to the fish ; and if you think
I can enjoy sport and listen to your
trouble at the same time, you do an injustice
to me. Jerry !"

In answer to this call there came a low
muttering from the further side of a thornbush.


Jerry !" repeated Doctor Blandly.

impatiently. " D that fellow ! when

he gets a rod in his hand he loses all sense
of duty. Jerry !"

At the third call Jerry backed into
sight, holding his rod at arm's-length,
and straining his eyes towards his
float.

Another moment and I should have
caught him !" he murmured, in a tone of
deep regret, as, unable to protract his
occupation to a greater length, he raised
his hook.

*' What, had you a nibble ?" asked the
Doctor, with something like sympathy in
his voice.

"Not a quarter of an hour ago," replied
Jerry. 'morning, Master Tom," he
added, touching his hat.

Where's Baxter ?" asked Doctor
Blandly.

'' I don't know, Sir. He's been running
up and down the bank for the last
half-hour like a dog that won't take to
the water."

Jerry ! Jerry !"

*task your pardon, Doctor, but that
there Mr. Baxter he is such a fisherman.
First he gets his hook in the weeds, then
he thinks he's got a bite, and jerks his
float, and his hook, and his bait, and
every blessed thing into the top branches
of an alder, then he breaks his line, gets
another, slips in the water and frightens
the fish, and afterwards complains that he
never has a bite !"

Doctor Blandly chuckled.

*' Well, well," said he ; " fish out one
of the bottles from the water and take it
to him, Jerry. I'll wager he will sit
still for half-an-hour with that beside

him. What can you expect ?" tie asked,
turning away and taking Tom's arm,
'' What can you expect of a man who
allowed himself to be caught by Mrs.
Baxter ? Look around you, Tom, my
boy; the tender green of these water
meadows spangled here and therewith
patches of yellow celandine, over
there all golden with buttercups,
the hedges pink with dog-roses that
give the air a wholesome sweet flavour,
the chesnuts by the road, the pollard-willows
bending over the shining water,
the pearly clouds floating lazily before the
wind, the red-brick inn where we shall
find a snowy cloth spread with a great
round cheese, a brown crusty loaf, and a
jug of sparkling ale all waiting to refresh
us when we enter. Here Nature smiles
and says, ' Behold the very best I have
to give, enjoy it and be happy.' To the
rational being, with a sound jacket to his

back and eighteen pence in his pocket,
there is, indeed, nothing left to desire.
He takes and is thankful. But your
wayward egotist, of which Baxter is the
type, answers, ' 'Tis not enough,' and
forthwith takes a wife, then, i' faith, he
finds to his sorrow that he has too much,
and knows the ineffable blessing of contentment
no more."

Tom made no answer. Earth and all
that it held, and more than that, he
valued less than Lady Betty. He looked
round upon the meadows, and saw them
only mechanically; for the first time in
his life the beauty of nature did not touch
his heart. Nothing there could give him
happiness, and he was famishing for want
of it.

She is not here," he said to himself,
*' and I — I cannot ' clog the hungry
edge of appetite by bare imagination of a
feast.' "

VOL. II. 24

They entered the '' Ferry-boat," where
Doctor Blandly's expectations were
realised. In the sanded parlour a cloth
was spread, and the untouched half
of a ripe Cheshire cheese stood in
the centre, flanked by a couple of
loaves.

'* I've kept it for you. Doctor," said
the host, pointing to the cheese with
pride. " Kept it untouched for a fortnight.
Smell of it. Sir ; look at it, seethe
veins of it. Sir !"

"Blue as a bilberry!" responded the
Doctor, with satisfaction. " And now for
the ale, Mr. Grigs." When the ale was
put upon the table and Mr. Grigs had withdrawn.
Doctor Blandly said, " Now, Tom,
for your news."

We will have our bread and cheese
first. Doctor."

Right, my boy, help yourself. What
ale ! Yes, you can save the serious business

until we have satisfied our appetites.
Did you ever see a handsomer loaf than
that now, Tom ? Still, we can talk of
trifles."

'' Yes, yes, trifles," answered Tom,
absently, munching his crust and looking
blankly through the opposite window.

Doctor Blandly shot a keen glance at
the young man, which assured him that
he was in no humour for talking on
trifles.

I wrote to you best part of a month
ago, young man, and getting no answer
I naturally supposed that you had runaway
again."

You wrote to me. Doctor ?"

Yes, saying I wished to see you on
a rather important matter of business."

True, I remember the letter ; I should
apologise, but that my mind has been
burdened, burdened !"

With business of a very important

24-2

LIBRARY

IIWiVCPCiTV r\C llllKrrti

kind. Ha ! ha ! A little more ale,
Tom. The fact is, I made a very lucky
speculation on your account."

Have you indeed."

Tom cut a crust, and that and the
fortunate speculation seemed to be of
equal interest.

You can add close upon twenty
thousand pounds to your capital if you
choose to take legal advantage of your
position."

Oh, that's understood ; set the
lawyers to work and pile up my treasures."


I should point this out as another
instance of the natural consequence of
folly and restless greed, but that the
sinner is dead, and the punishment falls
upon the guiltless."
• '' Indeed ! Pass the mustard, Doctor."

'' You remember the poor woman,
doubtless— Mrs. St. Cyr."

Mrs. St. Cjr ! ah !" Tom laid down
his knife, and his whole attention became
rivetted upon Doctor Blandly. " What of
her ?'*

She had twenty thousand pounds
with which she wished to speculate.
Her idea was this, she might purchase an
annuity terminable with her life, which
would enable her to live in a style consistent
with her extravagant tastes, but
not with her means."

An annuity terminable with her life;
but what provision did that make for her
daughter ?"

None — absolutely none. It left her
penniless."

Incredible !"

'* Not if you know the woman. I told
her she could not live; she, confident in
herself alone, believed otherwise. She
fancied that by a lavish expenditure she
should deceive the world with respect to

her daughter's heritage ; she believed that
her daughter would entrap a rich man in
marriage ; and she believed she would live
to see her daughter thus provided for ; she
was wrong."

Wrong — wickedly wrong. Did you
not dissuade her ?"

I tried to dissuade her, and failed."

'' Then Lady Betty— Miss St. Cyr has
nothing."

Not a rap. She has no right to
another farthing of her mother's money."

Who has the money ?"

You, Tom. It is the addition to
your fortune I alluded to."

'' I — I — really did not take notice of

t/

what you were saying. Tell me again."

'' It is all told. When I found the
woman inflexible, determined upon this
heartless investment, I made a contract
with her on your account — fancying that
you would be more merciful to the sufferer

than the Jew dealers in annuities. You
said just now that I was to set the
lawyers at work and pile up your treasures
; if I obey your instructions, Miss
St. Cyr should be apprised at once in
order that she may give up her present
style of living, and save as much from
the wreckage as possible."

You wouldn't act upon that advice if
I gave it seriously. Doctor. I did not
know what I was saying."

Well, my boy, we must think about
what is to be done. Quarter-day will soon
be here, and the young woman will want
money — she has already applied to the
lawyer in Lincoln's Inn to know the state
of her mother's affairs."

Tom pushed back his chair from the
table, rested his elbow on his knee and
his face upon his palm, and gave himself
up to reflection.

The devil still lurked in Tom's heart —

it was a tenacious devil — one not to be
expurgated by a simple, " Get thee behind
me." It was prompting him now to base,
ungenerous action. '' Why should you
give this girl the power to live a life that
you detest?" it asked. "Humanity demands
that you should give her enough to
shield her from want ; but Reason forbids
that you should give her more than would
suffice to meet her requirements. Is it
not for her good that she should be withdrawn
from temptation, taken away from
the influence of an idle and vicious
society ? Will it not reveal to her
the shallow friendship, the false affection
of those about her, to reduce her to a
humbler level ? And as one by one these
lordlings, and fops, and fortune-hunters
drop away, will not she realise the worth
of truer friends ?"

As Tom listened to the suggestions of
his own selfish jealousy, his face flushed

he could feel the blood throbbing under
his fingers, in the veins upon his temple,
and he viewed with savage satisfaction the
ignoble exercise of his power over Lady-betty,
and then quickly came revulsion.
He sickened at the thought of his own
selfishness, his heart ached as he figured
the poor girl's mortification in finding her
mother exposed as a scheming, fraudulent
woman, and her distress in finding that
he whom she had trusted was heartless
and mean.

'' What are you thinking about, Tom ?"
asked Doctor Blandly, after casting one
or two uneasy glances at the young
man.

Ah, indeed ! "V^^iat am T thinking
about !" exclaimed Tom, raising himself
with a gesture of disgust. *' Myself —
self — self — always myself." He thrust
his hand in his pocket, and drawing out a
paper, said : " Look at that, Doctor, and

tell me if it will answer my purpose."


Dr. Blandly put aside this plate — the
famous cheese had lost its flavour as he
marked Tom's agitation — drew out his
spectacle-case, took a pinch of snuff,
settled his glasses carefully, and then
opened the paper.

This is what he read :

I, Thomas Talbot, of Talbot Hall,
Seven oaks, in Kent, do give the whole of
my property, my lands, buildings, goods,
and money to Benjamin Blandly, M.D., of
Edmonton, in Middlesex, to be divided
equally, and as he thinks justly, at my
death, between ( ) and Elizabeth

St. Cyr, of Park Lane, London. And this
is my will and testament, written
in the month of July and the year
of grace, one thousand and eight hundred."


There was a furrow in Doctor Blandly's

forehead when he commenced to read ;
it grew deeper as he continued.

When he came to the conclusion, he
slowly turned the paper over as if he
expected to find something further on the
back, then he laid it down on the table,
and looking straight through his glasses
at Tom, said in a tone of perplexity :

What the devil does all this mean,
my boy ?"

I am going out with a man tomorrow
morning. Doctor — that's all."

That's all ! and quite enough too, I
think. So you are going out to cut a
man's throat, hey ?"

'' The probability is that he will cut
mine, for I know about as little of the use
of a small sword as a woman."

Then more fool you to fight. What
is your quarrel ?"

'^ I have insulted a gentleman — I left
him no option but to challenge me."

What do you mean by an insult ? It
isn't in you to offer anyone a gratuitous
ash-ont."

I assure you the fault is entirely
mine."

Then the noblest thing you can do is
to apologise."

'' I considered that a mean way of
evading punishment, and refused to
retract my words. The seconds arranged
everything before I left town, and we
meet tomorrow morning. I should fight
if for no other reason than that I bear my
father's name."

'' What better reason have you ?" asked
Doctor Blandly sharply.

None. My adversary is a gentleman
and a cool hand. He will let me off with
a flesh wound, I expect — if not, what
matter ? I am a useless, purposeless man."

How dare you say that, Tom. It is
blasphemy to say that a single thing

that God has put upon this earth is
useless."

Tom was silent.

Doctor Blandly with a frown took up
the paper and read it again.

What is this blank space intended
for?" he asked.

'' A name that I shall fill in''

Hum !" grunted the Doctor, " the
aforesaid Benjamin Blandly, M.D., I suppose."


He folded the paper and laid it down ;
then he looked straight before him fora
couple of minutes. He rose from his
seat and walked in silence to the window,
which looked out upon his beloved water-meadows
and the peaceful stream, and
then he softly whistled the first bar of
his favourite ditty, " Up came a Pedlar,"
&c., broke off suddenly, slowly drew
out his Indian silk handkerchief — a gift
of Tom's — and took off his glasses to

wipe from them a humidity that had
clouded the tender landscape before
him.

*' There is not much to dread, Doctor;
the man feels kindly towards me, I
know."

Oh, confound his kindness ! 'tis of a
piece with your gentlemanly mode of
expressing regret for an affront." The
Doctor took a pinch of snuff, which
seemed to restore his vigour. " Well,
Tom, I see no way out of it," he said,
turning to the table again, and taking
up the paper ; *' go and fight, if honour
demands it of you, and may God answer
your old friend's prayer and save you fora
better fate than death by an English
hand. As for this paper, 'tis enough.
An alteration of one or two words, and
the signature of a couple of witnesses,
will make it as effective as needs be. Will
you finish the day with me, Tom?"

1 have arrangements yet to make."

'' Aha, well, well ! Baxter and Jerry
shall put their names here, and we
will say good-bye. Good-bye ! What a
word, my boy ! Good-bye ! Think on it !
And you a young, hearty fellow, while
I "

'' Gone, Doctor, I have need of all
my strength ; don't shake my heart."

*' Not I, my boy, not I. Go and pink
your man and come rattling along to me,
with the look of triumph in your eye that
used to kindle in your old father's when
he told of his tough fights. But I would
to God your foe was not an Englishman.
Who is he, my boy ?"

You are not likely to know him. Sir.
A young gentleman of the town — Mr.
Gerard Crewe."

"Gerard Crewe!" exclaimed the Doctor,
dropping from his hand the inkpot he was
carrying to the table.

Yes, Sir. Do you know him ?"

The Doctor sat down, evidently much
agitated.

Yes," he said, under his breath.
Then, suddenly striking the table with
his fist, he cried, '' Tom, you mustn't fight
that man."

'Tight!" echoed Tom, with a short
laugh, "I don't know how; but I shall
stand up before him to a certainty. What
do you know of him ?"

The Doctor took no notice of the question,
but sat in deep thought until Tom
repeated it.

'*I know him for a dangerous mana
man you are not called upon to meet.
His brother is a highwayman."

"Are you sure of that?" asked Tom,
jumping up in excitement.

Certain."

*' You believe him to be a man without

principle — a hypocrite?" Tom asked, with
increased force.

Doctor Blandly, concluding from Tom's
altered manner that he was glad to see a
means of escaping from a meeting which
his own weakness had necessitated, replied
:

'' I cannot tell you all that I know oi
him, but I have little reason to doubt
that he is capable of precipitating a
quarrel with a sinister motive."

'' Then I will meet him with a light
heart," cried Tom, springing from his
seat. "If he is a villain all that I suspected
is true, and nothing will please me
better than to have at him."

VOL. n 25

DOCTOR BLANDLY S OPPOSITION.

ERARD CREWE was seated in
the long room at Brooke's, when
the man with whom he was in
conversation said :

Who is the new arrival attracting so
much attention ? A country gentleman
who has lost his way apparently."

Gerard turned his head, and looking
over his shoulder perceived that the
portly gentleman standing in the centre
of the room, his legs apart, his stick
planted firmly on the ground, his chin

up, his pouting lips drawn down at the
corners, and his eyes scanning successively
the players at each separate table, was
Doctor Blandly.

'' A very worthy friend of mine, and
possibly seeking me," said Gerard. " You
will permit me — ?" He rose, exchanged
bows with his friend, and walked up to
the visitor.

Are you looking for me, Doctor
Blandly ?" he asked.

The Doctor turned without altering the
set expression of his face, and looking
him full in the face, answered :

'' Yes, Mr. Gerard Crewe, I am. I
wish to speak to you."

'will you speak to me here, or will
you accompany me to a room where we
shall be to ourselves."

"A private room, if you please."

Gerard conducted the Doctor into a
cabinet adjoining the long room. It was

25-2

unoccupied. Gerard closed the door and
placed a chair for his visitor.

'you have challenged Mr. Talbot,"
said Doctor Blandly, opening the subject
without preamble.

*' I have," Gerard replied, with quiet
gravity.

Well, Sir, the meeting must not take
place."

Must not take place ?"

'' You must not draw your sword upon
Mr. Talbot."

Gerard made a kind of interrogative
movement with his delicate hands, and
waited for an explanation.

'' In the first place I appeal to you asa
gentleman and a man of honour.
Mr. Talbot has no skill with the weapon
he is to use ; in all likelihood he
never drew a rapier in his life. Do
you think it fair then to take advantage
of the superiority which you doubtless

as a man of the world have over
Mm ?"

The choice of weapons was with
him. I am willing to use pistols if he
prefers them."

Pistols ! a confounded murderous contrivance."


"May I ask if you have come on behalf
of Mr. Talbot ?"

'' Yes ; but without his knowledge.
He seems more anxious to fight than you
are — hang him ! He's a hot-headed
young gentleman, and from what I can
learn it is as like as not that his quarrel
arose from a mistake. Now can a misunderstanding,
which a few words would
set right, justify you in jobbing at each
other like a pair of heathen savages ?"

I have no choice. You must
address your arguments to Mr. Talbot.
I have offered him the option of
apologising."

He cannot apologise ; he comes of a
breed that never did apologise."

*' Then the meeting is inevitable."

'^ I have appealed to your sense of
honour and humanity, I will appeal now
to your feeling of gratitude. To Tom
Talbot and his father you owe all that
you have to be thankful for — rescue from
the lowest depth of poverty and vice ;
education, and a sufficient yearly allowance
to ensure you from returning to
your original condition'*

Gerard inclined his head.

"You knew this then?" said Doctor
Blandly, sharply.

*' I suspected it."

Doctor Blandly did not know what to
make of Gerard's imperturbable calmness.
Predisposed to think ill of the
gamester, he set it down to cool indifference,
and after taking a pinch of snuff
and scowling side-long at Gerard, he recommenced

with increased acerbity in this
tone.

Now, Mr. Crewe, I will attack you
on new ground, and forsaking the supposition
that you are a gentleman, a man
of honour, or a person with ordinary
feelings of gratitude, I will take it for
granted that you have a tolerably deep
regard for your own pecuniary interests.
Let me tell you that this annual payment
to you and your brother is made entirely
independent of any claim that you can
produce, and totally at my discretion ;
and I warn you that if you but scratch
the skin of Tom Talbot, neither you nor
Barnabas shall ever receive another penny
of his money. Now, then, what have you
to say to that ?"

What you have said does not alter my
original intention."

Then you knew the facts that I
have stated?" said the Doctor, sharply.

'"■ I suspected the truth."

Who hinted it to you ?"

'' My brother Barnabas."

Doctor Blandly looked at Gerard's cold
unemotional face in perplexity for a moment,
then clapping his hands loud on the
elbows of his chair, he cried in a tone of
horror :

Good God ! can it be that you know
all ! that you are in conspiracy with that
vile wretch Barnabas to rob Tom not only

of his " he checked himself abruptly,

and then speaking to himself rather than
addressing Gerard, " No, I cannot believe
that, it is impossible !"

Finish your charge. Doctor Blandly."

Tell me what you know of Tom Talbot
— of his father !"

I can only repeat what you have said ;
I know no more."

Doctor Blandly drew a long sigh of
relief, and seemed at a loss to know how

to proceed. After waiting a minute in
silence for him to speak, Gerard put his
hand in his breast-pocket, and drawing
out a case, said :

I am not wealthy. Doctor Blandly,
but, for a gamester, I am thrifty. I have
contrived to amass this little bundle of
notes, which for the last five or six
months I have guarded carefully, hoping
to have, sooner or later, a confirmation
of my belief. You will find that
they discharge, as far as money goes, my
obligations to the Talbot family. I do not
ask for an explanation of this mysterious
generosity, I only ask for an extension
of it by being allowed to purchase my
independence."

Good God 1" exclaimed Doctor Blandly,
sinking back in his chair, and adjusting
his spectacles that he might look with
perfect clearness at Gerard, then he repeated,
" Good God !"

And now," said Gerard, '' you may
perhaps see no reason why I should
not meet Mr. Talbot tomorrow morning
?"

No reason ! that's good ! The reason
is stronger than ever, for if I was in
doubt about you before, I am certain
now. Gerard — " He rose to his feet, and
grasped the young man's cold thin
fingers in his warm plump hand. 'ras
there is a heaven above us you shall
not stain your sword with Tom's
blood."

•'' For a final reason, Sir, why
not ?"

Why not ? because he is your
brother !"

THE FIGHT.

HE interview continued for lialf-
an-hour longer, then Doctor
Blandly and Gerard Crewe left
the house together, walked into the
Strand, and separated amicably at the
hotel where the Doctor had arranged to
stay for the night.

Gerard returned to Brooke's, where he
stayed all night, risking a few pounds
at a faro-table, but playing neither continuously
or with interest, and rather, as
it seemed, to beguile the time than to

win money. At five o'clock he was
joined by two gentlemen, and they conversed
in the cabinet where Doctor
Blandly had sat with Gerard , until about
half-past five, when a fourth gentleman
entered the room.

The carriage is at the door, are
we all ready ?" he asked, after exchanging
hurried salutations with the company.


Quite, as far as I am concerned,"
answered Gerard.

The other gentlemen expressed their
readiness, and all four at once descended
to the street, where a carriage with a
pair of horses was waiting. A couple
of rapiers and a mahogany case were on
the seat ; the seconds took the swords
between their knees, the surgeon nursed
his property, and Gerard having seated
himself, the carriage started off.

At ten minutes before six they were on

foot again, and making their way down
an avenue of the park, Gerard and a
second in advance, the other second with
the surgeon following.

It was a grey morning, a drizzling
rain had been falling, and drops still fell
from the trees. Gerard looked up at the
heavens with anxiety ; an inky cloud was
sweeping up under the grey veil that
covered the sky.

"A mighty bad morning for our business,"
said the second. "If it rains will
you toss for sides, and take the chance of
getting the drift in your eyes, or play
under the oak ?"

Under the oak," answered Gerard.

His second looked at him with surprise.


Gerard stepped aside from the path and
tried the grass.

'' 'Tis dangerously slippery," he
said.

That gives you the advantage, with
your cool hand ; our adversary will slip
about like an eel in his impetuosity.
All you have to do is to stand still and
pink him."

'' You understand distinctly that I offer
Mr. Talbot the option of apology."

Certainly — you don't feel nervous, do

you, Crewe ?"

I never felt less firm in my life."
Ah ! you ought to have turned into
bed for a few hours like a rational being,
instead of sitting up all night in that
hot room. However, you have nothing to
fear. Ah ! here we are."

Turning the angle and coming in sight
of the King's Oak, they perceived standing
under its wide spread boughs, Tom
Talbot, with his two friends. A slight
shiver ran through Gerard's frame, which
was observed by his seconds. The black
cloud came nearer. Having approached

within a dozen yards of the oak, the
party stopped. Gerard remained with
the surgeon while the principals on both
sides stepped forward to meet each
other.

''Do you stick to your odds, Athol?"
asked the second who had been walking
with Gerard.

Yes, twenty to one on our man — in
fifties."

Done," and then the two gentlemen
saluted the others, and proceeded with the
usual preliminaries. Gerard had turned
his eyes away, and not looked at Tom
after the moment that he first caught
sight of him. The cloud had come over
the oak and the rain was now falling in
heavy drops. The seconds returned,
saying that Mr. Talbot refused to make
any kind of apology.

"And the rain— what is settled about
that ?" asked Gerard.

'rit is a matter of indifference to Mr.
Talbot. He gives you the choice."
'* Then we will fight under the oak."
The seconds interchanged a quick
glance, Mr. Athol looking the loss cheerful
of the two. Under the oak the rain was
not felt, except in the occasional plash of
accumulated drops, but the grass was not
less slippery. Having taken off his coat,
waistcoat and cravat, Gerard kicked off
his shoes. Again the seconds glanced
significantly at each other; then everything
being ready the principals advanced,
Tom with his eyes fixed on his opponent —
Gerard with his eyes upon the ground,
until the moment that they were within
a couple of paces of each other. For a
moment they stood looking at each other
full in the eyes. Tom, with an expression
of dogged resolution on his square,
English face. Gerard with firmly set
lips, and brow contracted rather in apprehension

than anger. They saluted,
measured swords, recovered, and
crossed.

Thus far Tom had acted upon the
instruction he had received in the lesson
taken over night, but now ignorant of the
finesse and delicate play upon which the
duellist's safety depends, he trusted for
success to a quick and strong attack.
The slight figure of his adversary, the
consciousness of his own physical
strength, gave him confidence, he saw
nothing to prevent him plunging his sword
through Gerard's body at once ; bracing
the muscles of his right hand and arm,
he made a heavy lounge. To his utter
astonishment the point of his sword was
turned aside by a mere turn of Gerard's
wrist, and lie knew, as he clumsily
recovered, that he was at his antagonist's
mercy, and that it was in gallant con-vol.

II. 26

iteration for this helplessness, that Gerard
spared him.

'' What on earth is Crewe about ?"
whispered Mr. Athol to his companion.
'' He might have pinked his man and
finished the business, had he used the
opportunity."

Once more Tom lounged, shortening
his sword and throwing the weight of
his body upon it ; with a quick movement
Gerard drew away, turning the point wide
of its mark.

Now," murmured Mr. Athol, stamping
his foot, in expectation of the final
coup, as the top of Tom's shoulder
lined with Gerard's breast. " Great
heavens ! he has not touched him, when
he might have spitted him down the
middle like a capon."

Nettled with his own want of skill,
Tom, as soon as he recovered, recommenced
the attack, and plunged wildly

again and again at his adversary, until
at length, perceiving, what to the seconds
was obvious from the first, that he had no
chance of success, and that the only use
Gerard made of his superiority was to
foil his attempts, he threw down his
rapier, and stood with his hands down for
his adversary to do what he would.
Exasperated with defeat, he would willingly
at that moment, have received
Gerard's point upon his breast; he was
quite unprepared for any other result,
and when Gerard threw down his sword
also, and stepping forward, extended his
open right hand, he hesitated a moment,
at a loss to know how to act.

Doctor Blandly had said the man was
a rascal and a hypocrite, but judging
him by his own experience, could he
prove a single departure from the behaviour
of a friend and a gentleman. All
his suspicions were based upon the 



position that Gerard was false, but with
this convincing proof of loyalty those
suspicions were unjust and indefensible.
If Tom was ashamed of being beaten
and reluctant to yield to a foe, he was by
the same principle unwilling to be outdone
in generosity, or to hold out against
the advances of a friend, and so after that
brief moment of doubt and hesitation, he
gave his hand frankly to Gerard, saying :
*' I have behaved unhandsomely, and I ask
your forgiveness."

AETEE THE EIGHT.

OM walked off the field with a
hang-dog look, and made no
response to the cheerful congratulations
of his seconds. It was not
in his nature to underrate his own shortcomings,
or to look on the cheerful side of
defeat.

I have made a fool of myself —
insulted my friends, and been beaten," he
said to himself.

His adversary's generosity aggravated

his mortification. He declined to take a
place with his seconds in the carriage
that was waiting for them ; he thanked
them very civilly for their services, and
went his own way, without even asking
them to breakfast with him. He sat in
his chamber with his hands buried in his
pockets, thinking of his faults until he
felt absolutely sick, and the girl brought a
tray laid with a substantial breakfast.
He ate heartily, and finding his sickness
considerably lessened, he rose from the
table with vigour, sat down at a desk and
wrote this letter.

Dear Doctor, —
I have been thoroughly beaten, but
my adversary generously contented himself
with a bloodless victory, though he
might have done my business a dozen
times. I honestly believe you are mistaken
in him. As far as concerns my

quarrel with Mr. Gerard Crewe, I ara
convinced that all the blame was on my
side, and as I reflect that a couple of
hours ago I was doing my best to stick a
small sword through his heart, I feel
heartily ashamed that I took no better
pains to prove the truth of my suspicions
beforehand.

''I shall leave London by the first
coach that starts for Sevenoaks, and
there I shall stay till the madness which
hath afflicted me to the discomfort of those
I most love, shall have passed off. With
regard to Miss St. Cyr, since fate has
decided that she is not to have the half
of my fortune, I beg that you will continue
to place at her disposal the same
annual amount paid to the late Mrs. St.
Cyr, and I trust to your kindness to make
the payment in such a manner that she
may not know her mother's fault, nor the
source from which the money comes. In

conclusion, my dear friend, I ask you to
believe me ever —

Your grateful and devoted,

Tom Talbot."

Having despatched this letter, Tom had
nothing else to do than to lock up his
chamber and walk to the " Blue Boar " in
Holborn. Nevertheless he stood irresolute
upon his path for some time with his
face due north. On the right hand
lay Holborn, on the left Stanhope
Street.

I am going away for weeks — perhaps
for months," thought he. '' May
I not hang about for a couple of hours
or so to catch a last glimpse of her.
She need not see me, I will do nothing
to renew her pain. One glimpse of her —
God knows, 'tis little enough to face the
dreary solitude of months withal ! The
clouds have broken, and she may go for a

drive in an hour." He cast his eye westwards.
" But suppose that by accident she
sees me — we must speak, and then farewell
to my fine resolutions. What a feeble
fool I am. Hang me, if I give in !"
And with that he deliberately turned his
face to the east, and marched with steadfast
firmness — for nearly two hundred
yards, when he stopped dead short, struck
with the recollection that the coach did
not leave the '' Blue Boar " until one
o'clock.

Looking at his watch, he found that it
wanted yet a quarter of eleven. He could
walk to the " Blue Boar" in half an hour
a hackney-coach would carry him therein
twenty minutes ; why should he spend
a miserable hour in Holborn when the air
of the West End was so much more
pleasant ? There was but one logical
answer to be made to this question, so he
turned about, and with a lighter and

quicker step, made his way to the Park,

taking a seat by the drive, whence he

could see those who came and went fora

long distance. If Lady Betty came

out this morning she would pass this seat ;

but he could see her afar and retire intime

to escape her notice.

* * ^ ^

Mrs. Walker was the centre of fashionable
gossip. It flowed to her in little
streams as to a reservoir, and the great
world came to drink. She had a host of
humble admirers, whose visits she encouraged
if they only brought interesting
items of news. An hour after Tom
had engaged two friends to support him
in his duel, the intelligence was carried
to Mrs. Walker, and though in consideration
for Lady Betty she retailed the important
information in secret to her visitors,
it reached the girl's quick ear before
nightfall, and for a time so overwhelmed

lier with horror and dread that she forgot
the commonest convenances of society,
and would have ran there and then to
Tom's chambers and begged him for
the love of her to withdraw from the
engagement, had not Mrs. Walker, to
avoid such an indecency, assured her
that Mr. Talbot had changed his abode.
Then she wished to write to Mr. Crewe
imploring him to hold his hand, but
fortunately Mrs. Walker contrived to
delay the sending of the letter until she
had made her young friend see that
honour and polite usage both forbade any
interference with gentlemen engaged in
the genteel business of seeking each other's
lives.

Yet though she was induced to submit
to the guidance of her friend, no arguments
could make her look at the affair
as a delicate compliment to herself which
she would one day look back upon with

pride ; and nothing could keep her from
bursting into tears at the mention of the
men's names. She liked Gerard, she
loved Tom — she lingered to listen to the
conversation touching the duel with the
fascination that attracts women to look
upon a terrible possibility ; but when the
subject was exhausted, she escaped to
her room and gave herself up to
grief.

It was so awful to think that for a
simple misunderstanding the man who
had befriended her, who, she knew, in
his heart loved her sincerely, should die,
and be for ever lost to her. Lady
Betty was careless, frivolous, and
thoughtless, but she was not heartless.
She loved Tom more thoroughly than
he in his jealousy could love her. She
would have risked her life to spare him
pain, but he in his selfishness risked his
life only thinking that it would be good

to be rid of a tiresome existence, and
without consideration of the grief his loss
would produce upon Lady Betty.

Lying sleepless in the dark the imagination
is active, the reason torpid. As
she lay upon her comfortless bed a
hundred wild schemes for preventing the
combat passed in review before Lady
Betty's mind, and when the first glimpse
of dawn entered the window, she jumped
up determined to escape from the house
before the servants were about, and goto
the park, where she had heard the
meeting was to take place, and throw
herself between the swords of her lover
and her friend.

Before she was safely out of the
house she perceived that her project, so
feasible in its first conception, was no more
than a forlorn hope. The precise time
of meeting was doubtful — the exact spot
unknown except to principals and seconds,

who were bound to keep it secret. She
knew that she should offend Mrs. Walker ;
she feared that if she were fortunate
enough to find the party and prevent the
fight, her interposition would only result
in a postponement of the duel ; but all
these arguments combined failed to divert
her from attempting that which was
possible to her; and her courage was
proof against the suggestions of clanger
which she felt in going out alone and
unprotected at that early hour. Mutinied
in a dark cloak and hood she hurried
into the park, and quitting the main
passage speedily lost herself. It astonished
her to find how wide and
wild the park was — for she had never
before left the drive and its adjoining
avenues.

Mist shrouded the distance, and she
hurried along ignorant of the course she
took. Hazard led her past the King's

Oak an hour before the party she
sought arrived, and at the moment that
the duel was taking place, she was far from
the spot, standing in the long wet grass
and falling rain, looking around her in
blank despair, dismayed with her solitude,
and shivering with excitement and
cold.

Another hour of fruitless wandering
and she found herself again in the same
spot. Her tears, which had been withheld
by hope, now coursed down her
cheeks. She felt like a lost child. When
she came into the avenue, which she recognised
as that in which she had sat
with Tom on the first day of her going-out
after her mother's death, hope was
gone, and she sat down to recover her
strength, feeling utterly worn out and
wretched. The clouds were breaking
and showed that the morning was far
advanced.

All is over now," stir thought, and
then knowing that the result of the duel
would be known early at Stanhope Street,
she rose quickly left the park— a renewed
anxiety giving her strength. She
re-entered the house at the moment that
the servants were making inquiries
about the unfastened chains and bolts
upon the door. They stared in blank
astonishment to see her, deadly white
and in a cloak sodden with rain. In
reply to her rapid questioning, they
said that as yet no visitors or messengers
had arrived, and asked her
if she knew it was only just turned of
eight.

She tried to walk up-stairs, and
stopped after the first few steps, clinging
to the banister. A maid ran up,
helped her to reach her room, and then
leaving her ran down to get hot coffee
for the poor exhausted girl. The refreshment

restored lier. She would not
lie down ; but having changed her dress
descended to the library, whence she
could see the approaches to the house,
and there she waited, sitting by the
window.

An open carriage drove up to the door
at half past nine, with Gerard and Mr.
Athol. As Gerard put his foot upon the
steps the door opened, and he saw Lady
Betty standing before him white as a
ghost.

What has happened ?" she cried
pressing forward to meet him.

Soothing to pain you," answered
Gerard. " I have shaken hands with
Mr. Talbot, and neither of us has received
a scratch."

Then Lady Betty began to laugh,
while the tears dripped from her
face.

There was breakfast and Mrs. Walker
VOL. II. 27

in the morning-room, and thither
Lady Betty led Gerard with hysterical
gaiety.

They sat at table until half-past ten,
and then Gerard, seeing that Lady Betty
was still in an unnatural state of excitement,
proposed that they should go fora
drive. Mrs. Walker declined, the
hour being yet too early for her to
appear in public, but agreed that it
would be well for Lady Betty to take the
air. So Lady Betty ran up to her room
and arrayed herself in her best to celebrate
the day, and took her seat in
the carriage radiant with renewed joy.

The fresh air did not allay her excitement,
and as she entered the park she
laughed to think how miserably wretched
she had wandered there but a few hours
since. She was in a mood to look at
all things in their gayest, brightest
aspect. She laughed at every jest, and

Mr. Athol, who had not hitherto been
encouraged to regard himself as a wit,
flattered with the reception given by
Lady Betty to his slightest rallies, exerted
himself to the utmost to be agreeable and
witty.

And so, bright and beautiful, her
mourning-dress discarded, and replaced
with a costume of coquettish fashion, her
face beaming with sunny mirth, untinged
with the shadow of a single grave reflection,
she passed before Tom's eyes,
passed, sitting beside the man who had
challenged him, and vis-a-vis with the
grinning dandy who had served as a
second.

I might be dead and buried, and the
very stone rotting over me, for all she
thinks of me," said Tom, with a groan.

Then he turned his down-cast face towards
Holborn, having now no further
wish to gratify.

27-2

AT THE

LONE CROW.

N the outskirts of Woking village
stood an inn called the " Lone
Crow," a broken-down inn that
had lost all traces of respectability, if
ever it had pretended to respect. The
stable-gate was broken and patched with
a piece of the broken horse-trough, the
windows were broken and stuffed with
otherwise useless articles of apparel, a
corner of the square brick chimney was
broken, the thatch was broken and
mended here and there with tufts of

heather, and last of all the sign was
broken, and only the tail end of the *alone
crow" was left in the frame.

It was six in the evening, and the rain
which had been falling with steady persistency
since midday, fell still with undiminished
pertinacity ; nevertheless, a
traveller with ordinary scruples would
have declined to take shelter there, though
all other inns in Woking were full, and
he had to trudge on to Earshot for a
bed.

Lieutenant Barnabas Crewe, however,
was as free from ordinary scruples as the
host of the " Lone Crow" could desire,
and so, when he caught sight of the inn,
whose dismal exterior was to some degree
redeemed by the reflected glow of a fire
upon the dirty surviving panes of the
window, he reined up his steed, and as
Slink came to his heels, said :

^' This looks like a good inn ; we

will put up here out of the cursed
weather."

Slink might have had his doubts about
the appearance of the inn, but he was
entirely at one with his master respecting
the weather, so he slipped off his
gasping horse without a word, and
applied the butt of his whip to the stable-gate.


Hei ! hei ! hei !" called the host from
within, in response to the vigorous
appeal, " do you want to knock the blessed
gate off its hinges ?"

'' It wouldn't be much the worse for a
new pair," said Slink, regarding the ingenious
arrangement of old rope and shoe-leather
by which the gate was connected
with the post.

The host, having opened the door of
the inn and seen at a glance the quality
of his visitors, ran round to the back of
the house, and with as much speed as

possible opened the gate, which was not
to be done in the mere turning of a key,
for several beams which served to shore
it up had first to be removed, and
then the gate required careful lifting in
order that the weight and strain might
not fall so heavily upon the shoe-leather
as to over-tax its strength,
which could have but one result
the fall and utter ruin of the
gate.

You'd best jump down here, Captain,
and go into the house by the front-door ;
the yard's a bit moist-like with the
damp," said the host. 'Til look after
the losses."

*' Oh no, you won't," said Barnabas,
dismounting. " I want my horse fed ;
my man will look after the horses."

Oh, that's your sort, is it ?" said the
host, sullenly. '' Well, in that case, your
man can get through the yard as he can.

He'll find the stable right afore him, and
the clover up in the loft."

Slink waded to the building indicated,
through the muck of years which festered
in the yard.

The stable was in a better state of
repair than the house, because, perhaps,
the proprietor, not feeling himself called
upon to regard external appearances in
that which was less exposed to the public
notice, had not patched it. It was as
Nature had made it, an unpretentious
ruin. At the dry end of the barn — it
made no pretence to be a stable, except
in having a trough against the wall, and
a horsey smell — were a cow and an ass,
which Slink promptly removed to make
room for his own cattle, whose wellbeing
was now the sole object of all his
cares and hopes.

Meanwhile, the landlord of the *'' Lone
Crow" — a thick-set, heavy man, with a

broken nose and other facial peculiarities
of a pugilist — having shored up his gate,
returned to his tap-room, where he found
his guest carefully arranging his wet coat
and hat upon chairs in front of the fire.
He stood looking on in silence, turning a
straw over in his mouth, until Barnabas
turned and perceived him.

You've got the fire all to yourself,
Captain," he remarked.

Yes, and I want something more.
I'm told you have sausages in the house.
Let me have them at once, and get your
best bed-room straight. "We shall stay all
night."

Oh, will you !" The landlord spat
out the straw, and then continued :
'' Look here. Captain, I don't waste no
time, ' fibrin' and no fainting' 's' my matter.
Money down, old Trust's dead. ' ^o
money no match,' and that's another of
my matters."

Confound your m otters ! Do you
suppose a gentleman's going to pay his
reckoning before its due?"

I don't want to know nothing about
no gentlemen, and if I did it ain't very
likely I should ask you for information. I
may have had more gents a-backing me
than ever you dreamed on. Anyway, I
want a crown down and your stirrups."

'' And supposing I don't choose to give
a crown down and my stirrups — what
then?"

Why then, Captain,, out ye go. You
can walk out or I'll put you out, which
you like — and your man after you, and
your horses after him. I'm not particular
if it comes to a turn-up. A fair
warning and no favour shown is what I

You're forgetting yourself, my fine
fellow," said Barnabas, disliking the look

of things.

"Don't you fear, the Woking galloped's
got too good an opinion of his-self
to forget who lie is."

'' Oil, if you're the Woking Wollopper
that makes a difference. You can go and
take the stirrups."

And the crown ?"

There." Barnabas threw down a
crown-piece with reluctance.

'' That's business. Now we'll shake
hands and lead off. I'll take care of the
stirrups ; they shan't leave my sight, you
may wager. Will you cook the sausages
yourself ?"

'' Yes."

Then the missis shall bring 'em to
you. Now we know each other. * Make
your match and come to the scratch,'
there's a matter for you !"

When Slink entered the tap-room he
found his master in his shirt-sleeves astraddle
before the scorching fire that

burnt upon the hearth, shielding his face
with one arm, while with the other hand
he held a long-handled frying-pan in
which a couple of pounds of sausages
were hissing and dazzling over the embers.
Slink disposed of his wet coat, and sat
down with that patient silence and immobility
which characterises country servants
in the presence of their proper
lords.

In due course master and man dined
together, the Wallopper supplying their
wants with the utmost assiduity now that
they had shaken hands and were working
steady, according to the rules of the ropes,
as he put it. He even brought a pair of
shoes for Slink to wear while his own
dilapidated boots — which had been given
him in exchange for the perfectly sound
pair that the Lieutenant now wore —
were drying.

After dinner Barnabas lit a long clay

pipe, cleared a corner of the table, drew
up his chair so as to command a view
of the fire, and bringing a pack of dirty-cards
from his pocket, nodded to Slink,
who, in response, placed his chair vis-a-vis
with his master, and heaving a deep sigh
of resignation, licked his finger and thumb.
With indefatigable patience Barnabas had
taught his follower to play piquet, and
now reaped the reward of his pains by
repeatedly fleecing him every night of
what change remained from the sum he
had given him in the morning.

There was no play in the game, for
Slink had to make all his calculations
with his fingers, and was slow at that.
But Barnabas had a certain sense of
humour which was tickled by the errors
of his adversary, and the simplicity with
which he allowed himself to be tricked.
Besides that, it was agreeable to him
to cheat at all times, though he did

but win this own money by the transaction.


How much money have you, Slink ?''
said Barnabas, drawing a card.

Two shillings and a great, your
honour."

"Put it down on the table, then. Ah,
you've won the draw. Deal."

Slink laid out his money, wetted his
thumb and finger again, and dealt out
the twenty-four cards, wishing from the
bottom of his soul that he might be lucky
enough to lose his two and fourpence by
a single hand. But there was no such
luck for him. His cards were so provokingly
good that nothing but the ingenuity
of Lieutenant Crewe prevented his
making " capot " time after time. If,
endeavouring to terminate the game, lie
threw away three aces, he picked up
three kings of the same suits, and when
lie discarded a quint to the knave, he took

up another to the ace. Fortune opposed
this losing, Barnabas took care that he
should not win. Slink longed to be with
his horses in the stable — to be anywhere
except with his master playing piquet.
It was otherwise with Barnabas. The
difficulty of winning against such cards,
and the necessity of having Slink's
money, were a zest to the game which
made him in no hurry to finish it.

With the villagers there had dropped
in during the evening a pedlar, a loud,
red-faced rascal, with a husky voice and
an Irish brogue, who laid himself out to
amuse the company, and succeeded to
a marvel. He told stories with witty
points, a little broad, perhaps, but such
as all who heard could understand and
laugh at ; and he sang songs— Irish
ballads, and the popular songs by Mr.
Dibden, and all with the same chorus,
in which everyone could join without

reference to the subject, words, or tune,
and with an accompaniment of feet and
empty pots.

Now Shnk loved music ; in his happier
days he could himself sing when
called upon, and also he admired wit of
the broad kind; so when he heard the
singing and laughter he felt that he
could have given his ears to know what
it was all about, and to join in the general
jollity. But his master kept him to the
game, challenging him and shouting out
his points above the voice of the pedlar,
and when he paused in his play to catch
the point of a story or the burden of
a song, Barnabas recalled him to a sense
of duty by a smart kick on the shin, than
which there are few other methods more
speedily effective.

And so they played on until the villagers
went home, and the pedlar
retired, and the candle guttered down to

the socket, and the unhappy Slink was
so bewildered that he could not tell the
difference between the king of diamonds
and the ace of spades. Then the
landlord of the house came and interfered.


Captain," said he, " it's time to pull
up the stakes for this bout. There's a
time for everything, as the matter
says."

Another candle," demanded Barnabas.
Slink groaned.

No more candles to-night, Captain.
And as you don't know your way about
the premises, I advise you to go to bed
while your wick's burning."

"In that case, Slink, this must be a
drawn game, and — " sweeping up the
money, " so we are quits."

Oh, fair and square !" interfered the

landlord. '' I'll get a candle if you're in

the middle of a round."
VOL. II. 28

'' JSTo — the master's won — we're quits,"
cried Slink, throwing up the cards,
hastily.

Well, if it's a drawn match — both
principals agreeing — it's another thing;
and now I'll show you the way to your
room. There's a bed for you Captain, and
another for your man."

Much obliged to you, master, but the
loft for me," said Slink.

The privilege of sleeping in hay-lofts
was jealously maintained by Slink,
because iu the first place, it was more
agreeable to lie upon clean straw than in
the musty rooms of the inns they frequented,
and secondly, it afforded him a
temporary escape from the society of
Lieutenant Barnabas Crewe.

IN THE LOFT.

Saying shaken some fresh clover
in the trough, and given a
parting caress to his horses,
Slink, lantern in hand, scaled the ladder
set perpendicularly against the wall, and
scrambled on to the floor of the loft.

'' Halloa ! Who goes ?" cried a voice
from the obscurity.

Slink raised his lantern, and looking in
the direction from which the voice proceeded,
perceived a man well bedded in
straw, sitting up between the trusses of

28—2

hay wliicb lie lead arranged as a protection
against the wind. Slink's face, wliicli had
lengthened considerably on hearing the
voice, expanded into a broad smile of
satisfaction as he recognised the features
of the jovial pedlar.

"Ah thin, 'tis you, my noble gamester,
what's come to take up your quarters
wit me, eh?" the pedlar said cheerfully,
seeing the face beyond the lantern.

If you've no objection, master."

*' Devil a one. There's enough rats
for the both of us, and I'm not greedy.
You've a taste of the quality wit ye that
tuk me fancy when I see you a plain'
for silver wit your master. Come,
we'll reconstruct the apartment and spend
a pleasant hour together."

'' You don't play piquet, do you ?" Slink
asked, with apprehension.

Piquet — sure I played ut dance when I
was in the army every night of my life —

and I've forgotten it entirely. But if
notion' but gamin' will contint ye — ye
gambling speculative civil, I'll play yer at
all-fours, shove-li'p'ny, or any other
genteel divinest."

I'd rather listen to one of those songs
of yours with a chorus."

Yir a flatterer for certain — an' would
you sincerely love to hear a ballad ?"

By the lord Harry, I would ; and if
you can tell one of those stories again
that made all the folk laugh."

I nivir relate, but if it's stories you
want, sure I'll contint ye. A bit more
straw and another bundle of hay will
make us as comfortable as a couple of
pigs in a sty. Holy saints, we will make
a night of it — give us another bundle of
bay, darling; and if you can pull the
slate so as keep the rain tother side of
the hole in the roof twill be water ands
water."

The 'slate" alluded to was the cover
of a cart propped against the roof by the
posts of an old bedstead and the trunk of
an apple-tree to preserve the hay from the
rain that drifted through the broken
roof. Slink re-arranged this contrivance
with beneficial effect, while the pedlar
opened his pack, dived into one corner
and brought out a stone bottle.

*' There," said he, as Slink returned
and entered the nest they had made with
the hay — " take the trouble to put your
nose to that, and tell me what is your
true opinion of ut ?"

It smells good," said Shnk.

*' And you'll find that it tastes equal,
for it's not only a smell you shall have of
it — it's the reel gentle usquebaugh — a
liquor that's too goodtojbe drunk in solitude.
'Tis like love an' fighting' and all the
blessed gifts of nature, only to be enjoyed
by a couple whose hearts respond to the

state influence of each other's society."
I'm your man," said Slink, sen-ten
thou sly.

By Saint Moses, yir my friend, sort !"
The pedlar had already tasted the
usquebaugh, and his soul was touched
with characteristic celerity. " Yeare
about the finest Saxon and the bist friend
I ever had in my life. Give us your hand,
and putt your lips to the delicate mouth
of the bottle. If ye hadn't woke me up,
by the powers I shouldn't have gone to
sleep again for the rest of the right. I'm
about the miserable man to be alone
that ever molested society ; but with
a companion to talk to and a bottle to drink
at — hurrah ! pass the darling to me."
Will you sing a song, now ?"
Will I sing you a song ! hundreds.
What shall it be something' melting and state
like the ' Leather Breeches," or something
nate and party about swateheartin'."

'' Sweethearts," said Slink, with. a
sigh for this lost Jenny.

Without any preliminary hesitation, the
pedlar sang an Irish ballad, and with such
tenderness, that Slink, who thought of
Jenny all the while, was moved to tears
at the third verse. Flattered by this
tribute to his power the pedlar, who like the
rest of his countrymen, was an excellent
emotionalist, redoubled his efforts, and
absolutely wept in sympathy, when Slink
having tried in vain to assuage his tears with
the back of his hand, laid his arm on the hay
and his face on his arm, and sobbed.

Take a taste from the bottle, my
friend," said the pedlar, when he had
finished.

Slink held out his hand, and as he
took the bottle, murmured in a voice still
choked with grief :

Now let's have a story."

Ah, and you're a man after my own

heart. We'd smile an' soigli by turns.
Did y' ever hear of the old woman who
lost her darning-needle ?"

No-oh-oh-oh !" answered Slink, laughing
in anticipation, as a vague suspicion
of the highly diverting circumstances in
which she discovered the whereabouts of
the missing article flashed across his
mind. '' No-oh-oh-oh !"

It's a mighty diverting story, so
here goes."

And he went forthwith, telling the
simple anecdote with such dry humour
that Slink had to hold his sides, cross
his legs, and bend double under the
painful difficulty of drawing breath, so
violent was his laughter — finally in a
feeble voice crying, 'don't — don't!"
when the pedlar brought his story to the
long withheld climax.

After that the pedlar sang " Tom
Bowling," and for the sake of good-fellowship

introduced a chorus of "Derry,
derry down," in which Slink exhibited
the strength of his lungs with such prodigious
effect, that the pedlar thought it
wise to let him have the chorus all to
himself, and merely marked time with
his pipe, while he kept a steady eye on
the rafters.

Y'ave a fine voice, my darling," said
the pedlar, when the song was concluded —
A fine voice for the open air."

Thank you, master. I'll sing you a
song if you like."

*' I shall appreciate the obligation. Let
it be a trifle subdued, case the landlord
should feel onaisey about his property."

Slink nodded, took a drink, wiped his
lips, and with the simple announcement,
'Are an' noun's, gents," sang that admirable
song, '' The Hare and the Hounds."
After that the cocks for several miles
round awoke and crowed in defiance.

Blarney.

HE two friends continued their
mutual entertainment long after
the candle in the lantern had
passed away. They could sing, and laugh,
and cry just as well without a light as
with it ; the only difference that the darkness
made to them was that the bottle had
to be nursed with care, and handed backwards
and forwards frequently for an
assurance of its safety ; but when the bottle
was emptied their voices grew feebler, and
unconsciously they fell asleep.

For awhile there was peace, but just
as the outlines of objects became visible
in the opening light of morning, two
shrieks broke the stillness of the hour.
Two shrieks in quick succession — the
first from the pedlar, the second from
Sink — and then followed a hurried
dialogue.

Mj friend — my friend — have you got
ut ?"

'got it? I should think I have —
what is it ?"

A rat — a rat. I felt it at me throat.
Holy saints ! another moment and my
veins would have been sucked — 'twas a
vampire. I seized um by the throat, and
flung it into the atmosphere."

*' Yes, and it fell on my shin."

'' And what have you done wit
it?"

Nothing. Lord Harry ! it's broken
my shin'*

And did you let it escape you after
all."

Escape me— do you think I see it
coming."

'' And was it a vampire or a
rat?"

Rat, no ! 'Twas the stone bottle."

The stone bottle ! Saints be praised
for their merciful protection — look at
that now !"

Slink had less reason to be grateful
to the saints ; and for some time he
was occupied in ascertaining whether his
shin-bone was broken or only the skin.
However, having been able to walk across
the loft with tolerable facility, he felt
satisfied that he had nothing to deplore
but a bruise, and was returning to his
sympathising friend when he slipped his
foot and uninjured leg through a hole in
the rotten floor, and the pain of having
his second shin barked soon made him

forget his original injury, which was a
merciful dispensation of the all-protecting
saints, which the pedlar did not fail to
point out to the sufferer.

As it was impossible for Slink to sleep
with his shins in such a tender condition
that the slightest movement was
painful, and as the pedlar was a man
who would never sleep if he could get
anyone to listen to him, and he was
sober enough to talk, they reclined and
conversed, with a gravity suited to the
circumstances, and unavoidable now that
the usquebaugh was drunk.

'' Y' 'ave a jewel of a master, my boy,
that'll condescend to make an equal of ye,
and play a friendly hand of cards wit ye
now and then."
Every night."

Ye gambling' divers ! 'Tis a privilege
y' have to be treated like a friend, but
maybe its considered in the wages.

How much might y' have a month,
now ?"

I don't know 'zactly, about five shillings
a day."

Five shillings a day, darling ! Why
'tis as much as I make in a week, sometimes
! An' what do you do wit it all ?"

Lose it at cards."

Ah ! that makes it a bit aise for the
master. And what do you do, now, for
your wages ?"

'nothing."

It is the master that does the work,
maybe ?"

Slink was silent ; he had been cautioned
to hold his tongue with respect to the
Lieutenant's occupation, or to speak only
in support of his character as an independent
gentleman."

Perhaps ye'll tell me if he's a Captun ?"
pursued the pedlar, with soft persuasiveness.


He's a cut above a Captain , I can tell
you, he's a Lieutenant."

'' What a rale soldier ? faith, then, we're
as like as twin cherries, for I was a sergeant
myself at wan time. And what
regiment was he in ?"

*' You don't suppose he was in a
regiment like a common soldier, do
you ? He was a Lieutenant all to
himself; one of the independent Lieutenants."


I appreciate the distinction, an' I
respect the master for it. I knew he
was something' out of the common the first
moment I saw him. He's not wan of
your civil spoken' male-mouthed garments
; but a rale aristocrat, with a gentle
curse and a scowl for anyone that
asks him a civil question."

'eyes, that's him."

The quality, my boy, quality. An'
oil wager, now, he does nothing' in the

world at all but ride about the country
brakun the hearts of the female sex and
a pickin' then* pockets."

No, he don't," said Slink, in a tone of
feeble opposition.

Come, my boy, you're trying to
deceive me by saying' notion. You don't
think I'm a dirty informer, that would sell
the gallant Lieutenant to the constables
for a paltry reward, do you ?"

"Not I."

Thin who should you try to deceive
me ? 'Isn't behaving' like self at all.
I didn't think you would be so mane
after sharing my bottle of usquebaugh,
and persuading' me to sit up all the night
a singing' ballads to ye, and telhn' all the
best stories I snowed."

'' I — I — I don't want to be mean. I'm
very much obliged to you for your kindness.
I — I never enjoyed myself better
in all my life, and if I could repay you

VOL. II. 29

for your kindness, I would with all my
heart."

But ye can never repay me, darling.
Disinterested friendship is priceless.
So what does the master do now,
riding' about wit a servant at his
back?"

Well, there's a rascal who owes him
a lot of money, and — and he's looking
about for him, and — and — and he don't
seem to quite remember the looks of him,
and — and — and when he meets anyone
all alone, he just looks in his pocket
to see if the money belongs to him,
and — and if he's in doubt he takes
it."

I understand the nature' of the master's
misfortune' exactly ; and what might
you do all the time."

'' Why I just stand ready to help
master, if needs be ; for if we meet
the riofht rascal after all, it's more

an' likely he'll try to get away without
paying."

Just precisely so." The pedlar repeated
the words again and again, rather
than be silent during the period he gave
to reflection, then he said : '* And yeare
mighty fond of the profession, oil warrant."


Slink sighed.

'' Ye like the divinest of it, and the
high wages, and the card plain, and
all that." The pedlar waited some time
for a response, and getting none, dropped
his voice to the most seductive tone of
blarney and continued — *' Darling ! Oi
love ye — oi love ye from the bottom of
my heart. If I could do anything to
serve ye i'd spare no efforts. Now tell
me, tell me true now — wud ye like
another situation ?"

Slink after a moment's feverish hesitation,
bent over and whispered :

29— z

I can't leave him, God help me."

'' Who darling ?"

Slink dared not speak.

Spake, my dear friend, spake. Trust
me now."

Take your oath you'll tell no one."

I wad take my dying' oath a dozen
times, darling. Do you think I would
betray ye. Spake and trust me like your
own blessed mother."

I — I was a simple sort of lad,
once."

And yeare simple, simple as the innocent
sheep — g'on darling."

'' And I was so drum up into a corner
like with the cruelty of my sweetheart,
as I didn't half know what I was doing,
and I met the Lieutenant, and he said he
was a gentleman wanting a servant, and
he persuaded me to run away from the
Hall where I was groom, and he made me
believe that I had the same right to take

the horse I rode as the livery I wore, and
when T felt uneasy like about it, he gave
me his horse and took mine to make me
think I was safe, and then we began to
go about the country, and raced the
baker "

Stop one moment — I don't quite
understand the tares of the profession —
and what do you mane by racing the
baker ?"

Slink recounted the adventure with the
baker, and continued — '' So things went
on from bad to worse, till I see at last
the whole truth when his honour robbed
a butcher's wife of sixteen pence, and we
had to bolt for our lives when we caught
sight of a couple of constables at our
heels. I was for giving back my horse
and leaving the master next day, but he
wouldn't accept the horse, and swore he
would blow my brains out or give me upto
the law and have me hanged for horse

stealing, if I didn't keep true to Hm.
And now— I'm a ruined man, and may God
forgive me."

'' The Lieutenant is a genius— he's got
under his thumb, very lately. And
I'd wager he's got the rale true Irish
blood in his veins, for there's not another
people that's got their ingenuity. What's
his name, honey ?"

'' Lieutenant Barnabas Crewe."

Say ut again, darling." The pedlar,
without changing the tone of his voice,
spoke with rapidity and evident excitement.


Barnabas Crewe."

Barney Crewe ! Faith 'tis a mighty
odd accident. Tell me true now. Do
you know anything of his family relations
?"

*' I have never seen any."

'* You never heard him speak of them
in his conversation wit ye ?"

We never have any conversation —
except at piquet."

He's got the small-pox, too, an'
he might be about thirty years of
age."

eyes; what of that?"

You never heard him spake of anyone?
Now, recollect yourself, and don't
spake till ye can answer."

He used to ask a good many questions
about my old master," Slink replied, after
some minutes of reflection, " and Doctor
Blandly."

'' Docthor Blandly ! An' what was your
old master's name ?"

Admiral Talbot."

Admiral Talbot ! Merciful powers !
An' has Barney seen the old Admiral ?"

'' The Admiral's dead."

An' who's got the fine estate ?"

His son, Master Tom, I think."

Bad cess to him !"

'what's the matter, master !"

Notion — notion at all."

And with these words the pedlar concluded
the conversation, and soon afterwards,
without communicating his intention
to Slink, he scrambled out of the
straw and descended the ladder, leaving
his companion in a state of complete mystification
and dread.

Revelation.

HE morning was yet early when

Lieutenant Crewe was awoke

by the fall of the chair he had

set against the lock to keep the door fast.

Who's there ?" he called, shoving his

hand under the pillow for his pistol.

Only me, Barney, darling," answered
the pedlar, showing his head and
shoulders.

''If it is only you I shall blow out

your brains if you don't take yourself off'*

The pedlar withdrew hastily as Barnabas

cocked the pistol, and spoke in his
blandest tones from tke safe side of the
door.

Barney, I've a matter of tremendous
importance to communicate to ye. Un-cock
your pistol, dear boy."

'what's the matter — the horses —
Slink ?" ^

*' They're shaping like the babe in the
cot. 'Tis of family affairs I wish to
spake wit ye."

'' Family affairs ?"

Concerning the Crews, and the
Talbots, and the Docthor Blandly."

Come in."

"Unlock your murthering pistol, darling."


Without unlocking the weapon Barnabas
made a sound with the lock as if
he had, and slipped the pistol under the
blanket. Thieves never feel safe.

'* You're safe ; come in," he called.

The pedlar entered, and after closing
the door, drew near to the bed.

'that's near enough, don't come
closer," said Barnabas, moving his hand
under the blanket.

Sure you've nothing' to fear from an
old man like me, and your own countryman."


Do you take me for a confounded
league ?"

And by that same token yeare. And
what finer proof could be wanted than
your elegant custom of slapping in your
clothes. What's ye got under the
blanket?"

The barker. It's quiet enough when
there's no cause to use it. What have
you to say ?"

*' Tell me truly now. Is Barney Crewe
your rale name or your professional
name ?"

'Tis my own name'*

And what age might ye be ? Mind
Ism putting* these questions for your own
sake, my dear boy."

"I take it I'm about eight and twenty."

Do you remember either your father
or your mother ?"

**No."

Now, look at me full in the face.
Does your bowels yearn towards me ?"

"No."

Now doesn't an angel's voice same to
whisper to ye that I'm all the kith and kin
weever had in the world that's left to ye?"

What the devil do you mean ?"

Can you rade, Barney ?" asked the
pedlar, bringing a snuff-box from his
pocket.

"No."

That's another proof that y' are a
blessed son of St. Patrick. If you could
rade you would see that the name
engraving' on the back of this box, that

was presented to me by your own mother,
is — Barney Crewe."

What are you driving at ?"

'' Barney, you bear the same name as
mine becase yeare my eldest son — by your
mother. And now take yer hand from
the slaughtering pistol and embrace me."

No, thank you."

"Y'ave the cold Saxon blood in your
veins — your mother's blood, and she was
a cold and calculated woman as ever drew
the blessed breath of life. Ye'll break
my heart with your cruelty, ye will."

The father wiped his eyes.

"Don't let's have any confounded
nonsense. Here, take this piece and
fetch a noggin of rum."

Sure it's the blessed voice of my own
flesh and blood that spaces that same.
Will y'ave any father to spoil the gift of
Natnr', darling ?"

Oh, curse the water ; the innkeeper

takes care that we shall have enough of
that."

Good again. Yeare Irish to the backbone
of ye."

While the father hurried off to get
the required spirit, his son renewed the
priming of his pistol, set it where it
could be reached at a moment, and
slipping out of bed made all the toilet
that was necessary to him — in a word, he
pulled on his boots."

The names mentioned by the pedlar
had rekindled his desire to know why
Doctor Blandly made the annual payment
to him and Gerard, a desire which had
lately dwindled in the entire absence of
any element to sustain it. He hoped to
discover in the circumstances of his birth
some fact which would enable him to turn
the tables on Doctor Blandly, and force
him to increase the sum he paid with such
reluctance.

The pedlar quickly returned with the
rum, but he would not spoil the pleasure
of drinking it by a line of conversation
which might engross their thoughts too
deeply. He confined himself to general
remarks until the cup was drained,
then he returned to the subject
which Barnabas was now eager to
pursue.

'' Barney, my boy, I've somethun to
tell you av mighty importance. Ye must
know that I've lead the honour of slain'
in the same chamber wit your valet, ana
proud moment it was when I discovered
that it was my own son that kept a sargent
and horses, an' did nothing' in the world
but ride about the country like a gentleman.
He's a decent sort of a boy,
your valet, but ye give him too much
liberty, Barney, and anyway but your
own father would have persuaded him to
turn King's evidence again ye for the paltry

reward offered for the apprehension of
the likes of you."

What has he told you — confound
him ?"

Notion' at all, notion' in the world.
But be careful wit him, darling."

Go on."

When I learnt your name I just descended
into the fresh air and took a
stroll up and down under the blessed sky
of heaven till the man opened the house,
and all the time I was a-thinking', Barney,
and a-thinking' with all the power of my
mind, and I said internally, ' There's the
hand of a merciful Providence in all this,
and something's to be made out of ut, or
my name's not Barney 0' Crewe.' But
first and foremost, my boy, we must have
no reserve, we must reverence the holy tie
that binds us together — father and son,
and cape no secrets. So before I whisper
a word ye' 11 just understand that we're

to go halves, share and share alike in the
blessed gifts that Providence may shower
upon us."

Halves ; all right." Barnabas sawn
objection to making promises which
only his word could bind him to keep.

*i'll trust ye, Barney, I'll trust ye
becase yeare ray own son, and becase it'll
be to your own interest to cape your
word. Now, tell me true, darling, do you
know your own brother ?"

Gerard ? Little enough. He's in
London, living the life of a lord, and a
beggarly guinea or two now and then is
all I get out of him."

Barney O'Crewe reflected a moment,
then —

'rand that's all you know about your
brother?" he said.

That's all."

"And Doctor Blandly — what do you
know of him?"

VOL. II. 30

He gives me two hundred a year, and
threatens to stop it if I don't humble
myself like a cur when I go and take the
quarterly allowance."

"And d'ye happen to know what he
pays you the money for?"

''No— that is— no."

Don't decade me, darling; y' hesitated.
What was you about to spake ?"

I believe he pays it to me, not on
his own account, but for some one else."

'mister Talbot, the son of the
Admiral?"

"Yes."

"An' you don't know what for he pays
it?"

No. I tried to find out, but the old
scoundrel promised to stop payment if I
ever put a word of inquiry to Mr. Talbot,
and he'd do it too."

An' you know nothing' of Mister
Talbot ?"

"Nothing. I'm told that he spends
his time travelling in foreign parts."

"Y'ave never made an inquiry at
Talbot Hall?"

No ; I'm afraid to do that for fear of
Doctor Blandly."

'^ Barney, darling, I'll tell ye a little
story, and every word on it as true as the
blessed saints."

30—2

VJ^'^M^^^^S^

CHAPTER XII.

A Retrospect.

HEN I was a young man, a
trifle younger than you, I was
a thundering' handsome boy as
ye could mate wit of a summer's day. If
ye look at me a bit you'll see the traces
of a fine fellow. There's a curl in my
hair, my teeth are still white and good,
and my eyes have a roguish twinkle in
'em ; for the rest of my failures, they've
suffered by hard work and my orders.
I was a dashun', dare-devil boy, with
notion' in the world but my good looks,

my impudence, and my blarney, and seen'
that I was a soiglit too good for
county Cork, I engaged myself as body
sarvant to a fine gentleman going to
London town. "Wan night, when my
master was laid ap wit a hole in his
side that he'd got from another fine
gentleman he'd called out in a duel, I
took a holiday, and within' to appear like
a rale gentleman, I borrowed his clothes
and went out in 'em. As I was strolling
along the Mall in all the majesty of man,
I passed a state wider. She was
neither young nor beautiful, but she
looked prosperous, and a saucy leer
in her eye seemed to whisper to my soul
that she'd more property than she knew
what to do wit alone. Says I to myself,
Barney, my darling, there's the wife
that's waitun for ye.'

'' I walked on a hundred yards and
then turned round. She'd turned round

equally, and when we drew nair she
dropped her fan, which I picked up wit
all the grace imaginable, and presented
to her wit an elegant space — which my
own master would have been proud to
have spoken. Ye may be sure I didn't
loose the opportunity which Providence
had given me, and before I left her I had
talked all I knew about hearts and darts,
and Cupids and Causes, and perishing'
and languishing', an' all what I'd heard
my master sayun in similar situations,
and made an appointment to meet her
the next day. She wanted me to write
a letter, but I won't agree to ut, for
writing a letter would have placed me ina
mighty awkward predicament, seeing
I didn't know the letter A from a bull's
fut. I told the state crater that my
passion was too strong for writun, and I
must see her and spake to her wit my
eyes or parish in despair.

That's the way you must spake to the
female sex to phase 'em. Thank the
powers, my master's wound grew worse
instead of better, and so I contrived
to mate the wider again and again in his
fine embroidered clothes, and I made
love to her just for all the world
as if I maned it. And so matters went
on flourishing until the master's wound
growed fisher, and he began to suspect
me, and I saw that I must make my hay
all of a hurry afore the storm came.

I was not wrong in my ideas ; the
wider was prosperous. Her husband
had left her two thousand pounds and an
elegant shop in the drapery business. So
as there was no time to lose, I proposed
to the state crater, and married her the
very day my master got well enough to
kick me out of the house, borrowing' a
suit of clothes for the occasion of a
gentleman that made it his trade to buy

up old coats of the gentry's servants.
The wider was mighty surprised when
she found that T had notion at all in the
world but the clothes I stood in, and them
not my own ; but she was too much
bothered with love to take a trifle like
that to heart, and before a week was over
she had forgiven me everything, and was
pleased to let me have all that I named,
including' a pocket full of money. So
then I was a rale gentleman, Barney, wit
notion to do but to spend the wider's
money, get drunk, and make love to the
gals.

I hadn't been married more than a
month when I fell desperate in love with
a charming crater, who played the pieces
with delicate sentiment at the King's
Theatre in Covent Garden. Her name
was Patty Davies, and I till you true,
Barney, that I cried till I was ashamed of
myself in sympathy with her virtue and

innocence when I saw her representing'
Oj^halia. I loved her the first time I saw
her, and to the vorey last I loved her
sincerely and hardly anyone better. I
bought her jewels, I bought her fine
dresses, I lavished the wider's money
upon her as if it was father.

But, ons fortunately that could not go on
for ever, and wan day I had to leave the
wider for ever because of a writ that was
out against me for debt, which she had
not the money to discharge, bad cess to
her ! I never see her agen."

'* Then what has she got to do with my
affairs ?" asked Barnabas.

Notion, darling."

*what on earth is the use of wasting
time about her ?"

Don't be s' impatient, my boy. Sure
it's pleasing to you to know that your
father's been a rale gentleman."

Let me know something of the

matter that you told me was of importance."


'' I'm comus to ut, Barney. Ye must
know I lead my rivals, and amongst 'em
was a captun — a post captun in the navy,
Captun Talbot, a man quite young, like
myself, but with no more knowledge of
the world than a babe. He'd tuk to the
sea as a boy and never left it except when
he came home from a voyage, and so it
was only reasonable that he should be
innocent and simple, and tender-hearted ;
but he was about as strong as a lion, and
just as ready to fight.

Now, Patty was as fine an actress off
the stage as she was upon ut, and when I
told her that the game was played out
and the bailiffs was after me, she made up
at once to young Captun Talbot, and
leaving' me with a laugh at one side of the
stage, went round to him at t'other with
her eyes full of tears and a mighty

touching story of her innocence and
temptations, and the want of some lovun'
soul to shield her from the bitter hardships
of her lonely life. I'll tell you her
motive, Barney — she expected you to
come into the world before many months,
and she wanted to find another father for
you as could give you a home worthy of
you, my boy : a name and a fortune, such
as you deserved — do you take my
making ?"

"I understand — go on."

Now, Captun Talbot was a wanderer.
He had married three years before ever
he see Patty, and his wife died in giving
birth to her first and only child — a son
christened Thomas."

I know— well ?"

*' The son grew strong and hearty, but
the father been' forced to go a-travelling
about on the seas, was obliged to leave
him to the tender mercies of a ness.

Patty saw the son then two year old, and
cried her eyes out over him, and the
Captain, touched by her delicate performance,
last her if she would be a mother
to his boy, and give up the stage and all
her London friends to live in the country
as his wife. Patty wanted notion better,
so she lifted up her face all stream with
tears and kissed him for a reply. The
scene took place in her dressing-room,
where the Captain had come wit a bit of
a girl carrying the babe — come so suddenly
that I had only just time to slip
behind a long hooped gown that hung ina
corner.

Yell, Barney, the next day I was
nabbed by the bums and put into the
Fleet for a debt of four hunter pounds.
It was three years before I got out, and
haven' notion' in my pocket — and notion'
in my stomach by the same token — my
first thoughts were of Patty, and that

day I walked to Sevenoaks with, nought
but father and crusts to eat on the way,
and at night I rang the bell at the gates
of Talbot Hall. It aided all the perseverance
of my character to obtain an
interview. When I did I found Patty as
white as a ghost, sitting' wit you at her
feet struggling to get at the cat with your
silver rattle — y' had a fine spirit on you
even then, Barney, and your brother Gerard
at her breast, while the Captain's eldest
son, Thomas, was sitting in a chair by
your brother's side. Patty rang the bell,
and had Master Tom taken away, case
he was five years old, and children's
mighty forrard talking about what's not
aided ; then she says, ' Mr. 'Crewe,'
she says, ' what do you want ?' I told
her as I loved her sincerely, and begged
her to pack up her jewels and fly wit me
to a happy and blissful home. She refused
print blank, and I shed tears at her

ingratitude and infidelity. She said she
had done wrong, but she would make reparation
by living a good life, and being
a decent mother to her husband's
children. Though I loved her sincerely,
I lost my temper, and I said, ' Keep your
husband's children, but I'll have mine,'
and with that I catched hold of you,
mj boy.' ' Oh, my Grod,' she cried, ' What
are you going to do ?' 'I am going to
take mj child away,' says I, ' and if
Captun Talbot asks for him, you can send
him to me for an explanation.' That
brought your mother to raison. ' How
much money do you want to leave me in
peace with my children ?' she asked.
Well, my boy, I tuk a few pounds and an
elegant jewel she wore at her throat to goon
wit, and I forgave her wit a free
heart, and left her in pace, she imploring'
me not to come again, as every day she
expected her husband to return. I

promised, and made up my mind to cape
my word, case I should ruin the game
by plain' reckless. But, unfortunately, I
have, I must admit ut candidly, I have
wan fault."

"Ih! drink."

*' No, Barney, that is not a fault.
My fault is, that when I'm drink I lose
my sober senses. Well, when, after living'
in a neighbouring tavern like a lord for a
month, wan day I happened to be a little
bit under the influence of the blessed gift
of nature', I tuk ut into my head that I
would go up to the Hall and get a few
pounds. I rang the bell, and a man came
from the porter's lodge with his collar
turned high up, for it was devilish rainy
weather. I was almost blind drunk,
Barney, and when he asked me what I
wanted, I was too busy holding' myself
up by the gate-post to look at um much,
so I said, ' I want to see Patty — Mrs.

Talbot,' and I laughed. ' Do you know
your way ?' he asked, with devilish cunning,
and I, like a poor, simple, guileless
soul, answered, ' To be sure I do ; I only
wish I had as many silver shillings as I
knew my way.' He opened the gate forme,
and in I staggered, like a blessed
lamb into the shambles. I rolled up to
the house, and gun in by the servants'
entrance, as was natural to me, I tumbled up
the stairs, and bust into the room where
Patty was sittun. ' Great Heavens !' cries
Patty, ' leave the house at once, my husband
has sent a message tellus as his
ship's in port, and he will be wit me this
night.' I nodded and says, ' I met the
messenger at the lodge, and a decent sort
of a crater he seems. Give me some money,
and I'll go away at once.' She guv me a
purse, but 1 happened to ketch the sparkle
of an elegant ring on her finger, and the
civil was in me to have that too. ' Darlings

I says, 'ye'll give me the jowl that
twinkles brought as your beautiful eyes
on your finger.' ' No,' says she ; ' he guv
ut me, and he'll want to know what's
gone of it; ye shan't have ut,' she says.
As you like,' says I, ' but if I can't have
the ring, I'll have my own flesh and
blood. I'll have my dear, state little
Thaophilus to begin wit,' and I fetched
hold of you, for Thaophilus was the name
she'd guv you, my boy ; but you word a
mighty on amiable child, and ye began
to scrape thunder and blazes, when the
door opened and in came the man in the
long coat as ud opened the gate to me.
Merciful powers !' screamed Patty, dropping
down on the flare, 'my husband!'
He'd followed me and heard all my indiscretion."


Confound you, for a drunken old
fool ! 'Tis you, then, that ruined me !"

VOL. II. 31

cried Barnabas, jumping up from the bedside
and stamping his foot.

*' Don't be cross wit your own old
father, Barney. Listen, darling, and your
heart will melt wit pity for me, like a roll
of butler under the gentle influence of
the blessed sun . . . Without a word of
kindness the Captun screwed his knuckles
into the nape of my neck, and as I drop'd
you, implore him to be merciful, he
lifted me out of the room, marched me
down the drive, and bundled me into the
porter's lodge, guvun a word or taro to
the porter. I thought he maned laving
me there and sending' for a constable to
take me off to the stocks for a rogue and
a vagabond, and I thanked the merciful
saints for protection me in the moment
of adversity ; but I was mistaken, Barney,
and presently received a warnun that I
shan't forget till my last hour, never to
thank the saints before yeare certain sure

they have done somethun to be thankful
for, for sure they'll hate you if they
can. While the porter was absent the
Captun took off his coat, and when the
porter came back agen he'd a length of
rope in his hand, a rope, Barney, darling,
not very thick, but as hard as nails.
The Captun he doubles the rope, puts a
knot in each end, and twisted the doubled
length round his hand, leaven the two
ends about two feet long. ' Captun, darling,'
I says, ' what are you gown to do
wit the rope ?' He didn't condescend to
give me a world in reply, but he tuk me
by the collar agen, holden me just so that
I couldn't move no more than if I was ina
pillory, and with that awful instrument
of torture he bate me, and he bate
me till my coat and breeches was in rags,
and I wounded right off wit the agony
and suffering, 'twas no sham swownd, for
he bate me till I couldn't holler, and when

31—2

I recovered I was lynn in a ditch. Barney,
darling, I've the marks of that bating on
my body now."

'' I'm glad of it ; serves you right."
Yeare an unnatural child. Where's
the Irish blood I guv you ?"
** Finish your story."
** Won't you guv me a drop of rum,
darling? Talking' with a dry mouth is
mighty difficult."

You shall have a noggin when you
come to the end of the tale."

I'll be as spade as possible then. You
may rest aise that I didn't go back to Talbot
Hall in a hurry after the infliction of that
tremendous bating. I didn't go night he
place for three months, and only then
because I was drum to it by extreme necessity.
I had nothing in the world at all,
Barney, darling, but the tatters of my
garments and the scars on my back, and
when I approached the Hall it was with a

thremblin' in every blessed limb of my
body and my teeth likewise, and then I
didn't go nearer than the tavern, where
only a short time before I had been a
living' like a prince. Wad ye believe it,
they would' serve me with a paltry mug
of ale? Instead of giving me comfort,
they added to my misery by telling me
that the Hall was empty — that Captun
Talbot had took his wife and the chiltern
away no one knew where. In either disappointment
I returned to London withall
my tender feeling, and the yearning's
of my soul ungratified. Three months
more passed before by a merciful Providence
I was brought face to face wit my
darling Patty. At first she would have
notion to say to me ; but I persevered,
Barney followed her till I found out
where she lived, and then I brought the
state crater to raison by threatened to
take my dear Barney away from her;

for I knew a decent chimney-sweeper who
was willun to purchase the likes of you fora
trifle to educate to the profession of
climbing chimnies. Then she told me
that I had ruined her. Her husband—
they'd made an admiral of uni, and sure
if he bate his country's enemies as he
bate his own he deserved the promotion
had taken his eldest son, Tom, that
he had by his first wife away, and given
her an annual income of four untired
pounds a year, conditionally that she
abandoned his name and christened
your brother and you, and never attempted
to see him agen. He disowned
you, which was not to be wondered at
considering what had tuk place, but
he likewise disowned Gerard ; for you
see notion Petty could say would make
um believe that she had been true to him
since her marriage. He had proofs that
I visited the Hall, and I myself had unfortunately

told um that I knew the
way perfectly well. He said that if yoa
were my son, Gerard was moine also ;
though he was not, as the holy saints
knows full well for the truth seen' I
was in thS Fleet for nigh two year before
ever he saw the light of day. The
money was paid to your mother, as 'tis
paid to you, through Docthor Blandly.
He was a young man then, and as handy
with the use of a rope's-end as his friend
the Admiral, so I had to be careful and
cape clear of um. But still I managed
to live tolerable aise wit what I
could get, which was a decent percentage
on all your blessed mother had ;
and I had learnt to be continued wit
trifles. I could have gone on living' in
the same manner all the rest of my days,
and died a peaceful old gentleman ; but
fortune was cruel against me. Ye caught
the small-pox, Barney, darling ; but yeare

mj OTrn son, and I will not reproach ye —
ye caught the small-pox bad, and for fear
I might take the disease and add to the
troubles of your mother, I tuk what
there was in the house and left it to pine a
sweetheart of mine who was tara veiling
round the country wit a company of
players. I was always moisfhtv fond of the
theater. When I come back I found
your mother had tuk the small-pox in
nussen you, and died of ut just as you
recovered. 'Twas an inspiration that
warned me to lave the house when I did,
and ye see plainly, darling, how the
blessed saints watched over and protected
us. Docther Blandly, I was told, by
the same token, bad removed you and your
half-brother Gerard; and there was not a
rap left for me. I have never seen Gerard
since, nor you till this blessed morn, and
having' finished the history so far as contains
you, if you've no objection we'll

take the noo-o-un of rum you were spakuu
about."

*' Grive YOU a noggin I — what for? Do
I owe YOU anything but a curse for haYing
ruined me hv YOur meddling and interfering
with niY mother after she was
married r"

The old man looked at his son without
the slightest malice. A smile stole OYer
his face, and his eyes twinkled with a
knowledge of his own superior cunning.

Y'ave a state spirit on you, Barney,
darling ; but yeare a fool. Yeare like an
innocent pig that's dying to get at the
meal, but hasn't the sense to untie the
string and crawl into the sack."

Then what do you suggest?"

I am that dry wit telling ye the truth
that I couldn't spake another word
without a taste of the blessed gift 0' nature."

Barnabas puzzled his dull brains in
trying; to see Y'hat advantage could be

derived from this recently acquired knowledge,
and then reluctantly handed the
pence to his father with a feeble hope
that he might receive value for the money.

After a brief interval the old pedlar
returned from his expedition to the bar-parlour,
with a measure of rum, which
the two drank, and then seeming greatly
refreshed, he wiped his lips with the back
of his hand briskly, and said :

*' Now, Barney, where' s your brother
Gerard ?"

'' In London."

In London, and can you tell me where
now ?"

No," replied Barnabas with emphasis,
detecting his father's eagerness to know.

'' 'Tis a pity. London's a large place;
but faith we'll found um if he's to be found."

And what then ?"

We'll make a bargain wit um before
ever we tell um a word."

Supposing lie won't come to terms,
and that is more than likely."

Then we'll just do without him. We'll
found Mr. Talbot, and you'll go to him wit
a nice clean face, and say, ' Tom, I'm
your brother, and my heart's a yearning'
towards ye, and I most live wit ye or die,'
and if Docther Blandly says yeare not,
ye'll just quiet and aise speaking ask him
to prove that you're not."

Barnabas took some time to comprehend
the full meaning of the hint, then :

And suppose he does prove it ?"

He can't. The Admiral was ashamed
of what had tuk place — Patty told me so,
and said as how it was a blot upon the fair
history of the family — and for that reason
he never whispered a word of it to a soul
except Docther Blandly. The Admiral's
dead, and what proof agen you is the word
of the ould Docther, who maybe for his
own reasons is interested in keeping you

out of the family ? There yeare by law
his son and Thomas Talbot's brother."

Barnabas slapped his thigh and grinned;
his father encouraged by this flattering
mark of appreciation, proceeded :

He can't deny ye. Ye stand there
Thaophilus Talbot. He dare not forbid
ye to enter your father's house, and when
yeare dance inside, my boy, ye may puzzle
the devil and Docther Blandly together to
get ye out."

'* But suppose," Barnabas urged, biting
his nail at the same time, " suppose he
does forbid me to enter the house, and
uses the same kind of argument his father
used with you, how will that be."

*' Bad for you, darling. But behave notion
of the kind to fear. Doubting the
thing he's told for true, he aren't lift
his hand agen you, with the possibility of
disgracing' his father's son. And look here
now, agen, suppose and suppose all you

like, behave still the master hand of him.
If he says ye shan't cross the threshold
of Talbot Hall, nor ye shan't have a
garden of his money, you'll say, ' Brother
Tom, yer cruelty will force me to take to
the road, and if I'm caught, it's Thaophilus
Talbot will be tried, and you'll have the
satisfaction of quartering Tyburn-tree
upon your scutcheon.' "

Barnabas nodded assent.

"For his father's sake, for the honour
of his family, he aren't let the secret be
made public, wit no better result than
saving a few pounds. No, my boy, ye'll
set your fut in Talbot Hall, and ye'll never
lave ut, and it's the fine feast and
drink we'll have there."

We ! What have you got to do with
it?"

Sure, darling, yo' won't kick away
the poor old ladder that's helped ye to
mount up to the top of your fortune."

Won't I ! we shall see." Barnabas
laughed, and then confident in his ability
to do in future without his father, added,
You shouldn't have told me so much
without first providing for yourself."

Faith, and I've done the same, darling,"
murmured the old man, with a
most oily suavity in his tone.

Barnabas ceased to laugh.

What do you mean ?" he asked.

Ye can't do without me, darling, seen*
that I would claim ye for my own son if
ye could demand yourself to forget me.
I'm full of tender feeling for you, and
I'll never leave ye while yeare tender and
true to me. Couldn't I have persuaded
your poor ignorant servant to run away
wit me and turn King's evidence, and
sold ye to the constables while ye was
slapping so stately in your bed ? Couldn't
I go now to Docthor Blandly, and promise
for a thrice to go agen ye in a

court of law, if ye made yourself complaisant
? And wouldn't I if I wasn't
wise enough hold on to my own blessed
son while he capes up his character
decently ?"

You've got the cunning of old Nick,"
growled Barnabas.

'' Thank ye, darling, for the compliment;
the same to you."

PREMEDITATION.

HERE'S your change, and
there's your stirrups," said
the landlord of the '' Lone
Crow," when Barnabas, after breakfast,
signified his intention of departing.
Fair and square, and two ha'peneys fora
penny's my matter, and no hitting below
the belt."

At a sign from his master. Slink took
the stirrups, and went away to saddle the
horses, and soon after returned with them
to the back-door of the inn, where

Barnabas stood beside the pedlar, who was
talking with his customary volubility, butin
a subdued tone.

Slink was mystified and apprehensive.
As yet his master had not spoken a word,
good or bad, to him, but that did not
lessen the dread aroused by his finding
him on intimate terms of friendship with
the pedlar who had betrayed him into a
confession.

While Barnabas was putting his
pistols in their holsters, the pedlar,
who had caught a menacing glance from
Slink, came to his side and said in a low
voice :

I've been spain' a good word wit
the master for ye, my boy. Ye'll found
that he'll trade ye wit more consideration
in futur."

Slink's gratitude was expressed in a

rapid nod, a smile, a wink, and a grip of

the hand extended to him ; then he fol-vol.
II. 32

lowed bis master's example and sprang in
the saddle.

God bless ye, Barney, darling," said
the wily old man, going to the side of
Barnabas. '' 'Tis a mighty fine figure
ye cut astride of your horse, and I'm
proud of ye. Ye'll cape an eye on the
boy bebint ye. Trust no man but your
old father, that loves ye so rarely. In
three weeks time ye'll mate me bere agen
and tell me true bow ye prosper. Ye
know what to do in the manewboile, and
ye understand that ye kin do notbun
without me. Farewell, my darling, and 'tis
a careful time we'll bave at the old Hall
of your ancestors."

Barney nodded, and touched bis horse's
side with bis been. Tbe Galloped bad
contrived to open bis gate, and launched
a final motto as bis guests passed
out.
"Always glad to meet you, Captain,

within the rules. Fair give and take, and
part friends — there you are."

Without responding to this honest sentiment,
Barnabas jerked the rein, and taking
the London road, trotted along in sombre
meditation.

When they had gone some distance, he
smacked his boot with his whip, and at the
signal Slink came to his side.

You can't learn to hold your tongue,
it seems," said Barnabas.

What have I said, master ?"

'•' Enough to hang you. if the pedlar
hadn't been a particular friend of mine
you would have been in gaol by this time.
You thought you could sell me, didn't
you ? Don't tell a lie, you would. But
I shouldn't swing ; it was you who stole
this horse, and sold it to me for the one
you are on. You may be thankful for

your escape. I'm too kind to you, that's

32—2

the fact. You will sleep in the same room
with me in future."

'' I wish I had never been born !"
whimpered Slink, '' my life's a misery tome.
Here, master, take my horse, and
everything I have, and let me go free as
I was the day you met me first."

Oh, no, I've not done with you yet.
Look here," tapping a holster, '' if you
attempt to leave me, you know what will
happen."

This threat, which at one time had
made Slink tremble with fear, seemed to
make but little impression on him now : it
had been repeated often, and his fear of
death was diminished greatly by the
wretchedness of living.

It's all for your own good," continued
Barnabas ; " haven't I made a man of you ?
At one time you used to blubber like a
big girl at the sight of a pistol, and feared
every man you came near for a constable ;

no wonder jour sweetheart would have
nothing to say to you. A woman wants
a man for her husband, and I'll warrant
when you go to your wench with a daredevil
look on your face, she'll be civiler to
you than ever she's been before."
Do you think so, master ?"
Of course I do. Besides, I shall
put a lot of money into your pocket before
long, and what maid would say no to you
then ? You do all I bid you, and
before a month's out you'll be as rich asa
lord and as free as the wind."
Does your honour mean it ?"
*' I'll take my oath on it. But mind —
you must do whatever you're told to do
without hesitation— and you must help
me."

'' You don't want me to — to — "
JSTo, I don't. The work I've got for
you to do is as innocent as singing
hymns."

'* Your honour won't find me backward
at doing anything of that sort ; I'm wonderful
fond of singing. Master Twist the
music-man, told parson I'd the best voice
in the parish, so parson said, ' Let's haven
in the choir, for the music hasn't pleased
me for a long while.' So Master Twist,
he put I in the choir, and Monday morning
he axed parson whether he's satisfied.
No,' says the parson, ' 't ain't right
now; but I've found out what's the
matter — there's too much music ; take
away the big fiddle. So Master Twist
took the big fiddle away, and nex' Monday
he axed parson agen if he burr satisfied.
No,' says parson, ' there's too much
now ; you must take half they beys
away.' So Master Twist took six of the
beys away, and nex' Monday morning he
axed parson if he burr satisfied now.
No,' says parson ; 'it's the gals
that makes the noise — take them away.'

So Master Twist took the gals away, and
nex' Monday morning he axed if he burr
satisfied. ' No,' says parson, ' there's
too many beys.' So Master Twist took
all the other beys away, and there was
only me and him with the flute left, and
nex' Monday morning he axed parson if he
burr satisfied, just the same as before.
It's better,' says parson, ' and it would be
better still if the choir was up in the
belfry.' "

Have you done ?" asked Barnabas.

Slinked looked at his master's scowling
face, and conscious of the indiscretion
into which he had been led by that
first faint glimpse of amiability on the part
of his master, blushed up to the eyes and
nodded his head.

In that case you can hold your
noise until you're asked to speak
again."

Slink smothered a sigh and dropped m

the rear, with his head bent in conscious
disgrace.

Left to his own reflections, Barnabas
turned over in his mind all that he had
heard from his father, and the suggestions
he had made, which were pleasant,
as offering the prospect of gain to himself,
but unpalatable in other respects. The
greedy, dull scoundrel wanted all for himself,
and was unwilling that anyone should
share with him the ill-gotten profit.

What has my father done that he
should have a penny from Talbot ?" his
thoughts ran. *' He has done me an
injury in reducing me to my present
position by his drunken folly. I'm not the
blind fool he takes me to be. I see clearly
enough that he would have me under his
thumb, as he had my mother, if I gave
him the chance. By threatening to blow
on me he would extort all that I get,
and likely enough in another drunken fit

he would blab the truth, and rum me ashe
ruined my mother. Then what would
happen ?

I should be kicked out and the
payment made by Doctor Blandly stopped
as a reward for my pains. I won't trust
my father if I can help it ; but how can I
do without him, or in opposition to him.
He has only to show himself to the Doctor
and tell him all to upset me. To spite
me and get a bottle of rum he would do
anything. . . .

He says that my birth was concealed
for a couple of months before
it was registered in the parish books,
in order to avoid Admiral Talbot's
suspicions. That registry would establish
my claims against all that Doctor
Blandly could say ; but suppose the
Admiral, to conceal what he called his
disgrace, had the passage scratched out.
No, he couldn't do that. I suppose I

could see the register and make sure.
But that would be nothing if Doctor
Blandly and mj father combined to undo
me. I may have to buy him over to my
side after all.

'' But then Gerard will have an
equal right, curse him. That makes
three of us to divide what Talbot chooses
to allow us, which may be little enough
after all. Board and lodging, perhaps,
and no more. A fine treat that. I can
make no legal claim upon this Talbot,
and if he doesn't like my ways he may
just start me off about my business, and
I should have no redress. If the Admiral
made a will and left the property to his
son Thomas, it's his, and no one can take
it from him. At the best I shall be dependent
on his generosity, and have to
truckle and bend before him like a servant,
while Gerard with his dainty face and
white hands, and ' haw, haw ' here, and

ha, ha ' there-vvill be his favourite, aud
get all the good that is to be got. A fine
peace of justice truly, when I shall have
to manage father and supply him with
what he demands. Yes, Gerard will take
the cream, while I must share the whey
with the old man. The dirty work and no
reward worth having ! Plague take me, a
fine bargain that is ! Better to put up with
a couple of hundred a year and be free ;
I shall have the satisfaction of knowing
that Gerard gets no more, and disappoint
the old man with all his
cunning. . . .

But I can't let the prize lay there and
not make a grab for it. There's a way to
get it if one only knew how. I'll be
bound my father could put me up to the
means if it were not to his own disadvantage.
There must be some way of
doing it. One needn't cut down an apple
tree to get at the fruit. How can it be

done. If I had only my father's brains
instead of this blood I'd be better contented.
If I found Mr. Talbot, and
feigned to be prodigiously honest, told
him all and threw myself upon his
generosity, I should be likely to get more
than by my father's scheme, besides
shutting him out from any advantage. But
then Gerard would come in and get ten
times as much as I should. I don't like
that scheme. It doesn't release me from
the dependency upon Talbot. . . .

I wonder where he is. The other end
of the world perhaps — dead for all
I know. How would that be if he
were "

He reined in his horse suddenly for no
obvious reason, and halted in the middle
of the road.

"Do you want me, master'' asked
Slink, coming to his side.

No, and be hanged to you. Keep



behind," answered Barnabas, touching his
horse angrily, and then curbing it up with
savage ferocity to a walking pace.

He continued the journey for some time
at that pace, while he considered what his
position might be if Tom Talbot were
dead.

ROUSING THE LION.

T was the 25tli of June, and the
object of Barnabas Crewe's present
journey to Edmonton was, as
may be imagined, to receive the quarterly
allowance from Doctor Blandly. He put
himself upon his best behaviour, and took
the fifty pounds in agreeable silence, and
without testing the quality of each piece by
the process of ringing on the table or biting
between his teeth, as had hitherto been
his custom. When he rejoined Sink at
'' The Bell," he called for a modest quart

of ale, and shared it fairly with his servant,
which was an exceptional act of
generosity, and a wholesome departure
from his usual habit of debauching himself
by the speediest means to be procured.
After paying for the ale he
counted his money, and buttoned it up
carefully in his pocket as he left the inn.

Slink," said he, when they were once
more on the road, " which road do you
know to S even oaks ?"

Slink looked at his master in open-mouthed
astonishment.

Well, fool ?" asked Barnabas.

*' I don't know my way from London,
master'*

Where do you know your way from,
then ?"

From Maidstone, or Chizzelhurst, or
Bromley."

'' Do you know your way from Gravesend
?"

Yes, by Wrotam and Ightbam.'*

Wrotam I know ; where' s Ightham ?"

'^ A few miles murder on, and about
seven from Sevenoaks."

'' Savage kind of place thereabouts,
isn't it ?"

*' A village, your honour ; not very
savage, two inns."

*' Any houses between there and Seven-oaks
?"

*'A few, not many, master. There's
Knoll Park."

*' Ah, Knoll ; that lies between Ightham
and Talbot Hall ?"

Yes, your honour."

Then now for Gravesend What

are you blubbering about ?"

'you're not going nigh Talbot Hall,
are you, master ?"

'' Yes. Is there anything terrible in
that ?"

*' We shall be lost, that's all. Hanged,

nothing more. Master Blake, the
steward, knows your horse as well as I
do."

Hum ! that might gelt me into trouble.
I must manage to exchange him on the
road."

"But Master Blake knows me just as
well as the horse."

Then you'll have to keep a smart lookout.
Fall back."

They had passed Dartford before
Barnabas made any sign of wishing to
renew the conversation, then he made the
usual signal, and Slink came to his side,
touching his hat, but looking straight
before him with heavy eyes and a woebegone
expression on his face. Barnabas,
after looking at him for a minute in mute
disgust, said :

"What a blameful, hang-dog looking
hound you are."

"I can't help it, master."
VOL. II. 33

Sit straight in your saddle, hold
your head up, now look as if your life
depended on your pluck, fancy you have
Tyburn in front of you, and a batch of
snap jacks at your heels."

Slink turned sharply and looked behind
him, with a falling lip and chattering
teeth.

Bah ! you make a man ill to look at
you !"

Barnabas gave a cut at Slink's horse
with his whip, causing the animal to make
such a bound as nearly unseated the rider.
Slink had no fear of horses, and showed
considerable spirit in subduing the restive
beast.

Ah ! now you look like a man. I
hate your sneaking, snivelling faces, and
so do women. When we come upon a
barber's you'll have that shock of hair
trimmed up smart, and if there's e'er a
haberdasher's in Gravesend you'll buy

yourself a pair of riding-gloves and a
jaunty cravat; I suppose you ought to
have a new pair of boots. Well, there's
a piece of gold for you, and tomorrow
morning let me see you as spruce as a
carrot, with your hat cocked on your
ear, your chin up, a flower-bud or a straw
in your mouth, and a devil-may-care carriage.
D'ye hear?"

Better tell me again, master," said
Slink, not sure whether he had heard
correctly.

Barnabas repeated his instructions, and
Slink, with undiminished amazement,
asked :

What's all that for, master ?"

I want you to see that sweetheart of
yours, and what is more, I want her to
see you."

But, your honour, if "

Speak when you're told to speak.
To-morrow we shall push on to the village

33—2

you spoke of ; there I shall stop while you
go on to Talbot Hall. Curse that face !
look the other way, if you can't show mea
better. You'll go to Talbot Hall — a-foot
if you like — and hang about until you
have a chance of seeing your sweetheart
alone. Then you'll put on the air of a
man., and I warrant she'll listen to you.
You shall buy her a shawl or brooch at
Gravesend and give it to her, and while
you're making love you'll just find out in
what part of the world Mr. Talbot is
travelling, and you won't leave her until,
by fair means or foul, you've found out.
Don't face her with a blush and a sickening
simper ; stick out your lip, strut upto
her like a cockerel, chuck her under
the chin, and laugh at her if she puts on
her fine airs. I wager a crown to a
penny she'll part from you with a sigh,
and never rest till she sees you again."
Slink's face expanded into a broad grin

of satisfaction ; and as his imagination dwelt
upon the part lie was to play, lie gave his
hat a shake, tilting it on one side, stuck
out his chin and his nether lip, and
assumed a rakish air, which was ludicrous
enough in conjunction with his soiled and
tattered neck-cloth and his red hair,
which stuck out in a fluffy thicket three
parts round his head.

That's it," said Barnabas, encouragingly,
*look like that and you'll carry the
heart of any woman, when you're trimmed
up a bit. You don't lack courage !"

'not I," responded Slink, 'i'm bold
enough, if I can only get the fears out of
my head."

That's the way, man ! To-morrow
you won't be the same fellow your sweetheart
sent about his business."

You're right, master. I've been
thinking over what you said yesterday,
and I made up my mind to be more of a

man next time I face Jenny. She shall
see what sort of a lover she has to deal
with now, if I can only catch her alone.
I shan't be afraid if I can go on foot,
because I needn't stick to the roads when
I see anyone coming, and can skip off
behind a hedge if I hear a sound."

SWEETHEARTS.

RIMED with instructions, Slink
left his master at Ightham, and
took the road to Sevenoaks in
high spirits. He had carried out his
master's instructions to the letter, and
with a clean face, a new neck-cloth, a
pair of sound boots, well brushed coat and
breeches, gloves, and a head reduced in
its contour to natural proportions by a
removal of the superfluous hair and a
generous application of grease to the
remainder, he looked as decent a young

countryman as one would wish to see.
In addition there was a certain rakishness
in his air and carriage which was not
usually to be seen in countrymen. His
hat was cocked, a rose dangled from his
lips, he flourished his riding-whip right
and left, and be marched with a careless
freedom, which proved that he, like other
actors, felt himself for the moment to bethe
character he was called upon to
assume.

This impudent exterior he maintained
for at least a couple of miles, for the
encouraging flattery of Barnabas was
fresh in his mind, his spirits were invigorated
by the exercise of walking and
the pleasure of escaping from his master's
society, and as yet he had not met a soul
on the road. At Crown Point, however
sudden apparition of a yeoman with a
cudgel in his hand recalled him to the
dangers of his position, and caused him

to plunge precipitately into the woods,
albeit the yeoman was unknown to him,
and five good miles of wild country lay
between him and Talbot Hall.

He took a widely circuitous route, and
when he at length drew near the Hall, it
was with the stealth of a fox and the
timidity of a hare combined. It was only
by thinking strenuously of his master's
horse-pistols that he overcame the inclination
to give up the perilous undertaking.
Little by little he approached, and came
within a hundred yards of the lodge gates.
Peering through the brambles by the roadside
he could see the gate, and the lodge
with its bright mulHoned windows and
the white curtains tied with blue ribbon.
He fancied he saw Jenny herself moving
within the room. He heard the sound of
wheels comines down the drive, and
crouched closer, then the click of the gate-latch,
and bending forward, yet prepared

to dash into the woods behind him if
necessary, he saw Blake, the steward,
in his light cart, come into the road and
turn towards Sevenoaks. Slink recollected
that it was market-day.

As the cart drove off, a young woman
stepped into the road and looked after it.
She was a shapely young woman of
twenty or thereabouts, with dark hair and
eyes, and a complexion as brown as a berry ;
had it been a few shades darker one would
have thought her a gipsy, her eyes and
teeth lacked nothing of the perfection of
a gipsy's. She wore a white cap, and a
print dress short enough to escape her
heels when she walked, and show the
neat turn of her ankles ; her sleeves were
rolled up over her fine arms, which she
stuck akimbo, resting her hands on her
hips as she stood in the middle of the
road, looking now to the left, now to the
right.

** Jenny," murmured Slink, with a
sigh. He was too far away to see the
expression of her face. It seemed to him
that she must be thinking of him — that
perhaps she was sighing for him to return
to her — that she would listen to his
entreaty if he went humbly to her side and
asked for forgiveness now. Whom could
she expect, whom could she be hoping to
see in the road if not him ?

She dropped her hands and took up the
corner of her apron, looking pensively up
the road, with her head a little inclined to
one side.

*' If she's going to cry that settles
it," said Slink, taking his hat in his
hand.

But Jenny carried the corner of her
apron no higher than her white teeth, and
while Slink was still hesitating, in doubt
whether to take the action as a sign of
sentiment or indifference, her thoughtful

mood gave place to another, and she returned
with a brisk step to the lodge,
singing a snatch of a lively song.

*' Singing ! — a heartless baggage," said
Slink. *' And the very tune she knows I
don't like. Well, if that's all she cares
for me I won't ask her to forgive me. I'll
just do as his honour bid me. She shall
see that I can be as careless as she is.
I am not the fool I was. I'll warrant
she'll be less independant when she finds
what sort of a man she has to deal with
now. If she thinks I'm afraid she is
mistaken. Master Blake won't be back
for two hours, and no one calls at the
lodge on market day."

With these thoughts Slink cocked his
hat carefully, fished out the rose which
he had put in his pocket for safety, and
having stuck it between his teeth, and
assured himself that he had forgotten
nothing of the part he was to play, he

made a step towards the road, then he
stopped, coughed, scratched his ear,
and looked nervously towards the
lodge.

Jenny had opened the window and
was looking out. He determined to wait
until she withdrew. He didn't wish her
to see him come out of the wood, and he
didn't wish to march up to the lodge under
the fire of her eyes. He preferred coming
upon her from behind, and taking her
unprepared.

Jenny left the window to his regret ;
the respite had just given his spark of
courage time to die out, and he found it
more difficult than ever to leave the safe
shelter of the wood. But once more he
fixed his mind on Barnabas and his pistols,
and with desperate resolution made a
step forward and emerged from his cover.
Now he was fairly in the road and facing
the lodge, retreat was impossible. He

dared not look at the window, it was as
much as he coukl do to keep the stem of
the rose between his teeth, his heart
beat with suffocating force, his hands grew
wet, and his knees shook under him as he
advanced.

Pistols, pistols, pistols," he murmured
as he drew near the lodge. He
heard the clatter of plates, and above it
the voice of Jenny singing the song he
objected to. The sounds strengthened
him, and came just at the right moment,
for he was close by the gates, and he concluded
that if he were lucky he might find
her in the kitchen, where the clattering of
plates and dishes showed she was engaged.
He passed the gate, lifted the latch of the
door, and entered the lodge at the moment
Jenny was coming from the little adjoining
kitchen.

Without a word or a moment's hesitation
he marched up to her, and before she

could recognise bis features, for he took
care to present that side of his face over
which his hat was cocked, he had chucked
her under the chin. Jenny's response
was no less sudden and unexpected — with
a swing of her right arm she fetched him
such a slap on the face that the rose was
shot out of his mouth, his hat flew to the
other end of the room, and he with difficulty
kept his feet, for the room appeared
to spin round him, and a thousand windows
danced before his eyes.

Why, 'tis Toby !" exclaimed Jenny,
clapping her hands in astonishment.

Slink, if you please," he answered
with dignity, as he smoothed his ruffled
hair, and crossed the room to pick up his
hat and his rose.

Slink, if you choose," retorted Jenny
with asperity, checking the laughter that
had risen to her lips. '* 'Tis a proper
name for a man who can sneak away with

O. V

his master's horse, and without bidding
good-bye to anyone'*

Into one seemed to care whether I said
good-bye or not, or what became of me ;
and as for the horse, my master told me I
had as much right to it as the coat on my
back."

A pretty master, indeed. Father
said you had fallen into the hands of a

rogue."

He's not more to blame than you,
Jenny. It was you that drove me away —
that made me so wretched. I didn't know
what I was doing, and I didn't care, and
if anything happens to me my blood will
be upon your head."

Oh, Toby."

'' Yes, it's true enough, and you know
it. The guilt rests upon you. You're
like the young woman in the printed
ballad I gave you last Maidstone Fair,
who led her sweetheart to rob and murder

his uncle all for love, and if — if one day
Vm hanged at Tyburn," — he stopped to
shudder — " you'll read your own name
in my dying speech and confession,
and "

'' Oh, don't, Toby," cried Jenny, struck
with horror at the picture presented to her
imagination.

And that's not all," continued Slink,
pursuing the advantage he saw he had
gained; " I shall walk, I know I shall.
You'll hear my chains rattle in the night,
and see me passing along in my sheet,
just like the ghost in Otford Churchyard."


Jenny covered her head with her
apron, as if to shut out the horrible
vision.

'' I'm a desperate, reckless man. Ah, if
you only knew all !"

You're not a murderer, Toby, are
you?"
VOL. II. 34

'' Not yet."

"Nor a— a— thief?"

No ; but I won't answer for what
may happen. I'm going the road to ruin
fast. I don't go to bed at eight o'clock
now. I gamble — I play cards night after
night for money. I can't sleep, and sometimes
I sit up half the night drinking
spirits aud singing songs, and listening to
stories that are not fit for girls. Look at
me ! I'm not what I was — a simple, innocent
countryman. Look at me !"

Jenny removed her apron and looked at
him timidly. His hat was again cocked,
and the rose, somewhat the worse for
rough usage, hung limp from the corner
of his mouth. He stood with his legs
astride, one hand on his hips, and a
defiant expression on his face.

*' No, you're not what you were,"
Jenny said, shaking her head gravely;
and something in her tone suggested to

Slink's mind that she was not displeased
with the change in his appearance.

He paused a minute to consider how
he was to pursue his victory, for a merely
temporary victory is sometimes more fatal
in its results than a repulse — then
dropping his voice to a tender tone, he
said :

"You haven't altered, Jenny; you're
just as pretty as ever."

You've seen finer ladies than I am, I
daresay," said she, blushing.

Oh, yes, hundreds — every day, but
none that could make me forget you."

Jenny raised her eyes and smiled,
making it difficult for Slink to keep up
the line of attack which had gained him
such an advantage. However, he overcame
the temptation to be ingenuous and
tender, and continued :

No, you have not altered at all ;
you're pretty, but heartless,"

34-2

Ob, Toby ! how can you say that ?''

'ris it not the truth ? Have you lost a
single pound since I have been away ?
Look at your cheeks, and your arms as
plump and beautiful as if you'd never
had a day's sorrow in your life. It was
nothing to you that you had driven a
faithful lover to ruin ! If I had been
dead it would have been all the same to
you, you would have still kept plump and
pretty."

''I can't help it, Toby. I didn't eat
anything for a whole day after you went
away, but the next morning my appetite
was too strong for me. Still I have thought
of you, I have."

'' Have you, Jenny ?"

'' Yes, nights and days, I have ; and
I've said prayers for you."

'' Real true, Jenny ?"

'' Yes, real true. I went out in the
road this very afternoon, and thought to

myself as I looked up the road, ' Oh, if I
could only see Toby coming along !' "

But you were singing a song when I
came in."

'' I was obliged to, to prevent myself
crying."

"But it was * Jack Robinson,' Jenny,
and you know I never liked to hear you
sing that."

How could I know what I was singing,
when I was thinking all the time of
you ?" Jenny put her apron to her eyes,
and whimpering, continued : " 'Tis you
that are cruel and forgetful, or you would
have come back to see whether I was in
distress ; and if you loved me truly, for
my sake you wouldn't have done wrong,
and gone seeing fine ladies, and gambling,
and drinking, and singing songs that you
wouldn't like me to hear. And you might
have known that I laughed at you only
to teaze you ; a girl doesn't teaze anyone

that she dislikes. And then you were
such a simple fellow, one was forced to
laugh at you sometimes — not as you are
now, with your smart gloves, and your
hair cut like a gentleman's. No, don't
take my hand, you're a wicked man now.
I daresay sou thought, when you came in
with your impudent manner and touched
me under the chin, that you could take
liberties with me now you're a fine gentleman
and I'm only a poor girl; but you've
made a mistake. I will always be a good
girl, and you may go away and leave me,
to die all alone and unhappy, and never
sing or laugh again, and oh ! oh ! oh ! "

The sentence was finished in broken
sobs and exclamations.

'' Don't cry, Jenny dear ; don't ee,
there's a sweet girl. I'm not so very
wicked."

'' Oh, yes you are. You've been listening
to fine ladies and forgetting me."

Forgetting you, Jenny ! Think of
the risk I run in coming to you now. If
your father caught me I should be hanged
for that mistake about the horse."

''No, no, you wouldn't. Father said
he should let you off with a thrashing, for
he knew you had done wrong only because
you were so silly as not to know
better. But it's fortunate you didn't come
half-an-hour ago."

Fortunate for your father, Jenny. I
can defend myself, I'm not afraid. Not
that I should like to injure a hair of his
head, for he is your father. Oh, let him
come, I am not afraid."

He won't return for two hours, he's
gone to market."

I know that — that is — but why should
we talk of him ? it is you that I have come
to see."

Did you come on purpose ?"

Yes. I came to bring you this token.

It should have been better, but I am
poor ; for I am not lucky at cards'

Oh, what a sweet brooch ! and earrings
too to match, how lovely ! Coral
hearts and silver arrows, how beautiful !
But — but — 1 think I mustn't take them."

Why not, Jenny ?"

I wouldn't like to wear them if they
weren't — weren't honestly come by."

Oh, they where bought and paid for
honestly, I swear."

But if you won the money at gambling,
or if the money was given you by
by the fine ladies "

Slink paused a minute, and then looking
at Jenny, with the tears standing in
his eyes, he held out his hand and said :

Give 'em me back, Jenny. You
shan't wear 'em, dear, for the money that
bought 'em was given me by my master
for the purpose, and the gift's none of my
own, and unworthy for you to wear. I

won't deceive you, Jenny ; I'll win you
by fair means or not at all." He threw
the trinkets on the ground, and crushed
them under his feet in a fury. "I will
tell you the whole truth, and why I'm
here, and all that I have done and suffered
through my own first folly. I will conceal
nothing. You "

At this moment Jenny's hand was
clapped upon his mouth, and she whispered
hurriedly,

Here is Mr. Talbot. Not a word, or
you are lost. Quick ! into the kitchen,
quick !"

As may be imagined. Slink did not require
pressing ; he shot into the kitchen
like a mouse before a cat.

ESCAPE.

IVE me a mug of ale, Jenny,"
said Tom Talbot, entering
the lodge. " I am too idle to
go up to the house, or the path is too
long, one or the other. Ah, child, what
is the matter with you? Your lips are
almost white, and — surely you have been
weeping ?"

No, Sir, nothing ails me. Maybe the
mid-day heat tries me. I will get you
the ale at once. Sir."

Jenny placed a chair for Tom Talbot

quickly, and hurried into the kitchen,
closing the door behind her.

Jenny, love," whispered Slink, " if it
will save you from getting into trouble I
will give myself up to the young master
at once, though I hang for it."

Jenny shook her head, and gave him
her hand while she stooped to draw the
ale. He pressed it to his lips and turned
his eyes to the door alternately.

'' Say the word, and for your sake I'll
be brave," he whispered, as she rose from
the ground.

She answered by a shake of the head,
and with a smile of encouragement and a
squeeze of the hand she left him. It
was only womanly on her part to face
a danger with gladness for a man in
peril.

When she re-entered the room she
found Tom Talbot seated, with a much
crushed rose in one hand and the fragments

of a brooch in the other, which he
was looking at with curiosity.

*' What does this mean, Jenny ?'' he
asked; 'there are the ruins of trinkets
which could not have been so desperately
crushed by accident."

Jenny set the mug on the table beside
Tom, and said —

"No, Sir; 'twas not an accident."

Weren't they pretty enough for you,
Jenny?"

Oh ! they were lovely ; coral hearts
with arrows through them — so sweet."
Jenny turned to the chimney, to dust
the ornaments upon it, while Tom, looking
at the fragments, said to himself :

Even here one loves and suffers. Is
there no corner in the world where one may
live heart-whole and in peace ?" The girl
kept her back to him.

Jenny, you who are so fond of ornaments
must have had a strong reason to make

you break this offering — for they were
an offering, I suppose ?"

They were a token from mj sweetheart,
that is " she paused.

That is — from him Who was your
sweetheart. Your father has told me
about that early love. They were a present
from Toby Slink, I suppose ?"

'' Yes," sighed Jenny.

'' You did right to crush them. You
are worth a good husband, one a thousand
times better than that sneaking thief.
Crush the thoughts of him as you
have crushed his gift, and open your
heart to one of the decent lads in the
town."

*toby was not so bad as you think,
Sir. I treated him most ill, that's why he
ran away."

And that is why he stole a horse at
the same time, hey ? Don't deceive yourself,
Jenny, and above all, don't let him

deceive you. > If I catch him hanging
about here he shall repent his rashness."

'^ You wouldn't have him hanged, would
you, Sir ?"

No, perhaps not. The penalty of the
law is greater than the offence ; but I
would certainly whip him within an inch
of his life. I suppose he sent you these
trifles by a friend ?"

He brought them himself."

Hum ! He has more courage than I
should give such a fellow credit for. But
perhaps he watched your father out of
sight, and did not know that I was about.
When was he here ?"

*^A — a — a — he was here a quarter of
an hour ago."

Only a quarter of an hour ?" Tom
cried, starting up.

What are you going to do, Mr. Talbot,
you won't hurt him ?"

Jenny, my child, 'tis but too clear

that you still care for this rascal, despite
your better judgment. He has come once,
he wU come again, unless he has such a
lesson as will stay in his memory. Your
anxiety tells me that you still like him,
and if I can see that, will not he ? and
seeing your weakness, will he not take
advantage of it to your life-long misery ?
I promise you I will not give him up to
justice, but "

"Mr. Talbot! Mr." Talbot! what are
you going to do ?"

'' I am going up to the house for my
hound and a whip, Jenny."

As Tom strode off to the Hall, Jenny
opened the door and cried to Slink :

Quick ! quick, Toby, out of the open
window here. He cannot see you from
the drive."

I'll go outside, Jenny, and wait for
him. I will take my whipping without
crying out, if I can, and show him that

I'm not such a sneaking rascal as lie
takes me to be. I'd have come out while
he was here, but for fear of putting you
to the blush, dear. Let him beat me."

'' No, no. Toby, if you do really love
me, save yourself. The woods are open,
and you have a start. You can't love me,
Toby, or you wouldn't linger."

You don't believe all he has said
against me?"

No ; should I love you if I did ?"

'' And you won't open your heart to
no decent lad as he was recommending ?"

No. Don't stay ! Listen, Toby ; I
won't mama a man ivho's been thrashed !
now will you save yourself?"

Give us a kiss, Jenny, to show we're
right down earnest and true."

She threw her arms round his neck
and gave him a hearty kiss, lip to lip, and
the next moment, invigorated and with a
strength born of his new manhood, Slink

scrambled through the window and
dashed off into the woods. He had nota
moment to spare ; already he heard the
hand welcoming his master's approach
to the stable.

VOL. II. 35

AN Afternoon S WORK.

HE time hung heavily on Barnabas
Crewe in Slink's absence.
Strolling into the meadow
behind the inn in search of amusement,
he found there only a sleepy
cat stretched in the sun, and a cow
chewing the cud under a hedge. He
threw the cat in the horse-pond, and
stoned the cow until he heard someone
approaching, when he turned into the
skittle-alley where three or four louts
were playing. He sat down and watched

the game in the hopes of finding some
method of cheating, which would justify
him in joining the players and compensate
for his want of skill ; failing to succeed in
his endeavour, he left the alley in disgust,
and seated himself with a pot and a pipe
in the tap-room.

There he drank, smoked, and dosed by
turns, until he felt hungry enough to eat
some bread and cheese. After that he
dosed again, until the flies irritated him into
activity ; then he went into the meadow
to see if he could find the cat, or anything
else that might afford him diversion.
But the cat was now basking on the roof
E of a barn, and blinked at him with exasperating
indifference, and the cow was
browsing in a part of the field where she
could not be stoned without risk of observation,
so with a curse he lounged into the
stable where he stood with his hands in his
pockets, looking at the horses for a time.

35—2

Why should not lie go up the road with
the chance of meeting Slink ? He called
the stable lad and ordered him to saddle
the grey mare, which he had exchanged
at Gravesend for the horse taken by
Slink, and while his bidding was being
done he fetched his pistols from the house
and put them in their holsters. Then he
mounted, and walked his horse up the hill
that overlooks the weald, keeping his eyes
on the wood before him.

He was close to Crown Point, when
Slink burst through the scrub by the
woodside, and came running up to him
breathless.

*' Run, your honour, run," he gasped.
He's at my heels — he's after me."
*' He— who ?"
Master Tummus."
Talbot?"

Yes, run, for heaven's sake, master,
run."

Don't be a fool, tell me what has
happened. I shan't stir till you do."

I was along with Jenny when he
passed the window. I hid in the kitchen,
and while I was there he came into t'other
room, and obliged Jenny to tell him I had
been there, and as he went up to the Hall
to find a whip and his hound, I escaped by
the window. He's following me now with
the hound."

Barnabas smacked his hip with his whip
and grinned.

** Shall I go on, master ?" asked
Slink.

No. What do you fear ?"

The hound, your honour — and Master
Tom."

Afraid of a dog ! What's the handle
of your whip for; if Mr. Talbot tries
to hit you, can't you defend yourself?"


No, your honour. I'll do him no

harm, nor his dog neither. I've made up
my mind — if he catches me I'll make a
clean breast of it, and let him hang
me or do what he will after."

The deuce you will. Do you know
that you might get me into trouble ?"

Can't help that, master. You'd best
let me get off while I can."

Wait — the hound will follow you to
Ightham. That won't do. We shall
have a dozen constables at our heels
before night. Do sou mean what you
said just now ?"

I do, and nothing else. Ah, you may
do your worst with them," he alluded to
the pistols which Barnabas tapped significantly,
" I'm regular desperate."

What do you mean ? I'm trying my
best to save you. Is there another inn
nearer than Ightham ?"

Yes—at the foot of the hill— the ' Sir
Jeffrey Amhurst.' "

** Then we must go back on our footsteps."


But that's straight towards danger —
towards Master Tom and his dog."

So much the better. Go on in front,
and when you catch sight of the inn stop.
If you don't go I'll stop your tongue forever."


Choosing the lesser evil, Slink turned
and quickly ran up the hill, which, despite
the opposition of Barnabas he had been
descending as he recounted what had
happened, reached the cross-roads, and
ran down the road towards Sevenoaks,
until he came to a bend, whence he could
see the " Sir Jeffrey."

Barnabas, who had followed close on
his heels, with his eye on the alert and his
right hand in the opened holster, pulled
up and dismounted.

'' Jump up," he cried, taking the pistol
from its holster and slipping it into his

capacious pocket. " You don't want
twice telling for that. Now then, off you
go to the inn at Ightham, and wait therefor
me. You're safe. The scent's broken."

Without a moment's hesitation, Slink,
who had sprung into the saddle, dug his
heels into the grey mare's sides, and using
his whip without stint, galloped off in the
direction of Ightham.

Barnabas walked down to the " Sir
Jeffrey "and waited.

Half an hour later, Tom, following his
hound, emerged from the wood at Crown
Point.

With his muzzle to the ground, the
hound ran down the hill towards Ightham
for a hundred yards, then stopped,
diverged to the right, to the left, ran on for
half a dozen yards, and returned whining
to the spot from which he had diverged.

Good dog, good Dido — follow up,"
said Tom, patting her encouragingly.

Dido licked his hand, cried, and with
her muzzle down again ran off to the left,
pushing through the unbroken brake.

Tom waited in the road; presently
Dido came from the wood higher up,
took up the old scent with a bark of
satisfaction, and ran down to where Tom
stood, then finding herself again at fault,
she ran down the bank to the right, and
after some minutes returned, and looking
up, whimpered as if for assistance.

He has feared to go on to the
village, and doubled," said Tom, as he
retraced his steps towards the crest of the
hill. Dido was again upon the scent, but
instead of following it into the wood from
which they had come, she ran along the road
and descended the hill towards Sevenoaks,
but within sight of the '* Sir Jeffrey
Amhurst " she came to a stand, and
appeared again at fault. This puzzled Tom.

He must have heard the dog and

doubled to delay pursuit," thought he,
after some reflection. " A convincing
proof that he's no simpleton. 'Tis not
unlikely that he got back in the wood,
and was perched upon one of the trees we
passed under. He shan't have the gratification
of seeing us go back, we will return
by the road. Come, Dido," he called to
the hound, who was still searching for the
lost scent, " come; he has given us an
afternoon's amusement, and we will
let him rest, and rest ourselves for a time."

He followed the road to the " Sir
Jeffrey," and sitting on the settle in the
porch, called for ale.

'* Have you seen a young countryman
pass here this afternoon ?" he asked of the
woman who served him.

No, master, nobody's been nigh this
afternoon save a gent, and he ain't a
countryman for certain ; he's in the tap
now."

To satisfy himself that the " gent " was
not Slink disguised, Tom walked into the
tap-room, where he looked at Barnabas,
who was feeding Dido with scraps from
the bread and cheese before him.

]Not much of the gent, and still less of
the countryman in his composition," said
Tom to himself.

'' Looking lor a young countryman ?"
asked Barnabas.

Yes — have you seen anyone looking
as though he were pursued ?"

No. That's just what I'm looking
for myself. I've a warrant in my pocket
for a young fellow named Slink."

The very man I'm after. He was my
servant — my name is Talbot."

This is exactly what Barnabas wished
to be certain about. He looked carefully
at Tom, and then with a grunt said :

You'll be lucky if you catch
him. He's a downy one, is Toby Slink,"

Tom nodded and withdrew, whistling
to his hound. But Dido found the
bread and cheese seductive and lingered
by Barnabas, whose appearance was less
repulsive to her than to Tom.

Tom rested awhile, then he paid for his
ale and left the " Sir Jeffrey." The
sun was declining, and the great oaks
threw an agreeable shade over the margin
of turf by the roadside; the time and
place induced meditation, and Tom walked
onwards at a leisurely pace, with his
hands crossed behind him, thinking no
more of Slink, but as may be imagined, of
Lady Betty.

After all," he thought, " why should
she not laugh and be gay. If she valued
my life at all she would be pleased to hear
that I had escaped from the duel. That
she would learn from Gerard, who I
warrant was not too modest to furnish
all particulars. Perhaps those particulars

excited lier mirth. For a truth, I
cut a mighty ridiculous figure, digging
and plunging at an adversary who contented
himself with parrying my thrusts,
and who was too magnanimous to take
advantage of my inferiority. 'Tis human
weakness that serves as the food for
mirth. The world sympathises with the
fortunate, and laughs at the unlucky,
from Quixote to the puppets in a Punch-show,
and the more the poor fools are
beat the more the crowd laughs. One
may laugh and not be heartless, those who
are readiest to smile are readiest to weep.
Had I fallen, Lady Betty would have shed
a tear for me : I did not fall, and so she
laughed. Why should I wish it otherwise
? Would I have her wretched rather
than merry ? It seems so, for I have done
more to torment her in the last six
months than to make her happy. Could
I ever have made her happy ? It seems

to me as I walk here in the sweet fresh
air, with Nature's unblemished handiwork
on every side, that nothing is wanting to
perfect my happiness, but one truly loving
soul to share in these delights. She
might feel as I do. But the summer goes,
and we could not live for ever in seclusion.
Perhaps for one day of happiness there
might be a hundred of misery. What is
worse than to be doubted ? Nothing —
unless it be — to doubt."

Dido came bustling through the brushwood
to his side, and jumped up at his
side as if in apology for her absence.
Tom mechanically dropped his hand and
caressed her, and while Dido, satisfied
that her inconstancy was not resented,
ran off again into the wood from which
she had come, he replaced his hands behind
him and continued his reflection.

** It is odd that a man, with every inducement
to succeed, cannot contrive to

subdue his rebellious nature. But for my
jealousy I might win the girl I love ; buta
fool loving her with not a tithe of my
affection, stands a better chance than I
do. Will time alter my temper ? and will
she be free to avon when I may woo her
well?"

His thoughts were still in this dreary
train, when they were suddenly arrested
by a howl from the wood on his right
hand. The howl was loud and long ; it
was repeated again and again. Tom
glanced rapidly to the right and left;
Dido was not in sight. He leapt across
the ditch, and pushed his way through
the brambles and short growth into the
wood, and towards the spot whence the
hound's cries proceeded, now short and
feeble.

Beyond the oaks was a belt of pines
free from under-growth, and it was here
that Tom found his hound stretched upon

the dry fir-spines. His first impression had
been that Dido had set her foot in a trap
laid for vermin, but a glance showed
him that a more serious mischief had befallen
her.

"Dido! What is it? poor old girl!"
he cried, dropping upon his knees by her
side.

At the sound of his voice the poor
brute tried to get upon her feet, and fell
back with a whine. Tom had a warm
affection for dogs, for this one especially.
Dido had recognised him on his coming
to the Hall, though she had not seen him
for eighteen months. He passed his
hand rapidly over her body and legs without
finding any trace of a wound ; a drop
of blood-stained saliva in the corner of
her mouth was the only proof of injury as
she lay. He essayed gently to raise her
head ; she gave a sharp cry, and then, ashe
tenderly lowered her head again upon

the ground, she licked his hand in forgiveness
of the pain he had caused her.

Poor loving, faithful bitch !" he murmured.


She wagged her tail feebly in response,
and whined as if complaining that she
could do no more. He put his hand down
to her muzzle ; she gave it a lick, opened
her glassy eyes to look again upon her
master, and then with a deep gasp closed
them for ever.

If love and fidelity qualifies a soul for
immortality, it was but her unworthy
body that ceased to live ; but the earthly
link which had bound her to Tom was
broken, and when lifting her head he
discovered the under side all crushed and
splintered by a murdering blow, he cried :

My God ! this is too harsh ! Why am

I robbed of this one poor friend ?" And

then, as he looked around him in a sudden
VOL. II. 36

access of passion. " Who is the coward
that has done this thing ?"

As if in reply there came from the
thickets behind him the report of a firearm,
and a shot sung past his ear.

To revenge Dido Tom sprang to his
feet and dashed into the thickets, over
which the smoke yet hung in blue strata.
He plunged forward, tearing his way
through the impeding growth until he
reached the road. Not a creature was insight,
not a sound reached his ears,
for the rascal who succeeded in killing
Dido and failed to murder Tom, had
slipped into the pine wood, and was
escaping rapidly over its free and noiseless
carpet.

BLAKE AND TOM'S CONCLUSIONS.

After half-an-liour's fruitless
search, Tom gave up the pursuit,
and in dull dejection made
his way to Talbot Hall. An hour before
he had scarcely noticed Dido's caress,
now, feeling her loss at every step, he
wondered how he could have valued her
so slightly.

It is by loss that we learn to prize
the trifles that contribute to our happiness,
and not alone the trifles," he said

36-2

to himself. He was beginning to profit
bj the lesson.

He found the steward in the lodge with
his daughter.

'' Come with me," said Tom ; *' I want
the light cart at once."

A short time afterwards Jenny heard
the cart coming down the drive, and
opening the gate, looked up with anxiety
at Tom, who sat by her father's side; but
she could learn nothing from the expression
of his face.

Anything happened unpleasant, Sir?"
asked Blake, breaking the silence when
they were fairly on the road.

My hound. Dido, has been killed."

"Killed, Sir?"

Tom nodded ; he was in no humour for
talking.

Who killed her. Sir ? if I may make
so bold as to ask?"

'' Slink," Tom answered.

The steward echoed the name, looking
at his master incredulously ; but Tom had
turned his face aside, and Blake saw
that it would be unwise to question him
further at present.

Tom, by a sign, bade the steward pull
up when they came to that part of the
road where he had been arrested by Dido's
cry, and led the way through the wood to
the fir plantation.

'' Poor bitch !" he said, looking down
upon the lifeless hound who could never
again greet him with joyful yelps, or
answer to his call ; and then as Blake
came up he turned away, his eyes filling
with tears.

The steward had less feeling for dogs,
and proceeded to examine the wound.

Dear heart o' me ! here's been a blow
to be sure ! She was a good hound too."

Tom walked slowly away to escape
the commentary. Presently Blake came

to his side, as he was leaning against the
trunk of a fir, and said :

'' You'll excuse me, Sir, but did you see
Slink kill the hound ?"

"No."

"May I make so bold as to ask why
you think he did it ?"

I have been chasing him with the
hound ; a good reason for supposing that
he killed her''

Take my word for it. Sir, 'isn't none
of his work. He couldn't do it."

Why not ? The same hand that took
the hound's life tried to take mine."

And you didn't see him ?"

"No; he shot at me from the bush
there. What does it matter who did it,
the bitch is dead?"

With all due respect, Sir, it matters
a ofreat deal. The man who fired at you
is a murderer at heart, and God forbid
we should lay a crime, even in our own

minds, against any man without due
cause. 'Tis not to be thought on carelessly,
and the sin should be proved
against the wicked in justice to the innocent."


You're in the right, Blake. Tell me
why you think Slink guiltless."

'' He loved that hound. Sir, as much
as you did. She slept upon his feet o'
nights, and if she followed his scent this
afternoon, as my Jenny tells me you took
him for to do, 'twas as much love as
instinct that made her trace his footsteps.
There's a hunch of bread under the dog's
side, she must have been eating the gift
from his hand when he struck the blow,
and do you think anyone with a heart
inside him could do such a wicked, cruel
thing as that ? If you knew the lad, you
couldn't think him capable of such a
deed, a poor, harmless critter, that
couldn't bear to see a pig killed ; and as

for using guns, why, dear heart o' me !
lie would jump up like a crow if lie heard
one fired half a mile off. My Jenny's told
me all what happened after I'd gone to
market. He's got into bad hands, but
his heart is decent and clean still. He
was hid in the kitchen while you were in
the parlour, and when you'd gone to
fetch the hound he wanted to give himself
up, take the thrashing you had
promised him, and ask pardon afterwards
like a man. But my girl, who can't get
over her fondness for the lad, despite his
weak head, and who's got a kind of
wholesome Kentish pride in her, said
she'd never marry a man who'd been
thrashed, and so the lad took to his heels.
Now, Sir, I put it to you, with all due
respect, do you think a lad of that kidney
could kill your hound and shoot at you !"
I shall be heartily glad to find myself
mistaken."

What motive could be have, when
he wants to be forgiven and get a- courting
of Jenny again ? No, master, 'ain't
Slink, with all humbleness be it said."

Then who can it be ? I have no
enemy, at least, none who would descend
to such an act."

It's just likely to be nothing else buta
poacher, dogs is their nat'ral enemies ;
his gun might have gone off as he was
crawling through the bushes to escape."

*' I heard the shot whistle past my ear
the moment before the report."

Then we can settle whether it was a
murderer or a poacher. Where did the
shot come from ?"

That thicket. I was kneeling by the
dog."

''If it was a poacher he used small
shot, and we shall find some in the firs,"
said the steward, crossing to the trees
beyond where the dog lay. He examined

two trees without making any discovery,
at the third he pointed to the cut bark,
and turning his head to Tom, said, with
a melancholy shake of his head, " 'Ain't
no poacher, master, 'tis a slug made that
cut."

And what do you conclude from
that ?"

That you've got a wus enemy than
poor Slink."

He won't be content with one trial
and failure, then. Let us get back to
the Hall, Blake ; I'm sick of the
business. As for Slink, I am willing to
accept your view of him. Can you take
the dog without my help ?"

Yes, Master Talbot."

The steward walked towards the dead
hound with his eyes on the ground, and
in deep perplexity. He was vain of his
own perspicacity, and besides that, his
master's life and interests were dear to

him. He stooped down and picked up
something from the brown spine-covered
earth.

The villain tempted the hound withall
manner," said he, turning to Tom,
who was walking apart ; *' here's a bit o'
cheese."

Tom stopped, suddenly remembering
the man he had seen at the " Sir Jeffrey"
feeding Dido with scraps from the bread
and cheese before him.

What is it. Sir ? Have you got ever
a clue ?"

Tom explained to Blake what was in his
thoughts.

'' If you've no objections, Sir, we will
run up to the ' Sir Jeffrey,' the woman
will know her own cheese again, and be
able to tell us what became of the man."

Tom agreed to the proposal, and when
Blake had laid the dog in the cart,
they drove to the " Sir Jeffrey Amhurst"

and made inquiries. The hostess proved
to Tom that the cheese was identical with
that she had served to Barnabas, and
said that he had left a few minutes after
Tom, apparently in haste, which seemed
to her peculiar, inasmuch as he had idled
in the tap-room for so long a time beforehand.
Another peculiarity had been
observed by her, the man had come to the
house on foot but with a spur on his heel.

Thank God ! that clears Slink," said
the steward.

When they were again in the cart Tom
sat in sombre reflection for some time, then
he said :

The odd thing is that Dido lost the
lad's scent close to that inn."

He did ! Then that carries us on still
murder, Sir. The man with the spur on
his heel might bave given his horse to
Shnk. That would break the scent at
once. You may depend upon it, Sir, that

he's the scoundrel who got that poor
foolish lad under his thumb. And then
again, look here, Master Tummas, he
might have reckoned that if he succeeded in
killing you, the murder would be charged
against Toby, when it was found that you
had gone in pursuit of him with the
hound."

The inference is logical enough," said
Tom, after a few moments of thought.
But what on earth could be his motive ?
I never saw the man before in my life — to
my knowledge."

To this question Blake could only
reply by suggestions — and none of them
seemed to Tom a satisfactory explanation
of the mystery.

'' One thing is certain, the lad Toby is
innocent, isn't he. Master Tummus ?"
asked Blake, glowing with pride over
what he considered his own particular
achievement.

Yes. I am convinced of that — thanks
to your sagacity."

Thank you, Sir, for the compliment.
One must have his wits about him to
manage an estate as I've managed Talbot
Hall for fifteen years, and never had a
single complaint from the Admiral or
Doctor Blandly. Howsoever, that's
vanity. Now we know it isn't Slink as
shot at you and killed the hound, and weare
justified in supposing that it's
the man he calls his master. So much
we've got at already — it ain't much, but
it's summit."

And there let it end," said Tom,
heartily tired of the subject.

Let it end !" echoed the steward
aghast at the prospect of relinquishing an
inquiry that had already reflected so much
credit upon his intelligence, and which he
anticipated would in the end raise him to
the rank of a Machiavel in the society of

the village ale-louse. '' You'll have the
constables out, and the beaters sure-ly !"

They can't restore the life of my poor
bitch."

But the man who killed her is at large
a villain."

And is likely to be, for all the
constables in Kent wouldn't catch him
now. The most likely supposition that
we can come to is that his only motive in
shooting at me was to get my watch and
a few guineas. Having failed he would
decamp quickly enough, and is now
doubtless out of this shire and half over
the next."

Lord love you, Sir, there's a hundred
holes and corners where a thief might
hide, but Master Ferguson the constable
knows 'em every one."

*' A good reason for the thieves to avoid
such holes and corners."

With all duty to you, Sir, I can't

think its right to let such a man get off
scot free."

He wouldn't if I could have caught
him. No good can come of pushing the
inquiry further. If the man was caught
there is no witness to prove he shot at
me, the suspicion would rest upon Slink,
and I might be called upon to prosecute
him when it comes to light that he had
taken my horse. We cannot wish that ;
for if he be the simpleton you describe, he
deserves to be pitied rather than punished.
1 freely forgive him for his love of the
hound. Make Jenny's mind easy on that
score, but say nothing about what has
happened. Tell no one. Let it be a
secret between us. I wish to avoid
publicity. Now we will end the discussion,
the subject to say the least of
it is unpleasant, and the best thing
we can do is to forget it as soon as
possible."

A LOVE LETTER.

HE steward obeyed his master
and kept the events of the
afternoon a secret from his
admirers at the ale-house, because it was
his duty ; but he felt it not less his duty
to follow up the clue secretly in order to
protect his master from further outrages,
however he might neglect his own safety.
And so far from being of Tom's opinion
that the best thing to be done was to
forget what had happened, he made it the
central theme of his cogitations.
VOL. II. 37

He was compelled by bis own vanity to
disagree with the construction Tom had
put upon the murderer's motive. '' Gents
has nothing to do but to get into mischief
through jealousy and such like, and why
should Master Tummus, being a gent, not
do likewise," he reasoned.

Tom's unexpected arrival at the Hall,
his gloom and taciturnity strengthened
the idea that he was involved in some
tragic complications, and after a few days
Blake looked upon it as a certain fact
that the unknown assailant was a ruffian
hired to do him injury. Supposing this
to be the case, he concluded that the
ruffian would not leave the county, but
wait in concealment until he found another
opportunity of attempting his purpose.

Without stating his object, he made
inquiries in the surrounding hamlets, but
the utmost he could learn was that a
horseman and his servant had arrived at

the '' George " inn, at Ightham, on the
morning of the same day on which the
attack was made, and left it the same
evening, taking the Wrexham Road. He
was not discouraged by this result ; the
more he thought of the matter, the more
satisfied he felt that his own conclusions
were accurate, and the prospect of an
ultimate triumph — of achieving alone that
which his master had declared all the
constables in Kent would fail to do — was
an incentive to fresh endeavours. Everyday
he extended the radius of his
inquiries.

His peregrination took him away from
the Hall for a considerable portion of the
day. He was not wanted there. The
business of the estate was in such
admirable working order that it called for
no attention. Tom made no inquiries,
indeed he seemed to avoid conversation
and to seek solitude. And Jenny was

37-2

secretly rejoiced when her father said he
was going out and would probably not
return until late.

Jenny had an idea that before long she
should see Slink again, and the idea arose
from no line of subtle reasoning, but from
direct womanly intuition. During her
father's absence she spent the best part of
her time at the little window, or in the
road looking to the right and to the left
in expectation. One afternoon, as she
was standing thus, a piece of twig fell at
her feet. She started in astonishment, for
not a soul was to be seen up or down the
road, then she heard the call of a blackbird,
and knew that Toby must be in the
wood facing the gates — for he could equal
any bird at whistling. After a glance to
assure herself that Mr. Talbot was not insight,
she approached the brambles on the
opposite side of the road with a careless
step and her eyes alert.

Here, sweetheart — here I be," whispered
Slink.

She nodded and seated herself on the
bank beside the bramble through which
she could see Slink's head and shoulders.

^' Mr. Tom's in the park somewhere,"
whispered Jenny.

I know it, love, and your father's
hunting after me at Otford — but I'm
right glad to risk my life for a chance of
seeing your sweet face."

Jenny looked towards the bush, and
her eyes half closed smiled in harmony
with her lips. It was so delightful to
have a lover who would risk his life for
her, that she could not bring herself to
tell him that Mr. Talbot had forgiven
him.

I'm not the coward I was, Jenny."
Jenny shook her head in acquiescence.
*' I do think it's knowing that you love
me gives me courage, dear."

How do sou know I love you ?" Jenny
asked in a whisper, bending her head over
her knees.

'' 'Cause I don't doubt it no longer."
Jenny nodded at this conclusive argument.
'' An' if you said you didn't I'd

up and say you wur a " Toby paused,

even passion would not justify him in
using the appropriate word.

What would you say I was ?"

I wouldn't say nothuu, but I'd up
and give you a great buss on the
lips, so as you shouldn't say it no
more."

'' And supposing T wouldn't let you
kiss me ?"

Then I'd kiss you more than ever."

His audacity seemed not displeasing to
Jenny, and remembering what Barnabas
had said, he continued :

Snivelling and sneaking won't win a
girl's Heart if she's any spirit. A man

must be bold and venturesome, and laugh
at her fine airs."

"Where did sou learn that?" asked
Jenny suspiciously.

Hum ! When a man goes out in the
world he must learn."

You've been courting fine ladies in
London, Toby."

'' Do you think I've got two hearts,
Jenny ? And if I had, do you think I
could love one of them ladies, all mucked
up wi' paint and powder, and dressed up
like a Pope, after seeing of you with your
fine brown arms, and your red face,
and your dress all sweet and pure
from the wash-tub ? No, Jenny, I
never wars such a fool as that'd come
to."

Jenny gave a sigh of satisfaction, and
smiled encouragement upon her lover,
whose words were as good as poetry to
her ear, and better perhaps, being* intelligible,

and coming straight from his
honest heart.

And you, dear," continued he ; " you
can't took Master Tummus's advice ; you
can't looked about for no decent lad ?"

JSTo, Toby, I won't have ne'er a sweetheart
but you."

He took no notice of the distinction, but
oblivious of danger, started up to his feet,
came to her side, and throwing his arm
around her neck, gave her a hearty
kiss.

Don't, Toby dear, don't. Look,
there's master walking in the drive."

What's the odds ? I don't care a
button," cried Slink, boldly. *' Don't you
fear, Jenny — she shan't thrash me, nor no
other man now."

But I shall get into trouble."

blenny rose from her seat.

Don't ye go, sweetheart. See I'm
safe behind the briars again. Stay awhile.

pretend to be plucking a posy. I've a
plenty to say to you yet awhile. I didn't
look to see you. I aren't hope to speak
wi' you, so I wrote you a letter —
leastways I got a party to write it forme."


'Tis all the same, and have you put
it in the post ?"

'' No ; I feared it would go wrong, so
I brought it wi' me to throw to you when
I see the chance. But 1 can tell you all
I had put on the paper."

'^ Give me the letter all the same, dear,"
murmured Jenny, with an insinuating
smile. A letter was a tender form of
communication that she had never yet
received, and did not wish to lose.

Pluck at the hair-bell against the bush,
sweetheart."

Jenny extended her hand towards the
flower, and Slink catching it conveyed it
to his lips.

Quick, quick. I hear a cart coming,
'tis father belike."

'' Aye, I know the trot of the old pony.
There, take the letter, love, and fare thee
well. I shall come for the answer tonight."


He put a packet in her hand, which he
held while he bent forward and kissed her
arm. Then he withdrew with commendable
speed into the wood.

Jenny waited a few moments in anxiety
until her sweetheart disappeared before
leaving the bank. When she turned she
found that Mr. Talbot was not more thana
dozen yards from the gate ; that compelled
her to be cautious. It was before
the time of pocket-holes, and to get at her
pocket it was necessary to raise the skirt
of her dress, which could not be done
without risking Mr. Talbot's observation.
She slipped her hands under her apron,
concealing the letter, and stood with her

head on one side as if trying to catch a
glimpse of the approaching cart. As
the steward came up to the lodge, Mr.
Talbot turned his back on the gate and
walked away over the lawn.

I'm going to the farrier's, my gal,"
said Blake, as the cart stopped. '' Here
be the butcher's meat for cook — take
it."

Jenny lifted her right hand, keeping
the other with the letter under her
apron.

Both hands, gal, or you'll drop it, like
as not."

No, I shan't, father."

Do as I bid ye, and don't be so lazy."

Jenny grew scarlet to the loose curls
on her brow, dropped her head, and still
kept her left hand covered.

'' What's a matter wi' ye, cut your
finger, lass ?"

Jenny, driven to desperation, nodded.

'thei! hei ! there's nought to be
ashamed of in that, show 'un to me ?"

Jenny did not move, except to cover
her face with her right hand. Blake
tied the reins to the side iron of
the cart and descended quickly. Another
mystery called for the exercise of his perspicacity.
Jenny remained immovable,
while her father lifted her apron and took
the letter from her hand.

'* Mighty mighty ! what have we got
here? A letter like one of the gentlefolks,
and spotted from end to side wi'
kisses in red wax. ' Jenny Blake'
writ in a hand as good as I could write
it. My gal, you haven't been making
acquaintance with any of these gentlemen
rakes, I hope."

"No!" exclaimed Jenny, scornfully.
'' 'Isn't no gentleman, 'tis only — only —
Toby."

Toby ! I snowed it ! I snowed it

well ! He gave it you wi' his own hand,
didn't he ?"

Jenny nodded.

Don't be ashamed, Jenny, I ain't a
bit wroth wi' you. If he's the decent
lad I believe him to be, I won't come between
you no more than a father should.
Where's Master Talbot ?"

There, across the lawn."

Then we'll go inside and read the
letter ; pony won't budge. Come on, my
gal."

Her father's unexpected good-humour
restored Jenny's courage, and she followed
him into the lodge with alacrity, no less
eager than he to know the contents of the
packet.

Blake opened the cover and displayed
a pink neckerchief and a folded
paper.

Here, Jenny, take the favour ; and
now let us see what he says.

'' ' Dearest sweetheart,' " he read.
' This comes hoping to find you as it
leaves me at present, thanks be to God,'
(very pretty, to be sure), ' barring I can't
sleep of nights for thinking how wretched
I am all day parted from you, and living
with a master who, speaking respectfully,
as in duty bound, is no better than he
should be, which often and often I have
wished myself dead and in my grave.' ( I
could have sworn it was so. It's a very
good letter." Jenny sobbed and wiped
away a tear with her apron). 'wished
I was dead. — ' Dear Jenny, I send you a
token which you don't need to be ashamed
to wear, as I am not to give. It was
bought with my own money honestly,
mending the pig sty for Mrs. Smith, the
sexton's wife, who is writing this letter
for me now.'

Smith the sexton, I don't know him."
Isn't it a lovely letter, father ?"

No, my gal, lie ought to have pub in
where he is stopping, and told us more
about his master ; however, we may come
to that presently.

*' ' Dear Jenny, if you only knew how
glad 1 was to mend the pig-sty and
earn money to buy you a token, though
I don't know whether you will think it is
good enough to wear, although if you
love me as I love you, with all my heart,
and I ever shall until my dying day.
Dear Jenny, I can't tell you all I want to
tell you, but if you will only meet me
for two minutes, when your father and
Mr. Talbot are away, I shall be able to
tell you all. Dear Jenny, if you love me
true, write me a letter and put it aside of
the gate-post at night, and I will fetch it
away when master is asleep, but if I am
too bad for you to think of, tear up the
token and put it in place of the letter.
Dear Jenny, I shall love you and think of

you always, and so no more at present
from your humble and true sweetheart,
'''T. Slink'"

Having finished the letter, Blake sat
down and stroked his chin in thoughtful
silence, while Jenny, taking her
treasures into the adjoining kitchen, shut
the door and had a good cry. Before the
plenteous fountain of her emotions was
exhausted, her father called her.

Jenny, my gal," said he, when she
opened the door and made her presence
known by stifled sobs. "When did
Master Talbot say he was a-going to
Maidstone?"

To-morrow, father."
"What time?"

I don't know ; he told cook when
she was asking about the butcher's meat,
that he should dine at Maidstone o'
Wednesday."

"All ! then he's sure to be out of the
"way betwixt six and nine. Gret out my
desk and write a letter to Toby just as I
tell you."

Jenny opened the desk, and hastily
composing herself, sat down with a pen
in her hand.

'' I'm ready, father," said she.

The steward, who had not ceased to
caress his chin, dictated :
"Dear Toby."

Dear sweetheart !" wrote Jenny, and
then waited, smiling at the endearing
words.

The master is going to dine with
Mr. Barton at Maidstone," Blake pursued.
It was not necessary to state
who was to be Tom's host, but the conceited
old man never missed an opportunity
of displaying his knowledge.

"Yes, father."

Mr. Barton at Maidstone— have you
VOL. II. 38

wrote that? Right — and my father
and me will be quite alone. Do not be
afraid of my father, he has found out
that you are in the power of a bad men,
and if you trust him he will get you free,
and he weill put you in a good place, and
he will make Mr. Talbot forgive all that
you have done, and he will permit you to
court me if you trust him, and do what
he tells you. So come tomorrow evening
about six o'clock, and my father will
be the best friend to you that ever you
had."

Having written this, with frequent
breaks for correction and amendments,
Jenny was instructed to put her name at
the bottom.

May I write a little word or two for
myself ?" she asked.

The old man graciously accorded permission,
and she wrote :

*' Dear sweetheart, come about five

through the wood, and if you see the
little window open, you will know that
Mr. Talbot has already gone ;" and after
that a dozen lines of sentiment, which,
being written for her sweetheart only,
might seem nothing but sheer nonsense to
any other reader.

After supper Jenny placed the letter by
the gate-post, and from her bed-room
window watched patiently until in the
dead of night she saw her lover take it
from its hiding-place, and pressing it to
his lips, vanish in the obscurity.

'■^-^

38—2

Barnabas Prepares FOR BUSINESS.

F you please, your honour, may
I have a few hours this evening?"
asked Slink. '' I've
groomed the losses, cleaned the stables,
and made the bits and stirrups to shine
like silver."

Barnabas was in the yard of the
roadside inn, near Otford, where they
had been staying for the last six days,
seated on a step, his legs stretched out,
his back resting against the stable wall,

and his hat tilted over his nose. Barnabas
puffed at his long clay pipe in silence,
while he considered whether policy would
justify him in refusing his servant's
demand. Slink had lately given him considerable
anxiety; a moral as well as
physical change had been apparent in the
lad since the day he had had his hair cut.
There was something more of a man and
something less of a fool in his appearance
and behaviour. A tap on the pistol-bolster
no longer awed him ; he only
blinked when the lock of the pistol was
exposed, and Barnabas feared to draw
the pistol further for fear Slink, instead
of sinking on his knees, should take to
his heels. He couldn't afford to lose him,
or he might have been tempted to lead
him into a quiet part of the road and
try the effect of a running shot upon him.
He began to fear that sooner or later
Slink would bolt, and throw himself upon

the mercy of his late master. That
would never do.

As harshness seemed to be losing its
effect, he had been Tin willingly constrained
to adopt kindness as a hold upon him, and
although he went no further than giving
him beer and a few hours of liberty, the
result was undoubtedly good. Slink was
more cheerful, more ready to play piquet,
more responsive to his wishes. Still
Barnabas grudged the concession.

Want to go out again," he snarled, after
a dozen silent whiffs. *' Have you got the
Saint Titus's dance, or what's the matter
with you that you can't stay still in one
place for two minutes together ?' ' '

*' There's nothing to do, master."

'' Nothing to do. There's piquet. I
owe you your revenge." This was the
only debt that Barnabas ever acknowledged.
'* Nothing to do is the fault you
have to find now, eh? A little while ago

sou were snivelling because we were
doing too much. What will content ye,
I wonder. Here all for your sake I'm out
of pocket for your fine clothes, and your
hairdressing, and presents for your sweetheart,
and I'm living in the country
paying all expenses and treating you as
an equal — living as innocent as a plaguey
parson, and yet you're not grateful."

Yes, I am, master. I — I — I'm very
much obliged to you, and as to the
expenses, you can stop 'em out of my
wages."

Barnabas grunted at this suggestion,
and after a few more whiffs :

Well, you can take your few hours
now," he said.

Please, your honour, now won't do."

Why not ?"

'' 'Cause I want to take 'em this
evening."

Hum ! Where are you going ?"

Slink made no reply.

Barnabas raised himself, tilted his list
off this nose so that he could see Slink's
i'ace, and repeated the question in an
angry tone.

Sink scratched his ear, and finding
no means of evading the confession,
answered :

I'm going to see ray sweetheart, an'
please your honour."

'' I don't mind your seeing her," said
Barnabas, his small eyes twinkling. '' You
will just make inquiries about Mr. Talbot ;
find out what he does all day ; but you
mustn't mention my name. Yes, you can
go ; but mind, don't forget that you have
a good, indulgent master, and don't look
sour when I bid you do your duty. Don't be
ungrateful, for ingratitude I can't abide."

You'll never find me ungrateful,
master."

And another thing — I'm always thinking

of your welfare. You keep clear of
Mr. Talbot, for if lie can string you up on
the tree he will. Beware of him."

Oh, there's no clanger, your honour,
thanking you kindly for the warning —
Master Tummus is going across to
Maidstone this afternoon — that's why I'm
going a-courting Jenny this evening."

Why the devil didn't you tell me that
at first. Going to Maidstone this afternoon
alone?"

Don't know, master. One thing's
certain — Master Blake bent sroing: wi'
him."

Barnabas received this information in
silence. Pulling his hat over bis eyes
again, he rested his elbows on his knees,
and gave himself up to reflection, biting
the waxed end of his pipe.

Slink went off to the stable in high glee,
saying to himself that after all his master
was a good sort of man at the bottom, and

greatly improved since he had given up
hunting for his lost property. How he
was to serve Barnabas and listen at the
same time to the proposals of Jenny's
father was a problem which has just taken
hold of his mind, when his master called
from the yard, where he was still sitting
nibbling his pipe-stem.

Here I be, your honour."

Slink, you won't be able to see your
sweetheart to-night. I am going out, and
I shall want you." Barnabas raised his
head, and catching sight of Slink's lugubrious
face, continued : " Halloa, what's
this ? Looking glum at the first thing
I tell you to do ? Ah, I thought how it
would be. This comes from being too
indulgent."

You said I might go and see my
Jenny," whimpered Slink.

Yes, and this is all the gratitude you
show."

Slink rubbed one foot over the other,
and tried to see what he had to be
grateful for.

'' I'm thinking of your interest now,
though it's a precious thankless task,"
Barnabas pursued. *' You want to go
back to your old service, don't you ?"

I don't want to be ungrateful,
master."

Answer me straightforward, yes or
no — do you want to go back to the
Hall?"

*c Yes— I— I "

'' Ah, I thought so. You can't do anything,
think anything, but I can find it
out. I've thought of discharging you
some time, but I wouldn't let you go
without making sure beforehand that you
got a good master. Leave you to yourself
and you're bound to go wrong.
Besides, if I didn't say a good word for
you, you'd be caught and strung up in a

brace of shakes. No one would believe
your story with that hang-dog face to
convict you. Now what I'm going to dois
this : to-night, when Mr. Talbot is
riding home from Maidstone, I shall trot
up to him, tell him the whole truth about
the horse, and ask him to forgive you.
You can follow a couple of hundred yards
behind, and if he agrees to pardon you,
I'll give you a call and you may come up
and make it all right at once ; but if he
won't I'll just quietly leave him, and we'll
look out for another master. There'll be
no harm done in asking him, will there ?"

No master, but will you do all that
for me ?"

Yes — though you scarcely deserve it.
However, you may show your gratitude
afterwards."

But wouldn't it be better if your
honour went up to the Hall tomorrow

Oh, you think sou have more sense
than I have, hey ? I would be a pretty
fool indeed, to go up to the Hall where
there's half a dozen men who at a word
from their master, would arrest me for
being your accomplice."

Slink hesitated, he had learnt to doubt
the Lieutenant's pretexts for making
acquaintances on the road. Still rubbing
his feet together, he said with anxiety in
his voice,

"You don't think that Master
Tummus owes you anything, do you
your honour ?"

'' Not a penny-piece. Look here, you
can do as I tell you or not, just as you
like, but if you refuse this offer I make,
do you know what I shall do ?"

No, your honour."

I'll go straight off and turn King's
evidence against you for stealing the horse,
that will save my neck if it breaks yours.

I'm determined I won't be your accomplice
any longer. I'm sick of you."

My accomplice ?"

That's it. Don't be a fool, Slink, and
make me angry just at the very moment
I'm trying to be nice and kind to you.
I'm taking the best and safest method of
getting out of the difficulty you led me
into, and you haven't the gratitude nor
the decency to help me. Do you think
your sweetheart will have anything to
say to you if you are no wiser nor better
than that ?"

I'm not ungrateful, master — I only
want to do what's right."

'' So do I."

Shall we have to wear anything over
our faces, your honour ?"

Barnabas took the crape from his
pocket and throwing it to Slink, said :

You can burn it if you like ; now are
you satisfied that there's nothing to fear ?"

This proof seemed to Slink so convincing
that he agreed to act according to
bis master's instructions, and escaped to
the stable to hide his shame in having
doubted the honesty of the Lieutenant's
intentions.

About seven o'clock they left the inn
together, and passing Borough Green and
Plato, crossed the main road and following
the windings of a long lane, came
eventually to Discord, a spot marked by
the '' Three Barges," an inn standing a
dozen yards from the Medway, at the point
where the bye-road from Sevenoaks joined
the tow-path to Maidstone Bridge. It
was by this route Slink assured his master
that Mr. Talbot would probably return,
the distance to Talbot Hall being far less,
and the lanes more agreeable to a horseman
than the main road. It was yet
early for one to leave a dinner party ;
after a minute's consideration, Barnabas

led his horse into the yard of the " Three
Barges" and dismounted, giving Slink
instructions to bait the horses well. From
the settle in front of the inn, the tow-path
could be seen for a considerable
length, and here Barnabas sat until the
distance became indistinct. It was nearly
nine o'clock when they remounted.
Barnabas trotted slowly along the tow-path;
Slink followed at a safe distance.
Both were on the alert ; Slink preparing to
fly at a moment's notice, Barnabas taking
in the natural advantages of the situation
as they passed before his practised eye.
There was one space which he stopped to
examine minutely. A light vapour hung
over the water, reflecting the twilight of
the summer night, but the tow-path
shadowed by the wide-spreading boughs
of a row of elms was in deep gloom. A
gate at one time had crossed the path ;
only the posts stood now, one by the

hedge which lay between the path and the
elms, the other upon the steep edge of
the river bank. Beyond the hedge rose
a corn covered hill; on the opposite side
of the river there lay flat meadows.
Nothing living was to be seen except the
shadowy outline of a cow in the water
meadow. The " Three Barges" lay half a
mile behind.

Turning in his saddle, Barnabas called
to Slink.

How far to Maidstone Bridge ?"

'* A mile and a half or thereabouts."

Barnabas turned his horse and walked
back to Slink, looking at the hedge.

Can you get through the hedge anywhere
?" he asked.

There's a gap lower down, your
honour."

Get through and put yourself under

cover. There are not many folks come

along here this time of night, hey ?"
VOL. II. 39

Not one a week."

Stay by your horse in the lee of the
hedcre until you hear me call. If I don't
come for three hours, wait. You can
think of all the good things that are likely
to happen. I am going on to Maidstone,
and when you hear me call you, your
Mr. Talbot won't owe you any grudge."

«« I — I — don't seem to have much
courage master — I — I hope it will be all
right."

Jf you obey it will be all right ; if you
don't you'll hang, or I'm a Dutchman."

Barnabas retraced his steps slowly
until he came to the two posts ; then he
dismounted and tested the strength of the
posts. They were firm enough for his purpose.
From under the rolled cloth on the
bow of his saddle he took a closely bound
hank of cord ; unwound, it was a six yards'
length of three stranded line not thicker
than an ordinary pencil, but tough as

wire. One end he tied to the post by
the hedge, the other to the post on the
bank, forming a barrier about two feet
from the ground and invisible in the
gloom. Having tested its strength, and
satisfied himself that it was reliable,
Barnabas remounted, and trotted off
towards Maidstone.

39—2

THE BUSINESS IS DONE.

5 HALL I go by the road or
the tow-path ?" Tom asked
himself as he passed the
gate and walked his horse over Maidstone
Bridge. The road was hard and
uninteresting ; the tow-path was turfed ;
for a full mile; the river was seductive.
There is ever a tender sentiment inflowing
water, and Tom's heart being
open at this moment to the influence of
sentiment, he took the tow-path. A man
is never more ready to take an amiable

and hopeful view of society and himself
than when he has been drinking good
claret. Tom had drunk a bottle of excellent
claret, and as he trotted beside the
grey river he felt happier than he had
been for many days.

He was not a spiritual being, with a
soul independent in its action to the
movement of a liver, but simply a man
of firm flesh and untainted blood, with
moral attributes more or less subject to
the guidance of circumstances.

Having chosen the path chiefly for the
opportunity it gave him for indulging in
reverie, he closed his eyes to everything
but the mental figure of Lady
Betty — even to the soft surroundings of
grey river and star-lit landscape, which
gave tone to his reflections.

Not a sound disturbed his sweet and
dreamy thoughts, until leaving the turf his
horse's hoofs clattered on a harder path.

The lively ring seemed to awaken more
vigorous ideas. Putting his horse to a trot,
he said, as if to conclude the subject of his
meditation : " Ah, well ! if I can but manage
to keep away for a few months until my
Lady Betty's mind is resolved, all may be
well— all must be well. If she has found
no one more lovable than me, then 'twill
be joy for both of us, and if 'tis my fate to
learn that there is another man capable of
making her happier than she might have
been with me, why then," with a sigh, "so
much the better for her, sweet girl."

What was the sound that mingled with
the rattle of his horse's hoofs — an echo ?
He reined in and turned upon the saddle,
for the sound, abating, came from
behind. He could see nothing, for a
bend in the river interposed a veil of
mist, but clearly a horseman was following.
Had he forgotten and left behind
anything, and was it Barton in the

rear ? No ; Barton lead complained of
his horse being dead lame as an excuse
for not accompanying him on the road.
Alas it an honest man or a rascal ? The
probabilities were so equally balanced
as to give no choice. He put his horse
to the gallop for a couple of minutes, and
then reined in quickly. The horseman
behind was galloping, and Tom had no
longer any doubt as to his character.
What was to be done ? To turn his horse
and wait for his adversary in a narrow
path shaded by trees would be unwise.

*' We will have a race for it until we
reach the open," said Tom, '' and then
he opened his holsters.

It was pitch dark beneath the trees,
and at a break in the path Tom was
within an ace of being pitched into the
river. '' I won't break my mare's knees
for a confounded thief," said he, checking
her pace to a trot.

He could hear that his pursuer had not
relaxed his speed, and was gaining
ground quickly. Nevertheless he kept
the mare at a brisk trot, feeling certain
that he must be near an opening which
he remembered.

"Stop, curse you!" cried Barnabas,
now within a dozen yards of Tom.

The cry had the effect he desired ;
Tom's mare, more frightened than he,
broke away with a bound, and the next
minute her legs were struck under herby
the extended cord, and she fell upon
the line, shooting Tom out of the saddle
and on to the bank, and the mare and he
lay as still as the dead.

Rapidly dismounting, for the mare lay
across the path, Barnabas looked for the
thrown man, and caught sight of the
dark body lying half over the bank, and
clearly defined against the grey mist of
the water. Standing by the fallen horse.

he cocked his pistol, levelled it at Tom's
lifeless body, and fired. At the same
instant — perhaps startled by the detonation
— the mare struggled to gain her
feet, and struck her iron heels against the
right shin of Barnabas. He fell with a
scream, while she, plunging wildly, went
over the bank, and, with a splash, into
the water.

Slink !" roared Barnabas.

What's the matter, master ; what's
happened ?" cried Slink, running up.

My leg's broke, that's what's the
matter. What's that sound ?"

"Voices, master; somebody's coming.
Good Lord ! what have you done ?"

Voices ! Gret my other pistol. Quick, or
it will be the worse for you. Do you hear ?"

"Yes, master; yes. But dear heart!
don't you think you've done enough
mischief with t'other ? You'll break your
other leg, maybe."

Plague take you, my pistol ! What's
that?"

I've dropped it, master, and I can't
find it, and— oh, my goodness! there's the
voices again."

A volley of oaths, and then Barnabas
cried, " Bring my horse closer — lift me
up. Oh !" More oaths as Slink raised
him upon his left leg, and he laid his
arms over the saddle. " Now catch hold
of my left leg and lift."

Slink obeyed, enabling his master to lie
across the saddle, and following his instructions,
led the horse along the path
to the gap, a couple of hundred yards
below, and through it into the cornfield
where Slink's horse was patiently
browsing under the cover of the hedge.

"Lift me off, and for your own sake
handle me carefully. Quick, or I shall
swoon."

When he was laid upon the ground,

and had taken a gulp of spirits from a
bottle, he said, between his groans and
oaths,

'' I don't hear any voices now."

*' I do," said Slink, trembling. As a
matter of fact the voices, if they had
existed outside of Slink's apprehensions,
where silent now.

So much the better," said Barnabas.
'' It will be necessary for you to look
sharp if you wish to escape hanging."

'what's to do now, your honour?"
asked Slink, trembling in every limb.

Talbot's been thrown from his horse,
and lies there by the water's edge with
his neck broke. If he's found there
you'll be hanged for it. Go back and
shove his body into the river."

'' I couldn't your honour, I couldn't,"
Slink whispered.

What, afraid of a corpse ! Go and
do it, or by George I'll call out for

assistance and swear you murdered
him?"

For the love of heaven spare me,
master, dear !"

'' Go and do it ; 'tis to save jour own
neck. Go, or I will call murder. Are
you going? Mur "

Don't call, master, I'll do it. He's
dead, you say ?"

Barnabas raised himself to answer ; a
scream escaped his lips, which terrified
Slink into immediate obedience, and ashe
departed his master fell back in a
swoon with the agony of his fractured
limb.

By slight degrees he slowly returned
to consciousness. First he saw the
boughs over his head, and through them
the stars in the still heavens ; then he
heard the horses cropping the vegetation ;
then he felt pains in his leg ; finally he
recollected what had taken place. He



felt cold about the throat, and putting
his hand up felt that he was wet. How
had that come about ? He had not fallen
in the water. Where was Slink ? Had
he left him there to fare for himself, and
escaped to save his own neck ? No, the
horses were there. He called, and a slight
rattling noise, which he had noticed without
being able to account for it, ceased as
Slink answered :

Here I be, master," and he crawled
into sight showing a face that was visible
in the gloom by its ghastly pallor.
'' YoiCre not dead, are you master?" he
asked, anxiously.

No," answered Barnabas, in a mild
tone— grateful, not to Slink for his
fidelity, but to the luck that had not
entirely forsaken him. " What's this
wet on my neck —it isn't blood, is
it?"

No ; only water. Seeing you was

dead I went and fetched a hateful of
water to bring you to life. Thank mercy
you're alive, master ! Oh, what a night
this has been !"

Put your finger in your mouth if you
can't keep your teeth still. Do you think
I want the castanets to cheer me up ?
Well, have you done it ?"

Done what, master ?"

Pitched Talbot's body in the river."

Slink gulped as though his dry throat
choked utterance, then :

Yes, I have," he said, and added fervently,
" may God forgive me !"

Well, go on ; tell me how you did
it."

''I can't— I can't. Oh, when I rolled
him down the bank, and he lay there in
the water, with his face all white except
for the dark stain, all white and turned
towards me from among the rushes "

Great powers ! You didn't leave him

like that to bear witness against me ?
You shoved him in altogether?"

Don't ask me ; for mercy's sake
don't ask me !" said Slink, in a terror
that made his speech hardly intelligible.

One word, fool. Did you shove his
head in or not ?"

Yes, I did," and then, sinking on his
knees. Slink said again, '' God forgive
me!"

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

London : Ignited by A. Schulze, 13, Poland Street. (S. & H.)

3 0112 040261890

^r\ BkB^ET"^

fMMWBMIMlMMNtatHMiqgMI^MMl

mmmmmfm

liilimmimm k\tmitmM'\m.^ \ i ii

OF THE

U N Veracity

or ILLINOIS

V. -3

A NOVEL.

BY

FRANK BARRETT.

AUTHOR OF " FOLLY MORRISON," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

NEW BURLINGTON STREET,

1881.

Right of Translation Reserved.

THE THIRD VOLUME,

Chapter PAGE

I.— Ill Tidings 1

IL— Dr. Blandly in Stanhope Street . . 21
III. — Lady Betty reaches a Turning Point . 30

IV.— A Friend in Need 54

v.— Gerard Talbot . . . . . 68

YI.— The Taming of Mrs. Baxter . 93

VII.— Lady Betty's Visit 109

VIII.— Brother and Sister . . . .129

IX.— In Tom's Place 143

X. — Barnabas and his Court . . . .159
XL— The Meeting of Old Friends. . . .175

Nil— Flight and Pursuit 194

Xni.— Quick and Dead . . . . .209

XIV.— Pandora's Box . . . . . .222

XV.— Gerard Turns his Face to the Wall . 233

XVI.— The Omen 245

Evil— A Sturdy Rogue 259

Xvii— Farewell 269

XIX.— In the Library 279

XX. — " Greater Love hath no Man than this,
that a Man lay down his Life for his
Friends" 290

CHAPTER I.

ILL TIDINGS.

RS. WALKER stood in her
drawing-room arranging the
ribbons of her elegant bonnet
before a glass. Lady Betty sat near a
window working at a strip of embroidery.


Once more, Lady Betty, will you
accompany me?" asked Mrs. Walker.

Once more, Felicia, and at the risk
of being thought ungrateful, no."

VOL. III.



'Twill be the best and genteelest
entertainment of the season."

I hope you will enjoy it. You shall
tell me all about it tomorrow; that will
increase your pleasure."

You can change your dress in half an
hour, and I shall wait willingly."

"Why do you press me? 'Tis a
waste of sweetness, like singing to the
drowsy."

It has been said that my singing
would cure the drowsy of their weakness.
If I thought my powers of persuasion
were equally potent I would not tire until
I had cured you."

Why should you take such pains ?"

Because your symptoms are grave,
and gravity of any sort is repugnant tome."


'' Is there no season when it becomes
one to be grave ?"

Yes ; but happily the season does not

set in before forty." Mrs. "Walker seated
herself.

*' You will be late, Felicia."

No ; the invitation was for four, and
'tis only on the stroke of six. I think I
shall set the fashion of stating the hour
at which an entertainment is to close
instead of that at which it should commence.
'Twould be more reasonable."

Then for your own sake do nothing of
the sort ; for if you are suspected of
being reasonable you will certainly be
convicted of being unfashionable."

'' Ah me ! Your case is very bad indeed,' '
sighed Mrs. Walker. " How long do
you think it will be. Lady Betty, before
you smile again?"

'' I cannot say ; for the sake of appearances
I hope I shall not smile again —
before I find something to smile at."

My dear, T know the secret of your
gravity and sarcasm, and shall take upon

40—2

myself to give you a lecture. You are
thinking about that ill-mannered young
gentleman, Mr. Tom Talbot."

*' I do not know any ill-mannered gentleman
of that name."

'' Well, we will not call him a gentleman,
if the definition is incorrect — this highly-respectable
barbarian who was called to
order by our friend Gerard Crewe for
insulting you."

Who told you that ?" asked Lady
Betty, quickly.

'' No one. I drew my conclusion,
which seems to be correct, from the fact
that neither you nor Mr. Crewe would
give me any information of what occurred
in the library when the challenge was
given. Our barbarian does not conceal
his faults, and we can imagine how he
would misbehave himself if his untamed
passions were provoked. The offence
was so unpardonable that Mr. Crewe

found it necessary to punish him. At that
moment you had every reason to be
satisfied. Your affront was about to be
avenged ; a well-bred gentleman undertook
to risk his life as your champion,
and make you the talk of society, and the
envy of your friends. But with strange
perversity you closed your eyes to the
advantages of your position, and lost
your senses as completely as Ophelia. To
be sure you didn't drown yourself ; but
that was no fault of yours, you got as
wet as you could. When the result of
the meeting was known, your joy was
almost as terrible as your fears had
been. Altogether, for about twenty-four
hours you suffered as much romantic
emotion as the heroine of a tragedy — and
for whom ? For the gentleman who
risked his life for your honour — who
spared his rival for your sake — who
waits upon you day by day with

untiring devotion — whose generous love,
encouraged by a single smile, unrewarded
by one word of acknowledgement,
seeks constantly to gratify your
unexpressed desires — who bears with you
patiently in your womanly follies and
caprice, and takes your passive tolerance
as the guerdon of his affection — a gentleman,
handsome, well-bred, and gracious
was it in his peril you suffered — in his
safety you rejoiced? No. 'Twas for a
man the very opposite of him — a man
rough and rude as the savage from the
woods, intolerant and unappreciative, a
tyrant who would be a slave, a slave who
would be a tyrant; a barbarian, who
having offended does not seek forgiveness,
who having frightened you to desperation,
values your sympathy so little that he
leaves you in despair and allows his rival

to relieve your fears "

You exaggerate to extravagance."

I deny it. Who was it came to
tranquilise jour mind after the meeting —
the man you loved or the man that loved
you ?"

Gerard does not love me in the sense
that you imply. He is my friend simply."

'' And mine also ; but if he paid me
the same attention my husband would not
be jealous without a cause. What extravagance
can you prove against me ? Is
it not the bare truth that from the day he
affronted you, Mr. Talbot has not once
called upon you?"

I forbade — that is — it was my wish
that he should cease to visit me."

I do not take obedience as a proof of
love, nor you either. Tell me candidly
why you have refused invitations since the
meeting; why you have stayed within
doors from morning until night ; why you
start when you hear a visitor arrive ; and,
lastly, tell me why you are sitting by that

open window ? You are silent — your conscience
tells you that you expect him to
disobey."

My conscience tells me nothing of the
sort. You are quite wrong, Felicia."

Then why do you refuse to accompany
me this afternoon ? Be candid,
Lady Betty — you owe me an explanation.
You will find me more indulgent as a
confidant than as a successful inquisitor,
and I assure you I never suffer my
curiosity to rest unsatisfied."

'Tis not fear of ridicule that makes
me reticent," said Lady Betty, after a
few moments of thoughtful silence.
But on some subjects we differ so
completely that it is useless to discuss
them— and painful also when one feels
deeply. However, I will not suffer my
reserve to reduce you to the unamiable
task of examining into the secrets of your
friend."

Thank you, my dear," Mrs. Walker
replied, with a graceful bow.

I do love Mr. Talbot. I love bim
with all my heart. You would like to
know why. It is a question I have
hardly asked myself. I admire him for
those very barbaric qualities that you
deprecate, perhaps for qualities that you
have not recognised, and would not admire
if you did."

'' I should like to know them all the
same."

Strength of heart, fidelity, trust "

Et cetera. He has no fault, I
suppose ?"

None that time will not remove."

Well, thank the stars you may outlive
him by a dozen years. Go on,
dear."

There is no act of his that I cannot
justify "

Even to his late neglect ?"

'Tis not neglect, but the faithful execution
of a plan which we conceived necessary
to my happiness. I acknowledge that
after the duel I hoped he would break
through his resolution and come to me ;
now I rejoice that he was stronger than
me."

I see. It is the fear that he may yet
succumb which makes you so anxious
when a knock at the door announces a
visitor ; and you refuse to leave the
house in order that you may not lose
the opportunity of reprimanding him for
his error if he should come, hey ?"

No. I do not expect him, nor

hope " She stopped abruptly as the

sound of a voice upon the stairs reached
her ears.

Mrs. Walker laughed lightly and kept
her eyes fixed on Lady Betty's anxious
face. The door opened, and the servant
announced :

'' Mr. Gerard Crewe."

A ray of satisfaction lit np Lady
Betty's face, much to the perplexity of
Mrs. Walker.

Gerard entered, went through the form
of salutation mechanically, and took a seat
in silence. Lady Betty felt that she was
being watched, and took up the embroidery
in her trembling fingers. Unusually
constrained and ill at ease, Gerard fixed
his eyes on her for a moment, dropped
them, raised them again, without opening
his lips. Highly amused with a fancied
discovery, Mrs. Walker after contemplating
the two friends for some moments, rose,
saying with a malicious smile :

Mr. Crewe, you will forgive me, I am
sure, if I leave you to the entertainment
of Lady Betty." Then crossing to Lady
Betty, she said a few words of farewell,
and bending down to kiss her, added in a
whisper :

I understand now wliy you do not
wish Mr. Talbot to return. You are a
more consummate coquette than I thought.
May the best man win, dear."

Gerard closed the door after Mrs.
Walker, and took a seat near Lady Betty,
saying :

My mission has taken me longer than
I expected, and I have only painful news to
give you."

Painful news ?" murmured Lady
Betty, as if uncertain of what she heard.

You must summon your fortitude to
hear that which my tongue must falter to
tell."

'' Tom is ill !" She rose quickly and
threw aside her work, as though prepared
to go at once to the relief of the man she
loved."

It is not illness. Sit down, Lady
Betty, unfortunately you can do nothing
to lessen the calamity."

That word is ill-chosen, if he is not
ill. Tell me what has happened without
hesitation. I am prepared for painful
news. You have not found Tom, or he has
left England — but that is not a calamity
and I can hear worse than that bravely."

A misfortune that leaves us hope is
to be borne "

Lady Betty interrupted him ; laying her
hand upon his arm, and speaking scarcely
above her breath, she asked :

'' Is Tom dead ?"

We can only hope that is he not."

Ah, you are trying to break the fall
of this blow. You are concealing the
truth from me. I know all ; I read it in
your trembling lips and pitying eye — Tom
is dead. My poor fond Tom is lost to me
for ever. Be merciful and tell me the
truth with cruel words that my heart may
break with the shock."

Be calm — there is hope."

Ob, God bless sou for that word, you
good friend— dear Gerard ! What a
foolish girl am I to think the worst at a
mere word ; scold me, Gerard, for my
folly."

My poor child— there is hope, but it
is so slight "

'' That it were better there was none !
True. Why should we encourage a
fearful suspense. Let us realise the truth
at once and not believe the fact. Tom is
dead, is he not?"

'' It may be best to think so, indeed."

Lady Betty fixed her eyes upon Gerard
in a bewilderment of agony, and was
silent for a moment, then taking his hand
between hers she said in low reproach :

Oh Gerard — we loved each other, we
two — Tom with his whole heart, and I
with mine, and love is more than life. For
two to die is nothing, but for me to live
and lose, is terrible. Think, 1 lost my

mother but two months since, would you
add to that loss a greater still ? Tell me,
he is not dead — cheat my senses for a
little while with seeming truths. I am
simple and easily beguiled. You shake
your head, and yet you profess to love me.
Can you see me suffer, and offer no word
of consolation — I do not weep, but I
suffer here — here at my heart, beating-slow
and leaden as though the life had
gone out with the love he planted there.
Pity me ! give me a word of comfort, for
I cannot cry. You have tears in your
eyes, and suffer too but not as I do. Say
a word to me, no matter what — but do
not look at me in silent sorrow, so."

I will tell you all that has happened,
and you shall use your woman's wit to
catch the rays of hope."

Yes, yes — I will listen calmly and
patiently— tell me all, leave not a word
unsaid. Hide nothing, be the facts ever

SO ghastly. Women are strong in scenes
of terror, and do not shudder to look upon
a gaping wound that they may find the
means to heal."

'' I will tell you faithfully all that has
occurred since I left you on Tuesday. I
knew that if anyone could tell me whereto
find our friend Tom it would be Dr.
Blandly, and I went first to Edmonton
where he lives. There I learnt that the
Doctor had left home hastily and gone to
Talbot Hall in Kent, on business of urgent
importance. I followed him and arrived
at Talbot Hall the same night. Doctor
Blandly was in deep distress, for Tom
who has been staying at the Hall since
we last saw him, was missing, and up to
that moment no trace of him found. On
Wednesday afternoon, he left the Hall to
dine with a friend at Maidstone. Late at
night, as the steward's daughter was
watching at her window, Tom's mare ran

up riderless to the lodge gate. Her knees
were cut, and her saddle wet. The
steward started off at once to make inquiries
at Maidstone, and found that Tom had
left his friend about ten o'clock. As soon
as it was light a search was begun. The
steward took the first London coach and
sought Doctor Blandly. When he arrived,
a few hours before me, nothing had been
discovered. While he was telling me this,
the steward returned to the Hall bringing
with him Tom's hat, which had been
found in a sluice some distance below
Maidstone. It was conjectured then that
he had followed the upper bank of the
river, and in attempting to ford it had
been carried away by the force of the
current."

But he could swim. He was master
of all manly exercises. Oh ! I know he
is safe ! Why do you despair ? — for you
do : your face tells me so."

VOL. III. 41

Yesterday morning as soon as it was
light, the search was recommenced. The
keeper of the bridge-gate believed that a
gentleman on horse had crossed the
bridge at ten, and while some explored
the path below the bridge, where poor
Tom's hat had been found, others
examined the tow-path which leads on the
lower side of the river towards a bye-road
communicating with the neighbourhood
of Talbot Hall. It was there that we
found new traces. There was a broken
cord upon the posts of an old gateway.
On the river bank beside it were the
marks of a horse's hoofs, and a little
further on the reeds were crushed and
broken, foot-prints were upon the bank,and
a trail by the rushes as though a heavy
body had been drawn over the soft mud."

That showed that he had drawn himself
from the water."

*' I fear not— the herbage and rushes

were depressed and matted in the yielding
clay towards the water, and not from it."
Then what do you conclude ?"
A week or ten days since Tom was
shot at in a wood; and it is only too
greatly to be feared that the same murderous
hand stretched the cord across the
path which threat Tom's mare, and afterwards
dragged his lifeless body into the
river."

Oh, Heavens ! What else have you
to tell?"

'' Nothing. We found no more."
You only confirm my despair. You
leave me no space for hope."

One fact alone forbids despair ; we
have not found Tom's body. The river
has been dragged between the place
where he was thrown, and the sluice
where his hat was discovered, without
result. It is possible that he was only
stunned by the fall from his mare,

41-2

and restored to consciousness by the
immersion in the river he saved himself
by swimming to the bank."

'' Why that is more than possible — it
must be so'

But he has not returned to the Hall.
And we have inquired at the inns beside
the river for miles,andno one has seen him."

'^ Then all is lost."

The current is strong, for the river
has been swollen by the heavy rains of
last week, and our one hope is, that
when consciousness returned to him he
was far down the river. Exhausted, perhaps
hurt, he may be waiting in some
remote cottage until he has sufficient
strength to return to us."

I pray God it may be so," said Lady
Betty, clasping her hands, and speaking
with all the fervour of her soul.

Gerard bent his head, and added his
silent prayer to hers.

DOCTOR BLANDLY IN STANHOPE STREET.

FORTNIGHT later Doctor
Blandly called at the house in
Stanhope Street, presented his
card, and asked to see Miss Elizabeth St.
Cyr. He was shown into the reception-room.
The Doctor advanced to the
middle of the room, and standing there
looked round him with the curiosity of a
student who has learnt to gauge the
character of people by the things they
use in their every day life.

Very elegant, very elegant indeed,"

said he, running his eye over the furniture
and appointments, '' and about as
hideous as the mind of man can conceive."


He took off his glasses to rub them
before examining the pictures more
closely, and was still polishing them with
his yellow silk handkerchief when the
door opened, and Mrs. Walker entered
the room.

Doctor Blandly, I presume," she said,
with an amiable smile.

The Doctor adjusted his glasses carefully
upon his nose, looked at Mrs.
Walker attentively, and then answered :

'eyes, that is my name; but unless T
am greatly mistaken in your age, you are
not the young woman I have come to
see."

Unaccustomed to plain speaking, Mrs.
Walker for a moment could not decide
whether to resent or pass over Doctor

Blandly 's brusquerie ; however, her curiosity
to know the object of his visit
induced her to regard him merely as an
amusing original.

'' I am Mrs. Walker, the bosom friend
of Lady Betty, who is now, at my persuasion,
taking the air, but I expect her
to return shortly." .

In that case I will wait for Miss St.
Cyr, if you will allow me."

Mrs. Walker made a courteous reply,
and begged her visitor to take a chair.
The Doctor scanned the collection of
chairs, and selecting one from the further
end of the room which seemed more trustworthy
to sit upon than the rest, he
placed it in front of Mrs. Walker and
seated himself, saying :

If the frames of your chairs were as
stout as the frames of your pictures,
madam, there would be less danger in
using them for their legitimate purpose ;

if this room were mine, I would make a
bench of the pictures, and hang up the
chairs to look at."

You object to elegance. Doctor
Blandly."

No, madam ; for elegance, as I take
it, is that perfect harmony of one part
with another which we find in Nature's
handiwork; but where is the harmony
between my figure and the chair I sit
upon with trembling ? 'Tis as if one set
the legs of a gazelle under the body of an
elephant."

'' You are a humorist, Doctor Blandly."

The Doctor made a stiff bow, took
a pinch of snuff, and showed no inclination
to re-open the conversation. Mrs.
Walker felt that she must either leave
him or come to direct questions.

May I ask if you have made any discovery
relative to poor Mr. Talbot ?" she
asked.

None. We have found not a sign
nor trace since the second day of our
search."

Doctor Blandly heaved a sigh, looked
on the ground with raised eyebrows, and
tapped the table with his fingers, while
Mrs. Walker asked herself what could
be the object of his visit to Lady
Betty.

I am naturally very deeply interested
in the unfortunate gentleman, for Lady
Betty was deeply attached to him, and is
inconsolable for his loss."

'' Inconsolable, madam ? and he has
been lost a fortnight !" exclaimed Doctor
Blandly, with awakened interest.

I assure you 'tis true. I have done
all I could to make her forget him, butin
vain. She refuses to go to the opera,
to Ranelagh, to tea-parties, to routs, and
secludes herself in her own room when I
have visitors."

T can scarcely understand a friend of
yours being dull to such attractions."

Yet 'tis the fact," said Mrs. Walker,
acknowledging the compliment with a
bow. " I admit that my patience is almost
exhausted."

'' Such obstinacy would try the patience
of a saint."

'' And 'tis entirely for her own sake
that I use my persuasions. She is wasting
her time, perhaps jeopardiziug her future
happiness, by giving way to these morbid
regrets, which avail nothing. Tears cannot
revive the dead."

The truest words you ever spoke,
madam."

I am glad to find that you agree with
me. Doctor Blandly."

I hope you will never find me wanting
in sense, Mrs. Walker."

Mrs. Walker flirted her fan, and greatly
encouraged by the Doctor's ambiguity.

whictL she interpreted as a compliment to
herself, proceeded :

Lady Betty is in a position to make
an admirable match. She is young,
pretty, and has, it seems, a very useful
little fortune. She might reasonably hope
to marry a young man of title : that was,
I believe, her mother's dying wish, and
the dying wish of a mother should be
observed as a sacred duty, in my opinion ;
what do you think. Doctor ?"

Doctor Blandly considered the sanctity
of a mother's dying wish unquestionable.

'Now Mr. Talbot, although possessed
of a good estate, had no title, and his
behaviour in company was most awkward.
He could not conform himself with the
habits of society, and when he tried todo
so he made himself ridiculous. He
had a habit of contradicting people, and
setting them right if they happened to
make errors, which was extremely provoking,

and lie absolutely went to sleep
in his seat during a very elegant performance
of an oratorio by amateurs of
distinguished rank. He made no secret
of this dislike to the modern usages of
London society, and I have nob the
slightest doubt that had he married Lady
Betty he would have taken her away for
nine months out of the twelve, to spend
one half her time in a country Hall where
it was impossible to keep awake, and the
other half in foreign cities, where it
was impossible to go to sleep. And so,
to be quite candid, I must admit that —
for her sake — I am not sorry to hear that
you have not found Mr. Talbot. This
morbid condition is not natural to her,
and if we are fortunate enough to hear
no more of vir. Talbot, she will soon
recover her health and spirits, and we
may hope to find her a suitable husband
amongst the many admirers she is sure to

find at the Wells, where I propose to take
her next month. You don't think it probable
that Mr. Talbot is alive. Doctor
Blandly ?"

'' I cannot hope !"

Nor I, neither. Nothing is further
from my hopes, I assure you, and so let
us trust that we have heard the last of
him, and that he is in a happier world."

You may rely upon your devout wish
being gratified. If, as you hope, Mr.
Talbot is in a better world than this, rest
assured, madam, that you have seen the
last of him."

LADY Betty REACHES A Turning-point.

HEN Lady Betty returned from
her drive, she was met Id the
hall by Mrs. Walker.
'' My dear Lady Betty, a gentleman is
waiting to see you."

Lady Betty's heart leaped and her lip
trembled. She had not yet relinquished
the hope that Tom would return to her.
A gentleman !" she echoed.
An old gentleman. A perfect original.
A most amusing old quiz, I protest.
Doctor Blandly."

Has he brought me news ?"

'* Not a word. I have been trying for
the last half-hour to discover the object
of his visit, but either he is very stupid
or very ill-mannered, for I could get
nothing out of him. I am inclined to
think from his concluding observations
that he considers himself clever. He is
in the reception-room ; go, my dear, and
see what you can make of him."

Lady Betty opened the door at once,
and found herself for the first time face
to face with Doctor Blandly. Her
mother's description of him as he appeared
in his gardening dress had led her
to imagine him an untidy, coarse old
man ; it astonished her to find him ashe
was — a particularly neat, fair-complexion,
portly gentleman, with a
shapely leg, a handsome satin waistcoat,
a snowy frill, and a well-curled wig.

She made him a low courtesy, which he

acknowledged, and then drawing near the
window, he placed a chair for her in the
light, where he could see her more perfectly.
She took the seat, and he, bringing
his chair directly in front of her,
seated himself, and after looking at her
pale, anxious face for a moment in silence,
said:

'' Your face tells me who you are,
young lady, not from its resemblance to
any face that I have seen, but that it
answers to my expectations, and, let me
add, my hopes. You are the Lady Betty
that poor Tom gave his heart to."

Lady Betty's chin twitched ; she tried
to answer, failed, and dropped her head
upon her bosom as the tears started to
her eyes.

'' Do not speak ; I will do all the
talking for awhile. I am Doctor Blandly.
Give me your hand, so. Let us who were
strangers to each other be friends. Tom

has left a space in our hearts that we
must seek to fill with new affections. He
was dear to me, and I am an old man, but
to you, with younger thoughts and sympathies
"

'' He was my life. I did not know
how dear he was to me. I am like a
child learning to value blessings by their
loss."

'Tis an unfinished lesson to the

oldest," said Doctor Blandly, gently.

The tone of commiseration touched her to

the heart. His sympathy was the first

she had received. Gerard had sought only

to console her ; Mrs. Walker endeavoured

to reason her out of suffering ; other

friends she had none. She cried freely

now, and Doctor Blandly did not attempt

to restrain her tears. Purposely the old

pathologist lanced her wound, knowing

the relief it would produce, and he

encouraged the outflow of her grief by
VOL. III. 42

gentle words of pity. After awhile her
weeping ended in a long, shuddering sigh,
and she wiped her eyes with a brave
resolve to cry no more. But her soul was
full of gratitude to the pitying Doctor;
she pressed his hands between her moist,
hot palms, and looking in his face wondered
how any one could mistake him fora
misanthrope and a woman-hater.

No man who disliked women could
be so womanly tender," she thought;
*' no wonder Tom loved him." Then her
thoughts returned to her lost lover.
"You have brought me no hopeful
news?" she asked, wistfully.

No, my child ; the news I have to
give you is not good."

'' Has his body been found ?"

Even that poor consolation is denied

us. It is concluded that he was carried

by the current far down the river, and

that the shore-folk robbed him of his

clothes, and sunk his corpse to avoid
inquiry. We shall never know where he
lies."

Lady Betty, sighing, shook her head
and lapsed into a reverie, which Doctor
Blandly did not interrupt. He wished
her to exhaust her present grief before
opening the subject which had brought
him to her.

No mound of green turf to mark his
resting-place, no spot where one might
cherish flowers to his memory," murmured
she.

He has your tears. A marble is not
needed to keep his memory sacred in your
heart."

'' I do not know, Doctor Blandly, I am
not sure of myself. I wished to die when
I heard that he was dead, but I live.
This morning, though I did not eat, I felt
quite hungry. Perhaps I shall cease to
grieve one day."

42-2

I hope SO ; you are too young and
too healthy to brood long upon your
sorrow."

"But 'tis heartless to forgot the one
we love."

'Tis evil to repine when nature bids
us smile. Be true to yourself., child ;
weep when you grieve, eat when you are
hungry, laugh when you are pleased.
Leave false sentiment to false people — to
creatures who cumber the earth and dono
good in it ; to fools who cramp their
souls, as the Chinese cramp their feet for
fashion's sake; fools like the woman of
this house here, who could put on a pious
enthusiasm and lay aside her Godless indifference
if the mode changed."

The Doctor frowned, took out his snuffbox,
and tapped it angrily. Lady Betty
opened her eyes in astonishment at the
rapid transition of his temper.
^ '' Come, I don't wish to frighten you,"

lie said, in a subdued tone, catching the
startled expression on her face. " You
have a rough old doctor to deal with, who
has seen such grievous miseries in the
world that he has lost pity for sham ailments,
and those who will not be well.
Your body is weak, probably by fasting
when you should have been eating, and
that accounts for the gloomy hopes of
perpetual sorrow that you wish to encourage.
Eat and drink, my dear, and sleep
when you may. Be strong and brave to
the utmost of your power, and, above all,

be true to nature and yourself. The

«/

angels shall acquit you of heartlessness,
and your own conscience will be satisfied."


Then the Doctor took his pinch of
snuff, replaced the box quietly in his
pocket, and dusted himself carefully with
his India handkerchief. Lady Betty
watched the play of his features with

furtive glances, until he fixed his eyes on
her face, and looked at her with troubled
uncertainty.

"My dear," said he — ''I have news
for you, concerning your temporal position,
which will give you trouble ; and I am in
hesitation whether to tell you now or to
wait until your health is more robust."

I can bear to hear anything now.
Doctor Blandly."

Well, then, you shall hear what your
friend Mrs. Walker has been endeavouring
to find out for half an hour and more.
In the first, I presume that you know
nothing of the pecuniary position in
which you were placed at your mother's
death."

She told me that she had placed her
property in your hands for disposal, and
her attorney sent me a sum of money
about a month since, as a quarterly payment
of the interest arising from it.

That is all I know. After mamma's
death I was too troubled for a time to
think of such trifles, and he — Tom assured
me one day that I need not bestow any-thought
upon the matter."

"If he were living it would still be
unnecessary. Your mamma loved you
very much, my child, but she was not a
wise woman, nor a considerate woman.
It was her dream that she should see you
married to a wealthy husband before she
died. To realise that dream she considered
it necessary to occupy a position
in society which the mere per-centage of
her money could not procure."

Doctor Blandly — are you obliged to
tell me this?"

I do not willingly undertake a painful
task ; it is only because I think it necessary
that I disclose the fact which others
besides your mother have tried to keep
secret. You cannot accept, without

inquiry a bare statement of the consequences
attending your mother's inconsiderate
act ?"

Tell me the result, and let me question
afterwards if it is necessary."

When the money you have now is
spent, you will be penniless.

Penniless," echoed Lady Betty,
unable at once to grasp the meaning of
the word.

You have nothing more to receive. Do
you comprehend all which that implies ?"

"I will try to do so-when my purse
is eaipty I shall have nothing to give the
servant who waits on me; when my
dresses are worn out — if I wish to leave
my friend — if I stay — oh !" she clasped
her bands as she realised that henceforth
she must depend upon hospitality for a
roof and charity for clothes.

Shall I explain how this comes about?"
asked the Doctor coldly.

No," she cried with quickened energy.
If my degradation is due to any act
of my mother's let it be hid for ever."

Remember the money was entrusted
to me — a perfect stranger to your
mother."

But not to Tom nor — nor to me. I
am content to accept the result of my
mother's act without questioning her love
or your honour."

Doctor Blandly bowed, but his forehead
lost none of its creases, and he resorted
to his snuff-box for the means of solving
the difficulty before him.

'' I am afraid," said he, '' that you will
not get that inquisitive woman, Mrs.
Walker, to accept the result with your
magnanimity. Miss Betty."

It is no business of hers."

*' That is precisely my reason for
expecting her to meddle with it to a very
considerable extent. If you know how

to cope with all the subtle attacks of an
idle, curious, unprincipled woman, I am
content to leave the matter as it stands."

"If I tell her that I have lost my
fortune, and refuse to explain how, what
can she learn ?"

'' The truth possibly. If not she will
imagine a cause, and publish it as a fact
to sustain her own reputation. Does
she know that I acted for your
mother ?"

'' Yes — she asked me, and I told
her."

Doctor Blandly smiled, and rising from
his chair said'' Well well, we will see
what happens. If in a week a lie circulates
and reaches your ear, I shall be
happy to disprove it."

Wait — I see what might happen. It
did not strike me at first. You might
be accused of misappropriating the
money."

'' Oil, I should take no notice of that,"
replied the Doctor, sturdily. "That's a
lie that could do you no harm. What I
fear is, that the woman may resent your
silence, and lay the blame upon you, or —
one who is dearer to you perhaps, than
yourself."

You mean Tom. But how could she
introduce his name into an affair with,
which he had nothing to do ?"

She might discover that he had something
to do with it?"

A word from you would disprove
that."

You are in error — I could not disprove
it by any number of words."

'' You shall tell me all. How can he be
concerned."

You wish me now to tell you all."

eyes — I — I — I am not consistent
perhaps, but I could not rest with anything
that concerns him untold."

There is little to shock you in what I
have to tell — and take this from me, my
dear Miss Betty — concealment is more
terrible than revelation ; no harm ever
was done by telling and knowing the
truth, but from blinking it there has been
more misery on this earth than you can
suppose. When we admit that your
mother was loving and unwise, we give
her blame and praise, that reduces her no
lower than the level of womankind. To
be deeply loving and deeply wise at the
same time, seems hardly possible to our
humanity. Look at your mother as a
woman whose love exceeded her wisdom,
and you can hardly regret her folly."

A faint smile of gratitude passed over
Lady Betty's face, and she nodded her
head .

Your mother, influenced by her hopes
for your welfare, against my dissuasions
determined on investing all her money in

an annuity terminable at her death. She
would not believe that her tenure of life
was uncertain, though I warned her
of her danger, and allowed my temper
to express itself in no measured
terms.

'' Seeing the ruin that impended over
you, I resolved to purchase the annuity
with a sum of money Tom Talbot had
desired me to invest for him, knowing
that he would be just, and more than that,
generous towards you. He knew nothing
of the contract until your mother's death.
I wished him to refund what remained of
your mother's capital ; but to spare you
the knowledge of your mother's indiscretion
he refused the proposition, and
desired that the annuity should be extended
to you."

Oh ! my good, generous Tom."
Alas, you have reason now to regret
his generosity. Had he followed my

advice you would now have lead sufficient
to secure you a moderate income."

'' Then I thank God I have nothing !"

'' Hum ! You have not learnt much
from the teaching of Mrs. Walker, or it
has been of a negative kind. I doubt if
any amount of generous sentiments would
compensate her for the loss of eighteen-pence."


'' He could have obliged me to sever
myself from the society he disliked had
he chosen to exercise the power he
possessed."

He might. Heaven be praised, Tom's
faults were of a manly kind," said Doctor
Blandly, sententiously. " Well, to come to
the end of the poor fellow's praises, the day
before his duel, he made me witness his
will, which disposed of his property in
two equal portions — one half for you, the
other as I expect for me. Now don't cry
again, my child — it was a foolish will, and

what the deuce he did with it no one
knows. In his modesty he omitted to
put mj name in the document he showed
me, and after it was fairly set out he took
it away to insert the name. Possibly, he
destroyed it when he left the field safe and
sound ; possibly he had it in one of his
pockets when he was thrown into the river,
the result is the same. No will is to be
found, and the whole estate reverts to his
next of kin. That next of kin has made
his appearance, and put in his claim.

'' I am sorry to say his title cannot be
disputed. From him one can expect
neither generosity nor justice. He has a
sharp lawyer at his back, and every penny
to which the law entitles him will be
called in. And now, my child, you know
all my bad news."

Lady Betty smiled with a sigh of relief
to find the bad news so good. There was
nothing in it she regretted now. Even her

mother's fault seemed kind in the light
thrown upon it by Doctor Blandly.

You will wonder, Miss Betty," said
Doctor Blandly, after a pause, in which
he watched the young pale face attentively,
" why I don't take my hat and bid
you good morning. When a raven has
croaked, the next thing expected of him is
that he shall fly away. As I stay, you
may take it that I have a better disposition
than a raven. Will you tell me if
you have any friends other than the
woman of this house."

Mr. Gerard Crewe is the only intimate
friend."

'' A young woman can scarcely open her
mind to a young man, or ask services of
him, and a young man whose gallantry
would lead him to do your bidding
whether it be good or bad, and whose
breeding would silence his tongue when it
was necessary to give you unpleasant

advice, is not the friend you need. Try
me, young lady, and don't be afraid of
trying me a good deal." He held out his
hand, and Lady Betty willingly gave him
hers— feeling as he held it the significance
of his grasp. " Now tell me the state of
your affairs, and we will try and come to an
arrangement for the future. How much
money have you ?"

All that was sent to me by the gentleman
in Lincoln's Inn."

'' And how much do you owe?"

I do not know— since mamma's death
I have had dresses and bonnets, but Mrs.
Walker said the trades oaks could wait for
their money."

I warrant she did. Well, my dear,
and did your mother leave any bills
unpaid ?"

Yes, a great many."

Did she now." The Doctor appeared
to be greatly surprised. '' But I daresay

VOL. III. 43

she gave a bill as well as received one.
Do you think it possible that she gave a
bill of sale upon her furniture and
effects?"

I received a letter yesterday concerning
something of the kind, but I
could not understand it. We didn't learn
these matters in our arithmetic at
school."

No, my dear — knowledge of this kind
does not come under the head of elegant
accomplishments. But it should. Have
you the letter ?"

*' It is in this pocket, I think. Yes —
here."

Doctor Blandly read it through every
word carefully, and folding it, said :

This polite note informs you
that Mr. M. Moss will be under the
painful obligation of taking possession
of all your house in Park Lane
contains, unless the sum of three

hundred pounds is paid by the 25th
instant."

Three hundred pounds ! I have not
so much."

*' No, Miss Betty— no," the Doctor
said, putting the letter in his pocket. " I
will call upon Mr. M. Moss this afternoon,
and see what can be done with him."

Perhaps he will wait like the other
tradesmen."

I take it that Mr. M. Moss is a Jew ;
if he is, one cannot rank him with the
other tradesmen, for Jews are scrupulously
exact in collecting their debts and
taking advantage of their opportunities."

And my other debts !" Lady Betty
was aghast as her eyes opened to the
realities of her position.

Collect all the bills you have, my dear,
and let me have them. Not now, but
when you are packing up your things to
leave this house. By the way, will you

43—2

LIbKAK MPRARY

UNIVERSE. . u. ;l .i>ju;o ISITY OF ILLINOIS

do me the honour to be my visitor when

you are free r"

Already the question, *' Where am I to

go ?" had risen in Lady Betty's mind.

This invitation came at the very moment

it was needed.

I shall be very glad to " She

checked herself abruptly, struck by the

sudden perception of her dependant

position.

*' Then that is settled," said the Doctor,

briskly. " My house is too large for me.

I will have two or three rooms prepared

for you, and the sooner you come and take
possession of them the better I shall

like it."

Doctor Blandly, I am very grateful
for your kindness. I shall accept your
advice and seek it without hesitation, and
I shall be happy to visit you ; but I beg
you will not make any preparations, for
my stay will be quite short."

Doctor Blandly was astonished, by the
altered tone in which she spoke — firm and
self-reliant — and he looked at her curiously
for a moment in silence ; then he
rose, and with a stiff bow answered :

Very good, Miss Betty, very good,"
and taking a final pinch of snuff, he added
to himself, " Proud as lucifer, for all her
misfortunes."

Lady Betty seemed absorbed in thought,
and so after a few minutes of unproductive
conversation. Doctor Blandly left her,
pressing her hand warmly when they
parted, and reading the unspoken thoughts
in her clear eyes. He was not displeased
with what he read there.

It took Lady Betty longer to find out
what had prompted her to refuse Doctor
Blandly' s hospitality, and to see that she
had arrived at the turning point in her
life.

A FRIEND IN NEED.

ADY BETTY ran with soft, quick
steps past the drawing-room,
and reached her room without
interception, and sat there for half an
hour after she had changed her riding-dress
for an afternoon gown, with her
hands in her lap and her eyes before her.
Then she rose briskly and began to
rummage her boxes and drawers where
her papers were scattered — she was not a
very orderly young person — selecting from
among them the unpaid bills.

Mistress is about to drink a dish of
tea, and she wishes to know if you will
join her as she is quite alone," said a
servant at her door.

Say I will be downstairs almost immediately,"
replied Lady Betty.

She waited but to close the open
drawers and boxes, and then ran down to
the drawing-room, folding the collected
bills, and putting them away in her
pocket.

'' My dear Lady Betty, this cruel visit
must have quite undone the good effects
of your ride. I sympathise with you
sincerely. Take this tea, my love, and
tell me all about it. You found that
dreadful old Doctor quite insupportable,
I am sure," said Mrs. Walker.

"On the contrary, I found him very
kind and considerate," replied Lady Betty,
taking a seat at the table.

'' I forgot that his interview was with

Lady Betty. It is quite impossible to be
unamiable with you, my dear."

Lady Betty inclined ber head, and
showed no signs of being communicative.

He came chiefly to offer you his
sympathy, I suppose, dear?" said Mrs.
Walker, returning undaunted to her
charge.

No, I think his main purpose was to
speak about an affair of business. He
was my poor mother's agent, as you know.
By-the-bye, Felicia, you have some unpaid
bills of mine, I think. Could you
let me have them ?"

My love, they are in a hundred
different places ; it would take me a month
to find them. You need not be anxious
about them, they will be sent in again
only too certainly."

I would look for you, if you could
tell me where to search."

*' Why are you so eager to have them ?"

I wish to pay them."

Then I shall certainly not let you
have them. Don't look so preposterously
grave, dear. The only pressing account
is the dressmaker's, and we must pay
that, or we shall never get our dresses
home in time. There ought to be a law
to bind dressmakers to punctuality, then
we should not be put to this harassing
necessity of paying bills whenever they
are presented. She will be here tomorrow
with the fashions to measure us
for our traveling-dresses, and I will settle
your bill at the same time with my own.
Don't trouble yourself about the money,
when we return from the Wells will suit
me, or not at all, if you like it better."

How good and generous all the
world is !" thought Lady Betty, and involuntarily
her tongue spoke her thought.

"What have you to be thankful for?
appreciation ? That follows as the

natural result of your mingling with
people of taste. I object to gratitude,
'tis a mean, middle-class sentiment, an
acknowledgement of inferiority which is
unknown to us. We are equal ; we are
generous, and expect generosity; we
accept services as our right. AVhat
style of bonnet shall you have for the
journey ?"

*' I shall make my straw do."

Straw ! when nothing but beaver and
silk is the rage ? Nonsense ! You shall
not dress out of fashion just because you
have a little trouble on your mind. I
shall buy you a bonnet I saw this morning
: 'tis a charming trifle, and with a
mantle to match."

*' Don't you think my tippet will answer
all purposes, the weather is hot?"

'' All the better reason for not dressing
lightly. Never be bourgeois in your
habits. But why should I tell you this.

who have always shown such excellent
taste and headed the fashions ?"

*' It is necessary for me to be economical."


*' Oh, you are dreadfully, alarmingly
shocking ! Economical ! what a horrid
word !"

Nevertheless, my circumstances oblige
me to be saving."

'' Another abominable expression, my
dear. If at this moment you are pressed
for money you must permit me to supply
your wants. I have had property left
to me, and I know what a long time it
takes in passing through the lawyers'
hands. I assure you that for six months
after my father's demise I suffered unspeakable
agonies, and I wished him
back a hundred times, for I was at the
mercy of his executors."

I have enough money for my present
necessities, thank you, Felicia."

Then, in that case, sou will have a
silk bonnet, and whatever is the hon ton
in dresses."

Lady Betty inclined her head in acquiescence.
She had accepted to go to
the Yells with Felicia, and she was bound
to dress consistently.

Felicia bent forward and kissed her,
pleased with her submission.

When shall we leave London ?" asked
Lady Betty.

In three weeks at the furthest, sooner,
if our dresses are finished."

And how long shall we stay
there ?"

'' Until the end of the season. By that
time you may reasonably hope to be in
legal possession of your poor mother's
property. I suppose Doctor Blandly is
an executor ?"

'' Xo. My mother made no will. Poor
soul ! she had nothing to leave me."

'' Nothing to leave you, Lady Betty !
Why lie was constantly talking about — "

She made a very unfortunate speculation
shortly before her death, which has
resulted since in the loss of all she possessed."


But she settled something upon you,
surely ?"

Not a penny, it was not in her power
to do so."

You have not whispered a word of
this to me hitherto."

I was ignorant myself until Doctor
Blandly told me this afternoon."

'' And you heard him without going
into convulsions ? you did not even faint
away ? and you can sit there and
talk about it as calmly as if nothing
had happened ? Oh, I cannot believe
it !"

'' It is quite true."

But you have some resource; Doctor

Blandly, perhaps, has promised you assistance?"


*' I have no resource, in the sense you
mean, and I cannot accept assistance
from a gentleman unrelated to me by any
ties of kindred or family friendship."

*' That is an excellent reason for not
offering assistance, but none for refusing
it. One hears every day of persons
making donations to perfect strangers,
but I never yet heard of them being
refused."

I am not in a position to receive
charity," said Lady Betty, rather sharply.

A proverb about beggars on horseback
crossed Mrs. Walker's mind, but as she
looked at her friend's young face and
graceful figure, she was yet inclined to be
hopeful, so she kept the reflection to herself,
and said :

'Tis a mercy you have good looks;
with them and a little finesse you may

manage to find a wealthy husband before
the end of the season."

Oh, Felicia ! how can you for a
moment think I could descend to such a
baseness ?"

'' I see nothing base in marrying a
wealthy husband." Mrs. Walker had
married an old man for no better motive
than the prospect of inheriting his riches.
It seems to me, Lady Betty, that
poverty has exalted your sentiments to a
prodigious extent, which is unfortunate,
since, if there is one thing more than another
that the poor cannot afford, and
ought to get rid of, 'tis pride."

On the contrary, I think 'tis the one
thing they must retain to deserve respect."


Lady Betty spoke with warmth, and
would probably have said much more, but
that she was checked by the remembrance
of Felicia's previous kindness, and a

suspicion that she did not mean what she
said.

Then what on earth do you intend
doing ?"

I have not yet had time to determine.
Come, Felicia, be your natural self. Weare
alone, and worldliness is a mask that
you put on to suit the cynical humour
which is in fashion. Forget that you are
Mrs. Walker, and advise me as FeHcia."

I have given my advice, and been
accused of suggesting baseness," responded
Felicia, coldly.

'you spoke under irritation."

Not at all. I shall be glad to alter
my views if you can show better. Tell
me your ideas, and I shall be happy to
assist you "

'' I know you will, Felicia."

With any suggestions that may occur
to me," Mrs. Walker said, concluding her
broken sentence.

In the first place the furniture and
china in Park Lane will have to be
sold."

Sell your furniture ! Why all the
world would know it in twenty-four
hours, and what excuse can you make?"

The necessity of paying my mother's
debts and my own."

If Lady Betty had proposed escaping
her creditors by means of the Messieurs
Mongolian's balloon, the notion would
not have appeared more preposterous or
wildly suicidal to Mrs. Walker.

Go on, my love," she said, with forced
calmness.

I do not know how much I shall
realise by the sale, and I cannot tell the
extent of my debts, but I think I shall
have more than a hundred pounds when
all is settled. I must try and get the
matter arranged before I leave London."

A hundred pounds, and rent and

VOL. III. 44

living at the Wells so expensive. Why,
after your dress and journey are paid for,
you won't have enough to keep you there
six weeks."

Lady Betty had understood that she
was to be Felicia's guest during their
stay at the waters. She was not displeased
to find herself in error; the
necessity of keeping up a false position
was obviated.

Then I had better not go," she said,
quietly.

'' I am entirely of your opinion. If
you absolutely insist upon this sale taking
place at once you would find it impossible
to attend the assemblies, no one
would acknowledge you."

The announcement of a visitor put an
end to the conversation, much to the
satisfaction of both. Lady Betty retired
to her room to shed a few tears over the
defection of her friend, and made plans

for immediate action ; while she was still
in cogitation a maid brought a packet and
placed it in her hands with her mistress's
compliments. The packet contained the
tradespeople's bills, which Mrs. Walker
had not calculated upon finding in less
than a month's search.

44—2

GERALD TALBOT.

;^ Sx^

Doctor BLANDLY sought
Gerard. Leaving Lincoln's Inn
lie stepped into a hackney coach
and instructed the driver to carry him to
Brooke's, in St. James's Street, that
being, as he took it, the most likely place
in which to find him.

*' Mr. Crewe isn't here. Sir," said the
hall-keeper ; " think he must have left
town, Sir."

That is not likely, my good man,"

replied Doctor Blandly, '' for lie was yesterday
in Lincoln's Inn."

'' Indeed, Sir, that's particularly odd.
Sir, for lie wasn't here last night, nor
hasn't been for ten days, and a mortal
number of members has been asking after
him."

*' I suppose a gentleman may be in
London without of necessity coming to
this house ?"

'' Some gentleman may. Sir, but Mr.
Crewe is one of them as can't. I've
never known him to stay away two
nights running — except when the season's
done."

Doctor Blandly returned to his coach
and gave the address at which he had
met Gerard a fortnight before.

Is Mr. Gerard Crewe at home ?" he
asked of the servant who opened the
door.

The servant fetched a card from the

drawer of a table in the passage,
and putting it in the Doctor's hands,
said:

Left here a sennight last Saturday.
That is his new address."

Once more Doctor Blandly returned to
his coach, and, reading the card, told the
man to drive him to Cheyne Walk,
Chelsea. Stopping before the number
indicated, the Doctor looked several times
from the house to the card in his hand
before he could feel sure that no mistake
had been made. The place was dingy and
poor, as unlike Gerard's previous 
as possible.

In answer to his hesitating knock a
slatternly girl opened the door, and replying
to his inquiry told him to walk upto
the second floor, where he would find
Mr. Crewe, and warned him to be careful
he didn't fall over the breakfast tray outside
the first floor's door.

'' The luck has turned," said the
Doctor, as he ascended the steep and
narrow stairs.

He knocked ; Gerard called '* Come in ;"
the Doctor opened the door and stood for a
minute unobserved, taking in all that met
his eye. It was a small room, one quarter
occupied by a four-post bedstead, with
two strips of carpet upon the floor. The
furniture consisted of three rush-bottomed
chairs, a washstand, a chest of drawers,
a hanging shelf of books, and a table.
The window was open. On the sill stood
a long ale glass, with a couple of clove
pinks in it — the only gracious thing there.
The table was set before the window, and
Gerard sat at it, with his back to the
door. His chin rested on his left hand ; his
elbow on the table ; in his right hand was
a pen; on the table, and at his feet,
paper.

Doctor Blandly drew out his snuff-box

mechanically, and tapped it, keeping his
eye on the figure before him. At the
sound Gerard turned.

I beg your pardon, Doctor Blandly,"
he said, rising ; " I thought it was my
man — I should say, the maid of the
house. Be seated. Sir."

He placed a chair to face the window
with a nervous glance round the room.
Doctor Blandly sat down and slowly took
his pinch of snuff.

'' Do you snuff, Mr. Talbot?" he asked,
extending the box.

A faint flush of colour passed over
Gerard's face in being addressed by his
father's name.

Occasionally," he answered, taking
from the proffered box and bowing.

'tis a boon not to be neglected. Sir.
It refreshes the senses and invigorates the
mind."

'' Is that a recognised fact," Gerard

asked with more anxiety in his tone than
the subject seemed to demand.

'' It is, Sir — amongst snuff-takers.
Perhaps for a young man fresh air and
exercise are as effective. Clove-pinks —
and very good clove-pinks too," said the
Doctor, looking at the flowers, then taking
the glass in his hand and examining them
more closely, he added — *' for London.
You are fond of flowers. Sir."

Who is not ?"

A great many people. People without
hearts don't care for them, though let
me tell you that your father did not care
for them, albeit he had a heart as tender
as a child's. By living so long on the
sea he relished no colour but blue, and no
savour but pitch and saltpetre." The
Doctor smelt at the flowers, and said in a
tone of encouraging admiration, " Very
good clove-pinks. I would have you come
and see some that I grow at Edmonton.

They smell sweetest of evenings and early
morning; you would give me great
pleasure. Sir, to visit me and eat of a fine
haunch of mutton that I stuck a skewer
into at my butcher's, this morning. I
shall have it cooked o' Sunday, if the day
will suit you."

"The pleasure will be mine," said Gerard.

Pleasures are best when shared, Sir.
Very good clove-pinks, indeed. Will
you put them back in their place ?
Thank you. You have an agreeable view
of the river from this window."

It compensates the luxuries that you
see I possess no longer — or it should. I
own I find it difficult at times to reconcile
myself to poverty."

'' It is hard indeed to change at once
the habits that have slowly grown upon
us — 'tis like the transplanting of a shrub
whose roots and fibres have had time to
permeate the surrounding soil ; for awhile

it droops and languishes, its bruised
fibres lacking the power to assimilate
the strengthening juices of the earth ;
but anon, Sir, you shall find it strike outwith
lusty vigour, and flourish with a
new and stronger life — especially if the
soil be richer."

Some plants will not bear transplanting,
I believe, Doctor."

'Tis true. Sir, but there are, thank
God, not many such of English growth —
few indeed, so sappy or so sapless that
they will not thrive the better by discreet
removal to purer and more wholesome,
conditions of existence."

Shall I be wrong in taking the personal
application of your remarks to myself?"

Certainly not, if the conclusions 1
draw from what I see are correct."

May I ask you to tell me what those
conclusions are ?"

"You have turned your back on the

gaming-house, and intend never to return
to it — as a gamester'*

Gerard listened gravely, and in silence
fetched a chair and seated himself by the
table opposite this visitor. He looked out
upon the river dreamily, and at length
ending his meditation with a sigh, turned
to Doctor Blandly, and said :

*' I am afraid you give me credit for
more virtue than I have. Doctor. You
do not know that I left the table of
necessity."

You owe nothing, surely."
'' No ; but my ability to gain is gone."
•' You cannot believe in luck to such an
extent."

'' I never trusted to chance at all.
'Twas that which made me successful.
Whilst others were alternately elated and
depressed, my temper never varied, and
the advantage on my side were enormous.
I do not think I am cold by nature "

I am sure you are not," interpolated
Doctor Blandly."

But the circumstances of my life —
above all the absence of hope, chilled my
blood. I saw nothing in the world to
wish for but its luxuries — things that
could be bought with money. I knew no
friends, no relatives save the villainous
foot-pad who called himself my brother,
and I owed my position to anonymous
charity. With these trammels I could
not hope to rise to any state better than
that I held. I satisfied my conscience by
punctilious honesty in my dealings at the
table, and my only ambition by paying
back all I had received from you."

And I wish with all my heart you had
kept it."

Had I never met my brother Tom, I
should still be a gamester ; but the faculty
of centreing my whole thought upon the
cards, of maintaining a perfect equanimity

girder all conditions was weakened on the
day he first gave me his hand in friendship
; it was destroyed the moment you
told me of our relationship. The old
fetters were removed, and a new field of
hopes and aspirations was opened to me.
An intense desire to win a sum of money
that would enable me to leave the gaming-table,
and learn a profession seized me
and "

You lost," said Doctor Blandly, completing
the sentence which Gerard had
terminated with a shrug. "And a very
good job too, Sir. Let me tell you I
should be very sorry to see dice on a field
vert quartered in the Talbot coat. I
should have been better pleased to hear
that you relinquished gaming for the
honour of your father's name."

I am a faulty man and not a hero of
romance, Doctor Blandly."

True, Sir, true. The only difference

between you is that you avow the truth,
where t'other would be careful to conceal
it, and so I give you the preference and
my hand, if you will take it."

Gerard gave his hand quickly, and the
Doctor grasped it, and held it for a
full minute. The wrinkling of his
brows showed that his thoughts were
busy.

*' And so you think of entering a
profession with a view to gaining money,"
he said.

*' I am making my first attempt,"
replied Gerard, with a motion of his hand
towards the paper on the table.

Letters — you have chosen a profession
that requires no tedious apprenticeship,
like the law or physic. All that you
require is patience, a pot of ink — and
genius."

*' I have the pot of ink," said Gerard,
with a laugh.

And what branch of writing do you
affect, Sir ?"

I have begun a comedy."

I am told it is difficult to get a comedy
read."

I have friends at both houses, and
Mr. Kemble has promised me assistance."

"Your mother had excellent dramatic
talent, poor soul ! A work of this kind
should of necessity take a long time to
complete, Mr. Talbot."

I am making but slow progress at
present."

Gerard gave a rueful glance at the
scattered sheets of erased work, and the
few approved lines.

Do not hurry it, Sir, for the sake of
the remuneration you will get by its production.
Nature sets us the example of
working slowly; nothing that is to last
can be done quickly. If you want money
I will lend it to you, and you can give no

better proof of your friendship than by
accepting my service."

I shall not hesitate to ask you for a
loan when I actually need it, Doctor."

*' Unfortunately, 'tis the only kind of
assistance I can render you, for I lack
the imaginative faculty, and I do not
profess to have the critical acumen. In
physic I might have served you better,
but before a fine picture or a good
comedy I can only hold up my hands in
astonishment and admiration, wondering
how the work was done."

'* Nevertheless, your opinion and advice
would be of service to me. I protest I
do not know whether my work is good
or bad. I write and re write again and
again, and in the end cannot tell whether
the first expression of my thought is better
or worse than the last."

'Tis the diffidence of merit. Only a
fool is satisfied with his work, and for
VOL. III. 45

Lin improvement is impossible. When I
was a young man, a friend of mine took
his first work to Doctor Johnson, and
asked him to point out any faults he
could find in it. ' Sir,' says Doctor
Johnson, ' 'twill save time to clap the
tract on the fire at once, for if you cannot
find out the faults for yourself, 'tis
because the parts are all faulty alike.'

Put your manuscript in your pocket
and bring it with you on Sunday, Mr.
Talbot. You shall read it to me, and
have my honest opinion on its merits. I
shall judge, not as a critic who hopes to
find fault for the exercise of his malicious
wit, but as one who takes his place in the
pit hoping to be amused."

1 wish I had only your judgment to
fear. Unfortunately 'tis the critic and
not the audience who decides the fate of
a play."

"Well, Sir, you shall have both. I

have a friend in holy orders who shall
join us afc dinner. He is a man of reading,
and preaches excellent sermons, so
I am told; I have contracted a vicious
habit of sleeping after the Psalms, which
prevents me from judging for myself.
And now to turn to a sadder subject."
The Doctor took a pinch of snuff and
then said : " You were at Lincoln's Inn
yesterday, I hear."

'' No news of my poor brother Tom
had been heard."

None. I was there this morning,
and, as you may suppose by my silence,
nothing has been heard since your visit
respecting your brother Tom. As regards
Barnabas Crewe; hitherto he has been
represented by a Newgate pettifogger,
yesterday he made his appearance at
Talbot Hall in person, with his lawyer and
half-a-dozen sturdy rogues, who overcame
the resistance of the steward and

45—2

servants, entered the Hall, and there they
stay until it is proved that Theophilus
Talbot is not the heir. The news was
sent this morning by Blake, the steward,
who still occupies the lodge and waits for
instructions."

Barnabas must not be allowed to stay
there."

Not a day. Sir, when we can find the
means of turning him out. Possession is
nine points of the law with such a man
as that, and he has a cunning rascal fora
lawyer, who, I am afraid, is more thana
match for us. He has evidence on his
side which we could not overthrow. I
might swear that he is Barnabas Crewe
until I am black in the face, but at the
same time, I must acknowledge that he
is identical with the child entered in the
parish register as Theophilus Talbot. We
have not a single proof that your mother
was enceinte at the time of her marriage,

there is no proof but my word that your
father disowned the child. I have only
your mother's last words and my own
conviction that she was true to your
father after her marriage, and that you
were his legitimate offspring, which would
go for nothing in a court of law. Barnabas
is to all effect your brother Tom's
heir-at-law."

Is it impossible to find anyone who
knew my mother at the time of her marriage
?"

*' Your father removed her from her
friends in London, thirty years, or nearly
thirty years, since. What possibility is
there ?"

But little indeed ; and yet, from whom
did Barnabas get his information ? Not
from me, certainly, not from you. How
could he know the facts which his lawyer
has produced except by communicating
with one who was intimately acquainted

with my father or mother. Depend upon
it there is a third person whose existence
we have ignored."

The Doctor buried his chin in his
hand.

''I can think of no one but his own
father," he said, raising his head. '' They
may have been thrown together by accident
; but we could expect no assistance
from him, since his own interest would
lead him to support his son's claim."

That makes the case more desperate.
Are we to suffer my father's estate to fall
into the hands of these two scoundrels ?
Would not their very looks convict them
if they stood before a judge ?"

'* Not if blushes were needed as a
proof of guilt. I am strongly opposed to
making this misfortune public, though if
you wish it I will give you all the support
in my power. In the first place, it could
not result in benefit to you."

*' You do not think I have any motive
but the honour of mj family ?"

No, and that is a reason for avoiding
publicity. If you failed to prove your
case, Barnabas would be recognised as
legitimate, and the line of the Talbots
would include a wretch whom we know
to be a highwayman, whom I suspect to
be a murderer."

Great Heavens ! do you suspect him
of murdering Tom?"

'' Who else could have so strong a
motive, if, as we suppose, he knew
beforehand of the relationship between
them?"

'' You think that Barnabas murdered
Tom ?" asked Gerard, coldly.

'' I do," the Doctor replied, thinking
only of the evidence.

The blood rushed into Gerard's face, and
he dropped his face into his hands.

My mother's son," he said, with a
groan.

*' What have I said ?" the Doctor cried,
springing to his feet. " Pardon me, my
boy. 1 can think of you only as Tom's
brother. Don't take my words to heart.
'Twas an idle suspicion that escaped me in
an unguarded moment."

No idle suspicion," Gerard said
dropping his hands between his knees,
without raising his head. " 'Tis a fact
which I should have suspected, but that
the crime was too horrible to attribute to
my brother. Barnabas a murderer — 'twas
shame enough to know him as a thief.
My brother a murderer — 'tis an encouraging
reflection to begin the new life
with — a passport to decent society — an
advantage which critics would not fail to
mention amongst the merits of my work —
a charm to win the affections of a cultured
girl."

And a stimulant to courage, Gerard,"
added the Doctor. " So that you are
free from blame, why should you heed
prejudice. Your father was best pleased
when the sea was crowded with enemies,
for there was the greatest prospect of
glory for his King. Let your conscience
be your king ; fight a good fight for its
honour, and never fear what may happen.
The good opinion of four honest men —
nay, your own satisfaction alone — outweighs
a thousand times the flattery of a
crowd of fools."

'* Can we do nothing to free my
father's name from the disgrace that
this scoundrel throws upon it? If he
got into the Hall with the aid of a
dozen men, can't we turn him out with the
aid of a dozen more ?"

A useless game of Crambo that we
should lose by. No. Take my advice-leave
him alone. His own actions will

prove to all thinking people that he is
not your father's son, but a rascally
impostor. He will be shunned by everyone
; and his life at Talbot Hall will not
be too cheerful, I engage. I have a flea
for his ear that will make him heartily
repent his knavery. I am heartily mistaken
if before the end of twelve months
he does not offer to make a public renunciation
of his rights for a few hundred
pounds down."

'' What power have you ? He has the
Hall."

And I have the money." The Doctor
took out his snuff-box, and gave it a tap
of satisfaction. " And rather than let a
penny of it go into his hands, I'll
squander it all in the Court of Chancery.
He can't pay his expenses, and his lawyer
will not undertake a game at which he
must in the end lose. He may kill a few
head of deer, and shoot as much game ashe

likes — let him. There will still be
enough for us to celebrate his departure
when his time comes. He may empty the
cellar, and probably will in a few weeks —
let him again, I say. Thank heaven
there's a cave full of port and Burgundy
that is known to no one but me — now that
poor Tom's gone. As for the rents of
the property, my man in Lincoln's Inn
will get an injunction to stop him from
receiving a mag. He shan't cut a single
one of those blessed old oaks in the park.
Without money he will get no one to serve
him ; without wine he will get no one, not
even his fellow rogues, to visit him. He
won't be able to get powder and shot to
kill his own game — take a pinch, Mr.
Talbot —and if he can sleep alone in that
empty Hall, with no liquor to stupid his
senses, he is not the man I take him to be.
Twelve months — why I won't give him six
months lease of his ill-gotten home. We

GERARD TALBOT.

shall have him whining at our feet for
mercy and pardon before Christmas is
upon us, Sir."

THE TAMING OF MRS. BAXTER.

Park Lane, August 1, 1800.

EAR Doctor Blandly,

I should be wanting indue
appreciation of your kindness
if I failed to ask your guidance
through the difficulty which besets me at
the present moment. With the permission
of Mrs. Walker, I have abandoned my
intention of spending a season at the
Wells, and I wish to arrange my pecuniary
affairs, and enter upon those duties
which my altered position necessitates at
once. I have collected my dear mother's

bills, and find that my liabilities amount to
the sum of four hundred and seventy
pounds seventeen shillings ; this with the
sum owing to Mr. Moss reaches a total of
seven hundred and seventy pounds seventeen
shillings. I have in my purse nearly
one hundred and ninety-seven pounds, and
that with the proceeds arising from the
sale of the furniture, &c., in the house
will be, I hope, more than sufficient to pay
all I owe, including the rent of the
house.

But I do not know any gentleman in
the electioneering trade, and so I ask you to
tell me what course I shall take for the
disposal of the china and things. I have
had everything well brushed and polished,
and save my clothes and a work-box which
was poor dear mamma's, all packed in two
trunks, and an elbow-chair which is set
aside in the garret, everything is ready to
be sold, and may be seen by applying tome,

or to the person in charge of the
house if I am absent.

AVith sincere gratitude for your goodness
to me and my poor mother,
I am, dear Doctor Blandly,

Obediently yours,
'' Elizabeth St. Cyr."

Doctor Blandly read this letter, which
he found beside " The Times " newspaper
on his table when he came in from making
the tour of his garden, which was his
custom, in fair or foul weather, before
sitting down to his breakfast.

A very good letter, and well writhe
said, holding the sheet at arm's length,
and looking at the even lines and bold
characters with a kindly critical eye.
c' Neatly folded, well expressed, and every
line of it the unstudied product of a clear
and healthy mind — so I take it." He
read it again, commenting as he went.

'' Beset with difficulties — aye, aye, you
have need of a pilot, poor child — thrown
like a frail skiff into the hurrying current
of the work-a-day world, where be abundance
of hard rocks and few placid
pools ! So Mrs. Walker has permitted
you to go your own way. One
understands that. 'Tis well for you. Miss
Betty, though I wager your heart ached
to find her so fickle a friend
Duties — duties ? Ha, yes, the duty of
living frugally upon her slender means.

She's more anxious to discharge
her debts than to make a profit for herself

a good girl Don't know any

gentleman in the electioneering trade — no,
nor I, my dear ; nevertheless we must
content ourselves with such as we have.

Two trunks and an elbow-chair
set aside in the garret — a chair too old to
sell perhaps ; and is that all the furniture
she reserves for her new home. Everything

ready to be sold — that means much
the selHng of all that is dear bj usage
and familiarity, yet not a word of the pain
it costs to part with them. I can fancy
the child polishing those trifles for the
last time, and bravely staunching her
tears the while. 'Tis a brave girl — and
her brief, clear letter is more touching
than if it were filled with regrets and
blotted with tears — a good, brave girl."

Doctor Blandly laid down the letter and
took up the '' Times," as if to divert his
thoughts from the subject until he could
think of it with less emotion. As his
eyes wandered down the columns of the
paper they fell upon this advertisement :

A Young Lady desires an engagement
in a family or school, to teach
young children. Address, Miss St. Cyr,
Park Lane, London."

What !" he cried, '^ she is prepared to
work for a livelihood, and submit to the

VOL. III. 46

tyranny of a jealous mother, or a grasping
school-mistress, for a pittance scarcely
sufficient to buy clothes to her back,
rather than accept my protection and help !
By George, she's a trump of a girl ! "

He sat in cogitation for some time,
looking uow at the letter and then at the
advertisement, and again at his slowly
twiddling thumbs. Finally he rose from
his seat and rang the bell.

Bring me my Sunday coat and shoes,
Jerry," said he, when the old servant
appeared :

Your Sunday coat and shoes, or your
fishing coat and shoes. Sir ?"

Do I look as if I were going a-fishing."

Jerry looked in his master's face, and
finding not a particle of pleasure in its
expression, withdrew without asking for
further confirmation.

Doctor Blandly walked over to the
Vicarage.

A pastor in a garden, surrounded by
his children, ought to be a subject worthy
of a painter, but the Reverend John
Baxter, under similar conditions, was a
subject deserving rather the practical
sympathy of the philanthropist. Jane,
his youngest daughter, was cutting her
teeth, and had to be nursed ; little Anne
was quietly making herself ill, and staining
her clean bib, with mulberries ; and
the two boys, in open rebellion against
their father, refused to study their
primer, and dodged him amongst the
gooseberry bushes when he sought to
bring them to obedience. The weather
was sultry, the Reverend John Baxter
was stout, and more than once in his pursuit
the straggling branches of the prickly
gooseberry laid hold of his unaltered
legs, causing him to stumble violently, to
the mortal jeopardy of the screaming
babe in his arms. It was just as he had

46—3

relinquished the chase for a minute to go
and tear little Anne away from the mulberries
that he caught sight of Doctor
Blandly on the other side of the privet
hedge, making his way towards the
vicarage.

Abandoning his child in the greater
danger which awaited his friend, Mr.
Baxter moved towards the privet hedge to
warn his friend off, but Doctor Blandly was
akeady in the garden, and close to the door
of the house. In vain he waved his arm
as a signal to retreat, and shaped with his
mouth the words, " Don't ; for the love
of heaven, don't ! Site's at home P' The
Doctor was deep in thought, and never
averted his eye from the path before him
until he had knocked at the door of the
vicarage.

Mrs. Baxter herself opened the door.
She had a pen in her hand, and a tart
expression on her face.

"You have come to see Mr. Baxter,
I presume," said the lady, frigidly.

No, madam, I have come to see you.
If you can give me five minutes' attention
I will explain my business."

Business ! Baxter has not told me a
word of it."

Baxter did not know, madam ; so
'twas not his fault that you did not know,
nor yours neither," he added, in an undertone.


Mrs. Baxter led the Doctor into
a grim chamber, where a number of
parochial books and papers showed that
she was managing her husband's
business.

Doctor Blandly seated himself on an
angular, narrow chair, with a slipping
horse-hair seat, and came to the point
without waste of time.

'' Mrs. Baxter," said he, " I hear you
have lost your governess."

I sent her away at a minute's notice
for impertinence."

'' Poor soul !"

Ob, of course, you pity her, Doctor
Blandly''

On the contrary, ma'am, 'tis you that
I pity. The young woman has, in all
probability, found another engagement
more suitable to her disposition, whereas
you are still without a governess for your
children, which must of necessity give
you less time to devote to your husband's
affairs. Will you be good enough to
look at this advertisement, which I have
cut from the ' Times ' newspaper of this
morning."

Mrs. Baxter took the cutting, and
drawing down the corners of her thin
lips in anticipation, read it through.

"I see nothing attractive in that,^^ she
remarked ; "a young lady wishes for an
engagement. Governesses are coming to

something, indeed ! Young person would
have been more respectful. Not a word
about accomplishments."

She possibly thought it unnecessary
to talk of accomplishments, as she wishes
to teach young children."

"Ah, that again — her wish to teach
young children is an evidence of incapacity."


Had she advertised to teach elder
children, I should not have thought it
worth while to show you the advertisement."


Miss St. Cyr. I should have thought
initials, or her christian name alone, more
appropriate. She does not mention the
name of her mistress, which is, in my
opinion, a flagrant outrage upon propriety,
as the lady lives in Park Lane."

Miss St. Cyr has no mistress, and the
address given is her own house."

Impossible !"

Not at all. She is an orpliau, and the
whole of her fortune was lost through an
unfortunate investment which I made
with her mother's capital shortly before
her death, which happened in May last."

I have not heard a word of this from
Baxter."

'' For certain reasons, madam, I do not
tell Baxter all that I do and know."

Mrs. Baxter read the advertisement
again, and her lips instead of being drawn
down towards her chin, were now stretched
back in a horizontal line towards her
ears.

*her modesty is certainly becoming,"
she said, " aDd 'twould be a great advantage
for Samuel and Luke to be instructed
by a refined young lady. Under their
father's training they have grown so
violent, that I find it difficult myself to
command respect. Little Anne can walk
alone, and 'tis high time she learnt a

hymn, and Jane is very fractious of
nights."

''If you read the advertisement again,
you will see that Miss St. Cyr does not
undertake to do the work of a nurse."

Mrs. Baxter drew up her mobile lips into
the resemblance of a bladder-neck at this
reminder, and then shaking her head said,

'' I do not as a rule employ unfortunate
people ; they are generally undeserving,
and frequently expect indulgence, instead
of showing that active anxiety to give satisfaction,
which their humbled condition
should prompt. Still they are more ready
to accept moderate terms of remuneration
than people of greater experience."

As concerns remuneration, Mrs.
Baxter, I have a suggestion to make,
which I hope will not be unacceptable. I
wish you to give Miss St, Cyr whatever
terms she asks without abatement, and in
addition, I wish her to be provided withall

the comforts you would offer her were
the young lady merely a guest in your
house. If a nursemaid to soothe the
temper of your infant will make the house
more agreeable as a home to the young
lady, by all means engage a nursemaid.
Whatever expenses these alterations in
your establishment may oblige, I will discharge,
on the condition that the financial
arrangement shall be absolutely a secret
between you and me'*

*' Oh, of course, Doctor Blandly. But I

really do not know how to *' Mrs.

Baxter hesitated, but a greedy huntress
overspread her face, and showed that she
was well-disposed to receive the Doctor's
proposal.

You shall reckon up your expenses at
the end of each week or month as you
choose, and I will pay them tvitJwut asking
any questioned

Mrs. Baxter's stony eyes fell, and she

stroked her nose with the end of her pen
in some confusion ; but the prize was too
good to be sacrificed to modesty.

If 'tis an act of charity, Doctor "

No 'tis no charity, but simply a very
poor restitution on my part."

*' In that case I need not hesitate. I
will write at once, though I'm afraid I
have nothing but business paper. I promise
the young lady shall be treated withall
due consideration and attention."

'' Very well, madam," said Doctor
Blandly, rising ; " and so long as she is
satisfied to stay with you, I will provide
funds."

With a few more words Doctor Blandly
closed the interview, and then left the
Vicarage. Mrs. Baxter at once wrote a
note requesting the pleasure of an interview
with Miss St. Cyr, at her " earliest
convenience," and despatched the sexton
on the Reverend John Baxter's cob, with

instructions to give the note into Miss St.
Cjr's own hand. Doctor Blandly also
wrote to Lady Betty, expressing his
approval of the determination she had
come to, and informing her that his lawyer
in Lincoln's Inn would wait upon her,
and make all necessary arrangements for
the sale of her furniture, and the payment
of her debts.

LADY BETTY S VISIT.

N the Monday morning following,
about three o'clock in the afternoon.
Lady Betty stood at the
gate of Dr. Blandly's garden. Jerry had instructions
to admit without delay a young
lady dressed in black, whenever she came,
and to treat her with as much respect as
if she were a gentleman ; so he
answered her question with a low bow,
saying in his most polite tones, that
Doctor Blandly was at home, and begged
her to follow him.

Lady Betty passed through the wicket
by the side of the house, and coming upon
a full view of the garden, which was
ablaze with free growing annuals,
geraniums, fuchsias and hollyhocks she
stopped for a moment while her being
seemed to expand as she imbibed the
delicious colour and fragrance around her.
It was the first time she had stood in a
garden since the autumn holidays at
Winchmore, a year ago. Her heart wept
and smiled, as happy memories and sad
passed through her mind.

*' Oh. if I could only hope," she sighed, '' or
if I might lay aside my mourning clothes,
and wear light muslin, and sit in the shade
watching the bees, and feasting my senses
like them, without regret — with nothing
but lazy indifference !"

If you please, miss," said Jerry,
coming back to her side across the lawn,
treading the gravel on the points of his

toes, and speaking in a whisper, " master
is asleep." He pointed over the flowerbeds
to the apple-tree in the middle of the
lawn, under which the Doctor sat.

'' I will walk about the garden until he
wakes," said Lady Betty.

Thank you, miss ; the weather's so
hot, and he do like his doze after lunch
to that extent, that I can't bear to wake
him. Can I bring you anything, miss ?
A bottle of claret, now — the port I
shouldn't recommend before dinner."

'' No, thank you. If I want refreshment
I will find some fruit."

Jerry scratched his ear, and said with
more hesitation —

Master wouldn't begrudge the best wine
there is in the cellar, but he's that particular
about his wall-fruit, that I aren't so much
as pick up a dropped plum when it's green."

I will spare the wall-fruit," Lady
Betty said, smiling.

With many thanks for her consideration,
and as made bows, old
Jerry retired to the cellar where he
had bottling on hand; and Lady Betty
taking the shady path, walked slowly down
the garden, stooping now and then to pick
the flowers which were her favourites.
After a while she crossed the lawn to the
apple-tree, and sat upon the seat which surrounded
it. Doctor Blandly was not upon
this seat, but comfortably settled in his
cushioned Windsor-chair. He wore a pair
of nankeen-breeches, thin stockings, and
a coat and waistcoat of white jean ; his
head and face were veiled with the yellow
India handkerchief. His feet were
crossed, and his hands were folded in his
lap ; a table was at his right hand, on
which were disposed an ale glass, a long
clay pipe, a pruning knife, and a volume
of Cowper's Poems. These things told the
character of the man.

Lady Betty sat arranging the flowers
she had gathered, content with her occupation
and an occasional look at the blue
sky through the foliage of the apple-tree,
and the coloured beds that skirted the lawn.
Presently the Doctor drew a long breath,
knitted his finger-tips and slowly twiddled
his thumbs. Then in a low voice he sang :

"' This little old 'oman, so I've leered tell,
She went to market her eggs for to sell
Singing, tol de role de rol, and a hitol de rol."

Lady Betty gave the softest "ahem!"
Doctor Blandly pulled down his handkerchief.


Bless my soul. Miss Betty !" he cried,
catching sight of the young lady before
him, who, with a little smile on her
pretty pale face, and her head on one
side, was regarding the bouquet she had
made. '' Why didn't that fool of a Jerry
wake me ?"
VOL. III. 47

Because he is a good servant, and
fond of his master. I have not been here
long, and not a moment has seemed too
long."

You are tired with soar journey.
Dear heart ! to think I should be asleep !
Jerry !"

I am not at all tired. I have only
walked from the Vicarage, where Mrs.
Baxter insisted upon my taking lunch."

The Vicarage !" exclaimed Doctor
Blandly, with feigned surprise, at the
same time stooping to pick up his straw
hat and conceal the expression on his
face. " Now what on earth could have
taken you there. Miss Betty ?"

Mrs. Baxter saw an advertisement I
had printed in the ' Times ' newspaper,
and wrote to me on Friday to engage meas
a governess for her children."

Lord, ah ! Baxter said something:
about his wife losing her governess, now

I come to think of it. But what a strange
coincidence that she should write to sou.
I give you my word I never mentioned
your name to In. Well, my dear, I
hope you have accepted the engagement,
for then yon will have one friend to come
to see now and then."

'' I have accepted, and I think I shall
begin the new life on Saturday next."

I'm downright glad to hear it. Mrs.
Baxter and I don't get on well together,
but that is an advantage in one respect ;
when you want to escape from her you
can come here without fear of being followed.
Baxter's a good, soft, stupid old
soul, you'll like him." He took his
pruning-knife, and rising from his chair,
said, with a look of much promise,
Come with me, my dear." He gave
her his hand to rise, and held it in his as
they walked slowly over the lawn towards
the sunny wall.

47-2

'you're a brave girl'* lie said to
her, in a low, emphatic tone, '' a good
brave girl ! Your sorrows have come
early, but if we must love and lose,
'tis better to suffer while the heart is
young and vigorous. Buds nipped in the
spring are not missed in the summer, but
nothing replaces the autumn loss, and the
old stock may not bear another bloom."

Lady Betty glanced at the Doctor's
face, and her eyes filled with tears, not
for herself, but for him. The tone of his
voice, the far-away look in his face, told
her that it was not a mere sentimental
generality he had uttered, but the summary
of his own experience. She held
his hand a little tighter, and did not break
the reverie into which he seemed to have
fallen. She would have been content to
walk in silence for an indefinite time,
united by hand and heart in a bond of
sympathy, but they came face to face

with the peaches, and Doctor Blandly' s
thoughts returned from the past to the
present, from the passion that was dead
to the love that lived.

'' There's a jolly fellow !" said he, turning
back a leaf to expose a velvety fruit ;
but he will be better to cut tomorrow
about eleven, another afternoon's sun,
and the mellowing influence of the night
air, is wanted to make him perfect. Now
down here there's a chap that I ought to
have culled this morning, but I couldn't,
he looked so comfortable and happy."
He led the way down the path, still holding
Lady Betty by the hand, towards the
chap" in question ; but he stopped to
gently lift a peach from the naked brick
to the tenderer surface of a leaf, saying
as he did so : " Ha ! ha ! my boy ! you
will rub your cheek against that wall, will
you?"

When they came to the ripe favourite,

he paused for a minute or two to point
out its excellent points to Lady Betty,
and then planting one foot on the path
and the other across the bed against the
wall, lie opened his knife and cut it
from the stem with as much care as if the
life of the tree were at stake. He placed
the fruit in Lady Betty's hand, and went
on to gather another and another until he
had collected six, and with these they
returned to the shadow of the apple-tree.
At the same moment Jerry came from the
house with a bottle and glasses.

'' I've come upon a bottle of the greenland
Madeira, master," said he.

'' Do you like Madeira, Miss Betty, ordo
you prefer the red wine ?" asked the
Doctor.

Lady Betty expressed her satisfaction
With Madeira, and the Doctor poured out
the wine, after carefully examining the
condition of the glasses.

Perhaps the young lady would like a
little Burgundy in about twenty minutes,"
suggested Jerry.

When we want more I will call you,
Jerry," said the Doctor, and then added
in an undertone : '' Tell your wife to
come and present her duty presently, and,
Jerry," as that servant was withdrawing
with comprehensive winks, " put about
half a shovelful of manure down against
the roots of that wrinkle peach at once."

Lady Betty found the fruit worthy of
all Doctor Blandly had said in its commendation,
but could with difficulty
convince him that two were sufficient to
satisfy her appetite. That she might not
lose any particle of the flavour by other
considerations, the Doctor limited his
conversation to peaches during the feast,
and the stock of his comment upon that
fruit were yet exhausted when Jerry's
wife, a neat spare woman of fifty or thereabouts,

in lier best cap and a clean apron,
came down to the apple-tree to present
her duty.

"Miss Betty," said Doctor Blandly,
'this is Kate, Jerry's wife. Kate, this
is Miss Betty St. Cyr, of whom I have
spoken."

'' You will find me most obedient and
dutiful, Miss," said Kate, with a bob.

And now, my dear, if you will follow
Kate, she will show you your room, and
get you anything you lack."

Thank you. Doctor Blandly, I cannot
stay."

"Not stay, my dear!" exclaimed the
Doctor, with dejection. " There's a cold
haunch of mutton that's as short as
venison, that with a pickled walnut "

And the damson pie made a purpose,"
added Kate. Lady Betty opened her
eyes.

The fact is," said the Doctor, in confusion.

'^ I had a sort of impression, a
kind of prediction that you would come
to-day. You promised to visit me you
know."

I am, indeed sorry that I cannot stay.
I have fixed six o'clock this evening for
an interview at my house with the
lawyer."

"Well, my dear — business must be
minded, but I am disappointed. However,
you are to be my neighbour, and opportunities
will not be wanting of tasting
Kate's excellent pies. Kate, you can

go."

Kate made a bob, and with a few
dootif ul words," retired.

*' Shall you return by the coach ?" asked
Doctor Blandly.

Yes— if I can find a place."

Jerry shall secure that for you. There
is a coach leaves the ' Angel' at four,
which will set you down at Hyde Park

Corner. Had I been sure of your coming
and suspected that you would leave so
soon, I would certainly have retained a
friend of yours who left me this morning,
to accompany you."

A friend of mine ?"

'' Gerard." The Doctor watched the
expression of Lady Betty's face to see
what effect the name made upon her.
Her cheek remained untinged with
colour."

"Mr. Crewe?"

No, not Mr. Crewe — but your friend,
Gerard still. When did you see him
last ?"

He came to take me for a drive on
Thursday, in his Clarence."

In his Clarence ?"

I am not sure that it was his. It was
certainly not the one he usually uses —
but he keeps a Clarence. Does that
surprise you ?"

The Doctor drew a long breath ;
then he smacked his thigh, and giving his
head a toss, cried :

Well done, Gerard ! Yon young
people have the courage of the — hum ! of
St. George himself. Poor boy — so he
took you for a drive in a Clarence ! And
I'll be bound he said never a word of
his altered condition."

N — 0—0," Lady Betty replied, opening
her eyes wider and wider. " What is the
mystery — why is he Gerard and not Mr.
Crewe, and why are you so astonished
that he took me for a drive ?"

Because on Thursday morning I found
him lodged in a garret with nothing but a
pennyworth of clove-pinks to compensate
him for all the luxuries he has lost.
Surprised — no ; now I knows him I am
not surprised at what he did to give you
pleasure. 'Twas not a miserable pride
that made him conceal his poverty, but the

fear that the knowledge would prevent
you accepting his services. Surprised!"
The Doctor exclaimed giving his thigh
another slap'' not a bit of it. He is a
Talbot."

Talbot !" cried Lady Betty, catching
his arm with trembling eager fingers —
"Talbot?"

'eyes, he is our poor Tom's brother !"

And he is quite poor ?"

Yes, poor as a poet. He has given
up his fashionable trade, because it was
not fit for an honest gentleman, and
because the honour of his family rests
upon him."

How can he be poor and Tom's
brother."

Tom never knew of the relationship."


Ah ! I understand— but "

Why does he not inherit his brother's
estate you ask. My dear, these are circumstances

which I cannot tell you. Tom was
the son of Admiral Talbot's first wife;
Gerard, the son of the second; but
between them a third person was born,
who was not the Admiral's son, and he
unfortunately, usurps a claim which cannot
be contested."

I do not want to know that. Gerard
is poor, and he spent money that he could
ill-afford to give his brother's sweetheart
pleasure."

'' You need not regret it. Miss Betty,"
the Doctor said, seeing the tear in her eye.

'' Regret it, no ! I rejoice in it. Tom
would have done that, but no man else
except his brother !"

'' They are gentlemen — English gentlemen
to the marrow, Miss Betty !"

"And what is Mr. , what is Gerard

Gerard Talbot doing in his poor
garret ?"

What usually is done in a garret — he

is writing a comedy. He brought a few
pages in his pocket yesterday, and I assure
you 'tis prodigious fine. I wanted my
friend Baxter, to hear 'em read, but the poor
man couldn't be spared. However, I have
bound Gerard to come every Sunday, and
read his week's work after dinner until
the five acts are finished. And you shall
come on Sundays, and so shall Baxter,
and we will listen to the man's work, and
give him our poor help, if we see right to
advise. What say you to that. Miss
Betty ?"

Lady Betty's eyes glowed with pleasure.
She longed to look at Gerard in the new
character he bore to her.

He is my brother — as much as though
the parson had married me to Tom," she
cried.

'' Well, well," said the Doctor, taking
out his snuff-box. " We shall see about
that. At any rate, you agree to dine

with US next Sunday, and every Sunday
after, don't you, my dear ?"

Oil, yes— that is " Lady Betty's

face lengthened. " I am only a governess,
and Mrs. Baxter "

"Oh! rir settle her— that is, Baxter
will arrange all that. He has a wonderful
influence over his wife has Baxter."

*' I shall be happy — very happy to come
and listen to his voice. I thank you
very much for the kindness in thinking of
me — and Doctor Blandly "

Well, my dear."

Do you mind my sending the elbow
chair here ?"

Send it by all means. Is it the chair
you mentioned in your letter ?"

Yes — I couldn't sell it, and I do
not want to take it amongst strange
people."

"Let me have it. It shall be taken
care of whatever it is."

The Reverend Join Baxter, with tears
in his eyes, said that he had promised to
explain Bunyan's " Holy War " to his
children, and could not escape.

Very well then, you will come the
Sunday following," said the Doctor, in a
tone of irritation.

The Yicar looked at his wife for permission,
but that lady stood with her arms
folded one upon the other below her spare
bosom, her nostrils pinched, her lips hermetically
closed, and her stony eyes fixed
on vacancy— the very picture of indifference.


Mrs. Baxter said you are to do as
you choose," cried the Doctor; 'unless
you doubt the truth of her assertion,
which would be unpardonable, you will
follow your own wishes ; and if you do
not come I shall take your refusal as a
direct affront."

Baxter plucked up courage, and in a

faltering voice accepted the Doctor's
invitation.

In consequence of this arrangement,
Doctor Blandly begged Gerard to defer
the reading of his work for a week,
which he willingly agreed to do, for as
yet he was not proud of his work, and
very much preferred devoting his
thoughts to Lady Betty than to his
comedy.

He was astonished by the change he
found in her. She had never been to him
so softly sweet and charming. She was
at the house when he arrived, and ran
down the steps and across the grass-plot
to meet him. She called him Gerard for
the first time, as she held his hand and
looked up into his face with wide, melting
eyes. She pressed him to take refreshment
after the fatigue of his journey. She
seemed nervously happy, like a child in
the presence of a long-expected friend.

She listened eagerly to everything lie
said, smiled when he smiled, was gravely
anxious when he spoke of the difficulties
attending the work he had undertaken ;
he felt that her eyes were fixed upon him
when he was speaking to Doctor Blandly.
As they sat under the apple-tree, she
with a lawful of flowers which she was
making up into bouquets for the decoration
of Doctor Blandly's chimney-piece, it
was his taste she consulted first in the
selection, his approval she demanded.
Now and then she looked up from her
occupation to his face, and returned to it
with a smile.

Was the happiness due to the natural
surroundings of flower and verdure, or to
his having entered the field of literature,
Gerard asked himself.

After doing full justice to the excellent
damson pie Kate had prepared for the occasion,
Doctor Blandly, despite his endeavours

to keep awake, dropped into a doze,
seated in his Windsor chair; then Lady
Betty proposed a walk in the shady side of
the garden. She slipped her hand under
Gerard's arm, and was first to break the
silence which a mutual happiness had
produced.

I know all, Gerard," she said softly.

All, Lady Betty?"

"All that Doctor Blandly thought fit
for me to know — all that I want to know.
You are poor dear Tom's brother, and
since I am his widow — for indeed our
hearts were one — you are my brother also.
We are not quite alone in the world, you
and I — we have lost and we have found.
And you are glad to have me for a sister,
aren't you ?"

I did not expect to gain so much of
your affection."

But you loved me, all the same. You
said to yourself, ' There's, my poor little

sister all alone in the dismal house in Park
Lane ; she has no one to comfort her, no
one to take her away from herself,' and
you saved up your money, though you
were horribly poor, to hire a carriage for
my use. And while 1 still regarded you asa
stranger, and looked upon your generous
kindness as a mere act of gallantry, you
felt towards me as I feel towards you now."

'* Doctor Blandly has told you more
than he should."

Not one word, Gerard, for he knew
'twould make me happy, and lessen my
grief. And, besides, should there be any
secrets between us, who are so near to
each other. There is nothing I would conceal
from you. I have made up my mind to
tell you every Sunday when we meet all
that has happened during the week, just
as a sister should tell her brother. I have
quite a great deal to tell you about my
new engagement. Poor Mr. Baxter is

quite a martyr; his bread is buttered for
him like the children's, and Mrs. Baxter
is a tyrant — though she is excessively
gracious to me, and would make me ill
with good things if she could — but she is
a tyrant for all that, and she has a mouth
like this — look."

'' A pretty mouth then under the most
adverse conditions," said Gerard, regarding
the little moue Lady Betty made with
her soft, pretty lips.

Even a brother's compliment must be
acknowledged," said Lady Betty, making
a mock courtesy. She was gay with excitement
; and again taking Gerard's arm,
she continued : " Of course I cannot tell
you much yet — for I only took my ' situation
' yesterday ; but I shall keep a
diary, and you shall see it if you like
when we meet on Sundays. The boys,
my pupils, are dreadful children; they
kick their father's shins when their

sister all alone in the dismal house in Park
Lane ; she has no one to comfort her, no
one to take her away from herself,' and
you saved up your money, though you
were horribly poor, to hire a carriage for
my use. And while I still regarded you asa
stranger, and looked upon your generous
kindness as a mere act of gallantry, you
felt towards me as I feel towards you now."

*' Doctor Blandly has told you more
than he should."

Not one word, Gerard, for he knew
'twould make me ha^Dpy, and lessen my
grief. And, besides, should there be any
secrets between us, who are so near to
each other. There is nothing I would conceal
from you. I have made up my mind to
tell you every Sunday when we meet all
that has happened during the week, just
as a sister should tell her brother. I have
quite a great deal to tell you about my
new engagement. Poor Mr. Baxter is

quite a martyr; his bread is buttered for
him like the children's, and Mrs. Baxter
is a tyrant — though she is excessively
gracious to me, and would make me ill
with good things if she could — but she is
a tyrant for all that, and she has a mouth
like this — look."

'' A pretty mouth then under the most
adverse conditions," said Gerard, regarding
the little onoue Lady Betty made with
her soft, pretty lips.

Even a brother's compliment must be
acknowledged," said Lady Betty, making
a mock courtesy. She was gay with excitement
; and again taking Gerard's arm,
she continued : " Of course I cannot tell
you much yet — for I only took my ' situation
' yesterday ; but I shall keep a
diary, and you shall see it if you like
when we meet on Sundays. The boys,
my pupils, are dreadful children ; they
kick their father's shins when their

mother's back is turned. I have made
them understand that they will have to
treat me with more respect, or they will
form the subject of an additional chapter
to Fox's ' Book of Martyrs.' I pity poor
Mr. Baxter this afternoon, he has to
interest them with an explanation of
Bunyan's ' Holy War.' I could never
understand it, could you ?"

'' I don't think that I ever attempted
to."

I used to love the 'Pilgrim's Progress'
until I was told it was a kind of riddle
with a moral answer to it." Lady Betty
paused, possibly to take breath, and after
a moment's silence, she said, giving
Gerard's arm a little pinch :

T am so glad you are writing a
comedy, Gerard."

You prefer a poor poet to a wealthy
gamester ?"

That depends. Poets as a rule are

rather ridiculous, whereas there is a clash
and spirit about gamesters that recommend
them to my taste. I do like
courage, even when it is not quite what
folks call ' proper.' "

There is no courage in playing with
the assurance of winning, and a gamester
who plays for his living must have that
assurance."

'' That is true. 'Tis, perhaps, simply
because the gamester wears a better coat
that girls prefer him to the poet. Men
are guided by what they think, we girls
by what we see, I believe."

Would you have liked me equally had
I remained a gamester?"

"Oh, no ; you wouldn't have seemed tome
like a brother of Tom's if you had
done that which he would have scorned todo.
And I couldn't have felt so proud of
you if you had not accepted poverty for
the honour of your name."

'' Still you do not care for poets."

Not those who write elegant lines and
are always rhyming anguish and languish,
and hearts and darts. Oh, I hate the
name of Phyllis ! Those poets are very
different to men who can write plays.
How many acts shall you have in your
comedy?"

"Five."

I hope they will be good long acts."

You are not afraid that your patience
will be exhausted ?"

Oh, no ; I am always sorry when a
play is over, and I shall be ready to cry
when the irritable old father is at length
forced to give his consent to the marriage
of the young people, and the servants and
friends drop in and begin to form a semicircle
at the back of the principal
characters."

'' But supposing I end. my comedy in a
different manner ?"

'' Can you, Gerard ?" asked Lady Betty,
in grave doubt.

'' I think so."

You must be clever."

That remains to be seen. I have
doubts."

'' I have none," cried Lady Betty,
firmly. " A man who can do admirable
things must be able to write them. When
do you think you shall finish your
comedy ?"

'' By the end of the year, I hope."

There are a great many Sundays
before then, and you will read all that you
have done every week. That will be
lovely. And afterwards it will be played
at the theatre."

'' If the manager does not reject it."

*' Oh, he cannot be so stupid as all that.
Doctor Blandly and I will have a side-box
all to ourselves, and get there the moment
the doors open, and I shall be dreadfully

impatient until the curtain goes up, but
all the same I wouldn't miss a moment of
the time; and then, when the curtain
drops, I will clap. It may not be genteel,
but I'll clap with all my might. I should
like Mr. and Mrs. Baxter and the children
to be somewhere in the house where I
could see them — not in the same box with
me. I should not have patience with
them, they would seem so commonplace
and vulgar. How those boys would clap
if I promised them something — or if their
father told them not to. And then, when
the five acts were played, all the audience
would insist upon your coming forward
on the stage, and then I shouldn't be able
to see you for crying."

The girl's eyes were tearful in anticipation
of such joy, and Gerard, looking
down upon her sensitive, sweet face, felt
that there was a stronger incentive to
struggle for success than poverty.

"Dear heart o' me!" exclaimed the
Doctor, opening this eyes about this time,
I declare I must have lost consciousness
for half a minute. Where are the young
people ? I must make my excuses to them
for my want of manners."

He jumped up, and catching sight of
their figures through the hollyhocks,
crossed the lawn briskly in that direction.
Suddenly he paused. They had their
backs towards him, walking leisurely
down the path, Lady Betty leaning on
Gerard's arm, he looking down upon her
face.

The Doctor took out his snuff-box,
planted his feet a foot asunder, set
his head on one side, and, slowly smoothing
the lid of his box with the ball of his
thumb, said to himself, "The child loves
him for being the brother of her dead
lover ; but the end of loving him for the
sake of another will probably be that she

BROTHER AND SISTER.

will love him for himself, thinking more of
him as another fades from her memory."

Then the Doctor took his pinch,
which seemed to drive him much satisfaction.



V,

CHAPTER IX.

IN TOMS PLACE.

ADY BETTY hailed the returning
Sunday with a feeling of intense
satisfaction. The occupation of
the week had not distressed her — had
not been half so unpleasant as she expected.
The children had distracted her
thoughts, and made her forget her
troubles for the greater part of the day.
But she did not wish to forget : it seemed
to her like the neglect of an affectionate
duty to give so little of her time to the
memory of Tom. The vague religious

teaching she lead received led her to
imagine that his immortal spirit was
cognisant of all she did, and she feared to
grieve him by neglect. She did not think of
his sensitive jealousy as a mortal weakness.

She longed for a day to devote to him ;
to kneel in church and worship God and
holy things with his unseen essence by
her side. After the service she would
go home with Doctor Blandly, and there
meet Gerard, in whom she found, or
fancied that she found, a hundred points
of resemblance to her dead lover, and who
was united to her by sympathy and an
affinity of misfortune.

Mrs. Baxter's religion was of another
kind, and Sunday was, of course, a day
of penance. From the moment she rose
she spoke in a low, sepulchral voice, as if
some one lay dead in the house. She walked
slowly and firmly, moving like an engine
at half speed. She made the chocolate

weaker than usual, and substituted dry
toast for the customary dish of bacon.
Half an hour before it was necessary she
arrayed herself in the most hearse-like
costume, a sable plume in her beaver
bonnet, and a black velvet pall over her
shoulders, and sat in the sitting-room
issuing orders to the servant-maid in the
kitchen without moving her head or a
muscle of her limbs. The moment that
the church bell commenced to call folks to
church she summoned Baxter, and having
inspected him from the top of his wig to
the tag of his shoe-string, to assure herself
that he was in a creditable state, she
took his arm and led him off to the
church.

Lady Betty followed with the two boys,
Samuel and Luke, and took them with
her into the vicar's family pew, while
Mrs. Baxter, having cast a sharp eye
round the empty church to see that the
VOL. III. 49

pew-opener had neglected none of his
duties, conducted her husband into the
vestry to give him the finishing touches
before abandoning him to his own
devices.

The Yicar's family-pew was a square
stronghold, with high oak walls, which
defended its occupants from vulgar observation.
As the door closed, the two
boys went to their hassocks, sank upon
their knees, and buried their faces in their
hands. Lady Betty sat for a moment
looking at them with adoring love in her
heart. They were rude and tiresome in
their daily lives, they had no respect for
their father, they fought in private, they
stole the sugar on those rare occasions
when it was unguarded by lock and key,
they ate of the fruit which was all forbidden
in their mother's orchard, but
their faults found expiation in Lady
Betty's eyes by this simple act of devotion.

Could she offer to heaven a prayer so
innocent and acceptable as theirs ? As
she knelt she implored with her whole
heart to be made trusting and simple as
these little children.

The rustling of her dress and the
silence that followed were understood by
the two boys, and first Samuel, with his
mouth open, turned his head cautiously,
and then Luke, with his tongue hanging
out, did the same, and both perceiving
that " teacher" was deep in prayer, they
grinned at each other. Then Samuel
rummaged in his pocket for a stump of
lead pencil, while Luke turned back the
cushion silently, after that they began a
silent but exciting game of noughts and
crosses, which was not without significance.


The bell pealed and then tolled, pews
opened and shut, coughing began in
good earnest, the clerk took his place in

49—2

the box under the pulpit, and suddenly
Luke turned back the cushion, Samuel
concealed the stump of pencil in his capacious
mouth, and both buried their faces
again, for among the many sounds they
distinguished the approaching footsteps of
their mother. She looked round at her
children and her governess with a feeling
of devout satisfaction, and as she also
knelt, she considered that it would be
false humility to deny that she had done
her duty to Heaven and to her family.
Then the Reverend John Baxter ascended
his pulpit, from which, as from a donjon, he
could securely look down into the family
fortress below, and the service began.

When the congregation rose. Lady Betty
obtained a glimpse of the gallery; she
turned her eyes towards the seat occupied
by Doctor Blandly, and saw Gerard standing
by his side. Her face flushed with
pleasure, and a sign of recognition passed

between them which did not escape Mrs.
Baxter. Who could this thin, elegant
young gentleman be? she asked herself,
a friend of Doctor Blandly' s ? Why had
she heard nothing of him from Baxter ?
Was he engaged to Lady Betty? if so,
why had she not discovered the fact under
that delicate cross-examination to which
she had been subjected during the week ?
When they met at the church-door after
the service, she learnt that his name was
Gerard Talbot, and it somewhat reconciled
her to her husband's departure to
think that she should know all that was
to be known of the stranger when Baxter
returned at night.

As soon as Lady Betty was alone with
Gerard, Doctor Blandly leading the way
with Baxter across the meadow from the
Vicarage, she said, taking his arm :

Thank you, Gerard."

*for what, Lady Betty?"

*' For coming so early."

Didn't you expect me ?"

'not so early. The first coach does
not arrive on Sunday before half-past
eleven; I asked."

Then you hoped I might come early !"

Of course I did ! It must cost a
great deal for a carriage all that distance
from London."

'rit cost me nothing, I walked."

Oh, poor Gerard ! You must be worn
out."

Gerard laughed.

'Tis no distance for a man," said he.
Such a morning as this would tempt me
to walk, if I were ten times glazier."

'Twas not the morning that induced
you to come ; if it had rained ever so
hard you would have come all the same.
You said to yourself, ' it will please my
sister to see me in church,' and that was
sufficient."

Perhaps it would have been sufficient
had I said to myself, ' it will please me to
see my sister.' "

You use the very words that Tom
would have used, Gerard," sighed
she.

He did not reply, and she, attributing
the shade of sadness which had overcast
his face to recollections of his dead
brother, endeavoured to remove the effect
her words had produced by changing the
subject.

Have you written much of your
comedy this week ?" she asked.

I have finished the first act. Last
night I saw Mr. Kemble, and he promises
to read what I have done, and give me
his opinion, if I take it to him next
week."

*' Oh, that is famous news. You must
have worked very hard."

I found it easier to write thinking of

all you said last Sunday. You have
given me hope and courage."

'Tis little enough I can do to help
you, Gerard. I am not clever, and 'tis
not with cleverness I would help you,
for I would have the glory of succeeding
to be due to you alone. But all that I
can do to make your task less difficult,
your life less burdensome, that I will do
with all my heart." She paused, and
they were both silent for a time, then she
continued : '' I have been trying to think
in these last few moments how I can be
of service to you, but I can find no
means of gratifying my wish. I am like
a poor bankrupt who sees distress all
around him, and has no means of giving
relief. What can I do ?"

Gerard's arm trembled beneath her
hand as he said in a low voice :

'' Suffer me to hope."

For success, Gerard ? why that is

assured. I am certain that your comedy
will be well accepted."

'' I have built hopes far higher than the
mere triumph of my brain. Knowing what
I have been, what I am, I dare scarcely
tell myself all that my soul desires."

Whisper but a word, and I will guess
the rest. Why should you conceal anything
from me ? Is there anyone living
dearer to me than you ?'*

If you knew how solitary my life
has been, how utterly alone and uncared
for I have stood amongst my fellow-creatures,
you would understand the
emotion that your mere friendship produces,
and readily perceive what hope my
exalted imagination conceives."

Lady Betty looked at the agitated man
beside her in perplexity a moment, and
then :

Is it my affection you hope for?" she
asked.

Ii is indeed"'

^V~hy. Gerard, yon have it. Are yon
not my brother as well as his ? How
doubtful von men are. Tom, mv husband,
doubted of mr love, and von. mv brother,
of mv affection. Kiss me, Gerard — kiss
my lips, and don't no more that I am in
truth yotir sister''

Gerard bent and touched her willing
Kps, and she looked at him afterwards
with wide eyes, her cheeks pale with
anxiety for his peace, and finding him still
troubled, she did what a woman usually
does in such emergencies, turned the
subject, and endeavoured to interest him
in indifferent matters.

What a fool my passion has made me
how blind and rash," thought Gerard ;
*' but that her thoughts of love can dwell
only on poor Tom, she would have caught
the meaning of mv words, and straightway

I must have lost her affection and
respect together."

The Reverend John Baxter sat down
to his dinner in the merriest of moods ;
he gi ew grave after the roast, and learned
with the pie: after that he loosened the
lower button >:: Lis waistcoat, and attacked
the port in silence. Lady Betty led the
way with Gerard to the garden ; the doctor
and the parson were - -:: to follow,
that it was to be presumed they took that
which is the best d:^rs:iv- :: a good
dinner — a doze. However-.fy were
both wide awake when they at length
made their appearance, and neither Gerard
nor Lady Betty showed any signs of impatience.


"Jerry will bring us a dish of tea to
settle our spirits, and then, Gerard, we will
hear the new comedy," said Doctor
Blandly.

A table was set under the apple-tree.

and when Jerry lead served the tea, Doctor
Blandly placed a chair before the board for
Lady Betty, and was about to seat himself,
when he stopped abruptly, and turning to
Jerry, said with asperity —

"How is this, Sir ? Only three chairs
for four people. Fetch another, instantly'


Gerard, as the younger, stood ; the two
elder gentlemen seated themselves. Presently
Jerry returned carrying a velvet-covered
chair.

"tis Tom's!" cried Lady Betty,
catching sight of it, and half-rising from
her seat, alarmed less the sacred seat
should be profaned.

Then I think, my dear, it will be very
proper that we ask Gerard to use it," said
Doctor Blandly, with quiet firmness.

Lady Betty smiled faintly, and murmured
: " He is next in our hearts."

And so Gerard took Tom's place in the

empty chair, as Doctor Blandly had doubtless
intended he should. Before the cups
were empty, Dr. Blandly, with Lady
Betty's permission, lit his pipe, that he
might, with the philosophic calm produced
by the smoke of good birdseye, consider
the merits of the literary work about to
be read; and then looking round to see
that the Reverend John Baxter was also
in full possession of his faculties, he said :

Now, Sir ; for the comedy."

And Gerard, without hesitation, opened
his manuscript and read.

A very good picture they formed, that
little company sitting under the apple-tree,
against a background of peaches
and pink hollyhocks. Lady Betty in
her black crape dress with short sleeves,
her long white, round arms resting
upon her lap ; Doctor Blandly, with his
shapely legs crossed, his portly person,
his fair, strong, yet kindly face, his head

thrown well back in critical expectancy, and
pouting his lips over the waxed end of
his long pipe ; the Reverend John Baxter
with his elbow on his knee, his chin upon
his thumb, his index finger sagely pointed
towards his red nose, his brows knitted
with intense intellectual application ; and
lastly, Gerard, spare, white and anxious,
seated in his brother's chair, and turned
with his face towards Lady Betty, holding
the manuscript before him.

-^^^^^^^^

Barnabas AND HIS COURT.

HILE the wines in the cellar of
Talbot House held out, Barnabas
realised his own ideal of happiness.
He lived royally, according to his
own conception. His court was composed
of the half-dozen rascals who had supported
his entrance to the estate, and the
vagabond lawyer served for prime minister.
His leg was yet painful ; he could not
move about without a stick or some such
support, but this inconvenience was of
small importance, as he had no inclination

for exercise, and rarely stirred from his
seat. He sat at the head of the long oak
table, in the grand old banqueting-hall ina
capacious high-backed chair, his leg
supported on cushions, one hand resting
on a Venetian glass, and the other holding
a halfpenny clay pipe. His lawyer sat at
his right hand, his followers sat below,
each man with a bottle and a paper of
tobacco before him.
He boasted and lied, and his court listened.
He told old filthy jests, and they roared
with laughter ; he swore, and they looked
grave. H anyone fell asleep under the influence
of the drink before him, he rose
from his seat, maugre his leg, took a candle
from the sconce, and set fire to the sleeper's
hair, or poured red wine down his neck,
and limped back to his seat grinning malignantly.
He was too vile to laugh heartily,
even at the success of his own practical
jokes. When he himself was besotted

and drowsy, he swept bottles and glasses
off the table, sprawled out his arms,
and laid his leaden head upon them
moaning and grunting until his drunkenness
had passed off, and he could sit upto
drink again. They never went to bed,
never changed their linen, never touched
water, but sat there, drinking and sleeping,
occasionally eating, perpetually
smoking, until the floor was strewn with
broken bottles and gnawed bones, and the
great room stunk with the filthy tobacco,
and the reek of that foul company. One
day Barnabas awaking from a long sleep,
more sober than usual, looked round upon
the litter of broken bottles and his sleeping
comrades, and after five minutes
cogitation, roared out for Slink.

'' How many bottles are there in the
cellar ?" he asked, when Slink appeared
at the door.

'' About a score, your honour."

VOL. III. 60

What !" shouted Barnabas.

Slink repeated this answer, keeping on
the alert to dodge the bottle which
Barnabas generally hurled when displeased.


Come here, and help me up. I'll go
and see for myself."

He hobbled down to the cellar with much
difficulty and profuse blasphemy, and
ascertained that Slink had told him nothing
but the truth. Then swearing at
his friends, at himself for his insane
liberality, he locked the cellar-door, and
returned to his customary seat with the
key in his pocket. From that moment he
did not part with it except when he
wanted a bottle for his own consumption.


When his fellows awoke and called for
refreshment, Barnabas bade Slink bring a
can of water, and bluntly told them that
they would get no other kind of liquor at

his expense in future. The moment that
this new regulation was found to be no
practical joke but a serious fact, the
company withdrew to the other end of the
table and held a council, while Barnabas
smoked and looked at them in sullen
indifference. At the end of a brief conference,
the lawyer came forward as
spokesman and addressed Barnabas.

Your friends have got business to do.
They wish to be paid for their services
and to go to their homes," said
he.

Well, pay them, and let them go,"
replied Barnabas, with an oath.

I have no money."

You said the steward had the collecting
of the rents."

He refuses to give me anything."

And quite right too — send for him."

The steward was sent for and presently

came.

60-2

You have had some rents to collect
from the cottages: where is it?" asked
Barnabas.

In my keeping," replied Blake.

Give it to me."

Not a penny-piece," said Blake, folding
his arms. '' My orders be to give all
that comes in to Doctor Blandly."

What has Doctor Blandly to do with
my estate ?"

Doctor Blandly is Mr. Tummus's
agent, and I'm his servant."

Well, then yon can just go and serve
Mr. Thomas," Barnabas said with a sneer
and another oath, '' and if you are not off
the estate in half an hour, I'll have you
kicked off."

The first man that lays his hand on
me shall be taken to the lock-up, and the
rest after them, if they dare to interfere
with me."

'ewe will soon see about that! Take

the old fool and pitch him into the horse-pond,
you fellows."

No one moved a hand. He swore and
threatened in vain. The steward stood
unmoved.

"You and that old idiot the Doctor,
shall answer for this," cried Barnabas,
smashing a glass down on the floor. " Do
you still refuse to obey me ?"

Yes. I serve only Doctor Blandly,
and these are my orders. You are to be
suffered to remain at the Hall and keep
what company and servants you like at
your own expense. You are to be allowed
to shoot game for your own use. But if
you offer a single bird for sale, or remove
but one article from the house, or cut so
much as a single branch from one of the
trees, I'm to take the lawyer's papers
before the nearest magistrate and demand
his protection of Mr. Thomas's property."


'* The property's mine now my brother
is dead."

Ah ! you'll have to prove that."

Barnabas turned to his lawyer, who
appeared to be not at all surprised at
what he heard.

Here, what's to be done ?" he asked.

The lawyer shrugged his shoulders.

Do you want to know anything more
of me ?" asked the steward.

*' Get out, curse you !" shouted
Barnabas.

Humphrey Blake left the room.

'' You said I could take possession,"
said Barnabas.

You have," replied his counsellor.

"But how am I to defeat this cursed
Doctor Blandly?"

Find the body of your brother, and
you can laugh at him."

By George, I will. Set a score of
fellows todraof the river from end to end."

Give me the money to pay them."

I haven't a guinea. Raise money forme
— I'll sign any paper you like — you
shall make your own terms for payment
when I get the money."

It is impossible to raise money until
your title is established."

You said you could make a case for
the Chancery Courts."

'' So I can, but not without money. You
owe me a long bill now."

'' But I'll pay you what you ask when
I get my title — why don't that satisfy
you ?"

Because I don't believe you ever will
get your title."

Amidst the storm of oaths and imprecations
that followed this announcement,
the lawyer and his associates withdrew,
merely putting in their pockets such
articles of value as they could conceal
from the vigilant eyes of the steward, and

one by one sneaked away from the Hall
and its penniless tenant, with no intention
of returning.

The only immediate regret Barnabas
felt in their departure was, that it bad not
taken place before. They had drunk best
part of his wine, and what should he do
when he had finished the remainder?
The question was fraught with such
gloomy forebodings that he despatched
it from his thoughts, determining to face
the evil when it came — as often before he
had shirked the reflection that he would be
hanged at some subsequent date. It was
when night came, and the candles failed to
light up the further corners of the large
room, that he missed his companions.
The dim corners had a fascination for his
eyes, which grew with the terrible pictures
that came before his heated and disordered
imagination. He pictured Tom in
the likeness of a corpse he had once seen

drawn from a pond after long lying there,
and fancied him stepping in that hideous
mortality from out the gloom.

'' Light all the candles !" he said to
Shnk.

There be but a dozen left, master, and
they are nigh down to the sockets,"
said Slink, as he moved to obey the command.


He asked himself what night would
be with neither companions, nor wine,
nor light. The reflection was productive
of a fresh command :

'' Fetch me another bottle, and then
blow out every candle but one."

As the lights one after the other were
blown out he drank the bottle, his eyes
wandering from corner to corner ; when
only one was left he shut his eyes and
tried to sleep.

The next day he sent Slink out to sell
his horse. Slink obeyed with a sorry

heart, for the horse had been his comfort
through the miserable months, and had
improved in appearance under his careful
grooming, since the first unlucky day it
was given to him. He had not the spirit
to higgle over the sale, and accepting the
first offer that was made for the beast, he
brought his master forty shillings, and
had a bottle flung at his head for his
pains. The money was spent in candles
and strong ale.

Once more at night-time he forced
Slink to play at piquet, but with nothing
to gain and no inducement to cheat, the
play had so little hold upon his mind,
that his senses were for ever wandering
to catch strange noises or the fantastic
shadows thrown by a guttering candle.
His only recourse was to stupid his brain
with tobacco and beer.

One morning he limped up the staircase
and along the great corridor to examine

the climbers. They were all large, but
one seemed less awful than the rest, and
he decided upon going there at night,
thinking to sleep sounder in a bed than
cramped over a table. But when the
light faded, he dared not go away from
the banqueting-hall — that at least he
knew ; its nooks and hollows were familiar
to him.

The corridor was mysterious even
in the light which came through the
coloured oriel window at the end, it would
be awful at night. And the chamber
might it not have a secret door ; might
he not find something lying in the bed
when he opened it ; these reflections passed
through his muddled, enfeebled, guilty
mind, and kept him to the larger
room.

There was no one in the great house
but himself and Slink. Slink was indispensable.
He shot the game, cooked it,

ate with him, submitted to his bullying,
slept in the same room lying on the
sofa, in that dark corner which Barnabas
feared most, and waited on him with the
docility and patience of a born servant.
But he added not a little to his nightly
terrors.

When he detected his master pausing
to listen, in the act of raising a glass
to his lips, he showed the liveliest
symptoms of dread, ejaculating, ''Oh,
Lord !" and '' merciful powers defend us !"
and fell a chattering with his teeth as
though in an ague ; if Barnabas dropped
his pipe, and fixed his eyes upon the
obscurity, Slink would drop on his knees,
imploring the angels to have mercy upon
him.

"What are you afeard of?" Barnabas
asked one night. " You've fastened the
shutters and barred all the doors, haven't
you?"

All the doors I knows on, master ; but
what does that signify ! The place is like
a rabbit warren; there's a dozen passages
only known to the rightful owners ; a
dozen doors as open secret-like into the
west wing. You can smell the mouldering
walls and the rotten floors when you
pass by the big staircase, for all its been'
shut off this hundred years, and closed
with boards and green baize that the
great, long-legged spiders and wood-houses
crawl over. What's doors to
ghosts ?"

Ghosts ! What are you talking
about ? D'ye think I take heed of such
rubbish ?"

It may be rubbish, but I've heard as
murdered men must walk till they're laid
with bell and candle, and whose to lay

Master Tom, when his body's Oh,

good Lord ! what are you looking at,
master?" .

BARNABAS AND HIS COURT.

Hold your cursed tongue, and go
sit over yonder where the curtain
hangs."

THE MEETING OF OLD FRIENDS,

T was a wretched existence that
Slink led even in the broad light
of day, when Barnabas himself
was free from superstitious apprehensions.


Humphrey Blake, having sifted all the
evidence he could collect, had arrived
at a tolerably close approximation to the
truth. Why Doctor Blandly pooh-poohed
his conclusions he did not know ; he was
equally in the dark as to the true relationship
of Barnabas to the Talbot family.

What he maintained, with the persevering
obstinacy of conceit, was that Barnabas
was an imposter, and in all probability
Master Tom's murderer. Doctor Blandly's
obstinacy in refusing to credit his belief
piqued the egotistical old man's pride, and
strengthened his desire to prove the truth
of his convictions. One person could if
he chose reveal the fact, and he was
Slink.

But Slink, for a very good reason,
was silent and stubborn, and refused not
only to tell the latter events in his
master's career, but to reveal any of his
antecedents, despite the most artful and
persevering cross-examination to which
the steward subjected him. Wrath
against him for his contumacy rather than
for any supposed participation in the
murder, Blake unwisely removed the one
chance he had of making discoveries — he
forbade Jenny, on pain of being sent away

to her maiden aunt in Lancashire, to
speak to SUnk. On the other hand, he
threatened Slink with the most severe
punishment if he caught him sneaking
about the lodge.

By these means he hoped to bring the
lad to confess ; but as time went on and
Slink made no sign of submission, he extended
his punishment by forbidding the
workers on the estate to have any communication
with Slink, so that the poor
fellow suffered all the pains of ostracism,
with the additional pain of knowing those
who shunned him for old friends. Master
Blake refused to let him have even the
company of a dog, and forbade him to
enter any of the stables except that set
apart for his master's horse. There would
have been pleasure in shooting hares with
a dog to start them from their coverts ;
there was none in hunting alone.

One morning he shot a woodpigeon,

VOL. III. 51

and as lie was jumping down the bank
into the road, to secure the fluttering bird,
his ears were greeted with the sound
of a well-remembered voice, crying in a
rich brogue :

Well done, me boy ; I couldn't a hit
um better myself."

Turning round he discovered the old
pedlar, Barney O'Crewe, seated on the
bank, with his pack on one side of him, a
bottle on the other, and three inches of
black clay pipe between his fingers.

Who faix, 'tis my own state friend,
Toby !" the pedlar exclaimed, rising and
then grasping Slink's hand, he added :
I'm charmed to renew th' acquaintance,
darling."

The devil himself, with such a warm
demonstration of friendship, would have
been welcome to the unhappy Slink ; whatever
doubts he might have had as to
the pedlar's sincerity were forgotten.

and hearing the unctions voice, lie could
only remember the songs and stories
which had delighted him in the loft on the
night of their previous meeting. He
grinned from ear to ear, and beamed
grateful acknowledgement of the friendly-overtures.


An' yeare out in the mornun a shooting'
birds and bastes, like a rale gentleman, as
yeare."

Slink nodded assent.

It does me good to see the same,"
continued the pedlar. " And is the master
wit yer ?"

He's at the Hall, being laid up with
a broken leg, but it's nigh healed now."

Ah ! he's got into the Hall, has he ?
good luck to him ; and he's taken his
own proper name, Mr. Thaophilus Talbot,
Esquire?"

Slink nodded again.

Well, my boy, ye shall just take me

51—2

up to the Hall the way yere come, for
I'm not proud, and I've a mighty predilection
against passing the lodge, which
is the raison I've been resting myself on
this sod for the last hour, taken a philosophical
look at things. Putt your lips,
to commence wit, at the bottle,
darling ; you know the flavor of it, ye
civil, ye deu ! Putt the bird in your
pocket, 'tis an illigant bird, to be
sure, and a northern' sin to lave it
behind."

Slink pocketed the bird, and with a
glance down the road to be sure that
Master Blake was not in sight,
assisted the old pedlar in climbing up
the bank and entering the wood. When
these difficulties were overcome, the
garrulous Barney recommenced talking,
leaning affectionately upon the arm of his
young friend.

I've been a prayun to the blessed

saints for ye, darling, and I hope to goodness
the master traces ye kindly."

That's all right," said Slink.

"Because 'tis a jewel in his crown to
have a faithful servant, and there's few in
the world that's the likes of you, civil a
wan ! ye deserve to be treated handsome,
and ye shall be, for oim gun to stay a
bit wit the master, and I'll spake a good
word in your favor, besides entertaining'
ye wit all the beautiful songs and stories
in my recollection, wit a taste of the
bottle in betwixt and beware."
• Slink's face expanded in the broadest of
grins.

Ye shall take another taste of the
same, immediate as a token, darling."

He stopped, drew out the stone bottle
from his pack, and having administered
the dose and resumed his march, he said,
in a tone more wheedling and soft than
ever :

'' 'Tis the blessed saints as guided ye
to me this mornun in answer to my
prayers, for I've been a dun to see you
a long time, and have an arable conversation
wit ye. And now ye shall tell
me all what's been a liappenin' to ye
since I bade ye good-bye at the ' Lone
Crow.' "

He paused to give Slink an opportunity
of acting upon his suggestion, but finding
bim disinclined to break silence lie
continued :

I've been making inquiries in the
town, and the inn beyond the hill, and
they tell me that Mister Thomas Talbot
has been really murthered, but I can't
behave it; is it tlirue, now ?"

Slink nodded.

"Why wasn't I burned a lawyer?"
Barney asked himself, and then with a
smile he said : '' So you know he was
murthered. Now can you tell me in

secret and confidence who murthered
'urn ?"

No, I can't," said Slink, stoutly.

Well, that bothers me completely, for
they tells me it was the master as murthered
'um, and seen' you follows 'um
like his own blessed shudder, 'tis impossible
he could have done it and you
not know. So I say, darling, that yeare
mistuk. Master Thomas was not murthered."


'' Yes he was."

But I say he was nut ; and so how
can ye say he was?"

"Because he was shot and " Slink

stopped suddenly.

And buried decent in the river.
Three for you, my state friend ; but how
d'ye know he was shot, seen' his body
was never brought to light ?"

Slink bent his brows in silence.

I'd a been a real judge, and done

notion but putt on the black cap from
mornuii' til night, if Providence had
educated me to the laigal profession,"
thought the pedlar.

'look here, Sir," said Slink, "you'll
see the master directly, and he can tell
you all you want to know, I daresay.
Let's talk about something else."

The amiable pedlar was so well
pleased with himself and Slink that he
made no objection to this proposal, but
entered at once upon the narration of
several anecdotes, which made the road
to the Hall too short to his admiring companion.


Barnabas was no less pleased than
Slink had been to see the pedlar. He
had need of a lively companion, and
hoped that his father's superior cunning
would enable him in a short time to be
independant of assistance. He concealed
his feelings, however, as well as he could.

and only responded to O'Crewe's flattery
and protestations of " undying affection"
with a grunt or a nod.

Nothing daunted by this cold reception,
the pedlar exerted himself to amuse his
son, and get him into a good temper, and
so far succeeded in raising him from this
morbid prostration, that lie saw the
candles lit without a shudder, and bade
Slink get out of the room directly after,
partly because he could do without him,
bub chiefly because Slink evidently enjoyed
the pedlar's conversation, and wished to
stay.

Banished from the room, Slink contented
himself with listening at the keyhole
to the pedlar's songs and stories,
until clapping his eye to the key-hole,
after a minute's silence, he perceived him
walking towards the door, when he retired
with alacrity, and took refuge in a deep
embrasure by the great stairs. From this

hiding-place he saw the door open, and
the pedlar come out and stand in a listening
attitude for a moment or two, then
return to the room, closing the door after
him.

It was some time before he dared
return to the door, but at length the
misery of sitting alone in the dark and
silence while good things were being said
in the adjacent room overcame his fears
of discovery, and he cautiously approached
the convenient key-hole, and bent his ear
to listen.

'Tis mighty hard, and so it is, to
get the hold truth out of ye, Barney, my
darling," the pedlar was saying. '' It
does ye credit, and I'm proud on ye. If
you was as simple as your servant, Slink,
I'd turn ye inside out like a pair o' leather
breeches in half a mint. If ye snowed
how I've been a prayun to the holy
saints, and struggling' and striven' to

learn the blessed truth, to help ye in
your misfortunes, we'd be more arable
and complaisant. Isn't it all for your
own good, my blessed Barney, that I'd
have you revile the holy secrets of your
bussom to me ? Sure, I learned more
from that state innocent lamb, Mr. Slink,
in two minutes than ye're condescended
to tell me in half-an-hour."

What has he told you — blabbing
hound !"

Nothing at all but to your honour.
He only told me how you shot um and
thro wed his body in the father."

It's a lie."

To be sure, I made a mistake. 'Twas
you shot 'im, and the lad that throned um
into the river."

'i'll stop the fool's tongue; I'll have
his life tomorrow."

Barney, my darling, yeare right. You

shall have his life — but not tomorrow,
my brave boy."

What do you mean ?"

Listen to me, sweetest. Ye want
evidence of Master Tom's death in order
that ye may come into your holy rights
and trew inheritance, don't ye ?"

"Well?"

Suppose tomorrow mornun, soon as
the glorious sun is a-spreadun a blush of
beauty over the charms face o' nature,
I go to the fairest magistrate and says,
Yer honour, there's a secret on my
mind that I must revile or my conscience
will drive me to desperation. I
know who 'twas that murthered and did
for that gentleman of quality, Mr. Thomas
Talbot'"

"Will you betray me?"

"Not a bit of it, darling. Putt down
the bottle when you've took a drink.
This is how the whole business wull be

transacted. I'll say to the magistrate,
If it phase your honour, Sor, I was
walkun' along quite peaceable by the side
of the river, thinking' o' nothing in the
world but the blessed saints in heaven,
when I see a man on horseback comus'
towards me, and taken' um to be no
better than a highwayman, I jumped
t'other side the hedge, and laid there wit
my pack in mortal trepidation and
almighty fear, till of a sudden I heard
a pistol-shot and a scrape, and the next
moment I seed a horse run bye without
no one on his back at all at all, and the
blessed Virgin inspiring' me wit the
courage of a lion I crept along behind the
hedge so as I couldn't be seen till I come
in sight of a blackguard as was dragged'
a gentleman into the could water. By
the light of the blessed moon ' "

'* There wasn't a moon."

T lanky e for the hint, my charmer.

'By the light of the state stars I seethe
countenance of the gentleman and the
face of the blackguard perfectly clair.
The face of the blackguard I shall never
forget to me dun day. It terrified me to
such a degree that I took to my heels to
save myself When I've told the magistrate
this I shall wipe the respiration
off my brow, and I shall continue : ' Well,
Sor, gun wit my pack to Talbot Hall to
see if I could sell the gentry a paper of
pins, or a small-comb, who should I found
there, in the livery of a sarvant, but the
very blackguard I see a murthering
the gentleman by the river, and it's
him I'd have you take into custody.'
What do you think o' that, Barney
darling ?"

"What am I to say, for they'll
come questioning me, plague take

em."

*' Notion at all, darling. Devil a word.

Ye'll just take your oath that you don't
know notion about ut, but that sure
enough ye gave Slink lave to go and see
his sweetheart, and he didn't come back
to ye till the mornun, wit a cock-and-bull
story of gettun drunk over night ; and
since then, ye'll add, the garment has
been playun ducks and drakes wit the
money like water, gettun drink, and
flirted wit the wenches."

And then Slink will tell his story.
How then ?"

*' Let um. Wait till I get in the
witness-box. I know how to manage
um. I'll terrify um wit my eye. I'll
make the varmint swear black's white,
and tremble and stutter and make such
a fool of a liar of himself that the intelligent
jury will be bound to hang um. I'll
get the compliments and flattery of the
judge and all the illigant lawyers for me
ability, trust me."

'' And what good will all this dome
?"

"What good, d'ye ax? Faix, and 'tis
not my own son that will ax the question
twice. Sure, when they've hanged Slink
for northern' your brother, they can't
dispute that the murthered man's dead ;
and then what's to bar your inheritance ?
And we will hang un as sure as justice."


Slink waited to hear no more.
About ten o'clock Barnabas roared for
him — having emptied the great pot of ale.
He roared a second time, and there was
no answer.

Then the pedlar went to the
door, and called out in his blandest
tones :

Toby, darling, who don't ye come
when yer master calls ? Where are you,
sweetest?"

But his seductive appeal failed to elicit

response from Slink, and for a very good
reason : lie was ten miles from Sevenoaks
on his road to London.

Wot. III.

C2

FLIGHT AND PURSUIT.

slink made his way to London
through Ightham, Wrexham
and Gravesend, feeling himself

safer on the road he knew. He
had not a farthing in his pocket, and
in the morning hunger became unendurable.
A stable-keeper gave him sixpence
and as much as he wanted to eat
and drink for a day's work in his stable.
At night he continued his journey, but
the rain falling heavily compelled him to

take refuge in a barn, where he slept until
the morning.

About midday Saturday he arrived at
Edmonton, and rang the bell at Doctor
Blandly's. Old Kate came to the gate,
and bade him call in the evening ; her
master and Jerry had gone a-fishing.
She could not say where they were,
and advised him to 2^0 wait in the
'^ Bell."

This was capital advice to a man with
money, but Slink had spent his sixpence
on the road, and was once mare hungry
and penniless. He dared not sit on the
settle outside the inn, for he doubted not
but that the pedlar had sworn information
against him, and that all the country
was in pursuit of him.

He turned up the little lane beside the
Doctor's garden, and lay in a meadow
until the sun went down, then he carefully
approached the main road, and again ran

O -J

52—2

at the Doctor's bell. This time Jerry
came in response.

Master's dining, but you can come in.
If your business bent very important, you
had better wait till he's finished."

Oh, my business bent important.
It's only a matter of life and death, and
as I've waited since the morning, there's
no reason why I shouldn't wait another
hour or so — albeit I've had nothing
betwixt my teeth since ten o'clock."

Oh, you're one of those 'tis-but-tisn't,
might-be-but can't, gentry, I see. You'd
better follow me, case I get blamed for
your fault."

Slink followed Jerry, and having duly
scraped his feet, and rubbed them well
heels and side on a mat, he took off his
hat, smoothed down his hair, and entered
the dining-room when Jerry was satisfied
with his respectability.

Well, my man ; what have you got to

say to me ?" the Doctor asked, with his
mouth full.

Slink twisted his hat round, and glanced
from the Doctor to Jerry, and back again
to the Doctor without replying.

'' Don't you hear what's said to you?"
asked Jerry.

"Yes, Sir; but if you please, I don't
want to speak before you. Sir."

The Doctor laughed heartily. '' Well,
you won't mind his knowing where you
come from, I daresay" said he.

Sevenoaks, your honour."

Jerry, take that young fellow down
to the kitchen, and give him a mug of
ale and a thumb-piece; he hasn't anything
in his stomach, I know by the sound
of his voice. And don't worry him, do
you hear, Jerry ? When you're a bit
refreshed, return to me here, my
lad."

Slink obeyed with alacrity, and reappeared

in the dining-room surprisingly
soon, considering the quantity of ale and
bread and cheese he had consumed in the
interval ; but he had a wide mouth and a
large throat, and his excellent digestive
organs were equal to any task imposed
upon them.

Now, my lad, what is it?" the Doctor
asked, clearing a space in front of him to
rest his arms upon, as Jerry withdrew and
closed the door. " Have you come from
Mr. Blake, the steward ?"

Not exactly, your honour, but very
near, as one may say. It was the
steward's daughter as told me to come to

you."

His daughter— the wench with red
cheeks?"

And beautiful dark eyes, your honour,"
Slink sighed.

Ha ! ha ! The same story everywhere,"
the Doctor said half to himself.

Well, well ; and why has she sent you tome?"


'because she said you would stand by
me if I told you the whole truth, and
wouldn't let them hang me."

Great Heavens ! — hang you ! — what
for ?"

'' For murdering Master Tom."

Doctor Blandly raised himself in his
chair, and looked at Slink in blank
astonishment for a minute, then said in an
altered tone :

If this deed is yours alone, tell me
nothing, I am loath, to be instrumental to
the death even of a criminal, unless it is
absolutely my duty. If then you killed this
poor gentleman of your own will and
purpose, say not a word to me, but go
out by that door while I close my eyes.
But if — as by your appearance it seems
to me more likely — you have been but the
tool in the hands of a more villainous man,

tell me what is on your mind, and I will
do what I may to befriend you."

God bless your honour ! the guilt is
not on my head. Let me tell you just
what happened the night afore last as I
listened at the door in Talbot Hall." And
then Slink related the conversation he had
overheard between Barnabas and his
father; in conclusion he said : '' Ashen I
heard their scheme to bring me to the
gallows, then I made up my mind to runaway
into the woods and hide myself
there ; but I couldn't go without first saying
good-bye to my sweetheart, and
begging her to disbelieve the wicked things
they said against me, and it was she as
bade me come to you and confess everything,
' For,' says she ' the Doctor's the
justest man that ever lived, and won't see
you hung for your master's crime,' she
says."

The Doctor spoke, but Slink heard

nothing but the sound of the bell which
was at that moment pulled. Looking
through the window, he saw over the tops
of the gate, the eye and wrinkled forehead,
and grey hair of Barney 0' Crewe,

My G-od !" he cried, '' 'tis the pedlar !
Hide me. Doctor — hide me !"

One word — is his story true ? —did
you kill Mr. Talbot ?"

No; I swear to Heaven I didn't,"

Then all the pedlars in the world
shan't touch you. Go upstairs, and in the
first room you come to, lock the door, and
crawl under the bed if you like. Jerry,
bring the man at the gate in here if he
wants to see me, and say not a word
more than is necessary to him on the
way."

Slink followed the Doctor's advice to
the letter, while Jerry admitted the pedlar
and conducted him into Doctor Blandly's
presence without returning a single word

to Ins bland inquiries, and persuasive
addresses.

"tis Docteur Blandly I have the
honour of saluting," said the pedlar.

That's Tus name. You can leave the
room, Jerry. Return when I ring the
bell."

'Tis a jewel of a servant behave,
Doctor Blandly — a state, civil spoken old
man, as ever drawer the blessed breath of
life, with a decent habit of holding' his
tongue, which leaves notion to find fault
wit in his speech."

And who may you be. Sir ?"

The question's a very proper one, and
does you credit, Docthor, and I'll answer
ye without any reservation. I'm Mr.
Barnabas O'Crewe."

Barnabas O'Crewe— the father of the
man who calls himself Theophilus
Talbot ?"

'that's as hereafter may be; at

— «

present you may take it that I'm this particular
friend. In the first place, Doctor,
yeare doubtless aware that the murtherer
of Mr. Thomas Talbot, is discovered and
brought to light."

Who is the murderer?"

*' Toby Slink by name — the varmint as
stole Mr. Thomas's horse, shot his dog, and
finally slaughtered the young gentleman
and thrown him into the could river. I see
'um do it wit my own eyes."

Have you informed the magistrates ?"

I have. I've took my Bible oath on
it; and the bey's as good as hanged.
Albeit, he's given us the slip — bad luck to
um, and can't be found nowheres. However,
i'll found um, lave me alone for that,
I'll onairth um like a fish from the
blessed ocean. Now, Docthor, we'll presume
that he's hanged, and drawer and
quartered, and all complete, amen ! and
there's no murder obstacle to Thaophilus

Talbot coming into possession of the
funds yeare so kindly taken care of for

him."

*' Not a farthing, I will throw the
estate into Chancery."

I beg to differ wit ye, Doctor, on a
'pint of law. If the bey's hung for having'
murthered Mr. Thomas, how will ye
prove that the gentleman is alive ?"

*' You're a cunning rascal !" cried
Doctor Blandly, striking the table with
his fist.

*' Thank you kindly for the compliment.
I trust I'm a bit cliver in the law.
Now Thaophilus has promised that I
shall live like a prince when he comes
into his fortune— he's wullin to make
splendid terms wit me to hold my
tongue and live in his company."

Then why don't you hold your
tongue ?"

*' Becase I set no value on all these

riches, for two or three reasons. In the
must place, I don't think I should get
'em ; in the second, I want money at
once to hunt up that varmint Slink, for
the public officers won't do their duty
without, bad luck to 'em ; and in the third
place, I don't hanker after livun in the
society of Thaophilus — he's contracted
an unpleasant habit of waken up in the
middle o' the night and seen ghosts
that makes my blood run cold and
uncomfortable."

"Well, well — come to the point."

Bead I'm comus to it straight.
Docther dear, y' have a kind o' spite
against Thaophilus."

I have the same feeling towards other
villains."

'' Quite right for you, Docther. I
know that we'd much rather see Mr.
Gerard in Talbot Hall than his half-brother—
for I'll tell you candid and

three. Doctor, there being no witnesses
present, that Mr. Gerard is no son of
mine. And now without no more bating:
about the bush, if you'll jDromuse me
faithful to give me a trifle — say two
or three hunted pounds a year for
the whole of my life till I die — I'll
prove that Mr. Thaophilus is an imposter."


You will say that of your own
son ?"

'' To be sure will I. For I don't like
the principals of um. That getting up o'
nights ain't natural and it ain't pleasant,
and he'd hate his own father if he had
the chance, bad luck to um. I'll swear
he was three months old before ever he
was registered, and that Admiral Talbot,
Heaven rest his soul — was no more the
bey's father than you are."

With knitted brows Doctor Blandly
looked at Barney 0' Crewe in silence

whilst "he considered his proposal. Had
he his own inclinations alone to follow, he
would have rung the bell for Jerry to
show the old vagabond the garden-gate at
once, but Gerard was to be thought of,
and it was for Gerard to decide whether
the evidence of a rascal should be bought
and paid for. He felt that the advantages
were too great to be relinquished hastily
for a scruple, which after all, was one of
delicacy rather than conscience.

Well, Docther dear, and what do you
think of ut r"

What I think of it is of small
importance. How Mr. Gerard Talbot
takes your offer remains to be seen. 1
shall set the facts before him tomorrow,
and on Monday, if you call here at ten
o'clock, you shall know whether he accepts
or rejects your proposal."

The Doctor rang the bell, Jerry
answered immediately, and his presence

stopped Barney 0' Crewe from saying
anything further upon a matter which he
had every reason to keep secret. He had
a mortal aversion to witnesses.

QUICK AND DEAD.

r^-^^HE pedlar had parted from his
p^ k.^i ^^^ early on Friday morning
^*-^^^)l with the avowed intention of
swearing information against Toby Slink,
with the nearest magistrate, and returning
to his son " immaidjitly."

Will you come wit me, Barney,
darling?" he asked.

'Isn't likely," replied Barnabas.

'maybe yeare wise, though yeare not
sociable, the saints love ye. Rape yer

VOL. III.



spirits up, me charmer ; I'll be back wit
ye in the twinkling of an oye."

As a matter of fact the old man never
went near the magistrate, having resolved
in the course of the night to take that
somewhat hazardous course if he could
not make satisfactory terms with Doctor
Blandly. '' A pig by the leg's worth a
dozen in the bog ; for it's all the world to
a cheney orange you won't catch a hair of
their backs — the sly garments," he said to
himself, as lighting his pipe he trudged
away from Talbot Hall, with his face
towards London and his pack on his
back.

Barnabas drank, smoke and dozed
until mid day ; then feeling hungry he
limped away to the kitchen to get the
remains of the hare they had been eating
for breakfast, and which his father had
cleared away, saying he would make the
place look a bit '' decent" in case the magistrates

came to question Barnabas. There
was not a scrap of food in the kitchen, and
the pack which the pedlar had likewise removed
for " decency" was not there either.
Barnabas extended his search from place
to place until his patience was exhausted,
then he took to smashing everything
breakable that came in his way, until his
fury at finding himself cheated and robbed
was abated; after that he sat down and
tried to form a plan of revenge. His
father had hinted at the "Lone Crow" of
compromising with Doctor Blandly, and
Barnabas had no doubt that he had gone
to sell him.

What could he do to frustrate the plans
of the subtle old man ? Nothing. He
felt himself utterly helpless. Not a soul
stood by him ; even Slink had abandoned
him. His pockets were again empty — for
his father, though ignorant of the game of
piquet, had shown himself an adept at

cheating, and fleeced him of the small
residue remaining from the forty shillings
brought him by the sale of Slink's horse.
And he was hungry — villainously hungry.
The very fact of not being able to get
anything to eat increased his appetite.
Drinking and smoking only heightened
his imaginary necessity for food. At
length, flinging the old jug at the wall, he
rose up from his seat resolved to sell his
mare. Prudence told him that before
long he might have need of her on the
road ; " Curse the future," he cried, in
reply.

He limped to the stable, with his hat
wrong side forward over his e3^es, and his
stick in his hand. The mare had been
neglected since Slink gave her a parting
feed, and whinnied as he flung the doors
back. " Get over," he growled, hitting
her on the flank savagely ; the mare
obeyed whisking her tail and showing the

white of her eyes. He determined to
leave the saddle for another day, and
having untied the halter from the ring on
the manger, he gave the rope a jerk to
turn the mare. She was unused to such
neglect and rough treatment in the stable,
and turned with so little care as to bang
Barnabas rudely against the side of the
stable. Exasperated by this addition to
the morning's wrongs, he lifted his stick,
and clenching his teeth, brought it down
with all his force upon her back. A kick,
a bound, and a scuffle, and the mare
wrenched the halter out of her master's
hand, bolted into the yard, and through
the open gate into the wide and open
park. She was a speck in the distance
when Barnabas next caught sight of
her.

'' The Devil's against me," he said,
throwing himself upon the grass.

He would have taken the saddle in the

town to sell, but for the superstitious
belief that the ill-luck of the day, Friday,
would attend him there, and that the
saddler, as well as the Devil, would be
against him. The rain began to fall, but
he lay there in dogged indifference until
he was wet through, then shivering with
cold he shuffled into the Hall, and sat
down beside the beer barrel, where he
drank and smoked until about four
o'clock. The ale did not make him drunk
it did not even stupid him, it simply
depressed him and made his headache.


He was so completely wretched that
had there been a hanging rope or other
ready means of destroying himself at hand,
he would have committed suicide. He
left the barrel with a curse, and went out
again into the air. The rain was still
falling, heavily, persistently ; there was no
break in the leaden sky. The ground

was soft and spongy, the only sound was
the splashing of rain-water and the chattering
of sparrows under the eaves ;
the horizon was veiled with mist'
clouds.

To stay amid such dismal surroundings
would make him mad he felt, so he limped
away from it, down the broad drive and
through the sodden lane to the nearest
ale-house, where if he found no one to
sympathise with him, he should at least
have the excitement of quarrelling with
the innkeeper when it came to the question
of paying for what he had consumed.


When the time came for closing the inn
he was turned out, and driven into the
middle of the road with a kick from the
indignant innkeeper, who had unwisely
supplied him with bread and cheese,
drink and tobacco to the value of thirteen-pence.


The rain fell still heavily, without
inter pittance. There was no light.

Now running against a bank, now
stumbling into a ditch, now walking forwards
without the slightest knowledge of
whither his footsteps were leading him,
Barnabas by slow steps came to the lodge,
which was discovered by the light gleaming
through the chinks of the window-shutter.
A horrible dread had seized his
mind that he should have to enter that
Hall and sleep in the dark, for he did not
know where the tinder-box was to be
found; perhaps his father had stolen that
with the other things.

He knocked, and when Jenny replied,
he begged her to give him a lantern in
the most abject tone he could command.
After a few minutes Jenny
opened the window and handed him the
light.

I suppose you're afraid to open the

door to me," he growled, when he had the
lantern in his hand.

I'm no more afraid of you than I am
of a rat ; but the rats and you too are best
outside," she answered, closing the shutters
again.

With the lantern swinging by his
side he hobbled up the drive, never
raising his eyes from the ground until
he was close by the terrace steps. The
terrors of solitude in the home of the man
he had murdered were already taking hold
of his imagination. He dreaded the awful
silence, broken at long intervals by the
strange slight sounds which seem inseparable
from an old house, and which have no
explanation. He dreaded the snatches of
sleep that would overpower his senses for
awhile, and end with the sudden awakening
from a dream so hideous as to defy passive
endurance. He dreaded being aroused
from forgetfulness by the sputtering of a

candle, to find shadows leaping from the
floor to the ceiling in the flickering light
of a fallen wick.

He paused on the first step to ask himself
if it were not wiser to sleep in the
empty stable, and then he raised his eyes
to the house furtively, and for the first
time. There was a light there. Not in
the banqueting chamber, but in the room
on the other side of the entrance. The
lantern rattled as it hung on his quivering
finger.

What did the light signify? Had
his father and Slink combined, and
laid evidence against him, and were
the officers of justice come to take him
away to gaol ? That was the least of his
fears ; the more terrible were indefinable —
a vague, awful apprehension of the unknown
conjured up a thousand ghostly
figures, grotesque and horrible. But the
light was real; it glowed steadily. He

could count the bricks in the casement.
There was nothing supernatural in the
appearance ; no figures such as danced
before his eyes in the delirium of fear
looked out at him, grinning with fleshless
chops, beckoning with rotten fingers !
And if the dead were not feasting in that
house what had he to fear ? Not the
living. Justice would have followed him
to the ale-house and trapped him there,
not waited with uncovered light in the
Hall for him to run like a fool into an
united trap.

'' 'Tis the pedlar returned," he said to
himself, with an effort to convince himself
on the point. And why should it not be?
Might he not have been detained by the
magistrates ? That was most probable.
Yet it was with trembling steps he ascended
to the terrace. He paused to
listen; not a sound reached his straining
ear. The sot had fallen asleep, he concluded,

still lie dared not lay his hand upon •
the door. He stole towards the window ;
they were too high from the ground for
him to see into the lower part of the room.
He went back to the door, and raised his
hand as if to turn the handle, then
dropped it like a thing of lead by his side.
He looked around him. Within the radius
of light cast by the candle in his lantern
he saw the black moss upon the grey
stone of the terrace, and the rain dropping
vertically; beyond — nothing. Should he
call the pedlar ? His throat was too dry,
and his tongue had lost its office. He must
do something — enter the house or fly.
Fly — whither could he fly ? If the dead
was in the house, would it let him sleep

or rest

He pursed his lips, whistled low, and
listened. He fancied he heard a voice.
It gave him courage, for he had caught
the pedlar speaking aloud to himself the

night before. He whistled again and
louder. Certainly a voice spoke. The
light upon the casement moved slowly. A
dark figure came to the window, but from
where he stood Barnabas could see
nothing but a break in the light. The
figure retired ; a door creaked. The lantern
fell with a clatter upon the stones
at his feet ; there was a rushing in his
ear as if water were closing over his head.
The chain upon the door fell, the bolt
grated in the lock, an unseen hand
opened the great oak door, aud raised a
candle high, and under the light of it
Barnabas saw standing face to face with
him, in the very habit that he wore, Tom
Talbot !

With a rattling in his parched throat he
fell forward, flat upon the wet stone, like
a log.

PANDORA S BOX.

HEN Lady Betty looked from the
fortress under the pulpit on the
following Sunday morning, she
was surprised to see Gerard standing alone
in Doctor Blandly' s pew. She had seen the
Doctor on Saturday morning in perfect
health, and was at a loss to account for
his absence.

'« Why are you alone, Gerard ?" she
asked, when they met after the service.

** It is by my fault, I fear," he replied.
'^ I was late in leaving town this morning,

and believing that Doctor Blandly
would go on without me, I came directly
to the church, instead of going to him
first in the ordinary way. He doubtless
has stayed at home waiting for me."

I was afraid some accident had happened
to him, you looked so grave and
serious this morning."

'' I am not a gay fellow at the best of
times," said Gerard.

Lady Betty looked at him with quick
suspicion, and asked :

Are these not the best of times then,
Gerard ?"

I think we must go round by the
road ; the heavy rains of this past
miserable week must have made the
meadow impassable."

'' Let it be the road," she answered,
and they walked on in silence until they
were clear of the homeward-wending congregation,
she glancing furtively now

and again at him, then pressing his arma
little closer to her side, she said : " Tell
me what is the matter, Gerard."

Mr. Kemble has read the first act of
mj comedy and condemned it."

'ris that all?" cried Lady Betty, with
a laugh. " Why, then, be gay. Merit
has ever to face the spite of envy."

But Mr. Kemble is neither envious
nor spiteful. 'Twas with pain he gave
me his honest criticism to save me from
greater disappointment and waste of
time."

Granted he be honest in his opinion,
what then ? 'Tis but the opinion of one
man, as likely to be mistaken as another.
Were we not all charmed with your work
when you read it to us under the apple-tree
? do you think Doctor Blandly
would flatter ? do you think I am insincere
?"

God forbid ! 'Tis because you are

sincere in your friendship that I cannot
take your judgment as unblessed."

And if 'tis so, why should you be
discouraged ? Say that the act has less
merit than we believe, and more faults
than Mr. Kemble, with all his generous
amity, can point out, 'tis but the fifth
part of your comedy, and your comedy
is but a fractional part of that which
your brain contains. If we were judged
by single efforts, the ablest of mankind
might be debased, the feeblest exalted.
Do we judge Shakespeare by the first few
pages that he wrote?"

Dear girl, would you have me put on
wings, and fly to a height from which the
fall must break me?"

But you have genius to sustain you.
You took up the pen, feeling that you
could write, and that consciousness should
be your assurance."

'* I took up the pen by necessity, and
VOL. III. 64

learnt too late that poets are born, not
made. I am not a poet ; I am — nothing
!"

The tone of despondency in which he
spoke was stronger than argument; it
forced Lady Betty to doubt her own judgment.
She was silent for some seconds,
then she said :

Gerard, you told me one Sunday that
I gave you strength and courage to persevere;
do you remember r"

Perfectly, and 'tis true. If I have
wrote one worthy line, 'twas in a happy
moment which you had made hopeful."

I have not altered, why should my
influence fail? Let me inspire you with
yet greater hope. 'Tis my dearest wish
to help you, to be of womanly service to
you, to hold the cup to your lips, and
brighten your existence by all the means
I have."

Gerard felt his heart stirred, and his

blood running quicker fcbrougli his veins
as he listened to these affectionate words
and looked into the girl's sweet earnest
face. He thought how admirable she
was, how weak he.

'' You put me to the blush," he said ;
I am ashamed of my faint heart."

'Tis diffidence alone," said she ;
your only fault is in setting too high
a value on the careless or partial criticism
of this Mr. Kemble. And who is he ? a
player, forsooth ! who judges a play by
the scope it affords his powers."

'' 'Tis not a careless criticism ; he
pointed out a hundred defects which I
perceive are real."

'rand I," cried Lady Betty, "will
point out a thousand merits which you
shall not be able to deny. After dinner
we will go through the manuscript together
while Doctor Blandly sleeps."

'Tis burnt."

54—2

No matter; I do believe I remember
every word that you have wrote and
road. I will recall the passages, and you
shall write them'*

Lady Betty, you shall not waste your
labours on a fruitless task. Give me your
help and sympathy in achieving that
which is within the power of an ordinary
man, and we shall both succeed, you in
holding me to my purpose, I in gaining
the fair reward for my work."

Why, that is well said, Gerard. Men
do not live by writing plays alone. There
are many honourable means of rising to
eminence and fortune beside the stage.
A poet's rank is not the noblest. Oh,
you are wise and right. 'Tis only a
woman who would attempt with pertinacious
obstinacy to obtain a position for
which Nature unfitted her. And poets !
what are they, Gerard ? Lazy and indolent
as a rule, careless in their persons,

untidy in their habits. I wouldn't have
you look less like a gentleman for all the
adulation m the world. Then playwrights,
again ! Dear heart ! what a life
they lead ! 'Tis said they drink and die
prematurely, and the people they meet
and speak to, and get to like behind the
scenes ! You would have lost your delicacy,
you would have seen me but seldom,
and then only to make me regret. I'm
best pleased you have renounced the idea
of writing plays for a profession ; not
that my opinion is altered in the least."

Gerard could only listen and love.

'' You could have wrote a play as good
as any of Mr. Garrick's, that's certain,"
she continued. " You can write for your
own amusement and our pleasure ; your
theatre shall be the garden lawn, your
audience good old Doctor Blandly and myself,
with Mr. Baxter for a critic ; his snore
will be your only censure, unless you make

the "hero too bold. But you shall work for
some higher end than the amusement of
the idle. Couldn't you be an astronomer ?
There is something majestic in that study,
and astronomers live to a great age.
They seem to me almost as grand as
patriarchs, and I never heard of one falling
into bad habits."

I fear it's a poor business in a lucrative
sense. It would pay a man better
to find five shillings than a new planet."

'' Are you laughing at me ?" Lady Betty
asked, reproachfully.

Laughing at you ?" cried he, looking
down with tumultuous emotion into her
simple wise, beautiful, grave face. " You
dear ! I could worship you for my God !"

He had taken her hand, and as he spoke
he pressed it fiercely, and his ardent gaze
seemed to scorch her very soul.

The blood left her face, she drew her
hand from his and turned her eyes away

with a frightened look. It struck her
with the force of a sudden discovery that
Gerard loved her, and loved her as a
brother road not.

She walked to Doctor Blandly' s gate
without one word. Her silence contrasted
oddly with her previous volubility.
Gerard seemed equally embarrassed. His
love was a secret no longer. Did he
regret that a sudden accession of passion
had overcome his habitual reserve ? Iso.

The barrier was broken down, and the
forces of love and passion took possession
of his soul, sweeping reason and prudential
considerations before them as they
rushed from restraint.

If she will let me hope to make her
my wife," he said to himself, " what
difficulty will be insurmountable ? Position,
money, whatsoever is necessary to
her happiness, I will obtain, if she blesses
me with that one encouragement."

And for this encouragement lie prepared
to ask her, when dinner should be
finished, and Doctor Blandly taking his
customary doze.

GERARD TURNS HIS FACE TO THE WALL.

Y dear," said Doctor Blandly,
after greeting Lady Betty,
"when you have removed
your bonnet and tippet, you will come and
drink a glass of Madeira with me in the
front room ; our dinner will be a little
later than usual to-day."

On Sunday, dinner was generally served
at half-past one punctually, in order that
Jerry and Kate might profit by the
Reverend John Baxter's afternoon service,
the present departure from that rule made

no impression upon Lady Betty, whose
thoughts were troubled by the recent discovery
she had made of Gerard's feeling
towards her. She ran upstairs to her
room, and sat there for full five minutes
in deep thought before commencing to
make her toilette.

Meanwhile Doctor Blandly led Gerard
into the front room, and insisted upon his
drinking Madeira. Gerard was excited,
and declared he felt no need of refreshment.

*' Drink that, all the same," said the
Doctor.

Gerard tossed off the glass with a laugh,
and then said :

I am afraid I have been the cause of
your staying at home this morning. Sir."

"No, my boy ; I have had visitors, and
my time has been fully engaged — a remarkable
thing for me, you will say. 'Tis
true, a remarkable thing has occurred —
a thing unexpected by me and by you."

Something has happened to Barnabas,"
said Gerard, quickly.

"tis true. Will you have another
glass of Madeira ?"

'' No ; I can hear anything you have to
tell me. Ts he dead?"

I will tell you all that has happened.
Come with me into the garden. Lady
Betty will be here presently, and you must
know at once."

Gerard followed Doctor Blandly into
the garden, impatient for a confirmation
of his suspicions, and to tell the truth, of
his hopes ; for if Barnabas were dead, the
Talbot estate would be his, and he should
be able to offer Lady Betty something
more than an empty hand. A young
countryman in a worn livery was at
the foot of the garden steps. Doctor
Blandly whispered a word to him, and
he, touching his hat, walked sharply
down the garden, past the hedge and

wicket, and into the kitchen-garden
beyond.

In the first place, Gerard," said the
Doctor, touching the young man's arm,
I have seen the father of your half-brother
Barnabas ; he came yesterday,
and offered to swear his paternity, and
reveal the fraud put upon your father."

** That would put me in possession of
my father's estate, and clear his name
from disgrace."

'* So I thought, and I bade the man
come tomorrow to know if you would buy
his services. But listen, he had no sooner
gone than I learnt a still more important
fact. You saw the young fellow to whom
I just now spoke ?"

The country servant."

He is a foolish and dense, but in the
main, honest lad. He has served Barnabas
partly compelled by fear, partly cheated
by a mistaken idea of gratitude. He detailed

the circumstance of Toms disappearance.
Tom was thrown from his
horse, and while he lay stunned upon the
ground, Barnabas shot him. At the same
moment, Tom's horse, in struggling to
rise, kicked Barnabas, breaking his leg.
Unable to re-mount, and fancying he
heard the sound of approaching voices,
he called for assistance to the lad — Toby
Slink, whom he had placed in ambush
near at hand. Slink carried him into an
adjacent corn-field, and in obeyance to his
threats and command, returned to the tow-path
to throw Tom's body into the river.

'' As he laid his hand on Tom's arm,
your brother opened his eyes. The fall
had stunned him ; the bullet had passed
through the fleshy part of his arm.
When the lad recovered from his fright,
he went down on his knees, and prayed
to Tom to forgive him, acknowledging
the part he had been sent to play. Tom

was weak from the loss of blood, still
bewildered by the blow, and knew that
he was at the lad's mercy. He had no
reason to suspect the identity of Barnabas,
and no suspicion of what would result
from his disappearance, so he promised the
lad to hide for a fair month, giving him a
chance of escaping from his master, and
avoiding the punishment Barnabas had
vowed to inflict if his orders were not
carried out successfully. For Tom had left
London with the intention of staying aloof
from Lady Betty, until his unreasonable
jealousy was cured, and here was a means
which he thought "

How do you know what Tom
thought?" Gerard asked, turning deadly
pale.

'' Because he has told me. He is at
the bottom of the garden at this moment,
as hale and hearty, thank God, as ever
he was."

Gerard dropped his chin upon his breast,
and murmured —

I also should thank Grod."

"And you will, dear lad, when this
momentary pang of loss has passed," said
the Doctor tenderly. '' For he who did
most sacrifice, has said that 'tis more
blessed to give than to receive."

With an effort Gerard seemed to free himself
from regretful reflection, as raising his
head quickly, he looked down the garden
towards that part where his brother waited.

Go to him, Gerard," said the Doctor;
I hear Betty's voice."

They separated after a silent grasp of
hands. Doctor Blandly going into the
house, Gerard through the wicket, and
down the fresh-scented vegetable-garden.
The brothers met and embraced, after the
fashion of that time, but in silence, and
then they sat down side by side on the
bench where Doctor Blandly was wont to

sit and admire his healthy cabbages and
bright scarlet beans.

'where is my Betty, Gerard?" Tom
asked, in a low, eager voice.

In the house still, with Doctor
Blandly."

I hunger to see her sweet face again ;
the Doctor tells me that she is looking
thiner and paler than she did."

She has suffered, Tom, and for love
of you."

'' Poor soul ! poor child ! Dear sweetheart
! She shall smile from this day ;
she shall laugh and dance and sing, and
not a grave thought shall come to her of
my making. You will see the bright life
stream into her face like colour to the
opening bud, Gerard ; you shall see her
more happy than the bird upon the bough
there ; so that it will do your heart good
to look upon her."

Yes, yes," Gerard answered.

The Doctor has told me of her
courage, her independence, her fidelity
and trust, outdoing mj imagination,
and shaming mj hopes as all too mean and
contracted. Walk with me, Gerard, I
cannot sit still. Great God, how abundant
are thy blessings !"

Gerard rose and walked by his side,
glad of any change that would help him
to conceal his feelings.

'Tis all incredible !" continued Tom.
To think that when I saw you last,
sitting beside Lady Betty in your chariot
the morning of our duel, I was a hopeless
fallen wretch, standing hid amongst the
shrubs, putting an ill-construction upon her
smiles and gaiety."

Poor soul — she was half-mad for joy
that you had escaped."

I know it. 1 have felt sure that it
was so in my reasonable moments, but

TOL. III. 55

then I was mad with jealousy and shame,
and could be just to no one. I felt myself
then alone in the world, despised, laughed
at, loveless, and now I find that I am
loved as never man was loved before, I
think. My Betty, my wife !"

She has ever thought of you as her
husband."

Blandly has told me so, and of her
love for you because you were my brother.
Truth — love has driven that joy from my
remembrance. 'Tis not alone I find a
wife, but a brother too. Give me your
hand, brother — both. You also have done
brave things. I am told you have writ a
play."

A worthless play as it proves — Mr.
Kemble has damned it."

Then damn Mr. Kemble in return.
Pshaw ! you shall do better than write
plays for a grudged remuneration ; you
shall see 'em for your pleasure, Gerard ;

one half of all I have is yours, all if you
will, so that I have my Betty."

Then you would beetle richer, Tom'*

Aye, that I should, a hundredfold.
We will live together, hunt together, fetch
long walks, and live as brothers should.
We will share a happiness in common, and
when we find a suitable wife for you —
some sweet, good girl "

He broke of£ suddenly, for his ear
caught above the sound of his own voice
a faint cry : .

Tom — my spouse !"

Lady Betty had run across the lawn,
had reached the wicket by the hedge, and
then hearing his well-remembered voice,
her strength failed her, and she held by
the gate, her knees trembling beneath her,
crying and sobbing so that for awhile she
could make no articulate sound.

At her cry he came, and seeing him she
tottered forward with a little scream, and

55 — z

would have fallen but that he caught her
up in his arms and held her to his heart.
And then she pressed her lips to his, and
swooned away with the ecstacy of her

joy-gerard
turned his face to the wall.

THE OMEN.

HE company did spare justice to
the excellent dinner prepared by
old Kate. The lovers were impatient
of the moments that kept their
hands and eyes asunder ; Doctor Blandly
was excited ; and every morsel that he
forced himself to take seemed to choke
Gerard. For Lady Betty's peace he was
bound to be there, though for his own
he would fain have been alone in a
desert.

After dinner, Doctor Blandly mercifully

despatched him with a note to Mr.
Baxter, and instructions to bring the
parson back to share in the general happiness,
while he, with many apologies for
the infirmity of his old age, ensconced
himself in his elbow-chair, and did his
utmost to sleep as usual. He may have
failed, but what took place between the
lovers was concealed from his sight by the
yellow silk handkerchief.

During the afternoon Jerry brought
up the best that his master's cellar contained,
and under the influence of the
wine the Reverend John Baxter and
Doctor Blandly became excessively merry.

Lady Betty's spirits mounted also, but
her gaiety was hysterical, and towards
evening, in the midst of a peal of laughter,
she caught sight of Gerard's face, and
as suddenly burst into a flood of tears.
Doctor Blandly came to her side,
and when he had calmed her he insisted

upon lier going to bed. She did
not refuse to use the spare chamber,
and soon after Mr. Baxter returned
to the Vicarage with an explanation
for his wife.

The brothers and Doctor Blandly sat
together and talked.

*' What has become of my half-brother,
Barnabas?" Gerard asked.

Ah, I have that part of my history
to tell you," replied Tom. " When I returned
to the Hall, the first thing I did
was to frighten old Blake nearly out
of his wits. He is an egotist, and having
come to the conclusion that I had
been murdered by Barnabas, I believe
his dignity was hurt by seeing me alive."

He is a conceited old fool," said the
Doctor.

But a faithful servant, so we will forgive
him his faults. When I had reconciled
him to the fact of entertaining a

wrong conviction, lie told me of the life
Barnabas has led as the master of Talbot
Hall. A most wretched, miserable existence
it must have been."

Vice and happiness are as far asunder
as love and hate," said Doctor Blandly,
sententiously.

Deserted by everyone, the unhappy
man had left the Hall, Blake knew
not why, possibly to find relief from solitude
in the nearest inn. When we went
up to the house we could find no one, but
as I wished to see him I sat down to wait
for his return. I heard from the steward
all that had happened. The light
faded and we lit candles. When
Blake had nothing more to tell, he
fell asleep. The rain fell pitilessly, and
as I sat there listening to the perpetual
dripping, I fancied what the condition of
a guilty wretch would be, deserted and
alone in that old hall, and I commiserated

the man who had attempted my
life."

A mistake, Tom, a mistake," said
the Doctor ; " commiserate the unfortunate,
if you will, but whip all rogues, I
say."

"You may say that. Doctor; but your
practice would be most merciful. For
what are rogues but unfortunate ? Have
you not said that vice and happiness are
wide asunder ?"

'* Gro on with your facts, Tom. You
can philosophise better when you are
older."

When the monotony was becoming
insupportable, I heard a sound outside.
I roused Blake. We listened, and
soon after a faint whistle reached our
ears. I went to the window, and looking
out caught sight of a lantern by the
terrace steps. Blake took a candle,
and we went into the entrance-hall. He

was fearful, and standing well behind the
door, pulled it open and raised the light
that I might see who was without. There
was a shock upon the stone pavement
like the fall of a tile from the roof,
and taking the candle from Blake I
found, stretched at full length, the man
who had attempted my life — Barnabas, to
appearance dead. We got him into the
hall, and after awhile, when he showed
signs of returning consciousness, I withdrew,
leaving him to Blake's rough
mercy. What means he took to assure
him that he had nothing to fear from me
I can't tell."

If Blake's the man I take him
for he promised him nothing short of
hanging, I'll be bound," said Doctor
Blandly.

That is not unlikely, for as soon as
Barnabas had recovered his strength he
knocked the old man down, and fled

from the Hall, whither it is impossible
to say. The outbuildings were all closed,
the rain fell in a torrent the whole night,
it was pitch dark, and the unhappy
wretch was lame. He did not return to the
Hall.

In the morning Blake wished to
have the woods beat, and to hunt him
out like a fox, but as this might have
driven him to some deplorable act of
desperation, I forbade any search to be
made beyond the outbuildings and park-sweep.
I waited about the Hall until
late in the afternoon, hoping he would
return, for in the course of the day I
learnt from the innkeeper near that he
had no money, and I expected that
hunger would force him to come back to
the Hall. However, I had seen no sign
of him when I quitted Sevenoaks yesterday
evening. I left orders that food
should be put in the hall, and the doors

left open, and that he should be unmolested."


'' Thank you, Tom, for your forbearance,"
said Gerard ; " I have wished him
dead again and again, but he is my
mother's son, and I would not have him
die a shameful death."

'god forbid!" said Doctor Blandly.
'' 'Tis a barbarous and a mischievous
thing to publicly kill a man in infamy.
The proper end of punishment is to
correct and deter, and for a rogue like
Barnabas, death is no punishment at all.
The scaffold makes heroes of contemptible
villains. Punish rascals, I say
again, despite Master Tom's merciful
outcry, but punish them in a manner that
shall teach them the policy of living
decently."

You shall tell us. Doctor, how we are
to punish him, for I confess 'tis a question
that perplexes me," said Tom.

The Doctor knitted this brows, pursed
up his lips, and took a deliberate pinch of
snuff before replying ; then he said :

'' I would just pay his passage to
America or another of our colonies, and
give the captain a round sum to be
handed to him for his necessities when he
is set ashore."

And the whipping you suggested ?"
Tom asked, slyly.

You can promise him that if ever he
shows his face in England again. I take
it that what with fright, starvation, a
broken leg, and exposure to the rain of
Friday night, he has had as much corporal
punishment as his constitution can support
; 'tis his conscience that must chastise
him henceforth."

As neither of the brothers could suggest
any improvement upon Doctor Blandly's
proposed dealing with Barnabas, it was
determined between them that the following

day they should post to Sevenoaks,
find Barnabas, and make terms with him
for quitting the country.

When Lady Betty woke, the morning
was yet grey. She slipped from her
white nest, and running across to the
window drew back a corner of the blind
and looked down into the garden, Tom
was there ; it was not too early for a lover
to be up. Making a frame with the
blind, she showed him her smiling face,
closed her red lips and parted them ; he
seemed to understand the pantomime,
and recklessly tearing a rose which
Doctor Blandly would have grudgingly
nipped with careful scissors, he threw it
up upon her window-sill in response. In
an incredibly short space of time she
dressed, and with his flower in her bosom
ran down, and gave up her still sweeter,
tenderer face to his lips.

He put his arm about her and she

clasped his hand, and in that position they
walked round the garden dozens of times,
looking at the flowers but not thinking of
them; feeling the utmost happiness but
saying very little, perhaps because all
words seemed too prosaic to express the
poetry of their love.

We are not talking much," she said
after awhile, with a little laugh.

*' I do love you so, darling, that I
cannot think of indifferent matters readily.
I love you, that is all my tongue will
say."

'Tis enough, dear," she answered.

She was right, perhaps ; but after
awhile he felt it necessary to say something
else.

'' You have more colour in your sweet
cheeks this morning," said he, *' did you
sleep well ?"

Too well. I said to myself when I
closed my eyes — ' I will dream of Tom,

or I will not sleep at all;' but my eyes
closed, and I don't remember dreaming
anything' pretty — only a lot of confused
rubbish that was not worth dreaming
about at all. Now what did I dream? —
Oh !" she stopped suddenly, with a
frightened look.

Something terrible ?"

I dreamt that I lost a tooth."

Tom burst into a hearty laugh, but
Lady Betty looked grave.

'' You little goose," he cried, " are you
vexed because you did not dream of
Cupids and roses ?"

"No, but do you know what that
signifies ?"

*' Not in the least, unless it be that
dreams going by contraries, you will
shortly cut your wisdom tooth, sweet."

"Don't laugh, Tom; I believe in
dreams."

"So do I, when they are pleasantly

realised. And what is the significance of
yours ?"

"I shall lose a friend."

Why that may be true enough, for
you will lose me for a whole day."

Where are you going, dear ?" she
asked with anxiety.

Tom told briefly the arrangement he
had made with Gerard to seek Barnabas.

You are going to find the man who
tried to take your life !" she exclaimed.
*' Oh, if you love me, dear, don't leave
me."

She was so earnest that Tom became
grave. Women and men with greater
wisdom than Lady Betty believed at that
time in signs and omens, and however
absurd they may have appeared to Tom,
he saw nothing ridiculous in the fear of
his sweetheart for his safety.

'' Dear love," said he, " we are nowhere
safe from accident. And if there be truth

VOL. III. 56

in omens, 'tis well to take their lightest
interpretation. What will the loss be
then but our separation for a day ?"

'' Are you obliged to go, dear?" Lady
Betty asked, the subject not being one for
argument.

'' Be sure 'tis necessity that takes me
away from you, love."

*' There is danger — will you not stay
with me if I ask you ?"

Yes. I will do anything you bid me
do ; but I do not think Lady Betty will
ask her husband to forgo a duty for the
sake of safety."

Kiss me, love, and forgive me for
forgetting your honour. Do what you
will, brave darling, and heed me not. I
am nothing but a little woman — with a
woman's love and fear. . . . There ! now
I will not say another word to hinder your
purpose."

A STURDY ROGUE.

Merry," said Doctor Blandly,
when the old servant brought
him his customary tankard at
breakfast, '' you will see that the two
saddle horses are ready at the " Bell " by
half past ten'*

I'll go round if you please, Sir, and
give the hostler a good talking to at
once."

Do ; then take this letter to Mr.
Baxter ; and afterwards find the constable,

56-2

and tell him to be here about ten
o'clock'

Jerry departed at once to execute these
commissions, and Doctor Blandly explained
the little comedy that would probably
be played before Tom and Gerard left.

As ten o'clock struck, Barney O'Crewe
rang the bell, and thoughtfully stroking
his scrubby chin, went over for the last
time those delicate points which would
come under discussion in the forthcoming
interview with Doctor Blandly.

The top o' the mornun to you, squire,"
he said as Jerry opened the gate and admitted
him. '* Is the Docthor widen, if ye
phase?"

'' I shouldn't let you in if he wasn't,"
answered Jerry, fastening the gate.

*' I'm delighted to found ye as agreeable
and complaisant as usual; an' if I can putta
word in for ye wit the master, I will, be
sure, squire."

Jerry made no reply, but led the way
Id to the house, and opening the door
of the breakfast-room, introduced the
pedlar.

The breakfast things were still upon the
table. Doctor Blandly sat at the head,
with Tom on one side of him and the
Reverend John Baxter on the other.
Lady Betty seated beside Tom, rested her
right hand lightly upon the table, her left,
lost to sight, was locked in his ; opposite
to her, and with his back towards the
door, sat Gerard.

Me service to ye, me lady, and to
you, Doctor Blandly, and to your river-ice,
and likewise to you, gentlemen,"
said the pedlar, with a bow to each. " It
seems that the old man has played an
namely trick upon me, Docthor, to bring
me here, where ye sit surrounded by the
quality on both sides of ye."

'' No ; he obeyed my orders. We are

all friends of Mr. Talbot." Doctor Blandly
replied, with a motion of his hand towards
Tom.

Mr. Gerard, Sor, I salutes ye wit all
the respect in the world." The pedlar
bowed again to Tom. " Sure I snowed ye
the vary moment I clapped eyes on ye, for
yer the vary image of your state mother
the saints in heaven bless her soul."

I have given Mr. Talbot your narrative
of Saturday, but in case I have
omitted any particular, it will be well for
you to repeat what you told me for our
general satisfaction," said Doctor Blandly.

'' And I should be proud to do that
same, Docthor ; but ye must know I've a
tremendous objection to speaking in
public. I can contrive to spake in
private ; but I'm so modest and bashful
that I could never get out a word
before such a collection of the quality."

I don't ask you to say anything which

will affect your negociation with Mr.
Gerard ; all that I desire is that you will
repeat the statement you made relative to
the attack upon Mr. Thomas Talbot —
which T understood you to say you had
sworn before a magistrate."

'' Sure it's three, every word of it, and
I've sworn it upon the Holy Bible before
the magistrate, as ye say, though for the
life of me I don't remember the name of
um at this minute."

'* That is what I wish you to state now.
Afterwards, if Mr. Talbot pleases, you
can privately make terms for any further
revelations that are necessary."

'' Doctor Blandly expresses my wish,"
said Tom. "Before I enter into any
negociation with you I must have particulars
of the murder committed by Slink."

Yeare right, dear Mr. Gerard, yeare
quite right to take your precautions, for
yeare not supposed to knows but what I'm

the greatest scoundrel gun. And sure
if 'tis only to tell you all about the northern
varmint, Slink, I can overcome my
nat'ral hesitation." The pedlar cleared
his throat, and looking at the good things
upon the table with a longing eye, said :
'' Docther, will ye give me a taste o'
father to give me courage, and moisten
my lips ?"

You may take some water, there is a
glass and the bottle."

With a wry face O'Crewe poured out
about a spoonful of water in the glass,
which he raised to his lips and set down
again with the remark, that it was a
'' mighty unpleasant flavour" the water
had in these parts ; and then with all the
effrontery of a Newgate pleader, he repeated
in substance the story he had told
to Doctor Blandly, but with many rhetorical
flourishes and eloquent additions, for
the old man was vain of his ability, and

only too proud to make a display before
a cultivated audience. He addressed himself
chiefly to Tom, under the impression
that he was Gerard, but pathetic passages
he delivered looking at Lady Betty, as
when he described the " state smile that
dwelt on the young murthered gentleman's
face as he looked up to the blessed stars
above 'um," and when, in conclusion, he
called upon the saints in Heaven to witness
that he had no object but to prove
the holy truth, he directed his glance to
the Reverend John Baxter.

•' Perhaps we can prove the truth without
troubling the saints," said Doctor
Blandly, drily, as he touched the bell.

'Crewe opened his eyes in astonishment.
Jerry entered.

Tell the constable to bring the young
man here," said Doctor Blandly.

The constable presently appeared leading
Slink by the arm.

Do you know who that is '^" asked
Doctor Blandly.

Do I know who it is ? I should think
I did ! Sorra a one better. 'Tis the
northern varmint, Slink himself, wit just
the same bloodthirsty expression in the
face of 'um he had when I see 'um a
dragging that state blessed Mister Tom
into the could, could river !"

Slink grinned from ear to ear.

Don't laugh, ye northern' villain,
ye'll not escape the vengeance of the law.
I know ye at once, though I nivir sawyer
face but twice in my life."

'' You have a good memory for features,"
said Doctor Blandly ; " do you remember
the face of Mr. Thomas Talbot ?"

^'Nothun better; I shall never forget
the expression of 'um to my dun day.
He was not like you, Mr. Gerard, for
ye're got the failures of your mother, and
Mr. Tom tuk after the old admiral."

At this assertion Slink was attacked
with such a fit of laughter that he had to
bend his body at a right angle with his
legs, and stamp his feet before he could
fetch breath. In a less demonstrative
fashion the rest of the company seemed
also amused.

Sor !" exclaimed O'Orewe, addressing
Doctor Blandly, and drawing himself up
with an air of offended dignity, *' wad ye
be kind enough to explain the main' o'
that dirty blackguard's behavior ?"

The explanation is this," said Tommy
name is Thomas Talbot."

Mr. Thomas ! and not dead at all ?
Thank the powers !" said O'Crewe, with
ready wit. '' I'm rejoiced to see yoa
lookun so well. Sor, an' it phases me
mightily to found that I've been maun
a mistake all the while."

'but it doesn't please me," cried the
Doctor ; " and if you have sworn a lie

you shall be punished for your perjury"



Sure, and that was a mistake too,
Docthor dear. D'ye think I'd swear the
life away of a charms young innocent
country lad ? civil a bit ! I never sword,
notion at all, at all." As he spoke the
pedlar edged away from the constable towards
the door.

Wait," said the Reverend John Baxter;
" there's one thing that there is no mistake
about. You have tried to impose onus
with a false and scandalous assertion."

Sure your reverence that was the
greatest mistake of all."

"And one that you shall have the
opportunity of repenting. Constable, you
will take this man and lock up his feet in
the stocks until sundown. Give him as
much water as he can drink, and no more
bread than he can pay for — off with him
for a sturdy rogue."

Farewell.

HANGING horses twice upon the
road, Tom and Gerard reached
Talbot Hall about five o'clock in
the afternoon. Old Blake came to the
gate.

He's about, Sir — he's about," he said,
in a low voice. " He was seen yesterday,
and I catched sight of him again this
morning. Shall I fetch my gun and come
up to the house with you ?"

Tom laughed. " Do you think we need
protection against a poor lame devil such

as he ? Open the gate, and come up tous
in half-an-hour, and not before."

Blake shook his head, and reluctantly-opened
the gate for the two gentlemen to
pass.

"Go on, Gerard ; I will overtake you
in a couple of minutes. It has just struck
me that Slink's sweetheart is dying to
know his fate," Tom said, pulling up when
they were half-dozen yards from the lodge.
He turned his horse and walked back,
while Gerard, waiting for him, cast his
eyes over the wide spread of lawn, and
along the terrace before the house. Nota
living thing was to be seen.

Half way up the long drive there was
on either side a clump of evergreens ; they
were the only places of concealment between
the lodge and the house. As he
was looking at them, a rabbit hopped out
from the clump on the right hand side
into the gravelled path, and standing on

his hind legs with his ears cocked, regarded
him for a moment, then leisurely
hopped over towards the left hand clump.
Just as it reached the turf, it stopped
suddenly, and then with a sharp turn from
the evergreens, it flew off towards the
woods as fast as it could lay its heels to
the ground. Why, if it were frightened,
did it not seek shelter in the thickly-planted
covert ? Gerard asking himself
the question, shifted his horse from the
right to the left hand side of the path, as
Tom with a nod to the girl he had been
making happy with a few kind words,
trotted away from the lodge, and came to
his brother's side.

"What do you think of the Hall,
Gerard ?"

'Tis a fine building."

One wing is closed altogether ; the
other needs repair. A few rooms in the
centre are the only really habitable ones at

present. But we will alter all that. We
will go over the whole place and arrange
together what changes will be necessary
to rake it a pleasant home. What are
you looking at, Gerard?"

This is a noble lawn, Tom."

'• Oh, 'tis the lawn you are looking at.
I thought you had caught sight of game
in the covert. There are deer in the park,
and when they come upon the lawn, they
add to the prettiness of the picture ; but a
sweet wife on the terrace, and children
stretching their pretty arms out to welcome
us, are wanting to make it perfect "

'' May nothing be wanting to complete
your happiness."

Nor yours, Gerard. I see nothing of
that unhappy man, do you ?"

Nothing," said Gerard.

They had passed the clumps, Gerard
riding between that on the left and Tom,
and were now close to the house. They

dismounted, and having hitched their reins
upon the iron scroll-work at the foot of
the terrace steps, they entered the house
by the open door.

Tom threw open the door of the diningroom.
It was empty; upon the table
were scraps of broken food, an overturned
pitcher and a dirty glass half full of stale
ale. They examined room after room, and
finding no one, went out beyond the shrubberies
into the stables ; they also were
deserted. Here they were joined by Blake.
Where are the horses ?" asked Tom,
"I've had 'em removed. Sir," replied
the steward. '* For you see, Sir, this Mr.
Mr. Crewe, I think he's called, lost his'n,
and I thought he might take a fancy to
breaking a lock, and taking one of your,
Sir. Lord, Sir, 'taint no good looking
about for him in there. He's as scare asa
hunted fox. When I see him this
morning he was eating food a-standing in
VOL. III. 67

the hall-doorway, to make sure he shouldn't
be trapped — he's as wild as a Bedlamite.
This was the stall where he kep' his horse,
and that his saddle."

'' Come into the house, Gerard. Blake,
send something to eat and drink up to
my room. What can you give us r"

Discussing the question of refreshment,
Tom and the steward walked out of the
stable. Gerard following them, stepped
aside quickly to the hanging saddle and
put his hand into the holsters : they were
empty.

The room chosen by Tom for his use
was above the entrance, and looked down
upon the terrace. They sat near the
window and ate, and when the meal was
finished they walked round the Hall and
along the terrace until the light faded,
then they returned to the chamber, having
seen nothing of Barnabas. Kain was beginning
to fall again.

Gerard, we must put an end to that
poor wretch's sufferings tomorrow. It
is terrible to think of him wandering
about half starved in this atrocious
weather, without shelter or a single comfort
in the world. If he is wild with fear,
as Blake makes out he is, we are not
likely to get within speaking distance of
him unless we take measures for catching
him. That will not be a difficult task
with the servants to help us, as he is
lame; but one has a natural repugnance
to hunting a human creature as one would
a beast."

"True; yet, as you say, he must not
be suffered to exist in his present manner,
and if we cannot find a better method
before the morning, that must be
adopted."

I am anxious on your account, as
well as his. 'Tis preying on your mind,
Gerard, to an extreme. I understand

67-2

how sou must feel upon the subject, but
I confess your depression astonishes me.
You have known him long for a scoundrel,
and thought him your brother. 'Tis some
satisfaction to know that his father was
not yours."

I feel that, Tom ; and admit that the
balance of fortune has lately turned in my
favour."

"Then why shouldn't you be of better
cheer ? The future is not unpleasant to
you ; we shall share everything, and you
will find me eager to catch your wishes
and fall in with them."

I know, I know," Gerard said, pressing
the hand his brother held out to him.

You have no secret grief, hey,
brother ? I never knew anyone so utterly
dejected, except myself, when I fancied
that my mistress despised me. You have
not lost a sweetheart, have you ?"

"A sweetheart," Gerard said, with a

dry laugh. " Did you ever hear of me
loving a woman, do you think a woman
could love me, an ex-gamester, brother to
a murdering villain, a man who succeeds
at fleecing fools at cards and fails in the
first honest work to which he set his
hand ? The most that an angel can do is
to pity me."

'Tis but the thought of to-day,
Gerard. A year — six months — aye, less
than that, of companionship with pleasant
folks, will change your bitter reflections
upon the past to sweet hopes of a future.
I shall take my wife to Italy while the
alterations are being made here, and you
shall come with us, and if my sweet
Betty's lively happiness does not drive
away your care, I will suffer you to build
a cell and live in it like a hermit."

Gerard turned away in silence.

Well, well, think what you will," said
Tom, '' time shall show. Fill your glass,

and when the bottle is empty we will
turn into bed. Will you share my room,
or take the next ?"

"I'll take the next, for the sake of
having my own sweet company to myself."


'' As you will, Gerard."

I'll say good-night now. Is the
library door unlocked ?"

Yes."

'' I shall read for an hour. Good-night,
Tom."

'' God bless you, Gerard."

IN THE Library.

HE library, like all the principal
rooms in Talbot Hall, looked
out upon the terrace. The
shutters were unclosed, and the heavy
curtains looped up. The light of the
candle lit by Gerard could be seen from
the lawn.

Gerard sat with his legs crossed and
his hands clasped over his knee for full
half-an-hour in thought; then he rose,
took the first book that his hand touched,
and opening it in the middle, read. He

raised his head and listened, catching a
faint sound from the outside ; but the
swinging of a lantern and a heavy
regular tread growing distinct, he dropped
his eyes again. The outer door was
opened, and someone tapped at the library
door.

Come in," he said.
Blake entered, his collar up, a stream
of water falling from his hat as he removed
it.

Beg your pardon. Sir, is Mr. Thomas
here ?" he asked.

No ; he is in the room upstairs."
No light in the window. Sir."
'' Then he is asleep, or, at least, in
bed."

'' Any orders for the morning, Sir ?"
'' Tell one of the stable lads to have a
horse ready as soon as it is light."

"Right, Sir. The lad shall sleep in
the stable, and when you want the horse

if you'll just give him a call — his name's
Jacob, Sir."

*' Very well. Good-night."

"Beg your pardon, Sir, shall I show
you how to fasten the front door."

No, I understand that."

That's everything. Sir. I only mentioned
it because I see something like a
figure round the shrubbery in the dusk,
and "

Gerard nodded, and returning to his
book, closed further discussion.

The retreating step of the old steward,
and subsequently the heavy step of a
stable-help, were the only sounds that
broke the silence for a couple of hours ;
during that time Gerard read page after
page of the book on his knee listlessly.
He read because he could not sleep and
did not want to think.

The wind had risen, and blew the rain
in gusty violence against the windows,

now in a sharp, momentary dash, and
again in a long, pattering volley ; but the
casements were well secured, and the
lights burnt steadily by Gerard's side.
After a long pelting of heavy drops against
the glass, the wind turned, and there was
a lull in the stormy brunt. In this momentary
silence, a grating sound fell upon
Gerard's ear, and simultaneously the
flame of the candles swept down the
wax and leapt up, confusing the printed
lines under his eye. Had the wind blown
open the front door ? It was hardly
possible, the steward had closed it carefully,
and tried it afterwards with his
knee.

Yet clearly the wind had entered
by some opening, Gerard felt the damp
chill of it upon his face. He raised his
eyes from the page to the library door.
He could not see it distinctly for the
light that fell between. He moved the

candelabra further back, then replaced his
hand upon the book, keeping his eyes
upon the door latch, and moving not a
muscle. Presently he saw the latch rise
and slowly descend as the door moved
beyond the catch. Little by little the
door moved forward upon its hinges, and
the opening gradually yawned. Suddenly
it flew back, and in the uncertain light
Gerard distinguished Barnabas bringing
up a pistol to the level of his head.

Gerard sat as motionless as a statue.
He might have been dead already, but for
the reflected light in his eyes, and that he
spoke :

Barnabas," he said.

Barnabas lowered his pistol, and looking
quickly round the room, his finger
still upon the trigger, asked hoarsely :

"Where is he?"

Asleep."

You spoke just in time. Curse the

light, I cannot see. Is lie hiding here ?
Mark me, 'twill be your fault if I
am a fratricide, for by God I'll shoot
you if he lays a finger upon me in
treachery !"

He spoke, looking round the room
wildly, and evidently as a warning to
Tom if he were in concealment.

He is not here. If you don't want
to wake him, shut the door and speak
lower."

Shut the door ! A likely thing, I'm
not trapped yet. Speak low ! What do
I want to say to you ? Nothing. What
I have to say to him this will tell !"
He made a movement with the heavy
pistol.

'* What good will it do you to shoot
him? Are you mad?"

Nearly. I have been quite. And it
was he drove me out of my senses
coming before me and standing there in

the doorway when I thought he was dead.
A fine joke for him, but one that will cost
him dear. Let him come, I don't fear
him now. The rain and pain, and hunger
and thirst have cured me. I've another
friend in my pocket, and standing herein
this corner, I fear none of you — my
father, Slink, him, you, and all that are
plotting to do for me."

He put himself in the corner by the
door, and lugged out the second pistol
from his pocket, looking now in the dark
behind him, now towards Gerard and the
room.

Gerard, becoming more used to the
dim light, could mark the appearance of
his half-brother. His dress was torn
with briars. A great rent in his sleeve
exposed his bare forearm and elbow ; the
rain beating upon his face showed it a
ghastly white where it was not covered
with a thick, scrubby beard ; he had lost

bis hat, and his hair hung matted about
his head, dripping with rain.

'' If you are not mad, sou are a fool,"
said Gerard. "If we sought to give you
up to the law should we come unarmed
to do the work of constable ? Tom
Talbot has come here to offer you money
and an escape from the country."

I should be mad or a fool indeed to
believe that ! Do you think I or anyone
else would give money and help to a man
who had done his utmost to murder me ?
And that's what you would have me
believe : well then my answer is, you area
liar."

Think of what I have said, and come
again to me in an hour. By that time
you will see the folly of supposing that
we are here with treacherous intentions."

"Oh, I know your sneaking gentlemanly
ways. You who can rob, and
cheat, swindle and thieve a rich living

with no tools but a pack of cards and a
dice box, have a quicker and surer means
of cheating' a low rescue like me than I
can readily guess at. I know why the
doors have been left open, and food put
upon the table — to tempt me and trap me
like a rat into a cage. I said to myself —
these things are not set here for nothing,
in a day or two my lord Tom with a
sneaking hound or two at his heels w411
come to play out the farce to a conclusion.
I've been waiting for him, and I would
have shot him dead this afternoon, for his
white coat was a sure mark, but that
you, plague you, got between him and
me."

"And if you had shot him — what
then ?"

'what then— the gallows, a brave
face, the cheers of the mob, and a sudden
death. Isn't that a better end than
rotting away year by year in a gaol."

'^No one wishes to serve you so."

You liar !" Barnabas said, grating his
teeth. " I've a mind to put a bullet in
your pretty body, you sneaking, gentlemanly
thief." He trembled with envious
hate, and half raised his pistol.

Go out, and reflect on what I have
said; I shall sit here until the morning
and will listen to any terms you like to
make. But I warn you that you will have
no longer than this night to consider.
To-morrow morning we shall name
our terms and oblige you to accept
them."

Not while I can lift a pistol. I swear
I will hang for the man who has made
my life hell to me, and for once I will keep
my oath."

At this moment there was a movement
above, and Barnabas looked into the
darkness with palpable fear. He was
like a beast at bav, for whom a sound has

more terror tliaii a blow. He was a
coward even in his desperation.

Tom's voice above called, " Gerard !"
In a moment Barnabas dashed from ibis
corner, and fled out into the darkness.
Gerard beard bim stumbling down the
terrace steps.

Gerard," Tom called, again.
Gerard made no reply. Tom, too
drowsy to make inquiries into the noise
that had disturbed him, turned upon
his side to sleep and dream. Gerard
sat and watched.

And the night wore slowly on.

VOL. III. 58

"Greater LOVE HATH NO MAN THAN THIS,

THAT A MAN LAY DOWN HIS LIFE FOR HIS

FRIENDS."

ERARD paced up and down the
library. He could fix this attention
upon the book no longer.
From time to time he walked to the
window and looked out into the obscurity;
once he went out to the door in the
entrance-hall, peering to the right and
left along: the terrace. He could see
nothing. He had but slight hope of
Barnabas returning, and when at length

the outline of the distant woods became
vaguely visible, he felt convinced that the
resolution Barnabas had made was unalterable.
He would surely take Tom's life.

He stood for a few minutes with his
hand resting on the table, looking round
the room, and he pictured the future.
The room glowing with the light of burning
logs in the wide chimney ; his brother
Tom seated there with Lady Betty, his
sweet wife, beside him; Doctor Blandly
an honoured guest sharing their happiness
and content, and little children playing at
their mother's feet. There was no vacant
chair placed for an expected friend in the
picture. With a sigh he turned away
and walked to the end of the room, wherein
the evening they had thrown down
their hats and coats.

He took up Tom's light drab riding-coat
and drew it on. It was large for
him — so much the better for his purpose.

58-2

When he turned up the collar and buttoned
it over it covered the lower half of
his face. Then he put on his hat,
drawing it down over his eyes. Thus
dressed, even in the light he might have
been mistaken for his brother Tom.

He paused in walking towards the door,
asking himself if he should write a word to
leave behind him — a message to her — to
him— a testimony of the love in his
heart ? No, 'twould but add to their
sorrow if they knew him for something
better than an unfortunate man. The
family Bible was in his hand ; he might
have left it open upon the table with the
page turned down at this line : " Greater
love has no man than this, that a man lay
down his life for his friends." Should
he do so to tell how much he loved ? No,
'twould be less painful to attribute his end
to unfortunate carelessness than heroic
design.

He went out of the Hall leaving no
message ; breathing only a prayer for the
happiness of those who should live thereafter
he was gone.

The wind had abated and the rain
ceased to fall heavily ; but over the dark
grey sky black clouds hurried quickly,
huge and formless. The terrace was clear,
and the long drive could be seen for some
yards before it was lost in the vapoury
gloom.

Gerard walked round slowly by the
shrubbery seeing no one, and coming to
the stable he called *' Jacob."

The stable lad answered readily, and
having struck a light with the flint,
quickly put a saddle on Tom's horse.
Suddenly in passing Gerard he stopped :

'' I ax your pardon, Sir," said he, " but
I've gone and saddled the wrong mare; I
thought you was Master Thomas by the
coat."

No matter, the mare will do. Lead
lier out."

The mare was led out, and Gerard
sprang into the saddle.

'' You can put the light out and go to
sleep again, Jacob. Take this."

Thanks, Sir, thanks kindly," said
the lad, spitting on the crown Gerard had
put in his hand. For him the day was
beginning well.

Gerard walked his horse past the shrubbery
and into the drive. It was growing
light rapidly. After walking down the
broad path a hundred yards, Gerard could
discern the outlines of the two evergreen
clumps standing by the path.

'all that heaven gives to happy
mortals be theirs— my brother and his
wife," he said to himself. " He will grow
stout and florid, Tom ; with a love for
creature comforts and healthy sports.
Kind to his fellows, loving his children

better than his Hfe, and loving his wife
dearer than all. An honest, healthy,
English country gentleman. And she
will reign like a queen in his house,
beautiful and fair, making all love herby
her simple fidelity and gentleness.
God bless them ! I have no other wish."

Paug-ker !

With the report came a flash of light
from amidst the evergreens, and a bullet
sped straight to the heart of Gerard.
His last wish was uttered ; his sorrows
done ; his end come.

The mare started forward, jerking the
dead body from the saddle,

There shall be no mistake this time,"
muttered Barnabas, throwing aside the
used pistol and drawing another from
his pocket as he scrambled through the
evergreens.

With his arms spread out like a cross,
Gerard lay, with his face upwards to the

light. As Barnabas recognised his half-brother,
his soul, callous as it was, shrunk
within him.

His first idea was of the consequences.
That the mob would not applaud as he
looked down on the thousand faces from
the scaffold — that they would drag him
from the tumbril, and tear him limb from
limb, was the thought that presented
itself to his mind. Not a regret, nor the
faintest tinge of remorse, touched him ;
only fear. And already he heard voices
and approaching feet.

He looked round like a hunted brute,
closed his eyes, and put the muzzle of
his pistol slowly to his mouth ; then, with
his thumb, he pressed the trigger.

THE END.

London : Printed by A. Schulze, 13, Poland Street. (S. & H.)

'Nb

3 0112 040261908
