■^-AX

.;,w.^^i!^^^^#^:

m^k

'i

L I E> R.ARY

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS

>r.\

i^.

- -7

y4 Ui>^^ '

\

a fiohti

BY

FRANK BARRETT.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

^ttiiislurs in ©riiitars to ^tv ^tajest^ the Quern.
1881.

hall Rights Reserved. '\

CONTENTS OF VOL. T.

^

I. THE PARENTS OF FOLLY - - - . 1
IL FOOD AND CLOTHES. — Three-halfpence

A DAY - - - - - - 16

III. JOHN MORRISON BECOMES A THIEF - - 25

IV. THE DEGRADATION OF JOHN MORRISON - 36
V. JOHN MORRISON STEALS A DEAD HARE - 51

VL THE BIRTH OF Folly - - - - 66
VII. A HANDFUL OF CHIPS DROPPED INTO THE

OCEAN -. 77

vii folly's first conquest - - - - 89

IX. THE TWIG IS BENT - - - - - 99

X. THE RISING OF THE CURTAIN - - - 112

\ XI. FOLLY OBTAINS AN ENGAGEMENT - - 131

Nil THE DIARY OF A WEEK - - - - 144

Xii A ROCKET ASCENDS 157

XIV. THE VICAR OF ST. BARNABAS - - - 171
XV. 'THE BETTER THE DAY THE BETTER THE

DEED' 183

CHAPTER PAGE

XVI. ROLAND a\t:ling 193

XVII. Made AND HER VISITORS - - - 207
XVIII. AT STARTING - - - - - - 221

XTX. THE BATTLE IS TO THE STRONG - - 232

XX. SIR ANDREW FORMS AN Induction FROM

A SIMPLE ARGL^^IENT - - - - 245

XXI. THE VICAR COUNSELS A SON TO DISOBEY

HIS FATHER . - - - 256

XXII. FOLLY ACCEPTS AN ENGAGEMENT AT THE

LEVITY . - 265

XXIII. ROLAND Feeling IS VIRTUOUS - - - 279

XXIV. ROLAND Feeling SEES FOLLY FOR THE

FIRST TIME 289

BOOK 1.
CHAPTER I.

THE PARENTS OF FOLLY.

OHX Morrison was born in
this Christian country the year of
grace 1816. Had he been born
1816 years before the liofht of
Christianity first fell upon the earth his temporal
condition and prospects could have
been no worse.

He was born in a workhouse ; and, according
to the general order of things, he was to
work hard sone fifty or sixty years for the

VOL. I. 1

benefit of his more fortunate fellow-creatures,
and then, when he could serve them no
Ion O'er, return to the workhouse, there to die
and for ever after be forgotten.

From this thraldom the State gave him
one means of escape ; he could, when he
attained to his full muscular development, go
out of the country as a soldier, to be shot for
the glory of those who reap.

This alternative, with ail its advantages,
was offered him in the year 1850 by a very
civil recruiting-sergeant, whom he met in the
town of Guildford, whither he had gone to
sell a load of hay for his master ; but as John
Morrison at that time had a wife and children
to keep from the workhouse, and was tenders
disposed towards them, he was compelled to
decline the tempting proposal, and so lost
the very best chance of happiness he ever
had. It was not for him to shorten his
troubles by twenty years.

He was a sharp, quick lad, well recommended
by the master, and so before he had
learnt to write he was taken from the workhouse
by farmer Marsh, one of the guardians,
who undertook to clothe, feed, shelter, educate,
and, lastly, work him.

It was a good bargain for Master Marsh.

John was fed upon bread and water chiefly ;
a Httle cheese and boiled pork-fat were his
luxuries. He was clothed in the discarded
garments of the farmer's son, sheltered in a
hay-loft, educated in scaring crows, cleaning
horses, and tending cows, and finally set todo
any job that his strength and intelligence
were equal to.

At fifteen he did the work of any one
country labourer, and that is about six times
as much as any London workman will permit
himself to do.

Until ]ie was sixteen he never got a penny,
except for killing rats in his spare time ; then
he became an independent farm labourer at
ten shillings a week, working from sunrise to
sunset in the summer, and from five o'clock
in the morning until eight in the evening
during the dark months. He was such an
admirable servant that Mr. Marsh gave him
employment all the year round, so John was
not compelled to spend Christmas with his
less favoured fellow workmen in the union
poor-house.

He was a dextrous, steady, quick labourer
the very best on the farm. He could turn
his hand to anything, from tarring the outside
of a barn to threshing out its contents.

1—2

He would have excelled at whatever he gave
his undivided attention to, and in a city-might
have risen to be a builder, architect,
engineer — anything where a clear brain and a
sure hand avail.

At eighteen a neighbouring farmer offered
him thirteen shillings a week for the same
services he had been rendering farmer Marsh
for ten.

John Morrison put the case before his
master.

Why, surely you won't leave me, John,
after I've been so good to you, will you V
exclaimed farmer Marsh, in an injured tone.
I don't Avant to be ungrateful. I'd be
content to Avork with one master all my life ;
but then a young fellow must look after his-self
while he can,' replied John.

'Well, I shall give you thirteen ; but you
must do your best to earn it,' said his master.
John took the increased wages, and, ingratitude,
worked harder than ever, so that
even farmer Marsh considered he did not lose
much by the extravagant advance. When
the neighbouring farmer, who was at open
enmity with farmer Marsh, offered John an
advance of another shilling upon the terms
previously offered, he declined, and said

nothing of the matter to his master, feeling,
without exactly knowing why, that he was in
some inevitable manner under a debt of
gratitude to him. Farmer Marsh came to
know of the offer indirectly, and, taking
John's silence to imply a secret intention to
accept it, he was uneasy. He could not
afford to part with John ; at the same time
he did not see how he could afford to keep
him if this bidding of the opposition was to
continue.

That's the Avorst of these young fellows
he said to his wife ; ^ there's no managing of
'em while they are single. I wish he would
marry and have children ; it would be much
better for himself and everybody else.'

(^ Everybody else' was himself, of course.)

You're too lenient replied Mrs. Marsh.
If you worked him a little closer he wouldn't
have time to go gossiping about and getting
discontented. It's just the same with the
gels. If you give 'em a day to run home
and see their friends, they reward you for it
the next morning by giving you notice to
leave.'

It's not in my nature to be a hard master.
I'd much rather see that lad married and
settled down with a wife and family, so as he

couldn't leave, than let him go to that Evans
for the sake of another shilling a week.'

The farmer was inconsequent, but he spoke
honestly the feelings of his heart.

I've seen him hanging about the dairy a
good deal lately,' said Mrs. Marsh ; ' and I've
had to scold Joan a dozen times this week for
staring out of the kitchen window.'

Well, don't scold her any more, my dear.
Let the gel look out of the window a bit, and
I'll set John to mending them piastres up, so
as he shall be about the house, like.'

^ Bless your heart, that won't make any
difference. The best way to make pigeons
want to pair is to keep 'em apart.'

Women folk know more about that sort
of thing than we,' answered farmer Marsh,
laughing. ' I don't care how it's managed, so
long as you bring 'em together somehow.
All I know is that there'll be no keeping that
young fellow in his place unless Fie's tied so
as he can't move.'

Farmer Marsh did not see any duties outside
those of farming well and observing the
laws of his country. Perhaps there is not a
farmer in England at the present day who
would regard his servant's interest equally
with his own— who would put him in the way

of becoLiiiiig something better than a good
servant. Marsh thought he was doing a good
thing for John Morrison in keeping him from
roving about the country, and saw nothing
debasing to human kind in treating it like
poultry. The" moral responsibilities of keeping
servants did not trouble him in the least.
All that concerned him was the payment of
wages at the end of the week, and the rent
and tithes when they became due. The
tithes were heavy enough, in all conscience,
and if John Morrison's moral welfare was
neglected the parson was to blame, argued
Marsh.

So John was set the next day to mend
them piastres,' and Joan looked frequently
from the kitchen window.

Joan was a Devonshire girl, buxom and
strong, with dark hair and dark eyes, and the
bright red blood showing through the creamy
yellow skin of her cheeks ; John was an
equally good specimen of a Surrey man, long-limbed,
broad-chested, and fair. The affinity
of these two was in accordance with the principles
of natural selection.

Nature never hurries ; she accomplishes
her ends by slow means. 'Them piastres'
were finished before John and Joan had exchanged

half-a-dozen remarks, and for sometime
after the expression of their feelings
was restricted to side glances and broad
smiles. But one could foresee the end by
the pains Joan took to make John jealous,
and his readiness to take offence.

She had several admirers, and among them
was James Ledger, a man whom John
Morrison cordially hated and despised.
Ledger was a mean, pitiful rat of a man,
who had served as a tio^er to Sir Andrew
Aveling, when the baronet was a young buck
associating with the Jerry Hawthorne of his
day, and had been appointed gamekeeper
when Sir Andrew married, because he had
not the necessary dimensions for a footman,
and was no longer wanted to swing behind a
tilbury. For this office he was admirably
fitted. No ferret ever unearthed a wretched
rabbit with more address than he discovered
a poacher, and brought his iniquities to light.
He knew all the bad characters of the neighbourhood,
and betrayed them readily. It
was not his way to confront a depredator,
take his gun away, and turn him off the
estate; he couldn't do that. His method
was to creep upon the offenders, note who
they were, and then quietly withdraw unseen

to send a constable to them the next
day, and ' bench them ' at once.

As farmer Marsh was Sir Andrew's tenant,
and the baronet reserved his shooting rights,
the keeper was frequently at Mayford farm,
and more frequently about the house than
was necessary, generally contriving to brig
a pair of rabbits for the farmer about five
minutes after he and his wife had jogged off
to market in the pony-cart. There he would
stand at the side-door gossiping with the
girls until John Morrison came striding up,
looking as black as a thunder-cloud ; then
he would skip off with the nimbleness of a
tailor.

I wonder you haven't better sense than
to talk wi' a fool like that !' said John one
day to Joan, who to vex him had lingered at
the door, and was following the little keeper
with her eyes as he skipped across the field.

They're not all wise as keeps their mouths
she,' retorted she ; ^ an' it's better listening
to fools as can talk pleasant than to them as
can only speak when they've got somewhat to
find fault wi.'

John did not reply to this sarcasm. He
knew his own conversational shortcomings,
and was willing to admit them ; but besides

this, he could think of nothing to reply on
the spot, although a very biting answer
occurred to him about two hours after.

Long before then he had forgiven her.

^ It's only natural she should like to hear
what's going on up at the hall, and as for
that little cur Ledger, she cant care for him,'
thought John.

As usual in these cases, it was the aggressor
who felt the aggrieved party, and Joan resented
John's jealousy almost as much as she
would have resented his indifference. She
gave her smiles to the man she did not care
for, and her frowns to him she really loved.
This caprice of love was understood by Mrs.
Marsh, but it provoked her husband prodigiously,


The gel's a forrard hussy, and John's a
fool to take it as he do. It will serve her
right if he takes and marries another gel out
of spite.'

Leave them alone, my dear ; it will all
come right presently. You men don't understand
these matters,' replied Mrs. Marsh.

It's a new sort of love-making, as I don't
want to understand no more than these newfangled
steam-engines and gas-lights, and
things that are turning the old world upside

down. All I know is, I wouldn't a stood no
such nonsense.'

Despite Mrs. Marsh's prognostication that
all would come right, all seemed to be going
quite wrong. John grew gloomier, and Joan
more exasperating every day. She encouraged
James Ledger to such an 'extent that the
little man believed she loved him and would
be his wife for the asking. It was something
to have a big sweetheart like Joan, and cut
out a rival like John Morrison, who was
acknowledged to be the best-looking fellow
and the handiest about those parts, and he
did not conceal his triumph. ^

The slightest scraps of gossip get circulated
widely in the country, where there is little
news to talk about, and John was twitted
from all sides about his ill-fortune in having
such a man as little Jim Ledger for a rival.
He bore that, but when he caught the keeper
presenting a bunch of flowers to Joan, withall
the airs of a fine gentleman, his power of
endurance gave way, and, taking his rival by
the collar, he led him down to the horse-pond
and ducked him in like a sheep.

Now you can go and tell your friends
what John Morrison's given you,' said he,
setting the gasping keeper on his feet ; ' and

if you come here with any of your flunkey
graces again, I'll give you something more to
hragf about.'

Ledger sneaked away, muttering threats
of Vengeance, which were not idle, coming
from his heart.

John turned towards the house, where
Joan was standing a spectator of her admirer's
discomfiture, with his bunch of flowers
in her hand. She was not afraid of John
Morrison, and stood her ground bravely as he
came up to her.

Joan,' said he, give me they flowers.'

^ Not I,' she replied, clapping the casus hei
behind her.

Then throw 'em away.'

Nor that neither. I ain't afeard. You
can't throw me in the horse pond.'

I shouldn't care for ye well enough to
trouble myself, if I could,' he answered.
Then he caught hold of her enmity hand, and
said, ' Now look here, lass ; you have flunkey
chap's love in one hand and mine in t'other —
drop which you will, and so be it.'

Why, if you think a shapely Devonshire
lass is to be courted and won in that fashion,
I'll drop yours quick enough, and you may
take it to a wench that's less particular.'

And with that Joan flung his hand aside,
and walked into her dairy with the* carriage
of a queen, leaving John to walk oft' and try
to forget her.

It was a hard job to forget her, but John
kept resolutely away from her, and wouldn't
go near the house. But he kept his eye on
the approaches.

It gratified him to see that his warning
was taken by the keeper. James Ledger
avoided Mayford as the rat does the trap
that has taken his tail off.

Joan was left with never a lover now ; but
that she didn't mind — for the first day. If
John had been within a couple of hundred
beards he would have heard her singing.

It was on the third day after the quarrel
that farmer Marsh, coming to John Morrison,
who was billings a hazel hedoje, said :

What 'a been doing to Joan, lad T

I, master ? Nowt.'

'Then don't 'e do it again, lad, or you'll
break the gel's heart.'

I'll pitch that whipper-snapper into t'
horse-pond again, if he comes dancing about
here like a merry-andrew, wi' his flowers and
his flunkey manners.'

I don't mind 'e pitching Ledger into

pond, thos he be landlord's keeper ; but 'ain't
that iijDsets the gel. Why don't 'e take and
many the wench, lad ? She's nigh brokenhearted
(and serve her right for playing fast
and loose, say I) ; but the wife says she can't
have her crying about the house all day.'

What ! crying ?' exclaimed John.

Aye ; and wife says she must pack her
off if she won't stop it. Why, she's done
nowt but cry ever sin' yesterday morning.
Go to her, lad.'

John did not want bidding. He threw
down his bill, and ran off to the house as
hard as he could go, With pity and love and
remorse seething together in his heart.

Joan was feeding the geese, with such a
face as James Ledofer would not have recto
nosed at another time. Her eyes were puffed,
her nose swollen and red. She did not hear
John coming over the turf. In one hand she
held a pan of wet barley meal, with the other
she cast it out to the geese, occasionally taking
up a corner of her apron with her wet finger
and thumb to staunch her tears. Everything
that Joan did she went through with
thoroughly — crying included.

My poor lass ! — I never thought to ha'
grieved thee so ; and if I'd known you loved

me, I'd never been harsh with 'e/ cried John,
coming to her side.

Down went the pan and the spoon, and
Joan, flinging her arms round John's neck,
hugged him to her bosom, and kissed him,
crying copiously all the while.

I've been to blame, John. I were a fool,
I were, to give a word or a look to that
mincing little fool, while there was a great,
strong man a-loving me truly. An' I ha'
repented, John ; an' if you'd only looked in
the pig's trow yesterday you'd ha' seen they
dratted flowers, ye would; an' you know I
love you, John.'

'Why, then, we'll be married, lass,
Michaelmas fair-day next, and you shall
never shed another tear so long as you live
if I can help it.'

And on Michaelmas Day they were
married, and spent their honeymoon seeing
the sights at Canteen Hill Fair, and in the
evening they went to their new home in
Sandy Lane.

Thus, after two months of not very cheerful
romance, John Morrison came to the
realities of life.

FOOD AND CLOTHES. — Three-halfpence A DAY.

Afford is four miles from Guildford,
and thirty by the road from
London. It stands on the outskirts
of the common which stretches from
Reading to London, and is no more than a
pleasant walk from Hyde Park Corner, yet
virtually it was as far removed from civilisation
as if it had stood on the outskirts of Sahara.
All that the inhabitants of Sandy Lane
ever saw of civilisation was an occasional
highwayman on his way to Earshot, for as
late as 1840 travellers were not safe there ; ora
pair of prize-fighters from London, who
came thither with their train of gentlemen
and blackguards to fight their battles out
undisturbed.

Parsons came from the universities to
preach a doctrine which none understood ;
gentlemen came to hunt and enjoy themselves
; but nobody came with the view of
making the peasants happier or better.

They were left to themselves more completely
than if they had been Africans.

They could speak, and in that they were
superior to the rabbits ; but the advantage
lay with the rabbits as far as happiness was
concerned. And these people lived just outside
the greatest city in the world, and this
was the condition of things when John
Morrison took his wife home and prepared to
face the realities of life.

John was then in his twentieth year,
vigorous and cheerful, and he found a married
life not half such a serious business as old
people considered it. He and Joan lived
very comfortably on thirteen shillings a week.
It was almost as comfortable when his first
child was born, and only became palpably
different when the third had to be provided
for. After that the work seemed harder and
the comfort less. Every additional mouth
made his share of the loaf smaller, and he
found it impossible to work without exhaustion
with insufficient in his stomach. The

VOL. I. 2

problem ever present in his mind was, How
are we to live ? And this difficulty became
greater every year, as his family increased.

The children were all healthy and hardy
as the offspring of such parents would be ;
and in 1853, there were eleven of them to
provide for out of thirteen shillings a week.

The rent of the cottage in Sandy Lane
was half-a- crown a week ; and when that was
taken off, farmer Marsh gave John Morrison
eleven shillings and sixpence. This eleven
shillings and sixpence was to feed and clothe
thirteen human beings for seven days, making
the share of each member of the family a
fraction over three-halfpence per day. A
pig could not be kept in wash and litter for
the price ; an ordinary hen costs more. Only
human ingenuity could keep body and soul
together on such a pittance.

John Morrison grew dull and old, poor
Joan lean and careworn, in this struggle for
life. John's hair was streaked with grey at
thirty-three ; Joan looked fifty. John could
not have told you how the cravings of his
growing youngsters w-ere appeased. His
duty was to work hard and give his wife the
money to spend as only she could spend it.
Meat the mother and children never ate ;

about two ounces of pork-fat and a loaf were
given to John to work his fifteen or eighteen
hours a clay upon. Bread soaked in hot
water with boiled vegetables were the chief
subsistence of the rest.

Things could not be worse, though the
family should still increase, for Jack, the eldest
boy, could already use the clappers, and in
another year Tom, the second son, would be
able to mind cows, and so by degrees the elder
ones might be got out to work and make
room for the vounofer.

Once a week Joan locked up her children
and trudged off to Guildford for the week's
supply of provisions : in the fog of autumn
or the cutting east winds of spring, in the
stifling heat of summer or the piercing cold
of winter, it was all the same, the woman
could be seen bent beneath the weioiit of
two heavy baskets toiling along the weary
road.

Sometimes she was lucky enough to get a
commission from a farmer's wife to brings a
joint of meat or a parcel of groceries from
the town ; then Joan carried three baskets.
It made her stagger a little going up the hills,
that extra twelve or thirteen pounds weight,
but she was glad to carry the load for a bunch

2—2

of carrots or turnips, or perhaps a few old rags
of clothes to cut up and make into coverings
for her children's backs.

What we call amusements, entertainments,
and the like were unknown to John and his
wife — they did not get even relaxation.

They had neither feast-days nor holidays.

Their one source of supreme gratification
was that they had strength to work and keep
out of the workhouse.

Neither husband nor wife could read, and
their children were as ignorant as savages.
The nearest school was four miles distant.

Religion was but a name to them. They
had a vague fear of the hereafter as a state
even more terrible than their present condition,
of a God that would plunge them in
eternal torment for their misfortunes and
ignorance. What could they know of.Divine
love in their perpetual struggle with adversity?
The rector of the parish thought he had discharged
his duty to them sufficiently in return
for his wages of two thousand a year, with a
rectory and glebe lands, by sending his curate
now and then to ask them questions which
they could not answer, and to warn them
against heresy. They never went to church,
because that church was not for them.

It is ludicrous to think what would have
happened if those gaunt parents had walked
into the ornamental church with their eleven
rao-o'ed and barefooted children behind them
ludicrous and pathetic too. Would the
rector have brought them a loaf and bid
them warm themselves at the stove ? or
would he have instructed the pew-opener to
turn them out or to huddle them away out of
sight in a corner of the cold stony aisle ?

It would be wrong to say that these people
had no hope for that sentiment is co-existent
with fear ; and as the dread of going into the
workhouse was ever before them, it may be
said that they were never without hope — of
staying out of it. That encouraged them to
be frugal and industrious.

Master Marsh was quite right in his calculations.
John Morrison was secure enough
now. He was not likely to relinquish a good
place for one only possibly better. He could
not afford to risk the probability of being discharged
by a new master when the harvesting
was over. He was no longer a young man
unfettered who could walk up to London
and support himself for a week or two without
work while he was finding a good situation.
A couple of days without work now

would oblige him to take his wife and family
to the poorhouse for food and shelter.

Farmer Marsh was satisfied with John
Morrison, and used to point him out as an
example of the contented and useful servant
an English peasant could be under a considerate
master.

Useful he certainly was ; but contented ?
No.

It would seem that he had sufficient to
think about in doing his daily work, without
troubling his head about such abstractions
as justice and injustice, right and wrong, or in
trying to solve the question, ' What do I live
for V Nevertheless these matters did greatly
perplex him.

He kept his opinions to himself, for the
constant practice of economy — of doing
nothing which was not advantageous —
governed even his tongue. Why should he
talk of his troubles ? What good would it
do him or his to tell that he was ill satisfied
with the dispensations of Providence ?

Nevertheless his feelings found expression
and were made known, astonishing: farmer
Marsh as greatly as an eruption of Primrose
Hill would surprise the dwellers in its
vicinity.

One day John Morrison said to farmer
Marsh, as they were looking at the ravages
made on the standing corn by the hedge-birds
:

A lad might earn a shilling a week by
scaring of the birds ; and my Jack is a
smart kind o' lad, can holler louder an a
man, and have been learning to use t' clappers
these three weeks

Let him come in, and we will see what
we can do wi' him, John. So you have a
son old enough to work V

^ The gel's a year older.'

^ xA.h, Qfels are more awkward to do wi', butin
a couple o' sears she may go out and do a
bit scullery-work. Bless me, how the time
goes ! Why, how long have you been on the
farm, John V

Nigh on five-and-twenty year, master.*

Five-and-twenty year !' echoed farmer
Marsh, his bosom swelling with the thought
of his own benevolence in keeping a servant
so long. His feelings were almost paternal towards
John Morrison. ' Five-and-twenty year !
It must be a satisfaction, like, to you, John, to
think you've kept a place winter and summer
all they years, and that your son's like to do
the same, eh ? Why don't you answer,

man? What makes ye look so do\Yii i'
mouth V

^ It must be t' satisfaction of it, master ;
looking back upon the past and thinking as
the future of that there poor little chap is to
be no better. Here will he stand, a growed
man, and ask the question that I ask myself
now — What wrong did I do that my father
should treat me worse than a pup or a kit ?
Why did he serve me less merciful than
them 1 Why did he not tie a stone about
my neck, and fling me in a pond before I
could suffer, when he saw there were too
many of us in the world, and that I was not
wanted V

r

CHAPTER III.

JOHN MORRISON BECOMES A THIEF.

July

Amer Marsh was not certain
whether to regard John Morrison
as a lunatic or a Eaclical.

It was quite possible that the
sun had softened his brain — it was

equally possible that he had been listening to
the inflammatory eloquence of those unprincipled
agitators who go up and down in the
land, sending the farmer's best men to the
colonies and raising the price of labour.

Under either condition he was greatly to
be pitied, and his symptoms could be regarded
only with the most serious apprehensions.

John Morrison was included in the long
list of complaints which farmer Marsh had
to lay before his landlord in extenuation of

deficient dressing, imperfect draining, etc.,
and as Sir Andrew Aveling was walking over
Mayford farm to see how the game promised,
his tenant said :

'The men are just as contrary as the
weather, Sir Andrew. They're just like the
roots and the stock and market prices — they
ain't what they used to be — nothing like.
Why, look at that man there, sir — John
Morrison— a man that my father took on the
farm when he didn't hardly know the difference
'twixt a plough and a harrow — a man
as I've kept in constant work by the sear,
and never stopped so much as a week in the
severest weather — a man as I've give thirteen
shilling a week to ever since he was nineteen
yer old — well, he's discontented. Talks about
farm labourers being wus off 'an pups and
kits, because they're allowed to live when
they're not wanted. Talks about men being
bound to treat their fellow creatures as well
as they treat themselves, or else to destroy
them.'

Ah, this arises from teaching them to
read and '

But he can't read a word.'

More shame for him — he ought to, that's
all I can say. I've heard of this John Morrison

from my keeper Ledger, and, according
to all accounts, he's a very dangerous sort of
fellow. I advise you to keep a sharp eye on
him. Marsh. Do you give him any rabbits V

No, sir; no.'

Then I warrant he takes 'em. Have him
up before the bench if you. catch him at it,
and I promise you he shall suffer for it.
These radical ideas are gaining ground, and
must be repressed by the firm hand of justice,
or ground will presently be worth not a
pound an acre. He looks a heavy, plotting
kind of man. Keep your eye on him. Marsh,
and I'll just speak to my man Ledger about
him.'

He's not dishonest, Sir Andrew — only his
opinions are wrong.'

What a confounded inconsistent fellow
you are, Marsh ! With one breath you
accuse the man, with the next you excuse
him. Do you think it's possible for a man's
principles and practices to be at variance ?
Nonsense ! If his opinions are bad, his
actions must be dishonest too. That's
logic'

It was not for the farmer to arose the
matter with his landlord — a baronet and a
justice of the peace — so Marsh said no more

about Morrison, and only hoped the man
would keep out of Ledger's way.

James Ledger watched John Morrison
with the patient vigilance of a cat.

He had a long-standing grudge to gratify
and a master to please.

During the harvesting John had so much
work to do that there was no scope for malice
to invent a charge against him. He and his
little Jack walked to work at four in the
mornings and left it at nine at night.

When the harvest was carried there was
no more work for the boy, and John walked
to and from the farm alone.

Ledger became hopeful.

November came in wet and cold ; John's
clothes at night-time were damp through,
and had to be dried after he was in bed.
Fuel was scarce — the load of faggots which
farmer Marsh usually gave his man at the
beginning of the winter had not yet been
sent — he was short of wood himself, having
off wood-cutting in order to get the
ground worked before the frost bound the
earth.

Ye must brings a mite o' wood home wi'

yon, John, if you can, for the turfs won't
last by 'themselves,' said Joan.

John asked his master for permission to
take home a faggot.

I canst spare ne'er a one from the stack,
but you may take a bit if you see it lying
about,' answered Marsh.

John managed to find a few sticks, and
with these trudged homewards in the evening.


Part of Sandy Lane runs alongside Ave-line
Park. The fence there had been out of
repair for years, and in one place the posts
had rotted, and a yard or so of the paling-had
fallen down in the wide ditch.

Coming to this point John stopped. In
the dim light he could just see the dark wood
lying among the brake. There was enough
rotting there to keep the fire going for a
week. Why should it lie there useless ? He
set one foot in the ditch and found a loose
batten or two. He added them to his load,
and carried them home.

'Aye, that's good!' said Joan. 'Bring
the like tomorrow, lad, and we'll bide through
Sunday.'

The next night John got into the ditch
and felt about. There was not much besides

the main piece, but he collected what fragments
there were, and carried home about as
much as, chopped up, would fill a bushel
basket. ' It's no one's property laying therein
the open ditch, and it's o' no value to Sir
Andrew,' thought John.

About two hours after he had come home,
as he was sitting by the fire with his baby on
his knee — they were never without a baby in
that house — the door opened and Graves the
constable walked in, followed by the sinister
little keeper.

Halloa ! John Morrison ; you've been
doing what you oughtn't to, eh V said Graves,
cheerfully.

What do you mean. Master Graves V

Why, you've got a bit o' wood on your fire
there as don't belong to you, that's all

^ And there's another bit up in the corner,'

piped out James Ledger, whose sharp eye

had detected the property.

^ That — that's only waste — it's of no value
—it's '

John Morrison could hardly speak, and his
arm that held the baby trembled violently.

Well, anyway you must come along o' me.
I dare say Sir Andrew won't be hard on you
Ashen he finds it's only a bit o' stuff like

that ; but I must do my duty, so come
along.'

^ Joan,' said John, rising and speaking
huskily, * run down, my good lass, and tell
Master Marsh what has happened, and — here
take t' baby.'

Fortunately for John Morrison, Justice was
dozing when he was brought to Aveling Hall.
Sir Andrew had dined heavily, and with a
bottle of port at his elbow, was gently snoring
in the lounge-chair before the library fire.
No one dared to wake him for such a trifling*
matter as that in which a mere farm-labourer
was concerned, and so John was taken into
the servants' hall to await the awaking of
Justice. He sat there, silent and listless, his
elbows resting on his knees, his fingers knit,
his head bent, while the servants indulged
their curiosity, and his captors told of his
offence, and ventured conjectures on the
punishment awaiting him. He took no notice
of those about him or their remarks ; he was
dead to everything but one question. ' If so
be I am sent to gaol, what '11 become of the
young 'nes and the wife, and howell she fare
with the little 'ne that's to be born come
January V

Meanwhile, Joan, with her shawl wrapped

loosely about her head, ran without stopping
to May ford Farm, and got there while lights
still glimmered in the lower windows.

It was nine o'clock nearly, and farmer
Marsh had yawned thrice. Mrs. Marsh was
preparing the chamber candle.

Panting for breath, and with hysterical
utterance, Joan told her tale, and implored
the farmer to save her John from being carried
to prison.

Marsh, as he listened, thought, first, ' I'm
not going out this time o' night, when I ought
to be in bed, to irritate my landlord for
nothing at all.' Then, ' Who's to carry that
load o' barley I promised to send to Guildford
o' Monday if John's locked up in prison?'
After that, ' It will never do to lose John,
while there's that shirley to clear.' And
lastly, ' I'll go and see what can be done, for
John's salvo. I should have to go all the way
to Guildford if the case is sent before the
bench.'

So, grumbling in a loud voice, he put on
his thick coat, and bidding Joan go home and
look after her children, he went across the
meadows to Aveling Hall.

Joan went by the road, and sat do^vn in
the fog by the lodge-gate, waiting, with a

terrible anxiety at lier heart, for the sound of
footsteps to come down the broad walk.

And while she sat there with a tumult of
emotion in her heart, while the wet mist was
soddening her rags of clothes so that they
hung in heavy, clammy folds about her
wretched limbs, while the fog was laying the
seeds of disease in her lungs, and the cold
was numbing her feet and hands, Justice still
dozed before the warm fire.

How long did she sit there ? She knew
not. There was no sound to mark the passing
hours. All was still as death. It
seemed to her that the night must have gone
and morning be at hand. She rose from her
seat and crept along by the lodge-gates, trying
to pierce the darkness with her eyes, and
see if any light glimmered in the hall.
Darkness only less profound than the silence
prevailed. Standing in the middle of the
road, a sense of unreality possessed her mind.
She could see nothing, hear nothing, feel
nothing. It was as if she stood in an infinite
void. Only when she moved and passed her
hands along the gates was this impression removed.


Suddenly, with startling distinctness, the
great clock of the hall began to strike.

VOL. I. 3

She counted the strokes. ' One, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.' Had
she waited there, then, barely an hour 1

She sat doAvn on the wet bank, rocking
herself from side to side, but still with her
senses alert.

The awful silence was unbroken until
eleven struck ; and then the stillness came
again.

A sound as light as the dropping of a leaf
fell upon her ear, and she started to her feet,
holding her breath to listen. A distant door
had opened. Voices she heard and recognised,
farmer Marsh's and constable Graves's.
She could hear them talking, but why could
she not hear her husband ? A door shut.
Footsteps on the wet gravel drew nearer.
Farmer Marsh again spoke, and Graves answered.
Was John confined in the hall ?

She fancied she heard more than the footsteps
of two men coming nearer, nearer. But
if John were there, why did he not join in the
conversation that Marsh and Graves kept
up?

They were quite close now ; a step or two
would bring them to her. She sank down,
powerless with apprehension.

The lodge-gate swung. back, the lodge-door

opened, and a stream of light came from
within.

A voice in the dark road shrieked out
John !' and was succeeded by a cadence of
sobs.

That's t' wife, lad ; go and see to her,'
said Graves.

John Morrison ran into the road, and
where the sobbing came from he found his
wife, sodden and cold, kneeling in the road.

What, my wench ! Rise up. I'm not to
go to gaol, after all'

Ah, mercy, mercy ! I am thankful to
my God. Let me feel thy dear face, so.
Tell me again, lad, thou art free.'

Aye, free. But they tell me I'm no
Ion O'er an honest man.'

3—2

THE DEGRADATION OF JOHN MORRISON.

IR ANDREW

unjust to John
cbargin^^ him.
He felt that

Feeling

Morrison

in

was
blithe



and
In

better
Idler course was to send him to prison,
his opinion, dishonesty was an original sin,
and the heritage of the poor — a disease not
to be prevented, scarcely to be cured, and to
be checked only by punishment.

He was perfectly certain that John
Morrison would have to go to gaol sooner or
later. His conscience whispered that he
ouQ^ht to be benched at once. He felt a
generous compunction in letting him off.

But a man's natural disposition will assert
itself, and Sir Andrew was by nature lenient

and yielding to the wishes of others. He
Listened to the argument of his tenant,
farmer Marsh, who pointed out not only his
own inconvenience in iosino- a o^ood servant,
but the burden which would be imposed
upon the parish if John Morrison's wife and
eleven children had him to support them no
longer, and so he allowed his better judgment
to be overruled.

Nevertheless, he did his best to make the
laws of his country respected, to turn John
Morrison back by force of argument into the
path of virtue which he had forsaken — in
other words, to render him happy.

In dismissing the miserable, bewildered
offender, he used all his eloquence to make
him understand that justice is not a merciful,
impartial arbitrator, but a vindictive avenger,
who carries a sword for no idle purpose.


He succeeded in impressing upon the mind
of John Morrison the fact that he was no
longer an honest man, and had for ever
forfeited his claim to the sympathy of decent
people — that he must henceforth take an
inferior place among his toiling fellows, and
lower his eyes to the earth before good men
and women, and that he owed his freedom

from a severer punishment to an undue indulgence.


His condemnation received additional
weight coming from the Ups of Sir Andrew,
for the baronet bore an uni peached character
for hberahty and kindness. All over the
county he was held up as the type of a good
old-fashioned English gentleman, whose only
fiU't was a somewhat hasty temper.

John Morrison had himself received soup
and blankets from the hall the preceding
winter. Looking at him with his stout
personable figure, his smooth feminine hands,
his soft grey hair, and his florid fair face,
with its blue sleepy eyes, it was impossible
to believe him guilty of cruelty. Looking
at the library in which he sat, with its rows
upon rows of large, solemn, ponderous books,
its desks and writing paraphernalia, it could
not be doubted that he was wise. It was
not for John Morrison to know that the
books had never been read, and were there
merely as an ornamental but necessary adjunct
to the shelves.

Most of us can cover our nakedness with
some more or less radiant tissue. One has
his wit, another his learning, a third his
money, and so on. John Morrison had his

honesty, which is indeed a poor rag in popular
opinion when compared with others. It
was his boast that throughout his hardships
he had preserved an unblemished char-after.

I've worked man and boy five-and-twenty
year an' more in one place, and never had
nothing' agen me,' he used to say. This he could
say no more. His one thin rag was torn off,
and he was turned out in the world for the
very bears to scorn.

Had the word ' thief been branded on his
brow, he could not have felt himself more
abased.

He walked home with his wife's hand in
his, too engrossed with his own misfortune to
notice her wretchedness.

The next day being Sunday he had ample
time for reflection. He ate his meals in
silence, and between whiles sat in an apathetic
state, with his elbows on his knees,
and his body bent forward, taking no notice
of his children, and answering Joan in monosyllables
when she spoke to him.

In the evening, when the children were in
bed, the wife pulled a chair beside her husband's,
and said, laying her hand on his arm :

Cease fretting' thyself, John ; things be
not so bad as they might have been.'

son.

They couldn't be much worse, wife.
What's to come of the children when it's
known their father's a thief? Who'll take
'em to service now V

But thought no thief, lad, or thou't be not
here now.'

Sir Andrew told me 1 was, afore Master
Graves, and that Jim Ledger leered him.
And d'ye think he'll not tell the tidings to
all the folks around ? 'Tis so he'll pay off the
old score he has agen me, for taking you
away from him in the old days, Joan. Aye,
wife, I did ye a bad turn then, for all I loved
ve so well.'

Talk not like that, lad. Ye know as well
as I that I'd rather have ye, just as poor and
unfortunate as thee be, than a rat of a manlike
him. Thou art a man, John. And
don't be thinking folks who know you, and
him, too, Avill believe his lies agen thee.'

They're not lies. I am a thief

What, for takin' a handful o' rubbish out
u' a ditch — a thief? Nay, lad, nay.'

'You don't understand the ways of this
country, wife. Maybe it's different in Devonshire,
where you come from. Maybe there's
no gentlefolks there, and you're welcome to
take up a bit o' rubbish another don't want

and throws aside to rot in the ditch. It
makes a power o' difference where people's
got plenty of money.'

Can tell me, John, why it's wrong to take
a thing that's o' no value to nobody V

That I can't, lass. It ain't for us to know
the why and the wherefore of gentlefolks'
law. It's their business to make the laws,,
and ours to suffer by 'em.'

Well, we must make the best of it. We
cannot get away, and we must just bide here
till we can't work no more, and our time
comes to 2:0 to the union and die. So let us
think o' the matter no more.'

How can I help thinking' of it, when
every one I meet will look at me as they
didn't used to look V

'look at nobody, then, John, till thou come
home to thy children and thy wife : thou'lt
find no difference in the looks of our eyes,
save there be more love for thee than ever in
thy Joan's.'

Thus Joan comforted her John, as only a
wife can comfort her husband. But though
she calmed his late wounds, she could not
make him invulnerable to further attacks.

In the morning he received a ' good talking
to ' from farmer Marsh, who counselled

him not only to be more honest for the
future, but also to be a ' little less independent
like and not can his head so high.

Why don't ye shake hands and be friends
with Ledger ? You shouldn't lia' got into
this mess if you'd been on good terms with
him,' said he.

If he be paid to do this kind o' work, he
must do it same as other servants replied
John.

Nonsense ! you talk like a fool, John.
D'ye think he'd took any notice of you lifting
a bit of wood if he hadn't bore you a
oTudcre for laughing: and sneering at him, let
alone taking his sweetheart away and pitching
of him into the horse-pond years gone
by ? Xo ; it don't do for people that's got to
earn their living to be independent. I have
to humble myself to the baronet, and you
must just bend your back to his keeper. And
you do it, too, my lad, or, mark me, it'll bethe
worse for you before long.'

John Morrison did not reply. He was
asking himself this question, 'Am I degraded
to the state of a miserable cur, that, for very
fear, I must curry favour with the man I
most despise V

Mrs. Marsh also spoke her mind when

John took the morning's milk into the dairy,
addressing him in strong, sharp terms before
the kitchen wench and dairy-maid, in order
that they might share equally with him the
benefit of her moral admonitions.

His fellow-labourers said nothing, but their
silence was worse than speech to Jolni Morrison.
He fancied that everyone must know
•of his disgrace, and regard him as he had
been told to consider himself He slunk out
of the way of his fellows,, and, having to cart
n load of hay, did double duty rather than
have a boy to help him.

Going home at night he saw a man coming
towards him. He bent his head and quickened
his pace. Poor wretch! he had no need
of Joan's suofo'estion that he should look into
no eyes but hers and his children's ; his own
shame prevented him from looking into others'.
Yet though he kej^t his eyes upon the path,
he felt that he was beings looked at; and when
the passing stranger, in country fashion, bade
him ' Good-nicrht ' he had not strength to
answer.

Dav after dav he suffered from this sense
of humiliation, until, like a beaten mule, he
was toughened, and grew accustomed to blows.

Finding it impossible to retrieve his lost

position, he tried to reconcile himself to his-present
condition by comparing it with
that of others who had fallen still
lower.

Thus in his mind he associated himself
with vagabonds, and, by insensible degrees
came to consider himself as one of them.

He grew callous, and suffered less. But
the heart that is hardened by pain cannot
respond to sensations of pleasure.

He was perpetually dull and heavy, occasionally
sullen and morose.

Trifles irritated him at times, and he did
not attempt to check his anger.

He met Ledger frequently, but without
making any propitiatory advances. He passed
by him in silence ; but his mood was defiant
rather than independent.

One night they met unexpectedly close by
a sand-pit in Sandy Lane.

The keeper was alone.

John Morrison could have wruno^ his neck
and thrown him in the flooded pit easily.

^ Good-evening, John,' whined the keeper,
stopping. ' I haven't had a chance of speaking
to you lately, and I have wanted to let
you know how sorry I was to inform against
you about '

You're paid to do dirty work — do it
answered John Morrison, interrupting the
little man in his speech, and leaving him
abruptly.

'And I will said Ledger to himself.

The year drew towards its close. Christmas
was at hand.

One night Joan said :

Christmas is nigh, my man, and we must
have a bit o' meat food, wi' a sudden for the
children.'

Where be they to come from ? We're
like to get nothing i' the way of gifts from
anyone this winter,' responded the husband,
gloomily.

'We can do wi'out charity, John. See,
here's a matter o' nio^h on three shillings I
ha' scraped together unbeknown to thee and
Joan laid the well-saved silver and pence out
before John, who looked at it with his dull
eyes in silence.

•' Come, John, brighten up and be th}^ old
self again. Think o' thy children sleeping' in
there, and mind how glad 'twill make 'em to
feast. Put t' money in thy pocket, and a'
Saturday we'll walk together to Guildford
and settle how to send it.'

John looked up from the money to his

wife's thin face, then back to the money,
which he wicked up slowly and silently.

T has been happy work saving it, putting
by a penny now and twopence then, and
'twill be still gladder work spending of it wi''
thee, my man.'

John took the money up and looked again
in Joan's face, which was sunny with pleasure.
A tear came in his eye, and when he spoke it
Alas in a husky, yet a gentle tone.

- ' You be the best wife i' the world, Joan ;;
and I am but a coward and all full o' shame
to think how I brood glum and soar wi' only
my own misfortunes, while you keep a good
heart and a cheery smile for others, having
to bear your own ill luck and mine as well
Gi' me a kiss, wife dear — so, so ; don't you
cry now when we're all our old selves agen
like ; dry sour poor eyes with my neckerchief
here — that's it, my good gal ; aye, and on
Saturday we'll go together and buy the bit
food for children, so wee will'

The next day John heard that there was
bread and a blanket to be had for the skins
by any respectable person Who went uj) to
Aveling Hall.

Respectable person 1' thought John; ' then

they're not for the likes o' me. Would they
give them to Joan, I wonder ? Better to go
wi'out 'em than be refused. 'Twould break
t' poor woman's heart if they said, '' You can't
have 'em because your husband's a thief."
'T wouldn't make any odds to me to be
denied, and I'll try, be there chance or none.'

After his work was done he trudged off to
the hall, with little hope of success, but a
dogged carelessness as to what ignominy
might be thrown upon himself

'Twould be a rare good job to save the
wife's money ; she'll want it sure enough
when the little 'ne comes,' thought he.

The lodge-keeper looked at John Morrison
in amaze when he stated the object of his
visit, and exclaimed :

What, you, John Morrison ! a blanket
and bread for you V

Yes, me. Don't 'e think I want it wi' a
wife and eleven children, and another coming'
wi' new year V

Well, you can go up and try — you know
the way to the servants' hall said the lodge-keeper,
with a grin. He came out to look at
the labourer trudging up towards the house,
and murmured, ' Well, there's impudence for
you !'

In the servants' hall were waiting lialf-a-
cloven poor folks, and behind the long oak
doing-table, piled with blankets and loaves,
stood the housekeeper.

The entrance of John Morrison created
quite a small sensation among the group.
His audacity obtained for him the immediate
attention of the housekeeper.

And Avhat do you want, my good man ?'
asked she.

'Blanket and a loaf, please 'm,' answered

John.

For yourself?'

Xo, for my wife and young 'nes.'

I must ask before I give you anything.
Mr. Barrows.'

Mr. Barrows, the butler, drew near, seeming
no less surprised than others. The housekeeper
spoke to him in a low tone, and he
went off reluctantly, scratching his ear.
Evidently he did not care to mediate between
John Morrison and the baronet.

Tell Sir Andrew I don't ask his charity
for myself; called out John to the retiring
butler. ' It's for my eleven innocent children
and my wife, whose time's nigh at hand, that
I come here a-begging.'

Mr. Barrows paused to hear this instruction

Avithout turning, and then went on his way,
still scratching his ear.

Entering' the dining-room, where Sir
Andrew sat at dinner with his son, Barrows
said :

If you please, Sir Andrew, here's that
John Morrison in the hall asking for blankets
and bread.'

What ! the man who was broui-'ht before
me for stealing wood V

Yes, Sir Andrew, the very same : talking
in a hiorh voice there, as if the things belonged
to him. I should have told the fellow to go
about his business at once, but Mrs. Child,
the housekeeper, sir, she said I'd better ask
you.'

Tell him,' exclaimed the baronet, indignantly,
tell him — he is an insolent, presumptuous
— ' The baronet paused, remembering
his dignity, and continued, ' Merely say that
there is nothing here for him.'

Yes, sir.' Barrows departed.

Sir Andrew was a widower, with one son.
The boy was the delight of his father. The
little fellow was then about ten years old, a
bright, pretty boy, with the soft hair, fair
skin, and blue eyes of his father.

Why is John Morrison not to have a

VOL. I. 4

blanket, papa ? Isn't he poor enough V he
asked.

He is poor enough. Yes, my boy.'

Then doesn't he feel the cold like other
poor men V

'Yes, Roland, yes. He feels the cold,
doubtless ; but, you see, this John Morrison
is not a good man.'

It must be very wretched not to be a
good man. I'm sorry for poor John Morrison,
joppa.'

JOHN MORRISON STEALS A DEAD HARE.

john MORRISON took his refusal
^^V in the same apathetic manner that
he had made his request. He
turned from the table without a
word, and plodded heavily down the path to
the lodge, as if he were conducting a part of
his day's labour, and had no sentiment either
of joy or sorrow.

The moon was up, and its light, only partially
obscured by the watery clouds, revealed
objects in the road With tolerable clearness.


As John, nearing his home, entered Sandy
Lane, his eyes, still bent upon the ground,
caught sight of a hare lying across the path.
It was dead. The autumn had been wet,

4—2

and many hares had died of the ^ rot It
was reasonable to suppose that this had fallen
bv the same disease.

John picked it up and felt over its body.
He could find no sign of shot wounds.

A hare found under such conditions was
worthless. Nobody would have dreamed of
eating it, except the father of a starving
family.

The thought came to John's mind at once
that here was food for his young ones, which
would enable him to save the few shillings
Joan had saved for a more pressing emergency.
What if it had died ? Its flesh boiled with a
few pot-herbs would be savoury and eatable,
and a stay to the cravings of nature. Necessity
is not nice in its choices.

John determined to take the elinor home.
At that moment it occurred to him that to
take a dead hare from the public road might
be as dishonest as taking a handful of rotten
wood.

He hesitated, more than half-minded to
fling his late acquisition into the adjoining
copse. Then he thought of his children and
his wife.

After all, the hare was worthless, and it
might not be dishonest to take it. Conscience

told him he had no right to anything in the
world but fourteen shilhnofs a week.

The hare slipped from his hands and fell at
his feet, but he still stood there with temptation.


Suppose it be dishonest,' he argued, * what
then ? I am a thief. Shall I not thieve '?
Nothing can make me honest. No one will
treat me as an honest man. Can any theft
make me more than a thief? What does it
matter so that I am not discovered V

He looked around him. Not a twice in the
adjoining copse stirred ; the dead brake lay
motionless. He listened. Not a whispering
breeze nor a distant step broke the silence.

He stooped down, picked up the hare, and
walked on with it, a strange excitement in
his breast, an odd sinmno' in his head. It
was the first truly dishonest act of his life —
the result of being treated as a thief

He had not walked a dozen yards when his
apprehensive ear caught the sound of a shrill
whistle and breaking underwood in the copse.
He stopped, his heart beating quickly. He
was not mistaken, the snapping of deadwood
was distinct, unguarded, and close at
hand.

John Morrison's home was not more than.

five or six hundred yards distant, and his first
impulse on hearing the sound was to drop the
hare and take to his heels ; but the reflection
that he might be pursued and overtaken
within Joan's hearing checked him. Moreover,
it was contrary to his natural disposition
to take a cowardly course.

He grasped the hare tighter and waited.
His suspense was momentary. A few rapid
steps, and then George Lough Sir Andrew's
under-keeper, leapt from the copse over the
brake and stood before John Morrison ; a
second after James Ledger rose from the fern-covered
ditch in the rear and joined his companion.


^ Halloa, John Morrison ! what have you
got now ?' he asked.

A dead hare. I picked it up in the path
there, and you know it.'

It's my duty to find out these things, as
you said the other day, and I must do it,' said
Ledger, getting^behind the elbow of George
Lough, a big fearless man, who had been a
poacher in his boyhood and lived all his life
in the woods.

You needn't fear me, Jim Ledger,' said
John, with a grating laugh ; * I shan't beat
you, though ye be a cur. Come, tell us what

ye want, George Lough, like a man ; be it
the hare or me V

Both piped out the Httle keeper. ^ Bring
him along to the hall, Louo^h.'

^ Hands off, lad !' said John, as Lough
drew nearer. ' I'll make no trouble. Will
ye go in front or behind. Ledger V

Ledger walked behind, despite the sarcasm,
and Lough at the right hand of John Morrison,
who carried the hare unconsciously.

I'm glad 'twas no nearer home thought
he, * or the wife would have heard the voices
and been alarmed about nothing at all. Sir
Andrew can do nothing to me but call me
hard names, and I am past caring for such.
Hard words break no bones. The hare's just
as I found it — no better and no worse, and a
man can't be punished for lifting a thing upto
see what it is. He'll see as it was a rotten
one, and no use to nobody. The worst he
can do is to throw a power of long words at
me, caution me, and threaten me ; that won't
harm me.'

He was no longer excited. His mind
settled down into its sullen, sluggish state,
and he prepared himself to meet the baronet
with calm indifference to all he could
say.

Once more he walked up the drive, aud
entered the servants' hall with the same
heavy, measured tread as before, and with no
more concern in his face.

The lodge-keeper and his wife, the housekeeper
and Mr. Barrows, were yet talking of
John Morrison's audacity when this fresh
instance of his rash daring was brought to
astound them. Not less astonished was Sir
Andrew when the butler informed him that
that John Morrison' was in the hall again,
having been taken by the keepers in the act
of stealing a hare.

Sir Andrew, having finished his dinner,
ordered the poacher to be brought before him
at once in the library.

Thither John was led, with the hare in one
hand, his hat in the other. The servants,
clustered at an angle of the stairs, tittered at
this odd combination of simplicity and guilt,
and followed him with their eyes until the
library door closed upon him.

So you are here again, John Morrison V
said the baronet. ' It is exactly as I expected.
I did wrong in not belching you for
your first offence. Come nearer to the light
and let me look at you, rascal. What is that
you carry in your hand ?'

^ A dead hare answered John, holding it
up to be seen.

Took him with it in his hand just as he is
now said Ledger.

Well, what is your defence V, asked Sir
Andrew, addressing John and raising his
voice as if the culprit were deaf.

Defence V echoed John, vaguely.

Yes. What have you to say for yourself?'

I can't nothing to say.'

This affected simplicity will not deceive
me. Come, what have you to say about the
hare V

There he is just as I picked him up and
as he spoke John laid the hare on the table.

You wish me to believe that you did not
steal it, eh V

Steal it ? What's gone ? There's the
hare as I picked it up. If I take up this
candlestick — so, and lay it down again — so, I
can't stole it, have I V

*■ Do not speak to me in that tone, fellow !
I see your drift. You are not so much a fool
as a rogue. But your cunning will not avail
here. You haven't farmer Marsh to deal
with.'

I don't know anything about drifts. I
picked up that dead hare on the road. There

it lies, no better, no wus ; and if it belongs to
you, 3'ou can keep it

Your insolence shall be punished when
you are before the magistrates

Before the magistrates ? You can't bench
me for picking up a dead hare

Silence 1' cried the enraged baronet,
stamping his foot. * Now, Ledger, let me
hear wdiat you have to say. In the first
place, how long have you suspected this John
Morrison of poaching V

Off and on, about two years,' answered
the keeper.

That's a lie, Jim Ledger !' cried Morrison,
aroused from his sullen mood by wdiat seemed
to him a vindictive falsehood. He turned
upon Ledger fiercely, causing the little villain
to retire hastily.

Silence !' exclaimed Sir Andrew again,
striking the table with his fist. ' If you do
not behave yourself, you shall not have the
chance of exculpating yourself ; I will commit
you at once.'

John Morrison looked at Sir Andrew in
perplexity. Was it possible that the baronet
had the power to send him to gaol for giving
the lie to a liar ? he asked himself. The possibility
was evident, and cowed him at once.

The baronet turned again to Ledger.

You have suspected him for two years.
Go on

'Since he took the wood said Ledger,
I've kept a close eye on him as you told
me to, Sir Andrew.'

Yes ; I'm seldom wrong in my judgment.
I knew we should find he was not content
With one theft. Go on.'

This afternoon me and George Lough,
going along by the side of Sandy Lane copse,
came upon a hare hid under the bracken by
the side of the road. Suspecting it was
hidden there to be fetched away when the
night came, we sat doAvn and watched.'

You and Lough together V

No, sir ; I sent Lough on a dozen yards
or so farther along the road in case the
poacher should try to escape.'

I see. Yes.' '

We waited there until about three-quarters
of an hour ago,' continued Ledger,
adroitly slipping on the safe side of George
Lough and keeping one eye upon Morrison,
when up came this man, John Morrison,
treading along the turf. He stops, looks
about to see that no one is near, then slips
his hand in the brake and pulls out the hare.'

John Morrison started, and, looking at his
accuser, his bottom jaw fell. He was completely
bewildered by the false charge.

Ledger, edging still a step nearer to the
baronet and away from John, continued :

No sooner had he got it than he went off
at a smart pace in the direction of his home.
I whistled to George Lough, who jumped
over the ditch — he being hid in the copse —
and stopped him till I came up. We took
him with the hare in his hand as we brought
him here, Sir Andrew, and that is all'

You have done your duty admirably,
Ledger, and the whole management of this
affair reflects great credit upon you. It shall
not be forgotten. Now, Morrison, have you
anything to urge in your defence V

May I speak V asked John, in a faltering
voice.

^ You may, if you do not abuse your privilege.
What have you to say V

I say that Jim Ledger is a liar, and all
he has said a wicked, false lie. I did not
walk along the turf I did not slip my hand
in the brake. For why ? The hare lay therein
the middle o' the road. I picked him upas
he lay there, and, feeling of him all over,
found he was a dead 'ne.'

^ Dead one ? What do you mean ?' asked
Sir Andrew.

A hare as had died o' the rot, and not
been killed.'

Ledger gave a short derisive laugh, and
pinched the hare's skin.

Is that the case ? Did the hare die
naturally, Ledger V

Not he, sir. I never see a hare in finer
condition. 'Sides, Sir Andrew, here's the
mark of the wire on him — collared, as we call
it. See, sir. And you can tell by the fall
of his head that his neck's been broke with
the side of the hand in the ordinary way.'

John Morrison trembled — a sign of his
guilt to Sir Andrew who was watching him.

Have you anything more to say V the
baronet asTved, severely.

'Why, Sir Andrew, you can't believe I
snared the hare and killed it, when n ot much
more 'an an hour ago I was up here begging
for a loaf and a blanket V

Ah, that's a clumsy artifice. I see now
the reason of your making that impudent
request. It was to enable you to get up an
alii. That is your line of defence, is it V

I swear it is true that I picked up that
hare in the middle of the road, and, believing

it to be a dead 'ne, tliongiit I might take it
home to feed my poor children on since you
wouldn't give us a loaf.'

^ Again a very clumsy subterfuge. Then
you admit taking the hare with you V

Yes, that be true.'

That is quite sufficient. I Avill write to
Major Ewens. He will commit you at once.
Ledger, get the spring cart. You and Lough
shall take this man to Major Ewens, get the
order, and go on to Guildford at once.'

The baronet took up a pen, and, as he commenced
writing, said to John Morrison :

On Saturday you will be brought before
the bench, and I advise you to relinquish
your ill-constructed plan of defence. It will
only cause sou to be sent to the assizes for
trial. Better plead guilty at once, and goto
gaol for three months.'

Go to gaol — three months !' exclaimed
Morrison, catching at the table for support.

^ You may think yourself fortunate if you
get off with that.'

But I declare I am innocent of wicked
intent. I do swear it. Send for master
Marsh. He will tell you that I never
took '

Your master shall not get you off this

time said the baronet, still writing. ' I
yielded to his wishes before unwisely. You
must go to gaol.'

John could find no words to speak. He
waited, with a tumult of feelings working in
his breast, as Sir Andrew finished writing the
order. Ledger had gone to order the cart,
and now returned.

Here is the letter,' said the baronet, turning
the paper over and smoothing it on the
blotting-paper. ^ Take him.'

Lough stepped forward.

Realising his peril, John snatched his arm
from the keeper's hand, and with a wild, inarticulate
cry, threw himself on his knees at
the baronet's feet.

Oh, Sir Andrew, mercy — mercy on me 1'
he cried. ' I am innocent. I declare I am.
But I will not contradict you if only sou
will be merciful. Think of it — I have a
family of little children, and a poor wife
whose time is close at hand. Think of it —
it is Christmas-tide ; fancy the misery you
will bring on them by sending me away —
fancy how you may gladden their wretched
hearts by sparing me !'

The baronet, impulsively harsh, impulsively
lenient, looked down on this ragged, cla}^-

begrimed, piteous object at his feet, and was
melted to compassion.

Come on, none o' that — it won't do,' put
in Ledger. ' Fetch him up, Lough. Don't
you see he's annoying Sir Andrew V

Have mercy on me, Sir Andrew !' implored
John, half sobbing as he thought of Joan and
his ragged brood at home. * I will work for
you, body and soul, day and night, till T can
work no more, if only you will pity me. Throw
that letter in the fire. Why will you believe
Ledger, and not me ? He owes me a spite,
and lias invented this story to ruin me and
kill the poor woman who wouldn't have liii
for her husband.'

You Avill get no compassion from me by
vilifying a man who has ever served me faithfully
and well.'

I tell you he is a liar !' cried Morrison,
who every moment was losing the ground he
had gained, and ruining his only hope.

Take him away, Lough. It is cruel to
be weak at such a moment. You must goto
prison.'

You will not send me away '? Good God !
what will become of my wife and children 1
They have not a penny in the world.'

They shall be cared for, and are likely to

be better off parted from such a man as you.
You are not a fit example for children to
have before them.'

Mercy !' screamed Morrison, struggling
with the keepers as they laid hands on
him.

He had no chance with Lough — a young,
well-fed, strong-bodied man — and, still crying
for pity, he was carried from the room.

VOL. r.

THE BIRTH OF FOLLY.

HEN one J. P. writes to another,
saying, ' I send you for committal
a poacher, taken red-handed by my
keepers,' common courtesy obliges
the second J. P. to comply without hesitation,
unless there exists a personal animosity between
the two gentlemen, when, indeed, the
case may be different.

Major Ewens was on the best terms of
friendship with his neighbour Sir Andrew
Aveling, so he wrote the required order, after
putting one or two brief and formal questions
to the accusing keepers and the accused
poacher. And John Morrison was carried
over to Guildford, there to be kept in custody
for five dayes, that he might be brought before

the bench of magistrates, who would
then determine what further punishment he
should receive.

Meanwhile Joan, expecting her husband's
return, Stew anxious as the evening' went on.
Several times she went to the door and
looked out. He had said nothing" of his
intention to go and beg at the hall, and she
knew nothing to account for his protracted
absence. At length a woman, carrying bread
and blankets, who had just come from Aveling
Hall, brought her the news that John
Morrison had been sent away in a cart with
James Ledger and George Lough for stealing
a hare.

And where ha' they took my man ?' asked
Joan, a pathetic tremor in her voice.

They told me he wur going to Guildford.'

But t' don't think they'll keep 'im there V

Aye, till the bench sits next week.'

What ! for nothing' at all ?'

^ He's stole a hare, I tell ye.'

I don't believe it, woman ; do ye ?' exclaimed
Joan, fiercely. ' I don't think that
my John 'd take anything Wilful like that
didn't belong to him.'

^ Nay, to be sure,' answered the woman, ina
conciliatory tone. ' But, you see, 



traces. don't think nothing about the wilfulness
of the thing. What are ye going to do,
my dear ?' she added, as Joan, having looked
into the next apartment, locked the door, and
took down her shawl and bonnet from the
nail on which they hung.

Going to help my man, for certain !'

^ What, at this time o' night — all that way
• — and you in your condition V

'Ain't me that's to be thought on now —
'tis my John. Come, neighbour, there's no
time to lose. Thank ye for bringing me the
tidings, bad though they be.'

With these words Joan accompanied her
visitor to the door, which she locked, and
then started on her journey.

Farmer Marsh had helped her before, and
with the hope that he would be good to her
now, she went over to May ford, though it
was far out of her line of route to Guildford.


Marsh listened with knitted brows to the
brief statement of his servant's new misfortune,
turned his back to the fire, and thrust
his hands in his breeches-pocket. The movement
was sufficiently indicative of his determination
to stays by his hearth.

No, Joan ; I can do nothing for him said

lie. ' John's a fool, who can't keep himself
out of trouble, and won't be guided. I bade
him square it up with Ledger, and told him how
it would be if he didn't. He was obstinate,
and now he must abide by the consequences.
I can't run against my landlord : he's a man
that likes to have his own way. I've got a
family of my own, and mustn't risk being
turned out of my farm by helping a man that
my landlord don't like. John must go before
the bench ; 'twill make him more careful in
the future. And look here, Joan, my good
woman, I don't want to be hard with you,
and I shan't worry you for rent while you're
in trouble, but I advise you to seek out some
other place for your John to get into when he
comes from prison, for it won't do for me to
take him back here.'

Joan, picturing her husband alone in distress,
did not wait to parley further with her
old master. She left him standing before the
blazing kitchen fire, and went out into the
night without a word.

Before she had got over a mile of her
journey she felt so weak that she had to
rest herself a while upon a bank. She was
impatient of delay, and started on again in a
few minutes. Her knees trembled under her,

and she staggered ascending the hilL On the
brow of the hill she was forced to stop again,
but her mind was restless still. It vexed her
that she was weak and incapable of this easy
task. Hundreds of times she had walked to
Guildford and back again laden with heavy-parcels,
feeling no fatigue scarcely except
towards the end of the journey, and now
when she most needed strength it was denied
her.

It seemed as if Providence were against
her John and her, and a bitter feeling of
resentment frenzied her soul as she thought
of the bitter hardships of their life, their long
term of patient endurance, and her present
impotency.

What have we done that we should be
made to suffer thus V she asked ; and, looking
up at the cold sky with its watery veil of
cloud, she doubted if a merciful God yet
reigned in heaven.

Expecting no help from above, she listened
for the sound of cart-wheels. A carter mio^ht
pity her, though Heaven denied. But the
night was still and soundless. She rose and
walked, determined to rest no more until the
town was reached. For another mile she
staggered along, blindly at times, her eyes

closed with pain, but indomitable in her perseverance.
Then, with a great sigh, she sank
upon a heap of stones by the side of the
common. She fell into a kind of sleep for a
few seconds, from which she awoke with a
vague belief that she had slept hours, and,
rising all bewildered and giddy, tottered onwards
a few yards, not knowing whither, but
keeping to the road. She looked about her
stupidly, saw a familiar object before her on
her left hand which should have been on her
right, and went on, striving to explain the
mystery.

Suddenly it occurred to her that she had
been retracing her steps, and was walking
from Guildford instead of towards it.

Then she threw herself upon the earth,
grinding her teeth, and tearing up handfuls
of the tough heather in futile
rage.

As she lay there a spasm of pain shot
through her ; it was followed by the drowsy
half-consciousness of exhaustion. Her ideas
became confused, a numbness seized her
senses, she forgot everything.

At midnight a waggoner, coming from
Guildford, and on his way to Chertsey, discovered
Joan lying across the path, her hands

stretched before her among the heather, her
feet in the road.

Had he been a London carman, he would
have thought her dead drunk, and left her
there to recover when she mis^ht : but this
man had seen less of drunkenness than of
privation, and, with the assistance of his boy,
contrived to lift the unconscious woman into
the empty waggon.

In Chertsey he knocked up the porter of
the workhouse, and explained matters.

The porter grumbled and demurred.

'Come, man said the waofo-oner, ^ don't
make a trouble of what can't be helped.
You must take in the woman ; and been' it's
Christmas morning, and the poor soul's in a
bad way and like to be a mother, you mayas
well do your duty cheerful and kindly.'

With assistance the porter carried Joan
into the house, and gave her into the hands
of the matron, a motherly body, who, seeing
the poor creature's condition, did all she
could for her relief

Towards daybreak Joan gave birth to a
child, and gained a faint degree of consciousness.
She recollected John and her children,
and knew that she was helpless and in a
strange place.

She began to cry childishly.

Don't 'e cry, my good woman,' said the
matron, patting her shoulder. * 'Tis allover,
and the child is a rare peart little
thing.'

John, my poor John. !'

'Aye, John, he's a good man, and your
husband lawful, as I see by the ring on your
finger.'

John, my man — let me go to him.'

Nay, lie still, a good soul. You must
not move ; you cannot.'

My chiltern all locked up and alone there.
My poor John, let me go to him — I'll be
strong — 'tis not more than four mile to walk
now,' whimpered Joan.

Why, we'll send for him directly, and you
shall all spend Christmas together happy.'

All together — John and the chiltern and
all ! — all here around me — all their sweet
faces !' exclaimed Joan incredulously, yet
with a tender accent of hope.

Aye, aye, aye ! The porter shall go.
'Tis six striking now, harley !'

Six, and Christmas morning V

Aye, don't ye hear the clock, and all the
church bells ringing so cheerful T

I down know the bells ; I can't hear

nothing' but my dear chiltern crying for me to
come and let them from their room.'

^ Nay, 'tis your babe here is crying for ye
see !'

But my John and my other chiltern !'

Why, ye shall have all presently.'

Joan lay silently collecting her thoughts a
moment, then she threw out her arms,
crying :

Oh, no, no, no ! I shall never see 'em
again — never, never ! My John lies in
prison, and my chiltern starve in the cot, and
I am here — no more a wife and mother to
love and care for 'em, and cuddle 'em in mv
arms.'

She sank back in a passionate fit of weeping.


The matron looked at the nurse holding
the baby, and shook her head significantly ;
then she sat down on the side of the bed
with a sigh, and patted Joan's shoulder again,
as a mother pats her infant to sleep.

The sobs abated, and, after a silence, Joan
asked :

Where am I V

In Chertsey, dear.'

God help me !'

God will ; 'tis His day of pity. Needs

He must pity all who suffer at this time, for
memory of His Son

And my John and the little 'nes— will He
comfort they V

^ Aye, aye, to be sure.'

My man alone ! my little 'nes all crying
for me, and wondering why they be locked
up wi'out food or comfort — oh, isn't it sorrowful
to think on !'

'For certain sure. But they shall be
helped ; I'll see to 'em myself when you are
strong enough to tell us all about 'em. But
rested quiet now, there's a good woman.'

And you'll tell John the moment ye see
him how his Joan tried her most to come to
him ; and ye'll tell the chiltern that they shall
ha' a big sudden wi' plums and curran's and
things in soon's ever mammy gets a bit
strong ?'

'That I will.'

Joan sighed, and a faint smile relaxed her
pinched cheeks.

Gi' me my wee child,' she said, presently.


There it is ; and a fine little girl it be,
too, and like you as may be, even to the little
mole in the corner of the eye, looked.'

The mother took her child, and, forgetting

all but her maternity for the moment, grew
ineffably sweet to look upon.

John wished it to be called Florence if it
were born a girl,' said she, looking up from
the mite at her bosom.

Florence — 'tis a sweet name !' said the
matron.

Florence — my poor man — my John !'
murmured Joan, faintly, as she closed her
eyes.

She never opened them again, for God did
pity her.

Chapter VII.

A HANDFUL OF CHIPS DROPPED INTO THE OCEAN.

MORRISON in Guildford
lock-up awaiting his trial for stealing
a dead hare ; eleven of his
children without fire, food, or friends
in a cottage near Woking; Joan Morrison
lying stark dead in the parish mortuary of
Chertsey ; her newly-born infant in the
workhouse hard by crying lustily over the
first troubles of her existence — this was the
position of these dramatis 'personae at that
time of general feasting and merriment the
morning of Christmas Day, 1853.

Towards noon the famished children in
Sandy Lane, getting no response from father
or mother to their piteous cries, were prompted
by necessity to act for themselves. The two

son.

eldest girls (twins) got through the window
of the room in which they were confined — it
was upon the ground-floor — and lifted out
the younger ones. Then these eleven hapless
youngsters, ragged and half clad, their noses
purple with cold, their unwashed cheeks
besmirched with tears, went in a body over the
frozen fields to Mayford, seeking their father.

Farmer Marsh received them charitably,
and with all the kindness his rough, brusque
nature could exhibit. He set them round
the great fire burning on the kitchen hearth,
before which the goose was cooking, and
gave them bread and cheese and ale ; then
he sent them off in a tumbrel, well filled with
straw litter, under the charge of his carter,
to Guildford workhouse.

With this act of benevolence farmer Marsh
leaves these pages : neither he nor these
children have any further history here.

The following week John Morrison was
brought before the bench of magistrates. In
the interval he had learnt that his wife had
deserted her children, and was nowhere to
be found, and that his children had been sent
to the workhouse. His inability to seek
Joan, whom he knew nothing but accident
or death could separate from her brood,

maddened him. He was not in his sound
senses Ashen he was brought before the
magistrates, and persisted in declaring that
Sir Andrew AveUng and his keeper had
conspired to ruin him. His violence in
protesting his innocence was attributed to
artifice rather than a consciousness of innocence,
and his offence obtained no extenuation
from the generous appeal of the offended
baronet. Sir Andrew's weak and lenient
character was well known ; and his friends
the magistrates, in his defence and their own,
determined to put a summary check upon the
violence and depredations of John Morrison.
All they would do in the way of mercy was
to give him the option of going for trial to
the assizes or receiving an immediate sentence.

Naturally enough, John Morrison chose to
know his fate at once. Thereupon he was
sentenced to three months' imprisonment, and
complimented on his good fortune in getting
off so lightly.

In gaol he made the acquaintance of a man
who had been there before. This new friend
gave him some good Worldly advice which
sank deep into his receptive mind. * Look
after yourself was the motto he was told to
keep constantly before him.

Since the parish is so fond of your brats,
let them keep 'em till you want 'em said
this new friend ; ' and if you must find your
wife, go about it with a clean pair of heels.
You won't travel far with a dozen children
tied to 'em !'

John Morrison came out of gaol an altered
man, but still cherishing an affection for his
lost Joan. Wherever he fancied he micyht
hear of her he asked for nevis, despite the
short answers and rude rebuffs he got from
those he had once known as his equals. He
learnt that on Christmas Eve Joan had left
her cottage with the determination of croinQr
to him in Guildford, and that early the
following morning a carter had picked up a
dying woman and carried her away. More
than this he was unable to discover, and so,
when further search was hopeless, he walked
away from that part of the country and
entered London.

In the Brompton Road he came to a mews.
A waggon loaded with hay stood there.
Beside the carter stood the stable-keeper,
with his hands in his breeches-pockets and a
straw in his mouth. He was disinclined for
work, and the carter wanted assistance to
unload the hay. Seeing John Morrison with

care and anxiety written on his face he hailed
him.

Here, you — want a job V

'Aye, master.'

Then just lend a hand with this hay.'

The energy with which John Morrison set
to work, and his dexterity in moving the hay,
won the admiration of the lazy man, chewing
his straw and turning over the silver in his
pocket.

You seem a smart sort of a hand,' said he,
looking at John as he put on his jacket and
wiped the perspiration from his forehead.
Out of work V

Yes, master. Just walked up from away
there in Surrey. Times are hard.'

Understand horses V

Aye, I've had to do wi' 'em every day o'
my life since I wur a little chap no higher
'an so.'

Cut chaff r

Ten truss a day wi' a single cutter.'

Make yourself useful — clean up — do what
you're told — no grumbling V

^ I can turn my hand to almost everything,
and so's I get my wages paid I must do my
work and be pleasant.'

What wages do you want V

VOL. I. 6

son.

I have been a-o-ettin' a matter of fourteen
shillings, but '

Want to better yourself I know. "Well,
I like the look of you, so I'll give you sixteen
and try you. I don't want to know why you
left your last berth, and if I did I bet you
wouldn't tell me. You can begin now ; but
mark me, if I catch you pilfering at the oats,
or getting drunk when there's a job on, off
you go at a moment's notice. That's my
form.'

John Morrison would have accepted service
at half the wages offered, for he had now no
one but himself to provide for, and the generosity
of his new employer surprised him as
much as his warning with regard to honesty
and sobriety. He had never tasted the liquor
he could get drunk upon.

He began work at once and earned his
money easily — too easily, for the day's labours
were ended early and spare time hung heavily
upon him. He could not read, and for men
of his kind there are no amusements. What
could he do in his leisure hours but think of
his poor Joan and his lost children ? To do
some extra job, such as scouring bright a
rusty horse-bit, repairing a manger, or the
like, was a pleasure to him — it occupied his

thoughts ; but when his stables were all
clean, and no work of any kind presented
itself, he would sit on a truss of straw or a
corn-bin in the dark, thinking of the hard
times that were past, yet wishing them back
for the sake of seeing the faces he had tried
to make haj^py. It was a melancholy business
working for himself alone, fair as it had appeared
set forth by his gaol friend. He was
not conditioned to enjoy a selfish existence.
He yearned after his youngsters, but the fear
of being imprisoned for not taking them out
of the workhouse when he left gaol deterred
him from fetching them a\yay. He knew his
amenities in this respect.

His habit of sitting alone in the dark when
he could find no work to do was discovered
by his fellow workers in the yard, and they
set him down for a dull unsociable clod.
None of them liked him — he worked too
well.

They told the ^ governor,' and he, mindful
of his oats, dropped into the stable one night
when it was all dark and quiet, and by the
light of the lantern he carried perceived John
Morrison sitting on a truss of clover.

Halloa, my man, what are you doing
here V he asked.

6—2

'• Waiting till it be time to gi' the nags
their supper, and go to bed, master.'

^ But why are you sitting here in the dark ?'

I got nothing' to do and nowheres else to
go till bed-time : as for the dark, that's nowt
to me. It's all one when you've only got to
think.'

Think ! What have you to think about 1'

Only troubles, master ; only troubles.'
Why, what troubles can you have ?'

'No worse 'an other people's, maybe, but
they're more 'an enough for me. I ha' lost
my wife, and my little 'nes, and my home
and all. All's gone, and there's nowt left of
'em to me but the mem'ry,' answered John ;
and reseated in a lower voice, as if to himself,
'Wife and home and little 'nes — all
gone !'

The stable-keeper was a vulgar ]tian — a
horsey, knowing man, of crooked dealings
and slight credit ; but he had a wife and
children of his own that he liked better than
his horses or his bull pup, and a fellow-feeling
made his heart turn kindly towards his lonely
stable-help sitting there alone in the dark
dwelling with the shadows of a happier time.

Here, you come along o' me, Jack,' said
he, blowing out the light. 'This isn't the

place for a sorrowful man. We shall have
soli hanging yourself or something. Be a
man, and forget your troubles ; don't ness
'em up like a woman. Come along o' me.'

John Morrison obeyed instinctively, and
followed his master, who trotted off across
the stable-yard with that jerky movement
habitual to men who tread cobble-stones
frequently.

Up the mews, along the Brompton Bead,
and down a turning" that owed its illumination
to a flaring gin-shop at the end, went master
and man. The door of the house swung open
freely to the stable-keeper's hand, as though
it were used to his touch. From the bar a
side-door opened into a tap-room, where there
was a bright fire burning and plenty of company
seated about. They entered.

Bring two hot gins and a screw of tobacco,'
said the stable-keeper to the potman. Then
he nodded to the assembled company, took
up a couple of clay pipes, and, giving one to
John Morrison, sat down with the other
beside a jolly looking old man with a mulberry
nose, who greeted him with a respectful yet
friendly touch of the hat.

Come to spend a hour with us, governor V
asked the cheerful man.

Can't stay long to-night, Charley ; but
I've brought my man, Jack, here — as good a
fellow as any that ever worked for me, but a
bit low in spirits. Now I want you to take
him in hand and cheer him up a bit,' answered
the stable-keeper, adding in a lower tone,
I'll make it all right. Lost his missus —
stranger here — make him comfortable — I'll
put it all right with you.'

The old fellow nodded and winked, looking
at John Morrison, who was handling his pipe
sheepishly.

The grog came, and with it the tobacco.

Fill your pipe. Jack,' said the master.

The man obeyed.

Now drink that noggin, and when you've
done that you'll take another with old
Charley.'

That's all right,' said old Charley. ' You
leave us together ; me and him's going to be
regular pals, and have a good night of it.'

^ ^ ^M? 5;? ^

In this way John Morrison was taken from
his sorrow and weaned — upon gin-and-water.

In the public-house he found what he could
find nowhere else in London — comfort and
forgetfulness in his spare time ; and now that
this source of consolation was opened to him

he turned eagerly to it whenever his own
misfortunes depressed him. The tap-room
became his home, and the company in it took
the place of wife and children. To solace
himself there was the most rational thing he
could do in the absence of any healthier or
better means of relief ; and so he, with many
thousands of the neglected and uncared-for,
floated into the vortex, to be hurried along
and whirled down with ever in creasing swiftness
and sureness to destruction.

Who is to blame ? We are not uncharitable.
We pay our church-rates, and subscribe to
charities and missions that these souls maybe
saved ; but our paid moralist stands on
the safe ground afar off, issuing warnings ina
feeble voice which is not heard. His hand
is delicate, and his arm as weak as his head :
altogether he is not the man to fling out a
rough rope and drag up strugglers from a
vortex. Our money is ill-spent, and in parting
with it foolishly we are fools, for which
we alone are to blame.

We leave John Morrison just within the
influence of this huge whirlpool. We shall
see him again when he is further down.

Chertsey troubled itself but little about

Joan Morrison. Her name was not known ;
the porter who took her in failed to take the
address of the carter who brought her to the
house ; the surrounding parishes repudiated
her, and it was deemed cheaper to bury her
and forget her than to go to the expense of
inquiry, which might, after all, lead only to
profitless litigation. So there in Chertsey
Joan was buried.

Her child was reared under the charge of
the matron, and from her received the name
her mother had desired her to have —
Florence.

For a workhouse-born child this gentle
name was as inappropriate as might well be,
and it chant-ed in obedience to that law of
fitness ' which governs nomenclature, first
to its diminutive Flurry, and then, by an
easy transition, to Folly. This name slipped
easily over the tongue, and was retained ;
and certainly it must be admitted that a
more suitable one could not have been devised
for the child whose very existence was
a sarcasm upon the utilitarian spirit of the
workhouse in which she lived.

Thus this family was broken up and scattered
like a handful of chips dropped into the ocean.

FOLLY S FIRST CONQUEST.

N 1856 there lived at Chertsey a
retired dancer and his wife, named
Hernandez.

Tom Fernandez and Marie la
Rose danced harlequin and columbine at
Drury Lane in the palmy days of pantomime,
when Jo Grimaldi was clown there.
La Rose was a good little woman as well asa
good dancer ; and at the end of one pantomime
season Tom Fernandez married her,
having the great Jo Grimaldi for his best
man, an honour which he talked of to his
dying day.

Harlequin and columbine were as happy
married as they had been single ; but contentment,
which makes a man stout, and is

seemly enough in an alderman, is a serious
disadvantage to a harlequin. Every year
Tom found it more difficult to slip his bat
under his belt, and it became evident that
before long he would get a word of advice
from the gallery which would necessitate a
farewell performance.

Fernandez had always been a lucky man,
and just at that time, when his corpulence
was endangering his popularity as a dancer,
he was prompted to risk a few pounds in a
foreign lottery, and had the good fortune to
win the first prize of £5,000. Having invested
the money, he had the good sense to
retire with his wife to the suburban cottage
where he now lived, upon the interest of his
capital, with such little additions as he made
by arranging ballets occasionally.

They had no children, which was a matter
of great regret to Tom, who, like most
comedians, was devotedly fond of children.
To supply their place, he kept a perfect
menagerie of domestic and other animals.
They, however, failed to supply the want of
his fatherly heart ; and whenever he could
get a child to come and spend the day in his
house he did, exerting himself to the utmost
to make the little one happy.

The most frequent of these little visitors
was Tom's niece, a child whom he liked
simply because she was a child, and from no
feeling of kindred. There was no sympathy
between the brothers, and their wives hated
each other cordially. The ladies were jealous
of each other, one being a mother, the other
wife to an independent and retired harlequin.

Instigated by their wives, the brothers
would have quarrelled undoubtedly, but for
Tom's^fear of losing his niece and his brother's
dread of losing the inheritance of Tom's
money. However, the wives at length met,
and such a quarrel ensued between them that
their husbands could no longer remain
neutral : their mutual forbearance gave way,
and they parted each with an assertion of
his independence. After that Tom could no
longer invite his niece.

Having deprived her husband of a pleasure,
Marie felt bound to offer a substitute,
especially as he showed signs of a desire to
extend the olive-branch to his brother ; and
it was she who first proposed that they should
adopt a child as their own, a scheme which
recommended itself to her as a means of
blighting her sister-in-law's prospects With
regard to the inheritance of Tom's money.

Tom made no objection to the proposal :
it was more than agreeable to him. The
only difficulty he suggested was that of
finding a suitable child.

We should be able to find one in the —
the workhouse said Marie, with some hesitation.


Her husband made a wry face at the name
of the institution.

I do not mean a frown child,' said his
wife, ' but a little thing that has no parents,
and is too young to have learnt anything unpleasant
from the people there ; a nice little
creature that you might bring up in your
own way, as if it were your own child.'

That would be pleasant enough ; but are
we Lively to find such a child V

We can but try. If we fail it's no matter.
I know the matron there, and if I recollect
rightly she said something about having just
such a child asw^e are speaking about.'

Well, we can but try, as you say. But
we'll have a good talk over it first, for it's
rather a responsible affair taking a child for
good and all, and Sam will be awfully put
out. However, we'll talk about it.'

Mrs. Fernandez wanted nothing better ;
for what woman would despair when the

object she wishes to obtain depends upon her
ability to talk her husband into compliance ?

The folio wine' afternoon Mr. Fernandez
and his wife called upon Mrs. Barlow, the
matron of the workhouse, and were shown
into her private apartment. A little child
with a golden head stood against the wall,
gravely tracing out the pattern on the paper
with a soft pink finger.

Hearing voices behind her, as Marie went
through the ceremony of introducing her
husband to the matron, the child turned her
head and looked with her large, widely-opened
dark eyes at the strangers, her little
mouth open, and her finger raised as she had
taken it from the wall. Turning her body to
face the new object of interest, her feet
slipped and she fell. Sitting where she had
fallen, her astonishment melted into mirth,
and with a little crow she cried :

Folly fall down.'

Yes, Folly fell down. Did Folly hurt
herself V said the matron.

No, Folly not hurt self Folly all lite.
Folly dit up again now.' Therewith Folly
turned herself over on all fours and raised
herself to her feet. ' 'Ere, Folly all lite,'
she cried, laughing. Then, looking at the

strangers, she suddenly became aware of the
gravity of the occasion, staring at the stout
gentleman in solemn wonder, and raising her
fino-er to the little round bud of her mouth in
grave silence.

It was not less amusing to look at Mr.
Fernandez, who was returning the child's
gaze with equal intensity.

Will you take a seat, sir V asked the
matron.

Tom did not answer. He was introducing
himself to Folly now with * nods and backs
and wreathed smiles,' which led to his crossing
the room and going down on his knees to
shake hands with her.

My husband is so fond of children,' exclaimed
Marie, in extenuation of Tom's proceedings
; and then she opened the subject
on which they had come to consult Mrs.
Barlow.

Meanwhile Tom and Folly were getting
on capitally together, making a pie in the
new Sunday hat which Marie had induced
her husband to wear for the occasion. A tin
rattle, a wooden horse, a wet mug, and a
doll that had suffered amputation and bled
sawdust copiously, were all stuffed into the
elegant beaver and patted down with Folly's

fat little hand. When nothing more could
be crammed in everything was turned out,
and the hat beings turned on one side formed
an admirable stable for the horse, where,
according to Folly's notion of propriety, the
noble animal was put to bed on some sawdust,
covered over with a handkerchief, and
provided with the tin rattle, ' take he wakes
up and wants hunting to pay wiv.' After
that the hat was turned up to serve for a carriage,
and the limp doll, with the horse for a
companion, and the rattle, mug, and other
travelling requisites at its side, was taken fora
ride round the leo^s of the table. It was
delightful fun. There never was such a
useful hat as that, and never, when these
games were concluded, a more disreputable
one to look at.

By that time Mrs. Fernandez had described
to her friend in a confidential undertone
all the particulars of her quarrel with
Mrs. Sam Fernandez, and her reasons for
wishing her husband to adopt a child.

Why, bless me !' said the matron, * there's
the very child you want — Folly, the healthiest,
best little thing that ever lived.'

You don't mean to say I can have this
little dear V said Mrs. Fernandez, in surprise.

Why, to be sure, I shall be sorry to part
with her, but it is for her good, as she's just
of an age to take notice, and the other
children she would be associated with could
do her no good. I've had her under my
care from the very day she was born, three
years this next Christmas, and I assure you
her mother seemed a wholesome clean
woman, with a proper ring on her finger
worn quite thin. The mother died on the
day Folly was born

Tom had taken a seat like a rational being,
and listened eagerly to this history, keeping
his eyes the time on Folly, who, seated upon
his knee, had returned to her serious mood,
and was going over the buttons on his capacious
waistcoat with her finger solemnly.

I never dreamt I could have such a sweet
little child as that. I thought it was your
own, ma'am,' said he.

The matron was pleased with the compliment,
and assured him that there would be
no difficulty in adopting the little girl. Then
she explained the forms that would have to
be used, and told at great length all she knew '
about Folly.

Folly's finger wearied in its travels. She
rested her round cheek against the soft sealskin

of Tom Fernandez's waistcoat, and her
mouth opened in a long yawn.

She took her fingers from the buttons, and,
doubling her fist, rubbed it into her eyes
viciously. Then with another yawn she returned
to the buttons, as if going over them
again was a serious duty that must not be
neglected.

The dark long lashes of her eyes fell lower
upon her creamy skin, her hand lost its
power and slid down into her lap, the closed
lips parted, just showing her small white
teeth. She nestled down closer in the soft
waistcoat. Her hair, cut short, according to
the workhouse regulations, spread around her
head in soft golden-red curls like a glory.
Her breath came and went at longer intervals.
Folly slept.

^ Hush !' whispered the old pantomimist,
raisins the finger of his disengaged hand,
while with the other he clasped the little one
closer to his kind heart, and gently like a
woman.

Then the three looked down in silent admiration
on the beautiful picture presented
by this sleeping child.

A beautiful picture, indeed, for a silly old
man and a couple of women to dote on — a

VOL. I. 7

charming toy to amuse them. But is that
all ? Shall she be no more than a toy, to beloved
while her beauty lasts, cherished while
she can amuse, to be cast aside as worthless
when the bright cheek fades and the merry
spirit grows dull ?

If so, nature has but poorly compensated
her for poverty and helplessness by giving
her health and beauty, and would have dealt
more kindly by her in being less generous.
It were better for Folly to die young, or grow
up with a homely face, than to live and
perish a toy.

A sleeping child — a clouded in the morning
sky, flushed with the tenderest morning
tints, are they not alike ? Both freshly
sprung from the bosom of nature. Who can
look at either without thinking of its destiny?

The cloud grows, collecting fire or dew,
and anon it bursts upon the world, blasting
mankind in its fierce irruption, or it falls in
Settle showers, refreshing and invigorating
the earth — God's instrument of love or
wrath.

And Folly ?

THE TWIG IS BENT.

'OM Hernandez obtained permission
to adopt Folly as his child
with but little opposition from the
board of guardians. One overseer
only — deacon of a Dissenting chapel, and
grocer — objected, basing his protest on the
ground that Mr. Fernandez had been a play-actor,
and was, therefore, an improper person
to be entrusted with the bringing up of a
child. But this objection was ably met by
another overseer, also a guardian, and one
having the advantage of knowing Mr. Fernandez
as a ready-money customer, who
argued, first, that Mr. Fernandez was not a
legitimate play-actor, but a harlequin ; and,
secondly, that though he had once been a harlequin,

he must clearly have been a very bad
harlequin to have retired from his profession
so early, and consequently he could claim to
be considered a respectable member of society.
He concluded by asking the board to look at
the applicant, and doubt, if they could, his
entire fitness to undertake the responsibilities
of a father.

Certainly Tom's appearance justified all
that could be said against him as a dancer,
or urged in his favour as a benevolent and
sober man. The portly, respectably dressed
old gentleman might have been an alderman
if looks were the only necessary qualification
for that hio^h office.

So the requisite forms were filled up and
signed, and Folly was handed over to the
harlequin.

Folly's life in her new home was one of
perpetual indulgence. The old dancer worshipped
her, and, watching her inclinations,
gratified her wishes, when it was possible,
before they were expressed. She did no
WTono* think' that he could not excuse ; he
never rebuked her, and would permit no one
else to do so. People — his wife included —
said he spoilt the child ; but he could see no
foundation for this accusation since she was

all he wished her to be. She was beautiful,
and loved him intensely. What more could
he desire ?

He dressed her like a little princess, and
took her about to be admired. It was impossible
to see and not admire her — a handsome,
long-limbed, fearless child, dressed withall
the taste her foster-mother — originally a
Parisian modiste — could bestow on her. It
was impossible also for parents of plainer
children to see her without detecting her
faults, and thanking Providence that their
offspring were not so self-willed, so vain, so
impudent as she.

The old man never attempted to conceal
his admiration from the child ; on the contrary,
he taught her to believe herself a
prodigy. Folly was an apt pupil.

He encouraged her with praise in every
attempt she made to fascinate — for in her
eighth year the child was a perfect coquette
and flattered her when she succeeded.

The result of this corruptive training maybe
imagined. Folly grew up self-willed, indolent,
affected, and preposterously vain. Her
intense love of admiration, fostered by the
flattery of her weak-headed old guardian,
made her entirely different to other children

of her age. Their practices she purposely
avoided, and in that way endeavoured, to
make herself conspicuous successfully. She
would have nothing to do with dolls after she
came to the discreet age of six ; she took no
notice of toys ; and even sweetmeats she
pretended to dislike. To be sent into a
nursery to play with children was the
greatest punishment that could be inflicted
on her ; and while they would be romping
about half mad with excitement, she would
sit as prim as a governess, thinking the most
spiteful things to say if she should be asked
to join in the sport. But to go among strange
grown-up ' people, to deport herself with all
the assurance of an accomplished flirt, to
exercise her powers of fascination, to say
a smart thing while other children were
sitting mischance in a corner with their
fingers in their mouths, that was her delight.
The only adult occupation she could not
bring herself to like was reading. She had
a heathenish hatred of letters, which not
even her desire to be a lady could overcome.
There was no school board in those days, and
in the whole seven years of her residence
with her foster-father she never learnt to
shape a pothook or a hanger. Old Tom was

an easy-going mentor at all times ; but when
a tear sparkled on the long lash of his little
darling' after she had thrice mistaken the
letter B for its neighbour C, to his great
amusement, he took her in his arms and
pitched the book into the lire, crying :

There goes the nasty old book, my pretty,
and you shall be troubled never again with
the stupid letters. Don't you cry, ducky. It
was unkind of me to laugh, but I never
meant to hurt my little Folly. We won't
have any more books till you're quite a big
girl — plenty of time, plenty of time —-and
not then if you don't choose to learn, pretty.
I don't see what's the use of so much learning,
except you've got a speaking part : I
never wanted it in my life. I can sign my
name, and that's just enough for clever
people like you and me. Let stupid people
learn to spell : we can read without books,
and know quite as much as is good for us,
hey, Folly '? Now let us go and look after
the young rabbits.'

Folly could dance like a sylph. Long
before she attempted to read the alphabet
she had learnt to pirouette. Dancing, especially
such dancing as the old harlequin and
columbine taught, was an exercise for which

the child was exceptionally well qualified, for
in addition to her desire to do what other
children could not do and to excite admiration,
she had excellent lungs and the nimblest
pair of legs.

Very soon after leaving the workhouse she
had been taken to the theatre, where she was
merely bewildered by the exhibition she was
then unable to understand ; but the old
dancer took her ao-ain and ao-ain, watchings
With delight her growing taste for that profession
which an old actor never ceases to
love. In time the stage became Folly's fairyland
and in her imagination the brightest,
happiest being on earth was the beautifully
dressed danseuse, who lived in coloured lio-ht
amidst enchanting scenery, and whose movements
elicited the admiration and applause of
the assembled spectators. That was a creature
to emulate, and her condition worthy to
be aspired to. The possibility of becoming
herself a public dancer was an idea which intoxicated
the child, and she gave heart and
soul to accomplishing the feats she saw performed
by the coryphees. She succeeded ina
way that surprised even those who knew
her strong imitative faculty and powers of
observation. After seeing an extravaganza

or pantomime, she would the next day go
through the whole performance of the actress
she had most admired, mimicking every gesture
and movement faultlessly.

The old dancers were delighted, and taught
her all she had not acquired intuitively. Old
Tom arranged and invented burlettas for her
to dance in With him, and his wife made
costumes for her to wear. Almost any day
the old fellow might be seen in his shirt-sleeves
— for he exerted himself prodigiously,
and that was the style of costume he preferred
— whistling or humming dance tunes
and capering about grotesquely enough, while
Folly, like a natural sylph, moved lightly and
gracefully as a gazelle around him.

But she was not satisfied unless she had
an audience to dance to, and if Marie was
engaged in household affairs she would have
half-a-dozen pets from the menagerie in the
back garden penned up under chairs along
one side of the room — rabbits, guinea-pigs,
squirrels, the jackdaw, a cat, a dog anything
would do to smile at and play to. She
would play until old Tom was fairly exhausted
; then she would dance alone. She
never tired. Solitude was not painful to her
as to other children ; rather she liked being;

alone at times. Then she would have the
mirror from the dressing-table on the floor,
setting it so that she could see herself, and
having adorned herself with any old coloured
ribbons or bits of finery she could get at, she
would invent fresh effects, smiling at herself
the while with the utmost satisfaction.

Showy, precocious children are seldom
agreeable. Those who knev/ Folly superficially
thought they knew the best part
of her, and wished to know no more ; but
they were wrong. To know her thoroughly
was to love her entirely. It was easy to forgive
her faults, knowing the sweet disposition
that underlay them. Her virtues were inbred,
her vices merely the result of the peculiar
influences to which she was exposed. It
may seem out of place to speak here of these
matters, but indeed the vices and virtues of
a child are as plain to see as those marks on
the sapling by which a gardener knows
whether the tree will be worthless or good.

Vain, impudent, self-willed, contemptuous
as Folly was, she had by no means an unamiable
disposition ; on the contrary, her
heart was excessively tender and warm. But
hers was an essentially responsive nature.
She did not love spontaneously. She did

not attach herself impulsively to people —
forming and breaking: attachments in a childlike
manner ; but those she knew and trusted
she loved with a deep, clinging affection.

No one on earth was more dear to her than
her foster-father ; in her eyes he was perfect ;
nothing he said or did was wrong ; she never
opposed his Welshes in the slightest particular.
Next to him she loved her foster-mother ; for
Marie was only less kind and indulgent to
the child than her husband. It was impossible
for her to love Folly as he did, for she
was more matter-of-fact and perhaps wiser
than he ; and besides that, she could not at
times entirely repress a feeling of jealousy
towards the child, not her own, upon whom
her husband bestowed, as it seemed, all his
affection.

An old woman and a lame child were
Folly's next favourites ; after them came her
cats and kittens, puppies, rabbits, and the
rest of the live stock which old Tom kept in
the house and outbuildings.

For nine years Folly lived in almost uninterrupted
happiness, petted, praised, and
cherished with even more than parental
fondness; and then, in 1865, the calamity
occurred which deprived her of home and

friends, and drove her out to seek subsistence
by her own unaided efforts.

Tom Fernandez was superstitious. Ever
since he had been in possession of money to
dispose of he had entertained the strange
presentiment that he should never hive to
make a will. Influenced by this idea, he put
off the duty from time to time with a vague
notion that while he refrained from doings
his life was safe. The only person to
whom he confessed his apprehension was
Marie, who, equally superstitious with himself,
dreaded the undertaking as much ashe.


However, the fact that if he died intestate
Folly would be unprovided for at length
overcame Tom's scruples — as the fear of a
greater evil makes one accept the less ; and
his wife, calling to mind the equally cogent
consideration that if Tom died without a will
the larger part of his money would be claimed
by his brother Sam (thereby benefiting indirectly
Sam's wife, whom Marie had never
ceased to hate), was induced, after a little
struggle with her feelings, to acquiesce in her
husband's proposal.

Tom determined to execute his desire on
the first day of the new sear, and wrote to a

solicitor in London making an appointment
for that day.

He had never before been to town Avithout
taking Folly ; but not even her desire would
induce him to take her on this day. The
nearer the time approached the more positively
he felt that his presentiment was to be
fulfilled. The same reason which actuated
him in refusing to take Folly determined
Marie on accompanying her husband.

Whatever comes to my Tom shall come
to me said the good wife.

He nursed Folly all the time he was
having breakfast. When he bade her goodbye
his voice was tremulous and his cheek
pale — he came back to the gate to give her
another kiss. All this Folly remembered in
later times, though it did not affect her then.
She was singing at the top of her voice
five minutes after he left her to join
Marie.

She never saw him again.

About midday the station-master called.
The maid-servant opened the door. Folly,
in a short muslin dress, with a tinsel crown
on her head, was peeping down over the stair
balusters.

Is Mr. Fernandez at home V asked the
station-master.

No, sh" : him and missus is gone to
London,' answered the servant.

Did they go by the 9.40 train V
Yes, sir.'

^ Ah, I was afraid so. I thought T saw
them.' He paused, considering. Folly,
listening, felt her heart beat quickly, she
scarcely knew why. Presently the stationmaster
said :

Is any relative of Mr. Fernandez living
in this house V

Only the young lady, sir. Miss Folly.'

No gentleman — no grown-up person ?'

No, sir.'

Can you tell me where I can find someone
of that kind, for I suppose he has relatives
T

^ No, sir : reaps Miss Folly can.'

^ Miss Folly? That is the young child
with the beautiful face V

eyes, sir.'

Ah, she must not know. The fact is ' —
here the station-master dropped his voice —
the fact is, there has been an accident on the
hne.'

An accident V screamed Folly, flying

down the stairs in her bits of finery ; ' an
accident ? Oh, where is papa ? I must goto
him, Papa, papa !'

My dear child, don't be alarmed. He
may be quite well and safe, only some are
killed — that is, injured — and it is quite possible
he escaped.'

Wherever he is I must go to him !' cried
the child, starting forward.

The station-master took her arm, holding
her while he tried to assure her of her foster-father's
safety ; but Folly was half frantic.

Let me go, — I must find him. I know
the station. I will run along the line. Oh,
do let me go ! Do, do take me to him !' she
cried, sobbing convulsively, and shivering as
though in an ao^ue.

Put on your hat, my dear child, and be a
calm, reasonable little girl, and you shall
come with me, and we will bring papa home
quite safe.'

But the old dancer and his little Folly were
never more to meet, for he, with his wife, lay
under a carriage, crushed almost beyond recognition.


THE RISING OF THE CURTAIN.

^jvC^cT is Boxing Night, December 2 Gth,
18G8, half-past six in the evening.
The approaches to The Garden
Theatre are blocked with cabs and
carriages, with here a coal-van and there a
brewer's dray. The police, not yet accustomed
to the increased traffic, feel it incumbent
on them to regulate it in some sort by
backing everything drawn by a horse, frantically.
The carman of the coal-van, after
waiting patiently in the middle of the road
half an hour, loses his equanimity, and tries
to turn round — nothing in the shape of a cab
can hurt his vehicle. He succeeds in getting
fairly across the road, and then gives up the
attempt in despair. The police back the dray

until it is safely locked in the wheels of a
brougham and two hansoms, and leave it so.
The drayman goes to sleep. Passengers,
anxious to get on, scream at the drivers, who
are too deeply engaged in cursing each other
to take any notice of these feeble and useless
remonstrances. Ladies cry with terror as the
back panels crash against the pole of the
brougham behind them. The hoarse cries
of raven-throated men with playbills, and the
shrill nasal call of Irish girls with oranges,
are added to the confusion of toties. The
whole melee is lit up by the light of the brilliant
gas jets forming the legend which runs
alone the facade of the theatre, ' Jack and
THE Beanstalk.'

In the piazza the throng about the pit
entrance is still pushing, struggling, and
screaming. Through the open doors the
foot-passengers throng into the vestibule.
Every now and then a vehicle, more fortunate
than the rest, comes up rattling over the
stones to the doors, and stops ; the window islet
down with a rattle and a bang, the door
jerked open, and the youngsters allowed to
escape from the prison in which for the last
half-hour they have endured the misery of
expecting to arrive too late for the panton.

I. 8

mime ; then the door is banged to, and the
carriage crawls off while another dashes up.

The excitement here is not less than that
in the open streets. Even the officials about
the place have lost their heads. They hurry
about purposelessly, they give contradictory
directions to the inquiring public, and find
fault angrily with everyone. It is a very
bad quarter of an hour.

In this unlucky time Folly came into the
street.

For five minutes she stood looking vaguely
at the gas illumination from the opposite side
of the way.

It was nearly three years since she had
been in such a crowd — the first time in her
life she had ever been in it alone. She was
bewildered.

But for the pressing necessity that beset
her she would have crept away to some
quiet place where she might collect her
thoughts and grow calm.

A boy stood near her with his hands in his
pockets and a basket on his head, surveying
the confusion with the calmness of an old
general in a battle.

Is that a theatre V asked Folly, approaching
him.

A tlie-a-tre ! I should think so — that's
The Garden. 'Mack an' a Beanstalk." Can't
you read V
No.'

Well, that's what's on, an' I only wish I
was up in the gallery. 'Army Payne's clown.
You come 'long o' me, and I'll show you the
door what he goes in at'

With these words the boy took the basket
from his head, and going at the pack of carriages,
began to worm his way through the
complicated mass with the ease of a snake
p'oinof through a thicket.

Folly followed, and in some manner got
across the road, by which time her guide had
forgotten all about her, and was standing, with
his hands in his pockets and his basket on
his head, watching the muffled artists as they
entered the mysterious, fascinating stage-door.


Folly did not need him ; business, not
pleasure, occupied her thoughts. Following
the stream of people, she came into the
piazza.

A queer, strange figure she presented in
contrast with other children there. A
childish woman, or an overgrown child, this
girl of fifteen, dressed in a faded, thin print

8 — 2

dress, starched and ironed into stiff, rigid
folds, that came down not so low but that
her black cotton stockings might be seen
above the broken side-spring boots upon her
feet ; her shoulders covered with an absurdly
small jacket that displayed plenty of shifts
print sleeve. She wore a pair of
cotton gloves, and on her head a small straw
hat with a feather in it. ^

Seeing the beautifully - dressed children
descending from the carriages to enter the
vestibule, she hesitated. A girl of about her
own age passed in a slight but beautiful
lace mantilla, which she. wore tight to her
shoulders. Folly drew her own wretched
little cloak close across her chest to be in
the fashion. The act was an index to her
character.

What passed through the child's mind at
that moment ? Was it a sorrowful remembrance
of the time when she had been as
well dressed, as kindly cared for, as the happiest
child she saw now ? No ! It was a
wild, exultant feeling of superiority to all
about her — a mad, defiant idea that she
would, in spite of everyone, realise her
dreams. She would admire — envy none. She
had come here to London to be admired and

envied ; and these people, so anxious to seethe
most beautiful spectacle the stage presented,
should one day block the streets with
their carriages, and struofale for admission to
the theatre in eagerness to see her.

The immediate question to be solved was,
to whom should she apply for an engagement ?
As she stood in the footway looking through
the doors for one whom she might address on
the important subject, she got hustled and
pushed about by the people entering the
theatre, and her odd little hat with its
feather Alas tilted first over her eyes, their.
over one ear, then over the other ; it was
most annoying at this time, when she wished
to look her best. A policeman caught sight
of her arrano^inof her hat and standing in the
way of better-dressed people. He came up
briskly, and, taking her by the shoulder,
pushed her along, saying :

Now then, what's your game here ? Out
you go !'

Before Folly could utter a word of remonstrance
she found herself out of the piazza
and among the hurrying cabs.

She waited some time, frightened and perplexed,
until the excitement outside subsided,
and the dreaded policeman disappeared; then

she crossed over to the piazza again and
looked into the vestibule. A fine gentleman
with a long moustache and evening dress was
talking with the old man who sat in the pay-place,
looking up through the pigeon-hole. It
seemed to her that he might be the manager.
The policeman was still distant. Presently
the gentleman moved from the pay-place and
stood before the lire with his hands behind
him.

With a thumping heart Folly pushed open
the door, and then with a quick, nervous step
approached the gentleman.

If you please, sir, are you the master of
this theatre V she asked.

The gentleman, who was acting manager,
and entertained a high opinion of his own
importance, nodded assent.

If you please, sir, I want to dance in your
theatre.'

The naivete of the child was so amusing,
and her face so pretty, that the acting manager
felt inclined to enter into the subject ; but,
raising his eyes at that moment to a mirror
opposite, he caught sight of his own faultless
figure in juxtaposition with a girl in broken
boots, a starched cotton frock, and a little hat
with a feather sticking out of it like a leafless

slant in a flower-pot, and was immediately
struck with the incongruity of the spectacle
thus presented to the public.

This is not the place to apply at. Go to
the stage-door ; you must not come in here,
you know,' said he, hurriedly.

'Which is the stage-door, if you please,
sir V

^ Outside — round the corner.'

The acting-manager moved away in alarm,
as he looked again at the picture in the
mirror.

Folly, after some inquiries, found the stage-door
; with less ease she found some one to
attend her, and then she was told not to come
bothering at such a time as that.

When shall I come, if you please ?' asked
Folly.

^ Why, it's not much good your coming at
all,' answered the stage-doorkeeper, testily.

He had been arranging some letters in the
rack, and had given Folly scarcely a glance ;
but now, the job being finished, he looked up
and surveyed her with growing interest. Her
beauty, even in the odd, mean dress she wore,
was quite striking and exceptional. The
dark, large eyes, with the little mole at the
angle of the right, the pretty mouth and nose.

the cream-coloured skin, the long throat, the
pose of the short body and long linibs^ struck
the professional eye of the man.

^ You can call if you like tomorrow morning,'
said he, in a more amiable tone, ' about
eleven.' Then, as hope scintillated in Folly's
eyes, and, animating her face, made it ten
times more attractive than before, he added,
If you have nothing to do, you can wait
here till the opening is over, and see the
ballet-master as he comes out.'

I will wait, if you please. I have nothing
else to do.'

Then come in here and sit down by my
fire out of the way.'

Folly took a seat by the fire, close to the
wall, to be out of sight. She could just hear the
distant voices from the stage, with occasional
strains of music. The stage-doorkeeper had
plenty to do ; people were constantly arriving ;
the door kept squeaking as it opened and
banging as it closed for best part of an hour,
and the man had something to say to everyone
that passed. Then the carpenters, wiping
the perspiration from their faces with the
sleeves of their white jackets, trooped out to
get beer, and ran in again in a hurry for the
next scene. There was continual bustle. A

woman in a brown waterproof, with a woollen
shawl wrapped round her throat and the
lower part of her face, looked in the porter's
room, and, after a few words, passed through
the door to the flight of stone steps leading
up to the dressing-room.

That's Mademoiselle Dupes,' said the
stage-doorkeeper.

Who's Mademoiselle Dupes V asked
Folly.

Columbine. Don't you know anything
about the theatre V

I haven't seen one for years — not since I
was quite a little child.'

Don't know anything about the stage —
haven't been on before '? Then how do you
expect to get an engagement V said the doorkeeper,
in alarm.

^ I can dance.'

Jigs and things — street organs, hey V

No, ballets. I can dance well. My
father — my foster-father — was a regular stage-dancer,
and tauoiit me — taught me beautifully.'


Folly sighed, and looked steadfastly in the
lire.

Hum little cure !' thought the doorkeeper,
looking at her nodding plume. ' You can

'/ morrison.

take off your hat — that feather of your's

Q-one wrongfully

took off her hat, and set the tree-like
feather straight and in its place. The
light fell upon her head, making rich sunny
tints on its waving tresses. Her hair had
grown darker during the last few years,
though it was still lighter than her eyebrows
and eyelashes — they were black — and was
screwed up in a tight knot behind.

You've got a fine head of hair said the
doorkeeper.

I can sit on it when it's down.'

So your foster-father was a pro., was he V

He was a dancer, and my foster-mother
was a columbine, like the lady Who passed
just now.'

What was her name V

'Mrs. Fernandez.'

What, old Tom Fernandez's wife ?'

'Yes.'

What — them as was killed in the accident
at Wey bridge ?'

Folly answered with a silent nod, and
turned her eyes to the fire again, twisting her
fingers painfully.

The doorkeeper looked at her with interest.
He divined from her manner that the subject

was painful, and was silent. The door creaked
and banged less frequently now, so he brought
a chair to the fire and sat down near Folly.

You and mess old friends — what do you
think of that ? You must be the very little
girl I see when I went home with Tom one
day. He hadn't no other little girl, had he V

Folly shook her head.

I see you dance then, and told old Tom
he ought to put you on the boards, but he
was always against putting kids on too young.
Well, this is strange ! But how is it you've
only got that dress on, and them old boots ?
Tom said he should leave you all his money.'

His brother had it, I believe.'

What, Sam V

Folly nodded.

Ah, Sam wasn't half such a man as Tom
a stupid sort of fellow, as let himself be
ruled by his wife.'

Folly lifted her head at the mention of the
wife ; her little nose grew white, her lips thin,
her eyes fierce with anger, and she said :

His wife is — is — she's a devil !'

The doorkeeper chuckled. He liked Folly's
spirit.

She is a beast !' said Folly, fiercely, her
flesh quivering with rage.

I say, you've learnt some nice language
somewhere.'

^ I can't help it. Don't let's talk about her 1'

Ah, well, I dare say she deserves wus
language than you know. I'll lay a quid she
collared old Tom's money, and destroyed his
will or something.'

^ Yes — yes. Oh, if I could punish her I'

What would you do to her X

"' I would take all that she loves from her.
I would make her my servant, and never
suffer her to do what she likes. I would
starve her. I would dress her in rags, so that
people should laugh at her when she went
out. I would make her obey ugly, spiteful
children — I would make her work — I would
torture her in every way I could imagine.'

That's how she's served you, I expect ?'

Yes, yes — for months and months — years.
She told the gentleman from London who
was going to make my father's will that she
would make me her daughter and be good tome
; and that is how she served me.'

The doorkeeper swore a good round oath at
Mrs. Sam Fernandez. Folly looked at him
gratefully.

And wien you couldn't stand it any
longer, you ran away, I suppose ?' said he.

Yes ; I would have run away long ago,
but I had no money. Sometimes her husband
would give me a penny, telling me not to
say anything about it, and them were good
times for me. I hid the pennies under a
stone in the yard for fear she should find
them — see, here they are.'

She brought from her pocket an old doll's
frock sewn up to make a bag, and poured the
pence into her lap — about thirty in all, which
she patted and stroked affectionately.

Bless my soul ! So when you had saved
these you cut it V

I sat up one night to iron this frock — it is
my best. The gloves I got out of the sustain
and washed. That feather I stole. Then
when they all went out to a party this afternoon
I ran away.'

^ I'd have set fire to the house before I
started,' said the doorkeeper.

I— I ' Folly hesitated.

What did you do V

I made the poker red-hot and poked it
rio"ht through her likeness that she was so
proud of.'

Good gal,' said the doorkeeper, patting
her back.

Folly caught his hand, and pressing it between
hers, said :

I like you. I'll be kind to you if I grow
rich.' Then suddenly she asked : ' Have you
got a wife V

Yes, and kids as big as you.'

Folly sighed. ' I would have gone home
and mended your stockings and things for
you if you hadn't had anyone to do them.'

You're a good gal, that's what you are.
How old are you V

Fifteen.'

You're tall, too. If it wasn't for your
short dress I should have thought you were
seventeen.'

^ I grew very much when I had the fever.'
Have you been ill V

I had brain-fever, and was ill a long while
after — after ^//a^. When I heard he — he was
very likely killed, I couldn't eat and I
couldn't sleep, and at L^.st one day I tumbled
down gi^ldy like, and never knew anything
more for ever so long ; and when I woke up
I was in a strange place, and they had sold
my rabbits, and my guinea pigs, and my birds ;
all were gone, even my little kittens, and there
was nothing of my old home left. My dresses
were given to that woman's children. They
would not let me dance, and I could not sing.
Oh, it was dreadful ! And every night.

night after night, I dreamt that my dear
father was back with me dancing our old
dances, and for happiness I could not help
crying. That woke me, and then I cried for
misery. Even when I was awake I could see
my dear old father, with his kind face, looking
at me. and '

She paused — looked down at the fire, looked
up at the doorkeeper — then fell stroking the
old feather in her hat idly, turning her eyes
aside. Finally she dropped her hat, and,
burying her face in her hands, burst into
tears. The doorkeeper said nothing, but
fidgeted on his chair, and gladly got up to goto
the door when it creaked open.

It was some time before he came back, for
he found business to do outside. When he
returned he found Folly calm again, with her
hat in her lap, her fingers knitted over her
knee, and her eyes upon the fire. Her
grief was past and they chatted discursive,
until at length the doorkeeper, coming from
a consultation with the fireman, said :

The transformation is on, and the ballet-master
will soon be out.'

Folly got up, smoothed back her hair,
arranged the folds of her dress, put on her
old gloves, and assumed an air of cheerfulness.

That's the style. Senor Esperenza likes
bright faces said the doorkeeper, encouragingly.


Folly took the hint.

And now for half an hour or more there
was ceaseless banging of the door, with gasps
of pantomime music on each occasion, mingled
With the faint sounds of laughter and applause
from the house, as the actors and girls engaged
in the opening came from their dressing-rooms
to leave the theatre, some laughing, others
humming tunes, and all cheerful. The pantomime
had gone well, was the answer to all
the doorkeeper's questions.

At length, a short, ugly little foreigner, ina
fur coat, Crime out.

The doorkeeper darted at him, and put
the same question to him he had put to the
girls — how had the pantomime gone ?

Senor Esperenza shrugged his shoulders.
It had gone well — * all right ' ; but what could
you expect with a ballet of English girls —
pretty in face, hwt, Cardmlja! stupid and heavy
as your ' plot-puddings ' ? The doorkeeper
agreed, sympathised, commiserated, and then
entered upon the subject he had taken up.

After a brief conversation, Senor Esperanza
entered the room with the door-keeper.

Folly rose and met the ballet-master's
scrutinising glance boldly.

Senor Esperenza made her a most courteous
bow. It was just the bow old Tom used to
make to her ; and she responded with the
courtney he had taught her to make. Senor
Esperenza opened his eyes in astonishment,
and then surveyed Folly from head to foot.

^ Quel bonheur !' he murmured. ' Quelle
chance I Voici le genre qui me convient !'

E'en lessens la plus grande satisfaction,
messieurs replied Folly, her old assurance
returning with this expression of approval.

Though the girl could neither read nor
write, she could speak indifferent good French
glibly enough. She had learnt it readily from
her mother as an accomplishment which other
children did not attempt.

The ballet-master was delighted not less
with her bold manner and the brilliant impudence
of her face as she spoke than with
her knowledge of a lanoaiao^e which, though
not his own, he had spoken during the best
part of his life in the .Opera-house at Paris.

^ Ah, if I had only had you when rehearsals
began, I might have made a success with my
ballets r said he.

It was my misfortune,' answered Follj^.

VOL. I. 9

Nevertheless, we shall see v/hat may be
done now, mademoiselle. You will come tome
tomorrow morning here, at half-past ten.
You will not fail?'

Folly promised, and with a repetition of
the formalities with which they had met
they separated.

As he was leaving the room, he stopped
suddenly and turned round, as if to reassure
himself in some particular. He measured
the girl through his narrowed eyes, nodding
his head in slow approval. Then he left the
room with a quick step, his wheaten face
wrinkled into a smile.

He had seen hundreds of girls in Folly's

position ; he had introduced many to the

stage who now held high positions as dancers,

but never in his long experience had he seen

one whose appearance had promised so well.

The door-keeper, who had witnessed this
scene and listened to Folly's French in astonishment,
overtook Senior Esperenza at the
outer door.

Do 3'ou think you can make anything of
the child V he asked.

Child ! — she is a woman !' replied the
ballet-master, with energy. ' She shall be the
queen of the stage if we can keep her on it.
There is the only difficulty : she is too pretty

FOLLY OBTAINS AN ENGAGEMENT.

HE theatre is in obscurity. Boxes
and stalls are draped in dingy
cloths. A faint ray of daylight
struggles through the skylight at
the back of the gallery. One or two gas jets
burn dimly in the corridor behind the first
circle. In the pit an old woman is groping
under the seats for playbills and orange-peel,
while another knocks about with a broom
sweeping the floor.

The curtain and drop-scene are up, and
present the scaffolding of an elaborate / set '
and part of the transformation scene. A
row of gaslights, set on a standard in the
form of the letter T, fixed in the centre of
the store near the 'float,' sheds a flaming

9—2

light which fails to extend to the remoter
parts of the stage. Near it stands a table
and three chairs — a little further off a piano.

One or t\YO lights in the flies and wings
show the carpenters moving about in a dusty
fog — the ]phantoms of a transformation.

Near the gaslight stands a large man in a
long light ulster; he is the lessee, and is
talking to Senior Esperenza, whose figure in
contrast looks more than ever diminished
and shrunken — an effect which is heightened
by his cringing attitude. Folly, standing
close by in her starched j^ni^t frock, looks a
head taller.

The lessee is in ill humour. He holds in
his hands a bundle of newspapers, whose
theatrical notices are less favourable in
speaking of The Garden than of The Lane.
Especially they praise The Lane ballet and
the dancing of Mademoiselle Davoni, whereas
the ballet at the Garden is mentioned only
as presenting a grand spectacle.

This was the chill, depressing, spiritless
reality to which Folly was brought from her
dream of glittering splendour and warm
enthusiasm.

She had gone home with the door-keeper
and shared a bed with one of his children,

but for any sleep or material rest she got she
might have wandered about the streets with
her fancies. All night she thought of the
encouragement she had received from the
ballet-master, and allowed imao-i nation to
take the wildest flights into the future. She
pictured her triumph in the forthcoming
interview in all the rainbow tints of a young
and lively fancy. It did not occur to her
that the theatre might be otherwise than as
she had always seen it — tilled with people,
glowing with warm light, glittering with
tinselled scenery, and girls in dainty dresses.
They would give her a suitable dress, the
little old gentleman would smile and tell her
to go on to the stage and dance, and as the
band struck up she would bound on and
pirouette down to the footlights, thrilling the
audience with delighted admiration ! Carried
away by the excitement of these anticipations,
she found her limbs at times striving to accompany
her wild dream in involuntary
motion.

Her little bed-fellow must have slept
soundly or suffered considerably from her
restlessness.

Between the vision and reality was as vast
a difference as imagination could find.

^ Three papers mention Davoni/ said the
manager, gloomily. ' Why is she not dancing
in our show ?'

Davoni — Cdsjnta ! She's forty. She
danced in the ballet of the opera at Paris —
it is twenty-five years ago. Davoni — a has .''
replied Esperenza. ' Sir, we shall find a
young dancer that will make Davoni to hide
herself.'

Where V

Here — or you shall call me stupid fools 1'
The ballet-master drew back, and extended
his hand towards Foll3^

That child !' exclaimed the lessee, with a
short, contemptuous laugh, turning as if he
was about to walk away.

Well, if you will not be convinced '

Esperenza concluded the sentence with a
shrug.

'Let's see what she can do, then retorted
the lessee, crossing to the table, on which he
seated himself and opened a newspaper carelessly.


Esperenza looked at Folly for a moment
in doubt. It was too much to ask a girl to
show her abilities as a dancer in such boots
and such a dress. She must fail, and discredit
his assertion.

Another child in Folly's position would
have lost any courage she had at a proposal
under such circumstances — would have declined
it certainly, possibly with tears. That
was just enough to make Folly attempt it.
Her pride was stung by the lessee's contemptuous
expression, and, besides that, she
was animated by a feeling of generosity
towards Esperenza.

As he looked at her the blood mounted to
her cheeks, her eyes flashed, and she nodded
eagerly to him.

Will you try to dance in that dress V
'Yes ; but I should like music'
I will play myself What will you dance ?
It is impossible to expect you to succeed in
any great attempt. Try something simple,'
he added, in an undertone, speaking in French,
'■ Do you know a gavotte V

Yes. But I would like something livelier
anything.'

She walked beside Esperenza to the piano
with a light, springing step, and shaking her
arms as if she were loosening her joints for
the attempt. The lessee looked up With
interest and laid down his paper.

Esperenza was far more nervous than the
girl. He played a well-knowai ballet tune.

Will that do ?' he asked.

'Yes, yes — that will do she answered.
Her heart began to throb violently, and her
voice sounded strange to her own ears.

Tell me when you are ready.'

I will clap my hands.'

She looked with a quick, comprehensive
glance round the stage, measuring it for her
A'/ork. Then she glanced at the lessee, who
had left the table and seated himself in a
chair, fixing his eyes attentively upon her.
In the pit she discovered an old woman,
leaning on Lier broom, and another beside
her ; she saw their eyes. They were audience
enough — better than the rabbits and kittens
she had once been content with.

Esperenza, noticing her as she looked about
her, trembled. Almost he hoped she was
about to decline the attempt. Then, as she
turned, her eyes flashing with excitement,
his confidence was restored. He smiled and
nodded encouragingly, his fingers resting on
the keys of the piano.

He had taken off his coat, and laid the honos
scarlet silk handkerchief Iron his throat on the
piano. The bright colour caught Folly's eye,

'Will you lend me that?' she asked, quickly,
laying her hand on it.

Yes, yes. Shall I begin V

No, wait till I clap.'

She snatched up the scarlet silk, and light
as a fairy ran away with it to the upper end
of the stage. Stepping aside among the
wings, she flung her hat upon the ground,
and, tearing off her hateful dress, stood in
her bodice and petticoat; in a moment she
tied the silk handkerchief round her waist ;
then she clapped her hands.

Esperenza played the conventional chords
with which a danseuse makes her entrance,
and Folly from the obscurity came down to
the lioiit, timing her descent with the music
as exactly as if she had measured the distance
in a dozen rehearsals.

The white bodice and petticoat, with the
scarlet scarf, was a not unpicturesque dress,
and displayed her beautifully proportioned
arms and graceful throat to advantage. The
change had been made in a minute.

Esperenza took his hands from the piano in
astonishment ; the lessee opened his mouth
in surprise.

In the pause Folly, stationed in a graceful
pose, waited for the music to recommence, and
smiled witchingly into the empty house. For
her it was not empty : her imagination filled

the seats with admiring spectators. As the
interval extended beyond the proper length,
she rose from her stooping position, and, turning
with anger upon Esperenza, stamped her
foot impatiently.

He recommenced, and away the girl
bounded, her arms extended, as though she
were swimming through space, and her legs
moving as though they had no weight to
carry. Standing in the light, the lessee lost
sight of her in a minute as she operated into
the darkness ; the next minute she reappeared
twirling down the opposite side of the stage.
Esperenza could see nothing ; his whole
attention was given to keeping good time for
his 'protdcjce. The lessee passed him going to
the wings to get a clearer view of the dancer,
and exclaimed, with quick excitement, * By
George ! what a girl !' The old ballet-master
grew warm.

Quick !' called Folly.

Perspiration came upon Esperenza*s forehead
as he obeyed.

^ Quicker !' she cried, whirling past him.

His fingers and arms ached^he missed a
note, stumbled in trying to pick it up — then
stopped, fairly exhausted.

Bravo, bravo !' exclaimed the lessee. The

two old women in the pit clapped their
hands.

You have spoilt my finale,' said Folly,
coming down to the piano, and addressing
Esperenza in a tone of indignation. She
looked like an injured queen, her dark brows
knitted and her eyes flashing.

Mademoiselle, I — I — ' stammered the
ballet-master, awed by her anger.

Folly turned away, walked under the gaslight,
and holding it with one hand kicked
the standard petulantly. She pouted and
held down her head — the very picture of a
disappointed child.

By accident or design her hair had fallen
down, and the soft, rich mass thrown back from
one shoulder fell over the other and formed a
background to the delicate profile of her face,
presented to the two gentlemen at the piano.

Lessee and ballet-master looked at her,
then at each other.

Well ?' asked Esperenza, triumphantly.

You're right. She's a prodigy. Pity you
didn't find her before, though. What are her
terms V

I haven't asked.'

Folly getting cooler and her excitement
abating, she recollected her position — realised

that she was no longer a child danchio- with
her foster-father, and so felt rather ashamed
of her childish behaviour as the men came
towards her.

Accept my apologies for failing to play
equally well with your dancing. It was an
impossibility,' said Esperenza, bowing.

Folly blushed and returned his salute.

May I ask what terms you require asked
the lessee.

1 want enough for board and lodging and
clothes.'

The cautious lessee, hearing this, and remembering
the starched print dress, asked if
she would accept three guineas a week.

Yes, that will do,' said Folly, who thought
there must certainly be enough pennies in
three guineas to meet her requirements.

The treasurer shall make out an agreement
for you to sign.'

I can't write.'

The announcement did not surprise the
lessee ; good dancing and good education were
not to be expected in combination.

Your mark will do. You may consider
yourself enoao-ed for six wrecks certain ; we
can make a fresh arrangement at the end of
that time. What is your name ?'

^ Folly.'

Ah, good r exclaimed Esperenza. * La
Folie — a capital name — and with a dress after
the design of M. Grain '

No, no ; we have had enough French ;
the public is getting tired of them. We will
show what our own country can produce.
Folly is a good name enough, and we will
write to Alfred Thompson or another of our
own artists for a dress. It shall be put in
hand at once. You can make your arrangements,
Esperenza, so that we may announce
our new dancer for Saturday next — evening
show. That gives us six days ; will that do V

Yes, if the dress is finished.'

I will see to that myself If you want
any new properties let me know.'

As this conversation proceeded Folly
trembled in every fibre of her body. The
realisation of her fondest hopes was at hand.
It seemed strangely incongruous to hear the
details discussed in such cold, matter-of-fact
terms, when her own mind was transported
with such delirious anticipations.

Esperenza saw her trembling, and said
kindly, but with the utmost deference :

^ You are cold, ma'm.selle. Will you resume
your dress V

Folly walked up the stage, the men following
her with their eyes. She was a subject
for a painter — the tall, lithe girl with long
and beautifully rounded arms and legs, bare
shoulders and clustering hair, untying the
scarlet silk handkerchief from her waist as
she went lightly along. She returned with
her hair screwed up, the little hat perched on
the top, and her dress sticking out in angular
points, showing nothing of her limbs but their
extremities ; her hands red, her feet in broken
boots. She looked now a coffee-shop drudge ;
the picturesqueness was gone.

The lessee repented having offered her so
much.

She carried the silk wrap in her hand.

Thank you for lending me your handkerchief,'
she said, offering it to Esperenza.

Will you do me the honour to accept it,
ma'mselle V

Folly's eyes beamed with gratitude ; she
:died it round her throat.

Generosity is infectious. The lessee put
lis hand in his pocket and pulled out a handful
of gold.

Would you like a week's salary in advance
V he asked.

Thank you — I have not much money,' she

answered, and took the gold gratefully
enough ; but to her it had not . the value of
the silk handkerchief — that was something
for all to see and admire.

As she left the theatre with the stage-doorkeeper
she called his attention to it.

Yes ; but have you got an engagement V
he asked.

For six weeks.'

^ At how much V

Three guineas.'

Three guineas ! Why, that's twice what
I get. Three guineas !'

Yes ; and here's a week's wages in advance.
How many pennies is it V

Oh, gracious me, I don't know I A whole
bagful ; more than you could carry, I should
think. Why, you'll be quite a lady.'

That prospect was pleasant to Folly.

THE DIARY OF A WEEK.

These transactions took jDlace on
the 27tli, Sunday. The business
at the theatre detained those
concerned until half-past one.
Folly accepted the doorkeeper's invitation
to go home ^vith him ; but, holding her
newly-acquired fortune in her hands, she
already meditated independence. She set
herself to arrange what was to be done with
her money.

How much does it cost a girl to live
for a week in London V she asked.

'Oh, a oral could live handsome on a
pound answered the doorkeeper.

What, one of these V She held up a

Yes, hand some.'

Folly thought for a time, and did a sum in
mental arithmetic. If she kept one sovereign
for herself, how many should she have left ?
Two. These were susceptible of equal division
between her two friends. The ballet-master
was a gentleman, and evidently liked fine
things, so she would simply buy him the most
beautiful handkerchief she could get for a
pound ; but it was harder to decide what she
could give the doorkeeper, who wore nothing
but a spotted cotton necktie. It was just
possible he would prefer money to fine things
to wear, for he had never given a second
glance at her scarlet wrap, and had talked of
nothing else but her good fortune in getting
such a high salary. Before offering him anything,
however, she determined to make herself
sure on this point, in order that one
should be as fairly considered as the other.

Which do you like best T she asked ;
^ beautiful clothes or money ?'

^ Money,' answered he, without a moment's
hesitation.

Then, will you take this as a present from
me T She held the sovereign out to him,
with the pleasant expectation of seeing him
look happy.

VOL. I. 10

The man opened his eyes and mouth in
astonishment, and looked at her as if he was
at a loss to understand what she meant.

I want you to take this. I like you. You
have been \erj kind to me.'

Take that — from you ! No, that I
wont.'

^ Do. I shall be very sorry if you don't.
I want to give it to you.'

Folly grew very red.

Nos thank you. I'm not going to take
sour mono}''. Keep it yourself.'

'No, that I won't,' said Folly, stopping
short. ' If it isn't good enough for 3'ou, it
isn't good enough for me.' And with that
she stepped to the parapet of the bridge
they were crossing and fling the sovereign
into the Thames.

Cxreat heavens ! what have you done V
exclaimed the doorkeeper, rushing to the side
and looking over, as if he expected to see the
lost money.

He got no answer from Folly, who walked
on in sullen silence. Nor was it until he had
explained his generous reasons for refusing
her present that she would speak at all.
Before they reached Hercules Buildings,
where the doorkeeper lived, they were good

friends again ; but he was the only one who
thought ruefully of the sovereign lying in the
river mud under Waterloo Bridge.

On Monday, going to rehearsal, Folly
begged the doorkeeper to show her a good
shop for silk handkerchiefs. He took her
to Piccadilly Circus, where she walked boldly
into Swan and Edgar's.

What do you want here V asked a sho^D-
walker, arresting her close by the entrance.

^ I want the finest silk handkerchief you
can give me for that she answered, offering
a sovereign.

The shoemaker stared at her, examined
the coin critically, and led her with doubtful
steps to a remote part of the shop. After
a little hesitating conference behind the counter,
the showman displayed the best he had
for Folly to choose from. It pleased her to
find that they were even better than the one
she wore. Having chosen the most charming
one she could see, it was put in a box for her,
and she rejoined her companion outside.

The digression made them five minutes late
at the theatre. Senior Esperenza was already
waiting there, and growing anxious with the
delay. Folly presented the box timidly.

10—2

He was surprised at the generosity of his
"proterjee, and accepted the gift with a thousand
expressions of pleasure. Folly was elated
with joy.

Then they went to work. There was much
to be done. Esperenza had been up all night
composing a ballet, which necessitated a rearrangement
of the performance, the composition
of music, and a hundred other troubles.
Looking at Folly in her strange trim, it
seemed preposterous that such a creature as
she should revolutionise the company, and
give every one extra work and fresh rehearsals.


From the chef cVorcJiestre to the call-boy,
everyone concerned did his or her best to
make the girl know what trouble she was
giving. They could have chosen no better
method of delighting her. They showed her
her own importance.

When the stage was cleared to prepare for
the morning performance, and the stage-manager
announced that there would be a
rehearsal of the new ballet every morning for
the rest of the week, there was loud grumbling,
and the "premiere danseuse declared she
would resign.

As you please said Esperenza, with

a shrug. ^ We must try to do without
you.'

The danseuse knitted her eyebrows and
looked at Folly as if she intended to annihilate
her. Folly met her glance undaunted,
and with the most impudent smile at her
command stared at her until she withdrew
from the stage.

Her insouciance increased with the difficulties
opposed to her. Her self-esteem was
established and not to be shaken.

^ When she pauses to pick up the flowers
said Esperenza, explaining his scheme of the
ballet to the chef cVorchestrey 'there should
be a beetle slow music'

I know ; a movement something like this
eh V returned the composer, running his
fingers over the keys of the piano.

The movement's all right, but the tune's
horrid,' said Foil}''.

The c/icy* glared at her, and then said, sarcastically
:

^ Perhaps you can suggest a better V

^ Of course I can, although it's not my
trade,' said she ; and then, before all the
assembled artists, she hummed an air which
she considered better.

Folly was here called away to the manager's

room, where the artist was waiting to see her
with a view to sketching a suitable dress.
She stood to him in the impromptu costume
in which she had danced the day before.

^ By Jove, what a glorious figure I' said he
to the lessee, in a low voice.

Folly's sharp ears caught the words, and
the unction permeated to her soul.

In what character does the young lady
dance? asked the artist, as he hastily sketched
the outline of Folly's figure.

Her name is Folly, and she danced like
one possessed : that is your cue for a dress.
Her dance is independent of the opening, and
incidental.'

A " Folly " dress, then, would be suitable
: parti-coloured pale blue and white
satin, trimmed with silver greets ; silk tights,
also parti-coloured — by the way, is she to bea
male or female " Folly?'

Female. I want her to appear what she
is — a beautiful young girl, with impudence,
vivacity, and lots of life and go.'

Folly heard the artist's description of her
dress — the mention of satin and silk and
silver bells — with twinkling eyes, and listened
to the lessee's description of her character
with not less of interest. Her key to success

and popularity was to be beautiful] and young,
impudent and lively.

I understand,' said the artist ; ^ skirts
rather long than short, with plenty of soft
white frill ; and shoes — can you dance with
heels V

I can dance with anything ; I danced in
these.' Folly showed her old boots. The
Gentlemen lauoiiecl.

Then, shoes with a little heel — so ; and a
grelot instead of a buckle. But these white
frills vvill necessitate another colour with the
pale blue, to contrast.'

I saw a lovely white silk just shot with
pink — the palest salmon,' suggested the
lessee.

That would do. Then, a little Phrygian
cap, with two long, narrow feeders, parti-coloured,
to correspond with the dress. How
about the hair V

Oh, it's lovely hair — natural wave and
curl, is it not, my child V

Follyunfastened and let it fall inatwinkling.

^ I would gather it in loosely at the back
of the neck, have it clasped with a little paste
diamond brooch, and allowed to fall in its
own natural curls. There, that is a rough
idea of the costume.'

^ Very fetching,' said the lessee, looking at
it.

May I see it, if you please ?' said Folly,
unable to repress her curiosity. She could
hardly bring herself to part with the sketch ;
her head was fairly turned.

Standing by Esperenza's side, she watched
the morning performance through, and expressed
her profound contempt for the dancing
of the premiere danseiise. That lady, under
the critical eye of the child in the print dress,
exerted herself to the utmost, and, in attempting
a difficult pas, nearly came to grief.
Folly laughed ; and the Frenchwoman,
coming off the stage in a towering passion,
declared she would not dance again.

In the evening Folly went to The Lane
and saw the dancing of Davoni, and j^rolited
by the lesson. Returning with the doorkeeper
to his rooms in Hercules Buildings,
she would not go to bed until she had executed
Davoni's best effects, with improvements
of her own. Her audience was sleepy
and lethargic — a disposition which prevented
an open rupture at that time, despite the
unpleasant things that Folly said, and which
at an earlier hour would have undoubtedly
enlivened the proceedings.

On Tuesday Folly was measured for her
costume, and went through a long rehearsal,
trying the patience of all concerned by her
perpetual objections.

On Wednesday there Alas only a short rehearsal,
concluding with remonstrances from
the chefcVorchestre, from the acting manager,
and even from Esperenza, in consequence of
Folly's * obstructiveness.' General predictions
were made that the ballet would never
be arranged in time for representation on
Saturday.

Thursday was a delightful day. The
printer brought a proof-poster, which Espe-
senza got hold of and displayed to Folly.

^ There ! what do you think of that V he
asked.

Tremendous big letters — what are they
all about V returned Folly.

Ah ! you can't read. See — this top line
" The Garden Pantomime. Jack and the
Beanstalk." '

But the big letters ?'

- Folly !" '

Folly felt a thrill as if cold water were
beg poured down her back.

My name ! And the little words underneath
V

" Folly, the new danseuse. Debut, Saturday,
January 3." '

The rehearsal went well after that, and
took shape quickly. Folly was most amiable,
and won the affections of all the men she had
enraged the day before. The women she
took no notice of; they hated her more than
ever.

On Friday, going to the theatre, she saw
the posters announcing her debut displayed
on the hoardings. She stopped before each
one, looking up at the great letters with
intense delight, and then at the people around,
wishing they could know that she was the
danseuse referred to. ' They weill all know
me soon she thought.

The costumes brought the dress, all
glittering with silver grots. Her head grew
giddy as she looked at herself in a cheval-glass.



I will dance in it this rehearsal,' she said.

The body wants taking in a little here,'
uro'ed the dressmaker.

^ Do it after rehearsal, there's a darling 1'
pleaded Folly, looking with her most bewitching
smile at the costumes. The woman,
uninfluenced by any jealous feeling, and
fascinated by the girl's beauty and sweet

smile, consented to defer the alterations, and
Folly ran down to the stage in her new dress,
the costumier e following.

The men and women were standing about
in groups talking ; the rehearsal was waiting
for the girl.

To enter with a simper and a blush, and
stand awkwardly to receive admiration, was
not in Folly's disposition. Going up to the
top of the stage by the wings unseen, she
cried, ' Here I am !' and then, with a clear,
ringing laugh, she pirouetted swiftly down to
the light.

Every eye was attracted. Astonishment
was succeeded by admiration, which the men
openly and loudly expressed, and even the
women echoed.

Are you doubtful of her success now V
asked Esperenza of the lessee, who had been
depressed by the rumours of ^ obstructiveness
' and evil prognostications which had
reached his ears.

No ; that weill do. And that is how she
should enter — with those words and with that
manner. Can you do that. Folly V

To be sure I can,' answered the girl.

And on Saturday she came upon the scene
with the self-same cry and ringing laughter.

taking the audience by surprise, and infecting
them with her own wild spirit of gaiety and
delight, which never flagged for an instant
from her first step upon the stage till the
moment when she unwillingly withdrew.

A ROCKET ASCENDS.

solly's success was complete. Her
dream was realised. If she felt
disappointment it was because she

She would
during' the

had not enough to do.
the stage

have liked to be on

whole performance — harlequinade included.

The lessee himself was waiting at the
wing with a shawl to wrap round her shoulders
when she came off from acknowledging:
the applause of the audience.

Are you pleased V she asked, looking up
into his face.

^ I am delighted ! — astonished ! — charmed !'

Where is my friend, Monsieur Esperenza ?
Is he satisfied V

He disappeared five minutes ago.'

That was unkind.'
' Hush ! They have stopped the performance
; they are calling for you again. You
must go on !'

The applause, which had not ceased, swelled
to such proportions that the orchestra stopped,
and the c/k?/' looked into the wing for instructions.


Yes, you must go on again !' said the
lessee, removing the shawl from Folly's
shoulders.

May I dance again V

'■ No, no ! — by no means ! You mustn't
make yourself cheap. Let the audience
come again if they wish to see you dance.
Now run on, my dear.'

Folly ran on with an unconventional step
that showed the eagerness with which she
accepted the applause, and with her pretty
arms stretched out as though she would have
embraced those who honoured her.

Bravo ! Hole salerno ! a la muchacha —
a la salient vailarina !' cried an excited,
wrinkled old man in an upper box, and down
at the girl's feet he flung an immense bouquet.

Folly picked up the jardine, and, raising
her eyes, recognised her friend and benefactor,
Esperenza. She made him the deepest

curtsey, and, getting off the stage, buried her
face in the flowers and burst into tears.

Time lessee hurried her away to his room,
and there she was still sobbing hysterically
when Esj)erenza tapped at the door.

Knowing who knocked, the lessee, who
had seen only the excitement of old artists,
and was at a loss to understand Folly's tears,
called out :

Come in ; come in. Here'' what's the
matter with the little girl ? She has been
crying as if her heart would break ever since
she came off with your bouquet, and I can't
get a word of explanation from her.'

Ah, it requires no explanation !' said the
old ballet-master, nodding his head and
smiling. ^ A great dancer must weep or go
mad with the first success. I was quite mad
for two weeks — quite mad !'

And you are all quite satisfied .with me V
cried Folly.

Have I not told you so V replied Espe-
senza gently, just touching the bouquet.

^ Yes, yes. You would not have given me
the bouquet if the people had not made me
come on twice. How beautifully you showed
me your admiration. It was that made me
cry. But what a little fool I am !'

Then Folly burst into a long, hysterical
laugh, more painful to hear than her sobs.

Esperenza brought forth from one pocket a
scent-bottle and from another a box of bonbons,
and presented them gravely.

Meanwhile, the lessee, having withdrawn
to the adjoining apartment, was executing
his own characteristically English views of
gratitude and sympathy. ' Banks,' said he
to his man, ' champagne and glasses — next
room.' Then he sat down at the table, drew
the writing materials together, and began to
write. He had finished by the time Banks
returned from carrying the wine into the
other room.

Take this letter down to the staofe-door,
to be given to the young lady when she
leaves.'

As he spoke the lessee addressed the envelope,
blotted it, and rose from his chair.

Returning to Folly he found her calmer,
and eating bonbons with avidity.

The cork popped, frightening the girl, for
she had never heard the sound before. Out
bubbled the sparkling Vine, and Folly drank
champagne for the first time.

As if she had not had sufficient excitement

! Poor child, there was none to pity
her, nobody to protect her from this cruel
kindness !

Taking off her silk and satin, her silver
and glistening paste, with a sigh she resumed
her black cotton stockings, her broken boots,
her print calico dress, now limp and dirty
with a week's exposure to London fogs, and
her child's hat.

The doorkeeper handed her a letter.

What does it say outside T she asked.

'' Miss— Folly," ' said the doorkeeper.

She looked at it attentively. It was
becoming important that she should know
the look of her own name. Then she opened
it with considerable curiosity.

It contained a long slip of paper with
something written on a pink surface, folded
in a double sheet of paper, on which was
just a line of writing. Folly turned them
this way and that, looked in the envelope to
see if there was anything else ; then, appealing
to her friend the doorkeeper for explanation,
said :

What's it all about, do you know V

The doorkeeper, who, seeing the pink and
white slip, was as curious about it as she,

VOL. I. 11

drew near to make the investigation readily
enough.

Why, bless me, it's a cheque ! and '

What's a cheque '?'

A cheque ? Why, a cheque's — a cheque's
worth a lot of money ; and this is for five-and
-twenty pounds. It's a present from the
lessee. It's written on this paper, see — 'the
lessee begs Folly to accept the enclosed
cheque as a slight recognition of her valuable
services." There !'

A nice letter, isn't it ?' said Folly, smiling.

Yes, but look at the cheque ; that's nicer
still;

Why, who will give me anything for
that V asked Folly, looking incredulously at
the cheque.

I will, as soon as we get home. I'll give
you five-and-twenty pounds for it.'

Thank you !'

Folly put the letter in her pocket, but the
bouquet she carried in her hand, causing no
little astonishment among the late people they
met on their way to Lambeth.

The doorkeeper's wife kept the joint savings
in an old stocking, and from this hoard
change for the cheque was laid out before
Folly.

Some time after, when the woman was
alone, Folly said to her :

Your husband is very kind and very good ;
but he's very stupid. He likes money better
than anything, but he won't take it when he
is asked to.'

Why, that is stupid, to be sure,' answered
the wife, who did not participate in her
husband's delicacy.

Folly put her hand in her pocket, and
taking out about four-fifths of her gold, said:

Will you put this in the bag with the
other money, and don't say anything about if?'

But, my dear !' said the woman, gasping
for breath as she looked at the sum offered,
my dear, we've not done enough to deserve
all that r

He has. If it had not been for him I
shouldn't have got those beautiful flowers.
I might not have been engaged at all. Now,
don't you be stupid.'

The argument was conclusive. The doorkeeper's
wife checked her propensity to be
stupid, and took the money, and, indeed,
brought all her wisdom to bear upon the
doorkeeper when he, on hearing of Folly's
generosity, expressed his determination to
restore at least some of the money. She

11—2

prevailed over his intention with difficulty ;
nevertheless she did prevail ; as what wife,
not absolutely dumb, woidd not ?

In the evening she went out and found the
dressmaker, whose private address she had
obtained, and gave her the rest of her money
excepting a few shillings which remained of
the sovereign she had reserved to herself the
previous week. Then she was hapj^y.

The next evening, when she was about to
leave the theatre, she encountered the lessee,
who was talking on the staircase with a noble
patron of the drama.

Folly,' said he, ' how is it you still wear
that horrid dress of yours ? ^Vhy don't you
buy yourself something better V

I have no money,' replied Folly, blushing.

But you received mv letter V

«/ »/

'With the twenty-five pounds — yes. I
spent that on Sunday.'

The lessee held his breath ; the nobleman
burst into loud laughter.

Folly frowned.

What's the use of money if you don't
sjoend it V she asked.

Well, you know how to,' said the lessee.

'Yes, thank you,' retorted Folly, throwing
up her head.

The nobleman was highly delighted. He
took out his card-case.

^ Do you know a respectable shop where
you could buy a dress V he asked.

Yes ; there is a very respectable shop in
Piccadilly Circus.'

To be sure. There is Swan and Edgar's,
if I am not mistaken.'

That is the place. I bought a very good
hankerchief there for a pound.'

Again a burst of laughter offended Folly's
ears.

'Go to that respectable shop again tomorrow
afternoon, Folly. Give them this
card, and choose a pretty dress. I'll pay for
it.'

The nobleman offered his card. Folly,
putting her hands behind her, said :

Thank you. I'd rather wear my old frock
than accept a better from one who comes hereto
laugh at me.'

With the most dignified bow she was about
to withdraw, when the nobleman, putting his
hand on her shoulder, said :

'' We are very rude to laugh so, aren't we '?
Well, we are only men. You must forgive
us. I laughed because — because I couldn't
help it, not from any wish to offend. On the

contrary, I came behind here on purpose to
make your acquaintance, and tell you how
charmed I have been with your exquisite
performance, which I saw for the first time
this evenings

countenance brightened into a
smile.

And now,' he continued, offering his card
again, ^ may I ask you to make use of my
card and select a couple of dresses more
becoming to you than the one you wear V

After that Folly did not hesitate ; she
accepted the card in her sweetest manner — a
manner which would have made a plain girl
fascinating.

Here's another cheque — how much is that
worth V she asked, handing the card to the
doorkeeper.

He explained how it must be used.

The next morning Folly sought her new
friend the dressmaker, and together they went
in the afternoon to Swan and Edgar s, where
she selected two dresses, which were in accordance
with their joint idea of the beautiful.

They were costly. ^ What does that matter?'
asked Folly, when the dressmaker pointed
out the fact as an objection. ^ The dresses
please me — that is everything : it doesn't

matter whether they are cheap or dear.
How silly some people are about accepting
presents. If you set your mind upon giving
some one a present, and some one would not
accept it, would you not feel disappointed V

Yes.'

Well, and would it not be ungrateful of
some one to disappoint you after you had
done all in your power to be nice and kind to
her V

Why, looking at it that way, so it would
said the dressmaker. So the dresses were
taken away, and doubtless the nobleman
opened his eyes over the bill.

Folly fell in love with the dressmaker —
the only woman she ever could be amiable
with — and came to an arrangement with herby
which they should live together in the
same house. By this means she could watch
the making of the dresses and assist.

To harmonise with her dress, boots, gloves,
a hat, and other affairs had to be bought,
and, as she had no money of her own, she
was compelled to borrow.

She was in debt about fifteen pounds when
she at length discarded her old dress and
walked out in the new; but then she looked
like a young duchess, and people turned round

to admire her, so the obligation weighed bat
lightly on her mind.

It was not long before she paid oiF the loan
with interest, for the lessee doubled her salary
as her reputation increased and the receipts
went up. It was to her he owed his success
that season.

Her little sitting-room was never without
a bouquet — sometimes it contained two or
three. They were lightly valued, and wien
faded vere thrown away without a thought.
Thanks to her friend the dressmaker she soon
learnt that they were not her friends who
cast them at her feet.

They are cheap and selfish compliments
said her friend. The man who pays his ill-spared
half-a-crowm and applauds you from a
corner of the pit is the better friend. Nine
out of ten of the men who throw a guinea
bouquet do so to be stared at by the house
and talked about in their clubs ; as for the
tenth, he's worse than the other nine put together.
You'll find them out soon.'

There was one bouquet which Folly never
parted with ; it was the jardine thrown to
her by Esperenza. She kept it with the
lessee's letter.

Folly never forgot a friend. Lightly as

she valued money or its equivalents, the
generosity of the giver, if it was sincere and
unselfish, was registered in her heart as a
debt to be repaid whenever opportunity occurred.


If she remembered her friends she did not
forget her enemies. The first poster announcing
her appearance that she could obtain she
sent by post, in an official-looking envelope,
unstamped, to Mrs. Sam Fernandez. Her
old clothes she also sent to the same lady by
carrier, with a polite note, which she induced
her friend to write for her, explaining that
she sent the rags back with the slope that
Mrs. Sam would one day be thankful for them.

Folly had now arrived at an age when her
character was determined and beyond radical
alteration. Less than a psalmist's skill is
necessary to predict her future.

As we leave her now we shall find her
presently. She is started in her brilliant upward
course, like some cunningly devised and
brilliant pyrotechnic. We avert our eyes fora
moment, to return and find her still rising
higher and yet higher above the heads of the
wondering and admiring crowd. Anon the
zenith is reached, and then comes a glittering

coruscation, at which spectators exclaim in
astonishment, as though the event were unanticipated.


After the brilliant close who will care for
the empty shell, or even think where it may
fall !

THE VICAR OF ST. BARNABAS.

'-^1 IHE parish of Tangleyy comprises about
sixty square miles of common land,
six cultivated farms, Aveling Hall,
with its surrounding acres of park
and pasture, and the irregular row of houses
composing the village of Tangleyy. Its population
consists of not more than one hundred
and fifty souls, the servants at the Hall included,
and to supply their wants there is
one general shop, one public-house, and one
church.

The church, standing a little back from the
highway, is en face with the public-ho use ;
the village tails off down the road in the direction
of Chertsey. From a balloon, or from
a moral point of view, it would seem that the

head of the village was vastly out of proportion
with the body it had to feed, somewhat
like a ' loggerhead ' or tadpole in its earliest
stage of development.

Tangleyy itself and the surrounding country
is as pretty a part of Surrey as there is. Standing
in the churchyard of St. Barnabas — the
church is situated on the hill — and looking
over the village one sees an undulating plain
stretching far away, until in this hazy autumn
afternoon it is liard to say where the earth
ends and the sky begins in the blue distance.
Tie foreground is purple with heather. Turning
round, one looks down upon the grand
oaks of Aveling Park, and catches a glimpse
of the lake formed there by the meandering
Bray. A stack of twisted Elizabethan redbrick
chimneys indicates the position of the
Hall ; the thin streams of greyish-blue smoke
rising perpendicularly in the still air are conspicuous
by contrast with the dark foliage of
the oaks beyond. On the southern boundary
of the park the squalid huts of Sandy Lane
may just be seen, and beyond them the even
fields of red-brown corn belonging to the farm
at May ford; but these are not part of Tangleyy
parish.

Tangleyy Vicarage cannot be seen from the

road ; it lies beyond the church across the
glebe nestled in the side of the hill — a quaint
old house, with a dozen spare rooms that are
never used, overgrown with clematis and
jasmine of ancient growth, brightened up by
a profusely flowering Gloire de Dijon of more
recent planting. It is surrounded by a wilderness
of a garden, with quaint box-edged walks
and eccentric beds of free-growing annuals,
which make no pretence to order or regularity
in their arrangement. The gardener has
clearly a preference for scarlet gladiolus
and pink hollyhocks over other flowers.
Before the house is a smooth lawn, with an
apple-tree in the centre — gone out of the
perpendicular with its weight of fruit, apparently
— and guarded by four grim old
arbor vitae, which stand at each corner like
sentinels.

The vicarage, with its garden, its orchard,
its piggery, stables, and cow-lewes, its glebe
land, and its common rights, is given to the
vicar, with tithes to the annual amount of
£500, in return for his ministration to the
spiritual requirements of Tangleyy.

Tangleyy is not exacting in this respect. If
Boniface, at the Lion, had not had more todo
than the vicar of the church opposite, he

would have to shut up his shop and go elsewhere
for his living.

There were scarcely any poor in the parish,
and the most pious farmer did not care to go
more than once a week to church. Sir Andrew
Aveling himself, though most exemplary in
observing the ceremonies of the church, did
not attend oftener than once on the Sunday.
The baronet was not in need of reformation,
so what necessity was there for him to
go to church more frequently ? He went in
the morning to hear a good sermon; he stayed
at home in the evening to eat a good dinner.
Nevertheless there were two services at St.
Barnabas's every Sunday, and Sir Andrew
sent as many servants as could be spared from
the Hall to represent him. They sat under the
organ-loft, and formed no inconsiderable part
of the congregation. Sir Andrew's pew was
a square, roomy apartment, with high, comfortable
backs to the seats nearer the pulpit.

In the morning the vicar preached a sermon
for Sir Andrew which no one quite understood
; in the evening he preached a sermon
for the servants which went home to their
understandings.

It will be seen that the vicar received his
living from the baronet.

Besides these services, in which he was
assisted by a curate, a clerk, and a pew-opener,
the vicar had Httle else to do.

It was for him to rest six days and work
on the seventh. One may say he was well
paid for his services.

With these facts before him, the reader
may easily picture the vicar a slavish, servile
old man, with just enough stupidity to save
him from being a hypocrite, and just enough
cunning to save him from being a fool ; with
more difficulty he may imagine the man holding
such a post to be young, intelligent, and
honest in principle. Yet this was the character
of Richard Vane, Vicar of St. Barnabas,
Tangleyy.

At Oxford he had saved the life of Roland,
Sir Andrew Aveling's only son, when that
young man, with characteristic rashness, undertook
to row round the osiers by Burley Mill,
and was within an ace of beings drawn under the
mill-wheel, and subsequently he had rescued
him from many scrapes into which his headlong
and impetuous temperament hurried him.
In grateful recognition of these offices the
baronet offered Richard Vane, who had just
passed through his ordination, the living of
St. Barnabas, which was then vacant by the

death of the Venerable Joshua Sloofo. Richard
Vane accepted the benefice without hesitation,
and wrote at once to his sister Margaret —
then holding a situation as governess at a
school in London — to come and share his
good fortune.

On this Sunday afternoon in August, 1869,
the brother and sister are under the apple-tree
on the lawn — Richard stretched out on
the grass with his hands clasped under the
back of his head, looking up through the
foliage : Margaret seated in an American
chair, with one of George Eliot's novels in
her lap. The vicar wears a light alpaca jacket,
and his clerical waistcoat is unbuttoned. His
sister is dressed in a costume of cru French
pique, trimmed with white lace and pale blue ;
dainty plaited lace frills are about her throat
and wrists. She is swinging one foot listlessly
— for she has reached a somewhat dry
part of the novel — and a little neat blue shoe
peeps in and out the kilted margin of her
under-skirt.

Those four old arbor vitre at the corners of
lawn have seen many generations of vicars
and vicar's sisters on that lawn ; but a vicar
unbuttoned, and without a black cloth coat
on his back, and a vicar s sister with heels to

her shoes and a flower m her hair — never.
Anything less Sunday-Hke than their behaviour,
more sacerdotal than their appearance,
they cannot have seen since they were
planted.

Beyond the privet-hedge that forms the
boundary of the flower-garden a maid in a
spotless white muslin apron and cap is shaking
a tree for grenades. It is near tea-time,
and Mr. Vane likes fruit. As she stoops topick
up the rich wasp-bitten fruit and put it
on the plate, a stone glances by. She looks
round in surprise, and seeing no one, fancies
she was mistaken, and returns to her occupation.
Another stone flies through the air,
and this time strikes her on the back. There
could be no mistake about that ; it was a
palpable hit. Behind her is the holly hedge
dividing the garden from the paddock. The
stone must have come from thence. Was it
the cow-boy or — sweet thought I — the young
man from the general shop who took this
means of attracting her attention ?

Looking towards the hedge, with cheeks
even redder than the sun has painted them,
she hears a low whistle. Her heart throbs,
and she looks round cautiously, standing on
tip-toe to look over the privet-hedge. Miss.

VOL. I. 12

Yane is still reading, and there is no sign of
master.

Pst ! Jenny !' whispers a voice from beyond
the holly.

Jenny hums an old hymn, and strolls down
towards the hedge.

Here ! Jenny! '

The voice is not the cow-boy's, nor the
dulcet expression of the grocer's assistant.
Whose can it be ? Still humming, she peeps
this way and that through the hedge, until at
length she catches sight of a face.

Oh, Mr. Roland !' she exclaims under her
breath. Next dearest to a lover in a maid's
heart is the visitor who never forgets to give
her half a-crown when he leaves the house.
Seeing Mr. Holand Aveling, she has agreeable
visions of new ribbons.

Is your mistress alone V asks the gentleman,
in a whisper.

'No — master's with her; they're on the
lawn now, and again' to have tea as soon as I
take in the gages,' answers Jenny, whispering,
after another peep on tip-toe at the lady on
the lawn.

Ah !• — I don't want him to know that I'm
here.'

Jenny has a soul for intrigue, and hums
Abide with Me ' alarmingly loud.

Give your mistress this without Mr.
Vane's knowledge says Koland, tearing a
leaf from his pocket-book, doubling it up, and
thrusting his hand, regardless of the speared
leaves through the holly-hedge.

Jenny takes the paper — it is very light —
in silence.

sand — wait, Jenny' — the hand is withdrawn,
there is a pleasant chinking sound,
and it reappears with a half-crown — ^ take
this. You know what to do with that.'

Jenny's face brightens and she says, 'Oh,
thank you, sir !' softly, with a well-feigned
accent of astonishment, bending her knees
suddenly and recovering her position with a
jerk. Then she returns to the greengage
tree, singing ;

I fear no foe, with Thee at hand to bless.
Ills have no weight and tears no bitterness.'

Presently she goes into the house with the
fruit.

Be quick with tea ; it grows late,' says
Miss Vane, without taking her eyes from the
book, as Jenny passes.

Richard Vane is seated with his back
against the tree, writings notes on an old envelope,
and using his Church-service as a

12—2

desk. He is preparing his sermon for the
evening, and has got his inspiration from the
green leaves and the hie sky beyond. No
wonder the simple folks like his evening
homilies.

The cheerful sound of rattling cups and
saucers comes thrush the French windows
that lead into the great room of the vicarage.
These windows are an improvement upon the
long narrow casements which previously
existed, and, besides affording facility for
express and ingress, sive the room lio^ht and
air, and a pleasant view of the garden ; they
were suggested by Miss Vane.

If you please, miss, will you give me the
key of the tea-caddy V says Jenny, demurely.

It is in the caddy.'

Xo, indeed, miss,' answers Jenny, without
a blush.

That is strange — I thought I left it there.
I will come and see.'

Miss Vane lays down her book and enters
the house by the window — Jenny following
With the face of a saint.

When they are in the room and beyond
the observation of Mr. Vane — a desired end,
for which Jenny, it is needless to say, purposely
removed the key from the caddy — the

maid says, handing the folded leaflet : ^ If you
please, miss, Mr. Aveling gave me this for
you, miss.'

Mr. Aveling — when did you see him V
Just now, miss, in the meadow, t'other
side the holly-hedge, please, miss.'

Miss Vane flushes crimson with anger and
shame ; nevertheless, the offender is half
forgiven as she takes his note ; his offence
forgiven when, being alone, she opens it
and reads the hurried lines :

'My darling Madge, — I am in great
trouble. I want to see you alone. For
Heaven's sake don't tell Dick. Ever your
own

Roland.'

It is no unusual occurrence for Roland to
be in trouble — he hardly waited to get out
of one scrape before he engaged in another,
and frequently had to extricate himself from
two or three at one time. But what trouble
can it be that he wishes to conceal from his
friend Richard, to whom he has hitherto
applied first for help ? This conjecture agitates
Margaret Vane ; at the same time it
gratifies her gentle heart to think that he
should come to her for sympathy when he

dare not oho elsewhere. That is as it should
be. A man should lay his keyhole heart before
the woman he loves.

The look of tender pity and gentle devotion
in her face, as, standing in the shade,
she smooths his little note between her hand,
would be a pleasant study for an artist — or
her lover.

From this absent state she is recalled to
her present position by the shuffling steps of
Jenny coming along the passage with an
over-burdened tray, and her brother's voice
from the lawn :

Is tea ready yet, Madge ?'

the BETTER THE DAY THE BETTER THE DEED.'

Ice dear, I must ask you to let fine
stay at home this evenings ' said
Margaret, pouring out the tea.
I thought you Heed my evening
sermons.'

*So I do, much better than those you
preach in the morning — they come from your
head, the others from your heart ; that is why
I prefer them, I suppose."

That's a poor compliment to my head,
Madge.'

^ Or a fine one to your heart — hey V

Thank you. You let me off kindly ; yet

I dare say the other view of the case is more

correct. These discourses that I take six

days to write, and then find unfinished, maybe

inferior to the sermon I can compose by
looking at the branch of an apple-tree for
half an hour, and deliver with no other help
than a few notes on an old envelope. That
disposes of fifteen years' hard study at a
breath.'

Richard Yane stirred his tea thoughtfully,
and for a few minutes was lost in reverie ;
then with a sio^h he shook off the mood which
evidently pained him, and said, in a bright,
cheerful voice :

^ Well, Madge, so you won't go to church
to-night, hey \ Why ? Feel lazy ? Or is
it that you want to get through your novel
to-night in order that you may begin next
week well with a fresh one ?'

No. I will tell you my reason if you
wish it ; but '

The brother checked her with a graceful
movement of the hands and head, and turned
the subject immediately, with the finished
ease and courtesy of a man that has lived in
good society and profited by its best lessons.

Margaret, who had bent over her tea-cup)
as she spoke, feeling that her cheeks were
betraying her thoughts — they had a provoking
trick of blushing against her inclinations,
looked up at him timidly. He was

speaking upon some subject she hardly knew
what for looking into his sweet, frank eyes,
she could only think what a dear, beautiful
man this brother was. The blush left her
face, a soft, affectionate light suffused her
eyes, a smile curled her lips, and swelled
the curve of her fresh young cheek.

The flow of Richard's discourse stopped
abruptly, and he said, laughing :

You are not listening to what I say. I
can see that by your expression. What are
you thinking about, Madge ? Your thoughts
are far away.'

Not very. I was thinking what a beautiful
face you have.'

Richard laughed heartily. As a boy he
had been ' chaffed ' and caricatured for his
gaunt, ungainly figure, his ill-proportioned
features, and the colour of his skin. His
appearance had not improved with age, for
Nature, who scattered a few hairs on his face,
had plucked out thrice the number from his
head, leaving him, as he said, too much hair
for a cherub and not enough for a patriarch.

Let me see myself as others see me,' said
he, rising to look in the mirror. ' Yes,
Madge, you're right ; I grow handsome.
Methinks I am marvellous hairy about the

face, and my curls must absolutely be cut.
Lilies and not mushrooms underlie my skin,
and my nose '

You shan't find fault with that ; it's a
capital, manly, firm nose ; and your mouth is
as pretty as a woman's. But it's your eyes
that make your face so beautiful. They are
so earnest and sincere and thoughtful, and
yet so kind and gentle.'

As she spoke, Margaret, as if by an uncontrollable
impulse, rose from her seat, went
to her brother's chair, and twining her arm
about his neck, kissed him, and laid her
cheek beside his.

There was little likeness between the
brother and sister, except that her eyes were
like his ; for she was ten years younger than
he, with a complexion like the inner petals of
a pink rose, and features as childlike and
feminine as his were the reverse. Contrast
exaggerated the characteristics of each, increasing
the beauty of one and the plainness
of the other.

If you please, miss, may I go to church
this evening V asked Jenny, coming to the
door. This was a hint the artless maid never
failed to give when the hour arrived for her
to remove the tea-things.

Miss Vane assented, and the vicar, taking
the signal, hastily finished his tea, and then
ran upstairs to change his coat. Presently
he reappeared in the conventional habit of a
vicar ; but even in the canonical hat and
black cloth coat, and with his waistcoat properly
buttoned, he failed to look like other
parsons.

He slipped the old letter with the headings
of his sermon in his Church-service, dropped
them into his tail-pocket, and, putting his
arm round Margaret's waist, led her towards
the gate opening on to the church meadow.
On the way he paused to pull up a weed that
had sprung up among the flowers. Would
any other vicar at such a time have given his
thoughts to such a trivial matter ? Yet
there was a significance in it — this pulling
up of an ill weed the moment it met his
eye.

Parting with his sister, he gave her a
hearty kiss, and then started off to his business
with the air of a man walking out with
a pleasurable object before him, which again
was a peculiarity in a man holding his ghostly
office.

Crossing the stile that cuts the church
meadow, he surprised a couple of urchins in

the heinous act of picking blackberries on a
Sunday.

Seeing 'parson,' the youngsters bolted,
leaving their hook hanging in the brambles.
They had a good start, and effected a safe
retreat to the stony fastness of the graveyard.

The Rev. Richard Vane, chuckling, possessed
himself of the blackberry hook, walked
to the little turnstile in the churchyard, and
stayed there, keeping his eyes open. Presently
he caught sight of something like the
ragged end of a door mat advancing cautiously
beyond the edge of a distant tombstone, then
a very narrow strip of forehead, and after
that two twinkling eyes. The vicar held up
his finger and beckoned. The reprobate was
caught. Getting up off" his hands and knees
he stood for a moment irresolute, and then
advanced sheepishly, with his cap in his
hand.

Here's your hook ; you left it in the
hedge.'

It's Billy Ives's hook,' said the boy,
putting his hand behind him as if he expected
to be punished with it in the customary
way.

Where is Billy Ives V

Behind t'other sto-an, over the-ar.'

Billy Ives, thus denounced, rose from the
grave, looking as pale as his freckles and
tanned skin would permit and came down to
the turnstile at the vicar's beck.

'Billy Ives, here's your hook. What's
that sticking out of your pocket ?'

Hymn book.'

'Your mother told you to go to church,
her

'Yas.'

And you'd rather not.'

Went this morning.'

^ And you want to go blackberries now ?
Very well, go — the pair of you. But tell
the truth about it when you get home, boys.
Now, then, off you go ; it will be too dark in
an hour.'

The boys scampered off, and the vicar
made his way into the church. This little
episode had delayed him, so he began the
service without putting on his gown. When
the time came he went up into the pulpit
and preached his simple sermon, touching
the hearts of all who heard him, filling them
with a happiness as calm and beautiful as the
still twilight of that autumn evening.

Jenny had preceded her master to church :

and Margaret beings alone, could five her
thoughts exclusively to Roland.

She took the crumpled note from her
pocket and read it again. ' My darling
Madge !' With a quick blush she snatched
the paper from before her eyes, squeezing it
up in her hand. It was the first time she
had ever seen her name in conjunction with
that pretty term of endearment ; she had
heard it whispered for the first time only two
days previously ' My darling Madge !' she
repeated, in a low voice, to herself

Smiling, she opened the paper again to read.

I am in great trouble.' The smile left
her cheek.

Poor fellow 1' she murmured, with a sigh.
What misfortune has overtaken him T

(Asa rule Roland did not wait for misfortunes
to overtake him — he went out to
meet them.)

I want to see you alone.' The smile
returned to her face as she thought low
delightful it would be to console him and
alleviate his distress.

For Heaven's sake don't tell Dick.' That
made her drave acyain. * It must be something
serious indeed that he could not tell
her brother.'

Ever your own Roland.' Again she
smiled. So long as he was ever her Roland,
and nothing could separate them, the trouble
could not be very great — certainly not one
that time and her loving kindness might not
obliterate from his memory. ' Still he must
be unhappy now, poor fellow,' she thought
sadly, putting the letter carefully in her
purse. Then, remembering that he would
soon be with her, the inconstant light shone
once more in her April eyes. She looked
round at the front gate with a flutter at her
heart, and then — ran upstairs to smooth her
hair and put on her prettier earrings.

Quick as expectancy made her, these slight
alterations were scarcely effected before her
ear caught the sound of the latch choking in
the garden-gate.

As she hastened downstairs her apprehension
pictured the lover she was about to meet
haggard and pale with anxiety, with wild
excitement in his eye, and a disordered dress.
In the place of this dramatic figure she found
Mr. Roland Aveling standing on the lawn
by the open window in delicate gloves, faultless
fitting garments, and the happiest expression
on his handsome face that one could
wish to see there. There was a little wildness

in his eyes, to be sure, as he caught hold of
her hands and looked eagerly into her face,
but it was by no means the wildness of despair
or an expression to command commiseration.
In a word, he looked the handsomest, most
impudent, happiest young scamp in Christendom.


ROLAND Feeling.

AD her lover appeared, as Margaret
expected to find him, woebegone,
she would have thrown herself into
his arms without reserve, thinking
of him and adopting that readiest and
sweetest feminine means of alleviating his
distress ; seeing him bright, smiling, happy,
her generous impulse received a check ; she
thought of herself, and advanced coyly.

My darling Madge, one would think we
were still on a footing of formal friendship.
Come, I must teach you how lovers should
meet ; it is so — and thus.'

He threw his hat on the grass as he spoke,
encircled her with his arms, pressed her to
his heart, and kissed her blushing cheeks.
VOL. I. 13

'But, Roland -'

Not a word for two long moments, and
then less solemnly sweet.'

Margaret struggled faintly, and succeeded
in releasing all but her hands : these Roland
would not part with. She looked down at
the grass — she turned her face away, looking
over the beds of tancred flowers : she could
not look in his face. His eyes where fixed on
her, and she, blushing because she blushed,
dared not meet them.

My lovely little Madge, if you knew how
those blushes become you, they would not be
mingled with vexation. You are the picture
of Daphne, so timid and coy. I believe you
would run away from me, as she did from
Apollo, if — if — if sou did not love me a little
bit. There, I leave hold of your hands : I
give you the chance of flying, and — lo ! you
stay. Oh, darling, either I must be much
handsomer than Apollo or. you ten thousand
times sweeter than Daphne.'

She turned a furtive glance to his face,
smiling an acknowledgment of her love ; then,
remembering the note in her pocket, grew
suddenly grave.

*Now tell me what is your trouble,' she
said.

^ You ask me to do an impossibility. I
will do anything else you may command.'

^ Oh, why not, Roland V

Why, you dear little goose, I have no
trouble when I am with you

But your note this afternoon V

Ah, then I was in trouble, to be sure, for
we were apart.'

Was it easier to bear that trouble than to
obviate it by the very simple means of coming
into the garden in your ordinary way V

Come, Madge, don't look so serious, or
sou will make me believe that you are sorry
that I have no deeper occasion for your
sympathy. Must I break my arm or have
some dreadful mishap to be happy ?'

That depends on whether you value your
own happiness more than mine.'

Margaret seated herself quietly, with a
thoughtful face.

I do verily believe you are vexed because
I am not seriously unhappy,' said Koland
uneasily, as he sat on the grass by the side
of Margaret's chair. ^ I am perplexed. Girls
do not readily understand practical jokes.'

It seems to me the thoughtless cruelty of
a boy to impose upon confiding love and

inflict unnecessary alarm. It may be wit '

13—2

It is poor wit, and a bad joke, indeed,
and if I have pained you, Madge, believe me
I am very sorry for the past, and will try to
behave more reasonably in the future.'

Margaret turned in her chair, and a smile
of quick and full forgiveness lit up her eyes
as she looked down at her lover. He took
her hand and pressed his lips to it gratefully.

Then they sat silent a while, their souls
harmonising with the stillness of the evening.
The frailest campanula hung motionless on
its slender stem, the leaves of the trees did
not stir. Up in the blue sky a couple of
rooks, flapping their heavy wings, flew over
the garden, gravely cawing. The house-martins
twitted about their nests, carrying
flies to their second brood peeping from the
nests beneath the eaves of the old house. In
such a moment the heart is touched, and
prompts the mind to be ingenuous and true.

Margaret felt the influence, and pressed
gently the hand that held hers. Poland,
also, touched with the spirit of that holy
calm, became pensive.

I want to tell you all about it, Madge,'
said he quietly, his voice, usually quick, now
slow, and his manner a little embarrassed,
for, after all, a little difficulty underlies the

main motive which brought me to see you.
I hardly recognised it as a fact until now. I
forgot all about it in the delight of first seeing
you. I have been bothered ever since
Friday.'

You did not tell me then.'

The anxiety did not arise till later.
Yesterday I departed from home, so you see
I had not the opportunity. I have been
staying with the Rodneyss — my mother's
family, you know ; awfully precise, uncomfortable
people, the men prigs, the girls
prudes. You can fancy how dejected and
miserable I felt in their society after having
yours, and remembering the happiness of
Friday. Well", when they all assembled at
the breakfast-table this morning, with not a
smile nor a bit of bright colour amongst
them, I felt that Sunday with them would
be my death, especially as on this day they
have cold two o'clock dinner, and lock up the
library to keep it holy. 'what on earth
shall I do with myself r' thought I. 'ego
and see your dear little sweetheart," answered
my good genius. Acting on this happy
suggestion, I got my lunch at twelve, started
off to the station before my fond relations
had returned from church, caught the 1.15

train to London, and came on here as quick
as the train would brings me.'

But your anxiety, Koland V

Well, that had been on my mind all the
while, aggravating and worrying me just like a
bad tooth, that will only cease gnawing at your
nerves when you go to your dentist and have
it out. If it had not been for that, the prudes
and the prigs would only have been material
for a day's amusement ; or I could have enjoyed
the solitude of a wood with my pipe
and sweet thoughts of you ; or I could have
written two long letters to you, all about
nothing, instead of one.'

Then you wrote to me, dear V The last
word slipped out of Madge's south involuntarily,
as a drop that overflows from the full
heart of a dew-steeped flower.

Say that one little word again, darling,
and I'll write you a thousand letters.'

Margaret put up her hands to her face, that
he should not read there what she refused tolet
her tongue repeat — an acknowledgment of
love.

Well, Madge, I will say it for you — dear,
dear Madge. There ! And now I will return
to my confession. As I said, I believe
it was the fact that I had something on my

nnnd which you should know that prompted
me — in the guise of a selfish desire to feast
my eyes upon you — to come here and seek
you. I did not intend to say a word about it
for I thought the difficulty might be overcome
without your knowing.'

If it concerns me I ought to know.'

So I feel now, and should have felt at first
if I had been a strong, firm fellow like your
brother. Oh, Madge, I wish I had more
decision of character. To play cricket, to
row, to sit on a horse and tear away over
anything I get a horse to take — that's all
easy enough to me, and not a chance escapes
me ; but to see the way out of complicated
circumstances, or to do exactly what I ought
to do in a critical situation of a novel character,
there, I'm nothing better than a boy.
I'm not a bit older in such matters as those
than when I left Eton.'

You will grow older, and, perhaps, wiser;
but there are few conditions that call for much
strategy if one always does what one's conscience
dictates.'

But I'm such a beggar for doing the other
thing,' said Poland, with the most serious
face. ^ If conscience says, '' Koley, my boy, if
you put your nag at that hedge you'll stand a

good chance of going to kingdom come on the
other side; don't do it," I should just go at
that hedge right off

Margaret smiled. Women like audacity in
men — until they suffer by it.

Some people would call that courage said
she.

Very lyell, Madge, we'll call it courage
too, and you may reckon me the most valiant
man in the world at o^ettino- into a muddle.'

You have not told me of your difficulty
yet.'

We shall come to that quite soon enough.
Well, having settled that I would say nothing
about my bother to you, I thought I could
just have a couple of hours here during the
time of service, and then bolt back to my
anxious friends at Cambridge.'

Without sceino' Richard V MadQ:e looked
grave.

Well, you see, if I had wanted to see him
I shouldn't have been scouting about with
the cows in the meadow this afternoon

But why did you not wish him to see
you V

Because I'm such a soft-headed muff, that
when old Dick looks at me straight in the
face with his clear eyes, I'm bound to blab all

my fine secrets at once. It was so at college :
if I got dr — got poorly over night, at the
very first sight of him the next morning I
was bound to let it all out. You have something
of the same power ; I declare 1 had no
intention of telling you.'

It seems as if you have preserved your
intention, despite my influence.'

I am coming to the secret now. After
leaving you on Friday evening I went home
and found my father alone. He was in high
spirits over the result of the recent election,
so I took the opportunity, as we were smoking
quietly in the library, to tell him what a dear
little girl you are. He was not surprised,
for I had said as much a hundred times
before. You know I loved you long before
I dreamt of making you my wife. He treated
the matter in his usual light, careless way, so
to make my feeling more definitely understood,
I said, '•' The fact is, sir, I am overhead
and ears in love with Madge Yane."
In a moment he grew quite serious, and replied,
^*' Don't go any further than that,
Holey ; I trust your good sense will prevent
your committing yourself to any avowal which
may lead Miss Vane to suppose you have
serious intentions." '' Serious intentions 1"

said I ; '' can anything be more serious than
loving a girl with your whole soul — and,
loving in that manner, can an honourable
gentleman entertain any intention less serious
than that of making the woman his wife ?"
The old gentleman turned as grey as the ash

of his cigar, I assure you, and then '

Roland paused, knitting his brows, and, with
a sigh, added : ' I will not repeat what he
said, Madge dear : I love my father too well
to expose his faults, but the gist of the matter
is this — he objects to our manage.'

Margaret listened in perfect calmness, but
her cheek was pale.

You were so certain of his consent that 1
believed you had told him previously of sour
intention,' she said.

'In justice to you I should have done so,
doubtless. I had no reason to expect any
objection from him ; he encouraged my visits
here rather than dissuaded me from them.
What could I expect but his approval ? My
proposal was not premeditated — that is to
say, I did not come to you on Friday with
the deliberate intention of declaring my love ;
it was spontaneous, and came, like this explanation,
just because I could not help it.'

He paused, and Margaret was about to

speak, when he laid his hand upon her arm
and said, eagerly :

^ Madge, I know what you were about to
say — that if I have committed the fault of
behaving inconsiderately, you will suffer by
it ; but that I will not hear from your lips.
No !' he cried, springing to his feet ; ' you
and I are virtually man and wife, and nothing
on earth shall separate us. I have kissed
you, and that is my bond. You must not
wrong me by thinking that I share my
father's views, or can regard them with any
feeling but abhorrence. Infirm and weak I
may be in many things, but in this matter,
where my heart and my conscience, my
honour, my manhood, my whole soul are in
unison, no inducement on earth can swerve
me from my determination.'

His fine face glowed with generous warmth,
and resolution gave to his expression just that
something which in other moments it lacked.
Margaret trembled a moment as she looked
at him, and then, with a little cry that seemed
borrowed from the mated swallows, she rose
quickly from her seat and gave herself to the
arms of her lover, clasping her hands behind
his neck.

But what are we to do V she, murmuring,
asked presently.

Oh, it will come all right at last, Madge
love. The old boy will yield when he finds
he cannot conquer. I know how to manage
him. It's no good spurring a vicious horse ;
just let him go his own wilful way till he's
tired, and then use the rein gently — that's
the phi. The beggar thinks he's got it all
his own way, and when he feels the bit at the
sides of his mouth flatters himself he's pulling
the rein out of your hand, while all the time
you're guiding the beast just where you'd have
him go — dash him I'

Oh, toland, you are speaking of your
father !'

But I was thinking of the horse, Mado^e.'
^ Have you begun this treatment ? Does

Sir Andrew believe that you agree with
him V

Yes ; that's the fun of it. Of course on
Friday night 1 was not cool, and wee had a
regular row ; but on Saturday morning I
apologised for losing my temper over-night,
and, beo-o'inor he would refer no more to the
subject, stated my intention of visiting the
Kidneys. That put him right off the scent.
He took it that 1 had fallen in with his views,

became most affectionate, and when we parted
pressed a piece of paper into my hand that
will pay off all my bills and leave me cash in
hand besides. And all the while he deceives
himself with the pleasant idea that he's a
clever old dad who has got the better of his
son. Isn't that a bit of fun, Madge V

Again Margaret was silent and pensive.
Her sense of humour was blunted by deeper
considerations, and the point of this joke was
painful rather than ticklish to her sensibilities.


In her present position Roland could see
only her brow and white nose ; the grave
anxiety of her eyes was lost.

So you will see how necessary secrecy
was, and — Halloa, whose laugh was that V

A cheery, fat laugh certainly did reach
their ears at that moment, and was followed
at the next by the click of the latch in the
front gate.

The surprised lovers listened anxiously.
Every instant was a minute.

As the latch fell again, a voice was heard
saying :

Probably she has gone to church with her
brother ; but the old garden is a pleasant
place to wait in.'

^ By George, the dad ! Not a word of me
for the love of love whispered Roland, as,
catching up his hat from the grass, he left
Margaret's side. Fortunately the visitors
stayed to admire the beautiful clematis on the
front of the house, or they would have caught
sight of Roland escaping by the little side
gate that opened upon the church meadow.

Made AND HER VISITORS.

Land was scarcely in the field
before he regretted leaving Margaret.
The unpleasant position in
which he had left her then for the
first time came to his consideration.

Poor little soul ! she'll be frightened out
of her wits ; and if the father suspects I have
been, and puts a direct question to her, how
will she answer ? She cannot tell a lie
and will not tell the truth. Hang it — that's
like me, to rush at a thing without thinking
whether it is right or wrong.'

He stopped irresolute, half minded to
return and face his father and meet the
worst consequences rather than expose Margaret
to an unpleasant interview in his

absence. He stepped back to the gate. It
was too late ; his father was already speaking
to Maro^aret and introducing his friend.
To return now would be only to make
matters worse. Turning his back reluctantly
on the vicarage, he walked over the meadow
towards the church with the gloomy consciousness
that he had o.cted foolishly if not
pusillanimously.

It was a trying situation for Margaret.
Her apprehension of his being caught in the
act of escaping was not unmingled with a
feelings of shame. She found it difficult to
compose herself and meet her visitors with a
natural appearance of tranquillity. Happily
for her, as has been said, they lingered on
their way before the clematis, and so gave
her a few moments to regain self-possession.


Sir Andrew's friend was a stranger to
Margaret, and to this fact might be attributed
the slight air of constraint which detracted
from the graceful ease with which
she usually greeted the baronet.

We are happy in finding you at home,
my dear,' said Sir Andrew, in a parental
tone, taking Margaret's hand; then, laying
his hand on her shoulder in an affectionate

way, he said, ' Allow me to introduce you to
Mr. Gamier. Garnier, Miss Vane — the
little lady Madge I have tried to paint on
your imagination.

And failed to portray because you attempted
too much,' said Mr. Garnier, bowing
with as much formal courtesy as was expressed
in his compliment.

A thin, tall man, dressed with the nicest
precision from the sole of his foot to the hair
of his head, was Mr. Amadis Garnier.
Moving with a quick, elastic step, he appeared
at six yards distance to be about
thirty-five years of age ; approaching within
that distance his age increased at the rate of
a year for each foot, until, standing beside
you, there could be no doubt that he had
passed his fiftieth year. His features were
fine, his eyes handsome, his expression
agreeable — his whole appearance pleasant,
but for the assumption of youthfulness,
which was so studiously cultivated in every
part.

^ Mr. G archer is an artist who has made
our old English domestic architecture his
study. I have brought him here to see the
vicarage, hoping that, with your permission,
he would sketch the old place for me.'

VOL. I. 14

You have brought me where my inclination
will be to study the figure rather than
architecture said Mr. Garnier, fixing his
eyes on Margaret.

If Miss Vane will suffer you to follow
that inclination I will gladly relinquish a
sketch of the vicarage for a portrait of the
vicar's sister,' said Sir Andrew.

Margaret responded to these compliments
with what skill she could command, but she
felt ill at ease. They seemed particularly
insincere, coming from Sir Andrew, after
what she had heard from his son.

Yet the baronet was not insincere. He
felt all the affection he professed for Margaret
; and, short of suffering her to become
his daughter, he was prepared to do anything
in his power for her happiness. Only this
very morning, when Mr. Garnier, in the
course of conversation, expressed his regret
that he was a bachelor, the kindly Sir
Andrew's thoughts turned at once to his
son's sweetheart, and he said, with his usual
impetuosity :

My dear Garnier, I know exactly the
girl you want and ought to marry. She
lives under our very eyes here. My vicar's
sister — a charming girl — a most charming

girl ! Young, beautiful, well educated,
simple, and — and unattached. You are not
without money. Thank Heaven you don't
depend on your profession (Mr. Garnier
bowed to conceal a wince as this careless
shot hit him), and the girl — well, I promise
you she shall not be without a handsome dot,
bless her. Yes, that's what you shall do.
You shall marry the girl. We'll go and see
her to-night. You can write and postpone
other engagements tomorrow, take up your
quarters here, and go down to the vicarage
day after day under the pretence of sketching,
fascinate the girl, and marry her in a couple
of months.'

It was in pursuance of this scheme that he
ordered dinner two hours earlier than usual,
and brought his friend to the vicarage, as we
have seen. He did not harbour a single ill
feeling towards the girl who had been the
cause of disagreement between him and his
son, but, indeed, loved her better than ever
since — well, since his reconciliation with
Koland.

It is not hard for a victor to be generous.

Sir Andrew exerted himself to be agreeable,
and did all he could to present his two
friends to each other in their most agreeable

U— 2

aspects. Nevertheless, they got on but
slowly. Margaret was cold and mechanical,
her thought being distracted with speculations
concerning her absent lover, and Mr.
Garnier had the tact to see that elaborate
compliments rather increased than lessened
the distance between them. Experience had
taught him to economise force. Unnecessary
movement was a Avast of tissue, and
tissue of all kinds is to be cherished when
one gets over one's fiftieth year.

There could be no greater contrast than
that between these two gentlemen — Sir
Andrew stout, florid, hot, over-acting his
part as it appeared to Margaret in his effusive
geniality ; Mr. Amadis Garnier lean, pale,
cool, and winning his way by a subtle reticence
which best harmonised with Margaret's
mood.

The twilight had faded, but Margaret and
her visitors were sitting by the windows in
the open air when the vicar opened the side
gate. Margaret rose hastily at the sound,
her heart beating with the possibility of
seeing Roland enter. The soft light of the
rising moon enabled her to see that her
brother was alone.

Sir Andrew introduced Mr. Garnier to the

vicar, who, after a formal salute, turned to
his sister and said :

Come, Madge, light the lamp that we
may see each other, or Mr. Gamier and I
may meet again without recognition.'

When Margaret brought the lamp the
gentlemen were standing in the moonlight
by the window talking of architecture and
art. The vicar placed chairs for his visitors
and seated himself in a position to see Mr.
Garnier. He liked to make himself acquainted
with the men he was asked to
accept as friends. Looking at Mr. Garnier
he found a man whose character was not to
be gauged at a glance — a man whom it
would take some time to understand clearly.
He was not prejudiced by superficial appearances,
unless they indicated a radically moral
taint ; he found weaknesses in all men's
characters, and liked them none the less for
their infirmities ; he mistrusted those only
who had the art to conceal their failings.
Such men were treacherous in his eyes. He
was disposed to like Mr. Garnier for his unmistakable
vanity, and because, despite his
foppery, he displayed a sound knowledge of
the subject on which he discoursed, and
evinced delicate and refined tastes by all he said.

^ I am very glad to have made your
acquaintance,' he said, as they shook hands
in parting ; ^ as frequently as you can, come.'

Mr. Garnier responded, saying that he
should avail himself of the invitation the following
day, and, taking the baronet's arm,
departed, leaving the vicar and his sister at
the front gate.

Well, my boy, what do you think of her?'
asked Sir Andrew, when they where beyond
hearing.

I think her simply the most charming
young lady it has ever been my happiness
to be introduced to.'

Then you would like her for your wife ?'

I can imagine no greater happiness ;
but '

But what, but what ? But ! How I
hate that word ! What is the objection V

I believe Miss Vane's affection is already
enorao^ed.'

Why, to be sure she has had a little affair,
and as it was only broken oft* yesterday, she
may hardly have had time to recover from it.'

A little aftair'f Mr. Garnier repeated the
phrase interrogatively.

A little love affair — a foolish girl and boy
attachment.'

With whom, may I ask V
With, eh-with Roland.'

^ Roland —-your son— my friend !'
Yes. They have known each other for
some years, and entertained a kind of sneaking
regard for each other. While it was only
an amusement for my boy I did not mind,
but when he took a serious view of the matter,
and actually talked about making the girl
his wife, I signified my emphatic disapproval;
and he, knowing my firm, indomitable temper,
broke off the connection at once, and is now
at Cambridge, with the family I wish him to
marry into.'

You regard a marriage between your son
and Miss Vane as a mesallianceT

Of course. Why, the girl's brother is my
vicar — I gave him the living.'

Sir Andrew spoke of the vicar as a kind of
valet, and probably estimated him only a little
higher because of his education. It was impossible
for him to think any man his equal
dio was not a baronet, a justice of the peace,
and an shrinking Tory. It did not occur
to him that he was insulting Mr. Garnier by
arranpfinof a marriage for him, which he
deemed derogatory to his son. He was of
opinion that Mr. Garnier was a very good man,

sufficiently well connected to be entertained
as a visitor at the Hall, a man against whom
nothing ill could be said. His income Alas
not large, and he certainly did indulge in
practical art ; but then he did not paint to
earn money. It would be a good thing for
Margaret Vane to marry him — especially as
that would prevent any further nonsense with
Roland, and he would make it also a good
thing for Mr. Garnier to marry her by giving
her a handsome dot, as he had hinted — four
or perhaps five thousand pounds.

A sensible man will not resent a slap in the
face from an idiot — it is the not unnatural
consequence of associating with an idiot ; he
may only take as an offence that slap which
is administered with intent to offend.

Sir Andrew clearly did not wish to affront
Mr. Garnier, and that gentleman was far too
sensible to attempt to correct his friend's
error.

The vicar, taking his sister's hand, walked
from the gate thoughtful and silent.

Margaret had not a word. Where was
island ? had her brother met him ? Would
he be angry if she told her brother ? What
was she to do now ? These vexatious questions

came to her mind as she walked down
the path by the side of the house which led
to the lawn front, casting furtive glances
towards the meadow-gate. At the angle
Richard stopped, and in a tone of mock
reproof called out :

Sinner, stand forth !'

The gate opened, and Koland appeared.

Madge dear,' said he, coming to her side
and taking the disengaged hand, ' T hope you
have not suffered by my thoughtlessness. It
did not strike me until I had left you, that
you were placed in an awkward situation ;
and when I would have returned to face my
father, as became a man, I found he was not
alone, and that I should increase the difficulty
by trying to remove it. You have forgiven
me, dear V

A pressure of the hand was the intelligible
answer.

When will you learn to look before you
leap T asked Richard Vane.

When I have a wife to teach me,' answered
Roland.

The girl was laying the supper things.
They walked down the path — Roland having
tied his handkerchief over Margaret's head ;
and then he asked :

'Who was the man with my father? I
could not see him perfectly.'

'Mr. Gamier.'

Amadis ! he here ? Ah, you must know
him : one of the best of fellows, the most
delightful of companions, and a thorough
gentleman.'

*He seemed to me artificial,' said Maro^arefc.

That is only his complexion. If he would
only keep his face clean when he has washed
it, and leave off those confounded stays, he
would be perfect. I should like to stick
Amadis on a desert island for a fortnight
without his precious dressing-case. At the
end of that time you'd find him as handsome
an old gentleman as you would wish to see.'

I cannot understand how a man professing
to love nature can disfigure himself in that
manner said Margaret.

'An artist makes nature subservient to his
art,' said Richard. ' Mr. Gamier, with an
artist's enthusiasm, makes an example of his
face, and shows the world a specimen of his
skill as a painter.'

You must know him better, Dick,' said
Koland.

It is probable I shall ; he is coming hereto
sketch the house tomorrow.'

Then he has come to the Hall to stay. I
hope he won't go before I return.'

1 think he will stay until then observed
Richard, dryly.

Margaret, noticing the tone, said timidly,
You will return to Cambridge to-night,
Roland V

Oh, of course ; I have a return ticket, and
I took the precaution to ascertain what time
the last train left Woking for London.'

'That's like you, Roleyy — so thoughtful,'
said Richard, quietly.

^ Well, I'm not always a fool,' protested
Roland.

No ; sou took the trouble to find out what
time the train left for London without considering
that you would arrive there about
an hour after the last train had left for Cambridge.
Roleyy will sleep in the spare-room,
Madge.'

Roland burst into a long, loud laugh at
his own expense, and then said :

'It would have served me right to let me
go on, and have the misery of a night's lodging
in a London hotel.

I shouldn't have let you go even with that
inducement. You and I have a long talk
before us after supper, Roleyy.'

Margaret pitied her lover, and gave his
hand another Utile pinch, which this time implied
her sympathy.

At this moment the demure Jenny coming
down the path met them, with a bob to her
mistress and another to Mr. AveHng, as if
she had not gone through that ceremony
before, and said :

If you please, miss, supper's on the table.'

AT STARTING.

HEN the supper things were removed,
and Margaret had gone to
her room, the vicar, in his morning
jacket, pulled a chair to the
window, which was still open ; drew up a
little table beside it, on which he set his
tobacco-jar, a couple of glasses, and the tob^^
of ale that the girl had brought at the last
moment.

Take that chair, Roleyy,' said Richard,
crossing to a cupboard. He brought out a
box of cigars and set them beside the tobacco-jar,
saying :

*You like luxuries — take a cigar. Your
father sent them to me.'

Roland opened the box and smelt the weeds
critically.

They will do,' said he, approvingly. It
gratified him to find that Sir Andrew had
sent a box of his very best. After all he was
a generous old dad.

The vicar sat down and slowly filled his
pipe, looking with rapt delight upon the
tranquil garden, where his favourite hollyhocks
courted the moonlight, and the lawn
was dappled with the shadow of the apple
bougies.

" The heavens declare the glory of God ;
and the firmament showed His handiwork"'
he murmured reverently.

Roland was about to light his cigar ; he
laid the match aside gently, and looked first
at the night, then at his companion. The
beauty of the night did not touch him, but
the sweet earnestness of this tobacco-smoking
vicar brought tears to his eyes and raised a
lump in his throat. Surely it was as a disciple
looked at his Master.

A moment of entranced meditation, as he
pressed the tobacco in the bowl of his pipe,
was succeeded by a little sigh, and the
vicar, turning from his eupathism, lit his
pipe.

'Well, Ptolemy, what are you going to do
next V he asked.

Koland lit his cigar, and blowing out the
light, said :

^ I can't for the life of me tell. I wish you
would tell me what I ought to do. I'll do it,
believe me.'

Cannot you see that V

No. I have two or three ideas, but which
to adopt I can't decide for fear of taking the
wrong one. It's like coming to cross-roads
when you've lost your way.'

Eichard Vane shook his head.

No, it is not,' said he. ' A man with a
definite idea of where he wants to go to
doesn't hesitate at a cross-road while there's
a sun over the horizon, or a star in the sky.
You're not an old woman — not even an infant
now. The only serious difficulty is, do you
clearly know where you want to go to V

How do you mean V

In plain words, have sou made up your
mind clearly that you will marry my sister
or not V

Marry Madge ? Holy Moses I — beg you
pardon, old fellow — good gracious ! what a
question to ask ? Marry Madge ! w4iy of
course I will. Haven't I said so V

'Yes.'

Come, Dick, it's too bad to ask such a

thins as that. You mio^ht as Avell have said,
'' Roland Av(3hng, are you an idiot, a fool, a
scoundrel, a — " Oh, Dick, have I ever done
anything, said at any time a word, that
might lead you to doubt my earnestness in
loving Madge ?'

I don't doubt your love for her. What I
asked was whether you had clearly made up
your mind that you would marry her V

I can answer that plainly enough. Yes,
I have.'

Then Why do you stop in perplexity,
making a pitiful cry about cross-roads, as if
you took me for a perambulating finger-post,
and expected I should carry you home V

^ Don't worry that confounded metaphor
to bits. I wish I hadn't made it.'

^ People who make metaphors must stand
by them. We will not drop it yet awhile.
You know the right path as well as I know
you, and you ought to know that you will
never marry my sister by taking the wrong
one. If you think she may be reached by
a sly, roundabout, crooked, easy way, you are
mistaken. You must woo Madge openly, as
you would a princess. She is indulgent —
considerate of the fact that you are only a
man — bat she is also proud, and if she finds

you are not even a man, or manly, she will
refuse to be your wife ; and for that matter I
also am not without pride.'

What a stupid beggar I am ! Why, I've
felt this all along, only I never thought it.'

Richard smiled.

'A nice yet definite distinction, Roleyy.
Go on,' said he.

I felt it was mean and cowardly — I felt
ashamed. Oh, Dick, I beg your pardon, old
fellow. And Madge, too. I did not realise
the affront I was putting on her. Yes, of
course there is but one way of winning her,
or indeed any girl that is worth having.'
He paused a moment, and then added, in an
altered tone — ' But then what about the
governor V

Ah, what of him V

I thought I explained before. He wishes
me to marry some one with a title, you know,
and does not exactly like Madge.'

Well, you don't want him to marry her V

^No, but I have no independent income,
and if he chose to cut off my supplies how
could I expect Madge to marry me V

^ She has promised to marry you, tacitly if
not actually, and she will marry you, and
not your paternal allowance.'

VOL. f. 15

But we must live on something more
substantial than air, and unless we emigrate
to Central Africa our clothes won't last us
for ever. You see I am absolutely without
any independent resource for money

'You have hands and a head — save the
mark ! You can work, and so can Margaret,
if it comes to a pinch. I have no doubt that
she has weighed all such fearful contingencies
since she promised to marry you ; and yet
when she bade you good-night in the passage
a little while ao^o I observed no sound significant
of regret.'

'Dear little soul — not she.'

She could teach ao-ain.'

She never shall. Jupiter ! Do you
think, Dick, I would permit that V

Why not ? It is a woman's natural vocation.
She teaches well.'

And what should I be doing all the while ?
Minding house and making puddings ?'

That depends on your abilities. You
could do something, and ought to do it.
Nature did not intend one man to live on
the toil of another.'

Richard Vane did not hear Roland's reply.
The question which had often occurred to

him returned now to his mind — ' Am I a
good servant ? What service am I rendering
for my wages V

That was a problem which he knew must
be solved before long.

Shaking off these oppressive personal considerations
with a sigh, he turned to Roland
and gave attention to his immediate concerns.

You have opened my eyes,' he was saying.
^ I see clearly now what I should do. I must
work. By George, how I will work ! You
know how I go at a thing when I once set
my mind to it. You know, Dick, how I
worked for my degree. It was a deuce of a
bother to get me to begin but I did stick toit
then, didn't I V

Yes, you worked well. You accomplished
more in two months than I could achieve ina
year. It never rains but it pours with
you. Unfortunately your deluge doesn't
come until the earth is cracking for a drop
of moisture. You would find it easier to
work steadily.'

^ Don't talk of working easily ! When
there's a race to win, you must bend your
back and strain every muscle — put your
whole soul into it, and swear you won't be
beaten.'

15—2

Yoii talk as if you had begun your race.'
So I have, Dick.'

The vicar puffed at his pipe in silence.
Don't damp a fellow,' said Roland, in a
tone of expostulation. ' I know what your
silence means. You are not so sure of me as
I am of myself; yet you must believe I have
good stuff in me, or you would not have
stuck to me with all my faults these eight
years, and suffered me to win the love of
your sister. Nay, Madge herself would
never have loved me if I was no better than
I seem.'

I won't flatter you, E-oley, you're vain
enough. Of course there is good in you ;
you misinterpreted my silence. The doubt
in my mind was whether you had in reality
begun the race you speak of. You will
sleep here to-night, that is settled ; and I
think I heard something about getting up at
seven tomorrow morning to 2:0 for a walk
with Madge before breakfast. What will
you do after V

Roland took time to consider, and then
said :

I shall go to the Hall and have it out with
the governor. I will tell him that I have
asked Madge to be my wife and that nothing

on earth shall prevent my marrying her.
Then he will cut up rough, and — I didn't
think of it before — won't that be very unpleasant
for you V

In what way V

^ Sir Andrew will include you in his
anger

'Probably. But that will make little
difference to me. I believe Sir Andrew
thinks that I must execute his wishes
because I owe ni}^ benefice to him, but he
must understand that I serve a higher
Master, and have to do what I think right ^
not what he deems advisable. Never mind
me, I can fight my own battles — go on.'

Then if the worst comes to the worst, I
must bid him farewell' Roland paused, and
added in a voice of tender sorrow, ' That
would break the old dad's heart ; I am his
only son, and he is so fond of me, poor old
chap !'

Then depend upon it he will not break
his heart. When he finds that you are no
longer a child he will treat you as a man.'

He shall find that I am firm now. I will
be pretty plain with him. He shan't know
that I care two straws for him. If he
chooses to accept Madge as my wife, and

treats her with as much respect as she
deserves, I'll be as dutiful as you please ;
but otherwise I'll be deuced independent and
sharp with him.'

You must not forget that he is your
father.'

How can I ? Hasn't he always been
kind and indulgent and loving to me ? You
can't tell how I love the old fellow with all
his faults. I know he is exacting, hectoring,
arrogant, and all that ; but under that big
waistcoat of his there is the softest, warmest
heart beating with generous love. I could
never think unkindly of him, however unjust
he is to me ; hut he chant know it'

Well, well, Koley, we shall see.'

The vicar smiled to think of this softhearted,
simple Koland concealing his feelings,
even from the shortsighted observation
of Sir Andrew.

Anyhow,' continued Roland, after thinking
over the stern things he might says,
anyhow, he shall knows the truth.'

'Ah, now you are beginning in earnest.
That is the way, and the only way to succeed.
Keep to that, be true to others and true to
yourself, and you shall win your wife and not
want happiness, Holey.'

As he spoke the vicar stretched out his
hand and laid it affectionately on his friend's
shoulder.

Then the two men sat and smoked in
silence with full hearts.

THE BATTLE IS TO THE STRONG.

IR ANDREW Alas writing

the

^X Lxv .rv^M>'rir.>\ Alas writing m
^"^ library on Monday morning when
Roland entered the apartment.
Roland, my boy ! you here ?
The last person in the world I should have
expected to see, but none the less welcome
for all that,' said the baronet, laying down his
pen, and rising with an amiable smile on his
full, fair face.

I do not intrude, 1 hope, sir ?' answered
Roland, taking his father's extended hand
and pressing it.

The constraint he felt in approaching the
library was removed by the affectionate greeting
he received.

Not at all, my boy — a few letters that

may be written as well this afternoon as now.
I thought you were going to stay with the
Rodneyss a week, at least. Nothing the
matter there to account for your return, I
trust V

Nothing the matter there, sir.' Roland
threw himself in a low lounge-chair opposite
his father, and, looking down as he collected
his thoughts, drew otf his gloves. Though
the vicarage was not a mile from the Hall, he
had gloved. His hands were as white and
carefully kept as his father's.

Had you been a quarter of an hour earlier
you would have met an old friend,' said Sir
Andrew.

Amadis ; I met him with Banks carrying
his painting traps.'

Surely he did not go round by the road ;
I told Banks to show him the path by the
fields.'

That was where I met him, sir. I was
comines from the vicarage.'

Sir Andrew's countenance fell ; he looked at
his son uneasily. Roland threw his gloves
on the table, clasped his hands over his knee,
and, looking straight in his father's face,
said :

I have come to talk to you upon a serious

subject, if you can spare the time to listen tome.'


We shall not be interrupted here, my boy,
and anything which concerns sou is of the
first importance to me ; you know that.'

The baronet's voice was so kind and gentle
that Roland was reluctant to proceed, knowing
the pain he should inflict. He had made
up his mind to subdue his tender inclinations,
however, so, screwing up his courage, he said
in a tone as formal as he could command :

I am afraid that I misguided you the
other morning, by allowing you to retain an
erroneous impression you had received from
what I said as to my intentions regarding
Miss Yane.'

You gave me to understand you had
broken oft' your connection with her, or, at
least, intended doing so.'

I did very strong, sir ; I behaved unworthily
to myself and to Miss Yane in
deceiving you with that idea. I am very
sorry, sir.'

Very sorry ! Bless me ! what do you
mean V

I am sorry that I led you to imagine I
had broken oft* my engagement with Miss
Yane. That was not the fact. I have not

asked Miss Yane to release me, and I have
no intention of doing so.'

Sir Andrew fell back in his chair mute
with astonishment at his son's audacity.
Roland, feeling that he must persevere in the
firm attitude he had adopted, crossed his
arms and knitted his brows defiantly.

^ Don't look at me in that manner, sir,'
cried Sir Andrew. ' Hang it, do you know
whom you are speaking to V

I am aware of the submission I owe you
as my father ; but in a matter of this kind,
where my feelings and conscience are concerned,
you must allow me to be independent.'

I will allow nothing of the kind. Feelings
and conscience, indeed ! What pretence
can a man make to those virtues who has the
audacity to scowl at his father in that manner,
and talk to him as you do to me V

I do not wish to affront you,' said Koland,
relaxing. ' You know I love you too well
for that, dad. I should like to obey you in
all things.'

Now you talk rationally, toland, and I
can listen to you with pleasure, for you know,
my dear boy, that nothing pleases me so well
as to gratify your wishes when they coincide
with mine. Give me your hand. There,

there, we will forget the past. Now tell me
what all this rubbish about conscience and
feeling means !'

Well, dad, I wished to say, as delicately
as I could, you know, that I shall always be
glad to do as you wish, except where my
conscience is concerned ; but that having
asked Miss Yane to be my wife, I feel bound
to abide by the consequences, and that I
intend to marry her, whether you like it or
not.'

Then, my dear boy, allow me to tell you,
with equal delicacy that I will permit you todo
nothing of the kind, confound you ! What,
ask me to consent to your marrying my own
vicar's sister ! Why, you will desire me to
marry my gardener's daughter next.'

^ I shall be very sorry if you do marry the
gardener's daughter, but I shall not expect
you to be guided by my opinion in that
matter. I feel sure you would not ask my
consent, and I do not ask yours. I simply
tell you that T intend to marry Miss Yane.'

And I simply tell sou you shall do nothing
of the kind. Marry a girl who has been
earning her living as a common governess -
the sister of a man I put in the vicarage
just because he was kind to my son and saved

his life ! You wouldn't have me regret that,
Role}^, would you V

Oh, father, how can you ask such a question
? Haven't you shown me over and over
again how fond you are of me ?'

Then why will you make me lose my
temper and forget what a good son you are V

^ It is because I wish to be a good son that
you lose your temper. You would not have
me dishonourable — a liar V

Of course not.'

Well, I have promised to marry Margaret,
and I must keep my word.'

A promise of that kind, made in a moment
of excitement, is not binding. We can take
means to break off an engagement without
being dishonourable, and, indeed, without
injuring the lady.'

Can you show me how that could be
done V

Certainly. Now, suppose I were to settle,
say, five or six thousand pounds on the girl,
and found a man who would make her his
Avise — what then V

^ What then, sir !' cried Roland, in a fury.
Why, Margaret would throw your money in
your face, and I would thrash the man within
an inch of his life.'

Sir Andrew stroked his shaven chin, and
thou.i^ht it would be well to say no more respecting
his scheme to make Amadis Gamier
happy.

No,' continued Poland. ' If I had made
no promise, and if I could go fi'om my intentions
without injury to Miss Yane, I would
not relinquish my purpose of making her my
wife. I love !Madge sincerely, with my whole
heart and soul, and if all the fathers in the
universe opposed me I would marry her. I
consider myself very fortunate in possessing
the affection of such a lady, and honoured by
her accepting mine. My only hesitation in
asking her to be my wife was that she was
too good for me. I'm a fool in a general ^vay,
but I consider I have given one evidence of
good sense, and that was in rightly appreciation
the value of Margaret Yane. I will
beg you, sir, to speak more respectfully of her
in future. And, now we are upon the subject,'
continued Poland, warming to his work,
allow me to make a few remarks about my
friend Richard Yane, and disabuse your mind
of some extraordinary illusions under which
it seems to exist. Richard Yane is not
your vicar, and the vicarage is not your
vicarage. You did no more than you were

compelled to do in giving the living to Mr.
Yane.'

What do you mean V

I mean that you are bound to fill the
benefice, to give it to the very best minister
of religion you can find, and that you did no
more than your duty in minos it to Richard
Vane. He is the very best man you know,
or that anyone else knows.'

^ Do vote know that tou are uttering:
opinions of a most radical and revolutionary
kind V

Wait a bit ; I've not done yet. I says
you are bound to give the living not to the
man who will serve 3'ou, but the man who
will serve Heaven ; and that if you gave it to
Richard Vane as a mere recompense for his
services, you took a cheap, an ungenerous,
and an unjust method of quitting yourself of
your obligations.'

This is insufferable !'

Stop a moment. I will have it all out
now I am at it. If you think Richard Vane
and his sister, who have more claim to nobility
than many with hereditary titles, if you think
they are to be humiliated and treated as your
servants, as payment in full for Dick's having
saved your son's life, you show how little

value you set upon that son. And I tell you
this, sir, that had I known he was to be
treated so ungenerously, and exposed to such
humiliation for drao^o^inor me out of the mill-stream
as I was going under the floats, I
would have begged him with my last cry tolet
me go.'

^ And forgotten your poor old father,
Roleyy ! The poor old dad, sitting alone in
the library here, thinking of his boy and
building up hopes for his future. Oh, never
mind him ; he's an old man who has had his
day and can live on the memories of his
happiness. He can eat and sleep, that's
enough for an old man : and he must forget
his hopes and his golden-headed youngster.
Were these your thoughts ?'

^ No, by George, no ! If it hadn't been for
you even Dick couldn't have saved me, for
just as I had given everything up for lost,
and the water came singing into my ears, I
seemed to see all the scenes of my life, and
last of all I saw you with your fingers in
your waistcoat-pocket fetching out a tip, just
as you appeared the very last time you came
to see us ; then I thought of you, and put
out all my strength to get up to the top and
make another struggle for it, and, as a result,

old Dick grabbed me with a hook and landed
me

Thank God ! and that all came about
through your fear of losing me, Roleyy V

'Yes, that's the truth. Though Dick,
when I told him of seeing you fumbling in
your pocket for the gold, declared it was the
fear of losing another tip that gave me
courage.'

The baronet began to laugh ; then, suddenly
checking himself, said :

But, my boy, why do you accuse me of
meanness ? Have I ever been wilfully ungenerous
to anyone ? What hard things you
say to me.'

Why, indeed, father, I acknowledge I was
bitter and unjust, for I know you would not
be ungenerous, except by thoughtlessness.
But I can't bear to hear anything said against
anyone I like. I should have been just as
severe with Dick if he had said anything
against you, though he's too thoughtful and
just ever to do that.'

He's a right-down good fellow, and his
sermons are so clever that it's as much as I
can do to keep my eyes open after the first
five minutes. I must be more considerate
there. I admit I have not regarded the

VOL. I. 16

living in the light you see it with. I must
read, up about it. Some of these radical
notions have a substratum of justice in them.
Yes, I'll look it up — perhaps Coke has something
on the subject. But you don't seriously
intend to marry his sister, eh ? You said
you were engaged only to frighten me, now.'

^ Indeed, sir, I engaged myself on Friday.'

You never said anything about it, although
you did lose your temper.'

I didn't wish to — to tell you all at once.'

And then on Saturday you went away,
begging my pardon for wdiat you^had said
overnight, and leading me to conclude you
had given up the idea. What was that for V

I thought if I let you have your own way
at first, you would let me have mine after.'

Don't you know me better than that,
Roleyy 1 When I once say a thing, don't I
stick to it through thick and thin V

Volant pulled his moustache, and looked
kindly at his father.

So you thought,' continued the baronet, in
high good humour, ^ you thought you could
wheedle your old dad, hey ? But you see it
wasn't to be done. I soon found you out.'

You seem to have got to the bottom of it,
indeed, sir.'

But what made you alter your tactics V
The vicar. He road me see that I was
doing a mean and unhandsome thing to carry,
on a clandestine affair, and that it was just as
bad to deceive you as to deceive anyone
else.'

Why so it was ; and I have a mind to
resent it, too. But, come, it was honourable
of Vane.'

How else could you expect him to act V
^ He is a gentleman, that's certain. But
his sister — you can't deny she was a governess.'


So much the more is she to be esteemed.*
That's another of those confounded radical
notions. Be careful, Boleyn'

'Well, sir, if you had refused your consent,
and cut me off with a shilling, or any absurd
proceeding of that kind, I should have had to
take a common situation as railway porter, ora
cabdriver, or something of that sort, while
Madge was teaching in a school, and I ask
you which would have been most respected
then. Sir Andrew Aveling s son or his wife V
^ That will do, Roland ; you frighten me.'
May I ask when I may have the honour
of presenting Madge to you, sir V

Sir Andrew's face for a moment expressed

16—2

r

a feeble attempt to resume the offensive, his
brows contracting and the corners of his
mouth going down ; then the hips gave way,
the brows expanded, the eyes softened, and
he held out his hand to Roland.

Whenever you please, hang you ! I throw
up the sponge

SIR ANDREW FORMS AN INDUCTION FROM A
SIMPLE ARGUMENT.

IR ANDREW Feeling had

never entertained a violent passion
for any woman. He had squandered
his affections in a prodigal
fashion among many in the gay days of his
youth, and when the time came for him to
ranger himself, he married a woman of high
position — the Rodneyss had an earl in their
family — as much from a sense of duty as
from inclination.

He could understand Roland's infatuation
for Margaret, but not his desire to marry her.
From his point of view the young man was
throwing away the best opportunity for
securing a durable happiness and providing a

substantial satisfaction for the latter part of
his life. Sir Andrew's passions were entirely
of his youth ; they abated at the age of
thirty and gave place to ambition. He looked
back on his youth as a season of folly ; he
regarded his maturity as a season of ripe
content. To him it appeared that Roland
must experience the same change, and would
find himself destitute of the means of gratifying
his higher aspirations. His wife could
add no lustre to his fortunes — nay, she would
retard his advancement ; for how could he
hold a place among the county gentry when
it became known that he had married a
governess ?

He felt, therefore, that ho had been culpably
unwise in giving way to his son's
inclinations, and regretted what he could
regard only as an act of paternal weakness.

He received Margaret graciously, and was
studiously courteous to her brother — partly
in compliance with his son's wishes, partly by
reason of the juster and more generous feelings
Roland's argument had excited in him,
but mainly because he felt bound, in outward
forms at least, to accede an equality to the
family which was to be united with his own.
Nevertheless, he maintained the opinion that

Koland was making a deplorable mistake, and
in his heart dreaded the union which seemed
inevitable.

But hope accompanies fear, and Sir
Andrew, though anticipating ill, was not
actually despondent. Roland might change
his mind, however constant Margaret should
be.

He stipulated for a long engagement.
Addressing himself to the vicar, when they
were alone one day, he said :

They are both very young, and it seems
to me of the utmost importance that we
should not marry them in a hurry. The
evils of hasty marriages come before our
eyes every day.'

People who marry recklessly before they
know their own minds or each other's tempers
are very likely to find their expectations at
fault, and the probability is on the side of
their being disappointed,' replied Richard
Yane.

Exactly so. I am glad to find our opinions
agree on this subject. Now, to me, marriage
of this kind seems exactly like — let me see
now, what is it like — it is comparable to —
well, what do you think it is like, Mr. Yane V

Like any other results of thoughtlessness

a child catching: at a bright flower and
weathering: a nettle.'

admirable! a very just comparison.
Then you agree with me that a long engagement
is necessary V

^ Yes. Young people should not marry
before they know each other and themselves
as well as Margaret and Koland do.'

But they have not been engaged ten
days.'

They have known each other almost as
many years.'

You surely do not think they ought to
marry immediately V

^ That is for their own decision. I am
inclined to think they wish to be married at
once, or they would not desire to be married
at all.'

^ But should they not be induced to submit
to advice in this matter ? They cannot look
at the matter impartially, as we do.'

^ That is hardly to be expected.' The vicar
repressed an inclination to smile. ' But if
they would take m}^ advice they would marryat
once.'

^ And if they would take mine,' returned
the baronet, hotly, ' they would do no such
thing, my dear sir. Sir Andrew left Richard

Vane with the impression that he was obstructive.


He got on much better with Amadis
Garnier, when he spoke to him upon the
subject.

Garner said he, ^ I ask your opinion, asa
man of the world. What do you think
about early marriages V

They are very natural.'

'But do you believe they are politic —
wise V

I did not marry young, and see, I am
now a miserable old bachelor.'

Nonsense, you're as young as any of
them, and no more miserable than I am. I
want you to be serious.'

Mr. Garnier made a gesture of attention,
and the baronet continued :

Here is my son, Roland, as I have told
you, about to marry Miss Vane. He worked
upon my feelings, and extorted my sanction.
You know my objections with respect to the
affair. However, I have given my consent,
and the young people will be married, unless
one or both chancre their mind. But what I
ask, and I think I am not unreasonable in
my demands, is that they shall have a good
long engagement, in order that they may

change their minds if they like. Now, ^yhat
do you say to that V

^ It certainly would be far happier foi them
to alter their views before marriage than
after it.'

Far better, of course it would. My dear
Garnier, you speak like a man of sense.'

Very few men and women go through
life with a single love affair — I have had
dozens.'

So have I — hundreds.'

And it is stir better for their happiness to
get all that kind of thing over before marriage.'


Exactly. Upon my word, I never knew
that you were such a deep thinker. You
charm me. Pray continue.'

Sir Andrew knitted his brows and listened
as if to the most abstruse reasonings, while
Mr. Garnier, twisting his moustache, raising
his eyebrows, and speaking with grave sententiousness,
continued :

Married ladies who form strong attachments
with individuals of the other sex. run
a great risk of incurring the displeasure of
their husbands.'

Several cases of the kind have come
under my own notice.'

And, on the other hand, married men
cannot transfer theh^ affections from their
wives without hazarding public scandal, or
involving themselves in verj^ serious difficulties


'It is true, every word!' cried the baronet,
slapping his knee. ' You ought to be in
Parliament, Garnier. You remind me of
Lord Maypole— do you know him V

^ I have not that honour.'

^ A wonderful orator. I shall never forget
his speech when he sentenced a drunken
tinker to six da3^s' imprisonment. Excuse
this digression; you were saying '

I was about to point out that, while
married people must confine themselves to
monogamous attachments '

Monogamous attachments — exactly ; I
follow you.'

^ Bachelors and spinsters are trammelled by
no such stringent considerations.'

Stringent considerations — precisely.'

So that if your son, before the appointed
time of his union, were to see any lady
having greater charms for him than those
possessed by Miss Vane, he might relinquish
his present purpose without causing her more
than temporary suffering — a suffering Which

she would forget when she received attentions
from another lover.'

^ One moment ; let me see how that follows.
Yes, I have it. Proceed.'

The natural tendency of the female mind
is to profit by experience. A young lady,
having lost her first lover by delay, would be
inclined to make sure of the second by an
immediate marriage.'

I comprehend. But stick to my son and
Miss Vane ; your generalities carry me a
little out of my depth.'

Up to this point the argument has been
in favour of long engagements, but I am
thinking now of an accompanying disadvantage.'


State it, Garnier, state it ; we will look
at the question fairly from both sides. Outwith
your disadvantage, which I warrant is
not worth the hearing ; we mustn't be prejudiced
either one way or the other.'

If,' pursued Mr. Garnier, with the same
air of profundity, ' if, in the course of a long
engagement, accident called my friend Roland
from this neighbourhood, and in his absence
Miss Vane, from motives of pique or whatnot,
were to accept another lover, it would bea
very shocking blow for him.'

^ If you have no more serious objection
than that, I don't care how many you bring
forward. In fact, I should like to hear
them.'

1 can think of nothing more terrible.'

Well, return to the other side of the subject
then, for you show far greater sense as
an advocate for honos engagements than in
opposing them.'

To the graver objection I will add only
one of a slight nature.'

Let us hear it, my friend.'

I consider long engagements as unnecessary
to tradespeople, shopkeepers, and men of
business, whose occupations protect them
from those temptations to which married
men of a higher rank are exposed.'

What the deuce has that got to do with
Holand V thought Sir Andrew, emptying
his glass impatiently. she is not a shopkeeper.'


Long engagements,' continued Mr. Garnier,
without noticing the baronet's impatience,
I say, long engagements are likewise unnecessary
even to gentlemen who intend to
live a secluded country life — whose circle of
friends do not extend beyond their parish —
who go to London once or twice a year, who

do not care for variety, but prefer the humdrum
e very-day domestic pleasures to all the
intoxicating pleasures society can offer.'

Pish ! As if my son is likely to be such
a heavy clown as that,' was the mental
observation of Sir Andrew, as he filled his
empty glass.

To a man of this kind a lons^ eno^ao^ement
is unnecessary. He can marry without hesitation.
His married life will be but the
dragging finale of a dull tune. It is also
an unnecessary formality on the part of
young people if the man has successfully
resisted the fascinating allurements held out
to a wealthy and handsome visitor to the
metropolis, for if he overcomes that temptation
he can overcome any that may afterwards
be offered him ; his strength will ensure his
felicity in any state he chooses to enter. I
really do not think I have anything further
to advance either for or against honor engagements,
Sir Andrew.'

Sir Andrew did not reply. They were
sitting over the dessert. As Mr. Gamier
came to his peroration an idea came to the
baronet's mind. He was in the act of lifting
the full glass to his lips at the moment ; he
checked his hand midway, and set the glass

down untasted, closing his eyes in cogitation.


He opened them and looked at his friend
Mr. Garnier was cracking a nut, with no
more expression in his face than the occupation
called for — he closed them again with
something of a contemptuous smile about
his shaven lips.

A clever talker, but I was mistaken in
thinking him profound,' he said to himself.
Shallow — very shallow. Couldn't see the
induction of his own argument. Couldn't
see that the very arguments be brought up
against a long engagement were special inducements
to me for insisting on such an
arrangement between Koland and Miss Yane.
No inductive power whatever — but a good
talker

THE VICAR COUNSELS A SOX TO DISOBEY HIS
FATHER.

F Mr. Gamier talked like a fool to
Sir Andrew, he spoke like a gentleman,
an artist, and a man of sense
to his friends at the vicarage. He
made himself ' all things to all men,' sinking
his own individuality and assimilating his
own views with those of the people he conversed
with. He talked equally well upon
hunting and boating with Roland, upon
polemics with the vicar, upon botany with
Margaret— being grave, gay, lively, or severe
as circumstances directed. To know him was
to like him. Margaret, overcoming the prejudice
she had taken against him at their
first meeting, took pleasure in watching him

at his work, and entered freely into the discussions
which he adroitly provoked. He
took a paternal interest in the lovers that set
Madge at ease, and prevented anything like
jealousy on the part of Koland.

He painted well, and made a charming
little picture of the old house.

Margaret, who loved her home with a
woman's fondness, yearned for the painting,
and liked her future father-in-law less than
ever because he was to have what otherwise
miofht have been driven to her.

^ I break one commandment every time I
look at the picture,' said she to the artist one
day, * and I would break a second to have it
if I were not so afraid of Sir Andrew.'

I hope one day to paint a home that will
be even dearer to you than this,' he replied.

He said nothing of his intention to gratify
her wish ; but in his spare time at the Hall
painted a replica of the picture, had it framed
in London, and, on the last of his visits to
the vicarage, presented it to Margaret, with
a graceful little speech that doubled the value
of the gift.

His departure was the cause of regret on
both sides. Mr. Gamier, however, had engagements
in London which could not be

VOL. I. 17

neglected, but he promised, as soon as they
were discharged, to return to Tangleyy and bethe
vicar's guest. The little party separated
at the garden-gate of the vicarage, Richard
Vane with his hands in his pockets and a pipe
in his mouth, Margaret and Koland side by
side, following ^Mr. Garnier with their eyes
until, at the angle of the lane, he raised the
rose Madofe had ofiven him, bowed, and disappeared.


Dear old fellow, I would have kissed him
but for his paint,' said Margaret, as they
slowly walked away from the gate.

Koland looked gloomy.

'You are not jealous, are you?' asked Margaret,
with mock concern.

Jealous of old Amadis?' answered Roland,
with a laugh. ' Othello could not be jealous
of him. Nevertheless,' he added, lapsing
into his sombre mood, ' I envy him. It seems
to me that artists are the happiest dogs under
the sun — everyone likes them.'

Any man who does his work thoroughly
and well is liked,' said the vicar. ' You ouo-ht
to know that and be thankful.'

He walked on in front.

What does Dick mean V asked Margaret,
whispering.

^ He means that by loving you with my
whole soul I have secured your affection,
Madge, and that is worth more than all the
admiration of the whole world, dear. And
I was ungrateful to forget it for a moment.
But, oh, my darling, if I want to be more
clever, more admirable in every way, it is that
I may be worthier of yon.'

I do not wish you to alter, dear,' answered
Margaret, slipping her hand under his arm.

One morning, about a week after Mr.
Garnier's departure, Roland walked into
Richard Vane's study, where he was hard at
work upon his Sunday morning discourse.

Ha, old boy ! you're the very man I want
to see,' said he, clapping the vicar on the
shoulder and throwing down his hat.

^ And you're the very man I don't want to
see,' replied the vicar. ' How do you suppose
I can work with you here ? Where's Margaret
V

Out on some domestic business, and, to tell
you the truth, I'm glad of it.'

And, to tell you the truth, I'm not. I
shall lock my door when Madge goes out.'

■ You'd open it at any moment if you
thought I wanted to come in.'

17—2

But, Roleyy, you see, I'm at work,' remonstrated
the vicar. ^ Go and find Madge,
and come to me this evening.'

I should give her my first attention without
asking, if my affairs were not pressing.
I have something important to tell you. You
must give me your attention. Tt concerns
Madge and me.'

The vicar pushed back his chair, looking at
his watch ruefully.

^ It is no trifling matter," Dick, I assure
you. I had a long talk with the governor
last night.'

Roland did not speak in his usual careless
way ; this his friend noticed, and became
earnest at once.

Well, Roleyy, what have you been talking
about V

First of money, Dick. I pointed out to
the old gentleman that I should like some
more definite arrangement than has hitherto
existed with respect to an income. I told
him I wished to feel more independent, and
that I could only do so by having a good
lump sum in the bank to pull ^t when I felt
so disposed, without asking his permission or
anyone else's.'

A delicate way of putting it, Holey.'

Oh yes, I was careful in wording it that
way not to offend the governor at first starting
off

Did you succeed V

Well, he didn't seem quite to like the idea
at first, and said he thought I had no reason
to doubt his liberality, and all that, which
was just enough for an argument on his sides
but when I said that I could not be content
with any other arrangement, and must have
the money anyway, the soundness of the
reasoning told, and he gave way. Well, when
he yielded, I couldn't help feeling grateful to
the old fellow, and I told him so ; that touched
his heart, and when he spoke of the time when
I should have all he had, with no one to
oppose my wishes, the pair of us were as
chokey as a couple of girls, I assure you. Then
what did the old trump do but, wiping his
eyes with one hand, he pulled open the drawer
in his desk and took out his cheque-book
with the other, saying, "Foley, my dear boy,
the broker sold out my East Indians yesterday,
and there's thirty thousand lying in the
bank to be invested ; here's a cheque for the
amount — do what you please with it, and God
bless you 1" '

You accepted it j'

prison.

Of course I did. You don't think I would insult
my own father by refusing it ! Well, having
settled that business, I went on to speak about
my marriage. I told him that having carefully
considered his wish that there should bea
long engagement, I had come to the conclusion
that I would be married without any
delay.'

And I dare say for all your consideration
Sir Andrew objected to the conclusion.'

If you'll believe me he did. Off he went
at a tangent, declaring I shouldn't marry until
he chose, and a lot of rubbish of that kind.
He vowed I should not marry for six years,
and I — trying to argue the matter out rationally
— swore I would go to church in six days
if it pleased me.'

*It is always advisable to speak dispassionately.'


That's what I thought when I o-ave him
to understand I would permit no sort of interference
in a matter Which was essentially personal
to myself. However, he happened to
say that he did not know why he should be
so solicitous in my behalf when I was so
anxious to cut the tie of affection which bound
us together, and that knocked me over at
once. I thought of his kindness, you know,

and it appeared to me that I was acting like
a selfish brute to forget his love.'

Finally, what decision did you come to V

Oh, he wouldn't be behind me in generosity
when he saw me yielding, and promised to
agree to our marriage early in the summer.'

That is the time we considered advisable.'

Just so ; but he insisted that I should
spend six months of the interval in London.'

In London ! why in London V asked the
vicar, iu an anxious tone.

He thinks it will prepare me for certain
offices which he would like me to fill when I
become a country gentleman. He wants me
to attend debates '

^ The session is nearly over.'

But there are the law courts, and — and —
but that is not his main object. I discovered
his real motive in wishing me to spend this
time in London.'

And what is it V

He wishes me to see life, to move freely
among the society people, and — and — well,
Dick, in a word, he wishes to put a crucial
test to my character.'

^ By exposing you, with thirty thousand
pounds in your hand, to temptation — is
that it V

^ Yes, Dick, that is it. His argument is
logical enough : I should prove my fitness to
live as a good husband to Madge by resisting
temptations before I marry her.'

Rubbish, Roland ! What argument can
justify your exposing yourself to temptations
either before or after marriage ? And are
you less likely to withstand the attacks of
inclination when 3' ou are fortified with a sense
of duty and love towards a wife than in your
present free and careless condition V

I am not free ; I am not careless. I love
and reverence Madge as sincerely now as I
can when she is my wife cried Roland, starting
to his feet and speaking with vehemence.

Well said, Toland ; spoken like a man,
and like yourself. Nevertheless, I tell you
it is idle and wrong to court danger. Which
of us is not in peril ? Who can walk with
the certainty that he shall not stumble ? Not
I, nor you. I must in this counsel you to disobedience.
Refuse your father's condition.'

I cannot, Dick ; I have accepted it.'

FOLLY ACCEPTS AN ENGAGEMENT AT THE LEVITY.

she success of the pantomime season
at the Garden was due to the attraction
of the new danseiisc, Folly,
a fact which Signer Esperenza
would not permit the lessee to overlook. He
hinted boldly that a suitable acknowledgment
should be made.

The lessee could afford to be generous :
the difference between failure and success ina
theatrical speculation is a small fortune.

He accepted Esperenza's suggestion without
reluctance.

What shall it be V he asked. ' The little
minx is fond of dress, and never has a penny
in her pocket. Better give her a purse with
forty or fifty pounds in it, eh V

Esperenza shrugged his shoulders.

She would value a brooch worth fivepence
more highly. What is fifty pounds to her ?
She would give it away and forget all about
it. I have seen her give her week's salary to
a crying child. She does not know the value
of money, or care for it. She is not a common
girl.'

By George ! she is not. I never knew
such a quaint little devil. Well, we will
think it over,'

The result of thinking it over was that he
bought a watch and chain to present to Folly,
taking Esperenza with him to buy it. This
was wise ; Esperenza knew the girl's character
and what would please her. The lessee
would have bought an everlasting English
lever ; Esperenza set the more expensive
watch aside, and chose a light French article,
with all the jewels on the outside. It was
charming to the eye, but the watchmaker
would not warrant it for more than a year.
When the case was presented to Folly and
she opened it, her eyes took the light of the
diamonds in which her name was set upon the
back.

I will never part with it — not even when
I'm dead,' she said ; and added, in a lower

tone, ' if anyone loves me well enough to
bury it with my body.'

What thought could have flashed upon the
young girl's mind at that moment of supreme
satisfaction ? Had she already learnt that
beauties outlive their charms and friends
together ?

On the same day she received her week's
salary It was just sufficient to enable her to
redeem her best dress from the pawnbroker's,
and pay what she owed her friend Miss Clip
the dressmaker for the past week's board and
lodging.

How she was to meet the expenses of the
next week did not trouble her.

She had now no engagement. That distressed
her only because she would not have
the pleasure of being admired and receiving
applause.

On Sunday she walked in the Park with
Miss Clip. Beyond what she wore she had
nothing in the world. Miss Clip, with a nice
little sum in the bank, looked like her servant.
Folly did not forget that youth was an advantage
to her, and she increased the natural
youthfulness of her appearance by her style
of dress. Her costume was short enough fora
girl two years younger than she. Her

beauty was striking even in plain dress, and
people stopped to turn round and look after
her. As may be imagined, she consulted her
jewelled watch very frequently in that walk.
She got through Sunday pretty well.

Miss Clip had inserted an advertisement in
the Era stating that Folly was at liberty to
accept an engagement, and the first j^ost on
Monday morning brought a letter from a
manager offering her a part in a burlesque
about to be produced, and stating terms which
were less than she had received at the
Garden.

Miss Clip read the letter, and then
said :

Well, my dear, will you go and see the
manager V

It isn't likely that I shall take less than I
have been getting,' Folly replied; 'and I
think it's rather like impudence to offer me
less.'

The manager is not supposed to know
what you have been receiving. Your salary
during the last weeks was high.'

You don't think I got more than I deserved,
do you V

Oh, of course not, dear. But you had
better see the manager and tell him what

terms you require. It seems to me an excellent
opening. The theatre is a good
one.'

^ I will see it before I say anything. We
will go there to-night.'

In the evening they went to the theatre.
Folly was disgusted ; the house Alas nofc a
quarter the size of the Garden.

^ It is an insult,' said she, ' to offer me less
money to dance in a little back parlour of a
theatre like that.'

But, my dear, I assure you it is considered
one of the best houses.'

^ That is not my opinion. Half a dozen
jDoky little boxes, a dress circle, a gallery, and
no pit. I don't dance to such a miserable
little audience as that. You can write to the
manager. I'll tell you what to say — ^^ Folly
declines to dance at your theatre, and I should
be sorry to take your ^yq guineas a week
from one who may be more in need of it
than she is," and I'll sign my name at the
bottom.'

This feat of penmanship Folly had acquired,
and the flourish at the end of the ' y' was in
itself a study.

Five guineas a week is a good salary,'
urged Miss Clip.

I'd rather dance at the Garden for nothing.
What is money to me ? It's the audience I
dance for.'

But how will you do without money V

I shan't want my dress till next Sunday.
I can put that away as I did last week. But
if I had to lie in bed all day for want of it I
wouldn't accept five guineas to dance in a
rabbit-hutch.'

Miss Clip saw it was useless to argue, and
returned an answer to the manager declining
his terms, though not in the words prescribed
by Folly.

On Tuesday Folly was Wretched. Excitement
was the food of her life, and lie was
starving.

I shall go somewhere to-night,' she said,
in the afternoon.

You have no money, dear,' argued her
friend.

That doesn't matter. You can come with
me and lend me some. I shall cry if I stop
indoors much longer.'

Miss Clip had an entree to the Oxbridge
Music-hall, and thither she took Folly — the
audience applauded enthusiastically. In one
corner of the adjoining refreshment saloon
was a stall on which the portraits of the

artistes were displayed for sale. Folly itched
to see her own likeness there.

The singing: on the stage amused her, but
the ballet, headed by a fat Frenchwoman,
excited her supreme contempt.

^ Who is the manager here V she asked of
Miss Clip.

Mr. Manning. There he is, standing over
there in a light coat.'

Folly looked across thefauteuils ard recognised
Mr. Manning. He was with several
other gentlemen staring at her. Folly was
accustomed to being stared at. She met the
manager's eye boldly, and held up her finger.

^ What are you doing V asked Miss Clip,
nervously.

^ I want to speak to him,' answered Folly.

The manager made his Away down the row,
and, coming to Folly's side, said :

I think I have the honour to address '

My name's Folly,' said the young danseuse,
helping him out of his awkward position ;
Folly, of the Garden.'

^ Everyone has heard of you,' said the
manager, smiling blandly, ' and a very few in
London have failed to see you, I should think.
I had that pleasure, and shall not forget
it

^ Thank you,' answered Folly, with a grateful
smile. ' You are manager here, I think?'

Yes. I hope you like the entertainments

All but the ballet— that's awful.'

All dancing must appear bad to one who
dances so well. There are not two Folly s."

That's a nice compliment,' said Folly,
better pleased than ever. Then she added,
sharply, * I'll dance for you if you like.'

The manager opened his eyes in astonishment,
and, having to say something, began :

I should be most happy, but, as you may
suppose, I am not so rich as the lessee of the
Garden.'

That will be all right. I don't want more
than you can afford. Esperenza has no
engagement at present : he can arrange the
ballet ; and my friend here, Miss Clip, can
make the dresses.' Folly never forgot her
friends.

I will give the subject my immediate
attention,' Mr. Manning replied, ^ and 1 will
write to you directly I have concluded
whether it is possible for me to accept your
generous proposal.'

The result of this strange interview was
that, after many interviews and considerable
correspondence, Folly signed an agreement to

dance at the music-hall for six months, the
ballet to be arranged by Signor Esperenza
and costumes by Miss Clip.

Once more the young girl saw her name
in great letters on the hoardings, with a
lithograph in flaring colours representing her
in the new character.

The same good fortune she had brought to
the lessee of the Garden she carried with
her to the music-hall. Her success was complete.
Before the close of the first month
Mr. Manning offered to double her salary if
she would extend her engagement to twelvemonths
; but this offer she declined at the
earnest entreaty of Esperenza. He had
opposed her accepting the shorter term when
she first told him of her intention.

This engagement will be a good thing — a
great good thing for me,' he said. ' I am
growing old and poor, but I would renounce
it willingly to keep you on the decent boards
of a theatre. It is only fit for strolling
mountebanks to dance where men smoke and
drink. You are an artist.'

It is unnecessary to follow Folly's career
at the music-hale. She disliked it because
Esperenza condemned it.

The old man was her guardian angel. He

VOL. I 18

son.

continually fostered her self-esteem, and made
the vanity which would have ruined another
girl her safeguard. Vices were repugnant to
her, not from any moral sentiment, but merely
because they were practised by the mean,
sordid, or unscrupulous people she despised.
He did also the very best thing that can be done
for a young actress — he showed her behind
the scenes. He stripped things of their false
appearances and displayed them as they are.
Men and women were to him machines with
passions for springs, and he impressed this
idea strongly on Folly's mind. Probably not
one woman in a hundred knew the realities of
life, the moral anatomy of men and women,
as this child came to understand them under
the tuition of Esperenza. He made no reservations
in his talk : he called things by
their right names, and concealed nothing.
Subjects which would have shocked ordinary
people out of their senses she heard without
a blush. She literally did not understand
the meaning of shame — how should she ? If
the conversation that she constantly heard
was not modest, it had at least this advantage
it did not pretend to be.

At that time John Barrington was the

manager of the Levity Theatre — a man who
never let sip an opportunity of adding attraction
to his programme. He saw Folly,
and wrote to her immediately, asking if she
were disengaged and would accept an engagement
with him.

Before replying Folly went to a matinee at
the Levity. She was favourably impressed
by the lines of carriages along the Strand
waiting to approach the doors of the theatre.
The admirable arrangements within the house,
and the air of refinement in all its appointments,
pleased her taste, now revolting
against the vulgarity of the music-hall. She
liked the size of the house, and the orderly
yet appreciative character of the audience.
The beautiful scenery, the rich dresses, the
tasteful grouping upon the stage, excited her
ambition to be the central figure there.

Before the conclusion of the performance
she left her stall, and, with her customary
impetuosity, found out the manager, and
came to an understanding with him at once.

Mr. Barrington was a shrewd man. He
saw that Folly was capable of something
better than dancing in ballet. After his
interview with her he took his dramatic
author into consultation.

18—2

I want you to think of something for this
new girl of mine. She's too good for ballet ;
besides, ballet's going out. Taglioni wouldn't
pay now. The public want something more
original, and they must have it.'

What can she do V

^ Sing — and sing as well as she dances.
She rattled off a little French song as an
example that fairly astonished me.'

There's that new thing at the Folies
Dramatists, "La France Chiffonniere.'"

No : I am for something original. The
newspapers are constantly accusing us of
neglecting British talent, and talking about
the decay of the drama. I'll prove that they
are in the wrong, and produce a good sterling
burlesque. You shall write me one of the
classical sort, like that "' Sisyphus " of yours.
Something fetching, with plenty of popular
tunes, a couple of good low comedy parts for
the men, and a leading role for this new girl.
What could you do with Medea V

Bob Brough used that.'

Ah, but we shouldn't treat it in that way.
People wouldn't understand his wit — it would
go right over the heads of the stalls. His
style won't do now. We don't want poetry.
However, if you don't like Medea, what

do you say to Andromeda ? That has not
been treated.'

'Andromeda? Yes ; but she is a simple,
tender girl.'

Just the thing : reverse her character —
that's the secret of burlesque. Why, bless
me ! I know more of your business than you
do. Make the girl a rackety young baggage,
continually getting her father into scrapes by
her persistence in dancing contrary to the
laws of Ethiopia. Everyone is infected with
the fashion set by the princess, and at
length, to put an end to the nuisance,
Andromeda is to be chained up to the rock
as the only means of keeping her still. You
can get some good comic business out of the
anxiety of the parents respecting the sea
monster, you know. Then we could get a
fetching set — sun rising over the sea, rocks,
and Andromeda chained in the centre, limelight
on her, and pretty music — display her
beauty. That'll fetch the town, I'll warrant.'

Not a bad idea.'

- Very well ; go and work it out, and let
me have a rough sketch as soon as you can.'

The idea was carried out with speed ; and,
after hearing the work read, her part was
handed to Folly for study.

Folly, with a new world to conquer, set
herself to the task with all the energy of her
enthusiastic and vigorous nature. She learnt
her part by repeating it after Esperenza. She
was perfect at her first rehearsal, and exceeded
the most sanguine expectations of those who
knew her best. It seemed as if she were
animated by some madness of the blood, so
exuberant were her spirits, so agile and swift
her movements. Indeed, she went to such
audacious lengths that Mr. Warrington, fearful
how his audience might take it, begged
her to be more moderate.

Why X asked Folly. * Do you want the
audience to go to sleep V

No : but we mustn't frighten them out of
the house.'

I will play the part as it should be played,
or not at all.' Folly's look as she spoke betokened
her readiness to throw up the part if
she were opposed. Mr. Warrington felt
nervous.

Well, be careful, that's all, for my sake
said he.

I shall be careful, for my own,' responded
Folly, hastily turning on her heel, with an
impudent laugh.

ROLAND AYELING IS VIRTUOUS.

OLAXD sat in his chambers at
Kensington writing. The letter
under his hand was to Madge. An
observer with less sagacity than
Latter could tell that by the tender expression
on his face, reflected from the paper
beneath.

He told her no news. A mere chronicle
of his comings and goings were too material
for his purpose. He repeated only in roundabout
terms the three swords he had whispered
in her ear a score of times — words which she
could hear as many thousand times and never
think them old or needless. ' I love you !'
was the subject of his letter — the beginning,
the middle, and the end of it. Only a lover's

ingenuity could have made so much of so
little — could have put a simple sentiment in
so many words.

Lovers' letters are tedious or ridiculous to
all save lovers, as sacred things are to the
heartless or profane. His shall not be repeated
here. Let it pass. It was a good
letter, that blessed him that sent and her
that took it — the sweet, earnest effusion of a
soul filled with love. He sighed when he
came to the end, broke some myrtle leaves
from a bouquet in a glass before him, placed
them between the folded pages, enclosed the
letter in an addressed envelope, and then sat
musing for half an hour with the packet in
his hand.

At the end of that time he aroused himself
from his reverie, laying the letter upon the
table, and then set about writing another ina
quite different spirit. First he whistled a
tune, then he lit a pipe, and, with a cheerful
smile, dashed his pen in the ink and began : —

Grandison Chambers, Kensington,

August, 1869.

My dear Parson, — You will be astonished
to find that, amidst the distractions of life in
London, I can think of my sober old chum

in the country, and, still more, to discover
that my object in writing is, not to desire
your assistance in helping me out of the
difficulties in which you might reasonably
suppose I had by this time involved myself,
but to assure you that my physical and moral
health is untainted by the vitiating atmosphere
of this terrible city. For six days I
have been exposed to the fiery furnace, and
on this, the seventh, I can proudly boast that
I am still whole and not a hair the worse.
To tell you the truth, old boy, the temptation
which besets me most sorely is the impulse to
break the agreement with my father, and
take the next train that will carry me to
Tangleyy.

^ I can understand the safeguard weak
people have in religion, for I am in love, and
love is my religion, and with that in my
heart it is impossible for me to do anything
which seems to militate against it. I refused
to take a place in a break with a lot of good
fellows — amongst them Stephens of Baliol,
Draper of Christ's, and Burgoyne, who was
our stroke in '59 — who went yesterday to
Croydon. Of course there was nothing
wrong in going to Croydon, but somehow I
thought of Madge and you in the quiet old

vicarage, and the very idea of a race was repugnant
to me. If these feelings operate so
powerfully in trifling circumstances, how
effective would they not be in more serious
situations I My father and you were both
wrong — he in supposing I should find here a
test of my moral strength, you in fearing
that I should succumb beneath it. Neither
of you reckoned that I went to the ordeal
under the protecting charm of a sweet girl's
love.'

Roland rested from his labours to delight
his pipe, which had gone out. He was in a
humour to put a favourable construction
upon everything. It pleased him to see that
he had forgotten to puff at his pipe in writing
of his love for Madge. He looked at his
composition with satisfaction, convinced that
when the vicar read it he would no longer
entertain idle fears in his behalf; then recommenced
:

You have no idea how dull and vapid all
the amusements of the town are to me. I
have lost my relish for them entirely. You
remember how the theatres and spectacles
used to intoxicate me when we came here at
boat-race time : they have now no effect on

me whatever. My days are too long. 1
get sleepy at ten, go to bed at eleven, and
seldom rise before mid-day. I am reading
Buckle, and intend to go in for Harrison,
Matthew Arnold, and Huxley. The trashy
novels of those wretched women Who ape the
vices of men are revolting to me, and I can
only find pleasure in good stiff writing. I
have spent three afternoons in the British
Museum, and two in examining the collection
of the Geological Society, but as I said
before, the amusements of London fail to
exercise any fascination over me. I have
not been inside a theatre ; it is a form of
entertainment for which I have now no relish.
You must agree with me that you have little
to fear for my safety here. The only enjoyable
evening I have had was on Wednesday,
when I dined with Garnier (who begged me
to remember him in writing to you) at his
club, the Olympus, where I met several old
friends, and made the acquaintance of some
exceedingly pleasant fellows, who have promised
to look me up.'

With a few more pages of such material
as this Roland completed his letter to the
vicar ; after which the rigid moralist, to compensate

for so much relaxation, threw himself
on a couch and * went in ' for Buckle with
determination. He read a page and a half,
then the book, being heavy, slid from his
hands, and his eyes, being heavy also, closed,
and he slept.

No one came to disturb his slumbers, and
he slumbered peacefully for best part of an
hour. He woke with a shiver ; he took up
Buckle and shuddered again. To shake off
the depression of his spirits, he went to the
window and looked out. Rain was falling ;
the leaden clouds overhead were only less
cheerless than the empty wet street below.
He felt more than ever that the gay London
life had no charms for him.

Not five o'clock yet,' he murmured, pulling
out his watch. ' What the deuce shall I
do ? Somehow I don't feel like readings
Buckle, and the British Museum's closed —
it's a national disgrace to close that place so
early. I can t go to bed yet— what on earth
shall I do for the next ^\e or six hours ? I
shall go mad ; well, that will be pleasant asa
variation from this condition of things.
Five o'clock — what the dickens shall I do ?
I must have another turn at Buckle.'

Pushing his fingers through his hair and

yawning violently, he turned once more to
Buckle's massive tome.

This man knew too much,' he thought,
turning to the last page to see the number of
it. ' If he had written a small volume it
would have been much better. Fool to write
himself out as he did I Halloa ! what's
that ?'

He threw down the book, and rushed to
the window in great excitement as the sound
of a double knock reached his ear. Looking
down, with his forehead pressed against the
glass, he saw a blank doorstep below ; pressing
the back of his head against the shutter
and the side of his nose against the window,
he discovered a visitor waiting on the step
next door but one.

Light overcoat, umbrella,' said he, with
much interest. ^ I don't know the man's
figure ; surely it can't be a visitor for me
gone next door but one by mistake.

Despite the improbability of the conjecture,
he felt disappointed when the man in
the light coat disappeared and he heard the
door close behind him.

The pendule on the mantelpiece struck
five

'What is the use of a timepiece if it

doesn't strike right V thought he, dragging
out his watch petulantly to see how much
too slow the offending clock was. The time
by both was the same.

^ I'll have that thing taken away said he,
I hate clocks that strike. Only five o'clock.
Where did I put Buckle V

Looking round for the book he perceived
the two letters on the table. He seized them
joyfully and caught up his hat.

What a thoughtless fellow I am ! A
little later and they would have been too late
for the post.'

He rushed to the pillar-box in the adjoining
square, and returned with a dull step to
the inevitable Buckle. That great man was
never perhaps regarded with such unmerited
dislike as then. He admitted himself reluctantly
to the house, without noticing the
hansom standing before the door, and as he
dragged upstairs reflected on the delusiveness
of hope and the insincerity of friends.

^ Those fellows promised to look me up ;
and here have I been expecting them all day,
and not one comes near me.'

At his apartments he kicked the door open
without taking his hands from his trousers
pocket, and confronted Mr. Gamier.

My dear Roland, you are surprised to seeme—
pardon my intruding upon your chamber
in your absence — the attendant below said
you were at home.'

Believe me, my dear fellow, I would not
have forgiven her had she been more careful
to tell the truth. I wouldn't have had you
go away for the world. I am delighted to
see you.'

I believe you. You have certainly the
most expressive of faces; you cannot imagine
the change it has undergone in two minutes.'

^ I was a little dull.'

And no wonder, mewed up in solitude
here. Your father asked me to look after
you, and I should fail in my respect to his
commands if I suffered you to bury yourself
in this fashion. What are your engagements ?
Where do you dine V

I have ordered a chop to be brought tome
at six.'

You must order your chef to put the joint
back for your breakfast. You dine with me
to-nio4it.'

^ But — but I'm going in for Buckle,' said
Roland, offering a feeble show of resistance.

You'll '' go in " for dinner at the Criterion,
and ^^ go in " for a theatre after.'

I don't care for theatres.'

You can take Buckle to read there, if
you don't care for the performance. One
thing is certain, I cannot allow you to read
him here. I have a hansom waiting below.
Have you any alteration to make in your
dress V

You are in war-paint.*

Yes, but it isn't necessary if you prefer
morning dress.'

I think I prefer the other. It is so much
easier — and — and if we are to go to a theatre.'

You have brought yourself to accept that
infliction, eh ? Well, dress away, old fellow.*

Roland went into the adjoining room and
got out his evening dress — the very sight of
the white tie excited pleasant ideas. Something
of his old enthusiasm came back as he
hurried over his toilette, and he kept up a
brisk conversation with his friend in the
next room. When all was complete, he came
out radiant, with his hat under his arm and
a pair of light gloves in his hand.

Now then, Amadis, let us be off; I'm
ready,' he cried.

Will you take Buckle V asked Gamier,

slyly,

hang Buckle ! Come on.'

ROLAND AVE LING SEES FOLLY FOR THE FIRST
TIME.

S the two men sat over their wine
smoking, Garnier took up a paper.
Where shall we go V he asked,
turning the paper to get at the
theatrical announcements.

Anywhere.'

Polytechnic, Exeter Hall — either of those
suit you V

Try another joke ; it can't be worse.'

Ha, here's the thing, '' Levity, first night

of ' Andromeda.' Folly, as Andromeda.

First appearance." By George, wee must go

there. Have you seen Folly V
Folly ? No ; who is he V

VOL. I. 19

He is simply the most astonishing young
girl you ever saw in your life. She played
in the pantomime of the Garden last Christmas,
and since then has been throwing her
pearls before a music - hall audience. I
thought she wouldn't stay there honos. Barrington's
a clever fellow — doesn't let talent
escape him.'

I admire talent.'

And you'll admire her face, too — the
loveliest little girl.'

Ptoland did not respond ; he thought of
another lovely face, and his heart carried
him away to the quiet vicarage at Tangleyy.

Why are you suddenly grave, Roland V

^ Nothing. What is to be heard at Exeter
Hall V

Garnier, looking at Roland, was silent a
moment, then he said in his kind, low, paternal
tone :

My dear boy, I can trace your thoughts.
I know your hesitation, and admire you for
it. I know the secret of your dulness, the
motive that prompts you to seek seclusion
and comfort from Buckle. You think it disloyal
to one far away to be happy absent
from her. But is it not a false sentiment
with which you delude yourself? Would she

be more happy, knowing you were less ?
That is not in her generous nature. You do
yourself and her injury forcing your inclinations
thus. In deceiving yourself you
deceive her. Deception, believe me, is the
root of all evil. If you prefer '^ Israel in
Egypt" to " Andromeda" at the Levity, let
us go to Exeter Hall by all means, but do
not think that iofnorinof cakes and ale will
make you more virtuous. There, my lecture
is over.'

'Thank you, Garnier ; thank you very
much, old fellow. You show me what I
failed to realise. I will be honest. We will
go and see '' Andromeda," and we will enjoy
it, too,' answered Roland briskly, and with
a grateful feeling at his heart to the man
who had shown him his error.

The wine finished, they lit fresh cigars,
sent for a hansom, and reached the theatre
just at the conclusion of the operetta with
which the entertainment began, and in time
to get a couple of stalls in the fifth row. By
the time the overture commenced there was
not a seat unoccupied.

The overture came to an end, and the
leader, hciton in hand, looked to the prompt
side for the signal to commence the chorus

19—2

with which the curtain was to rise. A movement
of the curtain showed the stage-manager
shaking his head. The leader sat down. Evidently
there was a hitch somewhere. The
audience began to demonstrate impatience in
the usual noisy manner. Still the curtain did
not rise. The stamping of feet and thumping
of umbrellas increased, and the gallery added
hisses to the noise.

'' The curtain must go up, or we shall be
damned to a certainty," said Mr. Barrington,
catching the ominous sounds from the front.
Orchestra, Brooks, begin. Where's Miss
Stuart ? She will have to read the part if
the little wretch isn't here in time. You
must spin out your comic business, Yates,
and gag. I am not surprised that the girl
has served us in this way. I expected as
much from her temper over the dress.'

Folly had not arrived.

During the past few weeks she had given
Mr. Barrington cause to regret that he had
ever seen her. Scarcely a rehearsal passed
without her opposing her own judgment to
that of the author, the stage-manager, the
chef orchestra, or some one engaged in the
performance, and with such indomitable stubbornness
as to enforce compliance with her

views. At the last rehearsal she refused to
wear the dress provided for her first entrance
a classical toga and robes of white cashmere,
trimmed with gold.

Do you think I will make my first appearance
at this theatre in a sheet like that V she
asked indignantly.

It is the dress designed for the purpose.
There is no time to alter it. You must wear
it,' answered the stage - manager, viciously
scowling at her.

Ah, we shall see about that,' was all she
said in reply.

She sulked through the rehearsal, and
made no answer dien Mr. Barrington cautioned
her not to be late. The curtain rose,
and the burlesque began.

Folly was not in her dressing-room at the
moment she should have been on the staofe.
Yates was getting nervous over his comic business,
which fell flat ; the audience never once
smiled at his gag. The procession of virgins
stood ready at the wings, with Miss Stuart
at their head, in Folly's rejected dress, with
the book in her hand ; and Mr. Barrington
was just preparing to go on to the stage and
apologise for the absence of Folly, when a
dozen voices behind him suddenly exclaimed,

Here she is !'

We're waiting for you,' hissed the manager,
looking as if he would like to strike the offending
actress.

No, you're not,' answered Folly. ' Yates
hasn't given the cue to the band yet.'

How can he ? — he's waiting for you No
words. I command you to dress at once.
Miss Stuart '

Folly, turning, caught sight of Miss Stuart
in her dress, and burst into a peal of laughter
that was heard in the remotest part of the
house. Before the echo died she threw oft'
the hooded cloak that enveloped her from
head to foot, and, with a signal to the
orchestra, skipped on to the stage with her
virgins at her heels.

'Good heavens! how is she dressed?'
cried the author and Mr. Barrington in a
breath.

In place of the costume which Andromeda
might have been supposed to wear on such
an occasion, Folly appeared in a dress suitable
to a young lady of fifteen in a ball-room
at the present time. It was of white satin,
shot with a tint of roses, fitting without a
crease to her round, graceful figure, and
descending almost to her ankles. Kid gloves

of the same delicate colour came half way
up her arms, which were bare from the
shoulder. French shoes and gold clocked
stockings, with an abundance of white lace
frilling, made up a costume that set chronology
and stage propriety completely at
defiance. It was in keeping with nothing but
Folly and her independent, daring spirit.

She did not give the spectators time to
think of anachronisms ; she carried them
along with her in a headlong, impetuous
rush of gaiety and life that would not admit
of thought or reflection. She astonished the
audience, and even those who had acted with
her in rehearsal, so that in watching her they
at times forgot their parts. The weakest joke
in that feeble piece came from her lips
sparkling. Her audacity, her beauty, the
grace of her movements, the charm of her
voice, all told upon the audience with an
intoxicating effect. Even those whom she
had lately angered could not but admire and
forgive the bewitching girl. Nothing tired
her. She was not still for a moment, except
in the scene where she was chained to the
rock. Then, knowing that her success
depended on the simple effect of her
beauty, she posed herself for effect, so that

Ovid's line was realised by her unconsciously
:

Variorum rates esse opus !'

That idea struck Roland as he gazed at
Ie wonderful stillness and beauty of the girl
standing in the brilliant lio'ht.

A munnur of delight arose among the
spectators, and gradually swelled into a great
wave of applause, that rolled to the feet of
the young actress, which Folly, moving from
her pose, acknowledged with a couple of
nods, her head on one side and an arch smile
on her face.

Oh, what an exquisite little beauty !'
murmured Holand, lending his hands and
voice to swell the meed of approbation.

END OF VOL. r.

idling AND S0X3, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPERS, GUILDFORD.

R. T. T.

'A^'^if

'S*-!^

^^^^^:^^

^■:::^A*^I^?^^^^^^^'

LIBRARY

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS

V.Z

^ fill

BY

FRANK BARRETT.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

^ut)lishfr« in (Ordinary to ^cr jaajcstg the Quin.
1880.

[All Rights Rcsej-vcd.'l

V. Sl/

CONTENTS OF A^OK II.

CHAPTER ^^"'^

I. TWO MODELS 1

II. OVERSTEPPING THE LINE OF FRIENDSHIP - 12

IlL THE MAN PURSUED BY A DEAD HARE - 2G

IV. A RECOGNITION - 38

V. THE FILIAL L0^^: OF FOLLY - - - 53

VL A STRANGE VENGEANCE - - - - 63

VIL A CHECK - 75

Vii ROLAND SAYS ' NO ' - - - - - 87

IX. A NEW PROSPECT - - - - - 104

X. WIT AND WISDOM OF SIR ANDREW Feeling 112

XL ROLAND'S FLING - - - - - 127

Nil GOOD NEWS - 145

Xii A PROPOSAL 156

XIV. VANE IS INTRODUCED TO FOLLY --170

CHAPTER PAGE

XV. A KISS . 183

XVI. FATHER AND DAUGHTER - - - - 190

Xvi. ANOTHER LECTURE - - - - - 207

XVIII. A POINT GAINED - - - - - 219

XTX. VANE'S PROJECT - - - - - 229

XX. PREPARING FOR HAPPINESS - - - 243

XXI. CORRESPONDENCE 255

XXII. THE WEDDING OF ROLAND Feeling AND

FOLLY MORRISON - - - - . 262

Xxii AFTER THE WEDDING - - - - 272

XXIV. SIR ANDREW Feeling AND JOHN MORRISON

MEET AGAIN - . . 284

CHAPTER I.

TWO MODELS.

HE new burlesque was unanimously
praised in all the theatrical critiques.
With characteristic inconsistency,
the same paper which contained
the most laudatory notice of Folly's performance
in one column, devoted another to
a leader condemning this kind of entertainment,
pointing to the success at the Levity
as another proof of the vitiated taste of the
age which tolerated such an exhibition. The
effect of this condemnation was even more
powerful than the accompanying eulogy.
Every night the theatre was filled to overflowing
; money was turned away, the free
VOL. IL 20

list suspended, and seats were booked three
weeks in advance.

Admirers vied with each other in flattering;
Folly, and left her little or nothing to desire.
Her portrait appeared in several weekly
illustrated papers ; photographic art which
had already pushed the books of beauty from
the field, made a rapid stride in popularity by
the means of cartes de visite of Folly which
filled shop windows in the Strand, Cheapside,
and Regent Street. Folly herself could
not get near for the crowds of men about
her own likeness. A well-known artist hit
upon the happy idea of making her the subject
of his Academy picture. In his studio
Roland Avehng was first introduced to
Folly.

It happened in this way. Amadis Gamier,
coming to Roland's chambers one morning,
said :

I am going round the studios. Will you
come with me V

'I shall like nothing better,' replied Roland,
cheerfully.

He had recovered from his fit of asceticism
in these latter days — it Alas now September
and thrown Buckle aside with the unploughed
copies of Ruskin and Harrison.

The two gentlemen took a cab, and, after
calling at a couple of studios in Fitzroy
Square, proceeded to Highgate.

If Stipple is not at home, we will go onto
Scumble's,' said Garnier.

A neat little hired brougham stood before
Stipple's door.

He has a visitor. Shall we be intruding 1'
asked Koland.

Not at all. Stipple and I shared a studio
before he made a name, and most of his friends
are mine. A capital good fellow, Stipple, who
has lost nothing by prosperity.'

They were shown into a reception-room,
and the servant took their cards. Presently
the door opened and Stipple himself, in a velvet
tunic, with his palette on his thumb, entered.

I am hard at work, and should have refused
to see anyone but you,' said he, after
exchanging greetings with Garnier, and being
introduced to Poland. ' I should have dismissed
you also, but my model is good-natured,
and permits me to invite you to my studio.
Will you come V

'Certainly,' said Garnier. 'Who is this
condescending model V

Don't you know V replied the artist, stopping
short as they were crossing the vestibule

20—2

towards his studio, and dropping his voice.
I thought all the boys knew of my good
fortune. I've got this new beauty to sit tome
— Folly.'

As Roland caught the words his hands
grew moist, and he felt the blood rush to his
face.

Stipple's studio was vastly different to the
studios in Fitzroy Square, where the walls
owed their tint to the action of time and
tobacco smoke, and the floors failed to betray
their simplicity of yellow deal by the infrequent
application of soap and water to their
surface.

Black oak, rich tapestries, Persian carpets,
Utrecht velvet, trophies of arms, black iron
and polished brass, were here employed to
satisfy the aesthetic taste of the artist.

For these accessories Roland had no eyes ;
his attention was centred upon Folly. The
girl sat on a high-backed chair, covered with
stamped leather, raised upon a dais, with the
heavy tapestry behind her. She wore the
pale blue dress she had chosen for her first
entrance in the burlesque, and was seated
carelessly on a corner of the chair, nursing
her foot. The vivacious young girl in her
bright dress formed a striking contrast to the

old and sombre surroundings, which accorded
well with her own instinctive love of dissimilitude.


The gentlemen bowed, being introduced by
Stipple. Folly answered with a nod, and
said, with a good-humoured smile :

I mustn't get down from my perch.'

Roland hated slang ; but these words coming
from Folly's lips did not offend his nice
ear. Stipple naturally drew near his easel,
his visitors following. Garnier criticised with
the freedom of an old friend and an admirer,
entering at once into the technical details of
the work. Roland, after one glance at the
portrait, turned his eyes to the original.
That pleased Folly. She met his e^^es boldly,
and gave him a smile all to himself England
blushed like a girl, dropped his eyes, then
looked again. She had her eyes still on him.
Her smooth cheek rounded, her dark eyes
lengthened, the corners of her pretty lips
curved upwards, and, unclasping her hands
from her knee, she held up one finger and
beckoned to him.

To leave the side of an artist to whom you
have just been introduced without apology,
to cross his studio for the purpose of talking
to his model, is as bold a breach of etiquette

as one may commit ; but Folly desired and
Roland obeyed. Had he shown a want of
courage Folly would never have smiled upon
him again, and this history would have ended
here.

The great results of our life are decided by
such trifling events as this. Cannot each one
of us point to some most trivial accident which
connected our past with our present, but for
which our lot might have been happier or
sadder, as the case may be ?

^ You are a good boy to come when I want
you,' said Folly, highly delighted to find that
all the admiration was not to be lavished on
the painter.

I should obey you if you set me a harder
task than that,' answered Roland.

Don't turn round. Your friend and Stip^^le
are both looking at you with their mouths
open. It's capital fun. I don't care to sit
here alone while everyone is praising his
work. It is all a smudge yet, and if it were
finished ever so nice I should think it would
be pleasant to look at me — don't you V

'A thousand times.'

How you blush — like a little girl. It
suits your fair skin and makes you look
pretty.'

I dislike pretty men. I hope I am not
pretty enough to be objectionable.'

Oh no; I like you. I like everyone who
likes me.'j

You can dislike no one, then

Oh yes, I do. Lots of men say they like
me, but ' — with a little gesture of contempt
^ they don't.' Some recent experience was
troubling Folly's memory, for, after knitting
her brows and looking straight before her as
she swung her foot to and fro, she turned her
eyes upon Koland, and, looking him straight
in the face, said, with quick earnestness : ' If
you were to meet me in the street, and your
wife was with you, you wouldn't cross the
street when you saw me coming, and pretend
you didn't see me, would you V

By George, I wouldn't !'

No, I know that by your eyes and your
blushes. That's why I like you.'

'But I am not married.' .

Then I like you all the more.'
Still, I am engaged.'

You wouldn't be ashamed to introduce me
to the woman you are engaged to if we met V

No ; I wish she were here to admire you
as I do. I have told her all about you in my
letters.'

That is nice. I don't see why we should
not be good friends, you and I. So you told
her all about me. I knew you directly you
came into the room here. It was you who
threw me the bouquet last night V

*Yes.'

^ And the one on Saturday V

Yes.'

Did you tell her that V

Well, no ; I didn't mention that.'

Roland spoke nervously.

You do next time you write. And you
can tell her we are going to be friends, because
I like you, eh T

Holand consented, though his heart misgave
him that he could scarcely tell all that without
arousing a feeling of jealousy in Madge.

Where do you live V

My home is in the country ; but I am
staying in Kensington at present.'

Is that far from Lambeth V
About half-an-hour's ride.'

Then I'll drive you home in my carriage.
I hate travelling by myself.'

Drop me wherever you like. I can make
ray way home.'

Then you're not afraid of offending your
friend by not returning with him V

I am more afraid of offending you.'

It will serve him right. He's still poking
over that picture. We can have a good
talk ; can't we ? It's a nice long way to
Lambeth from here for two people ; it's a
horrid distance for one. I like talking —
don't you V

Immensely.'

I am sorry Lambeth is such a little way.
I think we'll go to Kensington first. Wait, I
have a notion. Suppose we dine together
somewhere ; then we needn't separate until
we Qfet to the stao^e-door.'

A splendid idea ! How much longer have
you to sit V

^ I have not been here twenty minutes yet.
I suppose he will want me to sit an hour.
And I must not move, and he can't talk.
Oh, it's horrid ! I tell you what. We'll goat
once. I'm tired of sitting. Come
on.'

She rose with a brisk movement and a merry
laugh, caught her arm in Roland's, and
brought him down to the easel.

If you please I can't sit any longer, and
I am going,' she said to Stipple. ' And I
shall take your friend with me she added,
addressing Garnier ; and then, in a tone of

far greater concern : " Where did I fling that
cloak of mine V

Stipple had already come by experience to
understand Folly's temper, and having the
wisdom to make a virtue of necessity, he
turned his present misfortune off with a joke,
and assisted Folly to find the lost cloak.

The cloak being found, Folly, impatient
of delay, interrupted Roland in the midst of
his apology to Garnier. Laying one hand on
his arm and the other on his friend's, she said
to Roland :

^ Now, don't waste time. Do go and see
if that brougham's at the door. The driver
is generally walking up and down a mile
away when he's wanted. And you,' she
continued, turning her imploring eyes on
Garnier, 'pray give us your assistance.
We've found the cloak, but where on earth
I kicked my walking-shoes to I can't tell.'
-X--j'r-5'- -r-5^

^ Now this is just what I like,' said Folly,
slipping her hand under Roland's arm, as they
sat side by side in the brougham, rattling
along the Highgate Road. * Tt is so exactly
what one did not expect. What is the time V

She pulled the trinket from her bosom —
as a watch it had for some time ceased to be

reliable. It had to be shaken and tapped
before it would tick, and then indicated no
more than half-past ten.

^ That can scarcely be right said she. ' I
didn't rise till eleven.'

It is just three.'

Capital ! We have four hours for talk.
Pretty watch, isn't it V

Charming. That is your name on the
back V

'Yes. It was given me when I left the
Garden. I will never part with it. But I
wish it was a ring or a pair of ear-rings.
It is such a shame to hide the beautiful
diamonds.'

^ Would you like diamonds for your ears V

Yes, if somebody I like gave them to me.'

Before the end of the week Folly had
diamonds in her ears, for which Roland had
dipped into the sum of money placed at his
disposal by Sir Andrew.

OVERSTEPPING THE LINE OF FRIENDSHIP.

HE first days of October were sultry.
Koland, confining from his bedroom,
thrust open the windows of his
sitting-room, with an impatient
exclamation, and went out upon the balcony,
where he stood leaning upon the ironwork
under the striped purblind, inhaling what
little air was to be had.

He lolled there, looking down upon the
quiet street in an abstracted mood, until he
was abruptly aroused by the unexpected voice
of the servant at his elbow announcing that
his breakfast was ready.

Three letters lay on his plate. He took
them in his hand and seated himself. One
bore the blazoned arms and initials of Sir

Andrew. He laid that on the table. The
next was addressed in a cramped feminine
hand to ' Mr. Roland Aveling, Esq.' ; he
smiled, and kept that in his left hand. The
third was in the free, well-written hand of
Margaret ; he laid that gently on his father's,
with a little nod as to an old friend.

He opened the letter he had retained in his
left hand, and read it :

Dere Friend,

It's all rite. If I'd a-ran upstairs
before saying good-nite, I shouldn't had to
send this. Stipple is ingaged to-more
thank evils so we shal be able to go for a
drive as you purposed cum as soon as you
lik. You can t cum to early for your affectionate
friend

Folly.
'Pes, — Please excuse rising and bad pen.
Annie Clip.'

Roland put the letter in his pocket, then
he poured out a cup of coffee, buttered a
piece of toast, and began breakfast.

When he had fortified himself with a little
refreshment he opened Margaret's letter, and
nibbhnpf his toast the while, read it.

Come, that's rather too bad said he to
hnTiself, laying down the half-read letter to
butter another slice of toast, ' to hint that
I'm neglectful when I Wrote only last week.
One can't be writing letters every day in the
week ; and what can you say when there's no
news to tell ? 1 must give you a scolding,
my little Madge.'

He ate again, and took up the letter.
^ ^'You Avrote every day" — ah, I passed that
" only one in eight " — mum — mum — mum.
Yes, here's where I left off. '' What has become
of your infatuation for the wonderful
little actress you told us so much about
some time since ? We see her name still in
the newspapers ; but you have not mentioned
her in your last two letters." ' He
put the letter down once more to drink
his coffee.

Of course I haven't said anything about
her,' thought he. ' I was stupid to say so
much. One's object in writing a letter is to
give pleasure to the reader ; and how could
it please one girl to hear praises of another ?
It would be stupid and unkind, too, to make
Madge jealous when there is no cause for
jealousy. It's clear enough, by her coldness
and a certain kind of restraint in her letter.

that she is a little bit touched already. I
must be careful for the future.'

At this moment his reflections were interrupted
by a knock at the door.

^ Come in,' he cried.

The door opened, and Amadis Gamier
entered.

Midday is too late for a young fellow of
your age,' said the visitor, shaking Roland's
hand. ' I breakfasted four hours aofo.'

Model of virtue ! Take a seat — you must
need it.'

"Roland put the un-read and the half-read
letters together in his pocket for perusal at a
more convenient season, and made himself
pleasant to his visitor, chatting on various
subjects in the bright, agreeable manner
which had made him a general favourite in-all
society.

What are you doing to-day, Amadis V
asked England, when he had finished his
breakfast, pushing back his chair and putting
a cigar between his lips.
I am free — are you V

Not quite ; I am going to take Folly fora
drive.'

Roland looked straight at Garnier, wondering

wliy so simple an act required so
great an effort.

Gamier looked at him with a perplexed
contraction of the eves, as if he were trvino*
to read a complicated riddle, and then shook
his head with a doubtful smile.

What's the matter. Gamier ? What are
sou thinking about. Come, you should conceal
nothing from your friend.'

I will not. I am trying to understand an
old face with new features.'

'Don't be mysterious. What is it that
perplexes you V

This affair with the little actress.'

What do you want to know ? Speak
bluntly, or I shall doubt your friendship.'

Bluntly, then. What are your intentions
in that quarter V

Intentions !'

What will you do with her V

I don't understand you.'

'You are ofivino^ the o-irl a o^reat deal of
attention — you are spending money on her
freely. With what object V

The same object which you have, I hope,
Gamier, in giving me the pleasure of your
company.'

Friendship V

'Yes.'

Gamier smiled.

I don't know what you are driving at,
Garnier ; speak up.'

When a man dangles about a beautiful
girl, dines with her, drives with her, gives
her diamonds, and makes himself conspicuous
by his attentions, it is generally understood
that his attachment is stronger than that of
friendship.'

That is to say, then, that I am generally
misunderstood. I assure you that no feeling
beyond friendship exists between Folly and
me.'

Gamier drew a long sigh, as if of relief,
and said :

I am delighted to hear it. But you must
be careful, my dear fellow.'

On whose account V

Your own, of course. The girl needs no
protection, that's certain. You must forgive
my freedom, but, as an old friend, I feel that
I am privileged to speak.'

" Let the galled jade wince : our withers
are unwrung/' ' Holand quoted, laughing
carelessly. ' Come, tell me what I have to
fear from this terrible little maid.'

VOL. IT. 21

That YOU Tvon't be able to get rid of lier
when you wish to.'

There is no probability cf my wishing it.'

You have not relinquished your intention
of marrying; Miss Vane V

Certainly not.'

There's the difficulty. But for that you
might continue this "friendship" with impunity
— it would be easy to bring the intimacy
to a close by going to the Continent for
sis months ; but with a wife and a home that
is impracticable. And you must see, as well
as I, that it would be impossible to begin
your range with a liaison of that kind
existing. You would be subject to perpetual
annoyances from Folly, and her importunities
would complicate your matrimonial assails,
and make you miserable.'

Have you anything to add to this ?' asked
Poland, with forced calmness.

I have only to say that prudence suggests
you should break the intimacy at once. You
are involved in a coil which the crirl will draw
tighter about you every day. Depend upon
it, she vr}\\ never part so easily from you as
at the present time. It has gone quite far
enough — but, happily not too far, it delights

me to find. I shall be very happy to act as
mediator, if you wish it.'

What would you be good enough to do
for me ?'

Buy her off Arrange the best terms I
could, stipulating for final and complete separation.'


Poland threw away his dead cigar with an
action implying disgust, and then, turning to
his friend, said :

•' Gamier, I am surprised that you, who
know me so well, and profess friendship forme,
should think me capable of entertaining
the motives you imply, or of acting upon
your suggestions. You lead me unwillingly
to suppose that you believe me guilt' of some
unholy kind of alliance with this girl — cruel
to her and Margaret, and dishonourable to
myself I must tell you that you mistake
me utter'. It is less surprising that you
misunderstand Folly, knowing so little of
her, and including her in your Q-enenil estimate
of actresses. I will take the trouble to
assure you that I am guiltless of any dishonest
intentions, and that the oriii with
whom I have formed a most innocent attachment
has motives as pm-e as mine.'

I see nothing dishonest in sour 



son.

ment ; but the girl, Roland — are you sure
that .she is the charming innocent you are V

I will swear it. Not a Avoid on her part
or mine has passed which I would conceal
from Margaret. I admire her as I might a
beautiful garden, on which nothing I spend
is ill spent. I supply the wants she is unable
to gratify, and she takes my presents as I
give them, in the innocent spirit of friendship.'


And she dines with you, drives with you,
takes diamonds from you, bewitches you
with her eyes, and all that, in a simple
Platonic fashion, eh V

It is so, unable as you may be to understand
so delicate a sentiment as perfect friendship.'
Koland rose from his chair and,
stamping his foot angrily, said, ^ Garnier, you
have insulted me.'

I am your friend — not an enemy ; give
me at least credit for kindly intentions in
speaking to you on a subject which distresses
me.'

Well, well, you're a good old fellow, I
know,' replied Roland, softening in a moment
to the gentler tone of his companion ; ' but
you might have spared me this pain. Don't
you see, old man, that the raptures you

artists go into over a statue may animate the
heart of an ordinary individual in looking
upon a lovely living woman, and discovering
those beautiful traits of character which a
marble at the best can only suggest ? No one
imputes discreditable feelings and intentions
to you when you go into rhapsodies over
eighteen inches of a chipped torso. On the
contrary, you are credited with all the virtues
under the sun for your passion.'

No argument is so convincing to a man as
his own, especially if it have the effect of
closing the discussion. Gamier gave up the
contest with a wave of his hands, merely remarking
that the continuance of an intimacy
on a Platonic basis must depend on the stoical
disposition of both parties. Then he turned
the subject, and soon after departed.

Koland threw himself on a couch, and
reflected on what had taken place. He repeated
his own arguments and added others
equally convincing. He went so far as to
look into the future — a most unusual proceeding
with him — asking himself if that
danger really existed which Garnier had
hinted at. Was it likely that a new element
would arise to change the nature of their
intimacy ?

risen.

Shall I fall in love with her, or she with
me ? The notion s absurd. Folly is a mere
child — acting and thinking like a child. She
could not be so open and unreserved with any
idea of that kind in her mind. As for myself,
there is no fear. Have I not promised to
marry Adore ? — and is not that a sufficient
guarantee that I will love no one else? Have
I ever been false, or failed to carry out my
undertaking's, even when made in the heat of
enthusiasm and to be executed only with
great personal inconvenience ? I said I
would marry her, and I will. If I had been
of a fickle disposition I should have fallen in
love with Folly before now ; and even supposing
a change were to take place in our
sentiments, should I not instantly withdraw?
Earlier's argument is based upon an entirely
erroneous supposition, and to yield to it in
the slightest deserve would be to admit the
truth of his unjust imputation against Folly.
Hano- it all ! I am in the rio^ht, and I will
prove it. The rubbish he talked is not worth
another thought.'

Coming to this satisfactory conclusion, he
sprang up from the couch, changed his coat,
and went off with a liszt heart to the livery
stables for the chaise. His confidence in

himself was strengthened by what had passed,
and he experienced reef from a sense of
uneasiness which had for the past week
oppressed his mind. The difficulty in writing
to Madge seemed less. He could tell her
more about Folly, now that he was assured
of the innocence of his feeling; for her. He
was pleased with himself, and hurried along
without a thought of the heat — thinking now
only of the pleasure of the drive before him,
and of Folly's bright face, and the gladness
with which she would welcome him.

It is to be feared that if at that moment
simple Margaret had met him face to face,
she would have made his spirits fall instead
of rise. Perhaps — though he might not acknowledge
the fact to his own soul— perhaps
there was no one in the whole world whom
he would not rather have met than the sweet
girl he was pledged to marry.

Happily, or otherwise, he met no one he
knew until he caught sight of Folly waiting
for him on the steps of the modest dwelling
in Lambeth Road.

And so it seems that, whatever his intentions
were, Amadis Garnier did more harm
than good to the cause he had espoused, first
by leading Roland to justify conduct which

conscience had already whispered him was
wrong, and secondly by prompting him to
vindicate his assertions.

How far these assertions would bear vindication
may be judged by an incident that
occurred in the course of their drive.

They were driving through Richmond
Park, Folly holding the pair of greys well in
hand and plying the whip every other minute.
The excitement of driving, the exhilarating
effect of the champagne she had drunk at
lunch — the young lady already showed the
most appreciative taste for that pleasant wine
heightened her colour and increased the
natural gaiety of her spirits ; the champagne
seemed to sparkle in her eyes, and bubble in
her merry laugh. Engaged as she was in
the management of her ponies, she perceived,
that Roland, sitting silently beside her, had
fixed his eyes ardently upon her face.

Do I look very pretty V she asked, without
moving her head.

I can't tell 3'ou how pretty.'

She turned her face and looked into his
eyes until he could bear their witchery no
longer, and bent his head, twisting his clasped
fingers convulsively.

Enjoying this proof of her power, and

amused by Koland's agitation, she bent towards
him, whispering :

^ Wouldn't you like to kiss me '?'
Roland caught hold of her arm fiercely,
and crashed his lips upon her shoulder, for
Folly, laughing, had drawn her face away.

Then he sat back in his seat, trembling
violently, while Folly coolly drew her ponies
back to the centre of the road, from which
they had been swerved by Koland's sudden
clutch upon her arm.

THE MAN PURSUED BY A DEAD HARE.

:amongst the crowd waiting on the
gallery steps of the Levity Theatre
for the doors to open was a man
who made himself particularly unpleasant
to those about him, not by any
objectionable demonstration of an active sort,
but by merely standing in their midst in his
passive effectiveness.

He was an old man, seemingly over sixty,
with a round back, high shoulders, and a
drooping head, set not in a line with his spine,
but, that he might see, at an angle with it.
When he took off his hat to drain off the
water that had accumulated in the brim — he
had walked some distance through the pouring
rain of that October night without the

protection of an umbrella — his head vas
shown in all its ugliness. Apparently his
head and face had been shaved some six or
seven days. A short white stubble spread
over his round skull and down to the nape of
his neck, round his lips and under his chin,
bristling in the folds of loose skin about his
throat. The lower jaw fell, and his pendulous
under lip displayed a solitary black
tooth standing' in his mm. The lids of his
eyes were red, and hung heavily over his
sunken eyes. Iris and pupil had no distinction
; both were a pale neutral patch in the
bloodshot, yellow cornea. Their vacancy
and the open mouth gave an idiotic expression
to his face. A thousand wrinkles puckered
the skin above the prominent cheek-bones.
It seemed as if the substance of his face had
dissolved and dropped into the lower part of
his cheeks, which hung swollen from his jaws,
and showed, even through the grey stubble
of his beard, an unwholesome yellow, such as
appears in the faces of workhouse inmates.
He had a trick of passing his horny hand
down one cheek and up the other, giving to
his face a grotesque distortion which was not
amusing to look at simply because it was repulsive.
Sometimes after this peculiar action

he would rest one bent and knotted finger
upon his sole remaining tooth, pushing it
backwards and forwards in the loose gum.
Frequently a hiccough would shake his whole
frame, to the jeopardy of his tooth and a
small flat bottle of rum in the pocket of his
sleeved waistcoat, as was evident by the look
of alarm with which he felt first one, then
the other, after one of these convulsions.

There was nothing peculiar in his dress ;
it was such as a stable-help might wear. The
warmth of these gallery steps brought out
the fine aroma from the sodden garments, and
filled the whole flight with an odour of chaff'
and horse-beans.

When the old man arrived at the entrance
it was twenty minutes before the time for the
doors to open, and the approach by the stairs
was full to the street. Nevertheless he got
up to the very barrier before the pay-place
without efibrt. People before him, becoming
conscious of the mingled perfumes of the
stable and the gin-shop floating over their
shoulders, turned about, and catching sight
of the imbecile old man loosening his one
tooth, made way, and not unwillingly allowed
him to go on in front. To take ofl* his
hat and rub his bristling crown would win

him one step in advance ; to pull his face
on one side and drive it up on the other took
him another step upwards ; while a hiccough
would carry him onwards over three.

The police oughtn't to let such an old
brute as that into a respectable theater.'

Horrid old wretch !'

'Just come from prison.'

Worse luck — pity they didn't keep him
there.'

These observations fell upon the old man's
ear as he went onward, and were heard with
indifference. It was not new to him to
be loathed. In the present case he derived
benefit from the repugnance he created. He
was rather grateful to the people than angry
with them : their remarks all helped to procure
him a good place. When he got to the
barrier he turned his back upon it and looked
down at the crowd through which he had
passed with a lateral expansion of his mouth
that was intended for a smile. Then he felt
his tooth and his bottle seriously, and finding
both perfectly safe, he laughed audibly — a
queer kind of cackling noise rising from his
throat.

Have you got your money V asked a man,
apprehensive that when the time arrived to

pass in this idiot would stop the gangway.


The old man nodded.

Then get it ready — the doors will open
directly, and we don't want to be kept waiting
half an hour for you.'

The old man fumbled in his pocket obediently,
without relaxing the grasp of his
other hand upon the bottle.

'' One shilling,' said his adviser, holding up
one finger, and speaking in a loud voice, as
if he were addressing a deaf person or a
foreigner.

The old man pulled out a shilling and held
it up.

Saved it up,' said he, his voice whistling
over his tooth. ' They give it me back all
fair and square when I come out of the or-spinal'


His neighbours fell back a little further.
The old man took of his hat, and passing his
hand over his head, said :

^ Didn't subtract nothing for shaving
neither.'

Some laughed : others, with more comprehensive
faculties, shuddered.

Remarking the interest he had created, the
old man continued :

'Been in the orspidal five weeks.' He
pulled out his bottle of rum and held it up.
That's what's been the matter with me.
Dead hares been hunting me up and down,
and dead children, too.' He put away the
bottle carefully, adding, as if to himself, ' Yes,
dead children and a dead wife, too.' He
turned again to the people and, addressing
them collectively with a wave of his horny
hand, said, ' Don't you drink — none of you.
It ain't good. It's bad. And when you
once begin, you can't leave off. It makes
you forget one hour, but it makes you remember
twice as much the follerin' twenty-three.
And the end of it is you must go to
the orspidal because of the dead hares that
chases you up and down. I'm going to cure
myself, I am. Going to spend my shilling
seen' sights instead of drinking' rum. Dead
hares as bio as that !' he stretched his rum
bottle out on one side and his shilling on the
other, making a hideous grimace as he spoke ;
then his voice fell as he replaced the bottle
in his pocket ; ' and little children, too — all
dead.'

Turn it up, master,' remonstrated the man
nearest him. ' We've come here to enjoy ourselves.


So we are answered the old man, with
another attempt at a laugh. ' Come here to
have a regular good time, ain't we ? To see
things '11 make us laugh and forget, not things
as makes you remember and cry, eh ? They
don't show you dead things in there, do
they V he asked doubtfully. ' No hares —
no dear little dead babies V

I wish I hadn't come to-night anyway.
It would give a chap the sick of play-going
to hear you.'

The old man was gauging the width of the
door with his eye now — speculating whether
a dead hare of the size he was familiar with
could follow him in. His tongue loosened,
and he spoke out his thoughts.

^ A nice thing if he's going' to carry on like
this all the evening !' muttered the younger
man.

At this moment the door was unfastened,
and in the press of the crowd the old fellow
was carried, and pushed, and hustled down
into the front row of the gallery. He was
very satisfied with his position, and looked
over the iron rail in front down into the pit
with a chuckle. Then he looked round at
the doors opening upon the gallery behind.
From these his eyes turned with a scared

look over the assembled audience, and then
over the rails down into the pit. He noticed
a gas-branch projecting from the boxes below,
and nodded his head cheerfully — it was a
good yard to the right of him.

By a cruel mischance the man who objected
to his tone of conversation had unconsciously
taken a seat next but one to him — an accident
which he did not perceive until it was too late
to get another seat, except in the back row.
For some time he evaded the recognition of
the old man, but at length he was alarmed by
a tap on the arm — the old man, reaching
before the intermediate spectator, attracted
his attention.

With a grin and a nod of recognition, the
old man said :

Shall I tell you what I'll do if a dead
hare comes in through one of those doors ? —
I shall jump over, down there. I shan't want
to go to a orspidal to be cured then, shall I V

The aggrieved man called a policeman, and
complained of being annoyed.

^ You must hold your row, or leave the
house,' said the policeman to the old man,
having heard the complaint against him.

All right, policeman ; I'll be quiet,' said
the old man ; adding, in a conciliatory tone

VOL. II. 22

to his offended neighbour, ' I'll shut my eyes,
then I can't see any dead hares or poor little
babies, eh ?'

He took off his hat, and put it under the
seat : then, making a pillow of his arms,
crossed on the ledge before him, he laid his
miserable old head upon them and shut his
eyes.

Happily for himself and those about him,
he slept through the first piece, and did not
wake up until the burlesque had begun. The
spectacle bewildered him for a while, but he
grew accustomed to the strangeness of it.
When the audience clapped, he clapped also,
and was behind none when Folly came upon
the stage. A change in his manner appeared
directly he heard her voice ; he became excited,
and followed her with this eves, trying
get a clear glimpse of her face.

'Make that old fellow sit down,' cried
someone at the back.

He sat down without a word, still following
with his eyes. His neighbour saw him
clutching the iron rails in front with quivering
fingers. When the old man took his eyes
from Folly, he turned them hurriedly behind
him, and then down in the pit.

Put your hand on the old man's jacket ;

he's going to pitch himself over whispered
the man who could not remove his observation.


Folly came down to the front singing. The
old man heard her voice and saw her face
fairly.

He sprang to his feet again.

^ Sit down, you old fool !' said the man next
to him, gripping his arm tightly.

One word !' whispered the old man. ' Is
she dead or not V

'Dead? Of course not. That's Folly.
If you oro round to the stao;e-door you can
see that she's alive for yourself

In a few minutes the gallery was freed from
its unwelcome visitor. As quickly as he could
leave the theatre the old man left it, and
those who assisted his entrance showed an
equal desire not to retard his exit.

*****

When Folly left the theatre she was detained
a moment under the gaslight at th
stage-door by the doorkeeper addressing a
whispered word to Roland Aveling, on whose
arm her hand rested.

There's an old man been hanging about
the doors these two hours waiting to see Miss
jolly — he seems a little off his head. I

9-^ -2

thought I'd put you on your guard,' said the
doorkeeper.

What is the matter X asked Folly.

Nothings much — a madman asking after
you. Another you have frenzied with your
eyes answered Koland.

Where is he V

I don't know, miss ; the police have
driven him away.'

Folly, standing under the gas, lifted her
veil, and looked up and down the street.
Except the ordinary loiterers by the stage-door
there was no one noticeable.

He has gone,' said Roland. ' Come, you
mustn't stand uncovered here for all the madmen
in London.'

He led Folly down to the brougham : an
attendant opened the door. Folly entered,
and Roland prepared to follow as soon as she
had arranged her skirts.

At that instant the door on the opposite
side of the brougham opened. The uncovered
and ghastly head of the old man
was thrust in, and he caught hold of Folly's
hand. She screamed in terror, looking upon
the hideous face and head so close to hers,
and tried to free her hand from his grasp.

No, no !' cried the old man. ' She is not

dead — her hand lives ! her voice Ives ! She
is here, living and breathing, not dead and
cold !' He set one foot in the brougham to
enter. Folly screamed again, shrinking from
the repulsive creature to the farther side of
the carriage. Seeing the vacant place at her
side, the old man prepared to take it, but
before he could raise his second foot from the
road, Roland, who had run round the carriage,
seized him by the collar and dragged him out
into the mud of the street.

A couple of policemen ran up and took
the wet and muddy object from Koland's
hands.

Folly, Folly !' cried the old man, ' do
not let them take me away to prison. Save
me, save me ! I am your farther !'

RECOGNITION.

^|HE iDolicemeii had the old man fast.
He couldn't disengage his weak
arms from the grasp of the powerful
men, but his voice was still free-save
me, save me !' he cried ; ' do not let
them take me away. I am your father —
John Morrison.'

Roland had returned to the carriage, and
telling the driver to go on quickly, he put his
foot into the brougham as it moved.

Stop !' cried Folly, rising and knocking at
the glass behind the driver. ' If that old
man is my father he must not be left here,'
she added, speaking in a voice of unwonted
emotion to Roland.

He will not be ill-treated. The police will
liberate him when we are gone. It is some
poor demented creature ; he cannot be your
father.'

'Why not?' answered Folly, angrily.
Stop, T say ! He shall not be left lying
in the road at the mercy of those men —
stop !'

The coachman pulled up, hearing the repeated
command.

People were running past the brougham to
join the crowd about the little group opposite
the stage-do or.

Folly turned the handle and threw the
door open.

For heaven's sake stay where you are,
Folly ! Let the driver go on. I will return
and see that no harm comes to the old man
said Roland, restraining the girl.

You !' the girl answered, with passionate
vehemence, trying to release her arm. ' You !
is he your father V

Be calm ; I will see that everything is
right. It is not safe for you to go there in
that crowd.'

Do you think because I am a girl I am a
coward ? Let me go this instant. I hate
you r

She sprang out of the brougham, and
Poland after her.

Her mother's spirit lived in Folly, and
^vith her energy and strength she pushed
through the idle crowd into the ring about
the policemen and their captive.

There, there, she has come to me ! I said
she would — rav own daughter !' exclaimed
John Morrison. ' My own beautiful daughter !
You won't let me go to prison, will you ?
She is alive, not dead, like the little children.
She doesn't hunt me up and down, but comes
to save me — don't you, dear V

'Are you my father V asked Folly, recoiling
instinctively as she looked at the repulsive
figure before her, and half hiding her
eyes behind her gloved hand.

*Yes, yes; you have Joan's skin and hair
and mouth— all as I remember her when T
courted her long, long ago. And see thereby
the side of your white glove, the very
mole at the corner of the eye that she had.
All just the same, and your hair, and your
voice ; it's like as if I looked at your mother
in her pretty young days.'

He's been drinking,' said the policeman,
winking. ' Here, what's this you've got in
your pocket, old 'un ? physic T'H be bound.'

It's rum ; but you shall have it if you'll
only let me go, policeman. I haven't drunk
a drop since tea-time — I haven't, I swear
John Morrison turned to his daughter, ' and
I won't. I'll be good, and do just what the
doctors told me ; only don't let them take
me away.'

Folly, trembling, stood unable to speak.

What shall we do with him V asked the
policeman, in a low voice of Roland. ^ We
can just pretend to take him to the station,
and then let him off round the corner. Kind
of frighten him, you know.'

Folly's irresolution passed away as her
quick ear caught the suggestion.

Let him go,' said she, firmly. ' This is
my business, and only mine. Let him go
this minute ; I will take care of him.'

The constable looked doubtfully at Roland,
and receiving no si2:n from him, relaxed his
hold with a few words and a nod to his companion.
John Morrison, finding himself free,
ran to Folly's side, and clutching her arm
with both hands, said :

Quick — quick, dear, let us go away quick!
Come — come, never mind my rum !'

Folly did not attempt to take her arm
away. She looked into the grinning,

hideous face so near her, and pointed to the
brougham. He dragged her quickly towards
it. Looking round to see if the policemen
were following, he caught sight of Poland
walking close to him.

^ Who is that man ? What does he want,
dear daughter ? See — the man who threw
me into the road and set the policemen on tome.
Take care of me, my dear. Don't let
him throw me down again.'

By a rapid movement he changed his position
and ran to the other side of Folly,
taking that arm between his two hands and
looking across her with a half-mad look at
Roland.

When they came to the brougham he
wrenched open the door and sprang in, impelled
by the overpowering fear of being
taken away and the hope of self-preservation.
He dragged Folly in with desperate eagerness,
and reaching over her, pulled the door
to, lolling the inner handle with both hands,
and keeping his eyes on Koland with the
terrified yet vicious look of a chim23anzee
that has secured some coveted object.

Roland took the box-seat beside the driver.

Will you let him come V said John Morrison
to Folly. ' Let me open the front

window softly and push him over under the
wheels.'

No, no ; he is kind and good. He will do
you no harm !' answered Folly, speaking for
the first time since she had liberated him.

Kind and good — ha, ha ! — to throw your
father on the road ! Never mind ; I don't
want to offend you, dear. You are not angry
with me V

Oh no.'

^ I'm glad he couldn't come inside with us.
He can't come in, can he ? There isn't room,
is there ? Spread out your dress, dear, so
that he shan't think there is space for him to
come between us. You won't let him separate
us, will you ? I don't like him at all ;
he looks like the man who set the dead hares
to hunt me. Who knows but what he might
turn into a dead hare himself, and hunt me
up and down, up and down, up and down. I
couldn't escape here. It isn't like being close
to the rails of the theatre gallery, is it ? One
could escape there.'

*' What do you mean V

I've been hunted, Folly dear — hunted by
dead hares, sometimes as big as horses, sometimes
larger than a haystack — hunted everywhere
: and sometimes I have been followed

by little dead children — your brothers and
sisters, dear — all dead ; and your mother, too,
dear, poor thing! — dead. They hunted me
out of my mind once, and I had to go to the
orspidal, but they let me out, and took the
dead things away. But if I saw 'em again I
would jump somewheres as they couldn't
follow me to : that's why I liked the front of
the gallery If they had followed me in
there I could have jumped over and escaped,
couldn't I ? When I first saw you I thought
you was dead ; but you're not, are you, dear V

No, no, no ; feel my hand.'

Oh, you dear, kind daughter ! Warm,
isn't it ? — quite alive ; not cold and damp and
green like the others. You wouldn't let a
dead hare come near me, would you V

^ No, no ; don't tally of that.'

No, I won't talk of it,' answered the old
man, putting his horny hand over his mouth
and shaking his head. Presently his thoughts
wandered away from the purpose of self-restraint,
his hand slipped away, and he said,
^ The dead hare did it, though. If it hadn't
been for the dead hare I shouldn't have left
my little ones and my wife to go in the workhouse
and die. All dead, all except you ;
you are alive, aren't you V

Folly nodded and put her hand upon his.
He smiled and giggled childishly, then he
asked, with sudden eagerness :
How old are you, Folly V
^ I am seventeen at Christmas-time.'
^ That is the time ; oh yes, you are my
daughter 1' Once more he cackled, rubbing
his hands together gleefully. ' Just as I
reckoned it. Every year I have said, now
the little one is fifteen, now she is sixteen —
like that. But I didn't know whether you
were a girl or a boy. It was the hare did
that. And your brothers and sisters and
your mother ? oh, what a lot I want to
know ! Come, let us begin quite at the beginning.
We won't think about that thing
that hunted me.' He shut his eyes and put
his fingers in his ears until vague forgetfulness
stole over him. Opening his eyes
slowly, and looking at Folly with a sly, imbecile
grin, he said, ' I've given it the slip.
But why did they call you Folly ? you were
to be named Florence.'

^ That was my name ; but the people at
the workhouse called me Folly for short.'
^ What workhouse V

Chertsey — where I was born.'

So they took my poor Joan thither.

Poor Joan — poor Joan !' He looked at the
girl, and, as if afraid to speak, opened his
mouth, forming the word ' dead V and then
put his hand over his lips. Folly understood
the question.

She died the same day I was born —
Christmas Day.'

That was the hare,' he said, nodding significantly.
' You never saw your brothers
and sisters V

'No.'

^ All dead ! all dead ! We shall never
find them, dear. They told me she went out
to find me the night I was sent to prison for
taking up that dead hare — no, it isn't drink,
that is quite true — and she must have fallen
by the way and been carried to Chertsey.
Poor Joan — my poor Joan ! What are you
going to do with me V

Take you home with me."

Ha, ha, ha ! what fun ! Look here, we'll
have this between us.' He felt in his pocket
for the bottle. ' Ha, they took it away from
me ; but we will have a little drop of rum.
Not much, just a little. That won't harm
me, and I shall not be afraid of — that things
I am in the same house with you. Just a
little drop of rum. Folly dear. You will

lend me threepence, won't you ? — your old
father.'

Folly nodded. The girl's tongue was
tied. Her courage sank in the presence of this
awful responsibility which had come to her.

Roland turned round to look through the
front window and assure himself of Folly's
safety. The light from the carriage lamp
fell full upon his face. John Morrison shrunk
into the corner, covering the lower part of
his face with his hands and looking over his
fingers.

Folly nodded to Roland.

What are you making signs to him for V
whispered the old man, with quick suspicion.

To let him know that I am quite safe.'

You are not safe,' answered he, fumbling
quickly in his trousers pocket.

Folly's flesh crept as he pulled out a bighorn
-handled knife, and unclasped a hook in
the back of it which was intended to clean
horse's hoofs.

What are you going to do with that V
she asked.

Don't be frightened, dear. You don't
think I would hurt you, do you ? I am
going to protect you. The blade's broke, but
this hook is better than nothing.'

'41^

prison.

Put it away ; there is nothing to fear.'

^ Yes, there is. I don't like his look.
He's just Hke the man that killed my Joan
and my children, and sent me to prison, and
made me the poor old wretch I am — only he's
younger. Yes, younger. What is his name V

He is no one you knows He is good and
kind.'

What is his name V

Aveling.'

John Morrison gave a sharp cry that made
Roland turn round again, bringing his face
into the light once more.

The old man's bravery forsook him in an instant.
He dropped the knife and cowered in a
corner, holding his face in his hands as before.

It's him, it's him !' he whispered hoarsely.
I knew his fair face and blue eyes ; but he's
grown younger instead of older, like me. No
5ne has hunted him.'

He felt at his feet stealthily for his knife,
which he picked up as Roland removed his
face from the glass.

^ He isn't looking now. Let me break
through the glass and tear him with this ; I
could, for your sake.'

You shall do nothing of the kind ; give
me the knife,' said Folly, sternly.

From maniacal fierceness John Morrison's
expression changed to idiotic weakness.
Siding the instrument behind him, he said,
in a tone of supplication :

Let me keep it, Folly dear. I won't
hurt him. But let me keep it in case he
should hunt me away. He might turn into
a hare, as he has done before, and hunt me
up and down, up and down ; and how could I
escape without this V

Give it to me.'

He yielded it up, and she threw it out of
the window.

Now we are at his mercy,' said he, clasping
his hands.

We have nothing to fear.'

You don't know him — I didn't know him
nobody knew him. Everybody thought
him kind and good. But I tell you he killed
your mother and her brood, and ruined me ;
does not that make you dread him ? You
are not dead, you say V

You are mistaken ; he was a child when
my mother died.'

^ No, no, I'm not mistaken. I know his
eyes and his face. You say his name is
Avelino^ : but I should have known him
without that. Hasn't he been hunting me

VOL. II. 23

ever since I was young and good-looking and
happy, him and his keeper and the dead
hare ? Don't tell me I am mistaken : he is
Sir Andrew.'

Sir Andrew T

'Sir Andrew Aveling grown young again,
but him, with his wicked heart and kind face
still

Folly was perplexed like an awakening
sleeper between the real and the illusory.
Facts came to prove that real which she had
regarded as imaginary. She could no longer
doubt that the old man beside her was her
father ; she could no looser disbelieve that
the young man who had been kind to her
was in some manner connected with the
misery of her father. Roland had often
spoken to her of his father, Sir Andrew ; and
she herself had detected a likeness between
him and the little miniature of the baronet
which he carried in a locket of his mother's
upon his chain.

But a fresh anxiety arose to distract her.
They were in Lambeth Road, and nearing
her home the carriage slackened its pace.
Before it came to a stand Roland leapt from
the box. Simultaneously John Morrison,
with no thought but for his own safety, burst

open the door on the opposite side and sprang
into the road.

Go away, go away !' said Folly impatiently
to Koland. ' You frighten him. Go away !'

'But I cannot leave you alone with him,
Folly ; he is dangerous.'

He is my father, that is all I know. He
has run away, and will not return while you
are here. Leave me.'

But '

Will you go away V cried Folly, stamping
her foot in angry impatience. * It seems
that I have more to fear from you than from
him.'

Roland bowed and offered his hand. Folly
turned her back on him without a word.
Her father's words had taken deep effect
upon her highly-wrought feelings, and she
felt a repugnance to her admirer which she
was too honest to conceal.

Roland withdrew discomfited. But he had
no intention of relinquishing Folly to the
fate of her own selection. Walking from the
light, he perceived John Morrison on the
opposite side of the way cowering by a buttress
of the wall. Keeping his eyes that
way and walking a few steps farther, he saw
the old man dart from his hiding-place across

23—2

the road, run np the steps to Folly standing
at her door, and the next moment he heard
the door shut with a loud noise.

He lingered in the neighbourhood, taking
care to keep out of sight until the door
opened and Miss Clip came out with a bottle.

She is quite safe ; the old man is like a
baby in her hands,' said she, in answer to
Roland's eager questioning. ' He is only
afraid of you. I am going to fetch a quartern
of rum for them. It will be all right, sir,
don't fear.'

Despite this assurance, Koland walked
about in the vicinity of the house for a long
while after the last light had disappeared
from its windows, and left it with a fervent
prayer for the safety and happiness of the
young actress.

Friendship is generous and disinterested,
but could any man, not in love with the girl,
forget that she had sent out for rum to drink
with her mad father ?

THE FILIAL LOVE OF FOLLY.

HE natural spring of affection in
Folly's heart, which had been pent
up for so many years, burst forthwith
accumulated force and added
volume, now that a course was opened for its
flow. Final love attained its highest development
in her emotional young breast. Attachments
of a more or less transient kind she
had formed for several individuals since her
coming to London ; but they were for the
most part mere expressions of gratitude.
Not one of them was tinged with passion, or
arose from that feeling of unselfish love which
comes spontaneously from the heart and owes
nothing to reciprocal considerations.

He^'is my father 1' Folly needed no other

argument for loving John Morrison than that.
His terrible condition, his hideous appearance,
which made him repulsive to others, which at
first shocked her beauty-loving senses, served
only to endear him more strongly to her when
she found that he was her father, by appealing
to her compassion and exciting her womanly
pity.

Women admire the strong, but they love
the weak. To comfort the unhappy, to minister
to the wants of the helpless, satisfies the
instinctive craving to be of use in this world,
which animates every heart not utterly depraved,
and is in woman least disguised.

Folly felt for her father as a mother feels
for her deformed child-babe, loving him the
more because he was loved by none but her.
The time that she had devoted to her own
pleasures she devoted to pleasing him. She
dressed him like a gentleman, gave him luxuries
that she denied herself, bought him
presents and flowers and books with pictures,
which she taxed her imagination to explain
to his weak understanding. Learning from
a physician that her father's dementia was
due to excessive drinking, and that the next
attack of delirium would probably be fatal,
she used all her efforts to wean him from his

vice, stimulating his appetite for healthier
substitutes, wheedling him, coaxing him,
cheating him out of his darling pleasure.
Pretending to share the glass with him, she
more than half intoxicated herself with rum
a spirit most vile and detestable to her
palate, in order to lessen his portion.

Hers was an arduous undertaking, for the
old man had no conscience now : he lied and
stole to satisfy his cravings. She gave him
everything but money; but he, with the
cunning of a drunkard and a lunatic, contrived
to get money to buy rum. He crept
out in her absence and pawned the things
she had given him — books, pictures, dress,
anything that could be converted into money;
and this despite his fear of meeting Sir Andrew
Aveling and being carried away to prison,
or hunted by dead hares.

Folly could not induce him to go with her
for walks in the day-time. Fears for himself
were not to be overcome by love for her — by
nothing but his passion for rum.

The love was, as in many cases, alas ! all on
one side.

He was as selfish as a child, and loved her
just for what he could get. He would have
bartered her away body and soul for a bottle

of rum ; he would have sold himself for the
same price. The more difficult he found it
to obtain what he wanted, the greater pleasure
he had in getting it. It was a mad lust, that
made him perfectly oblivious of every consequence
and of every consideration but the one
idea of self-gratification.

And this man she loved with all the fulness
of her nature.

Love has no eyes ; but filial love might be
represented without a head, for reason has no
dominion over it.

When John Morrison talked, it was of himself
and of the past. He told her of his
young days, of his strength, his sober, steadfast
life, of his early love for Joan — of her
beauty, her virtues, her wifely love, her
motherly tenderness ; of his pride in keeping
honest despite the hard times and temptations
; of their hopes for the youngsters just
going out to work ; of their simple preparation
for spending Christmas Day with the
children, * All together and comfortable like,
wi' a sudden and a bit o' meat ;' and then
he explained the injustice done to him, his
committal to prison, the break-up of his
home, and the ruin of his family.

He scarcely mentioned Ledger's name,

always regarding him as the mere instrument
of his master — a servant who did the
dirty work he was paid to do. It was against
Sir Andrew that he launched every angry invective
that rose from his turbid imagination.
He was the false witness, the unjust judge, the
unrighteous justice, who with a stroke of the
pen had consigned him to perdition, had murdered
his wife, and scattered his helpless
children, so that for him they were lost forever
; he who still pursued him, and would
hunt him down to his death.

The border-line that divides madness from
reason was obliterated from John Morrison's
mind ; he could not distinguish the real from
the imaginary. The dead hare that hunted
him, the dead wife and children who pursued
him with their wan, supplicating faces, were
to him as real as those substantial facts that
dwelt in his memory.

Folly distinguished the two, but she did
not allow for prejudice. She did not see
that her father was unjust in attributing to
Sir Andrew the crime committed by his
servant, James Ledger. She behoved implicitly
in her father's view, and regarded
Sir Andrew as alone responsible for all the
misfortunes which had befallen her family.

He had, by an arbitrary and unjust use of
the power vested in him, wrecked her father,
killed her mother, and scattered her brothers
and sisters to the mercy of the world. She knew
that Koland had no part in the crime, and was
guiltless of any sinister intentions against herself
or her father — a knowledge which John
Morrison could not and would not accept.
He insisted that the man who had thrown
him down in the street was ' Sir Andrew
grown young.' Every day he questioned Folly
about him.

Where is he ? — where is Sir Andrew V
he asked.

He is in the country. At Aveling Hall.
I have asked about him,' replied Folly.

Who did you ask V

His son.'

Don't you believe it, Folly dear — don't
you believe it. He is Sir Andrew, deceiving
you that you may deceive me. But I am
not such a fool. I know the man who looked
through the window at me. Do you think I
could forget his blue eyes and fair face 1 Oh,
what a fool I was not to dig my hook into his
back as he sat there I'

That man will do you no harm.'

He told you so, and you believe him.

But you won't believe me, though I have
suffered by him for your sake. He talks
kindly to you that he may get you on his
side to hunt me. And that is what you will
do : you will help him to hunt me, and open
my door to let in the dead hare. He watches
outside the house ; he waits for the door to
be opened. But you won't let him in, will
you, dear Folly % You won't take his part ?
You won't let him take me away to the heath
where he can hunt me, and there is nowhere
for me to escape him ? Do tell me you won't,
Folly dear.'

I won't, father; you know I won't.'

But you love him more than sou do me.
He has deceived you because sou are a silly
little fool, and he sees that you want to get
rid of me.'

No, father dear, no ; you are mistaken.'

No, I am not. Why didn't you let me kill
him, you wretch ? Why do you talk to him
about me if you don't love him ?'

^ I don't talk to him about you.'
Don't you. Folly dear ; don't you % Nota
word, eh 1 Not a word ? Don't you tell
him where I sleep ? Don't you tell him that
I sometimes go out alone when you are at the
theatre ?'

Never. I do not say a word about you

^ I would believe you if you were kinder tome
— more good. Oh, how can you think of
your poor mother and the little children — all
dead, and look at me, no longer a handsome,
honest, strong young man, but a toothless,
ugly old thief, praying them not to hunt me
from my grave, but to let me drop into it and
be buried — how can you do this and love him,
you heartless devil V

I don't love him. I love only you, father
dear.' Folly clasped his arm to her breast.

^ Do you ? Do you love me well enough
to tell him lies '? Will you say I am dead and
buried, that he may cease to hunt me — cease
to set the great dead thing tracking me up
and down wherever I go?'

Yes, I will tell him that.'

And will you send the girl out for a little
rum, darling ? Just a little to mix with a great
deal of water, you know, and both drink out
of the same glass, eh ? Quite fair, you know ;
and you keep your hand on the glass so that I
shan't drink more than my share. You always
do drink fair, I know. You are so truthful and
kind to me, dear. Never drink more than your
share, or pour water in when you send me out
of thereon to look forsake more — never. And

there always is some more outside when you
send me out for it ; only I can't find it because
I'm such an old fool. Oh, no, dear, you never
deceive me, you're so good. Just a little drop
in a bottle, darling ; not the big bottle, dear.
And the girl won't half fill the bottle with
water while she's out ! Oh no, she never
does I You are all so truthful and so kind
to the door old man. Ha, ha, ha ! Just a
little drop — eh, dear ?

It was in this way the argument usually
finished ; for Folly would give way to the old
man, cheating him, as he knew full well. Sometimes
she refused obstinately, and then he
would return to fierce reproaches, and work
himself up into a terrible agony of suspicion
and dread.

Under the influence of her father. Folly's
character exhibited a marked change. On
the stage she was the same, but off* it she was
no longer the thoughtless, careless, artless
girl she had been.

An ignorant, impulsive girl, knowing no
law but the lex talionis taught by the drama,
and regarded as just and holy b}^ all the less
cultivated exponents of the drama — a law,
unfortunately, which is taught from the pulpit
as well as the stage — she heard of the cruel

wrongs by which her family had suffered,
and felt that to revenge them was a duty she
owed to her miserable father and her dead
mother. She came to look upon vengeance
as a necessity, and upon herself as the
natural minister. As her eyes rested upon
her degraded father, she thirsted like a
young savage to reduce Sir Andrew to the
state of misery he had brought upon the old
man. She was told that ifc was good to read
the Bible, to believe in it as a Divine inspiration
which could not err, to obey the laws it
prescribed, and she learnt this verse by heart :
sand thine eye shall not pity; but life shall
go for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand
for hand, foot for foot.' Was she to blame
for believing herself justified in executing the
savaiii^e instinct of vengeance in her heart ?

Not in a day, a week, or a month did she
come to the determination to revenge the
wrongs of her father; it crept upon her little
by little, until it possessed her entirely.

Insidiously this wrong doctrine sapped the
foundations of her generous and simple disposition
— the bad taking the place of the good.

Long before she had formed any definite
scheme for the destruction of Sir Andrew,
she had assailed his son. Roland, she knew,
was in her power.

A STRANGE VENGEANCE.

Army in the new year a ball was

given by certain noblemen and

gentlemen to selected members of

the dramatic profession. Next to

the titled names Roland Aveling, Esq., took

the first place upon the committee list.

None had subscribed more liberally than he.

About midnight the guests bes^an to arrive.

o o o

It was nearly one when the brougham
brought Folly to the doors. Despite the
hour, a considerable crowd had accumulated to
see the public favourites pass. When Roland
gave his hand to Folly, the spectators pressed
forward to see her ; as she stepped down
upon the red cloth they greeted her with a
sudden exclamation of admiration. She was

recognised, and ^ Folly !' 'Folly !' passed from
lip to lip. Her ear was never dull to applause,
and, hearing her names she turned
her head from side to side with a good-humoured
smile and a nod. The public were
her best friends, and she would acknowledge
them at any time, no matter how she was
dressed or in whose company she happened
to be.

Conscious of her beauty and the effect she
should make, she walked into the ball-room
erect, and with the carriage of a princess.
She was not mistaken as to her reception ;
the men hovered buzzing about her like bees,
the women showed the disposition of wasps.

Show me the lords,' said Folly to Koland.

There is Lord Lancefoil on the right,
looking at you. Shall I introduce you ?'

Oh no. He will introduce himself
directly answered Folly, fixing her eyes on
the nobleman. ' Show me some more.'

Koland pointed out the titled men, and
Folly, having in turn magnetised each of
them with those loadstones, her eyes, they
gravitated towards her.

It was her first ball. Roland, in putting
his name down upon her programme, instructed
her in its use. She showed it to

him after her first dance. It was filled
up.

^ All lords,' said she ' except one.'

Myself answered Roland, looking down
the names. ' I wish I had a title, for your
sake, Folly.'

I Hke you just as well without. You are
worth more to me than all the rest put
together

Roland pressed the hand that rested on
his arm to his side, and looked into the girl's
face. She met his eyes, and subdued them
with her bolder glance; then laughed lightly.

Lord Lancefoil came up, and claimed her
hand as the music began. She pinched
Koland's arm slyly, as she withdrew her
hand. He did not dance, but stood watching
her as she floated round the room, and
she rewarded him With sweet smiles and
languishing looks as she passed. When the
waltz was over, she came to his side again.

Why didn't you dance V she asked.

It was enough happiness to look at you,'
he replied.

^ Will you not dance except with me V

No.'

He took the programme from his vest
pocket and tore it up.

VOL. II. 24

You are a good boy. I should have been
ever so jealous if you had danced with anyone
else.'

^ Do you like this kind of dancing as well
as you expected f

^ Yes. Waltzing is delicious. But I wish
I might have you for a partner every time ;
no one dances as you do.'

The latter part of this speech was true in
an equivocal sense. Roland was a clumsy
dancer, but he had the happiness to be
ignorant of the fact, and, taking Folly's
words in their flattering sense, he pitied her
for having to dance with less graceful dancers.
Men are gainer than women, and more easily
deceived.

He danced with Folly again, and took her
to supper in high spirits. They were both
excited, but Folly was careful about her
wine. Roland, on the other hand, drank
more than was good for him, and in the subsequent
dance had a confused notion as to
the position of the room and the relative
distance of other dancers, with whom he
would undoubtedly have come into collision
but for his partner's guidance.

He contrived to get through the dance
with no more serious accident than the tearing

off about a couple of yards of the Honiton
lace which covered Folly's blue satin dress,
with one of the diamond sprays that had
looped it up.

What did that matter 1

'You shall have a new dress and more
diamonds for the next ball he said, as he sat
panting at Folly's side.

Not to cloy him with sweetness, Folly
ceased to flatter him, and bestowed her smiles
upon other partners in the succeeding dances.
He watched her for a while with morose
jealousy, and then went to the refreshment-room
and drank more champagne. It excited
without exhilarating him, and he
returned to the ball-room in a humour to
quarrel with anyone — Folly included. It
took him some time to discover her among
the waltzers, and then it was with difficulty
he could follow her with his eyes. He was
still straining his eyes to find her, when,
taking the seat by his side, she put her hand
on his arm, and said, with a laugh : .

For Heaven's sake don't look like that,
Ptoland. Your eyes are nearly out of your
head, and you are squinting most horribly.'

I am sorry,' he said, turning to her with
an air of offended dignity, which was 



supported by the expression of his eyes and
the articulation of his words ; ' I am very
sorry that I have ceased to give you pleasures


You have not ceased. Don't you see
how I am enjoying myself?'

Yes ; but I perceive your 'enjoyment is
perfectly independent of any efforts on my
part.'

you stupid old fellow, you are jealous.
You don't like me to be happy when you are
not ; and, indeed, I can't be, Roland,' said
Folly, with sudden gravity.

A man's weaknesses clings to him in intoxication
; the pliability of Roland's disposition,
which led him at all times to yield to a gentle
word, was evident in the readiness with which
he responded to Folly's overture. With a
sudden transition from dignity to sweetness
he smiled at his companion, and said :

Can't you be happy when I am not.
Folly V

^ No. See, the waltz is not finished yet ;
I refused to dance another round when I saw
how distressed you were.'

The new emotion sobered Roland.

And you, who love dancing, did this for
my sake ? Oh, Folly, what a brute I am tolet

you see T was hurt, ard what a fool to
feel hurt. Didn't I brig you to enjoy yourself,
and could I expect that you would make
yourself ridiculous by sitting out ? Oh, forgive
me, dear /'

The word slipped out unconsciously. He
had so guarded his tongue that the first term
of endearment had never escaped him. He
had bought her diamonds, and spent a small
fortune on the ball - dress she wore, but
always under the delusion that he was acting
in simple friendship — a wilful delusion, which
was maintained solely by that one slight
restriction he put upon his lips. That was
gone, and the result, even to his muddled
senses, made him tremble to think of

Folly caught the word, and, leaning towards
him with melting eyes, whispered :

What is there I could not forgive soit ?'

You shall not suffer by my vile temper.
Go, Folly, and finish this waltz.'

'Only with you.'

He jumped up, the blood rushing to his
face and throbbing in his temples. How
gloriously beautiful the girl Alas ! If he lost
everything and possessed only her, would he
not be compensated ?

As he put his arm about her, and clutched

her hand with passionate haste, the waltz
ended.

Never mind, we will dance the next
dance together. What is it V

She held out the programme she could not
read.

A galop. You are engaged for it to
Lord LancefoiL'

^ What does that matter ? What is he tome
? I will dance with you.'

He will be hurt.'

What do I care who suffers, so that I
give you happiness V

Her eyes seemed to penetrate his very
soul. He could not speak. He shivered, as
if he were seized with cold; his tongue clove
to the roof of his mouth.

Tell me what you are thinking about,'
said Folly, in a soft, low tone, dropping her
soft gloved hand on his, as it rested on the
cushion between them.

He turned his hand and caught her fingers,
and was about to answer when Lord Lance -
foil stepped in front of them.

This untimely interruption served to make
his dismissal a work of pleasure to Folly.
Very briefly she informed him that she had

given the preference to Mr. Aveling as a
partner for the next dance.

^ It is easier to forgive Folly than her
partner said the nobleman with a bow, and
withdrew, mentally cursing Folly, nevertheless.


And then the music commenced, and
Roland rose at once, with a last struggle to
preserve his tottering honour.

The galop is a dance which does not admit
of much conversation during its performance,
happily. Roland only replied to Folly's
remarks, but his fingers spoke. Their linked
hands formed a chain for the electric current
of passion, and its fires shot from their eyes
as they met and parted.

'I am thirsty,'said Folly, as the dance ended.

They went to the refreshment-room and
drank champagne. They sat over their wine,
and drank while others danced.

There's Cates looking for you ; this is
his dance,' said Roland.

Let him go. I will dance with no one
but you.'

Folly r

Would you like me to V

No. Take your eyes away ; they are too
beautiful.'

Drink to them, Roland.'

He filled the classes to the brim.

^ To your eyes, darling !' he cried fervidly,
and drank the \Yine down to the last drop.

You have not touched your glass, Folly.'

How can I drink to my own eyes. Fill
again, and I will give you a toast we may
both drink

'Waiter, another bottle.'

The wire clicked, the cork popped, the wine
frothed out into the glasses.

Roland took up his glass with a wavering
hand.

Your toast, Folly, your toast !'

She put her disengaged hand out and gave
it to his eager grasp, and, leaning over the
little table until her hair touched, his cheek
and her breath came warm upon his ear, she
murmured :

To Love !'

It was still dark, though the labourers were
going to their work, when Folly took her seat
in the brougham beside Roland, who had been
lifted into the vehicle in a speechless and helpless
state of intoxication. She was as self-composed
and fresh as if she had undergone
no excitement, and refused the assistance

offered her by several friends of Poland, protesting
that she was not afraid, and could take
care of him.

As the carriage moved Roland slid towards
her from the corner where he was propped up.
She pushed him away with an expression of
disgust, and, as she looked upon him in his
besotted debasement, her thoughts were divided
between him and her father.

She saw in Roland now something of her
father's loathsomeness : but as she had wept
over the shame of one, so she rejoiced in the
vileness of the other. Retribution had begun.
She prayed from her heart that Sir Andrew
miofht suffer for his son as she suffered for her
father.

Her purpose was unshaken by one compassionate
thought. She had schooled herself
to cruelty. * And thine eye shall not pity ;
but life shall go for life, eye for eye, tooth
for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.' These
words she repeated again and again.

When the carriage stopped before Roland's
chambers at Kensington, it was clear that help
would be required to get the young man from
the brougham.

The driver rang the bell. The housekeeper
came to the door.

Got Mr. Aveling in the kerridge/ said the
driver, jerking his thumb over his shoulder.

Mr. Avehng V

Yes, he's not quite well ; took a little
poorly.' The driver spoke in a loud voice for
Folly to hear, and winked significantly for
the housekeeper to understand. ' The poor
gentleman can't walk comfortably. Have
you got ere a man about that can help me
carry him upstairs V

Why, there's a friend of his that came
last night, and has occupied his room since.
I'll go and fetch him.'

The housekeeper disappeared, and after a
while returned with a tall, large-boned man,
wrapped in one of Roland's gorgeous dressing-gowns.


The brougham door was opened, and Roland
Aveling, in the contemptible position of a
helpless drunkard by the side of a fresh and
smiling girl, was displayed to the eyes of the
Reverend Richard Yane.

A CHECK.

^^^IHE vicar of St. Barnabas, Tangleyy,
*^^^ looked neither disgusted nor surprised
at the spectacle presented to
his eyes. His expression was that
of a strong man undergoing a necessary
operation ; the muscles of his brows and
mouth were contracted as if with pain ; that
was all.

He took Eoland'shand and shook it, trying
to arouse him from his torpor. Roland gave
no responsive sign of life. His hand dropped
from the vicar's like a thing of lead. He
was dead drunk.

I must detain you while the coachman
assists me in carrying my friend to his room

lie said, fixing his eyes upon Folly for the
first time.

Folly inclined her head, not taking her eyes
from Richard Vane's face.

They recognised each other by Koland's
descriptions, and their eyes met with the
measuring glance of foes.

It was thus the good and the bad angel
met over the body of the man whose soul
they were to fight for.

Folly tried to scan the capacities of the
man who would thwart her purpose if he
could; Richard Vane gauged the strength of
the woman whose influence over Roland he
was to counteract. Each read the other's
thoughts.

You are Mr. Vane V said Folly.

Yes ; and you are Folly he replied.

She nodded with a little smile of defiance.
The vicar turned to his friend, not without
hope that a girl so young and beautiful might
be directed into goodness.

He held the belief that loveliness and
goodness are inseparable. There was nothing
radically vicious in Folly's face to his eyes ;
its blemish was the result of wrong cultivation,
which better training might remove.

He lifted his friend from the brougham.

He passed his hands under the helpless man's
arms and clasped them on his breast, the
coachman lifted his less, and so together they
carried Roland upstairs. In consideration
of the care with which the coachman executed
his part of the work Mr. Yane gave him a
shilling and dismissed him with thanks ; then,
closing the door, he returned to the inner
room, where Koland sat piled up in a big chair.
He shook up the bed he had been lying in,
beat up the pillows, and turned back the
sheets. Next he turned over the linen in
the wardrobe until he found a clean nioiit-
shirt. After that he set to work on Roland
himself With a good deal of trouble he
contrived to set him out of his evenings and
into his niofht dress. Then, tackling his
patient as firemen serve suffocated jDcrsons, he
got him upon his shoulder, and in that way
carried him over to the bed, where he laid
him down quietly, straightened him out, and
covered him over with as much care and
tenderness as if he had been the most gracious
of sufferers. Having done this, the
good Samaritan went into the next room,
put out the light, and laid himself down on
the couch to take his own proper share of
rest.

aside, and marked another drop flow down
the damp sm-face and drop oflP upon the sheet
as the young man drank. Then the Samaritan's
heart rejoiced and his eye grew moist
in sympathy.

Now turn your back to the light and have
another doze. You'll be able to get up when
you wake again,' said he, when Roland,
lowering his head, held out the empty
glass.

Ptoland turned his back without a word,
and drew the clothes over his head.

The vicar looked on, standing beside the
bed with the glass in his hand and silently
puffing at his pipe. The shoulders beneath
the clothes were agitated with a quick convulsive
movement. The vicar," sitting on the
edge of the bed, bent over and patted his
friend soothingly

Koland threw back the clothes, caught hold
of the vicar's hand and kissed it.

It was a hand to kiss, being unsoiled as
God had fashioned it. Never had it been
used in any mean or unworthy work ; never
had it been withdrawn when humanity demanded
its help.

After a couple of hours' sleep Roland

awoke considerably refreshed. A cold bath
completely restored him to his habitual
vigour. He came from his bedroom with a
blush for his past weakness, but with less
fear than he had anticipated, and sat down
with Vane to the tea and steak prepared for
him.

Richard Vane also ate.

Have some more steak,' he said, dividing
the portion and helping himself; 'you will
get nothing more to eat until supper-time.'

Roland looked up inquiringly.

How's that ?' he asked.

You are going to Tangleyy with me, and I
leave Waterloo by the 5.30.'

I don't see how I can do that.'

Why V

In the first place,' said Roland, after a
little consideration, ' in the first place, there's
my father.'

Is he in the first place V asked Vane,
looking up sharply. ' Come, Roland, start
fair.'

^ I admit I didn't think of him first. But
I have an engagement — that is, I am expected
at the Levity to-night.'

^ We shall pass a telegraph office on our way
to the station, or you can get a messenger to

VOL. II. 25

aside, and marked another drop flow down
the damp surface and drop off upon the sheet
as the young man drank. Then the Samaritan's
heart rejoiced and his eye grew moist
in sympathy.

Now turn your back to the Hight and have
another doze. You'll be able to get up when
you wake again,' said he, when Roland,
lowering his head, held out the empty
glass.

Roland turned his back without a word,
and drew the clothes over his head.

The vicar looked on, standing beside the
bed with the glass in his hand and silently"
puffing at his pipe. The shoulders beneath
the clothes were agitated with a quick convulsive
movement. The vicar," sitting on the
edge of the bed, bent over and patted his
friend soothingly.

Koland threw back the clothes, caught hold
of the vicar's hand and kissed it.

It was a hand to kiss, being unsoiled as
God had fashioned it. Never had it been
used in any mean or unworthy work ; never
had it been withdrawn when humanity demanded
its help).

'■-vc-35- -SJ-

After a couple of hours' sleep Roland

awoke considerably refreshed. A cold bath
completely restored him to his habitual
vigour. He came from his bedroom with a
blush for his past weakness, but with less
fear than he had anticipated, and sat down
with Vane to the tea and steak prepared for
him.

Richard Vane also ate.

Have some more steak,' he said, dividing
the portion and helping himself; 'you will
get nothing more to eat until supper-time.'

Roland looked up inquiringly.

How's that ?' he asked.

You are going to Tangleyy with me, and I
leave Waterloo by the 5.30.'

I don't see how I can do that.'

^ Why V

In the first place,' said Roland, after a
little consideration, ' in the first place, there's
my father.'

Is he in the first place V asked Vane,
looking up sharply. 'Come, Roland, start
fair.'

I admit I didn't think of him first. But
I have an eno^ao'ement — that is, I am expect
ted at the Levity to-night.'

We shall pass a telegraph office on our way
to the station, or you can get a messenger to

VOL. II. 25

carry a letter. I think I know who expects
you. If everything else fails, I will stay in
London and carry your excuses myself

That is not necessary,' Koland replied,
staring at the table, on which he was industriously
scraping the crumbs together with
his knife.

Then, now for your second objection.'
'My father — you know the terms of my

agreement with him X

Yes ; and like them none the better for

knowing them well. That agreement must

be broken.'

If I break it I destroy the hope of giving
Madge a position.'

^ What kind of position do you think you
are likely to give her by keeping it V asked
the vicar, drily. Koland winced.

You will remember,' continued Vane,
that besides your agreement with your
father you have one with my sister. It must
be clear to anyone who does not wilfully deceive
himself that both contracts cannot be
kept ; and the question I ask you to decide
at once is which of these do you feel most
binding upon you V

You can answer that for yourself, Dick.'

I have answered it. I answered it to my

own satisfaction, and it should be to yours,
when I said you would go to Tangleyy tonight.'


It depends upon the justice of your assertion
that I cannot keep both contracts.'

That requires no argument. I have seen
sufficient of Folly to know that she is dangerous.'


^ How do you think she can hurt me V

I am not thinking of you, Roland ; I was
thinking of Madge.'

Roland was silenced by this home-thrust.

These interesting experiments you are
making on yourself jeopardise her happiness.
Breaking . your contract and breaking her
heart mif^hf be the same things.'

^ How can you think I would do either X

You have gone as far towards doing so as
you could. You deluded yourself with the
idea that you were strong enough to resist
temptation ; you persuaded Madge to share
that delusion. You are not keeping your
contract when you depart from the character
you professed to have and promised to maintain
when you made it.'

You mustn't damn a good horse for a
stumble, Dick.'

Good horse, indeed ! Don't flatter 



self. Stumble, forsooth ! You only keep on
your legs by accident. Do sou think I came
here last night on the off-chance, to choose
your own horsey language, of catching you
stumbling ? The only off-chance I looked for
was of finding you at home with a pipe and
one of your silly yellow hermaphrodite
novels. It is no secret that you have
been dangling about in the coulisses every
nio'ht for the last two months. A o'ood
horse, indeed !' the vicar laughed contemptuously
; ^ why, you've nothing of the mule but
his obstinacy, and the jackass would cease to
bray if he had not more resolution than you.'

How you work a fellow's words against
him if he happen to make a simile ! You're
precious hard on a man. I thought you were
going to take some compassion on a poor
devil of a fellow.'

^ So I would if you would not persist in
declaring that you're not a poor devil. I
know you're a poor devil, and I pity you.
All the world must pity such a poor devil.'

There you go again, Dick ; " poor devil,
poor devil," half-a-dozen times in a minute.'

If you are satisfied that you are a
pitiable object, that is enough. It is not a
novelty to me to regard you in that light.

The knowledge that you had not enough
strength to keep you out of mischief, to keep
you from hurting yourself and others as well,
brought me here. As you wouldn't fly from
temptation, it was necessary for some one to
come and carry you, poor thing.'

I can't understand you — one moment
kind, the next harsh.'

I hope I may be blind and deaf the day
a sufferer leaves me without a lessened Avow ;
but I hope I may lose all my senses before I
encourage professional beggars.'

Who's a professional beggar V

Who is a professional beggar ? Why, he
who gets compassion that he does not deserve
; he who begs others to help him because
he is too lazy to help himself; he who
sorts over the crusts you give him, taking
those which are palatable and wasting the
rest ; he who deserves rather a horsewhip
than a kind word ; he who takes but never
gives ; he who prays for himself and never
thinks of others.'

The vicar ceased to speak, and Roland
buried his face in his hands. Presently the
young fellow lifted his head.

Oh, Madge, how have I forgotten you !
he cried, springing to his feet, forgetful of

Richard, and thinking only of his sister.
And when I have told you all, how can sou
forgive me V

If you tell her all,' said the vicar, in his
sweetest tones, coming to Poland's side and
laying his hand affectionately on his shoulder,
she will trust you and forgive you as only a
woman can.'

ROLAND SAYS ^ N 0.

GLAND'S obstinacy being overcome,
he was eager to pursue the
new course open to him, which had
to his impulsive nature the additional
charm of newness. Imagination
painted the future in pleasant colours, and
took no notice of unsightly obstructions. He
was incapable of looking fairly over anything :
his eye would only rest on those objects
which harmonised with the mood of his
mind.

At Waterloo the vicar led him to the telegraph
office.

You forget that someone expects you tonight,'
Vane explained, in answer to Koland's
look of inquiry.

He felt almost ashamed to write the telegram.
' I shall be unable to see you tonight
; I will write to you soon were the
words he sent to Folly — words sufficiently
significant of his intention to see her no
more.

They took possession of the corners of a
smoking compartment and buried themselves
in their newspapers — the vicar to give
Roland opportunity for thought, and he to
avail himself of the opportunity.

What should he say to ]margaret ? Of
course he should let her know that he was
determined to marry her at once ; but then
how could he explain this sudden and unannounced
determination ? Must he tell her
all ? Would it not pain her to learn how he
had got drunk, and all that ? Was it not one
of those 'rude experiences unmeet for ladies'
even to hear of? Would it not be kinder to
refer in the slightest manner possible to
Folly ? She would have to learn something,
but how much ? Richard Yane had declared
that his danfylincf about in the coulisses was
no secret. Who had told him ?

Dick, who told you that I sometimes
went behind the scenes at the Levity V he
asked.

Who told me that you went six nights
in the week behind the scenes at the Levity 1'
responded the vicar, with a smile. ' An old
friend of yours.'

^ Amadis Gamier, I'll go odds.'

^ You've won. Book it. Amadis Gamier
it was.'

I don't think that was exactly consistent
with his professions of friendship, do sou V

Yes. If he hadn't had a good opinion of
you he would have thought you wished to
conceal the fact.'

That's very cleverly turned, Dick ; but it
doesn't exactly fit the case. I mean that it
is hardly consistent with professed friendship
to interfere with another man's personal
affairs. He came preaching a sermon to me
on the subject about a week after I had
made the acquaintance of Follj^, and when
he couldn't possibly have any reason to think
I was in danger.'

That is why he preached his sermon, I
dare say,' replied the vicar, taking up his
paper again.

'You shan't read, Dick, though you are
venomous. When did this precious fellow
that calls himself my friend tell you about
mer

About a month ago. He stayed with us
through Christina, and returned to London
with me yesterday. We had a very pleasant
Christmas Day, though it will displease you,
perhaps, to hear that the man who calls himself
your friend proposed your health when
we were all sitting round the fire after supper.'

^ Did he though ? Well, that was thoughtful
and kind — just like him. I mean that
he's — a jolly good fellow with all his faults.
Did Madge drink to me V

^ Yes ; she dropped a diamond from her
eye into the glass and drank it to you.'

Oh, Dick !'

And I thought of you when I was reading
divine service.'

Did you, Dick V

I prayed for your enemies, persecutors,
and slanderers — Amadis Garnier included —
and that their hearts might be turned.'

Scoffer.'

Roland did not refer to the subject again
until they were nearing the vicarage.

Does Madge know that you went to
town to fetch me V he asked

*No.'

Did Garnier blurt out before her that I —
about the Levity V

^ No. You will have to tell Madge all that
she should know.'

Roland felt relieved. He had already decided
that all Madge should know was just as
much as it would be agreeable for her to hear
and for him to tell.

The evening was damp and misty and
mild ; the ground yielded beneath the foot.
An old woman carrying a large umbrella was
the only person they met between the station
and the vicarage. The clock of St.
Barnabas struck seven. Roland thought of
the Strand thronged with people, cheerful
with many lights, where one might travel
rapidly in a hansom with comfort in the
worst weather. Never had the country
seemed so dull, dreary, and unpleasant as
now. He thought of the theatre, where nota
moment was Avithout its excitement, and
then of Folly, with her lovely little face and
sparkling gaiety. Would she miss him, poor
little soul ? Would she think him heartless
and for the first time be sad ? Would she
read all in that brief telegram that it implied,
and be heartbroken by his sudden desertion
? Would she think him mean and
treacherous, or would her tender heart forgive
him ? Would she shed a tear, or — horrible

thought ! — would she laugh, as if
nothing had happened, and flirt with another
man in his absence ? A feeling of sickness
came with the jealous suspicion. He looked
about him — his ej^es could not penetrate the
mist beyond the sober vicar walking along by
his side. All the uses of the world he was
to live in seemed weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable.
His palate craved for a glass of
brisk champagne — one glass would do him all
the good in the world, giving vitality to his
sluggish spirit, and encouraging him to do
his duty. He would get nothing but beer
at the vicarage, and the thought of that
simple beverage made him shudder. He felt
that it would make his liver worse instead of
better.

^ Beastly hole 1' he said to himself, as they
came into the village, where a candle burning
dimly on the counter of the general shop was
the only light to be seen. And this was
where he must live and find contentment.
Should he never see Folly again ? What on
earth would he find to do all day ?

After the dissipation of the preceding
night he would have been miserable anywhere
; but here the distemper attained to
its utmost malignancy in the absence of that

excitement which appeared to be its sole
remedy.

He found some relief on aiTivina" at the

o

vicarage. Lights shone with a warm glow
through the rose curtains of the latticed door,
and his mind was occupied in conjecturing
how Madge would look when she saw him.

She herself opened the door to her
brother's knock, and catching sight of Koland
in the background, Alas joyfully surprised.
She held his hand between hers, and said, ina
voice of tender love :

I am so glad you have come.'

If Richard Yane had not assured him to
the contrary, Roland would have imagined
she expected his coming.

That's the worst of having a character for
impulsiveness he replied, laughing ; 'you
can never surprise anyone

Madge would rather he had been silent, for
his words were utterly dissonant with her
sentiments. It was not impulse that had led
her to pray for his coming, nor did she pray
that impulse might bring him to her — quite
otherwise.

Holand's contrition was nothing but an impulse
; he had spoken truly in jest. He felt
no sincere delight in returning to Margaret,

no genuine satisfaction in having escaped
temptation. He knew that he ought to love
Margaret ten times more than Folly, but the
consciousness that he did not made it more
impossible that he should. Moreover, the
honesty at the bottom of this young man's
heart revolted at the hypocrisy he felt it
necessary to practise. Had he only had the
courage to be true to himself, all would have
Qfone well.

Conscious of his own deficiencies, he attempted
to appear natural by assuming an air
of gaiety which was as unpleasant to Margaret
and Richard as if he had openly professed
his careless indifference to their happiness.
They could not respond to his lively
sallies, and their irresponsiveness impressed
him more deeply with the idea that the
country was awfully dull, and that in leaving
London he had made a great sacrifice for the
sake of duty.

After supper Richard retired to his study
with a significant nod to Ptoland. Margaret
folded her hands on her knee and bent her
head, turning a little pale as her brother
closed the door behind him.

^ How the deuce shall I begin ? Hand: it !
he might have given me till tomorrow 1'

thought Roland. However, there vas no
avoiding the difficulty, so he crossed the
room, seated himself on the footstool at Margaret's
knees, and, taking her dainty hand,
said :

I suppose you were surprised to see me,
Madge, eh V

'• No ; we have been expecting you for
some time. I thought you would come at
Christmas.'

Why, what made you think that, Madge ?'
Do you want me to tell you '?' asked
Margaret, in surprise.

Upon my word I can't guess.'
What made you come to-day ?'
Well, my love for you, I suppose.'
Then did you not love me before ?'
It was provoking to be tripped up by a
girl in this manner. Roland was vexed at
allowing himself to be caught. Somehow
their hands separated without his observation.
He knitted his hands over his knee, and,
looking into the fire, replied to her question :
Of course I loved you before, Madge — of
course I did ; but you remember T said I
should not return for six months ; that was
my agreement with the old dad, which I was
compelled to keep.'

Then why have you broken it to-day V

Hang it all Madge, you're not sony to
see me, are you V asked Roland, petulantly.

No, England,' she replied, gently.

Then wh}^ do you badger me about with
cross questions, and get me up in a corner
like V

Margaret rose from her seat without replying.
Roland sprang up and took her hand.

I beg your pardon, Madge. I have no
right to speak to you in that manner. Pray
sit down again. I have been awfully worried,
and my temper is faulty.'

^ Even your worries must not make you
forget that you are speaking to a lady.'

A quick suspicion flashed upon Roland's
guilty conscience that Margaret was pointing
to the difference between herself and Folly.

^ I promise you I will be more guarded
he said. ' Believe me, Madge, nothing is
further from me than the wish to slight you.
I came with the best intentions in the world.'

Margaret was silent.

Yes, I came with the fixed resolution to
that is, I came with the — in fact, the best
resolution, and I — I — I wish you'd say
something, Madge.'

What do you wish me to say V

Well, I want you to tell me, in your nice,
kind manner, you know, why you expected I
should come at Christmas. That question is
the obstacle that checks my flow of con sensation.'


I thought so because I believed that you
really loved me, as you used to say, better
than all the world.'

^ Yes, Madge, that's beautiful to think of,
and it's just like you to credit me with such
a good heart. But then there was my father.'

And here was I,' answered Madge, with
a smile. Koland laughed too, feeling that
he was now getting over the ground capitally.

I see what you mean, Madge ; that with
the two before me I should not have hesitated
as to which I should please. But you must
remember that your own interests depended
on my keeping my promise to the dad.'

Do they not now V

Cornered again, by George !' Roland
mentally exclaimed.

Tell me, Roland,' said Madge, seriously,
was it that consideration that prevented
your coming V

I don't think that's a fair question.'
Then I will not press it,' said Madge,
sighing.

VOL. II. 26

No ; let us return to the subject. You

expected me on Christmas Day '

1 was hardly reasonable, perhaps ; but — '

Oh, love and reason are not inseparable.
Come, tell me all that you expected : I will
forgive the inconsistency.'

Then I expected that as you had neglected
me two months for your pleasures, you would
neglect your pleasures one day for me.'

My pleasures !' said Roland, growing pale.
How have I neglected you V

^ Is it not enough to be told that you have V

For a moment Roland felt as if he must
throw himself at Margaret's feet and tell her
all ; then it occurred to him that he could not
throw up the defence he had begun, and he
determined to brave it out.

'You refer to my letters. They grew
fewer, I know. But then you cannot expect
any rational being to continue writing
six letters a week about nothmof/

Love and reason in your case are inseparable.'


* You are just like Dick for hounding a
fellow down with his own words, Madge.
Come, do let us be amiable. You cannot
surely think I ought to have Written more
than I did ? What had I to tell you V

That's what I wanted to know, but
couldn't find, from the letters you did send.
Surely you would have more to say after
being in London a month than you had on
the first hour of your arrival ; and yet the
letter you sent me at that time would make
twelve of the poor little scraps you have sent
since. That was a manly letter that I will
never part with ; the last have been childish
scrawls, that none save I would keep.'

I am ashamed of them, Madge.' It was
the first honest sentence he had spoken, and
Margaret, catching the accent, smiled forgiveness
; but he did not see it, he was looking
straight into the fire, and, bent upon his
suicidal plan of defence, continued, ' But
there is this to be said in my excuse, I was
aware of their folly, and that made the job
difficult.'

Poor Margaret sighed again, and the hand
she had extended to place in a loving caress
among his fair curls fell upon her lap.

Let us speak of your good intentions,'
she said calmly. ^ What are they V

I came expressly to ask you to be my
wife at once.'

'That was very good of you,' she replied,
with a little laugh.

26—2

Roland did not reply. He was thinking
how Folly accepted his addresses without the
critical analysation to which Margaret subjected
them. It did not strike him that his
addresses to her were not of a kind to provoke
criticism. How on earth was he to get on
with his duty if every word was made an obstruction
? This cleverness of Margaret's
was her one great fault — it was unfeminine.
She should not dorset that he was making a
sacrifice for her. If he did not choose the
happiest phrases to express his meaning, heat
least could claim from her indulgence for
his good intentions.

You understand by my making this proposal
before the term my father stipulated
for that I am prepared to encounter his objections
he said.

Yes ; you will go to him and say that you
cannot fulfil your agreement, and must be
permitted to act as if you were a man she
replied, losing patience.

Roland gulped down the insinuation, and
answered : ' Just so.'

'And if he insists upon having his own
way, what then V

I am prepared to take an independent
course.

You have made up sour mind how you
will earn a having if he allows you to take an
independent course V

^ I shall hit upon some occupation, I daresay,
although it is not exactly defined at present.
Meanwhile, there is still something
of the money he gave me for us to go on
with.

'You would have to return it if you declined
the conditions upon which he gave it,' she
said.

Roland reflected that there might be very
little of it to return. He had not looked at
his banking account recently ; but money had
been flowing from him rapidly of late, he
knew. He turned from the subject with impatience.


Madge, you were not a bit frightened at
the prospect of having to rough it when I
proposed to you before.'

I can still bear my burdens. It did not
appear to me before that I might himself be a
burden to you.'

Oh, don't be afraid of that. I know my
responsibilities, and am quite prepared to
undertake them. Now, Madge, to the point
will you be my wife immediately in the
face of all opposition V

^ Yes, on one condition.'

^ Speak ; I'll be bound I can overcome any
single difficulty you mays suggest.'

the condition is a very simple one. But
you must first answer me one question from
the very bottom of sour heart — faithfully,
honestly, truly. Answer me as you love meas
you respect yourself ; answer me as if you
were a boy again.'

^ I will, Madge. I will answer you truly,
as I hope to be forgiven for my sins,' he answered,
in an earnest tone.

Then I will be your wife — if you lush it.
Now, Roland, answer as you hope for forgiveness.
Do you want me to be your
wife V

It would have been easy to say 'Yes,'
justifying the answer to his conscience afterwards
by such sophistry as he had lately dealt
in ; but he felt it would be untrue. At that
moment he did not wish to marry Margaret ;
and put to his honour he could not tell a lie,
although it was expedient. Madge had
touched the one sound chord in his heart, the
only one which had not warped, and it responded
with a true tone.

No,' he said, in a low voice, quite different
from that in which he had been speaking.

The simple word was more acceptable to

Margaret than if he had clothed its sense in

the most delicate euphemisms.

She rose and said, giving him her hand :
That is the kindest word you have said tome,

and banishes all the rest from my memory.

It was the voice I love that spoke. Roland,

I release you.'

f^S'^'

CHAPTER YI.

A NEW PROSPECT.

HEN Richard Yane opened the door
of his study he heard no sound of
voices. Walking' into the sittings
in his soft sappers unheard,
he found his sister sitting with her hands in
her lap looking into the fire, and alone. He
guessed what had happened, and stood in
silent pity for a moment ; then he approached
her.

She had shed tears ; the face was pale and
the eyes swollen that she turned to him.

She rose from her seat and came to meet
him, and he took her in his arms as if he
had been her father.

'Is it all over V he asked gently, putting

bis face against hers, as it rested against his
shoulder.

He loves me no longer, and he is gone
she answered.

He will return, finding that he can love
none but you.'

No ; he has gone for ever

Richard did not attempt to convince her
of what he felt at that moment to be the
truth, knowing that he could not comfort her
now by such an assurance. He sat down,
taking Madge on his knee, and keeping his
arm about her.

I did not hear him go. I suppose he will
sleep at the Hall said he.

Madofe shook her head.

He said he should be able to catch the
last train to London.'

Poor fellow !' murmured the vicar.
Margaret burst into tears.

My poor Madge, thought he, ' you have
reason to think he is gone for ever. What
is to become of this young man, who seizes
the moment of another's greatest distress asa
fortunate occasion for his return to pleasure
? Falling so quickly with duty as a curb,
how quickly will he sink and how deep now
that all restraint is removed ! Where will

his infatuation lead him? Will he become
utterly worthless ?'

He did not try to check Margaret's tears ;
she ^Yas the first to speak.

It is as if he yere dying ; his simplicity
and truth and kindly feeling are gone, and
scarcely one feature remains unaltered of the
Roland we loved. Can nothing' be done to
save him V

I hope so.'

The vicar spoke with thoughtful earnestness,
and margaret understood by his subsequent
silence that the subject was not dismissed
from his mind.

Meg,' he said, after a while, ' the time has
come for us to work. We have had a lone
holiday.'

You know how grateful I shall be for an
occupation now — that is why you propose
it.'

That is one consideration, indeed, but not
the only one. The subject has been simmering
in my mind for some time, and this last
little spark brings it to boiling-point. Sit in
the chair there, Madge, and let us discuss
the matter in a business-like manner.'

Margaret left his knee, but she would not
part with his hand.

^ Do you remember in the summer-time telling'
me that I was too o-ood for a vicar ?'

Yes ; and so you are, Richard. Your
theology is above the intelligence of the congregation,
and your simple sermons that touch
me so are wanted in a better place than
Tangleyy. You are twenty times too good fora
vicar, you ought to be a bishop

Richard laughed. His opinions of bishops
was not of an exalted kind.

At anv rate,' said he, ' we are agreed that
I am too good for a vicar, and so I shall
resign my living.'

Resign your living !' exclaimed Margaret,
astonished.

^ Yes, dear. I hope it will not grieve you
deeply to leave the pleasant home V

Oh, Richard, it has been even less dear
to me than to sou. Think of your holl^'hocks
and your annuals.'

I have thought of them and bidden them
good-bye. I bade them farewell the day you
were engaged, knowing that they would not
bloom ao'ain for meo



And intended to leave the house when I
was married. Oh, Dick, how selfish everyone
is — except you ! I never thought of the
desolation you were to suffer.'

'You will make me vain, Madge.'

Make yon vain !' she exclaimed, and
stopped short, looking at her brother through
the tears that affection had brought to her
eyes.

So having made up my mind that I was
too good for a vicar, I next came to the conclusion
that a country hamlet was too circumscribed
for my efforts.'

So it is, dear. You should have a living
in a great city, and write pamphlets for the
leading Quarterlies. Where shall you go V

I think I will begin with St. Giles's ; and
my living will be the interest upon our little
capital, with what we can get to help it outby
teaching, or what not.'

'And you are going to give up writing, and
all your delightful days among flowers and
ferns, and a gentle life here for St. Giles's
and hard work and mean fare ?'

Yes. I ask you to come with me, and
to renounce as much.'

It will be a grief to me, and I am a woman'
(Roland marked that distinction) ; ' but what
will it be to you V

A pleasure, if wee work together and succeed.
At least we will try to make it so.'

But the quiet Sundays, and the little

birds, the fruit trees in the springtime, and the
roses that you budded and were so proud of V
'We shall find new happiness, Madge. And
I was thinking that '

And this sweet old room. Do sou remember
when we had the windows open in the
summer, and the wasps came humming in V

I dare say we shall be able to get a wasp
or two in London, if you particularly want
them. You did not love them much when
they came upon the pie. You were more
frequently calling upon me to slaughter the
innocent creatures than to jd reserve them.'

^ Shall you teach religion in the streets,
Richard V asked Maro^aret, folio minor her own
train of ideas.

With a chair, and an umbrella, and a train
of scrofulous young apostles ? No, Meg, I
don't think I shall teach anything more
doctrinal than my Master taught. It will be
enough if '

I wonder if the swallows will be suffered
to build under the eaves when you are

gone.

You are rude, Madge ; you interrupt mo.
Will you listen to me, or shall I listen to
you V

And you took such pains to fertilise the

garden in the autumn — just as if you were
going to stay here all your life

That was only fair to my successor.'

What shall f be able to do ?'

That remains to be seen. A soldier does
not know what part he is to take in the battle
until he is in the field.'

Your books, Eichard, and our pictures and
the piano,' said Margaret, looking round the
room regretfully upon the household objects
of her affection.

We will take them with us — everything
that is especially dear which we can take.
We will not be as other fanatics, Madge ;
thinking it necessary to make ourselves
wretched for the sake of virtue.'

And when shall we begin the new life V

Quite soon. There is one hurrying to
London now who claims our attention.'

You will try to save Roland ?'

'He must enter into the business of our
lives.'

Margaret looked into the fire, musing*.

The snowdrops are already peeping above
the ground on the sunny side of the cucumber
frame.'

They are very early visitors.'

'And soon the hero-es will be dotted with

young bulls, and then the pmk bloom on the
apple tree will begin to show. . . . Do you
remember lying on the lawn beneath the
apple tree there, in the hot summer afternoons,
and the solemn old rooks flying homewards
to their rookery in the still evening ?
. .' Her chin twitched, and suddenly turning
to the vicar she threw herself on his
shoulder and burst into tears,

Oh, my brother !' she cried, ' my heart is
breaking, but whether with grief or with joy,
I cannot tell'

WIT AND WISDOM OF SIR ANDREW Feeling.

HE followiiiof mornings Richard Vane
walked to Aveling Hall, and obtained
an interview with the baronet.

Sir Andrew Aveling could scarcely conceal
the delight he felt in hearing that the
engagement between his son and Margaret
Vane existed no longer. He understood
that delicacy required a semblance of regret
in the presence of one who suffered collaterally
from the estrangement; and he accordingly
made his accent and countenance as
mournful as he could when, after listening
eagerly to the vicar's brief statement of facts
he said :

Dear me ! And so the enofao-ement is
absolutely broken, eh V

^ Absolutely,' replied the vicar, with a sigh.

Well, well !' the baronet sighed responsively.
Then, in a gloomy accent, ' I suppose
he has been fascinated by some beautiful
young lady in London now.'

^ Yes ; he has been fascinated by a very
beautiful young actress.'

^ This Folly, who is attracting so much
attention ? He said a great deal about her
in his letters to me. Tut ! tut ! A very
common young person, I'll be bound.'

No. She seems to me a girl not at all of
the ordinary kind.'

You have seen her then — eh, my dear
Vane V

Yes, I have seen her, and can perceive the
attractions she would have for a young man
of Roland's temperament.'

Well now, you must admit, my dear fellow,
that for once my judgment was right.
I knew he would see the inadvisability of
this match as soon as his eyes were opened
to the fact that there was more than one
pretty girl in the world.'

Richard Vane did not answer, did not
attempt to set Sir Andrew right. Nothing

VOL. II. .27

was to be gained by showing him that his
judgment had again been wrong, and that
the result of opening Roland's eyes had been
to take him to Tangleyy at once, with the
express purpose of marrying Margaret. For
something more than the small gratification
of proving his own and his sister's superiority
the vicar had come to Aveling Hall this
morning.

Construing the vicar's silence to his own
advantage, Sir Andrew continued :

And though it is doubtless a most painful
humiliation to poor Margaret — who has my
sincere sympathy, I assure you — she has the
consolation of knowing that had Roland's
change of disposition occurred after his marriage
with her, it would have been far worse
for her and for all of us.'

Richard Yane let that pass, despite his
own convictions, merely remarking that his
sister would probably take advantage of what
consolations the case offered.

Poor girl ! it is a terrible disappointment
for her pursued the baronet. 'But you
mustn't let her brood over it. Vane. Give
her some occupation to divert her mind.
That old vicarage is enough to curdle one's
blood to look at this weather. Come, what

can we do ? I have it. Turn your service over
to the curate for two or three months, and
take the poor child down to the Mediterranean.
You might do Rome at the same
time, you know. Upon my honour, that's a
capital idea. Do Rome, and when you come
back let the people know what a devilish bad
sort of place it is in a moral sense. Preach
about the Pope and Romanism, and get up
some anecdotes about the Vatican, and that
sort of thing. I'll be bound it would make
quite a small sensation in the village. People
want working up now and then, and it has
seemed to me for some time that your polemical
discourses are a little heavy. If I were
a young man that's just the sort of thing I
should like to do. The change would be
vastly beneficial to Margaret. Of course, my
dear fellow, I need not say that the journey
shall cost you nothing.' As he spoke, Sir
Andrew laid his hand on his cheque-book,
a panacea which, as a benevolent man, he
kept constantly at hand when he sat in his
library to receive casual visitors.

^ I have no fears for my sister. She will
recover without going so far as the Mediterranean
for forgetfulness,' answered the vicar,
in his self-composed, quiet manner ; then,

27—2

lifting his eyes from the ground, and looking
full in Sir Andrew's face, he said : 'But what
is to be done about Roland V

Koland ! I am not anxious on his account
now The last word escaped Sir Andrew
involuntarily ' What do you mean ?'

Now that the trial is ended there is no
longer any necessity to expose him to temptations


Sir Andrew laughed lightly'.

I see what you are driving at. I forget
you are a parson, Vane, when you wear that
coat. Temptation ! Ash, that's all right.
Roland's not such a babe as you take him
for. Let him have his fling, I say. I don't
believe in that old idea of making young;
fellows good by coercion. He will be none
the worse for seeing life. But 1 appreciate
your motive in speaking, my dear fellow, and
I thank you for it. Ah, the boy's all right.'

Roland is impulsive and easily led. It is
not fair to submit him to temptations which
frequently even the strong fail to surmount.'

'A very proper remark of yours — very
proper, indeed,' said Sir Andrew, feeling
nettled that the vicar should presume to
lecture him upon duty, as if he were a mere
agriculturist. ' You must allow me, however,

to know what is best to do in this case.
Who should know so well as a father how to
take care of his son '^ You will, if you please,
let me use my own discretion here.'

Evidently the vicar was not willing to yield
in this particular.

I know Roland better even than you do,'
he said ; ' and I beg 3^0 u to recall him from
London. Send him to Rome, Egypt, anywhere,
and it will save him. Let him see
life, if you will, but show him the good as
well as the bad side of it. In London he is
in danger, and as you are the fittest person to
save him, I ask you to do it.'

Pooh ! you talk rubbish. Stick to your
sermons and your Sunday-schools, but leave
me the management of my own affairs, if you
please.' Sir Andrew waved his hands and
shifted his chair to close the subject ; but
Mr. Yane was not to be shaken off.

He has got into a loose set — a theatrical
set '

Nonsense, sir ! I wonder how you, a man
of sense, can put faith in that effete notion.
Of course it is your duty to condemn amusements
and that sort of thing, but you know
very well that the stage is not the sink of
iniquity you reverend gentlemen represent it.'

I do not wish to be unjust to any people,
and I am not unjust in saying that members
of the theatrical profession are loose in their
opinions and behaviour.'

You are alton-ether Avrono^. I hold them
in the highest estimation. They are virtuous
and respectable. It doesn't become you to
speak lightly of those who elevate the tastes
of the public, and whose vocation needs but
the name of sacred to be equivalent with your
own.'

All that sou say is quite just.'

'And I will maintain it !' cried Sir Andrew,
striking the table with his fist in warm enthusiasm.


I am glad to hear it. I admit that this
young woman who has fascinated Roland
may be as virtuous and worthy as my own
sister; but I cannot think that she can ever
be content with the quiet and sober life of a
country lady, or that she will make Poland
happy as his wife.'

His wife ! Great heavens ! what are you
talking about I His wife I — a common
actress — a creature who dances half nude
upon the public stage to amuse a crowd of
idle, senseless, gaping fools ! — a woman
without reserve or delicacy whom one would

scorn to be seen beside in the open street ! — •
a person who can scarcely claim the name of
woman ! — a mountebank — a postulate — a

demi-rep — a '

^ Sir, I cannot listen to this abuse of one
whom we have no reason to believe less honourable
than others.'

Others ! — why they're all alike, and sou
know it, Yane. It's the cant of the age to
talk about the dignified position of the stage
and such rubbish, but we men of the world
know exactly what these women are, and you
insult me by supposing my son would stoop
to marry one of them.'

I see no escape, if you permit him to
remain in London.'

My son marry a woman of that kind,
absurd ! He may be weak, and I admit that
a child might guide him in ordinary affairs ;
but where his honour is concerned — where
the honour of his old father is touched — my
dear boy, my dear Koland, can be firm.
Marry a ballet-girl ! What on earth could
have put that notion into your head ?'

'The fact that he loves her more than he
loved ray sister, whom he promised to
marry.'

Ah, that's an affair of another complexion.

The love for a good girl is very different from
the passion for a merely beautiful woman : one
necessitates marriage ; the other forbids it — •
but these are particulars which you are not
supposed to know anything about.'

But which I know, nevertheless. I know
your meaning precisely ; it is that your son
may love this girl without marrying her :
that is a disgrace which must never befall
Roland.'

^ Mr. Vane,' said Sir Andrew, rising, ' we
will close this discussion before you provoke
me to anger. Neither my son nor I stand in
need of direction where our honour is concerned.
I will not go over what you have
said, or point out in what particulars you
affront me. They are too obvious to call for
remark. When you tell me that my son is
likely to marry a postulate you affront me ;
you add another insult by presuming that my
son is liable to fall into disgrace ; another,
when you attempt to dictate rules for my
conduct ; and still another by mentioning the
subject at all ; and, confound it, sir, I won't
listen to another word !'

The vicar sat unmoved, while Sir Andrew,
pacing up and down the library, dilated on
those points which he had declared it unnecessary

to refer to. He saw that nothing
was to be clone with the intractable and inconsistent
old man, and he gave up the hope
of his co-operation with little disappointment :
he had not expected much assistance from
him. All that could be done he must do
himself, and without delay. He waited
patiently for the baronet's excitement to
abate before broaching the second subject.
This silence aggravated Sir Andrew, despite
his assertion that he would not hasten to
another word.

Hang it all, Yane !' he cried, ' why don't
you say something ? You know very well
that nothing is dearer to me than discussing
my boy's welfare ; and who can advise me so
well as you, who know the secrets of his
heart ? There are a thousand things that
a boy tells his friend which he conceals from
his father. And who has a greater right to
speak in his behalf than you, who saved his
life ? Believe me, I never forget that and
the debt of gratitude I owe you.'

I have said all that I can say on the
subject, Sir Andrew, and I hope that, when
you reflect calmly on the matter, you will seethe
advisability of withdrawing Roland from
London.'

Ah, there, my dear Vane, I cannot agree
with you, and shall not if I reflect until
doomsday ; but on any other point you will
find me most amenable to your advice.'

I have nothing else to advise. A. second
purpose I had, however, in coming here today.'


^ Name it, Richard. All you ask shall be
granted without question, I promise.'

^ I wish to resign my living.'

That I'll never consent to. Resign your
living — why, for Heaven's sake !'

^ For Heaven's sake I must,' answered
Vane, with a faint smile.

You are not offended at anything I might
have said in the heat of argument, Vane ?
For if you are, you will make me regret that
ever I spoke at all. There's no one I respect
so much as you — no one.'

The impulsive, soft-hearted old gentleman
spoke with honest warmth, and held out his
hand with an action of entreaty. Richard
Vane took it and pressed it.

It is not temper, but conscience which
directs me now.'

• You can't digest the Thirty nine Articles,
eh ? Well, who can ? You must do as the
rest of the parsons do — that is, those who

have any sense in their heads — bolt 'em, and
forget 'em

I am troubled with something heavier
than the Articles.'

I know — Joshua and the smit — Noah's
ark — the Red Sea business — and all that,
eh ? Wei], well ; you must find out how wise
and good men reconcile the contradictory facts
of science and revelation and do likewise,
satisfying yourself with the reflection that
you are no worse than others.'

My conscience is of an obstinate and unaccommodating
nature. I cannot take money
under false pretences without feeling myself
dishonest to men, and I cannot teach a doctrine
in which I have no faith, without dishonesty
to God."

Bah, Yane I These are the qualms which
a young conscience feels when it first embarks
upon the sea of speculation. You will recover,
and sail along comfortably enough after
awhile.'

I have doubted, but now I doubt no
longer. I have set aside speculations — I
have done with them. My laboured arguments
to prove wrong right you have listened
to every Sunday since I accepted my
vicarship '

And capital good sermons they have been,
too. ^ I never heard better. The reasoning is
most profound, and the sentences beautifully
rounded.'

^ They have cost me much useless labour.
The little I have done to make men true and
good has come spontaneously from me. To
say and do what I know to be true and good
that is how I must serve God. I have to
teach not philosophy but religion.'

Give us a little of both, morning and
evening, as you have used to. Variety
is good. We could never get a better man
than you. Does not that fact satisfy you V

No. I am not justified in giving little
because much is not a compulsory requirement
of my office. I can do more good out
of the Church than in it — at least I hope so.
I must give all that I can, and sink my own
temporal interests in the one endeavour to do
that which God tells me I should do.'

Ah, well !' replied the baronet, shrugging
his shoulders and flinging himself back in his
chair.

'/' -5-Jt ^/T

When Richard Vane was gone, Sir Andrew
sat for some time reflecting on the particulars
of the interview.

He felt mingled admiration and contempt
for the vicar. High principles, steadfastness,
and that sort of thing were very proper and
admirable, of course ; but that a man, for a
mere conscientious fad, should renounce such
substantial blessings as ease and comfort
seemed to him sheer folly and Quixotism.

He considered Vane as a dreamer — which
of all things he least was — ^^a man who formed
eccentric notions of things — a man to be admired
but not imitated. He classed him with
those over-nice people who must analyse their
drink before they satisfy their thirst ; firkin,
troublesome people, who generally end by
poisoning themselves with the particular venom
they have sought to avoid.

It seemed to him that Vane's view of
Koland's little affair was not less extravagant
than the aspect he put upon his own moral
obligations. Who but such a man as he
would think that a love affair with a ballet-girl
must end in marriage, or look upon a little
wildness as a desperate sin ? So long as
Roland was safe, what was there to fear '?

He was heartily sorry that the vicar should
have fallen into an error which must inevitably
lead him into trouble. The radical
principles he betrayed would prevent his

rising to any decent position in society, and
might reduce him to the rank of common
reformers and agitators. That terrible possibility,
painful as it was to think of, served
to increase the satisfaction with which he regarded
his son's escape from an alliance with
the vicar's sister.

His greatest fear was that Roland might
be touched with remorse, compassion, or some
such absurd sentiment, which would bring
him again under the influence of Margaret.
To prevent such a disaster Sir Andrew saw
that the young man must be encouraged in his
wildness, and have his fling without impediment
or restriction. Accordingly he wrote
at once to congratulate him upon escaping a
mesalliance, and hinted that if his resources
were at all straightened he might draw upon
him for his further requirements.

Roland FLING.

OWING wild oats; ^ Running wild,'
Having a fling these are the
terms in which we refer to a
young man's indulgence in sensuous
excesses. By most people it is regarded
as an indispensable disease of manhood — like
the distemper of puppies, which they must go
through with and get over before they arrive
at perfection. To youths and puppies we are
indulgent at these times, and if they bite we
forgive.

It is understood that when a young man is
having his fling he gives himself up, body and
soul, to wild delight with a dashing, devil-may-care
gaiety which knows no control.
It may be interesting to know how near to

this conception Koland approached as he
played his part in the performance sanctioned
by his father.

Twelve o'clock has struck. For the last
quarter of an hour the waiters at ^ The Nocturnal
' have been praying the visitors to
depart. Roland and Folly are the last to
leave.

What a brutal shame it is to turn people
out into the streets at this hour ? I am just
beginning to wake up ; and now what are we
to do ?' Roland asks, pulling the collar of his
ulster up.

Go home,' answers Folly, with a laugh.

Roland shrugs his shoulders.

They stand in the vestibule outside the
supper-room. Folly muffled up to her chin in
soft rich furs. Her pretty, saucy little face
attracts a good deal of attention from the
young men loitering there.

Brougham, miss ?' says Folly's driver,
coming towards them.

I hate that four-wheeled cab ; let's have
the hansom. Folly,' says Roland.

The girl responds with a little gesture of
indifference.

Roland nods to a quick-eyed, knowing-looking
fellow, standing in the background.

who wears round his throat a silk handkerchief
with Roland's monogram embroidered
in the corners.

The driver of the brougham touches his
hat and departs, and presently Roland, giving
his arm to Folly, leads her out to the
hansom, which has drawn up to the door.
The man who put his coat over the cab wheel
as Folly stepped in, and closed the door
afterwards, gets half-a-crown for his service,
and the hansom dashes off.

If it were not such a horrid night I
Avould make you go for a long drive with me
before parting. It's hateful when you are
gone,' says Roland.

Folly looks into his face with a sweet smile,
for him to interpret as he pleases, then
shrinks back into the corner, nestling her
chin down in her furs. For all her seeming
indifference, she prefers the hansom to the
brougham ; it is the swifter vehicle, and from
the moment she came off the stare she has
begrudged the time spent in Roland's society.
She is anxious about her father, and eager to
return to the imbecile old man. For this
reason she is glad that the weather is too bad
to admit of an extended ride.

A glimpse of Folly's bright eyes when

VOL. II. 28

they approach a lamp, the touch of her dress,
the consciousness that she is beside him —
that is all the satisfaction Koland gets from
the drive. Conversation is impossible, for
the roads, after leaving the Strand, are bad ;
he has to shout to make himself heard, and
the necessity of keeping her mouth covered
limits Folly's response to two indefinite
muffled sounds which represent the words
Yes ' and ' No

What an infernal place this is to live in !'
says Roland, as they reach the Lambeth
Road. ' If those diamonds hadn't crippled
me, I would furnish a house for you tomorrow.'


Folly takes her muff from her mouth, and
pats his arm with it.

The hansom stops. The driver gets down
from his seat, and, running up to the door of
the house, knocks. There is a light on the
first floor. Across the white blind there
passes the shadow of a bent, high-shouldered
old man, with a round head and hideous face,
its proportions exaggerated and still further
distorted by the position of the light behind.
A corner of the blind is stealthily drawn aside.

Father is awake ; you mustn't get out,'
says Folly.

A chill runs through Roland's body as he
pictures Folly submitting to the caresses of
that revolting old wretch she insists upon
reo^ardino^ as her father. For the moment she
seems to him tainted with the breath of the
loathsome idiot.

Miss Clip opens the street-door, and the
driver returns to the hansom.

You will come for me at six tomorrow V
says Folly.

Won't you dine With me ? It is not right
for you to be so much with that old man. I
wish to Heaven you would let me place him
in a proper asylum !'

Had anyone else spoken, Folly would have
answered indignantly, * What asylum is more
proper for my father than my home V but
she has learned to conceal her real feelings
and simulate false sentiments in Roland's
presence.

He is rather horrid ; and there's a nice
large building close by she said lightly,
referring to Bethlehem Hospital — a place she
never passed but with averted eyes. ' We
must see about getting rid of him when I
have my new house. Good-night.'

Folly runs up to the house — turning, when
she is out of the vision of the old man at the

28—2

window, to wave her hand to Koland. The
door closes behind her, and the last spark of
cheerfulness in Koland's heart goes out ; his
soul seems leaden, and heavy, and dead, like
the humid night.

The driver takes his seat and turns the
cab. Looking through the side window,
Holand sees the old man still stealthily
watching by the drawn blind, and by his side
the shadow of Folly, her hand resting on his
arm.

Roland has never thought what the logical
outcome of his passion for Folly will be ; he
has no scheme for the future ; he lives as he
has always lived — for the hour. But a vague
consciousness that he is incurring a grave
responsibility, that the thread of his destiny
is getting inextricably tangled with Folly's, a
dim presentiment that he must get into a
desperate scrape before long, oppresses him,
increasing the morbid wretchedness he feels
in solitude. He thinks of Margaret and the
serenity of his happiness when his heart was
entirely hers. He shakes off these reflections
to think of something different. He can
fix his mind on nothing but the story in the
Arabian Nights ' of Sindbad burdened with
the clinging old man of the sea. He pictures

the old man toothless, and bald, and mad, like
Folly's father. He has just passed over Kennington
Road. A. cart against the pavement
is being unloaded. What is the dark object
the men are lifting out at this time of night 1
He looks until, drawing closer, he sees it is a
coffin being taken into the dead-house of
Bethlehem Hospital. He shuts his eyes
with a feeling of sickness.

Kensington, sir V asks the driver through
the trap.

^ Yes, as sharp as you can.'

Roland feels a craving for fresh sparkling
wme, of which there is plenty in his
chambers. Yet the thought of the dark
empty room is repulsive. It is impossible to
go to bed yet ; he shall not be able to sleep ;
he cannot read — what the deuce shall he
do ? It will be better to go to the Corinth
and play loo, though he hates cards, and is
rather afraid of the men he meets at the club.
But he will find there at least light and warmth,
and some sort of diversion for his mind.
He thrusts up the trap over his head and
gives the driver fresh instructions.

Roland has been a member of the Corinth
two months. Amadis Garnier, who is
member of half-a-dozen clubs, put his name

son.

up and introduced him. giving him a word of
caution at the same time.

The men are prigs said he, ' and decidedly
fast ; but their bounce is amusing,
and you are not bound to go to the deuce by
the path tJieu choose. If you avant a good
dinner, a good cigar, or decent wine, you can
get it here.'

The Corinthusus is sufficiently near Pall
Mall to be respectable. It is a young club,
composed of young men titled without money
and young men moneyed without title.
Money or rank is an indispensable qualification.
Poland has found it useful to him on
many occasions, and the members, though
bumptious, and swaggering, and pretentious,
and fast, as Garnier intimated, are courteous
and civil enough to him. He only suspects
that they laugh at him, and criticise his
private affairs in an unfriendly manner behind
his back. Xo one ever refuses to dine with
him or pleads business engagements when he
proposes to drink champagne.

It is a rule of the club that the doors shall
never be closed. Xo restrictions are imposed
upon members using the card-room — an
arrangement which gives freedom to' the
inclination, precludes the necessity of resting

at ordinary times, and affords a relief from
the triste conventionalities of society.

At the club-house entrance Koland steps
out of the hansom, and, jutting a few cigars
into the driver's hand, says, ' I dare say I
shall be half an hour ; you may wait forme.'


The cabman touches his hat, and, knowing
Poland better than Roland knows himself,
makes arrangements for a lengthened stay.
First he throws a cloth over his horse's loins,
next he buckles on the nosebag, and then,
like a merciful man having provided for the
comfort of his beast, he steps into the cab,
wraps a second cloth about his legs, lights a
cigar, and, crossing his arms, composes himself
comfortably in the corner.

As dear as salvoes of artillery to the heart
of a prince is the popping of corks to
Poland's ears. It is to him a guarantee of
his friends' fidelity — a fidelity which of late,
in his gloomy and sombre moments, he has
o't to doubt uneasily. In the smoking-room
are half-a-dozen of these friends about the
fire, and all prove themselves again ready
to stand by him and drink at his expense.
The light wine does him all the good he
anticipated from it — showing how one's

instincts are to be trusted in such matters.
It freshens hai, and dispels his melancholy.
Champagne is certainly the best of medicine,
he considers, and argues that if one bottle is
good, two must be better. He is quite ready
to engage in pool when it is proposed ; he
likes the billiard board.

He plays, and keeps his hand in with
frequent drinks, until he loses form,' and
finds the room inconveniently hot. The idea
of going home is still repulsive to him, and
he himself suggests an adjournment to the
card-room, and a cool game at nap. His
friends are the most amiable men in the
world, and fall in with his suggestion at
once.

In the card-room he begins with drinking ;
he drinks while he plays, and when he can
puzzle out the difference between ace and
deuce no longer he drinks again, and is helped
into the hansom by his friends and the cabman.
He has lost fifty, a hundred, two
hundred pounds — it matters little which, his
good friends are the gainers by it. When
the time comes for paying up it will appear
that they were all a little the worse for drink
when they played, and so — the chances being
equal — the debt will stand good, with no

question of any dishonourable advantage
being taken on either side.

It is six o'clock when he shuffles off his
clothes and crawls into bed. He sleeps fitfully
until one, when a ray of sunlight falling
on his face awakens him, and discovers the
suggestive fact that he went to bed without
drawing down the window blind. He rises
to draw it down now and see what the deuce
he did with his watch. The watch is safe in
his waistcoat pocket : he finds it among the
heap of clothes on the floor ; it has stopped
that's all. Conscious that he does not feel
quite right, Koland determines to take a little
dose of something and go to bed again for an
hour. He keeps drugs in the cupboard where
his wine is stowed away — enough quack
medicines to stock a shop. There they are —
bane in large bottles at the bottom, antidote
in small vials at the top. Looking at the
many infallible cures, he is doubtful Which
to take. The tonic he tried yesterday, and
derived no benefit from it ; but whether to
try the corrective, which is for the stomach,
or the elixir, which ministers to a liver
diseased, is a question that is difficult to
answer, as he is not certain, in the general
feeling of his discomfort, which part of his

anatomy is at fault. In this condition of
uncertainty he takes a bottle from the bottom
of the cupboard, and treats his disease by the
homoeopathic rule. Then, recollecting the
admirable effects of Richard Vane's treatment,
he wraps a wet towel round his head,
and so gets into bed again.

By half-past two Roland is dressed and
waiting' for his breakfast. He sits with his
leo's thrust out, his hands buried in his
trousers pockets, his chin on his breast, and a
hang-dog expression on his face. Those who
ivill be gay overnight may expect this kind of
thing in the morning. There is a glass
opposite. Raising his head, he catches sight
of his yellow skin and leaden eyes. He
turns his chair round in disgust, and fixes his
vacant gaze upon an antimacassar, until the
yellowness of it makes him feel ill.

'Why the deuce doesn't the woman bring
the breakfast f he cries, crossing the room in
angry haste to jerk the bell violently. He
is not hungry. If the most tempting morsel
were at his hand he could not put it to his
lips. He has forgotten all about the breakfast
before it is laid upon the table. Throwing
himself upon a couch with the first book
he touches, he opens the page and tries to

read, but the words have no meaning' for
him and the type tries his eyes. He throws
the book away petulantly, and, knitting his
fingers under his head, stares up at the
ceilings, finding faces in the cracks that run
across. Is there any face like Margaret's
there ? No, nothing half so sweet. How is
it he cannot forget her, now that the engagement
is all over and she has released him ?
The flowing line seems to him like the ripple
of her hair when they were children, and
went into the hazel wood for nuts. Why
should he think of that time, and remember
only her hair 1 Was there not a beautiful
ripple in Folly's tresses ? No ; his thoughts
return to Margaret. Ought he — might he
think of her now 1 He could call her
Mado^e never ao^ain. The old tie is broken,
even the old friendship is ended. What
should he do if he met her by accident?
Should he bow and pass ? Would she hold
out her hand to him in forgiveness, or would
they pass as though they were strangers ?
Would dear old Dick forgive him, or had he
overtaxed even his patience 1 Surely he
must be scorned by the quiet, holy brother
and sister. Perhaps that was why Richard
had not written to him or taken any further

notice of him. And if Yane repudiated him,
would not all decent men look down on him
with contempt ? Following the crack in the
ceiling, his eye travelled to an irregular
deviation from the rippling line, which
formed a huge distorted mouth, with a dark
spot like a black tooth standing out from the
lower jaw. It was a little like the shadow
on the blind as Folly's father approached the
window. That creature must be his companion,
must take the place of pure, healthy
Richard Vane, his old friends of the university
: Bowles, studying for the bar, and
Renfrew, with his stories of travel and
adventure, and the high-born, delicate Hay
Seymour — these and other clear-minded,
Christian gentlemen must be forgotten, and
his associates must be the men of the
Corinthusus, who fleeced him and let him go
wrong without a word of remonstrance. And
Margaret — Madge, with her lively fancies, her
refined manners, her delicate tastes, her
graceful manners and appearance — who is to
take her place 1

Folly !' he answers, springing up in
excitement.

She comes before his eyes in all her glowing
colours. He can see nothing else ; he

wants to see no more. To think of others
makes him wretched and low-spirited ; lie
gives him joy, and makes him forget all care.
He could not live if she should go from his
world. She is the world to him. The love
of father and friends sinks into insignificance
as he recalls Folly's smile. That memory
transports him with delight, and he looks
forward with intense eagerness to meeting
her again. He pulls out his watch to see
how the hours creep ; the hands still point
the time at which it stopped.

This turn of sentiment, though but a mere
reactionary wave, has removed the feeling of
nausea with which he previously regarded
the breakfast-table, and he turns to it now
with an idea that he could eat a little dry
toast. His father s letter lies beside the cup.
He breaks the envelope, and sits down before
readiness the letter, fearful that Sir Andrew
has heard all from Vane and writes in anger.
What if the old gentleman should demand
an account of his expenses, and refuse any
further supplies ? Roland has expected everyday
to receive an intimation from his bankers
to the effect that his account is overdrawn.
He opens the letter slowly, and looks at the
first words in apprehension. * My dear boy.'

He gives a sigh of relief. There is no anger
in those words. He reads on quick and yet
quicker.

What an old trump !' he says, coming to
the conclusion.

On the face of it the letter is encouraging.
His father does not condemn him, nor disapprove
of his liaison. On the contrary, he
offers the means for a continuance of his
present mode of living.

Then he foes through it ao^ain with increased
satisfaction, and afterwards, holding
the letter in his hand, ponders what he has
read. It is difficult to thoroughly understand
all that his father means. He opens the
letter a third time.

After congratulating him upon avoiding a
mesalliance with Margaret Vane, Sir Andrew
writes : * Your escape at this moment is especially
fortunate, as poor Vane has been seized
with some preposterous notion of a dangerously
Radical kind, and is resigning his living,
to gain a subsistence by what means Heaven
only knows. It would not astonish me to
hear soon of his stumping the country in the
character of a revivalist or a demagogue.
You could not have held your position as a
country gentleman with a connexion of that

kind, and I need not point out to you the
serious domestic complications which would
have arisen in consequence, had you been so
unwise as to carry out your intention of
marrying Vane's sister.'

It is odd Dick said nothing of this to methinks
Roland. ' I wonder what he will do 1
I only hope he won't come to London.'

I have heard of your infatuation for the
pretty actress now creating such a sensation
in London,' the letter continues. ^ You must
bear in mind that people of that kind are dangerous
if you permit them to cross that line
of demarcation which separates them from
our class of society. While you remember
that Folly forms part of a public exhibition
you are safe.'

Vane blurted out everything, then, to
the dad,' Roland remarks, parenthetically.

I have no faith in restriction. I have
been a young man myself, and had my own
experiences, I leave you to do entirely as
you please, without even offering my advice.
You will understand, my dear boy, that while
I desire you shall do nothing derogatory to
your honour, I put no limit to your enjoyment
of lise and of those indulgences which
enable young men to know men and women

as they are divested of that glamour which
frequently betrays them with false sentiment,
and leads them to perpetrate mistakes that
may be a source of life-long regret

And then follows the paragraph sanctioning
Roland to draw upon his father for more
money if he requires it.

The baronet's meaning is clear, yet it takes
Koland some time to comprehend its full extent.
When he does he is bewildered. It is
to him like a revelation of something he has
never dreamed of. He blushes to the temples
like a girl — not for himself, but for his father.

Roland is as yet guiltless of any deliberate
wickedness. He has yielded to circumstances
only, not moulded them to a base purpose.
He cannot think without repulsion of breaking
down the delicate fabric of modesty with
which he has clothed Folly.

My father has mistaken her — that is excusable
; but he has also mistaken me ; and
does me wrong,' he thinks.

Nevertheless, within an hour — so speedily
does an ill seed take root in a soil suitably prepared
— he reads his father's letter for the last
time with a different feeling, and, concluding,
asks, * After all, who has been mistaken —
he or I r

GOOD NEWS.

OLLY's animosity to Roland, based
solely on the injustice her father
had received from his — was of a
fluctuating and peculiar character.
In her calmer moments, or when Roland was
particularly kind, and so fortunate as to avoid
saying anything that touched her suspicious
sensitiveness, she hated him less from a spontaneous
feeling than from a sense of duty —
vengeance seemed to her a filial obligation.
It was impossible for one of her generous disposition
to cherish a mean passion, which can
dwell only in very bad hearts or unemotional
minds. But for her pet paragraph from the
Mosaic law she would have acknowledged to
VOL. II. 29

herself the wrongness of revenge, and the
injustice of visiting the father's sin upon the
son.

It was another thing, however, when she
was with her father, listening to the broken
story of his life. He talked of nothing else,
Having found by experience that she would
yield more readily to his entreaties for a
dram when her heart was moved with compassion
for his past sufferings. At these
times no thought of mercy softened her passionate
anger. She wanted only the power
to sweep the Feelings, father and son, from
off the face of the earth. Her whole being
was stirred with a barbaric craving for vengeance
; and she gloated over the idea of
sending Koland to his father degraded and
loathsome, as her father had come to her.
Her scheme of reducing him by champagne
was something like storming a fortress with
pop-gUQs,but it was the only plan that her girlish
mind could devise ; she was not a Borgia.
In her passions she was merely a savage.

Like some savages, it was necessary to
foster her vengeful feelings by the sight of
ancient scars and the hearing of her tribe's
traditionary wrongs. Without these external
incentives the hatchet had been buried.

There were several reasons why she should
like Koland — he was generous, he loved her,
he did as she desired him to do, and, above
all, he treated her with respect. There was
a deference in his behaviour to her which she
received from none other of the many gentlemen
introduced to her, although they got less
encouragement than he. He treated her as
though she were a lady and his equal, and
that convinced her that he was a gentleman.
She knew he was considered a fool, ' a muff,
with more wealth than wit,' and so on, but
since his foolishness consisted in treating her
so well she could not like him less for it.

Her moods varied with the disposition of
her father. If he had a ^ bad time ' during
the day, Roland knew it at night-time by her
coldness and unwillingness to meet him early
the next day; if she was amiable and complying,
he knew that her father had not
troubled her. He did not know the fundamental
reason for her altering manner towards
him : he attributed it solely to her filial solicitude,
and found in that a sufficient explanation
of her behaviour.

On the night succeeding his receipt of Sir
Andrew's letter he found Folly in her best
humour. Her father had slept all the 



noon, and awoke just as she was about to
depart for the theatre.

*You don't look well, Roland, she said,
almost regretfully, comparing his present unhealthy
appearance with the fresh brightness
of his face when she first knew him, and reflecting
that he owed the alteration to her.

I was fool enough to plays until I couldn't
see out of my eyes. The old complaint, Folly,
and the old remedy — loss of you, and excitement
to forget the loss.'

Poor fellow !' she said, laying her hand on
his arm with the instinctive sympathy of a
woman for a man in trouble.

He caught her hand, and, holding it tightly,
looked into her soft eyes as he had never
looked before, except when he was drunk; and
now he was sober.

I never can be happy living apart from
you,' he said.

She snatched her hand away, laughing
lightly, the hansom stopping at that moment
before the staofe-door.

Roland was excited by his own boldness ;
he caught hold of her arm as they threaded
their way through the dusky intricacies of the
coulisses — an unnecessary assistance he had
not offered before — and parted with it reluctantly

at the foot of the stairs leading to
the dressing-rooms. He stood looking after
her as she ran up, hoping she would turn
around.

Folly !' he cried, when she was almost at
the top of the stairs.

Well V she replied, stopping and looking
down on him.

Look sharp down. I have good news
to tell you — a letter from the governor. You
will find me in the shrubbery.'

She nodded and ran up ; and Roland made
his way to the shrubbery — a facetious name
given to the snug green-room of the Levity.

What an ass I was to tell her I had the
letter 1' he said to himself ' She will want
me to read it to her. I must make an excuse
to avoid that.'

Roland could no more keep a secret than a
sieve can hold W' ater, and it was characteristic
of his impetuous desire to please that he repeatedly
had to repent one moment of something
he had done the previous minute.

He had resolved, before seeing Folly, that
he would not let her knows of that letter from
his father, but the delicate consideration which
led him to form the resolution gave way to
bolder desires as he stood looking up the

stairs after the beautiful girl. Now he regretted
the mistake, wondering how he could
remedy it.

Folly took little time to dress ; she had not
to make up her face — at any time she could
lean her cheek upon her pale kid gloves without
altering the tint of either. No one but
Koland was in the shrubbery when she came
down.

^ Well, what is your good news V she asked,
sitting down beside Koland, and breaking the
string that tied her parcel of new gloves.

Not much — only the governor approves
of what I have done.'

'Approves of your breaking off the engagement
with Miss Yane V

eyes; • .

Why V

Well, you see he didn't think it would bea
good match for me. I told you that he did
not like my engagement.'

You didn't tell me why. How did I know
he disliked it on your account ? — it might
have been upon hers said Folly, naively.

No ; he thought I might do better.'
You told me she was a good girl — didn't
he think so V

'Yes. No one could doubt that. But he

thought that possibly after I had married
her I should see some one I should like
better.'

Folly looked puzzled for a moment. Then,
as an idea came to her mind, she said :

I see — he thought you would see someone
prettier. That's very likely. I should
think the sister of that man I saw after the
ball couldn't be very much to look at.'

Still she is pretty — very pretty and
graceful indeed — but not so beautiful as
you, Folly.'

If your father is a sensible old gentleman,'
said Folly slowly, as she pulled on her
long glove, ^ I can't see how he should think
yoQ could do better than marry a girl that
was pretty and graceful and good. Fasten
these buttons for me.'

My father has peculiar ideas about some
things — I don't think you could quite understand
them !'

Yes, I shall, if you explain them.'
'What a lovely round arm yours is,

Folly r

Yes ; but about these ideas of your
father's V

Well, my father is a justice of the peace
a sort of magistrate.'

Yes, I know ; a rich man who sends poor
men to prison — eh V

Something Hke that, indeed,' Poland admitted,
with a laugh.

He was bending over the pretty arm, and
could not see the evil in Folly's eyes as she
looked at his smihnof face.

He was a member of Parliament,' said
Koland.

What's that V

One who assists in making laws for the
protection of life and property.'

I understand — laws for their own protection.'


Not entirely for themselves.'

Why ? — poor men who have no property,
and whose Ives are a burden to them need
no protection

Again Roland laughed at the conceit.

You're quite a Republican,' he said.

What's that V

A Republican'? — oh, a discontented person,
who would throw over existing laws to substitute
those which he thinks more just.'

What do you call such a person V

^ A Republican.'

A Republican,' said Folly, repeating the
word to herself, as if to impress it on her

mind ; then she added, m a voice tinged with
contempt, ' So your father is a justice of the
peace and was a member of Parliament —

weu r

I'm sorry to ' say I have finished this
glove. May I do the other ?'

She gave him the other glove to fasten,
saying:

Be quick, and tell me about your father.
I shall be called before you get to the good
news

I was saying that my father, holding this
position, is proud of it, and values the respect
of the county families above everything.
Well, he has a notion that when I attain to
his age I must have the same feelings, and
that then I should regret having married
Margaret when I might have married someone
better — I mean higher in position — a
girl of a noble family, you know. In a
moral sense, I couldn't marry anyone better
than Margaret.'

Then you have the same idea, and that is
why you gave up Margaret V

No, it was not that ; 1 gave her up — or
rather she gave me up — because '

He paused, looking hastily round the
room. It was empty. Seldom anyone

came into it until after the first act, and the
first act had only just begun.

Because — why V

Roland transferred his quivering fingers
from her glove to her soft arm, and said, in a
low, impassioned voice :

Because I love you, Folly. It is useless
for me to cheat myself with the idea that I
only admire you and love you as one may
love a friend or a child. I love you with all
my heart, as a man loves a woman.'

Folly's heart was not stirred by reciprocal
emotion. She had no love for Koland ; she
knew nothing of the passion by experience ;
she had seen it acted upon the stage, and
this was to her but a little play, in which
she took the part of heroine. She looked at
Roland's flushed cheeks and dilated pupils
coldly enough.

^ Folly, don't you understand me ? Haven't
you seen that I deceived myself in treating
you merely as a friend ? Don't sou know
that I love you '? Don't you see what has
deranged my senses and made me your slave ?
You know what love is. You are not a child.'

And do you really love me V asked Folly.

He tried to express in words the passion
that agitated his breast. His tongue • failed

him ; he looked down at the arm he still
held in his hands, and, lifting: the beautiful
down-covered limb to his lips, he pressed
eager kisses upon it for an answer.

Miss Folly called !' cried the call-boy,
thrusting in his head at the open door.

A PROPOSAL.

HE manager of the Levity was not
strict in enforcing the regulation
pasted on the notice-board at the
stage-door — * No person allowed to
pass the stage-door unless absolutely engaged
in the performance.'

As a matter of fact any person who spent
money freely at the Levity was permitted to
pass the stage-door, and could take a friend
with him occasionally. The manager saved
considerably in the salaries paid to the ladies
of his company by this arrangement, obtained
the friendship of newspaper critics, and could
evade the Jews if a failure compelled him
suddenly to raise money.

From the stage-door there were two passages

; one that led to the green-room, the
other leading to the business part of the
stage. The regulation on the notice-board
literally referred to this latter passage ; it
was barred to all save employed after the
performance had commenced. The manager
was a shrewd man of business, and while he
conceded the green-room to his patrons and
friends, excluded them rigorously from the
wings where their presence would interfere
with the business of the stage. After the
curtain had risen, not even Roland, who was
as well known behind the scenes as the
manager himself, could pass the commissionaire
who guarded the communication
between the green-room and the wings.
Thus he was parted from Folly when she
ran away in answer to the summons of the
call-boy.

Knowing that Folly would not return
until the close of the act, and unable to sit
still in his present condition of feverish restlessness,
he left the theatre, made his way
down one of the turnings from the Strand to
the Embankment, where he walked, trying
in vain to think composedly of what he had
done and what must ensue. All that he
could think of was Folly's arm and how it

yielded to his lips. He bit the end of his
cigar through and through, and fretted it
away with his teeth, while his fingers twisted
and rolled the edges of the letters in his
pockets into pellets. He reckoned it Avould
take him a quarter of an hour to get back to
the theatre, and to be in time he started to
return five and twenty minutes before the act
would conclude. He made the distance in
seven minutes.

A couple of men had come into the greenroom
and were looking at the portraits in
the album on the table. Roland wished
them anywhere else ; how could he make
love to her before these men and the
members of the company who would leave
the stage with her ? The difficulty had not
presented itself to his mind before.

One of the men he knew well — Delaunay,
a member of the Corinthusus ; the other was
Delaunay's friend, a young viscount, and the
son of a statesman well known for his culture
and high morality. This young man had the
misfortune to resemble in some features the
hero of a popular authoress ; he was large,
stupid, and a guardsman. Being proud of
the resemblance, he was now doing his best
to supply those deficiencies in which nature

fell short of the demi-rep's ideal. He was
wicked less from natural inclination than a
perverted sense of duty, basing his contempt
for virtue on the dogma maintained by
another hero of his authoress, stated in these
words, ' It is very bourgeois to do right

Delaunay introduced his friend and opened
the conversation. What they said was nob
worth repeating, being the reverse of George
Eliot's definition of sarcasm ; it was indecency
without wit, and repulsive enough to any
clean ear. The young nobleman did most of
the talking; Roland most of the listening.
Such talk he had heard many times before,
and considered the ridicule of honour and
decency as a merely idle and nasty fashion,
like the sucking of toothpick, and not as the
sincere avowal of a general principle. But
now he listened with ears differently attuned,
and took their words and meaning to be the
same. A few weeks before if anyone had
laid down the proposition that morality was
an old-fashioned virtue, for which there was
no longer any necessity, England would have
opposed it with all the strength of his honest
convictions, but now he said nothing ; indeed
he rather doubted if after ail there was not
some truth in the argument.

It is thus that we allow ourselves to be
influenced by men whose opinions we have
despised, and take them for our leaders when
they go the way that we would go.

His reflections were broken by the chorus
which formed the finale to the first act.
Over the united voices of the other sinners
and the full accompaniment of the orchestra
he could hear Folly's voice ringing clear and
high. The last bar was lost in the roar of
applause which ceased only when the chorus
was repeated. Again plaudits mingled with
the concluding notes, and shortly afterwards
the door opened quickly and Folly entered
flushed and panting, with eyes that rivalled
the diamonds on her neck in glittering brilliancy.
Behind her came the low comedians
and the jolies petites of the company, all
chattering and lauo^hinof like children let out
of school. There is always something to talk
about at the conclusion of an act, and everyone
has something to say about it, which is
of such paramount importance that it must
be said in a very high voice and very
quickly.

Folly loved her business and ' talked shop '
like an old actress, and it was five minutes
before she could settle down to any other

consideration, though Koland stood at her
elbow, and the matter she had to discuss
with the low comedian was of a most trivial
kind. Then Delaunay came up, introducing
his friend, who eno^ao^ed her for another five
minutes in listening to flattery of a personal
sort, witless enough, and only redeemed from
bourgeois simplicity by its intended rudeness.
These attentions Folly received night after
night from one or another, and regarded as
carelessly as the comments of the dirty
denizens of the court she passed through to
the stage-door. Roland stood by, moody and
silent. The impertinencies were more objectionable
to his ear than they had been before,
and he was hurt to think that Folly had no
more consideration for him than to listen
patiently to such stuff at that time.

^ Have you forgotten what we were talking
about, Folly V he asked as she turned away
from her new acquaintance and walked with
Roland to the settee on the other side of the
room.

No. You were saying you loved me,
and showing me how much when the call-boy
interrupted you. You seem to have
changed your mind though, for you don't
look as if you love me now, and you haven't
VOL. II. 30

said two words to me since I came into the
room.'

That was not mj fault. You have given
half your time to that fool, Delaunay's
friend.'

That fool spoke to me when he wanted
to,' answered Folly, tartly.

I dai.^e say I am unreasonable and all that,
but it irritates me to see you exposed to the
impudence of every puppy that comes into
this room. I wish I could take you away
from this sort of life.'

Away from the stage V asked Folly,
opening her eyes wide. ' I thought you said
you loved me.'
So I do, Folly !'

And don't you know that I could never
be happy away from the stage V

'Would the life of an ordinary lady be
insupportable to you V

'Yes. What position could equal mine
here ? What girl is there that people crowd
to see ? that has her name written up in
beautiful big letters everywhere ? whose
portrait is in all the windows for people to
admire ? who has bouquets thrown at her
feet every night ? who's applauded when she
dances, or sings, or even stands still 'i who

has poetry written about her, and is talked
of in the newspapers more than the queen
herself ? Why, to give up all that and live
mewed up in a house, seeing half-a-dozen
people a week, would be like going back to
service and drudgery.'

^ But is this life not deficient in something
which you might find in retirement ? Could
nothing compensate you for the loss of flattery
and the homage of idle sio^ht-seers V

Nothing — nothing on earth — except — '
Folly paused, wondering if she could resign
flattery even to restore her father to health
and happiness.

Excepting what, Folly V

Never mind — nothing that you can osier.
Come,' she said, changing her attitude as if
to get away from the painful image of her
father which had come before her mind —
Come, you had good news to tell me, and I
have heard nothing.'

Is it nothing to know that I love
you ?'

That is no news. You have loved me a
long time — ever since you first saw me.'

I think you are right, Folly ; I must
have lovcvd you at first sight, though I dared
not admit it even to myself. I could not

30—2

love you conscientiously while I was engaged

to Miss Vane

^ Conscientiously — what's that V

With justice to my own conscience — my

sense of right and wrong.'

And now you can V

Yes ; I am no longer under any engagement.'


I see. So now you can love me conscientiously.
Read me your father's letter.
Does he know that you love me V

Yes. He knows more than I thought he
knew. Vane must have told him. It was
he, you know, who looked after me when you
brought me home from that precious ball.'

Why did he tell your father V

He wanted my father to recall me from
London, I dare say.'

Ah, he didn't want his sister to lose you.'

No, that was not his reason. Vane
would do nothing mean like that. He is
the most generous, unselfish man living.'

Holand spoke with his old warmth.

Then what was his reason V

I think he was afraid T should get into
trouble, or — or go wrong in some way
Holand replied, stammering, and pulling his
slight moustache.

^ He was afraid of me V

'Perhaps so.'

And your father is afraid of his sister V

Well, possibly,' Roland assented.

Folly began to see things more clearly.

Your father approves of your loving me
conscientiously V she said, emphasising the
long' word which seemed agreeable to her.

'He puts no restrictions on me, and he
gives me permission to draw upon him for
more money if I require it. That is the
good news I wanted to tell you.'

But somehow he did not feel as if he were
telling good news, and she expressed no
pleasure in hearing it. She seemed to be
occupied with some mental analysis, for after
a minute's silence she said :

Loving conscientiously — I don't quite
understand that word yet awhile. When
you loved Miss Vane conscientiously what
did you mean V

That I would be true to her ; and that's
what I mean by loving you conscientiously.'

Poland flattered himself he was getting out
of the difficulty now.

And by being true to her you intended
to marry her; is that what you mean by
loving me conscientiously V

Koland looked down in silent embarrassment.


There never was such an unlucky beggar
as I am when I open my mouth,' thought
he ; 'I am sure to use some word that can
be twisted up into a lash for my own
shoulders.'

That is what you mean, Roland T continued
Folly, speaking with unwonted quickness
and excitement. ' And your father
sends you money that you may marry me —
is it so V

England twisted his fingers, keeping his
eyes on the ground and blushing with honest
shame.

Sir Andrew thinks it will be more to
your honour when you are a justice of the
peace and a Member of Parliament to have
a wife like me, the daughter of a — ' she
checked herself, and, avoiding the word,
said, ^ Better to have a wife who was born
in a workhouse than the simple sister of a
good man — is it so V

I will not lie. Folly,' said Roland, lifting
up his head. ' It is not so. My father
would rather see me dead than married to
you I'

Have you any more good news to tell

me V Folly asked, with a short forced
lauo-h.

He bowed his head ao^ain.

Folly's face was white with anger. Atone
moment she tinned her hand upon her
lap to strike him across the face with her
knuckles before everyone in that room.

He had offered her the insult she most
dreaded. He had thought her capable of
descending to the level of common girls. He
had wronged her as much as it was in his
power to wrong her.

With an effort she overcame the impulse
as the old idea of a deep and thorough
vengeance presented itself again to her mind.

I am afraid 1 have been fool enough to
say more than I should said Roland, noticing
her silence, feeling that it must be all over
between them now ; ' but I hope that despite
this misunderstanding '

There is no misunderstanding,' replied
Folly, 'but there might have been had you
concealed anything. I see all without any
mistake whatever. I can see your father
just as I see you, and the Margaret you
have left, and her brother who would take
you away from me — I see you, every one,
quite clearly.'

The second act was called, and a general
movement took place, in which Folly joined.

You will suffer me to wait for you V said
Volant.

Folly nodded and left the room with the
rest.

At the close of the second act, instead of
returning to the green-room, Foll}^ retired to
her dressings-room.

She sent her dresser away, and locked herself
in. Then she sat down and brooded
over what had transpired between herself
and Roland. There were new proofs to convince
her of Sir Andrew's heartless indifference
to any interests outside his own.
She saw him with his ugly faults distorted
into hideous vices. She was merciless in her
judgment of Roland. Prejudice blinded her
to all that might excuse him. His very
virtues she construed into subtle artifices
employed to weaken her defence and cheat
her reason. Father and son were alike —
they had done all in their power to degrade
her father and herself

She knew nothing of religion beyond what
she had seen upon the stage and through the
doors of churches. She understood that there
^as a God who deals punishment to the

wicked, who taught that law of vengeance
she had learnt by heart, and she knew that
He was to be moved by prayer.

She rose suddenly from her seat, and
dropping upon her knees said through her
closed teeth :

^ Give me vengeance, great God, and let
me punish these men as they deserve.'

VANE IS INTRODUCED TO FOLLY.

'roland had tried so long and persistently
to cheat himself into the
2r]6yk> belief that wrong is right, that he
found it difficult now clearly to distinguish
one from the other. He was mystified
and perplexed between the true and the
false views he had taken of his connection
with Folly. This mental disorder was
increased by the physical results of late
hours, want of rest, and a vicious use of
stimulants.

He did not distinctly see what he was
doing", or what he must do as the inevitable
consequence of what he had done. lu this
deplorable state of obscurity — a state which
distinguishes the earlier stages of insanity —

he abandoned himself to the chance guidance
of circumstances, like a man adrift on the
bare sea who has neither chart nor compass
to appeal to.

He felt that he had ' got into another
mess of a rather more desperate kind than
any he had yet got out of; and could only
hope that ' the luck ' which had assisted him
in previous difficulties would not desert him
now, but would ultimately shape his rough-hewed
ends satisfactorily.

It must be owned that he was uneasy as
to the future, and looked for the first time
doubtfully at ' the luck.' Before, he had
felt that his good intentions and general
honesty of principle entitled him to the
favours of Fortune ; but now he had no
feeling of this kind to encourage his hope.
He was conscious of being debased from his
honest manhood, of having gone quite astray
from the path of rectitude, which, despite his
frequent deviations in former times, he had
never lost sight of.

Moreover, he missed the trusty friend who
had never failed him in critical moments :
who had forgiven him, and lifted him out of
the mire, and sent him before the world again
clean and respectable, no matter how he had

transgressed. Richard Vane was no longer
his friend ; he had done that which the patient
vicar could not forgive ; he dreaded the possibility
of accidentally meeting him, and
found satisfaction in the thought that the
breach he had made was wide enough to
keep them asunder.

He was wretched enough as he sat in the
green-room waiting for Folly. When she
did not come at the conclusion of the second
act, he perceived that he had offended her for
whom he had forsaken all.

I haven't a friend in the world, and I
suppose I don't deserve one,' he said to himself,
bitterly

A t that very moment the commissionaire
from the stage-door entered the room, and,
handing a card to Koland, said :

The gentleman's waiting outside, sir.'

Upon the card was written ^ Richard
Vane,' in the vicar's well-known hand.

The blood rushed to Roland's face, and he
felt as he remembered feeling when a boy,
caught by this same gentle friend — then his
usher — caught dropping over the orchard
Avail with full pockets.

^ Shall I ask him to walk in, sir V asked the

messenger, recalling Koland to his present
position.

Eh ? Yes — yes ; that is, no ; I will come
out,' answered Roland, in some confusion ;
then, suddenly remembering that Folly might
come to the room the next moment expecting
to find him, he recalled the commissionaire
and said he had changed his mind, and would
see Mr. Yane there, \yith this order the
man retired.

Koland tried in vain to settle on some definite
plan of action, but he had not decided
whether to receive Richard Yane with formal
politeness or the Warmth of an old friend,
when the commissionaire returned followed
by the gaunt vicar. Roland's colour left him,
and his fingers, resting on the table, trembled
not from vermouth this time, but from the
emotion he felt in looking in the plain face of
the high-shouldered vicar.

He did not see the red nose and the yellow
skin that attracted the critical notice of the
two or three other spectators ; he saw only
the soft, sweet eyes that rested tenderly on
himself, which were lit with something of that
divine love which passeth all understanding.

Yane took his hand, and, holding it still,
said :

^ Your hand's not right, Roleyy, and your
face is as pale as a muffin. What's the matter
with you V

Nothing,' answered Roland, falteringly ;
^ it's the vermouth, perhaps. Who'd have expected
to see you here V

It is a rather canonical place for a
parson ; but it is a place I wished to see,
nevertheless. As a boy I remember to have
had a passionate longing to see the inside of
a Punch-and-Judy show.'

^ There isn't much in it, after all, is there V
said Roland, looking round the room and
gaining confidence.

The vicar noticed that the fingers ceased to
tremble.

Thank heaven it isn't vermouth !' he said
to himself, allowing the hand to slip from his.

^ I can't offer to show you the other parts
of the stage just now ; it is against the regulations
during the performance.'

There is one part of the stage which one
may see without infringing the rules, I expect.
Is there a seat to be had ? I want to
see Folly.'

Do you ! Come along with me ; I have
a box. Quick ! the orchestra is rung in, and
we shall just be in time for Folly's great

scene.' Roland spoke with excitement. He
was anxious that Richard Vane should see
Folly in all her beauty, that he might be forgiven
for loving her so madly.

His enthusiasm was not unnoticed. Vane
reverenced earnestness, and so that Roland
loved Folly thoroughly all might be well.
What he loathed and dreaded to find his
friend indulging in was trifling and vermouth.

The curtain was rising as the two gentlemen
came to the front of the box.

stake my glass,' whispered Roland eagerly,
thrusting a lorgnette forward. Vane pushed
it away gently, without taking his eyes from
the tableau before him.

Folly as Andromeda chained to the rock
was to Richard Vane's eyes the most beautiful
picture he had ever looked upon. He
was no green novice : he had seen scores of
Andromeda in the picture-galleries of
Europe, and he had seen dozens of burlesques.
What he saw gained much of its
charm, perhaps, from the contrast it afforded
to what he had expected to see. In a burlesque
of Andromeda it was reasonable to
suppose that the chained heroine would appear
in French boots .and in a dress as much
like an acrobat's as possible ; that she would

wear a simper on her face, and jewellery of
an equally false character upon her fingers ;
and that the tout ensemble would be to the
last degree vulgar. Folly's Andromeda was
as simple an appeal to the sense of beauty
which all possess as a Greek marble. A soft,
diaphanous fabric veiled her figure from the
shoulder to the foot, falling in graceful folds
that yielded to the contour of her body and
limbs. The diamonds she displayed in the
preceding acts she abandoned in this ; hands,
arms, and throat were bare. The rich clusters
of her hair drawn away from one cheek
hung tumbled and loose upon the other, as if
the creeping sea-breeze had blown them there.
There was no straining after effect either in
her pose or in the expression of her face.
The picture was composed by Art, and
painted by Nature, in bold defiance to all the
laws of burlesque. The conception was
Folly's own, Which had been reluctantly
accepted by the manager as a hazardous experiment,
with that fortunate result which
attended every innovation made upon the
stage by the girl. The manager attributed
these innovations to caprice ; but they were
undoubtedly the emanations of genius, absurd
as it may seem to attribute the divine creative

faculty to the actor of anything lower than
tragedy.

Richard looked on in silent emotion — the
emotion that a delicate mind experiences in
the presence of a sunrise, of twilight, of a
melody, of anything which is essentially
lovely. But apart from this sense his heart
was touched with a pathetic interest in the
young girl upon the stage, which perhaps no
one in the house but he felt.

Koland watched the expression of sympathy
and delight grow in his companion's
face with trembling pleasure.

Now thought he, he must know why I
cannot tear myself from London ; he must
envy me the love of such an angel.'
■ He would not by a movement venture to
break Richard Vane's rapture until the delight
of the audience risings from a murmur
found expression in loud applause. Then he
faced to the stage, and, fixing his ardent eyes
upon his darling, clapped his hands as vigorously
as any pit admirer.

He turned round to see why Yane did not
join in the applause. The vicar's hands were
idle on his knee. He had taken his eyes
from the stage and was regarding the rows of
spectators that filled the house from stalls to

VOL. II. 31

gallery, each one noisily expressing his appreciation
; from these he looked to the young
girl who, flushed with pleasure, was acknowledging
the ovation : and then he said
gently:

Poor child !'

He did not again take his eyes from Folly
while she remained upon the scene. When
she withdrew he leaned back in his seat and
spoke to Koland.

I want you to introduce me to Folly,' he
said.

With the greatest pleasure,' Koland answered,
still anxious that Yane should admire
her. Immediately after he reflected that
Folly might appear less charming off* the
stage, especially if the captious humour she
had displayed in the early part of the evening
continued, and he repented making the promise
so hastily.

Shall you see her before we go home V

Yes ; this act is the last,' Roland replied.
Then he thought, ' What the deuce can
Dick have to say to her T

'By-the-bye, I have not mentioned yet
that I purpose being your guest to-night.
You can give me a shake-down, I dare
say.'^r

Of course I can.' And then Koland wondered
how he was to square this arrangement
with his usual attention to Folly.

At that moment Folly ran on to the stage
in another costume and presented another
side of her character to Richard Vane. Her
gaiety was so spontaneous and natural, so entirely
free from vulgarity, that it charmed
the vicar completely. He had been prepared
to find her a girl above the ordinary kind,
nevertheless her strikingly exceptional character
astonished him.

When the curtain fell, they went down by
a private staircase to the stage, and toland
showed his friend what was to be seen while
they waited for Folly to come down from her
dressing-room.

The scenery was removed, the curtain
rolled up, the front of the house in gloom,
and only a few gaslights casting a dim light
over the dusty stage when Folly came down
wrapped in her furs and approached the two
gentlemen.

She had seen Richard Vane in the box, and
guessed that he came to remove Roland from
her power.

She turned brusquely away as soon as the
formal ceremony of the introduction was

31—2

over, and, going away a few steps, called
Roland to her side.

What does he want V she asked.

'To be introduced to you.'

Well, he has been introduced. What is
he waiting for V

^ You see, he has asked himself to go home
with me, and I can't exactly say he can't,'
Koland replied, nervously.

Why not V

He's my friend, you know.'

And what am I V she asked, dropping her
voice to its softest tones, and looking into his
eyes with a maddening little smile.

Folly ! — Love ! Bid me do what you
will, and it shall be done. But think what I
owe my friend.'

Richard Yane stood where he had been
left in the centre of the stage. As Roland
spoke Folly moved slowly away, widening the
distance. ' I will show you what to do,' she
said, a ludicrous spirit of mischief rising over
her more serious feelings,

They reached the wings, walking in the
slow manner of those engaged in conversation,
then she hastened her steps, taking his
arm, and said :

Lead me to my brougham.'

He led her to the carriage waiting for her,
put her in, and held out his hand to bid her
good-night. Holding his hand, she said :

Come in.'

But Yane '

Come in,' she repeated in a voice more
tenderly sweet.

Without further hesitation he stepped into
the brougham.

Now tell the man to drive to the supper-rooms.'


But Dick, there — all alone.'

Would you leave me all alone ?' she asked,
in pitiful accents.

Roland put his head out of window, and
shouted to the driver.

The next moment the brougham was rattling
away from the theatre over the uneven stones
of the back street.

Richard Vane waited patiently on the
stage until the stage-manager came and asked
him whom he was waiting for.

^ Mr. Aveling/ said the vicar.

Why, he's been gone this half-hour.
Went with Folly, I heard him tell the
driver to go to the Hyperion Supper-Booms
myself,' answered the stage-manager.

^ Thank you. Will you show me the way

out V Yane said quietly, without expressing
surprise.

He was led to the street, when he walked
calmly to Roland's chambers in Kensington,
and there waited for his host, reading the
neglected Buckle like a sensible man.

A KISS.

OLLY did not give Roland time to
think of repentance. Over supper
she made him drink * to absent
friends and join her in laughing
at the practical joke played upon Mr. Yane.
This was another of those scrapes which ho
would have to get out of • somehow.' How
could he think of unpleasant consequences
or be dull with Folly doing her utmost to
charm and bewilder him 1

When they left the Hyperion, Folly proposed
having a drive — the mist of yesterday
had given place to a clear frosty air — and he
accepted, as indeed he would have done under
any circumstances, being excited with light

wine and bright glances from the most beautiful
of eyes.

They were driven along Regent Street and
Oxford Street until they reached the Marble
Arch ; then the brougham was turned homewards.
At the bottom of Park Lane Folly
said she would like to walk home through
the Park, so they left the brougham.

You don't want to go home and be lectured
by that ugly old fellow do you V asked
Folly, turning Poland towards Buckingham
Palace.

^ I never want to leave you, Folly. I
wonder what old Dick wanted to say to
you V

He wanted to preach a long sermon on
the sinfulness of taking you away from his
sister, I dare say. That would make no difference
to me, would it to you V

No argument in the world could make me
love you less.'

You are a good boy.'

I wasn't at the beginning of the evening,
Folly.'

^ Oh, you must forget that. I was out of
temper about something. Those new shoes
of mine don't fit, and you know how irritable
I am. I am not ill-tempered now.'

'You are a darling, Folly.'

I dare say I was a little jealous of that
man's sister, and annoyed because you couldn't
marry me. But you love me all the same.'

^ I don't think any man on earth loves as
I love you.'

Of course you couldn't marry a girl who
is only an actress.'

These abominable social restrictions are
the only impediment. Still I don't see the
enormous importance of marriage. A man
can love without marrying.'

Roland spoke in perfect innocence, and
contemplated a platonic affection as quite
possible ; but Folly, who had no sentiment in
the affair, saw it merely from a common-sense
point of view.

She did not answer. Despite her desire
to hold Roland in her power, she could not
even verbally acquiesce in a proposition which
her very soul revolted against.

However, Folly,' pursued Roland, ' we
need talk no more upon that subject. We
will go on just the same as ever, you know,
and let things settle down into their proper
places as circumstances direct. This letter
of the governor's comes just in the right time,
for my funds are as low as they can get comfortably;

and now I can famish a little house
for you, and get you away from that murky
hole in Lambeth V

Yes, yes, that will be nice. When shall
Ave look for a house ?'

Directly. Oh, it will be famous fun. I
should like a little place with a stable, so that
you could have a pair of ponies and a pony
carriage.'

And drive them myself to the theatre and
back again V

Yes, when the weather is good. A nice
comfortable little affair, with just room for you
and me, darling, in the front, and a seat behind
for a buttoned boy.'

Oh !' Folly exclaimed with her old childish
delight.

Then she forgot all about the ugly side of
the picture, and dwelt long on the charming
prospect opened to her; proposing and arranging
a thousand particulars in a gay, lighthearted,
open spirit, until they came to the
end of the Lambeth Road, and she suddenly
remembered her father ; then her bright
fancies vanished at once, like a broken bubble,
and left her with the dismal reflection that
her happiness was only one of those things
which might have been.

Roland knew nothing of the dull despondency
that had suddenly succeeded to Folly's
gay hopefulness. Her last laugh still rippled
in his ear ; her silence and her sigh he misunderstood.


We will part here,' she said, stopping.

He made arrangements for meeting her in
the afternoon, to which she responded in
monosyllables, and then held out her hand,
saying : ^ And now good-night.'

The warmth had not diminished in Roland's
heart ; he took her sudden silence as significant
of regret at parting ; he was emboldened
by his own fancies.

^ Folly,' he said holding her hand closely,
I have never kissed you. May I '


She bent her head, and a shudder ran
through her. Then she thought of her father,
and, closing her eyes, she held up her
cheek.

Roland touched the smooth surface lightly
with his lips, and left her with a fever in his
veins.

A fever of another kind quickened Folly's
pulses. When she had gone a dozen steps
alone she stooped down quickly to a puddle
in the road, dipped her handkerchief in the

water and rubbed her cheek with it where
Roland's lips had touched.

'.'' '/--iS--Jt •?*

It was a quarter past two when Roland
reached Grandison Chambers and walked upstairs
to his apartments, wondering how he
should excuse his conduct to Richard Yane.
He did not dread the meeting now ; his love
of Folly and the hope that she was beginning
to love him made him reckless. He felt very
little more than the disinclination to anything
like a ' scene ' which is common to people of
soft indolent dispositions.

He opened the door gently, hoping that
Vane might have turned into bed. . He had
seen a light in the room from without, and
knew by that he had a visitor. He found
the vicar wide awake ; Buckle did not send
him to sleep.

Are you very angry with me, Dick V he
asked, as he faced his old friend.

Not yet. I am in the neutral position
of one who doesn't know whether he should
be angry or not,' answered Vane, slipping an
envelope in the page and closing his book.
Tell me wliy you left me in that odd manner,
and you will soon see what the condition of
my temper is.'

You may be sure I didn't wish to offend
you ; but it is rather hard to explain why T
treated you so rudely.'

If you tell me it was unavoidable I shall
be content.'

Of course I could have returned to you
if I liked, in fact I did try '

Roland hesitated, wishing Yane to think
ill of him rather than of Folly, but not seeing
how to exonerate her and inculpate himself.

Richard saw pretty clearly how it was with
him.

You were divided between duty to your
friend and your love to Folly, eh V

Yes, and I decided for Folly Roland said,
boldly.

You would not have loved her sincerely
had you not, and insincerity to her is what I
could not forgive in you.'

With eager enthusiasm Roland answered :

Oh, Dick, I do love her with all my heart
and soul ! What else could reconcile me to
alienation from my friends V

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

GLAND'S spirits rose. Everything
was going well with him now.
Even Dick, whom he most feared,
was kind and seemed to approve of
his loving Folly. It surprised him to think
that such a change should take place in so
short a space of time ; and he wondered how
it was he had looked at the affair in such a
gloomy and despondent spirit.

Let us sit down and have a good talk he
said, pushing forward a chair.

No, thank you,' replied Vane, as he looked
at his watch. ' Half-past two is too early
for me. We will talk later in the day.'

^ Oh, don't turn in yet awhile. Have
something to drink. Do you like mousseux ?

Very much. But my condition is suggestive
of a sleepier wine.'

A half bottle,' auro-ed Roland, feelings that
it would be impossible to sleep yet awhile.

No, I don't want it, and you don't need
it. Come, where shall I sleep V

Finding it impossible to move Vane from
his purpose, Roland made the necessary
arrangements for his visitor, and afterwards
prepared himself for rest, unusual as the hour
was for his repose.

In half an hour Yane was sound asleep.
Roland sat irresolute on the side of his bed.

What on earth is the good of jutting out
the light yet ? I can't go to sleep,' thought
he. * I wish we had opened a bottle. I must
try and read myself to sleep.'

He turned the gas up, and made the experiment
with a book. In five minutes he
laid the novel aside with the conviction that
it is not a wise thing to read when one's dry.
He stared at the gas and thought of Folly
until his ideas got confused and his eyes felt
heavy. If the gas were lower he thought he
could go to sleep now. He turned it down,
and getting into bed again tried to sleep.

I never can sleep on my right side,' said
he, turning over after a couple of minutes ;

but the left was equally uncomfortable, so he
lay on his back, and soon after began to gasp
like a fish out of water. ' If Vane had not
'^ notions" about drinking in the night I would
have half a bottle now thought he. Presently
he sat uj) in bed and entertained serious
thoughts of drinking a tumbler of water.
It's about the worst thing a man can drink,
the doctors agree upon that point ; but this
thirst is intolerable. Now, if Vane weren't
asleep I'd have a demi; but it would be a
shame to wake him, and he'd lecture for an

hour. If I could only go to sleep ' He

threw himself back on the pillow and shut his
eyes savagely.

Are you asleep. Vane V he cried out,
about two minutes later. There was no
answer. That settled the business. Koland
sprang out of bed, turned up the gas, got one
of his favourites from the cupboard, took off
its straw cap, and removed the wires with an
amount of celerity that bespoke a willing
mind. The skill with which he got the cork
out without allowing it to wake the sleeper
in the next apartment was commendable, and
so adroitly was the feat executed that nota
single drop of the frothy liquid was
wasted.

I knew it would revive me,' said he,
finishing the bottle. ' It always does.'

He was quite right, it did revive IiIdi. He
was less inclined to sleep than ever. However,
now that his thirst was allayed he could
lie and think dreamily of Folly without discomfort.
It was not until four o'clock that
this indeterminate condition became irksome ;
but at five it was unendurable. He could
not think consistently upon any subject for
two minutes together, and he could not avoid
tr^ang to think consistently.

It's as bad as being mad, to lie and rave
in one's thoughts like this ; I must do something
to go to sleep,' said he, throwing the
clothes off. They felt like bonds upon
him.

^ Doings something' meant drinking some
poisonous liquor from a bottle which he took
from a drawer. Whether he took more or
less than his customary dose of the oily green
syrup he did not knows or care in his drowsy,
half-idiotic state. It acted as a narcotic, and
sent him off to sleep with a delicious vision of
Folly's pretty face.

He slept like a bear until Richard Vane
shook him into wakefulness at half-past nine.

H'loa, old man ; that you ? Where am

VOL. II. 32

I 1 What is it V he asked, trying to open
his eyes.

Where does Fo% Eve V Vane asked in
return.

Folly ? Lambeth Road. Wait a bit, I
shall be awake directly.'

What number in Lambeth Road ?'

Twenty seven. But what's matter ?
Nothing happened V

^^ Nothing. Go to sleep again.'

Thanks ; have breakfast, you know —
make 'self at home — all right,' .the last words
ended in a deej^ sigh, and were immediately
succeeded by a snore.

Vane had already made himself at home
and eaten his breakfast, and now, having the
information he required, he left Kensington
and walked by Victoria Station and Horse-ferry
Road into Lambeth.

The houses in Lambeth Road were being
remembered — some had the new numbers,
others retained the old, and a large portion
of them showed impartiality by having no
numbers at all.

Vane, after some trouble, found out which
Away the new numbers ran, and had traced them
from 150 down to 41, when his attention was
attracted by a little knot of people gathered

before a house some distance in advance of
him. A turfed forecourt lay between the
house and the pavement ; from the outer side
the spectators commanded a view of the
whole front of the house — a gratifying privilege
to the morbid.

It was generally understood that a woman
was being murdered within, and, as is usual in
such cases, every one was deeply interested,
but not one moved a hand to avert the mischief
A woman from the adjoining house
had come down to look up at the windows,
and was talking in a low deprecatory tone, to
which the crowd lent their ears without
removing their eyes from the house.

He oughtn't to be kep' in the house with
them two females. I see him the other day
with a knife in his hand,' the woman was
saying as Vane came up.

He looked at the door, saw upon it the
number he sought, and without a moment's
hesitation pushed his way through the idlers,
ran across the forecourt and thundered at the
door.

It ain't no good your knocking, young
man j Miss Clip is out, and the old man's
killing' the other female,' said the neighbour.
Vane waited a second, then knocked again.

32—2

I tell you it ain't no good,' the woman
repeated.

Yane put his eai^ to the door, and then, stepping
back a pace, turned his shoulder to the
door and threw the whole weight of his body
against the lock. The door, secured only by
the latch, flew open, and Vane entered. The
crowd, excited to greater curiosity, impinged
on the forecourt and showed a desire now of
following his lead. He closed the door, shot
a bolt, and paused, listening.

Let me go, or I'll do for you !' squeaked
a thin, reedy voice, that seemed to come from
a room below.

Vane found the stairs, and ran down.
Opening a door and entering a stone-paved
scullery, a strange sight met his eyes — an old
man struggling with a young girl.
The girl was Folly.

The old man stood against the whitened
walls — a gaunt, large-framed man, shrunk
away, wasted, distorted with disease, privations,
and years of misery, dressed in gentlemanly
clothes and white linen.

He was pinned against the wall by the
wrists ; his wristbands were smeared with
blood ; it was his, and yet not his — drops fell
upon the stone pavement from the hand of

the daughter, who stayed him from doing a
greater harm. His face was purple with excitement
; his thill white hair, tumbled and
disordered, fell over his protruding, bloodshot
eyes ; his nostrils were dilated ; his mouth
gaped ogden ; the turgid veins stood out from
his face and skinny throat. He looked like
what he was — a maniac. In his riHit hand
he grasped a carving-knife with a horn
handle.

In physical strength the girl had the advantage
; nevertheless, it was evident that
her hold upon the old man was relaxing.
Upon her face was a look of distressed compassion.
Her power to control her antagonist
diminished as she perceived how it exasperated
him to greater fury. As her
resolution gave way, as she yielded to the
tender feeling of compassion, the old man's
nervous force increased, his determination
growing with his ascendancy over her. He
clutched his claw like fingers with a tighter
hold upon the buckhorn-handled knife. He
writhed and struggled to free his wrists from
her grasp, snapping at her arms with his
toothless gums, and kicking her savagely.
Happily the shoes upon his feet were of felt,
nevertheless she suffered.

Oh ! father, father ! you are hurting me
she said, in a tone of gentle remonstrance.

He laughed, with a horrible sound, the
foam falling from his mouth upon the
scattered grey hairs of his beard, and kicked
with redoubled violence.

The noise made by the old man prevented
his hearing Vane's approach. As the door
opened, and he saw him, he ceased to
struofor-le. Recognising at once that here
was one not to be subdued, he dropped the
knife from his hand, and sank upon his knees
in abject trepidation.

I didn't mean to hurt her,' he whimpered.
I Alas only going to cut a piece of bread,
that's all. She began it, not me ; she was
trying to kill me. I never did anything to
hurt anyone. I am only a poor old man.
She is the strong one ; look at my arms and
look at hers. What chance have I against
her ? That's my blood on her hand — oh
dear ! oh dear !' With transparent cunning
he whipped a handkerchief from his pocket
and bound it about his deathless hand. ' She
is always trying to kill me, trying to get me
into trouble. I don't want the knife — I
don't want anything — except to live quietly,
like a poor old man. Don't hurt me— don't

set things to hunt me about — not, you know,
dead hares ; let me die nice and quietly.
It's all this girl, not me — she wants to oft
rid of me, she does.'

He spoke with his head on Folly's bosom,
for the girl had thrown herself down beside
him and drawn his head to her heart.

You mustn't believe her. She does this
to deceive you,' he continued. * She would
have cut my throat if you had not come in
at that moment to save the poor old man.'

There, there, dear ; you're quite safe now,'
murmured Folly, stroking back his hair and
smoothing it over his head.

Your hand is hurt ; let me see it,' said
Richard Vane to Folly.

No, it is nothing,' said she, snatching it
away. ' I scratched it.'

Yes, yes, she scratched it, I saw her,'
piped John Morrison. ' Poor Folly — I'll see
to it.'

But Vane was not to be put away ; he
took Folly's hand forcibly, and found two of
the fingers cut on the inner side, where she
had apparently clasped the knife to take it
from her father. He would sicken if he saw
a crushed dog, but he was not squeamish at
the sight of blood when his help was needed.

He looked at Folly's ^^'oiind. The cuts were
not deep. Vane tore his handkerchief in
half and bound up the fingers with a firm yet
tender hand, that showed him used to rendering
practical assistance.

The old man, exhausted by his late exertions,
and no longer stimulated by hopes of
supremacy, could hardly support himself upon
his knees, yet his fear of Richard Yane prevented
his relaxing into that state of prostration
which usually followed violent paroxysms
of this hid. He cowered now for protection
beside the daughter whom but for Yane he
would have murdered ; and she, keeping her
left arm about his neck, showed far more
concern for him than for herself After
yielding to have her wounded fingers dressed,
she seemed to forget the man who had probably
saved her life.

John Morrison, seeing that nothings
to be gained by vilifying Folly, tried to ingratiate
himself in Yane's favour by other
means.

Poor, dear Folly !' he said in a cracked,
whining voice, intended to imply affectionate
sympathy, vigilantly watching Yane's face ashe
spoke. 'Dear, dear Folly ! scratched her
hand, so she did : she said so. She never

tells lies, never says there isn't any rum
when I know there is. Scratched her hands,
so she did, and the kind, strong gentleman is
tying them up for her. The good, strong
gentleman who wouldn't set the — the dead
things to hunt me even if I did lose my
temper for once in a \vay. He wouldn't set
dead little babies, and hares with great, long,
stiff backs and stiff legs, to chase me about,
because he knows I love my dear Foh}", and
always do as she asks me, except one little
time when I lost my temper just a tiny
minute because she wouldn't give me money
to go out and buy her a little present — yes,
buy her a little present ; that's what I wanted
the money for — it wasn't rum for myself, buta
little present for her. Yes, that was it.
Xo one ever tells lies now. So the good,
strong gentleman will be kind to me,
won't he, and forget anything: he mio'ht have
thought he saw V

Yes, the strong gentleman is very sorry
for you,' said Yane, kindly.

You are not telling lies, are you ? You
wouldn't say you're very sorrj^ for me and
then go and set dead things and little
babies '

Father, father, you shall always be safe

with me cried the girl, clasping the hand
which Yane had just released with the other
about her father's neck. ' You shall never
be persecuted any more if you will only trust
to me, and do as I ask you.'

^ Yes, dear little babies,' continued the old
man, seeing the advantage he had won.
And your mother — dead too. So pretty ;
like you, Folly, With the mole on her cheek
there where yours is.'

John Morrison had used his tenderest
memories as instruments to work upon the
feelings of his daughter, until they continued
no longer to touch his own heart. It was
with them just as it is with the frequent repetition
of a tender word, which ceases intime
to carry with it the import of its earlier
utterance.

To Folly this callousness was more touching
than his first passionate reference to her
dead mother. It was dreadful that he should
suffer, but still more painful to think he could
not suffer. Looking at him she could only
think of the higher humanity from which he
had sunk to this almost brutal indifference.
She seemed to see him with a living body
and a dead soul.

With a passionate cry of grief she buried

her face in his shoulder, as if to avoid the
sight Which met her eyes, and burst into
tears.

Looked, looked,' said the old man, laying
his face against the girl's beautiful head, but
keeping his eyes craftily upon Richard ;
^ looked ; see ; if I did lose my temper just
for a moment, I wasn't to blame. She is
sorry for what she has done and cries for
pardon, and I forgive her ; and so you
won't set any — things, you know what, to
hunt me, will you V

Richard Vane shook his head, and stood
looking at Folly for a minute in silence — unable
to take his eyes from the pathetic
picture of filial devotion — then he picked up
the knife from the ground and noiselessly left
the room.

He believed that the old man was powerless
to attack the girl, but he paused outside
the door to find what use John Morrison
would make of his absence.

He's gone, Folly ; the strong man has
gone,' said the old man in a whistling whisper;
but I'll not be angry again if you'll give me
only a little tiny drop of rum.'

You cannot have it until the doctor comes.
Rest still ; it is not long to wait, dear.'

Folly spoke in the soothing tone of a
mother to her fractious child.

Well, I'll be still if you'll promise to protect
me if the strong; man returns.'

There was a quick knock at the street-door,
and Vane, satisfied that no further mischief
was to be apprehended immediately
from the old man, left the basement and
opened the street-door.

The crowd still gaped over the railings of
the forecourt ; a pale and excited woman
stood on the doorstep.

'What's the matter, sir? My name's
Miss Clip. I live here,' she said, entering
the hall. ' What has happened to Miss
Folly V

Nothing very serious,' answered Vane,
closing the door.

Oh dear, they said outside she was
murdered, and, indeed, I shouldn't be surprised
if she was. I can't always be with
her ; and he's so cunning there's no knowing
what he's after. He seemed to be sound
asleep when I went out a quarter of an hour
ago. It isn't safe for a young girl, with a
merciful, tender heart like hers, to be in the
power of an old madman. But there, she
won't let anyone else take charge of him

when she can ; and as for sending him away,
she'd never forgive you for j) reposing of it.'

The little woman would have said much
more, for she was one of those creatures who
cannot be silent when they have the chance
of being heard, but Vane checked her.

I think you may be of assistance now ; go
down and see. I will wait here a few minutes,
in case I may be wanted.'

Miss Clip ran away, removing her bonnet
and cloak as she went ; in a few minutes she
returned.

Miss Folly begs me to give her compliments,
and say she's much obliged to you for
callings and being: so kind, but she feels
quite safe now, and won't trouble you to wait
any longer.'

No one knowing Folly could have believed
this message to be hers ; it Alas, indeed, a
euphemism of Miss Clip's own concoction, as
Richard Vane knew perfectly well, for Folly's
words, spoken in clear, unmistakable tones,
had come to his ears from below. These
were the words he had heard : ' I know the
man quite well, Clip. He's the parson who
wants Roland Aveling to marry his sister,
and thinks he'll get him away from me. Tell
him I don't want to know more of him than I

know at present. I never want to see him
again, and I don't thank him for coming
without an invitation. Don't answer, Chp.
Isn't it enough for me to see my father's degradation
*? Have I any reason to be grateful
for having it published to all the world ?
Tell him what I say. Go.'

Another LECTURE.

HEN Richard Yane retariiecl to
H^A^F) Grandison Chambers he found
^livA% Roland up and dressed.

Holloa, Vane, where the deuce
have you been V were the young man's first
words.

Vane did not reply to the question. He
looked into Roland's face with stern scrutinising
eyes as he took the offered hand, and
compared him with Folly. Roland could
not meet his friend's glance. There was a
wavering, shifty, shameful look in the young
fellow's dull eyes and pale face. His hand
was unwholesomely damp and cold. Despite
the good spirits in which he had gone to bed,
he had risen with his customary feeling of

dejection and infirmity. He was now painfully
conscious of his feebleness, and wanted
something to conceal his feelings, and, as he
took his hand from Vane's and sought the
toothpick in his waistcoat pocket, his fingers
trembled so that he could not readily get at
it. Knowing that Vane's eyes observed his
futility, he removed his hand with an impatient
exclamation, and thrust it in the
wide pocket of his morning jacket.

What is the matter with you this
morning ?' asked Vane.

Out of sorts. Couldn't get to sleep.
Went to bed too early.'

'Nonsense. Going to bed early does not
make a man's hand shake like that in the
morning. What did you drink before you
went to sleep V

A little mousseux.'

I saw the bottle ; that wouldn't account
for it.'

Vane crossed to the cupboard where Roland
kept his wines, and used his eyes.

'What in the name of all that's horrible
are these V he asked, taking out first one
and then another of the precious patent
drugs.

You see what they are Koland answered.

pettishly. He didn't like the tone in which
Vane read the hybrid Greek and Latin
names on the pet nostrums, nor the sarcastic
voice in which he read aloud the advertised
efficacy of the doses. It was a freedom
which even friendship could not justify.

^ Ugh !' grunted the vicar, pushing them
aside and looking in the corners.

T hope your curiosity is satisfied, Dick ?'

Not quite. I am looking for the other
poison.'

What other poison f Roland knew perfectly
well what was meant.

Vane turned sharply round, and with
angry contempt said :

^ Are you not ashamed to play at lying,
Koland \ Sit down there and listen to me.
I find I must treat you like a child. Sit
down, or your feeble legs will give way under
you ; sit down this minute.'

Roland made a faint show of opposition,
and then sat down.

'What I mean is this, you have been
drugging yourself with something worse than
the stuff quack doctors invent : absinthe or
vermouth, or some vile poison of that kind.
Where is it X

VOL. II. 33

In the drawer of the armoire in the next
room.'

Vane went to the receptacle and fished out
the bottle. Through the opened window he
flung it out on to the tiles of the adjoining
outbuildings.

Do you know how long a man has to live
who takes to drugging his body with vermouth
V he asked, coming back to the
sitting-room.

Roland did not reply.

About seven years ; his reason goes in
about six.' Vane continued, ' Now what do
you think of the man who escapes his obligations
to society by cutting his throat V

I think he is a coward.'

So do I. But he takes a less cowardly
means of doing a cowardly thing than you
Avould.'

^ Why do sou take such trouble about me ?
If I'm going to the devil, why don't you let
me go my own way V

You won't excite my sympathy by that
ad misericordiam style of argument. You
are humbugging yourself, not me''

I don't ask for your sympathy ; I only
ask you to let me alone.'

I should not do that, if you only were to

be considered ; I certainly shall not, having
the interests of some one else at heart.'

^ I do not see who else is concerned.'

Roland ventured to raise his eyes to Yane,
who had taken a seat facing him, and cowered
before the angry look which gave him the lie.
He saw that his companion was not to be
trifled with, and made an effort to free himself
from the morbid ideas which enveloped him
like a web and controlled his natural faculties.

Of course, there's my father, I know
that ; but he sent me here, and approves of
the life I am leading.'

Does he know and approve of your committing
suicide ; and if he behaves foolishly,
does that justify your acting criminally ?
Are you compelled to do wrong because he
is silly enough to say you may ? Rather,
does not your own knowledge of riofht tell
you to do what is in your eyes likely to preserve
his honour and secure him from remorse
? Have you no better feeling of filial
love and respect than to accelerate the
punishment of your father's folly ? Do sou
wish me to believe that when you drink a
poison, that you know is to kill you in seven
years, you excuse the act because your father
approves of it V

33—2

Upon my soul, Yane, I have never
thought of my father in the matter.'

That is an admission. It is hard towring
the truth from such stubborn hearts as
yours. You admit, then, that your father is
concerned in the way you go to the devil,
and that the way you have chosen for yourself
is not to his advantage V

Roland nodded, and hung his head sullenly.
This old trick of floo-o'inQ^ him with his own
whip was to be played again, he thought.

That is one person. Now, do you remember
telling me last night that you loved
Folly with all your heart and soul V

Yes ; and I sap so now, Dick.'
And mean it ?'

^ Yes ; and if I never was anything but a
trifler in other matters, I am sincere in this.'

I thought so last night. You seemed tome
earnest then, and I think so now.'

^ Thank yow, Dick.'

And so you see we have arrived at a
total of two people who are concerned in
your salvation — leaving out of the account
such persons as Madge and me, and a Being
not always to be forgotten.'

If these thoughts would only occur tome
as they do to you, I should never go

wrong. I couldn't do wrong, if I bad only
some one near me to hint at my obligations
and all that, and just remind me that I am
going out of the rectilinear.'

We shall speak of that presently.'

You are a dear old fellow. I begin to
breathe freer five minutes after you bave
been in the room. Just tell me w^bat I am
to do, Dick.'

'Well, to finish one subject before beginning
another, what I want you to do is to
promise me, upon your honour as a gentleman,
never to touch yarmouth or anything
like it again.'

But supposing a lot of fellows are drinking
it, and they say, '' Here, Avebng, old
man, drink with us." '

And supposing you are manly enough to
reply, " Old man, I thank you all the same,
but I prefer bitter beer," will you lose their
esteem ? If you would, their esteem is only
worth losing.'

Dick, as I'm a gentleman, I'll never
touch the stuff again.'

Jot it down in your betting-book, Poland ;
that seems to be the book in which gentlemen
register their only inviolable pledges.'

I will. And now let us talk of Folly.

Tell me all you think of her. Didn't yon
ask me for her address in the middle of the
night, or did I dream that you did ? Where
have you been this morning V

To see Folly.'

1 hope she wasn't rude to you.'

She was not very polite, I must confess.'


Yane's grave face lapsed into a smile as he
remembered the message which Miss Clip
did not deliver.

One must make allowances for clever
people, you know urged Roland. * You
consider her a great actress, don't you V

*No. I don't know whether she can act
at all. Acting, as I understand it, is the impersonation
of a borrowed character. I
imagine that Folly merely represents her
own character and disposition.'

Ah, I dare say you're right. But I'm
sorry she was rude to you. Perhaps she
didn't mean it V

^ It is more likely that she did. However,
T did not go to examine her manners. 1
went to see if she was a good girl.'

^ Well ?' asked Koland, eagerly.

I saw a proof of filial devotion in her
which should be a lesson to you.'

I have lots to learn, I know. What
was it V

She did not wish it to be known.'

'Ah, she has some queer notions about
her father, if that old lunatic is her father.
I have asked her over and over again to let
me place him in a proper asylum, you know,
but she's deaf to reason.'

She must love you deeply to forgive such
a proposal. Nothing but death will separate
her from him.'

I suppose not ; and, come to think of it,
I ought not to have made the suggestion.
What a thoughtless beo^o-ar I am !'

You have taken the fact that they are inseparable
thoroughly into consideration V

Oh yes. I made up my mind that she
would not let the old man go away.'

Before you told her you loved her f
'Yes.'

Holand looked at Vane, wondering what
he was driving at now.

She has accepted your offer V

Yes, yes,' Roland replied, rather nervously,
with a faint suspicion of what was to
come. ' Yes, we were talking about taking a
house and buying a pony-carriage last night.'

I did not know matters had gone so far.

Well, England, I congratulate you, for I believe
Folly to be as good a girl as ever lived.
In her you will find one who will be the guide
and counsellor you need ; and, as for her love
Ah, a woman who can love a father as she.
loves hers must love her husband '

Husband, Dick V Roland said, interrupting
Vane.

Yes. What mistake is there in that V

Only this — I have no intention of marrying
Folly.'

Then what do you intend doing V Vane
asked, sharply.

Why, we — we intend going on just as weare.
'

T don't understand you. Speak plainly.'

I have told Folly that the difference in
our position prevented my making her my
wife.'

When did you tell her that V

Last night. She was very angry at first.
I think she suspected me of dishonourable
intentions, you know. She wouldn't come
out between the acts — that is how it was you
found me alone. But when I told her that I
intended loving her in a platonic way, you
know, she forgave me, and accepted my offer
of the house and ponies.'

That was after she had seen me V

Yes

Richard Vane reflected, for some moments
in silence. Certain features of this affair
were inexplicable to him, but he attributed
that fact to the mystification in which
Koland had enveloped it, and not to those
sinister motives of revenge which prompted
Folly. He concluded that Folly had accepted
a reconciliation with Roland, and agreed to
the absurd scheme he suggested as a temporary
means of securing him to herself

If we both agree to an innocent friendship,
I cannot see who is to blame me,' said Roland.

Of course you can't. You cannot see, also,
that you are acting like a fool. Are you a
Plato 1 You, who cannot see that it is wrong
commit suicide, are you to be trusted to
keep within the cold, passionless circle of self-restraint.
Tell me this, Plato — how did you
part with your friend last night after offering
house and ponies — did you offer to kiss V
Roland coloured to the temples. 'Had you
ever done so before ? Bah ! your silence
answers me. Roland, if I had not knowii
you a year ago I should doubt if you ever
had been manly; if I didn't know that you
are besotted with vermouth and quack medicines

I should think you out of your mind
now ; if I hadn't your promise to cease
poisoning your body, I should despair of you
having manly sentiments in the future

What am I to do ? I feel I have been in
error. Only tell me what I should do, and I
will try and behave as a man should.'

Do one of two things : take the next
packet to America — Australia — anywhere
away, and never see Folly again, or down
upon your knees and ask her to be your wife.'

Leave her — impossible I'

Well !'

'Make her my wife— she is a burlesque
actress !'

Yane jumped up, caught Koland by the
arm, and, facing him round to the glass,
asked :

And what are you V

A POINT GAINED.

^^Y a vigorous effort, such as a sleeper
makes to escape the clogging effects
of nightmare, Roland aroused himself
from the torpor into which he
had sunk, and exulted once more in a sense
of freedom and self-reliance and in the possession
of active strength. Possibly he was
weak and helpless as ever ; but at least he
was free from that debasing consciousness of
weakness which precludes a man from
attempting any healthy exertion.

He felt he might retrieve his lost ground
by a step in the right direction, and that step
he resolved to make. He would palter no
more with the serious affairs of life ; he would
guide his actions solely by his own perception

of right and wrong ; he would do his utmost
to deserve his own respect — setting up dear
old Dick as his model, and doing as he believed
Dick would do in parallel circumstances.
He had given his word to drop vermouth,
and small as that concession to the
demands of virtue had been, it was still of
appreciable worth as a beginning of better
things.

To fly the country, with the determination
of never again seeing Folly, was a course he
could not bring himself to think of seriously.
It would break his heart to leave her, and if
he were ten thousand miles away he could
think of her none the less. He doubted — and
very justly — if his courage would sustain a
long absence ; in all probability his first act
upon landing in America would be to take a
berth in the next homeward-bound vessel.
Besides these considerations, it seemed to
him, in his present exaltation of courage, a
sneaking and pusillanimous way of getting
out of a difficulty. On the other hand, to
marry Folly, in defiance of the conventional
dictates of society, and simply because it was
right to marry the woman he loved, was decidedly
heroic. And so, before Vane had exhausted
his arguments to show that a man

must do not what is expedient but what is
right, Roland had firmly determined to do
his duty in the manner most agreeable to his
inclinations.

Having come to this conclusion, he was
anxious naturally to let Folly know as
quickly as possible of the alteration in his
character which gave him so much satisfaction.
But great as this interest in his own
affairs was he forgot them entirely, and was
concerned only for Folly when he met her at
night.

The girl was pale, and her manner grave
and distrait — signs of distress which appealed
directly to the generosity of Koland's disposition.


Yane had rightly doubted Folly's ability to
represent any character but her own. It was
with an effort she concealed her dislike to
Roland ; it would have required still greater
exertion to simulate pleasure in his company,
an exertion of which her mind was not at
present capable.

What is the matter, Folly dear V Roland
asked, with tender earnestness. ' You look
pale and serious ; and what has happened to
your hand T

My hand — oh, that is nothing ; and my

pale and serious face — that is nothing also.
You have seen your friend since he called
upon me V

Richard Yane ? Yes, but '

She interrupted him with a short laugh,
and said, harshly :

^ I suppose you think I have got no more
than I might expect by taking care of my
father against sour reasonable advice, and so
ought to take my punishment cheerfully as a
thing of course V

I don't think anything so cruel, Folly. I
have been heartless, and spoken unfeelingly of
your father to you, I know, but I repent
heartily ; and now that my eyes are opened I
see how beautiful your behaviour to him has
been.'

Folly looked at him with curiosity.

And as for what happened this morning,'
he continued, ' I know nothing of it beyond
the fact that something did occur which you

o

y<

wished should not be known.'

Is that all he told you V

All. I don't want to know what happened.
I only want you to tell me if I
can do anything to lessen your distress,
dear.'

^ But you said your eyes had been opened,*

said Folly, disregarding all but her own
thread of thought. ' Who opened them V

vane. I— I— well, Folly, I told hiui
that I had advised sou to part with your
father.'

And what did he say V

He said you must love me very deeply to
forgive me that.'

Folly took time to consider what she heard.
Then she said :

Did he tell you the message I sent him V

He said you were not very polite ; but
that makes no difference to Dick. He looks
right under the surface before he judges ; he
wouldn't undervalue a diamond because its
surface was unpolished. But your hand,
Folly dear, is it much hurt V

No, no, no ; a scratch ; nothing at all
Folly answered, waving her hand impatiently.
^ I want to know more about this friend.
What did he come to me for ?'

He wanted to find out if you were a good
girl.'

Well V she asked, defiantly.

He believes there is no better woman in
the world than you. He showed me that you
are ten thousand times better than I am. He
made me see that you deserved the reverent

love of an honest man. and not the childish
mockery of love I had offered. He opened
my eyes to my own faults by pointing to
your virtues.'

Folly was perplexed. She had thought of
Vane as a self-seeking man, and could not
readily accept him in the truer character.

I perceive now that to continue our intimacy
on the footing I proposed is an impossibility,
and that to attempt it is to jeopardise
your happiness and honour.'

I see. He wants you to leave me.'

Yes ; he insists upon my quitting England

at once, or ' He stopped as Folly burst

into a derisive laugh. She checked herself
abruptly, to repeat his last word :

Or what ?' she asked.

Or make you my wife V

Folly was thrown into doubt again.

And what answer have you given him V

^ None. It remains for you to decide. I
have come here to ask you to be my wife.
What answer shall I give him. Folly
dear V

Supposing I decline T

Koland's heart sank within him at this unanticipated
suggestion. He looked at Folly's
still imperturbable face with growing alarm.

'Supposing I decline to be your wife V she
repeated.

They were walking. He stopped suddenly,
as if the idea of losing her had deprived him
of power to move, and, speaking low in deep
emotion, said, hurriedly :

Oh, Folly, do not give me that answer.
I cannot live without you — at least, I feel as
if it were impossible that I should. You do
not know how I love you ; I myself never
knew how deeply until now when I tried to
realise what I should be without you. For
Heaven's sake do not refuse me. Vane said
I should go down on my knees to ask you,
but I did not recognise the significance of his
words. Believe me, I feel now my own
unworthiness. I ask you to accept me for
what I shall be rather than what I am. I
have given my word of honour to live a
conscientious and good life ; weill you help
me to live wisely also, and trust to my love
for your happiness V

They walked on slowly. Folly remaining
silent, Ptoland said, in a firmer voice than she
had yet heard :

Answer me, Folly, at once. I am no
longer a contemptible trifler ; I am a man,
and I love you.'

VOL. II. 34

If I refuse you, what will happen V

I must leave you.'

'When

This evening

And when will you return V

Never, if Heaven grants me strength to
remember your happiness and forget my
own.'

And supposing I accept to be your wife V
Folly said, in a tone as cold as that in which
she had put the other contingency.

I shall do all that I can to make you
happy, and to '

I am not thinking of that. Your father
you told me last night that it would break
his heart if you married me.'

T couldn't tell him directly. I suppose it
would not actually break his heart — that is
only Si fag on de parler ; but it would be a
severe mortification to him. As you do not
wish to relinquish the stage, we can easily
conceal our marriage for the years the dear
old gentleman has to live. By the time he
is called away you will perhaps like to retire
and take your pbvCe as my wife in Aveling
Hall'

Folly's eyes glistened — Roland thought
with the prospect he suggested.

Is that not also a fa<]on de parler to say
our marriage would mortify him V

No, indeed ; it would be the severest blow
that could be inflicted upon him. I believe
he would sooner see me dead than married ashe
considers badly. That mortification can
be easily spared him, and 3^0 u know, Folly,
that I do not share his opinion. I consider
you honour me by being my wife.'

But he would not. He would sooner see
sou dead, you say,'

^ I believe he would. It has been the hope
of his life that I should take his place in
society. It gave him the greatest distress to
think I should marry Vane's sister.'

They Walked for some distance in silence,
then Roland said :

Your love for your own father will tell
you how necessary it is for me to respect the
feelings of mine. He has been most indulgent
and kind to me. It does not matter to me
what other people think or say — I can defend
myself and you ; but him I am bound to
consider.'

But are you certain it would grieve him
so deeply V

^ If you knew him you would not have to
ask that question. You will not wish to

34—2

change your name while you remain on the
stage, and it cannot be very many years that
the dear old dad '

Roland paused. He did not like to speculate
upon his father's death.

I would like the dear old gentleman's last
days to be happy,' he said, with a sigh.

Folly thought of her father's last days.

You see the expediency of a secret
marriage V Roland continued.

'Yes, yes.'

And will you be my wife, Folly dear V

She answered in a firm voice :

'Yes.'

vane's project.

Richard VANE did not see .
rs-^-^ l^^i^<^^ until the following morning cat
zri^jVi) eleven o'clock. Then he found him
buried in the ' Stones of Venice.'
Poland was 'going in' for rectitude with impetuosity.
He had abstained from liqueurs,
and limited himself to a pint of Baum the
night before ; he had gone to bed at midnight
or a little later, and risen at seven. Finding
ice on the top of the water-ewer, he had considered
it a good thing to have a cold bath,
and he had taken it and shivered for it. He
had resolutely eaten a good breakfast, and
since then got through four-and-twenty pages
of the work before mentioned.

Spasmodic virtue was more objectionable

to Yane's mind than spasmodic vice, since it
too clearly indicated a normal condition of a
less desirable kind. But he said nothing now
to discourage Koland. He wished to restore
to its usual vigour the vitality which was but
just returning to his friend's conscience, and
did all he could to encourage him.

He listened sedately to the sweeping strictures
made ujoon the ' Stones of Venice
merely remarking, when his opinion upon
them was appealed to, that the argument
might be just, but that he had never found
himself capable of criticising twenty-four
pages of Mr. Ku skin's works in so short a
space of time.

Ah, that's the way with you giants, you
always are slow,' said Roland, with a wave of
his hand; and so dismissing that subject, he
went on to speak of his own personal affairs.

Vane heard that Folly had consented to
marry Roland, and had agreed to a secret
marriage in consideration of Sir Andrew's
feelings. He hated the name of secrecy,
especially when the concealment was between
people so nearly allied as father and son ;
but he saw that in the present case he could
not be exacting. He believed that the plant
he had under cultivation would grow straight

and strong in time, but he dared not train it
too closely at first, for fear of checking its
growth. He conjectured that Roland's impulsiveness
would lead him to confess everything
the first time he found his father in an
amiable mood, and there the secrecy would
end.

He gathered from what he heard that
Roland had taken a manlier position in his
intercourse with Folly, and that pleased him.
He was willing now that the young fellow
should go alone, and obtain strength by
exercise. Avoiding the didactic style, he
told him in a few words all that he thought
and felt, and concluded by saying that probably
they should not meet again for some
days.

You can't tell how delighted I am to
hear you talk like this, Dick,' said Roland.
It's just like the old times. You never did
begrudge praise ; that's what makes your
severity so telling, I expect. I'm going
quite straight now — you trust me. Yes, I
was manlier last evening ; I felt more like
like clearing the hedges and going home
with a whole skin, you know. God bless
you, old man ! Heaven knows in what mud
I should not now be sticking but for your

counsel. But what do you mean by running
away so soon ? You're not obliged to go
back to Tangleyy before Sunday, are you V

'No.' Vane smiled.

Well, then, stop with me. I'll start you
off in time for the morning show — I beg your
pardon, I mean the first service.'

I shall not return to Tangleyy — except
possibly for a few hours to finish up affair's
there.'

^ Not return to Tangleyy ! Where on earth
are you going, then ? Roland asked, in
astonishment.

I have been looking at a house in Spital-fields,
and if I can come to terms with the
landlord I shall probably go there.'

Richard Vane filled his pipe as he spoke ;
Roland looked at him in astonishment fora
moment, and then asked for an explanation.


Having scratched a match and lit his
tobacco, Vane recounted his reasons for
resignation. Then he said :

What I shall do in London is not definite
yet awhile. T have just enough money to
support Madge and myself with economy.*

Poor Madge !' thought Roland, heart-stricken.
* How different from the life we

planned together ! Poor dear Madge !' He
kept his eyes on the ground as he said :
^ What do you think of working at, Dick V

Anything that comes to hand, Foley. If
I can show people where their shoes pinch,
and how they may contrive to walk in comfort,
it will be worth something. There are
plenty of men and women in London, and
among them I shall find my work. Madge
is lovely with children.'

A tear sprang into Roland's eye as he
leaned with his elbows on his knees looking
down at the carpet. ' Madge is lovely with
children,' he repeated to himself It was
with the children of other women she was to
be gentle and sweet — she must be a mother
to them, with Rachel's unsatisfied yearnings
at her heart.

Do you know Spitalfields V Vane asked,
looking: at a little chart drawn on the back of
an envelope — his agenda for all sorts of fiicts
and fancies. Roland shook his head He
couldn't speak ; his heart, which had been
frozen by selfishness, melted and bled now.
Poor Madge !' were the only words his
thoughts could form.

o

It is a queer old place,' continued Vane,
intent upon his chart, 'still bearing traces

of the Huguenot refugees who settled
there ; weavers, with old French names,
make silk in the garrets and keep pigeons in
the cock-lofts. There's quite a large garden,
with high walls, behind the house I want,
and in the middle of it a mulberry tree
stands and defies the soot of centuries — the
landlord assures me it bears excellent fruit.
One might dispute the miracle of Pyramus
and Thisbe in accounting for the berries of
that tree losing their original colour.'

Roland pictured Madge trying to grow in
the grimy garden the pet annuals she
cherished in Tangleyy, trying to keep her
morning dresses white and pure — trying to
forget what was lost to her.

^ Sunday must be a busy day there. Petticoat
Lane runs aloof here to the west ; Club
Row lies to the north ; Brick Lane and
Whitechapel border our eastern frontier ; and
Shoreditch with Retinal Green complete our
environment.'

Great heavens, Dick I think Avhat you
are doing,' cried Roland looking up. ' All
the thieves in London live there.'

I am afraid not,' Vane replied, shaking
his head. * London is a large city. You
know Shelley's comparison. I fear there areas

few virtuous corners here, as in the city he
compares it With.'

It's all well enough for you — you always
did go in for disagreeable jobs that no one else
would touch. You're a man ; but, but '

^ Madge !' said Yane, supplying the name
which Roland scarcely dared to speak.
Well, she's a woman, and a good woman.'

Poland told Folly at night of his conversation
with Yane, explaining the sacrifice the
vicar was making.

If you could see him among the flowers
in his garden, and knew what delight he
takes in the pleasures of retirement, you
would understand what it is he relinquishes.
He finds a charm there even in wet weather.
I have seen him walking round the garden
in a rainy evening, with his shoulders a little
bent and his hands behind him — so — noticing
the freshened leaves of the little plants, and
listening to the chattering of the sparrows in
the ivy. And then to think of his giving up
all that he likes to live in the worst part of
London, among Jews and thieves, with
nothing but smoke in the fine weather, and
nothing but filthy mud in the wet time.

And then the work he has undertaken. At
Tangleyy there were only clean, respectable
poor people, and the church he preached in
was like a pretty toy. All that he had to do
was to preach a sermon there on Sundays.
He will find it hard to get people to listen to
him here — and will be laughed at. Ah, he
is a dear, good old fellow !'

Folly nodded her head. She doubted
Vane's honesty no longer.

^ Do you think he likes the country as we
like London V she asked.

He likes it as you like London

I never saw anything in the country so
pretty as the scenery on the stage. The
people are untidy and stupid, and there are
workhouses and prisons, and — oh, I hate the
country !'

^ And he hates London. But he loves the
people — all people, Folly, and it gives him
the greatest happiness to make their troubles
less. He would sooner carry a burden than
see another weighed down under it.'

^ That don't seem real — for a man. Are
all parsons like that V

No. I suppose there would not be any
toy churches if they were.'

^ What are parsons for V

To help people to be good, to teach them
to do right.'

Then why has he given up being a
parson V

^ Because the people that most need teaching
and helping don't go to church, I expect
; and because he couldn't believe all the
things a parson has to teach.'

Can't a parson teach just what he thinks
is right V

'No ; he must teach certain things that are
set down by law.'

What, the law that is made by members
of Parliament — your father, and men like
him, that you told me about the other day V

'Yes.' "

Then he doesn't believe in members of
Parliament V

^ I can't say that. He certainly does not
think that everything they have done is right.'

So he is a Republican like me, eh V

Poland laughed at the girl's earnest
manner. It was so odd to think of an uneducated
and beautiful young girl taking
interest in politics. She repeated her question,
impatiently.

Well, he has Republican ideas, certainly,'
he admitted.

What ideas V

He thinks that all good men are equal —
which is sheer absurdity, you know.'

^ That is what you think. I want to know
what he thinks. Go on.'

^ Then he thinks it is wrong for any man
to live idly upon the wealth produced by
those who work.'

"What men are they T

Well, I dare say my father may be classed
among them ; so may I ; so may nearly all
the fellows you see in the stalls. Now, my
father, for example, owns his wealth because
he is fortunate enough to be the descendant
of a man who had all Tangleyy and Mayford
'

May ford V

Yes, Mayford, and Crewe given him by
the king a long, long while ago. This land
my father lets in farms to men who cultivate
it and pay him rent with the money they get
for their crops. If the crops are good the
farmer lives comfortably and gives his servants
good wages, so it's good for everybody
after all, and I don't see who can find fault
with the arrangements.'

But if the crops are bad V suggested
Folly.

Why then the farmer has to pinch a bit,
and his servants can't get so much work, you
see.'

Yes, I see ; it is good for your father
always, it is good for the farmer sometimes,
and now and then it is very bad for the
labourers.'

^ Oh, in bad times there is always a
good deal of charity about — blankets and
soup '

'For some, and workhouses and prisons
for others,' said Folly, fiercely, with the evil
look in her eyes.

Koland was frightened by her expression.

Let us talk of something else,' he said.
People always feel uncomfortable when they
begin to talk about politics. Even you, Folly,
look angry.'

Never mind my looks,' said Folly, tr3ang
to soften her tone as she recollected the
necessity to conceal her feelings. ' It is
better to talk of these things than rubbish.
Mr. Vane thinks it is unjust to have idle
masters and suffering slaves.'

He does not go so far as to kiss all gentlemen
as tyrants and all working men as
slaves, but I believe he thinks that the
present arrangement is wrong and unjust.

But lie himself is not right in all things,
Folly dear ; there must always be two
classes, the rich and the poor. Now, I am
not a Republican.'

Of course not. You do not Avant to
work.'

Roland laughed at the coup. Folly
laughed also, but her pleasure was of a
malicious kind.

I dare say Vane thinks that parsons who
are paid to do good and don't do it, who
only amuse or befool a parcel of silly people,
are also to be classed with those who live
idly by the work of others, and adds that to
his reason for resigning his vicarship.'

Folly was silent for a few minutes ; she
was thinking about Vane.

That good man — your friend — Mr. Vane,'
she said presently, *he believes in the Bible?'

Well, he has scruples about that. There
never was such a fellow for finding fault
with things which everyone else believes
perfect.'

^ What scruples V

^ I can't explain quite. He does not think
that all in it is to be taken as our guide ;
but that again is wrong, for everyone admits
it is the best work that was ever written.'

Oh yes, I know that, and I believe it,'
Folly replied, with emphasis. Then, after a
moment's pause, she said : ' He does not disbelieve,
" And thine eye shall not pity ; but
life shall go for life, eye for eye, tooth for
tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot," does he V

Why, that's the very thing he would not
agree with,' answered Koland, not a little
astonished at the girl's Biblical knowledge.

•' Why V

Because he believes it our duty to forgive,
to be merciful to those who have been unmerciful
to us. That is a doctrine of revenge
which he is perpetually striving to undo.
Vengeance he regards as wicked, cruel, and
unjust.'

I * I don't !' Folly said, with energetic force.
No one could make me believe the Bible
wrong.'

It is the same with other institutions.
Folly ; we agree with them when their
principles don't oppose our feelings. Revenge
is sweet, I say, although I certainly agree with
Vane in the abstract, that it is inconsistent
with Christianity. But I wish you would
talk to him as you have talked to me. He
would think better of you than ever. Shall
I ask him to dine with us one evening V
VOL. II. 35

Oh no — no, no, no !' Folly answered,
sharply. She wanted a cruel man for a friend
now, not a merciful one. ^ No, no — I hate
him. I won't see him. I'll be rude to
him.'

^ All right, darling ; I won't ask him if you
do not wish it,' Koland replied, attributing
her repugnance to caprice.

Later in the evening she said to Roland :
How soon can we be married V
^ I don't exactly know. A few days, I
think.'

^ Then we will be married in a few days,*
she answered.

PREPARING FOR HAPPINESS.

GLAND applied for a licence trio
following day.

He had no objection to hurrying
the ceremony to a conclusion ; haste
suited his impulsive disposition. Having set
his foot on the path of virtue, he wished to
rush along over the ground headlong, lest he
might, by delay, be tempted to stray from
ifc again. A comfortable home to live in
after his marriage was a necessity, however,
which could not be overlooked even in this
impetuous advance.

And now,' he said, after his return from
Doctors' Commons, ' the next thing is to look
for a house.'

35—2

A house V Folly repeated, looking up in
surprise.

It seemed that she had even less prudential
forethought than he.

Why, yes, Folly ; we can t live in hotels ;
and you know that circumstances prevent my
living with you in Lambeth Road.'

He had not for a moment anticipated
living in the same house with her father ;
but he made this reference to Lambeth Road
as a suggestion to Folly that she also would
be unable to live there after their marriage —
a fact which he thought she might have lost
sight of in her careless consideration of the
future. Despite his strong desire to regard
Folly's feeling, and to like her father — as
much as he could — ho was heartily grateful
that the old man's repugnance offered a bar
to their closer connection. It pleased him
to think that Folly would be happier when
she saw less of her father. Certainly they
could not live all together in the same
house.

It seemed as if this consequence had, in
reality, escaped Folly. She pushed her glass
aside — they were dining together — rested
her elbow on the table and her chin in her
hand, and looked absently before her.

Has it Dot occurred to 3^011 that we shall
have to take a house V Poland asked.

She shook her head in silence, still occupied
T/ith her meditation.

You see the necessity, I ho2:)e V

She nodded her head, and then looked at
Holand with a strange expression in her face,
which he could not understand. There was
quick excitement in her eyes as she said :

Yes, yes ; we must have a house to go to
after the wedding. Where shall it be V

I have been to a house agent, and got a
list of houses,' answered Koland, flattering
himself on his superior prevision. ' Of
course a man thinks of these things. We
can go and see some of them tomorrow.'

Folly acceded to the suggestion readily,
and the next morning and afternoon they
devoted to looking at the houses on Roland's
list. A pleasant Utile detached villa in the
Clapham Road was the most suitable they
could find. In this selection Folly was less
difficult to please than Koland. The first
they saw ' would do,' she thought, until he
pointed out the objections to it. Eager and
excited as she was at times in speaking of
the forthcoming ceremony, she seemed entirely
careless as to what followed. This

apathy chilled Poland, and was the more
surprising to him as he remembered the
pleasure she had taken on a previous evening
in talking of her pony-carriage and future
menage.

The Clapham villa had a coach house and
stable, and these advantages Poland pointed
out, without, however, exciting Folly's interest
to the degree he expected. Behind the house
was a tolerably large flower-garden, with a
lawn, protected from the observation of
neighbours by high fruit-tree-covered walls.

It will be very pretty in the summer time,
and we can have jolly garden-parties on a
small scale, you know. We can have our
little receptions on Sunday ; and, oh, how
lovely you will look, floating about on the
green turf with lots of geraniums and bright
flowers around you !'

^ When the summer comes,' Folly answered,
coldly.

She seemed more pleased with the arrangement
of the rooms than with anything
else.

There were two large rooms on the first
floor, communicating with each other.

This front room shall be ours. Folly. It
is spacious and convenient ; and this other,'

he said, taking her into the adjoining apartment,
'this shall be your own private room,
where 3-011 can retire to study or do what
you will.'

^ I can have this all to myself V

Yes ; no one shall go into it but you and
your maid — unless you choose to invite your
husband to see you there sometimes.'

I shall invite you,' she said, quietly.

You darling I' he said, stepping towards
her. He would have taken her in his arms
and kissed her ; but, as if by accident, she
turned her back on him and walked to the
Window.

Had he seen the look of sickening repugnance
on her face he would have known it
was not by accident she escaped him.

You like the house. Folly, and think it
will do V Koland asked, when they left the
first floor and descended.

Yes, it will do capitally. When can we
come into it V

I will see the proprietor. It is in good
order, and I dare say there will be no obstacle
to prevent us taking immediate possession.
Then, as soon as the furniture is in, we can
occupy our home. But it will be difficult to
find servants at such short notice.'

There need be no delay on that account.
CHp will settle all that.'

But she will be doubly occupied when
you leave Lambeth Road. Of course, you
will keep on your apartments there. That
arrangement will not be altered.'

Oh, that will be all right. I will see to
that. You look after the house and the
furniture.'

'You should have a maid besides those
necessary for the general domestic work.'

'Yes, yes, yes! And now, when do you
think we can be married '?'

Within the week. But we need not wait.
We could be married before, and live in a]\
hotel until the house is ready.'

Against this proposal Folly set her face
emphatically. She would on no account be
married until the house was ready for their
reception.

Few difficulties are not to be overcome by
ready money. The personal investigations
which a prudent landlord makes before accepting
a tenant are not found necessary in the
case of one who proves his respectability by
paying in advance ; and the press of business
which prevents a furniture dealer from executing

orders without delay does not preclude
him from accepting a contract to furnish a
house from garret to basement in three days
when his payment is dependent on such
despatch ; and so Roland received the key of
the villa, and saw the bare house transformed
to a well-appointed home all within the space
of five days.

He took an apartment in the neighbourhood
that he might superintend the arrangement
of the rooms, and went into the details
of the affair with an energetic spirit which
not even Folly's indifference could damp.
Every evening he told her of the progress
made during the days but she gave no more
than a forced expression of pleasure. She
admitted that her father's health occupied
her thoughts; he had not been so well ; and
to this fact Roland attributed her coldness to
himself She was extremely reticent about
John Morrison ; her silence was a tacit impeachment
of Roland's sympathy, which he
knew too well deserved suspicion. He tried
his utmost to assure her of his kindlier feelings
towards the old man, but she did not
want his sympathy, and encouraged her own
harshest thoughts of his motives and disposition.
That she had been compelled to

call in a physician and engage a professional
attendant for her father was all he learnt.

I hope, Folly dear, that you will accept
my help soon, and that I may be of service
to you in lessening your father's sufferings,'
he said kindly. * I wish I could do something
now.'

^ You can do nothing yet,' she replied.

Perhaps you would like to postpone the
marriage until this attack passes over !'

No. I want the marriage to take place
quickly,' she said ; and then, with impatience,
she added ' How much longer do those
furnishing peojDie intend to keep us waiting V

They will leave to-night. The little house
looks beautiful. Would you like to see it tomorrow
V

Yes. There may be something I wish to
add. We will go tomorrow morning. You
can call for me. My father is obliged to keep
his room, and will not see you.'

Early the next day Koland called for Folly,
and took her to the villa. She was pale and
silent. In reply to his questions respecting
her father's health, she said :

He is still very ill, but no worse.'

The gates and railings before the house
were still wet with paint; the semicircular

turf was newly mown, and the fresh gravel
on the carriage drive well rolled ; the house
itself was bright and cheerful to the eye.

Poland took the key from his pocket and
opened the door; then he conducted Folly
over the house, showing her the well-filled
cellars, the kitchens, glittering with a long
array of bright copper pots and pans ; the
drawings-room, with its light, elegant furniture
and water-colours ; the dining-room, with its
darker and warmer decorations ; the little
conservatory, fragrant and bright with spring-flowers
from Covent Garden.

Folly looked at these things as she might
at a book of poems whicl\she could not hope
to read ; she looked at them, and listened to
Koland's lively chat, as, with hopeful enthusiasm,
he suggested the many happy events
that might take place in their house, with
unconcealed melancholy. She spoke scarcely
a single word. Despite the absorbing pleasure
of showing all he had done for her happiness,
Koland remarked her dejection.

Poor girl 1' said he to himself; ' she cannot
forget her father. Well, well ; she will enjoy
this home when the poor old man is gone.'

They went upstairs. Folly passed hastily
through the first room into that which vas

to be her own private room, and found herself
in a boudoir which exceeded all she had ever
seen on the stage or elsewhere in beauty, and
drew from her an involuntary exclamation of
delight. All that could be done by the upholsterer
to make the room perfect had been
done.

The centre of the room was unencumbered
with furniture, that Folly might rehearse
there if she would, and see the effects she
made in the long mirrors placed between the
windows. A beautiful Persian carpet was
spread over the pale blue carpet, and from
above there hunof a candelabra of Venetian
glass. The hangings of the windows, corresponding
with the coverings of the chairs,
were of blue satin, covered with white lace.
Half-a-dozen differently shaped fauteuils
stood near the tables by the walls. A pair of
charming French cabinets filled two corners;
the other two contained brackets, on which
stood spring lilies in blue Wedgwood pots.
The surface of the walls was broken up with
a few pictures and two or three mirrors and
candelabra brackets.

Do you like your room. Folly V asked
Roland, catching her expression of pleasure.
It is very beautiful,' she answered.

It is not half so lovely as I would make
it if I could. Nothing in the world seems tome
good enough for your use.'

Folly made a step forward towards the
cabinets, and then, checking herself, as if
suddenly recalling her previous feelings, she
turned round abruptly.

Let us leave this room. Let us go away,'
she said quickly.

Koland opened the door, and she passed
out rapidly.

There is nothing now to prevent our being
married, is there ?' she asked, soon after.

Nothing. Every arrangement is complete,
except — well, I shall have one little surprise
for your wedding morning.'

What kind of a surprise V

^ One that will give you pleasure, I hope.'

When they reached the street-door, and
were about to leave the house, Folly said,
with less firmness in her voice than was usual
with her :

Everything is finished here, you tell me —
nothing more has to be brought in ?'

No. You have arranged with the
servants V

Yes,' she replied, avoiding Koland's eyes.
Yes ; that reminds me. I want you to give

me the key — that key you have in your
hand.'

^ I see ; you will have to admit the servants
and give them instructions. Is that it V

Yes, yes.'

'But cannot I relieve you of that trouble f
No ; I would rather do it myself. Give
me the key, if you please.'

Certainly,' he replied. It seemed to him
that her hand trembled as she took the key
from his hand.

Poor girl ! her father's illness has quite
unnerved her he said to himself

CORRESPONDENCE.

^^^^OLLY was anxious to return to her
father, and declined to take lunch
with Roland ; so he, having taken
her to Lambeth Road, went on to
the Corinthusus to lunch, and answer what correspondence
might be there awaiting him.

He found a letter from his father, forwarded
from Grandison Chambers, and
another from Vane, written in the club.

He opened his father's letter first, not
without compunctious fear, and read it, commenting
on it as he went :

My dear Boy,

*I conclude by your neglect of me
that you are enjoying yourself greatly.

P Hano- it ! I oiigfht to have answered that
last letter'] Well, well, old men must not
be exacting ; they must content themselves
with keeping their boys out of harm's way,
and making them happy, without expecting
any return of their affection. [^ Now, that's
the old dad all over. If one doesn't answer
his letter the very moment it is received, he
concludes that he is forgotten and neglected
because of his old age. Why, he ought to
know that I love him more every year of his
life — and so he does, too'] At present I
console myself With the reflection that you
are young, and the hope that I may be spared
to see you outlive your thoughtlessness, but
not your happiness. You will find that happiness
is not inseparable from frivolity, and
that you may derive equal pleasure and
greater satisfaction from the higher occupations
which come with maturity. [' The
governor read the Spectator or Tatler before
he wrote this, I know'] I have especial
reasons, just now, for wishing that the time
when you will realise this fact is not far distant.
At luncheon after the last bench meeting.
Dr. Surge gave us his confidential
opinion that Mr. Falkland cannot outlive the
autumn, and the question then arose as to

who should represent the borough in Parliament.
You may naturally conclude that I
did not forget you. I said, what I felt to be
true, that a better, a wiser, a more dashing,
eloquent young fellow than you does not
exist ; and that if you were returned your
voice in the House of Commons would make
itself heard all over the country, and do more
to revive the flagging spirit of Conservatism
than all the bribery in the world. [' By
George, I'd do my best ! What an old trump
the dad is ! Yes, if I where in the House, I'd
speak up and support all he has said of me']
Our old friend the mayor supported me
warmly, and assured me that if you would
only go about among the county families you
would undoubtedly win over all those who
might be reluctant to give their voices for
one of whom they knew so little. My dear
boy, you know what my feelings towards you
are ; you know how proud I am of you ;-and
so you will readily understand how I hope
for a consummation which would make me
the happiest and proudest old man in
England.'

Roland laid the letter down. ^ Poor old
dad ! — when he knows all !' he said.
VOL. II. 36

The waiter announced that luncheon was
ready. Poland nodded absently, and took
up the letter again and read :

'With this brilliant prospect before you,
you will see how providential was your escape
from a mesalliance. Had you married
Miss Vane it would have been impossible for
you to expect recognition from influential
friends — an impossibility rendered certain by
the late behaviour of your old friend, Richard
Vane, who, as you are perhaps aware, has
thrown up his living, and openly professed
opinions of a conscientious and anarchical
character which '

Poland wished to read no more. He
closed the letter with a sigh, and drew up to
the table. There he ate and thought, and
found no pleasant savour.

Happily he knows nothing of wdiat is
about to happen, and I pray to Heaven he
never may.'

"With this prayer Roland finished his reflections
and his luncheon, and then opened
Vane's letter. It contrasted oddly with the
verbosity of Sir Andrew's :

Dear Roland,

Where shall I find you ? We are
now settled in our new house, 53, Church
Street, Spitalfields.

Yours,

Dick.'

Roland sat down at a table to answer these
letters, undertaking first the more difficult
one to his father. It was an unpleasant task
to try and deceive one who was so good and
generous to him, but it was necessary. Every
word he wrote looked to him like a lie against
which his heart revolted. Page after page
of the club paper he wrote upon, crumpled
up, and threw into the waste-paper basket.
At length he gave up the task in disgust,
determining to do tomorrow what he could
nohow do to-day.

He wished to have Vane's advice on the
subject, and for a moment meditated 'looking
him. up ' in Spitalfields. But the letter
indicated that Margaret was with him, and
so he abandoned that idea. A meeting with
her must be attended with mutual embarrassment
and discomfort. Then, again, he knew
exactly what advice he should get from Vane
advice to be true to his truthful instincts,

36—2

and boldly tell his father all. That was what
Vane himself would have done in his position ;
but his example could not in the present case
be followed. Koland's soft, weak nature recoiled
from the pain of giving pain.

He wrote a few lines to Vane, explaining
why he had removed from his old chambers,
and telling him of his approaching marriage.

In the evening he told Folly of Vane's
letter, and his answer.

Is it too late to ask him to the wedding V
she asked.

'No. A telegram tomorrow morning
would probably find him. I thought you did
not wish to see him.'

^ I should like him to be at the wedding all
the same.'

I will send a message the first thing tomorrow
morning. Nothing will please me
better. It would seem incomplete if he were
absent. I owe my happiness to him. And
you must like him when you know him.'

So the next morning Richard Vane received
a telegram from Roland. It ran thus :

'Folly wishes you to be present to-day.
St. Olaph's, Brompton, twelve o'clock.

About the same time that this message

was handed to Vane, Banks presented Sir
Andrew Aveling with the letters brought in
by the first post. One endorsed ' Sir AveUng,
Esq./ he left to read last. The crabbed feminine
hand in which the address was written
and thin envelope suggested an appeal such
as the baronet frequently received from needy
women. He looked for his cheque-book
before opening it ; then he broke the cover
and read:

'27, Lambeth Ed., S.E., January 27, 180070.

*My Dere Sir,

'My Mistress, Miss Folly, presents
her compliment to you, and as she is going to
be marry ed to your son, Mr. Koland Aveling,
Esq., tomorrow morning, the 28th, should
be glad of your company at their House,
Thorn Pillar, Clapham Rode, soon as convenient,
and begs me to say a train lives
Woking Station at 10.45 as will sute you.

Hopein no offence, am yours respectfully,

'E. Clip.

Please excuse mistakes.'

Under this composition Folly had written
her name in large letters, with the customary
flourish at the end.

THE WEDDING OF ROLAND AYELING AND FOLLY
MORRISON.

HE horizon was clear to Roland's
perception on his wedding morning.
That a storm might rise he was

conscious ; he feared that it must
break upon him at no far distant date, but he
felt sure of one day's unclouded happiness,
and wantonly threw aside all considerations
beyond the enjoyment of the hour.

At eleven o'clock Miss Clip opened the
door of the house in Lambeth to Roland.
She was greatly confused, and strove in vain
to conceal her agitation. Poor woman ! she
found it impossible to serve her two friends
faithfully. It was natural she should feel
kindly towards the good-looking young

gentleman who had given her so m any-tangible
proofs of his generous disposition,
and, knowing what trouble was in store for
him, she wished, with all her heart, to warn
him of his danger. But how could she do
that and reconcile it with her allegiance to
Folly, whose friendship was yet more valuable
to her ? She had, indeed, remonstrated
with the girl in his behalf, and only desisted
on being told, in sharp and unmistakable
terms, to mind her own business. The business
of Miss Clip's life was to accumulate
money, and all her actions were governed by
prudential considerations ; nevertheless, as
she looked into Roland's cheerful face, she
felt she must save him at any sacrifice.

'1 have come to take Folly away from
you,' said he, gaily.

Miss CUp stammered a few incoherent
syllables, and, her heart beating quickly, she
was about to abandon reserve and give that
simple advice to Roland which Mr. Punch
offered ' to persons about to marry,' when
she caught the sound of rustling silk behind
her, and so stepped back silenced, to make
way for Folly.

Folly was pale and grave ; there was
something deathly in the cold, impassive

whiteness of her face. She was dressed
entirely in black, which, by contrast, heightened
the effect of her pallor. Roland stepped
forward to meet her.

You are not well, Folly dearest,' he said
tenderly, as he pressed the gloved hand she
allowed him to take.

She shrugged her shoulders, as if her health
were a matter of indifference, and so dismissing
the subject, said :

Is the hansom waiting V

No. I have brought a carriage, which I
hope you will like better. A wedding
present for my darling.'

He led the way to the door. In the road
there stood a beautiful bijou phaeton, bright
and shining as it had come from the coach-builder's,
with a rich fur rug upon the seat.
A pair of bay ponies, with black and silver
harness, were shaking their pretty heads and
pawing the ground impatiently, restrained by
a very small boy in a smart livery, who stood
before them in a commanding pose with his
arms crossed. A pair of snowy reins and a
whip were ready for the driver s hand.

Here was the realisation of Folly's dream ;
yet from her expression it seemed as if she
were awaking from a dream to a barren and

disappointing reality. It was, indeed, a
mournful mockery of happiness to show her
pleasures which she could not enjoy — it was
as if a fine instrument were placed in the
hands of an artist who had lost the sense of
hearing. She stopped by the ponies to stroke
their sleek sides ; she noticed her initials
upon the silver mountings of the harness ;
she looked at the diminutive servant in
livery, who touched his hat to her respectfully
; she saw all that might have filled her
young soul with wild excitement, and she
wished to weep away the load from her heart.

She stepped into the carriage and took the
lower seat.

^ You will drive, won't you ?' Roland
asked.

She shook her head, without speaking.

Roland put the rug over her, and, going-round
the carriage, took his place beside her.
Le meant, as Roland had christened the mite
in livery, left the ponies' heads and scrambled
into his place as the vehicle dashed off.

I am afraid your father is ill this morning.
Folly,' said Roland, looking at Folly's
pained face.

Yes, he is ill. Do not speak to me,' she
replied.

Koland did not interrupt her reflections,
unable alike to fathom the secret of her distress
or to offer consolation.

Folly sat back in her seat, her chin upon
her breast, and her eyes oblivious of the
things they saw.

Gradually a faint trace of colour came to
her cheek, as they passed rapidly through
the keen air, and her spirits revived.

^ Tt is stupid to cry for what is not, and
what cannot be she said to herself. ' Ponies
and pretty houses are but playthings for fortunate
children ; only the silliest weep because
they are not fortunate. And a friend all good
and true, and unblemished and pure, does not
live. Heaven would be jealous of him.
Come, let me think of God, and the punishment
He has put in my hands, and my
father and Roland's father.'

Following this new train of thought, she
presently said :

When did you hear from your father
last V

I had a letter from him yesterday, dear.'

You didn't tell me. What did he say V

Nothing that would be pleasant to tell
you, or you would have known it last
niofht.'

Anything to do with your father interests
me. Tell me what he said.'

Oh, the old story, you know — congratulated
me on not marrying Miss Vane. And
then the dear old gentleman is in a high state
of delight with the prospect of getting me a
seat in Parliament.'

Could the husband of an actress get a seat
in Parliament V

It would go against him at the election, I
expect. But what does that matter to me ?
If I have you, dearest, I want nothing.'

^ But your father '

^ He must never know. He may be wrong
and prejudiced, but we must respect his
feelings. I cannot forget that he is my
father.'

Nor I.'

They were silent after that, until, turning
out of the Brompton Boat, Poland said :

That is the church, Folly, and there is old
Dick waiting. See !'

I am glad he has come ; I want him to
see it all.'

Richard Vane was standing before the
church, his hands behind him. He came
forward and offered his hand to Folly as the
carriage drew up.

We begin a long friendship to-day, I
hope,' he said.

I hope so,' she said, with much earnestness.


I say, Dick,' said Roland, bustling round.
A happy thought has just struck me. Instead
of a snuffy old sexton doing the business,
why shouldn't you give away the
bride V

Because he does not believe as I believe,'
said Folly, sharply.

It is only a form. Folly dear. I thought
but, however ' Koland stammered.

It is something more than a form to me
she answered.

Roland, abashed by the rebuke, and unable
to understand the exceptional severity of
Folly's manner, did not reply ; as they moved
towards the church-door he offered his arm.
Folly seemed not to notice the action ; she
kept her hands folded before her and her
eyes in solemn awe upon the building she was
about to enter. On the threshold she suddenly
stopped, turning her eyes first to
Richard Vane, and from him to Koland.
Trembling violently, she caught their arms
as if to restrain them from going farther.

With a reverence for the unknown God,
such as only the greatest or the simplest
minds can feel, she dared not enter His
presence with the feeling which then agitated
her heart — a feeling of remorseful pity for
the man she was sacrificing to her purpose.


She did not know the cause from Which
her present hesitation sprang ; she could not
understand why her heart fainted at the
prospect of taking this long-premeditated
step.

I have never been in a church. Give me
time to compose myself,' she said, still
trembling.

The womanly impulse passed away as if it
had been the effect of physical weakness,
rather than the cause of it ; and centring her
mind upon the religious duty before her, she
regained strength, and her thoughts were
exalted above mere personal considerations.
The idea that in avenging her father's wrongs
she was justified by Heaven, lifted her feelings
to a level with those of the enthusiasts
who have slaughtered their children from no
higher motive.

It was not the savage instinct of retaliation
— it was not even the animosity excited

by the contemplation of her father's degradation
— it was the feeUno^ that she had to
execute a divinely entrusted, mission which
restored her courage — the same feeling which
had sustained her resolution in carrying out
a vengeful purpose through all the opposing
influences of a gentle and. sweet nature —
against all the naturally good and forgiving
instincts of her heart.

She was, in short, as clearly a victim to
ignorance as any Christian who ever tortured.
a heretic in the name of Heaven.
^ I am ready now she said.
Koland stepped forward, and as he opened
the door removed his hat.

Folly untied the strings of her bonnet.
It is not necessary for you to do that,' he
said, smiling at her simplicity.

Why not V she asked. ' If you uncover
before God, should not I V

Richard Yane took her bonnet. With her
hands before her she walked up the aisle and.
stood before the altar, where the radiant liofht
fell from the stained windows.

Beautiful she looked as a young saint
standing there, with her pale creamy face,
her rippling chestnut hair drawn off from
her open brow, her lips a little parted, and

her steadfast eyes wide open in reverential
awe.

The ceremony was performed without interruption.
There were no spectators. Folly
did what she was told to do, and was married
to Roland Avelino- irrevocably.

AFTER THE WEDDING.

OU will return with us, Dick, and
see our home. There is a front
seat for you in the trap Roland
said, when they left the church.
I want you to come with us Folly added
earnestly.

Richard Yane bowed, and presently took
his seat in the phaeton. Folly declined to
take the reins, and was scarcely less silent as
they drove homewards than she had been
in coming. Koland did his utmost to enliven
her, but his efforts were futile, and met with
no response. He became certain that * something
must be the matter,' and, wondering
what it might be, grew silent also.

Richard Vane could understand that a girl

of deep feeling' should regard the ceremony
which had taken place with gravity, bat her
coldness towards Roland — the evident repugnance,
indeed, with which she met his more
tender overtures — astonished and alarmed
him. Her expressed anxiety that he should
accompany them to their home led him to
anticipate that she intended to make a revelation
of that which made her present behaviour
mysterious. He waited anxiously.

A wedding is usually made to appear as
much like a farce as possible ; but anything
more like the opening of a tragedy than the
acting of the principal performer in this
marriage would be difficult to conceive.

At Thorn Lodge le meant sprang down
from his seat and opened the gate.

The ponies objected to the fresh paint, and
refused to set their feet upon the new gravel,
until Roland applied the whip smartly ;
then they made a dash that made Vane
solicitous for Folly's safety, and called for a
steady handling of the reins. Vane's back
was to the house, and Roland's eyes yere
upon the ponies ; so it happened that only
Folly, sitting unmoved and collected in the
seat beside her husband, caught sight of the
pale, fair-faced, ^vhite-haired, portly old gen-vol.

II. 37

leman, who stood with his hat on watching
their approach from the drawing-room
window.

The door was opened by Miss Clip, who,
quaking with fear, drew back and screened
herself behind the door to the best of
her ability as the party passed into the
hall.

With a firm step Folly crossed straight to
the drawing-room, opened the door, and
walked in.

Resting one hand upon his stick and the
other upon a table, stood the same portly old
gentleman Folly had seen looking from the
window, He looked straight at Folly, without
moving a muscle of his face, and without
attempting to remove his hat. She looked
with equal fixity at him, and found in his
face, now harsh with suppressed anger, a
duplicate of the picture her imagination had
presented of Sir Andrew Aveling.

For a dozen seconds they stood face to face
thus.

Meanwhile in the hall Roland, speaking to
Vane, said :

^ I don't know what on earth is the matter
with the poor girl to-day — I expect her
father's very ill. Hang your hat on there,

old man. She puzzles me fairly. Take off
your coat.'

At this moment Folly came to the drawing-room
door.

A visitor is in this room — one that you
know, I dare say. Come and introduce us
to each other, Roland she said.

A visitor!' Koland exclaimed, in suppressed
astonishment.

The visitor announced himself in a hard,
loud voice.

My name is Andrew Aveling,' he said.

Great Heavens — my father !' Roland
murmured, and then looked in his old schoolboy
way to Vane for counsel.

Vane pointed to the door, and followed
Roland into the drawing-room.

Folly stood six yards from Sir Andrew,
facing him as he stood with his back to the
window, in an erect easy position, nursing
one hand within the other ; pale still, but
with no sign of emotion upon her face. Vane
approached her, and took a position a little
behind. Roland crossed the room towards
his father.

Sir, your hat is on. May I remind you
that there is a lady in the room V he said.

Come no nearer,' said Sir Andrew, raising

37—2

his hand from the table. ' Before I acknowledge
anyone in this room — before I acknowledge
even my own son — I must learn who
deserves my respect. In the first place, what
is that woman V

He glanced at Folly.

Koland hesitated, thinking how he might
modify or tone down the facts which he
feared must be revealed unless Folly or Dick
came to his assistance. Folly responded to
the quick inquiring glance he shot towards
her, at once making the position less complicated.


I can answer that question best,' she said
My name is Folly ; I was born in a workhouse,
I was fostered by a harlequin, I was a
scullery drab for seven years, and since then
I've got my living by dancing in theatres and
music-halls.'

Roland listened in silent amazement. This
brief summary of her life's experiences was
less astonishing to Sir Andrew, as he expected
nothing but bravado and bold insolence from
her.

The facts were none the less displeasing,
however. Happing his knuckles on the
table beside him, he said, still frowning on
his son :

I ask you, sir, who is this woman V

'She — that lady-is my wife.'

Do sou mean to tell me that you have
actually married this woman, knowing her to
be what she herself has represented V

Your father seems slow of understanding,
Poland This certificate will assist him,
perhaps — show it to him,' said Folly, unfolding
the paper given her in the vestry.

I understand that my son has been tricked
into a marriage,' cried Sir Andrew in a fury;
but if there are laws in England it shall be

o

annulled !'

At the mention of the laws, which she had
learned to dread, Folly turned with quick
apprehension to Richard Vane.

Coming to her side, he said :

No one can annul a marriage legally made,
as this has been, Sir Andrew. Your son has
not been tricked by anyone. You yourself
sanctioned his love for the woman who is now
his wife ; and I, finding that he loved her
sincerely, and that she was a good woman
and worthy to be the wife of a good man.
counselled him to be good also and to marry
her.'

Yes. That's it, sir,' said Poland cheerfully,
feeling that the difficulty, thus explained,

was half removed. ' I was going
to the devil, dien Dick came and saved me.
He's put the affair just as it is — straightforward
and honestly, as he always does.
I'm married, and there's no question
about '

Silence 1 You are a fool, an idiot ! — a
mean, base, unworthy scoundrel !' cried the
baronet, growing fiercer with each word ;
'■ an unworthy scoundrel, who has respect
neither for himself nor his family ! — a lying,
heartless vagabond ! — a — a '

Sir Andrew shook his stick as he spoke,
and at last, unable to find words to express
his fury, lifted his stick to strike his son.

Roland crossed his arms and bent his head.

The father's hand fell powerless, and he
cried, in a tremulous voice :

To think that, after all these years of
love, you should blast every hope I cherished.
You could not do so willingly. I tell you
you have been tricked into this marriage for
the sake of your money.'

Folly laughed.

You hear that V said Sir Andrew. ' The
woman's audacious confidence proclaims the
fact. Can you believe now that she has
married you for love V

Folly laughed again. Her merriment was
more terrible to Roland than his father's
anger. He turned and looked at his wife in
speechless anxiety to know more.

Is this not sufficient confirmation for you?'
asked Sir Andrew.

Folly looked in her husband's blanched face
with cold indifference. He held out his hand
to her, and said in an accent of tender supplication
:

Disprove the accusation, Folly.'

She did not move a muscle. After a
moment of intense silence, Richard Vane
spoke to her.

^ Do you not love your husband V he asked.

^ No,' she answered ; ' he is too much like
his father.'

I told you so. You have been tricked !'
cried Sir Andrew, in bitter exultation. ' And
you into the bargain, Richard Vane, in spite
of your self-confidence and consummate
cleverness. A father's curse be upon you for
coming between me and my son — tricked,
both of you, by a common mountebank —
tricked for your money. But there your
scheme shall break dow n,' said he, addressing
Folly for the first time. ' I disown my son
disinherit him. He shall not have another

farthing from me — not enough to buy him a
crust of bread, though he starve. You have
said we are alike — you shall find your words
true — for his indifference to my happiness
shall be only equalled by my neglect of his.
You tell me you were born in a workhouse —
may you die there !'

Folly listened, and laughed in a mocking,
hard, unmusical tone, as different from her
natural sounds of mirth as the voice of a
raven from that of a lark.

You have not married purposelessly,' said
Vane, addressing Folly ; ' not purposelessly
called us here to witness your own unhappiness
— for I conclude it was you who sent for
Sir Andrew Aveling V

'Yes, I invited him, and he evidently received
the letter.'

*Then it will be well to explain your
purpose quickly.'

I am ready. I only wait until Sir Andrew
Aveling has done with talking nonsense,'
said Folly. ' But perhaps he is satisfied
with his own explanation,' she added, with a
sneer. ' Perhaps, as he takes all the world
to be fools except himself, he classes me with
the rest, and thinks it only natural that,
wishing to secure his son's fortune, I should

take the first opportunity that came of announcing
our marriage, and so ruining my
own fine prospects in life, eh ? Perhaps he
will be content to return to the country without
any further explanation than that he has
suggested, and rest there, satisfied with the
hope that his son may die of starvation. If
that is the case, I will give him another hope
to increase his satisfaction : it is that his son
may die of delirium tremens, as assuredly he
shall if he be left to my mercy !'

What does the woman mean V gasped Sir
Andrew.

What do I mean ? This ! That I will
degrade your son to a lower level than your
swine — as I should have degraded him but
for the interference which you object to.
Had your son carried out the base instructions
you gave him, I would have debased
him beyond reclaim — by my soul I would !
It is well he had a better friend than his
father — his punishment is less ; and for that
you may be grateful to the man you despise
Richard Vane.'

My God !' exclaimed Sir Andrew, sinking
into a chair.

Beads of perspiration stood upon his face.

Roland locked aghast upon his wife.

Folly Morrison.

I will give Toil yet another hope to add
to the rest. It is that your son may lose the
semblance of a man ; that all human feeling
may depart from him, and that, dying like a
dog, he may curse you, his father, for being
the cause of all his misery !'

All his misery !'

AIL For him I have only contempt and
pity. He is sacrificed for your sake. Upon
him are visited your sins : and the vengeance
that God has given into my hands this day
falls upon him, that you may suffer. Bare
your head, old man, and ask your son to
strike you with the cane you lifted against
him. Beg him to disown and forget you, for
to you he owes all that he suffers and will
have to suffer from me. Remorse for the
wrong you have done shall follow you to
your death-bed, and every compassionate
pang that has wrung my poor heart for one
I love, shall wring yours for the suffering of

the son who was dear to you.'

«/

'I — I will not listen to these idle
threats stammered Sir Andrew, attempting
to rise.

Idle threats ! Leave your son in my
power and they shall be proved.' Folly
crossed to the door and opened it. ' Go, if

you will, fool ! It was mercy that induced
me to send for you.'

The baronet sank in his chair, paralysed
by the terror which Folly's vehement speech
and incomprehensible warning produced

What — what have I done ?' he faltered.

Follow me, and you shall see.'

As Folly spoke she passed out of the
room.

Sir Andrew rose, collect ino- his streno-th
by an effort, and passing Koland without a
yielding glance, followed Folly.

Heaven only knows what's going to
happen next; stick by us, old man,' murmured
Koland to Vane, as they left the
room.

SIR ANDREW Feeling AND JOHN MORRISON MEET
AGAIN.

OLLY ascended the stairs, and, leading
the way through the front bedroom,
paused before the door of the
room her husband had desio-ned for
her special use, until the three gentlemen
drew near.

Remove your hat,' she said to Sir Andrew.
The baronet obeyed.

She opened the door and held it as they
passed into the room, then she closed it. A
screen was extended at a distance of two
yards from the door, and the visitors, waiting
to be led farther, saw only glimpses of costly
furniture and graceful appointments to the
right and left.

Folly folded the screen back swiftly, and
removed at once any doubt as to what they
were brought to see.

o

In the centre of the beautiful room, under
the Venetian glass and surrounded by all the
delicate ornaments of the boudoir, stood a
plain surgical bedstead. Strapped down toit
lay an old man with his face upwards — an
old man with a round, shaven head, on which
the veins stood out like blue worms — with a
face of which the shrunken skin displayed
clearly the frontal and nasal bones of the
skull. Deep in the sockets the eyes glittered
like stars. His toothless mouth was open,
and the folds of his cheeks were contracted'
with fear.

A stoutly-built young man, in a grey suit,
sat upon one of the fancy chairs at the foot
of the bed ; he rose as Folly removed the
screen.

Folly advanced towards the bed.

I shouldn't go too near him, miss. It'll
be on him ao-ain before long He's been
watching for nearly an hour, and it's bound
to come soon.'

Taking no notice of the caution, Folly
leaned over the old man and said :

Father, father ! do you know me X

He shook his head, and motioned her away
impatiently with another movement, still
keeping his eyes fixed on one place in the
ceiling. The next instant he shrieked out at
the highest pitch of his voice, and struggled
with every muscle of his body to tear himself
from the bed.

There it is ! there it is !' he screamed.
I knew it was behind there. Let me go —
let me o^o — it is after me — as bios as a o^reat
bull, and its mouth all black with the blood
of my dear babies ! Let me go — let me go —
it is close upon me — the dead hare ■'

The rest of what he cried was incoherent,
for he had twisted his head violently backwards,
strangling the words and screams as
they came from his throat.

Whoa, ho !' cried the attendant, pressing
his brawny hands on the old man's chest, and
so bringing the body below the level of the
head. 'That's his game to-day,' he said,
looking over the old man to the gentlemen
with an amused smile. 'Thinks he can
break his neck. Last night he was all for
kilHng himself by holding his breath.'

The struggle was of short duration, the
old man's strength giving way under his own
exertions and the pressure upon his chest.

He shut his eyes ; his cries were in a piteous
rather than a frantic tone, and came with his
breath in short, quick gasps. The young
man took advantage of this relapse to tighten
up the straps and offer a few words of consolation.


All right, father, the dead hare's gone,
so's the dead babies — all gone running after
the gamekeeper — what's-his-name V

^ What, Ledofer — little Jim Ledofer?' whined
the old man.

^ Yes, and the squire too.'
What's he done ? Has he stole a dead
hare ? What's he been hunted for V

Why, for sending you to prison for hunting
a dead hare.'

He didn't do me any harm — that shows
that you're a liar ; you want me to open my
eyes and see the dead hare.'

Bless me, ah, now I come to look it ain't

the squire after all — it's — it's ' The

clumsy attendant turned to Folly, standing
near, and said : ' I've forgot his name — perhaps
you can tell me, miss, who it was sent
him to prison V

Yes, it was that man,' said Folly, pointing
to the baronet, ' Sir Andrew Aveling, who
sent John Morrison to prison.

'' That's the name, that's the name !' cried
the old man, catching the words ; * and he
killed my ^vife and took away my babies, and
now he hunts me with the dead hare. Liars,
liars, liars, it doesn't hunt him ! it's him that
sets it on to me nio"ht and dav — nio-ht and
day,'

Once more John morrison struo-o-led to
break his neck, forcing his chest upwards
and his head back until his face grew purple
with the strain.

The attendant was upon his chest again,
and only the spluttering of the breath through
the old man's closed lips broke the silence fora
minute.

He'll be quiet again after this. He
couldn't stand it so Iouq: if it wasn't for his
constitution. He must have been a wonderful
fine strong fellow in his time,' the man
said.

'You know what sort of a man he was
seventeen years ago, when you sent him to
prison. Sir Andrew,' said Folly.

The attendant looked up in astonishment.
He had conceived that Folly's previous introduction
of the baronet's name was merely
to sustain his deception.

I beg your pardon, sir,' he said ; ' I didn't

know you was the party who sent him away.
I hope no offence.'

The baronet, ashy-pale even to his Ups,
leaned heavily now upon his son's arm.

Let me ^^o away from this frightful scene,'
he said hoarsely.

It's all right now, sir,' said the attendant.

He's exhausted now. Though his eyes are
open he is dead asleep, if you'd like to look
at him.'

Yes, come and see your work,' said Folly ;

the man you sent to sfaol is your son's father
now. You may be more ready to resin your
son if you see the state to which he may be
brought. Come, look at him and see the
traces of the manhood you have destroyed —
look at this poor, poor face.' She bent over
the head of the bed, taking her father's
hideous face between her hands as she
spoke. ' Look at these eyes that have wept
away their tenderness — this brow that covers
a distracted brain — this body that octaves
its broken heart — look at this old, old man
of fifty years, whose closing days are unblessed
with sweet repose and visions of
welcoming heavenly angels, who living is
racked by the torments of an unmerited hell.
See this wretched body, and prepare to

VOL. II. 38

answer Heaven for the soul you have torn
from it. Look at us — your kin — your son's
bride and father.'

With these words she threw herself upon
the bed beside John Morrison, and, burying
her face in his shoulder, burst into an awful
peal of laughter.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTKOTYPERS, GUILDFORD.

R. T. T.

The following: Volumes can be obtained separately at every Bookseller's
price 2S. 6d. each.

By HELEN Matters. ''

THE LAND 6>' THE LEAL.

Ey FLORENCE MONTGOMERY.

A VERY SIMPLE STORY, and, WILD MIKE.

By Mrs. Alexanders''

RALPH WILTON'S WEIRD.

By Mrs. ANNIE Edward's.
A BLUE STOCKING.

By HELEN MATHERS.""'

AS HE COMES UP THE STAIR.

ANONYMOUS.

FIVE YEARS' PENAL SERVITUDE.

VII.

By V;nLKIE COLLINS.

A ROGUE'S LIFE.

VIII.

By A GERMAN PRIEST.

A VICTIM OF THE TALK LA WS.

By Mrs. ANNIE Edwards.
A VAGABOND HEROINE.

EyMrs. G. ^W. GODFREY.

MY QUEEN.

By JULIAN Hawthorne.

ARCHIBALD MALMAISON.

By RHODA Boughton.

TWILIGHT STORIES.

By CHARLES Dickens'*

THE MUDFO G PAPERS. now first republished. )

Bv FLORENCE MONTGOMERY.

HERBERT MANNERS, and other STORIES.

OTHER VOLUMES ARE IN PREPARATION.

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

OR,

Mirth and Marvels,

Abundant in humour, observation, fancy ; in extensive knowledge of books
and men ; in palpable hits of character, exquisite grave irony, and the most whimsical
indulgence in point of epigram. We cannot open a page that is not
sparkling with its wit and humour, that is not ringing with its strokes of pleasantry
and satires-examiner.

The "Victoria" Edition.

A Pocket Edition, in cap. 8vo., with Frontispiece, 2s., cloth.
n.

The Popular Edition.

In crown 8vo,, 3s. 6d., cloth.

The Edinburgh Edition.

An entirely new Edition, in large type, with Thirty-two Illustrations
by Cruikshank, Leech, Tenniel, and Du Married,
especially Re-engraved for this Edition by Mr. George Pearson.
In croM'n 8vo., 6s., red cloth ; also bound in golden
cloth, paper label, same price.

IV.

The Carmine Edition.

In large crown Svo. With a carmine border line around each
page. Seventeen Illustrations by Cruikshank and Leech,
Gilt edges and bevelled boards, los. 6d.

V.

The Burlington Edition.

A Cabinet Edition, in 3 vols., cap. 8vo., los. 6d.

VI.

The Illustrated Edition.

With Sixty Illustrations by Cruikshank, Leech, and Tenniel
; and cover designed by John Leighton, F. S. A. Crown
4to., cloth, bevelled boards, gilt edges, 21s. The same Edition,
bound in the Ely pattern, 21s. ; or in WHITE cloth, Ely pattern
(for presentation), 22s. 6d.
"A series of humorous legends, illustrated by three such men as Cruik-
shank, Leech, and Tenniel— what can be more tempting ?"— T/w^jr.

, VII.

The Annotated Edition.

A Library Edition, with a History of each Legend, and other
Notes, and some original Legends now first published. Edited
by the Rev. Richard Dalton Bashan. In 2 vols., demy
8vo., with an original Frontispiece by George Cruikshank ;
and all the Illustrations by Cruikshank and Leech. 24s.

To be obtained at every Bookseller's,

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

^c.:^.^.

j^-^^-^^'^-^

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS



a fiobti

BY

FRANK BARRETT.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

^ubUsIwrs itt ©rbtmtri) to ^)«r ^jt]cst,t} the Queen.

1881.

[Ail Rights Reserved. ^

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill,

CHAPTER . PACK

I. SEPARATION 1

II. RICHARD VANE UNDERTAKES A NEW TASK - 15

III. vane's INTERVIEW WITH THE DOCTOR - 24

IV. A LESSON IN CHRISTIANITY - - - 38
V. THE LESSON CONTINUED - - - - 53

VL 'IT IS WELL FOR A PARSON TO WEAR A

WHITE hat' 68

VIL QUESTION AND ANSWER - - - - 75

Vin. folly's DISGRACE - - - - - 91

IX. JOHN MORRISON FALLS ASLEEP - - - 100

X. folly's MISSION 110

XI. FOLLY Ti\KES OFF HER Wedding-ring - 121

Nil FOLLY TAKES OFF HER Wedding-ring - 130

xii folly's farewell - - - - - 143

XIV. Made - - 160

Contents.

CHAPTER PAO B

XV. A DIFFICULT QUESTION AND ITS ANSWER 168
XVI. A PORTRAIT OF AMADIS GARNIER, BY Himself

- - - - - - - 170

XML ANOTHER PORTRAIT OF AMADIS GARNIER 185

XVIII. OLD FRIENDS 195

XIX. THE OLD FRIENDS PART - - - - 209

XX. folly's LIFE IN PARIS - - - - 222

XXL SECRET SERVICE - 235

Xxii ADIEUX - - - - - - - 244

Xxii THE APPROACH - - - - - 255

XXIV. LE CARREFOUR DE Europe - - - 264

XXV. THE DEAD 277

Xxvi MARGARET'S PERIL 283

Xxvi FOLLY'S EXPIATION - - - - 289

XXVIII. THE LAST 300

>^e<c

CHAPTER I.

SEPARATION.

ICHxlRD Jane turned his eyes
from the agonised girl, stretched
upon the bed beside her unconscious
father, to her husband, standing
with Sir Andrew passive and horror-stricken.
Have you anything to say V he asked in a
low voice.

'What can I say?' Roland replied in a
distressed undertone.

Yane knew what he should have said and
done had he been in Roland's place. He
should have thrown himself by Folly's side,
and, pleading his own innocence, have offered
such comfort as compassion suggested. He
VOL. III. 39

should have called upon her to fulfil the
functions she had sacredly undertaken to
perform regardless of the threatened consequences
to himself. But he saw no sign in
Roland's face of any such feelings as stirred
his own heart ; it only expressed horror and
distress at the sight that met his eyes.

To press upon him as a duty that which
should be the spontaneous outgrowth of love,
would serve, Yane saw, simply to extend the
terrible scene, to provoke Folly to still greater
excitement, and might possibly lead only to
that result which Folly had had in contemplation.


T fear I can say nothing that will do any
good,' Roland added.

Nothing ?' asked Vane, appealing with a
last hope.

Well, I want to do whatever is right, you
know. What shall I say V

'Nothing,' he answered, in another and
conclusive tone.

Then he opened the door noiselessly,
motioning the father and son to be gone,
and, remaining in the room himself, he as
silently closed it when they had passed out.
Shaken and enfeebled. Sir Andrew had
scarcely strength to totter down the stairs,

nor was Roland in a condition to give great
assistance. At the foot of the stairs he
paused, leaning upon the banister for support.

You are faint, sir ; come into the diningroom
and let me get you a little brandy.'

No, no, my boy ; let us get away from
this horrible place as quickly as possible.'

There was no resentment in his tone now.
Folly had effected a strange and speedy
reconciliation.

Loi meant was still waiting with the ponies
for orders where Roland had left him.

Let us drive to the nearest hotel,' said
Sir Andrew, taking his seat in the phaeton.

Roland took the reins in his hand ; le meant
ran down to the gate ; the ponies walked
down the drive and out into the road ; and
so the new proprietor gave up possession of
Thorn Lodge, leaving behind him his bride,
his home, and his hopes.

On the road it occurred to him that the
carriage he sat in Alas not his to use. He
had given it to his wife, and had no right toit
now that he had separated from her. That
reflection brought home to him his desolation
and his dependency upon Sir Andrew.

Father and son spoke never a word as they
drove along, and the curiosity of the quickly

-2

witted servant in the seat behind, excited by
the ghastly pallor of the two gentlemen as they
came from the house, remained ungratified.

At the hotel. Sir Andrew, looking around
hi uiandseeingnostabling accommodation, said:

Where shall you send the boy with the
trap, Roland V

Back to my wife ; it is her property.'

Sir Andrew bowed and turned to the hotel.
At the door he called Koland, who was instructing
le meant.

^ Before you send the boy away, I want to
speak to you,' he said.

Roland accompanied his father into the
private room to which they were conducted
by the waiter. When they were alone, Sir
Andrew said :

It will be necessary to do something for
these unhappy people, and I have my cheque-book
with me.' Sir Andrew had not expected
to win the victory without proper arms, and
had come prepared for the worst contingencies
that entered his imagination. * If you like
to send a blank cheque by the boy, and so
conclude this dreadful affair at once '

It is impossible. We must find some
more delicate way than that, sir.'

More delicate than sending a cheque to

be filled at their discretion !' exclaimed Sir
Andrew, in gentle astonishment.

Dick must advise us —that is, if you wish
Folly to accept your offer.'

Of course I do. You know these persons
better than I, and understand their peculiar
ideas ; but still, I should have thought a little

note with the cheque sent by the boy '

said the baronet, persuasively.

No, sir ; it would be sent back to us in a
hundred fragments, and so all hope of serving
them would be lost.'

swell! '

Sir Andrew turned aside, raising his eyebrows
and nodding his head slowly, as if the
people in this world were all inscrutably
perverse. It seemed to him such an admirable
way of getting over the difficulty,
that he could not understand how any one
should fail to appreciate it — why Folly should
not accept the cheque, and why Roland should
not, at any rate, ^ send it by the boy.'

Roland went out and finished giving his
instructions to le meant, and then he watched
the smart little carriage as it drove away
until it was lost in the mist that came before
his eyes as he thought of all the hap23y
projects that filled his mind when he bought

it but a few days ago. He envied the liveried
servant who would see Folly so soon, would
hear her voice, who might one day sit in his
seat by her side, watching the bright colour
rise in her cheeks, the excitement sparkle in
her beautiful eyes, as she drove the ponies he
had bought for her.

The boy is gone, I suppose V said the
baronet, mournfully, when his son joined him
again. Koland nodded. His heart was full.
Sir Andrew sank with a sigh into a chair.

Hotel chairs are always uncomfortable to
a man who has a home and a lounge of his
own ; this one was not an exception to the
rule : it squeezed his arms up and made the
contents of his pockets an annoyance, in the
end obliging him to remove them to the table.
Amongst the trifles was his cheque-book —
now a useless bauble. Laying it down, he
said in a tone of sorrow, shaking his head as
over a great error :

If we had but sent it by the boy.'

Roland made no reply. Resting his head
on one hand, he looked ruefully out into the
road, and, wrapped in thought, made no
movement when the waiter entered, bringing
the chops and sherry ordered by the baronet.

The young fellow was not undertaking a

higher and better life on the spur of the
moment, like a villain that can't be killed out
of the way in the last act. He had been
manly and unselfish by fits and starts already,
and the fits lasted no longer than fits do in
strong natures. But the truth was dawning
upon him — the lesson was entering deep into
his mind ; he was altering, as Nature alters, by
infinitesimal degrees, that begin unnoticeably.

'The chops are on the table, Koland,' said
Sir Andrew, adjusting the knives. He looked
across the room to where his son sat with his
face to the window', and saw him steal a
handkerchief from his pocket to his face.

You'll have a bit of something, won't you,
my dear boy V asked the baronet, his heart
melting and his own eyes filling at the sight
of his son's distress.

'All right, dad — in half a minute,' answered
Roland, in a loud, husky tone, intended to
be cheerful, sneaking the handkerchief behind
him as he turned with his head down towards
the table.

The baronet of course did not see him — he
was too busy with the table; nevertheless
Roland knew why his father picked out the
best chop for him.

We can catch the 3.30 from Lydgate, I

think,' the baronet said soon after. ' Will
that do for you, my boy V

'Yes, if you'll have me, dad. I've no
home now.'

Don't talk like that, Koley. There's the
home where you have been happy in the old
times, and where we shall be happy together
again.'

That seemed impossible to Roland.

Come, let us look at things as they are,
and we shall find they are not so terrible
after all. I've been setting them all down in
my mind this last half hour, while you have
been looking at the traffic — wonderful spectacle,
London traffic, it always interests me
I've tabulated it, as it were, in my mind.
Now, first of all, there's poor John Morrison.
He is the most to be commiserated of any
man I ever knew, and how deeply sorry for
him I am Heaven only knows. But then
we are not entirely to blame. Because weare
the administrators of justice we mustn't
afflict ourselves with every accidental misdirection
it takes. I remember this poor
John Morrison well and all the particulars of
his case. I have a remarkable head for facts.
He was a labourer on one of our farms, I
don't remember which, or else he rented a

little bit of land for himself I am not certain
about that. I believe he married one of the
servants from the hall and received a good
deal of kindness at one time and another, for
which he ought to have been grateful. If it
wasn't he it was Noakes ; but that doesn't
matter. But I remember the case of the
hare very well, because it was in the middle
of August, and a fearfully hot month it was,
too. I recall the morning as clearly as
possible — let me see though, it is that man
Roberts who was taken with the pheasants
I am thinking about, and not this poor fellow
Morrison : however that signifies but little,
the fact remains that the month was very
hot. I recollect Morrison frio-hteninof me
out of my wits by his violence in the library.
He swore the hare was Ijing dead in the
middle of the road when he picked it up, and
my man Ledger swore he saw him take it
with a wire. Ah, and the men were bad
friends, and Morrison swore the charge was
false and got up by Ledger from sjDite. And
very likely it was ; but how was I to know
that ? However, Ledger shall suffer for it.
He keeps the Aveling Arms public-house.
Remind me, my boy, to put a mark against
his licence damn him !'

Roland took no notice; he ate his chop
mechanically, but his thoughts were away
with his wife.

And I consider it extremely hard that we
who administer justice gratuitously, and put
ourselves occasionally to extreme inconvenience,
should be considered responsible
for errors committed. Try the sherry, my
dear boy.'

Roland drank in obedience to his father's
wish.

Not that I wish to avoid making what
atonement lies in my power. We will do
more than is simply just in this matter, for
indeed I pity the poor fellow and that poor
girl.'

Roland rose from his seat and went to the
window again, his face convulsed, and the
tears oozing from his eyes. His body shook
as he strove to suppress the rising sobs.

Sir Andrew pushed away his chair, rose,
came to the window, and putting his arm
about his son's neck, said :

Come, come, Roleyy, boy. Take heart.
You do not sorrow alone ; my heart aches
with yours.'

Roland pressed his father's soft hand, and
wiped the tears away resolutely.

I will wash my face — stay here, dad. I
will return before the tniie to start he
said.

Sir Andrew sat down wien Roland left
the room, and for five minutes felt as wretched
as a selfish man can feel ; then the thought
that he should have his son now always with
him came as a cream of sunlight in winter to
warm his heart. Another glass of sherry,
with a biscuit, still further revived his spirits,
and once more he turned to tackle the subject
hi a business, matter-of-fact way.

That he was very hardly and unjustly
served was indisputable ; but still the punishment
was not so terrible as it might have
been. It would be impossible, of course, for
Roland to marry again ; but then he w- as
separated from dangerous connexions. Thus,
though there was a loss in one respect, there
was a gain in another. Roland would settle
down to a country life, and take readily to
his duties, nothing preventing him from
making good acquaintances and friends. It
would be extremely pleasant to Sir Andrew
to have him always about the hall, instead
of living at a distance and in some sort
estranged, as must inevitably have been
the case had he married in an ordinary way

and set up a m<??2a^6 of his own. Of course
his marriage would have to be concealed,
and there was no reason on earth why
it should not be. A lawyer would settle
all that, if Richard Vane could not or would
not. It only required a judicious use of the
cheque-book. Folly's feelings of revenge
were satisfied. ' But thought Sir Andrew,
^ how much better it would have been had all
farther animosity been laid by that very
simple means I proposed.' He knew that
there was nothing so efficacious in the world
for stifling enmity as a properly timed
cheque ; and gratitude, he considered, would
have restrained Folly from active hostility.
As it was, she might come to the hall and
annoy her husband, and so make it difficult
to prevent unpleasant rumours from getting
abroad. He hoped, with some confidence,
that even that possibility might be averted.
On the whole, he had only one great and
lasting source of regret, and that was summed
up in the expression with which he closed
his reflections and returned his cheque-book
to his pocket — 'If Ave had only sent it by
the boy !'

But the difficulty was not so easily to be

overcome. Sir Andrew in calculating the
consequences that might befall, left out of his
consideration the fact that a livelier brain
than his had been occupied on the same
subject.

When he came down to breakfast after a
night's refreshing repose, and took up that
highly respectable and Avell-circulated paper,
the Times, his eye, running down the first
column, came to this announcement : —

*AvELiNG — Morrison. — On the 28th, at

St. , Brompton, Koland Aveling, son of

Sir Andrew Aveling, Bart., of Aveling
Hall, Surrey, to Folly, daughter of John
Morrison, of Sandy Lane, Mayford, Surrey.'

Great Heavens !' he cried, dropping the
paper. ' Why, all the country will know it.
There's not a decent house in Sandy Lane.
How dare they print it ^ It comes within the
law of libel. I'll punish them for it. Thank
the Lord, every one doesn't know Sandy
Lane nor Folly !'

But even this small consolation was destroyed
when, seeking to find forgetfulness of
the published disgrace in the morning's news,
he opened the Times and looked at the leader
page. There, filling the next column to the
first leader, spaced out to catch the eye, was

the advertisement of his daughter-in-law's
performance. Commencing at the top of the
column, it ran thus : —

'FOLLY (Mrs. Poland AveUng) as andromeda.


FOLLY (Mrs. Poland Aveling) at the
LEVITY to-night.

FOLLY (Mrs. Poland Aveling) in all her
Favourite DANCES.

And so on to the foot of the page.

RICHARD VANE UNDERTAKES A NEW TASK.

solly raised her head as Richard
Vane turned the handle of the
door after the departure of Roland
and Sir Andrew.
Why don't you go also T she asked, pushing
back her hair, which had fallen upon her
moist brow.

^ I will go when I am not wanted.'
I want you no longer. It is all done.
You have seen all,' she answered.

I think I can be of service here,' Vane
answered, approaching the bed on which
John Morrison lay in supine unconsciousness.
He turned back the coverlet.
What do you want, sir V asked the attendant,
coming forward, uneasily.

Yane did not reply immediately. He
looked at the apparatus which confined Join
Morrison, and examined the straps he had
seen the attendant tighten.

These straps are unnecessarily tight,' he
said.

^ No they ain't, sir; it wouldn't do to let him
slip himself out when he's in one of his fits.'

Vane answered by unbuckling the straps
and loosening the ligature considerably.

^ How do you suppose your patient is to
get repose tortured with strips that cut into
his poor body as these do V

Lunatics never do repose ; it ain't natural.
You'll allow me to knows my own business,
I suppose V

^ If it is your business to lessen the
sufferings of a patient I will allow nothing
of the kind,' replied Vane, loosening strap
after strap with an angry frown at each.

Look here, miss, am I engaged here or
not V the attendant asked.

Folly took no notice. She was following
Vane's movements with breathless interest.

'Well, all I say is, that if this gent is to
interfere with my affairs, and loosen them
straps all round like that, / won't be answerable
for the consequences.'

I will,' said Vane, coolly.

*You ain't going to undo his hands, are
you V

Don't be a fool. Sit down and hold your
tongue, if you cannot make yourself useful,'
said Vane.

Send him away, the wretch !' said Folly,
passing her hand over the ridges made in her
father's emaciated arms. ' It is shameful to
fasten the straps like that. Send him away !
I'll do all that you tell me.'

I don't want to do anything harsh, sir.
The straps may have been a little tights —
all of us is liable to accidents,' the young
man said in a deprecatory voice, seeing that
he had nothing to hope for from Folly,

There, that is better,' Vane said, looking
at the old man, to the attendant.

It's more comfortable like said the
attendant.

Send him away !' said Folly, savagely.
He is of no use.'

We shall see presently ; he is improving
already,' Yane answered. To send the man
away at a moment's notice would be to make
him more caret in future acts of deception,
to the disadvantage of other patients. Vane's
charity was of a large-hearted kind, that

VOL. III. 40

took consideration of all men. If lie could
just improve this stupid attendant by ever so
little it would be to the advantage of mankind.

I ain't unreasonable,' urged the man,
seeing his place in jeopardy. * One does
what one's been used to doing ; and T ain't
above learning from them as has had the
advantage of education.'

Very well ; get me a basin of water and
a sponge.'

I'll do that said Folly, eagerly.

I want you here !'

Folly returned to his side obediently, like
a child, while the attendant showed his zeal
by hastening out of the room for the desired
things.

Where did you get that young man.
Folly V Vane asked.

He lived near us in the Lambeth Road,
and came in to offer his services when my
father became too difficult for me to manatee.
He had nearly set the house on fire, and was
more terrible than when you saw him. Oh,
I can't tell you '

I don't want to know. I am asking
about this young man.'

He said he was used to these cases ; he
had been in Bedlam.'

Did he say why he left V

Because the doctors there wanted him to
be too hard with the patients.'

'You had told him, perhaps, that you
thought of sending your father there — was
it so V

'Yes.'

Where did you get this bed from V

It belongs to him ; he said it was not so
painful as the strait-jacket. But they were
lies ; I see through him now. Let me send
him away directly. But perhaps you won't
stay with me V

Yes I will ; but I must have help, and
this young fellow may serve me better than
one who knows nothing. What is his name T

Smith.'

Have you had a doctor in V

Yes, and he has sent physic, and told us
to keep the room warm, but ventilated.'

Did Smith recommend him V

Yes. Oh, he must be a bad doctor.'

Not necessarily ; only if Smith recommended
him he couldn't well find fault with
Smith's instrument of torture. Now, Folly,
will you entrust your father to me V

You are not going to part us V she said,
imploringly.

40—2

No. But you must do what I ask you
to do V

Yes, yes, I will. I would trust anything
to you. What are you going to do V

We will take your father out of that
machine, and make him comfortable in the
next room. Go and tell some one to light
the fire.'

Folly ran off eagerly to execute the commission
; at the door she met Smith bearing
the basin of water. She would have liked
nothing better than to smack his fat, stupid
face ; but in consideration for Vane, she let
him pass with a frown.

Since the straps had been loosened John
Morrison had dozed off once or twice,
and awoke again with a wrench at his
bands.

'Where are the medicines, Smith V

Here they are, sir.' Smith brought the
bottles for examination, and pointed proudly
to the fact that two doses were gone from
one and three from another, as the time required.
This exemplary attention excited
Vane's suspicion.

It will soon be time for another dose of
chloral. Does he take it readily V

'Lord bless you, no, sir ; that's another of

his artful dodges. He says he don't want to
be cured, and won't open his mouth.'

Then how do you administer the
physic V

Oh, I managed to get it down him somehow
answered Smith, reddening ; 'but it
was a terrible job, I can tell you, sir.'

Did you give it him in a spoon V

Spoon, sir ! Bless you, he'd have spilt it
out of that. Oh, no ; I gave it him in a
good big glass, sir — that one over there on
the little table.' Smith grew bold in imparting
this little bit of verisimilitude to his
assertion.

^ Fetch me the glass.'

Smith obeyed, and Yane put it up to his
nose and held it there, keeping his eyes all
the while on Smith, who grew red and white,
and looked first at the ceiling, then at the
floor, and finally at Vane, in as pretty a state
of confusion as a discovered liar could exhibit.


Yane put down the glass, shaking his
head, and then said :

Smith, I want the help of a decent young
fellow, who knows something of hospital
practice, and whom I can trust. Not one
that will tell me a lie when I ask a straightforward

question ; do you know of such a
man V

Smith scratched his errand looked sheepish.

I won't try to deceive you again, sir ;
upon my soul I won't.'

Very well, you shall have a chance ; and,
take my word for it, you'll find it easier to be
honest, and more pajang in the long run.
You're not half bad enough to succeed as a
liar,'

Folly, hearing the fag-end of this dialogue
as she stood by the half-opened door, wondered
why Vane, if he was really a goodman,
should ' encourage ' a liar.

The fire is lit,' she said, coming to Vane's
side.

The old man was still sleeping, with fitful
starts and frequent struggles to free himself.


^ Come, Smith, we must get him up now.
He can never sleep strapped with his back
down on that leathern mattress of yours.'

^ Will you have no straps on him, sir V

Not one. Come, Folly, work.'

With a little cry of joyful acquiescence,
Folly put her nimble fingers to the task, and
had undone all upon her side of the bed
before Vane, with the assistance of Smith,

now violently anxious to help, had undone all
upon their side.

Get out of the way !' she said, sharply,
pushing the lumpy attendant aside, and
taking his place.

^ Mind miss,' said Smith, warningly ; ^ the
gent's bound to be violent'

Poor old fellow !' said Vane, softly lifting
John Morrison in the bed, and resting the
bewildered head against his own shoulder ;
^ poor old fellow ! he hasn't enough strength-left
for violence.'

VANE S INTERVIEW WITH THE DOCTOR.

HE two men carried John Morrison
into the next room, and laid him
in Folly's bed ; he was too exhausted
to comprehend what was
taking place or to oppose it. His eyes closed
before Folly had finished disposing the bedclothes
comfortably around him. She looked
in his face, and, seeing the altered expression
there, was taken With a sudden apprehension.
She turned her eyes inquiringly upon Yane,
and he read in them the question her tongue
was powerless to ask —
^ Will he awake again V
'When he wakes he will need some food,'
Vane said. ' Have you any prepared V
'Yes,' she replied, with a bright, grateful

smile : ' I will see to it at once.' She left
the loom, and went to the kitchen, where
Miss Clip had taken refuge during the
storm.

So you've sent him away said Miss Clip.
'Poor Mr. Poland! I saw him go from the side
window, looking more like death than '

Don't bother. Where's the chicken ?
Did you do as I told you about the advertisements
V

Yes. My brother-in-law wrote them out
and took them, and they'll come out in tomorrow
morning's paper.'

While Folly was still in the kitchen, le
meant returned with the phaeton, and knocked
at the servants' door, and said to Miss Clip,
who opened it :

Master told me to ask if Mrs. Aveling
required the ponies before I put them away V

Miss Clip returned to the kitchen and
delivered the message.

Tel] him to take the carriage back to his
master, and say that I never wish to use it
again,' Folly said.

She spoke in a voice loud enough to be
heard by Richard Vane as he came downstairs.
He entered the kitchen while poor
Miss Clip was still hesitating about taking

the message from one friend which it would
hurt her other friend to receive. Folly
reddened, feeling ashamed to be found out in
an act which she knew would be disapproved
of by the merciful man.

I have had nothing to eat since breakfast
time Yane said, addressing Miss
Clip.

Oh, I'll get you something directly, sir
answered she, readily accepting the less
objectionable task. As she left the kitchen
Yane looked straight into Folly's face.

^ Shall I take that message V he asked.

Folly was silent a moment; then, gathering
up her courage, she answered :

'No; ril give it myself.'

She brushed by Yane, and went to the side
door, where le meant waited.

Master told me to ask if you would wish
to use the ponies before I put them in the
stable, 'm V

No ;' Folly replied, and closed the door
with an emphatic bang.

Eichard Yane was cutting away at a loaf
of bread when she returned. Miss Clip,
behind his back, made significant gestures.

'Oh, you must have something better
than that I' Folly exclaimed. ' There's a

dining-room and table-cloths and cutlery, I
know '

^ Yes, but there's nothing to eat 1' Miss
Clip said, gently.

The catherine' had been left to Folly.

Bread-and-cheese is good enough when
one's hungry,' he said. ' We can go on with
this until the chicken's cooked.'

That's for my father.'

^ And us too. He shall have his share.
We can't allow him to eat a fowl all by himself.'


Folly smiled.

'And I don't see why that giant should
not fetch some beer when he has put the
steeds up ; let him bring bottles if his button-ship
objects to carrying a jug.'

There's a cellar full of wine,' said Folly,
quickly.

Very good for ladies, but I'm thinking of
myself and my friend Smith upstairs. I
should think, by the size of him. Smith's
fond of his beer, and, as he is just beginning
to be useful, we must not let him want.
Now, Folly, here are two pieces of cheese
and two pieces of bread ; which will you
have V

Folly hesitated a moment, for, despite

Vane's efforts to rob the situation of its
tragic semblance, she could not quite drop
into the ordinary habits of every-day life ;
but as Vane turned over the cheese to display
a blue streak in the creani}^ substance
and tempt her, she yielded to the calls of
nature and accepted the homely food. Taking
the plate in her hand, she was about to rest
on the corner of the table, when recollecting
that chairs were more befitting a solemn
occasion, she stopped short and looked up to
see if Vane had detected her.

Do you like sitting on kitchen tables,
Folly V '

Folly smiled and nodded.

So do I. It is one of the good purposes
of a kitchen table.'

As he spoke, Vane seated himself in
accordance with his tastes, and Folly did
likewise.

It was a strange picture — a beautiful
young girl, in a dress worth sixty guineas,
sitting on a kitchen-table eating bread-and-cheese
with a relish, after experiencing*
emotions which would have prostrated nine
out of ten ordinary ' young ladies.'

Miss Clip heaved a sigh of relief, and
sought le (meant with the blandest of smiles.

*What will you drink, Folly?' asked
Vane.

Whatever you like I like.'

Then we will wait for the beer. Capital
cheese ! What is your attendant's name V
'clip— Miss Clip.'

Miss Clip, will you take a piece of cheese
now, or will you wait till the table is unoccupied
X

^ Presently, sir, if you please,' replied Miss
Clip, smiling as only a dressmaker and an
old maid can smile.

And how did you find the man in livery ?
Was he condescending ?

He only waited to take his coat off,
sir.'

A concession to pride which may be overlooked
; he shall have a whole glassful for
himself And while he is warm with the
generous beverage I should persuade him to
fetch what vegetables or other household
articles you require, Miss Clip.'

While Miss Clip and Foll}^ were making
out a list of the things they required, Vane
put aside his plate, and from among the
letters in his pocket took a plain post-card. ■

^ All going well. I shall not return tonight.
— R. V.,' he wrote with his pencil on

one side ; on the other he put the address,
'Miss Yane, 53, Church Street, Spitalfields.'
This he entrusted to le meant to post, when
that young gentleman was soon after despatched
upon other errands.

They drank beer, still sitting on the table,
and Vane, having asked and obtained permission,
drew a pipe frown his pocket and
filled it.

^ You want a light said Folly, jumping
to the ground and taking the spill from Miss
Clip, who, equally anxious to serve, had
twisted the paper and taken it to the fire.

Folly held the light and saw the tobacco
ignite with a little sigh of satisfaction.

And perhaps the trifling service she thus
rendered a good man gave her greater gratification
than she derived from the consummation
of her long prepared revenge.

Is it quite aught V she asked, lingering
as the flame approached her hand.

^ Yes. You'll burn your fingers if you
don't take care.'

^ I shouldn't mind,' she answered.

She would have liked to make some
sacrifice, even the burnings of her fingers, to
satisfy her own sense of gratitude — not to
prove it.

She seated herself near hin again, with an
indefinable Learning happiness in her heart,
which excluded for the time all graver
anxieties from her memory. She would
have liked to sit quite still and watch
Richard Vane enjoying his pipe. Some
knotty point occupied his thoughts for a
few seconds, and she sat watching his
thoughtful face and the grey smoke that
rose from his lips, without knowing why it
made her happy to do so, without consciousness,
even, that she was watching him and
his pipe, until he turned and looked her in
the face ; then she smiled, returning his calm
gaze timidly, blinking her eyes like a pleased
child — she who had impudence and audacity
enough to stare down a prince of the blood
one niofht at the theatre.

■J^-55- '/' ^' -JJ-

The doctor !' exclaimed Miss Clip, as a
knock at the door reached the ears of those
in the kitchen.

^ Show him into the drawing-room, if you
please. I have something to say to him
said Vane, with a longer puff at his pipe and
a contraction of his nostrils.

The conjecture was right. The doctor had
arrived.

Richard Yane waited coolly until his pipe
was smoked out, sitting thoughtful and quiet
the while ; then he rose, knocked out the
ashes on the bar of the fireplace, and restored
the pipe to his pocket.

May I come with you V Folly asked.

'Yes. But I have your permission to act
as I think right towards this doctor V

Of course you have.'

Then come along. Folly : let's tackle him.'

Entering the drawing-room, Yane found
himself face to face with a young man with
sharp eyes and a capacious head.

My name is Yane — Richard Yane. May
I ask yours V

The vouno' man stared with astonishment.


My name is Chambers — Clement
Chambers,' he answered, with an accent of
assumed contempt.

May I ask if you are a doctor, or merely
a practitioner V

I have taken my degree in the London
College of Physicians, if you understand
what that means.' Despite the cool tone he
adopted, the doctor was evidently ill at ease.
Turning from Yane to Folly, he said : * How
is the patient now V

He is much better.'

The doctor looked surprised and relieved.

I thought said he, * from the peculiar
manner in which this a — Mr. Yane introduced
himself, that some unpleasant change
had taken place ; but since he is progressing
favourably under my treatment, an explanation
appears necessary.'

You shall have it when you have seen
your patient,' said Yane, opening the door
for Folly.

As Dr. Chambers was about to follow her,
Yane stepped between and took the precedence.
The doctor hesitated a moment,
then, swallowing the affront, followed.

There is your patient,' said Yane, when
they came into the bed-chamber. The doctor
looked round to the bed in astonishment, and
saw John Morrison sleeping. ' And now,'
added Yane, opening the door, ' if you will
come with me, I will give you the explanation
that appears to you necessary?'

Dr. Chambers looked at Folly : she stared
at him in return ; then he looked at Smith :
Smith looked in another direction. With a
little gesture of amused perplexity which he
was far from feeling, he entered the boudoir
with Yane.

VOL. III. 41

Well, sir V he asked.

^ You wish to know why I asked if you
where a practitioner merely, or a doctor. It
was because I wished to know if your conduct
is palliated by stupidity, or aggravated
by a knowledge of the faculty you profess.'

This is outrageous. I will not stay to be
insulted by any man.'

As you will : there is the door. If you
will not take your lesson from me, you shall
from the law.'

You are pleased to be lenient,' said the
doctor, with a sneer, at the same time turning
an uncomfortable look at the door and
Folly.

I am pleased to be lenient when I think
lenience may be practised to advantage.'

Dr. Chambers saw he had no ordinary
man to deal with. Dropping the sarcastic
tone he had assumed, he said :

Will you be good enough to tell me my
offence V

*The offence of torturing a man to the
point of death for a few guineas.'

I do not understand you,' interrupted the
doctor.

Come here, and exercise the same intelligence
which obtained you your degree.'

Yane A\^alked to the farther side of the bed,
and removed the coverlet, exposing the
leathern mattress and the straps. ' This
machine is perhaps better known to you
than to me. It looks like an old, and a very
old, surgical apparatus, such as might be used
for amputations ; is it V

^ I cannot say ; such bedsteads are not used
in the hospitals now.'

It is not good enough for that temporary
purpose T

I cannot say.'

" Will not say," would be an honest expression,
Dr. Chambers. I will put the
question more clearly. Do you think this
hard, uncovered, leather surface is the proper
bed on which to strap, down a man rapidly
sinking under repeated attacks of frenzy — •
one whose mind is in a highly excited condition,
and to whom sleep is the one essential
thing ? Tell me, do you think you could
sleep on such a bed ? Do you think you
could lie on it awake, strapped in one position
for twenty-four hours, without going out of
your mind — without attempting, in your
desperation, to end your life V

I did not provide the bed — I did not seethe
straps. I — I am not supposed to know

41—2

what takes place in my absence. I prescribe
the medicines, and I may claim, as the result
of my prescription, the fact that my patient
sleeps and is better.'

^ If you think to evade the consequences
of wilful neglect by that argument you are
mistaken. In the first place your medicines
were not administered ; and in the second,
your patient did not sleep until he was released
from the torture to which sou relinquished
him. You make your case worse by
attempting to defend action which it is clear
you cannot justify to yourself It behoves
you to be penitent rather than obdurate,
standing as you do within the range of
punishment, and in need of mercy. If retribution
alone were required, you should be
punished and disgraced. A sin even of carelessness
is not pardoned in one Who undertakes
the care of a fellow-creature, and
exposure of complicity with such a man as
Smith would ruin you. It is this consideration,
united with the hope that, taking this
warning to heart, you may yet do good and
useful work, benefiting others by the proper
use of that knowledge you have given the
best years of your life to obtain, that appeals
to forbearance. Dr. Chambers, you can go !'

The young doctor raised his eyes from
the ground, and looked in Yane's face with
evident emotion ; then he bowed, and left
the room in silence.

Eichard Vane had made another convert
to humanity.

CHAPTER IV.

A LESSON IX CHRISTIANITY.

OLLY Avatclied the scene between
Richard Vane and the young doctor
with trembling interest, her admiration
of Yane rising as it progressed.


He had shown that he could be merciful
and gentle ; now she saw he could be wrathful
too.

A merely merciful man she might have
regarded with contempt as a spiritless fool ;
but here was one whose anger carried the
more weight from his previous gentleness.

He was clever enough to detect and expose
the iniquities of cunning men ; wise enouf>-h
to prescribe the remedies a doctor failed to
administer.

She said to herself, ' This is the best and
wisest man that Hves/ and refrained from
venting her own indignation upon the discomfited
young doctor for fear of producing
an anti-cHmax. She felt sure this justly resentful
man would crush the wrongdoer with
a final blow.

When the denouement came she was astonished
and disappointed. After all her hero
was not just. That a bad man, convicted of
his cruelty, should be permitted to escape
without further punishment than private
censure contravened her theatrical and Biblical
notions of justice altogether.

It is not right,' she said to Vane when
the doctor had withdrawn. ' If I had known
all this I would have spent every penny I
had in punishing those two men rather than
that they should get off in this way.'

Why V

Because they deserve punishment.'

If you could, you would have strapped
them down to that bed, one after the other —
take it ia turns — until they had suffered all
that your father suffered, eh, Folly V

Yes, that is just what I would have done,'
she replied emphatically.

Resolute with her own convictions, sis

stood facing Richard Yane, as if waiting for
an explanation of the leniency which appeared
to her unwarrantable.

For a moment he hesitated, doubting if
this were the most fitting time to assail the
stout little rebel. He anticipated greater
difficulty in subduing her spirit than he
had encountered in bringing others to a
sense of reason and Christianity. Then
he said, drawing a chair to one of the windows
:

Sit down here, Folly.'

She obeyed, and he left her for a time,
going into the next room to see to John
Morrison. The old man was still sleeping.
Miss Clip was waiting outside the door.
Vane told her to bring the attendant bread
and cheese and a bottle of beer, and then returned
to the inner room, closing the door
gently after him.

^ Folly,' he said, taking a seat near her,
tell me what is cruelty ?'

Cruelty is unkindness : to hurt helpless
creatures is cruelty. To strap my poor father
down upon that bed, and to deceive me by
saying it was necessary, that is cruelty. Why
do you ask ? You have shown the cruelty of
it yourself.'

^ Now tell me again, does anything justify
cruelty V

No, nothing — except,' she added quickly,
anticipating the use Vane would make of her
admission, ' except cruelty. To torture those
two men as they tortured others would be
justice. But I see you do not belie ye in
punishment.'

Yes I do. But it must be just, or it
ceases to be merely punishment, and becomes
cruelty greater than that it avenges. The
punishment that causes a man to regret his
wrongdoing, and retards him from repeating
his offence, the punishment that serves as an
example to others to be merciful and just —
that is good. But the punishment unfairly
proportioned to the offence, which makes the
sufferer feel he is unjustly dealt with, and
does not serve as an example to others, because
it is seen to be unjust and unworthy of
respect — that is bad. It fails to touch the
punished man's heart with remorse, because
he feels that his offence is more than expiated;
it serves to make him an enemy of justice,
hardens his heart against its better influences,
and leads him by cunning to avoid future detection.
Unfair punishment is worse than
no punishment at all.'

I want only justice. Whatever is just is
right

That is true, Folly. And now you yourself
shall tell me how much torture Smith
shall receive in order that his punishment
may be just. Keniember that if you give
him less or more than his desert you fall
short of justice or exceed it. You must consider
the difference in the two men, and find
out whether Smith is less able to endure pain
than your father, or more. Again, you must
allow for the man's natural stupidity, and
agree as to the amount of restraint he considered
it necessary to impose. A thousand
other considerations must be balanced one
against the other before it can be guessed
how much he should suffer. You said whatever
is just is right; and it follows that
whatever is unjust is not right.'

Folly shook her head in thoughtful silence.
She could not answer Vane's argument, yet
still felt that there was reason in her demand
for punishment.

How much actual physical suffering should
be inflicted upon that man Smith,' Vane continued,
' it is not for you or me to determine.
If we were the wisest and most impartial
judges in the world, we should probably disagree

upon that point. Possibly no man
ever is punished in exact accordance with
the justice of his case, and this is the reason
why nine-tenths of the criminals sent to
prison leave it worse men than when they
entered.'

Then why are men imprisoned V
That the world may be benefited — thafc
the punishment publicly administered to
offenders may deter others from offending.
It is only savage nations and barbarous
people who use punishment as retaliation.
No punishment can repair an injury. What
is done cannot be undone. It only remains
for wise people to use the best means in their
power to prevent the recurrence of a past
misfortune. A child stumbling over an unseen
object in the road turns and kicks the
object ; a foolish and careless man doing the
like feels angry with himself, and leaves the
thing lying there for others to fall over ; buta
wise man removes the object from the path
that others may not suffer. If a brick fell
from a badly constructed house and killed a
man, we shouldn't throw the brick away, but
use it to reconstruct the building properly,
and help to make it firm and safe for the
future. Would not you do the same. Folly?

Folly shook her head.

When I strike my head against a door
I feel as if I should like to — to — to kick it,
like the child ; and if a brick fell and hurt
anyone I loved I would take a hammer and
smash it all up into powder. It should never
be used again.'

Vane saw that the task before him was
hardly to be mastered by reason.

Would that be wise T he asked.

No ; but it would be natural. It is impossible
to be wise when one feels deeply.'

I hope not.'

That is said Folly, flushing as she called
to mind the feeling Vane had shown, ' it is
impossible for a woman.'

I think not.'

Well, it is for me.'

Then you admit you are not wise.'
Folly hung her head in silence.

'And if you are not wise, but only revengeful,
how can you determine what
punishment Smith and Dr. Chambers should
receive V

Folly, feeling the ground slipping from
under her feet, made a struggle to maintain
her position.

You say that the wisest cannot tell how

much punishment should be inflicted upon a
rascal ; then why should not I settle the
point as well as the wisest V

It is not a question whether you or someone
else shall do wrong, Folly. It would
not be difficult to show that you should not.
The question you raised is — have I punished
these men sufficiently V

'You have not punished them at all'
I think I have. Dr. Chambers, I am
sure, regrets the past and will do better in
future. Smith is harder to deal with because
of his ignorance; but I hope to make a better
man of him. I believe that both will feel
regret for what they have done. I appeal to
your reason, Folly — the reason that raises
you above the level of savages and beasts.
It is agreed that men should be punished
according to their deserts ; but as no one but
the offender himself can know how great his
desert is, his punishment must always depend
upon the state of his own conscience. Any
punishment that does not arise from his own
conscience he regards as an expiation of his
sin. When the fine demanded by justice is
paid there is an end of it, the man considers
himself absolved and free to sin ao^ain : but if
the punishment arises from a sense of the

wrong he has done and takes the form of
remorse, the lesson sinks deep into his nature
and is never forgotten. In some cases public
punishment is necessary for public advantage
the one suffering for the many ; but there
are other cases in which the same end may be
equally well served by more merciful means
Folly shook her head.
'You still believe in the efficacy of punishment
r

Foils nodded.

I have been told you are fond of driving ;
did you ever drive a pony that shied V
eyes.'

And how did you serve him V
^ Whipped him.'

Then you are behind a common cabman
in intelligence and humanity.'
Folly looked up indignantly.
'While I was waiting for you at the
church,' continued Vane, ' a cab came along,
and the horse shied at a drain in the road.
The man, instead of thrashing the nervous
animal, got down and led it back over the
drain two or three times, patting its neck
each time ; then he got on to the box-seat,
and when he drove over the hole again the
horse, though still timid, did not shy.'

It is not a question of cab-horses and
cabman,' said FoU}^, with something of impudence
in her tone.

^ I cannot think you would beat a child
even if it did wrong — certainly not before
you had exhausted all gentle means of
inducing: it to do risfht.'

What have I done that you should compare
me first to a vile cabman and then to a
wretch who would beat a child ?' exclaimed
Folly.

Then you would not beat a child V

A dear little innocent child !'

^ It needs but a little consideration to make
you extend your pity and forbearance, if not
your love, towards ignorant men and women,
who are the neglected children of the world.'

Neglected children of the world !' Folly
echoed the words in a tone of sadness, and
sat thoughtful for a while, regardless of
Vane's silence as he watched her expressive
face ; then she looked up at Vane with
trouble in her eyes, and her lips quivered as
if she were about to ask him a question.

What am J ? Am I one of the neglected
children of this world V was the simple
question that sought utterance of her lips ;
but her heart failed her, forbidding her lips

to do their office, as she anticipated his
reply.

Vane's eyes seemed to bid her speak,
encouraging' her to make that confession of
doubt which would be an acknowledgment of
her error. She shook her head as if in reply
to this mute appeal, and in silence turned
her face away.

'Do you know why I have been so
anxious to convince you that it is right to
pardon such an offence as that committed by
the man Smith V Vane asked.

Tell me,' she answered, still keeping her
eyes from his.

That you may repent of the wrong you
yourself have done.'

Folly was not angry now ; she made no
sion. Vane continued :

I want to release your heart from the
thraldom of false ideas. If I am right in
any conjecture it is in this — that you have
done a cruel thing in obedience to a wrong
notion of principle. You have steeled your
heart, and suppressed its gentle impulses.
It was tender compassion wlvch made you
hesitate in entering the church to-day ; was
it not so V

^' And thine eye shall not pity : but life

shall go for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth,
hand for hand, foot for foot," ' said Folly.
Vane groaned.

What else have you learnt from that
book V he asked.

I have learnt that the sins of the fathers
shall be visited upon the children — that is all
I have learnt; it is enough.'

^ Too much. It is that pernicious teaching
which made men bloodthirsty and brutal —
which kept them down to the savage and
revengeful instincts of beasts — which would
have spread its baleful influence still wider
but that one man stood up protesting against
it, and taught the people the doctrine of
humanity and love which we profess to this
day. Alas ! the evils of that barbarous
doctrine cling to us now, tainting our laws
and religion.'

Folly heard with wonder, turning her eyes
to Yane, whose brows were knitted with
anger. ' They told me it was a good book,
and that the best men in the world believed
its teachings,' she said.

It is a beautiful flower, from which maybe
distilled healthful medicines and fatal
poisons — a thing not to be plucked at and
used carelessly by a child. They were Jews

VOL. III. 42

who received that wicked lesson of vengeance,
and he was a Jew who stood up boldly against
them all, learned and great, and said : '' This
teaching is false ; you shall not take an eye
for an eye ; you shall not do unto men who
have harmed you the harm they have done
unto you ; but you shall treat them all as if
they were your brothers, forgiving their faults,
and treating them as you would wish them to
treat you if you had committed a fault."
That man's Bible was his own conscience —
the faculty of knowing right from wrong
which God has planted in everyone's heart
in yours not less than others. Our minds
are ever subject to error — our hearts never.
In them is written the true creed, and that
we must be guided by, not by the belief of
our forefathers. This was what the young
Jew, a simple, unlearned man, taught.'

'Did men believe him V

^ Some, a few ; others persecuted him. But
all who call themselves Christians now profess
to think as he thought.'

^ But they don't. I never knew a man
who thought as you do about punishment.
Is it you who are mistaken ? — did he teach
forgiveness as you do V

'You shall judge for yourself, Folly. One

day, when this young man was sitting among
the poor people teaching them simple lessons
of truth and goodness — he could neither read
nor write, so all that he taught was suited to
their understandings — some of the men who
wished to convict him of a punishable fault
brought a woman before him who had done
wrongs, and said : '' This woman was taken
in the very act of committing sin, and according
to the law of Moses she should be stoned
to death. What shall we do with her V
The young man did not reply, but bent down
as if he had not heard, and drew lines with
his finger in the dust at his feet, perhaps
thinking how he might answer, so that the
woman should be spared without breaking
the laws of his nation. But the men would
not be satisfied without a reply, and pressed
him again and again, until, raising himself,
he said: 'she amongst you who is without
sin, let him cast the first stone ;" and then he
stooped down, tracing figures on the ground,
as before. The accusers were perplexed, for
no one dared cast the first stone ; all knew
they had committed sins themselves at sometime
or other, and so one after the other
they went away, from the eldest to the

42—2

youngest, leaving the woman free whom they
had brought there to kill.'

But the young man who was good — what
did he do V asked Folly, with interest.

When he raised himself up again, and
saw no one there but the woman, he said :
*' Where are the men that brought you here ?

Has none condemned you ?" And she

«/

answered : *' No man, Lord' Then he said :
'neither do I. Go, and sin no more"'

Ah, that was good 1' said Folly, clasping
her hands.

I knew it was in your heart to think so,'
said Vane, gladly. ' Tell me now, Foll}^, is
not forgiveness better than revenge V

Folly, stubborn yet, put up her hands and
covered her face, fearing it would reveal the
remorse and humiliation of her heart.

THE LESSON Continued.

ANE, not wishing to force an acknowledgment
of error from Folly, but
desiring rather that she should take
the higher position of one who
generously shields from self-conviction, did
not pursue the subject further at that time.
He rose from his seat and left the room. In
the next chamber he found the patient still
sleeping, Smith in whispering consultation
with Miss Clip at the door.

If you please, sir,' said she, seeing Yane,
that Doctor Chambers have come back, and
wishes to see you, if 3'ou please, sir ; .he is
waiting downstairs, sir 1' Poor woman, had
Richard Yane been the sternest of recording"
angels, she could not have felt more nervous

or more conscious of her sins in his presence.


Yane ran lightly down the stairs and came
upon the young doctor standing in the hall.
Seeing that he was agitated and wished to
make a communication. Vane opened the
door of the drawing-room and ushered him in.

Mr. Vane said Dr. Chambers, his fingers
trembling visibly as he spoke, 'I have returned,
not to acknowledge my obligations to you —
they are too deep) to be so easily discharged
but to do my duty. I have to confess that
the medicines I prescribed last night are unfit
to be used to-day. The dose of chloral was
purposely made to counteract the effects of
that bed upon my patient, and is too great
for his present requirement. You must allow
me to send other medicines or take the advice
of another doctor.'

Are you confident of your own power to
deal with this case T

Quite. The disease from which he suffers
has been my special study.'

In that case send the jD^oj^er medicines.
I shall call in another physician, and you
may meet him here if you please.'

Dr. Chambers murmured a few unintelligible
words — gratitude overcoming him — and

moved towards the door with uncertain, trembling
steps.

^ T shall be glad to see you at seven o'clock
this evening said Richard Yane, as he
opened the door.

Dr. Chambers had no necessity to enter
that engagement in this note-book.

Half an hour later the new medicines
came, with full and explicit directions as to
the treatment of the patient. John Morrison
still slept.

As Vane was unwrapping the bottles
Folly came from her boudoir, pale, but composed.
She did not look at him, but went
straight to where her father lay.

Whatever impression the good vicar's
teaching had made upon her mind, it was
not apparent in any gentler feeling towards
the offender Smith.

Go farther away,' she said, taking his
place beside the bed.

ThehumiUated attendant withdrew meekly,
and Folly seated herself to watch with catlike
passivity.

^ Can I help you at all, sir?' asked Smith,
humbly.

You may set the chairs straight and sweep
up the hearth,' said Yane.

I can do that,' whispered Folly, springing
up and coming forward in jealous haste.
Give nie that brush. What do sou know
about sweeping up a hearth V Then she
added, addressing Vane, ^ Make him sit down
till he's wanted

I want him to go to Spitalfields for me at
some time, and perhaps none would be better
than this,' replied Yane, smiling.

'Yes, yes; send him to Spitalfields.' Folly
did not know where the place was, but hoped
it might be very remote. ' Let him go to
Spitalfields at once ; but — ' suddenly checking
herself, ' what is it you want? Can't I get
it for you V

No ; I've looked in the rooms below fora
readable book, and can't find one ; and I'm
afraid you have not in your wardrobe an old
coat that would fit me.'

An old coat ?'

Yes ; this is my best, and I can never
make myself comfortable in it.'

Aren't you going to leave us V she asked,
with eager hope in her face.

Not while I'm wanted.'

Folly's lips closed, and a yearning came
upon her to throw her arms about this
Christian man and kiss him.

This will be the first to administer,' said
Vane, reading the direction upon the bottle
in his hand, and not noticing the rapt
regard the young girl fixed upon him. Folly
turned away with a sigh. 'If he were only
a woman !' she thought.

Do you know Spitalfields, Smith V asked
Vane, setting the bottle beside the others on
a little table, withdrawn so as to be unseen
by the patient when he awoke.

Yes, sir, well.'

Go to Church Street, 53 — write down
the number — and inquire for Miss Vane.'

'Miss Vane — 53 ; yes, sir.'

Ask for " The Newcomess," and my grey
jacket, and my long pipe.'

" Nesvcomes," grey jacket, and long pipe;
yes, sir.'

Be careful you don't lose any of them,'
said Folly, brushing the hearth and knocking
the corners viciously.

She watched the departure of Smith for
the desired things with envy. Old pipes and
jackets she couldn't supply, but those other
things she might be able to procure for him.

What are Newcomess V she asked.

" Newcomess ?" that is the title of a book.'

I hate books,' said Folly, in disgust.

Well, you see, we poor fellows who can't
do crochet and needlework, and things of
that kind, must find something to amuse ourselves
with.'

Can't I get anything for you '?' she asked
despondingly, looking round the room.

Yes, Folly, dinner. The time is getting
on, and dinner's another thing without which
men are uneasy.'

I will see about it now, directly. What
time do you think he will wake V

^ I hope he will sleep for some time yet. It
will do him more good than medicine, and I
fear we shan't be able to make him eat much.
However, I must eat, and so must you.
What time do you go to the theatre V
' I ought to go at six, but I don't want to.'

You must keep your engagements.'

Folly sighed. For the first time her
vocation was distasteful to her. The excitement
which had supported her through the
past trying days was gone ; her self-esteem
was shaken : she felt that there was something
higher to attain to than a public
recognition of her personal attractions, and
that she was far removed from it.

Notwithstanding her engagements, she
would not have gone to the theatre that

night of her own free will, but Vane had
said she must, and therefore she obeyed.

You don't look at all well,' said Mr. barrington,
meetiuo- her at the store door.

No. I shouldn't wonder if I break down
to-nights was Folly's consolatory reply.

But the music, the light, and the applause
at her first entry upon the scene had its
wonted effect upon the young girl, chasing
away every grave thought of past and
future, and crazing her with delight. She
sent her dresser out of the dressing-room,
and sat alone dien she was not on the stage,
thinking, with her head resting on her hands,
vaguely of her father, and Vane, and Roland
now her husband — and having the dull,
cheerless feeling of one who labours at
starting under the weight of a burden that
must be carried to the journey's end. At
the conclusion of the burlesque she left the
house quickly, refusing to answer the questions
that were put to her by those who noticed
the rinof on her finger and the absence of
Roland Aveling. Le grant w^cis waiting with
the ponies ; Miss Clip sat in the phaeton.

You here. Clip ! What is the news — my
father ?' asked Folly, in astonishment.

He is better, miss — mum — I beg your

pardon answered Miss Clip, correcting herself
' And Mr. Yane, he ordered me to
come, because I think he believed you would
wish to know the news.'

Folly nodded her head, still standing beside
the carriage. She had said to herself she
would never drive the ponies her husband
had given her for a wedding present, but it
was necessary she should do so now, or that
Miss Clip should squeeze herself into le
meant's seat behind to make place for him in
the driver's place. Reluctantly Folly stepped
into the carriage and took the reins from le
(je'ant. The excitement of driving through
the streets was good for her — an effect which
doubtless had entered into Yane's consideration,
for he guided himself and directed
others as he would pieces on a chess-board,
with a regard to all collateral consequences.
Her attention was fully occupied in the
management of her spirited ponies as she
drove through the crowded streets, until the
river was crossed; then speaking for the first
time, she asked :

When did my father wake V

^ Soon alter you left, miss — that is, mum.'

Don't call me mum, I hate the word.
Well V

He was very violent with Mr. Smith
until Mr. Yane came out of the next room,
and then he grew as quiet as a lamb, seeming
to be quite afraid of him, though anyone
more kind and gentle you never see ; and
how he did it is a mystery, but I think it
must be by the here.'

What do you mean *' by the here"? '
'Well, miss — mum, that is miss, I don't
know if it's the same with you, but when
Mr. Yane looks at me it makes me feel as if
I could see what he wishes and felt bound to
obey. I believe if he was to look at me and
say to himself, '' Annie Clip, just you go and
jump out of winder," I should go and do it.
There is such things as mesmerism, which is,
I'm told, a gift of the here, and reaps this
Mr. Yane, been' a clergyman '

Don't talk nonsense 1' said Folly, not,
however, without a feeling of awe such as
the ignorant and superstitious have in thinking
of unexplained power. ' I suppose Mr.
Yane's power depended more on the strength
of his arms and hands than on his eyes

No he didn't, miss — eh — miss, asking
your pardon ; he told Mr. Smith to let go of
the old gentleman, which he was not willing
to do, seeing that your pa was so violent, and

that Mr. Vane stood at the foot of the bed
quite a long way off. However, Mr. Vane
he said : " Take your hands away, Smith" ;
and then when Mr. Smith obeyed, your poor
pa jumped right out of bed, and was running
towards the door, when he ketch ed sisfht of
Mr. Vane, and stopped dead short like as if
he'd run up against a barrier. " Get into
bed," said Mr. Vane, quite quiet like ; and
just as if he'd been a child the old gentleman
turned round and got into bed.'

Folly listened with increasing awe. Her
thoughts where so far away that the ponies
came nearly into collision with a hansom
dashing across the road without her noticing
the fact.

Go on,' said she to her companion.

Your poor pa drew the clothes over his
head. Mr. Vane went to the table and
poured out a dose of medicine in a glass.
'' He'll smash the glass, sir," whispered Mr.
Smith. Mr. Vane took no notice, but, carrying
the glass to the bedside, he says, '' Sit
up, John," — just like that, miss, and as if he
was speaking to some one he'd known a long
while. Well, miss — that is — yes, miss — your
pa takes and sits up, looking at Mr. Vane all
the while as if he couldn't take his eyes off.

*' Now drink that," says Mr. Vane, holdings
out the glass. Your pa took the glass, drank
the medicine, and handed back the glass.
*' There's a fine old fellow," says Mr. Vane,
patting him on the " shoulder, and your papa
seemed quite pleased. " Yes," says he, " I
do what I'm told, don't I '?" he says, smiling.
But, lor', miss, you should have seen that
poor Mr. Smith ; he sat down in a chair
lookin' as pale as the sheet on the bed, and
the respiration coming out in drops upon his
forehead, and says he to me, standing then
near him, " It isn't natural ; it's a miracle,
like what we read of in the Bible," he says.'

Folly herself felt a chill run through her
body as she listened.

^ Yes,' she said in a quick, low voice ; ' and
then '

Then Mr. Vane says, ^^ You can lay down
now, John " ; and down your poor pa lays
himself, keeping his eyes fixed all the time
on the gentleman. Mr. Vane put the glass
away, and then coming back he sits himself
on the edge of the bed, filling his pipe and
talking to him all the while just as if he was
a reasonable old gentleman in his right mind ;
and bless you, miss, your pa never contradicted
him once, but believed every word he

said. He didn't keep thinking it was all lies,
as he do when we talk to him ; which of
course such a gentleman as that did not goto
deceive him as we have been compelled
to do, and your poor pa seemed to see
that;

What did Mr. Vane say V

''' Well, John," says he, 'you've had a
bad illness, my poor fellow, but thank God
you've got through the worst of it, let us
hope." — ''Do you think so, master? do you
think so T asked your poor pa, quite eager
like. Mr. Vane nodded with his pipe in his
mouth, and only said, "If the smoke catches
your throat I'll put my pipe out." Now we
should have said a thousand things to convince
your poor pa that we thought he was
ofettin' better, and that would have made him
suspicious like.'

Never mind about us, we re only fools,'
said Folly ; 'go on about him.'

" I like baccer, master," said your pa,
sniffing the smoke. — " Well, we'll ask the
doctor if you may have half a whifF," says
Mr. Vane. " Have you got a pipe ?" —
"No, master; I broke it," replies your pa,

when " — " Never mind when you broke

it. Look at this pipe' says Mr. Vane — for

I expect he see that your father was thinking
about the time he tried to stab his throat
with the pipe, when he thought the hare was
upon him — '' Look at this pipe," says Mr.
Vane, taking one in a case out of his pocket
and giving it to your poor pa, who, in opening
the case and getting out the pipe, quite
forgot about his own. ^' Oh, what a beauty,
master 1" says the old gentleman, taking it
out and holding it very carefully. " What a
colour ! And look at the amber, and the
silver, and all — I'll be very careful of it,
master. Just let me hold it another minute.
My gracious, what a beauty 1" " Now, look
here, John," says Mr. Vane ; '^ you shall
have that pipe as soon as you get well enough
to smoke it." '' Do you think I shall get
well enough '?" asks your pa, trembling. " I
do, John. You don't think I'd be so mean
as to promise it otherwise, do you 1" — " No,
master, I know you wouldn't. You're a
2:ood man, anv one can see that ; and I'm
getting better already, ain't 1 1" — '' Yes ; you
weill astonish the doctors presently ; and as
for Smith, you'll be able to do without him
very soon," says Mr. Vane. ^' I could do
without him now," answers your pa. '' But
I couldn't," says Mr Vane, laughing. " Per-vol.
III. 43

laps if sou go on just as well as you are now
till tomorrow, we will give him his money
and send him about his business." '' Oh, I'll
be regular good. But you won't leave me,
will you ? 'cause you could defend me if —

if " Then your poor pa broke off, looking

round the room in the old way. Mr. Yane
take hold of his hand, and says, 'john,
look in my face. Now do you think I am
the sort of man who would let any harm
come to a poor old fellow like you "?" And
your father, looking him in the face, answers,
quite calm, '' No, master. Lord love you." '

Lord love him !' echoed Folly, reverently.

It was some time before Miss Clip broke
the silence, and then she narrated how
Richard Vane had told John Morrison
about the bed he had been strapped in, and
by showing him the advantageous alteration
which had been made convinced him that he
must be better.

By this simple plan of telling the truth
Vane had worked his miracle, as others may
beside.

When they arrived at the villa, the door,
in answer to Folly's knock, was opened by
Smith.

Smith was in his shirt-sleeves ; he held a

candle in one hand and a hatchet in the
other; his face was scarlet, and the sweat
stood upon his brow. These appearances
were rather terrifying to the over-wrought
sensitiveness of the two women who looked
upon him.

Great goodness ! what's the matter V
whispered Miss Clip.

The stout young man grinned from ear to
ear, and wiped the perspiration from his
brow.

The gentleman upstairs has give me half
a hour for supper,' said he ; and finding that
this was an insufficient explanation, he
added : ^ Come and see what I've been
doing.'

They followed him down the stairs and
into the scullery, where upon the floor was
a mass of wood, chopped into the size of
ordinary fuel.

^ My bed,' said he, grinning again. ^ My
bed, as costed me fifty shillings. It's a little
surprise for the good gentleman upstairs — a
present for him.'

43—2

'it is well for a parson to wear a avhite
hat

m

heaving Miss Clip With Smith,

who, not content With the demolition
of the wooden frame, now
employed himself in mutilating the
leather of his bed with malicious blows of
his hatchet. Folly went upstairs and stood
by the bedroom door listening.
No sound reached her ear.
She turned the handle quietly and looked
in. Richard Yane sat in an easy-chair by
the fire with his back towards her.

She entered the room, closing the door so
softly behind her that she was not heard,
and advanced into the room with a liofht
step. In the centre she paused and looked

at the bed ; her father lay there quietly
sleeping, his thin deformed hand resting
upon the case containing the admired pipelike
a child with its toy. The room was
scrupulously neat and tidy, and lit by the
flickering light from the cheerful fire ; the
shaded reading-lamp on the table at Vane's
side cast its light upon the book he was
reading. The effect of calm order imparted
to Folly's spirit a sense of tranquillity which
she seldom enjoyed.

She came and stood at the back of Richard
Vane's chair, looking down upon him who
had brought peace to her, her heart swelling
with grateful love. But she dio owed him
so much wanted still more, and she felt the
yearning of an outcast for a parent's love.

It was something to stand there close by
him, to rest her hand upon the back of his
chair so that her finger-tips touched the grey
fabric of the coat he wore.

Unconscious of this silent adoration,
Richard Vane read on.

The fire-light touched his head.

Ah, if I might just kiss him but for one
moment, all unknown !' thought Folly.

The wish increased until the temptation
became irresistible. She bent down, with

infinite tenderness in her soul, until, lighter
than the fall of a moth's winof, her closed
lips met a loose curl ; then without a sound
they parted in a kiss. She raised herself
again; a sigh fluttered from her heart, and
escaped undetected.

He must at that moment have become
conscious of her presence, for he turned his
head and looked up at her. No blush rose
to her cheek ; her face was quite pale — her
beautiful eyes wide open, like the innocent
eyes of a seraph contemplating her God.

'Ah, Folly !' he exclaimed in a low voice,
with a glance at the sleeper ; ' I did not hear
you come in.'

He closed the book and held up his hand ;
she pulled her glove off quickly and laid her
hand in his, hoping he would hold it a long,
long while. It seemed to her that he did
not shake hands like ordinary people ; there
was meaning in the grasp — assurance of
generous help and fellowship.

He waited for her to speak, looking in her
face, and thinking how beautiful it was—
how piteous the expression of the lovely
features.

I have heard all,' she said, folding the
hand he had held gently with the other.

She Yfent to the bedside and looked at her
father.

^ It is a great change, and a happy one
said Yane.

She nodded, still looking affectionately
upon the wrinkled old face.

He looks happy still — happier than I
have ever seen him she said. ' It seemed
wonderful when I first heard of it.' Then
she turned, and, looking in Yane's face,
added : ^ It does not now.'

Miss Clip opened the door and announced
that supper vv'as waiting.

I don't want to eat answered Folly.

Must I have supper alone V asked Yane.

^ Have you waited for me V

I should be very stupid or very hungry
to forestall such a pleasure.'

Folly's face grew bright with a smile. A
compliment to a girl is never out of time.

Yane o;ave directions to Smith, who had
followed Miss Clip into the room, and then,
with the natural gallantry of a well-bred
gentleman, offered his arm to Folly and took
her downstairs.

I think, as the supper is cold, we might
have a bottle of wine ; what do you say V he
asked.

Folly nodded gaily, but checking herself
suddenly, said with gravity :

If it is quite good to drink wine.'
Yane laughed.

You little goose said he, Mt is quite
good and right to enjoy every pleasure that
does not hurt ourselves or others.'

He went to the cellar and returned with a
couple of bottles, one of sparkling wine and
the other of whisky.

I have provided for further indulgence ; I
like whisky with my pipe after supper,' said
he.

Folly rubbed her hands gleefully. He
would let her sit with him while he smoked.
You smoke a great deal,' she said.

Yes— too much, I'm afraid.'

No, no,' she answered, with emphasis ; ' I
don't think so. I should be sorry if you
didn't.'

Why V

It is right for good men to drink whisky
and smoke and sit on kitchen tables.' Vane
laughed. ' I am speaking quite seriously,'
Folly continued. * I say it is right for goodmen
to be like us in little things ; it brings
them nearer to us, and makes us feel that it
is not impossible to be like them in greater

things. If you never laughed, were never
angry, never set great sorrows aside for a
while to think of little pleasures, I should say,
*' Mr. Vane is not human like me, so how
can I, who am human, be like him ?" '

You are right, Folly ; but I object to
personal illustrations and comparisons. Will
you cut me a little bread V He pulled out
an old envelope from his pocket and wrote a
Hue upon it. ' That observation of yours is
worth remembering said he.

What have you written there V asked
Folly.

'^ It hould he loll for a parson to lear a
ivhite hat sometimes'' ' he read.

Folly, laughing, said, ' Fancy a parson in a
white hat !' Then she became thoughtful,
seeing the allusion of Vane's quaint memorandum.


After supper Vane left the room to speak
with Miss Clip about arranging a bed for
himself in the room with John Morrison.
Returning to the dining-room, he said :

Are you sleepy, Folly V

Not at all,' she answered. * May I stay
and light your pipe V

He placed a chair for her near the fire, and
took one opposite. Then he filled his pipe.

What a large bowl ! what a quantity of
tobacco it holds !' said Folly, watching the
process with interest. ^ Do you think you'll
have enough to fill it V This question she
asked with anxiety.

Yes, and enough for a cigarette besides.
Do you smoke V

Folly shook her head, doubting whether
he would like her quite as well for not having
a taste like his.

That's a good girl ; I was holding for that
answer. Now for the light.'

Folly's mind was relieved, her eyes twinkled
with satisfaction, and she hastened to wait
upon him with childish eagerness.

During the evening the physician had
called and consulted with Dr. Chambers on
John Morrison's case. Vane had intended
to tell Folly all they had said to him upon the
subject, but seeing the happiness in her face
he changed his mind.

Poor child !' said he to himself, ' her
gleams of sunshine are not too frequent.
The shadow shall not fall upon her to-night.'

So they sat opposite each other, he talking
little, she less ; but well content both — he with
his pipe and sweet reflections, she with the
mere consciousness of sittings there near him.

QUESTION AND ANSWER.

Miss CLIP was in trouble : ten had
struck, and Mr. Vane still obstinately
refused to eat and drink,
waiting to breakfast with Folly ,^
and forbidding the anxious woman to awake
her mistress. It was nothing to Miss Clip
that she herself still fasted ; she was not a
man — a distinction which will be appreciated
by those who have remarked how a mother
neglects her daughters to wait upon her sons ;
how a wife cuts herself down to the bare
necessities of life that her husband may
enjoy its luxuries ; how, in short, the practice
of all women contravenes the theory that
their sex is the frailer and more delicate.
Several times Miss Clip had been into

Folly's bedroom to see if she Averse yet
awake, and each time found her aggravating
sound asleep. The good woman
Avould not for the world have broken Mr.
Yane's instructions in a direct manner, but
to produce the same effect indirectly was
justifiable enough to her Jesuitical mind.
So on one occasion she found it necessary to
set the room in order, on another to open and
close a wardrobe with a particularly noisy
lock, and on a third to hum a tune. But
Folly slept through it all— poor child ! she
had kept her vigils for many weary nights
before laying her cheek, in drowsy happiness,
upon this pillow— and showed no sign of
waking. At length, when Miss Clip came
into the room for the fourth time, she was
like to lose all patience. Folly was actually
snoring. It is improper, perhaps, for heroines
to snore — it is certainly considered unladylike
; but Folly's head had slipped off the
pillow, and she could not help it. There she
lay, with her pretty white throat rounded,
her head thrown back, her mouth wide open,
displaying her white teeth and little red
tongue, the indented tip of her white nose
tilted ill the air, and making the most unmusical
sounds a girl can make.

It was but an act of inercy on Miss Clip's
part to raise Folly's head upon the pillow
and draw the tumbled hair back from her rosy
cheek, but it effectually broke her shiver.

How's father V she asked, opening her
great eyes.

Better, miss. He's awake, and have been
some time.'

What's o'clock V

'Nearly five-and-twenty minutes past ten,
miss.'

Oh, you stupid thing, you !' cried Foll}^,
knitting her brows, and raising herself quickly
on her elbow. ' It's a shame, it is ; and it's
all your fault. Why didn't you call me
before V

Mr. Vane distinctly said I was not to,
miss.'

Folly's brows relaxed.

But you might have woke me all the
same, Clip,' she said gently. ' He didn't
tell you not to slam the door. Give me my
stockings.'

'Lord, miss, you wouldn't a' woke for
another hour if I hadn't lifted your head up
sharp.'

You oughtn't to have woke me if he told
you not to. Pour out some water.'

Miss Clip obeyed in silence ; there was no
arguing with her inconsistent lady.

Did you get something nice for his breakfast
V Folly asked.

Yes, miss ; but he wouldn't eat it.'

Why ?' asked Folly, sharply, turning, with
her stockings half on.

He won't begin till you go down — it ain't
likely — him /'

With a little cry of delight, and her face
beaming with smiles, Folly completed drawing
on her stocking in desperate haste. Had she
been making a rapid change at the theatre
she could not have dressed quicker.

Not that dress, Clip she said, as her
dresser laid out the black dress she had been
married in ; ' I'll never wear that again.
You may have it. Give me anything — it
doesn't matter which — only do be quick.
Where is he. Clip V she asked, slipping on
the dress brought to her.

In the front room, miss.'

Folly drew her rich tresses back tight
from her brows, screwed them up in a great
knot, thrust a couple of hair-pins through,
bending them to make them hold, then left
the bedroom without even looking in the
glass.

Vane came to the door in response to her
light tap.

Your father is dozing now. It would be
well not to disturb him whispered Vane.

She crept into the room, and glanced at
the bed, where her father lay almost as she
had seen him the previous night, and then
joined Vane, who waited by the door. They
went downstairs.

He has had a long and good night's rest.
Vane said.

I am glad of that she answered, thinking
of Vane as well as her father.

And you also have slept well, I hope.
You look much better.'

^ I am a lazy girl, and ashamed of myself
for sleeping while you watched. And I'm
ashamed to have kept you waiting for breakfast
— and I wish you had not waited for me

that is ' she checked herself, looking

up at him — ^ that is, I am very much obliged
to you for waiting, but it's too kind of you —
indeed it is 1'

As they were finishing breakfast, le meant
came into the. room, bringing a couple of
letters.

^ Will sou allow me to send for a newspaper
V Vane asked

In crivinof consent, Folly suddenly hesitated,
remembering the advertisements sbe
bad caused to be inserted. She coloured
and dropped her eyes. Vane saw these
signs of confusion, and, without comprehending
why, perceived that there must be
something in the newspaper she did not wish
him to see.

• It is not necessary said he, taking the
letters.

Le meant was leaving the room, when
Folly, starting from her seat, called him
back.

Fetch me all the morning papers,' she
said, giving the boy a sovereign from her
purse.

Vane was reading the superscriptions on
the letters, when she turned from the door
and looked at him.

One letter is for me, the other is for Mrs.
Holand Aveling,' he said.

She took her letter and looked at the
writing curiously.

I can't read it. Who is it from V she
asked.

I think, by the handwriting, it is from
your husband.'

The title, which is usually so grateful to a

youDo- wife's ear, was hateful to Folly. She
held the letter idly in her hand, while many
thouQ^his crowded into her mind. She was
brought back from a paradise of forgetfulness
to a purgatory of remembrance. Her fault
was before ht-r represented in that letter.
From his kindness towards her it seemed as
if Yane had also forgotten and forgiven her
fault; and now it must be brought back to
his memory and make him regret his
lenience. The idea of slipping the letter
away, to read in private, and so to evade immediate
punishment, did not occur to her,
and would probably have been rejected had
it occurred.

She was naturally courageous.

'Read it to me,' she said, handing the
letter to Vane.

Take opened the letter.

This was written at Aveling Hall last
night,' he said ; and then read :

'' My pear Wife,

''I consider that the mutual obligations
to which we pledged ourselves this
morning are unaltered by the revelation you
have since made. From my heart I assure
you that mv love for you is also unaltered,

VOL. III. 44

and I beg you to let me take my place as
your husband, in the hope that my constant
love may raise a reciprocal feeling in your
bosom. I earnestly desire to atone as much
as it is in my power for the error of my
father. I abandon every consideration but
that of your welfare and happiness. Once
more I ask you to let me be in reality, as I
am in name, your faithful husband,

'roland AVELING."'

Richard Yane folded the letter and handed
it to Folly without comment.

Thank you for reading it to me she said,
quietly.

He opened the second letter, which was
from his sister, and read it while Folly gave
herself up to silent thought.

It is odd,' thought Yane, * these two
letters coins together — one from Roland,
the other from Madge, both mated and unmated.
It is Roleyy's turn to suffer now.
Thank God the boy is not dead to feeling I
That letter of his tells its story — a letter not
without its faults, but a good letter for all
that. He has awoke from that contemptible
lethargy, happily ; and if he does not seethe
right road clearly, he evidently does not

wish to take the wrong one. Pity it did not
occur to him to say yesterday morning all
that he wrote in the evening. Well, well,
better late than never.' Looking up from
Madge's letter, he saw that Folly was still in
thought. Continuing his reflections, he said
to himself, ' I wonder what is passing through
her mind. Clearly she has given up that
savage notion of revenge, or she would not
hesitate to accept a proposal which would
separate father and son, and deal a more cruel
blow to that stupid old gentleman than any
she has yet aimed at him. What a beautiful
soul this girl has — worthy of the beautiful
body it dwells in.'

I want to know what is right,' Folly said,
abruptly, clasping her hands tightly. ' I
want to know if — if my husband's letter is
right.' She forced herself to speak of Roland
as her husband.

I don't quite understand you. Folly.
Shall I read the letter again V

No, I know every word of it thoroughly :
he says the mutual obligations to which we
pledged ourselves yesterday morning are unaltered
by what followed ; that is to say, it
doesn't make any difference whether I love
him or not ; he says as much in the words

44—2

that follow. Then he begs me to agree to
his returning here, in the hope that I may
get to love him in time. Is that good V

Yes, Folly, it is good. You cannot be
unmarried, and ifc is not well for married men
and women to live apart. Many people
begin their married life with unhappiness,
but by practising mutual balance and forbearance
they come at length to be content,
and then happy. And so, if you can overcome
your repugnance to this man — whose
greatest fault, after all, seems to be that he
is the son of a man whom you dislike still
more — you should consent to his entreaty.
Remember, you have wronged Roland, and
owe him atonement.' Noting the expression
of perplexity upon Folly's face, he added,
^ Do you understand me V

Quite well,' she replied, her countenance
still fixed in earnest thought. Some moments
elapsed before she spoke again, then she said,
'But if 1 am certain— as certain as I am that
my heart beats — that I can never love Roland
could never feel his lips ujDon my cheek
without shame, without wishing that one of
us were dead — would it be good to listen to
his entreaty '? And if I know that I could
never satisfy the hope which leads him to

make this proposal, would it be an atonement
to accept it V

Certainly not said Vane ; ' but you exaggerate
your fears, and look at the future as
if your prejudice must never diminish

I am looking at what must come, not at
what may happen. Look at the men who
sit in the stalls of the theatre and look at the
life of their wives. Is that the state of content
you would have us hope to reach ? That
might be possible to some ; it is not possible
to me.'

Thank God !' Yane murmured, fervently.

I should become a devil, or — or kill myself,
if I were compelled to live with a man
who made me a thing to deceive — a thing for
him to jest about with his companions— a
troublesome, useless, valueless thing, and
nothing more.'

Heaven forbid that you should be united
to such a man !'

And would Roland Aveling be better than
other men with a wife who did not love him
at home and temptations abroad ? Oh no !'

I see no reason why his wife, when she
outlives her present prejudice, should not
love him. He is handsome, and young, and
good natured, and !'

Stop ! Is it for such reasons I love my
father ? For once you are unjust. It is
cruel to class me with silly fools who love
like that. That is not love at all — it is something
vile that takes a holy name. Whatever
my faults are, I have clone nothing to justify
you in thinking me so bad as that.'

The exaggerated view of the future taken
by Folly had seemed to Vane the natural
outgrowth of strong prejudice, but he was
completely at a loss to understand the extravagant
import she found in his simple
suggestion.

My dear Folly,' he said, ' you attach a
serious meaning to my words which I did
not intend them to convey. Life itself is
serious and grave, but it has its light and
pleasant sides. The love of young people
comes at first sight, and is not unworthy because
the senses are delighted. A man is
not less lovable because he is young and
good looking and agreeable.'

^ I have seen enough of such men Folly
said, impatiently, with a frown for the flattering
young gentlemen of the coulisses. •

The very best of men and women are
attracted by personal beauty, which is the
symbol of perfection, and frequently accompanies

the more lasting loveliness of a sweet
and truthful soul.'

Folly looked at Yane's face, as if she were
comparing it with his statement ; then she
shook her head gravely and dropped her eyes.

Vane laughed to himself at the unintended
satire of this commentary. Once, at college,
when he had advanced his theory of the
union of physical with moral beauty, Koland
had turned upon him, with the curtness of a
privileged friend, saying, * Then you must bea
precious bad lot, Yane.'

'You have feelings and senses in common
with other women,' Yane went on to say,
^ and when the present agitation of your
mind is abated, you will share their sentiments.'


Again Folly shook her head, saying, in a
low voice :

You don't understand. How can you ? —
you have never loved.'

The words and the tone in which they
were spoken carried a revelation to Yane.

^ And you, Folly V he asked, earnestly.

Folly buried her burning face in her
hands.

Is it,' continued Yane, gently, * that you
too have loved and lost, and so feel that you

can never love Roland as you have loved
another, and as you should love him ? Can
you tell me ?'

'No, no she replied; *I cannot tell you.
You do not understand it all.'

Yane did not probe into the secret of that
aching heart; he only wondered what kind
of a man it was that had earned the reward
of her love, and what he had done to deserve
so much. Was he dead? Clearly he had
not been a handsome or young lover — possibly
such another unshapely fellow as himself, only
with some prevailing gift that made him
adorable to the beautiful young girl. He
might have been a musician, who had stirred
the fibres of her soul with sound. One thing
was indubitable, the unknown lover had
deserved the love bestowed.

And if I never could love Roland,' Folly
said, speaking slowly and with agitation, ^ for
the reason you mentioned — because T have
given my whole heart to one, and have no
love to give to him — then what answer should
I send to his letter V

Yane pulled his straggling beard thoughtfully.


Folly, looking at him, said to herself:
'Whatever he does is good and for the best.'

She rose from her seat, leaving her question
unanswered, and, going to the side table on
which lay the writing materials used by Yane
the night before, she picked up a sheet of
paper and a pen. Laying them before Yane,
she said :

Write the answer you would have me
make on that paper, and send it to my
husband.'

No, Folly,' he said, jSrmly. ' This is a
question on which I find I cannot even offer
you my advice. The answer must come from
you. Take time to consider, and let your
conscience guide you.'

I have considered, and my conscience
speaks. I cannot write. Take the pen and
put down these words : '' Folly is sorry, and
if she could, would undo what she has done.
She never loved you, and it is not possible
that she should ; and so she prays Heaven
she may never see you again." '

She waited until Yane had written the
words, then she said :

Must I sign it V

No, that is not necessary,' Yane answered,
looking at the brief note doubtfully.

Then you will put it in an envelope and
send if?'

^ I will put it in an envelope, but I don't
think we will send it for a day or two.'

^ I shall not alter. But you can delay
sending the answer until you are certain.'

Yane put the letter in his pocket, hoping
that she would alter. He could not help
thinking that she had decided under the
influences of emotions raised by a painful
memory of some one she had loved. If he
were dead, then possibly her remembrance
would in time die also, he around.

FOLLY S DISGRACE.

jND now for the other thing !' said
Folly, alluding to a second difficulty
which must be faced.

During the conversation outlined
in the foregoing chapter, le meant had brought
the papers, and, by Folly's instructions, laid
them, with the change of her sovereign, on a
chair by the door. She now fetched them.

You don't expect me to read all these
papers, Folly T said Vane, looking at the pile
she laid on the table before him.

No ; but I want you to see just what a
bad girl I am,' she replied, opening a paper.
She found the column in which her name was
repeated from top to bottom.

Tison.

What does that say V she asked, putting
the paper in Vane's hand.

'' Folly (Mrs. Roland Aveling) the queen
of burlesque, will sing her new song "chief '
Vane said, reading the first advertisement in
the column that met his eye.

There's another,' said Folly, thrusting a
second paper into his hand, in which the same
hist was displayed. ' It's in all of them.'
She turned the papers over quickly, exposing
the proofs of her vengeful spirit one after the
other, with stern resolution to spare nothing.

Despite the ludicrous side to this picture,
Richard Vane looked at them with becoming
gravity.

Xo one is responsible but me,' Folly said,
still opening the papers. ' I told Clip what
to write, and paid the prompter, who is a
copyist and writes out all the parts, to set
them out right and get them in.'

Vane made no remark, but continued to
view the columns as they came.

But that's not all. Where are the
marriages in a paper V

Vane found the announcements.
Do you see my name there V Folly asked.
Yes, here it is ;' and Vane read the
advertisement as it appeared in the Times.

Ah, I'm glad it's no worse !' remarked
Folly, with a sigh of relief. * I told Clip to
write after '' Folly," ^' born in Chertsey workhouse,
and daughter of John Morrison, of
Sandy Lane, sent to prison by Sir Andrew
Aveling," — but I suppose the papers wouldn't
put that in.'

I should think not,' replied Yane, drily.

Folly seated herself, and Awaited for her
scolding.

How many times are these announcements
to appear V Vane asked, turning the
paper to get at the foreign intelligence.

Thirty. They cost an awful lot, and they
were paid for out of Sir Andrew's money.'

Vane tried to fix his attention very firmly
upon the paper.

I told Koland I wanted the money for a
souvenir de mariage, and he gave me the
cheque !'

Folly was determined to mitigate her fault
in no particular.

Ah ! Well, now. Folly, I should like to
read my paper quietly for half an hour,' said
Vane, as if he had been listening to the most
perfectly immaterial matter.

This act of Folly's called for rebuke, but it
appeared to Vane so childish in comparison

with the greater events of her life, that he
could think of no other punishment than such
as might be administered to a child for
spitefulness.

Folly understood that she was dismissed
from the room, and she rose to go as Vane,
moving to the chair by the fire, pulled out
his pipe aud tobacco-pouch. She stood still,
looking at him for a moment, hoping he would
turn his face to her and nod ; but he did not
take any notice of her ; he filled his pipe with
solemn gravity.

Oh, if he would only ask me for a spill
thought Folly. When the pipe was filled, he
took a vesta from his pocket, lit his pipe, and
sank back to read the paper. He never
looked at her, except when her back was
turned, and she was walking towards the
door slowly, with her head bent in desolation
and grief. She closed the door gently behind
her.

Slight as the incident was, it touched
Vane's heart, impressing him with the youthfulness
of the little sufferer. It was so like
a poor child sinning and sorrowing. It was
with difficulty he overcame the temptation to
call her back and lighten the heart that had
so much to bear.

No, no ; the lesson must be taught. It
is good for her,' he said to himself.

So Folly, waiting outside the door for the
voice that should recall her, heard none.

He despises me for my mean vengeance ;
I am too contemptible to be scolded. He,
too, can be merciless and hard-hearted !' she
said. But she did not believe what she said
to herself; in her heart he was faultless still:
it was only she who did wicked and unkind
things. Folly very rarely cried ; but she
felt now as if she would like to cry, and cry
till he came to comfort her. Repressing this
inclination, she went to her father's room.
He was still dozing, and only that horrid
Smith was in the room.

The stout young man came to her smiling,
and whispered :

I've showed him the present — my bedstead,
you know, that I chopped up.'

Folly heard this with stony indifference in
her face.

^ And he says, ^' That's the style, Smith,"
he says. '' You've done the best half-hour's
work you ever did in your life' says he.'

I suppose I ought to like this Smith, ashe
does, but I can't,' thought Folly ; and so,
without any false pretences, she left him.

'What have I done for him?' she asked
herself, despondingly. ' What can I do ingratitude
? — nothing. I can't chop up any-things
She wandered into the kitchen,
where she found Miss Chp peeling potatoes.
I want you to go out, Clip,' said she.

Fur, miss T

You must go and find Biggie.'

The prompter, miss ? Why, he live in
Door Lane.'

No matter. You must go and tell him to
take all those advertisements out of the
papers. They are never to come out anymore.'


Wouldn't this afternoon do, miss V suggested
Clip, in her blandest, most persuasive
tone. ' This afternoon, directly after lunch,
miss ; because I'm going to prepare some
fried pork sausages and mashed potatoes for
him at lunch, miss ?'

I'll peel the potatoes for him ' — every one
referred by this indefinite pronoun to Richard
Vane — ' and you go at once, and there's a
sovereign,' cried Folly, putting down the
money and taking the knife out of Miss
Clip's hand. At the sight of the gold Miss
Clip yielded, and Folly, repeating her instructions,
closed the door behind her.

Then with alacrity she turned to the task
of peeHng potatoes for ' him.' The first
thing was to take all that Miss Clip had
peeled and throw them behind the fire ; then,
carrying the basket of tubers to the light, she
carefully selected the finest she could find ;
after that she fetched a basin of clean water,
set it on the table, and, having arranged
everything to hand, seated herself on the
table beside the basin, and went to work.
How carefully she gouged out the eyes of
those potatoes, and removed each tiny speck
from their surface, is needless to tell.

It afforded her relief from the depressing
feeling of uselessness, this occupation ; and
the thoughts that passed through her mind,
though sad, were less unhappy. But she
could not forget her disgrace, and once or twice
a sigh fluttered up from her heart. Thinking
what a troublesome little person she was,
she looked with sad and wistful widely-opened
eyes at the potato under her hand,
her lips moving as if she were addressing it
upon the subject of her distress.

Sitting there, with her pretty feet crossed,
bending gracefully to the simple occupation,
she looked like the quaint fancy of an
artist.

VOL. III. 45

When the ^'ork was done, and the potatoes
lay soulless in the water, she wiped her hands
hurriedly and ran up to the room where she
had left Yane. She tapped at the door, her
heart beating quickly.

Come in cried Yane.

She crossed the room with a quick step,
and eyes that looked in anxious hope at
Yane. She saw kindness gleaming in his
face, but would not take advantage of it to
mitigate her own penitence. Coming to the
side of his chair, she sank down beside it,
resting her hands on the arm, and looking up
piteously into his face.

I am very sorry,' she said. * I have been
a neglected child ; but I want to be ever
so good, and I will if I can.'

He put his hand upon her head, as a
father mio-ht, looking: into her face through
the tears that sprang into his eyes.

It is not for me to accuse or to pardon,'
he said, tenderly ; ^ but be assured, my child,
that your sins are forgiven you.'

It seemed as if he spoke indeed with
divine authority, and Folly bowed her head
in the presence of the spirit of mercy which
we call God.

And now, Folly, I can smoke happily.
Bring me a light.'

He took the pipe from the chimney-piece,
where he had laid it unmoved. Folly looked
at it for a moment in silence, then :

Why did it go out V she asked, softly.

because you did not light it, I suspect.'

With the bird-like cry of joy that escaped
her in her moments of happiness, she tore
a slip from an offending newspaper, and
brought it alio-ht to Vane.

She was a negligent, careless girl, and had
never thought of protecting herself from the
soiling effects of potato peeling, consequently
her dress, an elaborate affair of jDlum-coloured
satin and velvet, was all dabbled with water.

As she stood before Take this state of
things was visible to him.

Why, Folly,' he exclaimed, ' you're all
wet 1 What on earth have you been doing V

Peeling potatoes,' she answered.

45-

CHA.PTEII IX.

JOHN MORRISON FALLS ASLEEP.

HE physician had said to Richard
Vane, ^ John Morrison is past my
help. I cannot improve upon the
prescription of Chambers, who
seems a particularly clever and earnest young
man, and whom I shall do my best to advance
in the profession. As I have said, the
patient's recovery is impossible ; a few days
must terminate his existence. But for a
marvellously strong constitution he must
have died in the paroxysms which. Dr.
Chambers informs me, he has gone through.
It is, indeed, quite phenomenal that he should
recover from the form of dementia which is
usually the final and fatal development of
this disease. I can only attribute it to the

wonderful power I perceive you exercise over
his mind ;' and in reply to Vane's question
had added, ' It is possible the delirium may
return if your influence is withdrawn ; under
it he will probably pass away quite happily

The main fact of this statement Vane
broke to Folly, taking advantage of a moment
when she seemed best able to bear it.

'Thank Heaven he has lived long enough
to die in peace, poor dear 1' said Folly, calmly.

That he should die in peace was a desire
that Vane did his utmost to realise, and to
this end exerted himself to disabuse John
Morrison's mind of error. Absolute peace
was impossible, he considered, while doubt
lingered in the mind — confidence and peace
being inseparable. If the old man awoke in
Vane's absence he showed anxiety, and hailed
his coming with evident relief Vane, seeing
this, one morning seated himself on the bed,
still holding the withered hand Morrison had
eagerly extended, and said :

'John, I have told you that you are
no longer pursued ; do not you believe me V

Yes, master, yes. I believe it, for you

have said it, but ' the old man paused,

fumbling at his chin with trembling fingers.

'Weir

I want to ask a question, but I don't dare
to, for fear of your answer ; for if it is you'll
say it is, no matter what comes of it.'

'Nothing ill can come from the truth,
John. It is better to know that the worst
has happened than to fear that it may come.'

So it is. I know that well enough.'

Then come, out with your question ; and,
be the answer bad or good, you shall know it.'

The old man tried to speak, lost courage,
and shook his head. Vane held his hand
and waited patiently. After a while John
Morrison got out the words in a whisper :

I want to know whether I'm likely, dien
I get well enough to go about again, to — to
stumble against the ' He stopped, clapping
his disengaged hand over his mouth and
shaking his head.

You want to know whether sou should
meet the dead hare V Vane said.

The old man nodded his head, and then
looked in terror round the room, to see if the
words had raised the dreaded image of his
diseased imagination.

Look at me,' said Vane, firmly.

Yes, master, yes,' murmured John Morrison,
his eyes yielding to the powerful will of
Richard Vane.

This that I tell you is the truth : the
dead hare that brought misfortunes to
you is no more. Long since it returned
to soil, and has given life, perhaps, to a
thousand beautiful flowers.'

'Master, master!' cried the old man,
clasping Vane's hand and caressing it. ' Tell
me more truth — tell me more !'

I want you to know the truth, because it
is from a little error that your great troubles
have arisen. You believe that you were
punished for taking that dead hare in wilful
cruelty. That was a mistake, John.'

A mistake, master ! — how ? Did I steal
the hare V

No.'

Did not I go to prison X
Yes.'

Did not my wife die in cruel solitude, and
my children get scattered and lost ?'

Too true''

Then, was not this through the cruelty of
Sir Andrew in sending me to prison when I
did not deserve it V

No.' Vane waited a minute, while the
word sank into the old man's intelligence,
then continued : ' I say Sir Andrew was
guiltless of such wilful cruelty. He thought

you were guilty, and had he foreseen all the
terrible consequences of your imprisonment,
he would still have been bound to send you
away, believing you guilty. Sir Andrew
is not a perfect man ; he is liable to be
deceived ; he has not the wisdom to detect
false from true evidence ; he is not fit to be a
judge ; but he is innocent of malicious
cruelty. He may have been mistaken in
what he considered it was his duty to do, but
the wrong lies with the men who put sower
into the hands of him who could not use it
wisely. He is innocent : the people who
made him their instrument are criminal.'

John Morrison listened in mute bewilderment.


Folly, sitting by the opposite side of the
bed, heard and learnt. The reasoning, which
perplexed the weak understanding of her
father, was clear to her.

This is too much for you to comprehend.
You must trust to my knowledge of right
and wrong to discern the truth, and believe
in the simple fact that I tell you,' Yane said.

Tell me what I shall believe.'

^ That Sir Andrew Aveling is guiltless of
the misfortunes which have fallen so heavily
upon you — believe that.'

With the irapHcit faith which the simple
at all times have placed in the word of the
highest — of the one whom they recognise as
worthy and to be trusted — an Odin, a Christ,
a Mohammed — John Morrison accepted the
statement of Richard Yane.

He lay down upon his pillow, repeating
the words he had heard, telling the facts
over and over again in numerical succession
upon his fingers — the persecution ended — •
the hare no more — Andrew Aveling innocent.


Some time after this he said to Vane :

'Master, I have cursed Sir Andrew Aveling
over and over again. On my knees calling
God to blast him and his : if he was innocent,
I am guilty.'

God punishes as He thinks fit — not as a
man in his ignorance directs. You are innocent,
John.'

The old man gave a sigh of relief Presently
he said :

Where's Folly V

Here, father,' answered the girl, coming
to his side.

Folly dear, you must have heard a many
things fall from my lips, when I knew no
better, as wasn't fit for you to hear — a many

things as might mislead you. I wish 'em
unsaid, dear ; I wish 'em unsaid.'

^ You can unsay 'em now, daddy dear.'

I'm only fit to be guided myself. Ask
him to tell you what is good to do, dear, and
go you and do it. Trust him.'

She pressed his hand and nodded.

'A sweet j^i'^itty dear you are, Folly;
lighter and more fairylike 'an your mother
ever were, but with her good face on you,
and the little mole by your eye, too. Lord !
I call to mind how she looked a-nursin' her
first little 'ne, poor soul !' He fell into a
reverie, shutting his eyes — to look back into
the past and onwards to the future, perhaps.
Ashen he opened his ej^es again, he said :
'Master, I've been a bad lot. I don't know
nothing about Noah, and Adam and Eve,
and Holy Ghosts and things. Do that
make any difference respecting' the future V

*None, I believe, John.'

I didn't ought to be baptized, nor nothing,
in case I don't get better V

Not unless you feel it would be right.'

'No, master; I don't seem to want it myself,
not knowing what it all means, and if
you say it ain't necessary, wdiy, I'd as lieve
go wi'out it.'

He went to sleep soon after.

This was on Sunday night, about ten
o'clock. The old man had slept much lately
and shown perfect composure. Vane foresaw
that the end was not far distant.

Folly was silent and thoughtful. She
followed Vane and kept by his side wherever
he went ; the slightest action, the most
trifling word of his she seemed to grasps at
with the eagerness of an exile in catching
the last sounds and glimpses of fatherland.

At half-past ten she offered to leave him,
but he bade her stay, and noticed the joyful
eagerness with which she accepted. He told
her the story of Shakespeare's ' Winter's
Tale.' About eleven the bed - clothes
moved.

Master,' said the thin voice of the old
man, * are you awake T

Vane took Folly to the bedside.

I've had the com fera blest sleep ; an' I
thought I shouldn't wake ao^ain : but somehow
I seemed to know as I hadn't said
'' Good-night," so I worked up.'

Have you been dreaming, John V asked
Vane.

No, master ; no dreams, only a comfortable
kind of forget tin' like.'

He crossed his hands placidly as he spoke,
calling to Vane's mind a beautiful passage in
the Psalms.

^ Folly dear, you look wondrous grave,
considering' how right and nice everything is
come at last.'

She smiled, drawing nearer to him, and he
smoothed her soft hair with his crinkled
hand. Suddenly he put his hand under the
pillow and brought out the pipe which Vane
had given him.

^ I feel so easy and nice he said, in his
piping tone ; ^ jest like having a draw at the
pipe. Would it do me any harm, master V

^ You can try, and put it away if it hurts
you.'

The old man nodded cheerfully, drew out
the well-beloved pipe, and, when Folly had
lit it for him, took two or three lio^ht whiffs
with evident satisfaction.

Where's Mr. Smith V he asked, as he took
the pipe from his lips.

Gone home to see his wife and children.'

He looked at the pipe admiringly, and
touching up the silver mounting with the
coverlet, he said :

Would you mind my giving this pipe
away, master V

No, John. I gave it you ; do as you
please with it.'

^ Mr. Smith's been were kind to me lately,
and I should like to give it to him, for said
he, looking up with a little smile on his face,
and speaking in the calmest, lowest little
voice, ' T don't think I shall smoke it no
more.'

Yane nodded kindly.

I'll pop him under my pillow till the
morning said the old fellow, lying down
and slipping the pipe under the pillow.
'And now I'll bid you '' Good-night." '

Folly laid her head beside his, drawing
his cheek to her lips. Then she rose and
left the room.

Good-night, dear master said he, pressing
Mano's hand.
' Good-night, John ; God bless you !'

The old man smiled feebly in reply, and
his eyes closed for ever, his time of rest
being come.

FOLLY S Mission.

OLLY, leaving her father's bedroom,
knew she should see him alive no
more. She walked up to her room
slowly, like one in fatigue. But
her heart had lost its lightness, not her feet
their nimbleness.

She closed her door and locked it, then
seated herself upon the bed. There she satin
the chill night without light or companion,
mourning not for her father, but for herself.

She was to be pitied more than he. To
leave a world of sorrow and rest in hajDpy
forgetfulness, that is happiness ; but to lose
a dearest friend and live remembering the
happiness that cannot be recalled, that is
indeed misery. She had to prepare for a

living death, and future space and time
seemed all epitomised in the silence, the
cold, the darkness, and the solitude in which
she now sat. Her mood prevented her seeing
the possibility of dawning light. She saw
only the darkness closing in ujDon her.

I shall be quite alone, just as I am now,'
she thought. 'My father will die and be
buried, and Hi chard Vane will leave me. I
have not a single friend in the world besides.
I cannot live as I have lived, cheating myself,
like a little fool. I know that I am
ignorant and helpless. He said I was one of
the world's neglected children, and it is so.
And I have done wrong — been stupid and
silly, and I must suffer. But it is hard to be
punished so cruelly. I cannot hope to belike
him ; it must be my lot to amuse an idle
crowd, nothing more. To do good, to have
the unhappy bless me from the darkness, as
I bless him, that is not for me, but for a
betterVoman, such as his sister must be.'

This was the theme round which her
thoughts revolved, taking a hundred phases,
none brighter than the rest.

She had sat thus for half an hour when
Miss Clip knocked at the door, and asked if
she could be of any service.

No,' answered Folly. ' Go to bed.'

Her humility was not of a kind to make
her indulgent to those who presumably were
her equals; on the contrary, she felt justified
in hating them by the fact that she hated
herself. For poor Miss Clip, the friend who
had faithfully served her, she felt the profoundest
contempt and dislike at this moment.
It was not logical, it was not in accordance
with the broad Christianity of the man whose
every movement she reverenced, but — it was
natural.

She dismissed Miss Clip from her thoughts
as summarily as she had sent her from the
door, and returned once more to her selfish
contemplations.

The hour grew late, but it did not occur to
her that she should undress and go to bed ;
had the idea presented itself she would have
rejected it, for how could she systematically
prepare herself to forget that her father was
dying, and that Vane would soon after leave
her for ever ?

It was after midnight when she opened
her door silently and slipped downstairs to
the room where were all that she held dear.
She listened, standing with her ear to the
door, and heard not a sound. But it gave

her happiness to know that they were near.
So she sat down upon the floor by the door,
resting her back against the jamb, and
folded her hands in her lap with a little sigh
of content.

About two o'clock Vane, sitting by the
fire, reading Thackeray, heard a movement
behind him, and thinking it came from the
bed he closed his book and crossed to John
Morrison's side. The old man lay quite still
and quiet — just as he had composed himself
on first lying down. One hand lay upon the
coverlet ; he was unconscious of Vanes
touch. The hand was chill, but not cold,
and the pulse, though feeble, Alas yet perceptible.
Vane rearranged the coverlet, and
returned to his chair ; but he did not open his
book again. Folly engaged his mind in
speculation. Was she asleep, or still awake,
poor child ? He knew her sufficiently to be
aware that she would not go to bed in an
ordinary wav. He had dismissed her, hoping;
that in solitude her overcharged heart would
find relief in tears, and expecting that afterwards
she would return to him. With this
anticipation he had refrained from lying
down. Perhaps she had cried herself to
sleep — this was probable ; but if not, she

VOL. HI. 46

must be awake and unhappy. Compassion
impelled him to find out if this last conjecture
were the right one. Opening the door he
stopped short in astonishment, for, under the
light of the lamp he carried in his hand, he
found Folly upon the floor, with her hands
between her cheek and the wall, sleeping.

Vane took the lamp back to the table beside
his chair, and then, returning to the
door, knelt beside Folly, not knowing exactly
what to do with the sleeping girl. He could
not leave her there, yet it seemed equally
cruel to w-ake her. As he knelt, looking in
her beautiful face, perplexity giving place to
admiration, she moved, and opened her large
eyes dreamily. It may have been only like a
continuation of her dream to see him therefor
she showed no sign of astonishment —
only a sweet smile stole over her face.

She took her hands from the wall and
raised herself, and, becoming conscious that
she no longer slept, her eyes grew anxious.

You won't send me away X she said, in a
low voice.

No, no,' he replied, rising, and helping
her to rise ; * but why did you come here and
not let me know V

I never thought of disturbing you.'

He led her into the room and closed the
door.

Your father still sleeps quite peacefully,'
he said, taking her to the bedside.

He is happy,' she said.

Vane caught the tone of envying sadness
in which she spoke, and did not reply.

He is going to see all the faces that he
loved long ago ; is it not so V she asked.

It is pleasant to think so.'

Oh, it must be so, or there is no mercy in
Heaven.'

As she spoke she laid her hand upon
Vane's arm, looking up into his face with
earnest thoughtfulness, as if seeking therefor
confirmation of the hope that was nearest
her heart.

It was no moment for philosophy — for the
expression of that chilling doubt which reason
feels in regarding a subject beyond its comprehension.


'Let us hope so,' Vane said, bowing his
head, for it was a prayer that rose from his
heart.

He would have given all the world to return
the anxious questioning of her eyes with
a positive assurance, but he could not speak
honestly of that which no man knoweth, and

46—2

all the world was not so dear to him as
truth.

He left the bedside, drew another chair
to the fire, and made Foll}^ take his own.

She took no notice of this arrangement ;
her mind was still engrossed in the subject
she had opened.

Heaven is merciful ?' she asked, leaning
forwards towards Yane and fixing him with
her eyes.

eyes, Folly.'

Then we shall find those that we have
lost, else we should not be so cruelly parted.'

The young and old must part. It is not
in nature that we should all o-row old together
answered Yane, taking Folly and
her father as the case in point ; ' the knowledge
that this must be so should moderate

o

our grief He drew his chair nearer and
took her hand in his, and looking towards
the bed, said, ' Think, Folly, that this could
not be otherwise.'

'Yes, yes,' Folly said softly, dropping her
eyes, and resting them upon the large hand
which held hers so gently.

She knew to whom he referred, and agreed
with his conclusion ; but she had been thinking"
of a separation which was to be, not

through disparity of years, and of a case
Which might have been otherwise.

Heaven is merciful,' she said, ' and yet
we outlive our happiness.' Again she raised
her eyes to his face, and then asked : ' Why
may we not die at our happiest moment V

We are not born merely to be happy,
Folly. We are something higher than the
butterflies who come and go with the flowers
and sunshine. Our very sorrows serve a
good and wise purpose, though we may not
have the wisdom to fathom it. Look at
this coal that burns, giving us warmth and
light ; thousands of }' ears before men were
born to use it, the ferns and palms that form
it flourished and grew. None was there to
know the purpose of its growth and change
save Heaven who provides for all. Who
shall say that future happiness may not
spring from your present sorrows ? Do notour
very errors serve to make us wise ? Then
may not your unhappiness produce future
joys r^

Joys ! — for me V

For you ; and not alone for you. Thousands
are waiting for your help, and in helping
them you will give joy and find it. It is
in your power to do good — to raise up those

who have fallen, and assist the struo^orlino-.
Hundreds of women have not the faculty
that soli have for doing good — women who
have not one unselfish thought, who are born
moths, live moths, and having fluttered out
their brief summer of pleasure, die moths ;
but for you there is a higher life.'

I am nothing but a dancer.'

One may be almost what one will.'
Folly looked in the fire gravely, and with

that movement of the hand which usually
accompanied her words, said :

It would be no use. I could give up the
stage for a month, but I should go back toit
and dance worse than ever after.'

Yane smiled.

It is not necessary to leave the stage to
be useful — quite otherwise he said. * It is
useful and good to dance and sing to amuse
people and lighten their hours. That is a
good work. I have seen you upon the stage,
and derived from your performance something
more than single amusement ; but if it were
that you only amused, still you would be
doing good. It is not necessary to wear a
garb of sanctity and make a profession of
charity to be charitable, nor to renounce all
pleasure to lessen pain ; that would be to add

one more to the number of the unfortunate,
and there are enough without.'

Folly gave a sigh of relief. She had entertained
an idea that for a woman to be Food
she must walk slowly, wear something unbecoming,
and smile as seldom as possible.
She was still uncertain as to where a woman
should begin her work. Black people required
a great deal of help, she knew,
having had the terrors in store for them in
the next world explained to her by a respectable
gentleman wearing a white tie and
carrying a brass-bound money-box; but
where might negroes be found by one having
to attend theatrical representations at the
Levity every night ? One came occasionally
into the Lambeth Road, but as he devoted
his life to grinding a barrel-organ, and never
ground anything but slow and melancholy
sacred melodies, it was not to be supposed
that he required much assistance beyond the
encouraging copper.

I suppose there are a great many people
wanting help — everywhere almost V she said.

Yes, they are not difficult to find Yane
answered.

And what can I do ?'

That which comes to your hand. Do

whatever your heart prompts you to do.
You need no direction. The love you have
shown for your father tells that. Think that
you are the sister of all men and women, and
then you can do them nothing but that which
is good. Dance to them, sing to them, amuse
them ; and if by chance you can comfort one,
or put another in the way of being better, let
no consideration check you.'

Folly found consolation in listening to the
simple doctrine of Richard Vane. He imposed
no arduous task, and took the thorns
from the path of duty ; and if — oh, if he
would only sometimes hold out a hand to
guide her when she strayed, how happy her
course would be !

You will see me sometimes, after ' she,

faltering, asked.

Often, 1 trust,' he answered.

She smiled, leaning back in her chair, and
taking her eyes from his face to the fire. He
still held her hand. When he would have
taken his away she clipped it, looking up sidelong
at him with a little shrug of entreaty.
Soon after her eyes grew languid and closed,
and she fell asleep with her hand in his.

As. calmly, as silently, the life passed away
from" John Morrison's body.

FOLLY TAKES OFF HER WEDDl^G-RIXG.

—%0 prevent her from brooding over her

$H\ P^ ^^^^' ^^^ ^^ jDre^Dare her for his own
departure, Richard Vane engaged
Folly's attention upon the immediate

affairs in which he hoped to render her
assistance. When the day for John Morrison's
funeral had been fixed, he said to her :

Have you thought of what sou shall do
after, Folly V

No,' she replied, carelessly.

Shall we think about the subject now V

Why ? The day will come too soon.
Why should I think of my solitude before it
comes V

There are difficulties, and I may be able
to help you.'

*You are not going to leave me until — ■
then V she said quickly, in a tone of alarm.

I shall come and see sou every day ; but
there is no wisdom in putting off these considerations
; troubles don't grow less by deferring
them.'

What troubles do you mean V

To begin with, you have to settle where
you will live.'

That is nothing,' she said, attempting to
smile. ^ It does not matter where I live. I
shall not stop here nor return to Lambeth.
Clip and I can find a couple of rooms in an
hour, somewhere near the theatre. There
will be nothing to prevent Clip being my
dresser then, and we can walk together to
and from the theatre.'

What shall you do with this house V

I hardly know. At first I thought I
would set fire to it, and burn it all down ;
then I determined to shut it up, and send
the key to Koland ; but now I have resolved
to do neither the one nor the other. 1 will
do nothing more to give him pain, if I can
help it.' She spoke in a voice of pity, and
paused. Then, turning to Vane, she said,
imploringly, ' Do not mistrust me I'

that is impossible, Folly. I know you

feel for him. Look at this.' He took a letter
from his pocket. 'It is your answer to
Roland — not sent yet. I have kept it back,
hoping that out of pity love may spring up
for the man you have injured.'

Love for him ! Oh no — no — no !' Folly
exclaimed passionately, raising her hands as
if to repulse the image that came before her
mind. ' It is a sin to think of loving him.
You would not hint the subject to me if you
knew all. What must I tell you to make
you believe that I cannot love him, and may
not

You led me to believe that you loved
another ; but if, as I concluded, he is no
more, a second love may rise when the
memory of the first fades away.'

It will not fade away,' she cried. Then,
the red blood rushing to her face, she added :
If I tell you that he lives, will you still
think it possible that I may love Roland, or
must I tell you all f

It is enough. Keep the secret in your
faithful heart, poor child ! The letter shall
go.'

Write again at the bottom of the letter,
*' Folly is still sorry, and suffers for her fault'"

Her eyes fell to the ground, and for a moment

her heart gave way before the eo litem -
platioii of lier own grief; then she snatched
up an illustrated paper from the table, and
opening it, said, huskily' :

^ Go on ; let us talk of the other troubles.'

A single tear plashed upon the paper she
bent over — a single tear, no more, to relieve
the aching; fulness of her heart, and then she
summoned up fortitude, and looked Vane in
the face.

I have had a letter from Sir Andrew
Aveling, which also must be answered. Shall
I read his letter to you V

Xo. What does he want V

He wishes to make what atonement is in
his power for the injury he has done. He
expresses great regret, and makes an offer
which I dare say is as liberal as any that could
enter his imagination.'

^Yhat does he offer V

He begs you to accept a pecuniary testimony
of his feeling, and encloses a — a cheque,
which you are at liberty to fill up as you
please, and make use of.'

Folly laughed. It seemed to her such an
odd way of expressing regret.

I suppose he doesn't know any better,'
she said, recollection the argument ursfed

in extenuation of Sir Andrew's graver
offence.

He Deans well, I believe,' Vane answered.

Then he would like me to accept it V

•'Yes.'

How much is it worth V

As much as you choose. If you write
ten or twenty thousand pounds upon it, I
have no doubt it will be j^aid. There is the
paper,'

Folly took the cheque and looked at it with
an amused smile ; then, rising from her chair
and folding' it, she said :

o

Write and tell him I will use the cheque
some day.' She crossed to the mantelpiece,
and stuck the cheque between the glass and
the frame of the mirror upon it.

That's done ; now, Avhat else ?' asked she,
returning to her chair.

I want to know about your friends. Folly.'

Friends ? — I have you.' All the lovable
people in the world seemed to her comprehended
in him.

But besides me. ^Yho is there that you
may make your companion ? I do not know
what my occupation may be, or where it may
take me ; and it is well to have two strings
to your bow. You must meet many people

at the theatre — many must be pleasant, one
would think

No,' she answered ; ^ there is no one there
that I like. The women are jealous of me,
and the men are selfish and stupid. Espe-
senza is in Paris. There's nobody I care
for, nobody who cares for me, except old
CHp ; she'll stay with me while I have any
money.'

After a minute's grave reflection, Yane
asked :

Would you like to know my sister V

Your sister Margaret !' Folly's eyes
widened in astonishment. It seemed impossible
that Madcye should ever forgive her.

She is in London, and has written skins
if she can help you.'

Tell me about your sister,' said Folly,
quietly. ' What is she like V

She is a little taller than you ; slighter,
fairer, and five or six years older ; more like
a lily than a rose.'

And she is quite faultless, I dare say ?'

I'm afraid not,' answered Yane, laughing.
I own I can't find anything to dislike in her;
but then it is almost as difficult to see one's
own faults as those of the people who are
dear to us. I recollect her saying once that

she found it hard work to be good ; now that
wouldn't be the case if she were perfect. I
remember, too, she had the reputation for
being idle ; and I know she's fond of talking
about people's faults behind their backs ; but
that's a family weakness, you see, for here
am I, who began by saying I saw nothing in
her to dislike, telling that she has a fault
which I ought to condemn.'

Folly did not respond to the pleasantry.
Her mind was occupied with the more serious
part of the subject.

Did she love Ronald very much V she
asked.

^ She gave him all her love.'

And did he love her as well V

^ As much as it was in his nature to love
anyone he loved her, I believe.'

They had loved each other since they were
children so V

Yes.'

Folly nodded her head, looking absently
before her.

Poor girl !' she murmured, still meditating.

'Shall I ask her to come with me to morrow
morning V

^ Do you think she would V

I feel sure she will.'

'Oh no ; that isn't possible. A man might
forgive so much, but not a woman. I know
by my own feelings. If a Avoman had robbed
me of the one I loved, and injured him, I
could in my heart never forget or forgive
the cruelty. It would be false to pretend
to.'

But if you were shown that the woman
acted in ignorance, and that reason commanded
you to be merciful to her '

Whv then I miofht refrain from reveno-inQf
myself; I would try to do her good ; if it
were necessary, I would strip myself to
clothe her. I would do more than reason
demanded of me ; but I could not forget her
cruelty, and in ni}^ heart I could not forgive
her.' "

Vane saw that it was useless to oppose her
conviction, and was silent.

No, I will not see the girl I have
wronged,' Folly continued. ' If she loved
him deeply and is good, she herself would
shrink from offering friendship which her
heart could not support. And I — how could
I receive kindness from her hand ? Her very
name is a reproach to me, knowing the one
she miofht have borne. She can never be

my friend, nor I anything but her bankrupt
debtor. If ever we meet, it will be when she
needs help from me, and so God grant we
never may ! There, it is finished. We will
talk of it no more.'

VOL. III. 47

FOLLY TAKES OFF HER Wedding-ring.

;molly determined to go to the
theatre as usual at night-time. ^ I
have gone through my business
with troubles on my heart before,
why should I not again V she said.

Vane took her to the theatre, and after the
performance returned with her to Clapham.

She shuddered when they came to the
gate and looked up at the house. Not a
light was visible, Miss Clip, with maidenly
fear, having fortified herself by closing all
the shutters. She clung tightly to Vane's
arm as th<3y walked by the path to the door,
and begrudged each lingering footstep that
brought her nearer to their separation.

Good-night,' he said, when, in answer to

his knock, Miss Clip began to unbolt and
unchain the door.

She o'ave him her hand, and said in a
trembling voice :

'We can only say that four times again

These words she had repeated again and
again to herself as they came from the
theatre, and the thought had kept her silent.

Good-nights he repeated, pressing her
hand.

Her response came in a sigh like a faint
echo ; their hands parted, and Vane left the
door quickly to end an adieu which was only
less painful to him than to her. Something
more than commiseration touched him. It
was a sense of his own suffering which made
this foretaste of final separation bitter.

Turning at the gate he saw that Folly still
stood by the open door ; he waved his hand
and walked on quickly.

It seems cruel he thought, ' to leave the
poor friendless little thing alone there with
the dead. But there is no help for it.' He
sighed, and pulled out the comforting pipe
from his pocket. At that moment his ear
cauolit the ' click ' of a o-ate behind him.

Surely she has not come down to the
gate !' he said, turning round. It seemed

47—2

that she had, however, for between him and
the distant lamp he saw the figure of a
woman running towards him. In another
moment there was no doubt in his mind — it
was Folly. He hastened to meet her.

What has happened V he asked, in alarm.

'Nothing — nothing she answered, stammering;
'only you — you — didn't tell me
what time T might expect sou tomorrow.'

Oh, Folly, you should not run out in that
manner — unless,' he added, seeing her countenance
fall under his reproach, ' unless it is
for something serious.'

I thought it was serious,' she said, walking
along by his side towards the gate with
her head bent, and not daring to take his
arm.

He took her hand, leading her like a child
in silence, for he had as little courage to
speak as she.

I won't make you angry with me again,'
she said, submissively. ^ There's only a little
time now to bear with me.'

Poor child, I wish there were longer !'
said Vane, speaking from his heart.

She raised her head quickly, and looked
into his face, struck by his words and the
tone of regret in which he spoke. There

was sorrow in his eyes as well as his
voice.

Does he like me, then, so well that parting
pains him V she asked herself. And
that question was followed by another.
Why should he leave me if it grieves him ?
Why should he not stay to be loved and
worshipped by me until he grows weary and
tires of me V

Just then they came to the gate, whither
Miss Clip, overcoming her fears of lurking
robbers, had ventured, so there Vane and
Folly parted again.

It was characteristic of their respective
sexes, that while Vane was blind to the constantly
recurring evidence of Folly's love,
she detected the first demonstration of a reciprocal
feeling in him which he himself misunderstood.


Vane could not think of Folly but as a
child — which was not remarkable, perhaps,
considering how like a child she was in many
things. Her simplicity, her passionate anger
and speedy contrition, her submissiveness to
one whose authority she could recognise —
these were all phases of an undeveloped, uncultured
nature. He saw nothing extraordinary
in her affection. It had been his

fortune to earn the love of old and young ;
he was no stranger to the passionate outbursts
of grateful hearts. It did not surprise
him that a sensitive forsaken child should
respond to kindness — kindness she had too
seldom met with — when the very dogs in
the street would lick his kindly hand ; and
he took that for gratitude which had a root
far deeper than gratitude throws out, with
fibres that penetrated her heart and wove
themselves inextricably in its fabric.

It was but natural he should feel deeply
interested in the girl. A weed from the ditch,
a pebble from the sea, a fledgling from the
forsaken nest, anything we have rescued from
obscurity, or which owes its beauty to our
fostering care, enters into our life and becomes,
as it were, part of ourselves ; and for this
reason alone Folly must have become endeared
to Vane. More than this, it was impossible
that one of his disposition should not respond
to such intense affection as she displayed for
him. Insensibly his response was exceeding
the temperate limits of passionate affection.
Had he suspected the fact, and put to himself
the question, ' Could you love a boy as you
love this girl V he must have answered * No,'
and seen the danger.

Now that her father was dead, and there
was one less to think of and to love, Folly's
whole thought and affection centred upon
Richard Yane ; and as the time drew nearer
and nearer for their parting, thoughts of her
future desolation came unbidden to her mind,
and, like clouds procuring the storm, robbed
her of rays while still the sun sion e. It seemed
to her as if she must make some great effort
to revoke her doom. At night when she sat
alone she racked her invention for means to
overcome the necessity for separation, discarding
one hopeless scheme after another,
until in despair she gave license to imagination
and indulged in wild impossible dreams.
At one time she fancied the whole world
dead but herself and Yane ; at another she
conceived herself accused of some devilish
crime, in which she accused Yane of participation
that they might both be killed together
; all the visions were gloomy — she
never thought of a happier future than that
of dying with the man she loved. She did
not dream of living long years of happiness
with him ; that was an impossibility which
she never lost sight of in her most extravagant
moments.

She watched for his coming, and followed

him about whenever it was possible, like a
jet creature — at first shyly, fearing to displease
him or excite his ridicule by her persistency
; and then she invented a thousand
ingenious pretexts for being at the window
when he came, for returning to the room in
which he sat, for delaying his departure.
But afterwards, when she saw that he himself
was glad to be with her and sorry to
leave her, she ceased to offer excuses.

I shall not go to the theatre tomorrow
night,' she said to Vane as they were coming
from the theatre on Friday. ' I have told
them they must do without me. You will
stay with me until the night-time T

Vane gave his consent, and they walked in
silence until they reached the gate before the
house.

Don't leave me just yet. It must be
quite early : we seem to have walked herein
half the usual time. Just take me as far
as the corner of the road.

Vane obeyed. Folly clung tightly to his
arm and said never a word. He told her
something about the stars shining over their
heads, and she looked up and listened. She
did not understand much of what he told
her, but it was lovely to look at the heavens

and listen to his mellow voice, and be quite
close to him ; and she felt that she should
never look at the stars again without tears.
And so they walked half a mile beyond the
corner of the road, and, returning to the gate,
stood there some minutes before he found
courage to leave her.

Good-bye he said at length, holding out
his hand.

She took it without answering, and held it
for a moment with her head bent, then she
raised her eyes to his face. They were standing
near a lamp, and the light fell upon her.
Yane savrthat her cheeks were pale, and the
long lashes of her eyes wet, and while he was
still wondering what thought was behind her
wistful look she lifted her pretty lips up to
be kissed. A tremor seized Yane's limbs, his
brain throbbed with delirious thought, and
he burned with a desire to clasp the yielding
beauty to his heart, and drink the sweetness
from her offered lips. Only for an instant
he stood in hesitation, then, as his soul beat
down the lower passion of his nature, he
bowed and touched the young girl's forehead
lightly with his lips.

The earth closed over John Morrison.

^ One,' said Folly, turning from the grave,
and then she looked at Vane, whom she was
next to lose. A few hours more, and all that
she loved on earth would be gone from her.

Instinctively she knew that their parting
was to be final. Vane's heart ached as the
hours passed, for Folly not less than himself.
He dreaded the last moment, and wished it
over. He knew now that she was a woman,
and that his love for her was not as for a
child. The separation which he had previously
looked upon as partial he saw must,
for her sake as for his, be complete. Virtually
he could see her no more.

When the tea-things were removed Folly
complained that the light of the gas hurt her
eyes. Vane rose and turned the burners
down ; then he returned to his chair.

Won't you smoke ?' asked Folly.

Not yet ; I shall want my pipe when I
leave you.'

^ Let me light it now : it is for the last
time.'

He filled his pipe, and she held the light
to it with trembling fingers. She sat and
watched him silently until he laid the pipe
down, playing with the rings upon her finger
the while. Then she drew her chair quite

close to his, and in a voice hardly raised above
a whisper she said :

^ I want to ask you something.'

^ I will answer, Folly.'

'■ Will you answer me quite truly — I mean
without concealment ?'

Yes.'

She waited awhile, and then asked :

^ Do you love me V

Indeed I do.'

But not much V

I love you sincerely.'

But tell me — why did you kiss my forehead
last night when I held up my lips V

Yane took time to frame his answer, and
then said :

^ Because you are a woman, and that was
the only kind of kiss I might give you.'

^ Then you do not feel for me the kind of
love that I feel for you.'

Yane did not reply.

You know that I love you,' she said,
slipping from her seat to the floor upon her
knees at his feet ; ' you know that I worship
you with my whole soul ; that I would lay
down my life, all and everything that I have,
for one sweet look from your eyes. Is it a
love like that you feel for me V

Vane dared not answer.

^ Why' should you not love me so ? Look,
I am pretty, prettier still when I am gay and
happy. You may make me happy. I know
I am ignorant, but I will learn. I am quick
and ready. I will not sleep, will not ask to
see you till I have learned the tasks you set
me. I have been wicked and silly, but I am
repentant, and shall grow wise and merciful
and beautifully good with you to reverence
and copy.'

Vane looked at the kneeling girl, and
quivered with emotion.

^ Do not answer but with your eyes. Look
into mine and read the love and fidelity of
my soul. If you will speak, wait until you
know your own heart. You may think you
only pity me, but that is not all. I have
watched you. I have seen the love kindle
your eyes when T came unexpectedly by your
side ; I have seen them sadden when you
parted from me — that was not pity. I have
seen your fingers tremble, as mine do, when
our hands joined. I have seen my love reflected
in your face in a dozen signs which I
myself have shown, and pity was not my
emotion. You do love me, dear master.
One word, do you wish to leave me V

that also you know

Yes yes, I know that you would make
me your companion, your friend, your wife.
Then why shall we ]part V

'Do you forget that you are married,
Folly V

^ Married !' she cried ; * if that is marriage
which has no sign but this she touched her
wedding ring, ' then any union without that
sign is holier and better.' She took the ring
from her finger and then said, * Now will you
take me V

Vane rose, and lifting Folly, said :

These are a brother's arms in which you
rest and not a husband's. I love you, Folly,
indeed, but with a love deeper than that you
have read in my unconscious face. Put on
that ring again, dear love, you must wear it
to the end. There is a love which 3^0 u yourself
have overlooked, though it lives in your
soul — the love which lives in purity and
makes us accept suffering to shield those
dearer than ourselves from pain. Farewell,
dear Folly, — we must love, as we must live,
apart.'

Folly buried her face in her hands, and
burst into an agony of tears. For a moment

Vane standing over her hesitated, sentiment
conflicting With reason in his heart ; then he
placed her upon a chair, and, Hating her Ave
face in his hands, he kissed her once again,
and then left her.

FOLLY S FAREWELL.

T is necessary to be brief in detailing
the events of the next eleven
months. They passed wearily, like
the hours of a winter's night to
those in pain.

Folly remained but a few days longer in
the villa at Clapham. She yielded for a
Awhile to her feelings, making no effort to
remove the weight that oppressed her soul.
Losing hope, she lost the incentive to action ;
fearing no worse calamity than that which
had befallen her, she was indifferent to the
future. But love which had reduced her to
this depth raised her from it, and with the
desire to do that which Yane would have

had her do, she shook off her apathy and
prepared to be ' good.'

Miss CUp had to make up for the respite
given her by plenteous exertion. In the
first place she was to take a message to the
irate manager of the Levity, saying that the
indisposition which had prevented Folly
appearing on the stage for the past two nights
was ended, and that she would certainly
resume her part the ensuing evening ; then
to seek suitable apartments ; and after that to
find some one who would purchase the villa.
She returned, having taken rooms in Craven
Street, Strand, and instructed an estate agent
to call upon her mistress. When he came,
Folly put into his hands the box which
Roland had shown her contained the title-deeds
of the house, and told him to give her
as much for them and the furniture, the
carriage and the ponies, as they were worth.
In a couple of days the agent found a customer,
and handed over a cheque for the
amount realised ; and then Folly gave up
possession and removed to her apartments in
Craven Street with as much indifference as
if it were but to another room in the same
house. At Miss Clio's entreaty she deposited
the money in a bank. The following

morning the agent called upon her, bringing
Sir Andrew Avehng's cheque , which the new
tenant had found where Folly had left it, in
the corner of the chimney-glass.

I don't know what to do with it she
said, regarding the cheque carelessly, ' but I
suppose it may come in useful one of these
days ;' so she slipped it in with the miscellaneous
collection of odds and ends at the
bottom of her workbox.

She went back to her business at the
theatre with the desire rather to please her
audience than herself ; it was Richard Vane's
hopes she thought of as she came from the
wings, and no longer her own ambition. She
tried to play better than ever she had played
before, but the old spirit had left her never
to return, and her performance lacked that
spontaneous gaiety which had made her
successful and won all hearts to her. This
falling off was evident to the manager, but
he hoped that the brightness would return to
her, not doubting that the cloud which now
hung over her would quickly pass away. It
became evident to Folly and she despaired,
feeling that the gloom was not the effect of
a transient grief, but a lasting sorrow.

Her sun had set.

VOL. III. 48

In February John Barrington said : * We
must put up something else, '' Andromeda "
don't draw now. The burlesque has had a
wonderful run, but it must be changed for
something else at Easter.'

I'm glad,' said Folly, with a sigh.

Well, you seem to be getting tired of it.
What would you like, Folly ? something of
the same sort again ?'

I don't care what you have,' answered
she ; * I shan't play in it.'

What do you mean V the manager asked,
aghast at the cool announcement. ^ Not
play in it — you must.'

Overcoming her natural disposition to
answer John Barrington in his own imperative
tone. Folly said :

I don't want to be angry with you. You
say I must, I say I shan't, that's all. I want
to be good, and so you must get somebody
else to take my place, if you please.
*' Andromeda " 's well enough, the burlesque
is just as good as ever it was, but I'm not.'

Don't talk nonsense, my good girl,' said
Barrington, more alarmed by Folly's dejection
than annoyed by her impudence ; ^ you'll
be all right presently. Just the same as ever.
You're not the first girl who's suffered ; but

you'll recover. You've had a row with
young Aveling, e\\V

No, I haven't ; you're not more clever
than other inquisitive people, nor likely to
know more either.'

Barrington did not reply. A manager of
any standing must have his temper always
under control, and have united the qualities
of the dove and serpent in an eminent
degree.

About a fortnight after, taking Folly at a
favourable moment, when she came off the
stage carrying a bouquet which he had caused
to be thrown to her, he said :

Ah, ah, my girl, your popularity is going
up again, eh ? Well, I've got a splendid
idea for the new piece — a translation of
Here's '' Jolie Diablesse " — a first-rate part
for you.'

I told you I should not play in it.'

But you spoke in haste. That goes for
nothing, you know.'

Well, I am not in haste now, and I tell
you I shall not be here on Easter Monday.'

And on Easter Monday she was not
there.

On the last day of her performance she
saw a bill-sticker posting a great broadside

48—2

over her flame on one of the hoards. Six
months ago it would have made her mad
with envy to see another taking her place in
popularity, but now she was unmoved.
Nevertheless it was not without a pang of
regret that she passed from the theatre for
the last time. She recollected the wild delight
of her first successful night ; the feeling
of triumphant exultation with which she received
from the audience a recognition of her
power, the careless gaiety of those days before
her father found her, when her young
limbs moved in accordance with the joyousness
of her heart, and all life seemed to
her as bright as the tinselled scene she
danced in.

She felt as if old age had come upon her
already.

I can never be young again,' she thought.
And she watched the chorus girls leaving
their dressing-room with laughter and
snatches of song, wondering at their careless
gaiety, who were none so young as she
in years.

Her solitude was complete. She found it
impossible to make a friend of any one of
the people she knew, for, despite her wish to
be 'good,' she could not help comparing them

with Yane, and their shortcomings irritated
her and made her so unamiable, that the
attempt to form a friendship was relinquished
on both sides with mutual satisfaction. This
solitude, and the loss of those occupations
for her mind which had previously existed,
increased her yearning desire to see Yane
and be near him, and it was only by the
strongest efforts of self-control she refrained
from seeking him in his home. For this
reason she was glad when the proposed alteration
of the Levity programme was made. It
suggested to her a means of escaping the
torture of living near the one she loved yet
dared not approach. She resolved to go
abroad. Solitude would be less unbearable
there.

On Easter Monday she packed up the
things she wished to take. They went all
in one box — the scarlet handkerchief Espe-
senza had given her during her first rehearsal ;
the bouquet he had thrown to her on her
first appearance — it was represented now by
a bunch of twigs and yellow leaves and rusted
wire ; the flaming poster which her friend
the stage-doorkeeper of the Garden had
brought her ; the watch with her name
jewelled upon the back ; her father's necktie

these were all she cared for ; the rest she
left to Miss Clip's care.

It was not a large case in which she
packed her treasures, yet there was room for
more — something else was needed there.

I have nothing to remind me of him,' she
said, her heart aching as she bent over the
souvenirs of her friends. Poor child, she
wanted something to Aveep over !

On Tuesday she went to the bank, and,
with the assistance of the clerk there, drew a
cheque for all the money she had deposited.
Thence she took a cab home, straining her
eyes to scan the faces of the crowds she
passed. It seemed to her as if she must see
his face among them on this her last day in
England.

I want no more than just to see him,' she
sa id to herself But there was no face like
Yane's in Fleet Street or the Strand that
day, and she turned into the deserted street
sh e lived in With the wish ungratified, and
almost insupportable. She sat in the cab
uaxble to give up the hope until the cabman
came and opened the door for her to
step out.

'Do you know such a place as Spitalfields V
she asked, her face flushing with excitement.

I should back I do, miss, seeiii' I was
burned in Artillery Lane, and '

'Drive me there — Church Street said
Folly, cutting short the biography.

What number, miss ?'

Fifty.'

Why, that's Miss Vane's ! Is she your
friend, miss V

Folly shook her head.

Beg pardon' for asking, miss, but I'd be
proud to drive any friend of that lady's or
her brother's either.'

The cabman was going away ; Folly called
him back.

What do you know about Mr. Vane V
she asked.

Well, I don't know much about 'im,
though I hear he's wonderful good too. Iter
as I know best, been' a widower, miss, and
finding' her as good as a mother to my
youngsters. Lord, miss, it's a hard thing fora
poor cabby, as is out here his thirteen hour
a day, leaving his poor little helpless things
at home to do for 'themselves, and wondering'
all the time whether Tommy's gone out and
lost himself in " the lane," or Charley's set the
blessed place afire with his fondness for
lucifer matches ; but a man can drive about

with a easy mind if he knows his kids are
been' fed and washed and took care on by
such a lady as that Miss Yane '

But Mr. Vane V

Well, he goes out a teaching or sullen'.
I've only seen him once, when T went in the
evening to fetch away my young uns from
the nursery, as Miss Vane calls her house.
Bless you, you'll see a sight if you're going'
there — fifty or sixty children all been' cared
for and looked after like as if '

Drive me there,' said Folly.

Folly trembled with emotion when the
cab drew up in front of the house in Church
Street, Spitalfields. She feared that Vane
would bo pained by the interview. She repented
coming, and half hoped that he would
not be at home.

She looked up at the windows of the plain,
old-fashioned house, but saw no one except
some children. Then she screwed up her
courage, stepped out of the cab, and knocked
timidly at the door.

Is Mr Vane at home ?' she asked in
faltering accents of the buxom servant who
opened the door.

No, miss, but Miss Vane is upstairs.
Would you like to see her V

Folly, without a motive, nodded, and followed
the domestic into a sitting-room,
where she was left alone. A grey coat, that
Folly knew well, lay upon a chair. She
crossed the room quickly and took it up. A
handkerchief peeped from one of the pockets.
She listened. Not a sound but the voices of
the children above reached her ear. In a
moment she whipped out the handkerchief
and slipped it into her pocket. The theft
was scarcely completed when the handle
of the door turned, and she dropped the
coat upon the chair as Miss Yane entered
the room.

She knew it was Madge, though she bore
no likeness to Richard, except in the sweet
softness of her eyes. That was enough;
no one but his sister could have such eyes.
Folly saw nothing but them ; it was afterwards
that she noticed those particulars of
dress and appearance which usually a woman
takes in with the first glance.

For a moment Madge was perplexed by
the silence of her visitor, who hardly returned
her initiative bow, and struck by her beauty ;
then it dawned upon her that this lovely girl,
With her pale small face and dress of black,
must be Folly.

You have come to see our children ?' she
said, feeling only less constrained than
Folly.

No Folly replied, ' I did not come to see
them. I came to say good-bye to your
brother.'

Madge had no longer any doubt as to who
she was that spoke ; she did not pretend
surprise or ignorance, but merely bowed.
She might have looked with compassionate
pity upon any other girl in Folly's position,
but from her she shrank with an ud controllable
feeling of aversion. Womanly delicacy,
womanly prejudice, limited her charity and
prevented her from sharing her brother's
boundless humanity. Duty, not inclination,
prompted her to forgive the girl who had
done her and the man she loved irreparable
injury. She noticed that Folly, trembling,
leant heavily upon the chair she stood by for
support. She placed a chair and asked her
to be seated ; then she withdrew to the
other side of the table and stood there waiting
calmly for what should follow, pride
giving her strength to stand without support.


Tell him,' said Folly, bending her eyes
upon the ground and speaking slowly, ' tell

him I'm trying to be good — trying all I can.'
She either feared to tell her name or took it
for granted she was known. ' Tell him that
I can't amuse the people as I did, though I
do my best and try as I never tried before ;
and say I am going away — right away — ever
so far. Tell him I think I shall find an old
friend where I am going, and so he needn't
mind about me — and I don't think there's
anything else.'

She lifted her wet eyes, and happily could
not see through the tears that stood in them,
that the softness had gone from his sister's
eyes. 'And then just say to him 'goodbye
" — that's all,' she added.

My brother will return in two hours, if
you would prefer telling him what you have
to say yourself,' said Margaret.

No. It will be better for him not to seeme.
I only want him to know that I do not
forget. '

He will be glad to hear that,' said Margaret,
in her impassive voice ; and then, as
Folly rose, she asked : ' Would you like to
see the children now you are here V

Folly nodded, thinking that possibly she
might learn a better way of doing good than
by dancing and singing at a theatre — might

possibly imitate his sister in benevolence.
She followed Margaret through the rooms in
which the children were disposed, and saw
the ladies who assisted her enofasfed in teaching
and amusing them. She listened to the
plan on which the nursery was conducted,
and saw the means by which the scheme was
carried out. She said nothings, but turned
away with a sigh. The perfect order that
existed everywhere, the neatness of the ladies
engaged in the work, and their perfect propriety,
dashed her hopes.

It must take a deal of patience and a
deal of washing to make little common
children so quiet and clean as that,' said she,
descending the stairs.

It is not so difficult as it seems, perhaps,'
said Margaret.

Perhaps not. I could never sit straight
in a chair with my back up like those
ladies. But it is a good things never the-less


We might do more if our resources were
greater — if we had more money''

Folly stopped, bethinking herself of the
money she had drawn from the bank, and,
after rummaging in her pockets, found the
cheque.

I have no patience, and I can't teach, but
I have money said she ; ^ and if you will
take this piece of paper and use it for the
poor little things, you can t tell how glad I
shall be.'

Margaret took the crumpled cheque with
formal tones. Her coldness, which was by
no means habitual, seemed to Folly part of
that goodness which was to her inimitable.
It made her think of the Sunday-school she
had seen once, and of all the offences against
propriety of which she was guilty. She
stopped Margaret as she was about to open
the street-door.

I want to tell you something she said.
While I Alas waiting for you in that room —
I took a handkerchief from his pocket — your
brother's coat. May I keep it V

Certainly answered Margaret, who could
not at all understand the girl.

God bless you I' said Foll}^, her lips
quivering. ^ I wanted something of his to
take with me as a token.'

Her thoughts were with Vane, and she
passed from the house and left it without
responding to the slight inclination of the
head with which Margaret bade her farewell.
She could not think of him and her together.

Sitting back in the corner of the cab, she
held his handkerchief to her eyes.

^ If I could but have seen his face,' she
thought. Then it struck her that he was to
return to the house in two hours. It was
already growing dusk. She opened the trap
in the roof of the cab, and as the cabman,
drawing up his horse, bent down his head for
instructions, she said :

I will get down here.'

It was in Bishopsgate Street that she got
out. She went into a draper's shop and
bought a thick veil, and, wearing it, she
walked through Southfield Street into Church
Street with nervous, hasty footsteps. Standing
at the corner of Brick Lane, she commanded
a view of Vane's house only a few
doors removed, and of all the approaches toit.
There she waited and watched, regardless
of the rough comments of the men and
yeomen who passed, until when it had become
dark, save for the light of the street
lamps, she saw a well-known figure coming
from the farther end of Churl Street. He
drew nearer and nearer, stopped, knocked at
the door, and turning, stood so that the light
of the lamp fell full upon him. Then the
poor girl, changing to the rail but a few paces

from hai, saw once again the face she had
longed to behold. Impatient of the veil, and
careless of any consequences she tore it
down, and for a minute feasted her hungry
ej^es. The door opened, he entered with
a smile upon his face for the one who admitted
him, passed into the house, and so
was lost to Folly. The door closed, and the
sound reaching her ears, the girl, still clinging
to the rails, bowed her head and felt as
if the life were leaving her.

'What's the matter? — don't you feel wel],
miss V a woman who had been watching her
said, comines to her side. She shook her
head in silence, and with a little wave of the
hand walked away.

The next morning Folly left England forever.


Made.

OU look grave, Badges said Yane,
as he sat at tea. ^ What has
happened V

I have had a visitor answered
Margaret, avoiding her brother's eye. ' Folly
has been here.'

He did not seem surprised ; he bent his
head and waited to hear more.

^ She wished to see you ; she is going to
leave England.'

Her name is withdrawn from the papers.
Well V

Margaret gave Folly's message in cold,
unsympathetic tones. Yane listened, resting
his face on his hands, his elbow on the table,
and neither moved nor spoke for some time

after Margaret had ceased to speak. The
message was full of pathos to him, and rendered
more touching by the tone in which it
was delivered, for it showed him how little
pity the struggling, failing, desolate heartbroken
girl had to expect.

Margaret had been trying since Folly's
departure to think kindly of her, and, having
failed, was naturally cross with herself; and,
as everyone knows, when one is displeased
with one's self it is an impossibility to be
amiable to anyone else.

She took your handkerchief from your old
grey jacket when no one was in the room,
though she afterwards admitted doing so,
and asked permission to keep it 'for a token,"
as she put it ; and as she was leaving she put
into my hand a cheque for charitable purposes,
value two thousand eight hundred
pounds. She seems to me a most incomprehensible
young person.'

Why V asked Vane, quietly.

To take a handkerchief when no one was
looking, like a — well, like a quite common
person, and then give a cheque for that
enormous sum, and to pretend such distress,
and wear a silk that I'm sure must have cost
eight or ten shillings a yard.'

VOL. III. 49

Madge clear', you do not think of Avhat
you are saying. If I vere cruel enough to
sprite down your words you would beg me in
an hour's time to be merciful and burn them.
You do not believe that she was dishonest in
her grief or in the motive with which she
took the handkerchief; there is nothing incomprehensible
in a young person who can
afford to give you two or three thousand
pounds for charity wearing a rich dress ; so
your words have no value, and we will forget
them at once.'

1 don't see why we should be expected to
pity everyone who does wrong, and I think
you strain a good principle too far. If
people do wrong or make mistakes they must
suffer.'

They must, and we who are happier must
lessen their troubles if we can. Come,
Madge, you cannot cheat me into the belief
that your heart has grown suddenly hard.
Come here to me, little sister, and tell me
what has irritated you, and made you, who
have suffered so much, impatient of others'
misfortunes.'

Madge dropped her head and came slowly
to his side. He put his arm around her and
drew her on to his knee. Suddenly her fortitude

gave way ; she threw her arms about
his neck and, burying her face in his shoulder,
burst into tears. Presently through her sobs
she said :

I — I — I have been trying to love her
like my sister, and to be as good and kind in
my thoughts of her as I should be ever since
she went : and I can't.'

She still loved Roland.

The nursery instituted by Yane and his
sister was the first of many of the kind which
have sprung up. The object was to provide
for the children of poor working people whose
vocations took them from home during the
day. The parents paid according to their
means, and the children were treated alike.
The space, once a garden, at the back of the
house was used as a playground, and the
spacious rooms not required by Yane and his
sister for their personal requirements were
devoted to the purposes of the nursery.
Margaret received many offers of support
from religionists of various denominations
who wished to use the charity as the means
of spreading the peculiar views of their sects;
but, by Yane's advice, she declined them all,

49—2

and sent the propagandists about their own
business, which was far enough removed from
hers.

'If we are to teach them said Vane, 'let
us begin with the subjects they can understand.
The first thing is to keep their little
bodies out of harm's way ; their souls will
not suffer.'

He had too much reverence for religion
to give children a distaste for it by forcing
them to swallow a mental food which they
were not yet in a condition to like, much
less to digest properly. He would not
countenance the decoration of the rooms
with scriptural texts, but gave the preference
to coloured lithographs and amusing sketches
cut from the pages of Punch.

The generality of charitable people looked
with suspicion upon an institution so exclusively
secular ; nevertheless some ladies more
rational than the rest came forward and gave
their services, which were gratefully accepted
by Madge. She wanted the approval of
delicate natures like her own, not having that
robust and fearless independence of character
which distinguished her brother. Possibly
she would have liked better teaching in a
Sunday-school, despite her conviction that

the work she was engaged in had a wider
range, and went further to the production of
honest men and women than the more conventional
schemes. It was hard and. unpleasant
labour to keep the little waifs and
strays clean, to patch and darn their rags of
clothes, to like boys who lied and swore and
girls who stole and deceived. The depravity
of these mere infants stupefied her at first.
She, who had seen nothing like it, had not
conceived its existence ; and it was sometime
before she could summon energy to
attack the enormous difficulties with which
she was brought in daily practice face to
face. In accepting work so readily, she had
not anticipated its disagreeable consequences.
Her brother's never-failing help, his counsel,
and his approval stimulated her, and the
readiness with which the class for whom the
nursery was provided availed themselves of
its advantages encouraged her ; nevertheless
Margaret Yane achieved only by conscious
effort that which was simple and easy to
Richard and to some of the stronger women
who worked with her. The sense of duty
was never absent from her mind, and she
toiled like one who ascends a steep hill for
business and not for pleasure. She endeavoured

to forget herself and think only
of promoting the happiness of others, but
the endeavour only increased her consciousness
of its own necessity.

Richard did all in his power to reconcile
her to London by taking her to concerts and
the theatre frequently, and providing her with
a plentiful supply of light reading from
Mu die's, but these temporary distractions
hardly improved matters. The children
seemed nauo-htier the morning' after she had
feasted on music, and London dirtier and
duller after seeing the brightness of the stage,
and her own condition less enviable by comparison
with the heroines of fiction. The
cleanliness and purity of country life was in
complete harmony with her delicate and
dainty nature ; a harebell amidst the refuse
of the adjoining green market would not have
been more out of place than she was in
Spitalfields. Her cuffs and collars, which had
kept clean in Tangleyy for three whole days,
where not fit to be worn after a few hours'
exposure to the smoky atmosphere of London ;
curtains had to be washed once a week, and
came home from the laundry looking infinitely
worse than six months' wear in the old
parsonage would have rendered them. In a

word, practical far-going philanthropy was
not her metier.

Richard Yane watched his sister with
loving, anxious eyes, and it would scarcely
be an exaggeration to say that not a sign o f
her dissatisfaction escaped him, despite the
caution with which she guarded her feelings
in his presence. He saw that she was unfitted
for the exertions she had undertaken.
While they took her thoughts from Koland,
and prevented her from brooding over her
loss and disappointment, he was content that
her mind should be occupied by them ; but
when as months passed away, and there was
a reasonable hope that her sufferings on this
account had lost their first poignancy, he
became anxious that she should change her
occupation in London for one more suitable
in a place less discordant with her tastes.
But he foresaw the difficulty of making her
resign an undertaking which by its difficulties
bound her to perseverance, and of leaving him
to pursue his work alone. An unexpected
solution of this difficulty was offered, in the
month of August, by Amadis Gamier.

A DIFFICULT QUESTION AND ITS ANSWER.

HE intimacy between Garnier and
the Vanes had steadily increased
from its commencement. He was
their guest at Christmas, and if his
attentions to Margaret at that time were
unwelcome, it was by no fault of his, but
because of the invidious contrast they presented
with the neglect of her absent lover.
His visits became frequent when the brother
and sister settled in London, and at length
they who had always welcomed him as a
guest came to desire his society as a friend.
He seemed unalterable : he was always
polite, considerate, and agreeable.

If Amadis ever loses his temper it must
be in that brief interval between washing: and

putting the final touches on his face and
moustache,' said Yane to his sister. ' He is
an artist, and knows how impossible it would
be to make anyone believe him seriously
moved with wrath while his complexion retained
its habitual rosiness and his hair
refused to bristle.' The vanity he displayed
in attending to his personal appearance ceased
in time to be ridiculous to them. It was a
weakness, but then it was the weakness of a
man they liked, and so came to be as unnoticeable
as a slight physical deformity in
one's brother.

Madge liked him, and accepted his quiet,
unobtrusive sympathy. His slippers were
ever ready by her brother's, and the spare
room, which after a time was called Mr.
Garnier's, she kept as neat and pretty as her
own, and its hangings as white as the
abominable air of Spitalfields would permit.
He showed great interest in the nursery, and
painted one room with frescoes of a fanciful
and grotesque kind, which were highly entertaining
to the children. He even tried once
to amuse a squad of boys by telling them a
story of adventure, but he candidly admitted
his inability to do anything more practically
charitable than giving money when he was

asked for it, — ^ And not always with enjoyment
that,' he added, with that slight
movement of his Hps which indicated a disposition
to smile.

This inability to render practical assistance
to the necessities of those with whose
sufferings we compassionate, was the subject
of conversation between Richard Vane and
Garnier one night as they strolled along the
Victoria Embankment. The day had been
hot, and they had walked thither for a little
fresh air, leaving Madge, who complained of
fatigue, at home.

If I saw a man or a woman starving fora
loaf of bread, I could no more go and fetch
that loaf from a baker's than I could fly in
the air. I'd give five shillings and welcome
if they would only ask for it ; but the ready
way of alleviating the want would never
occur to me — probably I shouldn't act upon
it if it did. I have a rooted objection to
being laughed at, and I feel sure that a manlike
me walking through the open thoroughfare
with a loaf would be laughed at ; yet I
think I can say, without injustice, that I
should feel as deeply as those who had the
moral courage to fetch the bread.'

But if it were pointed out to you that

3^011 ouoiit to fetch the loaf, you would fetch
it, Gamier V

Yes, but I should like the errand none
the better. I should feel very much like a
poor devil of a recruit who is compelled to
face the guns he would fly from if he could.'

'We are not all intended for the same
purpose, or there would be no weak ones for
the strong to help ; it is the province of one
to be useful and of another to be— ornamental
Yane said with a laugh ; then added in mock
gravity, * Not that I wish to accuse you of
being either the one or the other.'

If we were all blind one could desire
nothing better than to be as exclusively
useful as you, Mr. Yane,' answered Gamier,
responding to Yane's pleasantry, * but in the
interests of those with eyes to see, I would
point out the advantage of some men having
a combination of the two qualities. Speaking
seriously, for the matter has given me many
an hour's anxiety, I am inclined to think that
a man, after giving his abilities a fair trial,
should desist from wasting his time in unfruitful
efforts and direct his energies to the
objects for which they are given him.'

Chaucer, if I remember him rightly, says
something like that :

" Wise men alwaie affirme and sale,
That best 'tis for a manne
Diligentlie for to applied
The best way he canne'"

That is certainly what I have come to
think. And so with charity it is, I think, for
the favoured few to be actively benevolent
and for the majority to be passive.'

It's rather a Jesuitical way of shuffling
off one's responsibilities though,' said Vane,
without detecting the curious glance hastily
cast at him by Garnier at this imputation of
Jesuitism.

Nevertheless I am convinced that it is a
good and sufficient reason for ceasing to
mortify one's self with unsuccessful attempts,
and this conviction has grown upon me by
recent observations.'

Recent observations — of whom V

Of your sister.'

Vane was silent. Garnier continued :

In her one sees the tenderest feelings of
humanity joined with the most ardent desire
to render practical assistance, and yet it is
clear that she is physically unfit for her self-imposed
task.'

It is true,' Vane responded, gravely.

It is noticeable she grows thinner and

paler. It is more difficult to raise a smile
in her face now than when the shock of Roland's
infidelity first fell upon her. She constantly
wears the look of fatigue which one
may see upon the faces of children employed
in factories, who, poor little things, are set to
close work before the natural time of their
careless freedom has expired.'

Madge is not strong, and London does
not agree with her.'

^ That is a sufficient reason for everything
one sees and regrets ; yet it seems to me that
the careworn expression of her features, which
is so touching to witness, arises in a great
measure from despondency. In her heart I
believe she knows that she never can like the
task she has undertaken.'

This is all too true, I fear, Garnier. The
very same reflections have occurred to me
again and again of late, without my being able,
alas ! to see a remedy for the evil. To leave
me, and take a situation as governess or
travelling companion, she must first be convinced
that she is unable to carry out her
present undertaking, and I think her love forme
and her pride would be proof against all
the arguments one could bring one's self to
urge.' He was silent a moment, and then,

as if to close the subject, he said : ' The point
is yours, Garnier ; but I wish the proof you
brought to give conviction to your argument
yere not my sister.'

Garnier willingly dropped the abstract
question ; it was the least interesting part of
the discussion to him. After walking a few
yards without speaking, he suddenly asked :

'Do you think sour sister still thinks
deeply about Roland Aveling V

I cannot tell. Of course since his marriage
she has schooled herself to think of him
with altered sentiments. She never mentions
his name. Possibly she is learning to forget
him as well as to forgive him.'

Do you think she has so far forgotten him
that she would think without displeasure of
marrying another man V

That possibility has never entered my
imagination. And yet,' added Yane, after a
moment's pause, * that would be the best thing
that could happen.'

I am glad you think so.'

Yes, marriage would be the best thing for
dear Madge. Not other women's children,
but her own she ought to be caring for. She
would be the best of wives; but then our
circle of acquaintances is smaller than ever,

and where are we to find a good husband for
our little sister V

Gamier did not reply to this question, hut
after walking a few yards farther he broke
the silence by asking another :

^ Do you think your sister would marry
me V

A PORTRAIT OF AMADIS GARNIER, BY HIMSELF.

ANE was completely surprised by
Garnier's question. He had looked
upon him as a ' confirmed bachelor,'
and he believed that this view was
shared by Madge. Garnier he knew was of
French extraction, if not actually a native of
France, and the attentions he paid to Madge
had not seemed excessive or at all more than
might reasonably be expected from him. He
was aimahle to all, and the additional suavity
of his manners to her were warranted by
friendship and delicate sympathy. But there
was no reason why he should not love her,
and Vane wondered how he could have lost
sight of such a probable result of his frequent
visits and intimate communication with her.

He was not too old to be unsusceptible to
her young beauty, nor so dull as to regard
her attractions with indifference.

Yane walked silently by his companion's
side. He was a slow thinker, and before he
could consider whether Madge would accept
Garnier he had to digest the fact that Garnier
was prepared to make her an offer.

'Your silence makes me fear your answer,'
said Garnier.

Pardon me,' replied Yane. ' Your question
was so unexpected that I find it difficult
at once to comprehend the new relation in
which it places us. I may be somewhat dull
in these affairs, but I assure you I never
thought of you as a possible lover of
Madge.'

I may have seemed to you too old V

I do not think it was for that reason.'

I am aware that there is a considerable
discrepancy in our age ; it might be said that
I am old enough to be her father. It would
not be the romantic union for which a young
and beautiful girl hopes ; but whatever sacrifices
your sister made she would have the
satisfaction of knowing that they added appreciative
gratitude to my love.'

I do not think that Madge would again
VOL. III. 50

son.

place confidence in the affection of a young
man.'

Possibly my roving habits led you to imagine
that I should never settle down V

Probably.'

I have been a rambler by necessity. The
secluded life of a chambered bachelor would
be intolerable to me. You, who know my
restless disposition, who have seen me flying
from place to place, never resting contentedly
in one for three days together, may find it
difficult to believe that I was once a passive
domesticated man, spending my leisure hours
in cultivating a garden and adorning my
home, and passing the rest of the day in my
counting-house.'

'Your counting-house ! — you in business !'
exclaimed Vane, in a tone of incredulity.

It is a fact. I was a tanner in a quiet
little village by the Seine. I was an only
son, and succeeded to my father's business
when he died. Before that event I was engaged
to my cousin, but our marriage was
postponed from time to time in consequence
of her failing health. She was young ; the
doctors said she would recover, that there
was nothing seriously wrong, that she had
outgrown her strength. I was anxious, yet

I did not despair, and every effort I made to
increase my business, to add to the charms
of the old rustic house, with its great walled
garden adjoining, were for her sake. I said to
myself, ^' There is another thousand francs
for Marie. When this graft bears a rose
Marie will be my wife, and she shall pick it.
This chamber shall be Marie's boudoir — shall
I get the ceiling painted in time T '

He paused, and Yane took his arm in sympathy,
and they walked side by side without
speaking for some minutes ; then Garnier, as
if dismissing the gloomy thoughts from his
mind by an effort, said :

That is enough. She did not recover.
You know now why I wandered. I sold my
business, and, realising enough to ensure mean
annual income more than sufficient for my
wants, I left France, determined never to
return to it again. That is thirty years since.
For four years I travelled through Europe
but finding nowhere scenes or acquaintances
so congenial to my tastes elsewhere, I settled
in England — if that may be called settling
which was without rest. Constant change
and variety, and the action of thirty long
years, have effaced from my mind the painful
recollections of Lenore.'

50—2

Leisure V

Marie was her second name — the one I
loved to call her by Garnier explained, without
a moment's hesitation. * It seems to me
heartless to acknowledge it — but I have
ceased to love Marie as I loved her once.'

It is no more than is natural said Yane.
providence is merciful, and dulls our memory
to the past. I don't see why you should
think it heartless, knowing it to be from no
want of love.'

Quite true, my dear Yane. I meant to
say that it seems heartless that one should
forget a lost bride while still cherishing the
desire for a home in which she was to have
been the presiding spirit. I am afraid I
trouble you with these sentimental exceptions.'


If I do not quite understand them, I can
at least sympathise with one whose feelings
are so tenderly sensitive.'

I am grateful for your indulgence. As
I said, the desire to have a home has never
left me ; it has, indeed, increased with my
knowledge of English life and my inability to
find contentment in varying scenes and
changing acquaintances. I envied you your
charming menage at Tangleyy. " There'

thought I, "a man could lead his life happily
and well." I long to make for myself a
similar home. Some antique cottage, overgrown
with roses, embosomed in a fertile
valley, rich in colour, fragrant with the odour
of a thousand flowers, resounding with the
song of birds and the hum of honey-laden
bees ; a home where I might still practise my
poor skill as a painter, and, devoting myself
to the interests of the simple people around
me, might earn their respect and esteem.'

Vane's hand slipped away from Garnier's
arm. He found it necessary to fill his pipe.
He knew not why, but he had never liked
Gamier less than now. He disliked the
theatrical, French sentiment of the scene
painted by the man who wished to marry his
sister. Yet a Frenchman must be French,
and the life he proposed was as good and
honest as could be devised by the majority of
men. Vane accused himself of prejudice and
injustice, and set himself to look at the matter
from Garnier's point of view.

My dread of solitude, my inability to find
a suitable companion, have precluded me from
making the home I covet ; but that objection
would be removed if I were so happy as to
obtain your sister's consent to be my wife.

My means are quite adequate — indeed, beyond
the expenses of such a modest establishment.
I could afford sufficient to gratify
the benevolent inclinations of my wife.'

I do not know what Margaret's feeling
with regard to marriage may be,' said Vane,
when Garnier's silence obliged him to speak.
I am convinced it would be well for her to
marry.'

Have I your permission to address heron
the subject V

^ Certainly. Margaret will not give you
her answer without careful consideration.'

That is in itself a compliment to me,'
answered Garnier ; and then, seeing the constraint
under which Vane spoke, he turned
the subject.

The following afternoon he called upon
Margaret, and after sitting with her for half
an hour went away. The particulars of the
interview Madge narrated to her brother
when they were alone in the evening; and
Vane found that Garnier had repeated in
effect his statement of the night before, and
added that he had serious thoughts of adopting
the Protestant faith when he could
benefit by Margaret's instruction. He was
glad to see that Madge did not regard her

lover's sentiment as meretricious, or look
upon his proposed conversion with mistrust.
I have been unjust and intolerant he said
to himself. ' After all, there is nothing surprising
in a man being sentimental in his
love, or in his wishing to conform his religious
views with those of the woman he admires.'


And then he asked me if I would be his
wife,' Madge said in conclusion.

'Yes, Madge. And what answer did you
give him V

'1 said ^^No;" for indeed I felt at that
moment as if I could never think of marrying
anyone ; but he pointed out to me that,
though my sentiment might be averse to
marriage now, it might alter with time, and
begged me not to think of making a definite
refusal until I became perfectly convinced
that it was impossible for me to accept
him as my husband.'

Did you consent to that arrangement V
eyes.'

Then you think it possible you may at
some future time be his wife V

There is no one I would so willingly
marry — now. He has good feeling, he is
considerate, and I should make him happy.'

Poor Madofe ! the romance had prone from
her life.

^ And when is Amadis to have your final
answer ?' asked Vane.

He will return in two months. He has
affairs to settle in France that will take him
away for that time.*

Garnier's words returned to Vane's memory :
^ I left France, determined never to return
ao^ain.' That statement did not ao^ree with
his going to France now for two months to
settle his affairs. It was possible that he had
used the words merely as a figure of speech ;
yet, after thirty years' absence from his
country, what affairs could he have there
that required settling ? The question perplexed
him, and his anxiety was increased by
the necessity of concealing his thoughts from
Margaret.

ANOTHER PORTRAIT OF Amadis GARNIER.

OWAEDS the end of the month
Madge showed signs of ill health
that alarmed Richard greatly.
Leaving the ' nursery ' in the
hands of trustworthy friends, the brother
and sister went to Dover, and gave themselves
up to idle enjoyment of the sun and
wind and weaves. The effect upon Madge
was remarkable. Her health improved every
hour, and she seemed happier and gayer than
Vane had seen her since her disappointment.
She received a letter and a large bouquet
sent by Garnier from Paris, and her satisfaction
was apparent. Richard divined that
she had already decided on the answer she
should make when the two months expired

and Garnier returned to London, and he
tried to dispel the doubt which still lingered
in his mind respecting the man who was to
be his brother-in-law. Another bouquet and
letter came the first week in September, and
then all communication was cut off; the
Prussian armies blockaded Paris, and Garnier
was anion o' the besieged.

^ Is he in danger ?' Margaret asked, with
anxiety, as Richard read the telegram from
the newspaper.

No ; unless curiosity takes him within
range of the German guns. He is in less
danger than a newspaper correspondent.
For your sake, Madge, he will take care of
himself.'

But cannot he be compelled to take up
arms V

I think not. I believe he mio^ht claim
exemption as a naturalised Englishman. He
is clever enough to avoid anything he dislikes,
and I cannot think he would care to

fight. Besides ' Yane was about to say

he is too old,' but, checking himself, said
instead, ' Besides, he does not seem influenced
b}^ any patriotic fervour. He talked
in the calmest way about the Prussian victory
at Wissembourg.'

He seemed greatly agitated that evening
he was with us when the news came of the
battle of Sedan and the surrender of the
Emperor.'

Vane had himself remarked this fact. At
first he attributed his agitation to national or
political sympathy. As a Frenchman he
miofht well be moved with disgust and shame
that ' the tragic man,' who had plunged his
country into war, loudly vaunting his determination
to live or die by the result, should
so readily yield his sword in order to survive
his defeat. On the other hand, as an Imperialist,
he might be shocked by the complete
overthrow of the Empire which this
coup indicated. But in reply to Vane's
question, Garnier had declared that he had
no political opinions, and was neither a republican
nor an Imperialist, and looked upon
Sedan merely as a national disaster. The
indifference with which he had heard of the
previous disaster, contrasting with his agitation
on the subsequent occasion, now recurring
to Vane's mind, increased the feeling of
uncertainty which distressed him.

No doubt of Garnier's sincerity disturbed
Madge in her contemplation of the future.
He had excited her interest by dwelling on

those features of the life he decked to lead
which were most consonant with her tastes ;
he had won her sympathy by the confession
of the past unhappiness which necessitated
his restless wanderings, and now his position,
which seemed to her not untaught with
danger, provoked her anxiety for him. When
the siege should be raised, and he came to
her, she felt it would be cruel to oppose his
desire. And thus she not only reconciled
herself to the idea of marriage, but actually
looked forward to it with interest.

The two months passed ; Paris was still
blockaded, and Garnier a prisoner within its
wails. Could he have claimed Margaret's
answer at this time it would undoubtedly
have made her his wife.

Vane's field of action extended rapidly.
As a philanthropist he strode out of the
narrow circle of purely individual interests,
and gave himself to the service of communities.
He was, as all thinking philanthropists
ever have been and ever must be.
Republican in principle ; but earnest and
sincere in everything that he undertook, he
was a Republican not only in name. By
vv^ord and deed he supported the cause of
justice and reason. He recognised the right

divine of resistance, and in revolution he saw
the only j Justification of bloodshed.

It is unnecessary for the purposes of this
book to enter into the details of bis work
during these months. It brought him into
contact with men of all nations who identified
themselves with liberty and progress.
Amongst them was a Frenchman, named
Pierre Dumesnil, to whom Vane accidentally
mentioned one day, in speaking of the siege,
that he had a friend in Paris for whose safety
he was concerned.

May I ask his name ?' said Dumesnil.

It is scarcely likely you will know him,
for he abjures politics ; his name is Amadis
Garnier,' answered Yane.

Amadis Garnier,' repeated Dumesnil. ^ I
should know that name. Pardon me — is
he a friend, or merely an acquaintance of
yours V

^ A friend — an intimate friend. He has
proposed marriage to my sister, and but for
the blockade would probably be now ray
brother-in-law. '

Amadis Garnier,* Dumesnil said again,
slowly knitting his brows, as if trying to recall
the man's image by the association of the
name. ' I think he must have been in Paris

about the springtime — quite early — perhaps
it was in January.'

I think you are mistaken. He was with
me in Surrey at Christmas-time, and I have
reason to suppose he has not been in France
for thirty years.'

Then he cannot be the man I seem to remember.
The Garnier I allude to was a
mouchard, and Lambert's right-hand man.'

The Garnier I know is an artist '

Humph 1' grunted Dumesnil, interrupting
Vane. ' That adds to the singularity of the
occurrence. A painter V

Yes ; an amateur rather than a professional
artist, moving in good society.'

^ I wish you would come home with me
to my rooms,' said Dumesnil, quickly. * The
suspicion I have of the man claiming your
friendship must be cleared up.'

Vane readily accompanied Dumesnil. On
their way to his lodgings the Frenchman gave
Vane particulars of the infamous means by
which Napoleon III. attempted to suppress
the revolutionary feeling in Paris.

He could not be blind to the fact that a
revolution was impending, and to intimidate
the Parisians and make a show of the power
which in reality he did not possess, he suppressed

a movement which was entirely of
his own fabrication. This was the modus
operandi: — The orchards were sent in
gangs to the cabarets resorted to by ouvriers.
All were dressed to represent unemployed
labourers, and one feigned drunkenness. This
man emptied the sous from his pocket and
offered petits verres all round ; if he had not
enough money one of his accomplices would
produce sufficient to pay for all who were
fools enough to accept the generosity. Then
the leader began to talk sedition, attributing
the want of work and low wages to the
Emperor, and soon, by his arguments and
example, got two or three foolish fellows,
who in their sober moments eschewed politics
altogether, to join him in some noisy phrase.
It was sufficient if they cried, ^' A bas Lambert
!" or, 'sou est Badinguet ?" In a
moment the orchards showed their police
authority, and, with much display, marched
their unlucky dupes through the streets to the
Prefecture. The fainter spirits were certainly
intimidated by this show of vigilance, and so
the scheme found favour amonof those who
justify the means by the end.'

The idea was worthy of the Jesuits.'

Precisely. It arose from one of their

order, or 1 am mistaken. For the safety of
my friend I obtained all the particulars I
could relative to this affair, and made a list
of the men who were known or suspected of
being engaged in it. The scheme failed of
its effect, and the escroqueurs only chance of
safety from the justice of his countrymen
was to give himself up to the tenderer mercies
of the Prussians.'

When they arrived at Dumesnil's apartment,
the Frenchman took a pocket - book
from a drawer in a bureau and turned over
the pages, reading carefully.

Did you ever hear Gamier addressed by
any other name V he asked.

No.'

^ Not Lesseux, for example?' said he, resting
his finger upon the page and looking at
his notes intently.

'No.'

Did you ever learn any of his antecedents
V

Yane narrated the brief history Garnier
had given of himself, at which Dumesnil
gave a short, contemptuous laugh.

He was in a tannery, it is true,' said he,
'but in the capacity of servant. He was
then called Lesseux, and was discharged on

the suspicion, which never could be proved,
of having poisoned the girl his master was
entmofed to. Come, read this.'

Vane took the book in agitation, and read
the paragraph pointed out by Dumesnil.

Amadis Lesseux ' — the name was written
in red ink — ' age about fifty. Clerk in the
tannery of M. Garnier, aux Andelys, Eure,
1845-9. Tried at Rouen, 1850, for the
poisoning of Lenore Lucas, the betrothed of
M. Garnier, to whom he had secretly made
love. Acquitted in the absence of conclusive
evidence. Employed in secret police, 1851 ; and
since remained in the pay of Napoleon III.,
chiefly engfacyed in watchings the refugees in
London. Discovered January, 1870, having
taken the name of his former master, who
died 1853. Photograph secured. Tall;
gentlemanly in appearance and behaviour ; a
tolerably good artist in oil and water-colours.
Member of the Order of Jesus

Vane closed the book in silence.

A deep dodge, taking the name of his
former employer,' said Dumesnil. * I remember
how that fogged us. It was only by
accident we discovered that he was not M.
Garnier, but the clerk who had wronged
him.'

VOL. III. 51

'But there is still the possibility of mistake,
despite the parallel circumstances.'

We can prove that. Will you give me
the book for one minute ? Thank you.'

Dumesnil opened one of the pockets, and
took out a dozen photographs.

Will you look at these, and see if you
recognise one of the portraits V

Dumesnil put the photographs in Vane's
hand.

^ I know that man,' said Vane, selecting
one, and holding it up directly his eyes fell
upon it.

Turn it over,' said Dumesnil.

Vane turned the carte, and saw written
across the back, in red ink, ' Amadis Lesseux
(Garnier) — moucliard and Jesuit.'

OLD Friends.

IR ANDREW AYELING had

done all that justice and generosity
demanded of him. He had sent a
cheque to John Morrison's daughter,
in expiation of the injury he had unwittingly
done the man ; he had sent another to
Richard Vane, in aid of the institution which
he and his sister had formed ; and he had
taken the opportunity of a man being summoned
for drunk and disorderly behaviour in
the ' Aveling Arms ' public-house to deprive
James Ledger, the landlord, of his licence —
a piece of retributive justice which the ex-gamekeeper
deeply resented, but dared not
appeal against. His cheques were accepted,
although that sent to Folly had not been

51—2

presented. 'That man' Ledger declared
himself a rained man. Roland never left the
Hall. Tn health the baronet had never felt
better. Yet still he was ill at ease. He
was alarmed by the symptoms which Koland
exhibited.

How are you this morning, my boy V he
asked one morning in December when they
met in the breakfast-room at Aveling
Hall.

Very well, dad ; how goes it with you V
answered Roland, grasping the offered
hand.

I'm always well ; but you, Roleyy ? you're
not the think.'

What makes jo\i think so, sir V Roland
asked, with a smile.

You don't whistle and sing when you're
dressing as sou used to. Bless me ! the
place was unbearable at one time for the
racket you made.'

It is time I knew better than to disturb
you, sir.'

Disturb me at nine o'clock in the morning!
Rubbish ! A fine open morning like this
you ought to have been dowai at seven, and
cursing the groom for laziness ; down in the
buttery for a quarter of an hour with a beaker

of fresh ale and whatever snacks you could
find to eat, up in the saddle and away over
Bao'shot before the sun had melted the rime
off the brake.'

I'll certainly follow your prescription tomorrow
; it sounds pleasant

'Be careful, Roleyy. I don't know that
early rising is altogether right for you. Perhaps
lying in bed an hour later would do just
as well. Be careful.'

I shall do nothing rashly.'

That's right ; not that I want you to
coddle yourself, you know. In fact it is
these cursed regular habits that I want to get
you out of. They're playing the deuce with
your constitution — producing what our ancestors
called " the vapours." Now, I would
have you up at five one morning and in bed
till midday the next.'

Well, sir, we will have a canter together
after breakfast if it is agreeable to you.'

You know I should like nothing better ;
though why you should always stick by my
side I cannot tell. The roan's a good mare,
but she cannot carry me as if I were your
weight.'

You go quite fast enough for me, dad.'

M ore's the pity, more's the pity. It is

not well for a young fellow of your age to
ride like a parish doctor or a cockney tradesman.
I'd have you go off on the sly with my
favourite mare and come home on foot with
the coat torn off your back, a hang-dog look
on your face, and *' Oh, sir, I'm very sorry,
but I've broken the mare's neck," or some
such story as that. Why, from the time you
first learnt to sit in the saddle till you left
college, there was not a vacation passed
without your getting into some scrape or
other with your recklessness ; and now — — '
Sir Andrew finished his sentence with a
shrug and a sigh.

One cannot always be a boy.'

A man shouldn't have a grave thought in
his head till he's — till he's about fifty.'

The baronet had been about to say ' till
he's married,' but seeing Roland wince, had
taken the timely reminder of a fact which he
wished always to ignore.

'A man's likely to have anything buta
cheerful old aofe who reserves all his
serious questions till then,' said Roland,
laughing.

Young fellows of the present age are apt
to regard life in a too serious spirit. Good
gracious me, what sort of an old man should

I be if I had taken the troubles and worries
of existence as matters of consequence !
Take this advice from me, my boy — don't
think about the disagreeable things of life ;
just turn your back on them and look at
something more pleasant. Somebody said
somewhere something the effect that he

o

laughed to prevent himself from crying. That
is precisely my idea.'

Roland might have retorted to this excellent
advice, which needed only the possibility
of practical application, that some one else
somewhere says something about the apprehension
of the good giving only the greater
feeling to the worse ; but he had not outgrown
the boyish sentiment of final respect,
and regarded his father's utterances as only
less oracular than Sir Andrew himself believed
them to be. It is difficult at all times to seethe
faults of those we love.

Now, look at me : I am a standing
illustration of my principle. I take things
easy — I do not let anything trouble me for
two hours together. When other men would
be tearing their hair, I laugh ; instead of
lying awake bothering my head with things
that are done and can't be helped, I sleep
and forget them ; and the result is that hereat

seventy I am as careless and light-hearted
as a lad of seventeen.'

^ Yours is a happy disposition

And it grieves me that yours is less so,
my boy. It grieves me more than I can tell
you.'

'Don't let that distress you, sir.'

'Ah, but it does distress me, and it ^vill
distress me. I defy any man with a heart
not to suffer if he sees his son unhappy.
Not a wink of sleep did I get till after the
bell at Tangleyy had struck five — where are
my tablets ? Ill make a note that that confounded
clock shall be stopped.'

I shall try to forget my mistakes, and
you, dad, mustn't take my affairs to heart.
I am a little morbid at times, perhaps.'

Morbid ! Not you ; it isn't in the family
to be morbid. You have enough to rack
your heart if any young fellow has ; and
pray doli't do me the injustice to think that I
can see you in distress and not take it to
heart. Why, what a mean, selfish, unfeeling
creature would he be who overlooked it !
I assure you there's not an hour passes
without my thinking over the misfortunes of
our lives, and blaming myself for the share
that I have made to fall upon you.' The

tender-hearted old gentleman's eyes filled
with tears.

^ Come, dad, don't talk like that said
Roland, putting his hand tenderly on Sir
Andrew's arm.

God bless you, my boy ; God bless you !
said the baronet, wiping his eyes with the
soft handkerchief Roland had brought from
his pocket. ' Well, well, this brings us back
to where we started, and I say you don't look
well at all, and when a man's not well he
exaggerates trifling difficulties into enormous
evils. Of course there's nothing seriously
the matter with you mentally or physically.
Everything is going on as well as possible,
only this regular life doesn't agree with young
spirits. You want diversion, change, excitement,
and you must have it. Now, what do
you say to running down to the South for a
couple of months V

^ Do you wish to go V

No, Roleyy ; that would be just as bad as
stopping at home with me, trotting about the
lanes and visiting the slow-going families.
You must go without anything to remind
you of restriction ; and besides, I cannot leave
the Hall. There's likely to be some very
knotty points for the bench to consider after

Christmas: the lac: :i::^ classes iii ore
drunk at this season .:: :l:.e year, and I can
tell Toa, mv lad, you have to ^o to Coke and
read deeply to administer the law impartially
in these difficult cases,'

Unless Tou wish to ofo. I shall certainly
stay at home. I have ac-eepted Brown's estimate
for the new cottages in Sandy Lane, and
I am too interested in them to be away
daring their construction,'

Sir Andrew op^ve a sicjh of relief. ' Christmas
without you would be dull for me, now
that I am used to seeing your face everyday,'
he said.

So Holand did not go to the South, but
busied himself in the erection of the cottages
in Sandy Lane, and there Vane found him,
with a big book on architecture sticking
from, his pocket, and a plumb-line in his
hand,

Have I permission to enter the works V
asked Vane, coming upon him unseen,

My dear old fellow,' cried Roland, turning
quickly at the sound of the familiar voice,
and facing his old friend. Down went the
plumb-line, and the two grasped hands.

Holand at once launched into the subject of
architecture, and completely bewildered Vane

with the quantity of technical terms and
statistical facts he forced upon him in the
first ten minutes. He listened gravely, however,
and gave his opinion in serious terms.
Indeed he rejoiced so greatly in Roland's
enthusiasm and earnest application to a
rational occupation of his time and money,
that he had no thought to devote to the
amusing side of bis mood.

'You're doing a good thing, and you're
doing it well he said ; ' it doesn't need a
bishop to give his blessing to this undertaking,
Roleyy ; you'll find it falling upon you
like rain on the drooping herbage.'

You make me happy, Dick ; my heart
beats like a girl's.'

And how many cottages are you going to
set up here V

Half-a-dozen ; but they're not all. I'm
going over the whole estate. There shan't
be left a single one of those fever-dens
that have been given for the habitation of
poor toiling folks. I'll have 'em all down.
And when I've seen to the labourers I shall
tackle the farmers' grievances. I have told
the dad I will lessen his labours on the bench;
and so I will, if decent treatment can keep
men from poverty and crime.'

Go it, young 'ne,' said Vane, smiling, and
clapping the enthusiast on the back.

^ If I can help it, blankets and soup shall
be an unnecessary charity at the Hall this
time next year.'

That's it.'

^ And men and women shan't be compelled
to attend Tangleyy Church in order to get a
loaf of bread. They shall worship God how
they please, and have their bread all the
same.'

Well said, Foley.'

'And I've turned the missionary box out
of the church, and stuck another there for a'
reading-room ; and there shall be another
there for a cricket club when the summer
comes.'

The ex vicar of Tangleyy gasped for breath
as these radical announcements came from
the mouth of this babe.

How does my successor take your arrangements
V

He's as huffish as he can be — principally
because I don't listen to his sermons.'

Why, have you left off your Sunday
devotions V Vane asked, with sudden gravity.
■ * I haven't. Only I go to Woking Church
by preference.

^ Why V

^ Oh, Dick ! need you ask ? I can never
enter the church week-class without looking
at the empty pulpit where your sweet old face
used to gleam out in the summer twilight
Avithout a sigh, and then I look at the pew
where Madge sat listening with worshipful
eyes turned upon you, and my heart aches.
I could no more sit through a service
delivered by a stranger from your pulpit than
I could go down to the vicarage and see that
pretty parson with his stiff-backed sisters
sitting in the room that you and Madge have
hallowed. Oh, Dick ! those old, old days,
with their calm, sweet evenings, all holy and
still, when I think of them I feel as if I
must just hide my face somewhere and
cry.'

They had left Sandy Lane, and were
walking through the pine-woods together.
Vane with his gentle voice o-ave his friend
comfort and peace of heart.

I was just too happy in the old days ;
that was my misfortune. Had I known unhappiness
then, how different might all have

been. Fancy ' Roland checked himself,

and asked in silent thought, ' What right
have I to think of Madge V

Soon after he said in a voice untouched
with emotion :

Have you heard anything of my wife V
^ No,' answered Yane. ' She said she was
about to leave England, and undoubtedly she
has. Possibly she is in Paris ; that would
explain our hearing nothing of her.'

The cheque my father sent has never been
presented.'

Yane did not answer.

^ He has ceased to love Folly,' he said to
himself.

They were both silent for a while ; then
Poland, in hesitating, faltering accents,
said :

'■ I have not mentioned your sister's name,
but you know, Dick, that I want to know
about her.'

^ She is better than she has been. But
London does not suit her, and she will
have to give up the nursery, at any rate for a
time.'

Has she any — any plans for the future,
Dick V

None that one may think of as definitely
probable.'

What do you mean, old fellow V

^ She has received an offer of marriage.'

Vane felt the arm linked within his quivering
as if with cold ; but he proceeded upon his
old plan of ' having it out and said, ' Before
the siege the offer was made her, and her
answer was to have been given in October,
but the man was unable to leave Paris.'
^ Would she have accepted, do you think V

Yes, I believe so.'

Is he a very good fellow V
I don't know ; I shall have to find that
out when the sieo^e is raised.'
^ Shall you go to Paris V

That is quite probable, though not for
this particular reason. Still, I believe I shall
go.'

And — she —-your sister V

Will go with me.'

And if the man is good she will marry
him V

Yes ; I think so.'

What kind of a man is he V Poland asked,
after a pause.

You know him — Amadis.'

Amadis Garnier ?' exclaimed Poland in
astonishment not unmixed with contempt,
for he had pictured a handsome, fine-spirited
young fellow such as Margaret deserved. A

moment; and then, hanging his head, he
said :

Well, he is a truer man than I have
been. May God bless and make her
happy !'

THE OLD FRIENDS PART.

NE evening early in January, 1871,
Richard Vane received a visit from
two Frenchmen : one, Dumesnil,
the man who had given him information
respecting Amadis Garnier ; the
other, a slight, dark man with long thin
fingers, whom Dumesnil introduced as
Jacques Poirot.

Citizen Jacques Poirot is of our society,'
said Dumesnil. ' He arrived in London this
afternoon, having left Paris by balloon last
Thursday. Besides important information
for our president, he brings a letter for you
which he is instructed to deliver into your
hands.'

VOL. in. 52

'You are Richard Vane V asked M. Poirot.

Yes ; I am he replied Yane, giving his
hand.

Poirot grasped it ; and, having interchanged
the signs by which members of the
brotherhood recognised one another, he took
a case from his pocket and produced a thin
packet which he handed to Yane.

ewe will leave sou to read your letter
said Dumesnil. ' We shall meet again tomorrow
night — perhaps earlier if events
should call for a meeting before then. We
have important news which must be delivered
at once to our president. It is certain
that the provisional government will
surrender Paris before the end of the month ;
a convention may even now be made. The
enemies of the Republic and of progress have
the reins in their hand. It is clear that all
for which France has fought for since Sedan
will be lost unless her patriot children and
her earnest friends stand firm in her defence.
What course we shall take will be decided
tomorrow, but it behoves us all to prepare
to enter Paris the moment a line of communication
is opened.'

I am ready replied Yane.

He led his visitors to the door, and returning

to the room sat down with the unopened
letter in his hand, and there rested with his
eyes bent upon the ground, absorbed in grave
reflection. Curiosity and personal concern
aroused by the first sight of a letter from the
beleaguered city were forgotten in the more
widely important subject of a people's welfare.
The voice of his sister Margaret reminded
him of the individual interests involved
in the political crisis.

May I come in V she asked, peeping into
the room through the half-opened door.

^ Yes, Madge, I am alone he replied,
holding out his hand — a readily understood
signal that he wished to talk to her.

She took his hand, and drawing a seat beside
his chair, sat by him, still holding his
hand.

Dumesnil has been here with a friend
who escaped from Paris by balloon,' Vane
said. ' He brings confirmation of our fears ;
the provisional government of Paris is about
to capitulate to the Prussians.'

I shall be so grateful when all this terrible
fighting is ended,' said Madge, with a sigh.
^ It may be humiliating to admit a foreign
enemy into the city, but that is surely better
than sacrificing so many lives merely to 



lay what is believed to be an inevitable
calamity. In your heart, Dick dear, weren't
you glad to hear the news T

'I cannot say that I was, Madge. But
that is not the question which we must discuss.
We have to think, dear, of the personal
liabilities to which this coming event
will expose us. I must be in readiness to
enter Paris the moment that railway communication
is opened.'

You said weeks since it might be so. The
poor unhappy people . who have suffered
hunger and the loss of home, and those still
more unfortunate who have lost all that made
home lovable and hardships easy to bear —
brothers, fathers, and lovers — they will
indeed need sympathy and tenderness.'

Yane made no reply : he foresaw that the
easier tasks of mercy must wait until the
sterner work was finished.

It will be quite easy to find a lady to do
my duties,' Margaret continued ; ' and you
have only to give me an hour's notice and I
shall be ready.'

Then you have made up your mind to
accompany me V said Yane, sighing.

Don't you wish me to V Madge asked, ina
tone of surprise and anxiety.

There are reasons why I could wish you
to stay in England — at least for a while.'

^ What reasons V

It is possible there may be trouble yet in
Paris. Such a government as that which
now exists is not what France has bled for,
and it may be necessary to replace it by
another which represents more truly the
feeling of the people.'

You think there will be an emeiitej and
that I could not bear the shock of such
sights as those which must meet our eyes in
the streets. I am a coward, I know ; yet I
could sit indoors with the old women and
children and make lint for the wounded,
though I dare not go amongst them, as you,
I know, will.'

That is not all I may have to do, Madge
dear

You will persuade them all you can to refrain
from fighting X

It may not be possible to avoid fighting.'

But you, Richard — your duties will not
imperil your safety V

If I am called upon to take arms I shall
obey.'

Oh, my brother !'

Margaret clasped Vane's arm in her

anson.

strenuous embrace, looking up into his face
in silent supplication for a while ; then, ashe
was about to speak, she stopped him, as
if to check the course he meant to take, and
in a thousand broken sentences, rapidly
uttered, and mingled with her rising sobs,
she implored him to revoke his words, to
discard the resolution he had adopted, to seek
another path of duty, and preserve his life
for greater services to humanity. She
reasoned with all the force of her ardent feelings,
striving to convince him that he overstrained
the sense of duty. She dared not
pause, knowing that his answer would be
final and decisive, and feeling too surely that
her appeal would be useless, When at length
she ceased, looking still upwards into his
face through her tear-filled eyes, he said,
drawings her trembling form nearer to him :

*You have uro^ed no armament so strong as
that which I have had to overcome. My
Madge, do sou think I forgot you ? I did
not resolve to give my life for liberty until I
had subdued the temptation to renounce
duty for the sake of my affection. Now
you know why for some reasons I wish
you not to accompany me. If I should
fall '

Oh, I cannot think of that !' exclaimed
Margaret, wringing her hands in agony.

But it is a possibility we must not overlook.'


I can only look upon it as a reason
stronger than all others why I should go
with you. Only one thing shall separate us
she said ; and stopped, feeling a deadly chill
at the heart.

When Yane was again alone he turned his
thoughts to the yet unopened packet. With
Madge yet in his mind, his thoughts turned
towards Gamier. He hoped there might bean
enclosure from him ; yet, fearing to find
only a confirmation of those imputations
already laid against his character, he was
pleased that Margaret knew nothing of it.

Refusing to consider Gamier guilty until
he had been given the opportunity of proving
himself innocent, Yane had said nothing to
Margaret about Dumesnil's revelation. He
had never seen Garnier's handwriting, and
the address upon the envelope might have
been his, being particularly fine and neat.
Opening the envelope he took out a single side
of thin paper and looked down it ; the letter
was in the same small neat hand, but at the

foot in arose letters was the sho-nature,
Folly.' Vane's heart leaped. He read :

Paris, Hotel Milan, Carrefour de I'I'Europe, St. Lazar,

January 14tli, 1871.

'Sir,

Our city is in great trouble. eye
have the Prussians without, famine within.
Our necessities of our life they sorrow more
large every day. In especially our poor
suffer : many have taken refuge here with
our good Madame Avenet, whose home in
the quartier of St. Suffice is no longer but
ruins. But our good ladies cannot relieve
all, and how the poor creatures with no
homes, no works, and no money, linger alive,
the good G od alone knows, with the commonest
kind of meat at twelve francs the half kilo,
and now no person may buy more than ten
ounces of bread a day. Tt is dreadful. But
the siege is soon to be all over, we are told.
My child, as I privilege myself to cal Mrs.
Aveling, has given all that she has to the
poor Tiuserahles. She is as good the woman as
she is good the dancer, and, remembering ever
your goodness, she makes use of the opportunity
now presented to send you a cheque,
which she wishes you to buy with all the

good things readily used as you can, and to
send them by the first conveyance permitted
to enter Paris.

With very great respect, sir,
^ I am yours truly,

G. ESPERENZA.

^P.S. — My child begs me to write these
words : ^' I have not done right always since
I left you, dear, dear friend. It is not easy,
but I try my hardest. Good-bj^e, dear friend.

'' Folly." '

Looking in the envelope he found the
cheque sent to Folly long ago by Sir Andrew
Aveling. In Esperenza's hand it was filled
up for the amount of £1,000.

After a little consideration, Vane went to
his desk and wrote :

'53, Church Street, Spitalfields,
January 21st, 1871.
My dear Violet,

I enclose a letter from your wife
which I have this evening received. You
weill be glad to see that our hopes for her are
in part fulfilled. I also send the cheque.
Folly has not yet learned the value of money,
and I feel sure that Sir Andrew will be glad
to alter the sum she has written for one more

in accordance with his own expectation and
desires.

It is quite likely I shall myself accompany
the stores, and in that case Margaret will
also leave England. Come and bid us both
farewell, dear lad.

Dick.'

He read again Folly's postscript to Es-serena's
letter, and then, folding the sheet,
enclosed it with the cheque in his own note
to Roland.

Again and again he repeated her words to
himself with tender sympathy. The path of
duty had not been thornless to him.

'/' '/t ^/t '/^ *

The brother and sister had just finished
their tea the following' evenings when a knock
at the door was followed by the entrance of
Roland Aveling. Whatever anticipations of
constraint he had anticipated vanished as he
took Margaret's hand and looked into her
face. Earnest concern for her, a vearnincr
desire to make her happy, were the only feelings
in his heart; and as she read them
through his eyes, Madge forgot that he had
deceived her, neglected her, forsaken her,
and given his heart to another. To both it

Seemed as if they were awakening from a
long, long troubled sleep, to find only that
they were older than when their eyes closed
upon the happy days gone by.

We didn't expect you so soon, Roland
said Vane.

^ Your letter was brought to me in the
fields ; I just handed it over to the dad, who
was with me, and rode off to the station,'
answered Roland, 'with an apologetic glance
at his dress.

He wore his riding-jacket, breeches, and
gaiters, and a corner of the work on architecture
protruded from his pocket.

You are still busy T

Yes, yes ; the work goes on capitally,
though we had to stop a while during the
hard weather in December.'

Roland spoke mechanically; he was saying
to himself, ' How pale she is — how pale !'

^ Will you eat something V

'No, Dick, no. You shall just walk back
with me to the station, if you will. I came
to say " Good-bye," and that's enough for me
to^do just now. Madge,' he said, turning round
and addressing her unconsciously by the old
familiar name, *I am just the same awkward
fellow I was as a boy ; I can't find suitable

words for what I feel ; but I am not careless
nor thoughtless either, and I wish you to
accept the truest wishes of my heart for your
good.'

I can accept nothing so gratefully Margaret
faltered.

He tried to speak, but failed. * How pale
she is — how pale !' were the only words his
thoughts could frame. The tears came to his
eyes and choked his voice. He held out his
hand, and all that he could say was ^ Farewell
!'

Farewell,' answered Margaret, scarcely
less agitated.

Their hands touched and severed, and so
they parted.

I broke the young bud ruthlessly,' thought
Roland, 'and the first blossom is destroyed;
but a second may grow to bless a tenderer
hand.'

Vane talked as he walked beside Koland
to Waterloo ; his companion was silent all
the way, though he wished to speak. As he
sat in the carriage and the train was about to
move, he said :

I have been able to think of nothing, and
I can say nothing now, dear Dick, save this
may God bless you T

Why, that includes all that one could
wish or say, and so God bless you, too answered
Vane.

Then their hands clung together and separated
-clung together and separated for the
last time.

FOLLY S LIFE IN PARIS.

i^^v -^ ^^^^ morning of the succeeding day
Vane received a letter from Sir
Andrew, in which the baronet
thanked him for his consideration ;
and in returning Senor Esperenza's letter,
with a fresh cheque, begged him to draw
freely if he required more money for his
philanthropic purposes. The new cheque
was for ten thousand pounds.

Taking Dumesnil's advice as to the things
which would be the most acceptable to the
starving poor of Paris, Yane got together his
stores, and made such arrangements that he
could at any moment leave England.

Among the first strangers that entered
Paris were Eichard Yane and his sister. He

had stuffed two portmanteaus with comestibles,
and these were emptied before he was off the
steps of the St. Lazar Station. The crowd
pressed upon them, men and women pushing
each other savagely aside to get near. In
the outskirts of the mob stood an old man
with a young woman.

^ We will get away, my child said the old
man ; ' see how wildly they struggle ! News
from Chanzy or Bourbaki, perhaps. Let us
go no nearer ; you will be crushed.'

No, no !' exclaimed the girl, with great
excitement. * It is he — don't you see him on
the steps there ? It is he T

With these words she left the old man,
and throwing herself into the crowd, pushed
and wound her way towards the steps. The
women opposed her. ^ You have not hunger,'
said they ; but the men made way for her,
and helped her along, so that presently she
got within the circle where Vane stood
with his sister and his empty portmanteaus.


She clasped his arm with her two hands,
giving a little dove-like coo of delight.

Folly !' he exclaimed, turning to her.

She cooed again.

Did you expect me V he asked, taking

her hand and holdings it with deho'ht thrilling:

o o o

through his veins.

She nodded, according to her old habitude;
and then, catching sight of Margaret for the
first time, she shrank away so that Richard
stood between them.

^ Madge, here is Folly. You have seen
her before. Come '

He held up Folly's hand and drew her forward
significantly.

It was no time for consideration, and
Margaret, obeying the tacit command of her
brother, took Folly's hand in hers. The
touch seemed to have a magical effect upon
Folly ; it was to her an offer of forgiveness
which she eagerly accepted. She pressed
Margaret's cold hand fervently, and raising
her pretty face, kissed her pale cheek.

The crowed, finding there was nothing
more to be had, dispersed like a flock of
hungry poultry.

The goods will not arrive for some time,'
Yane said to Folly. ' 1 have left a man in
the bureau who will bring word when the
train arrives. I have told him he will find
me at the Hotel de Milan.'

Then you intended to see me V Folly
asked.

Yes. I want your help in distributing
the things bought with your money. You
know more about the poor of Paris than I do.
Where is the hotel V

Quite near. And may I help you ? I
know where the poor are to be found, and I
shall never get tired. Let me carry one of
those portmanteaus ; and see, here comes
Esperenza, he shall carry the other.'

In her eagerness she had taken undone of
the cases and was beckoning eagerly to
Esperenza.

There are lots of poor fellows here wanting
work. I can't let you take the business
out of their hands,' said Vane, smiling.

Folly gave up the portmanteau with reluctance,
and then went through the form of
introducing Esperenza, who had come to her
side, in her own peculiar manner.

This is Esperenza, and this is Miss Vane,'
said she.

And who am I, Folly V asked Vane.

There is no need to tell Esperenza who
you are. He can see that you are Eichard
Vane.'

They walked to the Carrefour de I'I'Europe
by the Eue amsterdam and the Rue de
Moscou. Margaret with Senor Esperenza,

VOL. III. 53

and Folly with Eichard Vane, following.
Folly never felt more grateful to the old
ballet-master than when he offered his arm
to Margaret and took the lead along the
narrow trottoir ; she closed up to Yane's side,
and timidly, yet with warm gladness, slipped
her hand under his arm. A long vista of
delight seemed opened up to her, and the
prospect intoxicated her with delight. She
felt as though she must laugh or cry in her
great happiness.

^ Were you surprised to hear from me V
she asked after a time.

Yes. And yet I thought you were in
Paris.'

Because you did not hear from me before
?'
Yes.'

I am so glad.'
^ Why V

Because that shows you knew I should
not forget you. For some time I dared not
send you a message, and then when I wished
to tell you what I thought I was unable to.
I could not write, and 1 would not tell even
dear old Esperenza what I felt. Then I was
dreadfully troubled, fearing you would think
me ungrateful or forgetful, and I wanted just

to tell you that I was trying hard to do righfc,
but the city was blockaded and I could send
no letter to you. But you knew that I
lo — that I never ceased to think of you,
didn't you V

*Yes.'

A happy little sigh rose from Folly's heart.
After a moment's pause, she said, turning
her face to him :

Do you think I look better ? — I don't
mean prettier, but sweeter and gentler V

How could he reply ? Looking at her
face, pink with pleasure, her pretty lips
curved in a tender smile, her great eyes dark
and lustrous as a fawn's, yet glowing with a
woman's strenuous love, he felt that he had
never seen anything to equal its sweet gentleness.


But she was the wife of his friend, and he
was bound to check rather than encourage
the love which he knew too well was
throbbing in her bosom.

You were never wanting in sweetness or
gentleness,' he said, taking his eyes from her
beauty. * Come, tell me about yourself, and
what you have been doing here.'

Right from the beginning V

'Yes.'

53—2

You told me I could do good by amusing
people, and so I went to the theatre with
quite different feelings, and all the time I
played I was thinking of what you had told
me, and trying my very best to satisfy the
audience. But somehow it was less easy
than playing to amuse myself, and not half
so successful. I think I must have looked
grave and anxious at times, and my carefulness
caused me to make mistakes which I
had never made before. In the old time, if I
did anything that was not in my part I could
laugh it off, dance it off, and make the people
more pleased than if I had made no error at
all ; but when I became anxious to do well,
the slightest mistake made me lose my self-possession.
Do you see V

Yes. I can understand that quite well.'
Of course you can ; but the stupid old
manager couldn't. He said the piece had
run too long, and the audience were tired of
it. I knew otherwise, and so I gave up my
engagement and I determined to come here,
for London seemed to me just like a great
graveyard, where all that had made me happy
was dead and buried. I went to the theatre
where Esperenza was engaged, and told him
to find me an engagement. He wanted me

to dance — dance, and no more ; but I wanted
to make people laugh, and to give them enjoyment,
just as in the old time with ^' Andromeda."
It wasn't difficult to get an engagement.
I'm prettier than the French girls,
and my name was well known. But I
wouldn't wear the dresses they bought forme,
and the costumes I had made, though
they were just as nice as the *^ Andromeda "
dresses, didn't please anyone except the
women, who were jealous of me. And I did
my best to succeed. I made Esperenza sit up
night after night hearing my part, until the
poor old man fell asleep ; but it was all to no
purpose. I failed. Then I gave up the stage
and went to church. After going every day
for some time I thought it would be the
most beautiful thing in the world to live
always a religious life, and wear a nasty,
ugly dress and a great unbecoming thing on
my head. So I went to a religious house and
tried that — for ten days — and I ran away

quite mad. And I said in a rage — I said '

she paused.

Well, Folly V

I said, '* There is no happiness in religion,
there is no happiness in being good. I will
try to be good no more." I said that.'

son.

Poor soul !' thought Yane.

I couldn't help it Folly continued, ' I
was mad ; and it was the misery of wearing
ugly clothes, and trying to sing though my
nose and those horrid priests, that made
me so

You were trying to do an impossible thing,
Folly.'

Yes. But I was a fool, and I didn't know
it. 1 could only see that I had tried to do
right and failed when stupid girls succeeded.
I wouldn't go near Esperenza. I used to
walk about the streets all day and sit in the
deserted avenue between the Champs de
Mars and the Pont d'Alma at night. I used
to wish to throw myself in the river ; but I
had been in the Morgue and seen there a
drowned woman, and the fear of becoming so
dreadful kept me from suicide — that and
something else.'

What else V

I will tell you. Why should I keep any
secrets ? When I felt that temptation to
end my life, I used to repeat your name
again and again — Richard Vane, Richard
Yane, Richard Yane — like that. They were
terrible nights. I do not know how long I
endured that misery — it seemed to me an

age ; yet it couldn't have been more than tenor
twelve days. One night instead of going
te the Quai d'Orsay I went on to the Boulevard
des Italiens, and sat down by a table
before a cafe, I told the jargon to bring mea
cafe ; some one came to my side and asked
rae to drink champagne instead. I saw no
reason to refuse, and I like champagne. It
amused me to speak to some one after being
silent so long, and the man talked cheerfully;
but he offered me a rudeness, and I took up
my glass and cut his face with it. He had
me taken by a gendarme to the prefecture,
and that cured me, for though I was dismissed
without punishment, the thought that you
might come to hear of the affair filled me
with terror. I said to myself, '^ He will think
that I am utterly bad and ungrateful, and
that all his kindness has been thrown away
upon me." Then I went back to Esperenza,
who was in great trouble, not knowing what
had become of me, and I told him everything.
He is a kind, good old man, and
listened to all I said, just as if I had been
his daughter, without laughing at my silliness
or scolding me for what I had done. He
pointed out my mistake, and advised me to
try again at the theatre, contenting myself

with doing the little I could do. It was
not too late ; he got me another engagement,
and I just danced like an ordinary girl. But
the old life was welcome to me, though I
merely took part with other girls in the
ballet ; it was such a change from the gloomy
days in the religious house, and the dreadful
nights of solitude I had endured. The music
and the lights and colour and the exercise of
dancing made me forget, and charmed me;
so unconsciously I excelled all the other
girls, and pleased without trying to please.
The manager gave me a part, and so once
more I took the first place on the stage as a
dancer, and my misery left me. Esperenza
told me that was what you wished and
intended, and I believed him ; and we were
right, were we not V

Yes, Folly. The only work that we can
succeed in is that which we can do well, and
with pleasure.'

One has to learn all that by experience,
if one is only an ignorant girl sighed Folly ;
then, with a bright smile and cheerful accent,
But that is all over now ; the hard lesson is
learnt.'

When did you return to the theatre V

In November. Many have been closed

during the siege. The people have been too
unhappy to seek relief in amusement. Those
of us who could afford it played for nothing.'
And have you found new friends V
Esperenza — he is scarcely a new friend — -
has been my constant friend. I like Madame
Avenet at the hotel ; she is quite a good
woman ; and I have got on better with the
women of the theatre here than I did at the
Levity. You see we all hated the Prussians
so deeply that we liked each other by contrast.
We joined together and made a
solemn promise to fight side by side with the
soldiers in the streets if the enemy passed
the gates, and we paid a wounded soldier to
teach us how to use the gun. Every night
after the performance we used to go to the
walls to learn what had happened during the
evening. A good part of the day we girls
spent in the hospitals. So you see we hadn't
much time to think of ourselves and our own
little piques and jealousies. Then provisions
became short, and the poor suffered from
want of food and fire. The weather has been
dreadful, and fuel too dear for the needy to
buy. Weeks ago there were whole streets of
houses where the men and women lay too
feeble to bury their dead children. God only

knows how they have fared since. They,
too, may be dead. While we had something
to give we could visit them ; but our dresses
and trinkets are all sold and our money spent,
and we cannot go to them with empty hands
like the priests.'

Deeply moved by what he heard, Vane
replied with emotion :

You shall soon go among them again like
an angel.'

SECRET SERVICE.

ANE and his sister had been at the
Hotel de Milan more than a month,
and as yet had seen nothing of
Amadis Garnier. Vane's name
had appeared frequently in the journals, so
that one wishing to find him might have done
so with little difficulty. Vane was forced to
the conclusion that either Garnier was not in
Paris or feared to face the enemies of the
Empire he had served. The latter possibility
was suggested by Dumesnil, who with the
rest of the Federal society had followed Vane
from England.

It was a week after the establishment of
the Commune that the jargon, coming to the
apartment where Vane sat with Margaret announced

that Monsieur Amadis Garnier waited
in the salle below, and wished to see Mr, Vane.

Margaret put down the work on which she
was engaged, and looked anxiously at her
brother. They had spoken seldom of Amadis
Garnier since their arrival. He had told her
that a charge had been brought against their
friend which he washed him to answer before
she saw him, and she had readily promised to
avoid an interview, without displaying any
desire to know what the charge was which
Garnier had to rebut. Her apathy Vane
rightly construed as a sign of her disinclination
to the proposed marriage — a disinclination
which had grown out of recent events.

As the gargo7i left the room, Vane rose
and said :

If Garnier returns with me and claims an
answer to his proposal, you will reply as your
sentiment towards him guides you, and without
reference to expediency or anything in
the Avorld but your own true feelings.'

I shall not be a burden to you, shall I,
dear V she asked.

My Madge !' Vane exclaimed, bending his
lips down to Margaret's smooth hair. ' You
shall be such a burden as the honeysuckle is,
and no more.'

He took his bat and ran down to the valley
where Garni er met him with effusive politeness.


I learn that Miss Vane is here he said,
in conclusion. * It is no more than one
might expect, and yet one is surprised by the
heroism of such a delicate creature venturing
to enter Paris in such a time of trouble.'

Vane bowed coldly, and then said :

Garnier, do you know a man named
Anatole Dumesnil V

^ A man of about sixty-five years, with
white hair — a very excitable, quick man, and
a member of the Federal society which has
the honour of including you amongst its
members — is that he V

'That is he. Have you any objection to
meeting him V

None whatever. I hear that he is a good
citizen.'

Then I must ask you to come with me to
his rooms at once. He has laid charges
against you which you should meet at once.'

Certainly. Poor old fellow, I am not
surprised. We weill visit him immediately, if
you please.'

They were fortunate in finding Dumesnil
in his apartment. He received Vane with

warmth, to Garnier he merely gave a frowning
nod of recognition. Vane without delay
stated the object of their visit.

It is lucky for you, Lesseux/ said Dunes
*that I meet you here for the first time
since the Commune has come into power ;
had I met you in the streets I should have
openly denounced you, and left you to the
rough justice of the people.*

Citizen Dumesnil, I have come here by
the invitation of Mr. Vane, to answer charges
made against me in my absence, not to listen
to threats.'

^ I charge you first with being a liar,' said
the old man, sternly.

Garnier shrugged his shoulders, and
Dumesnil continued :

^ You call yourself Amadis Garnier, and pretend
that you were once the proprietor of a
tamieriem Les Andelys, from which you retired
on account of losing Lenore Lucas, to whom
you were betrothed. I say that your name
is Lesseux, that you were a servant of
Amadis Garnier, and were tried at Rouen for
the murder of the girl to whom your master
was betrothed.

My reply to that is simple. You are
mistaken. If you will produce your evidence

I may be able to explain how your wrong
impression arose.'

The evidence is in Les Andelys, and in
asking for it you know well enough that it is
impossible to procure it with the means of
communication stopped.'

^ I think you had better proceed to your
second charge,' said Garnier with imperturbable
coolness.

That is comprehensive enough: I accuse
you of having been in the pay of Napoleon,
and of being a spy and an enemy of the
Republic' ;

Will you trouble yourself to read this V
Garnier asked, taking a folded paper from
his pocket and handing it to Dumesnil.

The old man took it between his finger
and thumb, and opened it as if fearing to soil
his fingers ; then he read the formal letter appointing
Citizen Amadis Garnier to a position
of trust under the committee of public
safety.

Idiots !' he exclaimed, throwing the letter
upon the table.

That is hardly the proper language for a
friend of the Republic V Garnier remarked.

Does the committee know that you served
Napoleon V

Yes ; and it considers that in consequence
I am better able to serve them.'

But you never avowed the fact until the
dynasty fell.'

I should not have been faithful to the
cause I then believed in had I proclaimed a
secret it was my duty to keep.'

Ah !' exclaimed Dumesnil, with a grunt
of contempt. ' One question more, and I
have done with you. Can you deny that you
are a Jesuit V

'Certainly. I have embraced the Protestant
faith. My religious sentiments have
changed with my political views, and both
thanks to the influence of my English
friends.*

Garnier bowed low to Vane.

I see through it all,' cried Dumesnil,
striking the table in excitement. * No wonder
you have not been seen these last two
months. You have lain in hiding, waiting to
see which party would take the ascendancy
and to which you should offer your allegiance.
That is why you dared not show yourself to
your friend here, though his presence was announced
in the journals, and his residence
must have been known to you through your
agents. You are like the miserable accomplice

ill a crime who betrays his friends to
save his own worthless existence. You have
shown yourself possessed of secrets which
the coQiuiittee think too valuable to lose, and
they shut their eyes to your baseness to profit
by it. If there is a chance you will 'change
your views," as you call it, and betray your
present supporters. You confirm rather than
disprove my accusation that you are a liar
and an enemy of the Republic'

^ You have placed it within my power to
punish you. In slandering me you slander
the Republic. I know your unhappy temperament,
M. Dumesnil, and I forgive you
for words uttered in excitement, which you
will regret in your cooler moments.'

^ No thin o' will make me forgive you. I say
sou are a IdcJie, a spy, and a scoundrel, and
if the Government will not shoot you I will.
Wash the paint from your contemptible face,
and there shall not appear sufficient disparity
in our age to protect you from offering me a
challenge. If my words are not a sufficient
insult, and you wish further provocation,
take it.'

And with these words Dumesnil stepped
forward and slapped Garnier's face with the
back of his hand.

VOL. III. 54

Garnier for a moment stood speechless and
trembling with rage, and possibly he might
have resented the affront upon the spot had
not Yane stepped between him and Dumesnil.

Composing himself as he walked to the
door, Garnier turned, with his hand upon the
handle, and said :

My religion, rather than your age, is your
protection, Citizen Dumesnil. I shall do myself
the honour to wait for you, Mr. Yane,
when I am safe from provocation, which I
find it difficult to overcome.'

Well, what do you think of him V asked
Dumesnil, when Garnier had withdrawn.

A man is not culpable because he changes
his views — especially when they are so demonstrably
bad as those he held. And the
facts of his early life are still unproved.'

Ah, bah ! all the world's mad,' cried
Dumesnil, throwing himself in a chair. ' Do
you believe in him ? Do you believe that
religion prevented him challenging me V

Religion has led men to do stranger
things than that, Dumesnil.'

'Answer me one question, Yane, that I
may know whether to believe you or not.
Will you willingly suffer that man to marry
your sister V

Vane answered without hesitation :

'No.'

When he jo hied Garnier in the street, he
said :

You made a proposal of marriage to my
sister ; do you intend asking her for a reply?'

Certainly.'

Then you must first tell her that part of
your history which she does not know.'

I intended doings so. I do not believe she
will think worse of me for my reformation —
do you V

For your reformation, no. But I do not
hold you guiltless.'

Vane, I love your sister more deeply than
you imagine. It was for her sake I gave up
my original faith and changed my political
allegiance.'

That is enough,' said Vane, stopping suddenly
; ' wee must part here. A man who
makes his God and country mere instruments
for gratifying his individual desire can be no
friend of mine. I refuse you permission to
address my sister.'

'In that case I must address her without,'
he said quietly, and raising his hat he walked
away.

54—2

ADIEUX.

OW that there was 'no longer any
reason to doubt the truth of the
> accusations made against Amadis
Garnier, Richard Vane told Margaret
all that had occurred, and explained
his reasons for objecting to any further communication
with the renegade. It distressed
her to learn that the man they had liked was
as apostate devoid of principle. She regretted
that he could no longer be welcomed
as a friend, but the contingent fact that he
could never be her husband was a positive
relief to her mind. It disposed of a question
which she had been unable to answer satisfactorily
and conclusively to herself, divided
as she was between an inclination to remain

undecided and true to Ie man whom she vet
loved, despite his infidelity to her, and a wish
to act in accordance with what she believed
to be her brother's desires. Her thoughts
upon this subject, however, were of short
duration ; the imminent peril in which her
brother stood occupied her mind almost exclusively.


The progress of events made it more
clearly evident that the Commune of Paris
would fiofht a outrance. As one after another
the sorties of the Federal troops failed, the
nucleus of ardent and conscientious Republicans,
who o'ave a meanings as well as a name
to the Commune, realised the fact that they,
individually, were doomed men. Defeat was
inevitable.

We shall die,' said Dumesnil to Vane,
but France will live. A despotism, which
but for our resistance would now have existed,
can never be restored until our protest
is forgotten. Our blood shall make that

o

protest good.'

Signs of the impending struggle were but
too clearly indicated to the anxious eyes of
those who had dear ones to lose. The number
of barricades was increased ; traffic ceased,
omnibuses and voiture beings overturned and

upas

IW>

mniiuig down his fiicse; and his hands were
grinned with earth ; he had hera groblHiig^ up
stones for others to can t: t!i^ :.

the Place Clichy.

'A cup cf tea, title M^dgef he died,
looking at his watch, hasdh^. 'I har s
quarter of an hour's Teste, azi t^z ^ "- its
of it are to he spent with jor:

'You shall haTe tea in : „
she replied, dinging nervoc aim.

'But you are hot, zi — :.^: — ^ ig

happened f

I met iz. Tlr z.i- >:
he is :•: l's trusted, tt

.nic:ar^e iLt

fitted, M:

brew the tea, while Richard, standing where
she had left him, watched her movements
with yearning mournfidness. What a slight,
graceful figure it was, and what a sweet, pure
profile ! How often, after his ^vork, in more
peaceful days, had she made him the cup
that pleased his old bachelor taste ! And
now it was the last loins service she would
render him. Sweet, fragile, dainty Madge I
What sorrow lay in store for her — what
bitter grief and sore trial ! The traces of
these reflections he concealed from her eyes,
as she turned towards him, by looking again
at his watch.

I find this watch gets rather in the way
when I'm at work,' he said, taking it ofl" with
the long chain which had been his mother's,
so I'll leave it with you, dear. And now I
come to think of it, m}^ keys are rather inconvenient
— they might slip out of my pocket,
and it would be awkward to lose this key of
my valise. It's a patent lock, and all my
papers and things are in it. Take care of
them for me, dear Masse.'

She took the ke3^s and watch, and put
them in her work-box, without suspecting
his real motive in giving them up. There
was a letter for her, and another for Koland.

and a third for Folly in the valise — little
sentences of loving farewell that he had
^Y^itten the night before.

And now for a cup of tea,' he said, cheerfully.


Madge filled his cup.

It is probable we shall have to work all
night at the barricade,' he said, as he was
drinking the tea. ^ You will 0:0 to bed at
the usual time, and not be alarmed if I do
not return by then.'

Do you expect anything to happen tonight
V Margaret asked, falteringly.

^No.'

Margaret sighed with relief When Richard
said * No,' or ' Yes,' she knew that he made
no mental reservation. Yet it seemed to her
when, at the end of ten minutes, he bade her
good-bye, that his voice had not its customary
clearness, that his arms clung closer to
her, and his kiss was honore than usual. And
he held her hand in his until he reached the
door, and then he said, * Another kiss, little
Madge, since a whole long night may separate
us,' and he kissed her quickly again and
again, and went away without a word, closing
the door after him as if to prevent her folio
wings. Poor Mado^e ! left alone, she sat

down, thinking' of these things as she remembers
them now in every particular.

The Hotel de Milan was a wedge-shaped
building. The thin end abutted upon the
Carrefour de Europe ; along one side ran
the Rue de Turin, along the other the Ptuo
Clapeyron. The Danes' apartments faced
the Kue de Turin ; from the windows one
could see up to the Boulevards des Bating
and down across the Carrefour and the
continuation of the Kue de Turin, towards
St. Lazar. Folly's apartment faced the
Carrefour. The lower floor projected considerably,
so as to forum a kind of terrace
before her sittings room. The terrace Alas
about twelve feet long by ten deep, covered
with zinc, and surrounded by a rail. Some
evergreen shrubs in boxes were placed along
the front.

It was here that Folly stood, looking pensively
down into the Carrefour, her elbows
resting on the rail and her face in her hands,
when she heard a knock at the door of the
room behind her.

Entrez T she called, turning her head
carelessly to see who would appear. The
door opened, and Richard Vane stood in
the entrance. With a quick cry of surprise

and joy Folly ran into the room to
him.

My friend 1' she cried, catching at his
hand, and covering it T\'ith her soft palms.

I have scarcely five minutes he said.

Folly pressed his hand closer ; there was
no need to relinquish it if they were so soon
to part again.

I want you to do a service for me, Folly.'

She accepted the office with a little inarticulate
sound of pleasure, and her face lit up
with a glad smile.

I can tell you what I could not tell my
sister. I am going to the barricade, and
probably I shall not leave it until the fight
is over.'

Is it true, then, that they come ?'
Yes ; the Pont du Jour gate is passed,
and it is most likely that the Porte St. Cloud
has yielded also. We are forbidden to leave
the barricades. I do not want Margaret to
know this at present.'

No one shall know. Is that all V

No. The service I want you to perform
is far heavier. I want you to protect my
sister. To stay in the house with her, and
protect her in my absence.'

Folly hung her head in silence. Richard

Vane regarded her changed manner in surprise.


She does not like me ; and Madame
Avenet is good and attentive ; she coul(,l protect
her better tljan I should,' she said, still
hanging her head.

'But I would have you guard her as well.
I do not ask you to be with my sister, but
merely to remain here and watch over her.
She is in danger. I have been warned this
morning against the treacherous malevolence
of the man who was once our friend — Amadis
Garnier. If events should turn unfavourably
against our side, he may have it in his power
to do her harm. You see now why I ask
your help ?'

Folly remained silent and motionless.

Do you refuse to do me this service V
Vane asked, astonished by the girl's reluctance.


She looked up into his face with distress
and supplication in her eyes; her lips quivered
with emotion. He perceived that she hesitated
from some far deeper motive than mere
personal dislike to Margaret.

What is it V he asked, in a tender tone
of encouragement.

Losing all control over herself, Folly threw

her arms around his neck, and burying her
face in his shoulder, burst into a fit of passionate
weeping.

I knew it woukl come — I knew you would
fight upon the barricades — there was no help
for it,' she said, between her sobs ; * but I did
not mind that, for I said to myself, " The
bullet that hits him shall pass through me,
and so we shall die together'"

^ You face the fire !' exclaimed Vane, looking
down upon the beautiful girl. 'Do you
think I could suffer that V

Why not X she asked. ' Can I not handle
a gun well 1 Will not other women help at
the barricades '? I have been watching the
little couriers who lives in the fifth, over
the houlcmgerie, piling stones on her windowsill
to hurl down, and she is only a weak little
thing : and look at me !' — she stood up and
held out her arms — ' I have the strength of
a man, and I do not know what fear is— for
myself,' she added, her voice quavering as
she looked at Vane.

That must not be, Folly,' he said sadly,
yet firmly. 'You must stay here. Come,
you have never disobeyed me yet. Will you
not do my last request V

Oh, my friend ! — my darling, darling

master !' she cried, throwing herself upon his
breast once more. ^ Do with me ^vhat you
will. Though it breaks my heart, I will do
as you bid me do.'

A horse galloped over the pavement of
the Carrefour, and along: the broken road
leading to the Place Duchy, and then a bugle
sounded.

Stay here, dear Folly,' said Vane, placing
her in a seat ; ' I will think of you at the
last.'

She still clasped her hands about his neck,
and now, raising her face, she held out her
lips to be kissed, with the supplicating
gesture of a child, and then he put his lips to
hers, and they met and parted for the first
and last time.

THE APPROACH.

N the evenings Madame Avenet — a
warm-hearted, motherly woman, of
Spanish birth — ^^oing up to see if
Miss Vane would come downstairs
and join the little party in the salon, found
Folly sitting on the stairs opposite Margaret's
door.

Mon Dieu ! my little one, how you
frightened me !' she exclaimed in an undertone,
taking notice of Folly's raised finger.
What do you do here V

I am taking care of his sister Folly
replied ; ' but she don't like me ; that's why
I sit outside here.'

Won't you come downstairs, my little
one ? There's Madame Hotel, and Mademoiselle

Olympe, and Pere Marquette, all
with the freshest news ; they say the troops
are quartered in the Boulevards des Bating
I am about to ask Mademoiselle
Maro^aret to descend.'

If she goes down I will follow ; but say
nothing of me to her, good mother. And if
she won't go down, see if there is any thing-she
wants, and let me know.'

Eh, well !' murmured Madame Avenet,
leaving her with a nod : ' she has a mad
head, this little actress, but her heart is good
for all that,'

After an absence of some moments,
Madame Avenet returned, and, closing the
door behind her, said to Folly, in an undertone
:

You can do nothing, my child. Mademoiselle
happily is fatigued, and she will goto
bed quite soon.'

Folly nodded, without moving from the
listless attitude in which she sat.

And will not you come down and listen
to the news of Mademoiselle Olympe V

Folly shook her head, and Madame
Avenet, with a sigh, left her sitting with her
chin in her hand.

Mon Dieu ! It is a triste time for the old.

but for the young who love it is worse,'
said the old lady as she descended the
escalier.

All night long Folly sat by the door, only
changing her position when her limbs became
cramped. When she heard Margaret moving
about her room in the morning, she returned
to her own apartment and threw herself upon
her bed, but not to sleep. She was too
strong to be hysterical, and her grief did not
expend itself in violent paroxysms : it was a
long-enduring, constant pain, which gave her
no opportunity for forgetful sleep. Repose
for her body was all she sought ; she did not
wish to sleep while he lived.

She ate the roll and drank the coffee
brought her by the garcon mechanically ;
then she opened the crossed and went out
upon the little terrace. A pattering sound
reached her ear. She held her breath to
listen with greater intentness. There could
be no doubt about it — she had heard the
sound before — it was musketry.

A weaken, bent old man came shuffling out
of the Rue de Moscou on to the Carrefour ;
he looked up, and seeing Folly, raised his hat
and hastened his steps across the place towards
the hotel. It was Esperenza. Folly
VOL. III. 55

ran downstairs and met him before he had
ascended half-a-dozen steps.

Where is the fighting V she asked, panting
for breath.

^ In the Pare Monceaux answered Espe-
senza.

'That is on the Boulevard des Bating


Yes ; but the enemy has to pass the
College Chaptal before they can bring a gun
to bear upon the Place Clichy. Believe me,
mademoiselle, they will not do that to-day.
I have hastened to assure you of that. I will
go now up to the barricades where our friend
is, and I will bring you the first news.'

First of all go up and see his sister, and
tell her what you have told me.'

Esperenza visited Margaret, and after
staying with her some time, repeating his
assurances that the Place Clichy would not
be attacked that day, and prognosticating a
repulse of the enemy by the force at the
College Chaptal, he left her tolerably composed.
Folly was waiting outside for him.

Tell him,' she said in a low tone, to Espe-
senza, ' tell him I am obedient, and return tome
when there is any news to tell.'

Esperenza did not return until the evening.

He had found it difficult to communicate
with Yane, who was working within the
barricades, and, being admitted, he had been
forced to give assistance in strengthening the
work. He came to the hotel exhausted, and
shaking with fatigue. Folly made him eat
and drink and talk. He was made to describe
all that he had seen and heard ; there
was but little that related to Vane, but those
scraps she caught up eagerly and enlarged.
Esperenza had given her message, and Yane
had smiled and said, ' Good little soul !' when
he heard it, and at parting he had taken the
rinof from his finger and told him to give it
her with this message, ' We shall meet ao^ain.'
How the day had gone on the Boulevard des
Batignolles, Esperenza. could not tell. There
were many conflicting rumours. Some said
that the Communists still held the Pare, that
they had certainly repulsed the regular troops,
that many of the Versailles had thrown down
their arms and fled to the Federal ranks,
while others declared that the Pare was
cleared and the College Cha23tal was so
closely besieged that there was no escape for
the Communists who had taken refuse in it
unless a successful sortie could be made
during the night.

55—2

This latter report seemed best supported.
Several wounded Communists crossed the
Carrefour, a few doggedly silent, the majority
noisily calling upon the people to prepare for
active defence. The excitement in the streets
Alas intense. It was not until late in the
evening that the sounds of fusillade ceased.

When Esperenza was refreshed, he went
out to gather what news vas to be had, and
coming back confirmed the reports that the
Communists had evacuated the Pare and
taken refuge in the College Chaptal.

What will happen after that V asked
Folly.

One cannot say, my dear child. They
cannot attack the Place Clichy from this
side until their rear is protected from attack,
until the College is taken and the barricades
on the Place de I'I'Europe silenced.
They dare not attack the Place Clichy by
the Boulevard des Batignolles alone, for
three-quarters of a kilometre they would be
exposed to the mitrailleuses and guns of the
barricade that crosses it from the Pue Sion
to the Eue St. Petersbourg ; there is no protection;
the boulevard is perfectly straight
from the College, and it is an ascent
also.'

Tell me, then, how they will attack

itr

By the back streets leading from the
Place de I'I'Europe ; in that way alone they
can avoid the fire from the barricades.'

Then they must pass here V

Possibly.'

^ Can't you be sure V

Esperenza shrugged his shoulders.

I have been told so by a man who knows
more of this affair than I do ; and indeed his
argument is plausible. Will you be good
enough to observe, my child ? I draw a triangle
so ' — he made the fissure of a delta
reversed. ' This straight line along the top is
the Boulevard des Batignolles ; at this right-hand
corner is the Place Clichy, with its
seven strong barricades ; at the left-hand
corner is the College Chaptal, and the caserne
adjoining at the bottom of the angle is the
Place de I'I'Europe, the Hne on the left representing
the Eue de Constantinople, the line
on the right the Bue St. Petersbourg. Here
inside the angle towards the right - hand
corner is the Carrefour de I'I'Europe. Now,
by coming through the bye-streets and
through the Carrefour the enemy would get
close to the barricades at the Place Clichy

Avithout being exposed to the murderous
artillery fire that would rake the Boulevard
des Batignolles there, and the Bue St.
Petersbourg here.'

Yes, yes ; then we should actually seethe
men pass here who were going to fire
upon him.'

That is probable, indeed, my child. I
would willingly close my eyes to such a
spectacle.'

Folly knitted her brow. Presently she
said :

Can you fire a gun V

Yes, my little one ; but my hand is not
steady, and my sight is short.'

Well, you can at least load a gun,' Folly
said, in an impatient tone.

Yes, yes, truly,' Esperenza replied, nervously.


^ It is easy enough — see !'

Folly rose, crossed quickly to a cupboard,
and lifted out a chasse pot from a pile of a
dozen that stood there — weapons which her
sisters of the ballet had paraded Paris with
when there was less danger, but left unclaimed
now. She brought out a box of
cartridges, and showed Esperenza the method
of charging the gun.

Yes, I understand all that,' he said, executing
the movements she had gone through.
I can load the gun well enough, but I cannot
see a man distinctly at fifty paces.'

I can,' answered Folly.

LE CARREFOUR DE L EUROPE.

T daybreak the following morning a
furious attack was made by the
Versailles upon the College Chaptal;
at the same time a strong detachment
of troops, advancing by the Kue du
Eocher, besieged the caserne at the corner of
the Avenue Portals. Both positions were
taken by ten o'clock, after a desperate defence.
It is said that not one Romanist escaped
death in either of these buildings : the
apartments and their approaches were choked
with the slain. From the caserne the successful
troops made their way to the Gare der
Quest, from whence, after a brief but bloody
struggle, the Federals were dislodged.

Following up these successes, the Versailles

assailed the strong position taken bj
the Communists on the Place de Europe,
attacking it simultaneously on three sides,
by the Rue de Constantinople, the Bue de
Vienne, and the Kue de Londres.

It was about eleven o'clock that the echoing
boom of the first gun fired from the
Place de I'I'Europe struck clear and distinct
upon the ears of the anxious listeners in the
Hotel de Milan. Folly was walking impatiently
up and down the corridor before
Margaret's room. She stopped short, hearing
the sound.

Esperenza came hurriedly from Folly's
room at the end of the corridor, holding
up his finger.

Quick I Fetch Madame Avenet ! Despatch
!' said Folly. Then she tapped at
Margaret's door.

There was no response, or it was lost in
the repeated crash that came from the barricades.
Without further ceremony Folly
turned the handle and stepped quickly into
the room. As suddenly she stopped short.
Margaret, upon her knees by her bedside,
was praying. She dared not approach the
kneeling girl. She could only stand there
wishing that she too could bend to God, and

implore His merciful protection for the one
she loved.

Rub-rubble I rub-rubble ! 
!' sounded the guns, making
the windows rattle in response. A faint
moan rose from kneeling Margaret's heart.

^ It is not the Clichy barricades that are
attacked said Folly, stepping towards her.

^ The guns are ' she stopped, as Margaret,

sliding sideways from the bed, fell heavily
upon the floor. Folly threw herself upon the
ground and, lifting Margaret's body in her
strong arms, laid the insensible head upon
her bosom, and, like a mother with her child,
covered the cold brow with kisses.

Madame Avenet bustled into the room
with the quickness of one accustomed to
giving help. She loosened Margaret's collar,
and then, assisted by Folly and Esperenza,
she conveyed the unconscious girl into a room
in the interior of the building and laid her on
a bed.

Now leave her to me. Go away,' she
said to Folly and Esperenza. ' She will soon
recover, and then the fewer there are to
interfere the better I shall succeed in calming
her. I am a mother, and I know how to
comfort the poor thing. You can go down

to the scales it is quite safe there. The
front of the house is dangerous, for we are
forbidden to close the persiennes'

Folly hesitated a moment.

I have promised to guard her she said.
'You will not suffer anyone to come near
herr

Of course I will not. I will stay with
her for her sake and her brother's. There is
no danger ; the street-doors are locked and
barred, and no one will be admitted. Go
down to the salle'

Folly withdrew, but she had no intention
of retiring to the safety of the scale.

Come along,' she whispered with feverish
eagerness to Esperenza, when they were outside
and the door was closed.

She ran swiftly along the corridors and
into her room, opened the crossed, and stepped
out upon the terrace.

The air was pungent with the reek of gunpowder.
The light blue cloud of stroke
rolled upwards over the houses and across
the Carrefour. Above the incessant pattering
of musketry there rose the occasional
crash of a field-piece, and the tearing, rasping
sound of the mitrailleuse.

A knot of men and women stood at the

corner of the Carrefour, canine: their necks
forward to peep down the Kue de St. Petersbourg,
from which there came occasionally a
cloud of smoke, rolling sluggishly into the
Carrefour and clinging to the moist pavement.
People where shouting excitedly to
one another from the windows. Some men
were scrambling along the roofs with muskets
in their hands, and taking up positions behind
the chimneys.

Folly, looking up to the top window over
the houlangerie, saw the little couriers
with the pile of paving-stones at her right
hand.

Esj^erenza, sniffing the saltpetre, and hearing
the increasing volume of sounds, grew
excited, and began to chatter in Spanish.

A fauteuil stood upon the terrace and
formed a rest for the muzzles of the guns,
whose butts rested upon the zinc, so that
Folly, kneeling behind the evergreens, could
lay her hand upon them.

'You weill stand behind me, there,' said
Folly to Esperenza, indicating the place he
was to take ; ^ and as I lay down a gan you
must charge it and place it upon the fauteuil
with the rest.'

Eh, eh, my brave girl !' answered Espe-

senza. ' I will do my work. ' Ha ! what's
that V

The sound of firing came from a new direction
— a dozen or so of desultory musket-shots
from the upper end of the Rue de Moscou,
and then a disorganised crowd of men and
women and children rushed into the Carrefour
; the next instant a volley was fired, and
fine or six of the hindermost among the mob
fell, one a woman. Folly dropped upon her
knee by the shrubs, and taking up a gun,
rested it upon the iron rail, pointed against
the denouement of the Rue de Moscou.
The terrified crowd looked around at the
closed doors in horror ; some knocked furiously
for admittance ; others stood in the
angles of the doorways, but the main body
fled up the Rue Clapeyron.

The roar of guns still continued to rise
from the Place de I'I'Europe. A bugle sounded
in the Rue de Moscou, and presently a column
entered the Carrefour at the double. They
were greeted by a lively fusillade from housetops
and windows, and before they had half
crossed the Carrefour Folly had laid down
two guns to be recharged. It seemed as if
the column intended to assail the barricades
upon the Place de I'I'Europe from the Rue St.

U

Petersbourg, possibly unconscious that the
street was commanded by the guns at the top
of the street upon the Place Clichy, as well
as by the barricade at the bottom upon the
Place de T Europe.

Stung by the shots fired upon them from
all sides of the Carrefour, and anxious to
escape from the exposure, the column advanced
quickly until, suddenly coming upon
that angle of the place which bisects the Kue
de St. Petersbourg, they were stopped by the
fire of the barricades at the top and bottom
of the street. They recoiled and fled back to
the Pue de Moscou, leaving a score of their
number writhing upon the ground. A dozen
lay upon the open space of the Carrefour, and
their piercing cries, mingling with the exultant
shouts of the excited Communists at the
windows and on the housetops, added to the
horrible discord which seemed now to rise
from all sides.

Profiting by this sharp lesson, the attacking
party renewed operations with greater
caution. Advancing from the shelter of the
Pue de Moscou they entered the Carrefour in
single file, creeping with their backs to the
shutters of the shops to avoid the fire from
the windows's above.

Their advance was along the only regular
side of the triangular space fm-med by the
Carrefour, and the one least exposed to the
fire of the Communist occupants of the
houses ; those which commanded the path
stood at a considerable distance from it, and
the fusillade was neither vigorous nor
effective, except from one point — that point
was the Hotel de Milan ; a cjuick and deadly
fire came from the little terrace over the third
floor.

Nearly facing the corner of the hotel was a
cliarcuterie with an iron shutter, which had
been newly painted white, and against which
the Versailles, in their dark uniforms, stood
out in bold relief As they came before this
shutter they fell, one after another, until
no less than fourteen lay dead upon the pavement,
and the shutter behind them was
spattered and smeared with their blood.

Margaret, pale and motionless, sat by the
side of Madame Avenet in the room looking*
on to the court in the centre of the hotel.
The sharp crack of the rifles in the Carrefour,
the louder, though more distant, roar
from the Place de I'I'Europe, were all plain to
hear ; the acrid smoke drafted down into the
court, the glass upon the buffet jingled with

their vibration, yet she seemed to notice
nothing ; it was as if the first crash of the
guns had deprived her senses of their
faculties ; even the yells of agony from the
wounded in the Carrefour, which occasionally
reached her ears, failed to rouse her from her
apathy. A bullet shattered a chimney-pot,
and a piece flying down struck the closed
'personne of the window, and caused Madame
Avenet to rise, with an exclamation of alarm,
from her seat ; but Margaret never winced.
It was not until there came a lull in the distant
roar that she showed any animation.

What does that mean V she asked. ^ The
big guns have ceased.'

Madame Avenet had not noticed the fact,
being more occupied in listening to the closer
musketry fire.

^ It is so, indeed, my dear mademoiselle,'
she said, after a moment's attention. ' We
will hope that it is all over.'

^ Then I may go and find my brother.'

No, no ; that is impossible. If you will
wait here I will go to the front windows
and see if I can find out what has happened.'

I will go with you,' Margaret said ; and
then, seeing Madame Avenet's hesitation,
she added, ' or by myself. I will know all.'

She refused Madame Avenet's support,
and walked with firmness beside her through
the passage and to the window in the side of
the house looking upon the Rue de Turin.
There was now no sound of conflict from the
Place de I'I'Europe ; the barricades were
carried, and the fusillade between the victorious
troops and the fugitive Communists
there was lost in the sharper musketry fire
kept up from the houses in the Carrefour and
adjoining streets upon the troops now rapidly
advancing from the Kue de Moscou, and
crossing the open place to the Rue Clapeyron
and the Rue de Turin, on their way to the
Place de Clichy.

As the two women came to the window
and looked down into the street, a team of
horses, the foremost mounted by a driver
with a bloody handkerchief bound round his
head, tore out of the Carrefour dragging a
piece of artillery behind them. The soldiers,
doubling along the street, made way rapidly
for the gun to pass. A wounded Communist
lay on the left-hand side of the road by the
kennel. The driver, with a diabolical laugh,
lashed his horses on the right, making them
swerve to the left, so that, curving from the
straight line, the heavy wheels of the gun

VOL. It. 56

rolled on to the wounded man and ground
through his body as if he had been a rat.

Thus with them all !' shrieked the driver,
turning in his saddle and clicking his Avhip
gaily over his head.

Many of the advancing soldiers answered
him in the same spirit, but their voices were
drowned in the thunder of guns that at that
moment opened fire from the barricades on the
Place de Clichy.

Oh, this is too horrible ! I cannot bear
it !' Margaret cried, coverings her face with
her hands.

I was a sotte to let you come with me,
my poor mademoiselle. You are not strong
enough to see such things, Madame Avenet
answered, and she led the girl back, who had
now no strength to resist, scarcely enough to
support herself upon her trembling limbs.
Once more she sat down to listen and wait
until the fearful din should be ended. An
hour — two hours — she sat there ; she knew
not how long ; the moments were told by
the echoing thud of the cannon, and they
were too many to count.

Another waited and listened. Folly's last
cartridge was spent, and the useless rifles she
had hurled down upon the marching troops,

and now, a door only dividing her from Margaret,
she sat in the gloomy passage upon the
floor, her hands clasped round her knees, and
her chin resting upon them. Her bright
skin was veiled with the murky stain of gunpowder
; nothing of her was visible in the
gloom but her great flashing eyes, that
seemed to focus and reflect all that there
might be of light in the place. One coming
from the other end of the passage would have
fled in terror, thinking a panther had taken
refuse and lav crouching there.

All that she could do for him she had
done : there was nothing for her now but to
wait and wait, and think and think. ^Yith
Richard Vane, her hero, in her mind, she
could tolerate no other subject of reflection.
Now that she could do nothing she wanted
to be alone. She had sent Esperenza to
search the house for more arms, and bidden
him not return without some, and her only
hope was that ' the women ' wouldn't come
to disturb her with their silly talk and noisy
fears, and inquisitive condolence.

After an hour Esperenza came nervously
down the passage, for he feared the girl as
much as he admired her.

Obedient to the instructions he had 



celled, he spoke in a whisper when he came
to her.

I can only find this — take care — two
chambers are loaded.'

Folly, without altering her position, lifted
her hand and took the revolver he had
brought.

What use is this toy V she asked. ' Go
and find something better.'

I will try, but I fear I can find nothing.
I only discovered that by accident. The
firing is still heavy. I really believe that the
barricades, where our friend is, will be found
invincible, and if the Communists only rally
and advance from the other quarters '

Go and find me a gun !' said Folly, impatiently.


Esperenza left her.

What did it matter to her whether the
barricades held out or yielded, whether the
ultimate victory was with Paris or Versailles?
What did she want with firearms now ?
Nothing. She knew that the first who fell
upon that fatal barricade was Richard Vane
knew it as surely as if she had been thereby
his side when, with the name of Progress
on his lips, he fell forward, pierced through
and through with rifle-bullets.

^K^^

Chapter Xxi.

THE DEAD.

HE conflict on the Place de Clichy
was all over, by five o'clock on the
evening of the twenty third. The
barricades were silent, but for the
awful and hideous cries of the wounded who
lay upon them and among the scattered
debris ; but the streets around where still
unsafe, and, until the light faded, there was
a continual peppering of musketry about the
conquered quarter, interspersed with an occasional
volley. The work of reprisal had commenced.
Many a wretched hosier, with no
stronger evidence of crime against him than
the mark of powder on his thumb, was set up
against the wall and shot at half a dozen

paces. A systematic house-toulouse search
for Communists was reserved for the morrow.

It was about seven o'clock that a girl was
seen wheeling a hand-barrow from the Place
de Clichy, down the Kue de St. Petersbourg,
threading her way through the obstacles in
her path — the road was strewn with fragments
of the barricade, y^iih. persiennes torn
from the windows, with shattered lamps
and dead bodies — heedless of the danger to
which she exposed herself.

An officer, followed by a squad of men,
came out from a house they had been search-ins,
and caught sio^ht of her.

Hold ! What have you got there ?' cried
the officer, stepping in front of the barrow.

A dead man.'

^ Who is liV asked the officer, turning
back the sheet and looking upon the face of
the unquestionably dead man laid upon the
barrow.

Don't you know him ? — you should. It
is Richard Vane, who brought food to you
when you were starving. Get away, and let
me pass.'

The officer did not move ; he was looking
suspiciously at the girl.

Get out of the way, I say. Let me pass !'

she cried fiercely, putting her hand in the
folds of her dress. There was a ' toy With
two loaded chambers, in her pocket.

Where do you want to go V

The H6telde Milan.'

I thought so said the officer, making a
sign to a man who stood behind the girl.
The man immediately caught hold of her
right arm. The girl struggled violently to
release herself.

A gentleman at this moment came from
the house. He wore light trousers, a frock-coat,
and carried a stick in his neatly-gloved
hand. A thin ribbon tied in his button-hole
was the only mark distinguishing him from a
private individual.

What is the matter V he asked of the
officer.

Making a salute, the officer stepped to his
side, and said, in a low voice :

If I am not mistaken, this is the woman
who did us the mischief in the Carrefour de
I'I'Europe this morning. She comes from the
Hotel de Milan, at the corner of the Rue de
Turin there ; and, if you will look, monsieur,
you shall find that her collar is black on the
right hand side. She has the body of a dead
Communist on the barrow there.'

You have done your duty, capered. I
will see to the rest ; leave her to me,' said
the gentleman. Then, as the caporal retired,
he turned to the girl, and said : ' You can goon.'


He walked upon the pavement, keeping a
little in the rear of the girl, who struggled
along the road with her heavy burden, and
her thoughts engaged upon her task. She
had hardly looked at the man who probably
had saved her from summary execution ; she
valued her life at too little to be grateful for
the service. She saw nothing in the future
beyond taking this dead dear one away and
providing his body a decent resting-place, and
so she plodded on, unconscious of fatigue or
peril. Once a gust of wind, sweeping through
the street, caught up the sheet and blew it
back, exposing the calm waxen face of him
she was taking away. She stopped, and
going to the side of her barrow, she looked
for one moment upon the fixed features with
ineffable sadness, and then tenderly covered
it with the cloth as a mother might protect
her sleeping child.

The gentleman upon the pavement caught
sight of Richard Vane's face, and his supposition
was confirmed. He seemed well known

by the men who were scouring the streets for
Communists. A step forward and a peculiar
movement of the stick he carried, accepted asa
signal, twice or thrice saved the girl from
molestation on her way to the Carrefour.
When she came to the Hotel de Milan,
Madame Avonet, watchings from a window
above, made a sign that she would come
down and open the door.

The gentleman, coming to her side as she
stood by the barrow, said in a low tone :

Folly, I have permitted you to bring home
that body because I was a friend of Richard
Vane's, and now I will give you some advice
for yourself; remove the traces of gunpowder
from your face and hands, or they may cost
you your life, despite my good wishes for your
safety.'

Folly looked up at him with the dreamy
unconsciousness of one disturbed from a heavy
slumber, and, without answering him, turned
to Monsieur Avenet, and beckoned him to
assist in carrying up the body.

Then you have found him, my child,' said
Esperenza, when she had come into the
passage, where she had bidden him stay and
watch over Margaret in her absence. ^ Does
he still live V

Live r answered Folly, with harsh contempt.
* Haven't the barricades been silenced
these two hours V

They carried their burden into the vestibule
of the hotel, then Folly asked :

Where is his sister V

She is still in the back-room,' Madame
Avenet replied ; ' but you will not let her see
him to-night. The poor soul has composed
herself a little. She will have strength to
look upon this dreadful sight in the morning.'

That is true — that is quite true,' said
Foll}^, eagerly. ' Carry him to my room, and
let him rest there until the morning.'

So they carried the dead man, with gentle
hands, and laid him on Folly's bed. And
when she was left alone with him she
fastened the door and turned to her lifeless
love with a strange exultant joy in her heart.
There was nothing ^ dreadful ' in his appearance
to her. Death could inspire her with
no terror. She knelt down softly by the bed,
and laying her cheek upon the pillow by his
head, dressed her lips to his cold brow and
wept.

Margaret S PERIL.

monsieur AYENET, descending
to the ground-floor to see to his
door, found the gentleman who had
accompanied Folly sitting patiently
in the vestibule. Rising, he said :

Monsieur Avenet, I wish to speak a word
with you privately.'

M. Avenet led the way into the salon j
and closed the door.

'My name is Garner said the gentleman.
I am of the secret police, and a servant of
the Assembly. Your hotel has been made
conspicuous to-day by a fusillade from the
end abutting on the Carrefour.'

I have lately discovered the fact ; but I-

assure you I knew nothing of it at the time !
M. Avenet protested, in great trepidation.

That, unfortunately, does not alter the
fiict. You have just admitted into the house
the body of a notorious Communist, who, to
my knowledge, has been under your roof
since February.'

^ My dear monsieur — how could I help it ?
We have been in the hands of the Commune.
I was yesterday forced to assist in building a
barricade, though my own son is in the army
of Versailles.'

The fact remains, and an ugly fact it is
too. Now the fusillade was kept up by a
woman, and suspicion points directly against
the sister of the man who fought and died
to-day in the defence of the Commune.'

But, my dear monsieur, I declare it was
not she.'

You increase your own responsibility by
averting it from another. Listen to me, and
be silent if you are wise. I say suspicion
rests upon Miss Vane ; and whether she is oris
not guilty will matter little in the strong
presumptive evidence against her. The
victorious troops are not merciful, and your
defence may simply be taken as a sign of
complicity which will imperil your life. I,

myself — I almib in confidence to you — am
inclined to believe her innocent, having known
her formerly in England ; and therefore, for
her sake and for yours, I wish to remove her
from this hotel before the search is made tomorrow
morning.'

Monsieur Avenet began to pour out words
of gratitude, but Amadis Garnier check 2d
him.

There is no time to be lost,' he said. 'Go

and fetch Miss Vane, or ask if she will

permit me to see her in her own apartment,

and I will induce her to accept my assistance.'

M. Avenet hastily quitted the salon, in

about five minutes he returned, opened the

door for Margaret, and immediately closed it

behind her. Amadis Garnier, standing at

the farther end of the room examining a

photograph, appeared to be unconscious that

she had entered the room until the door

closed ; then he turned and came towards her

With an exclamation of pleasure and his hand

extended. Lie shrank away a little, and

rested her hand upon a chair.

My brother told me of his interview with
you, and all that transpired then,' she said ;
^ so it will not surprise you that I am unable
to meet you, or to think of you in the old

spirit, Mr. Gamier. Indeed, I should have
declined to see you at all but for the pressing
earnestness of M. Avenet.'

^ First let me beg you to be seated,' said
Garnier, placing a chair for Margaret, which
weakness compelled her to accept. Standing
before her, he continued, ' I have not come to
you in this terrible hour from a merely selfish
motive. I would not have intruded on you
now even to regain my place in your esteem.
With respect to that, I will merely say that
I am now what I have always been — a servant
of the police. Employed in secret
service, you cannot blame me for being
secret.'

It is not that for which my brother and I
despised you ; it was for deserting the side
which you believed to be right for unworthy
motives.'

I have never deserted that side. I am
still an Imperialist.'

I understood that you held an office under
the Commune.'

That is true ; but I was serving its foes.'

'Then you were a spy.'

I was a servant of the secret police.
The end, in my opinion, justified the means.
I acted consistently with the principles I

profess. But that is nothing. My object is
not to defend myself but to protect you.
Your life is in danger. As the sister of a
prominent leader in the Commune you will
be exposed to the vindictive animosity of its
enemies. Suspicion already rests upon you,
and the judgment of the military will be
sharp and severe. Pressing necessity compels
me to break the sad news to you that
your brother is no more.' Madge closed her
eyes and bent her head. ' You stand alone
and friendless. Will you accept my help V

No said Margaret, raising her head and
speaking with firm emphasis.

You speak under the influence of feelings
which I can well understand, and which increase
my respect for you. I do not ask you
to accept at once a proposal which must be at
the present moment repugnant to you. I
will call upon you for an answer at six o'clock
tomorrow morning. By that time I shall
have made all necessary arrangements for
your safety and escape from Paris. I impose
no conditions ; I will risk my life to save you,
in the hope that when you reach England
you will give that favourable answer to my
former offer of marriage which I believe you
intended to make. In leaving you 1 only

beg you to consider the consequences of refusal.'
He walked towards the door, stopped,
and returning a step, said : ' I am afraid that
my communication must seem harsh to you ;
but you must attribute that to my desire to
place the serious conditions of the situation
in a clear and distinct light before you, without
inducing you by any emotional display to
act in opposition to reason. But, believe me,
my feelings towards you are more sympathetic
and tender now, that you are alone and
unfriended, than ever they were in your
happier moments. And you will understand,
my dear Miss Vane, that in providing escape
for you, and in quitting Paris at this time
myself, I sever myself for ever from that
service which is so odious to you. I beg you
to consider these facts, and give me the benefit
of impartial judgment

He withdrew, and Margaret remained sitting
in the salon, with her head bent and her
hands crossed in her lap, powerless to move,
and careless of what happened to herself now
that her fears were confirmed, her brother
dead and nothing left to hope for.

FOLLY S EXPIATION.

^Nc^lBOUT five o'clock on the following
^/Ao. morning Senor Esperenza tapped
i^&u^ii. ^^ ^^^^ door of Folly's room. There
Alas no response. He tapped again,
louder. The door opened, and Folly, coming
from the room and closing the door softly
behind her, said :

What do you want, my father V
She spoke in the soft, amiable tone of voice
which had been natural to her during the
previous months, and without a trace of the
harsh impatience she had shown towards her
old friend during the last few days of agitation
and anxiety. The sweeter accent agreed
with the expression of her face, which, as she
VOL. III. 57

stood in the soft morning light that streamed
through an eastern window upon her, seemed,
to the old man's eyes, more tenderly beautiful
than anything he had ever seen.

My child,' he said, ' I am happy to see
you so composed.'

Yes,' she answered ; ' we are at rest now.
The anxiety and the partings — they are allover.'


^ I am troubled to have to break in upon
your peace ; but you bade me come to you if
anything happened to Miss Vane.'
What has happened?'
She is in dancer. It is thought that she
did the execution which came from your hand
yesterday.'

Poor soul ! She had not the strength to
lift a gun.'

That is nothing. The men who will judge
her are mad with the thirst of blood, and will
think it sufficient evidence that she was the
sister of Richard Vane.'
Where is she f

In her room below. Madame Avenet and
I have been sitting with her. We have done
our best to console her ; but, though she is
grateful for our sympathy, we cannot make
her take interest in life. All that we can

suggest of hope falls upon her heart just like
the rain upon a flower that is dead.*
Does she know that he lies in there V
^ No. We purposely refrained from telling
her ; for a means of escape from Paris has
been offered which she would not accept if
she knew that she must leave her brother
here.*

How can she escape V

^ Through an officer of the police, who was
once her brother's friend. He has warned her
of her danger, and offered to provide for her
escape.'

^ Do you know the man V

It is he who protected you last night.'

Did anyone protect me ? I forget. What
is his name V

Gamier — Monsieur Amadis Garnier — as
we learn from Miss Yane.'

^ Amadis Garnier !' Folly said, with more
excitement in her voice. ' Oh, I am a careless
friend — selfish and thoughtless to the
last ! I promised him I would protect her —
and I permit her to be exposed to the very
man he warned me against I Has she accepted
his after V

No. She declines to go : and for that
reason I came to you, thinking you might

57—2

add your voice to ours in persuading her.
A guard is already placed before the house
to prevent anyone leaving it, and in an hour
M. Garnier will come for a final answer.'

Folly nodded her satisfaction ; then for a
minute she stood looking out at the streaked
sky in silent thought. Esperenza noticed that
she had changed the dress she wore the days
before for a lighter and prettier one, and that
her hair was dressed neatly. Her appearance
altogether was opposed to his expectations ;
but Folly, from the first hour he saw her, had
continually been a source of surprises to him.

Turning her eyes suddenly upon Esperenza,
she said :

When that man comes, let me know. I
will save his sister.'

^ My child, I must warn you to be careful.
The suspicion may fall upon you.'

Do you think that makes any difference
to me V

No, no,' said the old ballet-master ; ^ but
still I fear. And yet, now that you have
washed the traces away from your face, and
look so young and beautiful, no one could
think that it was you who stood upon that
terrace yesterday. Nevertheless, I cannot
help fearing for you. I am quite an old

friend, and a faithful friend, as you know.
Will YOU not confide in me, and tell me how
you will save Miss Vane V

'You are an old friend, and a good friend
said Folly, drawing closer to him and taking
his hand. ' I have forgotten all your kindness
in my late troubles, perhaps. I have
not noticed them, so much has my mind been
do voted to one other friend ; but I think of
them now, and love you for your faithfulness.
Never mind how I shall save his sister;
it is enough that 1 will. Do not ask meany
questions. As you love me, help me todo
my duty.'

He looked at her timidly, with a presentiment
of her intention. Again in rapt thought,
she was looking through the window at the
pearly morning clouds in perfect composure.
He looked at her until the tears blurred his
sight, and his trembling fingers fell away
from her hand.

After a few moments' silence. Folly said :

I have still a favour to beg of you. When
I have made arrangements with M. Garnier,
and have provided for Miss Vane's safety, I
want you to take her to England, and not
leave her until she is there. Will you do
that r

risen.

Esperenza bowed his head in silence.

And while you are there I wish you to
find my husband, Roland Aveling, and return
him this ring that he gave me, and tell him
that I have done all that I could to atone for
the past.'

She took off the wedding-ring from her
third finger and held it out. Esperenza took
it from her without lifting his head.

That is all. And now, my father, kiss me
and leave me here until I am wanted.'

At six o'clock M. Gamier walked into the
Hotel de Milan, and requested the conceive
to send his card to Miss Vane. The messenger
returned, after a brief delay, with a
note, in which Margaret informed M. Garnier
that she had not altered her decision of the
previous evening, and declined to see him.
M. Garnier wrote a reply in the bureau, and
despatched it by the messenger. The words
he wrote were these :

If you persist in refusing my offer, I have
but one alternative — I must arrest you as a
suspected Communist.'

In a little while Senor Esperenza descended
the stairs, holding by the baluster-rail for
support. His lips and cheeks were ashy pale,

and when he spoke his voice was scarcely
raised above a whisper.

Monsieur Amadis Garnier V he said inquiringly
to the gentleman confronting him.

That is my name.'

'You have said that, unless Miss Yane
accepts your protection, it will be your duty
to arrest her.'

Garnier looked round, with furtive anxiety,
to see if this speech were overheard, and
seeing no one, replied quickly in the affirmative.


Then replied Esperenza, still holding
the stair-rail and speaking with effort, ' I am
requested to tell you to do your duty.'

Amadis Garnier stood for a minute irresolute,
tapping the polished toe of his boot
with his cane.

Is that Miss Yane's definite answer ? Is
she aware of the fatal consequences V he
asked.

It is her answer. She understands her
position. The most urgent persuasion of her
friends has failed to make her waver for one
moment in her determination.'

'Ah, well !' Garnier exclaimed, with a little
gesture of impatience, and then he walked
quickly from the hotel.

Esperenza waited at the stair-foot, with
his head bent and his chest heaving Hke an
invalid exhausted by exertion, until he heard
the tramp of feet, a peremptory word of
command, and the rattle of arms in the porte
cocked outside ; then he straightened his body,
as if collecting' strength for m-eater effort.

o o o

Garnier, with an officer and four men,
entered the vestibule.

Follow me, gentlemen,' said Esperenza.

He led the way to the fourth stao-e, and
then pointing down the passage, said :

'That is the room — Xo. 13.'

The officer spoke to his men, and they advanced
along the passage, their heavy tread
echoing through the hotel. Esperenza sat
down upon the stairs, and, burying his face
in his hands, rocked himself backwards and
forwards, moaning, ' My poor child ! — my
little dancer ! — my dear child !'

As the soldiers came to a halt before the
room marked 13, the door opened wide, and
Folly stood before them.

You have come for the woman who shot
your comrades on the Carrefour yesterday V
she said.

We have come to arrest the sister of the
Communist, Eichard Yane,' Garnier answered,

and then, with a rapid movement, he
slipped past the girl, and entered the room,
where he expected to find Margaret.

Folly sprang back into the room, and
placed herself between Gamier and her bed,
which was covered with a spotless quilt. The
officer and his men followed quickly.

You shall not lay a finger on this bed,'
she cried. ^ It is your duty to arrest the
woman who fought yesterday for the Commune.
I am she.'

The officer looked to the agent of police for
instruction.

It is the sister of Richard Vane who is
suspected,' Gamier said.

^yhat does that matter V cried Folly.
I tell you it was I who did it. His sister
was too ill to rise from her chair. Richard
Vane was ten thousand times dearer to me
than a brother. See, it is I who have his
body — not his sister.' As she spoke she
drew back the coverlet to show the body of
the man she loved. She had surrounded it
with sprigs from the evergreens upon the
terrace, and laid all the trifles which she
cherished beside him. She bent a fond look
upon him for a moment, and then, turning
round and addressing the officer, said :

Is it enough ? This is my room. Look
at the window, there, all clouded with smoke
from my gun. Will you take this evidence,
or arrest an innocent girl upon the imputation
against her of a man who wishes to ruin her ?
Do you want more evidence ? Look in the
ixrriiei\m the corner you will find the dress I
Adore yesterday, with the collar and cuffs all
black with powder. Look at this hand' —
she stretched out her riiiht hand — * black still
with the powder — traces that the treacherous
man there saw last night, and for his own
purposes bade me wash away if T wished to
be safe. Are these proofs enough ? I ask.'

As she spoke she dropped her right hand
and slipped it back into the folds of her skirt.

Perhaps you can volunteer another proof,*
said Gamier, with a short laugh.

Yes, one — and one only,' answered Folly,
looking straight at him. ' One last act shall
prove that I hate the enemies of the good.'

She drew from her pocket the revolver
Esperenza had given her, put it against
Garnier's breast, and fired the two charged
chambers. The next instant she flung herself
upon the bed, and twined her arms closely
around the neck of her dead friend.

The officer looked at the dead police agent

upon the floor, and then at the desperate girl
lying with her back towards him. It was a
case for summary retribution. He signalled
to his men. They raised their guns, took
aim, and fired.

A cry of joy mingled with the echoing
report of the chasseurs, as Folly's soul fled
through her lips, and there came an end to
her troubled life.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE LAST.

rr Obey, my boy, you shall show me
how 3'oii intend draining that bit
of land down bv Afford : I was
thinking* over it last nio-ht, and I
can't see how you will get your fall with that
confounded brook running across it.'

I shall take the pipes down Chisholm
below the bridge ; I will show you.' Koland
pulled out his pocket-book and pencil.

If you are not too fatigued with the day's
exertions, we'll go down there. I cannot
abide diagrams.'

With pleasure, sir. Will you have your
cob V

Xo ; I can walk there ; 'tis not a couple
of miles, and the exercise will do you food,

mybov. You're in the saddle too much. The
blood is apt to get congested, and one grows
lumpy and dull in consequence ; I've found it
myself.'

Let us walk, then, sir.' Koland sauntered
from the dining-room into the hall, and took
down his hat ; Sir Andrew, following, regarded
his son with anxiety.

Perhaps, after all,' he said, ' we might
have the nas^s. You look tired, Koley.'

I prefer walking ; I'm not at all tired,'
Roland answered, turning with a smile, and
affectionately linking his arm in that of the
solicitous old baronet. As they walked down
the steps to the avenue, he continued : ' You
must not be anxious about ni}^ health, sir ; I
am perfectly well. I am naturally concerned
for our friends in Paris. Postal communication
is open, but I have received no news
from Dick.'

'No news, my boy, is generally good
news.'

Poland shook his head.

You have seen the evening paper V he
asked.

Yes ; you refer to the batch of prisoners
executed yesterday at Paris. That need not
make you fear for Yane. The judges will

discriminate between men who acted upon
conscientious convictions, as he did, and the
thoughtless rabble, who simply used the opportunity
to indulge their brutal passions.'

That does not seem to be the case, unfortunately,'
answered Koland.

I pray Heaven he may escape !' said the
baronet, fervently.

Poland did not reply.

In the absence of news, one always fears
the worst,' said Sir Andrew ; and again receiving
no response, his voice dropped to a
tone of supplication, as he asked, you do
not think I am responsible for all, Koley, do
you V

You, dad 1 What could have put such a
notion into your head V

^My own conscience, I fear, my boy. I
know I have much to answer for. I cannot
get poor Margaret out of my thoughts,
though I have said nothing to you on the
subject. I Avatch the post as eagerly as you.
I could not sleep last night for thinking of
what her fate would be if anything happened
to poor Yane. Thinks her in that distracted
city, alone and bereaved. But why should I
tell you to think of her'? — cannot I see, every
minute of the day, that your heart and brain

are restless with anxiety and care '? It has
taken me seventy years, Koley, to learn my
lesson.'

You have done as you thought was wise

That does not reconcile me to my folly. I
might have had a happy son and a happy
daughter by my side now ; but instead I have
robbed my boy of happiness and plunged a
sweet girl into trouble

Say no more, dad,' said Koland.

He knew that his father suffered ; he rejoiced
that his selfishness had given way
before a generous sorrow, but he did not like
to hear him confessing his errors.

*■ I am thinking, sir, that we will put an
end to our anxiety, and see if we can be of
use at the same time.'

^ With all my heart, if it may be done,'

We will wait until the post comes in tomorrow,
and then, if we have no news from
Dick, we will go and seek him in Paris.'

^ We will, my boy. Now, why didn't I
think of it myself ? God bless me — what an
old fool I am I'

With the necessity of making arrangements
for a possible departure, the two gentlemen
shortened their expedition over the Mayford
marsh lands, and returned to the Hall as the

clock was chemin Of the half-hour after eio^ht.
The butler, opening the door, announced that
a gentleman was waiting to see Mr. Aveling.
Sir Andrew walked to the library, while
Roland entered the room in which the visitor
waited.

The visitor was Senor Esperenza.

Sir Andrew sat in his chair by the window
looking out upon the landscape. The light
faded and faded over the purple hills until
only a faint primrose tint remained of the
glowing glory left by the sun ; the evening
star came out, and after it other tiny points
of silvery light, and yet Koland remained
with his visitor. A faint presentiment crossed
the baronet's mind that news had come from
France, and he waited with growing anxiety
for his comines. At length he heard his son's
footsteps crossing the pavement of the hall
with foreboding slowness ; he rose to his feet
as the door opened, and Roland entered with
his eyes downcast. Without a Avoids without
raisins his head — he walked across the
room.

My boy !' said Sir Andrew, gently.

Roland looked at his father, his chin
twitching convulsively, and then, with an
effort, he said :

Dick's dead, sir

•j» -/-I'r •jJ-vJ:

Dear old Dick ! Good, sweet old Dick,
with his gentle eyes and loving smile — gone
gone for ever !' Holand murmured, with a
sigh that shook his whole frame, when the
passionate tears that had followed his brief
announcement of the news had been shed.
We shan't hear his cheery laugh and pleasant,
soft, deep voice again, sir. Dear old
Dick !'

Poor fellow !'

He thought of us at the last. Here is a
note he wrote before leaving home for the
barricades.'

He passed a paper that he had held in his
hand. It was moist and warm with the
young fellow's tears. Sir Andrew took the
paper tenderly and read it.

This was the note ;

My dear Roleyy,

You will find among my books at
Spitalfields one or two books on domestic
architecture, which will, I think, be of interest
to you in your present undertaking. Accept
them, with all the affectionate wishes for
your success and happiness. You will find

VOL. III. 58

306 Folly Morrison.

also the Greenstone which your father coveted ;
give it to'Tiim with a kindly 'word of adieu
from me. And so, dear lad, farewell.
^'' 'Dick.'

'You see, sir,' said Roland, taking back
the letter, while Sir Andrew slipped the
glasses from his eyes to wipe away a tear,
to the very last it was always of others he

thought, not "of himself There's not a word
about his own feelings-^^

\ Sir-Andrew noddy in silence. Presently
he said :
' And his sistei^^-^what-h^s become of her V

She has returned to LoiidcVi v^ arrived
this morning — ind is now'^in Spitalfields.'

We will go to her, Roland — go to her at
once — and do all that we can to make her
happy. Is she alone ?'

'Yes.'

Have you heard of — of your wife V

She, too, is shot. She died that Margaret
might live.'

Great God ! such heroism shames us of
our meaner lives !'

Scarcely a bullet-mark remains to tell of
the fearful struggle which saved France from

a third Empire. Of the heroes who fought
for her at that time, France honours only
the living — the dead she scarcely remembers.
They are forgotten, save by the personal
friends who loved them for their good and
earnest lives.

In the spring of this year a little party of
English entered the cemetery of Pere la
Chaise, preceded by a wrinkled old Spaniard
in a fur coat. A lady walked between her
husband and his father, leaning upon their
arms for support. She was not ill — not even
delicate ; on the contrary, she appeared to
be the type of contented English mothers —
a sweet and comely woman ; but she was
agitated with the memory of past sorrows
and weak from emotion. Behind them
walked an EnoHsh maid-servant, leadini2f two
boys by the hand.

The old Spaniard walked slowly down
the wide path, with his hat in his hand
and his eyes upon the ground. Without
raising his head, he turned down a narrow
side-way, as if his feet had learnt
the route by custom. He stopped by
a single mound on which were placed two
crosses. The gentlemen following him removed
their hats as they approached ; the

58—2

lady in silence sank upon her knees, and
pressed her cheek and lips against the iron,
while the tears flowed down her cheeks.

Presently she raised her head and beckoned
to the two boys, who, in imitation of their
father, had taken off their sailor hats, and
were standing a little apart, awed by their
mother's grief. They came up to the grave,
and the mother, circling them with her arm,
said, between her sobs :

^ Uncle Richard lies here, my darlings.'

•55- ■?:■ •?<: -k -Jc-

There was a jjicrre at the foot of the grave,
bung with a hundred trifles, such as the
French offer upon graves ; it was a queer
collection of fresh and rotting bagatelle, but
the strangest among" them was a fool's bauble,
with a stick tied upon it to form a cross, and
it stood over the simple word, inscribed upon
the incrre :

Folly.'

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPERS, GUILDFORD.

R. T. T.
