LI B Mary

OF THE

U N Veracity

or ILLINOIS



V.I

BIDDY FANE.

HER SURPRISING CURIOUS ADVENTURES IN
STRANGE PARTS & HAPPY DELIVERANCE
FROM PIRATES, BATTLE, CAPTIVITY, Sz OTHER
TERRORS ; WITH DIVERS ROMANTIC 6^ MOVING
ACCIDENTS AS SET FORTH BY Bent

PENGILLY (her companion in misfortune

& joy), & NOW FIRST DONE INTO

print

1!Y

FRANK BARRETT.

Author of ''^ Folly Morrison " 'honest Davie'' C^c.

Vol. I.

Cassel & COMPANY, Limited

LONDON, PARIS, NEW YORK d- MELBOURNE.
1888.

[all rights reserved.)

CO

CONTENTS.

CHArTER I. PAGE

i am taken out of the pillory and narrowly

Escape going to the Whipping-post . . 1

CHAPTER II.

1 AM TAKEN AGAIN BY JacK GeDDES AND OTHERS,

AND Rescued by Rodrigues 19

CHAPTER III.
By a Cunning Stratagem I am got out of Jack
Geddes' Hands, and brought aboard the
"Sure Hawk" 35

CHAPTER IV.
I come to the Canaries in better Plight than

I started 45

CHAPTER V.

To MY Mortal Peril I overhear a Horrid

Scheme of Rodrigues and Ned Parsons . 60

CHAPTER VI.

PAGE

I AM NEARLY UNDONE BY MY SHADOW— NeD Parsons

and rodriguez, there argument, with the
Compact that followed 72

CHAPTER Iii.
The Perplexity op being neither Thorough-faced
Rogcte, Arrant Fool, nor Honest Man 80

CHAPTER VIII.
We are Overcome, and with Barbarous Treatment
set Ashore and left there . 96

CHAPTER IX.
We find Ourselves on a Desert Island, and

LITTLE Comfort besides 105

CHAPTER X.
I Quit the Island and my Friend . . . 120

CHAPTER XI.
I AM Excellently Served by my Famous Invention,
and come to England not much the
Worse for it 141

CHAPTER XII.
Lady Biddy gives me a Word of Comfort . . 151

CHAPTER Xlii.

PAGE

The Crossed Heart 162

CHAPTER XIV.
We are Dogged by a Black Ship, to the great

Discomfort of our Companies 172

CHAPTER XV.
We fall into S ore Disasters op Raging Tempest

and Bloody Battle 185

CHAPTER XVI.
The Battle ended to our Complete Discomfiture
198

CHAPTER XVII.
I am Shot out of one Ship and Crawl into
Another, with what Advantage may yet be
seen 204

CHAPTER XVIII.
Greatly put to it to know what to do, 1 do

Nothing 215

CHAPTER XIX.
1 MAKE Myself Known to Lady Biddy, with

divers other Matters 225

CHAPTER XX.

PAGE

By Goodman I Discover a Fresh Piece of

Villainy 241

CHAPTER XXI.

I MAKE A Vow TO SlAY MY LaDY BidDY, IF NEEDS

BE 250

^ THE Admirable LADY

BIDDY FANE

Chapter I.

I AxM TAKEN OUT OF THE PILLORY AND NARROWLY
ESCAPE GOING TO THE Whipping-post.

As 'tis the present mode to embellish a history
with a portrait of the writer, it will not be
amiss if I here at the outset give you some
hints by which you may see, as in a frontispiece,
the image of that Benet Pengilly who
is about to tell you many marvellous things.
"What kind of man I am you may better
judge when you come to the last page of
this history ; my business now is to present
my image as I was ; to which end I
would have you picture a man close upon

B

thirty years of age, clad in a jerkin and
breeches of leather, six foot and some odd
inches in height, gaunt and lean as a
famished wolf, fierce-visaged, with an unkempt
beard of hair, and a shock ragged
as a bush, and both as black as any ink ;
a deep - sunk, bloodshot eye, and a swarthy
skin, all besmirched with broken egg, filth,
and blood. This pretty portraiture you shall
frame in the town pillory, which stood over
against the Church of St. Mary, in the city
of Truro, with this very true description writ
under the headpiece • —

Benet Pengilly, A Sturdy Rogue."

And now to begin my story, I must tell you
that I had stood in this pillory from sunrise,
a sport for all the cowards in the town. I
say cowards, for surely those who have courage
are never cruel to the helpless, and these —
the strongest of whom would have fled before
me had I been free — had baited me as curs
bait a tethered bull, without any kind of

mercy, jeering at me, and making me a mark
for any beastliness that came to hand, ay, and
sharp stones to boot, as the blood from my
lips and cheek testified.

There were never less than a couple of
score of this rabble about me, hallooing and
whooping ; for as fast as one left me to go
about his business, another took his place.
But amongst the constantly changing crowd
was one who, seated upon the stone bench
where the town porters are wont to rest their
loads awhile, never took his eyes off me, nor
budged from his place from the time he came
hither, which was about ten o'clock, till now,
when the sun was past the meridian. He
watched me as a surgeon marks the bearing
of his subject under the knife; nay, rather
'twas as a fiend might watch the torment of
the damned, for a hellish smile crept over his
face as some insult more cruel than the rest
provoked me to a state of desperation.

This man I had seen before. His name
was Rodrigues. 'Twas he who, in the month
B 2

of March, came into Plymouth, his ship all
decked out with ribbons, his crew arrayed in
lace and cambric, and every mother's son as
drunk as a beggar; 'twas he who had set
tubs of sherries on the Hoe, staved in the
heads, and in sheer wantonness and drunken
folly cast the wine right and left with his
joined palms ; to say nothing of divers other
senseless tricks whereby in something less than
two months he had squandered treasure to
the value of nigh upon £7,000, and left not
enough, when his ship was seized, to pay the
King's dues. He still wore the remnants and
wreck of his former finery — silk stockings, satin
trunks, velvet doublet, and a hat with a
feather in it ; but, lord ! so broken, stained,
and bearable through his mad frolics that
plain homespun had looked rich beside it.

I have heard that this Eodrigues was of
gipsy origin, and indeed he looked fierce and
brutal enough for that or anything else. He
had a short, curling beard. His hair grew
low down on his brows, and fell behind his

ears in long, wiry ringlets. His eyes were
small, but remarkably piercing, and the aspect
of his face was very eager and cruel ; but that
which made his looks most terrible was his
teeth, which were pointed sharp, like a wolf's,
so that when he displayed them he looked
more like a beast of prey than a natural man.
This peculiarity, however, was not due to his
birth, but was rather brought about, as I
learnt, through living many 3-ears a captive
amongst cannibal savages, whose practice it is
to file their teeth after this fashion. In addition
to this disfigurement his ears were slit,
and he had a long white scar quartered down
his tawny cheek ; in short, he was as ill-looking
and horrid a scoundrel as ever I did
see.

'Twas, as I say, high noon, and matters
stood thus, when, of a sudden, the clamour of
my persecutors was stilled as by enchantment,
and the sound of horse with the jingling of
harness struck on my ear ; and, casting my je
in that direction, I perceived a company of

ladies and gentlemen with their servants, all
very richly mounted, drawing hither. I took
not much heed of them to discern who they
were, being callous sick with the pain and insult
I had suffered so many hours, until they
drew near within a stone's cast to see what
sport was forward, when Eodrigues, jumping
down from his stone bench, and making them
a mighty respectful obeisance of his battered
hat with its broken feather, my curiosity was
pricked, and I once more looked that way.
Then my heart sank lower than ever, and I
would have been thankful had my face been
beat out of all recognition ; for foremost among
the company was Lady Biddy Fane, and 'twas
clear by the anger in her face that she recognised
me. Yet, the next moment was I glad,
and my heart was lifted up with a savage
exultation; for now, thinks I, she will see to
what degradation and ruin hath she brought a
man of promise by her cruelty.

I do not think there ever was in the whole
world a young woman so beautiful as Lady

Biddy Fane ; nor is there like to be again.
Had I not thought so, should I have abandoned
myself to despair because of her cruelty ?
-Nay; nor should I have had this history to
tell. And yet may there be women as straight
and fairly proportioned as she, though none
more so ; and others with a skin of that rare
pale clearness ; and others, again, with eyes as
large and dark and spirited, with sweet lips
lined with snowy teeth, with a perfect nose
(shapely as any Greek's) and wavy', nut-brown
hair; still, I say, you shall not find another
one woman in whom are combined the graces
of so many together, with a spirit so lofty,
noble, fearless, and faithful as hers. I might
discourse of her beauty for many pages, and
yet fail, for want of words, to do her justice ;
but to make an end of this matter briefly, I
say again she was incomparable.

On her right hand was my uncle. Sir
Bartlemy Pengill}^ Knight, the same who adventured
with Sir Walter Raleigh in the quest
for gold upon the Oronoque; and a hale, lusty

old man lie was, very personable, with shining
white hair that curled closely over his head,
and a well-clipped beard ; on her left hand
was Sir Harry Smidmore, a young man of good
parts, as I must acknowledge, albeit I hated
him exceedingly, by reason of his standing in
better, grace with Lady Biddy Fane than any
other of her suitors, and they Averse as numerous
as butterflies over a fair garden on a summer's
day. Besides these three were many friends
of theirs of very good condition; but they
enter not ito this history, so enough is said
of them.

Now, the rabble, thinking this company
was drawn up for amusement, presently began
to make sport of me ; and one caught up a
dead cat (which had served before) and flung
it at me, and another a cabbage stump,
which had likewise served; and a third, finding
nothing handier than a broken pantile,
was about to cast that, when Sir Harry
Smidmore, with the flat of his sword, fetched
him a clap on the arm that made him think

better of it. Then Lady Biddy, wish scorn
and disgust on lier countenance, turned away,
and the whole company followed her thence,
whispering together, and all very grave ; for
it was known that I was Sir Bartlemy's
nephew, and a kinsman of Lady Biddy's,
and that I had disgraced them before their
friends.

After them went Eodrigues also, at a
brisk pace to keep up with the horse. They
had not been gone long when there came
two of the sheriff's men with a cord to
loose me, whereupon seeing that I was about
to be taken from the pillory, the whole
rout that were in the square took to their
heels as though a tiger were about to be
let loose on them; for I was a man of terror
for many miles about, and was known as
Ben of the Woods."

The sheriff's men first freed my hands
from the boards, and, making fast my arms
about me with their cord, they unlocked the
headpiece, and then, having given me a

draught from a pitcher, for I reeled like
one in liquor being taken down, they led
me up the High Street to the Dolphin Inn,
and so into the great room there, where at
a table sat the justice who had condemned
me to the pillory, with Sir Bartlemy Pen-silly,
Sir Harry Smidmore, and some others ;
and against the wall in the shadow I spied
Eodrigues.

Being brought to the end of the table
facing this company, the justice made me a
discourse, and the gist of his matter was
that, out of respect for Sir Bartlemy, he had
taken me from the pillory before my time,
and would absolve me from further punishment
if I would give my word to be of
better conduct henceforth and agree to the
proposal Sir Bartlemy was about to make.

Then Sir Bartlemy, pushing aside the
bottle that stood before him, leaned forward
and addressed me thus —

Ben," says he, " I am heartily ashamed
of you, and with the greater reason because

3'ou are not ashamed of yourself. Look at
me, rogue ! Do you see that my eyes are
full of tears ? 'Tis for shame that you are
my nephew that I weep, and not for pity,
for I do assure you, sir " (turning to the
justice), " I loved this fellow, and not so
long since, neither ; a have - looking and
comely man he was but a year ago ; of good
parts and great promise, whom I had been
proud to call my son ; and a brave man he
should be by reason that his father endured
manfully much hardship in adventuring under
Sir Francis Drake, and died beside Sir
Richard Grenville fighting those fifteen great
galleons of the Spaniard. But what a base,
desperate rascal are you " (turning again tome
in anger) "to abandon yourself to despair,
to yield up everything without a
struggle and at the first shot of adversity,
bringing dishonour upon your family thus !
Had you but yourself to think of, vagabond
? Had your father thought only of
his own comfort, would he willingly have

endured hardship and privation, or sought to
face the Spanish guns ? 'Twas the honour
and glory of his queen he thought of before
all ; and had you truly loved your cousin,
you would have set up her happiness before
your own, and done naught to make her
blush for so base a subject."

Ay, surely ! " cries the justice, frowning
upon me.

Yet must we not be too hard on the fellow,
neither," says Sir Bartlemy, turning again to
him; "for 'tis not as if he had forsaken a
life of pain for one of pleasure, but quite the
contrary; for he was light-hearted and gay
before this cruel stroke ; and now what creature
on the face of this smiling world is more deplorable
? And, truly, for a man to abandon
himself to a life of such desolation and misery
as he passes in the woods, his mind must be
unstrung, and all its music turned to discord ;
and there is naught, I hear, like disappointment
in love to unsettle the reason, though
nothing of the sort has ever troubled mine ;

for if one lass frowned I'd quickly find another
who'd smile ; and I warrant," says he, merrily,
with a sly dig at the stout old justice — " I
warrant you have often done the same, Master
Anthony."

Let us go to the point. Sir Bartlemy — to
the point," said the justice, severely.

That will I with no more ado. Look
you, rascal," says my uncle, thumping the table
and bending his brows on me, " you have done
little that I should love you, and much to
undo the love I bore you ; yet will I make an
effort to save you from disgrace for your
father's sake — and something for your own —
for, God knows, you are a wretch as much
to be pitied as hated; so here to the point.
I am bent upon getting that treasure which
lies, as we know full well, beyond the Oro-neque,
in order that it fall not into the hands
of the Spaniard. 'Tis too late for me to
make this venture under my own command,
though I fain would ; but a worthy commander
have I found, and under him you shall take

service as his lieutenant and second in command,
and share the profits of this enterprise
in due proportion.

Wait ! " cries the justice ; " here surely is
a mistake ! You cannot intend to place this
fellow taken from the pillory next in position
to your commander ! "

"He is my brother's son," replies Sir
Bartlemy, " and I have faith that he will bear
himself well when this present distemper of
mind shall be blown ois by the wholesome
sea gales ; for the rest, this matter concerns
the crew of the ship and the commander. If
they are willing, should I object ? "

But are they willing ? " asks the justice.
"There is the point."

Here is the ablest man of the crew — one
who has sailed with Drake, gone through
many perilous adventures, and been himself
a master. Hear what he says. Speak up,
Rodrigues."

Rodrigues came out of the shadow, and,
pointing his finger at me, says he — " That man

is worth any ten men of our crew, and such
a man a crew needs for master. We want no
puppets, but men who can fight and suffer
with stiff lips." Then he dropped back into
the shadow again.

I was grateful to this man. Hope — that
so long had lain dead within me — sprang upto
life, and an eager desire for wild adventure
seized upon me. And at that moment the
door at the end of the room over against the
head of the table opened, and Lady Biddy
Fane came into the room; then my imagination,
already kindled, blazed up with a mad
conception of winning untold gold, glorj^ and
honour — all to lay at her feet, with the possibility
that she might accept them and me.

But, lord ! there was little in her aspect to
encourage such a hope, as she stood there erect
and scornful, her pretty brows bent in angry
scorn as she looked on me, tapping her silk
skirt impatiently with her riding-whip. But
this did not daunt my spirit, for I knew how
sweet those brows were when they unbent, and

that her dainty hand was more apt to caress
than to strike.

"While my heart was aflame with this sudden
return of passion, the justice spoke —

What says the commander ? There the
point is, I take it."

Speak up, Sir Harry," says Sir Bartlemy.

"I will have him for my lieutenant as
willingly as I would make him my friend,"
says Sir Harry Smidmore.

Hearing this my heart being filled with
jealousy rebelled against my reason, for I knew
not until that moment who was to be the commander
of this expedition.

Now, Ben," says Sir Bartlemy, " you have
the chance to redeem the past — ay, more than
that — to make us love you as we never loved
you yet. Will you accept the offer freely
made by us ? "

What ! " says I to myself, " win gold and
honours for Smidmore to lay at her feet?
Never ! " And so I laughed with a brutal
scorn and shook my head.

An obstinate, contumacious rascal," cries
Sir Biirtleray, with one of those sea oaths
which he was more free to utter than I have
been to set down here ; " jet," says he, softening
in a moment, " must we bear with him
by reason of his misfortunes to the utmost
limits. I have failed ; plead thou for him,
dear girl" (turning to Lady Biddy), "or he
must go back again to the pillory."

Ay, with all my heart," says Lady Biddy,
advancing ; " and, as you love me, sir," bending
slightly" to the justice, "I do beg you to
favour my pleading. Send him not back to
the pillory, for sure when that, together with
my uncle's gentle, kind persuasion, fails to win
him to a decent behaviour, 'tis evident that
a sharper remedy is needed for his disorder.
Prythee, then, dear sir, send him to the ;
there to be soundly whipped."

Why, so I will," cries the justice, cheerfully,
clapping his list on the table ; " for I've
heard no better suggestion this bout. To the
whipping-post he shall go."
c

■ " Not alive," I muttered ; and then straining
with all my might I burst the cords that
bound me, and turned to the door ; whereupon
the sheriff's men threw themselves before me.
But one I took by the throat and the other
by the shoulder, and swinging them together
I flung them against the wall with such force
that the oak panels cracked again, and they
sank to the ground like things of clay. Then
I strode out of the room and thence into the
pure air, and no one had the stomach to
stay me.

I AM TAKEN AGAIN BY JACK GEDDES AND OTHERS
AND RESCUED BY Rodriguez.

Sir Bartlemy's house was built upon a hill
not far from St. Maw's, and looked over Falmouth
Haven to Penny-come-quick. His
estate was mostly woodlands, and skirting the
river Fal extended north beyond Phillips and
east as far as Gregory. In the midst of these
woods had I lived for many months unmolested,
the worthy old knight, with good intent,
bidding his foresters let me kill what
game I would for my use ; and here had I
built me a hut as a shelter against the inclemency
of the weather, thatching it with
broom and sods of turf. But 'twas a mistaken
kindness on his part, for this sufferance only
tended to complete that state of savagery into
which I was sinking.

From childhood I have loved the woods,
and found delight in studying the secrets of
nature — the growth of herbs, the places where
they may be found ; the ways of birds and
beasts, and the like ; and when my hopes were
all cast over, I had fled thither, saying, " Here
is a mistress whose smile is not to be wooed
in vain ! " And, indeed, for a troubled spirit
I know no comfort so soothing as the woods
after a spring shower, when all is fresh and
sweet, and every little blade of grass seems to
smile. For the most part my state was that
of utter solitude. Many a day I heard no
sound but my own footfall, and saw nothing
but the still trees. For weeks and weeks I
met no human creature ; yet had I no inclination
to seek a companion. But at times my
nature would revolt against this unnatural condition
of solitude, and a mad thirst for debauchery
would seize me. Then with my bow
would I kill a buck, and, selling it to those
who were ever ready to buy venison of me at
a fourth of its value, I would go into Truro

and spend my money in some gross frolic like
that which had brought me to the pillory (as
I have shown).

And now, having dwelt long enough on
my originals, yet not too long, for I would
show truly to what degradation may a man
bring himself by self-abandonment, I will
continue this history without any further
digression.

To my hut, then, in the wood did I betake
myself after my escape from Truro, refreshing
myself on the way with a plunge
in the cool river ; and being arrived at my
home, as I may call it, I went to a hollow
tree hard b}^ which served me as a storehouse,
to see if aught was there to satisfy
the cravings of my stomach ; but finding
nothing save a hare which I had hung there
before leaving, and which now stank (for I
had been absent best part of three days) so
that I could not eat it, hungered though I
was, I picked up my bow, which also I kept
in this place, and, taking a turn in the wood,

I had presently the chance to kill a wood-pigeon.
Then I built a fire with dry sticks,
of which there was no lack at this season,
laid my pigeon in the embers, and when it
had lain there as long as my patience would
endure, I stripped off the skin and feathers,
and devoured it, using my fingers for fork
and my teeth for knife; and thus having
partly quieted my stomach, though I could
have eaten half a dozen such small game,
but was too tired to seek more, I threw myself
on the earth within my hut, and fell
asleep at once, nor did any pricking of conscience
trouble me in the least.

And here I slept on till about eight
o'clock in the evening, as I judge, when an
unwonted sound awoke me ; for I had contracted
the habit of sleeping, as it were,
with my ears open. But being mighty heavy
with sleep I did no more than sit up and
glance stupidly through the opening of my
hut. I saw naught but a tranquil glow over
the west through the still leaves of the

trees ; and a nightingale then bursting out
into honor at no great distance, I concluded
there was nothing to fear; and throwing myself
on the ground, in a minute I was again
sound asleep.

Nothing disturbed me after that through
the night, but soon after daybreak, as I take
it, m)'- ears were assailed by a confusion of
sounds, and ere I could spring to my feet,
a fellow threw himself upon my chest,
another knelt upon my legs, and a third
laid strong hands upon my shoulders, and ina
trice I felt cords cutting into my arms
and binding them to my sides.

You escape not this time, Master Benet,"
growled a voice, and in truth my captors
were as good as this fellow's words, for
enough cord was bestowed about me as would
have trussed up an elephant. My captors
were six ; all stout fellows and well armed,
amongst whom I recognised one of the men
who had served me the day before, and I
cursed my folly that I had lain myself open

to be taken in this way ; for I might have
foreseen the pursuit had I given it a thought.
However, cursing was of no good ; there was
I clapped up and in a fair way to get my
punishment doubled, and more than that.
And, as there was no likelihood of escape,
the only thing left me was to bear my ill-luck
with the fortitude of despair. Yet my
heart sank as I saw them take up my bow
which, I had laid beside me on going to
sleep, for I knew I should have it no more,
and how could I get food or aught else without
that when I got my liberty again ?
Better to take my life, or rob me for ever
of my liberty, than take that by which I
lived, thought I.

They haled me out into the open, and
there for the first time this day I spied the
gipsy E-odrigues. He was seated on a fallen
tree, with his elbows on his knees, and his
jaws in his hands, smoking tobacco in the end
of a clay pipe ; and now he had his keen eyes
fixed on me, watching how I took this new

buffet of fortune with the same look he had
worn the day before, when I stood in the
pillory.

I guessed it was his step that had aroused
me the foregoing evening, and that he led
on the sheriff's men to catch me, which was
pretty near the truth of the matter, as I shall
presently show.

To make sure that I should not escape,
the men tied me up to a tree ; then they proceeded
to regale themselves from a store of
meat, with which their wallets were well
filled, making very merry with me the time ;
after which they consulted together in a low
voice ; and, one of them having parleyed for a
few minutes with Rodrigues, they all stretched
themselves out on the soft sward, and in a
short time were asleep and snoring like so
many swine, which surprised me somewhat,
seeing that now the sun was getting pretty
high.

For some while Rodrigues sat as still as
any carved image, smoking his pipe and looking

at me; then up lie gets, and passing the
sleepers as silently as might be, he comes to
my side ; and putting first his finger on his
lips, and jerking his thumb over" his shoulders
with a sly leer to bid me be silent, he pulls
a letter from his breast and showed me my
name writ upon it. This he thrusts back
in his breast, and, after a glance over his
shoulder to make sm-e all were still sleeping,
he cuts the cords that bound me to the tree
with his dagger, and leads me a good stonecast
distant, where we might converse in a low tone
without being heard.

Here he again lugged out the letter, and,
spreading it out (the seal being already broke),
he held it before my eyes to read ; for he had
been careful not to sever the cords that tethered
my arms to my side.

It was my uncle's hand and signature.

You have read this ? " says I.

Rodrigues shrugged his shoulders, as much
as to say, " I had been a fool else," and then
says he, with the utmost assurance —

I was to have given it to you last night,
but you were sleeping so sweetly I had no
heart to wake you. Besides, I thought you
would more readily listen to his advice if you
were in bonds than if you were free."

So you betrayed me ? "

Not at once. I led the fellows up and
down in the moonlight best part of the night,
that they might be overcome with fatigue
this morning, and so give me the opportunity
of some serious conversation with you. Now
read what Sir Bartlemy has to say."

I was m no position to resent this insolence
; so I did what was next best —
swallowed ib, and followed his advice ; and
this is what I read : —

"Nephew Benet, — Yoii are no longer safe in my
woods, for I have no power to shield you from the law.
Even now the officers are out to apprehend you, and God
knows what may befall if you are taken. If you have
any feeling for me, any love for your father's memory,
or any respect for yourself, you will escape this new
shame. My ships lie in the haven ready to depart, and
Sir Hairy is still willing to accept you as his companion

and friend in the noble enterprise now toward. I do
beg and implore you be not a fool and a villain as
well, but quickly accept this offer, Rodrigues, who bear's
this, does undertake to carry you safe to Flushing, where
a boat lies in readiness to take you on board the Sure
Hawk, where you shall find all comfort and good cheer
to say naught of the loving gratitude of thine old uncle,

Bartlemy Pengilly."

This gentle letter did somewhat move my
heart ; and surely its sensibility had been
gone beyond all recovery had it not responded
to so warm an appeal ; and my first feeling
was that I would do his bidding. Then I
bethought me what a mean and sneaking
thing it was, after refusing this offer when I
was free to accept it when I was not free ; and
what a hang-dog cur I should appear to all
the crew when my story became known, and
how (under the mask of pity and patronage)
Sir Harry Smidmore must scorn me for a
paltry fellow. And with that came the remembrance
of Lady Biddy's contempt; and,
coupling these two together, I was wrought
again with fierce jealousy and hatred ; and I

did resolve that I would die ten thousand
deaths rather than give them this food for
their scorn.

Eodrigues, subtly watching me, must have
seen the madness in my eye, for he whispered
at this point —

Sir Harry is wondrous eager to get you."

Curse Sir Harry ! " says I, warmly.

Not I," says he, with a quiet laugh.
He'll give me a score of gold pieces if I
take you to him ; and no wonder, for he will
be well repaid with caresses when he takes
the news to Lady Biddy."

You'll get no pieces from him, nor he
kisses from her, through me, I promise you."

Your ears will be cropped for a certainty
if you are taken back to Truro." And then,
as I made no reply, he adds, " You are
minded to break sour uncle's heart rather
than your own pride."

Nay," says I, " there's a way by which
I may spare him shame, and myself as
well."

Are you man enough to thrust a knife
in your own heart ? " says he.

Ay ! " says I, joyfully ; " do but try me.
Give but my forearm fair play and lend me
your dagger. You shall be rewarded, I warrant,
when you tell Lady Biddy I am no more. Ordo
you thrust it into me if you doubt the use
I should make of the knife. I promise you I
will not awake a single sleeper with my groans."

He nodded approvingly, but made no
attempt to take me at my word.

Life isn't worth much," says he, " to a
fool. And 'tis only a fool who thinks there's
never another loaf to be got when he's eaten
his last crust. Look at me," spreading his
arms and surveying his rags — " a prince last
month, a beggar to-day. What of that ? I'll
be a king next year. And so may you be,"
he adds, after a pause. But that did not
tempt me ; so presently he goes on —

If you had seen what I have seen, and
if you were as hideous as I am, and as old,
3'et you would not talk of ending your life.

If you had seen as I have seen " — speaking
slowly, yet with passion, as, through his half-closed
eyes, he seemed to be looking at what
he described — " a land where the forests are
flower gardens, more fair than hand of man
can make ; where trees — not like these stunted
things, which are but bushes by comparison —
where trees, I say, seem hung with precious
gems, and waters run on beds of gold and silver,
and every rock is dazzling crystal; where rich
fruits tempt the appetite they never cloy ;
where flying birds are like the flash of gems,
and their song more sweet than your musician
ever heard in dreams ; where the sun never
parches nor cold winds bite ; where the gentle
air is brisk as wine and charged with the scent
of leagues of flowers : if you had seen that
land, I say, you would want to see it again
before you died."

These hints of southern glories I had heard
before from my uncle ; though between his
speech and this poetic gipsy's there was all
the difference betwixt north and south.

To see this land might tempt you to
oblige Sir Bartlemy," says he. Then, after a
bit, he continues, " But it does not, I perceive.
You know the intent of this enterprise — first,
to gratify your uncle's whim ; and, next, to enrich
Sir Harry, that he may wed Lady Biddy.
You have no relish to help him that way —
to come home with a gruesome face to pull
the joybells at their wedding ? "

No, by the lord ; that will I never do ! "
says I.

Then your answer to that letter is
'No'"

"A thousand times 'No'"

"You refuse the offer?"

"I do."

I see you mean what you say," says he,
looking me keenly in the eye, " and I am
right glad it is so. I am not mistaken in
you, Pengilly. I saw there was mettle in
you from the first, else I had not taken all
this trouble on myself to win you. Had you
said ' Yes ' to that letter you would have had

me for your enemy, and it would have gone
ill with you, I promise. As it is, I am your
friend, as I will quickly prove. For, first, I
will give you freedom, and after that a voyage
to the south ; whence you shall speedily return,
your ship deep laden with gold : then
shall you have possession of your mistress.
All this I promise ; ay, and more, for 3'ou
shall, if you will, revenge yourself of the insults
this proud maid has heaped upon you,
and humble the man who would have taken
her from you, so that he shall not dare to
show his face before her. What say you to
this ? "

I could say nothing on the moment, being
greatly perplexed by this unexpected turn;
and ere I could command my senses to inquire
of Rodrigues how he purposed compassing
that which he proposed, we were both mightily
startled by hearing, at no great distance behind
us, the sound of men's voices ; and presently
one above the rest set to hallooing "Jack
Greddes ! Jack Greddes ! " which was the name

D

of that sheriff's man who had bound me as
aforesaid. Then on the other side we heard
the men who lay asleep rousing each other
with a great confusion of sound that showed
they had discovered my escape. Thus we
stood between the party which had taken me
and a second party sent after to help them.
And the chance of getting freedom, to say
nothing of riches and my sweetheart, looked
more unlikely than ever. Yet did we contrive
to escape, as I shall set forth in the next
chapter.

BY A CUNNING STRATAGEM I AM GOT OUT OF
JACK GEDDES' HANDS, AND BROUGHT ABOARD
THE " SURE HAWK."

The two parties of sheriff's men were distant
from each other, as I took it by the sound of
their voices, no more than a hundred yards, so
that we could not burst away in any direction
without hazard of being seen ; and a foolhardy
hazard it had been, for Jack Geddes and his
party were armed with muskets, and would
not have scrupled to use them. Yet how to
escape did not appear until Rodrigues (as luck
would have it) spied a fairly deep hole which
had served at one time for a sawpit, and to
this he hurried me, and we both leaped in,
and there, in a twinkling, did he scrape aside
the loose sawdust that lay at the bottom ;
and in the trough thus hastily made, I, seeing
D 2

his intent, threw myself full length, and as
quickly was smothered over from top to toe
with the sawdust, so that nothing was visible
of me.

By this time the two parties were joined,
and there they set up a great shouting and
cursing because I was no longer bound to the
tree as I had been left. And not only did
they curse me, but they cursed Rodrigues as
heartily, vowing they would pepper him with
their bullets as a faithless villain if they saw
him. Whereupon this Eodrigues, laying himself
prone on my body, set up a most dismal
groaning, like one in pain, hearing which
Jack Greddes and the rest came rushing to the
edge of the pit. Seeing him there all alone
and doubled up as though he had been broke,
half a dozen, in one breath, began to question
him how he came there, what was amiss with
him, etc. To which he replies with a groan —

'Tis all along of that Pengilly ! I was but
dozing, when I heard one cry ' Jack Greddes ' "
(here a groan), "and the same moment I

saw Pengilly with a mighty wrench tear himself
from the tree. Up I started and after him,
when, being but half awake, I threw myself
into this cursed hole, and here have I
broke my arm, I do believe. But do you leave
me here (where I am as well as elsewhere),
and catch the villain. I would not for the
loss of both arms miss seeing his ears cropped."

Ay ! we will catch him : have no fear,"
says Greddes ; " scatter yourselves, my fine
fellows, and shoot down the rascal if you do
but sight him, for we shall suffer for it if he
escape us."

Whereupon the men, more concerned for
themselves than for any hurt of Eodrigues,
started off like hounds unleashed, and each, in
his several direction, bent upon taking me
again alive or dead. And it was none too
soon, for the sawdust, entering my mouth
and nostrils when I breathed, I was pretty
nigh choked — to say nothing of the oppression
I suffered from the cords that pinned my arms
and Eodrigues lying upon my back.

So when they were gone and Eodrigues,
standing up and peering over the edge, said
that all was clear, I lifted my head, shaking
off the sawdust and spitting out that which
had got into my throat, and breathed again.

Now," said Eodrigues ; " now may we
escape, for being all scattered, our pursuers
are less likely to take us."

Do but cut this cord," says I, " and I
warrant not any two shall take me."

Ay," says he, "I will cut your bonds
with a good heart. But first must you swear
to be secret and silent ; nay, you must swear
also to be obedient to my direction without
question or murmuring, else will I leave you
here to fare for yourself."

I promised him this, for I was in no
position to haggle over terms ; yet my promise
was not enough for him, but he, taking his
dagger by the blade, held it to my mouth,
and would have me kiss the cross of it,
swearing by that sign as a Christian to obey
him in every particular. And this I did, the

more readily because of the cord which Jack
Greddes had knotted so cruelly about my arms
that it bit into my flesh to my intolerable
hurt.

Having thus made me take oath, he cut the
cord, and I was free ; yet for some time could I
not use my arms with any freedom, by reason
they were so benumbed and bruised. Nevertheless,
I managed to scramble up out of the
pit after Eodrigues, and thence, I following
on his heels, with the stealth of any cats, we
pushed our way by bush and briar through the
thickest part of the wood, where, at sight of
an enemy, we might lie down and be unseen.
On we went, Eodrigues leading and keeping
the sun well before, for a matter of three miles
or thereabouts, without encountering any of my
pursuers ; and then, perceiving that if we kept
on in this direction we must shortly come to
Flushing, which lies (as I have said) on the
hither side of the Fal, opposite ,
I twitched Eodrigues by the skirt and
gave him to understand this, adding that there

was not a fisherman there but knew me, and
would have me hanged if he could ; and this
was true, for I was known and feared all round
and about these parts, and held to be a wild man
of the woods, very dreadful and dangerous, and
a bogey to frighten children withal.

I know well enough where I am going,"
says he.

"That may be," says I; "yet this is buta
stepping out of the frying-pan into the fire,
so far as I am concerned."

Whereupon he taps the handle of his dagger
as a sign to me to remember my oath, and that
is all the satisfaction I got.

So on we go again, still keeping the sun
before us ; and descending the hill anon we
come to the river side, and here Eodrigues
stops, looking to the right and left, as if uncertain
; then, putting his hand over his mouth,
he gives the cry of " Cuckoo ! " as natural as
ever I did hear, and straight there comes an
answer in the same manner from a thicket
further up the river side. Thither we made

our way, but with great care, now being no
more than a furlong or thereabouts from the
village, screened off by a jutting point of land
well timbered; and soon, passing through the
said thicket, we came on a little creek, in which
lay a boat, wherein sat a couple of seamen as
tawny as Eodrigues, but stouter and better
favoured, albeit one lacked an eye.

All about this creek there lay an open space,
from which an alley ran up into the wood ; and,
lest he should be observed, Rodrigues would not
advance beyond the brush, whence he signalled
his fellows to know if all were safe. And he with
the one eye, rising up and stretching himself as
if he were aweary, spied up the alley and all
round and about, and then signalled, by winking
his one eye, that he could see nothing ; whereupon
Eodrigues bade me cross the open quickly,
get into the boat, and lie down under the sail
that was there. He came not himself, but was
gone when I got to the boat and cast my eye
round for him. And here I may tell what I
afterwards learnt concerning him. He made

his way back with all speed to the sawpit, and
lay there as if he had never budged when
the men came back from their search after
me, still feigning to be greatly hurt with his
arm, though happily assured that it was not
broken.

Meanwhile I, following his direction without
knowing what the end thereof might be, got
into the boat, and, lying down in the bottom,
was covered over with the sail-cloth by one of
the mariners, while the other loosed the boat
from its moorings ; and this was done none too
quickly, for as the fellow was stepping into the
boat from untying of the headlong, who should
come down into the open but John Greddes himself,
as I knew full well by his voice.

"Hold, there ! " says he, hailing the seamen.
Have you seen a great, sturdy fellow in a
leather jerkin pass this way? "

"Not we," replies one; "and we've been on
the look-out for such a man since yesterday
afternoon — and a pox to him ! "

And, pray, Who set you to wait for him ? "

asked Geddes, and bis voice told that he was
now close by the boat's side.

Why, that's my master's business that
sent us, and none of yours," said the fellow.

"Hold your clapper, Ned, and lend a hand
with your oar," cries his mate, " for the boat
is aground, and I can't shove her off. Yo,
ho ! all together ! 3-0, ho ! — there we be ! Now
off we go, Pengilly or no Pengilly, for, curse
me," says he, "my inwards will stand this
griping of hunger no longer."

Then there sprang up a dissension between
the two seamen and Greddes, who would have
them ferry him over to Penny-come-quick, and
they would not; and he, laying the stock of
Diis musket on the gunwale to draw the boat so
that he might step in, one of them flung it off,
while the other fetched him a blow on the head
with his oar that laid Master Geddes senseless
on his back. Then says the first to the other —

Lay to, Ned, for God's sake, or mischief
will come of this."

All this while I lay still under the sailcloth,

expecting, for the most part, nothing
less but to feel Geddes his foot step on to me.
But his business being so concluded, I heard
nothing more but the dip of the oars, the
ripple of water under me, and the working of
the rowlocks, until one of the men says to the
other, "Pull under her lee, that we be not
seen from the shore ; " and the next minute the
boat bumped, and the sail-cloth being whipped
off, I found that we lay under the side of a
fine, high ship.

"Up you go, comrade, quick," says Ned
(he with the one eye).

Then up the rope steps that hung by the
ship's side I sped, and being come on deck
was as speedily hustled down into the dark
hold below, where they who had followed me
down barricaded me round about with divers
barrels, bidding me lie quiet until I should be
told it was safe to venture forth.

And all this time I knew not that I had
come as a runaway aboard my uncle's ship the
Sure Hawk: but so it was.

I COME TO THE CANARIES IN BETTER PLIGHT
THAN I STARTED.

Ashen the seamen had hidden me away, so
that no man not knowing the ways of the ship
could well come at me save by discharging the
hold of its stores, one brought me some meat
and drink, and then I was left to myself in
the dark. For some time all was quiet above,
but about noon, as I judge, I heard a great
bustle on the decks of pulling ropes and the
like, and this continued all day until the evening,
when the anchors were drawn up and the
ship made sail. And the reason of this commotion
was that Rodrigues, having got away from
the sheriff's men, under pretence of seeking
relief for his arm, sped him to Sir Bai-tlemy
Pengilly to tell him how I had refused his
offer, but had nevertheless gone aboard the Sure

Hawk to escape the law ; whereupon the knight,
mightily pleased with this turn, ordered Sir
Any Smidmore, who then lay at his house,
to lose no time in departing, but to take advantage
of the breeze now springing up to set
sail as soon as might be ; and the stores being
all aboard and the crew in readiness, Sir Harry
set about this business at once. When the
men stood at the anchor ready to heave away,
Sir Bartlemy and Lady Biddy took an affectionate
farewell of Sir Harry, and bidding him
with tears God speed and a happy return,
quitted the ship. And so about eight o'clock
that evening the Sure Hawk (with her companion,
the Adventurer) sailed out of Falmouth
Haven with me, Benet Pengilly, in the hold.

When we were fairly out to sea, Eodrigues
came down to me with another fellow bearing
a lantern, and bade me come out, and I was
not sorry ; for besides that it was extremely
stuffy down there, so that there was no breathing
with any comfort, the ship had begun to
roll and pitch in such a manner that I feared

every moment nothing less but to be crushed
by some chest or barrel being thrown upon
me, though, indeed, there was naught to fear
in that respect, as I learnt when I became
better acquainted with the manner of these
things. But, indeed, the sea ran unconscionably
high, and the ship laboured painfully all that
night and the next day, and after that the
next night again was no better, so that it was
surprising to me that we had not foundered.
Yet that was the last thing I feared, for, being
miserably ill and as sick as any dog, I do truly
think that had the ship split I should have
made no effort to save myself.

I had been stowed away between decks
amongst some bales of goods packed securely
in the fore part of the vessel, and here I lay,
with no comfort but a stone jar of water,
until, waking from a sound sleep, it might be
about noon and we now at sea three days,
I perceived that the storm had greatly abated,
and that my stomach was no longer qualmish,
but quickened with a huge hunger — as well

it might be after my long fast, etc. Then,
feeling brisker than I had yet felt since we
set sail, I sat up, and a savoury smell sharpening
my appetite, I got upon my legs, and so
spied half a dozen seamen seated on chests
under the light of the hatchway before a
smoking mess of pork and pease. Thither I
made my way, though not without difficulty,
the ship still rolling immoderately, and begged
civilly that they would let me eat with them.
Whereupon one shoved the victuals towards
me that I might help myself, but not a word,
good or bad, did any of them speak, which
was more noticeable because they had all been
laughing and talking till they saw me. Presently
a pipe sounded, and they all went up
above; then down comes Eodrigues, and it
was the first time I had seen him since we
were at sea. He had on his sea skirt and
large boots all running with water, for it still
was exceedingly foul weather, and his hat
tied down about his ears with a red kerchief.
But he was in good spirits, and asked me

cheerfully how I did as he seated himself
beside me and helped himself to meat;, and
having answered his inquiry, I told him how
the seamen scowled at me, and begged to
know if I had done aught to deserve this incivility.


Why, yes," says he ; " for had it not been
to save you from the catchpoles, we should
never have ventured to sea in such a rising
gale. We have had no rest since we left
Falmouth, and like at any moment to have
Sone to the bottom. For aufjht we know, our
consort is lost, and all hands with her, not
having been seen these two days. And this
is a great loss, besides being a bad beginning
to our enterprise, and all is set down to your
charge. However, it is in your power to make
them amends and win their love, and I make
no doubt you will."

With all my heart," says I, " if j^ou do
but show me how."

All in good time," says he, tearing with
his pointed teeth the flesh off a knuckle-bone

of pork that lie held in his hands ; "all in
good time. We can do nothing yet, but I
look to you for help by-and-by, else had I not
run all this risk for you. And yet," continues
he, after a pause, flinging the knuckle-bone
behind him — "yet it might be well for you
to make friends with the captain at once. He
asked to see you this morning."

And who is this captain ? " I asked, my
curiosity awakening.

"Why, Sir Harry Smidmore, to be sure.
Did I not tell you ? "

No," says I, moodily.

Then you might have guessed it."

And this was true, if I had been in a
humour for guessing.

I have been trapped and despatched to
sea to please Lady Biddy," says I, savagely.

Well, you'll bear me no grudge for that.
There was no way to save you but by getting
you aboard the ship." Then, glancing round
to see we were alone, he adds, dropping his
voice, " And if Sir Harry Smidmore made to

sea with you before you could escape, that lie
mi gilt please his sweetheart and keep you and
her well asunder, 'twas no fault of mine neither.
Don't you like it, Pengilly ? "

I ground my teeth for response.

"Would you be even with him for this
trick ? " he asked, in the same low tone, and
with a sinister leer.

Ay, that I would ! " says I.

So would I in your place," says he. " If
a man served me that way, I'd "

Here he stopped, and taking up a jack-knife,
he stuck it in the deal board that
served as a bench, and pressed on it till the
blade came out on the other side, and while
he did this his sinewy hand grasped the
board as if it were a throat, and his lips were
drawn back close on his pointed teeth ; then
he looked sidelong at me, saying never a
word, as if to know how I took this hint.

I am no murderer," says I, terrified by
his manner as much as by his suggestion.

Why, who said you were ? " says he,
E 2

OF ell LIB.

with great show of indignation. " Cannot a
man by steady endeavour go through a difficulty
as I have gone through that board with
this knife without doing a mischief? What
a fool should I be to counsel you to such an
end when our true success depends upon you
being good friends with our captain. Nay,"
he adds, "if I thought you would curb your
spirit to it, I would beg you to take Sir
Harry's hand, when he offers it to you, and
accept his friendship."

That can I never do."

"So t thought. Howsomever, you must
do him no injury or insult at this present.
And, harkye, I know it for a fact that he
wants to give into your hand a sum of money
entrusted to him by your uncle for your particular
use, that you might furnish yourself
presently with an equipment worthy of his
nephew ; and this you must not refuse to
take. Laugh as scornfully as you will, but
you must take it, and I will tell you for
why. When we get to a port, you will have

to make the crew merry in return for the
hardships they have suffered on your account.
You must win them to your side, for we can
do nothing else."

They shall have every penny I get, and
welcome. But tell me what you mean when
you say we can do nothing without having
the men on our side ? "

I mean," says he, " that without them
you will get neither riches nor your sweetheart."


And how, having them, am I to win
these ends ? "

Leave that to me. I have promised the
achievement, and if you do but work patiently
upon my instructions, I will not fall short of
my word. More than this I cannot now tell
you, but you shall know more hereafter. For
the present, you can do nothing but win the
affection of the men, and the captain also."

All this was a great mystery to me, and
I could nohow fathom to the bottom of it ; this
only was clear, that I must follow Rodrigues'

bidding, not only because I was bound todo
so in a certain measure by reason of my
oath, but also because it was good policy.
So when I had refreshed myself by sousing
my head . in a bucket of water, I went above,
and, holding on by the bulwarks, was much
amazed with the sight of the heaving seas,
which I had never before seen as now, all
around me, and the way in which the great
ship would dive down into the hollow of a
wave as if to perdition, and yet the next
moment ride upon the crest of it as light as
any duck.

While I was standing here, one of the seamen
came to me, saying that the captain would
speak with me ; so I went with him into the
roundhouse under the poop deck where Sir
Harry was, and very cheerful and bright this
young man looked in his sea dress. Then,
with a noble, easy air, he begs me to sit down,
and, sitting himself, discoursed about the late
storm, telling me how we should certainly have
been all lost but for the admirable skill and

exertions of the master, Eodrigues (and this
every one did allow), and all with perfect self-command
and natural civility, as though we
had been the best friends in the world. But
he did not offer me his hand to take, and I
was glad of this, for I could not have taken
it without shame, feeling as I still did towards
him.

However," says he, " the worst is over,
and, please God, the first part of our voyage
will soon be made ; then j^ou will be free todo
as you like — either to go back to England
or to go on \vith me. For I have not the
power to hold you a prisoner, nor have I the
wish to keep you with me, except as a friend.
That is for you to decide, and I hope, with
all my heart, you will decide to share in this
enterprise, and return with me a richer and a
happier man than ever you could have been
had you not sailed with us. And that your
choice may be perfectly free, here is a purse
of money that Sir Bartlemy entrusted me with
for your use. It will pay your voyage home,

but if you have need of more for your necessities,
I shall be very happy to place my purse
at your disposal."

I took the bag of money he offered, thanking
him for his civility as well as my untutored
tongue would allow. Then he rose, making mea
graceful bow, and bade the man who waited
at the door to take me to my cabin, which I
found very neat and properly furnished, with
everything necessary to my convenience, and
two good suits of new clothes, besides shirts,
stockings, etc.

Eodrigues was mightily pleased when he
saw me in my new clothes and with my hair
decently combed, and it seemed to me that the
seamen eyed me with more respect than they
had yet shown me ; indeed, I found that this
decency did elevate me in my own opinion a
great deal, so that I thought better of myself
and more hopefully than I had since the beginning
of my misfortunes.

The wind continued very high (but fairly
prosperous) for nine da3^s after that, and then,

making the Canaries, we came into water as
smooth as the heart of man could desire, and
so cast anchor at Fuerteventura. And here we
were very busy for three days, repairing the
mischief done us by the storm, and all that
time we saw nothing of the Adventurer, our
consort, which was to have joined us there incase
of being separated, so that we gave her
up for lost, and I know not who was more
cast down about this, Sir Harry Smidmore or
Eodrigues. However, on the fourth day the
missing ship bore in sight (to our great joy),
and by nightfall was anchored alongside of us,
but with one mast gone, and so sorely bruised
that she looked not the same ship she had
been. And it was curious to see how the crew
of the Adventurer, coming on board the Sure
Hawk, the men did hug each other and weep
for gladness. Amongst them all the most joyful
were Eodrigues and Ned Parsons, the seaman
I have spoken of as having only one eye,
and who was master aboard the Adventurer.
But what damped Sir Harry's spirits greatly

was this, that his dear friend, John Murray,
who was captain on our consort, had been
washed overboard in the storm, and was no
more ; and that the men might not see his
grief, he went into his own cabin and shut the
door, and I think there was no sad heart onboard
but his.

Presently Eodrigues came to my side, and,
says he —

Now is the time to win the hearts of
these men. I shall get leave from the capta
for them to go ashore ; do you give them something
to make merry with."

I agreed to this with all my heart, and
fetching the bag of gold from my cabin which
Sir Bartlemy had sent, I bade him distribute
every farthing amongst them ; and this he did,
giving every man equal share, so that each
got over a pound, for there was the value of
two hundred pounds in the bag, and the companies
numbered eight score, as near as may be.
When he had thus made the " dividend,"
as he called it, Eodrigues told them that it was

I who gave the money out of love for them,
and the hardships they had borne on my
account. Whereupon Ned Parsons cried he
would do as much again and a hundred times
more for so generous a gentleman, and bade
his comrades give me a cheer, which they did
with all their lungs, and three times. And I
thought this Ned Parsons was a good friend
to me, but he was not.

TO MY MORTAL PERIL I OVERHEAR A HORRID
SCHEME OF Rodriguez AND NED PARSONS.

Sir Harry gave leave that all should go on
shore who had a mind to, save only such as
Parsons and Eodrigues should need to keep
on hoard the Adventurer and the Sure Haiok for
their protection ; and Eodrigues bade all begone,
saying that he and Ned Parsons would
watch the two ships during the night. So
the men went off in the barge, one batch after
the other, and last of all Sir Harry himself
went also to refresh his spirits after the grief
of losing his dear friend; and Parsons rowed
him to shore. There were then left on the
Sure Hawk none save Eodrigues and I. And
I being heavy with sleep (it being by that
time nine o'clock, as I think) threw myself on
my cot within my cabin, and fell off in a doze.

While I laj'^ there Eodrigaes came to my cabin
and saw me by the light of the lamp, as I
found out afterwards.

But presently awaking, I rose up and went
out on the deck, feeling the want of fresh air.
And indeed the night would have tempted
most men to go forth, being very fair and
the moon vastly bright, as it is in those
parts.

There was not a soul on the deck, for Rodrigues,
seeing me asleep and all clear, had
gone into the captain's store-room to pilfer
a bottle of wine ; and so without design I
sauntered on till coming, as chance would
have it, to the main-mast of the ship, I came
to a stand, and leaning my back against the
mast so that I faced the moon, I fell to
meditating on my lot. Whilst I stood there
I heard the dip of oars ; then the chink of
glass as Rodrigues set down his bottles right
over against where I stood, but on the other
side of the great mast, and after that he went
to the side and called over, " Come up, Ned.

I've that will make us merry, though we be
not ashore."

For all that I would rather be ashore with
our mates," replies Parsons in a grumbling
voice as he comes up the side.

And so we will, man, and many a jolly
night will we sjDend with our mates — when
we have no secrets to keep," replies Eodrigues.
Here we have it all to ourselves, and need
fear nothing if the drink do give a loose to
our tongues."

"Where's Pengilly? He went not ashore,"
says Parsons, when he had tumbled over the
bulwarks on to the deck.

"Asleep in the coach where you see the
light burning, and is sound as a log. Sit you
down here, and we shall see him if he comes
out, which is not likely."

So they sat down together on a chest
facing the roundhouse, and just on the other
side of the mast where Eodrigues had set the
bottles, and presently began to drink and talk ;
yet still I kept where I was, with my back

against the mast ; firstly, because the moon
seemed to spread a calm over my mind which
I cared not to dispel, and after that because I
became curious to know what they had to talk
about

Well," says Parsons, in a more cheerful
tone, after taking a drink, " how goes it ? "

Famously" replies Eodrigues, clacking
his tongue against his teeth and pouring out
more wine.

Have you sounded the men ? Have you
opened out to them of our project ? "

"Nay; not yet. Nor have you, I hope,
or they will blab everything before they get
sober again. I bade you keep a still tongue,
Ned."

And so I have. There's been other
matters to think on. A rare time it has been
with us to keep the ship afloat. But I did
my part of the business."

And bravely, I warrant. Tell me how
you did it, Ned."

I caught him a stroke on the head with

a crow as he was at prayer, and heaved his
body out into the sea by the galley port."
'Tvvas thus he had cruelly murdered Captain
Murray.

No one saw you ? "

Never a soul. He was missed in the
morning, and all think he was washed over
by a sea."

Well, there's one out of the way. 'Twill
be Smidmore's turn next."

When ? " asks Parsons.

That's as hereafter may be. I'm for
leaving everything till we have provisioned at
Trinidad."

And I'm for going at it at once. Curse
this hanging fire when there's prize to betaken,
I say. Now Murray is out of the way
you will be made captain of the Adventurer,
and I reckon I shall be master in your place
on the Sure Hawk. We are well armed and
ammunition, and shall not lack provisions.
Then why should we wait till we've been to
Trinidadoo, I want to know ? "

Because we should have to victual again
before going round to the South Sea, and we
want no one to get wind of our intent before
we're ready to fly our colours. It would be
folly to spoil the venture for the sake of a
week or two. Besides, we know not how the
men will take it."

How do we stand for men ? " asks Parsons,
in his grumbling tone again.

Why, there's Black, and Jarvis, and
Kelly, and all those of our old crew who
served with us before — they may be depended
on."

That's thirteen men, and we two make
fifteen, all told."

These men, though they pretend to believe
that we are going up the Orinoco after a
mare's nest, are not such fools as to think that
I design to end my days there."

Ay ! " says Parsons with a laugh, setting
down his cup again. " Nor would they
have been fools enough to engage on any such
silly venture unless they felt sure something

F

better was to come of it. Well, there's fifteen
go on."

Of the rest there's two score as desperate
fellows as ever trod a deck, and ripe for any
mischief."

Would to Heaven we could have raked
up more like them."

The rest are fools ; but sturdy, good seamen,
for all that."

Here I was reminded of what I had previously
remarked — viz., that there were two
sorts of men in our crew and no third. One
set were reckless, dare-devil, cursing rascals,
and the other were as simple-minded as any
children ; but, as Rodrigues said, every one a
hale, good seaman. And this was due to the
cunning of Rodrigues, who, by reason of his
knowing the parts to which we were bound, had
been entrusted to choose a crew likely for the
purpose.

Well," says Parsons, " here are 
men to back us at a sign, and a match for
all the rest with their captain and your Pengilly

as well. Now, here's my plan, Rodrigues, and
if you will hear me you shall own that it
is better than all your middle-faddle of waiting
for this, that, and t'other."

Well, out with it, Ned. You know that I
have never refused to listen to advice, nor to
act on it Ashen I saw it was good ; else had
we never won our way."

That's true, and I own but for your cursed
cool judgment we should all have been strung
up like so many measles."

Over this interchange of civilities they drank
another cup and shook hands. Then Parsons
started off in hio-h o-ood humour : —

Here's how I see it. Sir Harry will make
you captain of the Adventurer ; for why? There's
no man so fit ; and he'll very like make me
master of this ship under him, as being best
able to navigate her and the like. The men
will be fairly divided between the two ships as
heretofore. Now, as soon as we set sail I shall
make it so cursedly uncomfortable for the foolish
fellows of my crew that they shall pray to be
Y 2

exchanged into your ship. To this I shall persuade
Sir Harry, taking in their place all those
men disposed to our design."

So we get all the simpletons under me,
and all the desperadoes under you," says
Rodrigues.

That's it. And matters being so, I will
open out our scheme to my crew, who will jump
at it like sharks. Then the first calm night
will we order things so that my men shall board
your ship after binding Sir Harry, and make
prisoner every mother's son : which done, you
shall ask the company plump out whether they
choose to join in our venture and make their
fortunes, or whether they stick to their articles,
and will go a searching for gold where there's
naught but serpents and fevers. Who will
refuse to join us then, eh ? "

Sir Harry, for a surety."

Then overboard he goes, and away we
sail south with joyous hearts, and no more
dallying."

Eodrigues took the time of drinking another

cup to consider. But little as I knew of this
strange matter, I felt sure he would not Jigree to
this proposal (being a very subtle, painful man),
for if he thus parted with all the men proper
to his desperate enterprise, what was to prevent
Parsons deserting him and going whithersoever
he pleased with his desperadoes ?

"Yes," says Eodrigues, "your scheme might
succeed, but it will be better to turn the tables
about so that you send all the dependable men
to me, and I send the others to you."

Parsons made no reply to this, whereby he
revealed the secret treachery that was in his
mind. But Eodrigues taking no notice of this,
though he must have perceived it, continues
cheerfully, " No, Ned ; on second thoughts that
plan will not do. For taking the men unprepared
in this way, a score of them may hold onto
the hope of getting treasure in Guiana, and
so rally round the captain. Then may we have
to throw them overboard as well as the captain,
which will be a great loss to us. For we can
make no great success with small means, and it

will never do to start short-handel Besides
this," says lie, " the men pressed into our
service by the fear of death will never serve
us as willing hands would."

"Why, that is true," says Parsons, who
clearly did not relish the idea of his own
scheme being acted upon contrariwise. " You
always had a better head for these matters
than any of us. So let us hear how you would
act."

In this wise," says Eodrigues. " As soon
as we set sail from here — you on the one ship
and I on t'other — we will secretly show the
dullards the folly of seeking wealth in Guiana,
when they can enrich themselves tenfold without
leaving the ship, or encountering any of the
hazards and hardships of going a-foot through
those fearful wilds. And first will I win over
Pengilly, who is ripe for this enterprise. When
I am sure of him, Sir Harry shall be got rid of,
and then will Pengilly take his place as commander,
being nephew to Sir Bartlemy, whose
ships these are. So without the loss of one



man shall we have gained our way, and all
willingly will obey his directions."

So far so good," says Parsons ; "but how is
this to advance us ? Are we to take for our
share no more than what he chooses to give us
as his officers ? "

To this question Rodrigues made no reply.
And this silence perplexing me, I cast my eye
sidelong to see if they had moved away. And
then I perceived what it was had stopped his
tongue.

The moon had shifted during their conversation
(of which a great deal for the sake of
brevity I have not set down), and whereas at
the beginning it had shone full on my face, it
now struck me somewhat on my left side. So
that there down on the deck I spied my shadow
revealed beside the seat mast, and Eodrig-ues
had spied it also. For before I could turn my
head, I felt his long, bony fingers upon my
throat, and then the flash of his dagger in the
moonlight caught my eye.

I AM NEARLY UNDONE BY MY SHADOW. NED
PARSONS AND Rodriguez, THEIR ARGUMENT,
WITH THE COMPACT THAT FOLLOWED.

Now, I had not stirred a hair's breadth the whole
time this Rodrigues and Ned Parsons were discussing
their affairs ; and thus was I standing,
with my back against the great mast and my
feet a couple of spans away from it, when Rodriguez
takes me by the throat, flashing his steel
before my eyes, as I have said, and, at the same
moment, Parsons, slipping his foot betwixt my
legs and the mast, fetches me a trip which brings
me plump down on my back. Then, in a twinkling
he throws himself upon me, and had certainly
done my business with his jack-knife (both
having lugged out upon catching sight of my
shadow), but that Eodrigues, catching his arm
back, cries —

Hold, Ned ! Don't sou see that this is
none but our friend Benet Pengilly ? "

I see well enough who it is," answers Parsons
; " but he is a sp}'- for all that, and shall pay
for stealing on us. Let go my arm, Rodrigues ! "

But this Rodrigues would not, being just
as quick to foresee results as Parsons was to
lose sight of them.

Don't be a fool, Ned ! " says he. " How
could he have stolen on us, and we sitting with
our eyes on the cabin ? He was here from the
first, and I do not blame him for picking up
what we were careless enough to let fall. And
what harm in that ? He has but learnt what
we intended to tell him. Would you ruin everything
by spilling his blood, when his loss would
draw suspicion on our heads, and set all our
mates against us with mistrust ? Had it been
another he should have died, and I would not
have left the business to you neither ; but the
moment I got my hand on his throat I saw it
was our friend."

That may be," says Parsons; "but, curse

me ! (adds he) lie shall give me some better
assurance that he intends to stand by 'us in
this matter ere I let him rise."

Nay," says I, " you shall get nothing from
me by force ; " and, getting my hands under
him, I flung him off like an old cloak, and
sprang to my feet. "Now," says I, "what is
it you want of me ? "

All this passed as quick as the words will
run,. so that the whole business was not more
than a minute or so in the doing.

Well done, Pengilly ! " cries Eodrigues.
I like you the better for this taste of your
manhood. I never mistrusted a brave man yet,
and here's a proof of it now," and with that he
sticks his dagger in the deck, and seats himself
on the chest, with empty hands, bidding Parsons,
as he was a true man and not a born fool, to do
the like, which he presently did, sticking his
jack-knife in the deck, and sitting alongside
of Rodrigues ; and, to show I feared neither, I
seated myself betwixt them.

"Now, Ben," says Rodrigues, clapping me on

the knee, cheers ull}^ ; " what's it to be ? You
have heard our design. Do you stay in the
Canaries, or go with us to the South Sea ? "

What to do ? " I asks; for this question did
still perplex me.

"What to do? Why, to get gold, to be
sure."

I thought you had decided not to set foot
ashore," says I.

And so we have ; for what Englishman has
ever got gold that went out of his ship to get
it? The fools have thrown more gold into
Guiana than ever they have taken out of it, a
hundredfold."

Ay ! And gold is not the only thing they
have thrown away," says Parsons, " but many a
good and honest Englishman's life as well."

For every man that has come home," says
Rodrigues, " a hundred have been left behind —
slain by Indians, stung by serpents, dead of
fevers, or slaves to the Spaniard."

And them as do come home are none the
better for having gone thither," chimes in

t'other rascal, " as we do testify ; for here am I
short of one eye, and Rodrigues a sight to see."

That there is gold in Guiana no one can
doubt," says Rodrigues; "but the only men who
can get it are the Indians, and their only masters
are the Spaniards and Portugal."

Then where did you get the treasure you
brought to England ? " I asked.

Why, from the Spaniard, to be sure, and as
fairly as he got it from the Indian."

Ay ! and fairer," says Parsons ; " for we
got it by straightforward and honest fighting."

And if we were more lively in our attack,"
puts in Rodrigues, " 'twas because their galleons
were unwieldy with their weight of gold."

I count we do 'em a service to ease them
of their load," says Parsons, "for they have more
than they can carry with comfort " (this with a
laugh at his own joke).

Ay ! but our love doesn't end there ; for,
look you, Ben, which is the better— to let your
uncle's ships and treasure be cast away in the
Orinoco, to lead eight score men to misery and

clearly in those fearsome wilds, or to carry them
back home, every man rich for life ? To suffer
the Spaniard to carry that gold into Spain
for the encouragement of Papistry and devilish
cruelty, and the furnishing out another Armada,
or to take it away from them for the benefit of
our country and the honour and glory of our
king ? "

And in this manner they carried on the
argument a long while, one playing the part of
marrowbone to the other's cleaver, while I satin
silence and lost in wonder, like one who
should of a sudden see a strange new sun rise
up in the sky. At length I found the sense
to speak, and, says I —

But how can we attack the Spaniard when
we are at peace with Spain ? "

"Why," says Eodrigues, "peace there maybe
in these waters, for that matter; but there
is no peace below the line, as every one does
know."

Nay," says I, " 'tis nothing but piracy you
offer."

You may call it what you like," says lie,
but I think it no shame for any man to walk
in the shoes of Drake and Candid."

'Tis a hanging matter, for all that," says I,
still objecting.

"A hanging matter for those who fail to
take home gold, but a knighting matter for
those who do, as witness Sir Francis and others
less nice than he. But 'tis the same all the
world over, whether a man undertake to find
gold or to cure bunions. Raleigh gets his head
cut off for failing, and Master Winter is made
a knight. And quite right it be so, for it puts
a check on men from hazarding foolishly, and
encourages them to push their fortunes with
zeal, when the chance is on their side."

"And this is the long and short of it," says
Parsons, bluntly, for argument was not to his
taste. " Are you with us, or are you not ? "

I am with you," says I, and upon that we
joined hands — all three.

And in thus readily falling in with this
villainous proposal 1 was moved, not so much

by Eodrigues, or his subtle arguments, as by
my own fierce and lawless spirit, and a certain
brutal craving and lust of blood and treasure,
which, Lord forgive us, urges too many of us to
cruel pursuits, no whit more justifiable in the
eye of God than piracy.

THE PERPLEXITY OF BEING NEITHER THOROUGH-faced
ROGUE, ARRANT FOOL, NOR HONEST MAN.

We stayed at Fuerteventura nine days, and then
made sail, being again in brood condition and
nothing lacking, and shaped our course for the
West Indies. And as Parsons had foreseen,
Rodrigues was appointed captain of the adventure',
while Parsons took the place of master
on board the Sure Hawlc. This pleased the
Adventurer s company vastly, for all looked upon
Rodrigues with open admiration, backed up by
secret hope ; and, indeed, there was no man
more proper for this post.

No sooner had we quitted our anchorage than
we began. Parsons and I, to work upon the
minds of those foolish fellows who had to be
prepared for that change we intended to bring
about. So now Parsons, instead of painting the

glories and delights of Guiana, as lie had done
with a very free hand, when inducing them to
leave their fishing villages and join our ships,
now treated all such glories with derision, telling
them they were like all to get a good deal more
than they expected, and thrusting his tongue in
his cheek with a wink of his one eye at me for
all to see. Whereupon these fellows did begin
to scratch their heads and think they had been
hoodwinked, and led into a business which had
been better left alone. And from that he went
on to tell of all the horrible beasts and worms
there existed in the marshes of those parts ; the
]poisonous fruits in the forests, all so like the
wholesome that one never knew whether his meal
was to give him strength or burst him open by
its venomous swelling ; of the cannibals, whose
shoulders grew higher than their heads, and
whose arras were two fathoms long ; and suchlike
wild stories. If any one doubted the truth
of what he said, he would appeal to one of those
men who had previously voyaged with Rodrigues,
and these, seeing which way the cat

G

jumped, confirmed him in every lie, no matter
how outrageous. Then he came gradually to
talk of Hawkins and Morgan, and fellows of that
kidney, exalting them to the skies — in fine, we
carried this business so well that by the time
we arrived at Trinidadoo there was not one man
aboard the Sure Hawk but that heartily wished to
rove the South Sea for gold rather than to seek
it in Guiana; yet, for all that, a good half of the
crew were staunch and faithful to our captain,
and prepared to die with him in the wilds ; nor
would they listen to anything in his disfavour,
or any project of desertion. And the reason of
this was that Sir Harry Smidmore, being of a
lively and sanguine temperament, and having
unbounded faith in the success of his enterprise,
had ever a cheerful and kind word for his men,
and neglected not to comfort the company in
every possible way, so that he won all the hearts to
him that had any decent feeling. Indeed, as the
fresh sea air purged away my splenetic humour,
and the society of sturdy men inspired me with
a wholesome shame of those contemptible

humours which were bred by solitude, I no
longer harboured an envious jealousy towards
Sir Harry, perceiving plainly how far above
mine were his claims to the love of Lady Biddy
Fane. Feeling thus with regard to him, I
could neither wish to do him a mischief myself,
nor to see him come to harm by other
hands. Yet every day it became more obvious
that a cruel end awaited him. There was no
chance of his forsaking the expedition into
Guiana to become a pirate on the high seas, and
it was therefore clear that he must be privately
got rid of to avoid a mutiny amongst simple
good men who were staunch to him.

I own I was greatly perplexed over this
matter, and more than once I was on the point of
revealing the conspiracy to him ; for I felt that,
if he were murdered, I should, in a manner, have
his blood upon my conscience ; but as many
times was I deterred from this confession by
recalling my oath to Eodrigues, and by a certain
sense of honour which may exist even amongst
such rogues as we were. And so I was terribly
G 2

put to it all the time we lay at Punto de Gallo,
revictualling and making the final preparations
for going up the Orinoco.

We lay off Punto de Gallo eight days, and
the men of both ships mingling, Ned Parsons
and Rodrigues found occasion to lay their
heads together pretty frequently ; and this boded
me no good, for Parsons had ever kept a jealous
and suspicious watch upon my movements, and
must have perceived my growing love for our
captain. On the evening of the eighth day, we
three being ashore together, and come to a spot
free from observation, Rodrigues says —

If this breeze holds, we are likely to sail
tomorrow; and as we may not get another
chance of conversing privily, let us settle what's
to be done, and how we are to do it when
we are aboard."

Ay, we've had enough shill-I-shall-I,"
says Parsons, in his surly tone.

We should have been further off from
success if we had gone a shorter way to work,
Ned," says Rodrigues, " as you know well

enough, though you won't own to it. If we
had followed your advice and thrown the captain
overboard when we left the Canaries, half
the men would have been against us, and
looked upon the first storm that came as a
judgment on us. 'Tis no good setting men
to a task before they're prepared for it. Now
there's not a man aboard the Adventurer who
is not thirsting to get at the Spaniard."

You've had them all to yourself \ but it's
another matter aboard the Sure Hawk'' says
Parsons ; " there's two score of half-hearted
fellows amongst us that were better at home."

That's as you think, Ned. What say
3'ou, Pengilly ? "

The men's hearts are as stout as ours,"
says I ; " and as ready to meet the Spaniard
as any of your crew. I'll answer for them."

Perhaps you'll answer for their flinging
the captain overboard when the time comes ? "
says Parsons, with a sneer.

I'll answer for you. Parsons, if there's a
cowardly murder to be done ; but for no one

else on board the Sure Hawk'" says I. "I
warn you, Eodrigues, that if 3^011 attempt the
life of Sir Harry, you'll have two score of us
to settle, with him and Benet Pengilly among
the number."

There, didn't I tell 3''ou as much ? " sa3^s
Parsons, nudging E-odrigues.

Eodrigues frowned on him to be still, and,
turning to me, says, calmly enough —

What do you mean by that, Pengilly ? "

I mean this : our captain shall not be
murdered," says I.

And how can you prevent it, pray ? "
asks Parsons.

There'll be plenty of time to warn him
before you can silence me. Parsons."

Didn't he swear secrecy by the cross,
Eodrigues ? "

Yes, I did," says I ; " but I'll break my
oath rather than have murder on my conscience
! "

Conscience ! How long have you been
troubled with that commodity ? " asks he.

Fool ! you be still," cries rodriguez,
stamping Its foot. " Haven't you sense enough
to see that Pengilly's warning saves us from
the very thing that I have dreaded all through ?
I know the mischief of having discontented
men in a crew."

"Settle it how you. will," says Parsons,
with an oath, getting up and turning his back
on us. " Curse this dodging backwards and
forwards, say I ! "

If the captain were out of the way, and
you took his place, as lawful representative of
your uncle, the men would do your bidding,
wouldn't they, Benet ? " says Eodrigues, in a
friendly tone.

No doubt," says I ; " but I will not have
any hand in this business if violence is to be
done to Sir Harry."

Then what do you propose we should
do ? " asks he.

He lies ashore to-night : why shouldn't
we sail without him ? "

That's better than ever ! " cries Parsons,

turning round. " Leave him here to send a
king's ship after us. A plaguey good notion,
that," and he burst out into a horse laugh.

That won't do, Ben," says Eodrigues ; " as
Ned sa3^s, we should have a man-of-war sent
after us, and so have to fight English as well as
Spaniards. I think I. can offer something better
than that ; " and, drawing me aside that Parsons
might not hear, he dropped his voice and said,
Supposing, when we are out at sea, we tell the
captain of our determination to go roving, and
ask him to join us ? "

He will refuse : that's certain."

"Very well; then let us give him one of
the ships and let him go with as many of
the men as choose to join him. What say you
to that?"

I agreed to this readily ; for it seemed a
better way out of the mess than any I had
imagined,

Good," says he ; " so shall it be. Now,
leave me alone with Parsons. He is a self-willed,
headstrong fellow ; but I know how to

manage him, and I promise you I will make
him hear reason."

So T left them, never dreaming but that
Eodrigues, for his own interest, was dealing
fairly in this business, and speaking his mind
honestly.

That night our captain brought aboard an
Indian Cazique named Putijraa for our pilot.
This man told us that the true mouth of the
Oronoque and the best for us to enter was in
the Boca de Nairos, and about thirty leagues
south of Punto de Gallo ; and thither it was
agreed, the breeze remaining prosperous, we
should sail the next day.

When this news was imparted to our
company there was a great cheer, and every
man set to with a will getting the ship ready
that she might sail at daybreak ; and the sky
being very fair and clear they worked all night
to this end, and there Alas such tumult of men
coming on board, shouting of orders, and
getting things in their places, that no sleep
was to be got.

A little before daybreak I turned out of my
cot, and, going on deck, found that some were
already aloft shaking out the sails, while others
were heaving up the anchor, and all singing
of sea songs, and as merry as any grigs. Ere
yet the sun had risen our sails filled ; we left
our anchorage, and, looking out, I spied the
Adventurer, her sails spread, following pretty
close in our wake. Then, the light growing
amain, I perceived one strange face amongst
our company, and then another, and after that
a third and a fourth, and so on, till I numbered
a full dozen ; yet these men were not so strange
to me but that I recognised them as being
part of the crew of the Adventurer. Upon
this, suspecting mischief, I cast my eye about
for those men whom I have spoken of as being
staunch and loyal to our captain, and not one
of these could I find. In this I saw clearly
the villainy of that subtle Eodrigues, who, by
thus shifting the crew, ensured his plan against
opposition, for not one man now on board the
Sure Hawk could be counted on to side with

the captain in going into Guiana, whereas all
would readily agree to ridding themselves of
him in order that they might follow their own
lawless bent uninterrupted ; meanwhile, by his
own persuasion and the influence of the rascally
crew on the Adventurer, those simple fellows
from the Sure Hatch who still held to an honest
course could be easily won over to his purpose.
To make sure that the change on board was
not due to accident, I sought out Ned Parsons ;
but the rascal, seeing me coming, feigned to
be mightily busy, so that I could not get a
word out of him any way, which served to
convince me of his treachery, Getting no
satisfaction from him, I went into my cabin,
and there, sitting on my cot, I turned the
matter over in my mind, and, after looking at
it this way and that, I resolved I would go
and warn Sir Harry of his danger ; for, as I
had told Rodrigues, I was prepared to break
any number of oaths rather than be a party to
a foul murder. And, lest I should be credited
with more generosity in coming to this decision

than I deserve, I will here confess that I was
not unmindful of my own peril. For, if it
served the purpose of these desperadoes to throw
our captain overboard, why should they spare
me? T laid no faith whatever in the promises
of Rodrigues; nay, I was inclined to believe
Ned Parsons the honest rogue of the two.
I knew that all he considered was how to
advance his own fortune. Had the crew been
more difficult to seduce and less disposed to
become pirates, then it would have served his
turn to carry out his original project, and give
the enterprise a fair face by appointing me, as
nephew of Sir Bartlemy Pengilly, their generalissimo;
but now that it was clear the whole
body of men needed no such countenance to
their project, it would be expedient to get rid
of me as well as Sir Harry. So to the captain,
who still lay in his cabin, I went, and asked
him if he knew of the change that had been
made.

"Ay, Pengilly," says he, cheerfully; "I
ordered it so. Parsons tells me that there is a

lawless spirit spreading amongst the men on
the Adventurer, and he picked out certain of
them as being the worst. These Rodrigues
begged me to take with us in the Sure Hawk
in exchange for those he thought might bring
the rest to a healthier way of thinking on the
Adventurer y

That villain, Eodrigues ! " I exclaimed.
"I saw his devilish hand in this. We are
lost ! "

Lost ! What do you mean by that ? "
asks Sir Harry bating his breath.

I mean that you have parted with the only
honest men in the crew, and have none but
ruffians left about you."

Nay, you wrong them. Desperate they
are, for who but desperate men would dare a
desperate enterprise? But they are honest —
I'll answer for 'em. They have sworn to follow
me, and they will."

You will be lucky to get away without
such followers," says I; "but, in truth, I doubt
if we do ever set foot again on dry land."

Sir Harry could not speak awhile for astonishment.
At length he says, speaking low —

"Are you sure of this 3'ou tell me, Pengilly?
Are you honest with me ? "

I'll say nothing for my honesty," says I ;
but I'll swear to the truth of what I tell you.
There's not a man but is already a pirate at
heart ; and they only want a signal from
Rodrigues to kill us and hoist the bloody flag."

Sir Harry started up, and took a pace or two
across the cabin ; then, coming to a stand, he
turns and says —

No, Pengilly ; I can't believe this. Tell me
you have tried to fool me, and I'll forgive you."

"Nay, but you must believe me," says I,
or you cannot escape else ; " and then I laid
bare all that I knew, with my own share in the
villainous scheme, not sparing myself the shame
of this confession. He listened to me patiently,
but when I came to an end he says, with
passion —

God forgive you, Pengilly ; for my ruin is
on your head."

But presently, growing calmer, for I made
no attempt to defend myself from this charge,
he adds —

Take no heed of what I said, Benet. You
have done no more nor less than I, or a better
man than I, could have done in your place.
You risk your life in trying to save mine,
whereas j^ou might have made your fortune
(though I doubt if you could ever have enjoyed
it) by betraying me."

He held out his hand, and I took it. Then,
in a more cheerful and vigorous tone, he says —

Come, we are both in the same pickle ; let
us see how, perchance, we may get out of it."

Then we set our wits to work that we might
discover how we two were to overcome the craft
and force of all those hardy villains that were
against us. I was for knocking Parsons on the
head, taking the navigation in our own hands,
and running the ship ashore, or on the first
shoal we came to ; and 1 think Sir Harry
would have acted on this design, but that it
pleased Providence to give us no chance that way.

WE ARE OVERCOME, AND WITH BARBAROUS
TREATMENT SET ASHORE AND LEFT THERE.

Of a triifch none are so suspicious as those who
should be suspected, and losing sight of this
fact was our undoing.

To begin with, 'twas a silly thing to go into
the captain's cabin at that time ; it was still
more imprudent to sit there with him discussing
our means of escape. For it happened that
Ned Parsons, seeing me no longer inquisitive
about the shifting of the crews, became curious
to know what had become of me, and presently
sighted me sitting, as I say, with Sir Harry.
Doubtless Eodrigues, in his place, would have
taken some crafty means of discovering our design
and circumventing it ; but this Parsons
was of another kidney, and prone to reflect
upon the advisability of his actions after they

were performed rather than before. Wherefore,
at the first sniff of danger, he goes below, collects
a dozen choice rogues, and these having
gone into the armoury and furnished themselves
with weapons, slipped on deck, and in a twinkling
rushed into the roundhouse and fell upon
us. We were the less prepared for this attack
because the fellows, having no shoes to their
feet, came on noiselessly along the deck ; and
indeed, from the moment we first spied them
to the time they were in the coach, there was
barely time for Sir Harry to whip up a short
sword for his defence, and I a spyglass that lay
on the table. Sir Harry ran the first of the
party through the vitals, and I managed to lay
Ned Parsons' head open with the perspective ;
but we could do no more, for we were thrown
down by sheer force of weight and numbers,
and after that our bootless struggles did but
prolong by a few minutes the work of binding
us hand and foot. From these bonds there
was no escaping ; Ned Parsons himself, with
the blood yet trickling down his face and

H

grizzled beard, making fast each knot and testing
its security. When this was done, he went
out on the main deck and spoke to the men
crowded there, and they replied with a great
cheer, and so betook themselves to their work,
shouting and talking among themselves with
much content. But to make more sure of us,
and that all might see we were not contriving
our escape, this Ned Parsons hauled us out of
the roundhouse into the midst of the deck, and
there we lay in the burning sun all that day,
and none had the humanity to give us meat or
drink, though they for the most part made
themselves as drunk as beggars by midday.
Nay, when Sir Harry, who had been as kind to
these wretches as any man could be, asked one
to give him a cup of water, the villain would
not, but replied, with a brutal laugh, that he
should have more water than he could drink at
sundown, by which cruel speech we perceived
that our fate was sealed, and that they only
awaited the occasion of Eodrigues' coming onboard
to cast us into the sea.

The breeze continuing very fresh, we pressed
onward ; but towards evening the wind abated,
as it does in these latitudes about sundown, the
sails flapped against the mast, and the anchor
was dropped.

Soon after this Rodrigues came aboard, and
first he consulted with Parsons, who had contrived
to keep more sober than the rest ; then
they held a council with all the men in the forepart
of the ship, after which Rodrigues comes
to us, with his hat in his hand, as civil as maybe,
and with a wicked smile on his face that
showed all his pointed teeth, so that with his
hypocritical air he did look more like a fiend
than a man.

Gentlemen," says he, " I am sorry to tell
you we must part. The men, one and all, have
resolved to seek their fortunes elsewhere than
in Guiana, and lest their design should be distasteful
to you and lead to any further breaking
of heads or spitting with steel, they would
have me, as being now chief in command, drop
you overboard with a shot tied round your
H 2

necks. I have done my best to alter their disposition,
but the most they will consent to in
your favour is that you shall be allowed to go
your way in consideration of your giving them
free permission to go theirs, with a solemn
promise on your part that you will hereafter
do nothing, if you have the chance, to bring us
to the gallows."

Do with us what you will," answers Sir
Harry.

Ay, and be cursed for the villain you are,"
adds I.

"As you do not refuse the offer it is my
duty to make, I shall hold it you accept," says
Eodrigues, taking no notice of me ; " betwixt
gentlemen no formalities are needed. It is understood
that in accepting your life you agree
to the conditions, and this understanding will
be as binding on jon to do us no harm — if, as
I say, you get the chance — as though sou had
put hand and seal to a bond."

Then making us a bow, he went back to the
men, who, on hearing what he had to say, gave



another cheer, and some set about lowering Sir
Harry's own barge, while others went below and
fetched up all manner of stores to put in it. All
being in readiness, we where taken to the side of the
ship, bound as we were, and with a rope reeved
through a block at the yardarm, we were hauled
up and lowered like cattle into the barge that lay
alongside. Then for the first time we perceived
that the land was distant no more than half a
mile or so. After us the Indian Cazique Putijma,
whom, as I have said, Sir Harry had brought
aboard at Punto de Gallo for a pilot, was made
to come down in the barge, and so half a dozen
seamen in that boat that had brought Rodrigues
from the Adventurer towed us with a line to the
shore, the crew giving us a jeer as we sheered
off, and Rodrigues (with a bow) wishing we
might have a pleasant journey to Manoa, and
find a kind reception and store of gold there.

Having brought us to land and made our
barge fast, the boat's crew, with somewhat more
humanity than their fellows, bade us good-bye
and god-speed, and then pulled off quickly

back towards their ship, for there was no moon
that night, and it was now grown so dark that
we could but just descry the two ships lying off
in the bay.

All this time Putijma, who was unbound,
had sat in the barge with his knees up to his
chin in profound silence; for such is the stoic
character of these Indians when overcome by
misfortune from which they see no escape. But
now Sir Harry, who spoke Spanish, addressed
him in that tongue, begging him to cut our
cords, and this he did ; but it was yet some
minutes ere either of us could move, so benumbed
and stiff were we with our long confinement.
When I got the use of my limbs and hands,
I drew a drachm of liquor from the puncheon
among our stores, and gave it to Sir Harry, who
was thereby much refreshed. Then did we get
out of the boat to exercise our legs, and finding
the sand still warm and pleasant with the sun's
heat, we lay ourselves down to sleep, there being
no better thing to do. But first I got from
the boat a couple of muskets, with powder and

ball, and two hatchets, that we might not be
unprovided against the attack of wild beasts or
cannibals in the night if any such there might
come upon us.

But Putijma never stirred out of the boat,
nor could Sir Harry any way cheer him out of
his despondent mood ; and the last I saw of
him he was still sitting with his knees huddled
up to his chin, and so we presently fell asleep.

We slept soundly and nothing disturbed our
slumber all through that night. The sun was
some degrees above the horizon when I awoke,
and a smart breeze ruffling the sea. Sitting up
I looked out for the ships, but they vere no
longer in the bay ; yet methought I spied one sail
on the horizon to the south. Then I got upon
my feet and looked for the barge and the Indian
Cazique, but trace or sign of either could I see
none. I rubbed by eyes and looked again ; then
I ran a hundred yards along the shore eastwards,
aud again as far to the west ; for I could not at
once realise that this man was treacherous to us.
But 'twas all in vain ; he was nowhere to be

seen. So I roused up Sir Harry, telling him
how the Indian had played us false and gone
away with the boat, which was our only means
of getting back to Trinidadoo, and like distracted
creatures we ran along the shore a mile one way
and a mile the other, hallooing aloud, as trying
to cheat ourselves with the hope that Putijma
had slipped away by accident, and drifted into
some creek. But at length we gave up the quest,
and stood gazing before us as still and silent as
statues of stone, quite overwhelmed by this last
stroke of misfortune.

And thus were we two poor men abandoned
on an unknown coast. I say we two poor men,
for now were we levelled to the same degree by a
cruel fate, being possessed of no more than a
gun and a hatchet apiece besides the clothes we
stood in, and with the same dismal expectation
of perishing unfriended in a wilderness.

WE FIND OURSELVES ON A DESERT ISLAND, AND
LITTLE COMFORT BESIDES.

After a while we returned to the place where
we lay during the night ; and, looking about
US, found that the cruel Cazique had taken away
the keg of powder, the puncheon of rum, ay, the
very bread we had brought for our refreshment
on landing ; thus robbing us of our present
subsistence and the means of procuring other.
Seeing this. Sir Harry threw himself on the
sand and sobbed out aloud ; for as yet he had
suffered never any hardship or disappointment.
But it was otherwise with me, for many a time
had I endured privation and known no hope.
Yet did it move my heart to see a strong man,
and one naturally light of heart, gay, and of
high spirit, so abased ; so I sat down beside
him, and, laying my hand on his shoulder,

spoke such comforting words as my tongue,
unused to such exercise, could command. And
this may seem strange, seeing that hitherto I
had borne him no love, but rather jealousy and
hatred. But you shall notice that misfortune
doth engender kindness in hearts the least susceptible,
so that a man who would jostle another
and show no manner of kindness and civility,
both being strong, would yet bend down and
gently succour him who fell across his path
from weakness ; for our sympathy is with those
weaker than ourselves, and not with those of
equal hardiness ; and this, I take it, is the
reason of the great love of strong men for weak
women, and the wondrous tenderness of women
for those cast down by sickness.

Sir Harry would not be comforted ; but
shaking my hand from his shoulder he cries —

"Ay, 'tis easy to make light of another's
burden ! "

"Nay," says I, "am I better off than you?"

Ay," says he, " for you have but changed
one form of misery for another. These woods

for you are as good as those you left in Cornwall
; your prospects here as good as they were
there. But I ! what have I not lost by this
change ? All my fortune was embarked in those
ships ; and with them I lose every hope — fame
and riches. — my sweetheart. All ! all ! What
now have I? "

The hope of getting away from this place ;
the hope that — that she may wait faithfully
your return."

"And what if, by a miracle, I get from here:
can I hope to recover my fortune ? I must go
a beggar back to England; nay, a debtor for
the ships of Sir Bartlemy that I have lost.
And think you if my sweetheart in pity would
make me her husband, I would be her pensioner,
dependent on her bounty for the bread T
eat ? "

To me this seemed an overstraining of sentiment;
for I would have been content to take
that dear girl for my wife, rich or poor ; nay, I
could not believe that any sense of dependence
or bounty could exist in the union of two who

love entirely. But I would not contrary him
by speaking of this, which he would but have set
down to want of decent pride and self-respect on
my side.

There is no hope — no hope ! " he continues,
bitterly. " I am undone by my enemies,
and you are one of them — a man I have sought
only to help — a base wretch who would not
speak a word to save me from my undoing."

I held my peace, as I had before when he
spoke after this sort. For partly I felt that I
deserved reproach, and partly I saw that he was
beside himself with despair. So I let him be,
that he might vent freely all his passion. But
he said no more ; and for some while he lay
there like one who cared not to move again.
Then getting upon his feet savagely, as though
ashamed of his weakness, he says —

Let us go from this cursed spot." Then,
looking about him in bewilderment, " Where
shall we go ? "

Be a man never so wretched, he must ]eat
and drink : so I told him we must first of all

seek a stream to quench our thirst ; and the
land to the west looking most promising, I
settled to explore in that direction ; Sir Harry
being indifferent so that we got away from this
unlucky place where we had been set ashore.
We took up our axes and muskets — which the
thieving Cazique had left to us because they lay
under our hands, as I may say, and he feared to
awake us — and marched onwards, keeping to
the sand, which was very level and firm, the
tide being at low ebb. We kept on this way
for best part of a league, and then the shore
becoming soft with a kind of black mud, we
were forced to seek higher ground ; and here
our progress was made very painful and slow by
reason of the scrubby growth, which was mighty
thick and prickly, so that we were torn at every
step. To add to our discomfort, the sun, being
now high, shone with prodigious heat upon us,
and parched us with thirst. There were woods
at hand, but here the thorny brush was so high
and closely interwoven that we had to use our
hatchets to make any way at all, and then were

we no better off, but worse ; wherefore we were
obliged to return to that part where the earth
was less encumbered. Some of these brambles
had thorns two inches long, and curved like
great claws ; and one of these tearing my leg
gave me much torment. As the sun rose
higher, so our suffering increased, until, after
marching best part of two hours, we were ready
to drop with fatigue. Fruit there was in
abundance, spread out temptingly under our
feet ; for nearly every bush bore some sort of
apples or grapes ; yet dared we not eat any for
fear of its being venomous. Of this venomous
fruit I had heard the seamen who had travelled
in these parts tell, and how a man eating of it
will presently go raving mad ; and I pointed
out to Sir Harry, who would fain have slaked
his thirst with this growth, that we had as yet
seen neither bird nor beast, which argued that
this food was not wholesome.

However, about midday, when we were as
near spent as any living creatures could be, we
came to a turn in the coast where the character

Ill

of the growth changed ; and here we found a
great herb with leaves spreading out on all sides;
but every leaf was a good twenty feet long and
half a fathom across, so that it gave us ample
shade to lie in ; and never was man more content
than 1 to get out of the sunshine. To our
still greater comfort, Sir Harry presently spied
at no great distance a low growing thicket, in the
midst of which grew a fruit that he knew for a
pine-nut, which is a fruit bigger than any that
grows in England, of a yellow complexion, and
scaly without, but of an excellent condition
within. Cutting it in half with his knife, he
gave me one part, and bade me eat it without
fear ; and this I did, though not without compunction,
but I found it truly as he said, both
meat and drink, and the most delicious ever
man did eat, with no ill effects after.

We rested ourselves some while, and then
being much refreshed continued our journey over
very fair ground, but yet keeping very nigh the
water ; and so rounding a headland, and facing
pretty nearly due west, we perceived another

headland across the water, hut at a great distance,
which led us to conceive that we were
upon one of the mouths of the Oronoque, which,
as we know, disembogues itself by many issues
into the sea over a length of an hundred leagues
and more along the coast of Guiana. And that
this was a river, and not an inlet of the sea, we
proved by tasting of the water, which was still
running out very troubled ; it was not salt and
bitter, but yet too thick and brackish to drink.
And now the trees approached the water-side,
some hanging over, with thick growth everywhere
; and though I know English trees welland
the different sorts of herbs, yet all here
were new to me, and I saw none that I could
name. For prodigious height and girth I never
saw the like of the trees, which were besides
wondrous fair to the eye, but painful to get
through by reason of their great abundance,
and the maze of vines and bramble (as I must
call them, knowing not their names) which netted
them together. Surely to one come there for
pleasure and to satisfy his curiosity, there was

on all sides something to please and interest,
there being no end to the variety of flowers
and fruits, their colours and forms ; but to us,
who were mainly concerned to discover where
we were situated, wee did wish best part of these ,
trees and shrubs further.

We made our way onwards for two hours
more, yet the land on the other side of the river
appeared no nearer, for the rivers in these parts
have no parallel for volume ; and then we came
(God be praised) to a small stream running from
the interior, which we found at some little distance
inward to be very sweet and good, so that
we drank of it our fill. But what pleased me as
much as the discovery of this water was the print
of a cloven foot in a slough, hard by, which I
judged, by the form and size, to be the foot of a
swine ; and so it proved, for going still further,
but with caution, along the edge of this marshy
land, we perceived a whole drove of this cattle
stretched out in the warm mii'e, grunting from
time to time as pleasantly as any English hogs.
Seeing them thus within range, Sir Harry, ere I

could click him, cocked his piece and let fly j
and though he killed one dead on the spot, yet
was I sorry he had spent his fire on this quarry,
for I believe I might have knocked one on the
head and done for him with a how of my
hatchet ; and now were we left with only one
charge of powder and hall to meet any emergency.


We dragged this beast, which was a hoar pig
of some ten score, as I reckoned, away from the
morass, which I dreaded to stay in for fear of serpents
or other noxious beasts ; and finding a place
near the river high and dry, we resolved to stay
there the night, for the day was nearly spent, as
were we likewise. Here Sir Harry set about to
get some dry fuel and make a fire, the while I
skinned our pig, and a marvellous thick hide he
had ; and so much the better was I pleased, for
I saw that with this hide cut in thongs I could
make us a good gin to entrap other swine when
we had occasion for them, also a sling for killing
birds, and other things necessary to us in our
forlorn, destitute condition. Sir Harry got some

dry rotten wood, and grinding a little to powder
he set it in the pan of his firelock, and snapping
the cock tw^oe or thrice succeeded in setting it
burning : then blowing the ember gently. on other
rotten wood, and that on dry leaves and suchlike,
he in the end got a flame to put to his bonfire,
and over this on pointed sticks we held
some slices cut from our swine's ham ; enough
not only for our supper, but to serve us cold on
the morrow ; and well it was we did so then, for
the next morning the carcase I had hung on a
tree overnight was all green, and so foul we were
fain to "cast it in the river to be washed away
with the current ; but that which we had cooked
was sweet and good, though mighty tough eat .
ing.

But I must tell of the strange way in which
we 'were awakened that morning, which was by
the crowing of a cock, and surely nothing, in
this land so full of unlooked-for things, could
be more unexpected than this familiar, homely
cry. We two started up together at the sound,
rubbing our eyes to be sure we were in a strange
I 2

country and not at home in England. But
again this bird crowed, and casting our eyes
about, there we spied a fine red cock perched in
the boughs of a tree with three pullets on one
side of him and two on the other, all as comfortable
as you please, and not yet astir, for the
day was scarce broke. Upon this we concluded
that there must be human habitation near, and
overjoyed at the hope of seeing fellow-creatures
in a land where we had thought to be all alone,
we started to our feet and hallooed with all our
might, not reckoning that the fellow creatures
might be cruel Indians who might murder us,
and mayhap eat us afterwards for our pains.

However, though we hallooed till we were
hoarse and could whoop no longer, answer came
there none, except a clucking of the fowls, who
seemed to be at a loss what we were crowing
so loud about. Yet from the presence of these
fowls and the swine — which seemed to us not
natural inhabitants of these parts, we clung
to the idea that some sort of fellow creatures
were near, and so with a more cheerful heart

than I, for one, had yet felt since we were put
ashore, we continued our march when we had
eaten and drunk to our satisfaction. But first
we took of the thongs I had cut from the
swine's hide and stretched to dry between two
stakes, one apiece to serve as belts in which
to sling our hatchets, another which I. had
fashioned for a sling, and two or three besides
to serve for what occasion might arise. The
rest we left behind us, marking well the
spot. Our ham steaks we covered up in cool
leaves to keep them fresh, and hung them also
to the thongs about our middle.

That night we came to a point projecting
into the midst of a vast expanse of water, and
seeming to cut the river into two, for we found
that there were, as I may say, two currents —
one running to the south-east, and the other
north-east — so that we concluded we were not
on the mainland at all, but upon an island in
one of the great mouths of the Orinoco. This
was made evident as we proceeded, for still
marching with the water on our left hand, our

faces were turned to the east and not to the
west, as at first ; and, in short, on the third
day of our inarch we came again to the ocean,
and about midday on the fourth to the very
spot from which we had started.

In all this time we had seen no human
creature, nor had we met — thank God ! — with
any serious accident, though inconveniences nota
few; and not the least of these was a multitude
of flies and stinging gnats, especially upwards
away from the sea, which were a great
plague to us, and especially to Sir Harry, who
had the more tender skin, and was tormented
to that degree that he could get no peace night
or day for the intolerable itching and smarting
of their punctures. Nor did we meet any great
beast, save a huge water-lizard that is called
a coco drill, which lies in the waters of these
rivers and looks like nothing on earth but a
log of timber at a distance. Birds there were
in plenty, and with my sling I brought
down enough for use, and more ; and to speak
of all the fruits here were a waste of time.

Suffice it to say that we lacked nothing to
satisfy our appetite, and came to no harm by
what we ate of strange things, for we were
careful to eat of no fruit or herb but such as
we found the swine and other animals feasted
upon.

I QUIT THE ISLAND AND MY FRIEND.

And now, being come back to our starting-place,
we had to consider our position and what we
were next to be at. I say we, but in truth I
might say I had to consider these things, for
Sir Harry seemed to have neither care for the
present nor hope for the future, and do what I
might to bring him to a more cheerful complexion,
it was all to no purpose.

What is there to do in this cursed island,"
says he, " but to eat and drink and sleep till
we die ? "

The more reason," says I, " for devising
some means of getting away from this isle to
where we may do better."

He stretched out his hands towards the sea
that lay void before us, and laughed bitterly.

"Nay," says I, not to seem discouraged,
tliougli, indeed, my hopes were but slight ; " it
is not so impossible as you think. Take it that
the day we left Trinidadoo the gale was in our
favour, we could but have made twenty or thirty
leagues at the outermost. Now, say that the
river to the north is three leagues broad, we
may j-et, by taking the current at our highest
point, contrive to make our way across on some
kind of raft, using a bough for paddle. There
is nothing lacking to make us a raft."

AVell," says he, "say by good hap you
cross the river and get on another isle — what
then ? "

Then," says I, " will we make our way to
the north of that island and cross to a third, ora
fourth, after the same fashion, and so get on
till we come to that part of Guiana due west of
Trinidadoo, whence may we with no more difficulty
cross the strait."

Suppose, after all," says he, " that we get
to Trinidadoo — what then? Shall we be better
off there than we are here ? We run a fair

chance of being captured for slaves by the
Portugalss, to be sure."

Also," says I, " we run a fair chance of
escaping them and being picked up by some
English ship putting in as ours did to revictual."

Allowing that your fondest hopes be
realised," says he, " is our case mended ? Is it
worse to sleep away our lives here than to betaken
into England as a raree show for men to
laugh at and women to pity ? No," says he,
with more passion than he had yet shoT\Ti ; " no,
I say ! It is not better, but a hundred times
worse, and I for one will never go back to be
scorned for a silly fellow who could not hold his
own,"

It was not for me to reproach him, for had I
not also abandoned myself under adversity ? I
was convinced, and so I am now, that despair is
a malady of the mind as much as is ague a
distemper of the body; and though men say
one should not give way to despair, but should
overcome it by an effort of will, yet I say that
if the will be attacked by a great shock and

enfeebled by misfortune, it is powerless to exercise
its function. For such as suffer from this
disease of the mind there is no help from within,
but its only succour is from without. Wherefore,
the kindly ministrations of a friend will do
as ranch to restore health in this case as the
help of a doctor in any other. For this reason
I bore patiently with Sir Harry in his morose
and sullen humours, and sought all I could to
divert his spirit from brooding over misfortunes
not to be undone. But I think all that I did
in this way produced me more good than it did
him ; for whereas he continued despondent and
dull, I grew more cheerful and humane. I
waited upon him like a servant, and this service,
with my pity to see a young, fine man so cast
down, engendered a feeling of love in my breast
such as I had never before felt for any man.
Nay, I even looked to getting with him back to
England, and seeing him married to Lady Biddy
Fane, Without any feeling of jealousy, being not
only more gentle of heart, but more reasonable
of mind than heretofore, thank God !

At this time we stayed on high ground to
the south of our territory, over against that
part where we first found the pine-nut ; not
only because of the shade we got there from
the sun, but by reason that it was adjacent to
the stream of good water, and not far from the
fen where the swine came to wallow, and where
there was abundance of fowl and fruit good to
eat.

While we were here. Sir Harry fell sick of
a fever, bred partly, as I think, from his low,
desponding spirit, and partly from the vapours
that rose from the marshy valley below. When
I found he could no longer sit upright and
began to wander in his speech, I took him on
my back, and, by stages of a dozen yards, carried
him away from that unwholesome spot
right down to the sea-shore, and there, finding
an easy slope, I laid him down, and, as speedily
as I could, set about making a kind of house
to shield him from the sun. The night being
fairly light, by dint of many journeys to and
fro, and much toil, I planted a dozen stakes in

the sand, bending them down till they joined at
the top, in the form of a great A> and binding
them to a cross tree, then I thatched this framework
with those long and broad palmetto leaves
of which I have spoken. Here he lay as comfortable
as might be for one in his burning
condition, the sea breeze passing through the
shelter and tempering the heat of the sun.

He could eat nothing ; however, I made shift
to stew a fowl in the shell of a gourd, and
when the broth was cold I got him to drink
it, for he had a perpetual thirst ; and that his
drink might be cool and refreshing, I went a
score of times during the day almost to the
source of the stream, where the water was of
the best. Of such fruits as were good also I
gave him, particularly the apples from a low,
square-coughed tree with egg-shaped leaves,
which is called, I believe, guava.

And now I prayed to God that this man's
life might be spared, and that I might not be
left alone, which more than all proves the great
and good change which had been wrought in

my heart since the time when I sought but to
escape from the society of mankind, and wished
harm to all men, and this one above all.

At the end of seven days' very painful
watching, Sir Harry's disorder took a turn, and
soon after he began to mend (thanks be to
God !) so that he could take meat instead of
slops to his diet. Yet was he greatly changed,
his skin having lost its freshness and healthful
colour, and his face much wasted. Also he
was very weak, and for days lay exhausted and
"unable to move, yet with his eyes wide open
and very bright. After a while I persuaded him
to rise in the cool of the morning and evening,
and then would he take a turn, leaning on my
arm. And though he said nothing, I perceived
he recognised the love I bore for him, and was
-grateful for my care. What pleased me vastly
was to observe that a change had been wrought
in his spirit ; it seemed as though his sluggish
indifference had been purged away. When the
fever had quite left him, his eyes continued
bright and quick, and there was in his face an

eager expression, telling of an anxiety which
only exists where there is hope. But what his
hope was he told me not. This encouraged me
to believe that he designed leaving the island
(where there was, as I could see, naught to
hope for), and not dying there, as he had at
first resigned himself to. I again began to
meditate on the means of reaching Trinidadoo,
but I refrained from opening the subject yet
awhile, because he was still too feeble to undertake
the fatigue of it.

One day, when I had returned to the hut
by the shore from the inner parts, where I had
been planting a snare to catch a pig, I found
Sir Harry absent ; but soon after I heard him
shouting, and, turning my eyes, I spied him
running towards me along the sand with something
in his hand, which, as he came nearer, I
perceived was the stave of a barrel.

Look at that," says he, with much emotion ;
there have been men on this island before us.
Up in the Avoid there is a broken barrel ; this
is a stave of it. Men brought it here'*

Why, for a certainty," says I, " this wood
never sprang out of the earth fashioned thus ! "

"No," says he, "nor did the pigs on this
island spring out of the earth." '

What do you mean by that ? " I asked,
perplexed by this observation.

I mean," says he, " that the men who
came here to fetch water in that barrel left the
swine and the fowls to multiply against the
time they should come here to revictual. I
thought as much as I lay there in my sickness
hearing the cock crow, and now I have the
proof. Do you doubt it, man — do you doubt
it P "

Not a whit," says I ; " and I wonder I
have not drawn the conclusion before, for I
remember now how Rodrigues told me it was
the habit of pirates, who fight shy of towns, to
provide for themselves in this wise."

Then you think," says he, eagerly, " that
they are pirates who came hither ? "

Ah, and not honest men ; that is my fear,"
says I.

And I trust they be pirates, and not
honest men, if they are to come here again,"
says he ; " for then may I get back all I have
lost, and more to boot."

As how ? " says I, not without trouble in
my maid.

By the same means my fortune was taken
from me — by strategy and force."

Surely you would not become a pirate —
you, a gentleman of birth and breeding ? "

And what was Drake but a gentleman ? "
says he J "and Candid : what of him?"

I shook my head, and heaved a sigh to
hear this argument from the lips of my friend,
which I had listened to from such a rascal as
Rodrigues.

Why," says he, in a rallying tone, " sou
were not so squeamish aboard the Sure Hawk!'

No," says I ; " but I thank the Lord I
have not taken His warning in vain."

He laughed scornfully, as though thinking
my peril had made me prayerful, and caressing
the barrel stave with his hand, lifted his head
J

and scanned the sea, as already expecting the
return of those pirates we talked of.

And is your fortune all you expect to get
by becoming a pirate ? " I asked, laying my
hand on his arm.

What more do I want, forsooth ? " asks
he, lightly.

"Why, sir," says I, "the peace of mind to
enjoy it."

"As for that," says he, "however I get it I
warrant it shall bring me more enjoyment than
I can expect stopping here, or going back to
England a beggar."

"Are you so daunted by the outset that
you despair of getting gold honestly in
Guiana?"

Hum ! " says he ; "I cannot see that it
is much more honest to take gold from the
Ingas of Manoa, who have never done us harm,
than from the Spaniard, who has sought to
undo us with his flotilla ; but, be that as it
may, you will show me how we are to get to
Manoa, who are not yet beyond the mouth of

the Oronoque, ere I give that enterprise the
preference."

Single-handed we can do nothing, but I
will answer for it that my uncle, Sir Bartlett,
instead of being discouraged by our first failure,
vnll be more inclined to persevere in it. You
know his nature as well as I do. A reverse
does but strengthen his determination, as a bite
infuriates a bulldog."

** That is true," says he ; " he is an Englishman
to the very marrow of his bones."

Well, then," says I, " shall he not fit you
out another expedition?"

"Why, man, how can he? Nearly all he
had was united to my fortune in buying the
two ships I have lost, and in equipping them.
He is a ruined man. Ruined by me ! "

If he lacks money, other shall be found.
He will move heaven and earth to save you
from the disgrace of sinking to the level of
such wretches as Morgan and Hawkins, and this
Eodrigues."

In this sort I reasoned with him persistently,
J 2

till at length, seeing that I was not to be
shaken off by argument, he turns about and
says —

Look you, Pengilly, I will never go
begging in England, even for a second chance
to be cast away on this island. I cannot easily
consent that another should beg for me ; for a
craven I must appear in either case. But since
your mind is set on this thing, go you to England
without me ; and if any, for my sake, will
make this venture, lead them hither ; then, if I
be still here and alive, I will attempt this
expedition to Manoa. Nay," he adds, interrupting
me, when I began to protest that I
would not quit him ; " leave me here and go
about this business as you \^dll, you shall still
be the more generous of the two ; for I swear
to you that if the worst pirate that sails the
seas comes here I will cast in my lot with him,
whether you accompany me or whether you
refuse to take part with us."

Seeing him very stubborn and resolved upon
this point, I then began to think seriously of

getting away as best I could ; for, thinks I,
'twere more humane to leave him here alone,
with the chance of bringing him succour and
the means of honestly escaping from his solitude,
than to rest here inactive until perchance
there comes some villainous sea-rover with
whom he shall take his departure. For my
own part, I had now no leaning to piracy ; for,
though I loved the Spaniard no more than any
other true Englishman may, yet I knew full
well that Rodrigues and such fellows would not
question closely whether their prey was Spanish,
but would pillage and sink any craft that sailed
so that it had not the strength to resist attack.

So, going along the border of that upper
stream, which in my ignorance I will call North
River, I came upon a great tree that was dead
and decayed about the roots, so that it needed
but little cutting to make it fall, and that close
to the water. This tree was fully three fathoms
in girth, and proportionately tall, straight, and
fair, decayed only where the humours of the
earth had attacked its base, light and very

proper in all ways to my use. Wherefore I set
to work, and, cutting on that side I wished it
to fall, I felled it with no very great difficulty.
"When it was down I found the upper part
sound, as I expected, and not so hard but that
with patient labour I succeeded in cutting two
lengths, each of five fathoms long. These two
lengths I set side by side, the thicker end of
one against the thinner end of the other ; then
I got me a quantity of those long vines which
the Indians call lianas, which are very stringy
and tough as good hemp rope, and with this
I bound my timbers together in a hundred
places, but separately, so that if by chance one
broke the rest would still hold. But I must
tell you that for the greater convenience of
working these huge logs I launched them separately
into a shallow before I began to bind
them about, which was well, for I could never
have moved them else. After that I sought out
two slight trees of hard growth that were not
more than thirty feet high, and, cutting them
down, I trimmed them into two poles, each

four fathoms long. Then, midway in the length
of my logs, I made two holes — one in each,
and parallel one with the other. To do this I
jagged the mouth of my musket barrel about,
grinding each jag into a sharp tooth with a hard
stone, by which contrivance I made a tool to
serve in place of an auger. When I had pierced
the logs right through I enlarged the holes by
making my musket barrel red hot in a fire, and
working it about in the holes. Into these
sockets I fitted my two poles, using every device
I could think of to make them firm and secure ;
and this being done, and both poles standing
bolt upright, I turned the logs on their side so
as to get the ends of the poles within reach, and
these ends I bent until they met, and so bound
them together with lianas to make them bite still
closer in their sockets, and also to be a support
one to the other against the gale, for they were
to serve me as a mast. For, by the time my logs
were cut, launched, and bound together, as I
have shown, I had come to the conclusion that
it would be better to venture the whole voyage

by water, keeping as near as might be to
the main, and taking advantage of favourable
breezes, rather than to abandon my raft on the
other side of the river and make my way onward
by land to that point nearest Trinidadoo, as I
had first meditated on, for I knew not what
other great rivers there might be to cross, nor
how many rafts I might have to make ere I
got to my journey's end; and the difficulty of
making such a raft, rude as it was, no one can
conceive but those who have had a like difficulty
to contend with. It cost me four months and
ten days of painful labour to achieve that which
I have set down.

During this time Sir Harry had not been
idle ; and though he could not honestly encourage
me with a hope of bringing my business to a
happy issue, yet he helped me with a willing
heart, and said nothing which might discourage
me neither. But he was as firmly fixed in
his intent as I on mine, and rarely worked up
the river with me, lest in his absence the ship
he expected might come and go away again.

Anything he could do within sight of the sea he
did, and this was no trifle. Here every day he
provided food for our necessity, and in his spare
time he fashioned me a long yard for my mast,
and, which was more, he made a shoulder-mutton
sail — to rig on my mast like a lateen on
a zebec — of long reeds very ingeniously woven
together. Also he devised two vessels to contain
fresh water for my use by stripling a couple
of hogs from the neck downwards without cutting
the skin. These skins he turned inside
out, scraped off all the fat carefully, and then
steeping them in the sea until they were well
cured, and afterwards washing them some days
in .the stream of fresh water, they were found
good and sound, each holding a good hogshead
of water.

Besides this, he cut a vast quantity of pork
steaks and cured them in the sun, which may be
done without corrupting the flesh if it be laid
where the sun is hot and the air dry. Moreover,
he saved all the bladders of hogs that he killed,
blew them out, and coated them over with a

sort of pitch to preserve them from the attacks
of flies and insects. This pitch comes from the
sea of those parts, and is washed ashore by the
tide, and being melted before a fire, it is as good
a pitch as any in the world. These bladders I
tied on to the extremities of long poles lashed
crosswise to my raft to serve as a sort of buoys
to bear up that side to which the sail inclined,
and prevent the raft from capsizing in a sudden
squall.

I bound some bundles of reeds transversely
to the logs to serve me as a deck, and many
other provisions I made, such as a great stone at
the end of a line for an anchor, a paddle to serve
as a rudder, etc. In fine — not to weary the
reader with tedious descriptions — just ten
months to a day from the time we were set
ashore all was made ready for my departure.

And now, taking Sir Harry's hands in mine
and pressing them close, I begged him to come
with me.

Look you," says I, " this offer is not unpremeditated
on my part. All through I have

borne it in mind, and for that reason have I
measured my boat and all things to serve two
rather than one. Here is provision for both and
to spare ; the breeze is favourable, and all things
promise a prosperous outcome. Do, then, be
persuaded by me, dear friend, to share my
fate ; if not for your sake and mine, then
for those who love you in England and are
eagerly hoping for your return."

He was not unmoved by this address, and
the tears sprang in his eyes as he wrung my
hand in silence ; but he shook his head the
while.

No," says he, presently ; " no, Pengilly ;
you know not the pride of my heart. It would
kill me with shame to show myself a beggar
there," turning his eyes towards the north. " I
am a ruined man — ay, ruined body and soul —
for I feel that I am unworthy of your love.
Go!"

"Nay," says T, "let me stay, that my persuasion
may work on you. I left my offer till
the last, hoping "

I know," says lie, interrupting me. " You
hoped that the prospect of being left alone,
coming to be reviewed suddenly, would shake
my resolution. But I have foreseen this. I saw
that you were preparing for two to make voyage
on the raft. I knew that you were not dwelling
cheerfully day by day on the prospect of escape
but to excite a desire in me to escape with j^ou.
I know what is in your heart, and have just
sensibility enough left in mine to value it. But
I will not go. I am resolved, and naught can
shake my resolution from its centre. Go ; and
may God bless you."

So with a very sad heart I was fain to accept
his decision ; and shoving out into the stream I
went down swiftly with the current, and had not
the courage to look back on that poor lonely
man I was leaving behind.

I AM EXCELLENTLY SERVED BY MY FAMOUS
INVENTION, AND COME TO ENGLAND NOT
MUCH THE WORSE FOR IT.

By making vigorous employment of my paddle,
first on one side and then on the other, I continued
to keep well in the midst of the river,
and the tide then ebbing fast, I was quickly
swept across the shallows at the mouth, and so
out to sea.

And now I thought it proper to hoist my
sail ; so, laying aside my paddle, I drew up the
lateen between my two masts till it was taut,
and then making fast the liana found it acted
well enough, for at once it filled out very full and
fair to the breeze, which was blowing pretty
brisk from the south-east.

But now my difficulties and troubles began,,
for I had no experience in the governing of a

sailing boat, and ere I had got to work at my
paddle, my raft veered round before the gale, the
sail flapping to and fro between the masts, and
I had all the pain in the world to get her head
round and my sail full again. And when this
was achieved, I found a fresh fault, and this was
that my buoys were nothing near sufficient to
resist the pressure of the sail, so that they dipped
deep into the water, the poles to which they
were fastened bending to such a degree that I
expected nothing less every moment but that
they would snap under the strain, and the raft
capsize utterly, to my final undoing. Wherefore
I was fain to abandon my paddle, and reef the
lower part of the sail to lessen the pressure, in
which time I again lost the wind ; so back to my
paddle and more labour to bring me round once
more before the breeze, etc.

By this time I perceived that the current of
the sea and my bungling together had swept me
far from the coast, and rather to the south than
to the north. And to my great perplexity I
found that I could not get the wind in my sail

without drifting still further from the shore to
the west; for if I steered to the north, then
would the wind go out of my sail, and the craft,
losing way, woukl drift with the current to
the south, so that if I did nothing matters could
be no worse. At last I was constrained to
lower my sail altogether and seek to make head
against the current by vigorous use of my
paddle, first on one side and then on the other,
as I say. And, lord ! no man could be more
encompassed with troubles than I was, or sweat
more to overcome them than I did at this time.
At length, from sheer exhaustion, I was fain to
give over, and let my raft, without sail or oar, go
whither it might. I sat me down on my deck
of rushes, and casting my eyes towards the land
was dismayed to find it but an indistinct line on
the horizon (I having been out to sea now four
hours or more), and to the best of my belief
I stood further from Trinidadoo, after all my
trouble, than ere I started forth. And let thisbe
a warning to all men that they put not to sea
ere they have learned to sail.

When I had refreshed myself with some
water and one of my dried pork steaks (which,
that they might not be perished by the seawater,
I had hanged conveniently high on one of
my masts), I rose up, and with a kind of desperate
far essayed again to make a proper course.
Fu'st, I went at my sail once more, and when I
found that of no avail, but rather the contrary, I
seized my paddle, and worked at it like any
galley slave ; and though I could see no improvement,
yet did I persevere diligently. Then,
fancying the breeze was a little abated and blew
from another quarter, I went (with a prayer) and
once more lifted my sail, but that would not do ;
and so (with a curse) I dropped it and back to
my paddle. In fine, to cut a long story short,
1 wasted ray pains all that day, and had the
mortification, as I sat down once more to rest
my aching limbs, to find the land no longer
in sight ; nor anything else but the water all
around me.

Seeing it was useless to work when I could
no longer see for want of light (though not

more useless than before, may be), I lay me
down on my reeds (the sea, Grod be praised !
having subsided when the wind dropped to an
agreeable calm), and presently fell asleep.

The next day there was no need to experiment
with my sail, for not a breath of air
stirred; so I worked steadily at my paddle
pretty nearly the whole day, but I was forced
to desist in the noon for some time because of
the great heat of the sun, and that while I
sheltered myself under the sail, which was, God
knows, all the use it ever served me. All that
day I heard not a sound but such as I made
with my paddles, and the sea was like so much
glass extended about me, and a mist all around
the horizon caused by the sun sucking up with
his great heat the vapours from the water.
When the sun set, this mist settled over the
whole sea, so that I could see never a star to
cheer me, and this made me very sad and
prayerful, for it seemed as if a death-pall were
being spread over my unhappy being. Then
would I gladly have been back with Sir Harry

on the island; and thinking of him and our
miserable estate, both alone, and like to perish
without ever again hearing the sound of a cheerful
voice, the tears began to flow from my eyes
as from a woman's ; and I do think I fell asleep
weeping.

About midnight (as I reckon) I was awakened
by the freshening of the breeze ; yet nothing
could I see. I groped my way along very carefully
to my masts, that I might have them to
hold by, for already the sea was rising ; and it
was well that I did so, for in an amazingly short
space of time the breeze quickened to a gale,
and beat the waters so high that I was like to
have been swept away by the waves as they
burst. I will not dwell on the increasing
terrors of that night, for no words can describe
the fury of that hurricane, or my dread lest the
binding of my logs should be rent asunder and
my frail resting-place part under me. And
here let me observe that, no matter how a man
may desire death at other times, yet in the hour
of peril will he ever cling desperately to life.

When morning broke, my case was no better
than in the night; and looking around me at
the billows that threatened every moment to
engulf me, I was appalled, and could but say,
over and over again, " Grod be merciful to me ! "
For a long while I experienced neither hunger
nor thirst ; but only great fear and terror ; but
when nature began to crave within me, and I
looked to see if I could get at my water vessels,
I perceived that they had been washed away in
the night, for I had taken no precaution to lash
them to the raft for safety. And also 1 noticed
that my deck of rushes was clean gone and
my outriggers broken. My only comfort was
that the bonds of my raft still, for the most
part, held good, though the straining of the
timbers had loosened them, and it was clear
they could support the rubbing of the logs and
the wrenching of them but a little longer. I
saw that if one or two at the end went, then all
must go ; therefore, as I crouched between the
masts, I watched these bonds as a man may
watch the preparing of a gallows from which he
k2

is in the end to be swung off into eternity.
And after my raft had been shot down into a
great hollow, and thence rising up, met the
fearful buffet of another huge wave, I saw that
the end liana was burst asunder. " God be
merciful to me ! " says I again, and with the
greater earnestness that I felt I might the next
moment be in His presence.

At this moment, above the tumult and rush
of the waves and wind, I heard a report like
the firing of a small piece of ordnance, and,
casting my eye in that direction, I saw, to my
vast amazement, a great ship bearing down
upon me, and not two fathoms off. And that
noise I heard was made by the splitting of her
topmast and its striking the side of the vessel
as it fell. Scarce had I seen this when the ship,
riding down on the wave, ground its foreside
against the end of my raft, and the next instant
I found myself entangled in the wreck of
the broken mast with its yard, which still hung
to the ship by its cordage. Some of this cordage
passing right athwart me, I sprang up and

clasped it ; then, though as how I cannot tell,
but as I best might, I climbed like any monkey-upwards,
getting no more than a dozen or so
good thumps against the ship's side, and knocking
the skin off my knuckles by the way, until
I shoved my head above the bulwarks, where
already two stout seamen were severing the
broken mast from the cordage with hatchets.
When these two saw me rise as it were out of
the grave over the bulwarks, I say, they were
stricken with greater terror than the fury of
the tempest had inspired, and fell back from
their business with gaping mouths and starting
eyes ; but as I tumbled over the side and threw
myself on the deck, and they perceived I was
no ghost, but only a poor shipwrecked wretch,
they picked me up and bore me into the roundhouse
to their captain, for I had no power even
to stand, being quite spent with my exertion
and trouble of mind.

The captain spoke to me, but I could not
understand him," for, as I afterwards found, he
was from Holland and spoke Dutch, and I spoke

to him with no better effect, for lie knew no
word of English. Nor did any man on that
ship speak anything but Dutch, or understand
our tongue. I tried to make him comprehend
by signs that I had ventured to sea on two
logs, but he could make nothing of me till we
got to Schiedam (which we did, thanks be to
God, in a little over eight weeks), where was
a man who spoke English.

The captain was very humane and kind tome,
and for my serving him on the voyage,
which I did to the best of my ability and cheerfully,
he paid me at the same rate he paid his
other seamen, besides giving me a decent suit
of clothes, of which I stood much in need.
Through this good man's generosity was I
enabled to pay my passage in a galliot to Yarmouth
in England, where, by the good help of
Providence, I arrived full safe and sound.

And there had I yet some pieces to spare
for my sustenance and to help me onward to
Falmouth.

LADY BIDDY GIVES ME A WORD OF COMFORT.

I REACHED Fane Court eighteen months, as
near as may be, from . the time our first unhappy
expedition set out.

When I asked for Sir Bartlemy, the hall
servant seeing me all dusty with travel and out
at heel, told me I must bide my time, as the
knight and Lady Biddy Fane were at dinner.

"No matter for that," says I; "tell him
his nephew, Benet Pengilly, is here, and I
warrant you will fare better than if sou kept
him waiting for the news."

The fellow started in amaze hearing my
name, which was better known to him than my
face, and went without a word to carry the
tidings of my return to Sir Bartlemy. Almost
immediately afterwards my uncle came out into
the hall, and as quickly after him Lady Biddy

Sir Bartlemy as hale and hearty as ever,
and Lady Biddy, to my eyes, more beautiful
than before ; but both pale and greatly amazed
in countenance.

Benet ! " gasps the old knight, and that
was all he could say. But he held out his
hand, which I took and pressed with great
love, for my feelings were much softened by
hardship, and I was much grieved to think of
the pain I was to give him instead of the
joyful news he looked for. Lady Biddy stepped
forward, and her face lighting up with hope,
she looked for the moment as if she also might
be kind to me, and welcome me for the sake
of her lover. But of a sudden she checked
herself, seeing my downcast complexion, and
bating her breath, she says —

Where is he ? Where are the rest ? "

Then says I, with as much courage as I
could muster, but with pain that went to my
heart —

I am the only man who has come back."
And with that I hung my head, not to see
their grief.

He is not dead — they are not all lost ! " I
heard her say, in a tone that seemed mingled
with a silent prayer to merciful God.

No," says I ; " Sir Harry is not dead. 1
left him out there in Guiana ; but for the rest,
if they be lost, 'tis their just reward."

Then Lady Biddy burst into tears to know
that her lover Heed, and Sir Bartlemy, taking
her by the arm and me by mine, led us into
the dining-hall without speaking.

By this time. Lady Biddy's emotion being
passed, and her pride returning, she took her
arm from her uncle's, as if she would not accept
of kindness that was equally bestowed on such
as I.

Sit ye down there, Benet," says my uncle,
pushing me to a seat ; " and now tell us all as
briefly as you may ; for I perceive that the case
is bad (with a plague to it ! ) though Harry live
(God be thanked ! ) ; and if there be a tooth to
come out, the quicker it's done the better."

Then I told the bare truth : how Rodrigues
and Ned Parsons had led the crews astray and

set ns ashore, and the means of my coming
again to England, in as few words as I could
shift with. When I had made an end of this,
Lady Biddy was the first to speak.

Wliy did not Sir Harry come back with
you ? '' says she.

He scorns to come back a beggar," says I.
He will never return to England until he can
repay his obligations to Sir Bartlemy and ask
you to be his wife."

This gave her great joy, admiring in him
that quality of pride which she cherished in herself,
so that her eyes sparkled again, and her fair
bosom swelled with a sigh of satisfaction.
Presently she turned again upon me, her pretty
lips curved with disdain, and, says she —

And you left him there in that desert
alone ! Content to save your own life, you
abandoned him to hopeless solitude. Oh, that
I had been a man in your place ! "

I hung my head again in silence, feeling it
were better to bear her reproach than to attempt
an excuse ; for I could not trust my tongue to

reveal the main reason of my escaping, for fear
I should betray his intention of turning pirate ;
and this, for the love I bore them, I was
resolved to keep secret.

Nay," says Sir Bartlemy, coming to my
help, but with no great enthusiasm neither ;
never beat the dog that comes home." He
paused, and I could fancy his adding to himself,
Curse him, for a mean-spirited hound, all the
same ! " Then he continues, in a more hopeful
tone, " If he had not come home, how could we
have known of Harry's peril ? Come, Benet ;
tell me that in coming hither you hoped to get
succour for Harry."

You might believe that," says I, " of a
man with less heart than you credit me withal.
I came to beg for help because Sir Harry was
too proud to beg it himself."

I knew as much," says he, taking my
hand and shaking it heartily. Then turning to
my Lady Biddy, " And now my dear, what's todo
? I have no money, and an expense I must
be to you all the days that I live now that my

all is lost, with a plague to those rascals that
robbed me ! But you of your plenty will
charter a ship to go out and fetch this poor
man ? "

More than that must be done," says I.
He will only accept such help as will enable
him to recover all he has lost."

There was approval in Lady Biddy's looks
when I said this.

Odds my life ! he's in the right of it,"
cries Sir Bartlemy, bumping the table with his
fist. " Plague take me if ever I'd come sneaking
home with my tail 'twixt my legs like a
whipped cur that has neither the stomach to
bite nor to keep away from his sop. I mean
nothing ill with regard to you, Benet," he adds,
turning about to me, " for I hold you have done
the part of a true friend and a good, and have
shown more courage and high spirit in this
matter than many another. Well, what's todo,
girl, eh ? " — turning now to Lady Biddy,
and rubbing his thighs with his broad hands
cheerily.

Lady Biddy, with not less eagerness in her
manner, looked to me, and nodded that I should
speak all that was in my mind.

As much must be found as has been lost,"
says I. " For nothing less in men or treasure
will suffice Sir Harry to reach Manoa. And
with that it is a venture, and naught can be
done without God's good help, for never man
saw a country so difficult to penetrate or such
currents of rivers to mount. And first, money
must be raised."

Money shall not lack. I will venture
my fortune to the last piece," says Lady Biddy.

"Ay, and so would I, if I had aught to
lose," cried Sir Bartlemy. " But you, my girl,
may well spare enough for this venture, and
yet have as much to lay by for another, if that
fail."

No time must be lost," says I.

Not a moment," cries Lady Biddy, starting
up as if she had but to fetch money from
her strong chest to accomplish all. " You must
see about ships and men at once, uncle."

Ay," says he, " but who is to command
them, and carry help to your sweetheart in
Gruiana? "

Lady Biddy looked at him, and he at her,
whetting his lips, as one with a dainty dish set
before him that he would fain eat of.

I'm an old fellow, but there's life in me
yet : there's vigour — there's manhood," says he ;
and if I decay 'twill be only for want of use.
And I know the seas as well as any man, and
I warrant me no crew of mine should take my
ship from me, as from this poor lad, who put
too great faith in the honesty of seamen. I
dream o' nights of ocean seas ; and feather beds
I do hate more than any man can."

Then why should not you command this
expedition ? " says Lady Biddy.

He tried to look astonished at this design;
then putting his beard betwixt his fingers and
thumb, and shaking his head doubtfully, he
tried to look grave, but his merry eye twinkled
with delight at this notion. Yet presently his
chap fell, and he looked truly serious.

"My dear," says he, "what am I to do with
you ? I cannot leave a young girl alone in this
place, and ^^ou have no relative but me, nor any
steadfast friend to whom I may confide you, and
a scurvy to it. Lord ! I'd have done it, but
for this plaguy obstacle."

Then Lady Biddy, as mad as he and as fond,
cries —

"Do you think I will be left at home to
mope, as I have in these past months ? Nay —
where my fortune goes, there go I also."

"And why not?" cries my uncle, banging
the table again. "Was there e'er a better governor
than Queen Bess, and she was a woman ?
And no queen that ever lived had a higher spirit
or a braver heart than thou, my dear ! Kiss
me, for I love you. Now go fetch the chart
from my closet. Benet " (turning to me), " you
shall go with me and be my counsel (as much as
you may, being but a poor sailor, I take it).
We'll set to this at once ; ships must be bought
and men got — honest men — and none of your
rascals who have come home with gold, and tell

of getting it from the Ingas." In this way he
ran on, till Lady Biddy came in, bringing the
chart ; and a very good chart it was, so that I
had no difficulty in pointing out the island
where we had been set ashore, as I have said.

Then did this uncle and niece lay out their
plans gleefully as any children designing a
holiday jaunt — reckoning nothing of the perils
and terrors that I knew lay before us. But
this sanguine temper was of that family's nature.
And beautiful it was to see that graceful,
lovely girl leaning over beside the old
knight, following the course he laid down on
the card — her face all aglow with eager hope
and love, her eyes sparkling, and her rich, ruddy
lips sweetly curved in a smile about her little
white teeth.

I know not how it came about — whether it
was the pang which shot through my heart as
I reflected that this admirable creature was for
another and not for me — that for his sake was
she hazarding her fortune and life, while, if she
thought of me, it was but with scorn ; or

whether my body was exhausted by the fatigue
it had endured in hastening hither and my long
fast (I had walked all night and eaten nothing
but scraps of cow-salad torn from the banks),
I cannot say ; only this I know, that, while I
sat there watching that sweet girl, a great sickness
and faintness came upon me, so that I had
to rise and go to the window for air.

Then Sir Bartlemy spying me, and how my
face was white and the cold sweat standing in
beads on my brow, perceived that I was sick.
So he brought me a mug of ale and some meat,
which were his remedy for all ills. But what
did comfort more than these victuals was the
kindness that filled Lady Biddy's heart when
she saw my case. No angel could have been
more tender. And while this mood was yet
upon her, she said in my ear —

"Benet, I did you wrong in my too great
haste J for I see now that you have served him
with great love, and I must love you for so
loving him."

THE CROSSED HEART.

When two impetuous streams join and flow
together, their course must needs be swift —
whether to flow into the sweet and happy valley,
or into the dark and horrid gulf. Thus while
my uncle occupied himself in one matter, Lady
Biddy busied herself in another, and both to
the equipment of this new expedition ; so that
in an incredibly short space of time all provision
was achieved, and we were ready to set out.

First there were ships to be procured, and
seamen to serve them. For better choice. Sir
Bartlemy journeyed over to Portsmouth, taking
me with him, and a well-stuffed purse, together
with a dozen lusty servants for our safe escort
through those lawless and dangerous parts
which lay betwixt Truro and Exeter, where no
man rides safe.

Being come without mishap to Portsmouth,
Sir Bartlemy found an old acquaintance of
his, a broker and a very honest man, and with
him we went and examined all those ships that
were to sell, choosing in the end two that were
after his heart ; excellent fair ships too, sound
and swift, that had sailed the seas, one two years
and the other four; for Sir Bartlemy would
have no new ships, but only such as had stood
the test of tempest, and were fully seasoned.

While this was a-doing I made a discovery
which gave me no little concern. The broker
would have us look at a French ship, albeit Sir
Bartlemy declared he would trust himself in no
timbers that had not grown in England ; however,
to humour him, we went to the side of the
harbour where she lay. But at the first sight
of her my uncle turned up his nose, and began
to find a hundred faults, finally declaring that
nothing good ever came out of France save her
wines, and that it would be time better spent to
drink a pint of Bordeaux than to go further
with the examination of such a cursed piece of
L 2

shipbuilding. With that he invited the broker
to crack a bottle in an adjacent tavern, which
they did without further ado. But something
in the look of this ship arousing my curiosity, I
feigned to have no liking for wine, and getting
the broker's leave to visit the ship, I hired a
wherry and was carried to her.

La Belle Esperance was her name, and she
was painted quite fresh in very lively colours,
after the sort of French ships ; but for all that
when I got on board my suspicions were stronger
than ever ; for the make of the ship (being little
altered) was, as I may say, familiar to me.
And straight I went into the coach, and so to
the little cabin on the larboard side, and thereon
a certain timber I sought and found this
mark, cut deep in the wood: —

Then I knew beyond doubt that this ship,
despite its new name and fresh paint, was none

other than the Sure Hawk. For this crossed
heart was my cipher (making the letters B. P.
after a fashion if looked at sidelong) which I
had engraved with my own hand and of my
own invention.

I needed no further proof, but, being greatly
troubled, went straightway ashore. And there
finding occasion to speak privately with the
broker, I questioned him concerning this ship :
how long she had lain at Portsmouth, etc.

Why, sir," says he, very civilly, " she has
been here three weeks, and no more. To tell
you the truth, she was a French pirate, though
I said nothing of that matter to Sir Bartlemy
to add to his prejudice. But she is a good
ship, and was taken by some honest Englishmen
trading in spices."

"And what was the name of their ship
who took this ? " I asked.

That cannot I tell you," he replies, " for
their ship was so disabled in the fight that they
had to abandon her and come home in this'

"Do you know these men or their captain?"

No, sir, foi" they were of Hull ; but I believe
the captain's name was Adams, for I heard
of him yesterday."

In what respect ? "

It was in this wise. He bought a new
ship of a brother broker here — the French vessel
being not to his taste, nor big enough for his
purpose — and sailed it hence to fit out and
victual at Hull, where his crew would fain see
their friends; and to Hull we thought he had
gone. But my friend having necessity to go to
St. Ives, in Cornwall, did there see this very
ship, and Captain Adams with his men ashore,
all as drunk as any fiddlers ; which amazed him,
so that he spoke of it as a thing not to be
understood."

But I understood this well enough, and
therefore I laid the whole matter before my
uncle, and would have had him go with me to
St. Ives, where I doubted not but we should
find Captain Adams to be Eodrigues, and so lay
him and his rascally crew by the heels, besides
seizing his ship for our redress.

But niy uncle would not agree to this.
For," says he, " in the first place, it is a
tedious business to stir the Admiralty to our
profit, and in that time this Rodrigues — curse
his bones ! — may get wind of our intent and slip
through our fingers ; and, secondly, I hold it
best not to stir up a sleeping dog, but to
get on while one is safe. Added to which,
every moment's delay is as much as a year
of suffering to Harry."

To this I could make no objection, so I
agreed to keep what T knew secret. But I
perceived full well that my uncle, had he not
openly expressed to his friend such contempt
for the French ship (as he thought her) would
have let Sir Harry wait until he had proved her
to be the Sure Haivk and brought Eodrigues
to justice, for he was very revengeful when
roused, and full of hatred for the man who
cheated him ; but because he feared ridicule —
having condemned that for worthless which
but twelve months before he had bought for
the best ship ever built — he would do nothing.

For which weakness, God knows, he was fully
punished in the end.

Our business being brought to an end at
Portsmouth, we sailed our new ships into
Falmouth Haven ; and their names were the Sea
Lion and the Faithful Friend. And here were
piles of merchandise waiting to be shipped, for
Lady Biddy Fane had faithfully bought and
prepared every sort of things in just proportion,
as before our going Sir Bartlemy had set down
in an inventory ; and none but a capable woman
of stout purpose and strong heart could have
done so much.

To work went all to get this store aboard —
the very house - servants being pressed into
service (such as they could compass), under
the direction of Lady Biddy ; yet could not all
be done in a day, nor much less than three
weeks, and no time lost.

All this time my mind was exceedingly
uneasy, lest Eodrigues should hear of our expedition,
and seek to do us harm. And with this
dread I made inquiries (privately if during my

absence any one had called to see me, and I
found that no one had asked for me. This put
me in a great taking, for now I felt sure that
either Eodrigues or Parsons and his men were
at Penzance. For otherwise to a certainty the
waves and sweethearts of those men drawn from
Penny-come-quick and Truro to our first venture,
hearing as they must of my return, would have
sought me for tidings of them. And if they
were in communication with those men, then
must our enemies know that I had come back,
and that another expedition was fitting out. I
knew the nature of Eodrigues — subtile and
daring wretch ! — merciless in the pursuit of
plunder, and bloody as those beasts of prey
which will kill, though they be too surfeited
to eat, their quarry.

At length all was ready for our departure.
Lady Biddy having paid off all her servants
(save a good wench whom she took with her)
sent her plate and treasures to a silversmith in
Exeter ; and so, to cut this matter short, put her
estate in the hands of a trusty steward, and bade

farewell to her friends. We all got on board ;
my uncle and Lady Biddy in the Faithful
Friend, which was the larger and better ship of
the two, and I in the Sea Lion. For though
Sir Bartlemy would have had me with him,
and Lady Biddy said nothing to discourage me
therefrom, yet did I feel that it would be better
that I should not see her, fearing her beauty
might stir up the passion in my breast, and
lead me again into evil thoughts.

It was arranged that, the breeze proving
prosperous, the next morning we should depart
at break of day ; and licence was given to the
crew to make merry on board till ten o'clock,
that they might start with a cheerful heart.

Now while the men were rejoicing after the
fashion of mariners, there comes a wherry alongside
with a woman in it ; and this woman cries
out to know if Jack Stone is aboard of that ship
or the Faithful Friend. There was no man of
our crew with that name ; but this woman being
comely and buxom, with a merry face, the men
did pretend that Jack Stone was aboard, but too

drunk to stir ; and with that they asked her to
come up and give him a kiss for farewell.

Why," says she, coming up the side without
more ado, " do you start so soon ? Jack
told me yesterday you did not set out for a
week."

We sail at daybreak, sweetheart," says the
gunner, taking her about the waist.

And this is what she had come to learn, as I
feel convinced; for as soon as she had heard as
much as was to be pumped out of these fuddled
fellows, she left them, and was' rowed ashore,
never ]paving again asked after the man she
called Jack. Stone.

The purser being a sober man, I asked him
if he knew the woman, and he told me he knew
her well for a Penzance w^oraan.

Then," thinks I, " Eodrigues has brought
his ship round to be near us, and he has sent
this woman for a sp3^ From Penzance she
has come on this mission, and to Penzance she
has returned; and so God help us."

WE ARE DOGGED BY A BLACK SHIP, TO THE
GREAT DISCOMFORT OF OUR COMPANIES.

We set sail at daybreak with a fair breeze, and
if this had held on, then had we got safely on
our way, escaping all danger from our enemy ;
but being only a land wind, such as frequently
blows towards the sun at its rising, we found
ourselves an hour after clearing Falmouth
Haven in a little chopping gale, where we had
much ado, by tacking this way and that, to
make any progress at all, to our misfortune.
While we were thus pottering to and fro, a sail
appeared coming down the Channel, whereupon,
my fears being that way disposed, I took it into
my head at once that this was Eodrigues's ship
from Penzance, there having been ample time
during the night for the wench who had come
aboard to take him intelligence of our intent to

sail. Then I begged Captain Wilkins, an excellent
good man as ever lived, to let me have
the ship's barge that I might go speak with my
uncle; to which request he acceded instantly,
and the barge being lowered and manned I was
carried to the Faithful Friend. Here, taking my
uncle aside, I laid out all that had happened the
night before, and pointing to the sail bearing
down towards us, I gave him my apprehensions,
begging he would put back into Falmouth
Haven while we yet might. But this would he
not do.

What ! " says he, " put back because a
sail is in sight ! Why, at that rate might we
never get out of Falmouth. Never yet did I
put back, for I count it the luckiest thing a
seaman may do ; and in this case 'twere nothing
short of folly and rank cowardice ; for our foe,
if foe he be, is but one, and we be two. You
have done your duty, Benet, and therefore I do
not scold you for doubting my mettle, your own
being much softened no doubt by hardship and
suffering. Lord help you ! But go back at once

to your ship, I prithee, and bid Master Wilkins
look to his armament, be sober and prayerful,
and hold himself ready to lay on to an
enemy."

With this comfort I returned to the Sea
Lion, and telling Captain Wilkins my fears and
my uncle's decision, he lost no time in charging
the guns and setting out muskets, swords, and
brown bills ready to every man's hand. Likewise
he mustered the crew when all had been
prepared, and gave them out a very good prayer,
at the same time bidding the men trust to their
own defence as well as the mercy of Providence
(should we be presently attacked) and give no
quarter. To this address would Sir Bartlemy
have added a hearty " amen " had he been
present, for it was just after his own sturdy
heart.

The strange sail bore down to within half a
mile of us, being a swifter ship than either of
ours, and making way where we could none,
etc. ; and then she held off on a tack and came
no nearer. And though she showed no guns,

yet could we see she was a powerful sLip, and
such as, for the value of her, would not venture
abroad in these troublesome times without good
arms.

About noon the breeze grew stronger and
more steady, and so continued that by sundown
we had made in all twelve sea leagues. All
this time had the strange sail followed in our
wake, standing off never much over half a mile.
Then Captain "Wilkins and all on board were
convinced that this was an enemy seeking to
injure us, and it seemed that Sir Bartlemy was
equally of our way of thinking, for by means of
his signals he bade us double our watch, keep
our lanterns well trimmed, and hold close to him.
And this we did, no man taking off his clothes,
but every one who lay down having his arms
ready to his hand. For my own part, I quitted
not the deck all that night ; nor could I take
my eyes from the lights on board the FaUhfid
Friend two minutes together for thinking of the
dear girl who lay there, and whose life and
honour were in our keeping.

We could see no lights in our track at all
during the night, whereby we hoped that our
enemy — as I may call her — seeing not ours, had
fallen away in the darkness ; but when day
broke we perceived her still following us, and
no further away than before, so that we knew she
had been guided by our lamps, and had lit none
of her own. In short, not to weary the reader,
as she had followed us that night and the day
before, so she clung to our heels for four days
and nights after. And now being off Portugal,
Sir Bartlemy might have run into port; but
this he would not do; for, firstly, the breeze
continued all this time fairly prosperous ; and,
secondly, his bold and stubborn nature would
not permit him to swerve from his course, or
show fear of any one.

By this time our company began to murmur
because they got no proper rest through constant
watching, and because (though they feared
no mortal enemy) they began to look upon this
pursuing ship as a thing without substance —
an unearthly sign of impending destruction, a

device of the fiend — I know not what, for
seamen are ever prodigiously superstitious and
easily terrified by that which passes their comprehension
; and it strengthened their dread
that this ship was painted black from stem to
stem. Indeed, to a mind reasonably free from
superstition, there was something dreadful and
terrific in this great black ship following us
with so great a perseverance, which put mein
mind of some carrion bird with steadfast
patience hovering slowly about wanderers beleaguered
in a desert, with some forecast that in
the end one must fall to become its easy prey.
These six nights did I get no rest, but
only a little dog-sleep in the day when my
body yielded to the fatigue of watching, my
mind being quite disordered with dreadful apprehensions
; for well I knew that if by storm
we got separated in the day, or by accident of
fog or such like lost each other in the night,
then would our enemy fall upon us one after
the other, and overcome us ; which, though we
fought like lions, might well arrive, seeing she

M

was SO much bigger than either of us, and
manned with a greater company, as I could
descry through a perspective. My own life I
valued not; my fear was all lest Lady Biddy
should fall a prey into the wicked hands of that
bloody, subtile Eodrigues. What could that
dear, sweet creature do to resist him ? What
fate would be hers, being at his mercy ? These
questions did provoke fearful answers in my
anxious imagination, to my inexpressible torment.


At length, on the seventh day, we being
then, as Captain Wilkins told me, off the coast
of Morocco, and the wind falling to a calm, I
took a boat and rowed to my uncle's ship.
And when I got aboard I found the company
there in not much better case than ours on the
Sea Lion, for every man had a sullen and unhappy
look on his face, and from time to time
cast his eye towards the black ship that lay
behind us, for all my uncle pacing the deck did,
rate them most soundly for not going quicker
about the business he set them ; swearing at

them like a heathen Jew, so that one, not knowing
his kind and generous heart, had thought
him a very tyrant.

My first thought was of Lady Biddy, and
casting my eye up and down the deck to see if
her fair face and dainty figure were there, my
limbs shook and my teeth chattered together
with the intensity of my desire. But she was
nowhere visible.

Yell, Benet, what the plague has brought
you from your ship ? " asks my uncle, roughly,
as he comes to my side. " What do you fear,
that you are spying up and down, your cheeks
pale, and your lips on a quiver ? "

Lady Biddy," says I, with a thickness in
my voice, " is she well ? "

Ay, and if all on this ship were as stout
of heart I should have more reason to be grateful,"
says he.

Thank God she is well ! May no mischance
befall her ! " says I, in a low tone.

And what mischance may befall her if we
act like men in her defence ? "
M 2

I cast my eyes towards the black ship, and
then said I to my uncle —

*' Eodrigues is there, I know."

You shall lend me your spyglass, for I
think you have seen him, to be so cocksure."


No, sir, I have not seen him ; but I am
sure he commands that ship. A painter is
known by his workmanship."

I know nothing of painting and such
fiddle-faddle. Speak straight to the purpose,
man," says my uncle, with a curse.

Well," says I, " no man but Eodrigues
could devise such subtle, devilish means for
our destruction."

In this holding on yet holding off, I see
nothing but the device of a fool or a coward, be
he Eodrigues or another."

He is neither a fool nor a coward," says I;

he values his ship and his men too high to

attack us at a disadvantage. He knows, as well

as you do, that this patient following, while it

muses his company and rests them, is fatiguing

ours, and sapping the foundation of their
courage."

I warrant their courage will return to the
dogs with the first shot that is fired."

Then may it be too late ; for, you may be
sure of this, Eodrigues will not fire a ball until
he is sure of our defeat," says I.

Sure of our defeat ! And pray when may
that be?" asks he, firing up with disdain.

"When accident helps him either to fall in
with his comrade Parsons, or by our getting
sundered through some mishap. He has as
many men on his ship (as you may plainly see)
as we have in both our companies, and more.
How are we to combat him singly ? "

Why, with God's help and our own good
arms," says he, sternly ; but the moment after
that he turned his eyes towards the black ship,
measuring it; and his silence proclaimed that
he could not overlook his peril. Presently, in a
more subdued tone, he says, " Well, nephew, I
doubt not you had some better intention than to
damp my spirits in coming here, so if you would

offer any advice, out with it, for the love of
God, and I promise I will listen with as much
patience and forbearance as I may command."

"Sir," says I, "you are making for the
Canaries, and there, in all likelihood, is Parsons,
awaiting the coming of his confederate, so that
we are, as it were, going before the tiger into
the lair of his mate." My uncle nodded acquiescence.
" Now, if I might advise, I would have
you alter your course, and make for the Windward
Isles, and so down to Guiana. Then, if
Rodrigues does also alter his course, I should
draw upon him, and seek so to disable him with
a shot amidst his masts as he should be disabled
from following us further."

"Now, indeed, do jon talk good sense, and
such as is after my heart," cries he, joyfully.
This will I do at once ; so go you back
and bid Wilkins prepare to shape his course
this way."

But seeing that I yet lingered, as loth to
depart, he claps me on the shoulder and says,
What else would you have, Benet ? "

Why, sir," says T, " I would have you send
another with your message, and suffer me to
stay here in his place."

Why, are you so weak-kneed as that ? "
says he. " Well, 'tis in the nature of mice to
be timorous ; but I looked for better stuff in a
man of our family."

Nay," says I ; "if I feared Rodrigues I
should not ask to stay here, for 'tis this ship he
will attack, knowing, as he must, by our sailing,
that our general and leader is here."

Why, that is true," says he ; and then he
fell into a silence, and looked at me keenly to
divine why I wished to stay'" there. After a
little while, marking the hot blood in my face,
and knowing it was to be near Lady Biddy
that I sought this change of ships, he put his
hands on my shoulders, and says he, very
kindly, and with a little trembling of pity in
his voice, "My poor Benet, the best thing
3'ou can do for her sake is to go back to your
ship and stay not in this. Ay, and for your
own sake it were better too. The enemy you

have to overcome is the passion in your own
breast, which is more capable to bring ruin to
your soul and sorrow to our hearts than are the
guns of Rodrigues to endanger our bodies. Go
back, dear fellow."

And knowing how this passion had before,
by its hopelessness, brought me into evil ways
and despair of better, I accepted his guidance,
and went back to my ship, though with a sore
heart.

And going back I saw my lady standing in
the stern gallery of the Faithful Friend. But
she did not see me, or, seeing me, made no sign ;
for why should she trouble to descry whether it
were I or another sitting there ? And clasping
my hands together I prayed God (within myself
to dispose of her to her own happiness and His
praise.

WE FALL INTO SORE DISASTERS OF RAGING
TEMPEST AND BLOODY BATTLE.

As soon as I was got on board I told Captain
Wilkins of our generalissimo's intention, which
he heard with much satisfaction, and did
straightway communicate with his crew, who
thereupon set up a great cheer. About two
o'clock, the breeze freshening, the Faithful
Friend changed her course and we with her, and
for two hours we ran west, though the wind had
been more prosperous for making south. Yet
did the black ship follow us in this course
persistently as in the other, keeping always the
same distance in our wake. Then did Sir
Bartlemy signal us to open all our ports for
the guns to play, and to stand every man to
his post, which we-did very cheerfully and as
smartly as ever the company on the Faithful

Friend did. And though this preparation might
well be seen from the black ship, we could see
with our perspectives no such preparation on
her, so that the simple would have conceived
she had no lower ports for guns, and was an
unarmed trader. Then Sir Bartlemy signalled
us to stand-to, yet to be in readiness to come to
his help if need arose, which we did ; meanwhile
he puts about and sails down on the black
ship, who kept her ports closed, but stayed
his coming patiently.

Being come within speaking distance, Sir
Bartlemy takes his speaking horn and spreads
out his ancient ; whereupon the black ship
spread hers, which was true English, and every
way as good as ours. Then our general through
his horn demanded what ship that was and why
she did so persistently dog us. To this a man
from the black ship replied that she was the
Bohin Bedfellow, of Southampton, commanded
by Richard Simon, and a very peaceable trader,
bound for Campeachy Bay to barter for dyewood,
and that she meant us no harm, but only

sought to have protection against pirates by
sailing in the company of two ships so well
armed as we.

Then," shouts my uncle, "be you like your
ship, a good fellow, and sheer off, for we like
your room better than your company; and
sheer off at once [adds he] or I will pepper
your jacket to a pretty tune."

To show he meant to be as good as his
word, he bade his gunner fire a broadside wide
of the black ship, which did the gunner very
faithfully, hurting no one. " Though, would to
God ! " says my uncle, afterwards, " I had been
wise enough to fire amongst his rigging for a
better earnest."

The black ship made no response ; but,
turning about, held off* before the wind half a
mile and no more ; and my uncle, sailing upon
her to make her go to a greater distance, she
sheered off, keeping always the same distance ;
and this manoeuvre was repeated twice or thrice
till Sir Bartlemy, guessing she was endeavouring
to lure him away from us, and seeing it

was useless to try and come up to close quarters
with a ship that could sail two furlongs to his
one, gave up this attempt and rejoined us. Our
captain tried to make his men believe that the
black ship was what her captain represented,
and that he, in still following us — which he
did as though he had received no warning, or
scorned to accept it — was merely showing a
stubborn spirit and not a hostile one, since he
had not showed any guns or fired in defiance tous.
Some of our better men accepted this ; but
there were many who could not stomach it, and
openly cursed the day when they had come to
sea on this venture.

So held we on, and my uncle, hoping the
black ship would have to stay for water and
refreshment at the Azores (for we had gone
from our course that if the black ship were
indeed bound for Campeachy she might have
no further pretext to hang on our heels), and
being himself still very well victualled, would
not stay there, but, passing them, bore down
towards the Beauties ; but neither would the

black slip stay there, but kept to our heels as
perversely as ever.

Now, being come to the Beauties, that
befell which I feared, for the seas, which are
greatly troubled at those parts, rose prodigiously,
and with it there came a most terrible hurricane,
which obliged us to run with a single small sail.
This gale did so buffet and hurl us about as we
could with much pain keep to our course and
reasonably near our consort during the day ; but
at night it was worse, for no lanterns of ours
could be kept burning, nor was any of the
Faithful Friend's to be seen, and though from
time to time we fired off our peter eros for a
signal, yet answer heard we none for the raging
of the sea. In this terrible tempest we were sorely
bruised, our little sail split to shreds, and no
chance to rig another, so that we tossed helpless
on the water, expecting every moment to founder.
But it pleased God to spare us this time.

I shall not dwell on the horrors of that night,
nor of the next day, and the night following,
but come briefly to the morning of the third

day of our tribulation, when, by help of such
sail as we could set, we drifted out of that
horrid region and came into calmer waters ; in
which time we had been swept an incredible
distance ; but, lord ! so broken in our masts,
rigging, and elsewhere as it was pitiable to
see ; besides three men short of our number,
who we counted were washed away in that
hurricane. Then looking around could we see
nothing of the Faithful Friend, nor of the black
ship neither ; so that we reckoned one or both
had gone to the bottom.

To think that Lady Biddy was no more
affected me so grievously that I threw myself
on the deck, not caring what became of me,
and lamenting that I lay not at the bottom of
that cruel sea with her. But Captain Wilkins
kept a brave heart (God be praised !), and,
hoping yet to see our consort again, contrived
to set up some sort of sails, fresh rig his rudder,
and restore order on board, so that ere long we
were making good way towards Trinidadoo (as
we judged), where it had been agreed we should

in case of separation seek rendezvous. On the
morning of the fourth day, ere yet there was
full daylight, but only twilight, as I was standing
on the poop deck very melancholy and
dejected, I heard the sound of guns to the south
of the course we were making ; and Captain
Wilkins, to whom I ran in all speed to communicate
these tidings, did likewise believe he
heard this sound ; whereupon he at once shaped
our course in that direction, whereby in a little
time we were further assured that these sounds
were real, and not bred of imagination. The
reports were not apart, like signals, but continuous
; so that we knew it was the cannonading
of ships in battle, which stirred every
man to make all haste ; and indeed we did all
we could think on to speed our ship ; still were
we slow, for our want of sail, which made us
furious with impatience.

There was a haze upon the water, so that
when the tumult of amis was loud in our ears,
we could see nothing ; but now the sun getting
up strong over the horizon and sucking up

the mist, we of a sudden caught sight of the
flashing guns, and then of a ship not many-furlongs
off, broadside towards us, which we
presently descried to be the black ship ; though
now her whole side was open with ports, from
which her guns shone out like teeth. At the
same time we perceived that she was grappled
on stem and stem to another ship on the further
side, which we doubted not was the Faithful
Friend ; upon which we did all set up a prodigious
cheer ; and Captain Wilkins putting
about, we passed the black ship at less than a
furlong distance, and dealt into her the whole
weight of our great guns on that side without
getting a single shot in return. The reason of
this was that all that ship's company were
occupied on the other side plying their cannon
and boarding the Faithful Friend (which we
recognised in nearing the black ship), as was
evident from the rattle of muskets and small
arms between the peals of the great guns.

But after getting this dose from us, they
were not long in manning their guns on the

hither side, as we found to our cost when, putting
about once more, we sailed down to give
him the other broadside ; for their cannon
belched out with such fury as laid many a
stout seaman between our decks low, besides
shooting away our rudder, which rendered us
helpless, as it were.

Seeing this, I begged Captain Wilkins to
give me a boat and such of his men as could
be spared to go and succour our friends, to
which he agreed readily enough, and forthwith
lowered our barge ; whereupon I, with a score
of hearty fellows, all armed to the teeth, sprang
in, and rowed with all our might to that side
of the grappled ships where lay the Faithful
Friend. Through one of her lower ports we
scrambled, one after the other, but I the first,
you may be sure ; and there it was all thick
with stinking gunpowder smoke, and strewn
with dead men, and such as were too sorely
wounded to join in the battle above, and no
man ever heard greater din than there was of
big guns and small, the clashing of steel, the

N

trampling on the decks, the shouting and cursing
of men fighting, and the sad groaning of
the hurt, and such confusion as you could not
tell one sound from another scarcely.

This did but spur us on to be doing, and
like so many cats we sprang up through the
hatchways by the ladders, and so came on the
main deck, taking no heed of the poor fellows
who lay heaped at the foot of those ladders,
nor of the blood that trickled in thick drops
from step to step, splashing in our faces as if
it had been mere rain water, and lay smeared
down the handmaids, where many a good man
had pressed his bleeding body for support.

Now, as I sprang on deck, did I find myself
in the very midst and thick of these wicked
pirates, who were readily to be distinguished
from honest seamen by the red skirts which
they wear who bind themselves to the regulations
of their Order.

Just before me was a culverin pointed
against the roundhouse, into which the crew of
the Faithful Friend (such as were not laid low)

lead retired, and were there barricaded, and a
fellow stood over against it, blowing bis match
to fire the piece. And this man I knew full
well for a villain of the old Sure Hawk's company,
and with the axe in my band I struck
bim between the teeth right through to ibis
neck-joint. He was the first man I had ever
slain; but I counted it as nothing, being
wrought to very madness with passion, and
wrenching my axe from his bone, I turned upon
another rascal who was making at my side with
his knife, and with a back-handed blow, the
hinder part of my weapon crashed his forehead
into his brains as you might with your thumb
break the shell of an e^^ into the yolk. By
this time my good comrades had sprung up
behind me to my help, else had my fight soon
come to an end; for the pirates, getting over
the amazement into which my sudden attack
had thrown them, with a shout of rage turned
all upon me. Then did we so lay about us that
we beat the pirates back into the fore part of the
ship, and truly I do think that if those of our
N 2

friends in the roundhouse could then have come
to our help we should have won the day ; but,
as ill-luck would have it, they had taken such
pains to barricade themselves, to prevent the
pirates coming at them, that they could not
immediately get out to get at their foes, and so,
for want of support, were we undone. For there
were of the pirates two score, I take it, and
more coming to their succour over the side
every moment, while we, not counting those
who may have fallen, were but one score, all
told.

Foremost among our enemies was Rodrigues
himself, who did look a very devil for rage, with
the grime of smoke and blood about his face,
his white, pointed tusks bared to the gums, and
his eyes flaming with fury. His head was bound
about with a bloody clout, for he had got a
wound, and through the grime of powder-smoke
on his face there was a bright channel where
he blood still wept. But for all his wounds he
fought better and more desperately than any of
the rest; and seeing that those in the roundhouse

were struggling to get out to our help,
and that his only chance lay in beating us down
ere they succeeded, he threw himself forward
with nothing but a long curved knife in his
hands. His intention was to settle my business,
seeing that I had done him this mischief; and
surely he would have achieved it (for I was
closely grappled with a fellow, my arms about
him and his about me, each seeking to get
freedom for the use of the knives in our
hands), but that a comrade, seeing my peril,
dealt at him with his brown bill, driving the
spike into his shoulder. On this, Eodrigues,
with a howl of rage, struck out the point
from his shoulder, and turning on this poor
man with his hooked knife ripped him up from
the navel as you might a rabbit. At that
moment I threw my man on his back, and in
falling on the deck my knife was driven upto
the hilt through his loins. Then did I
get a terrible blow on the head (from whom I
know not), so that I lost all consciousness, and
lay like one dead.

THE BATTLE ENDED TO OUR COMPLETE
DISCOMFITURE.

Now must I speak of what happened on board
the Faithful Friend after my discomfiture ; not
from my own knowledge — for knowledge had I
none, being felled, as I say, like an ox — but
from what I afterwards learnt from others.

Headed by Eodrigues, the pirates cleaved
our little company in two, and so surrounded
them with great numbers that their case was
hopeless, and in short time they were beaten
down every man, and left for dead, these heartless
pirates giving no quarter to any. And
while these few were being despatched, Rodriguez,
with a following of shouting fiends, returned
to attack those who were making their
way out of the roundhouse, and by the fury of
that onslaught did they cut down all those who

had got out, and forced them within once more
to set up their barricades.

Then, seeing no further danger on board the
FaifJifid Friend but such as a round dozen of his
rogues might cope with, he called off the rest to
return on board his ship to defend it against the
Sea Lion. For Captain Wilkins, having set out
two long sweeps or galley oars from the lower
stern gallery to serve as a rudder, had returned
to the attack, and coming cheek by jowl
with the black ship, he grappled her in his
turn, so that now all three ships were bound
together, and thus, with their cannons mouth
to mouth did they discharge their shot one
into the other with incredible bitterness.

But here the black ship being but poorly
manned — most of her company being on the
Faithful Friend — played but the weaker part ;
seeing which, Master Wilkins resolved to board
her with his men, and so make his way over her
decks to the deliverance of his consort. He
called his men to clamber the sides of the black
ship and escalade her bulwarks. But against

such an attack was the black ship well provided,
for not only were her bulwarks at arms' length
above those of the Sea Liofi, but furnished with
a devilish device of broken sword blades, spikes,
and sharp nails set in long spars and lashed to
the side, so that nowhere could a man make
headway, or surmount without cruel gashes.
While the poor brave men were beating down
this defence, Rodrigues and his wretches came
pouring back to the defence of the black ship,
and while some mowed down the attacked from
their high bulwarks with axe and sword, other
some were sent below to recruit their fellows at
the big guns. Rodrigues himself did direct
these pieces, so bending down their mouths that
the shot should go through the decks to beat out
the side below water. And so well did he thrive
in this wickedness that presently, after these
great guns had been fired, the Sea Lion began
to fill, and the men on board, seeing they must
perish by drowning if they stayed in her, forsook
their pieces, and, rushing all on deck, cast
aside their arms, fell on their knees, and begged

mercy of Eodrigues. And let it not be thought
they were cowards for this, but put yourself in
their place, and consider if the fear of death
would not have moved you to the same distress.

Eodrigues, not wishing to lose all the Sea
Lion contained, removed his defence of sword
blades, etc., and bade the men come up, which
they did, all save Captain Wilkins, who, with
his sword in his hand, stood alone on the deck.
Eodrigues, taking a musket in his hand, bade
this brave man lay down his sword or die ; but
he took no notice of this command, whereupon
did Eodrigues level his piece and shot him dead
where he stood.

Then Eodrigues sent down a parcel of his
men to staunch the leak in the side of the Sea
Lion, and this they did by lowering a leaded sail
upon the outer side to cover the holes ; after
which the water was pumped out and the
carpenters repaired the breach more securely, so
that there was no further peril of her going down.

And now being masters of both ships, the
pirates made great rejoicing, for though there

were yet those in the roundhouse of the Faithful
Friend who were unfettered, yet were they close
prisoners and powerless to recover their ship, ordo
mischief, except in foolhardy desperation, to
their captors.

To every pirate was dealt out double allowance
of meat and drink, but the latter not of a
strong kind, for Rodrigues knew full well that a
drunken bout might prove their undoing. As
for the prisoners, they got naught to eat, but
only jeers and derision.

While his men were yet carousing, Rodrigues
goes on the poop deck of the Faithful
Friend, and stamping his heel to call attention
of those below, he cried out to know if Sir
Bartlemy Pengilly was yet alive ; to which Sir
Bartlemy himself replied —

"Ay," says he, "and I hope to live yet
to see you hanged, villain ! "

Well," replies the other, " you'll not get
that chance unless you accept my conditions."

"I will make no conditions with such as
you," cries my uncle.

*' You bad better, my friend," says Rodriguez
jeeringl}^ ; " 'twill save you a deal of
trouble in the long run."

To tins my uncle made no reply but one
of his sea oaths,

"I shall leave you to the better guidance
of your company," says Eodrigues, " who, I
have no doubt, will bring you to reason when
they begin to feel the pinch of starvation. But,
mark this, if you hurt only by accident a single
hair of my men with the arms you hold so
precious, I will cannonade you where you are,
and spare not one single life."

Then calling to his boatswain he bade him
whistle his company to their posts, and pointing
to the deck, all hampered with dead and dying
men, he cried —

Look to your comrades ; let not one of
your fellows who has a spark of life escape your
care. For the other carrion, fling it overboard,
no matter whether it be dead or living."

These words I heard, for at that moment
I was waking from my trance.

I AM SHOT OUT OF ONE SHIP AND CRAWL INTO
ANOTHER, WITH WHAT ADVANTAGE MAY YET

BE SEEN.

My first feeling on recovering consciousness was
of a great weight oppressing me, and this I
presently found was due to two dead men lying
athwart me, where they had fallen in their last
agony. Using all my strength, it was as much as
I could do to thrust them off — one fellow lying
across my breast with his shoulder against my
throat, and the other again across my middle,
his arms thrown out upon the first.

The cause of my weakness was not that blow
that had felled me, but the loss of blood from
two wounds — one in my thigh, and the other in
the thick of my arm — which I had received
without any knowledge on my part, and now for
the first time discovered by mj^ clothes being.

glued to those parts and a great smarting when
I struggled to free myself from the weight of
the dead bodies.

Being once more able to breathe freely, I lay
back on the deck exhausted and faint with the
effort, and slowly brought back to my mind what
had happened. The silence on board, save for
the sound of revelling from the black ship
alongside, told me that the battle was over ;
and it needed but little to convince me how the
fight had ended ; but, thinking of my dear Lady
Biddy, I presently set my hands, all stiff and
sticky with blood, on the deck, and raised
myself up, looking towards the coach. Then it
was I saw Eodrigues and heard him order his
men to cast all us poor fellows, whom he termed
carrion, overboard, without regard to our being
dead or living. Then, once more, a weariness as
of death coming over me, I fell again on my
back, with a giddiness in my head and despair
at heart, which robbed me of all vigour, while
the stench of spilled blood made my bowels
heave with sickness. The pirates, coming now

to clear the deck, took up one poor corpse,
lifted him on to the bulwarks, and so bundled
him over ; and in this wise three or four more,
when, seeing the labour before them, one fetched
from below a wooden gangway wherewith they
slide merchandise from a wharf down into the
ship, which they now thrust through one of
the upper deck gun ports, making it fast with
cords. This way, with less trouble and much
quicker, they shot the " carrion " into the water,
taking no heed if some poor wretch but slightly
wounded did cry for pity and mercy, except
by inhuman laughter and fiendish jests.

Two or three rascals came and carried off the
corpses I had thrust from me, and then I knew
my turn was come, and naught could save me,
for I had no strength to help myself. And back
came those two (who were new hands and so
did not recognise me), and one kicking me over
on my face, the other took up my legs by
the knees, while the first laid hold of me by the
shoulders, and so they bore me, like so much
butcher's flesh to the cutting board, and flung

rae on to the slanting gangway. By this time
the slope was all slippery with gore of blood, so
that no sooner was I cast on than I slid down
like a stone, and shot thence deep into the
sea below.

Now, whether I owed it to the cold, invigorating
virtue of the refreshing sea, the
smarting anew of my wounds in the salt thereof,
or the instinct which possesses nearly every
creature to make one final struggle for existence
in the presence of death, I cannot say ; only this
I know that no sooner had the waters closed
over my head than energy returned to my spirit
and strength to my limbs, and striking out
manfully with my arms and legs, I shortly came
to the surface of the water, not more than a
couple of fathoms from the stern of the Faithful
Friend.

But here was no hold at all, nor could I see
that I was much better off than if I had never
risen from the deep, till, casting my ej'^es about,
I spied a rope hanging over the stern of the
black ship and trailing in the sea, which rope

was part of her rigging (for she also had suffered
in the gale, to say nothing of our shot). To
this I swam, and being still full of my new-born
vigour, I drew on it till it became taut, and I
could keep my head above water with no
exertion at all.

Here I rested a bit, all the while searching
how I might better my condition, and perceiving
that my rope passed over the lower stern gallery,
I presently got the rope betwixt my knees, and
by passing one hand over the other made a shift
to pull myself up, though not without difficulty,
for as I drew myself out of the water I began
to turn round and round on the strained rope
like a joint of meat at the end of a string.
However, this was but a trifle of trouble, and
hand over hand I climbed up till at length I
reached the gallery, where I took another rest,
and returned thanks to Grod with as grateful a
heart as I could find.

This gallery, I take it, opened into the
steward's room, for through the ports I heard
the clinking of mugs and the voices of men

within, and seeing that at any moment some
fellow might look out and spy me, I felt it
would not do to linger there ; so I went again
to my rope, which hung conveniently on one
side of the ports, and pulled myself up to the
gallery above, which is what is called the captain's
parade, that balcony against the chief
cabins where the officers alone are privileged to
walk. Here, as luck would have it, the wreck
of a sail hanging down from the deck above
formed a kind of screen, where I might rest for
the present secure from observation. With a
glad heart I crawled under this refuge, and,
sitting down to fetch my breath, I thought it
not amiss to look to my wounds. On the crown
of my head was a lump as big as a fair egg, and
the scalp cut, but no longer bleeding ; in my thicrh
was a pike wound about three inches long, but
not deep. By tearing off the foot of my stocking
and so drawing the other part high, I managed
to make a very fair dressing for this wound.
The other, which was, as I say, in the fleshy
part of my arm, gave me but little anxiety, foro


though it still bled pretty freely, I could get at
it easily, and, binding it round with my neckerchief,
I felt no further concern about it, but
only satisfaction to find that my case was no
worse.

Scarcely had I come to this conclusion
when I heard the trampling of feet on the
deck above, and the sound of voices, with one
in a higher tone giving orders. And the first
thing these men did was to haul upon the sail
which screened me.

"I am a lost man if I stay here longer,"
thinks I ; so slipping along still under the
sail I came to the little door opening on to
the gallery. By happy chance this was not
fastened, save by a latch, and seeing, as I
peered through the lattice window, that no one
was on the other side, I slipped through, and
found myself in a prodigious fine cabin ; for this
Eodrigues was no common, sluttish jack-sailor,
but a man who, when he could afford it, lived
like any prince, indulging himself in every
extravagant luxury that a voluptuous taste

can conceive. Here was a thick carpet on
the floor, and all round the sides ran a sett,
furnished with cushions in the Moors' style,
with fine paintings and mirrors above, and
a lantern of coloured glass like gems hanging
from the ceiling, which was painted as pretty
as could be with devices of flowers and cherubs.
To the windows were silk curtains of a rose
colour ; but to speak of all these appointments
have I no time ; only will I say this that
never anywhere else have I seen such expense
wasted as in the cabin of this scoundrel pirate.
Nor had I time or inclination then to take
note of all this bravery, being only concerned
to find me some hole where I might hide for
safety. And now came a bustle on the outside
of the cabin, so that I felt I had but
come out of the frying pan into the fire, and
which way to turn I knew not. I could not
go into the body of the ship for the men
there, nor back into the gallery neither for
the men above ; yet to stay where I stood
would be as bad as either.


In this pickle T halted till spying an
opening on one side between the sofetts, I
pushed the gilded panel to. see if, perchance,
this were some fantastic kind of door; and,
sure enough, it was, giving way readily to
my hand, and closing behind me softly with
spring-work. And there I found myself ina
cabin smaller than the other, but still mighty
fine, and fitted up as a bed chamber, with a
good cot fixed on one side, hung with saffron
safety. Other door to this chamber was
there none ; nor could I see any place of
safety but under the cot, whither therefore I
did creep — recommending myself to Providence
— without further ado, and not a whit
too soon neither, for scarcely had I got my
long legs well out of sight when the door
opened and a boy came in, as I could see by
his little bare feet peeping under the valance.

Putting my eye close to the ground, I saw
him go to a polished chest on the other side
and fetch from one drawer a clean shirt and
a pair of stockings; then from another slop-shoes,

a pair of trunks, and the like ; till,
having set out all that was necessary, he
gathered them up in his arms and carried
them away, from which I opined that Rodriguez
had yet another cabin where he was
about to change his bloody and besmirched
clothes for these other. Nor was I far out
in this surmise, for in some ten minutes or
so the door was flung open, and I caught
sight of those same slop-shoes and clean
stockings for a moment as he stood by the
side of the cot thrusting back the curtains
before he threw himself down to rest. As
his deep breathing proclaimed that he had
fallen asleep, I was for a while sorely tempted
to creep out from my hiding-place and cut
the villain's throat as he lay there ; nay, so
well could I make out where he lay over my
head that, putting the point of ni}^ jack-knife
against the sacking, I felt sure that I could,
with one forcible thrust, drive it up into his
black heart. Yet I could not do this either
way ; for, first, my sentiment revolted against

taking the life of a defenceless man, as against
murder — despite his cruel treatment of the
helpless wounded and myself — and then my
reason forbade me to attempt such a desperate
measure, for if Rodrigues died, there yet remained
forty or fifty desperate villains to overcome,
and how was one wounded man by any
possibility to accomplish that feat ? To fail
in such an attempt would be to provoke the
enemy to such a f airy of revenge that he would
massacre every one of those whose release had
been attempted. I say massacre, but a yet
worse fate might be reserved for Lady Biddy,
whose dear sake now did most concern me.
With this reflection 1 gently shut up my jack-knife,
and slipped it back into my pocket for
better employment.

GREATLY PUT TO IT TO KNOW AVHAT TO DO,
I DO NOTHING.

The bumping and grinding together of the
ships had ceased before Eodrigues came to take
rest, showing that the grajDnels were cast off
that bound the three ships together ; and now,
from the easy movement, I surmised that we
were under way, and making for some haven for
the greater convenience of repairing injuries,
distributing of stores, refreshment, etc., which
was indeed the case. On board the Sea Lion
Eodrigues had set a sufficiency of men to work
her, and on the Faithful Friend a greater number
for a like purpose, and to serve as guard over
the prisoners in the roundhouse, while the rest
lie took with him on board his own ship to lead
the way and conduct the prizes he had taken.
About eight o'clock that evening (as I judge)

THE ADMIRABLE LADY BIDDY FANE.

we seemed to have come into very smooth water,
and then the boy coming to the cabin called to
Eodrigues that the master did wish to speak to
him ; whereupon Eodrigues sprang up and went
out. Then for the first time could I stretch my
limbs with ease ; for though the bustle on deck,
the hammering of the carpenters, and such noisy
business affected his slumbers not in the least,
yet did I but turn upon the carpet under his
cot, his breathing would show that the sound
had alarmed his senses, which was a remarkable
thing, but not without parallel, for those who
live in peril develop, as I may say, a new sense
which never sleeps. Thus had I been constrained
to lie very still (which was doubtless of
great advantage to me for the healing of my
wounds, but very little to the repose of my
bones), for I knew full well that had he found
me under his cot he would have slain me there,
helpless as I was for defence, without any such
compunction as stayed my hand from taking
his life.

So now, as I say, being free to move, I

stretched myself and turned me about with
great relief and satisfaction, for here, as I take
it, had I been lying on my back without motion
the best part of ten hours. Presently I heard
the voice of Rodrigues on the deck above,
and feeling mighty faint for want of food, I
lifted the valance and peeped out. There was
just light enough to descry a wine cooler in the
comer of the cabin over against the chest I
have mentioned, and urged on by my necessity
I made bold to wriggle out from my hiding-place
and creep over to it. By good chance it
was unlocked, and inside were half a dozen good
bottles, of which I scrupled not to appropriate
the first I laid my hand on ; then to make a
good job of it while I was about it, I pried into
a cabinet hard by, where by another good chance
I lighted on a dish of dried raisins. Well content
with this booty, I hied me back under the
cot, and rolling up a corner of the carpet to
serve as a pillow, I managed to refresh myself
to my heart's content. Nay, I think I drank
more of that wine (the most excellent that ever

I did taste) than was good, for despite my
determination to keep awake, I unconsciously
fell asleep, which was the maddest thing a
man in his right senses could have done ; for
had Eodrigues come back into that cabin he
would surely have discovered me by my hard
breathing ; but this (thanks be to Grod !) he did
not do ; for having rested himself, he gave permission
to his crew to relax awhile likewise,
himself going on board the FaWtfid Friend for
the better custody of the prisoners there, as I
believe.

At this time the three ships, brought all
well together, lay anchored within a good bay
(as I am told) in an island which I take it
must have been one of the Bahamas.

I was awoke by a bustling in the next cabin,
to find the sun streaming full under the edge
of the cot valance. I heard Eodrigues speaking
there in a tone of command, but what he said
my senses were yet too confused to make out ;
then I caught sight of the boy's feet again
as he entered that one where I lay and set

something down. And now lie comes very
briskly to the cot and sets about stripping it ;
that done, he shakes up the bed, turns it over
as any maid would, and fetches out from the
chest clean sheets, which he lays in the place
of those he had stripped off, and so makes up
the bed ; after which he sets the furniture in
order, and, tucking the foul linen under his
arm, goes out. "

All this while there was prodigious hurrying
to and fro over head, tumbling of heavy goods
below, creaking of pulleys, shouting of orders,
and like confusion, which was caused by the
shipping aboard of the black ship all the stores
and treasure belong-incr to the Sea Lion and the
Faithful Friend, to which this rogue Eodrigues
had a fancy. But to think that in the midst of
all this pother he took heed to having clean
sheets laid in his bed did astonish me beyond
all things.

The bustle continued all the morning ; once
or twice the boy came in with parcels, which he
set atop of that he had already brought, but

THE ADMIRABLE LADY BIDDY FANE.

nothing else occurred to disturb my meditations.
And these, as I grew accustomed to
the noise around me, were of a very melancholy
sort, not because of the sad outlook
concerning my own fortunes, for I may truly
say I had grown in a sort callous and indifferent
to what became of me, but for thinking
of Lady Biddy. I took myself very
grievously to task for having slept all through
that night like a log while she was in such an
extremity.

Is this your devotion, wretch ! " says I
to myself — " is this your love, that you can
slumber in peace while she, hived wp with
rude sailors, destitute of common necessaries,
is in peril of death at the hands of her wicked
persecutors? Have you no bowels of pity,
that you could make not one effort to save
her, rascal ? "

In this way I taunted myself, until, falling
into a more reasonable state of mind, I bes^an to
reason as to what I might yet do in her behalf.
I concluded from the shifting of the stores that

Eodrigues had determined to abandon the two
ships with their crew, for the mere hulls could
be of little value to him. Coming to this
decision, I was for getting away from the
black ship and rejoining the Faithful Friend,
that I might be near my Lady Biddy ; but
what could I then do? Was not this rather
a gratification of my own selfish desire thana
means of benefiting her ? Was I not simply
adding another hungry mouth to that destitute
company? With these and a hundred such
fruitless arguments did I torment myself ; now
preparing myself to get away, now resigning
myself to stay where I was, getting no nearer to
a rational determination in the end than I
was in the beginning.

I was still in this torment when I heard
the anchor weighing and the men singing as
they are used to do at this business. Suddenly
their singing ceased, and I heard a great angry
clamour of voices from a distance ; nay, I do
think I heard my uncle's big voice above the
rest, and then the fellows above replying with

laughter and derision, so that I knew we were
leaving that unhappy company behind, as was
the more evident by the bending of the ship
before the wind. Then, desperate to think I
was being carried away from Lady Biddy, I
took resolution to dash through the cabin to
the gallery and cast myself into the sea, and
to this end I had set my hands and feet against
the wall, to thrust my body from under the cot,
v^hen the door was thrown violently open, the
cabin entered, and the sacking of the bed was
pressed down over my head, which made me
think that Eodrigues had come again to rest
himself.

Turning silently on to my back I glanced
under the valance. At a little distance were
the bare feet of the boy ; close to the valance,
standing beside the cot, were the feet of a man.
Thus they stood immovable for a space,
and then lightly they moved away and the
door was closed behind them. But the sacking
above still bulged downwards with the
weight thrown on the bed. "Had Eodrigues

laid there a wounded comrade ? " I asked
myself.

That it was Rodrigues who had entered and
left this cabin I was sure, for I now heard his
voice speaking low, as if giving orders to the
boy, in the one adjoining.

If it be a wounded comrade he has laid here,
then is he badly hurt, thought I, as I lay with
my eyes fixed on the sacking ; for there was no
sign of movement ; nor was there any sound
of groaning or the like.

Only for a few minutes did matters stand
thus, however ; then there was a little movement
above, followed by a quick start, and the next
instant, in the space below the valance, I saw
descend the sweetest little foot that ever man
did see, and then its fellow, both neatly shod,
after which fell the hem of an envious petticoat
that shut them from my sight.

My heart quite ceased to beat as I asked
myself, " Who is this woman ? "

For a moment she stood where she had
stepped to the ground, as if looking around to

realise where she was ; then like any doe she
sprang towards the little windows that opened
on to the gallery, and looking out, she gave a
moan of despair, by which plaintive delicate
sound I knew that this dear creature was
Lady Biddy.

I MAKE MYSELF KNOWN TO LADY BIDDY, WITH
DIVERS OTHER MATTERS.

Scarce lead this piteous moan passed her tender
lips when Eodrigues (as I am told), opening the
door, made her a mighty respectful reverence,
and, says he —

Madam, I am delighted you have recovered
of your swoon, and I trust you feel no
ill-effect of the rough usage we were forced to
exercise in bringing sou hither."

*' Where am I ? " cries Lady Biddy fiercely.
Wliy have you brought me here ? "

"You are on board the Robin Good/ellow,"
says he gravely, " or as my fellows prefer to call
it, the Black Death ; and I have brought you
here because I had not the heart to leave you on
the Faithful Friend, to endure the hardships
to which her company must be reduced."
p

Where is my uncle ? Get you hence and
bring him to me ! " she cries, with the same
impetuous fury.

Tn anything else I shall obey you punctually,"
says he ; " but it is impossible for me
to comply with this demand, for Sir Bartlemy
Pengilly is in the ship yonder, which we are
leaving behind."

You gave him your promise that not one
of those who were in the roundhouse should be
injured in any way if he laid down his arms.
It was to save me from the violence of your
crew that he submitted himself with the brave
men who stood by him."

Madam, it was to that very end I gave my
promise. Undoubtedly, had your uncle stood
out, I could not have stayed my company from
firing into the roundhouse and putting an end
to the obstinate resistance there, notwithstanding
you were likely to have fallen a victim with
your friends."

"Would to God we had met that fate, rather
than trust to your promises, dastard villain ! "

says she; "for then had there been an honourable
end to their woes and mine."

Patience, patience, lady ! " says he, in a
tone calculated only to arouse her greater indignation.
" You are much too young to die,
and too beautiful. Trust me, your fate will
be a happier one than you can at present conceive.
When your spirits are calmer you will
see that this unfortunate business is due to
the impetuosity of your uncle, and that I am
the best friend you could have found, in the
midst of deplorable circumstances. Your uncle
fired the first shot, and the first man who fell
in the conflict was on board this ship. Coukl
you expect my men to see their innocent
comrades slaughtered with indifference, or me
to make no effort for their preservation from
further mischief? We fought, and having overcome
those who would have overcome us, we
did all that a magnanimous victor could reasonably
afford to do. We forgave those who laid
down their arms, and gave them a ship to
continue their journey in. I had promised no
p 2

injury should be inflicted upon you, and for
that reason I brought you hither, where, as
you see, you will be not ill-lodged, and shall
have the best nurture and service the stores
and my company can offer. Had I left you
on the Faithful Friend your case would have
been different, for the vessel is badly injured,
and I fear the company will be sorely put toit
for provisions, as, to supply our own wants,
we were obliged to take from her stores — a
poor recompense for the loss and injury inflicted
upon us. I have been careful to have
your personal effects brought hither for your
use ; they are here. If anything is short of

your requirements, or if "

Silence ! " cries Lady Biddy, who, turning
her back on Rodrigues, had tried to lend a
deaf, indifferent ear to his harangue, but was
at length by his long-winded perseverance and
mock-humility wrought to an intolerable degree
of impatience. " Silence ! " cries she, turning
upon him and stamping her little foot. " Leave
me, or, by my soul, I'll put an end to this

torment another way," and indeed (as I learn)
she did look around in desperation for some
instrument wherewith to destroy herself, being
very bitterly aggrieved by this hypocrite.

Again this Eodrigues makes her a low
reverence, and with his hand on the door says,
I shall hope to find your spirits easier when
I next give myself the pleasure to inquire
after your condition. I have had refreshment
placed in this next cabin, and should you need
anything, you have but to pull the bell. And
so good-morning to your ladyship."

Lady Biddy gave him no reply, but as soon
as he had closed the second door after him —
turning the key in the outside, she ran to the
bed, and casting herself upon it, gave vent to her
feeling in an agony of tears.

And to hear her sobbing above me, yet
striving to smother the sound, lest Eodrigues
should know that her pride had broken down,
would have touched any stony heart. It was
so pitiful to my ear that the tears coursed down
my own cheeks as I listened.

Thus she sobbed in a crreat tumult for some

o

while, and then her passion softening into
mere maiden's soitow, she murmured in a low
tone, still smothering her sweet voice in the
pillow lest it should be heard, and yet notable
to keep quite silent neither — " Oh, my
heart ! Oh, my poor heai-t ! " and this she
said over and over again — " Oh, my poor heart !
Oh, my heart ! " with mournful tremor, unable
to find other words to express the commotion of
her feelings.

Now would I have given anything to be of
comfort to her, yet I dared not come forth from
where I lay, lest my sudden appearance should
move her to cry out with terror ere she discerned
who I was, which would have brought Rodriguez
back in a twinkling, and ruined all. So
I waited patiently awhile, and when she ceased
to make moan, and only sobbed at intervals, like
a child exhausted with weeping, I began to
gently scratch the tick of the bed with my
finger nail, making no more noise than might
a mouse nibbling.



Of this she at-first took no notice, but iiwon
I observed she smothered a sob, as if to listen
with greater attention, and then by the movement
above I noticed she had started up as if
resting on her elbow ; as I still continued the
scratching, she presently made a movement of
the clothes, as if to frighten the thing away, for
the bravest of women do greatly fear a mouse ;
upon which, ceasing to scrape the tick, I said
quickly, in a very low whisper —

Do not cry out, a friend is here — I, Benet
Pengilly ! "

Then whipped she off the bed, yet making
no sound, and I, putting my hands and feet as I
have aforesaid against the wall, pushed myself
out from my cramped hiding-place, and got
upon my feet before her, raising my finger and
casting my eyes about for fear of discovery.

I must have been very villainous and horrid
to look upon, my hair untrimmed and hanging
about my face in dank wisps clotted with blood
from my wound, my clothes in a like pickle, and
no cleaner in my flesh than the sea had washed

me the day before ; but such horrors had she
seen that her senses were, as it were, accustomed
to dreadful images, and she saw meno
worse than others, but rather better, for
being there a friend where she thought was
none but enemies.

Catching the meaning of my gesture, she
went quickly to the panel door and spied into
the next cabin, whence she came back light of
foot, nodding to assure me all was safe. Then
she gave me her hand, and I taking no heed
whether mine was reasonably clean or proper to
hold so dainty delicate a thing, took it ; and to
feel those soft cool lingers clinging tightly to
my rough palm did seem to contract every
muscle of my back with physical delight. Also
was my heart quickly moved with joy to perceive
in her dear eyes — though they were
swollen and red with weeping — a bright beam
of hope and satisfaction, whilst the corners of
her lips curved with a little smile.

Coming quite close to me, she whispered
eagerly in my ear —

"You will save me, Benet, won't you?
You will be my good friend ? "

Ay," says I, as softly as she (if that might
be). "With God's help, no harm shall befall
you."

On this she presses my hand a little closer,
and then goes again to the door, from which
she returns with almost a child's glee to tell
me all is safe, and to ask by what miracle I
came to her succour.

This joy in the midst of such trouble and
peril, this kindness to me for whom she had
shown little liking hitherto, but rather detestation
for the most part, weill seem unnatural, as
being contrary to the proud high spirit and
independence of Lady Biddy, and so would it
have been at any other time ; but there is none
be he a man and never so strong — but grief
and terrible anxiety will reduce to the unresisting
soft temper of a child : so I do think and
thus explain this truth. And, indeed, she gave
present proof of weakness, for while the smile
was yet on her lips she clasps her hand to her

heart and sinks down, sitting on the bed as if
she could no longer hold her footing.

Seeing she was faint, I went with all speed
and reckless into the next chamber for that
refreshment Eodrigues said was set there for
her use — than which no madder thing fool ever
did, for there were windows opposite the gallery-looking
on to the deck, and had one been prying
there I must have been seen, for all the two
curtains were drawn, there being space enough
for one to peep through from the outside if he
were so minded. But — thanks be to Grod ! —
there was no one spying, and so I got the tray
of refreshments from the table where it lay and
carried it into the next cabin with no mischance.


This tray I set on the bed beside Lady
Biddy, and she ate and drank with appetite,
poor soil, for all the time they had been shut
up in the roundhouse — she, with her uncle, and
the poor remnant of his company — not one had
broken fast, for there was neither bit nor sup
to be got. Which also is a reason for that

behaviour of Lady Biddy's to which I have
spoken as seeming unnatural.

While she satisfied her own cravings she
made me eat likewise, whereto I was nowise
loth myself, having eaten nothing for many
hours but a few paltry raisins.

As she sat on the bed, I knelt on the ground
by her feet for my better convenience in eating
and also conversing in that low tone to which
we were constrained. So as we ate I told her
how I had come aboard and hidden myself,
with other matters which there is no necessity
to repeat ; and this I did with reasonable calm,
but the abounding joy and gladness of my heart
to be there alone with that dear lady, kneeling
at her very feet, listening to her whisper, feasting
my eyes when hers were on the refreshment
and I dared to do so unseen, no pen can describe,
as I doubt also no imagination can conceive.

After she had eaten and drunk and would no
more, being much refreshed and invigorated,
I was for taking the tray back ; but here
her quick wit appearing where my dulness

showed, she pointed out the danger, and
taking the tray, carried it herself into the
next chamber.

Coming back she seated herder on a settle
that ran along one side of the cabin, and bidding
me sit beside her, asked how I meant to contrive
her escape, which indeed would have been a
poser for me at another time, but did now to
my excited imagination appear the easiest thing
in the world. For when one's spirits are filled
with joy there seems nothing insurmountable,
as, on the other hand, in grief we can see noway
out of our trouble.

Why," says I, " we need not fear but we
shall get away safe enough, and shortly too.
For, as Eodrigues obligingly told you, the
company is short of victuals, and must therefore
lose no time in seeking a port where they
can refresh with meat and drink ; besides
that, the ship may need looking to for the
damage she has got. And being in a port
where there are Christian souls, what is to
keep us here ? "

"A rascal named Eodrigues," says Lady
Biddy, very pertinently.

Pish ! " says I. "I have escaped him times
enough to know he is a fool, for all his pretence
to cleverness. Nay, have I not hid myself
under his own cot in broad day ? Not dreaming
but you are helpless, he will think you
sufficiently secured if he locks the door and
sets one of his rascals to watch it. But the
stern gallery is open, and as I got in so can I
get out, with the night to give me help and
better security."

Do you think it will be as easy for me ? "
asks Lady Biddy doubtfully.

Ay, I shall make it so, please God," says
I. " For in the night that I swim to shore will
I bring back a boat, and by a ladder of ropes
shall you get down into it."

Lady Biddy here nodded her head in
hopeful approval.

Once on shore we may hide ourselves
safely, I do not question, and Eodrigues dare
not waste a long time in looking for us, since

the necessity that brought him hither will also
bring on Sir Bartlemy. Then dare not these
rascal pirates stay, lest they bring themselves
to their well-earned gallows."

Then again Lady Biddy nodded to show her
satisfaction, clasping her little hands at the
same time, with a sigh in which all her trouble
seemed to be wafted away. But in this moment
of our confidence on future escape were we
brought to consciousness of our present peril
by the sudden opening of the door in the
further chamber.

Together we started to our feet, and my
first thought was to fetch the jack-knife from
my pocket, but Lady Biddy, with that self-command
which does animate women above
men in the hour of danger to do the right thing
and not the foolish one, quickly laid her hand
on my arm to keep me still, and putting on as
stern an air as any tragic player, went to the
little betwixt door to ask Eodrigues why he
dared disturb her.

But no Eodrigues was there ; for it was

only the little blackguard boy he lead sent in to
know if madam would take a dish of chocolate.

When she had dismissed him, saying she
needed no more to-day (it being now pretty nigh
sundown, for I have bridged over many things),
but would have her breakfast brought the next
morning at seven, she came back to me, and
we continued to talk of our escape, like any
children of air castles, till the light faded.

And then with some trouble I began to see
that I must presently go out of that chamber ;
and also I think Lady Biddy grew uneasy as to
how I might conduct myself in the darkness
of night, and she, so to speak, at my mercy.

Again the outer door opened ; and this time
the boy came to light the hanging lantern.
She left the between door open when the lamp
was lit and the boy again gone, and by a more
cheerful bearing seemed to feel better at ease
for this light.

"Presently," says I, "you will go in and
put out that lamp."

Why? Is it not more cheerful to have a
light? " says she.

Yes," says I, " but with that light burning
I dare not go through the next cabin."

Through it ! " says she in wonder, and
yet with a little fear in her tone; "whither
are you going ? "

Out on the gallery," says I, " where I
shall sleep very safely till the morning."

This would she not hear of, but would have
me lie in her room while she reposed on the
sett in the next ; that would I not allow, and
so at length we compromised it in this wise:
she kept her own chamber after putting out the
lamp, and I, having bolted the door in the outer
cabin, lay myself on the cushions there, she
giving me her cloak that I might wrap it about
me and so seem to be she if by accident she so
overslept herself that she could not admit me
to the inner chamber before daybreak.

And so with the cloak that she had worn on
her dear body pressed to my lips I fell asleep
that night a happier man than ever before I had
been in all my life.

BY Goodman I DISCOVER A FRESH PIECE OF
VILLAINY.

I SAY I fell asleep the happiest of men, with
sweet, delightful thoughts of that dear creature
who lay separated from me but by the thickness
of a few panelled boards ; ^^et were my
senses not so completely lulled to forgetfulness
but that they were quick to take alarm at that
which menaced her security, for suddenly I
awoke, hearing a sound at that door which
opened to the deck and which I had, as aforesaid,
made fast on the inner side.

Sitting bolt upright I could see naught, for
the darkness was impenetrable ; but it was
enough that I had ears to know some one was
trying the door. Slowly I heard the latch
grating as it was lifted in the catch, and then
the door creak as it was pressed from without ;
but, thanks be to God, the bolt held firm.

There was no light on the deck, or I should
have caught some glimmer through the silk
blinds of the windows ; I could see no more
than if I had been stone-blind. And the only
other sound I heard was a sweeping down of
rain upon the deck overhead. Presently the
latch fell again, as my strained hearing could
well perceive, and then there was a pause of
some minutes, when again the latch was lifted
slowly, and the door gave a smart crack under
the pressure against it.

At the first sound I had started to my feet
and opened my jack-knife ; and thus I stood all
the while this attempt was making, with my
hair on end and my tongue cleaving to my
gullet in a terrible fear, not of the mischief
that might befall me, but that in such darkness
I might fail to kill him who would harm Lady
Biddy.

The latch fell for the second time, and there
was no further attempt to open the door, but
for a long while I stood there with my knife
clenched in my hand.

When I came to reason on this attempt, I
concluded that Eodrigues had no hand in it,
for it was not his manner to go that way to
work, but rather some villain of his crew; whosoever
it was, that bolt saved his life for the
time, for I do believe that had he been powerful
as Hercules, I should have rent him to
pieces before he set foot in the chamber where
Lady Biddy lay.

I slept no more that night, you may be
sure, nor did I deem it safe to put up my
knife until the windows in the gallery becoming
faintly visible showed that day was at hand.
And now, feeling there was no further danger
for the present, I opened the little gallery door,
and creeping out into the rain, made a shift to
cleanse myself somewhat, and set my hair in
order, using m}"" fingers for a comb.

By the time this was done, and I had gone
back into the cabin, and got my coat, etc., our
common safety demanded that I should arouse
Lady Biddy, which I did by scratching gently
against the partition as we had arranged over
2

night, and she replied by scratching the wainscot
on her side. When she was dressed she
came out from her room, and I saw the upper
part of her graceful figure and her small head,
revealed against the light, now pretty well
advanced, on the gallery windows. Then stooping
low that I might not likewise be revealed
to any one peering through the fore windows, I
crept into the cabin she had left, which, to my
senses, was like any flower garden with the
fresh perfume of her breath.

Anon she came back to that chamber, and
giving me her hand, told me (to ray questioning)
that she had slept well; and I told her
nothing of what had happened in the night,
that no trouble should disturb her repose if it
pleased Providence to keep us prisoners there
another night.

Then we fell to discoursing (very low) as to
our conduct during the day. With reluctance
I advised her to keep in the outer chamber,
that Eodrigues might suspect nothing, owning
that for our deliverance I saw no better help

than to be guided by circumstances as they
arose.

She made no objection to this counsel.
*' But," says she, " what shall I do if that villain
comes to me?" (meaning Eodrigaes).

To this I replied (though it went against
the grain), that whilst he behaved civilly she
would do well to tolerate his visits and listen
to what he said. "For," say I, "though you
hold the door, and so exclude him for a minute,
he can, if he will, burst it open, and by thus
bringing about one act of violence may you lead
to another. To force we can only oppose force,
and his power is out of all proportion to ours ;
wherefore it behoves us to use such strategy
as we may, for only thus can we live to take
advantage of a better opportunity."

You are right," says she, with such submissiveness
in her voice as I had never expected
to hear. " I will do as you bid me. But should
he overstep the bounds of civility ? "

Then," say I, grinding my teeth, " be sure
that, whatever may afterwards befall, he shall die."

Soon after tins the boy raps at the outer
door, and brings in Lady Biddy's breakfast.
Having set it on the table and placed a chair
for her very orderly, he moves as if he would go
into the inner cabin, when Lady Biddy, catching
him quickly by the arm, cries —

Where are you going, child ? What do
you want in there ? "

Why, madam," says he, " I am but going
to make your bed, and set your cabin in order,
as my master bade me."

"Nay," says she, "I can do all there is to
be done myself."

With that she leads the boy to the door and
sends him away ; so was I again saved from
discovery.

To make sure that no one was watching her.
Lady Biddy pulled up the blinds in the fore
windows, and finding she was unobserved, this
kind soul, even before she tasted a morsel herself,
whips a portion of her victuals into a dish
and brings it to me for my comfort, and sure
no food was ever so seasoned to excite the

appetite as this to vvliich her kindness gave its
savour.

As she had brought the dish to me, so she
took it away, and at the same time a book from
the store of her goods which Eodrigues had
caused to be brought into the cabin.

Seating herself on the sett, she disposed
herself to read, yet with little ability to distract
her thoughts, for every moment she expected
to see Eodrigues ; and while she was
thus employed, the boy comes to take away the
dishes, etc., and this being done and the crumbs
swept up, he again crosses towards the inner
cabin. Whereupon, in a terrible taking, Lady
Biddy, starting up once more, checks him —

"Why will you persevere in entering my
chamber," cries she, " when I tell you that I
will do all that is necessary there ? "

'Tis no fault of mine," says the child.
My master told me to fetch some clothes of
his from the chest, and I must do his bidding."


Tell me what you need, and I will get it,"

says Lady Biddy, going to the betwixt door;
and then seeing at a glance that I had concealed
myself, she adds, in a tone of indifference,
Nay, fetch them yourself," and so goes back
with her book to the sett.

I had crept to my old hiding-place under the
cot when the boy first came into the next cabin,
for fear of accident, and now, as I lay there, I
could see all that he did. First of all, he went
to the chest and duly laid out a suit of clothes ;
then taking a quick glance through the half-open
door to make sure Lady Biddy was not
observing him, he turns about, and going to one
corner of the cabin, strips up the carpet, does
something to the boards (which I could not see
for my position), and then as swiftly turns back
the carpet to its place. This done, the little
villain shuts-to the drawer of the chest with
a bang, and goes out of the room with the
clothes in his arms, as if that had been all
his errand.

I lost no time in creeping out and crossing
to that corner of the cabin to see what the boy

had been about ; and, at a glance, I perceived
the whole business as I turned back the carpet.
Here, in the boards, was a hinged hatch or trapdoor
with a ring whereby to raise it, and a bolt
to make it secure — ring, bolt, and hinge being
sunk in the boards, flush, and neatly done as
any joiner's work. The bolt was slipped back
so that the trap could be opened from below,
and I doubted not that this had been the work
of that little villain-boy. Moreover, as I had
concluded that he who tried the door in the
night was not Eodrigues, so I surmised that
this undoing of the hatch was not of his ordering
(since there was no reason for his going
about in this fashion), but rather the independent
measures of the boy to get into the cabin
for pilfering purposes, or of some one of the
crew who had won over the boy to his will for
more villainous purpose. For the present I
contented myself with shooting back the bolt,
returning the carpet to its place, and getting
back to my hiding-place under the cot.

I MAKE A VOW TO SLAY MY LADY BIDDY,
IF NEEDS BE.

About noon Rodrigues came into the cabin
where my Lady Biddy sat, with his hair combed,
rings on his fingers, and rigged out in a new
suit of clothes — as fine as any popinjay. Taking
off his hat with a low salute, he observed that
the heavy rain was past, and fairer weather
might be now expected, and so seated himself
with easy insolence near Lady Biddy, who
thereupon rose to her feet, and stood calmly
waiting for him to announce his business
there.

I have come," says he, " to know if I can
add anything to your convenience or comfort
here during the stay which, as I pointed out
yesterday circumstances have necessitated."

You can make my captivity less intolerable,"

replies Lady Biddy, " by letting me know
at once when it is to end''

If this breeze continues we may fairly
expect to be at our journey's end in four days,"
says he.

"And what do you intend to do with me
then ? " asks Lady Biddy.

Father let me ask you, madam," says he,
with a hideous smile, " what you intend to do
with me ? "

"I do not understand what you mean by
that," replies Lady Biddy.

It is for you to command," saj^s he, " and
for me to obey in anything that is possible."

"If I demand my freedom — liberty to return
to my friends ! " says she, perplexed by his
sophistry, for she knew full well that this
seeming compliance was but a mask and a
snare.

Certainly," says he, still with that hideous
smile, *' nothing can be more reasonable ; and if
it will give you happiness and promote that
better opinion of me, which I hope one day you

will entertain, I shall do my utmost to help you
to find your friends."

Lady Biddy knew not what response to make
to this fine speech, his promises being' far too
good to accept for his true intent ; so she waited,
looking at him to continue, but with much
disgust and loathing, for there was lust in his
face and devilish wickedness in his eyes, as leaning
back on the sett he surveyed her person
from head to foot, and again brought his gaze
slowly up to her face.

Pardon me," says he, " your beauty distracts
my thoughts from the subject of our conversation.
Where was I ? Ah, yes, Santiago
de Leon de Caracas, whither we are now sailing,
is an agreeable place. I have friends there.
You must know that I am a Spanish gentleman
by birth. There is a palace on the side of a
hill facing the sea which I think will prove
to your taste. You who have lived always in
England can have no idea of the beauty of the
country. I am sure you will be enchanted
with it."

"What is this country or its palaces tome
? " cries Lady Biddy, beginning to see his
drift.

You must have a roof to shelter you, and I
could offer nothing less than a palace."

I ask but my liberty that I may return to
my friends in England."

As you please," says he, airily. " I think
you will change your mind when you see what
a lovely place I propose for your home. However,
if, after seeing it, you are still minded to
return to England, to England you shall return.
It will not be far out of that course to run
round by the mouth of the Oronoque and take
up poor Sir Harry Smidmore, if he be still on
the island where the mutineers left him. Nor
is there any reason why you should not cruise
about in search of your uncle. Sir Bartlemy
Pengilly. Thus would your pleasure in going
home be unmarred by any anxiety on account
of absent friends."

Once more did he pause to gloat on the
perplexity and trouble in that dear face, which

I warrant was become deadly pale with dreadful
apprehension. His delight in her torture was
like nothing but the pleasure of some cat that
plays with a poor mouse before tearing it with
cruel talons. Nay, I have observed that some
men of the baser sort do strangely mingle cruelty
with that sort of love they cherish, so that you
will see such fellows take pleasure in making
women weep.

"For my own part," continues this Rodriguez,
with cool audacity, "it is no matter
whether I live in the Indies or in Cornwall, so
that I be in your company."

Thus did this wicked cynic so reveal his
intent that Lady Biddy could no longer doubt
what was behind. Yet did she strive to control
her indignation, with the faint hope that she
misjudged his meaning.

I do not ask you to go to England," says
she. " All I beg is that you set me ashore, and
let me make my way home as God shall please
to guide me."

"That is impossible, and I should be unworthy

of your respect if I consented to such a
course. Beauty such as yours is too rare at
Santiago to be set light store by. Believe me,
you would never be suffered to leave that city
if once you set foot in it. You would become
the slave and property of the first who could lay
his hand on you. I myself should not dare to
take you on shore till a priest had given me a
legal right to possess you."

What ! " cries she, losing control of her
temper; "do you think I will ever consent to
become your wife ? "

Yes," he replies, " I think you will when
you consider the matter calmly."

And with that he rose, as if to give her
opportunity for reflection. But now, her spirit
terribly moved with righteous anger, she
stopped him.

Villain," says she, " do you refuse to give
me my liberty ? "

If you mean do I refuse to abandon you to
such a fate as would be yours in being set alone
on shore at Caracas, I reply yes," says he, with

less hypocrisy and more plainly than he had
yet spoken. " If you refuse to be the wife of
a Spanish gentleman you shall certainly not
become the slave of a mongrel peasant."

You intend to keep me an unwilling
prisoner on board this ship ? "

I do," says he, " in the hope — nay, in the
firm belief — that you will willingly agree to be
my wife by the time we reach England."

In England there are gallows for such
rascal pirates as you."

No," says he, catching hold of her arm
ere she could escape his touch, and holding her
firmly — " not when they have friends to protect
them, and the wit besides to close the mouths of
enemies. No one will bring disgrace on Lady
Biddy by hanging her husband and the father
of her children, Eor my sake, to save me from
the gallows, you will consent to become my
wife. If that be not a sufficient reason, then
you will marry me for your own sake. The
wife of Don Sanchez Rodriguez de Arevalo may
hold up her head in the King's court ; but the

mistress of Rodrigues, the pirate, flung ashore
at Plymouth, dare not crawl to show her face
in Falmouth. You will see," adds he, freeing
her arm, and with a return to his former hypocritical
fair seeming — "you will see that what I
propose is entirely to your advantage, and inevitable
as the setting of the sun."

Thereupon he makes her another low
obeisance, turns on his heel, and struts out of
the cabin.

All these particulars did Lady Biddy lay
before me when she had bolted the door after
Eodrigues his departure and come into the next
chamber, which she could well do at that time
without arousing suspicion. Many times she
paused and could not speak for indignation and
offended pride ; nay, I think she would have
kept this matter to herself, but that I pressed
her to tell all for my better guidance. Tears
she had not one, for passion held them back.

Does he think," says she, with scorn that
scarce permitted her to bate her voice — " does
he think that ever I will live to be his slave ?

I could cut this arm off because his foul hand
has touched it. I will die a thousand deaths
rather than submit to such injury. Promise
nie, Benet, that i£ you hear me cry for help "

Fear ot," says I, interrupting her. " My
knife was di-awn, and I stood ready by the little
door all the time I heard the muttering of his
voice in there. So will I stand prepared when
next he comes, and be assured I will have his
life if you cry to me."

Nay," says she ; " take my life first and
his after, for I would not outlive my shame."

I tried to soothe her mind, which was overmuch
exalted, and bade her not think of death
while any hope remained, but rather trust to
my ability to effect our escape" when we came
to that port he had spoken of.

And now," saj^s I, " do pray go back, and
seem to make light of this matter ; for I fear
that if he be undeceived in his hopes he may
bring the business to an extremity before we get
near land. Remember, my lady, 'tis riot your
own honour alone you have to consider, though

that be paramount to all, but the peace of Sir
Bartlemy and," adds I, with an effort, " your
poor lover, Sir Harry. Wherefore, for their
sakes, must we fight this villain with his own
weapons — meeting subtlety with subtlety ; and
for some little while, if you may subdue your
proud spirit, it will be well to let him opine
you will in time come round to his way of
thinking."

"I understand you, Benet," says she, calmly.
You fear if he thinks my resolution invincible
he may " — she paused, covering her face with
her hands, and added, leaving a blank where
she could not utter her thought — " before we
reach Caracas."

"Yes, that is what I do fear," says I.

I will do my best, Benet," says she, " to
follow your guidance, which I see is wise and
good. Yet, if I fail — if — if "

Nay, I know what you would say ; and
here," says I, dropping on my knees beside her
" here I swear that at your cry for help I
will slay both him and you."

And with equal sincerity, Benet, I promise
you I will not give that signal for my death
until it is needed."

There was no need to explain these words
more fully. We both understood that her dishonour
was alone to call for this sole remedy.
And, still on my knees, I vowed that I also
would not live to bear the memory of her fate.

END OF VOL. I.

Printed bt Cassel & Company, Limited, La Belle Sauvage, London, Eg.

Abbeys and Cburclics of England and Wales, The: Descriptive, Historical,

Pictorial. dis.
After London ; or, Wild England. By the late Richard Jefferies. Cheap

Edition, 3s. 6d.

Along Alaska's Great River. By Lieut. Schwatka. Illustrated. 12s. 6d.
American Penman, An. By Julian Hawthorne. Boards, 2s. ; cloth, 3s. 6d.
American Yachts and Yachting. Illustrated. 6s.
Animal Painting in Water Colours. With Eighteen Coloured Plates by

FREOERrCK Taylor. 5s.

Arabian Nights Entertainments (Cassel's). With about 400 Illustrations. los. 6d.

Architectural Drawing. By Phen^ Spiers. Illustrated. los. 6d.

Art, The Magazine ot Yearly Volume. With several hundred Engravings, and

Twelve Etchings, Photogravures, &c. i6s.
Behind Time, by G. P. Lathrop. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.
Bimetallism, The Theory of. By D. Barbour. 6s.

Bismarck, Prince. By C. Lowe, M. A. Two Vols. Cheap Edition. los. 6d.
Black Arrow, The. A Tale of the Two Roses. By R. L. Stevenson. 5s.
British Ballads. 275 Original Illustrations. Two Vols. Cloth, 7s. 6d. each.
British Battles on Land and Sea. By the late James Grant. With about 600

Illustrations. Three Vols., 4to, £,\ js. ; Library Edition, £i los.

British Battles, Recent. Illustrated. 410, 9s. Library Edition, los.
British Empire, The. By Sir George Campbell. 3s.
Browning, An Introduction to the Study of. By Arthur Symons. 2s. 6d.
Butterflies and Moths, European. By W. F. Kirby. With 6r Coloured

Plates. Demy 4to, 35s.

Canaries and Cage-Birds, The Illustrated Book ot By W. A. Blackstone

SwAVSLAND, and A. F. Wiener. With 56 Fac-simile Coloured Plates, 35s.

Cannibals and Convicts. By Julian Thomas (the Vagabond). Cheap

Edition, 5s.

Captain Trafalgar. By Westall and Laurie. Illustrated. 53.

Cassel's Family Magazine. Yearly Vol. Illustrated. 9s.

Celebrities of the Century : Being a Dictionary of Men and Women of the

Nineteenth Century'. 21s. ; roxburgh, discharging

Year, The. With illustrations. 7s. 6d.

Chess Problem, The. With Illustrations by C. Planck and others. 7s. 6d.

Children of the Cold, The. By Lieut. Schwatka. 2s. 6d.

China Painting. By Florence Lewis. With Si-teen Coloured Plates, and a

selection of Wood Engravings. With full Instructions. 5s.
Choice Dishes at Small Cost. By A. G. Payne. Cheap Edition, is.
Christmas In the Olden Time. By Sir Walter Scott. With charming

Original Illustrations. 7s. 6d.
Cities of the World. Three Vols. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. each.
Civil Service, Guide to Employment in the. Nev and Enlarged Edition. 3s. 6d.
Civil Service.— Guide to Female Employment in Government Offices. Cloth, is.
Clinical Manuals for Practitioners and Students of Medicine. (^ List u/

Volumes forwarded post free on application to the Publishers.)

Clothing, The Influence of, on Health. By Frederick Treves. F.R.C.S. 2s.
Cobden Club, Some Works published for the : —

Writing

Iiocal

United Kingdom, ss.

Displacement ol Labour and Capital. 3d.

Free Trade versus Fair Trade. 5s.

Free Trade and English Commerce. By
A. .Mongredien. 6d.

Crown Colonies. :s.

Popular Fallacies Regarding Trade. 6d.

western Farmer of America. 3d.

Reform of the English Land System. 3d.

Fair Trade Unmasked. By G. W. Medley. 6d.

Technical Education. By F. C Montague,
M.A. 6d.

Our Land Laws of the Past. 3d.

The Caribbean Confederation. By C. S

Salmon, is. 6d
Pleas for Protection Examined. By A. Mon-grecian.

Ne-w and Revised edition. 6d.

WTiat Protection does for the Farmer. By

J. S. Leaden, M.A. 6d.
The Old Poor Law and the New Socialism ;

or. Pauperism and Taxation. By H. c.

Montague. 6d.
The Secretary of State for India in Council.

6d.
The National Income and Taxation. B»

Sir Louis Mallet. 6d. '

Colonies and India, Our: How we Got Them, and Why we Keep Them.

By Prof. C. Ransome. is.
Colour. By Prof. A. H. Church. New and Enlarged Edition, with Coloured
Plates. 3s. 6d.

Columbus, Christopher, The Life and Voyages of. By Washington Irving.

Three Vols. 7s. 6d.
Commodore Junk. By G. Manville Fenn. 5s.
Cookery, Cassel's Shilling. The Largest and Best Work on the Subject ever

produced. is.

Cookery, Cassel's Dictionary of. Containing about Nine Thousand Recipes.

7s. 6d. ; roxburgh, los. 6d.
Cookery, A Year's. By Phyllis Browne. Cloth gilt or oiled cloth, 3s. 6d.
Cook Book, Catherine Owen's New. 4s.
Co-operators, Working Men : What They have Done, and What They are

Doing. By A. H. Dyke-aslant, M.P., and B. Jones, is.

Countries of the World, The. By Robert Brown, M.A., Ph.D., &c. Complete
in Six Vols., with about 750 Illustrations. 410, 7s. 6d. each.

Cheshire Folk. By the Author of "John Orlebar," &c. 3s. 6d.

CyclopseUia, Cassel's Concise. With 12,000 subjects, brought down to the

latest date. With about 600 Illustrations, 15s. ; roxburgh, 183.
Encyclopaedia, Cassel's Miniature. Containing 30,000 Subjects. Cloth, 3s. 6d.
Dairy Farming. By Prof. J. P. Sheldon. With 25 Fac-simile Coloured Plates,

and numerous Wood Engravings. Demy 410, 21s.
Dead Man's Rock. A Romance. By Q. 5s.
Decisive Events in History. By Thomas Archer. With Sixteen Illustrations.

Boards, 3s. 6d. ; cloth, 5s.
Deserted Village Series, The. Consisting of Editions de luxe of favourite poems •
by Standard Authors. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 2s. fd.
Goldsmiths Deserted Village. I 'Wordsworth's Ode on Immortality,

Mutton's L'AUegro and II Penseroso. | and Lines on Tinted Abbey.

Songs from Shakespeare.

Dickens, Character Sketches from. First, Second, and Third Series.

With Six Original Drawings in each, by Frederick Barnard. In Portfolio, 21s. each.
Diary of Two Parliaments. By H. W. Lucy. The Disraeli Parliament, 12s.

The Gladstone Parliament, 12s.

Dog, The. By Stone. Illustrated. 2S. 6d.

Dog, Illustrated Book of the. By Vero Shaw, B.A. With 28 Coloured

Plates. Cloth bevelled, 35s. ; half-morocco, 45s.

Dog Stories and Dog Lore. By Col. Thos. W. Knox. 6s.
Domestic Dictionary, The. An Encyclopaedia for the Household. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
Dore's Dante's Inferno. Illustrated by Gustave Dore. Popular Edition, 21s.
Dore's Dante's Purgatory and Paradise. Illustrated by Gustave DoRfi.

Popular Edition. 21s.

Dore's Fairy Tales Told Again. With 24 Full-page Engravings by DoRE. 5s.
Dore Gallery, The. With 250 Illustrations by Gustave Dor. 410, 42s.
Dore's Milton's Paradise Lost. With Full-page Drawings by Gustave Doff.

Earth,'°6ur,' and its Story. By Dr. Robert Brown, F.L.S. Vol. I., with

Coloured Plates and numerous Wood Engravings, gs.
Edinburgh, Old and New, Cassel's. With 600 Illustrations. Three Vols.,

OS. each ; library binding;, ^i los. the set.

Egypt: Descriptive, Historical, and Picturesque. By Prof. G. Embers.

Translated by Clara Bell, with Notes by Samuel Birch, LL.D., &c. Popular

Edition, in Two Vols., 42s.
"89." A Novel. By Edgar Henry. Cloth, 3s. 6d.
Electricity, Age of, from Amber Soul to Telephone. By Park Benjamin,

Ph.D. 7s. 6d.
Electricity, Practical. By Prof. W. E. Ayrton. Illustrated. 7s. 6d.
Electricity in the Service of Man. With nearly 850 Illustrations. 21s.
Encyclopaedia Dictionary, The. A N ew and Original Work of Reference to all

the Words in the English Language. Complete in Fourteen Divisional Vols., los. 6d.

each; or Seven Vols., half-morocco, 21s each.

England, Cassel's illustrated History of. With 2,000 Illustrations Ten
V</ ■., 4to, 9s. each. New ant Revised Edition. Vols. I. and 11., gs. each.

English story, The Dictionary o£ Cloth, 21s. ; roxburgh, 255.

English Literature, Library of. By Prof. Henry Morley. Complete in 5

vols., 7s. 6d. each.

Vol. I.— Shorter English Poems.
Vol. II. — Illustrations of English

Religion.
Vol. III.— English Plays.

-Shorter Works in English

Prose.
Sketches OF Longer Works in
English Verse and Prose.

English Literature, Morley's First Sketch of. Revised Edition, 7s. 6d.
English Literature, The Dictionary of. By W. Davenport Adams. Chc.ip

Edition, 7s. 6d. ; roxburgh, los. cl.

English Literature, The Story of. By Anna Auckland. New and Cheap

Edition. 3s. 6d.

English Writers. An attempt towards a History of English Literature. By
Henry Motley, LL.1>., Professor of English Literature, University College,
London. Vols. I., II., III., .ind IV., 5s. each.

.ffisop's Fables. With about 150 Illustrations by E. Grist. Cheap Edition,

cloth, 3s. 6d. ; bevelled boards, gilt eda;es, 5s.

Etching : Its Technical Processes, with Remarks on Collections and Collecting.

Bv S. K. Kneller. Illustrated with 30 Full-page Plates. Price £\ 4s.

Etiquette of Good Society, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

Eye, Ear, and Throat, The Management of the. 3s. 6d.

Family Physician, The. By Eminent Physicians and Surgeons. New and

EfZ'ised Edition. Cloth, 21s. ; roxburgh, 25s.

Fenn, G. Manville, Works by. Popular Editions. Boards, 2s. each ; or cloth,
2S. 6d.
Dutch the Diver; or, a Man's Mistake. I Poverty Corner.

My Patients. The Vicar's People. ) . f-.^.^ „„,„

The Parson o' Rumford. I Sweet Mace. J '" ^'°'" ""'y-

Ferns, European. By James Britten, F.L.S. With 30 Fac-simile Colour a

Plates by D. Hair, F.L.S. 21s.

Field Naturalist's Handbook, The. By Rev. J. G. Wood & Theodore Wood 5s.
Figuier's Popular Scientific Works. With Several Hundred Illustrations in

each. 3s. 6d. each.
The Human Race. I The Ocean World.

World Before the Deluge. The Vegetable World.

Reptiles and Birds. | The Insect World.

Mammalia.

Figure Painting in Water Colours. With 16 Coloured Plates by Blanche

MacArthur and Jennie Moore. With full Instructions. 7s. 6d.
Fine-Art Library, The. Edited by John Spake, Principal of the South
Kensington Art Schools. Each Book contains about 100 Illustrations. 5s. each.

Tapestry. By Engine Chintz. Translated by

Miss L. J. Davis.
Engraving. By Le Vicomte Henri Elaborate.

Translated by R. A. M. Stevenson.
The English School of Painting. By E.

Cliesneau. Translated by L. N. Etherington.

With an Introduction by Prof. Ruskin.
The Flemish School of Painting. By A. J.

Waters. Translated bv Mrs. Henry Rosscl.

The Education of the Artist. By

Chesneau, Translated by Clara Bell. Noir

illustrated.
Greek Archaeology. By Maxime Collision.

Translated by Dr. J. H, Wright.
Artistic Anatomy. By Prof. Dual. Translated

by F. v Fenton.
The Dutch School of Painting. By Henry

llavatd. Translated by G. Powell.

Five Pound Note, The, and other Stories. By G. S. Jealous, is.

Rower Painting in Water Colours. First and Second Series. With 20 Facsimile

Coloured Plates in each by F. E. HuLME, F.L.S., F.S.A. With Instructions

by the Artist. Interleaved. 5s. each.

Flower Painting, Elementary. With Eight Coloured Plates. 3s.

Flowers, and How to Paint Them. Bv Maud Naktel. With Coloured Plates. 53.

Forging of the Anchor, The. A Poem. By the late Sir Samuel Ferguson,

I.L.l). With •.'oO,iuiTial Illustrations. Gilt edges, 5s.

Fossil Reptiles, A History of British. By Sir Richard Owen, K.C.B., F.R.S.,

&c. with 268 Plates. In Four Vols., £,11 12s.
France as It Is. By Andk^ Leon and Paul Pelt. With Three Maps.

Crown 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d.

Franco-German War, CasseU's History of the. Two Vols. With 500 illustrations.

qs. each.

Fresh-Water Fishes of Europe, The. By Prof. H. G. Seeley, F.R.S. Clap

Edition. 7S. 6d.

Garden Flowers, Familiar. By Shirley Ribbed. With Coloured Plates by

F. K. IIiLMK, F.L.S. Complete in Five Series. Cloth gilt, 12s. 6d. each.
Gardening, CasseU's Popular. Illustrated. Complete in 4 Vols., 53. each.
Geometrical Drawing for Army Candidates. By H. T. I.ii.i ey. M.A. as.

Geometry, First Elements of Experimental. By Paul Bert. is. 6d.

Geometry, Practical Solid. By Major Ross. 2s.

Germany, William of. By Archibald Forbes. 3s. 6d.

Gladstone, Life of the Rt. Hon. W.E. By G. Barnett Smith. With Portrait. 3s.6d.

Gleanings from Popular Authors. Two Vols. With Original Illustrations.

4to, 9s. each. Two Vols, in One, 15s.
Gold to Grey, From. Being Poems and Pictures of Life and Nature. By Mary

D. Brine. Illustrated. 7s. 6d.

Great Bank Robbery, The. A Novel. By Julian Hawthorne. Boards, 2s.
Great Industries of Great Britain. With 400 Illustrations. 3 Vols., 7s. 6d. each.
Great Northern Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the. is. ; cloth, 2s.
Great Western Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the. is. ; cloth, 2s.
Great Painters ot Christendom, The, from Cimabue to Wilkie. By John

Forbes-Robertson. Illustrated throughout. Popular Edition, c\a\.\\ ^\\x., 12s. 6d.
Gulliver's Travels. With 88 Engravings by Morten. Cheap Edition. Cloth,

3s. 6d. ; cloth gilt. 5s.
Gum Boughs and Wattle Bloom. By Donald Macdonald. 5s.
Gun and its Development, The. By W. W. Greener. Illustrated. los. 6d.
Gains, Modern Shot. By W. W. Greener. Illustrated. 5s.
Health at School. By Clement Dukes, M.D., B.S. 7s. 6d. [burgh, 25s.

Health, The Book of. By Eminent Physicians and Surgeons. Cloth, 21s. ; rox-
Health, The Influence of Clothing on. By F. Treves, F.R.C.S. 2s.
Heavens, The Story of the. By Sir Robert Stav^^ell Ball, LL.D., F.R.S.,

Royal Astronomer of Ireland. Coloured Plates and Wood Engravings. 31s. 6d.

Heroes of Britain in Peace and War. In Two Vols., with 300 Original Illustrations.
5s. each ; or One Vol., library binding, los. 6d.
Holy Land and the Bible, The. By the Rev. Cunningham Geikie, Dad.

With Map. Two Vols. 24s.

Homes, Our, and How to Make them Healthy. By Eminent Authorities.

Illustrated. 15s. ; roxburgh, i8s.

Horse-Keeper, The Practical. By George Fleming, LL.D., F.R.C.V.S.

Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d.
Horse, The Book of the. By Samuel Sidney. With 28 facsimile Coloured

Plates. Demy 410, 35s. ; half-morocco, ;£2 5s.
Horses, The Simple Ailments of. By W. F. Illustrated. 5s.
Household Guide, Cassel's. With Illustrations and Coloured Plates. New and

Revised Edition, complete in Four Vols., dos.

How Dante Climbed the Mountain. By Rose Emily Selfe. With Eight

Full-page Engravings by Gustave Dore. 2s.

How Women may Earn a Living. By M mercy Grogan. is.

Imperial White Books. In Quarterly Vols. los. 6d. per annum, post free ;

to subscribers separately, 3s. 6d. each.
India, Cassel's History of. By the late James Grant. With 400 Illustrations. 15s.
India : the Land and the People. By Sir James Cairo, K.C.B. ios. 6d.
In-door Amusements, Card Games, and Fireside Fun, Cassel's. 3s. 6d.
Industrial Remuneration Conference. The Report of. 2s. 6d.
Insect Variety : its Propagation and Distribution. By A. H. Swinton. 7s. 6d.
Irish Parliament, The, What it Was, and What it Did. By J. G. Swift

McNeill, M.A., M.P. is.
Irish Parliament, A Miniature History of the. By J. C. Haslam. 3d.
Irish Union ; Before and After. By A. K. Connell, M.A. 2s. 6d.
John Parmelee's Curse. By Julian Hawthorne. 2s. 6d.
Kennel Guide, Practical By Dr. Gordon Stables. Illustrated. Cheap Edition, is.
Kidnapped. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated Edition. 5s.
King Solomon's Mines. By H. Rider Haggard. Illustrated Edition. 5s.
Khiva, A Ride to. By Col. Fred Burnaby. is. 6d.
Ladies' Physician, The. By a London Physician. 6s.
Lady Biddy Fane. By Frank Barrett. Three Vols. Cloth, 31s. 6d.
Lady's World, The. An Illustrated Magazine of Fashion and Society." Yrly. Vol. island
Question, The. By Prof. J. Elliot, M. R.A.C. Including the Land Scare

and Production of Cereals. 3s. 6d.

Landscape Fainting In Oils, A Course of Lessons in. By A- F. Grace,
With Nine Reproductions in Colour. Cheap Edition, 25s.

Law, About Going to. Bv A. J. Williams, M. P. 2s. 6d.
Laws of Every Day Life, The. By H. O. Arnold-Forster. is. 6d.
Letts's Diaries and other Time-saving Publications are now published exclusively
by Cassel & Company. (A List sent tost fret on application.)
Local Dual Standards. By John Henry Norman. Gold and Silver Standard

Currencies, is.

Local Government in England and Germany. By the Rt. Hon. Sir Robert

MORIER, G.C.B., &C. IS.

London, Brighton, and South Coast Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide

to the. IS. ; cloth, 2S.

London and North Western Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the.

IS. ; cloth. 2s.
London and South Western Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the.

IS. ; cloth, 2S.

London, Greater. By Edward Walford. Two Vols. With about 400

Illustrations, gs. each. Library Edition. Two Vols. £,x the set.

London, Old and New. By Walter Thornbury and Edward Walford.
Six Vols., each containing about 200 Illustrations and Maps. Cloth, gs. each. Library
Edition. Imitation roxburgh, ^3,

Longfellow, H. W., Choice Poems by. Illustrated by his Son, Ernest W.

Longfellow. ces.
Longfellow's Poetical Works. Fine-Art Edition. Illustrated throughout with

Original Engravings. Royal 4to, cloth gilt, {.t, 3s. Popular Edition. 16s.

Luther, Martin: the Man and his Work. By Peter Bayne, LL.D. Two

Vols., 24s.
Marine Painting. By Walter W. May, R.I. With i6 Coloured Plates. Cloth, 5s.
Mechanics, The Practical Dictionary of. Containing 15,000 Drawings. Four

Vols. 2 IS. each.

Medicine, Manuals for Students of. [A List forwarded post free on application.)
Midland Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the. New and Revised

Edition, is. ; cloth, 2s.

Modem Europe, A History of. By C. A. Fyffe, M.A. Vol. I. From 1792 to

1814. Is. Vol. II. From 1814 to 1848. 12s.

Music, Illustrated History of. By Emil Naumann. Edited by the Rev.

Sir F. A. Gore Ouselev, Bart. Illustrated. Two Vols. 31s. 6d.
National Library, Cassel's. In Weekly Volumes, each containing about 192

pages. Paper covers, 3d. ; cloth, 6d. (A List 0/ the Volumes already published sent

post free on application')

Natural History, Cassel's Concise. By E. Perceval Wright, M.A., M.D.,

F.L.S. With several Hundred Illustrations. 7s. 6d. ; roxburgh, los. 6d.
Natural History, CasseU's New. Edited by Prof. P. Martin Duncan, Mab.,

F.R.S., F.G.S. With Contributions by Eminent Scientific Writers. Complete in

Si.\ Vols. With about 2,000 high-class Illustrations. Extra crown 4to, cloth, gs. each.
Nature, Short Studies from. Illustrated. Cheap Edition. 2s. 6d.
Neutral Tint, A Course of Painting in. With Twenty-four Plates by R. P.

Leitch. With full Instructions to the Pupil. 5s.

Nimrod in the North ; or, Hunting and Fishing Adventures in the Arctic

Regions. By Lieut. Schwatka. Illustrated. 7s. 6d.

Nursing for the Home and for the Hospital, A Handbook ot By Catherine
J. Wood. Cheap Edition, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2S.
Oil Painting, A Manual of. By Hon. John Collier. Cloth, 2S. 6d.
On the Equator. By H. De W. Illustrated with Photos. 3s. 6d.
Orion the Gold Beater. A Novel. By Sylvanus Cobb, Junr. Cloth, 3s. 6d.
Our Own Country. .Six Vols. With 1,200 Illustrations. Cloth, 7s. 6d. each.
Outdoor Sports and Indoor Amusements, Cassel's Book ot With about

gco Illustrations. Cheap Edition. 992 pages, medium 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

Paris, Cassel's Illustrated Guide to. Cloth, as.

Parliaments, A Diary of Two. By H. W. Lucy. The Disraeli Parliament,

1874- 18S0. is. The Gladstone Parliament, 1881— 1886. 12s.
Paxton's Flower Garden. By Sir Joseph Paxton and Prof. Lindley. Revised
by Thomas Baines, F.R.H.S. Three Vols. With 100 Coloured Plates. ;{;i is. each.
Peoples of the World, The. By Dr. Robert Brown. Complete in Six Volumes.

With Illustrations. 7s. 6d. each.

Phantom City, The. By W. Westall. 5s.

Photography for Amateurs. ByT. C. Hepwokth. Illustrated, is. ; or cloth, is. 6d.

Phrase and Fable, Dictionary of. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer, Cheap Edition,

Enlarged, cloth, 3s. 6d. ; or with leather back, 4s. 6d.
Picturesque' America. Complete in Four Vols. , with 48 Exquisite Steel Plates,

and about 800 Original Wood Engravings. £2 2s. each.
Picturesque Canada. With about 600 Original Illustrations. Two Vols.,

£j 3s. each.
Picturesque Europe. Complete in Five Vols. Each containing 13 Exquisite Steel

Plates, from Original Drawings, and nearly 200 Original Illustrations. ^{[lo los. ;

half-morocco, £i$ 15s. ; morocco gilt, £26 5s. The Popular Edition is now complete

in Five Vols., i8s. each.

Pigeon Keeper, The Practical By Lewis Wright. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.
Pigeons, The Book o£ By Robert Fulton. Edited by Lewis Wright. With

50 Coloured Plates and numerous Wood Engravings. 31s. 6d. ; half-morocco, £2 2s.
Pocket Guide to Europe (Cassel's). Size 5I in. x sf in. Leather, 6s.
Poems, Representative of Living Poets, American and English. Selected by

the Poets themselves. 15s.

Poets, Cassel's Miniature Library of the :—

each ; or cloth

Bums. Two Vols. Cloth, 1

Kilt edges, 2S. 6d. the set.

> Vols. Cloth, IS. each ; or cloth,

gilt edsfes. 2s. 6d. the set.
Hood. Two Vols. Cloth, IS. each ; or doth,

gilt edges, 2s. 6d. the set.
Longfellow. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ; or

cloth, gilt edges, 2s. 6d. the set.

Milton. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ; or cloth,

gilt edges, 2S. 6d. the set.
Scott. Two Vols. Cloth, IS. each; or cloth,

gilt edges, 2S. 6d. the set.
Sheridan and Goldsmith. 2 Vols. Cloth, is.

each ; or cloth, gilt edges, 2s. 6d. the set.
wordsworth. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ;

or cloth, gilt edges, 2s. 6d. the set

Shakespeare. Twelve Vols., half cloth, hi box, 12s.

Popular Library, Cassel's. A Series of New aboriginal Works. Cloth, is. each

John 'Wesley.

The Story of the English Jacobins.
Domestic Folk Lore.
The Rev. Rowland Hill.
Boswell and Johnson.

History of the Free-Trade Movement in
England.

The Russian Empire.
The Religious Revolution in the Sixteenth
Century.
EngUsh Journalism.
Our Colonial Empire.
The Young Man in the Battle of Life.

Post Office of Fifty Years Ago, The.

Poultry Keeper, The Practical By Lewis Wright.

and Illustrations. 3s. 6d.

Poultry, The Book of. By Lewis Wright.

tions on Wood, los. 6d.

Poultry, The Illustrated Book of. By Lewis Wright. With Fifty Exquisite
Coloured Plates, and numerous Wood Engravings. Cloth, 31s. 6d. ; half-morocco, £it 2s.

Pre-Raphselites (The Italian) in the. National Gallery. By Cosmo Monk-house.

Illustrated, is.

Printing Machinery and Letterpress Printing, Modem.

Wilson and Douglas Gkev. Illustrated. 21s.

Queen Victoria, The Life and Times of. By Robert Wilson. Complete in

2 Vols. With numerous Illustrations, representing the Chief Events in the Life of the
Queen, and Portraits of the Leading Celebrities of her Reign. Extra crown 410, cloth

gilt, gs. each.

Queer Race, A. By W. Westall. 5s.

Rabbit-Keeper, The Practical. By Cuniculus. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.

Red Library of English and American Classics, The. Stiff covers, is. each ;

cloth, 2s. each.

With Coloured Plates
Popular Edition. With lustres

Fred. J. F.

People I have Met.

The Pathfinder.

Evening.

Scott's Poems.

Last of the Barons.

Adventures of Mr. Ledbury and his

friend Jack Johnson.
Ivanhoe.
Oliver Twist.

Selections from Hood's Works.
Longfellow's Prose Works.
Sense and Sensibility.
Lytton's Plays. [Harte).

Tales, Poems, and Sketches (Bred
Martin Chuzzlewit. Two Vols.
The Prince of the House of David.
Sheridan's Plays.
tJncle Tom's Cabin.
Deerslayer.
Eugene Aram.
Jack Hinton, the Guardsman.

Rome and the Early Christians.
The Trials of Margaret Lindsay.
Edgar Allan Poe. Prose and Poetry, Selcc-
Old Mortality. [tions froiiu

The Hour and the Man.
Washington Irving's Sketch-book.

Pride and Prejudice.

Last of the Mexicans.

Heart of Midlothian.

Last Days of Pompeii.

Yellowish Papers.

Handy Andy.

Selected Plays.

American Humour.

Sketches by Boz.

Macaulay's Lays and Selected Essays.

The Tasman.

Rienzi,

Pickwick (Two Vols.]

Scarlet Letter.

and a Series of beautiful Engravings. i,i 2s.

Russia. By Sir Donald Mckenzie Wallace, M.A. 55.
Russo-Turkish War, Cassel's History of. With about 500 Illustrations. Two
Vols., qs. each ; library' binding. One Vol., 15s.

Saturday Journal, Cassel's. Yearly Vols. , 7s. 6d.

Science for All. Edited by Dr. Robert Brown, M.A., F.L.S., &c. With
1,500 Illustrations. Five Vols., 9s. each.

Sea, The: Its Stirring Story of Adventure, Peril, and Heroism. By

F. Whimper. With 400 Illustrations. Four Vols., 7s. 6d. each.

Section 558, or the Fatal Letter. A Novel. By Julian Hawthorne.

Boards, 2S. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.
Sent Back by the Angels. And other Ballads of Home and Homely Life. By

Frederick Langbridoe, M.A. 4s. 6d. Popular Edition, is.
Sepia Painting, A Course of. Two Vols., with Twelve Coloured Plates in each,

and numerous Engravings. Each, 3s. Also in One Volume, 5s.

Shaftesbury, The Seventh Earl of, Keg., The Life and Work of. By Edwin

Fodder. With Portraits. Three Vols, 36s. Popular Edition, '\ViQ^[i^ylo\.,^%.(lA.

Shakspere, The International. Edition de luxe.

King Henry IV." Illustrated by Herr Eduard Grutzner. {^-^ los.

"As You Like It." Illustrated by Mons. Emile Bayard. ^^3 lo;.

"Romeo and Juliet." Illustrated by Frank Dicksee, A.R.A. ;C5 5s.
Shakspere, The Leopold. With 400 Illustrations, and an Introduction by F. J.

FlRNiVALL. Small 4to, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-morocco, los. 6d. ; full morocco, {^\ is.

Cheap Edition. 3s. 6d.

Shakspere, The Royal. With Exquisite Steel Plates and Wood Engravings.

Three Vols. 15s. each.

Shakespeare, Cassel's Quarto Edition. Edited by Charles and Mary Bowden

Clarke, and containing about 600 Illustrations by H. C. Selous. Complete in

Three Vols., cloth gilt, £■>, 3s. — Also published in Three separate Volumes, in cloth,

viz. :— The Comedies, 21s. ; The Historical Plays, i8s. 6d. ; The Tragedies, 25s.

Shakespeare, Miniature. Illustrated. In Twelve Vols., in box, 12s. ; or in

Red Paste Grain (bo-x to match), with spring catch, lettered in gold, 21s.

Shakespearean Scenes and Characters. Illustrative of Thirty Plays of Shakespeare.
With Thirty Steel Plates and Ten Wood Engravings. The Text written by
Also IN Skeleton. Royal 4to, 21s.

Sketching from Nature in Water Colours. By Aaron Penley. With Illustrations
in Chromo-Lithography. 15s.

Skin and Hair, The Management of the. By Malcolm Morris, F. R. Ces. 2s.

Sonnets and Quatorzains. By Chrys, M.A. (Oxon). 5s.

Standards, Local Dual. By John Henry Norman, is.

Steam Engine, The Theory and Action of the: for Practical Men. I'.y ^V^ H.

NORTHCOTT, C. E. 3s. 6d.

Stock Exchange Year-Book, The. By Thomas Skinner. 12s. 6d.
Summer Tide, Little Folks Holiday Number, is.
Sunlight and Shade. With numerous Exquisite Engravings. 7s. 6d.
Surgery, Memorials of the Craft of, in England. With an Introduction by

Sir Ja.mks Paget. 21s.
Thackeray, Character Sketches from. Six New and Original Drawings by

Frederick Barnard, reproduced in Photogravure. 21s.
Thorah, The Yoke of the. A Novel. By Sidney Luska. Boards, as. ; cloth, 3s. 6d.
Three and Sixpenny Library of Standard Tales, &c. All Illustrated and bound
in cloth gilt. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. each.
Jane Austen and her Works. I Peggy Oglivie's Inheritance.

Mission Life in Greece and Palestine. The Family Honour.

The Romance of Trade. ! Esther West.

The Three Homes. 'Working to Win.

~ " ' " KrUof and his Fables. By W. R. S.

Ralston, M.A.
Fairy Tales. By Prof. Morley.

Tot Book for aU Public Examinations. By W. S. Thomson, M.A. is.
Town Holdings, is.

Tragedy of Brinkwater, The. A Novel. By Martha L. Moodey. Boards, 2S. ;

cloth, ^s. 6d.

Tragic Mystery, A. A Novel. By Julian Hawthorne. Boards, 2S. ; cloth, 3s. 6d.

Treasure Island. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated. 5s.

Tree Painting in Water Colours. By W. H. J. Boot. With Eighteen

Coloured Plates, and valuable instructions by the Artist. 5s.
Trees, Familiar. By G. S. Boulger, F.L.S., F.G.S. Two Series. With Forty
full-page Coloured Plates, from Original Paintings by \V. H. J. Boot. 12s. 6d. each.

Twenty Photogravures of Pictures in the Salon of 1885, by the leading

French Artists. In Portfolio. Only a limited number of copies have been produced,
terms for which can be obtained of all Booksellers.

"Unicode": The Universal Telegraphic Phrase Book. Pocket and Desk

Editions. 2s 6d. each.

United States, Cassel's History of the. By the late Edmund Ollier. With 600

Illustrations. Three Vols. gs. each.

United States, The Youth's History of. By Edward S. Ellis. Illustrated.

Four Vols. 36s.

Universal History, CasseU's Illustrated. With nearly One Thousand

Illustrations. Vol. I. Early and Greek History.— Vol. II. The Roman Period.—
Vol. III. The Middle Ages.— Vol. IV. Modern History. 9s. each.

Vaccination Vindicated. An Answer to the leading Anti Vaccinators. By John
t C. McVail, M.D., D.P.H. Camb. 55.

Vexed Beyond, The. A Novel. By S. B. Alexander. Cloth, 3s. 6d.

Vicar of Wakefield and other Works by Oliver Goldsmith. Illustrated.

3s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 5s.
Water-colour Painting, A Course of. With Twenty-four Coloured Plates by

R. P. Leitch, and lull Instructions to the Pupil. 5s.
What Girls Can Do. By Phyllis Browne. 2s. 6d.
Who is John Noman ? A Novel By Charles Henry Beckett. Boards, 2s. ;

Cloth, 3s. ed.
Wild Birds, Familiar. By W. Swaysland. Four Series. With 40 Coloured

Plates in each. 12s. 6d. each.
Wild Flowers, Familiar. By F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., F.S.A. Five Series. With

40 Coloured Plates in each. 12s. 6d. each.

Wise Woman, The. By George Macdonald. 2s. 6d.

Woman's World, The. Yearly Volume. i8s.

World of Wit and Humour, The. With 400 Illustrations. Cloth, 7s. 6d. ; cloth

gilt, gilt edges, los. 6d.
World of Wonders, The. Two Vols. With 400 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. each.
World's Lumber Room, The. By Selina Gaye. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.
Yule Tide. Cassel's Christmas Annual, is.

ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINES.
The Quiver, for Sunday and General Fading. Monthly, 6d.

Cases Family Magazine. Monthly, yd,

Little Folks " 3Iugazine. Monthly, 6d.

The Magazine of Art. Monthly, is.

The Wornan^s World. Monthly, is.

Cassel's Saturday Journal. Weekly, id. ; Monthly, 6d.

•,* Full pnrtknlars of Cassel & COMPANY'S Monthly Serial Publications

will be found in Cassel & Company's COMPLETE CATALOGUE.

Catalogues of Cassel & Company's Publications, which may be had at all

Booksellers', or will be sent post free on application to the Publishers : —
Cassel's Complete Catalogue, containing particulars of One Thousand

Volumes.
Cassel's Classified Catalogue, in which their Works are arranged according

to price, from Threepence to Twenty-jive Guineas.
Cassel's Educational Catalogue, containing particulars of Cassel &
Company's Educational Works and Students' Manuals.

Cassel & COMPANY, Limited, Ltuigate Hill, London.

^tbUa ante Hdtgious Mores.

Bible, The Crown Illustrated. With about i.cxx) Original Illustrations. With

References, &c. 1,248 pages, crown 410, cloth, 7s. 6d.

Bible, CasseU's Illustrated Family. With 900 Illustrations. Leather, gilt

edges, £,1 los. ; full morocco, ^^3 los.
Bible Dictionary, Cassel's. With nearly 600 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. ; roxburgh,

los. 6d.
Bible Educator, The. Edited by the Very Rev. Dean Plumptre, D.D. With

Illustrations, Maps, &c. Four Vols., cloth, 6s. each.
Bible Work at Home and Abroad. Yearly Volume, 3s.
Bible Talks about Bible Pictures. Illustrated by Gustave Done and others.

Large 4(0, 5s.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress (Cassel's Illustrated). 4to. 7s. 6d.
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. With Illustrations. Popular Edition, 3s. 6d.
Child's Life of Christ, The. Complete in One Handsome Volume, with about

200 Original Illustrations. Demy 410, gilt edges, 21s.
Child's Bible, The. With 200 Illustrations. Demy 4to, 830 pp. 145//^ Thousand.

Cheap Edition, 7s. 6d.

Commentary, The New Testament, for English Readers. Edited by the

Rt. Rev. C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. In Three
Volumes, 21s. each.

Vol. I.— The Pour Gospels.

\'o:. II.— The Acts, Romans. Corinthians, Galatians.

Vol. III.— The remaining Books of the New Testament.

Commentary, The Old Testament, for English Readers. Edited by the Rt.

Rev. C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. Complete in

5 Vols., 21s. each.
Vol. I.— Genesis to Numbers. I Vos III.— Kings I. to Esther.

Vol. 11.— Deuteronomy to Samuel II. I Vul. IV.— Job to Isaiah.

Vol. v.— Jeremiah to Malachi.

Dictionary of Religion, The. An Encyclopaedia ot Christian and other
Religious Doctrines, Denominations, Sects, Heresies, Ecclesiastical Terms, History,
Biography, &c. &c. By the Rev. William Benham, B.D. Cloth. 21s. ; roxburgh, 25s.

Dore Bible. With 230 Illustrations by Gustave Dore. Original Edition.
Two Vols., cloth, ifi ; best morocco, gilt edges, £1$.

Early Days of Christianity, The. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S.

Library Edition. Two Vols., 24s. ; morocco, £,1 2s.

Popular Edition. Complete in One Volume, cloth, 6s. ; cloth, gilt edges,
7s. 6d. ; Persian morocco, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s.
Family Prayer-book, The. Edited by Rev. Canon Garbett, M.A., and Rev.
S. Martin. Extra crown 4to, cloth, 5s. ; morocco, i8s.

Grime, Cunningham, D.D., Works by:—

The Holy Land and the Bible. A Book of Scripture Illustrations gathered in Palestine. With

Map. Two Vols. 24s.
Hours with the Bible. Six Vols. 6s. each
Entering on Life. 3s. 61.
The Precious Promises. 2s. ci.
The English Reformation. 5s.
Old Testament Characters. 6s.
The Life and "Words of Christ. Illustrated. Two Vols., cloth, sos. Library F.dilion. Two

Vols., cloth, sos. Students' Edition. Two Vols., 16s. Cheap Edition, in One VoL 7s. 6d.

Glories of the Man of Sorrows, The. Sermons preached at St. James's,
Piccadilly. By the Rev. H. G. Bonavia Hunt, Mus.D., F.R.S.Edin. 2s. 6d.

Gospel of Grace, The. By a Lindesie. Cloth, 2s. 6d.

Helps to Beef. A Series of Helpful Manuals on the Religious Difficulties of the
Day. Edited by the Rev. Teignmouth Shorb, M.A., Chaplain in Ordinary to
the Queen. Cloth, is. each.
Creation. By the Lord Bishop of Carlisle. | Tir Morality op the Old Testament. By
Miracles. liy the Kev. Brownlow Mail the Kev. Newman Smyth, D.D.

Prayer! 'By the Hev.T. Teignmouth Shore, The Divinity of Our Lord. By the Lord
jj^j^^ Bishop of Derry.

THE ATONEMENT. By the Lord Bishop of Peterborough.

'■ 1:— 7.3s.

'Heart Chords." A Series forks by Eminent Divines. Bound in cloth, red

edges, IS. each.

My Soul. By the Rev. P. B. Power, M.A.

My Growth in Divine Life. By the Rev.

Prebendary Reynolds, M.A.
My Hereafter. By the Very Rev. Dean Bicker-seeth.


My Walk with Good. By the Very Rev. Dean

Montgomery.
My Aids to the Divine Iiife. By the Very

Rev. Dean Boyle.
My Sources of Strength. By the Rev. E. E.

Jenkins, M.A., Secretary of the Wesleyan

Missionary Society.

My Bible. By the Rt. Rev. W. Boyd Carpenter,
Bishop of Ripon.

My Work for Good. By the Right Rev. Bishop
Cotterill.

My Object in Life. By the Ven. Archdeacon
Farrar, D.D.

My Aspirations. By the Rev. G. Matheson. D.D.

My Emotional Life. By the Rev. Prey. Chadwick
D.D.

My Body. By the Rev. Prof. W. G. Bailie, D.D.

Holy Land and the Bible, The. A Book of Scripture Illustrations gathered in
Palestine. By the Rev. Cunningham Geikie, D.D. Two Vols., demy 8vo, 1,120
pages, with Map. Price 24s.

"I Must." Short Missionary Bible Readings. By Sophia M. Nugent.
Enamelled cover, 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, is.

Life Of Christ, The. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S., Chaplain
in Ordinary to the Queen.

Illustrated Edition, with about 300 Original Illustrations. Extra crown 410,

cloth, gilt edges, 21s. ; morocco antique, 42s.
Library Edition. Two Vols. Cloth, 24s. ; morocco, 42s.
Popular Edition, in One Vol. 8vo, cloth, 6s.; cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. ; Persian

morocco, gilt edges, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s.

Luther, Martin: his Life and Times. By Peter Bayne, LL.D. Two Vols.,

demy 8vo, 1,040 pages, cloth, miscarriage

Ring, The. By William Landels, D.D. Bound in white

leatherette, gilt edges, in box, 6s. ; French morocco, 8s. 6d.

Moses and Geology; or, The Harmony of the Bible with Science. By

the Rev. Samuel Kings, Ph.D., F.R.A.S. Illustrated. Clear Edition. 6s.

Protestantism, The History of. By the Rev. J. A. Wylie, LL.D. Containing
upwards of 600 Original Illustrations. Three Vols., 27s. ; Library Edition, sos.

Quiver Yearly Volume, The. With 250 high-class Illustrations. 7s. 6d. Also
Monthly, 6d.

St. George for England; and other Sermons preached to Children. Fifth
Edition. By the Rev. T. Teignmouth Shore, M.A. 5s.

St Paul, The Life and Work of. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D.,

F.R.S., Chaplain in Ordinary to the Queen.
Library Edition. Two Vols., cloth, 24s. ; calf, 42s.
Illustrated Edition, complete in One Volume, with about 300 Illustrations,

;£i IS. ; morocco, ^2 2s.
Popular Edition. One Volume, 8vo, cloth, 6s. ; cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. ;
Persian morocco, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s.

Secular Life, The Gospel of the. Sermons preached at oxford. By the Hon.
W. H. Fremantle, Canon of Canterbury, ss.

Shall We Know One Another? By the Rt. Rev. J. C. Ryle, D.D., Bishop of

Liverpool. New and Enlarged Edition. Cloth limp, is.

Twilight of Life, The. Words of Counsel and Comfort for the Aged. By

John Ellerton, M.A. is. 6d.
Voice of Time, The. By John Stroud. Cloth gilt, is.

educational Mores anb ^tubi'nts' Manuals.

Alphabet, Cassel's Pictorial Size, 35 inches by 42^ inches. Mounted on

Linen, with rollers. 3s. 6d.

Arithmetics, The Modern School. By George Ricks, B.Sc. Lend. With Test

Cards. (List on application.)

Book-Keeping. By Theodore Jones. For Schools, 2s. ; or cloth, 3s. Fok
THE Million, 2s. ; or cloth, 3s. Books for Jones's System, Ruled Sets of, 2S.

Chemistry, The Public School By J. H. Anderson, M.A. 2s. 6d.
Commentary, The New Testament. Edited by Bishop Ellicott. Handy
Volume Edition. Suitable for School and general use.

Romans. 2S. cl.
Corinthians I. and II. 3s.
Galatians, Ephesians, and
Philippine

Titus, Philemon, Hebrews,

and James. 3s.
Peter, Jude, and Join. 3s.
The Revelation. 3s.
An Introduction to the New

Testament. 2s. 6d.

St. Matthew. 3s. 6d.
St. Mark. 3s.
St. Luke. 35. 6d.
Bt John. 3s. 6d.
The Acts of the Apostle
3S.6d. I

Commentary, Old Testament. Edited by Bishop Ellicott. Handy volume
Edition. Suitable for School and general use.
Genesis. 3s. 6a I Leviticus. 3s. I Deuteronomy, as. 6d.

Exodus. 3s. I Numbers. 2s. 6d. |

Copy-books, Cassel's Graduated. Complete in i8 Books. 2d. each.
Copy-books, The Modern School. Complete in 12 Books. 2d. each.
Drawing Copies, Cassel's " New Standard." Fourteen Books.

Books A to F, for Standards I. to IV 2d. each.

„ G, H, K, L, M, O, for Standards V. to VII 3d. each.

,, N, P, 4d. each.

Drawing Copies, Cassel's Modem School Freehand. First Grade, is. ; Second

Grade, 2s.
Electricity, Practical. By Prof. W. E Ayrton. 7s. 6d.
Energy and Motion : A Text-book of Elementary Mechanics. By William

Price, M.A. Illustrated. is. 6d.
English Literature, A First Sketch of, from the Earliest Period to the Present

Time. By Prof. Henry Murlev. 7s. 6d.
Euclid, Cassel's. Edited by Prof. Wallace, M.A. is.
Euclid, The First Four Books of. In paper, 6d. ; cloth, gd.
French Reader, Cassel's Public School. By Guillaume S. Conrad. 2s. 6d.
French, Cassel's Lessons in. New and Revised Edition, Parts I. and II., each

2s. 6d. ; complete, 4s. 6d. Key, is. 6d.
French-english and English-French Dictionary. Entirely New and Enlarged

Edition. I, I so pages, 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d.

Galbraith and Haughton's Scientific Manuals. By the Rev. Prof. Galbraith,

M.A., and the Rev. P- f. Haughton, M.D., D.C.L.

Natural Philosophy. 3s. 6d.

Euclid. Books I., II., III. 2S. 6d. Books IV.,

v., VI. 2S. 6d.

.6d.

Hydrostatics. 3s. 6d.
Astronomy. 5s.
Steam Engine .3s. 6d.

Algebra. Pan I., cloth, 2s. 6d. Complete, 7s. 6d.
Tides and Tidal Currents, with Tidal Cards, 3b.

Geometry, First Elements of Experimental. By Paul Bert. Fully Illustrated.

IS. 6d.

Geometry, Practical Solid. By Major Ross, R.E. 2s.
German of To-Day. By Dr. Heinemann. is. 6d.
German-English and English-German Dictionary. 3s. 6d.
German Reading, First Lessons in. ByA. Jagst. Illustrated, is.
Handbook of New Code of Regulations. By John F. Moss. is. ; cloth, 2s.
Historical Course for Schools, Cassel's. Illustrated throughout. I.— Stories

from Knt:lish History, is. II. — The Simple Outline of English History, is. 3d.

III.— The Class History of England, 2s. 6d.

Historical Cartoons, Cassel's Coloured. .Size 45 in. x 35 in. 2s. each.

Mounted on canvas and varnished, with rollers, 5s. each.

Latin-English Dictionary, Cassel's. Thoroughly revised and corrected, and in
part re-written by J. R. V. Marchant, M.A. 3s. 6d.

Latin-English and English-Latin Dictionary. By J. R. Beard, D,D., and C.

B.Ard, B.A. Crown 8vo, 914 pp., 3s. 6d.

Latin Primer, The New. By Prof. J. P. Postgate. as. 6d.

Laws of Every-Day Life. For the Use of Schools. By H. O. Arnold-Forster.

IS. 6d.

Lay Texts for the Young, in English and French. By Mrs. Richard

Strachey. 2s. 6d. [is. 6d.

Little Folks' History of England. By Isa Craig-Knox. With 30 Illustrations.
Making of the Home, The : A Book of Domestic Economy for School and Home
Use. By Mrs. Samuel A. Barnett. is. 6d.

Marlborough Books.

Arithmetic Examples. 3s. I Preneh Exercises. 3s. 6d.

Arithmetic Rules, is. 6d. | Preneh Grammar. 2s. 6d.

German Grammar. 35. 6d.

Mechanics and Machine Design, Numerical Examples in Practical By

R. G. Blaine, M.E. With Diagrams. Cloth, 2s. 6d.

Music, An Elementary Manual of. By Henry Leslie, is.

Popular Educator, Cassel's. Next and Thoroughly Revised Edition. Illustrated
throughout. Complete in Six Vols., 5s. each ; or in Three Vols., half calf, 42s. the set.

Readers, Cassel's "Higher Class:— "The World's Lumber Room," Illustrated,
2s. 6d. ; " Short Studies from Nature," Illustrated, 2s. 6d. ; " The World
in Pictures." (Ten in Series.) Cloth, 2S. each.

Readers, Cassel's Readable. Carefully graduated, extremely interesting, and
illustrated throughout. (List oh application.)

Readers, Cassel's Historical. Illustrated throughout, printed on superior paper,
and strongly bound in cloth. (List on application.)

Readers for Infant Schools, Coloured. Three Books. Each containing 48

pages, including 8 pages in colours. 4d. each.
Reader, The Citizen. By H. O. Arnold-Forster. With Preface by the late

Rt. Hon. W. E. FoRSTER, M.P. is. 6d.
Readers, The Modern GeographicaL Illustrated throughout, and strongly bound

in cloth. (List on application')
Readers, 'The Modern School. Illustrated. list on applications
Reading and Spelling Book, Cassel's Illustrated, is.
School Bank Manual, A. By Agnes Lambert. 6d.
Shakspere Reading Book, The. By H. Courthope Bowen, M.A. Illustrated.

3s. 6d. Also issued in Three Books, is. each.
Shakspere's Plays for School Use. 5 Books. Illustrated. 6d. each.
"Slbjd," as a means of Teaching the Essential Elements of Education.

By Emily Lord. 6d.
Spelling, A Complete Manual of. By J. D. Morelll, LL.D. is.
Technical Manuals, Cassel's. Illustrated throughout : —

Handwriting and Streaming.
Bricklayers, Drawing for. 3s.
Building Construction.

Cabinet-makers, Drawing for. 3s.
Carpenters & Joiners, Drawing foi
Gothic Stonework. linear

Drawing & Practical Geometry. 2s.
Linear Drawing and Projection. The

Two Vols, in One, 35. 6d.
Metal-Plate Workers, Drawing for. 3s.

Machinists & Engineers, Drawing for. 4s. 6d.
Model Drawing. 3s.

Orthographical and Isometrical Projection.
2S.
Practical Perspective. 3s.
Stonemasons, Drawing for. 3s.

-L.D. 2S.
Systematic Drawing and Shading. By
Charles Ryan. 2S.

Technical Educator, Cassel's. Illustrated throughout. Popular Edition. Four

Vols., 5s. each.

Technology, Manuals of. Edited by Prof. Ayrton, F.R.S., and Richard
WoRMELL, D.Sc, M.A. Illustrated throughout.

Design in Textile Fabrics. By T. R. Ashen-hurst.
43. 6d.
Practical Mechanics. By Prof. Perry, M.E.

The Dyeing of Textile Fabrics. By Prof.

Watch and Clock Making. By D. Glasgow.

4S. 6d.
steel and Iron. By Prof. \V. H. Greenwood,

F.C.S., M.I.C.E.,&c. ss.
Spinning Woollen and Worsted. By W.

S. McLaren, M.P. 4s. 6d.

A Prospectus on application.

Test Cards, CasseU's Combination. In sets, is. each.

Test Cards, Cassel's Modern SchooL In sets, is. each.

A Copy of Cassel ami Company's Complete Catalogue will

be forwarded post free on application.

Cutting Tools Worked by Hand and :
chine. By Prof. Smith. 3s. 6d.

?60ok5 for ||oun0 ^P^opk.

"Little Folks" Half Yearly Volume. With 200 Illustrations, with Pictures in

Colour. Boards, 3s. 6d. ; or cloth gilt, 55.
Bo-Peep. A Book for the Little Ones. With Original Stories and Verses.

Illustrated throughout. Yearly Volume. Boards, as. 6d. ; cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
Every-day Heroes. By Laura Lane. Illustrated. Cloth, 2s. 6d.
Legends for LioneL New Picture Book by Walter Crane. 5s.
Flora's Feast. A Masque of Flowers. Penned and Pictured by Walter

Crane. With 40 pages in Colours. 5s.
The New Children's Album. Fcap. 4to, 320 pages. Illustrated throughout. 3s. 6d.
The Tales of the Sixty Mandarins. By P. V. Ramaswami Raju. With an

Introduction by Prof. Henry Morley. Illustrated. 55.
Sunday School Reward Books. By Popular Authors. With Four Original
illustrations in each. Cloth gilt, is. 6d. each.
Seeking a City. Rags and. Rainbows: a Story of 

Be ward; or, "If Wishes were giving.

Horses." Uncle William's Charge;

Jack Marston's Anchor. Trust.

Prank's Life-Battle; or. The Three Pretty Pink's Purpose;
Friends. Street Merchants.

or. The Broken
or. The Little

'Golden Mottoes" Series, The. Each Book containing 208 pages, with Four

full-page Original Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. each.

Honour is my Guide." By Jeanie Hearing

Nil Desperado." By the Rev. F. Lang-bridge,
M.A.

Bear and Forbear." By Sarah Pitt.

Foremost if I Can." By Helen Atteridge.

ny

Mrs. Adams-Ac
Aim at a Sure End." By Emily Searchfield.
He Conquers who Endures." By the Author

of •' May Cunningham s Trial," &c.

The " Proverbs " Series. Consisting of a New and Original Series of Stories by
Popular Authors, founded on and illustrating well-known Proverbs. With Four Illustrations
in each Book, printed on a tint. Crown 8vo, 160 pages, cloth, is. 6d. each.

Major Monk's Motto; or, "Look Before

you Leap." By the Rev. F. Cambridge.
Tim Thomson's Trial; or, " All is not Gold

that Glitters." By George Weatherly.
Ursula's Stumbling - Block ; or, " Pride

comes before a Pall." By Julia Goddard.
Ruth's Life-work; or, "No Pains, no

Gains." By the Rev. Joseph Johnson.

'ThoBc who Live in Glass
wouldn't throw Stones." By
Maggie Symington.
The "rwo Hardcastle ; or, " A Friend in
Need is a Friend Indeed." By Madeline
Bonavia Hunt.

The "Cross and Crown" Series. Consisting of Stories founded on incidents
which occurred during Religious Persecutions of Past Days. With Illustrations in
each Book. 2s. 6d. each.

By Fire and Sword: a Story of the

Huguenots. By Thomas Archer.
Adam Hepburn's Vow: a Tale of Kirk

and Covenant. By Annie S. Swan.
No. XIII ; or. The Story of the Lost

Vestal. A Tale of Early Christian Days.

By Emma Marshal.

Strong to Suffer: A Story of the Jews.

By E. Wynne.
Heroes of the Indian Empire ; or. Stories

of Valour and Victory. By Ernest Foster.
In Letters of Flame : A Story of the

Waldenses. By C. L. Bateaux.
Through Trial to Triumph. By Madeline

B. Hunt.

The World's Workers. A Series of

Authors. With Portraits printed on a
The Earl of Shaftesbury. By Henry Frith.
Sarah Robinson, Agnes Weston, and Mrs.

Meredith. By E. M. Tomlinson.
Thomas A. Edison and Samuel P. B.

Morse. By Dr. Denslow and J. Marsh

Parker.
Mrs. Somerville and Mary Carpenter. By

Phyllis Browne.
General Gordon. By the Rev S. A Swain.
Charles Dickens. By his Eldest Daughter.
Sir Titus Salt and George Moore. By J.

Burnley.
Florence Nightingale, Catherine Marsh,

Frances Ridley Havergal, Mrs. Ran-lord

("UK &.") By Lizzie Abridge.

New and Original Volumes by Popular
tint as Frontispiece, is. each.

Dr. Guthrie, Father Mathew, EUhu Bur-rite,
Joseph Liveseyey. By the Rev. J. W.

Sir Henry Havelock and Colin Campbell,

Lord Clyde. By E. C. Philips.
Abraham Lincoln. By Ernest Foster.
David Livingstone. By Robert Smiles.
George Muller and Andrew Beet. By

E. R Pitman.
Richard Cobden. By R. Cowing.
Benjamin Franklin. By E. M. Tomlinson.
Handel. By Eliza Chalice.

Turner the Artist. M\ the Rev. S. A. Swain.
George and Robert Stephenson. By C L.

Bateaux.

Five Shilling Books for Young People.

gilt, 55. each.
The Palace Beautiful. By L. T. Meade.
"Follow my Leader;" or, the Boys of

Templeton. By Talbot Baines Reed.
For Fortune and G-lory; a Story of the

Soudan War. By I-ewis Hough.
Under Bayard's Banner. By Henry Frith

With Original Illustrations. Cloth
The Champion of Odin ; or Viking Ijife

The Romance of Invention. By Jas

of the Forest. By the Hon. Mrs. Greene.
The Finer's Command. A Story for Glrla.

Mag^^ieSyniiiigton.

Three and Sixpenny Books for Young People.

Cloth gilt, 3S. 6d. each.
The Cost of a Mistake. By Sarah Pi

With Original Illustrations.

A VP-old of Girl
By L. T. Meade.
On Board the "Emeralds

A Story of a School,
or, Martin

In

rest of Gold : or. Tinder the 'Wnianga

Falls. By Alfred St. Johnston.
For Queen and King ; or, the Loyal

'Prentice. By Henry Frith.
Perils Afloat and Brigands Ashore. By

Alfred Elwcs.
Freedom's Sword : A Story of the Days of

Wallace and Bruce. By Annie S. Swan.

The "Boy Pioneer" Series. By Edward S. Elms. With Four Full-page
Illustrations in each Book. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2S. 6d. each.
Ned in the Woods. A Tale of Early Days | Ned on the River. A Tale of Indian River

The "Log Cabin " Series. By Edward S. Ellis. With Four Full-page Illustrations
in each. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. each.

The Lost Trail. | Camp-fire and Wigwam.

Footprints in the Forest.

The "Great River" Series. (Uniform with the "Log Cabin" Series.) By

Edward S. Ellis. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, bevelled boards, 2s. 6d. each.

Down the Mississippi. | Lost in the Wilds.

TTp the sapajous: or. Adventures in Brazil.

The " Chimes " Series. Each containing 64 pages, with Illustrations on every
page, and handsomely bound in cloth, is.
Bible Chimes. Contains Bible Verses for Every I Holy Chimes. Verses for Every Sunday in the

Day in the Month. I Year.

Daily Chimes. Verses from the Poets for
Every Day in the Month.

Sixpenny Story Books.

well-known Writers.
The Smuggler's Cave,
Little Lizzie.
The Boat Club.
Luke Barnicott.

Cassel's Picture Story Books. Each containing 60 pages of Pictures and
Stories, &c. 6d. each.

All Illustrated, and containing Interesting Stories by

Little Bird.
Little Pickles.
The Elehester College
Boys.

My First Cruise.

The Little Peacemaker.

The Delft Jug.

Little Talks.
Bright Stars.
Nursery Toys.
Pet's Posy.
Tiny Tales.

Illustrated Books for the

Illustrated, is. each.
Indoors and Out.
Some Farm Friends.
Those Golden Sands.
Little Mothers and their
Children.

Shilling Story Books, All

Seventeen Cats.
Bunty and the Bows.
The Heir of Elmdale.
The Mystery at Shoncliff

Sci ol.
Claimed at Last, and Roy's

Reward.
Thorns and Tangles.

Daisy's Story Book.
Dot's Story Book.
A Nest of Stories.
Good Night Stories.
Chats for Small Chatterers.

Auntie's Stories.
Birdie's Story Book.
Little Chimes.
A Sheaf of Tales.
Dewdrop Stories.

Little Ones. Containing interesting Stories. All

Our Pretty Pets.
Our Schoolboy Hours.
Creatures Tame.
Creatures Wild.

Up and Down the Garden.
All Sorts of Adventures.
Our Sunday Stories.
Our Holiday Hours.

Illustrated, and containing Interesting Stories

The Cuckoo in the Robin's
John's Mistake. [Nest.

Diamonds in the Sand.
Surly Bob.
The History of Five Little

Pitchers.
The Giant's Cradle.
Shag and Doll.

.Aunt Lucia's Locket.
The Magic Mirror.
The Cost of Revenge.
Clever Frank.
Among the Redskins.
The Ferryman of Bi-ill.
Harry Maxwell.
A Banished Monarchs

Publications.

Cassel's Children's Treasuries. Each Volume contains Stories or Poetry, and
is profusely Illustrate. Cloth, is. each.
Cock Robin, and other Nursery Climes.

Tuneful Lays for Merry Days.
Cheerful Songs for Young Folks.
Pretty Poems for Young People.
The Children's Joy.

Pretty Pictures and Pleasant Stories.

Our Picture Book.

Tales for the Little Ones.

My Sunday Book of Pictures.

Sunday Garland of Pietxires and Stories.

Sunday Readings for Little Polks.

With Text, and Outline Illustrations for

"Little Folks" Painting Books.

Water-colour Painting, is. each.
Fruits and Blossoms for " Little Polks " I The " Little Folks ' illuminating Book,
to Faint. I Pictures toPaiut.

The "Little Polks" Proverb Painting Book.

Eighteenpenny Story Books. All Illustrated throughout.

Wee 'WUUe Winkle.

Up the Ladder.

Dick's Hero; and other Stories.

The Chip Boy.

Haggles, Maggie, and the Emperor.

Roses from Thorns.

Faith's Father.

By Land and Sea.

The Young Barrington.

Jeff and Left.

Tom Morris's Error.

Worth more than Gold.

"Through Flood— Through Plrej"

other Stories.
The Girl with the Golden Looks.
Stories of the Olden Time.

The "World in Pictures" Series. Illustrated throughout. 2S. 6d. each.

A Ramble Bound France.

All the Russia.

Chats about Germany.

The Land of the Pyramids (Egypt).

Peeps into China.

The Eastern Sunderland (Japan).
Glimpses of South America.
Round Africa.

The Land of Temples (India).
The Isles of the Paeiflo.

Two-shilling Story Books. All Illustrated.

stories of the Tower.
Mr. Burke's Nieces.
May (Cunningham's Trial.
The Top of the Ladder :

How to Reach it.
Little Flotsam.
Madge and her Friends.

The Children of the Court.
A Moonbeam Tangle.
Maid Marjory.
The Four Cats of the Tip-persons.


Mai-ion's Two Homes.
Little Folks' Sunday Book.

The Magic Flower Pot. | School Girls.

Two Fourpenny Bits.

Poor Nelly.

Tom Heriot.

Aunt Tabitha's Waifs.

In Mischief Again.

Through Peril to Fortune.

Peggy, and other Tales.

Half-crown Books.

Little Hinges. • .
Margaret's Enemy.
Pen's Perplexities.
Notable Shipwrecks.
Golden Days.
Wonders of Common
At the South Pole.

The Young Man in the Battle of Life. By

the Rev. Dr. Landels.
The True Glory of Woman. By the Er.

Dr. Landels.
The Wise Woman. By George Macdonald.
Soldier and Patriot iGcorge Washington).

Picture Teaching Series. Each book Illustrated throughout. Fcap. 410, cloth

gilt, coloured edges, 2S. 6d. each.

Through Picture-Land.

Scraps of Knowledge for the Little

Ones.
Great Lessons from Little Things.

Woodland Romances.

Stories of Girlhood.

Frisk and his Flock.

Pussy Tip-Toes' Family.

The Boy Joiner and Model Maker.

The Children of Holy Scripture.

Library of Wonders. Illustrated Gift-books for Boys. Paper, is. ; cloth, is. ci.

wonders of Acoustics.
Wonderful Adventures.
Wonders of Animal Instil
Wonders of Architecture.

Wonderful Balloon Ascents.
Wonders of Bodily Strength and Skill.
Wonderful Escapes.
Wonders of Water.

The " Home Chat " Series. All Illustrated throughout. Fcap. 410. Boards, 3s. 6d.
each ; cloth, gilt edges, 5s. each.
Home Chat. I Around and About Old England.

Peeps Abroad or Folks at Home. Half-hours with Early Explorers.

Decisive Events in History. | Paws and Claws.

Books for the Little Ones. Fully Illustrated.

A Dozen and One; or. The Boys and

Girls of Polly's Ring. By Mary U.

Brine. Full of Illustrations. 5s.
The Merry-go-Hound. Poems for Children.

Illustrated throughout. 5s.
Rhymes for the Young Folk. By William

Allingham. Beautifully Illustrated. 3s. 6d.
The Little Doings of some Little Folks.

By Chatty Cheerful. Illustrated. 5s.
The Sunday Scrap Book. With One Thousand
Scripture Pictures. Boards, 5s. ; cloth,

7S. 6d.
Daisy Dimple's Scrap Book. Containing

about 1,000 Pictures. Boards, 5s. ; cloth gilt,

7s. 6d.
The History Scrap Book. With nearly

1,000 Engravings, ss. ; cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Little Folks' Out and About Book.

By Chatty Cheerful. Illustrated. 55.
Myself and my Fiends. By Olive Patch.

With numerous Illustrations. Crown 4to. 5s.
A Parcel of Children. By Olive Patch. With

numerous Illustrations. Crown 4to. ss.
Little Folks' Picture Album. With 168

Large Pictures. 5s.
Little Folks' Picture Gallery. With 150

Illustrations. 5s.

The Old Fairy Tales. With Original Illustrations.
Boards, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

My Diary. With Twelve Coloured Plates and
366 Woodcuts, is.

Happy Little People. By Olive Patch. With
Illustrations. 5s.

"Little Folks" Album of Music, The.
Illustrated. 3s. 6d.

Cheerful Clatter. Nearly One Hundred Full-page
Pictures. 3s. 6d.

Twilight Fancies. Full of charming Pictures.
Boards, 2s. 6d.

Happy Go Lucky. 2s.

IS. 6d.

Jolly Little Stories,
Our Little Friends, is. och,
Daisy Del's Stories, is. 6d
Little Toddlers, is. 6d.
Wee Little Rhymes. is. 6d,
Little One's Welcome.
Little Gossips, is. 6d.
Ding Dong Bell. is. 6d.
The Story of Robin Hood.

Illustrations. 2s. 6d.
The Pilgrim's Progress.

Illustrations. 2S. 6d.

6d.

With Coloured
With Coloured

Books for Boys.

Commodore Junk. By G. Manville Fenn. 5s.

The Black Arrow. A Tale of the Two Roses.
By R. L. Stevenson. 5s.

Dead Man's Rock. A Romance. By Q. 55.

A Queer Race. By W. Westall. ss.

Captain Trafalgar. A Story of the Mexican
Gulf. By W. Westall. Illustrated, ss.

Kidnapped. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated. 5s.

King Solomon's Mines. By H. Rider Haggard,
ss.

Treasure Island. By R. L. Stevenson. With
Full-page Illustrations, ss.
Sail
;wall-Jones. Illustrated.

The Phantom City. By W. Westall. ss.

Famous Sailors of Former Times, History
of the Sea Fathers. By Clements
Markham. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.

Modem Explorers. By Thomas Frost. Illustrated.
5s.

Wild Adventures in WUd Places. By Dr.
Gordon Stables, M.D., R.N. Illustrated, ss.

Jungle, Peak, and Plain. By Dr. Gordon
Stables, R.N. Illustrated. 5s.

O'er Many Lands, on Many Seas. By Gordon
Stables, R.N. Illustrated, ss.

At the South Pole. By W. H. G. Kingston.
New Edition, Illustrated, as. 6d.

Books for all Children.

Cassel's Robinson Crusoe. With 100
striking Illustrations. Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; gilt
edges, ss.

CasseU's Swiss Family Robinson. Illustrated.
Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, ss.

Sunny Spain: Its People and Places,
with Glimpses of its History. By
Olive Patch. Illustrated. 5s.

Rambles Round London Town. By C. L.
Matiaux. Illustrated. 5s.

Favorite Album of Fun and Fancy, The.
Illustrated. 3s. 6d.

Familiar Friends. By Olive Patch. Illustrated.
Cloth gilt, 5s.

Odd Folks at Home. By C. L. Bateaux.

With nearly 150 Illustrations. 5s.
Field Friends and Forest Foes. By Olive

Patch. Profusely Illustrated, ss.
Silver 'Wings and Golden Scales. Illus-little

Polks' Holiday Album. Illustrated.
3S.6d.

Tiny Houses and their Builders. Illustrated,
children

of aU Nations. Their Homes, their
Schools, their Playgrounds. Illustrated ss.

Tim Tremble's " Little Mother." By C
L. Bateaux. Illustrated. 5s.

Cassel Je COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London, Pari. New
York <fc Melbourne.

BIDDY FANE.

HER SURPRISING CURIOUS ADVENTURES IN
STRANGE PARTS & HAPPY DELIVERANCE
FROM PIRATES, BATTLE, CAPTIVITY, & OTHER
TERRORS; WITH DIVERS ROMANTIC ^ MOVING
ACCIDENTS AS SET FORTH BY Bent
PENGILLY (HER COMPANION IN Misfortune
& JOY), & NOW FIRST DONE INTO
PRINT

BY

FRANK BARRETT,

Author of '■^ Folly Morrison,'''' "I/otiest Davie," dec.

Vol. n.

Cassel ik COMPANY, Limited

LONDON, PARIS, NEW YORK d- MELBOURNE.
1888.

[all rights reserved.]

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XXII. P.M.K

I Reckon to have made one Enemy the Less,

BUT FIND MYSELF MISTAKEN GRIEVOUSLY . . 1

CHAPTER XXIII.
How Rodriguez GOT AT THE Truth, AND A LiR

INTO THE Bargain 15

CHAPTER Xxii.
Lady Biddy sorely put to it whether to tell

THE Truth or hold her Tongue , . .11

CHAPTER XXV.

Lady Biddy is set Ashore, but little Mercy

therein-10

CHAPTER Xxii.
How I got away from the Vile Pirate and

Settled Tonga his Business . . . .51

CHAPTER Xxvi.

PAGE

Of our Further Escapes, and a Stratagem by
WHICH OUR Enemies were put to Great Discomfort
60

CHAPTER XXVIII.
By my Arrant Folly I Lose my Dear Lady

Biddy 72

CHAPTER XXIX.
I Find my Lady Biddy, and we Despoil our

Enemies; with other Facetious Matter . 82

CHAPTER XXX.
I Find Myself in the Paradise of Fools . . 95

CHAPTER XXXI.
We Think the Worst of our Troubles are

OVER; but THfc,Y ARE NOT 106

CHAPTER XXXII.
We are Encompassed with Blackamoors, to our

Great Peril 115

CHAPTER Xxxvii.
We are like to be Crushed under a huge

Koch 127

CHAPTER XXXIV.
In which Providence, not to be always a-
scourging of us, provides us with good
Entertainment , . 137

CHAPTER XXXV.

Tags

A Speedy End is Brought to our Civil Entertainment
14')

CHAPTER XXXVI.

We set out for the Interior, and I fall into

MY Jealous Humour once more . . . 162

CHAPTER XXXVII.
An Explanation of that Cry I heard in the

Night, with other Pertinent Matter . . 178

CHAPTER XXXVIII.
I am Overcome and Clapped up in one of those

Strong Towers 1S6

CHAPTER XXXIX.
How I WAS led on by Passion to Cut a Man's

Throat 202

CHAPTER XL.
I find an Excellent Friend in place of a Cruel

Enemy 213

CHAPTER XLI.
A Discourse with my New-found Friend Matthew
Pennyfarden 220

CHAPTER XLII.
We are Pursued by Dogs and Portugalss . . 235

CHAPTER XLIII.

PAGE

We Lay our Heads Together concerning what

IS Best to be Done . . . . 246

CHAPTER XLIV.
In which Matthew Plays the Beggar and I the

Fool 254

BIDDY FANE.

♦•«

CHAPTER XXII.

1 RECKON TO HAVE MADE ONE ENEMY THE LESS,
BUT FIND MYSELF MISTAKEN GRIEVOUSLY.

Lady Biddy returned to the other cabin, and
there sat where she might be seen from the
deck, the vehicle she pretended to be vastly
interested in her book, in order to beguile
Rodrigues in his fool's hope ; for surely to
see her thus unconcerned must have led him
to believe her passion of no great depth or
sincerity.

Meanwhile, in the adjoining cabin, I revolved
a thousand schemes in my head concerning
our condition, which so engrossed my
d

thoughts as all recollection of the trap-door
found no place there.

But in the evening, when Lady Biddy came
in with a portion of the victuals which had been
laid out for her supper by the little blackguard
boy, and I asked her if she had seen aught of
Eodrigues, she replied that out of the corner of
her eye she had perceived him once watching
her.

But," says she, " I know not but that he
has some fresh device in mind, for there has
been a great African negro past the window half
a dozen times, and on each occasion he has
grinned with his big mouth so that I am quite
at a loss what to make of him."

I asked her to describe this fellow to me,
which she did closely, telling me he was over
six feet high and proportionate in girth,
with a flat nose spread upon his shining blackface,
and a huge mouth projecting like any
ape's.

By these tokens I recalled to mind such a
blackmore fighting beside Eodrigues at that

time I first boarded the Black Death. But
what his purpose might be in passing the cabin
window and grinning at Lady Biddy perplexed
me as greatly as it did her, until of a sudden
I bethought me of the attempt to enter the
cabin in the night, and of the boy unbolting
the trap.

** Did you see him at any time in company
with the little wretch who waits on you ? " I
asked.

Yes," replies Lady Biddy. " Indeed, from
his handing a dish to the boy, I am disposed to
believe he is the cook."

This so strengthened my suspicions that I
could make no reply ; for though I would fain
have spared Lady Biddy any further addition to
her anxiety, yet could I see no way of concealing
this new peril from her without adding to her
danger.

Do you not think, Benet," says she, presently,
" that there is some new design of
Eodrigues in this ? "

Nay," say I, "I am rather disposed to
b 2

believe that this is some new enemy your
beauty has created, and that the heathen
negro has a mind to possess you before his
master."

She shuddered, and sank down as if overwhelmed
with this new horror.

Then I told her of the attempt to enter
the cabin by night, and of the boy's villainy,
showing her the hatch straightway.

However," say I, " be assured that you
run no greater risk from him than from the
other villain. But I must beg you to repose as
best you may in the big cabin to-night, and
leave this chamber to me and the negro. We
must rid ourselves of our enemies one at a time,
with God's help."

Surely you do not intend to let him enter
by that trap-door, Benet ? "

Yes," say I, " that way must he come to
the end he deserves. God knows I have no
taste to the taking of life ; but this wretch seeks
our undoing ; not we his. In self-defence I
must kill him."

But may you not as well foil him by
shooting the bolt of the trap-door, Benet ? "

"No," say I, "for that will only lead him
to seek other means which we may not be
prepared to frustrate. With a rope he may
let himself down into the gallery beyond your
cabin."

I will run that risk," says she, " rather than
you shall jeopardise your life for me. You will
still be at hand to fulfil your promise, whether
my enemy be this black or Eodrigues. At the
worst we can but die."

Ay, that is true," say I, transported with
delight at this dear girl's concern for my safety ;
"but we must endeavour for the best rather
than await the worst, and I make no doubt but
that all will go well if you let me have my
way. Nay, you must," I added, firmly.

And this firmness taking effect upon her
judgment (for women respect nothing so much
as decision in a man), she consented to do as I
directed.

When night fell she bolted the door of the

outer cabin, drew lier blinds, lowered the wick
of the lamp till it shed but a mere glimmer, and
sought repose on the sett, though little disposed
to sleep.

Meanwhile, having drawn the bolt of the
hatch and returned the mat to its place, I
knelt down beside it with my knife in my hand,
and no mercy in my heart.

Again this night was pitch-dark, though it
rained not, so that no light came into the cabin,
and I could see nothing whatever save a thin
thread of light under the betwixt door, and that
but dim because of the lamp being low in the
next cabin. But if my eyes were useless to me,
my ears served me well, and no sound in the
ship escaped me ; yet I heard nothing of importance
for many hours, as it seemed to me.
A long while it must have been, for several
times I had to shift my position because of
being cramped in my legs by kneeling so long
in one position.

At length an unusual sound (but very
slight) reached my ear, and putting my head to

the floor, I distinctly heard the creak of wood,
such as a ladder might make under the weight
of a heavy body. Then, lifting my head and
tightening my muscles, I grasped my knife, and
prepared for the stroke.

Presently a fresh sound warned me that my
enemy had come to the trap ; but whether he
had it open or not I could not tell for the darkness,
so that I was forced to reach forward with
my left hand to feel whether the hatch was up
or down.

The floor was still level.

I waited, trusting to my ears to tell me by
the grating of the mat on the edge of the
hatch when it was raised. Yet heard I never a
sound for his great circumspection, though expecting
it for half an hour at the least, as I
judge ; so that in the end, thinking I had been
mistaken as to the sound I heard at first, or that
the wretch at the last moment had gone from
his design, I stretched forth my left hand once
more to feel the floor. But, lo ! instead of
touching the carpet as I thought to do, my hand

fell plump on the negro's head, as I knew to ray
certainty hy the short, wiry curls that distinguished
his hair from other men's.

I did not hesitate for one moment, but
clutching his hair firmly with my left hand, I
stabbed my knife down where I thought his
neck might be.

I knew I had not missed him, for I felt
my knife scrape along a bone, and his warm
blood gush over my hand ; yet where I had
cut him, that I could not tell.

Without a cry (Heaven be praised!) he fell.
Nor could I (having thrown my whole weight
upon him) help but fall with him ; so down I
went, heels over head through the hatchway,
but happily by the incline of the steps below,
and striking on the negro's carcase when I got
to the bottom, I escaped this bout with no more
injury than a scraped shin and a bruised elbow.
My chief concern was lest the noise of our fall
had alarmed some of the ship's company ; and
getting quickly on my feet I listened for a
minute in terrible suspense.

Then from above I heard Lady Biddy
whisper, anxiously, " Benet ! Benet ! "

All's well — all's well ! " I answered, softly.
Go back to the cabin and move about that
the watch may think you made the noise."

This she did, leaving the betwixt door
open, and raising the light of the lamp, as
I could see by the square patch above, where
the light gleamed faintly through the hatchway.


Casting my eyes around that I might, if
possible, find out my position, I spied a little
lantern not far off, hidden away between two
barrels. And a perilous thing it seemed to place
it there, for, at a glance, I perceived that these
were barrels of powder, and many other like
barrels were ranged along that side. But seamen,
by being constantly exposed to danger, do
get to be wondrous reckless and foolhardy, and
none more so than these pirates.

Taking away the lantern and lifting it high,
I saw that the walls were hung and fitted with
muskets, swords, pikes, and all sorts of weapons,

whereby it was made clear to me that I had
pitched down into the ' ship's armoury. Further,
this explained the reason of there being
a way of communication with the captain's
cabin ; for in case of mutiny (which pirates
must always look to encounter), Eodrigues could
close the armoury from within, and provision
himself and his followers for their defence of
the roundhouse or coach.

From this store I thought it would not be
amiss to furnish myself with a good sheath-dagger
in place of my jack-knife, which either I
had not drawn from the negro after stabbing
him, or had dropped from my hand in falling
down from above. As I went to take the weapon
I wanted from the wall, my foot kicked
against something round on the ground, and,
looking down, I perceived there a pile of hand-grenades,
and this at once put me in mind how I
might, at any moment, destroy the ship with
every soul it contained. For by casting one of
those grenades amongst the powder such an explosion
would be caused as should rend every

timber asunder, and in one moment blow all
living creatures from the slip into eternity.

I took up a grenade, and, examining it,
found that it was properly fitted with a fusee ;
so, turning it about in my hand, I reflected
how sure and quick it would be to our destruction,
and .how preferable to any death I might
deal with a blade. Finally, my heart sickening
at the thought of having to plunge a knife in
Lady Biddy's bosom, I resolved that if her
escape from shame could only be unsought by
death, I would use this grenade, that we should
perish together at the same instant.

This cogitation put the intention of arming
myself with a short dagger quite out of my
mind, and being now beset with a fear lest
Lady Biddy should be alarmed by my absence,
I hastened to return, carrying the lantern in
one hand and my grenade in the other.

I had light enough to descry the steps that
led to the trap-door, and thither I made ni}'^
way. Presently I stumbled against the body of
the negro. He lay doubled up betwixt the side

of the steps and a pile of cannon-balls, and from
his position I surmised that he had rolled over
in falling and struck head first upon the balls,
which alone would have been death to any
ordinary man.

When I had got back to the cabin, and
fastened down the trap, I set my grenade carefully
under the cot, and by the side of it the
lantern, lowering the wick (for it was fitted
with an oil lamp in lieu of a candle), until there
was left but the smallest light possible. Burning
at this little pace, I reckoned the lamp
would go some days, with attention, and I
prayed it might last till we reached a port
where we might escape ; for without it to ignite
the fusee my grenade would be of no use.

While I was yet arranging these matters.
Lady Biddy came to me.

"You are not hurt, Benet?" were the first
words she whispered.

No, cousin," say I ; " but you have one
enemy the less."

She made no reply, but rested her hand for

support upon the bed, as if the thought of this
death sickened her.

I slipped my right hand behind me lest
she should see the black patch which, even in
that faint light, I perceived the negro's blood
had stained my hand with. Then, to turn her
thoughts I asked if any notice had been taken
by the watch of the noise made by my falling
down the hatchway.

No," says she ; and then, after a few
minutes' silence, " Oh, Benet, I wish it were
all over."

Courage, my dear lady's courage," say I.
You are not used to give way in the face
of danger."

No," says she ; " 'tis when the danger is
past my courage sinks."

But the danger was not past, as was presently
made evident. For in that space of
silence which succeeded her last words — a
silence which was scarce broken by the water
through which the ship was cutting — a groan
from below reached my ears, and the next

instant a creaking of the steps leading np to
the trap, with something like the low, vengeful
growling of a tiger.

I sprang to the corner to make sure that I
had secured the trap, for I felt convinced the
negro was coming up to take his revenge
upon us.

HOW RODlllGUES GOT AT THE TRUTH, AND A LIE
INTO THE BARGAIN.

Hearing these sounds, I say, I was assured that
the negro intended to burst open the trap and
take revenge for the wound I had dealt him, and
I have good reason to believe that this was his
intent and purpose, for, standing on the hatch
to lend strength to the bolt that secured it, I
felt it move beneath my feet; nay, the very
boards cracked under the force of his broad
shoulders against it.

But this prodigious effort was too much for
the strength of the wounded wretch. Presently
we heard a hoarse cry of rage, and then a heavy
fall, as if he had yielded to a faintness and
pitched down once more to the ground.

After that we could discover no movement
below, nor any sound whatever; neither was
any further attempt made to raise the trap.

Seeing that Lady Biddy was very much
overwrought by this excitement and her previous
want of rest, I implored her to return to the
other cabin and seek repose — pointing out that
we had no more to fear from the black, and
promising that, should anything happen to the
contrary, I would not fail to let her know.
And listening at length to my persuasions, she
went back as I bade her, lowered the wick of
her lamp, and after awhile, as she told me in
the morning, unconsciously fell asleep. For
my own part, I spent the rest of that night
seated on the hatch, never once closing my eyes

or relaxing my watch.

In the morning Lady Biddy, coming to me,

whispered that search was being made for the

negro ; indeed, I could, with my own ears, hear

the men bellowing in different parts, " Tonga !

Tonga ! " which was the name of this fellow, it

seems.

I bade Lady Biddy go back again to her

cabin, and seem to know nothing of what this

search meant.

Soon after she had returned there, Rodriguez
came to her, and, with a vast show of
respect and consideration, begged she would
have patience to wait a little while for her
breakfast, as the cook was not at his post, and
could not be found.

I remark-ed his manner was strange all
day yesterday," says he, " and it is as like as
not he has thrown himself overboard in a fit of
madness, produced by the heat of the sun.
However," he adds, "this accident shall not
interfere with your convenience, for I will dress
your victuals with my own hands rather than
they shall be ill-served." And with this polite
speech he makes his conger and leaves my lady.

At noon, when the boy had served the dinner,
Eodrigues came again to apologise for the
quality of the food, saying that they had run
short of provisions with having been so long at
sea, but that he hoped to provide her with fresh
meat and fruit before twenty-four hours, as land
was in sight, and he counted to cast anchor the
following morning.

Lady Biddy replied as graciously as lie
could to one whom she so loathed and despised,
and in this (despite her natural repugnance to
hypocrisy or deceit) her wit was aided by the
comfort of this news, and the knowledge that
our chance of escape would be greatly aided by
lulling Rodrigues' suspicion.

He said not a word about marriage, and indeed
behaved himself with becoming civility;
and to make him believe that he had succeeded
in producing a more favourable impression on
herself, Lady Biddy begged him, when he was
going, to leave the door wide open that she
might have the benefit of the air.

About two o'clock, when all the company
were resting (for in these latitudes it is impossible
to work while the sun is in the meridian),
Lady Biddy came into the little cabin,
and with great glee told me what had passed
and how we were nearing land.

But," says she, "if we come to an anchor
in the morning, will it be possible to escape in
broad daylight ? "

"No," say I; "that we cannot, unless we
should get away when all are taking their noon
rest. But there is no necessity to run great
peril by haste. Water, I doubt not, is what is
most needed. As Rodrigues said nothing
about reaching a port, it is pretty evident
he is running ' to land for the immediate refreshment
of his company. They will not be
content getting on shore to embark again at
once, even if they succeed in finding a freshet
for the filling of their barriers. Any way I feel
certain we shall not lift anchor again for twenty-four
hours, and that will give us the night to
make our escape in."

Satisfied with this assurance. Lady Biddy
returned to the next cabin, after bathing her
sweet hands and face, leaving me to turn over in
my mind a hundred schemes for our deliverance ;
yet none could I hit on but what seemed desperate
in the extreme.

Nothing occurred to disturb Lady Biddy's
repose the succeeding night, to her great refreshment
no less than to my satisfaction.
c 2

Shortly after daybreak there was much bustle
on deck, and presently I heard the anchor drop,
whereupon, as if the moment of our release were
come, my heart bounded with joy, and I scraped
at the wall to awake Lady Biddy. By her
quick reply, I knew that the sound had aroused
her, and she had divined its meaning.

Then there arose a great hallooing and
shouting amongst the men, who seemed no less
pleased than we, though from another cause.
But there was yet much to be done before a boat
could be sent ashore. However, the fellows set
about their work with a will, and now there
was nothing but singing and laughing over
it, whereas before they had gone about their
business in sullen silence.

It may have been about eight o'clock when
the merriment on board was of a sudden hushed,
and Lady Biddy, looking from the door to see
what this might mean, perceived a seaman
coming up the hatchway in the fore part of the
ship, with a jar and a bundle in one hand, and
dragging the cook's boy up by the hair of his

head with the other. Being come on deck he
leads the urchin, crying lustily, towards Rodriguez,
who was standing not • far from the
roundhouse.

I've watched the little hound as you bid
me, your honour," says the man, addressing
Eodrigues ; " and I fetched him sneaking down
l)eIow with these here, which he dropped when
he sees me, whereby I snowed he was up to no
good."

What are those ? " asks Eodrigues, indicating
the jar and the bundle.

A noggin o' water, your honour," says the
seaman ; and," he adds (undoing the clout), " a
mess o' wattles. Axed me not to tell you, your
honour."

Whom were you taking those things to ? "
asks Eodrigues.

"No one, your honour," answers the boy,
whimpering. " I was a-going to eat 'em myself."


Whom were you taking them to ? " Rodriguez'
repeats, in the same even tone.

THE ADMIRABLE LADY BIDDY FANE.

The boy looked at him, and, clasping his
wretched little hands, cried for inercy.

Overboard with him," sa3^s Rodrigues.

A couple of men seized hold of him.

Spare me ! spare me ! " cries the child.
I'll tell all if you'll only spare me."

Out with it ! " says Rodrigues.

I was carrying 'em to Tonga."

Rodrigues hereupon nodded to a group of
fellows, who, taking the boy for their guide,
went forward and so down the hatchway below.
Meanwhile, the captain turned upon his heel, so
that he faced the window where Lady Biddy was
watching, and she observed that there was a
most malicious smile on his wicked face, as
though mightily satisfied to find his surmise
justified. And while he was walking towards
the coach with his head bent, he raised his eyes,
yet without lifting his head, and under his black
brows cast a strange glance at my lady.

Presently those men who had gone below
returned, bringing with them the boy and the
negro. And this man was fearful to look on

because of the mess of dried blood upon bim, a
gaping wound all blue and red in bis shoulder,
and the sickness of fear in bis face as be was
baled before Rodrigues. Yet, for all bis fear, there
was rage of passion in bis eye as be caught sight
of Lady Biddy, and also when be looked at the
boy, wbo shrank away from bim in dread.

You look ' sick, Tonga. What bas ailed
you ? " asked Rodrigues, as if be looked to get
a satisfactory answer.

Tonga nodded, and in a coarse voice told,
with such queer speech as negroes use, bow the
beat bad made bim giddy, so that be fell down
the batch into the bold, and lay there unable
to move.

You seem to bave fallen on something that
ought not to be in the bold," sa3"s Eodrigues,
going close up to bim and looking at bis wound,
the fellow being stark naked to the waist. " It
looks as if it bad been done with a knife.
How's that ? "

Tbe negro swore be knew not bow be bad
come by this wound.

You cannot tell me ? " says Eodrigues,
airily.

Tonga shook his head.

You were so giddy you knew not what
happened."

Tonga nodded, grinning, yet with little
taste to mirth, but uneasily.

Well," says Eodrigues, " we must hear
what your little friend can tell us about it.
Come, my boy — what do you know about this
business ? "

The boy, shivering in every limb (as with
a quartern), glanced at the black, who returned
a wicked look of warning.

I know naught, your honour," cries the
little fellow, " save that he called to me from
below for meat and drink."

Nothing else ? "

Naught, your honour."

Then Eodrigues says a word to two of the
seamen, who straightway ran to the fore end,
and came back, bearing a long plank betwixt
them ; and this they set athwart the bulwarks, a

little less than midway of its length, and with
its longer end resting on a chest that stood
over that way.

Get up ! " says Eodrigues.

The boy, not knowing what was toward,
and mightily perplexed, did as he was bidden,
and so stood up facing Eodrigues. But one of
the seamen, cursing him for his want of manners
as he put it — twisted him round so that he
faced the sea.

Walk ! " cries Eodrigues, when the boy
was thus position.

Whereupon the boy, still unwitting, walked
forward towards the bulwarks and there stopped.

Walk ! " cries Eodrigues, a little louder
than heretofore.

Then the perplexed boy made another step
forward, but seeing that if he walked further he
must overbalance the board, and so shoot into
the sea below, he stopped again.

Walk ! " cries Eodrigues again, this time
whipping out his sword.

Then the boy, seeing the meaning of this,

fell upon his knees, crying for pity, and telling
all he knew and had hitherto concealed — to wit,
that Tonga made him draw the bolt of the
trap in the captain's cabin that morning he
went for his silver-braided coat, and that it was
from the armoury and not from the hold the
black cried to him for drink, and also that he
had helped him to get down in the hold, and
dared not do otherwise for fear of his life.

You hear this, Tonga," says Eodrigues.
Now will you tell me how you got that cut ? "

She did it ! " roars the negro, with the
ferocity of any tiger, pointing with his hand
towards Lady Biddy, while flames of fire seemed
to flash in his eyes. " She did it ! "

LADY BIDDY SORELY PUT TO IT WHETHER TO TELL
THE TRUTH OR HOLD HER TONGUE.

Without turning to see whom the negro indicated,
or what effect this charge made upon
her, Rodrigues said —

That is a lie. No woman's hand struck
that blow" Then, turning to his boatswain,
he gave him instructions to pipe the whole
company together and see that no man was
wanting. This the boatswain did, and when all
the men were ranged across the deck in a line
with the plank, on which the wretched boy still
knelt, crying bitterly, Tonga standing before
them, and Eodrigues facing him sword in hand,
the latter spoke —

Tonga would have us believe he was
struck down by a woman," says he. " What
say you ? "

The men, as much to support their captain

as of their own conviction, shook their heads
and cried " No ! "

Then," says Eodrigues, "it follows that one
of you struck the blow, which, by those rules to
which all have put their hands, is a treacherous
offence, to be punished with death. Which of
you did it ? "

To this no one made reply, but all stood
mischance, spying their fellows to see if any
bore guilt in his face ; but all looked, innocent
of this offence, as Eodrigues, with his discriminating
eye, could well perceive. When he
had looked them all over in silence, waiting an
answer, he said, " Not a soul leaves this ship,
though you go dry another fortnight, till the
truth is found out. I give Tonga into your
hands. Employ what means you choose — short
of taking his life — to get a true confession from
him."

Then, turning again towards the boy, he
cried, " Stand, up ! limb of the devil — up with
you!"

The poor little wretch stood up for fear of

the glittering sword, but still with his hands
clasped, and the tears running down his cheeks.

Walk ! " again cries Eodrigues ; " there is
no place in this ship for a liar."

The child turned his face to the sea with a
pitiful moan.

Then Lady Biddy, seeing his sorrowful case,
and that he was to be forced to his death, was
moved to desperation by the passionate pity in
her heart, and so bursting from the cabin she
ran forward to save him. But it was too late ;
the child, seeing no escape from death by the
sword or the sea, and being mayhap tempted to
the latter because it looked so fair and cool, with
a shrill cry of despair ran suddenly forward, so
that, the plank tilting up, he was plunged headlong
down into the waves. At the sight of this
cruel business, Lady Biddy stopped midway in
the deck and covered her face with her hands,
while that last despairing cry of the child's was
echoed back from her own compassionate breast.

Of all this I saw nothing, being within the
little cabin ; yet I was conscious that something

unusual was going forward in the slip by a
sound or two that came to my ear as I stood
by the panel-door. Thus, as I stood straining
ni}^ senses to make out the meaning of these
sounds, I heard a quick movement in the
next chamber, and scarce a moment afterwards
that pitiful cry of Lady Biddy's which I have
spoken of. Then, heedless of my danger, and
that I had no weapon for her defence but the
hands God gave me, I tore open the door and
leapt into the next cabin, expecting nothing less
than to find my lady at the feet of Eodrigues.
Discovering no such matter, but spying Lady
Biddy standing alone a few paces from the door,
I was much taken aback, yet not so much but
that I at once recognised my folly and imprudence
in thus exposing myself; so seeing
that, as luck would have it, I was still unobserved
— having gone no further into the
cabin than enabled me to catch sight of my
lady where she stood close beyond the outer
door — I drew back at once within the little
cabin.

Being there, I stood irresolute, not knowing
what to do for the best for the tumult of my
mind. For I could make out nothing of what I
had seen ; yet was I pretty sure that a climax
was at hand — the more so because I presently
heard Eodrigues speaking to Lady Biddy in the
next chamber. At length, making up my mind
to be ready for the worst, and not to be taken by
surprise in the manner I have shown, I went to
the lantern which stood under the cot, and turned
up the wick so that it gave a good flame, laid
the grenade beside it, ready to fire the fusee at
any moment, and then going to the corner
turned back the strip of carpet, and drew back
the bolt of the trap.

These preparations being made, I returned to
the little door and leaned my ear against it, and
then hearing no sound within, I went to that
part of the wall over against where my lady
used to sit, and made the usual signal to her by
scratching a little upon the panel. To this she
replied, not cheerfully as before, but feebly, as
though she had lost heart. Yet it was a comfort

to me to know she was there and Rodrigues
gone.

Now must I go back somewhat.

As Lady Biddy stood with her hands to her
face, shutting out the sight of that heartless
cruelty put upon the child who had waited
upon her (and to whom she had shown many
a kindness, giving him sweetmeats from her
table and the like), Rodrigues comes up to
her.

Why, madam," says he, " do you take the
death of this little traitor to heart? Sure, I
counted to have pleased you by revenging the
injury to your person he did his best to further.
Be comforted, I pray you." With this he would
have laid his hand upon her arm, but that she
shrank from him in loathing, and turning about
returns to her cabin.

The boy is at peace," says Rodrigues, walking
by her side. " And is it not better he should
die now rather than grow up to be a hardened
villain? May I fetch you a glass of wine to
restore your spirits ? " he asks when they were

come into the cabin, and Lady Biddy had sunk
down upon the sett.

She shook her head, yet without trusting
herself to look upon him.

Fetching a sigh, Eodi*igues seated himself
near her, and says he —

Doubtless you think me cold-blooded and
heartless ; yet I do assure you I am not. But
while I command this ship I must exercise
severity, for only by inspiring fear can I obtain
the respect and obedience of my company.
When I am no longer a pirate you will see
that my nature is different. Heaven knows I
shall be enchanted to abandon this horrid career
to quit for ever a lawless life, and give example
of humane sentiments. It is in your power to
make that hand an instrument of charity and
mercy which, hitherto, you have seen exercised
only in necessary severity ; and this reflection
will, I trust, reconcile you to our speedy union."

With this hint he leaves her — to my lady's
satisfaction.

Meanwhile the company, after conferring
d

together, laid hands on Tonga, vowing that if
he would not willingly confess who had stabbed
him, they would certainly avail themselves of
their captain's permission and force him to do so
by torture. But the black could do no more
than repeat what he had told already — viz., that
he had been stabbed and thrown down into the
armoury as he was entering the cabin above,
adding that if Lady Biddy had not struck the
blow he knew not who had, for there was no
light to see what hand it was.

Well," says the boatswain, " you'll have to
name one of us, that's certain, for the comfort of
the rest. But, mark you, be careful not to name
any who can prove his innocence, for if you play
us a scurvy trick of that sort we'll burn the soles
off your feet."

As he made no reply, for fear of subjecting
himself to the horrid torture they threatened,
they took a cord that ran through a block at the
yardarm, and with one end they bound his wrists
together behind his back. When he was thus
secured, they pulled upon the other end of this

same cord till lie swung free of the bulwarks
and hung over the sea.

By keeping his muscles tense and his wrists
well down against the small of his back, Tonga
hung in mid-air for some time without suffering.
But gradually the effort to keep this position
increased as the weight of his great body inclining
forward taxed the muscles of his arms, as
you shall find if you do but try such experiment.
Presently one of those who held the
other end of the line hitched over a spar, growing
impatient of his endurance, gave the cord a
sudden jerk, whereby the black's wrists were
■\\Tenched away from his loins, so that now his
muscles were powerless, as one may say, while
his vast bulk, hanging thus at an angle with his
wrists, threatened to drag his arms out of their
sockets.

This torment the black endured for some
while in peace; but at length, when another
jerk was given to the cord, he uttered a great
yell of rage and agony.

Hearing that terrible cry, Lady Biddy could
d 2

no longer endure to witness such suffering, and
again ran from her cabin, bidding the seamen in
mercy to desist from his further torture.

M this moment Rodrigues came on deck
from below, whither he had descended upon
quitting Lady Biddy.

You wish Tonga to be relieved from his
pain ? " asks he.

Yes, yes," cries she ; " don't you see that
his arms are being torn from his body ? "

His plight is not so bad as that," says
Rodrigues. " However, if you wish to save him
from his discomfort you may do so by a single
word ; though 'tis a thankless service on your
part, for if he were allowed free use of his deliverance
he would employ it to destroy you."

No matter," cries Lady Biddy, as another
yell reached her ear. " Let him go, I say."

You shall be obeyed immediately if you
will give yourself the trouble to step this way
and answer one question."

Saying this, Rodrigues turned towards the
roundhouse ; but instead of going into the cabin

as before, lie ascended the steps to the poop
deck, over which there hung a tent of fine
canvas.

Without regarding whither she went, Lady
Biddy accompanied him, being distracted, with
the ringing of the negro's cry in her ear, and
concerned only for his release.

Being come upon this deck, Rodrigues, standing
in the gangway and facing my lady, said —

"Lady Biddy, the man hanging from the
yardarm has been strung up in order that I may
know who stabbed him. I must get that information
for my own safety and the safety of my
company, for the hand that struck Tonga might
strike me. You see, I am quite reasonable in
the view I take of things."

Hark ! " cried Lady Biddy, as another
scream came from the black.

Yes, he is in terrible agony," says Rodrigues,
" and he will continue to suffer while I
am ignorant of the one fact I want to know.
He will be taken down the moment I discover
who stabbed him. Will you tell me ? "

Now was my lady in a sore strait, for she
could not tell him it was I, and yet by not telling
him must she prolong the terrible torment of the
black.

"He must hang there till he dies of his
pain," continues Rodrigues (after watching my
lady's embarrassed face for a minute), " if I am
kept ignorant. On the other hand, I promise
you he shall be amply recompensed for his pangs
if I find out."

Lady Biddy heard this, yet little did she
reck what Eodrigues intended for the black's
recompense.

Suppose I did it with my own hand ? " says
she, eagerly.

Eodrigues fetched from his pocket a mariner's
jack-knife, and says he, " Is this yours, madam ?"

No," says she, looking at it in perplexity.

You don't know the look of it ? " he asks.

She shook her head with misgiving.

Then," says he, " I cannot suppose that
you did it with your own hand, for this is the
knife with which Tong-a was stabbed. Come,

Lady Biddy, if you know who did this thing,
why not tell at once ? "

How should I know ? " cries Lady Biddy.

Because he is your friend," says Rodrigues,
slowly. " There is the whole of my company,"
adds he, waving his hand towards the deck.
Not one of those fellows would have moved a
hand to save you from the lust of Tonga. The
only one on this ship, except myself, who would
preserve you is " (dropping his voice and leaning
forward) " down there ; " and saying this
he pointed with his finger to the cabin beneath
them.

LADY BIDDY IS SET ASHORE ; BUT LITTLE MERCY
THEREIN.

Hearing these words, Lady Biddy was thrown
into such disorder that even had Rodrigues been
of dull perception he might have read in her
distracted countenance justification of his suspicions.
Stepping aside, he fetches a seat placed
there for his convenience, and sets it down beside
Lady Biddy, who, for want of strength to stand
up, sank into it. Then going to the rail, he
calls to his boatswain, bidding him to let down
Tonga, as he had discovered who it was that
stabbed him.

But," adds he, " no man is to stir from his
post till he has my further command."

Whereupon the black was lowered down and
hauled upon deck, where he lay for some time
helpless and supine.

While this was a-doing, Rodrigues turns

again to Lady Biddy, who was now come to
herself again somewhat, and says he —

You have shown a tender heart for the boy
who betrayed you, and the negro who would
have shown you no pity. What will you do for
the man who saved you ? "

Lady Biddy dropped her chin on her bosom
and clasped her hands in silence, feeling how
helpless she was, and how incapable of coping
with the difficulty which now beset her.

That he is courageous and strong he has
given ample proof," continues Eodrigues ; " but
the strength and vigour of a lion cannot save
him from the wrath of my company. I have
but to tell them an enemy lies hid in the cabin
below, and they will seize him and put him to
greater torture than the black has endured.
They will tear him limb from limb before your
eyes, and even T could not save him from that
horrid death."

But I could," cries Lady Biddy, starting
up. " Ay, and I will. Lift your voice to those
heartless tigers below, and I will lift mine to

him. Ere they can move a pace he will be
beyond their violence, and I yours."

Eodrigues looked at her steadfastly through
his half-closed eyelids, as if to make sure this
threat was not idle ; nay, by a contemptuous
smile he provoked her to give him a further
assurance. And this she did, being greatly
wrought.

We are prepared for the worst. I have
but to cry to him for help, and he will fire the
gunpowder below. Our fate will be no worse
than yours, so take heed."

Saying this she stepped quickly back, placing
the chair between herself and Eodrigues, that no
treacherous blow from him might deprive her of
the power to save me from the fate he threatened.

For an instant Eodrigues seemed taken aback
by this revelation, but recovering his self-command,
he says, with his usual smoothness and
subtlety —

Madam, I am greatly obliged for this warning,
though it was quite unnecessary, as you will
see for yourself if you consider the matter calmly.

In the first place, I am not likely to do anything
which may cause you to cry for help ; and, in
the second, I mean no mischief to john friend.
Had that been my purpose, I could have secretly
instructed my company to search the cabin and
secure our dangerous foe the moment I discovered
that he was there. By sparing him, I
designed to strengthen my claim upon your
consideration — I hope still to merit your gratitude.
To that end, as you perceive, I have
ordered my company to stand to their post."

In this there was an appearance of truth
which Lady Biddy could not see through ; so
that it had the effect of calming her spirit somewhat,
which was what Rodrigues doubtless
aimed at.

** You must, by this time, know," he continued,
" that I am a man who, having set his
mind upon the achievement of an object, braves
all things to that end. I never yet abandoned
my purpose while there remained a single means
of attaining to it. I have set my mind on
abandoning this desperate career and marrying

you, and to accomplish this design I am prepared
to sacrifice everything ; nay, I will go sofar
as to enrich the man who saved you from the
negro. Listen ! "

He made a step forward, but Lady Biddy ,
still doubtful of his intent (for none could look
upon his face without seeing "villain" writ
there), also drew back a step. Rodrigues, taking
no notice of this act of prudence (save by a
smile), set his hands on the back of the seat, as
if that had been his sole purpose, and leaning
forward in an easy, careless manner, continues
—

The boats lie alongside ready to carry my
men ashore for their refreshment. I will send
every one of my company away, leaving none onboard
save you and myself and our friend below.
When the coast is clear, you and I will embark
in my own boat, and we will abandon the ship
to him " (pointing below). " As you see, there
is not a ripple on the water ; with a couple of
hours' exertion I shall bring you to a village
whence we may be transported by land to the

town where I shall give you a home worthy of
any princess. Will you accept my offer ? "

No," cries Lady Biddy, without taking an
instant to consider.

I will give you an hour to reflect," says
Rodrigues.

Nothing can change my decision, do what
you will."

You are prepared to destroy every soul in
this ship — even the friend to whom you owe
your life — rather than accept the terms I offer ?
You realise what you threaten ? "

Yes," says she ; " not I, but you, must
answer to God for the destruction of our lives."

He smiled scornfully, as if that consideration
were the least of his troubles ; then he bent his
head, and, knitting his brows, remained in
thought for a while. Suddenly raising his head,
as if his final decision Alas made, he says —

You compel me to abandon the fondest
hope I have cherished ? Be it so. Now to undo
this business, and forget my folly."

Turning about, he calls to the boatswain to

have his barge manned and brought to the ship's
landing-steps.

"I must ask you, madam," says he, again
addressing my lady, "to leave this ship. For I
have to think now only of my own safety and
the welfare of my company."

Not foreseeing her danger, but only transported
with joy to think she was to be delivered
from her captivity, Lady Biddy replied that she
demanded nothing better.

Your effects will be landed afterwards. I
doubt if you would wish me to send my
men into your cabin for them at the present
moment,"

But," says Lady Biddy, thinking of me,
and then she stopped.

I understand what is in your thoughts.
You are concerned for your friend ; so am I. I
cannot answer for his life if my men find him.
They would insist upon his death in return for
the injury inflicted upon Tonga. Therefore
must he wait until the company is landed and
gone in search of water."

At this moment the boatswain came to say
that the boat was prepared.

You will take this lady to the shore, and
see that no injury is offered her — not a word
uttered that may offend her," says Rodrigues ;
and then stepping back, that she might have
freedom to pass, he takes off his hat and makes
her a prodigious fine bow. Yet Lady Biddy
hesitated, fearing treachery to me ; and still
more might she have feared it if her spirits had
been quite composed, and her judgment in a
condition to weigh all that Rodrigues had said.

What have you to fear ? " says he, speaking
low. " What harm could the most treacherous
wretch inflict with impunity ? If you
have told the truth — which I do not doubt — a
cry from you will insure the destruction of all
you leave in this ship, You' cry from the shore
would sound as clearly in this still air as from
here. Think wdiat you will of me, but believe
that I am not a fool. Farewell ! "

Hoping for the best, seeing no better course
open to her, and yet troubled with misgivings.

Lady Biddy descended the side and took her
place in the barge. Then in silence the men
pulled her ashore. Yet did they look keenly
one at the other, as if expecting some merry turn
to this business — one thrusting his tongue in
his cheek, a second winking his eye, and a third
hawking as if he had a rheum.

However, they said not one word, and having
set Lady Biddy on shore very tenderly, they
shoved off and returned to the ship.

Now, not knowing which way to turn nor
what to do, for her position being so unexpected,
and feeling like one set alone in another world,
Lady Biddy rested her hand on the tree by which
she stood, and in a kind of maze watched the
boat returning to the ship.

Then she began to wonder how long it would
be ere the men would be dispersed and I should
come to her, and what means we should find of
getting to that town Eodrigues had spoken of.

The men left the boat and went up on board,
and still Lady Biddy watched, as if she had but
just awoke from her sleep, and was dazed (as she

tells me) ; but of a sudden a great shout burst
upon lier ear, and as quickly it flashed upon her
intelligence that a false trick had been put upon
her, which she might have foreseen had she been
as subtle as Eodrigues, which (thanks be to God)
she was not. Then for the first time it occurred
to her that while she was being carried to the
shore Eodrigues might send part of his company
below to take the powder from the armoury, or
to be prepared with muskets to shoot me dead
the moment I lifted the trap.

And now hearing this shout she was convinced
that precautions had been taken to prevent
the blowing up of the ship, and that the
men were rushing into the cabin to take me.

But this was not the worst. As she strained
her eyes, as if to pierce the side of the ship and
know my fate, she perceived a boat shoot from
the further side of the ship and turn towards
her. For a moment she believed that I had
contrived to escape, for there was but one man in
the boat ; but looking more narrowly she perceived,
to her horror, that the man was Tonga
e

the negro ; and coming towards her he raised a
terrible yell of savage joy and triumph.

Eodrigues, true to his word, had offered the
black a reward for the pain he had been put
to ; and now, as he came on exulting to satiate
his lust and vengeance, my poor Lady Biddy
screamed aloud to me.

But it was too late ; and Lady Biddy, feeling
she was now most surely undone, could not even
cry again for help.

HOW I GOT AWAY I'ROM THE VILE PIRATE AND
SETTLED TONGA HIS BUSINESS.

Seeing nothing but impenetrable thickets on one
hand, and the sea on the other, and no means of
escape either this way or that from the raging
savage, Lady Biddy, I say, did give herself up
for lost ; and so, falling on her knees, she prayed
the Almighty to take her life there and then, that
she might be saved from the loathsome passion
of the negro. Yet was her case not so bad as to
call for this last remedy neither, as I shall presently
show.

In great commotion of mind I stood in the
little cabin with the grenade in my hand and
the lamp burning steadily at my feet, prepared
to play the part of a destroyer, while still cherishing
the faint flickering hope that my lot rather
was to be that of the preserver.
e 2

Thus I waited an incredible length of time
(as it seemed to me), until my anxiety becoming
no longer tolerable, I scratched again upon the
wall for a signal to Lady Biddy.

Then getting no answer, I ventured again to
the panel-door and peeped through. The big
cabin was empty ; nor could I spy through the
further door any sign of her, but only the ship's
company drawn across the deck, with Tonga
lying prone before them.

But at a glance I perceived that most of the
men were looking up towards the deck over my
head, and then catching a faint sound from
thence, which my eager intelligence made out to
be my lady's voice, I was no longer in doubt as
to her whereabouts.

At this point I heard Rodrigues call to his
boatswain to man the boat, which he speedily
set about to do. Now, while these fellows were
thus busily occupied, I saw my chance to get out
on to the gallery unperceived through the little
door there, which had been set open to let a
current of air through. So creeping low and

nimble as any cricket, I crossed the space that
was open to observation from the deck (without
being seen, thanks be to God), and that way
got me out on to the quarter gallery.

Yet what I was to do there I knew not ; still,
it was a comfort to change my place, for any
shift seems for the best when one is tormented
with apprehension.

After another tedious spell I heard the oars
splash, and presently, to my complete amazement,
I caught sight of the barge, with eight or
ten lusty men in it, pulling towards the shore
with all their will, and Lady Biddy seated on
one of the thwarts alone.

I withdrew cautiously to that end of the
gallery where the bulk of the ship did somewhat
conceal me from the rowers in the boat, whose
faces were towards the ship (yet not so far
neither but that, crouching down, I might watch
what came of this business), and thence I saw
them set Lady Biddy on shore. At first 1
thought that this was but an indulgence of
Rodrigues, that she might refresh herself while

the men were getting water; but this notion
was put out of my head the next minute by
seeing the fellows shove off and return towards
the ship, leaving her there alone. Had she told
Eodrigues all, and was the boat returning to
fetch me, I asked myself, or was there some
wicked design to leave her there alone ?

Being better minded to trust myself than
Eodrigues, I made up my mind to swim to the
shore, which was no great matter, the distance
being half a mile at the outside, and the sea very
fair and smooth ; so climbing over the rail, I
dropped from that gallery into the lower one
which projected beyond it. And luckily for me
I did so at that time, for scarcely had I come to
my feet when I heard a mighty uproar on the
deck, with the clatter of arms (which, doubtless,
had been silently furnished for the men's use
from the armoury while Lady Biddy was being
carried to the shore), and then much hallooing
and shouting in that part of the coach I
had so fortunately got out of. Nay, I did
hear one rascal come to the gallery door above

and cry', as he looked out, that I was not
there.

"Now," thinks I, "is my time to get out of
this hornets' nest ; " and so clambering over the
rail here as I had over the other, and recommending
myself to Providence (for as like as not in such
waters as these might be sharks or water serpents),
I dropped down plumb into the water,
and coming up again, struck out vigorously for
the shore, keeping as low under water as I well
could.

"Happily," thinks I, "they are looking forme
elsewhere, so may I chance to escape this
bout scot free ; " and with this thought, added
to the bewildering delightful expectation of
being ere long beside Lady Biddy and at a safe
distance from the tiger who sought our destruction,
I pushed on with great speed, feeling no
fatigue whatever, but only a great joy.

Then suddenly I heard a hoarse shout of
triumph, which did for the moment lead me to
think I had been perceived from the ship ; but
casting ni}^ eye around I spied on my right hand

a skifF and Tonga in it, pulling the oars ; yet
feebly, because of bis arms being wrenched as I
have described.

'Twas a wonder he had not caught sight of
me ; but I think his eyes were chiefly occupied
in glancing over his shoulder to see if the fair
girl were trying to escape him, and truly, as the
proverb runs, " One sees naught but the deer
when one runs with the hounds."

As I caught sight of him he shifted his oars,
which he had hitherto been pulling (and could, I
take it, no longer do for the suffering of his
arms), and standing up in the boat, with his face
to the shore, he took to pushing the oars for his
greater comfort. Thus was his back set towards
me, so that, unseen and with very little ado, I
overtook the boat, and laying hold of the sling
at the stern, I let him pull me towards the shore,
to his greater pain and exhaustion.

This manoeuvre did serve me another turn,
for against the black stern of the boat my dark
head was indistinguishable from the ship, unless
one did carefully examine with a spyglass ; and

doubtless by this time Eodrigues and his company,
having found that I was no longer in the
ship, were scanning the sea to know if I were
there. That I had been in the cabin pretty
recently, and that Lady Biddy had told him no
more than the truth, Eodrio^ues mio^ht see full
well by the burning lamp and the grenade I had
left behind me.

At last the boat ran aground, and, dropping
my feet, I felt the sandy bottom. Then, glancing
along the side, I saw my poor Lady Biddy
kneeling beside a tree with her face hid in her
hands, to shut out the sight of that horrid black,
which did stir my entrails with hatred of him.

Yet I saw right well that I must not discover
myself till I was got on firm ground, for a man
up to his neck in water is powerless — though he
have the heart of a lion — against another whose
limbs are free to act. With a blow of an oar
Tonga might have settled my business ; and,
knowing this, I kept still hid from him under
the gunwale of the boat until he leapt out on to
the sand.

Crouching down more like a tiger than a
human being, he slowly went up the sandy slope,
and, to make the resemblance greater, a low growl
of savage exultation came from his throat, and
he drew up his arms, with all his fingers spread
out, as if preparing to spring upon his poor
helpless victim.

Quickly and yet silently I made my way
out of the water and followed in his footsteps.
Arms I had none, but presently, drawing near
him, I spied a great stone half buried in the
sand, and this I wrenched up at one tug,
though it weighed, as I believe, over half of a
hundredweight, and was sucked down by the wet
sand.

Hearing the sound that was made by the wet
sand dropping from the stone, he turned about,
and, catching sight of me, set up a fearful cry of
rage ; but it was the last cry he ever made, for I
held the stone lifted over my head, and, dashing
it forward with all the might of my body, I
struck him full in the face with it, crushing in
the bones and bursting the brains from his skull.

Then all was silent, save a faint cry of despair
from Lady Biddy, who, daring not to
uncover her eyes from the moment she saw the
black on shore, thought that his cry of rage was
intended for her, and that the crash which followed
was but some preparation for her destruction.


I threw some sand over the bloody, formless
thing that had been a human face the minute
before, that the ghastly spectacle might not
shock Lady Biddy, and then I went to her side
softly over the sand.

Now did I fear to let Lady Biddy know that
her enemy was dead and a deliverer at hand, lest
by the sudden commotion of feelings I might
unhinge her mind. For a moment I stood
wondering how I should manage this business
for the best, and then, my wits failing to help
me, I yielded to the desire of my heart, and
dropping on my knees by her side murmured
with a true and devout heart —

God be praised ! "

OF OUR FURTHER ESCAPES, AND A STRATAGEM BY
WHICH OUR ENEMIES WERE PUT TO GREAT
DISCOMFORT.

Hearing these words, Lady Biddy did rouse
herself up as from a dream, and seeing me kneeling
by her side with bent head, and the negro
lying at a distance quite still, she gave a little
scream of surprise, and then, clasping my folded
hands in hers, fell to weeping and laughing out
of all measure ; but I knew not which was the
more piteous to hear.

You have saved me again. You good Benet
again saved ! " cried she.

Ay, Lady Biddy," says I. " Yet I am but
the happy instrument of a Divine Grace ; and
you should think, not of me, but of Him whose
servant I am."

These serious words had the effect I wished,

for at once she grew calmer, and, ceasing to
smile, did with all her heart pour out grateful
thanks to Heaven. And never did holy man
more devoutly join in heartfelt praise than I who
was, as I may say, a sinner.

From this sweet communion we were aroused
in a sudden and terrible manner. The thunder
of a cannon smote our ears, and at the same
moment a great splinter was torn out of the side
of the tree, against which we knelt, by a ball.
Yet were we not harmed thereby so much as a
hair of our heads.

As we started to our feet we heard a great
shout from the sea, and casting our eyes that
way we perceived a couple of boats making for
the shore as hard as ever the fellows within them
could pull, so that we could not doubt but that
Eodrigues had spied us from the ship, and sent
his company in our pursuit.

Now, Lady Biddy," says I, " if you have
strength we must run for it."

Ay," says she with alacrity, and no sign of
her late weakness. " Whither you will, Benet."

With that she puts her little soft hand in
mine, and so, like two children, we started to run
along the sands. And well it was we were so
prompt, for ere we had got a dozen yards another
gun was fired from the ship, and this time
charged with slug shot that scattered prodigiously,
hut, thanks be to God, did us no hurt in
the world ; at which I laughed aloud, and Lady
Biddy joined her pretty mirth as gay as any
peal of bells, so elated was she with our happy
release.

Yet were we laughing ere we were out of the
wood, or rather, as I may say, ere we were in it,
for there lay our only chance of safety from those
villains who were now nearing the shore. But
how to penetrate the thicket of brambles, lianas,
ground-pines, agates, and other prickly shrubs
that did hedge the land beyond the sea-sands,
where the ground rose towards the woods, I knew
not ; for though I should not have hesitated to
plunge into this growth being by myself, albeit
the flesh of my legs would have paid dearly, yet
could I attempt no such thing with Lady Biddy

whose skirts had been torn from her bocl}^ and
lier tender limbs lacerated cruelly at the very
outset, and she eventually been held a prisoner
in the bonds of those thorny vines. So still we
kept to the coast, running on as swiftly as the
shifting" sand would allow, all the time hand in
hand, and with a good heart, until another shout
behind us made my heart sink and banished the
smile from my lads's cheek ; for now we knew
that one of the boats had reached the shore.

A little further, Lady Biddy — a little
further," says I cheerfully.

Yes, Benet," says she, hopefully still, yet
with difficulty from the shortness of her breathing.
" I can run a good way yet."

Now glancing aside I saw a hillside where
the trees were of a prodigious height, and so
close together that their branches mingled in one
wide spreading solid canopy, and loth I was to
pass them by, for I knew by my experiences on
the Oronoque that beneath these trees nothing
grew but toadstools and such growth for the
want of light, and there might we have run

with ease as far as that sort of trees extended,
but the thicket on the hither side was impassable,
so there was no help for it but to
run on.

Presently I saw Lady Biddy bend her head,
biting her nether lip with her teeth, as if to control
some pain, and this, together with hearing
the report of a musket in our rear, showing that
our pursuers were getting within gunshot of us,
did work me up with desperation, so that I was
minded to catch my companion in my arms, and
essay whether I might not that way struggle
through the thorny barrier. And this course I
resolved to take if in fifty paces no less desperate
measure was to be found.

Fifty paces were covered, and yet there was
no sign of any opening in that rank growth ;
then I added another ten ; and after that, ten
more; when, casting my eye again upon Lady
Biddy, I saw in her despairing eyes that she
could go no further.

I stopped, and, leaning upon my shoulder for
support, she gasps —

One moment, Benet. I shall be better ina
moment."

I looked back (^^et in a manner not to affright
the poor girl), and saw the seamen doggedly
running on, but no nearer, Heaven be thanked,
which surprised me, although each man was encumbered
with his musket and other arms. But
seeing us at a stand they set up a shout, and
began to mend their pace.

Now'' said Lady Biddy, and again we
started forward.

Hardly had we made half a dozen yards when
I stopped her with a cry of joy, for there, luring
flush with the outlying growth of what I term
the thicket, was a great mass of dry, brown,
broad leaves, which I knew for the head of a
cabbage tree, which, though it promised
nothing to an inexperienced eye, did to mine
betoken a means of crossing the thicket by
its stem, which is never less than 150 feet
long in one falling to decay, and is more often
250 feet. And happily this tree in falling athwart
the thicket had struck upon a rock, so that
/

it was lifted well up above the more tangled
growth.

Now I knew that if we could once get upon
the stem of that tree we might have a convenient
bridge for getting to a place where the ground
was freer ; and as there was no time to consider
whether the thing was possible or not, I hurried
Lady Biddy thither, and bidding her grip me
tightly by the shoulders, I did set myself withall
the strength and agility I possessed (which
was doubled by the desperate occasion), to drag
myself up by the hanging leaves to the croTVTi of
it ; and thanks to the fibres of these leaves being
of a prodigious toughness (as well as to the help
of Providence) I succeeded so well that in a
twinkling we stood side by side upon the trunk
of this fallen tree.

Here were we well concealed from sight, but
not so secure neither as was to my taste ; so,
begging Lady Biddy stay there till my return, I
ran nimbly down the length of the palmetto, and
then along the inner side of the thicket beneath
the trees, where the growth was of moderate

proportion, back in the direction we had come,
till guessing I was about come level with our
pursuers, I set up a great mocking laugh of
derision to be heard of them. Upon which, to
my great satisfaction, I heard one of the seamen
shout to his fellows, who were in advance, to
come back, for they had passed the game.

Ay," shouts I, " and you'll have to look
sharp to catch us at that."

The fellows replied by firing a volleys into
the thicket where they deemed I might be, but
they might as usefully have fired into the sand
for all the damage their bullets could do to me
through that huge mass of shrubs and plants,
whereof the best part are as tough as leather.

I gave them another laugh, but still a little
further back from the part where I had left
Lady Biddy, to make them conclude we were
flying thence, and this enraging them beyond
measure, they straightway plunged into the
thicket, fancying that we had passed through,
and that they might do the same. And first of
all there was great cursing amongst them for the
/2

thorns that stuck in their legs ; but as they
pushed further in to free themselves, and only
got the worse entangled, being torn and rent (as
they must) from head to foot at every moment,
the cries of pain and rage that these wretches setup
were enough to make any heart glad to
hear.

Leaving them in this pickle I sped back the
way I had come, and found Lady Biddy had of
herself passed along the length of the great
cabbage tree and got down by the upturned
roots. Without waste of time we continued our
way, keeping within the grateful shade of the
trees, yet holding on within sight of the thicket
that we might have some notion, however vague,
of our whereabouts.

We kept on at a british pace without stopping
(except that once I went a little out of my
way to pluck some guavey apples, which were a
great refreshment and comfort to us) for best
part of an hour, I take it, by which time the
nature of the ground took a new aspect, and seeing
some dead reeds entangled in the branches of

a bush I perceived they must have been left
there by flood of waters. This led me to conclude
we were near some river, which gave meno
small satisfaction, for already my mind was
becoming anxious with regard to the question of
water to drink. As we proceeded the traces of
flood became more plentiful, and at length coming
to the verge of the wood we found ourselves on
the edge of a lagoon, stretching upwards of a
mile towards a broad river (as I took it), whose
yellow waters were cut off from the blue sea by
a long neck of sand that extended as far as the
eye could reach.

This lagoon was a dismal waste of refuse
washed hither by the swollen waters in the rainy
season, for as yet the new growth of reeds had
not penetrated the mass, except here and there
where a patch of tender green rose amidst the
wide expanse of rotting vegetation. But if the
foreground was dismal to look on, the eye was
recompensed by that which lay beyond. For
there the sky was pierced by the glittering
summits of prodigious mountains, whose sides

swept down to lesser hills of purple rock, and
these again in undulating slopes to the blue sea
and the lagoon, which on its farther side shone
like gold in the sunlight. And these lower
slopes did at first look as though a sunset cloud
had settled upon them ; yet at a second glance
did rather seem as if they were covered over with
a vast tapestry, in which were woven all shades
of green, mingled with bright patches of red and
orange, purple and rose-pink, by reason of the
many-hued flowers which crowned the trees, as no
traveller shall deny who has cast eyes on those
wondrous woods.

For a minute we stood still looking in amaze
and delight upon this prospect, for it was the
first we had seen of these mountains, but then
we bethought us of those wretches we had left
behind (who for certain would stay no longer
than they could help in the thorns), and likewise
I perceived we must yet follow up the course of
this river before we could get water fit to drink.
Added to which the lagoon bred abundance of
stinging flies, and I feared there might likewise

be reptiles in such a spot, so again we stepped
forward.

Before long we found it necessary to penetrate
further into the wood by reason of the
ground rising abruptly from the river ; yet still
we kept as nigh as might be to the river, every
now and again pausing in our upward walk
where a break offered view of the water below
and the mountains beyond.

We kept on (I say), for Lady Biddy would
not allow that she was fatigued, until I heard,
as I thought, the breaking of water ; and passing
a huge rock we saw, to my inexpressible satisfaction,
a silvery stream of water tumbling down
the gorge that opened before us.

BY MY ARRANT FOLLY I LOSE MY DEAR LADY BIDDY.

The sides of this gorge (which was prodigiously
steep and profound, looking as if the rock had atone
time been riven asunder) were craggy and
barren, save here and there where some vines and
brush had taken root in the crannies ; however,
by dint of agility and helping of each other with
our hands, we got down to a shelf or table of
rock very agreeably covered with a soft sward,
where we could rest in comfort, and refresh ourselves
to our hearts' content with the wonderful
sweet water we found there in a basin
formed by a hollow of the rock.

And here w^s shade from the sun (which was
now at its height), and a little cool breeze carried
down by the falling water, so that we were well
disposed to rest awhile, and overcome the fatigue
produced by our long and difficult march, to say

nothing of the exhaustion which we owed to the
terrors of the morning. It seemed to me prudent
also, as well as pleasurable, to repose till the
heat of the day was moderated, in order to gain
strength for our next march, which must carry
us beyond the reach of Eodrigues and his wicked
pirates, and as no place could be more proper for
that purpose than this (wherein only by accident
could we be discovered), I tore up from the rock
half a dozen soft turfs, and, disposing them like a
pillow, begged Lady Biddy to lie down at her ease.

Thanking me very sweetly, she did as I bade
her, and presently fell asleep as gently as any
child, which gave me exceeding happiness, for it
showed how greatly she trusted in my protecting
care.

For some time I sat watching her face, from
which peaceful sleep had smoothed away all
traces of fear and trouble, observing how her
white teeth did gleam through her parted red
lips; how her nether lip was round, and her
upper lip pointed like a little bow, curved up ;
how her dark lashes curled ; and how a little

lock of hair had strayed from her gathered
tresses and fluttered in the breeze loose upon
her pale brow. I say I sat noting these trifles
with an indescribable emotion in my breast; and
truly, if all the world had been offered me, in
exchange for my present condition, I would have
refused it a thousand times. Nay, so selfish did
my great joy make me, that I believe I would
not have undone the past, though it had been to
Lady Biddy's advantage.

My emotions, growing by indulgence, and
passion stirring within me as I feasted my eyes
upon that lovely face, I was sorely tempted to
touch her head with my fingers, yet in such a
gentle manner as it should not awake her ; but
stretching out my hand I seemed to see upon it
the blood of those men I had killed, so that I
dropped it in shame, thinking what a wretch I
was, and how cowardly to " attempt upon her
sleeping what I dared not offer if she were
waking ; moreover, what cleansing of my heart
as well as of my hands there must be ere I
might touch her without reproach.

Taking myself to task in this manner, I
perceived that I must give my passion no loose,
lest it should run away with me ; and so, turning
my ej^es from her face, I set myself to think
about the future and what measure I must take
for my tender companion's comfort, as being
vastly more creditable than the self-indulgence I
had given way to.

And first, a griping in my vitals did put mein
mind that we could not live on guavey apples
and water alone, but must have more solid
victuals to strengthen us against the hardships
of travelling in the desert that lay before us.

How was I to get meat ? Never was man
since the days of Arson so naked for the chase.
Not a bodkin had I ; nay, not even a stick with
which to strike down a snake. Birds we had
seen galore in the fruitful thicket, and thinking
of the savoury dish I might make of a young
macaw for my Lady Biddy put me in mind of
my old weapon — a sling. Then casting about
for material to make this simple engine, I bethought
me of my shoe that was furnished with

a tongue, very proper for my purpose. Whereupon
I whipped off the said shoe, and getting a
sharp-edged stone I made a shift to cut it out.

'now," thinks I, "if I had but a thorn for
an awl, and a strip of silk grass for a thong, the
business would be done in a trice."

Thorns there were (and to spare) in the
thicket above, and I doubted not I might also
find grass or the fibre of a palmetto to serve my
turn. And seeing that I could get to the
thicket and yet keep my eye on Lady Biddy for
her safety, I cast a glance at my companion,
whose bosom still heaved very gently and
regularly; and satisfied she would not awake
for some while, I rose and scaled the steep side
of the gorge.

Being come to the top I looked down ; my
lady had not stirred, and so I set about cheerfully
to get me the things I needed. After a
little search I found a sort of grass nearly an ell
long and reasonably tough, and stripping this
down so as to get the mid-rib, I tested it, and
found it would serve well enough for a few casts.

As for a thorn, I found that without seeking — a
stickle as long as a cock's spar and as sharp as
any needle piercing through my breeches as
I stooped to pluck a blade of the aforesaid
grass.

Having all that I needed (and more, by the
smarting wound in m}^ thigh), I went back to the
edge of the gorge whence I could see Lady
Biddy, and set about making my sling. This
being done to my satisfaction — not so stout as I
could wish, but good enough as a makeshift — I
hunted about for round stones, and got me half
a dozen suitable enough. And now being armed,
I itched to put my weapon to its use.

There was not a sound but the breaking of
the water, and all around looked so still and
peaceful that I deemed I might safely venture
to ramble a little way in quest of game. Yet
still I hesitated, but just then I heard the whir
of wings hard by, and casting my eye that way,
spied a bird which later I heard the Indians calla
macucagua, about the size of an English
pheasant and not unlike it, making for a plantain

tree that stood in a coppice not far distant. I
saw him alight on the tree and attack its fruit,
on which this bird is a greedy feeder, and after
him I started as stealthily as I might, that he
should not take wing again before I got within
range. From bush to bush I crept, till, getting
pretty close, I slipped a stone into the sole of
my sling, and stepping into the open gave my
sling a twirl and let fly. By good chance my
shot hit the bird in the neck, and so much to his
damage that flying up he beat his wings vainly
against the boughs and then fell fluttering to
the ground. Yet was he only stupefied by the
blow, and, being come to the ground, flew up
again away for a furlong, and thence up once
more and off for half a furlong more, so that by
the time I finally overtook him and put an end
to the business by wringing his neck I was
pretty well three parts of a mile from the
coppice where I started. However, I took not
much heed of this or of the time it had taken
me to steal to the coppice from the gorge, being
mightily pleased with myself for my address.

Handling my bird I was as pleased as any
fool to observe how fat lie was, to find that he
weighed four pounds if an ounce, etc. : nay, I
was so fond as to pluck one of his tail feathers
and stick it in my coat for a trophy. Then I
fell to considering how I should dress him, and
remembering how I had got fire by rubbing two
dry sticks together that time I was in the
Oronoque, I wasted another ten minutes in
seeking wood that would serve my turn now.
In short, by the time I had brought this silly
business to an end and started off to rejoin Lady
Biddy, more than half an hour was gone from
the moment I began it.

When I got back to the edge of the gorge
and looked down I came to a stand like one
suddenly bereft of his senses. Lady Biddy was
gone !

I could not fetch my breath ; the bird that
was j^aid for so dearly slipped from my powerless
fingers (nor did I ever see anything more of him
save the feather I had stuck in my coat), and
my limbs quaked under me. Then I would not

believe but that I had mistaken the place until
the turfs I had pulled up for a pillow met my
eye and convinced me that it was there and
nowhere else that I had left her.

"She is gone ! " I moaned ; and then,
striking my breast with my clenched fist, I
muttered, " And thou, villain, must answer
for her fate."

Then, hoping that she had but strolled a
little way to find me, I rushed along the edge of
the ravine to a rock that hung over the deep
cleft. From this point I could see down to the
bottom of the gorge where the stream ran into
the river. Just within this creek lay a boat,
which only too clearly discovered the reason
why Lady Biddy was no longer where I had
left her.

At that very moment I heard her voice
calling faintly as from a great distance —

Benet, Benet ! " Then there was silence
while I looked in vain to see her down the ravine,
doubting not that she was being carried away to
the boat below.

Benet ! " she cried, yet a little louder, yet
still faintly. " Benet ! "

I felt sure that she saw me and was cr3dng
for help, and it maddened me that I could not
see her. Nor could I guess from her voice to
what part of the ravine she had been taken for
the breaking of the waters and the echo of the
rocks. But leaping to another rock and craning
my neck over, I caught sight of two fellows,
whom I knew for Eodrigues' rascals, rounding a
bend of the gorge below. And one of them,
facing about, lifts his finger warningly as if to
signal those who followed that they should stifle
Lady Biddy's cry for help.

I FIND MY LADY Biddy, AND WE DESPOIL OUR
ENEMIES ; WITH OTHER FACETIOUS MATTER.

The moment I concluded that those wretches at
the foot of the ravine were carrying off Lady
Biddy I threw myself down the rocks to her
rescue ; and had the chances of breaking my
neck thereby been a hundredfold as great I
should not have hesitated. For I considered
that it was by my fault she had been taken, and
that therefore I owed my life for hers ; indeed,
I valued not my life at a straw, save as it might
be of service to her, for what use was life to me
without her ? I might as well be dead and forgotten
as alive and she lost ; nay better, for to
live bereft for ever of her, or in doubt as to her
fate, would be continual misery and the cause of
never-abating self-reproach.

With these thoughts running confusedly in
my head and urging me to desperate leaps which
I had never dared to attempt in cooler blood, I
descended that rocky gorge like any bounding
ball, till coming to level ground, 1 spied half a
dozen fellows clustered together in the shadow
of a rock round one who was slicing a pine nut
to share among them. But no Lad}^ Biddy
could I see ; nor was there any sign of her between
them and the boat which lay hard by in
the creek, as I have said.

By this time, the heat of my spirits being
somewhat abated, I reasoned with myself that to
attack those six men, unarmed as I was, would
be a piece of foolhardy madness which could do
her no good, nor me neither, except as the cutting
of my throat would put me out of my present
anxiety, and that if I was to rescue her at
all it must be by cunning. Wherefore I set myself
to approach them unseen, that I might learn,
if possible, where they had bestowed their captive,
and this I did without great difficulty for hereabouts
were many scattered stones and abundant
9 2

growth of prickly shrubs, ground-palms, and the
like.

Being come so nigh them that I could hear
their remarks upon the fruit they were eating,
which seemed entirely to occupy their thoughts,
I waited for the conversation to take another
turn. Presently one of them, flinging himself
on the ground, says —

Well, mates, I take it we've done work
enough for this bout, so here shall I lie at my
ease till it be time to fill the barricades and get
back a ship-board."

Ay, I'm with you there. Jack," says another,
following his example.

The rest were not slow to lie down likewise,
save one, who, scratching his head, says —

How about this here female we're to carry
back alive or dead ? "

Plague take her, say I, and the likes of
her," grunted he who spoke first. " What do
we want of females ? She's brought us no luck,
and I'd as soon see a rat in the ship."

So say I," chimes in his mate. " The other



fellows have gone after her, and let them catch
her if they may. For my own part I wish her
no worse luck than to give them leg bail and
lose herself in these woods. You don't catch
me running after no females till I get back to
Penzance."

Hearing this I was struck with amazement,
and could not too much admire my folly in rushing
headlong into danger without proper occasion.
For now I readily perceived what was the
fact, that Lady Biddy, awaking after my departure,
had caught sight of the men at the foot of
the gorge and taken measures to conceal herself
from discovery should they ascend. While thus
hidden she had seen me come upon that point of
rock, and, to attract my attention, had called me
by my name as loud as she dared. My descent
had been too furious for her to stop me by her
further cries, which were lost upon my ear ; and
thus, in going to her, as I thought, had I drawn
myself away.

However, it was with a glad heart that I
perceived my folly, and stealthily withdrew from

those men whom a few minutes earlier I was
like to have fallen among, and turned to follow
the course of the torrent to the level above.

I made short work of this business when I
was fairly out of sight of the seamen, and before
long I again heard that sweet voice calling,
Benet, Benet ! " upon which, casting my eyes
eagerly about, I descried my dear Lady Biddy ina
little natural cavern formed by two leaning
rocks. She clasped her hands, and her face
beamed with joy to see me again; but if she
was pleased — lord ! what was I ? Then we sat
down together and narrated our experiences, I
obtaining myself hugely for my headstrong
conduct ; yet still she smiled.

Won't you be angry with me, Lady Biddy,
for my rashness ? " says I.

Nay," says she ; " you may blame yourself,
but I cannot; for was it not to save me you
encountered this danger? Since it has ended
thus, I can but be pleased with this proof of your
devotion. Yet, when I call again, I would not
have you run away."

Then we were silent awhile ; I know not
wh}^ except that I was too hapjDj to speak.

But presently, reflecting on the dangers we
had escaped, and considering how we might yet
be encompassed by those who had given us chase
on the sands — for, if one parcel of wretches came
hither by accident, why might not the rest ? —
it came into ray head that if we could descend
and possess ourselves of the empty boat while
the men were yet sleeping, we might come to
the other side of the river, and so secure ourselves
from pursuit. This scheme did so recommend
itself to me that I at once propounded it
to Lady Biddy.

Have you not run enough risk, Benet ? "
she asked, a little frightened by the audacity of
my design.

Ay," says I ; " and 'tis for that very reason
I would put that broad river betwixt us and the
recurrence of such risks."

As you will," says she, with spirit. " If it
ought to be done, you shall not find me wanting
in courage."

I gave her my reasons for thinking it
should be attempted, and she was the first to
rise, saying as she did so —

I am ready. Let us set about it at once."

So, with good heart, we started to encounter
this new peril.

First of all we followed the stream of waterfalls
till we found a part where we could cross
to the other side, and, getting over without great
difficulty, we scaled the further slope, that from
the ridge we might discover some other way of
reaching the river-side than by the gorge.

And here we found the hill-side clothed
with a very dense wood, having but little undergrowth
because of the shade. By running from
tree to tree we managed very well to break the
descent, and came at length into wet ground ;
but in these parts there is no danger or hardship
in wetting the feet ; so along this level we made
our way till we came to a great growth of reeds
that stood like a green wall before us. Here we
went up a little, for the reeds betokened deeper
water, besides being a harbour for cockodrills

and water snakes ; then, pushing on still further,
we reached the end of that reedy growth, and
perceived we were come to the creek where the
stream discharged itself, and not a stone's throw
from the boat. Whereupon I hade Lady Biddy
wait there patiently awhile, and crept forward,
under cover of the bush, until I caught sight of
the seamen. They were all asleep like so many
logs, and most of them on their faces, as is the
manner of mariners when they slumber.

Coming from my cover I stepped into the
stream, which spread out and was of no considerable
depth, and carefully waded to the boat, unmatched
the head line from the bush to which it
was attached, and letting it swing out into the
current drew it as gently as might be to that spot
where Lady Biddy was waiting in pale concern.

I beckoned to her, and she came boldly out
and stepped noiselessly into the boat ; then got
I in after her, and, taking up an oar, shoved
gently' out over the shoal until I had depth and
room to ply my oars. Still was I obliged to be
stealthy, for we were yet within gunshot, and the

fellows had their muskets with them ; nor had
they left a weapon in the boat save only one
sword, which, however, was a treasure to me.
So then I pulled for some while very gently, but
getting a furlong from the shore I laid to with a
will ; and it was a great delight to see how Lady
Biddy did smile and rub her hands together for
glee.

Now, being out a good way, I saw that this
was no river at all, so far as I could make out,
but only a great lake of water made by the
stream that rushed down the hills and flooded
the valley in the rainy season. There was no
break in the chain of hills that environed us,
and we were, as it seemed, in the centre of a
prodigious hollow. And these slopes were all
clothed with trees in bloom (the flowering season
not yet being over), and wherever the eye rested
it was delighted with glowing hues, brilliant
where the sun fell, and delicate in the shade, so
that looking around it was as if a thick haze of
colour rose from these woods.

'' It is like a land of faerie," said Lady Biddy ;

and, indeed, it did seem like enchantment. Yet
was I sorry this was not a river, bnt only a kind
of lagoon; however, I knew it would cost our
pursuers a week to get at us by going round the
lake by those thick, tangled woods ; nor could
they fetch another boat to our pursuit without
giving us ample time for escape.

As we neared the opposite shore the chain of
mountains disappeared behind the nearer hills,
which showed that they were at a considerable
distance ; but this gave me no great concern.
Nor did I cast my eyes that way frequently,
being more intent to see if the fellows had discovered
the loss of their boat. We reached the
shore, and yet I could see no sign of their moving,
though I plainly descried the rock against which
they lay.

We had fallen down a little towards the sea
hj reason of a current where the lake, as I call
it, disembogued into the sea beyond the bar of
sand, so that when we landed we perceived the
black ship lying out at her moorings, but happily
at a great distance.

I pulled the boat into the bank, which was
here washed by the current free of the refuse
that lay upon the other side, and having helped
Lady Biddy to land, I fetched the sword out of
the boat, and drawing it from its scabbard found
it was as good a sword as any could wish to have,
which was a great comfort to me.

While I was making fast the boat I was
startled by a loud thump in the hinder part of
it ; but upon opening the locker to see what
might have caused this noise, I discovered thereto
my great delight a tortuous tyiiig on his back.
Then, calling Lady Biddy, I bade her come and
look at the supper our enemies had provided for
us. At first she was frightened at the sight of
this poor inoffensive creature, never having seen
the like before ; but when I told her that it was
excellent meat as any prince might eat, she was
as pleased as I, being by this time pretty sharp
set. Then, having both a mind to make our
supper whilst we might, she set about to gather
sticks for a fire while I despatched the tortuous

• Turtle.— F. B.

and cut some steaks ready for dressing with my
sword-blade, for other cutlery had we none.

While I was still at this business, Lady
Biddy comes back with her arms full of sticks,
and very cheerful.

But, Benet," says she, of a sudden, dropping
the wood and turning aghast, " what is the
use of wood with nothing to light it ? "

So I showed her how to get fire by rubbing
two bits of touchwood together, and to see us on
our knees blowing the embers into a flame, choking
as the smoke got into our throats, and laughing
as we rubbed our smarting eyes, all as merry
as grigs, one would have thought we had come
there a pleasuring and had no trouble in the
world. It is clear enough why 1 was happy,
but I can only explain Lady Biddy's lightness of
heart by contrasting her present condition with
the days and nights of terror and bitter suffering
that had gone before.

Be that how it may, I know this, that, as we
knelt before the fire cooking our steaks on the
end of sticks, we had to lay them down for

laughing, when we heard the poor fools on the
other side of the lake firing off their muskets in
rage to find their boat gone, and to see the smoke
of the fire at which we were cooking their
tortuous for our own comfort. Indeed, to think
of the plight of those who did seek to do us
mortal hurt — one party cursing in the midst of
tearing thorns, and the other with no means of
getting back to their ship but by threading
intricate woods, with a sorry reception when they
showed themselves to their captain at last — was
enough to make any cat laugh.

I FIND MYSELF IX THE PARADISE OF FOOLS.

When we had regaled ourselves on the steaks of
the tortuous, which is a sweet, wholesome, and
excellent meat, we rambled together into the
woods in search of fruit to quench our thirst, for
water was there none save that of the lake,
which was troubled and brackish and not good
to drink.

On our way I pointed out to my lady those
fruits which were venomous, for there are many
such — nay, there be some plants whose flowers
are terribly unwholesome to smell — and those
which are sweet and good ; of these latter we ate
freely, also I did cull here and there a flower
whose delicacy and sweetness stayed her to
admire.

But while we were looking for pine nuts,
which I deem the most estimable fruit that

exists, I found that which was better for quenching
our thirst than fruits. This was a tree,
about twelve or fifteen fathoms high, with leaves
as broad as a hand and as long as one's forearm,
which I had found in the Oronoque country.
With a cry of gladness I bade Lady Biddy look
to see a new marvel, and drawing my sword I
gave the trunk a fair cut; from this wound
there started forth a thick white juice, and by
the time I had found a broad clean leaf and
folded it to serve as a vessel, the juice was
running out abundantly. Clapping my folded
leaf below the wound I had in a few minutes as
much as the leaf would contain, which was the
best part of a pint, and this I bade Lady Biddy
drink of without fear. At the first sip she
declared it was excellent good milk as ever she
did taste, and so it was, as I found when my turn
came to drink. This tree, I say, is common in
Guiana, and I go about to insist upon it, because
I have found many here in England who would
not have it such a thing is in nature, albeit they
will readily accept as probable many stories of

travellers that are outrageously impossible,
wherein they resemble him who strains at a gnat
and swallows a camel.

Now being quite refreshed we returned to
the shore, where, seeing the fire yet smouldering,
I bethought me to cook the rest of the tortuous
as a provision for the morrow. With a stick I
raked a hole in the midst of the embers ; then
at the bottom I set a flat clean stone for a
hearth, and on this I laid as much of the meat
as was fit to eat, turning it over from time to
time to brown on the hot stone.

As soon as Lady Biddy saw what I was at,
and the manner of doing it, she said —

"That is a woman's work, Benet, which I
can do as well as you may. Leave this business
to me, I pray you, and occupy yourself with the
serious matters that are beyond my capacity ; "
and though she meant no reproach, I felt
certain, these words put me in mind that I was
in a fool's paradise.

Fool ! " says I to myself, as I left her side,
think you this happiness can endure ? Are
h

you SO fond as to imagine that this savage life,
which is a joy for you, is fit for a lady of gentle
breeding and refined sentiments — that, because
you can picture no greater joy than to live with
her alone in this wilderness, she can desire no
better companion than you ? Because her mind
is enfeebled by long days and nights of suspense
and terrible doubts, she rejoices like a child in
the beauty of flowers and the taste of fruits ;
she can join with you in laughter at the discomfiture
of her enemies ; she can readily
accommodate herself to the rude necessities of
her condition ; but, when her mind recovers its
strength and composure, nothing in this wilderness,
however beautiful and enchanting it be,
can content her for the loss of gentle friends,
and the absence of those delicate enjoyments
which have made her what she is. To-morrow
she will weep, for she is a Christian lady, and
thou art but a savage."

With these arguments did I bring myself to
a clearer perception of our estate and of my
duty, which was to sacrifice myself rather than

Lady Biddy ; to endeavour my utmost to bring
her to her friends, and therein shrink not before
any pain to myself. " And truly," adds I
(addressing myself as before) — " truly your own
interest prescribes this course, for how can you
hope to win the esteem of that dear creature
unless you do deserve it ? If, instead of yielding
her up to her friends, you followed the bent of
evil inclination, and led her whither no help
could reach her, then would there be not a pin
for her to choose betwixt you and such a villain
as Eodrigues ; and though she regards you
now with trust and tenderness, how must her
feelings change to contempt and disgust if she
find you are but an enemy, betraying her
to your own selfish ends, under the mask of
friendship ! "

Notwithstanding this reasoning, I was sadly
downcast, and had no more relish for duty than
if the argument had been all on t'other side.
And so, being come to the edge of the sea, I
stood there with my arms folded, looking out
over the sea, very down in the mouth, and
h 2

as sluggish in my mind as. if I had nought
to do but to stand there all the rest of my
days.

From this torpor I was aroused by Lady
Biddy coming to my side, so softly that I had
not in my dull mood heard her approach, and
touching my arm.

Starting in surprise and turning about, I
found her looking very gravely and wistfully
into my face ; for I must think that the dear
soul, seeing me go off silent and heavy, and
standing apart with a moody aspect, had concluded
that I was hurt by her taking the
cooking of the tortuous out of my hands.

I have cooked the meat ; but now," says
she, with a little shrug and a smile, " I don't
know what to do with it."

An ordinary woman in her place would have
asked what ailed me so suddenly ; but she was of
a finer and more delicate nature, and sought to
reconcile me without causing me to blush for
taking umbrage at a trifle.

For my own part I was glad to believe she

had mistaken the cause of my disorder, and was
better content she should think me a fool than a
rogue. But I felt vastly ashamed of myself,
for all that, to find that my demeanour had
discovered me. However, I did my best to
make amends for my sullen humour by rousing
myself to a cheerful complexion as I answered
her.

"Why," says I, "the meat must be wrapped
in fresh leaves, as well to preserve it from the
flies as to keep it cool and clean for our use in
travelling ; and as I have not yet decided which
course it will be best to take, for it is a serious
and grave question, I will leave you to seek
leaves for that purpose."

With all my heart," says she cheerfully.
I want to be useful if I may; but I will bring
the leaves for you to see, lest the napkin poison
our food."

Thus by a little deception did I restore her
better opinion of my temper, at the same time
that her pretty behaviour roused me to a more
manly feeling.

Presently she comes back with a store of
leaves, which I found very proper for her use,
and then away she trips to pack the meat.

When I had settled what was best to be
done, I went to her and found she had just
finished her business, and admirably neat she
had done it, so that I was forced to admit I could
never have succeeded so well, which I thought it
gave her great pleasure to hear.

And have you decided what we are to do
next ? " she asked.

I am not so fixed but that I should be glad
to h^YB your opinion," says I ; " and if you will
come down to the point whence I have been
surveying our position, you may more readily
judge what we may do for the best."

You will make me vain, Benet," says she,
with a smile.

Now," says I, when we were come to the
shore, " tell me if you can see any trace of our
pursuers opposite."

"No, I can see none of them — nothing
moving," says she, after looking intently.

Then we may take it they are making their
way round the coast to rejoin their comrades
who came in the other boat. By this time
probably all the crew is on shore, looking for
water. Unless they find a spring or a stream to
the west, which is little likely by the position of
the hills, they will come here again to the stream
yonder. But to fill their barricades they must
bring round a boat ; now I can see none as far
as my vision reaches — can you ? "

She scanned the distance carefully, and
replied that she saw nothing betwixt us and the
ship.

"It is probable," says I, "that the men will
content themselves with fruit for the present ;
but when Eodrigues learns that we have taken
the boat, and that there is water in this part, he
will send other boats hither. That is not likely
to happen for some hours. In the meanwhile
we must escape, and I think it will be best todo
so in the boat. We are too far distant
to be perceived from the ship ; and even if we
be, we have such a start of them as they

cannot hope to fetch up with us, for if we see
our pursuers a mile off we m^ij take to the
woods."

Where do you reckon to go in the boat ? "
asks Lady Biddy.

Wliy," says I, " betwixt the chain of hills
that surrounds us and those mountains we saw
beyond, there should be a valley, and there should
be a river to carry off the waters that flow from
the mountains. If we are to find a town of
Christians it should be at the mouth of that
river, for there would lie the most fitting place
to receive the produce brought down by the
river from the interior parts of the country."

Then you intend to make for that town ? "
says she, opening wide her eyes, as I deemed
(not without a pang of jealousy), in delight.

Yes," says I,

"But, Benet," says she, " this may be the
very town Eodrigues spoke of as the one he
intended to go to — the place where he has friends.
Still, the town must be far hence, or he would not
have cast anchor where he has."

Why, that is true," says I, greatly admiring
this girl's quick reasoning.

In that case we may embark at once, and
escape our present danger. We ought not to lose
that chance, for you see how poor I am upon my
feet."

I will not admit that ; but you are right in
all else you have put forward, and so let us
embark at once," says I.

WE THINK THE WORST OF OUR TROUBLES ARE
OVER ; BUT THEY ARE NOT.

Before we departed from that place I wounded
the milk-tree in divers places, and, with Lady
Biddy's help, drew off nigh upon half a gallon of
juice, with which we filled a small keg which, as
luck would have it, the seamen had left in the
locker. Also I cut a fan-shaped palmetto leaf
with a long stem for Lady Biddy to protect her
head, and likewise I got a leaf for my own crown,
tying it under my chin with that sling I had in
my pocket, for though the sun was now sinking
his heat was prodigious. Then, with our store
of provisions in the locker, we slipped out with
the current — the tide of the sea being yet at ebb
and passing the bar came into the open water,
which was as smooth and fair as the sky above.
Looking about us we were comforted to

perceive no boat nor any sign of our enemy nearer
than the black ship, which lay best part of two
leagues, as I judged, to the west. This distance
I strove to increase by laying vigorously on to
my oars and making for the east ; but by keeping
too close in shore I ran presently on a sandbank
; and, getting off that, grounded shortly
after on a second ; and thence on a third; till at
length, seeing that I made less speed than haste,
I was compelled to pull out a quarter of a mile
or more for deeper water, and so get free of those
plaguy sands.

However, I was consoled for the loss of time
and my discomfort by the pleasure of Lady
Biddy, as we thus again obtained a view of the
majestic mountains I have spoken of. Indeed, I
was fain to lose another five minutes, resting on
my oars, and looking over my shoulder at the
superb spectacle ; for the sun, being now in its
decline, did light up these mountains so that
they were glorious to behold. Some of the peaks
glittered and sparkled like cut diamonds — indeed
may have been crystal, for all I know to

the contrary — while others shot up like tongues
of flame, as if the sun by its near approach had
set them afire ; then those further from his
course shone all rosy pink, with shadows of
tender violet.

Lower down, their sides glowed with rich
shades of purple, yet painted over with a soft
bloom like any plum. As for the valley below,
'twas like naught in the world but a great
maze of lilac-bushes, by reason of the flowering
trees.

Quitting this prospect I scanned the sea very
closely, yet could I see nothing like a sail of any
kind, which made me doubt whether there lay
any town in those parts we were coming to ; for
if there were, then most likely would there be
fishers ; and with a smooth sea and a gentle air,
they surely would be abroad casting nets at this
time. This raised a secret joy in my heart; but.
Lord, when I glanced back at those incredibly
mountains, I was awed by the vastness of
the wilderness in which we must somewhere
make a dwelling-place.

To make up for lost time I now bent my
back to the work before me, and rowed on very
steadily, only casting my eye round over my
shoulder from time to time for my guidance.
Lady Biddy was very thoughtful and grave, as
if she likewise was impressed with awe by the
aspect of those vast mountains. Moreover, she
was recovering that strength and composure of
mind which enabled her to gauge her condition
justly, as I had foreseen; and this she could
not do without perceiving how slender was the
thread of hope that held her from despair. But,
despite the return of strength, there was more in
her heart than she could bear ; and when she
had been sitting in silence thus some while, she
turned her head aside, as if to scan the shore,
but it was that I should not see her eyes.
Presently she stole her hand up and gently
wiped away a tear that was stealing down her
cheek, and I saw a movement of her fair throat,
as though she were choking down a sob. And
this so moved me that I had much ado to keep
from weeping in sympathy.

She gave another little gulp, and pushed
again the tear from her cheek — poor soul, she
had no handkerchief; and then with an effort
turns to me, and, seeing my long face, laughed
faintly, though her eyes were yet full.

"We're better off than we were this time
yesterday," says I as cheerfully as I could, but
with a horrid thick voice.

"Ay," says she, "and 'tis ungrateful and
foolish to forget it."

Why, as for that," says I, "a scald will
smart none the less for your getting out of hot
water. But 'tis a comfort to know that we are
not likely to get into the same broth again, and
may reasonably hope to be relieved of our pain
in time, and not long neither, which will give us
patience to endure our present ills."

I will be patient ; indeed I will," says she
earnestly. 'tis the least I can do in return for
your goodness, Benet."

Let us talk of something else". says I.

Can you make any guess as to where weare?
" she asks presently.

Ay," says I, with as stout a voice as if I
were telling the truth, " I make no question of
our whereabouts, or I should not have spoken so
hopefully."

But you did not seem to know before we
started " — with a shrewd glance.

No, for then I could not see the run of the
mountains. Now, when we landed before supper
I could not have sworn but we were in Cam-peaches,
or Honduras, or the Isle of Cuba'*

How could you know after we had eaten?"
says she.

Because our thirst led to the discovery of
the milk tree. Then I knew we must be in
Guiana, for they grow nowhere else ; " adding to
myself, " for aught I know."

A little smile of satisfaction played about her
face ; then she asked eagerly —

And what have you learnt by the run of
the mountains ? "

Why, that we can't be many miles from
the Gulf of Paria. For, if you will recall Sir
Bartlemy's chart to mind, you will remember

that the only mountains in Guiana that run by
the sea are there."

What part of the chart, Benet ? " says she,
knitting her brows.

"Up at the top, against Trinidadoo."

Oh ! I remember," said she, clapping her
hands joyfully. " Why, that is close to where
you left — left him ! ' '

"Yes," says I; "and the very place Sir
Bartlemy will go to refit, if I know aught about
the matter."

In this way did I bring her round to a more
cheerful temper and a forgetfulness of her
position. Nay, I almost cheated myself in
trying to deceive her. For, to tell the truth, I
had no honest opinion that we were near Paria,
else had we seen by this time Margarita, or
some of those isles thereabouts. Father I was
inclined to think we were over against the
mountains of Guayra. However, I believe we
were in neither the one place nor the other,
but on the coast of Marian — these huge mountains
being a spur of the Andes; and if we

were not there, then I know not where we
were.

I kept on long after the sun had set, nor
would I have stayed when I did but for the
rocks which began to encumber the shore, and
my fear to venture far abroad lest some current
should get me into trouble.

Coming now to a kind of cove, well sheltered
with rocks and convenient to abide in, as far as
we could judge by the light of the stars, I threw
out the grapple, which was made fast to the
headlong, and found it held very well.

This being done, we ate a second supper of
turtle and milk ; after which I made up as comfortable
a bed in the bottom of the boat as was to
be had with no better material than the lug-sail,
and induced Lady Biddy to lie down and get
some sleep, promising to wake her as soon as the
day broke, and get a few hours' sleep myself
whilst she kept watch.

There was just enough light for me to descry
her pale face at the further end of the boat as
she lay on the rude bed. I sat watching her,

maybe two hours, thinking by her stillness she
had fallen asleep; but of a sudden, without
moving, she says —

Benet, do you think we could get there ina
week ? "

I answered — though with a feeling that I
did wrong to encourage a false hope — I answered,
I say, that I thought we might do so.

If we have good luck," she adds.

"Good luck we must have, for the worst is
past," says I.

Yes, I think so," says she. "Good-night."

And in this belief she fell asleep, perhaps to
dream her hopes were realised.

Alas ! she was soon to be roused from that
dream — soon to know that the worst was not
past.

WE ARE ENCOMPASSED WITH BLACKAMOORS, TO OUR
GREAT PERIL.

It was drawing near morning, and a breeze had
sprung up, ruffling the waters, so that I had to
keep the boat away from the rock with my oar,
lest the bumping and grating of its side should
disturb Lady Biddy's repose, which I would not
have had for the world, and the tide being again
at the ebb, my face was turned towards the
opening in the rocks by which, as I say, we
entered this little harbour, when I first heard
the sound of a voice.

It seemed to my ear like a cry of triumph or
discovery, and for the moment I believed that
our pursuers had spied us from the cliff above ;
but on looking up where the black rock cut off
the view of the starry sky I could see nothing
but its jagged edge ; moreover, I was convinced
i 2

that no one from that height could spy us in this
dark nook, for the light of the stars was only
sufficient to show Lady Biddy's white face
vaguely to me, and that only distant a few
feet.

I looked around me, but naught was there
but the dark rocks and the grey sea spread out
beyond the outlet. Then I concluded this cry
came from some owl or night-gull. Nevertheless,
I kept very watchful, with my eyes wide
open, and would not suffer my thoughts to return
to that sweet melancholy which the contemplation
of Lady Biddy's face had provoked.

Presently I was seized with a fresh alarm, as
I perceived that one of the rocks that rose from
the sea at the mouth of the cave glowed with a
strange light, which could by no reasoning be
explained, and the ripples of the sea were lit up
in like manner. Every moment this glow grew
stronger, yet very slowly as it seemed to me by
reason of my great anxiety.

At length, this light growing so strong
that I knew something must quickly come of

it, I rose in the boat, grasping my oar in readiness,
yet knowing not what in the world to
expect.

Just as I got to my feet a great blazing fire
shot into sight, so that my eyes were so dazzled
I could see naught else for a moment. However,
as this confusion of my sight subsided, I
perceived that the light came from a brazier or
beacon basket of flaming wood fixed to the prow
of a canoe, and behind it stood a savage as stark
as he was born, with a long spear in his hand,
while another savage behind him sat with his
knees up to his chin, paddling with a single
oar.

While I was wondering what this could mean,
the fellow behind the beacon plunges his spear
into the sea, and brings out a great silvery fish
writhing on the barb.

I was overjoyed to find that these were no
enemies, but only two simple naturals fishing in
the manner of their country ; and I resolved not
to meddle with them in any way if I could help
it. Turning to Lady Biddy, who had been

awaked by the light, and was rising hastily to
her feet, I motioned her to sit down, fearing her
light gown might reflect the light, and be seen
by the savages.

He with the paddle was heading the canoe
across the mouth of the cove, when the other,
having taken the fish from his spear, muttered a
word or two, whereupon the first, with a deft
stroke of his oar, turns the boat about, and so
bears down upon the very place where we lay.
Now what to do I knew not ; for, Grod knows, I
wished these men no harm, and yet could I not
risk to be treated like a fish by the fellow with
the spear. Following the irregularities of the
rocks the canoe came on, till shooting out in
front of that rock behind which our boat lay, did
the beacon blaze not two yards from my face.
There was no time for further consideration, so,
lifting my oar, I gave as loud a whoop as I could,
at the same time swinging my oar with such force
down on the brazier as every spark of fire was
scattered out of it.

With a most heathenish howl of terror the

two Indians leaped into the sea and got away
without so much as showing their heads above
water till they were clear of the cove, which,
doubtless, they took to be haunted by some
devil or sea monster.

At first I was disposed to make merry over
this adventure, but after a bit I reflected that
these fellows, coming from some adjacent village
or town, would certainly carry the news to their
neighbours, and return at daybreak in force to
find out what manner of thing it was that had
served them this trick, and what had become of
their canoe. And as it was more than likely
that, finding we were not the terrible creature
their fears had figured, they would bear us no
good-will, but rather seek to revenge themselves
in cruel sort, I resolved that as soon as it grew
light enough to see my way through the rocks,
which were rendered now more dangerous by the
freshening of the breeze and a chopping sea, we
would go forward on our journey as speedily as
we might. In the meanwhile I prepared myself
for a good spell of work by making a hearty

THE ADMIRABLE LADY BIDDY FANE.

meal, Lady Biddy also eating a little to keep mein
countenance, though she had not yet come to
her appetite.

As soon, then, as the darkness began to lift,
I unmatched the grapple and shoved out towards
the open, yet not without foreboding, for I
fancied I saw certain moving patches upon the
water across the mouth of the cove, as if the
savages were already abroad. Nor was I wrong
in this conjecture, for scarcely had I pulled from
the shadow of the rock into the grey light than
they set up a terrible shout, and let lily a shower
of arrows, whereof one went clean through the
sleeve of my coat, but without scathing my arm,
thanks be to God.

I begged Lady Biddy, for the love of Heaven,
to lie down in the bottom of the boat, at the
same time that I pushed back into the haven
from which we had ventured, for here were we
safe from arrows, and if the Indians had the
stomach to come to close quarters I counted I
could give a very good account of myself with
my sword. But as to jeopardising my dear lady's

life by running through the flight of their arrows,
that would I not do, though they kept us prisoner
a whole day.

So here, having fastened the boat, I waited
with my sword drawn, feeling pretty safe, for,
thanks to the figure of the rocks, no canoe could
enter the cove to shoot us down at a distance
without passing so close that I might lay on
them with my sword. This daunted them exceedingly,
and though we could hear them hallooing
and shouting close at hand, not one ventured
to push his canoe beyond the cleft where we lay
snug.

Lady Biddy put a bold face on this business ;
yet as the sun rose, and the whooping and hallooing
increased, showing that our enemies were
gathering in greater numbers, her eyes betrayed
uneasiness. Indeed, I myself did by no means
feel so sure of oiu- safety as I pretended. For if
but one canoe contrived to get past me into the
inner part of the cove, then might the savages in
it shoot us down at their ease. And though
hitherto none had dared to slip by, I doubted

but presently, by egging each other on with
their taunts and cries, one would pluck up
courage to make the attempt ; then all would
depend upon my address, for if but one of those
wicked, cruel heathens got by alive with his bow
and arrows, as I say, we might measure the
length of our existence by minutes.

Nothing is so wearisome and fatiguing as
to await the onslaught of a hidden foe. The
nerves and muscles must be kept braced up, the
mind must never relax its energy, and one's
very breath comes with painful labour. Maybe
those savages were wise enough to know this,
for though they never ceased to make themselves
heard, yet for hours they made no endeavour todo
more. But at length, about eight o'clock, as
I judge, my ear caught the dash of oars in the
water above the din of voices, and the next
moment the prow of a canoe shot into sight.
And now, first of all, I fling one of my oars out
so that it caught against a rock opposite and
another on the hither side, barring the passage,
and the result of this was that, as the canoe

shot forward, the oar catches the first natural in
the loins and pitches him forward upon the next,
and that one in his turn upon the third, to
their great discomfiture ; still, the oarsmen (who
squat at the stern of the canoes in these parts)
pushed forward, notwithstanding this check ; but
by this time I had snatched up my sword, and
did lay on with such vigour that only two of
the oarsmen out of the four escaped with their
lives by backing out the way they ventured in.
Of spear and bow-men I believe I cut down
five, not to speak of the two oarsmen, and this
without getting a scratch myself, nor being anyway
the worse except for a prodigious sweat in
every part.

Lady Biddy had covered her face with her
hands when I took up the sword, for her delicate
spirit could not abide the sight of bloodshed ;
and when it was all over she still hid her eyes,
so that 1 was enabled to rinse my hand over the
side of the boat unseen, and cleanse it from the
blood that had trickled down the blade and
splashed beyond the cross in this fight. Also

I wiped my sword clean, but I perceived
pretty clearly I should never again be able to
use that blade for cutting up tortuous nor
any other manner of meat that m}^ lady was
to eat.

This business was hardly concluded when
Lady Biddy asks timorously if it is all over.

Yes," says I, " and I reckon the blackamoors
have had enough for this day."

And so it seemed, for after the howling
which was set up upon the defeat of the canoe,
there was considerably less whooping than
before, so that we did begin to comfort ourselves
by thinking they had given up the
attempt for a bad job, and would soon leave
us in peace. But here were we grievously out
of our reckoning, as we soon had occasion to
know, for as I was sitting myself on a thwart
to ease my legs a bit, an arrow flies down betwixt
my knees, and sticks bolt upright in the bottom
of the boat.

Now this I did think to make light of as a
curious accident, deeming that a savage had fired

Favourite THE CHRISTIAN. 125

up in the air and that his arrow had fallen thus
nigh me by chance ; but the next minute a
second arrow falls but a foot away from the
first, and then a third and fourth plump down
in the water alongside the boat with a noise like
great hailstones. Then casting my eyes up I
perceived a row of these red savages along the
edge of the cliff above. Not a minute did I
lose, but snatching up the lug-sail I cast one
side over the rocks beside us in such a manner
as it formed a kind of roof over Lady Biddy's
head ; and though more than one arrow stuck in
the canvas while this was a doing, yet got I
never so much as a graze, which shows how
Providence does favour Christians, to the mortification
of the heathen.

This being done I crept under the shelter
beside Lady Biddy ; yet was I careful to see
that my oar still barred the passage well, and
that my sword was ready to my hand in case
of need.

The arrows fell now thicker than ever;
but though some came through the sail, yet

was their force so broken that they could do us
no mischief.

Seeing this, the savages gave over presently.
Yet by the clatter they made with their kind of
conversation above, I was fearful that they were
only seeking to do us some fresh injury ; nor
did they keep us waiting long to perceive the
turn their ingenuity had taken.

WE ARE LIKE TO BE CRUSHED UNDER A HUGE ROCK.

We were, I say, not long in ignorance of their
intent. First of all there came some loose earth
dropping in the water, and after that some little
stones rattled down the side of the cliff, and
then a bigger rock leaped down beside our boat,
splashing the water in our faces. Upon my
clapping my eye to one of the holes in the sail
made by an arrow, I spied the rabble of savages
above pushing at a huge rock and prising it
with sticks and the poles of their spears. This
rock was of a prodigious size, weighing, as I
judged, many tons, and was lodged on a shelf of
the cliff right over our heads. Every time they
heaved together at this, some corner broke off
and bounded down into the sea ; and the main
body, losing each time something of its support,

shielded more and more, so that it swayed to and
fro, most terrible to behold.

Seeing this, my courage left me altogether ;
for what availed my arm and manhood against
such an engine as this ? My tell-tale face and
quaking limbs struck terror into Lady Biddy's
heart, so that she had no power to raise her
voice above a whisper.

What is it — what is it, Benet ? " she asks,
laying her hand on my arm.

And all I could answer was, " Lord help us ! "
as I dropped on my knees.

At this instant there sounded above a sharp
snap, and this was followed by a terrific noise of
rocks grating together, a huge shout from the
savages, then a deafening clap like the first
discharge of a peal of thunder, and with that
there fell on us a terrible darkness, as if a cloud
had suddenly hidden up the sun.

Then I counted our last moment had come,
and with one last thought of my dear lady I
sprang to my feet and threw up my arms above
her head, which was the mad folly of despair

and no more, for my arms, had they been of iron
or brass, must have bent and broken like reeds
inter the shock of such a vast mass.

As my hands touched the canvas it was torn
down by a stone as big as a firkin, which,
pitching into the sea, did raise a wave that
half filled the boat. Yet was I amazed that we
yet lived, and perplexed to know what had
become of the great rock, till, casting my e^^e
up, I perceived it had stuck between the two
walls of our fissure like a wedge, and so hung
suspended over us. But it was fearful to
observe, through the cloud of dust that filled
the cove, how this monstrous block did now
and then break from its hold, with a noise like
a great gun firing, as some portion of its edge
splintered off, flying in fragments to the right
and left, the great mass threatening with each
rupture to give way and bury us beneath it at
the bottom of the sea. Indeed, it was in my
heart to wish it would descend at one sweep
rather than come down Httle by little to our
destruction, for the suspense and terror of
J

watching our coming doom were most horrible
and fearful.

Those above, seeing that it wanted but a
little to dislodge it from its position, now began
to hurl big stones upon it, as we could plainly
tell by the sound which echoed from it, as the
noise of a galloping horse upon a bridge strikes
the ear of one below. And at each blow this
rock crumbled and shattered at its edge, showering
down rubble all around us. Lady Biddy
clung trembling to my arm, and though it was
frightful to a degree to stand there helpless,
watching the approach of death, yet could we
not turn our eyes from it, nor think of aught
else. Otherwise, had I made a bold stroke to
escape by shoving out of the cleft into the open
and running the gauntlet, maugre the arrows of
the savages waiting for us without ; but, indeed,
we were paralysed with fear, and I not less than
Lady Biddy.

Of a sudden we heard the report of a musket,
and instantly the babel of savage shouting and
whooping was stilled as if by enchantment ; nor

were any more stones hurled down on the rock
above us.

For a little space we stood feeble and trembling,
as if spent with violent exertion ; but the
silence continuing, and the rock above ceasing to
labour, I plucked up heart, and bethought me to
get out of that cove, no matter what befell us
afterwards. So in a twinkling I loosed the boat,
and, shoving out of the cleft, turned about and
drew through the narrow opening and out of the
shadow of that accursed rock. And being now
in the open we saw nothing of the Indians, but
only their canoes lying up on the beach about
a quarter of a mile to the east ; neither were any
of those heathens to be seen on the top of the
cliff whence the great rock had been hurled
down. This would have struck us with wonder
and excited our curiosity at any other time, but
just then we had no room in our breasts to
harbour any feeling but that of profound and
devout gratitude for our marvellous preservation.
Looking at me very tenderly. Lady Biddy
clasped her hands in her lap and bowed her
J -2

head, while I, resting my arms on the oars,
drew a deep breath which my lungs did seem
sorely to need, for, as it seemed to me, I had
not drawn breath freely for many hours.

While we sat thus, the boat gently tossing
on the waves, I heard a voice hailing us, and
turning about I spied a couple of men, decently
clothed and armed with muskets Uke good Christians,
standing amidst the rocks to the west of
the cove. Seeing they were perceived, they held
up their hands and beckoned us to draw nigh.

It is they who have saved us from the
savages," cries Lady Biddy with joy ; " they are
friends."

That remains to be seen," says I, still resting
on my oars and regarding them. " To my
mind they look very like Spaniards. "^

And if they are, may we not trust them,
Benet ? " says she, with some concern.

I am of two minds about it," says I ; " and
for uiy own part I should feel just as content to
pull out of reach of their muskets as to get
within reach of their swords."

'* Nay, you have a sword also, Benet, and area
match for two such little fellows as they."

There are but two as we can see, that's
certain," says I ; " but we know not how many
may lurk within call. Englishman they are not,
I will vow."

"Nor pirates," says Lady Biddy, as much as
to tell me that all Englishmen are not angels.

"No," says I; "but they may be no better
than pirates. In a word, I do fear they may turnout
to be friends of Eodrigues from that town
he spoke of."

As you will, Benet," says she ; " but," she
adds, with a sigh, " they look very civil, pretty
little fellows."

I hesitated still ; for though I was dearly
tempted to yield to Lady Biddy's evident desire,
yet I knew that I was answerable for her life
and welfare.

The men hailed us again, and one turned his
musket upside down, while the other pulls out
his white handkerchief and waves it in sign of
peace.

"I do think they are Italian," says Lady
Biddy, with hope lighting up her eyes again.

That decided me, and so, forgetting her welfare,
I pulled towards the rocks to prevent those
sweet eyes filling with tears, which was a weak
part to be played by a strong man, and nothing
to my credit.

Coming to the rocks, yet standing off a little
from the shore, we began a parley ; but. Lord !
we might have held our peace, for I could speak
but English with a smattering of Dutch. They
tried one or two tongues that were without
meaning to our ears, and Lady Biddy got on no
better with speaking French and Italian. However,
this jargon did so tickle us that we could
not help but laugh, which put us in good humour
one with another ; so, to cut a long story short,
taking their gestures to mean that they would
die rather than injure a hair of our heads, and
that they sought only to lead us to where we
might get good treatment and run no risk of
being further molested by savages, we resolved
to put ourselves in their hands ; so, running the

boat ashore in a convenient part, we landed, and
after I had buckled on ray sword we signed to
our two friends to lead the way.

Near to that spot was a path cut in the cliff,
and coming to the top we found ourselves in a
fine level country, stretching away to the hills
behind which rose the mountains. This champaign
was cultivated with a kind of corn and
divers other crops of strange plants, which comforted
us with the hope of getting Christian entertainment.
A fairly good path lay between
the fields and the edge of the cliff, and this we
followed in an easterly direction, passing that
part where the barbarians had thrust down the
rock upon us, as also a little village of huts hard
by where the canoes were stranded. Pointing
down at these huts our guides gave us to understand
in dumb show that the savages were
slaves, and would surely be punished for their
attempt upon our lives ; indeed, on our way we
saw above a score of armed men amidst the corn
following the furrows, to see if any of those
wretches lay hid there, and heard many a yell as

they were dragged to light and carried off to be
whipped.

These cries did pierce Lady Biddy's tender
and forgiving heart, and she urged many good
reasons for their excuse : as that we must not
expect mercy from those whom we treat without
pity ; that they must look upon all white people
as their enemies and oppressors, since, but for
us, they would still be free and happy in their
native woods ; that as it is our instinct to destroy
the reptile or brute that would do us harm, so
was it natural in them for their own preservation
to take the lives of such as might one day become
their tyrants, and sunder the wife from
her husband, the child from its parent, for
their own mercenary ends, etc., which gentle
arguments did greatly soften that evil spirit of
vengeance that stirred within me.

IN WHICH PROVIDENCE, NOT TO BE ALWAYS A-
SCOURGING OF US, PROVIDES US WITH GOOD
ENTERTAINMENT.

After raarcMng best part of an hour we came to
a store-house and farm, where our guide procured
mules (to Lady Biddy's great relief and my contentment),
and with this help we came about
eleven o'clock to a small town, built on the side
of a hill, at the mouth of a fair river, and covered
by a stout fortress ; and here were we conducted
at once to the house of the governor, which
stood in the midst of a fine garden, as pretty a
seat as one could hope to see in such an outlandish
part. After waiting in the courtyard,
where we dismounted, some little while, the servant
who had carried a message from our two
friends (as I may call those fellows to whom we
owed our lives) came back, and led us through a
gateway into the midst of the garden, where on

a fair green lawn, under the shade of a striped
sheet of silk, fastened with coloured cords (very
fine) to high palmettos at the four corners of the
green, sat half a dozen gentlemen and a lady
about a table, on which was spread a repast that
set my mouth a- watering. The gentlemen were
all very handsomely dressed in the Spanish
mode, and the lady (who was the governor's
wife) was also very richly arrayed in a lace
farthingale, but as ugly a woman of fifty or thereabouts
as ever I did see ; and particularly insolent,
for ere we had got near her by five yards
she held up her hand to bid us stay ; and, clapping
a scent-bottle to her hooky nose, put on an
expression of loathing and disgust, as though we
had been dirty dogs.

This disdain, however, was by no means obvious
in the rest of the company, who, taking
but slight notice of me, did gaze at Lady Biddy
as though they would stare her out of countenance
; so that I know not if I was better pleased
with their impudence than with the old tabby's
insolence.

The governor, who was as handsome as his
wife was ordinary, with a snow-white beard and
mustaches, but jet black eyebrows over his soft
dark eyes, made a slight inclination of his head
to Lady Biddy (as much as he dared in his wife's
presence), and, turning to our friends, spoke to
them, asking (as I guess) how we had Mien
into their hands ; whereupon the fellows, with
their hats in their hands, very humbly laid the
whole matter before him, the gentlemen listening
with growing astonishment, glancing from the
speakers to me, and then to Lady Biddy, while
the governor's wife, fanning herself with a tuft
of marabouts, from time to time put in a word to
our disadvantage, as I conceived b}^ her gestures.
When the men had made an end of their history,
the governor, turning to me, spoke a word or two
in Portuguese — for I lenient afterwards that all the
company were Portugalss — to which I answered
in English till he stopped me with a shrug of
his shoulders, when I tried him in low Dutch
but he only shook his head at that. Then Lady
Biddy, in her sweet clear voice, ventured a word

or two in Italian, as being something like the
language he spoke. Upon which the governor,
with a very amiable smile, replied in the same
tongue, and my lady proceeded to tell our story.

And now was I heartily glad I had not made
myself understood ; for I must bave made a sad
bungling business of it in comparison with her
performance. I knew not a word of what she
said, yet could I not sufficiently admire her
noble calm, her easy self-command, her graceful
tone and gesture, and her fearless mien.

I might have pleaded for compassion; she
did nothing of the kind. She told of the wrong
we had suffered with no mournful note, but with
a tone of contempt for those who were so base
as to abandon the respect due to her. She spoke
in another key of the attack made by the
barbarians, for they were rather to be pitied fora
savage cruelty sprung from their misfortunes ;
she turned with a gracious inclination of her
head to the two men in acknowledging their
courtesy, and then, facing the governor's wife, she
seemed to be demanding of her the courtesy of

one lady towards another ; and in conclusion,
with a deep curtsey, thanked the governor in
advance for the hospitality which the representative
of a proud king would undoubtedly extend
to the unfortunate subjects of a brother-Sovereign
thrown upon his coast.

I knew, I say, not one word of the tongue
she spoke ; yet had I been as proficient in the
language as she, I could not have better understood
that which she was saying, and this
simply by the consummate eloquence of her
manner.

Her speech ended, the governor rose, and
before he spoke placed his chair for her use,
standing erect until the servant ran forward with
another chair for him and one for me. Indeed,
her speech had a marvellous effect upon the
whole company. The governor's lady absolutely
smiled upon us — for Lady Biddy had not
omitted to state that she was noble by birth, and
that I was her cousin — and the gentlemen,
taking shame for their impudence, were now less
prepared to meet her eyes than she theirs. All

THE ADMIRABLE LADY BIDDY FANE.

this did comfort me greatly to perceive, and my
heart swelled with pride for that I was the companion
of such an excellent and beautiful lady.

The governor, being seated, made a little
speech in an amiable tone, which Lady Biddy at
once translated to me, that he might see I was
to be her partner in good fortune as I had been
in ill; and the gist of his matter, divested of
fine compliments, was that as soon as he had
properly fulfilled his personal duty as a host, he
should take proper means to convey us to our
country.

"Tell him," says I, "that though I shall be
happy to leave his roof a debtor, yet I do fear
we shall have to cry quits before I go."

Lady Biddy looked perplexed, but she gave
my message.

The governor wishes to know," says she,
when he had replied, " what you imply by your
message, and so do I," adds she, in the same
tone.

"Ask him if he knows a man with pointed
teeth named Eodrigues."

After a little consideration among the company,
the governor replied through Lady Biddy
that he knew no one with pointed teeth.

Tell him," says I again, " that Eodrigues
is the pirate from whom we escaped ; that he is
an excellent navigator as ever sailed the sea, and
knows this coast by heart ; wherefore I do think
by his anchoring half a dozen leagues off to
search for water, instead of coming in here for
refreshment — which had been the simpler and
surer means — that he harbours some sinister
design upon the riches of this town."

The governor looked grave on hearing this,
and his lady set to crossing herself and calling
on her saint for succour. Presently the governor
replied.

I am to tell you," says Lady Biddy, " that
Dom Sebastian d'Estovalderos is prepared to
meet any foe, and fears none. At the same time
he thanks you for your hint, and I think by his
manner the old gentleman will be very glad of a
few more."

"Tell him," says I, "that I could not

presume to offer advice to a Portugal and a soldier,
with any other flattery you think proper ; but I
should feel more sure of my own skin if he would
send out spies along the coast to the west to
warn us of the pirate's movements."

Dom Sebastian took this in very good part,
and at once gave orders to the men who had
brought us in, and they departing at once, he
eagerly asked if he could make any other arrangement
to increase my sense of security.

I bade Lady Biddy let him know that Rodriguez
was a man of extreme subtlety and a
crafty villain as ever lived, who, understanding
the temper of the savages towards their masters,
might secretly stir them up to rebellion with a
view to diverting attention from his attack, and
that therefore I should feel easier if the naturals
were for a time deprived of their bows and arrows.

The governor vowed they should all be sent
in irons up the country at the first approach of
Rodrigues, but that, as to their bows, it was
impossible to find where they kept them, adding
that to conceal these cherished arms they had so

quickly scattered at the first musket shot of his
factors. Further, he wished to know what else
he could do for me.

"Tell him," says I, getting weary of this
business, " that I will let him know while I am
eating if any other precaution occurs to my
mind; but that, before anything else, I would be
glad to have a basin of water and a clean shirt."

I know not how Lady Biddy suggested this,
but certain it is that, after a few more civilities
were exchanged, a lacquey led me off to one
part of the house, while Mistress Sebastian
herself carried Lady Biddy to another. And
here was I waited on hand and foot, my old
suit stripped off, and a very handsome dress
laid out for me, which the governor begged I
would accept until his tailor could make me a
better ; and while one fellow was tying my
garters and buckling my shoes, another was
pointing my beard and cropping my head in the
Spanish fashion. In fine, betwixt one and the
other, I was so changed that when I came to
look in the glass I did not know myself fork


Benet Pengilly. But I was not displeased with
my appearance ; nay, on the contrary — to tell
the truth — I was as vain of myself as any coxcomb,
and if I had possessed it, I would freely
have given a piece to the fellow who trimmed
my head, and another to him who had tied my
garters, etc. And now I went out into the
garden with a strut and a flourish, as though
this bravery was naught to me, though my
heart was all of a flutter to know how Lady
Biddy would take my looks.

She had not yet descended when I came to
the company, who were all laying their heads
together very close in discussion, standing in a
knot some way from the table, which was laid
out with a very elegant repast.

Seeing me approach, the gentlemen broke off
their conversation, and Dom Sebastian made a
sign that I should sit down to table, but this I
would not do in the absence of Lady Biddy,
albeit I was very sharp set. Presently she came
from the house with the governor's lady. I
made them a prodigious fine bow, and they

curtsied to me ; and I was flattered to the top
of my bent to perceive how my lady did regard
me from the corner of her eye with pleasure and
approval.

She also had changed her torn frock for a
gown of black silk, and with this she wore a
kerchief of lace thrown loosely over her head,
which, like a dark setting to a fair pearl, did add
to the lustre of her delicate skin and sparkling
eyes — if it be possible to increase the beauty of
that which in itself is perfect; in a word, she
did ravish the eye.

And if those Portugalss had before admired
her, dishevelled and ill-arrayed, there is no word
to express their regard now. A little murmur
arose amongst them as she gracefully took her
seat at the table ; and while one betook himself
to get a posy for her bosom, and another set a
cushion for her feet, the rest clustered around
her like bees about a honey bloom, offering her
delicacies from the store set before us.

Lady Biddy was pleased to receive this
homage, and, despite the accursed jealousy of
k 2

my nature, I bore them no ill-will for their
attentions to her, feeling that I was as good as
any grandee amongst them, and better in my
dear Lady Biddy's esteem.

After we had eaten to our heart's content,
the governor very politely offered me some
tobacco, which there they do not use in pipes,
but rolled up in sticks about the bigness of a
farthing candle, which tobacco is very excellent
smoking indeed ; and so, being risen, the governor
gave his arm to Lady Biddy, and we strolled
to that part of the grounds which commanded a
wide view of the town, the river, and the sea
beyond.

At that moment a runner came in, sweating
with haste, to tell that a ship was in sight ; but
we needed not his warning, for I had already
spied in the distance a sail which I knew at a
glance for the Black Death.

A SPEEDY END IS Brought TO OUR CIVIL
ENTERTAINMENT.

Lady Biddy was greatly cast down when lie
caught sight of the black ship, as well she
might be, for it seemed as if there were to be
no more rest for her, body or mind. After
standing in sad silence for a minute or two, she
says to me —

Benet, you must never yield to me again ;
if I had not persuaded you from your purpose,
we should have escaped this present peril."

Here is nothing," says I, " but what confirms
my good opinion of your judgment."

Nay," says she, " did you not tell Dom
Sebastian that Eodrigues would come hither ?"

To be sure, I don't want Eodrigues to catch
Dom Sebastian unprepared ; but as for our peril,
I don't value it a snap of my fingers."

Hearing the name of Eodrigues coupled
with his own, the governor, who had been
eyeing us pretty shrewdly, stepped forward,
and after apologising for the intrusion, begged
Lady Biddy to serve as our interpreter, and ask
me whether I felt any anxiety with regard to
my position ; whereupon the following dialogue
ensued : —

I : " We may all go to bed and sleep comfortably
to-night. But 'twill not do to lie abed
tomorrow morning."

He : " You do not apprehend any immediate
attack from the pirate ? "

I : " No ; for the reason that he is not in a
position to offer it. You see how he has been
making for the shore, and how now he is standing
out ; that shows that the wind is all against
him, but it also proves his design to come
hither."

He: "Why?"

I : " Because the ship's company are famished,
and would never consent to work the
ship at such a snail's pace unless Eodrigues

could make them believe there was a town hereto
furnish them with all they need. They are
not making half a league an hour. Unless the
wind shifts to their advantage — and I see no
likelihood of that — they will not be here ere
midday tomorrow."

He : " What, in your opinion, will Eodrigues
do then ? "

I : " He will do his best to hoodwink and
deceive you."

He (bending his brows) : " And when he
finds that Dom Sebastian d'Estovalderos is not
to be hoodwinked? "

I : " Then he will seek to get what he wants
by force. Neither he nor his men will go away
unsatisfied."

He : " He may be satisfied to go away
with what he does not want. My guns are
not toys."

I : " I hope with all my heart he may underrate
them to his cost. It is more likely, however,
that he will stand well out of their reach. He
is hardy, but he is prudent. Be assured he

would rather murder us all in our beds than
venture an open encounter."

At this, Mistress Sebastian, who also understood
the Italian a little, set up a shrill scream,
and, after feeling about her person in great
concern, called a servant who waited hard by,
and bade him run at once to the house for her
beads. The governor himself was too concerned
to take much heed of his lady's agitation, though
his pride kept him in good countenance.

He : " Are there any measures that you
think it advisable to take ? "

I : "I would have stout beams chained together,
and thrown across the river from one side
to the other to prevent an enemy's boat slipping
past the guns of the fortress ; also I should propose
to send your lady, and anything else you
value, to some place of security out of the town ;
finally, I would set up a gallows on the top of
your citadel to be seen by Eodrigues, and at his
first approach let him know that you will hang
without mercy upon it him or the first of his
company that comes within your reach."

He : "You have nothing else to recommend? "

I: "Nothing."

He (with a penetrating glance of his quick
eye) : " How is it you have not thought of defending
that part of the town by which you
entered, and the part most likely to be attacked
by an enemy who has the discretion to perceive
that his boats and men would be swept from the
water by my guns if he were to venture an
assault by the river ? "

I : " Because that defence would not be
omitted by sou or a less experienced general
in the face of any ordinary foe ; I only venture
to advise you on those points which might escape
you in dealing with an enemy whose subtlety is
best known to me."

The governor expressed himself quite satisfied
with this explanation ; but I could see, nevertheless,
that he was inclined to eye me with suspicion
for having neglected to recommend the
fortification of the town on the western side,
thinking, maybe, that I was no enemy to
Rodriguez, but his friend, come there with a

plausible tale to divert his defence from the
weaker side. This, indeed, was a very ridiculous
thing to imagine ; yet there is nothing too
absurd to be entertained of a suspicious man ; and,
certainly, no men do fear treachery more than
these same Portugalss, albeit they themselves area
match for all the world at lying and deceit.

Despite his boast that the guns of his castle
could sweep the water of all enemies, he did not
neglect the advice I had given him. Divers
great masts were bound to a chain, and this laid
across the river, firmly secured at either end.
Within this barrier lay a long galley ship, and
all the rest of the day slaves were employed in
carrying goods and merchandise from the governor's
house into this galley. Besides this, a great
train of pack-mules was sent up into the country
with other treasure. Everywhere there was great
bustle and commotion, for the merchants and
others who dwelt in the town, getting wind of
the danger, were as anxious to have their goods
out of the pirate's reach as the governor his ;
nay, so eager were they to preserve the least

valuable part of their property that they would
have departed with their goods and left the
governor alone to meet the enemy, but that Dom
Sebastian did threaten to hang at the first opportunity
any man capable of bearing arms for the
defence of the town who should fail to answer to
the summons of his trumpeter.

As long as there was light to see, my anxious
eyes were strained to watch the approach of the
black ship. By sunset she had got near enough
for us to descry with a perspective that her sails
were being furled, which showed she had cast
anchor for the night. So, feeling: that we were
perfectly safe for the next ten or twelve hours, I
for one made no scruple to accept the bed offered
to me, for such a luxury was not to be denied by
one who had not felt a cool sheet for an age.

The first thing that entered my head when
I awoke in the morning was a remembrance that
we had left the boat that belonged to the Black
Death high and dry on the shore where we had
landed after our escape from the naturals, which
must surely be seen by Eodrigues in searching

the shore with his glass, and thus betray us to
him. Cursing my want of forethought, I slipped
into my clothes as nimbly as I could, and started
to go to the citadel, where I counted on seeing
the governor. But on my way thither I was
suddenly brought to a stand by the reflection
that I could not make him understand a word of
what I wanted. What was I to do ? If I went
back to arouse Lady Biddy to come and serve
as interpreter, I must of a certainty lose time.
Every moment was precious. It struck me that
if I made good use of my legs I could get to the
boat in an hour, stave a hole in the bottom of it,
shove it out to sea, and so be quit of this plaguy
evidence ; and it being yet pretty early I counted
I might fairly do this before Eodrigues had
come within boat-reach of the spot. Anyway, I
esteemed it would be best to try and do this of
my own hand rather than wait until a lengthy
explanation of the matter could be made to the
governor through Lady Biddy ; so, without more
ado, I turned out of the road to the citadel by
that path we had come by the day before, and

took to my heels as swiftly as I could. But ere
I had come to the town-gate a couple of fellows,
springing out into the road, crossed their bills in
front of me, shouting for help ; whereupon, in a
twinkling, half a score of others with pike and
musket ran up and laid hands on me. It was
useless to cry out against this violence, for not
one amongst them could make out what I said ;
so of necessity was I forced to yield patiently,
and go whither they chose to lead me. So, like
any criminal thief, was I carried to the citadel,
where the governor stood with his friends looking
out to sea.

I made him a bow, and with a shrug, after
their manner, and a smile, I pointed to my
captors.

Dom Sebastian replied to my salute very
stiffly ; but as for the rest, though we had all
been as friendly over a bottle and tobacco-sticks
as so many brothers the night afore, they took
now no more notice of me, except to stare
violently, than if they had just clapped eyes on
me for the first time. The men who had stopped

me told their tale — as how I was running out of
the town as fast as my legs could carry me, and
the rest, which I could follow pretty closely by
reason that these Portugalss do suit the action tc
the word most admirably.

When the governor had listened, like any
stock of wood for stiffness, to their history, he
spoke a few words to one of the fellows, which
were, I take it, to bid him fetch Lady Biddy ;
and then, with another stiff bow to me, turned
on his heel, leaving me still in the hands of the
musketeers, and goes with his friends to the
parapet to note the advance of the black ship.

Now was I vexed in the extreme, but with no
one more than myself ; for, had the governor
been no Portugal, yet must it have aroused his
suspicion that I should be caught, the first thing
in the morning, running away from the town in
the direction of the enemy without giving any
word of explanation or farewell.

I had ample time, as I waited there, to look
about me. The Black Death I saw laying on
not above a couple of leagues off, having taken

advantage betimes of the favourable breeze that
had sprung up after the stillness of the night.
This put me in mind that I should have done
well to assure me of where the enemy was before
I started on my mad journey, for he was already
past the spot where the boat lay; but, indeed,
when a man is flurried he is capable of any folly,
and he never commits one without entailing
another.

The governor and his friends continued inclose
conversation — doubtless discussing my behaviour
— until Lady Biddy came breathless to
my side. Seeing me under arrest, her face was
filled with alarm, and any one might see that her
perplexity was unfeigned ; yet I doubt if this
removed the suspicion of my treachery.

What does this mean, Benet ? " asks Lady
Biddy, when she could fetch her breath.

Nay," says I, " that is the question I want
sou to ask Dom Sebastian."

The governor, who had drawn nigh, saluting
Lady Biddy with the utmost civility, explained
to her that I had been caught attempting to run

THE ADMIRABLE LADY BIDDY FANE,

out of the town, " And in that direction," adds
he, pointing to the black ship.

In a few words I told how this came to pass,
the governor eyeing us the while as if he would
look into our very hearts. Happily he seemed
to see that we were innocent, for the moment he
heard Lady Biddy's account he bade the men
unhand me, and begged her to tell me that he
was sorry I had brought myself into this scrape,
adding that he should be glad to know how
I came to forget that I had left the boat
there.

To this I replied that I could say nothing in
defence of my oversight.

I trust," says he, " the senhor will not get
himself into further trouble by a like accident.
Had I not remembered the boat and got it
removed, it would have served as a sure indication
to the enemy that there was a path from
that point by the cliff."

I felt that I deserved this reproach ; nay, I
was rather surprised at the governor's moderation,
for, granting that I might be a knave, there was

evidence enough against me to justify a halter
being put about my neck.

I am the more concerned for your cousin's
prudence," continues he, " because in an hour's
time you will no longer be under my protection."

How, your Excellency!" cries Lady Biddy.
Are you going to send us hence ? "

Under a proper escort," says he, " who
will ensure your safe conduct to a point on
the river whither my wife has already gone in
the galley."

I had resolved to discharge my debt to the
governor by fighting at his side, if Rodrigues
attacked the town ; but now by his manner I
perceived so clearly that we were being sent
away because he mistrusted us, that I thought
better of it, and made no offer of my services.

WE SET OUT FOR THE INTERIOR, AND I FALL INTO
MY JEALOUS HUMOUR ONCE MORE.

Having taken formal leave of the governor,
whose duty kept him to the citadel, we returned
to the house, where we had barely finished our
meal when a gentleman came to us in great
haste, telling us the black ship was casting
anchor, and it was high time to be jogging.

Our escort was waiting in the courtyard, and
so we set out, a company of thirteen, with the
like number of mules.

Our commander was a Portugal named
Lewis de Pino, and, as luck would have it,
he spoke the Italian passably ; besides him, there
were ten other Portuguese footmen, each armed
with an arquebuse, a sword, and a good supply
of powder and ball, hung on their bandalieros.
Three of the mules — sleek, well-conditioned

beasts, and very bravely caparisoned — served to
carry Lady Biddy, the commander, and myself;
the rest bore pack-saddles well charged with
stores.

We crossed the champaign, and there struck
into the woods by a trodden path with a pleasant
shade of trees. We travelled this way until
noon, when, being come to a convenient spot, we
dismounted, and there made a very excellent
repast from our stores ; after which we reposed
until the great heat of the day was past, and
then pushed on again.

About five o'clock we came to an opening in
the woods, whence we could see the river winding
through the valley below, but no sign of the
galley which should be there waiting for us.
Whereupon Senhor Lewis, who, as I say, spoke
the Italian, seeming to fall into a great pet, declared
that this was a trick of the governor's lady
to gratify her spleen against Lady Biddy, which
had been only too evident from the very first.

Now," says he, " I perceive why she was
so anxious to start off betimes, and why she
/ 2

urged that you, being unused to travelling on
these rivers, could never endure the teasing of
the flies that do infest the water, and so should
go as far as you might by road."

Our mules are still fresh," says Lady Biddy;
cannot we get to our destination by following
this road still further ? "

Nay," says he, " for Dom Sebastian's seat,
where he designed you should stay with his
lady until it might be safe to return to Castella
Lagos, lies yet some distance up the river, and
is only to be reached by boat from the point
below. For the river winds one ways, and this
road the other ; nor is there any other means of
getting at it that I know of. But I will make
sure of this by questioning the men, who know
these parts better than I."

While he was parleying with his men, Lady
Biddy narrated this conversation to me, and, as
she was saying the last words, he conies back,
still feigning to be greatly vexed.

I am sorry to tell you, madam," says he,
that my men, one and all, agree with me

there is no road to the governor's seat ; so I see
nothing for it but to divide my company, and
give you one half to cover your return to Castella
Lagos."

But why divide the company ? " says Lady
Biddy in alarm ; " surely you will return with
us!"

Nothing would give me greater joy," says
he, " but I am only a poor merchant, and these
are my possessions " (with his head in his
shoulders and his hands extended towards the
company of footmen and mules). " In offering
you half my servants, I jeopardise as much as I
can afford, for I doubt if I shall see e'er a one of
'era alive again."

When Lady Biddy had translated this to me,
she says, in a tone of terror —

If he does not expect his men to save their
lives in returning to the town, how may we hope
to escape ? We cannot return thither. Oh !
Benet, what shall we do ? "

I was myself prodigiously taken aback, and
not a little scared, by this new turn of affairs;

yet, seeing how my dear lady was upset, I tried
to calm her mind by making light of the matter.

Be of good cheer," says I ; "we will for
certain not ^o back to this Castello Lagos, for if
the Portugal will not venture his carcase there,
I will assuredly not risk mine. Nay, you should
know, cousin," I add, feeling a little sore for
reasons that I shall presently explain, " that I
treasure your safety more than this man does
his merchandise. I see through this rogue of a
merchant, who, as likely as not, has contrived
this difficulty for his own profit. Do you ask
the fellow such questions as I would put to
him."

"With all my heart," says Lady Biddy.
What shall I ask him, Benet ? "

"Ask him if he be a merchant of Castello
Lagos," says I, putting on a pretty determined
air.

To this Lewis de Pino replied that he was
a merchant of Valerias, whither he was now
going.

Valerias," says T, pretending to be mighty

knowing, that he might not perceive my ignorance,
" that lies betwixt here and Caracas, I
take it."

He replied yes, bnt after looking at me in
silence a minute, as though to make ont what I
was driving at.

And Caracas," says I, in the same tone, " is
t'other side of those mountains ? "

Preciseamento ! " says he, with a grin,
holding up his hand with the tips of his thumb
and second finger joined.

How far is it to Valerias ? " I asked.

About six days' journey," says he, in
reply.

And from Valerias to Caracas is no great
matter," says I still, as if I knew the road well
enough.

The senhor knows that it is no distance at
all," says he.

Good," says I ; " then, as our object is to
get back to England rather than to trespass upon
Dom Sebastian's hospitality, you shall carry us
with you, for which service you shall be well

paid. You shall have m}^ bond for any reasonable
sum."

He would have it that he needed no recompense,
but I could see plainly that he was very
well pleased with this turn, which did further
convince me the matter was planned beforehand.

We pushed on until dusk, when we reached a
collection of wooden huts, walled in with a palisade
of stout wooden spikes, crossed in the manner
of the letter X, and the spaces so stuffed
with thorns and prickly herbs that no man (least
of all a naked savage) could go either in or
out, save by the postern at one side. In the
midst of these huts stood a stone tower, pierced
with little holes in the upper part, for the use
of muskets in case of attack, as I thought.

We saw no women or children in this village,
but only about a dozen wild, fierce Portugalss,
each with a long knife stuck in his girdle ; and
one, who seemed to have just returned from the
chase, had his musket slung on behind to his
bandaliero, and was dressed in a jerkin, breeches,
and gaiters of leather. With their ragged beards,

their sunburnt skins and savage air, they looked
like so many brigands ; yet were they as courteous
as lacqueys to us, helping us to dismount,
and providing us with all that was necessary to
our comfort. Most of the houses were mere
sheds, used for the storing of powder, food, etc.,
for these Portugalss, as I learnt, were hunters,
who never slept under a roof except in the rainy
season; but there was one well furnished and
provided with sleeping rooms to serve for the
accommodation of the merchants, who came from
time to time to truck their merchandise for the
spoils brought hither by the hunters.

When we had supped. Lady Biddy, being
fatigued with the day's journey, betook herself
to the room set apart for her in the uttermost
house I speak of, and I, having no inclination for
society, lay myself down in a net hung from two
beams in the roof, which is their manner of sleeping
in these parts, and the first I had ever seen
of such strange bed places. There was a second
net in this chamber for Lewis de Pino ; but be,
having business to do with the hunters, that we

might start betimes the next morning, went out
and joined them elsewhere, so that I was left
alone to my meditations.

And here I took myself to task, as well I
might, for having misbehaved myself in a very
pitiful paltry sort towards Lady Biddy from the
first moment we set out on our journey. To
make an honest confession, I had allowed myself
once more to come under the dominion of that
abominable jealousy which was my besetting
vice. For this Lewis de Pino was one of those
gallants we had discovered seated with Dom
Sebastian on our arrival at Castello Lagos, and
the most persistent in paying his addresses to
my lady ; nay, he was so smitten with her
charms that his eyes did seem to devour her as
often as he looked at her. I had observed him
more than once talking apart with the governor
very earnestly : once touching hands as if on a
bargain ; and from this I concluded that we had
been sold in a manner by the governor to Lewis
de Pino to further the amorous designs of the
latter upon Lady Biddy. Now this conviction

should have drawn me closer to her as a friend
and protector, and so it would, but I took
it into my head that she looked too kindly on
him.

In crossing the champaign she took no notice
of him whatever, being concerned for our safety,
and fearing Eodrigues would get upon our track
ere we got to a place of safety ; and all this
while she was very silent and preoccupied, turning
in her saddle now and again to look back,
and asking me if I thought we should yet escape,
etc., all in a very troubled and grave manner
; but being come into the wood, and greatly
relieved of her anxiety, she grew, as it was
natural she should, very suddenly gay and
sprightly. Just at that time Lewis de Pino
came to her side with a compliment in the
Italian, which, as I say, he spoke indifferent
well, and this brought the smile to her cheek.

"She has not smiled on me since we bade
each other good-morning," says I to myself.
"Nay, she would scarcely accept for a truth
my assurance of her safety ; yet the moment this

grinning Portugal conies to lier side she forgets
our peril and is blithe."

So we continued our way ; he one side of
niy lady chatting and smiling, and I on the
other glum and mischance. Nor did I speak
a single word for half an hour, when she says,
turning to me with the smile Lewis de Pino had
brought to her face —

Have you nothing to say, Benet ? "

On this, feeling ashamed to acknowledge the
truth, I sought to excuse myself with a lie.

I am thinking," says I, " of our peril, which
is none of the least."

Why," says she, " what have we to fear
now? That man will never surely pursue us
hither."

No," says I ; " very likely not ; but I have
heard no sounds of firing, and I do fear the governor,
despite my warning, has yielded to some
cunning artifice of Eodrigues ; who by threat or
torture may persuade him to fetch us back with
his soldiery''

She translated my fears to Lewis de Pino,



who replied that Dom Sebastian would perish inflames
rather than be guilty of treachery.

"And I think so likewise," added Lady
Biddy, when she had rendered this, " for these
Portugalss have nobility stamped in their features."


Ay," says I, " and cruelty stamped on their
lips, and wickedness in their eyes as well."

As for that," says she, laughing, " we are
not all Puritans. You must admit," adds she,
with a malicious twinkle in her eye, for I fancy
she perceived the secret of my dislike and would
pique me for a punishment — " you must admit
Senhor Lewis is a very handsome man."

Yes," says I ; " but 1 like him none the
better for that."

Presently we came to a part where, the path
growing narrower, there was room but for two to
go abreast, and here Lewis de Pino, taking off
his hat, made as though he would yield his place
to me ; but I, not to be outdone in civility, gave
him back his salute and fell behind.

There were abundance of beauteous flowers

and gay-plumed birds and curious growths on
either side to please the eye and interest the
mind; but I could not take my eyes off the
two faces before me, turned towards each other,
and flushed with pleasure.

And why," I asked myself, as I lay in my net
brooding on these things — " why should she not
be pleased with the courteous and lively attentions
of a well-favoured and good-tempered companion
? Had I made myself agreeable, instead
of sitting like any stock for stupidity, she would
have smiled on me. This was the first moment
of ease, the first opportunity of pleasant conversation
with one of her own degree, that she
had enjoyed for many a day. Granted his talk,
as you would believe in your prejudice and
ignorance, was trivial, might it not yet have
been amusing ? Would not you, Benet, rather
sit an hour listening to the jests of a Merry
Andrew than wait half as long for an oracle to
deliver itself ? "

But my lady, for all her amusement, did
think of me — ay, I believe she was concerned

for my silence and grieved at my moody humour.
Perhaps she repented having wounded my feelings
by treating my gravity lightly. Still, she
had too much spirit, too much proper pride, to
humble herself by asking forgiveness; nay,
delicate consideration for my feelings might
have withheld her from humiliating me by
taking my folly seriously. Nevertheless, I say,
she did think of me, and turning now and then
pointed out to me some sweet flower or pretty
bird. And how did I make a return for this
gentle kindness? By answering in a cavalier
and careless manner which was particularly
detestable.

All these reflections came to my mind, I say,
as I lay in the dark ; and so I fell a-tormenting
myself with reproaches to such a degree that had
I been ten times as tired I could not have closed
an eye.

Some time after, Lewis de Pino, a little the
worse for liquor, as I judged, came into the
chamber, clambered up into his net, and fell
a-snoring like any jig, so that, maugre my

contrition, I did wish Lady Biddy could hear
him.

I was still lying wide awake, thinking what
a hound I was, when suddenly there fell upon
my ear a sound like a woman wailing in grief.
I could not believe this till I heard the sound a
second time. Then I started on the instant to
my feet, knowing there was no woman there but
Lady Biddy ; but forgetting the kind of bed in
which I lay, and how no man but a rope-dancer
could stand up in such a thing safely, I swung
on one side and came down with a spank on the
floor. At that noise, Lewis de Pino awoke with
a grunt, but he fell asleep again with another
the next minute; and now, coming to my feet, I
heard again that mournful, sorrowing cry. The
door stood wide open. Outside, all was still.
Not a breath of air moved the leaves of the trees.
The big stars looked down very peacefully. In
the distance I saw the Portugalss lying on the
ground asleep like so many dogs ; but nothing
moved.

Then again, as I stood there, my heart was

pierced with the distant moan. I crept to the
hut where Lady Biddy lay, and, tapping gently
at the door, asked if she were in pain.

But she answered that it was not she who
cried ; at which my heart was comforted, for
at the first I thought that maybe my sullen
humour had moved her to tears.

So thinking the sound was but the note of a
night-bird, of which there are many in these
woods that have the most strange human voices
of any living thing, I went back to my net, and
presently fell asleep.

AN EXPLANATION OF THAT CRY I HEARD IN THE
NIGHT, WITH OTHER PERTINENT MATTER.

The next morning when we were mounted, and
only waiting the order to start on our way, our
ears were assailed by the piteous cry of a woman,
which recalled to my mind the weeping I had
heard in the night; but now the wailing was
close at hand, coming from the midst of the huts
where the tower stood. The next moment there
sounded the sharp crack of a whip, followed by a
scream of pain. At this the pretty colour went
out of Lady Biddy's cheek, and she called to
Lewis de Pino, who stood talking with one of
the hunters (and both as unconcerned as if they
had been stone deaf), to know whence that cry
came ; but ere he could come smiling to her side
to reply the whole matter was explained by the
appearance of five young Indian women bearing

among them a long pole, to which they were
attached by leather collars round their throats.
The foremost of them was stanching her tears
with her hands under the threat of the arque-busier
conducting them, who had a short stocked
whip with a long lash in his hand, with which
he tapped her shoulder menacingly as he spoke.
These poor souls had never a bit of clothes on
but a clout about their loins, and she who was
trying to check her weeping had a long wheal
across her neck, that stood out purple from her
copper skin where the whip had fallen.

Lady Biddy was greatly shocked at the
spectacle of this barbarity ; nor could she smile
on Lewis de Pino that day as she had the day
before, which I was glad to observe ; albeit, he
did aU he could to set this matter in a fair light
when we stopped at noon to dinner. He told
her that slaves were one of the commodities he
dealt in, and that if he did not occupy himself in
this traffic another would, and maybe to their
disadvantage, assuring her that they were better
treated at his hands than by their own kinsmen,
m 2

who, of their own freewill, brought their wives
and daughters down to the station to sell them
for knives, axes, beads, and the like ; justifying
himself by the opinion of some very pious writers
that all things being created for the use of man.
Providence did furnish the savage heathens to
be servants of Christians for the cultivation of
spices, sugars, and other things necessary to their
comfort.

"But," says Lady Biddy, "if their case is
better as slaves than as free women, why does
that poor soul weep ? "

Why," says he, " my man was forced to use
his whip because she strove to hang herself by
the neck to the pole the others carried ; and you
must agree that in every country those are
deservingly punished who attempt to end a life
given them to be a blessing to their fellow-creatures."


"Nay," says Lady Biddy, "that is no answer
to my question. She wept ere she tried to end
her miserable life, for a certainty, and I would
know why she wept."

Lewis de Pino, making inquiries on this,
learnt that the young woman had but recently
been wedded, and that her husband losing his
life in battle, she had been sold by her father,
who could not be burthened with her.

So you see, madam," says he, when he had
imparted this, " we treat them no worse than
they would be treated if we did not exist.
Nevertheless, 'tis a trade I would gladly abandon,
for the sight of their suffering — which I cannot
ignore — unmans me for my business, so that I do
often pay more for these slaves than they are
worth, merely to secure them from the ill-treatment
they would receive were they returned
upon the hands of those who would be rid of
them. Nay, the sight of that poor creature's
tears so moves me that I will, if it please you,
order her collar to be unbolted and give her
freedom."

This the sly rogue offered, knowing well that
Lady Biddy would not consent to an act which
he himself had shown would be the greater
cruelty, and with the sole intent, I take it, to

insinuate himself into my lady's good graces.
All that she desired, therefore, was that the
young woman should be placed on one of the
pack-mules until she had recovered from the exhaustion
into which her grief had thrown her.
Whereupon Lewis de Pino, with as good grace
as he could muster, ordered her leather collar to
be unbolted, and a place to be made for her on
one of the mules, making the young woman
understand at the same time that it was by the
wish of Lady Biddy that this indulgence was
granted her. This she understood well enough,
for being freed she rushes to Lady Biddy, embraces
her knees, pressing her face against them;
but this done, ere hand could be laid on her, she
darted off with a cry like a startled blackbird
into the wood.

Coming to a distance, she had yet so much
feeling that gratitude rose in her bosom above
the instinct of self-preservation, and she turned
about, raising her arms in the air as if to
bless Lady Biddy. At that moment, seeing her
thus exposed, a Portugal cocks his musket, and,

clapping it to this shoulder, fires at her ; but by
good chance I, standing not more than a yard off,
was enabled by a quick movement to fling the
fellow's arm up, whereby the ball passed harmlessly
over her head. With another wild cry of
joy she turned about and fled out of sight, nor
did any of the Portugalss attempt to follow her
more than a score of yards or so, for loaded as
they were with their arms, to pursue her, who was
light on foot as any deer, had been profitless folly.

This business did prove more clearly than
words what a liar Lewis de Pino was, for surely
the girl would not so joyously have recovered
freedom if that was true which he told of the
barbarity of her kinsfolk. But for all this he did
persevere in defending himself as we continued
our march, and, to my mortification, Lady Biddy
allowed herself, as I judged by her manner, to be
beguiled by his crafty tongue. So that I was
not much better pleased with her this day than
I had been the day before.

Indeed, it was past my comprehension how
one of her understanding could fail to see that

this Lewis de Pino, for all his good looks and
fair speaking, was an arrant rascal; but that
was no such extraordinary matter neither, for as
the day began to draw in I began to doubt
whether I had not suffered him to deceive me,
who was by no means under the charm of his
personal gifts. For, taking note of the position
of the sun pretty frequently, and making all
allowance for the turns of the path in winding
amongst the mountains, etc., I came to the conclusion
that we had been travelling for these
two days full south, and rather a point or so to
the east of it than to the west. Then calling
to mind as well as I could the look of the
chart, it grew upon me that we were not making
in the direction of Caracas at all, by reason
that the chain of mountains there set down
ran east and west, with Caracas lying not more
than half a dozen leagues from the sea.

As this conviction became stronger I was
troubled beyond description, for to go back was
out of the question ; while to go on was to lay
ourselves more inevitably in the power of Lewis

de Pino. So, with a heart like any lump of
lead, I laid me in my net that night; yet
might I have counted myself a happy man at
that time could I have foreseen the greater
trouble that was to come, as I shall show in
the next chapter.

I AM OVERCOME AND CLAPPED UP IN ONE OF
THOSE STRONG TOWERS.

We set out from that station the next morning
about seven o'clock with another pole of six
slaves added to our number, and, toiling upwards,
in about two hours we came out of the woods
into a very wild, rocky country, where scarcely
any herb grew for the height and the abundance
of stone. Sometimes the path wound along the
edge of horrid precipices, and sometimes between
prodigious high rocks, and this way I counted
we crossed over a low chain of mountains ; for
about noon we began to descend again, but the
road so steep and foul with loose stones that
'twas as much as the mules could do to keep
their feet at times. As for the poor slaves, their
pain was great indeed, by reason of being yoked
to the poles one behind the other; for if one

slipped she was as good as strangled in her
collar ; and if those behind could not keep pace
with those before, they were like all to be thrown
down. To see the sweat pouring down their
dusky skins, the agony in their faces, the blood
on their feet and legs cut by the sharp stones,
was enough to melt any heart of stone. Yet
that which did most move me was their silence
in the midst of their suffering; no herd of
spent cattle could have shown more patient
endurance.

An hour of sliding and stumbling brought us
to a station at the bottom of this rocky valley ;
but it was unlike the other two, in having no
trees around it, and a stone wall in place of a
stockade ; besides that, it was twice as big. The
tower also was greater and stronger here, and the
men had not that same aspect, but looked ten
times more cruel and brutal. Every man of them
carried arms, as if he mistrusted his fellows, and
all had a very hang-dog look in their sullen faces.
This, I take it, came partly of their living always
in that grim, barren valley, where the sun never

shone ; and partly of their occupation, which was
to goad on and watch over the slaves who worked
mines in that region ; for I have observed that
men's looks do take on the aspect of their surroundings
and the character of the company
they keep; and truly these fellows looked as
sullen and forbidding as the rocks, with something
of that dull, hopeless expression that
marked the faces of their slaves.

After I had eaten my dinner (Lady Biddy
having gone to her chamber to rest until it was
time to set out again) I went to the door of the
hut, and looking out spied Lewis de Pino in close
conversation with a fellow who seemed to be the
chief of the gang. When I saw how they laid
their heads together, speaking low so that not a
sound of their voices could I hear, my mind misgave
me ; but presently the rogue whom I call
the chief goes up to the slaves and examines
them, opening their eyes and pinching their flesh,
as if to know if they were healthy or not ; and
then he takes Lewis de Pino to a box and shows
him some pieces of metal, so that I concluded

they were only trafficking their wares. Wherefore,
being disgusted with the whole business, I
turned my back on them, and flung myself into
the net that hung in the hut, where I presently
fell asleep.

How long I had lain there I know not (nor
is it any great matter), but I was awoke rudely
enough by four sturdy rascals laying hands on
me at the same time that a fifth did cram a filthy
clout in my mouth by way of gag. Seeing they
meant to do me mischief, I put out all my
strength to get free of their hands, and out of
that accursed net on to the firm ground, where I
might better defend myself; but all to no purpose,
for the net gave no hold to my feet or
vantage point of any kind, so that I presently
found myself bound hand and foot to my bed,
with no more power to get out of it than if it
had been my skin. And all this was done without
so much as a word or any perceptible sound,
for their feet were bare.

Seeing I was secure, they cut the cords
that fastened the two ends of the net to the

roof, and one fellow shouldering the end at my
head and another that at my heels, they carried
me out of the hut, and so jogged along pretty
briskly till they reached the tower. Here the
stairs being narrow and awkward, they flung me
on the ground till they had tied a long cord
to my feet, when four of them went to the head of
the stairs, and pulling on to the cord with a will,
they dragged me to the upper storey like any
bag of malt. From the landing they hauled
me into a dim chamber, and there they left me
to get out of my bonds as I might; going out by
the door, which they barred and bolted close.

For a few minutes I lay there stupefied
by the rough usage I had been put to (for
being dragged up heels foremost in the way
I have described had thrown the blood into
my head), but as my intelligence returned I
perceived pretty clearly that I had been
clapped up in order that Lewis de Pino might
carry off my Lady Biddy without opposition
from me. No sooner did this idea come
into my mind than I set to like a madman

struggling to burst the cords that bound me ;
but this rash endeavour only drew the knots
tighter, without breaking a strand of those hard
ropes ; yet was I made so frantic by the image
of harm coming to my dear lady that I never
paused to consider whether my strength might
be better employed than in these vain efforts,
nor heeded the wounds I inflicted on my own
flesh, but still tore at the bonds with my bleeding
wrists, as if my life depended on getting
free; nay, I do believe that had a tiger been
in that chamber, drawing near to tear me with
his bloody fangs, I could have looked upon him
with greater calm than I could support the
image of my lady being borne away from me.
So in a frenzy that grew with the conviction of
my impotency rather than diminished, I laboured
as though I would tear my hands off to free my
arms, until all my strength was spent, and I lay
motionless, but for the throbbing of my chest, as
I panted for breath. This brought me to a more
reasonable state of mind, and as I got out of my
faintness I began to wriggle my hands about

without straining over-much, and, thanks to the
rope being made somewhat slippery with the
blood from my wrists, I presently got one hand
loose, and after that it was but a trilling matter
(when I had freed my mouth from that beastly
thing they had crammed in to gag me withal)
to free the other, and after that my legs and
ankles.

And now, seeing that I had done more to get
my freedom by ten minutes' patient endeavour
than I had come at in furiously struggling for
the best part of an hour (and that without doing
myself any mischief), I made up my mind to go
about my business in a reasonable fashion henceforth.
So getting on my legs I looked about me
to find what part of my prison it was easiest to
break through ; and this gave me but little
comfort, for no part seemed weaker than the
rest, but all alike prodigious stout and strong.

The four walls were of solid stone, with no
opening save the door, and six narrow slits, no
bigger than rifts for shooting arrows, to admit
light, and they higher up than I could get at

with my hand, standing on my toes. The roof
sprang from the walls about fifteen feet from the
floor, and the cross-beams were boarded over.
But casting my eye this way and that way, I
saw a chink of light here and there, which led
me to think these boards were not nailed down,
but laid loosely down for the convenience of
making a cock-loft there, and also that the roof
must have some opening for the light thus to
creep through.

Now I thought that if I could once get into
the cock-loft the affair would be best part done ;
for if there were no dormer window, yet might I
shift the shingles or tiles of the roof, and so
make an opening wide enough to creep through ;
and I counted that those cords that had bound
me, tied together with the net-bed, which might
be cut into three strips, and yet have strength
to bear my weight, would serve to let me down
some part of the way to the ground. What I
should do after I got to the ground I did not
trouble myself to consider ; the main thing was
to get out of the tower safely.

The more I looked at the chinks above, the
more I liked my project ; but how to make my
way up into the cock-loft, as I call it, was the
plague. I passed my hands carefully over every
part of the walls within reach, hoping to find
some hole or cranny to climb up by; but the
stones were all smooth and flush, so that a cat
could not have climbed up them. Nor was there
anything in the shape of furniture that I might
build up for a ladder. There was naught within
those four walls but myself and the net I had
been trussed up in. Taking up one of the cords
from the ground, and weighing it in my hand, I
asked myself if I could by any means turn it to
my purpose ; after thinking some little while, it
came into my mind that if I made a big knot atone
end, and thrust it through one of the rifts so
that it would hitch on the outer side of the wall,
I might then make a loop or two in the loose
end, by which I could raise myself against the
wall to the height of the said rift, and so reach
up to the loose boards, if loose they were, above.
The scheme was wild enough, but as I saw

no better I began at once to put it into
execution.

First of all I chose the longer of the cords,
and made two loops in it to serve me as stirrups ;
then, taking a piece of the net, I rolled it into a
hard ball, about as big as I might thrust through
the rift ; and, having bound this about with
another cord, I fastened it securely to my stirrups,
with length enough, as I judged, to allow
the ball to pass through to the outer edge of the
wall, where I hoped it would hitch.

When I had done this to my satisfaction, I
began to cast about how I was to get it through
the rift, which was a difficulty I had not foreseen.


If I had only a pole," says I to myself — " a
pole about two yards long ! " But, Lord ! while
I was about it I might just as well have wished
for a step-ladder of three yards to carry me at
once into the cock-loft. However, growing a
little desperate to find myself thus balked for
want of a stick, I made a spring upward, and,
getting my hand in the rift, I contrived to hang
n 2

there some while ; but as to dragging myself up
so that I could get my knot through with my
other hand, that I could not do, strive as I
might; nor do I think it possible that any man,
though he were lusty as Samson, could have
compassed that business.

Now was I pretty well at my wits' end ; yet,
being of a stubborn nature, I would not allow
myself to be beaten, and still clung to the notion
of scaling the wall with my precious rope stirrups.
But it was clear that I could do nothing
without some sort of hold for my foot to rest on
as I hung from the rift, and so once more I
began to feel about the wall for a hole to set my
toes in.

There was a joint in the stonework about four
feet from the ground, where the mortar gave
way under my nail, but the crack was not as
wide as my linger. However, I had a clasp-knife
in my pocket, which Dom Sebastian had
given me (for the Portugalss do never go about
without such weapons for their defence), and
with this I determined to cut away the stone

if I might. So at it I went without more
ado.

I had scarcely begun this toil when I heard
some one ascending the stairs that led to my
prison.

Now," thinks I, " am I undone. For if
they come in here and see my knotted rope, they
will certainly take it from me, and there will bean
end of my only hope."

The steps came nearer and stopped ; then I
heard the bar being taken down. Upon this,
with the hope of exciting fear, I set up a most
violent shout, as if I were beside myself with rage,
and rushing to the door beat it furiously with
my fists and feet, whereupon there was a silence
outside, as if the fellow were considering whether
he had not best leave me alone for the present ;
and that he had come to this conclusion was
made evident presently by his clapping up the
bar again. After this I heard a shuffling on the
ground, and the next minute his steps as he
descended the stairs.

I was mightily pleased with myself at the

success of my stratagem, and, going back to the
wall, set to work again at cutting the stone with
my knife.

I ground and scraped till the blade of my
knife was hot as fire, but when I examined the
stone with my finger, to see if the hole were
anything like big enough yet, I found that I
had made no perceptible difference in it whatever,
which did so vex me that I was ready to tear
my hair, or commit any other extravagance.
Then, casting my eyes at the wall where the
light from the rift fell, I was terrified to observe
how the shadow had shifted since I first began,
so that I concluded it must be getting towards
sundown, by which I reckoned I must have been
four or five hours at this business, and was pretty
near as far as ever from making my escape.
Whereupon I was beset with a kind of rage, and,
accusing myself of indolence, cut again at the
stone with redoubled energy. The result of
this mad haste was that the blade of my knife
snapped in half before I had worked a couple of
minutes. Then I flung it down on the ground,



and, resting my arm against the wall, I laid
my face there, and could have wept for
vexation.

But this was not to be endured for any time.
Glancing aofain at the wall, it seemed to me the
shadow had travelled a foot further.

Every moment," says I to myself, " puts
my lady further from me. Coward or fool !
are you content to do nothing ? Will you give
up the hope of saving her because of a trifle?
Have you no more heart and hardihood than
this ? "

With this I picked up my knife again, and
finding yet a couple of inches left of the blade,
I once more set to work, but with more prudence.
Yet every now and then would I turn about to
observe the shadow, saying to myself, "Now
she is a league further away — she has been
carried a full mile since last I looked," etc.

Sometimes my heart would grow heavy as
stone with despair, as I noted the little effect I
made ; and then, that I might not lose courage,
I would not feel what progress I had made, but

ground on steadily, like the movement of a
clock. But, though I did not tax my strength,
the sweat streamed down my face and body, so
that my shirt clung cold to my loins with the
wet from my skin, by reason of my anxiety.

After a while, when the light was sensibly
fading, a faintness came upon me, and I felt
dried up with thirst. Besting for strength to
come, I bethought me that perhaps my gaoler
had no intention but to give me food when he
came to the door. Then the hope led me to
think that perhaps he had come back softly, and,
hearing no sound, had ventured to open the door
quietly, and slip a pitcher of water within for
my comfort

I went to the door, and, groping on the
ground (for in that part it was very dark), I laid
my hand on a loose piece of paper. It occurred
to me in an instant (so quickly do our wishes
summon conjecture) that Lady Biddy had found
means to send me a message, and that the man
who was charged with it, fearing to enter, had
slid it beneath the door, which explained the

shuffling sound I had heard before he went
down.

I rushed back with this precious treasure,
and, holding it as near the light from the rift as
I could, read the inscription on the outside :
To my dear Cousin Benet, these."

And then, laughing like a fool for joy, I
claps it to my mouth and kisses it.

how i was led on by passion to cut a
man's throat.

As soon as I had got the better of my ecstasy, I
held the letter again up to the light, yet could
not make out one word of it, for the tears of
gladness in my eyes. However, I brushed these
away with my hand impatiently, and so held the
letter up again, but still with the knife in my
hand, for I was now more eager than ever to
accomplish my design and overtake my lady,
who, I doubted not, had writ me some comfortable
words to let me know how I might best
come at her. And now, my eyes being clear, I
read her letter, which I can repeat word for
word ; for, sure, I read it an hundred times, and
each word did engrave itself into my memory.

We are overtaken," the letter began, " by
soldiers charged to carry us back to Castello

Lagos, and surrender us into the hands of
Rodrigues. To save me from such a fate, which
were worse than death tenfold, Senhor de Pino
has offered to convey me to Caracas. I have
tried, but in vain, to obtain the same favour for
you ; but he dare not venture upon it. Indeed,
he endangers his own life in saving me, wherefore
I look to you to support the story he has
given out to account for not obeying the
governor's orders to the letter — to wit, that I
have perished by the way. I know you are too
reasonable and too generous to bear me ill-will
for abandoning j^ou, for sure sou. will own I
have no choice but to do so. Farewell, Benet.
Oh, may Providence be merciful to you ! "

When I had come to the end, and turned it
about, to see if there was not some little kind
word that I had overlooked, and could find none,
the knife dropped from my hand ; and truly all
vigour and power seemed gone from my body,
so that my limbs trembled under me as if I had
just risen from a bed of sickness.

Then I could not believe I had read aright,

and so went through it again and again and
again ; after that, pondering each word, to see if
I could not make it appear a little better than it
looked.

At last, when I could no longer see the
writing for want of light, I flung myself prone
on the ground, and gave myself up to the most
miserable reflections ever man endured. It was
as if a miser had suddenly discovered all his
gold turned to fine ashes ; for no miser ever
prized his pieces for their true ring and bright
lustre more than I valued Lady Biddy for her
loyalty, and generous loving disposition ; and
now I could find nothing but heartless ingratitude
and careless cruelty in her nature, to
abandon me thus, without a word of regret or
comfort. It seemed to me as if her chief end in
writing was to obtain security for herself and
Lewis de Pino, by persuading me to support the
story of her death ; and with such a cold, cruel
heart, to invoke the mercy of Providence towards
me was nothing but hypocrisy, with a taint of
blasphemy.

Had she studied to crush the love out of
my heart she could not have writ more unkindly,"
says I to myself. Then it came to my mind
that this cruelty was studied to that end, in
order that my passion might not give me the
power to escape and rejoin her. And the more
I thought of this, the more likely it appeared.
She has Lewis de Pino," says I, grinding my
teeth in rage, " and has no further need of me."

Then I cursed her for a cruel unkind jade,
and would try to think I was well rid of such a
baggage — that all women were false alike for
fools and boys to love, and fit only to be treated
as men like Rodrigues treated them. " They
make sport," says I, " of those who are fond
enough to love them, and kiss the hand of a
cruel hardened wretch like Lewis de Pino. 'Tis
the trick of a dog who snaps at loving children
who would caress it, and cringes before the
tyrant who spurns it with his foot. Fear not
that I shall seek to separate you from your lord
—-no, not though I saw him lift the whip to flog*
you as he would another slave. I trust no

woman again ; the friendship o£ Eodrigues is
more staunch and loyal. I have done all a man
could do in proportion to his means for the love
of a woman ; but I have come to an end of my
folly. My body shall shed its blood no more
for you — no, nor my heart a tear. " And yet,"
thinks I, my rage abating as I perceived how
dreary and barren my life must henceforth be,
which seemed, as I looked back on it, to be all
strewn with flowers and gladdened with sunshine
— "yet, in truth, I do wish you had died
before you writ that letter. Would that I could
yet treasure that tender joy of love for you that
has made a fool of me ! Ay, would that you had
died ere I knew you worthless, while I yet
thought you all that was beautiful and good
and kind ! 'Twould have broke my heart to
have lost you then; but better 'tis to hive with
ever-abiding sorrow for such loss than to find
nothing in the world to weep for."

In this fashion did I pass from one fit to
another — from rage to regret, from bitter hate
to tender grief — till the stars shone brightly

through the rifts above ; but they came into
sight and passed away, marking the growing
hours, without my heeding any longer the
increasing distance between Lady Biddy and
me ; nor did I once turn my thoughts again to
escape. She was gone from me for ever, and with
her all my hopes and anxiety. I paid no heed as
to what would happen on the morrow, or what
my fate would be when Eodrigues got me again
into his hands. If I had thought of it I
should have welcomed the prospect of death
itself even by the worst torture his cruel nature
could devise.

Lad}^ Biddy had appealed to my generosity
and reason, but I had neither one nor the other,
else had I perhaps brought myself to see that,
after all, she had done no more than I should
have bid her do if her fate had been in my hands.
Could I have consented to her being carried back
with me to Eodrigues ? No ! not though the
alternative was to yield her to the mercy of
Lewis de Pino. Then why was I so put about
because she had done that which I would have

had her do ? Simply because she had not paid
me the compliment to ask my advice? There
may have been no time to appeal to my decision;
she may, as she said, have depended on my good
judgment to accept what was inevitable. These
and many other arguments I could urge, never
occurred to me then, for my reason was undone.

As I lay there on the ground with that
passionate turmoil in my breast, with my eyes
turned away from the stars that seemed to look
down on me through the night with a sweet still
sorrow that made my pain the more hard to
endure, I saw a streak of light between the door
and the football, and presently heard the bar
being taken down very carefully, but after a
pause, as if assurance were being made that I was
not astir.

"They are come to murder me in my sleep,"
thinks I ; "is this the mercy she prayed Providence
to bestow on me, or did she pray that
mercy of Lewis de Pino ? "

The bar being down, first one bolt grated
slowly in the socket, and then the other.

Now," thinks I, " will they come upon me
cautiously, or will they do it with a sudden
rush?"

But so little count did I make of my life
that I did not stir nor take my arm from under
my head.

The door creaked slowly on its hinges, and I
saw the wall beyond through the widening opening,
and a lantern set upon the ground. Then a
great shock head came athwart the opening, dark
against the light on the wall ; and after peering
in for a minute or so without seeing anything
(for I lay far back in the dark), or hearing any
movement, the man ventured in a little further,
so that his figure blocked out the light still
more ; and thus he stood another minute, turning
his head this way and that, as if to make sure I
was not hidden against the wall, ready to spring
on him. Then he draws back and picks up
something which stood behind the door with
his left hand, and then the lantern with his
right, and, stepping sideways and very gingerly
past the door, he comes into my chamber,

SO that I could see lie carried in his left
hand a pitcher, and under that arm a little
bundle.

"So," thinks I, "it is to bring my food, and
not to murder me, the fellow has come. 'Tis all
the same to me. I would as soon have his knife
as his food in me."

Setting down the pitcher and the bundle, he
lifts the lantern high and looks about ; but not
seeing me for the shadow where I lay, and the
feeble light of his candle, he puts up his hand,
and, shoving his hat on one side, scratches his
head, as if perplexed to know where I had got to.
Then moving a couple of steps forward on his
toes, he holds up the lantern again and peers
around, and then, getting a glimpse of me, gives
a nod of satisfaction, as much as to say, " Oh,
you're there after all, are you?" and so he comes
forward again towards me, but very cautiously
setting down the lantern and turning the door of
it towards me, that the light might not fall upon
my eyes.

And now the idea seized me of a sudden that

I might throw this fellow down and make my
escape, whilst a wicked longing for vengeance
burnt up my heart. I know not what bloody
design lay at the bottom of my purpose, but I
made up ray mind I would escape and overtake
Lady Biddy, though she were in the furthest
corner of the earth. So with the cunning of a
villain I closed my eyes, that the fellow might
not see by their glitter I was awake (yet not so
close but that I could watch him well), in order
that he might get near to me before I sprang at
him.

He seemed to have some ill forecast of my
design, for more than once he stopped betwixt
the lantern and me to scratch his head and
consider of his safety. However, he ventures
within about a couple of feet of me, and then
squatting down on his hams reaches out his
arm, as if he would wake me to let me know he
had brought food for my use. And though this
was a kindly office, deserving of a better return
(but I took no heed of it because of the devilish
wickedness in my heart), I suddenly caught hold


of his extended arm, and, giving it a sharp
jerk, threw him on his side.

Seeing a knife in his belt, I bethought me I
would cut his throat, and so save myself from
pursuit ; for there is no vile murder a man will
stop short of when he gives up his soul to the
fiend of vengeance ; and this purpose came so
suddenly to my mind (even as he was rolling
over, and the handle of his knife caught a ray of
light from the lantern) that I had no time to
consider what I was about. In a moment I had
sprung up, and set my knee in his flank, and
grasping him by his ragged shock of hair with
my left hand, so that I drew his head back
between his shoulders, I whipped out his knife
with my right.

Surely in another moment I should have cut
his throat, but that just then, raising his voice
as well as he could for his position, he cries out,
in very good English —

"Lord love you, master, would j^ou murder
your own countryman ? "

I FIND AN EXCELLENT FRIEND IN PLACE OF A
CRUEL ENEMY.

Hearing these words, I held my hand for amazement,
though the knife was within a span of his
throat. In that instant it came across my mind
that the letter which had so distracted me was
not of Lady Biddy's writing. I had not hitherto
questioned this matter; for, firstly, I knew not
her hand ; and, secondly, neither Lewis de Pino
nor any one else we had met since our coming on
these shores had comprehended one word of our
language. The letter was badly writ in a large
and painful hand, but that might have been
owing to ill accommodation for writing; and,
indeed, I had not regarded the manner of it, but
only the matter. But now, hearing this fellow
speak in English, it did, as I say, cross my mind
that he had penned it.

This took no longer to present itself to mj
intelligence than the flash of a musket.

Fellow," says I hoarsely, " was it you that
wrote that letter to me ? "

Ay," says he, " with a plague to it ; for if
I had not writ it I should not have got into this
mess."

Whereupon I flung aside the knife, and, laying
hold of his two hands, could have kissed him
for my great delight, despite the suffering I had
endured through his handiwork.

Then I covered my face with my hands for
shame to think how I had wronged that pure
sweet girl by leaping so quickly to an evil opinion
of her ; and to think she might have so fallen
away from a noble condition, I burst out with
tears, and sobbed like any child; and from that
to think that she had not fallen away, and was
still the same dear woman I had thought her, I
fell to laughing ; and, springing to my feet, cut
a caper in the air like a very fool, and might
have proceeded to further extravagances in
my delirium but that my good angel (as I

dubbed the fellow), laying this hands on me,
whispered —

For Heaven's sake, master, contain yourself
a bit, or I shan't come out of this business with
a whole skin yet. I doubt but you have waked
some of the cursed Portugalss by your antics."

With this he creeps over to the door, and
thrusting his head over the stairs stands there
listening carefully a minute or two ; after which,
seeming satisfied that no one was astir, he closes
the door gently, and creeps back to me, by which
time I had come to a more sober condition, though
still near choking with the bounding of my heart
and the throbbing of the blood in my veins for
excess of joy.

'' 'Tis all quiet below," says he in a whisper;
but betwixt getting my throat cut by you, and
being flexed alive by the Portugalss for being here,
I've had a narrow squeak. Howsomever, I suppose
you bear me no ill-will ? "

Heaven forgive me for treating you as an
enemy," says I, grasping his hand again.

"As for that," says he, " I don't blame you

for your intent to stick me if you thought I was
one of those accursed Portugalss ; and how were
you to know better, finding me crawling on you
in their own manner. Let us drink a dram,
master, to our better acquaintance ; 'twill stiffen
our legs and clear our heads, and mine are all of
a jelly-shake with this late bout."

Where is my cousin ? " I asked him, as he
was drinking from the jar.

That's good," says he, taking the jar from
his mouth and handing it to me, " Take a pull
at it — asking your pardon for drinking first, but
I've lost my good manners with twelve years of
slavery."

My cousin," says I — " the lady in whose
name you wrote that letter ? '*

Drink," says he. " We've got no time to
lose if, as I do hope, you're minded to get away
from this."

Ay," says I ; " but my cousin ? "

Drink," says he.

Seeing he was of a persistent sort, I lifted the
jar to my lips to cut the matter short.

The female," says he, " went on with De
Pino and his train about ten minutes after you
were brought up here. De Pino made her believe
you had gone on ahead, being in a strange
dull humour, and she, to overtake you, hurried
away. Drink," he adds, seeing me still with the
jar a little from my lips. So I drank] but
betwixt two gulps I said —

They are still gone on the road to
Caracas?"

Caracas ! " says he. " Lord love you,
master ! " (an exclamation with which he larded
his sentences continually), " when they get to
their journey's end they won't be within an
hundred leagues of Caracas."

Whither is he carrying her, then, in
Heaven's name ? "

To Quito, where De Pino spends his time
when he is not trafficking. Lord love you, master,
don't spare the liquor."

I drank deeply to satisfy him, and that we
might come more quickly to the matter I had a
greater thirst for.

Now," says I, " tell me low you came to
write that letter."

He took the jar out of my hand and drank
again in silence. At length he put it from his
lips again with a gasp.

'* Have another turn ; we may not have a
taste of wine for many along day hence," says he.

I can drink no more. Would to Heaven I
could get you to answer m}^ questions ! "

Time enough for that," says he, " when we
get where we can talk above a pig's whisper with
no fear of being heard. Now, master, if you can
drink no more, we'll set about getting out of
this. We shall be all right if we tread light, and
don't bungle till we get to the foot of the stairs.
There I must put out the lantern. But you lay
hold of my shoulder and stand ready to bolt if
needs be. Are you got a knife ? "

No," says I.

Then I must manage to get one for you
when we are below. A couple of swords won't
be an inconveniency to us neither. You won't
have another dram ? "

No," says I ; " and you have had enough."
That's as may be," says he. " I could
drink a tun of it. Howsomever, I'll take it
you're right, so far as our safety is concerned.
Now, master, clutch fast that knife and follow
close. Keep your questions till we get a league
on our way. I'll carry the lantern and this bag
of victuals, and if I'd got another hand, hang me
if I'd leave the jar behind. Here goes, master.
Remember, if we are caught we shall be flexed
alive. Now, then — softly onwards ! Not a word! "

A DISCOURSE WITH MY NEW-FOUND FRIEND
MATTHEW PENNYFARDEN.

When we got to the foot of the stairs my comrade
put out the light, and I, laying my band on
his shoulder, as he bade me, followed softly at
his heels in the dark for some paces, when we
came to a door that stood ajar. Here he paused
and peered out carefully ; then, pushing the door
open, he passed out into the open.

He gave me the bag of food to hold, lifted up
his finger as a sign to me to wait there, and then
entered the tower again by another door in that
part where the guard lay ; and so I stood, with
the drawn knife in my hand and my eyes on the
look-out for a foe, till he returned with a sword
in each hand and a knife stuck in his belt. He
seemed to have been gone an age, but I believe

he was no more than ten minutes at the outside ;
but I was consumed with impatience.

He put one of the swords in my hand, and
signed to me to follow. Then we threaded our
way betwixt the tower and the huts, and coming
to the end of a little alley he again peers out
into the space beyond, first to the right and then
to the left, very carefully, and seeing no one (for
the Portugalss here lay within doors because
there was no turf, as in the other stations, but
only hard, rocky ground), he nudged me with
his elbow and struck out pretty briskly to the
gate he had previously set ajar, which we passed,
and so got out without discovery, to our great
comfort.

Our road lay up the hills on the other side of
the valley, and a rough and troublesome way it
was by reason of the loose stones and deep holes
which in certain parts, where the rocks shut out
the light of the stars on either hand, were like
so many pitfalls. Yet I was too light of heart
to heed the bruising of my shins a farthing,
though my comrade did curse prodigiously, spite

of his saying he would not speak for a league, as
I have told.

When we had gone about an hour, my comrade,
as I call him, after coming nigh to break
his neck over a rock, sits him down on a rock,
saying we might now well afford to fetch our
breath and rub our shins for a space. So
now, sitting down beside him, I begged he
would loose his tongue to satisfy my earnest
anxiety.

Well," says he, with a sigh, " I am not
used to this business, and 'tis a long story.
Howsomever, as you desire it, here goes. My
name is Matthew Pennyfarden, and I was born
in the village of Newly, near Penzance, in Cornwall,
in the year of our Lord one thousand five
hundred and ninety-four."

Nay," says I, " you may skip thirty-three
years of your adventures, and come to what took
place when you first saw my cousin, Lad}^ Biddy
Fane."

Lord love you, master," says he, " that
simplifies the job vastly " (he was a sly rogue of

some humour). "Well, then, you must know
that when I came to the station yesterday afternoon
with four other slaves, burdened with gold
muck from that part of the valley where the
mines lie, our factor tells me that the merchant
Senhor de Pino would speak with me ; whereupon
I goes to the factor's office with him, and
there De Pino asks me if I could write English
and would earn a jar of wine ; to which I made
reply that I could do the one as readily as I
would the other, seeing I was two years an
attorney's clerk before I was so fond as to quit
my employ and run away to sea, and was now
as dry as any limekiln. On this he sets me
down before a table, with an inkhorn and a sheet
of paper for my work, and tells me in his own
tongue what he would have writ in mine.
When I had done this, he goes over the writing
with me a dozen times, questioning as to this
word and doubting as to that, scratching out
here and writing in there, till we could find no
further room for improvement, when he gives
me a fresh sheet of paper and has it all writ out

again fair. So, having come to an end of the
business, he orders the factor to give me a jar of
wine, as he had promised, and send me back to
the mine. Now a man cannot serve the devil
without learning the smell of brimstone, and I
had been long enough with my attorney to get a
pretty keen scent for mischief; wherefore, as I
went back to my accursed mine, turning this
affair over in my mind, I came to a pretty fair
understanding of what lay at the bottom of this
letter writing. Yet, to make sure, I turns out
of my way (being alone, for the rest had gone
back with their empty baskets while I was
writing the letter) — I goes about, I say, to sneak
up among the rocks to where I could get a fairview
of the station without being seen. There
had I just posted myself when I see the Portugal
bearing a man tied up neck and crop to
the guardhouse, and says I to myself, * That's
Cousin Pengilly, or I'm a Dutchman.' When
you were clapped up and the Portugalss had come
back from the guardhouse, the mules were
brought out and packed, and one part of the

train was sent on, while the other waited in
readiness to start, which perplexed me somewhat
till some ten minutes later, when a female was
led out by De Pino and seated on a mule, and
that part of the cavalcade set out pretty briskly,
as if to overtake the other. Then I hit upon it
that De Pino had practised this stratagem to
make your cousin believe you had gone on first,
and to hasten her departure from the station.
But I pray you, master," says he, breaking off
and opening the bag of victuals, " do pick a bit,
for I warrant you have had nothing betwixt
your lips since you was clapped up — have you,
now? "

You are right," says I, falling to with a
relish ; " but go on."

Ay," says he, " I guessed as much. They
served me that same way when I first came into
captivity, starving me till I was too weak to
make resistance, and glad enough to accept the
work of a slave that I might fill my belly. And
surely that was the fate they intended for you.
And this did put me in mind not to touch a drop

of the wine, lest a taste might tempt me to drink
all, but to leave it hid up in that rock and go
back to my work dry, and also to set aside
my supper when it was served out to us at
sunset."

Good Heavens ! " I exclaimed, " no wonder
you drank so heartily when we were in the
tower."

Ay," says he, " I overcame the flesh as
long as I could, but I could hold out no
longer."

And you have fasted full as long as I have,
by the same token," says I.

"You've hit it again," says he; "but that
did not call for such courage as t'other, for I
would rather fast a whole day than go dry an
hour."

This fellow's generosity touched my heart,
and I would not eat another morsel, nor let him
speak, till he had eaten his fair share of the food.
And now I saw why he had been so loth to
begin a long history with the bag of victuals
untouched.

When we had come to the end of our meal,
my comrade proposed we should move on ; " for,"
says he, " I care not how I knock my ribs against
the rocks now that I have something within me
to resist the shock."

Having got on our way again, and come
to a fairly level part of the road where we could
converse without inconvenience, I asked ni}^
comrade if there was any truth in that letter
concerning soldiery being sent by Dom Sebastian
to recover us.

"Lord love you!" says he, "not a word;
'twas all a plan of De Pino's invention. But tell
me, master, how you came to fall into the hands
of such a villain."

When I had told him briefly my history, he
considers awhile, and then says he —

You have naught to fear from Sebastian ;
for though he is as treacherous as any other Portugal,
and not one of them is a true man, yet
have these rogues a certain kind of fair dealing
amongst themselves, and having sold you to De
Pino he would not go back on his bargain,
7^2

though Eodrigues should offer twice as much to
get you back as Dom Sebastian received for
parting with you."

Then," says I, "you believe Dom Sebastian
sold us to De Pino ? "

I am as certain of that as I am that
De Pino sold you to our factor."

And how are you certain of that, my
friend ? " says I.

Because he did not stick his dagger into
you when you were asleep. But for his avarice,
you would not be alive now, you may be sure.
A pretty taking our factor will be in when he
finds you flown ; 'tis as good as twenty pieces of
eight out of his pocket. We must look to it,
master, that he doesn't catch us, for certain
it is he will hunt us."

What would he do if he caught us ? "

You might get off with a flogging and
a pretty long spell of starvation ; but he'd flea
me, as he has before ; and once is enough fora
lifetime, as you would agree if you knew
what it was like."

You have spoken before of this fleeing,"
says I ; " what do you mean ? "

If there was light I would show you
my back for a sign. I've had a piece of skin
stripped off my body an ell long and an inch
wide."

Good God ! " says I, " is such barbarity
possible ? "

Ay," says he, " and worse. I'll be flexed
rather than have the soles of my feet roasted
if he gives me my choice."

Only to hear of this wickedness made me
sick, and I could say nothing for some minutes.

Tell me, Matthew," says I, when I had
got over my qualm, " why you risked such a
fearful punishment to liberate a man j^ou had
never seen ? "

"Because you were an Englishman," says
he stoutly. " Lord love you, master, I knew
I should find you a true man and a kind
friend."

But," says I, " couldn't you as well have
made your escape without me as with me ? "

No," says he, " for I'd as leave hang myself
on a tree ere I started as be brought to that end
by the misery of wandering alone in the woods.
Look you, master, afore you go any further,"
stopping me, " there's time to get back to the
station, and return to the guard-house, while the
Portugalss are still in a log-sleep, and I would
have you understand what escape means. It
means hardships, and suffering, and solitude.
We aren't go near a town, for fear of the
Portugalss ; and we aren't go near the Indian
villages, for every white man is hated by them,
with a very good reason. There's fleeing on one
hand, and death on the other ; and we've got
to live betwixt 'em as best we may. Take
time for reflection and choose without concern
for me."

Nay," says I, " it needs no reflection to
choose between freedom and slavery ; " and,
taking him by the hand, I drew him onwards.

You are an Englishman, master, and I love
you," says he ; " and I shall love you still more
when your hair grows a bit, and you look less

like a Portugal ; for I do loathe the very resemblance
of those accursed varmint."

Surely," says I, " there must be some goodmen
amongst them ? "

Not to my knowledge," says he. " There
was one that I thought a decent sort of a fellow ;
and he grumbling every day to me of his estate,
which was little better than a slave's, I opened
to him a design for escaping together. He
betrayed me ; for he was naught but a spy set
to that purpose by our factor, who would test
me. And so I got flexed for trusting a Portugal ;
but I trust none henceforth. As for that," adds
he, " we shall have no need to trust 'em, for we
two shall be company enough for each other, I
warrant."

We two?" says I; "nay, we shall be three."

As how ? " says he.

Why," says I, " are we not on our road to
rescue my cousin from the hands of Lewis de
Pino ? "

"No," says he, stopping again; "that are
we not. For we're giving De Pino as wide a

berth as I can contrive. Our factor will
set out on that path as soon as he finds you
flown."

Friend," says I, " 'tis for you now to
choose betwixt going on with me to the rescue
of my cousin or taking me hack to the station,
for if I go further 'tis to rescue my cousin."

He tilted his hat forwards, and, scratching
his head, was silent a minute ; then, in a
grumbling kind of voice, he says —

What a plague do we want with a female ? "

Would you suffer her to go into slavery ? "
says I.

They like it," says he sullenly. " Not at
first, but after a bit. She'll be treated well, and
I count she won't thank you for taking her
away from a fine house and rich gowns to
wander about in the woods without a roof to
her head or a whole rag to her back."

No matter for that," says I ; " she shall betaken
out of the Portugal's hands if I live."

Well," says he, a little more cheerfully, " if
it is to rob the Portugal, I shall be less loathe ;

and to oblige you, more willing. We must
turn back, howsomever, to those horrid rocks
again."

We turned about, and retraced our steps in
silence for a while.

** Don't take it amiss, master," says he
presently, " if I'm a little bit coldhearted at
the prospect of having a lady's society ; but I've
had so much of that sort of thing these last ten
years that I shouldn't be sorry if I never saw
another female."

How's that ? " says I.

Why, master," says he, " I'm married."

And you can quit your wife without
regret ? " says I.

'Tis not a wife I'm quitting without regret,"
says he ; " it's twenty or thirty."

I asked him to explain this matter ; which
he did forthwith, telling me that all the slaves
in those mines were women, and that when one
wounded herself, or fell sick by overwork, so that
to save her life it was necessary she should lay
up for a time, she was forthwith married to him.

This strange custom perplexed me until I came
to perceive the motive.

Have you any children? " says I.

Children ! " says he ; " Lord love you, I've
got sixty if I've got one. But you can't expect
a father to be very partial to his children when
there's so many of 'em. I give you my word, I
don't know Jack from Jill; and they're all orange-tawny."


WE ARE PURSUED BY DOGS AND Portugal.

In this discourse we retraced our steps, and
crossing the valley (yet wide of the station) we
ascended again that chain of hills crossed the
day before ; for Lewis de Pino, as I was now
informed by Matthew, had turned out of his
road to sell me and traffic for gold ; and after a
long and painful march we came about daylight
to the woods.

Here we rested, though against my inclination,
being tormented with apprehensions
concerning my dear Lady Biddy ; but Matthew-was
pretty nigh spent with fatigue, having less
strength than I, and none of that terrible anxiety
which pricked me onward. Thus, in one way
and another, was a good deal of precious time
lost.

When Matthew perceived that my impatience

was become intolerable to me, he rose, and we
once more pushed on. Yet he had a difficulty
to keep pace with me, and from time to time he
would remonstrate at my pace, saying, " Not so
fast, master — not so fast ; you forget that your
legs are a quarter of a yard longer than mine,"
and the like.

The road again skirted the mountains pretty
high up, yet still amidst the woods, whence now
and then we caught a glimpse of the river shining
below, very sweet and peaceful in the grey light
of the morning.

"Now, master," says Matthew, when we
had gone about a couple of leagues along this
road — " now we shall do well to quit this road,
and make our way as best we may through the
woods; for I reckon we are getting nigh a
station, and at any turn are likely to be spied."

Accordingly we struck into the wood, and
none too soon, for ere we had made a hundred
yards we were brought to a stand by the furious
barking of a dog.

"If we can't silence that brute we are

undone," whispered Matthew, "for they arc
trained to hunt down runaways, and will not quit
their quarry till the huntsmen are come up
with ib."

Presently the barking ceased for a minute,
and we heard the voices o£ men egging the dog
on ; yet could we see neither one nor the other
for the thick growth, though their cries sounded
no further off than a couple of hundred yards or
so.

Master," says Matthew, very much crestfallen,
"promise me one thing."

Ay," says I, " and you may depend on it I
will keep my word."

He pressed my hand and nodded ; then says
he—

Promise me that if I am taken, and you see
a chance to pass sour sword through me, you
will put an end to my life."

Nay," says I, shrinking before such a cruel
possibility, "things will not come to that pass."

Promise me, all the same," says he, very
earnestly.

"You have my promise, friend," says I,
though I would not have given it had I foreseen
what he was about to ask.

Good," says he. " I could lose another ell
of my skin without much more than a day's
howling ; and I believe I could stand having ray
feet roasted, after the first scorching had taken
my senses away; but I couldn't endure to betaken
back a slave and lose my freedom,"

I felt for the poor fellow with all my heart,
sympathising with his love of liberty, till he
added, in a still more melancholy tone —

I'm not a family man."

Then I felt as if I must laugh, despite our
peril, for it appeared that he dreaded being
restored to his wives and children more than all
the tortures the Portugalss could inflict, and preferred
death. Yet I am now inclined to think
this reason was but an afterthought of his, and
that he merely put it forward to hide his grave
dread by way of pleasantry ; for I have remarked
that men of humour will in their most painful
moments put forward a jest, when at another

time the J would be silent. So I have seen some
jest over their disease when they know it to be
mortal, and others even who have died with a
pleasantry at their own expense on their lips.

All this time wee stood in the midst of great
feather-plants* as high as my shoulder, hoping
the dog would come nigh enough for us to cut
him down ere we were spied by the men, who,
we doubted not, had muskets to defend them;
also we dared not move, lest we should be heard
by the dog or be seen by the men. Presently
the barking and the sound of voices went further
away, as if the dogs had got on our track and
were hunting it back the way we had come ; then
the barking ceased altogether, to our great
content, for we made sure thereby the scent was
lost, and the chase given up.

Now," says Matthew, " let us put our

right leg foremost and get down to the river as

best we may, for if we get t'other side of that

unseen we may laugh at dogs and Portugalss."

"Nay," says I, "go if you will, but I cannot

Ferns.— F. B.

get away from this station until I know whether
my dear cousin be there or not. You live for
freedom," adds I, "but I live for something more
than that."

No need to tell me that," says he. " Lord
love you, master, do you think I don't know
what's the matter with you? Trust me, I'll
play you no scurvy trick, though I don't relish
the society of females. Do as I wish you, and
believe I am thinking as much of your welfare
and happiness as my own. But, for Heaven's
sake, do not let us waste time a-talking here like
so many attorneys. You shall have all the
explanation you need when we get t'other side
of the water."

I felt sure of this good fellow's honesty, and
believing his judgment was better than mine,
knowing more of these parts and the ways of
Portugalss than ever I did, I yielded to his
persuasions, and we scuttled down the hillside
as quickly as we might for the obstructions that
pestered us more and more as we advanced. For
in the lower sides of these hills, towards the

bottom, where the sun burns fiercer, the soil is
moister, and a greater depth of earth lies over
the rock, the growth is prodigiously thick ; and
besides the mass of shrubs upon the ground that
one must pick one's way through not to be torn
in pieces, the trees are all netted together with
lianas as stout as a ship's tackle ; brambles,
briars, and hanging vines of an hundred sorts ; so
there is no way betwixt them but Avhat a man
may cut for himself with his sword.

Grive me a valley like that we have left
behind, where there is naught but stones and
rocks," says Matthew; "for though you may
break your shins one moment and your nose the
next, yet can you make some headway. But
here," says he, "no man can roll down a hundred
yards without setting foot to the ground. howsomever,
we're shot of the dog for our consolation."


Scarce were these words out of his mouth
when they were forcibly contradicted by a fierce
barking close in our rear ; and turning about we
spied the brute (as big as a wolf and as horrid)

bounding toward us. But seeing us prepared
with our swords to cut him in pieces, he stops
short. Nor would he anyhow permit us to get
near him (though Matthew, to tempt him, hid his
sword behind him, and made forward with his
hand out, saying " Poor doggy " very civilly, as
though he would caress him), but backing when
we advanced towards him, approaching as we
went on, the dog contrived ever to keep well out
of our reach, all the while barking to be heard a
mile off.

"This will never do," says I; "the Portugalss
will be down on us directly."

Ay," says he ; " do you cut a way through
the briars, while I keep this brute off."

So I hacked away with all my might at the
lianas, while Matthew occupied himself with the
dog, sometimes in English, sometimes in Portuguese,
commanding him (as I judged) to go
home in a tone of authority, or entreating him
mildly to come near and get a chop for his pains ;
but all to no purpose, except that he kept him
from doing us a mischief with his fangs.

Gro home, you beast ! " cries he ; and then
in the same breath, "Would we were back in
my old valley, master : — I'd brain you with a
rock in a twinkling (this to the dog). But here
is nothing to hurl at the cursed beast : — Nice
old doggy, come here ! "

But now he had to hold his peace, for we
could hear in the woods above us the voices of
Portugalss crying to one another, and shouting
encouragement to the dog ; nor dare I chop our
way further, lest the flashing of the sword should
be seen above the growth about us, and bring a
shower of musket-balls upon its.

The only thing that saved us from immediate
discovery and apprehension was that our pursuers
found the same difficulty in advancing that we
had overcome, and had to cut their way to where
they heard the barking of the dog.

If we could only silence that vile dog,"
whispered Matthew, grinding his teeth.

Ay," says I, " but how may we do that ? "

I see but one way," says he, " and that not
very promising, but 'tis better than to wait here

?2

and be shot. Let us go back the way we have
come."

"Why," says I, "that is but to offer ourselves
the sooner to the Portugalss."

Nay," says he, " they are still a pretty fair
distance off. Come and do as I ask you."

Lead on, friend," says I. " You are better
acquainted with this warfare than I."

So Matthew started at once to go back up the
hill by the way we had cut through the growth,
which did seem to me the rankest folly in the
world. And what made it look worse was that,
instead of trying to pacify the dog, he enraged
it more than ever by thrusting at it with his
sword, spitting at it, etc., but in betwixt he gave
me instructions, and opened out his designs.

You see the big tree on your right hand in
front? " says he.

Ay," says I.

Gret behind me, and when I pass that tree
slip behind it and wait ready with your sword.
The dog knows me, and takes no note of you."

There was no time to say more, for he had

come abreast of the tree, and here he did draw
the dog into a greater rage than ever, so that (ashe
had directed) I slipped behind the tree unobserved.
And now, seeing Matthew's excellent
design, I waited with my sword raised above my
head.

After he had gone forward another two or
three paces, Matthew begins to draw back, all
the while gibing and jeering at the dog, who
was now so furious that he even ventured to
snap at the sword-blade when Matthew thrust it
forward ; and so step by step Matthew falls back
until, passing me a couple of paces, the dog comes
snapping and snarling forward after him till he
is fairly within my reach, when with one swift
blow I did cut him right through the loins clean
in two halves.

WE LAY OUR HEADS TOGETHER CONCERNING WHAT
IS BEST TO BE DONE.

Now having slain the dog, as T have shown, we
crouched us down, that we might not be seen,
feeling pretty secure ; for those who pursued
were a good way to the north of the path we had
cut for ourselves, and unless by accident they hit
upon that, they might hack and hew for a whole
week (now there was no dog to betray our whereabouts)
without coming nigh us. Indeed, as the
old saying goes, 'twas like searching of a needle
in a bottle of hay, with this addition — that they
who searched were no bigger than the needles
they sought. As we squatted there we could
plainly hear them chopping at the growth to
make a passage (which was a comforting assurance
they had not hit upon the alley we had

made), together with much cursing and swearing
: very grateful also to our ears, as showing
they liked not their business, and crying out to
the dog, who, for aught they knew had started
some game or was busy battening upon his
prey.

For some time this uproar * continued
and at one moment it seemed to be coming
perilously near ; but in the end they overshot
us, going down the hill some way below. Then
they gave over shouting, and we heard no more
of them, by which wee judged they had given
up the attempt to find us or the dog in
despair, and were gone back the way they had
come.

So when we counted it safe to move, we once
more began to force our passage down to the
river ; and, not to tire the reader as much as we
tired ourselves in this business, we at length
reached the water-side.

Here, being exhausted with our exertions
and faint for want of food, we made a fire, and
ate a serpent roasted on the embers, which

Matthew had cut down; and this I recollect,
because it was the first time I had tasted of
these reptiles ; nor should I have eaten it then,
having a great loathing for such worms, but
that Matthew assured me they were excellent
meat, as indeed they are for those who can get
no better.

While we were regaling ourselves I begged
Matthew to tell me why he had come down
to the river instead of returning to the
road.

For two reasons, master," he replies. " First
of all, there was not a bend of that road that was
safe for us, seeing that at any turn we might
have marched smack into the hands of the
Portugalss."

"I don't see that," says I; "for we had
stood a better chance of catching sight of
Lewis de Pino and his train going on before
us than they of spying us creeping on behind
them."

How about the others ? " says he.

"What others?"

Why, they who have been hunting us with
the dog."

They, I take it, are Lewis de Pino's men,"
says I.

Lord love sou, master, not they ! " says he.
Do you think that dog was his, too ? Oh. no !
He and I are old enemies. He belongs to my
old master the factor, and is kept at the station
to hunt poor runaways. I knew the moment I
heard his bark that my factor's men were on our
heels. Villain ! he is shrewd enough to know
you would follow in your cousin's steps, and
despatched his men — if he be not himself at their
head — to search the road and apprise De Pino of
your escape. Now, master, if they had slipped
by without being betrayed by the dog they
would have spurred on till they overtook De
Pino, and finding us not with him would
have laid in ambush to take us as we followed
after. Do you think I'm far out in my
calculation ? "

No," says I ; " you're right, I must allow,
Matthew ; and now for your second reason."

The second hangs on to the first, master ;
for it stands to reason that if we ran a fair chance
of losing our own liberty by sticking to the
road, we were in a poor way to save the female.
I went a bit too far maybe in supposing that
you had no certain scheme of your own for circumventing
De Pino."

No," says I ; " you were in the right again
there : I had no fixed purpose."

You had a notion maybe that we might
catch De Pino and his men all napping, and that
we might just get away with the female before
they woke."

I admitted that if I had any scheme at all it
was no better than that.

Well, master," says Matthew, " we must
give the Portugalss credit for having sense
enough to sleep with one eye open after being
warned that you were at large, and so you
must see that it would be courting our own
destruction to attempt any such design as
that."

Ay," says I, " but I shan't be content to

escape destruction myself if my cousin is to be
abandoned to a worse fate."

True, master," says lie ; " but as her escape
depends on our existence, we must ensure the
latter for to compass the former."

There I agree with you," says I ; " but do
you, if you can, show me by what means you
reckon to get at my Lady Biddy, for up to
this you have only led me further away from
her."

Master," says he, "so far as my observation
goes, the best part of mortal success has been
achieved by the turning of happy accidents to
advantage, and our success in this undertaking
must likewise depend upon favourable circumstances
coming to our hand. Nevertheless, we
can do something, and the best chance of gaining
a victory is to attack the enemy on the side
where assault is least looked for ; and so," says
he, seeing I was pretty well driven to the end of
my patience with his philosophy, " instead of
hanging about in De Pino's rear, where he undoubtedly
expects to spy us, we must get in

front of him, where lie as little looks to meet us
as the man in the moon."

And how on earth do you expect to get in
front of him by coming down here ? "

By the river," says he, " where there are
neither rocks to throw us over, nor briars to balk
our progress."

He will be leagues ahead of us, man, before
nightfall," says I, in desperation.

No matter for that ; we'll be leagues ahead
of him before daybreak. I warrant we'll be at
Valetta a day before he arrives."

Where is Palette?"

Valetta is a town on this river that he
must pass through. 'Tis four days' march
from here by road — a shorter journey than
by the river ; but we must advance while
he is resting, journeying by night as well
as by day. Turn and turn about, we need
never stop at our oars save to eat our meals
together."

But we have no boat," says I.

We must make one," says he.

I laughed, yet not merrily, and asked him if
he expected we could make a boat in four days,
when it had cost me four months and more to
make a raft.

Lord love you, master," says he, " we'll be
afloat in four hours."

IN WHICH MATTHEW PLAYS THE BEGGAR AND I
THE FOOL.

My comrade had no sooner made promise that
we should be afloat in four hours than he started
about carrying out his design .-

There was in that swamp that bordered the
river an amazing quantity of great cane-reeds,
some twenty feet in height and more, and of
these he began to cut down with his sword such
as were most proper to his purpose, bidding me
do the like, and choose those of last year's
growth, which were dry, light, and of good girth.
Nothing loth, I waded into the morass (with a
care that I trod on no water serpent) until I was
pretty well up to my middle in water, and there
I laid about me with a* will, until I had cut as
many as I could carry, which I then took to a
point on the bank where the water was deep and

free from this growth, and laid them beside
Matthew's store. In this way we proceeded
until we had laid up a good stock of these canes.

Now," says Matthew, eyeing them, " I
judge we have enough ; so do you go, master,
and cut me one of those plaguy vines that gave
us so much trouble this morning, while I set
these reeds shipshape."

Perceiving his object, I went up into the
wood and cut ten or a dozen fathoms of those
lianas which, as I say, are like any ship's tackle
for toughness and soundness. While I was
about this, Matthew sets the canes out, with the
thick end of one overlapping about three parts of
its length the thick end of another in such a
manner that (all being thus served and tightly
bound with the liana at both ends, and again in
two or three places towards the middle) they
made a huge bundle about a jury through at its
largest girth, and four yards long, tapering off at
each end like a fishing-float. This being done,
and the lianas bound securely to Matthew's
mind, he begs me to lend him a hand at cutting

away certain of the canes in the middle with my
knife, which was tough work indeed (for the
canes were prodigious hard), and labour we
might have spared ourselves had we bethought
us to dispose the canes differently before we
bound them up ; but this did not occur to us till
we were pretty nigh the end of our job.

However, having cut out of the middle a
space about four feet long by two broad, and as
much in depth, our business was done.

This was the boat which was to carry us up the
river, and Matthew was not a little proud of it;
though I was still in a taking for fear it should
turn over when we set foot into it, and capsize
us both into the water ; but this it did not, but
carried us as steadily as we could wish, and
capital good we found it for such a boat as it
was.

For our sweeps or paddles we bound two
stout canes together, stretching them asunder atone
end and covering that part with a broad
tough grass.

In this craft we made our way up that river

three days and four nights, only stopping to
take such rest as was needful and to procure
refreshment. Many difficulties and perils we
encountered by the way, but of these I have no
space to tell had I the inclination, for it seems
as I write that I have the same burning impatience
which urged me on then to come to
my Lady Biddy. Every obstacle that delayed
progress enraged me. I could scarcely bring
myself to let my comrade get his fair and
necessary amount of sleep, but would be twitching
him to awake ere he had got soundly asleep ;
for as to one sleeping in the boat while the other
rowed, that we found impossible, because there
was no room to lie down there for one thing
and by reason of the wet for another; and
necessary it was, for fear of cramps, at times to
take our feet out of the water, which we had no
means to keep from coming in betwixt the reeds.
But Matthew bore with me, seeing my great
anxiety of mind, and that I did not rest a quarter
so much as he ; and though he grumbled amain
(but chiefly in pretence), he roused himself after

the second or third twitch, and did all man could
to give me hope. Indeed, a fellow of gentler
temper, or a more cheerful kind friend, I never
knew of his sex.

Soon after daybreak on the fourth day,
having been at our sweeps a couple of hours
maybe, we spied some fishing-canoes moored by
the shore, and some little cot-houses hard by,
by which we judged we had come to the outskirts
of Valetta. Whereupon we drew into
the bank, and going up through the woods to
the top of a little hill, came upon tilled fields,
beyond which lay the town, very grey and quiet
in the creeping light of that early morning.

Now, master," says Matthew, " the first
thing is to learn if De Pino and his train have
yet arrived in the town; and we can't do that
a-standing here looking at it."

Nay," says I, " I'm ready to go into the
town at once if you are. But we must be
secret."

Ay," says he ; " and for that reason you
will have to bide here."

I cannot do that," says I. " Think, Matthew
she may stand in need of my help. I shall be
mad if I stay here idle."

Not so mad," says he, " as if you venture
into that town. Look at your state. Could any
man clap eyes on you without pointing you out
to his neighbour ? "

Truly I was in a sad pickle — my fine clothes
that I had of Dom Sebastian rent in a hundred
places with the thorns through which we had
torn our way in escaping by the woods ; no hat
to my head ; my silk stockings stained with the
blood from my scratched legs and the mud of
the morass; and my hands and face swollen
with the bite of those flies that haunt the rivers.

You look," continues he, " as if you had
broke loose from a prison, and like nothing else ;
and if you be taken to task by the mayor, or
other busybody, to account for your condition,
your answer or your silence will at once betrays
for a foreigner. So will you be clapped
up in gaol, and the female be worse off than
ever."

r 2

I was once more forced to admit that lie
was in the right, and to ask what he designed.

Why," says he, " I shall go into the town
as a shipwrecked mariner, cast ashore off Buena-venture,
fallen sick of a leprosy, and begging my
way to my friends at Cartagena, and no one
shall count this a lie by the bravery of my
dress."

Indeed he looked beggarly enough, having
not a rag of shirt to his back, nor any clothes
but his shoes, breeches, and a jacket of skins,
with an old hat that no one would have picked
off a dust-heap.

In this guise," continues he, " may I go
all through that town, asking alms in good
Portuguese, so that men will be more glad to
get out of my way than to stop me. And if,
when I have been to all the inns and places of
rest, I find De Pino is not yet come, I will sit
me down against a church-door, the town gate,
or elsewhere most convenient for spying who
enters by the road from Darien, and wait there
till nightfall, when I will come again to you.

And, lest I get no broken victuals, do you have a
good supper ready by way of alms to give a
hungry beggar."

I promised him he should not lack for food.

Now, master," says he, " give me something
as a token that I may slip into the female's hand,
when I go to beg of her, as she passes, whereby
she may know that you are at hand."

I was greatly pleased with his forethought,
which showed a kind consideration for Lady
Biddy's happiness, and delighted to think I
might thus communicate with her. So, undoing
my waistcoat, I cut a fair piece from the breast
of my shirt, which was of fine linen, and having
pierced my finger with a thorn I contrived to
trace " B. P." on this rag with my blood.

Meanwhile Matthew had gone about to find
some purple berries, which he crushed in divers
places upon the flesh of his legs and face, so that
when he came forth I scarcely knew him again,
as he looked for all the world, by reason of
this disfigurement, like one who was sore of a
plague.

I wager," says he, " no one will want to
lay hands on me now ; and as for De Pino, he
will turn away in disgust at the first glance, for
these Portugalss pretend to have mighty nice
stomachs. Howsoever, I must give myself
another touch or two to deceive his eye."

Therewith he takes his knife and saws away
at his bushy beard until he had brought it down
to a point, after the Portugalss' mode. Then he
begged me to crop the hair of his head, which I
did forthwith; and to see me a-trimming his
head with my sword was a sight to set any
barber's teeth on edge. This done, he gives me
his sword to take charge of, and hides his knife
inside his jacket, with my token for Lady Biddy.
Then folding his arms on his chest, drawing up
his shoulders to his ears, and putting on a most
woe-begone look, he asks me if I think he will
pass muster.

"Ay," says I, "you are horrid enough, in all
conscience ; but with those loathsome-seeming
sores upon you I doubt if my cousin will care to
take my token from your hand."

"Lord love you, master," says he with a
laugh, " if you knew as much of females as I do
you would have no doubt on that head. There's
no disguise will deceive their eyes when they
have a man in their thoughts; and," adds he ina
graver tone, " there's no form of distress will
make them shrink from a tender office."

He gave me his hand, bidding me farewell,
and went his way with a shuffling gait and
a sly leer back at me to show me he understood
his business.

I watched him until he entered the fields,
where the tall plants presently hid him from my
sis^ht. Then I bethought me to set adrift our
boat, which might have excited curiosity and
suspicion had it been seen by any one passing on
the river ; and this I did, after cutting the lianas
that bound it, so that it might go to pieces as it
went down with the current. After that, with a
sling I managed to kill half a dozen birds, about
the size of pigeons, and these I cooked in the
midst of the wood, where the smoke from my
fire might not be seen. Also I gathered some

good fruit, and of this food I set by enough to
serve for a meal when Matthew returned. Then
I sat me down at that point whence my comrade
had departed, watching for his return through
the fields.

Hour after hour I sat there, turning my eyes
neither to the right nor to the left, for my eagerness
to see him again, and my thoughts all the
while running on my dear lady; but no reflections
worthy to be recorded. The sun sank and the
twilight faded away ; but the stars were bright
in the sky before I heard any sign of Matthew ;
then I caught a snuffling, whining voice, which
I knew to be his, crying —

Is there 'ere a kind friend will give a bit to
a poor sick seafaring man ? " at the same time I
perceived a figure coming towards me.

What news, Matthew — what news ? " I
cried, running to meet him.

"Plenty," says he; "I've done a rare day's
business."

"Lord be praised! " says I; " what have you
learnt ? "

That a canting rogue may earn more in a
day than an honest man in a week."

What else, what else ? " says I impatiently.


"That for winning true respect there's naught
like sham sores."

For the love of Heaven do not torment me!
What of my cousin ? "

Oh, she has not yet come into the town,"
says he; " nor will she to-night for certain ; the
gates were being shut when I crawled out. I
told you, master, Vv^e should get here a day before
De Pino."

On this I heaved a great sigh for disappointment.


Lord love you, master," says he, " don't
heave a sigh like that afore you're married, or
you'll have none left for a better occasion."

This pleasantry made me sadder than before,
for it put me in mind that, come what might,
Lady Biddy could never be mine, nor I anything
to her but a poor faithful servant.

Cheer up, master," says Matthew. " You

may wager that if I haven't brought you one
sort of comfort, I've brought you another. Feel
the weight of this."

I then perceived, for the first time, that
Matthew had a load on his back.

What in the world have you got there,
friend ? " says I, feeling the great distended skin
bag he carried.

Wine, master — wine of the best, and a
couple of gallons of it."

How did you come by it ? "

Honestly. I paid for it with good silver,
and I've enough left against times of need. For,
you see, while wholesome beggars were taken
into the kitchen for a paltry mess of broken
victuals, I no sooner showed my face in a doorway
but a silver piece was tossed into the road
to get rid of me. Bless every one with a nice
stomach, say I ; they give me the whole street to
myself when they catch sight of me, and go a
roundabout way to their goal. You wonder wh}^
I wasn't turned out of the town. Lord love you,
there was not a constable had the heart to lay

his hand on me. A sort of a kind of a beadle
came and looked at me from a distance, and I was
half afeard he meditated getting me shot with a
long gun ; but when I sat me down peaceably in
the church-door, he saw I could do no one any
mischief there, and so went his way to trounce
some silly folks who were trying to turn a penny
or two honestly with a dancing dog."

In this manner did he run on, telling me of
his adventures during the day, until all our birds
were eaten and the wine-skin half empty, when
he laid himself down, chuckling over the prospect
of a long night's sleep, and warning me not to
arouse him too soon, as he had been forced to
wait an hour at the gates.

And," says he, " if I show myself an early
riser they may well doubt if I be a true beggar."

END or VOL. II.

Feinted by Cassel k Company, Limited, La Belle Salvage, London, Eg.

iUustrat^tr, '^vxt %,xi, ant other tlolum^s.

Abbeys and Churches of England and Wales, The: Descriptive, Historical,

Pictorial. 21s.
After London ; or, Wild England. By the late Richard Jefferies. Cheap

Edition, 3s. 6d.

Along Alaska's Great River. By Lieut. Schvvatka. Illustrated. 12s. 6d.
American Penman, An. By Julian Hawthorne. Boards, 2s. ; cloth, 3;;. 6d
American Yachts and Yachting. Illustrated. 6s.
Animal Painting in Water Colours. With Eighteen Coloured Plates b^

Frederick Taylor. 5s.
Arabian Nights Entertainments (Cassel's). With about 400 Illustrations. los. 6d.
Architectural Drawing. By Phen^ Spiers. Illustrated. los. 6d.
Art, The Magazine o£ Yearly Volume. With several hundred Engravings, and

Twelve Etchings, Photogravures, &c. i6s.
Behind Time, bv G. P. Lath hop. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.
Bimetallism, The Theory of. By D. Barbour. 6s.

Bismarck, Prince. By C. Lowe, M. A. Two Vols. Cheap Edition, its. 6d.
Black Arrow, The. A Tale of the Two Roses. By R. L. Stevenson. 55.
British Ballads. 275 Original Illustrations. Two Vols. Cloth, 7s. 6d. each.
British Battles on Land and Sea. By the late James Grant. With about 600

Illustrations. Three Vols., 410, £,\ 7s. ; Library Edition, £,x 10s.
British Battles, Recent. Illustrated. 410, 9s. Library Edition, los.
British Empire, The. By Sir George Campbell. 3s.
Browning, An Introduction to the Study of. By Arthur Symons. 2s. 6d.
Butterflies and Moths, European. By W. F. Kirby. With 61 Coloured

Plates. Demy 410, 35s.

Canaries and Cage-Birds, The Illustrated Book of. By W. A. Blackstone

SwAYSLAND, and A. F. Wxener. With 56 Fac-simile Coloured Plates, 35s.

Cannibals and Convicts. By Julian Thomas (the Vagabond). Cheap

Edition, 5s.

Captain Trafalgar. By Westall and Laurie. Illustrated. 5s.
Cassel's Family Magazine. Yearly Vol. Illustrated. 9s.
Celebrities of the Century : Being a Dictionary of Men and Women of the
Nineteenth Century. 21s. ; roxburgh, 25s.

Changing Year, The. With Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

Chess Problem, The. With Illustrations by C. Planck and others. 7s. 6d.

Children of the Cold, The. By Lieut. Schwatka. 2s. 6d.

China Painting. By Florence Lewis. With Sixteen Coloured Plates, and a

selection of Wood Engravings. With full Instructions. 5s.
Choice Dishes at Small Cost. By A. G. Payne. Cheap Edition, is.
Christmas in the Olden Time. By Sir Walter Scott. With charming

Original Illustrations. 7s. 6d.
Cities of the World. Three Vols. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. each.
Civil Service, Guide to Employment in the. Ne-M and Enlarged Edition. 3s. 6d.
Civil Service.— Guide to Female Employment in Government Offices. Cloth, is.
Clinical Manuals for Practitioners and Students of Medicine. [A List of

V volumes forwarded post free on application to the Publishers.)

Clothing, The Influence of, on Health. By Frederick Treves, F.R.C.S. 2s.
Cobden Club, Some Works published for the :—

Our Land Laws of the Past. 3d.

Tue Caribbean Confederation. By C. S.

Salmon. IS. 6d
Fleas for Protection Examined. By A. Mon-grecian.

I^tTu and Revised edition. ci.

WTiat Protection does for the Farmer. By

J. S. Luadam, M.A. 6d.
The Old Poor Law and the New Socialism ;

or. Pauperis m and Taxation. By F. C.

Montague. 6d.
The Secretary of Slate for India in Couo-

oiL 6d.

United Kingdom. 5s.
Displacement of Labour and Capital. 3d.
Free Trade versus Fair Trade. 5s.
Free Trade and English Commerce. By

A. Mineredien. 6d.
Crown Colonies, is.

Popular Fallacies Regarding Trade. 6d.
western Farmer of America. 3d.
Reform of the English Land System. 3d.
Fair Trade Unmasked. By G. W. Medley. 6d.
Technical Education. By F. C ,

M.A. Sd.

The National Income and Taxation. By
Sir Louis Mallet. 6d. '

6 G— 7.88

Colonies and India, Our: How we Got Them, and Why we Keep Them.

By Prof. C. Ransome. is.
Colour. By Prof. A. H. Church. New and Enlarged Edition, with Coloured

Plates. 3S. Gd.

Columbus, Christopher, The Life and Voyages of. By Washington Irving.

Three Vols. 7s. 6d.

Commodore Junk. By G. Manvh.le Fenn. 5s.

Cookery, Cassel's Shilling. The Largest and Best Work on the Subject ever

produced, is.

Cookery, CasseU's Dictionary o£ Containing about Nine Thousand Recipes.

7s. 6d. ; roxburgh, los. 6d.

Cookery, A Year's. By Phyllis Browne. Cloth gilt or oiled cloth, 3s. 6d.

Cook Book, Catherine Owen's New. 4s.

Co-operators, Working Men : What They have Done, and What They are

Doing. By A. H. DvKE-AcLAND, M.P., and B. Jones. is.

Countries of the World, The. By Robert Brown, M.A., Ph.D., &c. Complete
in Six Vols., with about 750 Illustrations. 410, 7s. 6d. each.
Cheshire Folk. By the Author of "John Orlebar," &c. 3s. 6d.
Encyclopaedia, CasseU's Concise. With 12,000 subjects, brought down to the

latest date. Wi 1 about 600 Illustrations, 15s.; roxburgh, 18s.

Encyclopaedia, Cassel's Miniature. Containing 30,000 Subjects. Cloth, 3s. 6d.
Dairy Farming. By Prof. J. P. Sheldon. With 25 Fac-simile Coloured Plates,

and numerous Wood Engravings. Demy 410, 21s.
Dead Man's Rock. A Romance. By Q. 5s.
Decisive Events in History. By Thomas Archer. With Sixteen Illustrations.

Boards, 3s. 6d. ; cloth, ss.

Deserted Village Series, The. Consisting of Editions de luxe of favourite poems
■ by Standard Authors. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 2s. fd.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village. I Wordsworth's Ode on Immortality,

Milton's L' Allegro and II Penseroso. | and Lines on Winter Abbey.

Songs from Shakespeare.

Dickens, Character Sketches from. First, Second, and Third Series.

With Six Original Drawings in each, by Frederick Barnard. In Portfolio, 21s. each.
Diary of Two Parliaments. By H. W. Lucy. The Disraeli Parliament, 12s.

The Gladstone Parliament, 12s.

Dog, The. By Stone. Illustrated. 2S. 6d.

Dog, Illustrated Book of the. By Vero Shaw, B.A. With 28 Coloured

Plates. Cloth bevelled, 35s. ; half-morocco, 45s.

Dog Stories and Dog Lore. By Col. Thos. W. Knox. 6s.
Domestic Dictionary, The. An Encyclopaedia for the Household. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
Dore's Dante's Inferno. Illustrated by Gustave Dore. Popular Edition, 21s.
Dore's Dante's Purgatory and Paradise. Illustrated by Gustave DoRfi.

Popular Edition. 21s.

Dore's Fairy Tales Told Again. With 24 Full-page Engravings by DorE. 5s.
Dore Gallery, The. With 250 Illustrations by Gustave Dore, 4to, 42s.
Dore's Milton's Paradise Lost. With Full-page Drawings by Gustave DoRe.

Earth, Our, and its Story. By Dr. Robert Brown, F.L.S. Vol. I., with

Coloured Plates and numerous Wood Engravings. 9s.

Edinburgh, Old and New, Cassel's. With 600 Illustrations. Three Vols.,

QS. each ; library binding, £x its. the set.

Egypt: Descriptive, Historical, and Picturesque. By Prof. G. Embers.

Translated by Clara Bell, with Notes by Samuel Birch, LL.D., &c. Popular

Edition, in Two Vols., 42s.
"89." A Novel. By Edgar Henry. Cloth, 3s. 6d.
Electricity, Age of, from Amber Soul to Telephone. By Park Benjamin,

Ph.D. 7s. 6d.
Electricity, Practical. By Prof. W. E. Ayrton. Illustrated. 7s. 6d.
Electricity in the Service of Man. With nearly 850 Illustrations. 21s.
Encyclopaedic Dictionary, The. A N ew and Original Work of Reference to all

the Words in the English Language. Complete in Fourteen Divisional Vols., los. 6d.

each; or Seven Vols., half-morocco, 21s. each.

England, Cassel's Illustrated History of. With 2,000 Illustrations. Ten
Vols., 4to, gs. each, ^ti^an^nd Revised Edition. Vols. I. and II., gs. each.

English History, The Dictionary ot Cloth, 21s. ; roxburgh, 255.

English Literature, Library of. By Prof. Henry Morley, Complete in 5

vols., 7s. 6d. each.

I. — Shorter English Poems.
II.— Illustrations of English
Religion.
Vol. III.— English Plays.

Vol. IV.— Shorter Works in English

Prose.
Vol. v.— Sketches of Longer Works in

English Verse and Prose.

English Literature, Morley' s First Sketch of. Revised Edition, 7s. 6d.
English Literature, The Dictionary of. By W. Davenport Adams. Cheap

Edition, 7s. 6d. ; roxburgh, los. 6d.

English Literature, The Story of. By Anna Auckland. New and Cheap

Edition. 3s. 6d.
English Writers. An attempt towards a History of English Literature. By

Henry Morley, LL.D., Professor of English Literature, University College,

London. Vols. I., II., III., and IV., 5s. each.
sop's Fables. With about 150 Illustrations by E. Grist. Cheap Edition,

cloth, 3s. 6d. ; bevelled boards, gilt edges, 5s.

Etching : Its Technical Processes, with Remarks on Collections and Collecting.

By S. K. Kneller. Illustrated with 30 Full-page Plates. Price £,^ 4s.

Etiquette of Good Society, is. ; doth, is. 6d.

Eye, Ear, and Throat, The Management of the. 3s. 6d.

Fanuly Physician, The. By Eminent Physicians and Surgeons. New and

Revised Edition. Cloth, 21s. ; roxburgh, 25s.

Fenn, G. Mantle, Works by. Popular Editions, Boards, 2s. each ; or cloth,
2S. 6d.
Dutch the Diver; or, a Man's Mistake. I Poverty Corner.

My Patients. The Vicar's People. ),„ r-,,, „„,„

The Parson o' Rumford. I Sweet Made. / '" ^1°'" only-ferns,

European. By James Britten, F.L.S. With 30 Fac-simile Coloured

Plates by D. Blair, F.L.S. 21s.
Field Naturalist's Handbook, The. By Rev. J. G. Wood & Theodore Wood. 5s.
Figuier's Popular Scientific Works, With Several Hundred Illustrations in
each. 3s. 6d. each.
The Human Knee. I The Ocean 'World.

World Before the Deluge. The Vegetable World.

Reptiles and Birds. I The Insect World.

Mammalia.

Figure Painting in Water Colours. With i6 Coloured Plates by Blanche

MacArthur and Jennie Moore. With full Instructions. 7s. 6d.
Fine-Art Library, The. Edited by John Sparkles, Principal of the South
Kensington Art Schools. Each Book contains about 100 Illustrations. 5s. each.

Tapestry. By Eugene Chintz. Translated by ' ' "

Miss L.J. Davis.

Engraving. By Le Vicomte Henri Elaborate.

Translated by R. A, M. Stevenson.
The English School of Painting. By E.

Chesneau. Translated by L. N. Etherington.

With an Introduction by Prof. Ruskin.
The Flemish School of Painting. By A. J.

Waters. Translated by Mrs. Henry Russel.

The Education of the Artis

Chesneau. Translated by Clara Bell. Non-illustrated.


Greek Archaeology. By Marine Collision.
Translated by Dr. J. H. Wright.

Artistic Anatomy. By Prof. Dual. Translated
by F. E. Fenton.

The Dutch School of Painting. By Henry
Hazard. Translated by G. Powell.

Five Pound Note, The, and other Stories. By G. S. Jealous, is.

Flower Painting in Water Colours. First and Second Series. With 20 Facsimile
Coloured Plates in each by F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., F.S.A. With Instructions
by the Artist. Interleaved. 5s. each.

Flower Painting, Elementary. With Eight Coloured Plates. 3s.

Flowers, and How to Paint Them. Bv Maud Castel. With Coloured Plates, ss

Forging of the Anchor, The. A Poem. By the late Sir Samuel Ferguson

LL.D. With 20 Original Illustrations. Gilt edges, 5s.

FoBsU Reptiles, A History of British. By Sir Richard Owen, K.C.B., F.R.S.

ac. With 268 Plates. In Four Vols., ^^12 12s.
France as It Is. By Andre; Leon and Paul Pelt. With Three Maps,
Crown 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d

Franco-German War, Cassel's History of the. Twa Vols. With 500 Illustrations.
Qs. each.
Fresh Water Fishes of Europe, The. By Prof. H. G. 5eeley, F.R.S. Cheap

Edition, 7s. 6d.
Garden Flowers, Familiar. By Shirley Hubbard. Xv'^ith Coloured Plates by

F. E. Hulme, F.L.S. Complete in Five Series. Cloth gilt, 12s. 6d. each.
Gardening, Cassel's Popular. Illustrated. Complete in 4 Vols., 5s. each.
Geometrical Drawing for Army Candidates. By H. 1. Lille, M.A. as.

Geometry, First Elements of Experimental. By Paul Bert. is. 6d.

Geometry, Practical Solid. By Major Ross. 2s.

Germany, William of. By Archibald Forbes. 3s. 6d.

Gladstone, Life of the Et. Hon. W.E. ByG. Barnett Smith. With Portrait. 3s. 6d.

Gleanings from Popular Authors. Two Vols. With Original Illustrations.

4to, 9s. each. Two Vols, in One, 15s.
Gold to Grey, From. Being Poems and Pictures of Life and Nature. By Mary

D. Brine. Illustrated. 7s. 6d.

Great Bank Robbery, The. A Novel. By Julian Hawthorne. Boards, 2s,
Great Industries of Great Britain. With 400 Illustrations. 3 Vols., 7s. 6d. each.
Great Northern RaUway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the. is. ; cloth, 2s.
Great Western Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the. is. ; cloth, zs.
Great Painters of Christendom, The, from Cimabue to Wilkie. By John

Forbes-Robertson. Illustrated throughout. Popular Edition, cloth gilt, 12s. 6d.
Gulliver's Travels. With 88 Engravings by Morten. Cheap Edition. Cloth,

3s. 6d. ; cloth gilt, 5s.
Gum Boughs and Wattle Bloom. By Donald Macdonald. 5s.
Gun and its Development, The. By W. W. Greener. Illustrated. los. 6d
Guns, Modern Shot. By W. W. Greener. Illustrated. 5s.
Health at School. By Clement Dukes, M.D., B.S. 7s. 6d. [burgh, 25s.

Health, The Book of. By Eminent Physicians and Surgeons. Cloth, 21s. ; rox-
Health, The Influence of Clothing on. By F. Treves, F. R.C.S. 2s.
Heavens, The Story of the. By Sir Robert Swell Ball, LL.D., F.R.S.,

Royal Astronomer of Ireland. Coloured Plates and Wood Engravings. 31s. 6d.

Heroes of Britain in Peace and War. In Two Vols., with 300 Original Illustrations.
5s. each ; or One Vol., library binding, los. 6d.
Holy Land and the Bible, The. By the Rev. Cunningham Geikie, D.D,

With Map. Two Vols. 24s.

Homes, Our, and How to Make them Healthy. By Eminent Authorities.

Illustrated. 15s. ; roxburgh, i8s.

Horse-Keeper, The PracticaL By George Fleming, LL.D.-, F.R.C.V.S.

Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d.
Horse, The Book of the. By Samuel Sidney. With 28 facsimile Coloured

Plates. Demy 410, 35s. ; half-morocco, ;£2 ss.
Horses, The Simple Ailments of. By W. F. Illustrated. 5s.
Household Guide, Cassel's. With Illustrations and Coloured Plates. New and

Revised Edition, complete in Four Vols., dos.

How Dante Climbed the Mountain. By Rose Emily Selfe. With Eight

Full-page Engravings by Gustave Dore. 2s.

How Women may Earn a Living. By Mercy Grogan. is.

Imperial White Books. In Quarterly Vols. los. 6d. per annum, post free ;

to subscribers separately, 3s. 6d. each.
India, Cassel's History of. By the late James Grant. With 400 Illustrations. 155.
India: the Land and the People. By Sir James Cairo, K.C.B. ios. 6d.
In-door Amusements, Card Games, and Fireside Fun, Cassel's. 3s. 6d.
Industrial Remuneration Conference. The Report of. 2s. 6d.
Insect Variety : its Propagation and Distribution. By A. H. Swinton. 7s. 6d.
Irish Parliament, The, What it Was, and What it Did. By J. G. Swift

McNeill, M.A., M.P. is.
Irish Parliament, A Miniature History of the. By J. C. Haslam. 3d.
Irish Union; Before and After. By A. K. Connell, M.A. 2s, 6d.
John Parmelee's Curse. By Julian Hawthorne. 2s. 6d.
Kennel Guide, PracticaL By Dr. Gordon Stables. Illustrated. Cheap Edition, is.
Kidnapped. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated Edition. 5s.
King Solomon's Mines. By H. Rider Haggard. Illustrated Edition. 55.
Khiva, A Ride to. By Col. Fred Burnaby. is. 6d.
Ladies' Physician, The. By a London Physician. 6s.
Lady Biddy Fane. By Frank Barrett. Three Vols. Cloth, 31s. 6d.
Lady's World, The. An Illustrated Magazine of Fashion and Society. Vrly. Vol. island
Question, The. By Prof. J. Elliot, M. R.A.C. Including the Land Scare
- and Production of Cereals. 3s. 6d.

Landscape Painting in Oils, A Course of Lessons in. By A. F. Grace,

With Nine Reproductions in Colour. Cheap Edition, 25$.

Law, About Going to. By A. J. Williams, M. P. as. 6d.
Laws of Every Day Life, Tbe. By H. O. Arnold-foster. is. 6d.
Letts's Diaries and other Time-saving Publications are now published exclusively
by Cassel &; Company. (A List sent (post free on application')
Local Dual Standards. By John Henry Norman. Gold and Silver Standard

Currencies, is.

Local Government in England and Germany. By the Rt. Hon. Sir Robert

MORIER, G.C.B., &C. IS.

London, Brighton, and South Coast RaUway, The Official Illustrated Guide

to the. IS. ; cloth, 2s.

London and North Western Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to thais

; cloth, 2s.
London and South Western Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the.

IS. ; cloth, 2S.
London, Greater. By Edward Walford. Two Vols. With about 400

Illustrations, gs. each. Library Edition. Two Vols. £,i the set.

London, Old and New. By Walter Thornbuky and Edward Walford.

Six Vols., each containing about 200 Illustrations and Maps. Cloth, gs. each. Library
Edition. Imitation ro.\ burgh, £,-i.

Longfellow, H. W., Choice Poems by. Illustrated by his Son, Ernest W.

Longfellow. 6s.
Longfellow's Poetical Works. Fine-Art Edition. Illustrated throughout with

Original Engravings. Royal 4to, cloth gilt, £,-i, 3s. Popular Edition. i6s.

Luther, Martin: the Man and his Work. By Peter Bayne, LL.D. Two

Vols., 24s.
Marine Painting. By Walter W. May, R.I. With i6 Coloured Plates. Cloth, 53.
Mechanics, The Practical Dictionary o£ Containing 15,000 Drawings. Four

Vols. 21S. each.

Medicine, Manuals for Students of. [A List forwarded post free on application.)
Midland Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the. New and Revised

Edition. IS. ; cloth, 2^.
Modem Europe, A History of. By C. A. Fyffe, M.A. VoL I. From 1792 to

1814. Is. Vol. II. From 1814 to 1S48. 12s.

Music, Illustrated History of. By Emil Naumann. Edited by the Rev.

Sir F. A. Gore Olselev, Bart. Illustrated. Two Vols. 31s. 6d.
National Library, Cassel's. In Weekly Volumes, each containing about 192

pages. Paper covers, 3d. ; cloth, 6d. (,A List 0/ the Volumes already published sent

post free on application')

Natural History, CasseU's Concise. By E. Perceval Wright, M.A., M.D.,

Fel S. With several Hundred Illustrations. 7s. 6d. ; roxburgh, los. 6d.
Natural History, CasseU's New. Edited by Prof. P. Martin Duncan, Mab.,

F.R.S., F.G.S. With Contributions by Eminent Scientific Writers. Complete in

Six Vols. With about 2,000 high-class Illustrations. Extra crown 4to, cloth, gs. each.
Nature, Short Studies from. Illustrated. Cheap Edition. 2s. 6d.
Neutral Tint, A Course of Painting in. With Twenty-four Plates by R. P.

Leitch, With full Instructions to the Pupil. 5s.

Nimrod in the North ; or. Hunting and Fishing Adventures in the Arctic

Regions. By Lieut. Schwatka, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Nursing for the Home and for the Hospital, A Handbook o£ By Catherine
J. Wood. Cheap Edition, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s.
OU Painting, A Manual of. By Hon. John Collier. Cloth, 2s. 6d.
On the Equator. By H. De W. Illustrated with Photos. 3s. 6d.
Orion the Gold Beater. A Novel. By Sylvanus Cobb, Junr. Cloth, 3s. 6d.
Our Own Country. Six Vols. With 1,200 Illustrations. Cloth, 7s. 6d. each.
Outdoor Sports and Indoor Amusements, Cassel's Book of. With about

900 Illustrations, Cheap Edition. 992 pages, medium Svo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

Paris, Cassel's Illustrated Guide to. Cloth, 2s.

Parliaments, A Diary of Two. By H. W. Lucy. The Disraeli Parliament,

1874- 1880, i»s. The Gladstone Parliament, 18S1— 1886. 12s.
Paxton's Flower Garden. By Sir Joseph Paxton and Prof. Lindley. Revised

by Thomas I'.aines, F.R.H.S. Three Vols. With 100 Coloured Plates. Ci is. each.
Peoples of the World, The. By Dr. Robert Brown. Complete in Six Volumes.

With Illustrations. 7s. 6d. each.

Phantom City, The. By W. Westall. 5s.

Photography for Amateurs. ByT. C. Hepworth. Illustrated, is. ; or cloth, is. 6d.

Phrase and Fable, Dictionary of. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Cheap Edition,

Enlarged, cloth, 3s. 6d. ; or with leather back, 4s. 6d.
Picturesque America. Complete in Four Vols. , with 48 Exquisite Steel Plates,

and about 800 Original Wood Engravings. £2. 2s. each.
Picturesque Canada. With about 600 Original Illustrations. Two Vols.,

^■3, 3s. each.
Picturesque Europe. Complete in Five Vols. Each containing 13 Exquisite Steel

Plates, from Original Drawings, and nearly 200 Original Illustrations. £1.0 10s.;

half-morocco, £,\^ 15s. ; morocco gilt, £26 ss. The Popular Edition is now complete

in Five Vols., i8s. each.

Pigeon Keeper, The Practical. By Lewis Wright. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.
Paeans, The Book of. By Robert Fulton. Edited by Lewis Wright. With

50 Coloured Plates and numerous Wood Engravings. 31s. 6d. ; half-morocco, C'^ 2S.
Pocket Guide to Europe (Cassel's). Size ^\ in. x sf in. Leather, 6s.
Poems, Representative of Living Poets, American and English. Selected by

the Poets themselves, miss.

Poets, Cassel's Miniature Library of the :—

hamilton. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ; or cloth,

gilt edges, as. 6d. the set.
Scott. Two Vols. Cloth, IS. each ; or cloth.

or cloth.

Burns. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ; or cloth,

gilt edges, as. 6d. the set
Byron. Two Vols. Cloth, is. 1

gilt edges, zs. 6d. the set
Hood. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ; or cloth,

gilt edges, as. 6d. the set
Longfellow. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ; orig:



cloth, gilt edges, 2S. 6d. the set.

Shakespeare. Twelve Vols., half cloth, ui box, 12s.

gilt edges, as. 6d. the set.
Sheridan and Goldsmith. 2 Vols. Cloth, is.

each ; or cloth, gilt edges, as. 6d. the set.
Wordsworth. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ;

or cloth, gilt edges, as. 6d. the set.

Popular Library, Cassel's. A Series of New and Original Works. Cloth, is. each,

John Wesley.

The Story of the English Jacobins.
Domestic Folk Lore.
The Kev. Rowland Kill.
Boswell and Johnson.

History of the Free-Trade Movement in
England.

The RiiBsian Empire.
The Religious Revolution in the Sixteenth
Century.
English Journalism.
Our Colonial Empire.
The Young Man in the Battle of Life.

Post Office of Fifty Years Ago, The.

Poultry Keeper, The Practical By Lewis Wright. With Coloured Plates

and Illustrations. 3s. 6d.

Poultry, The Book of. By Lewis Wright. Popular Edition. With Illustrations
on Wood, los. 6d.

Poultry, The Illustrated Book of. By Lewis Wright. With Fifty Exquisite

Coloured Plates, and numerous Wood Engravings. Cloth, 31s. 6d. ; half-morocco, £,2 2S.

Pre-Raphselites (The Italian) in the National Gallery. By Cosmo Monk-house.

Illustrated, is.

Printing Machinery and Letterpress Printing, Modem. By Fred. J. F.

Wilson and Douglas Grey. Illustrated. 21s.
Queen Victoria, The Life and Times of. By Robert Wilson. Complete in

2 Vols. With numerous Illustrations, representing the Chief Events in the Life of the
Queen, and Portraits of the Leading Celebrities of her Reign. Extra crown 4to, cloth
gilt, qs. each.

Queer Race, A. By W. Westall. 53.

Rabbit-Keeper, The Practical. By Cuniculus. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.

Red Library of English and American Classics, The. Stiff covers, is. each ;

cloth, 2S. each.

People I have Met.

The Pathfinder.

Evening.

Scott's Poems.

Last of the Barons.

Adventures of Mr. Ledbury and his

friend Jack Johnson.
Ivanhoe.
CMiver Twist.

Selections from Hood's Works.
Longfellow's Prose Works.
Sense and Sensibility.
Lytton's Plays. [Harte).

Tales, Poems, and Sketches (Bred
Martin Chuzzlewit. Two Vols.
The Prince of the House of David.
Sheridan's Plays.
'■ ITncle Tom's Cabin.
Deerslayer.
Eugene Aram.
Jack Hinton, the Guardsman.

The Talisman. I Pickwick <T«

Rome and the Early Christians.
The Trials of Me ■ - -

Edgar Allan Poe

The Trials of Margaret Lindsay.
agar Allan Poe. Pre
d Mortality.

'rose and Poetry, Select
[tions from.

The Hour and the Man.
Washington Irving's Sketch-Book.
Last Days of Palmyra.
Tales of the Borders.
Pride and Prejudice.
Last of the Mohicana.
Heart of Midlothian.
Last Days of Pompeii.
YeUowplush Papers.
Handy Andy.
Selected Plays.
American Humour.
Sketches by Boz.
Macaulay's Lays and Selected Essays.

Scarlet Letter.

Royal River, The : The Thames, from Source to Sea. With Descriptive Text

and a Series of beautiful Engravings. £^i 2S.

Russia. By .Sir Donald M.\cken/.ie Wallace, M.A. 5s.

Russo-TurMsh War, Cassel History of. With about 500 Illustrations. Two

Vols., Qs. each ; library binding, One Vol., 15s.

Saturday Journal, Cassel's. Yearly Vols., ys. 6d.

Science for All. Edited by Dr. RoniCKT Brown, M.A., F.L.S., &c. With
1,500 Illustrations. Five Vols., 9s. each.

Sea, The: Its Stirring Story of Adventure, Peril, and Heroism. By

F. Whvwier. With 400 Illustrations. Four Vols., 7s. 6d. each.

Section 558, or the Fatal Letter. A Novel. By Julian Hawthorne.

Boards, 2s. ; cloth, zs. 6d.
Sent Back by the Angels. And other Ballads of Home and Homely Life. By

Frederick Lan(;bridge, M A 4s. 6d. Popular Edition, 1%.
Sepia Painting, A Course of. Two Vols., with Twelve Coloured Plates in each,

and numerous Engravings. Each, 3s. Also in One Volume, 5s.

Shaftesbury, The Seventh Earl of, KG., The Life and Work of. By Edwin

Holder. With Portraits. Three Vols,, 36b. Popular Edition, \nOn&yo\.,^%. (>A.
Shakspere, The International. Edition de luxe.

Kmg Henry IV." Illustrated by Herr Eduard GrOtzner. {^-^ los.

"As You Like It." Illustrated by Mons. Emile Bayard. ^^3 los.

"Romeo and Juliet." Illustrated by Fra.\k Dicksee, A.R.A. £,~i 5s.
Shakspere, The Leopold. \\'ith 400 Illustrations, and an Introduction by F. J.

FuRNiVALL. Small 4to, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-morocco, los. 6d. ; full morocco, £,^ is.

Cheap Edition. 3s. 6d.

Shakspere, The RoyaL With Exquisite Steel Plates and Wood Engravings.
Three Vols. 15s. each.

Shakespeare, Cassel's Quarto Edition. Edited by Pharisees and Mary Bowden

Clarke, and containing about 600 Illustrations by H. C. Selous. Complete in
Three Vols., cloth gilt, £,■>, 3s. — Also published in Three separate Volumes, in cloth,
viz. : — The Comedies, 21s. ; The Historical Plays, i8s. 6d. ; The Tragedies, 255.
Shakespeare, Miniature. Illustrated. In Twelve Vols., in box, 12s. ; or in
Red Paste Grain (bo.\ to match), with spring catch, lettered in gold, 21s.

Shakespearean Scenes and Characters. Illustrative of Thirty Plays of Shakespeare.
With Thirty Steel Plates and Ten Wood Engravings. The Text written b)

Austin Skeleton. Royal 4to, 21s.

Sketching from Nature in Water Colours. By Aaron Penley. With lus

orations in Chronio-Litho^raphy. 15s.

Skin and Hair, The Management of the. By Malcolm Morris, F. R. Ces. 2s.

Sonnets and Quatorzains. By Chrys, M.A. (Oxon). 5s.

Standards, Local Dual. By John Henry Norman. is.

Steam Engine, The Theory and Action of the : for Practical Men. By W. H.

NoRTHCOTT, C.E. 3S. 6d.

stock Exchange Year-Book, The. By Thomas Skinner. 12s. 6d.
Summer Tide, Little Folks Holiday Number, is.
Sunlight and Shade. With numerous Exquisite Engravings. 7s. 6d.
Surgery, Memorials of the Craft of, in England. With an Introduction bv

Sir James Paget. 21s.
Thackeray, Character Sketches from. Six New and Original • Drawings L)

Fkepfkick Barnard, reproduced in Photogravure. 21s.
Thorah, The Yoke of the. A Novel. By Sidney Luska. Boards, 2s. ; cloth, 3s. 60
Three and Sixpenny Library of Standard Tales, &c. All Illustrated and bound

in cloth gilt. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d. each.

Jane Austen and her Works.

Mission Life in Greece and Palestine.

The Romance of Trade.

The Three Homes.

Deepdale Vicarage.

In Duty Bound.

The Half Sisters.

Peggy Oglivie's Inheritance.

The Family Honour.

Esther West.

Working to Win.

Krilof and his Fables. By

Ralston, M.A.
Fairy Tales. Ey Prof. Morley.

Tot Book for all Public Examinations. By W. S. Thomson, M.A.
Town Holdings, is.

Tragedy of Brinkwater, The. A Novel. By Martha L. Moodey. Boards, 2S. ;

cloth, ^s. 6d.

Tragic Mystery, A. A Novel. By Julian Hawthorne. Boards, 2s. ; cloth, 3s. 6d.

Treasure Island. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated. 5s.

Tree Painting in Water Colours. By W. H. J. Boot. With Eighteen

Coloured Plates, and valuable instructions by the Artist. 5s.
Trees, Familiar. By G. S. Boulger, F.L.S., F.G.S. Two Series. With Forty
full-page Coloured Plates, from Original Paintings by W. H. J. Boot. 12s. 6d. each.

Twenty Photogravures of Pictures in the Salon of 1885, by the leading

French Artists. In Portfolio. Only a limited number of copies have been produced,
terms for which can be obtained of all Booksellers.

"Unicode": The Universal Telegraphic Phrase Book. Pocket and Desk

Editions, as 6d. each.

United States, Cassel's History of the. By the late Edmund Ollier. With 600

Illustrations. Three Vols. gs. each.

United States, The Youth's History o£ By Edward S. Ellis. Illustrated.

Four Vols. 36s.

Universal History, Cassel's Illustrated. With nearly One Thousand

Illustrations. Vol. I. Early and Greek History. — Vol. II. The Roman Period. —
Vol. III. The Middle Ages.— Vol. IV. Modern History. 9s. each.

Vaccination Vindicated. An Answer to the leading Anti Vaccinators. By John
C. McVail, M.D., D.P.H. Camb. ss.

Veiled Beyond, The. A Novel. By S. B. Alexander. Cloth, 3s. 6d.

Vicar of Wakefield and other Works by Oliver Goldsmith. Illustrated.

3s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 5s.
Water-colour Painting, A Course of With Twenty-four Coloured Plates by
R. P. Leitch, and full Instructions to the Pupil. 5s.

What Girls Can Do. By Phyllis Browne, as. 6d.

Who is John Noman ? A Novel. By Charles Henry Beckett. Boards, 2s. ;

Cloth, 3s. ed.
Wild Birds, Familiar. By W. Swaysland. Four Series. With 40 Coloured

Plates in each. 12s. 6d. each.
Wild Flowers, Familiar. By F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., F.S.A. Five Series. With

40 Coloured Plates in each. 12s. 6d. each.

Wise Woman, The. By George Macdonald. 2s. 6d.

Woman's World, The. Yearly Volume. i8s.

World of Wit and Humour, The. With 400 Illustrations. Cloth, 7s. 6d. ; cloth

gilt, gilt edges, los. 6d,
World Of Wonders, The. Two Vols. With 400 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. each.
World's Lumber Room, The. By Selina Gaye. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.
Yule Tide. Cassel's Christmas Annual, is.

ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINES.
The Quiver for Similar and General Reading. Monthly, 6d.

Cases Family Magazine. Monthly, yd.

** Little Folks " Magazine. Monthly, 6d.

The Magazine of Art. Monthly, is.

the Woman's World. Monthly, is.

Cassel's Saturday Journal. Weekly, id. ; Monthly, 6d.

•«• Full Particulars of Cassel & COMPANY'S Monthly Serial Publications

will be found in Cassel & Company's COMPLETE CATALOGUE.

Catalogues of Cassel & Company's Publications, which may be had at all

Booksellers', or will be sent post free on application to the Publishers :—
Cassel's Complete Catalogue, containing particulars of One Thousand

Volumes.
Cassel's Classified Catalogue, in which their Works are arranged according

to price, from Threepence to Twenty-five Guineas.
Cassel's Educational Catalogue, containing particulars of Cassel &
Company's Educational Works and Students' Manuals.

Cassel & COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London.

ISibks anb litigious Works.

Bible, The Crown Illustrated. With about 1,000 Original Illustrations. With

References, &c. 1,248 pages, crown 410, cloth, 7s. 6d.
Bible, Castella Illustrated Family. With 900 Illustrations. Leather, gilt

edges, £,1 los. ; full morocco, £3 los.
Bible Dictionary, Cassel's. With nearly 600 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. ; roxburgh,

los. 6d.

Bible Educator, The. Edited by the Very Rev. Dean Plumptre, D.D. With
Illustrations, Maps, &c. Four Vols., cloth, 6s. each.

Bible Work at Home and Abroad. Yearly Volume, 3s.

Bible Talks about Bible Pictures. Illustrated by Gustave Done and others.
Large 4to, 5s.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress (Cassel's Illustrated). 410. 7s. 6d.
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. With Illustrations. Popular Edition, 3s. 6d.
Child's Life of Christ, The. Complete in One Handsome Volume, with about

200 Original Illustrations. Demy 4to. gilt edges, 21s.
Child's Bible, The. With 200 Illustrations. Demy 4to, 830 pp. 145^/4 Thousand.

Cheap Edition, 7s. 6d.

Commentary, The New Testament, for English Readers. Edited by the

Rt. Rev. C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. In Three
Volumes, 21s. each.

Vol. I.— The Pour Gospels.

Vol. II.— The Acts, Romans, Corinthians, Galatians.

Vol. III.— The remaining Books of the New Testament.

Commentary, The Old Testament, for English Readers. Edited by the Rt.
Rev. C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. Complete in
5 Vols., 21s. each.
Vol. I.— Genesis to Numbers. I

Vol. II.— Deuteronomy to Samuel II. I

Vol. v.— Jeremiah to Malachi.

Dictionary of Religion, The. An Encyclopaedia of Christian and other

Religious Doctrines, Denominations, Sects, Heresies, Ecclesiastical Terms, History,

Biography, &c. &c. By the Rev. William Benham, B.D. Cloth. 21s. ; roxburgh, 253.

Dore Bible. With 230 Illustrations by Gustave DoRfi. Original Edition.

Two Vols., cloth, £,'i ; best morocco, gilt edges, £,1^.
Early Days of Christianity, The. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S.
Library Edition. Two Vols., 24s. ; morocco, £,0. 2s.

Popular Edition. Complete in One Volume, cloth, 6s. ; cloth, gilt edges,
7s. 6d. ; Persian morocco, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s.
Family Prayer-book, The. Edited by Rev. Canon Garbett, M.A and Rev.
S. Martin. Extra crown 410, cloth, 5s. ; morocco, i8s.

Grime, Cunningham, D.D., Works by:—

The Holy Land and the Bible. A Book of Scripture Illustrations gathered in Palestine. With

Map. Two Vols, 24s.
Hours with the Bible. Six Vols. 6s. each.
Entering on Life. 3s. 6d.
The Precious Promises. 2s. 6d.
The English Reformation. 5s.
Old Testament Characters. 6s.
The Life and Words of Christ.

Vols., cloth, sos. Students' Edition

Glories of the Man of Sorrows, The. Sermons preached at St. James's,

Piccadilly. By the Rev. H. G. Bonavia Hunt, Mus.D., F.R.S. Eden. as. 6d.
Gospel of Grace, The. By a Lindesie. Cloth, 2s. 6d.

Helps to Belief A Series of Helpful Manuals on the Religious Difficulties of the
Day. Edited by the Rev. Tkignmouth Shorb, M. A., 'Chaplain in Ordinary to
the Queen. Cloth, is. each. «

CREATION. By the Lord Bishop of Carlisle.

Miracles. By the Rev. Brownlow Mait-

PRAVBi? 'By the Rev. T. Teignmouth Shore, I The Divinity of Our Lord. By the Lord
]^ ^ ' 'I Bishop of Derry.

The atonement. By the Lord Bishop of Peterborough.

H-7.88

'Heart Chords." A Series of Works by Eminent Divines. Bound in doth, red
edges, IS. each.

^ " " " My Soul. By the Rev. P. B. Power, M.A. ^

My Growth in Divine Life. By the Rev.

Prebendary Reynolds, M.A.
My Hereafter. By the Very Rev. Dean Bicker-seeth.


My Walls with God. By the Very Rev. Dean

My Bible. By the Rt. Rev. W. Boyd Carpenter,
Bishop of Ripon.

My Work for God. By the Right Rev. Bishop
Cotterill.

My Object in Life. By the Ven. Archdeacon
Farrar, D.D.

My Aspirations. By the Rev. G. Matheson, D.D.

My Emotional Life. By the Rev. Prey. Chadwick
D.D.

My Body. By the Rev. Prof. W. G. Bailie, D.D.

Montgomery.
My Aids to the Divine Life. By the Very

Rev. Dean Boyle.
My Sources of Strength. By the Rev. E. E.

Jenkins, M.A., Secretary of the Wesleyan

Missionary Society.

Holy Land and the Bible, The. A Book of Scripture Illustrations gathered in
Palestine. By the Rev. Cunningham Geikie, D.D. Two Vols., demy 8vo, 1,120
pages, with Map. Price 24s.

"I Must." Short Missionary Bible Readings. By Sophia M. Nugent.
Enamelled cover, 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, is.

Life of Christ, The. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S., Chaplain
in Ordinary to the Queen.

Illustrated Edition, with about 300 Original Illustrations. Extra crown 410,

cloth, gilt edges, 21s. ; morocco antique, 42s.
Library Edition. Two Vols. Cloth, 24s. ; morocco, 42s.
Popular Edition, in One Vol. 8vo, cloth, 6s.; cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. ; Persian

morocco, gilt edges, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s.

Luther, Martin: his Life and Times. By Peter Bayne, LL.D. Two Vols.,

demy 8vo, 1,040 pages, cloth, miscarriage

Ring, The. By William Landels, D.D. Bound in white
leatherette, gilt edges, in box, 6s. ; French morocco, 8s. 6d.

Moses and Geology ; or, The Harmony of the Bible with Science. By

the Rev. Samuel King, Ph.D., F.R.A.S. Illustrated. Cheap Edition. 6s.

Protestantism, The History of. By the Rev. J. A. Wylie, LL.D. Containing
upwards of 600 Original Illustrations. Three Vols., 27s. ; Library Edition, sos.

Quiver Yearly Volume, The. With 250 high-class Illustrations. 7s. 6d. Also
Monthly, 6d.

St. George for England; and other Sermons preached to Children. Fifth
Edition. By the Rev. T. Teignmouth Shore, M.A. 5s.

St. Pail, The Life and Work of. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D.,

F.R.S., Chaplain in Ordinary to the Queen.
Library Edition. Two Vols., cloth, 24s. ; calf, 42s.
Illustrated Edition, complete in One Volume, with about 300 Illustrations,

£\ IS. ; morocco, £^1 2s.
Popular Edition. One Volume, 8vo, cloth, 6s. ; cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. ;
Persian morocco, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s.

Secular Life, The Gospel of the. Sermons preached at Oxford. By the Hon.
W. H. Fremantle, Canon of Canterbury. 5s.

Shall We Know One Another? By the Rt. Rev. J. C. Ryle, D.D., Bishop of

Liverpool. New and Enlarged Edition. Cloth limp, is.

Twilight of Life, The. Words of Counsel and Comfort for the Aged. By

John Ellerton, M.A. is. 6d.

Voice of Time, The By John Stroud. Cloth gilt, is.

(Btrucaitonal Works anb .^tutr^nts' Manuals.

Alphabet, Cassel's Pictorial. Size, 35 inches by 42^ inches. Mounted on
Linen, with rollers. 3s. ci.

Arltlunetics, The Modem SchooL By George Ricks, B.Sc. Lord. With Test

Birds. (List on application')

Book-keeping. By Theodore Jones. For Schools, 2s. ; or cloth, 3s. For

THE-mil i-ioN, 2S. ; or cloth, 3s. Books for Jones's System, Ruled Sets of, 2S.

Chemistry, The Public SchooL By J. H. Anderson, M.A. 2s. 6d.
Commentary, The New Testament. Edited by Bishop Ellicott. Handy

Volume Edition. Suitable for School and general use.
St. Matthew.
St. Mark. 3s. Corinthians I. and II.

Galatians, Ephesians, and

St. Luke. 3S. 6d.
St. John. 3s. fid.
The Acts of the Apostles.

Philippians.
Colossians, Thessalonians,
and Timothy. 3s.

Titus, Philemon, Hebrews,

and James. 3s.
Pete Jude, and John. 35.
The Revelation. 3s.
An Introduction to the New

Testament. 2s. 6d.

Commentary, Old Testament. Edited by Bishop Ellicott. Handy Volume
Edition. Suitable for School and general use.
Genesis. 3s. 6d. I Leviticus. 3s. I Deuteronomy. 2s. 6d.

Exodus. 3s. 1 Numbers, as. 6d. |

Copy-books, CasseU's Graduated. Complete in 18 Books. 2d. each.
Copy-books, The Modern SchooL Complete in 12 Books. 2d. each.
Drawing Copies, Cassel's " New Standard." Fourteen Books.

Books A to F, for Standards L to IV 2d. each.

- „ G, H, K, L, M, O, for Standards V. to VII 3d. each,

„ N, P, 4d. each.

Drawing Copies, Cassel's Modem School Freehand. First Grade, is. ; Second

Grade, 2s.

Electricity, Practical. By Prof. W. E Ayrton. 7s. 6d.

Energy and Motion : A Text-book of Elementary Mechanics. By William

Page, M.A. Illustrated, is. 6d.
English Literature, A First Sketch of, from the Earliest Period to the Present

Time. By Prof Henry Morley. 7s. 6d.
Euclid, Cassel's. Edited by Prof. Wallace, M.A. is.
Euclid, The First Four Books of. In paper, 6d. ; cloth, gd.
French Reader, CasseU's Public School. By Guillaume S. Conrad. 2s. 6d.
French, Cassel's Lessons in. New and Revised Edition. Parts I. and II., each

2S. 6d. ; complete, 4s. 6d. Key, is. 6d.
French-English and English-French Dictionary. Entirely New and Enlarged

Edition. 1,1 so pages, 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

Galbraith and Haughton's Scientific Manuals. By the Rev. Prof. Galbraith,

M.A., and the Kev. P- f. Haughton, M.D., D.C.L.

Arithmetic. 3s. 6d-

Plane Trigonometry. 2s. 6d.

Euclid. Books 1., 11., III. 2s. 6d. Books IV.,

v., VI. 2S. 6d.
Mathematical Tables. 3s. 6d.
Mechanics.

Natural Philosophy. 3s. 6d.
Optics. 2S. 6d.
Hydrostatics. 3s. 6d.
Astronomy. 5s.
Steam Engine. 3s. 6d,
■ ■ ■ . T-art ■ • ■

Algebra. Part I., cloth, as. 6d. Complete, 7s. 6d.

Tides and Tidal Cm-rents, with Tidal Cards, 3s.

Geometry, First Elements of Experimental. By Paul Bert. Fully Illustrated.

IS. 6d.

Geometry, Practical Solid. By Major Ross, R.E. 2s.
German of To-Day. By Dr. Heinemann. is. 6d.
German-English and English-German Dictionary. 3s. 6d.
German Reading, First Lessons in. ByA. Jagst. Illustrated, is.
Handbook of New Code of Regulations. By John F. Moss. is. ; cloth, as.
Historical Course for Schools, Cassel's. Illustrated throughout. I. — Stories

from English History, i.s. II.— The Simple Outline of English History, is. 3d.

III.— TheCla.ss History of England, 2s. 6d.

Historical Cartoons, CasseU's Coloured. Size 45 in. X 35 '". 2s. each.

Mounted on canvas and varnished, with rollers, 5s. each.

Latin-english Dictionary, CasseU's. Thoroughly revised and corrected, and in
part re-written by J. R. V. Marchant, M.A. 3s. 6d.

Latin-English and English-Latin Dictionary. By J. R. Beard, D.D., and C.

B.Ard, B.A. Crown 8vo, 914 pp., 3s. 6d.

Latin Primer, The New. fiy Prof. J. P. Postgate. 2s. 6d.

Laws of Every-Day Life. For the Use of Schools. By H. O. Arnold-Forster.

IS. 6d.
Lay Texts for the Young, in English and French. By Mrs. Richard

Strachey. 2s. 6d. [is. 6d.

Little Folks' History of England. By Isa Craig-Knox. With 30 Illustrations.
Making of the Home, The : A Book of Domestic Economy for School and Home

Use. By Mrs. Samuel A. Barnett. is. 6d.

Marlborough Books.

Arithmetic Examples. 3s. I Preneli Exercises. 3s. 6d.

Arithmetic Rules, is. 6d. | French Grammar, as. 6d.

German Grammar. 3s. 6d.

Mechanics and Machine Design, Numerical Examples in PracticaL By

R. G. Blaine, M.E. With Diagrams. Cloth, 2s. 6d.

Music, An Elementary Manual of. By Henry Leslie, is.

Popular Educator, Cassel's. New and Thoroughly Revised Edition. Illustrated
throughout. Complete in Six Vols., 5s. each ; or in Three Vols., half calf, 42s. the set.

Readers, Cassel's "Higher Class:— "The World's Lumber Room," Illustrated,
2S. 6d. ; " Short Studies from Nature," Illustrated, 2s. 6d. ; " The World
in Pictures." (Ten in Series.) Cloth, 2s. each.

Readers, Cassel's Readable. Carefully graduated, extremely interesting, and
illustrated throughout. list on application.)

Readers, Cassel's Historical. Illustrated throughout, printed on superior paper,
and strongly bound in cloth. (List on application.)

Readers for Infant Schools, Coloured. Three Books. Each containing 48

pages, including 8 pages in colours. 4d. each.

Reader, The Citizen. By H. O. Arnold-Forster. With Preface by the late

Rt. Hon. W. E. FoRSTER, M.P. is. 6d.
Readers, The Modern Geographical. Illustrated throughout, and strongly bound

in cloth. (List on application.)
Readers, The Modern School. Illustrated. list on application.)
Reading and Spelling Book, Cassel's Illustrated, is.
School Bank Manual, A. By Agnes Lambert. 6d.
Shakspere Reading Book, The. By H. Courthope Bowen, M.A. Illustrated.

3s. 6d. Also issued in Three Books, is. each

Shakspere's Plays for School Use. 5 Books. Illustrated. 6d. each.

"Slbjd," as a means of Teaching the Essential Elements of Education.

By Emily Lord. 6d.
Spelling, A Complete Manual of. ByJ. D. Morelll, LL.D. is.
Technical Manuals, Cassel's. Illustrated throughout : —

Machinists & Engineers, Drawing for. 4s. 6d.

Model Drawing. 3s.

Orthographical and Geometrical Proceed

and Staircase.
Bricklayers, Drawing for. 3s.
Building Construction. 2s.
Cabinet-makers, Drawing for. 3s.

■ for. :

Applied Mechanics. By Sir R. S. Ball.

Carpenters & Joiners, Drawing for. 3s. 6d.
Gothic Stonework. 3s.
Linear Drawing & Practical Geometry. 2s.
Linear Drawing and Projection. The

Two Vols, in One, 3s. 6d.
Metal-Plate Workers, Drawing for. 3s.
Technical Educator, Cassel's. Illustrated throughout. Popular Edition. Four

Vols., 5s. each.
Technology, Manuals of. Edited by Prof. Ayrton, F.R.S., and Richard
WoRMELL, D.Sc, M.A. Illustrated throughout.

The Dyeing of Textile Fabrics. By Prof.

Hummel. 5s.
Watch and Clock Making. By D. Glasgow.

4S. 6d.
Steel and Iron. By Prof. W. H. Greenwood,

F.C.S., M.I.C.E., &c. 5s.
Spinning Woollen and Worsted. By W.

S. McLaren

Design in Textile Fabrics. By T. R. Ashen-hurst.
4S. 6d.

Practical Mechanics. By Prof. Perry, M.E.
3S. 6d.

Cutting Tools Worked by Hand and Machine.
By Prof. Smith. 3s. 6d.

^aren, M.P. 4s.

A Prospectus on application.

Test Cards, Cassel's Combination. In sets, is. each.

Test Cards, Cassel's Modem School In sets, is. each.

A Copy of Cassel and Company's Complete Catalogue will

be forwarded post free on application.

ISooks for Young p^opk.

"Little Folks" Half Yearly Volume. With 200 Illustrations, with Pictures in

Colour. Boards, 3s. 6d. ; or cloth gilt, 5s.
Bo-Peep. A Book for the Little Ones. With Original Stories and Verses.

Illustrated throughout. Yearly Volume. Boards, 2S. 6d. ; cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
Every-day Heroes. By Laura Lane. Illustrated. Cloth, 2s. 6d.
Legends for Lionel New Picture Book by Walter Crane. 5s.
Flora's Feast. A Masque of Flowers. Penned and Pictured by Walter

Crane. With 40 pages in Colours. 5s.
The New Children's Album. Fcap. 4to, 320 pages. Illustrated throughout. 3s. 6d.
The Tales of the Sixty Mandarins. By P. V. Ramaswami Raju. With an

Introduction by Prof. Henry Morley. Illustrated. 5s.
Sunday School Reward Books. By Popular Authors. With Four Original
Illustrations in each. Cloth gilt, is. 6d. each.

Seeking a City.
Khoda'8 Reward; or, "

Horses."
Jack Marston's Anchor.
Frank's Life-Battle; ■

Friends.

If Wishes were

The Three

Rags and Rainbows: a Story of Thanksgiving.


Dnele William's Charge; or, The Broken
Trust.

Pretty Pink's Purpose; or. The Little
Street Merchants.

'Golden Mottoes" Series, The. Each Book containing 208 pages, with Four
full-page Original Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. each.

Nil Besperandum." By the Rev. F. Lang-esse



bridge, M

Bear and Forbear.'

"Foremost if I Can.

By Sarah Pitt.

By Helen Atteridge.

"Honour is m.v Guide." By Jeanie Herini

Mrs. Adams-Acton).
Aim at a Store End." By Emily Searchfield.
He Conquers who Endures." Ry the Author

of " May Cunningham Trial," &c.

The " Proverbs " Series. Consisting of a New and Original Series of Stories by
Popular Authors, founded on and illustrating well-known Proverbs. With Four Illustrations
in each Book, printed on a tint. Crown 8vo, 160 pages, cloth, is. 6d. each.

Fritters ; or, " It's a Long

no Turning." By Sarah Pitt.

Trixy; or, "Those who Live in Glass
Houses shouldn't throw Stones." By
M^gie Symington.

The Two Hardcastle ; or, " A Friend in
Reed is a Friend Indeed." By Madeline
Bonavia Hunt.

Major Monk's Motto; or, "Look Before
you Leap." ^ the Rev. F. Cambridge.

Tim Thomson's Trial; or, " All is not Gold
that Gutters." By George Weatherly"'

- Block ; or, " Pride

By the Rev. Joseph Johnson.

The "Cross and Crown" Series. Consisting of Stories founded on incidents
which occurred during Religious Persecutions of Past Days. With Illustrations in
each Book. 2s. 6d. each.

By Fire and Sword: a Story of the

Huguenots. By Thomas Archer.
Adam Hepburn's Vow: a Tale of Kirk

and Covenant. By Annie S. Swan.
No. XIII ; or. The Story of the Lost

Vestal. A Tale of Early Christian Days.

By Emma Marshall.

Strong to Suffer: A Story of the Jews.

By E. Wynne.
Heroes of the Indian Empire ; or. Stories

of Valour and Victory. By Ernest Foster.
In Letters of Flame : A Story of the

Waldenses. By C. L. Bateaux.
Through Trial to Triumph. By Madeline

B. Hunt.

The World's Workers. A Series of

Authors. With Portraits printed on a
The Earl of Shaftesbury. By Henry Frith.
Sarah Robinson, Agnes Weston, and Mrs.

Meredith. By E. M. Tomlinson.
Thomas A. Edison and Samuel F. B.

Morse. By Dr. Denslow and J. Marsh

Parker.
Mrs. Somerville and Mary Carpenter. By

Phyllis Browne.
General Gordon. By the Er. S. A. Swain.
Charles Dickens. By his Eldest Daughter.
Sir Titus Salt and George Moore. By J.

Bumiey.

Florence Nightingale, Catherine Marsh,
Frances Ridley Havergal, Mrs. Ran-yard
(" L. N. B."l By Lwzie Abridge.

New and Original Volumes by Popular
tint as Frontispiece, is. each.

Dr. Guthrie, Father Mathew, Elihu Bur-rite,
Joseph Liveseyey. By the Rev. J. W.

Sir Henry Havelock and Colin Campbell,

Lord Clyde. By E. C. Phillips.
Abraham Lincoln. By Ernest Foster.
David Livingstone. By Robert Smiles.
George Muller and Andrew Reed. By

E. R. Pitman.
Richard Cobden. By R. Cowing.
Benjamin Franklin. By E. M. Tomlinson.
Handel. By Eliza Clarke.

Turner the Artist. Bv the Rev. S. A. Swain.
George and Robert Stephenson. By C. U

bateaux.

Five Shilling Books for Young People.

gilt, 5S. each.
The Palace Beautiful. By L. T. Meade.
"Follow my Leader;" or, the Boys of

Templeton. By Talbot Baines Reed.
For Fortune and Glory ; a Story of the

Soudan War. By Lewis Hough.
Under Bayard's Banner. By Henry Frith,
Rom " "

With Original Illustrations. Cloth

The:

The Champion of Odin; or. Viking Loin
the Days of Old. By J. Fred. Hodges.

Bound by a Spell; or, the Hunted Witch
of the Forest. By the Hon. Mrs. Greene.

The King's Command. A Story for Girls.
By Maggie .Symington.
omanee of Invention. By jas. Burnley.

Three and Sixpenny Books for Young People.

Cloth gilt, 3S. 6d. each.
The Cost of a Mistake. By Sarah Pitt.
A 'World of Girls : A Story of a School

With Original Illustrations.

On

Leigh's Log. By John C. Hutchison.
Lost among White Africans : A Boy's
Adventures on the Upper COngo. By
David Er.

In

the Loyal

rest of Gold ; or, Under the WTianga

j;aUs. By Alfred St. Johns
For Queen and King ;

'Prentice. By Henry Frit:
Pers Afloat and Brigands Ashore. By

Alfred Ewes.
Freedom's Sword : A Story of the Days of

Wallace and Bruce. By Annie S. Swan.

The "Boy Pioneer" Series. By Edward S. Ellis. With Four Full-page

Illustrations in each Book. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2S. 6d. each.
Ned in the Woods. A Tale of Early Days I Ned on the River. A Tale of Indian River
in the West. | Warfare.

Ned in the Block House. A Story of Pioneer Life in Kentucky.

The "Log Cabin " Series. By Edward S. Ellis. With Four Full-page Illustrations
in each. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2S. 6d. each.

The Lost Trail. | Camp-fire and Wigwam.

Footprints in the Forest.

The "Great River" Series. (Uniform with the "Log Cabin" Series.) By

Edward S. Ellis. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, bevelled boards, 2s. 6d. each.

Down the Mississippi. | Lost in the Wads.

Up the Sapajous: or. Adventures in Brazil.

The " Chimes " Series. Each containing 64 pages, with Illustrations on every

page, and handsomely bound in cloth, is.

Verses for Every I Holy Chimes. Verses for Every Sunday in the
Year.
Poets for Old World Chimes. Verses from old writers for
I Every Day in the Month.

Sixpenny Story Books.

well-known Writers.
The Smuggler's Cave.
Little Lizzie.
The Boat Club.
Luke Barnicott.

All Illustrated, and containing Interesting Stories by

Little Bird.
Little Pickles.
The Rochester College
Boys.

My First Cruise.

The Little Peacemaker.

The Delft Jug.

Cassel's Picture Story Books.

Stories, &c. 6d. each.

Each containing 60 pages of Pictures and

Little Talks.
Bright Stars.
Nursery Toys.
Pet's Posy.
Tiny Tales.

Daisy's Story Book.
Dot's Story Book.
A Nest of Stories.
Good Night Stories.
Chats for Small Chatterers.

Little Chimes.
A Sheaf of Tales.
Dewdrop Stories.

Illustrated Books for the Little Ones. Containing interesting Stories. All
Illustrated, is. each.

Oxu" Pretty Pets.
Our Schoolboy Hours.
Creatures Tame.
Creatures Wild.

Up and Dovirc the Garden.
All Sorts of Adventures.
Our Sunday Stories.
Our Holiday Hours.

Indoors and Out.
Some Farm Friends.
Those Golden Sands.
Little Mothers and their
Children.

Shilling Story Books. All Illustrated, and containing Interesting Stories.
The Cuckoo in the Robin's
John's Mistake. [Nest.

Diamonds in the Sand.
Surly Bob.
The History of Five Little

Pitchers.
The Giant's Cradle.
Shag and Dol.

Seventeen Cats.
Bunty and the Bo.vb.
The Heir of Elmdale.
The Mystery at ShoncUff

Sci ol.
Claimed at Last, and Roy's

Reward.
Thorns and Tangles.

Aunt Lucia's Locket.
The Magic Mirror.
The Cost of Revenge.
Clever Frank.
Among the Redskins.
The Ferryman of Bri.
Harry Maxwell.
A Banished Monarch.

Cassel's Children's Treasuries. Each Volume contains Stories or Poetry, and

is profusely Illustrated. Cloth, is. each.

Cock Robin, and other Nursery Rhymes.
The Queen of Hearts.
Old Mother Hubbard.
Tuneful Lays for Merry Days.
Cheerful Songs for Young Folks.
Pretty Poems for Young People.
The Children's Joy.

Pretty Pictures and Pleasant Stories.

Our Picture Book.

Tales for the Little Ones.

My 'Sunday Book of Pictures.

Sunday Garland of Pictures and Stories.

Sunday Readings for Little Polks.

"Little Folks" Painting Books.

Water-colour Painting, is. each.

Fruits and Blossoms for " Little Folks '
to Paint.

The " Little Folia '

With Text, and Outline Illustrations for

illuminating Book.

Eighteenpenny Story Books. All Illustrated throughout.

Wee Willie Wilkie.

Its and Downs of a Donkey's Life.

Three Wee Ulster Lassies.

Up the Ladder.

Dick's Hero ; and other Stories.

The Chip Boy.

Angles, Maggie, and the Emperor.

Roses from Thorns.

Faith's Father.

Jeff and Left.

Tom Morris's Error.

Worth more than Gold.

"Through Flood— Through Fire;"

other Stories.
The Girl with the Golden Locks.
Stories of the Olden Time.

The "World in Pictures" Series. Illustrated throughout. 2s. 6d. each.

A Ramble Round France.

AU the Russia.

Chats about Germany.

The Land of the Pyramids (Egypt).

Peeps into China.

The Eastern Wonderland (Japan).
Glimpses of South America.
Round Africa.

The Land of Temples (India)
The Isles of the Pacific.

Two-shilling Story Books. All Illustrated.

stories of the Tower.
Mr. Burke's Nieces.
May Cunningham's Trial.
The Top of the Ladder :

How to Reach it.
Little Flotsam.
Madge and her Friends.

persons.
Marion's Two Homes.
Little Folks' Sunday Book.

Two Fourpenny Bits.

Poor Nelly.

Tom Heriot.

Aunt Tabitha's Waifs.

In Mischief Again.

Through Peril to Fortune

Peggy, and other Tales.

The Magic Flower Pot.

School Girls.

Half-crown Books.

Little Hinges.

Margaret's Enemy.

Pen's Perplexities.

Notable Shipwrecks.

Golden Days.

Wonders of Common Things.

At the South Pole.

Truth will Out.

Pictures of School Life and Boyhood.

The Young Man in the Battle of Life. By

the Rev. Dr. Landels.
The True Glory of Woman. By the Rev.

Dr. Landels.
The Wise Woman. By George Macdonald.

Soldier and Patriot (George Washington).

Picture Teaching Series. Each book Illustrated throughout.

gilt, coloured edges, 2S. 6d. each.

Fcap. 4to, cloth

Through Picture-Land.

Picture Teaching for Young and Old.

Picture Natural History.

Scraps of Knowledge for the Little

Ones.
Great Lessons from Little Things.

Woodland Romances.

Stories of Girlhood. j

Frisk and his Flock.

Pussy Tip-Toes' Family.

The Boy Joiner and Model Maker.

The Children of Holy Scripture.

Library of Wonders. Illustrated Gift-books for Boys. Paper, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

Wonders of AcousticB.
Wonderful Adventures.
Wonders of Animal Instinct,
Wonders of Architecture.

The " Home Chat " Series. All Illustrated throughout. Fcap. 4to. Boards, 3s. 6d.
each ; cloth, gilt edges, 5s. each.
Home Chat. I Around and About Old England.

Peeps Abroad or Folks at Home. Half-hours with Early Explorers.

Decisive Events in History. | Paws and Claws.

Books for the Little Ones. Fully Illustrated.

A Dozen and One; or, The Boys and

Girls of Polly's Ring. By Mary D.

Brine. Full of Illustrations. 5s.
The Merry-ground. Poems for Children.

Illustrated throughout. 5s.
Rhymes for the Young Folk. By William

Allingham. Beautifully Illustrated. 3s. 6d.
The Little Doings of some Little Folks.

By Chatty Cheerful. Illustrated. 5s.
The Sunday Scrap Book. With One Thousand
Scripture Pictures. Boards, 5s. ; cloth,

7S. 6d.
Daisy Dimple's Scrap Book. Containing

about 1,000 Pictures. Boards, 5s. ; cloth gilt,

75. 6d. ft.

The History Scrap Book. With nearly

1,000 Engravings. 5s. ; cloth, 7S. 6d.
The Little Folks' Out and About Book.

By Chatty Cheerful. Illustrated,

Myself and my Friends. By Olive
,.,:.L Til .—. Crown i

Patch.

With numerous Illustrations. Crown 4to. 5s.
A Parcel of Children. By Olive Patch. With

numerous Illustrations. Crown 4to. 5s.
Little Folks' Picture Album. With 168

Large Pictures. 5s.
Little Folks' Picture Gallery. With 150

Illustrations, ss.

Books for Boys.

Commodore Junk. By G. Manville Fenn. 5s.

The Black Arrow. A Tale of the Two Roses.
By R. L. Stevenson, ss.

Dead Man's Rock. A Romance. By Q. 5s.

A Queer Race. By W. Westall. 5s.

Captain Trafalgar. A Story of the Mexican
Gulf. By W. Westall. Illustrated. 5s.

Kidnapped. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated. 5s.

King Solomon's Mines. By H. Rider Haggard.
5s.

Treasure Island. By R. L. Stevenson. With
Full-page Illustrations. 5s.

Ships, Sailors, and the Sea. By R. J.
Cornwall-Jones. Illustrated. 5s.

Books for all Children.

treated. Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 5s.

Sunny Spain: Its People and Places,
with Glimpses of its History. By
Olive Patch. Illustrated. 5s.

Rambles Round London Town. By C. L.
Bateaux. Illustrated. 5s.

Favorite Album of Fun and Fancy, The.
Illustrated. 3s. 6d.

Familiar Friends. By Olive Patch. Illustrated.
Cloth gilt, ss.

The Old Fairy Tales. With Original illus
orations. Boards, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

My Diary. With Tel '
365 Woodcuts,

p; "

lu

Coloured Plates and

Happy Little People. By OH'

illustration
Little Fol

Illustrated.

Patch. With

Album of Music, The.

1.
Nearly One Hundred Full-cheerful

Clatter,

page Pictures. 35. bd.
Twilight Fancies. Full of charming Pictures.

Boards, 3S. 6d.
Happy Go Lucky.
Dais; ~" ~
Good

Jolly Little Stories, is. 6d.
Our Little Friends, is. 6d.
Daisy Dell's Stories, is. 6d.
Little Toddlers, is. 6d.
Wee Little Rhymes, is. 6d.
Little One's Welcome, is. 6d.
Little Gossips, is. 6d.
Ding Dong BeU. is. 6d.
The Story of Robin Hood. With Coloured

Illustrations, as. 6d.
The Pilgrim's Progress. With Coloured

Illustrations, as. 6d.

The Phantom City. By W. Westall. js.
Famous Sailors of Former Times, History

of the Sea Fathers. By Clements

Markham. Illustrated, as. 6d.
Modem Explorers. By Thomas Frost. lush

Adventures in Wild Places. By Dr.

Gordon Stables. M.D., R.N. Illustrated. 5s.
Jungle, Peak, and Plain. By Dr. Gordon

Stables, R.N. Illustrated, ss.
O'er Many Lands, on Many Seas. By Gordon

Stables, R.N. Illustrated. 5s.
At the South Pole. By W. H. G. Kingston.

New Edition. Illustrated, as. 6d.

Odd Folks at Home. By C. L. Bateaux.
With nearly 150 Illustrations. 5s.

Field Friends and Forest Foes. By Olive
Patch. Profusely Illustrated. 5s.

Silver Wings and Golden Scales. Illustrated,
ss.

Little Folks' Holiday Album. Illustrated.
3S. 6d.

Tiny Houses and their Builders. Illustrated.
SS.

Children of aU Nations. Their Homes, their
Schools, their Playgrounds. Illustrated, ss.

Tim Tumble's "Little Mother." By C
L. Matiaux. Illustrated, ss.

Cassel <L COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London, Paris, New
York ds Melbourne,

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS



62e8a

W.3

■ YfS^'fm^mmsmS'm

BIDDY FANE.

HER SURPRISING CURIOUS ADVENTURES IN
STRANGE PARTS & HAPPY DELIVERANCE
FROM PIRATES, BATTLE, CAPTIVITY, & OTHER
TERRORS; WITH DIVERS ROMANTIC <^ MOVING
ACCIDENTS AS SET FORTH BY Bent
PEXGILLY (HER COMPANION IN Misfortune
& joy), & Nov FIRST DONE INTO

PRINT

BY

FRANK BARRETT,

Author of '■^ Folly Morrison" dishonest Davie," &^c.

Vol. III.

Case ELL & COMPANY, Limited

LONDON, PARIS, NEW YORK d- MELBOURNE.

[all rights reserved.]

CONTENTS

CHAPTER XLV. page

We go from Valetta to seek my Lady Biddy

Elsewhere 1

CHArTER Xlii.
How we came to that Place which I call the

Valley op Death 13

CHAPTER XLVII.
We go down into that Valley of Death . 27

CHAPTER XL VIII.
A Great Change in our Fortune, whereby I hear

THE most joyful, PLEASING NeWS HeART COULD

desire 3J>

CHAPTER XLIX.
My Lady Biddy and I Meet again, to our Joyful
Contentment 52

CHAPTER L.
We take Counsel op the Ingas as to our

Future, etc 62

VI CONTENTS.

CHAPTER LI.
Matthew and I Continue the Discussion, but
WITH Small Profit

Chapter LTI.
Matthew lays out a Scheme foe Staying Five

Years in the Wilderness 84

CHAPTER LIII.
My Conscience gets the Better of Desire, and

A Bird brings Great Joy to my Dear Lady . 91

CHAPTER LIV.
We Part Company with our Right Good Friend

Pennyfarden, to our Common Sorrow . . 102

CHAPTER LV.
We go down the Meta — my Dear Lady and I—
THE Pleasantness Jaunt Heart of Man could
desire 112

CHAPTER Lvii
AM PUT TO Great Concern on Account of
a Portugal, which presently takes the
Prettiest Turn imaginable 124

CHAPTER LVn. .
The Rainy Season sets in with a Vengeance,

AND WE ARE PUT TO Sorry ShIFT TO KEEP

FROM Drowning . . ' . . 135

CHAPTER LVIII.

PAGE

We Find a Haven of Rest in a Conceits Lake ;

BUT ARE Nigh being Sucked into a Whirlpool 145

CHAPTER LIX.
The Saint Season comes to an End, but by
MY Delay we are Balked op Returning
INTO the Baraquan 160

CHAPTER LX.
We TRY ANOTHER MEANS OF EsCAPE, WHEREBY WE

ABE AS Nearly Undone as may be . . . 173

CHAPTER LXI.

I Fall into a Dismal Sickness, and Recover

thereof 185

CHAPTER LXII.
I AM Put to Great Torment by my Passion . . 196

CHAPTER LXIII.

We Enter into a Cavern the like of which

NO Man has ever yet Told of . . , . 208

CHAPTER LXIV.
How (amongst other Matters), in seeking to
Kill a Snapping Boar, we Fall upon an Old
Friend 223

Vil CONTENTS.

CHAPTER LXV.

We come at length to the Mouth of the

Oeonoque, but with Dismal Forebodings . 234

CHAPTER LXVI.

Touching those Accidents that had Happened
to Sir Bartlemy as he lay at the Mouth
OF THE Oronoque 245

CHAPTER LXVII.
Lady Biddy Breaks her Troth, and we hear

Falmouth Bells again 256

BIDDY FANE.

CHAPTER XLV.

WE GO FROM VALETTA TO SEEK MY LADY BIDDY
ELSEWHERE.

The next day seemed to me as if it would never
come to an end, having nothing much else to do
than to watch for Matthew's return ; and what
made it more tedious and wearisome was that my
comrade had started bidding me expect him back
before midday.

For," says he, " the next station, if I remember
right, is but a matter of four or five
leagues distant ; so that, starting betimes, they
must needs arrive about ten to eleven at the
outside."

When he came not at noon I began to

B

torment myself with fears lest some mischance had
happened to Matthew : either that he had been
clapped up in a bridewell to cure him of his sores,
or had been recognised by Lewis de Pino, to his
great misfortune. And though this was grievous
enough to think on (for I loved the kind, honest
rogue), yet it was nothing beside the concern I
felt for Lady Biddy had such an accident arrived;
for while I was lingering here, with my hands
idle by my side, Lewis de Pino might be hurrying
away with her to Quito.

As soon as the first star began to twinkle I
could bear this suspense no longer, and started
out towards the town ; for if Matthew were free,
I knew he would leave the town when the gates
were about to be closed. About half a league
from the town I met him (to my great joy), and
my first question was what news he had brought
with him.

Instead of beating about the bush and making
a joke of my impatience, he answered, very
soberly, that De Pino and his train had not yet
entered the town.

Howsomever," says he, ** there's no call to
be cast down about that matter, for I may very
well have made a mistake in the distance, seeing
I have travelled over the road but once, and that
ten or a dozen years ago. One thing is certain,
master — they must arrive tomorrow, and this
delay is all to our advantage, since it has given
me time to pry about the town, and examine in
what manner we may best contrive to get the
female out of De Pino's hands."

Therewith he entered into the design he had
formed for this purpose, describing the inn at
which the merchants stayed, with the means of
getting out of the town, and into it, without
passing the gate, etc. etc., in such detail that he
gave me no time to think of anything else till
we had eaten our supper and emptied the Vv^ine-
skin, when he declared he was too tired to converse
longer ; and so, laying himself down, bade
me good-night, and presently began to snore.

But then, my mind being no longer occupied
with his return, I grew uneasy again about this
delay, and could not close an eye for my trouble.
B 2

I had noticed that Matthew was much less merry
than usual, and now I took it into my head that
the long-winded description of the inn, and his
ingenious project for rescuing " the female," was
nothing but a design to divert my mind, and
make his own uneasiness less noticeable.

'Twas useless attempting to sleep in this disorder
of mind, and I could no longer lie still
when day broke ; but getting up quietly, so that
I might not awake Matthew, I went to a little
distance and paced backwards and forwards with
a heavy heart. Presently Matthew, getting up,
comes to my side, and says he —

** Can't you sleep, master ? "

No," says I.

"No more can I," says he, "and I took a
pretty stiff dose of wine, too, for my nightcap.
I hasn't slept a wink all night."

You've snored pretty continually, nevertheless,"
says I.

As for that," says he, " I'm a man that
must be doing of something ; and 'tis as easy to
snore as to wear spots on your face ; but one is

no more a sign of sleep than t'other is of a
distemper."

Why couldn't you sleep, Matthew ? " says
I. " What's amiss ? "

Well," says he, " De Pino and the female
ought to have come in yesterday morning at the
latest."

But you said you might have made a mistake
as to the distance ? "

So I might," says he slyly ; " but, to make
quite sure, I took the pains to inquire last night
of my friend at the inn, outside the town, and I
found I had not."

Then you believe they ought to have been
here before now ? " says I sharply. ^

** Yes, master," says he gravely. " They
ought to have come in the night afore last, or
yesterday morning at the latest. Alien it came
noon yesterday I gave them up ; yet I stayed
there in the hope I was wrong. First saying to
myself that, being warned of your escape by the
factor, De Pino had thought it well to make an ambush,
and wait for you to come up; and then that

he had stopped for some reason of his business; but
these arguments wouldn't do — and, to cut a long
story short, I made up my mind when I saw the
gates closed last night, and no sign of De Pino
along the road for half a mile — I made up my
mind, I say, that he had taken another road."

Taken another road ! " says I, in a terrible
amazement.

Ay," says he. " I can account for it in no
other way."

And why did you not tell me this last
night ? " I asks angrily.

We could do nothing in the dark, and I
hoped you would get a good night's sleep and be
fresh for a march this morning," says he simply.
There was no good in plaguing you before your
time'*

I could not be angry with the fellow after
that, for he was in the right, and 'twas out of
pure kindness of heart he had held his tongue.

I thought you were so sure of the road,
Matthew ? " says I.

So I was, master ; and more fool I. Don't

spare me ; I deserve all the blame, for 'twas I
who would have yoa come by the river when you
would have gone by the road."

Did you make no inquiry about this road
last night?"

"Ay," says he. " No other road to Quito is
known to the innkeeper but this. Yet he may be
as great a fool as I in that matter ; and though
De Pino could take no other road to Quito, he
might, for all that, have turned aside to some
other place."

What do you propose we should do now,
Matthew?"

Get on to the road, and hark back as soon
as there is light enough for us to pick our way.
We will hit the road within sight of the town-gates
before they are opened, to make certain
they have not come up."

The poor fellow was so crestfallen, having
now no heart to disguise his discomfiture, that
to cheer him I professed to be in no way disheartened
by this failure.

For," says I, " there is this advantage about

it: I shall not have rr:' st ici . lore any longer.
'Twill be ligHt enough to begin our march in
half an hour."

"Why, that's true, master," says he, brightening
up ; " and, not to waste time, we'll have a
good meal to strengthen us against fatigue."

There's nothing to eat," says I ; "we
finished every scrap last night."

Nay," says he ; "I laid out for that, and
brought home a peck loaf and a roast loin of
mutton with me last night."

I remembered he was pretty well charged
when we met over-night, but had taken no heed
of what he carried, thinking in the dark it was
but another skin of wine.

Macaw are all very well for high feeding,
and so are serpents and suchlike," says he, fetching
his loaf and the loin of mutton, " but give
me bread and roast mutton when there's work to
be done."

When we had finished our repast, Matthew
buckled on his sword, and we started off. Striking
the road after an hour's march, and making

sure that no cavalcade lay between us and the
town, we turned our faces to the north, and
strode out with a will ; nor did we check our
pace for two hours, albeit the way lay all up hill
and that none too smooth. We met not a soul all
that time, for only merchants with their trains
of mules, etc., pass this way, and they not frequently,
so that for a whole week there may not
be a single traveller to be met. Indeed, we had
scarcely dared to travel that way otherwise, for
our appearance would have justified any one intaking
us for outlaws — I in my tattered finery,
with a peck loaf slung on my shoulders, a great
knife in my girdle, a long sword in my hand,
and nothing but an uncombed crop of hair on
my head ; and Matthew likewise fiercely armed,
with a wine skin and a bundle of broken victuals
at his back, scarcely enough clothes to cover his
nakedness, and a complexion as if he had just
escaped from a lazar-house — in fine, as unwelcome
a knight and squire as any one might wish
to meet. Nor were our movements much more
reassuring than our looks, for at every turn

of the road we would stop with our swords
firmly gripped, peering round the rocks and
betwixt the bushes, as if we were on the look-out
for some one to waylay and murder.

At length we came in sight of a station, and
here with great prudence we went about to spy
into it, and yet not be seen ourselves ; and this,
by reason of its position and the chance of encountering
hunters in the surrounding wood,
was a painful and tedious business ; but finally
getting upon the further side, and crawling near
with terrible fear (lest we might arouse some
watch-dog, and so have a repetition of our
former trouble), we got a fair sight into the
village, where was nothing to be seen but four
bearded rascals playing of cards. And so, creeping
out of that wood as carefully as we had crept
in, we once more got into the road, and pushed
onward till noon without stopping, except at the
bends of the road as aforesaid.

At noon we stopped to eat and refresh ourselves,
and that done, we went onward again for
best part of two hours, though the sun was now

at this height ; but by reason we were now very
high up on the side of the mountain, and that in
many places the rock sheltered us with an agreeable
shade, we were not so hot but that we could
still march with a good heart. Yet here we
stayed to consult together, for we had come
to a part of the road where we could not conceal
ourselves if we met Lewis de Pino, nor retreat
without exposing ourselves to the fire of his
arquebuses. For the path wound along close by
the side of the mountain, with no growth of
herbs, and all barren for a long distance in front ;
nor was it possible to get out of the path by
clambering upwards or sliding downwards for
the prodigious steepness of it, and the road so
narrow that no two pack-mules could pass each
other, except by standing aside in certain cavities
hewn here and there in the rock in case of one
train meeting another, Down below lay the
woods, but so deep that the highest tree-tops
came no nearer than a couple of hundred feet of
where we stood.

" Master," says Matthew, " if we meet Be

Pino and his merry men on this road 'twill be a
bad job for us."

Ay," says I ; " and the sooner we get to
the other end of it the safer we shall be."

Lord love you, master," says he, *' what
a thing it is to be a philosopher ! Here might I
jeopardise my precious life another ten minutes
but for your wisdom."

HOW WE CAME TO THAT PLACE WHICH I CALL THE
VALLEY OF DEATH.

As we followed this path we discovered that,
where opportunity offered, bridges of long trees
had been thrown from one jutting rock to
another, to save the labour of cutting a way in
the side of the mountain. We had crossed two
of these bridges when Matthew, being ahead of
me, suddenly mended his pace, and then, coming
to a stand, turns about and cries —

Hang me if I wasn't right after all, master.
They have come along this road, but have turned
back."

"How can you answer for that, friend?"
says I.

Why, look you," says he, pointing to the
road a dozen yards ahead of us. "Here is a
bridge broke."

Stepping briskly forward, I found that it
truly was as he said, for there yawned a great
gap, which no man could jump ; and that there
had been a bridge here we could plainly see by
the print of the tree trunks in the rubble on the
ledge cut for them in the rock. Moreover, looking
over the edge, we spied one of these timbers
lying athwart of a rock down below.

This discovery so comforted me (for I made
sure I was now near my Lady Biddy, instead of
being all at sea as to her whereabouts) that I setup
a great shout of joy.

*' For the love of Heaven, master, have a
care ! " cried Matthew in a whisper, after listening
a moment in terror. " Did you not hear
that answer to your shout ? "

Nay," says I ; " what answer ? "

I know not," says he, looking around
him in a scare ; " pray Heaven it be not our
enemies."

Nonsense," says I, beside myself with this
return of hope ; " 'twas but an echo from the
rocks— hark ! " And with that I hallooed again



as loud as I could, which was the maddest thing
to do, and not to be done save by a man reckless
with despair or with joy.

On this Matthew claps his hand on his
mouth in terror, as if it was he who had sung
out, and then lifting his finger crouches down
on his hams, overcome with fear, and expecting
nothing less, I believe, than to be riddled with
musket-balls the next minute. But he had
cause for alarm, and I only was the fool, for now
T distinctly heard over and above the echoes of
my voice a cry harsh and hoarse, but like nothing
human, so that I was brought to my sober senses
in a moment. So we stood silent and still for
the space of a minute, wondering whence this
sound came (and I not much braver than Matthew),
and then I fell laughing like a fool.

See," says I, pointing to a great buzzard
which was sweeping in a circle over the trees
below, " there is the only enemy I have roused,
and one whose flight is more to be counted on
than his attack."

But Matthew would not join in my mirth,

and, albeit he got back his courage presently,
he was not so light of heart as he had been
before, for he took this bird to be a sign of
ill-omen

Come, master," says he, " instead of playing
the fool here, let us think how we are to get
t'other side of this chasm, unless you are minded
to rest here content. For my own part, I see noway
to get across."

Have patience with me, Matthew," says I,
seeing I had wounded his feelings by laughing
at his terror. " I have been so unhappy that
this change in our fortune has turned my
head."

"Lord love you, master," says he kindly, "I
like a jest as well as any man, but hang me if I
see any joking matter here, or any change of
fortune to be charmed with. For at the next
station De Pino will get all the Portugalss he
can to return with his own fellows to restore
this bridge, so we are like to have a score
of arquebuses against us instead of ten or a
dozen."

This brought our danger and our difficulties
so clearly to my mind that I grew sober at once,
and began to cast about with Matthew very
earnestly how we might bridge the chasm. But
there was nothing there for such a purpose, and
there was no way but to climb up the rocks or
down until we found some jutting points by
which we could scramble along the face of the
mountain. After calculating by which method
we were least likely to break our necks, we
resolved to go upwards, yet had we to go back
some way to get at any part that could be scaled.
But after climbing up some fifty feet we found
ourselves (thanks be to God) on a ledge of
smooth rock, which we had not seen from the road
below for its height and the rock that overhung
it higher up. This ledge, as I judge, had been
formed by a slip in the mountain, for there a
seam of glittering rock ran all along beside it ;
but be that as it may, it formed a level path as
good as that we had quitted, and better, though
mighty narrow in parts, so that it was a ticklish
business to go forward, and that moving sideways
c

and clinging with every nail to the rock ; and
the narrowest part was (as luck would have it)
just over that part where the bridge had been
broken away, so that we felt exceeding grateful
to Providence when we were safe on the other
side.

"We now considered whether we should get
down again into the made road, but seeing the
side was still vastly steep and difficult to descend,
we were content to follow our ledge, in the hope
we should presently come to a part where we
might descend more easily. We had gone about
a hundred yards when, looking over the side, I
stopped, and called Matthew's attention to the
road below.

Lord love us, master," cried he, casting
his eye down, "why, there's another bridge
gone !

There was, indeed, another great gap in the
road, not less extensive than the first,

Can you make out what this signifies ? "
says Matthew.

No," says I. " 'Tis no accident, that's pretty

clear ; and it looks as if it were done of a design
to check pursuit."

AVhat pursuit had they for to fear? " says
Matthew ; " not ours, to be sure." Then scratching
his head, after tilting his hat forward, as was
his wont, he says, half aloud, as if trying to
grasp the points of the problem, " They are
going south ; they cross the first bridge and
come to the second. They destroy that so carefully
that not a stick is left ; go back, cross the
first bridge again, and pull that down as carefully
as they had served the other." He could make
nothing of it, which seemed to exasperate him ;
for he presently claps his hat back in its place,
and dropping on his hands and knees, the better
to survey the road, cranes over the edge of the
rock, casting his eye to the right, and then to
the left, and finally fixing it on the ground
beneath.

Master," says he, " do you tell me what
marks you see in the road down there."

So down go I on my hands and knees, and
after looking intently for some time —
c 2

I can see," says I, " the marks of the mules'
feet in the dust, but whether they are turned
north or south I can't make out."

Nor I, neither," says he ; " but do you see
anything besides ? "

I see a trac where the footmarks seem to
be smudged out; as if something had been
dragged along the ground towards the edge of
the abyss."

That's what I mean. Now what does that
argify ? " he asks, getting off his hands, squatting
on his heels, and once more scratching his
head.

I could make no reply, but still leaned over,
trying to make out these marks.

Good Grod ! " exclaimed Matthew, all of a
sudden, " what's this ? "

Turning about hastily, I found him regarding
a patch on the rock just in front of where he was
kneeling. Looking closer, I saw that it was
almost black, yet with a purple tinge. Matthew
scraped it with his nail, and as it showed deep
red below the surface he looks up into my

face and says, dropping Lis Voice almost to a
whisper —

Blood ! "

Glancing round, he scanned the rocky ledge
behind him ; then suddenly he points his finger
without a word to another stain not a foot off ; but
this told its tale more clearly, for it formed the
print of an open hand ; as if a wounded man, after
trjang to stanch the blood from a wound, had
been forced to clap that hand on the rock to
save him from falling into the road below.

That others had been on that ledge before us
was clear enough, but it beat me to know bow a
wounded man could bave crawled up there, or
what his purpose had been.

Come on, master," says Matthew, springing
to his feet, " we must lose no time. This riddle
concerns us, or I am wrong in my reckoning.
God grant no mischief has come to the female ;
that's all I pray."

My heart was chilled to hear him speak thus,
for I saw that he argued more from these signs
than he chose to tell, and that he had grave

fears to make him utter this prayer. I followed
him close at his heels, quaking in every muscle
for fear, until we came to a part where it looked
possible to slide down into the road without very
great danger ; yet was it such a venture as we
might not have made at another time, but
Matthew was as desperate as I.

"Master," says he, as we lay down to slip
over the edge ; " we'll both let go at the same
time, so that one may not have to bury the
other if this hazard does our business."

So we hung over the side, and, recommending
ourselves to Providence, nodded to each other,
and let go. In about two minutes we slid down
fifty feet and more ; but by a happy chance came
on our feet to the bottom in the middle of that
narrow road, not much more bruised and torn
than we had expected at the best.

As soon as he had fetched breath, Matthew
falls to examining the dust in the road foot by
foot, going in the direction of the chasm where
the bridge had been broke (the northernmost of
the two), I following in silence, for I had not his

intelligence, yet looking stupidly on the ground,
as if I expected to see Lady Biddy's history writ
there.

When he had come right to the edge of the
gulf and could go no further he turns to me and
says very gravely —

Master, have you got a stout heart ? "

"Ay," says I ; but my voice belied me, for it
was feeble as a child's, knowing by this prelude
that he had come to a conclusion which must be
terrible to my ear.

Matthew unslung his wine-skin and bade me
drink.

For," says he, " I warn you there is a call
on all your manhood."

When I had drunk I bade him tell me the
worst of his fears.

Look you," says he, pointing to the dust of
the road, "here are the marks of mules' hoofs,
and here the prints of those great boots the
Portugalss wear."

Yes," says I, waiting with a throbbing
heart for what was to follow hence.

"The boot-prints go all in one direction —
south ; not one is turned north as I can find ;
but the mules' hoofs turn both south and north ;
and see, here is one turned north that is right in
the midst of a footprint turned south'*

Gro on, Matthew," sa3^s I faintly, yet with
a show of courage, that he mig-ht finish.

The Ingas have been at work. I see the
hand of those murderous savages in this ; yet we
should not call 'em hard names neither, for they
only do that for revenge which the Portugalss do
for gold. They dread and hate every white face,
and from time to time they travel in a great band
leagues and leagues to come to a place like this,
where they may rid themselves of these Portugal
tea-ants. Here was a place after their very heai-t.
They destroy the further bridge, and when De
Pino has passed the hither one they come from
their ambuscade, which, as we know, was in the
rock above, and withdraw those timbers as they
had served the others, which they may have been
loosing and preparing for weeks, and thus, when
the whole train can neither go onward nor

backward, they go up to the ledge again, and
shoot down with their arrows from the rock
above every one of their enemies. Then, when
their deadly work is finished, they replace the
timbers to fetch off the mules and their booty.
To end all, they cast down the timbers to delay
discovery and give themselves time to escape.
This is how it comes about that yonder we seethe
hoofs turned north, but not a single footmark
of those who went south with them."

Out with it, Matthew ! " I cries, in a
passion of despair ; " tell me that she is
massacred with the rest — that not one has
escaped ! "

Master," says he, with a great compassion
in his voice, " the Ingas have no more pity fora
white woman than a white man. All are
gone ! "

"No, no !" cries I imploringly; "tis not
so. They found the bridge broke and went
back."

Without a word Matthew put his hand on
my arm and pointed down to the valley where

the great buzzard that I had laughed at but half
an hour before was again sweeping round above
the trees.

My heart stopped, and I felt it lie like a cold
stone within me as I thought upon what dainty
flesh this foul bird of carrion had been gorging.

WE GO DOWN INTO THAT VALLEY OF DEATH.

I KNEW too well what Matthew meant by this
silent indication. He would have me to understand
that the Ingas' slaughtered victims had
been cast do^vn the precipice (as the traces in
the road bore out), and that the carrion birds
were already feasting on their bodies.

My imagination could furnish forth no argument
against the justice of this conclusion, and
having now no hope to animate me, all about
me appeared a blank, as if ray heart could no
longer feel, and all my faculties were stunned.
So I stood there, watching the buzzard whirl
round and round, as if I had nothing in the
world to do but that.

I was aroused from this apathy by Matthew
laying his hand on my shoulder again, and
saying in a gentle voice —

Master, would it ease your mind to talk
about her?"

Then I felt that I would like to pour out the
grief from my heart, yet not to Matthew ; so I
turned away in an agony, thinking there was no
one in the wide world to sympathise with me
now she was gone. Who but I knew how
gentle and sweet her nature was, and what words
of mine could ever tell her praise as she deserved
? Then recalling her sweet face, her
delicate, gracious manner, the pretty tone of her
voice, and in particular certain little kind words
she had given me, with an encouraging look
now and again, her brave habit of looking on
the better side of our misfortunes to cheer me
up, the dainty movement of her hands, and one
or two little episodes wherein she had shown a
pleasant wit — recalling these things, I say,
and reflecting that they could never, never
be repeated, my heart was wrung with bitter
grief.

Master," says Matthew again, seeing that I
was in such great pain — " master, are you minded

to find her body, and save her from those vile
birds ? "

I nodded eagerly ; not because of ray respect
for the dead so much as that I longed to look
once more upon that dear face, and kneel down
beside her in secret, and weep, if the tears could
find vent from my heart.

So we began to cast about how we might get
down into that deep valley; and while I was
spying below I noticed that the buzzard was
perched on a point of rock about midway down,
and near him were perched two others. Seeing
this, a wild idea came across my mind, and calling
to Matthew I bade him observe these birds,
and then says I —

Why are they there ? "

He looked at me as not quite seeing my
drift.

If they are all dead below there, would
those birds stand aloof? Why have they been
soaring round and round above the trees this
half-hour and more ? "

*' AVhat you say, master," says he, " is very

much to the point. Certainly they do not use
to hold off in this manner, except there be sign
of life in their prey. And yet " (looking down
the abyss) "is it possible that any one hurled
down from this height could survive the shock
five minutes ? Nay, even if the bough of a tree
did somewhat break the fall, the poor wretch
would be so broken that death were preferable
to such a maimed existence."

I wasted no time in replying to this argument,
for now I had no thought but that my dear
lady yet breathed. And I must needs think it
was she of all those who had been thrown down
that had escaped, though any one not distracted
with a new-bon hope would have seen that her
frail body least of any could survive that terrible
catastrophe.

I ran along the road, seeking a place to
descend, with Matthew at my heels, imploring
me to have a care of my own life, and not rashly
expose myself to death for the sake of two
minutes. However, I paid no heed to his warning,
but at the first point where there seemed a

possibility of climbing doAvn the rocks to the
valley I made the attempt.

Master, master ! " cries Matthew, " for
the love of Heaven, don't go down there. 'Tis
a hundred chances to one we be dashed to pieces
that way. Look you a hundred yards ahead;
there is a safer way."

"Nay," says I, " stay where you are, Matthew,
or go a safer way. I make no doubt that Providence
will help me here as before."

If you go I go, master," says he, following
without a moment's hesitation. " For I count
upon Providence being as merciful to me as to
you, though my legs be shorter."

We got down the face of that mountain-side
better than we might have expected from the
look of it above (though how, I know not), and
with no great hurt, thanks be to God. And
now, being at the top of that slope on which the
trees grew, though still a prodigious height above
the bottom of the valley, we made our way over
the crags and scattered stones towards that part
which lay below the road between the two

bridges, which we made out at a distance clearly
enough, because there the rock was straight
down as any wall, and its side brushed by the
arms of the great pine-trees we had observed
from above. When we got amongst these trees,
the first sign of the Ingas' business was seen in
the timbers of the bridge, of which one stood on
end, held so by the boughs of the pine through
which it had passed, but the rest lay splintered
amongst the rocks. Matthew said nothing, but
I saw by a toss of his head and a desponding
look in his face that he was asking himself how
any human being could escape death by such a
fall when these solid timbers had been shivered
in pieces. Then perceiving we could be at no
great distance from where the bodies had been
flung down, I grew sick with the dread of seeing
at the next footstep the crushed and mangled
form of my dear lady, so that I could go no
further for the weakness of my legs, but was
forced to lean against a tree for support, while a
cold sweat came out upon my face.

Observing my case, Matthew without a word

slung round his wine skin, which he had brought
down (though our swords and all else that was
dispensable we had left above), and gave me to
drink, but would have me sit down to it, making
out he could not lift the skin high enough else
by reason it was nearly empty.

Do you feel a bit stronger now, master? "
says he kindly, when I had drunk.

Ay," says I ; " in a minute I shall be ready
to go on."

While I was bracing up my courage, he
silently went on a dozen paces, and then he
comes to a stand, so that I knew he was in the
presence of the dead ; for had there been any
room for hope he would not have stopped short.
Then I forced myself to rise, and went to his
side, where he stood with one hand on a pine-tree,
looking beyond ; indeed, the spectacle to be
seen thence was enough to bring any one to a
stand.

At another time we might have rested therein
admiration of nature's handiwork, for we stood
on the edge of a glade made fertile by a fountain

D

which, springing from the mountain-side, fell
into a rocky basin, and thence spread abroad
over the hillside ; and it seemed as if all rank
and gross-growing things had been weeded out
of this chosen spot, and only such plants left as
might delight the eye. The trunk of every tree
served as a pillar for creeping vines to twine
around, and the boughs as a trellis for them to
festoon and garland from end to side ; which
vines were gaily decked one and all with blossoms
of every form and tint, so that above and around
was naught but a transparent tapestry of bloom,
through which the light penetrated in soft hues,
as it might through the rich painted window of
a cathedral ; yet softer and more tender than
ever I have yet seen. Then in contrast with
this gorgeous canopy of colour, the ground
spread out all carpeted with light feather-plants
and slender grasses, while here and there stood
up a rock coated over with long soft moss, all of
a cool greenness most refreshing to the eye.

But now it was horror that brought us to a
stand, since such a loathsome sight met our eyes

as would have appalled the heart of a Nero.
For some distance around the herbage was
beaten down and strewn with what seemed
rather the refuse and contrasting of a shambles
than aught else ; for only on looking close could
one see that this torn flesh was from the head of
man, that those broken bones were of a human
body, etc.

This spectacle was made more ghastly by
contrast with the life, the peace, the gaiety, and
loveliness of its surroundings. Terrible it was
to see how this wreck of humanity was wreathed
about with those sweet blooms they had torn
down in falling through the boughs of the trees.
'Twas as if Death had arrayed himself in mockery
with the flowers of Cupid. Here trailed a sprays
of tender green with purple blooms over the
black and festering vitals torn from the chest
of an arquebusier, and there from a bed of rose-pink
buds gaped out a face (which I recognised
presently for Lewis de Pino's) with dull, staring
eyes, and a black, protruding tongue. Nor were
our eyes alone shocked by this loathsome contrast;
D 2

for in place of sweet odours from the flowers we
were sickened by a stench of corruption which
did seem to poison every breath I drew.

My first thought (when my horror abated,
and I could reason at all) was that those In gas
Matthew spoke of were a race of cannibals, who,
after casting down their victims, had descended
to glut their abominable appetite here at leisure
and in security ; yet on closer inspection I could
not believe this neither, for the bodies had not
been stripped, but their clothes had been torn
away with the flesh from their bones, so
that it looked more as if a band of famished
fiends had been to this feast than any mortal
creatures.

I could no longer believe that Lady Biddy
lived — nay, I could not hope that she did ; yet
my eye wandered wildly over the ground for
some trace of her. Then thinking she might
yet lie hid beyond one of those many stones I
have mentioned, I set out upon this horrible
quest, picking my way amidst the remains of
these mangled enemies.

I had not gone far when Matthew, plucking
me by the sleeve, sa3^s —

Master, that is why the carrion birds have
kept aloof."

And casting my eyes whither he pointed his
finger I perceived, about twenty paces away,
two great spotted ounces, which the Ingas call
jagoaretes, stretched out at full length in the
herbage — one with his paw set on a body which
he had dragged thither.

At the sound of Matthew's voice the beasts
raised their heads ; then, seeing us, one of them
got on his feet and the other sat up on his
haunches. Presently he who was on his feet
bared his teeth and gave a menacing growl,
lashing his tail the while from side to side.

We had taken off our swords above and left
them there, as I have said, for fear they should
trip us in our descent, so that we had nothing
to defend ourselves with against these brutes ;
nor could I see anything proper for that purpose,
the savages having carried off all the Portugalss'
weapons. So here we stood, within a few bounds

of those savage ounces, with no means of attack
or defence.

Don't stir, master, for the love of Heaven,"
says Matthew ; " if we turn tail we shall be cat's-meat
for a certainty."

And now the other ounce got on his feet,
and, stretching out his neck, showed his teeth,
yet without growling, for they were both gorged
to their full, and heavy with their food.

Seeing they were not disposed to come at us,
Matthew slings his wine-skin, and, swinging it
in his hand, makes pretence to draw nigh them,
as if he would take them by surprise ; on which
the ounces, as not knowing what to make of it,
dropped their tails and shrunk back their heads.
Then one of them drawing back a pace, the other
takes alarm, and, turning round, trots off; and
the first, being in no mind to fight, presently
does the same, whereupon Matthew, hallooing
with all his might, runs after them with such
good effect that they set up a howl of terror and
were far out of sight ere he had gone a dozen
yards.

A GREAT CHANGE IN OUR Fortune, WHEREBY I HEAR
THE MOST JOYFUL, PLEASING NEWS HEART
COULD DESIRE.

The jagoaretes being gone, I advanced towards
the place moliere they had been lying, to see what
body they had dragged apart from the rest to
devour. But ere I had made half a dozen paces
I stopped, and the cold sweat burst out again
upon my brow on observing, amidst the crushed
and blood-blackened feather-plants, a fan pale
body that had been stripped of clothing. At a
glance I perceived that it was too slight and
delicate for the corse of a man, nor could I fora
moment think it was the body of an arquc-
busier and a Portugal. " 'Tis she," thinks I,
'tis she. The savages have stripped her sweet
body for their vile pleasure, or for the sake of her
pretty gown; why else should this one be

singled from the other bodies ? " I covered my
eyes with my hands to shut out the sight of that
poor mangled body ; yet I saw it still — ay, as
plain as if my eyes had been uncovered. All hope
was gone from me, so that I had no desire to
prove the truth of my conviction. Yet presently
I felt that I must do my last duty by her and
carry her whither those carrion birds and foul
beasts might not further mutilate her mortal
remains. So with my gorge rising I stepped
forward again and uncovered my eyes. One arm
had been torn from the trunk, but the head was
untouched, and as I turned my reluctant eyes
upon it my bitter feeling towards Providence
for thus cruelly bereaving me of my darling was
of a sudden changed to gratitude and thankfulness,
for I perceived the face was none but that
of the little Portugal boy Don Lewis had given
my lady for her page.

Yet I had still my dear lady to find, and so
once more I turned me round to scan the grizzly
scene of havoc. And thus was I standing benumbed
with despair when Matthew came

briskly to my side, and, taking rae by the arm,
drew me rapidly on, saying in a low voice — -

Quick, master. Let us get back to the
rocks, where we may at least have something to
hurl for our defence. For though I count we
have not an hour to live, yet will we sell our
lives dearly, and die as becomes men."

Saying this he drew me towards a tree, and
from that to another, and so to a third, as if
seeking the shelter of their trunks. Yet, at the
same time, edging away towards the scattered
rocks at the foot of the precipice.

Nay, friend," says I, " what is there to
fear ? You have scared off the ounces with your
hallooing."

Ay," says he, "and I wish to Heaven I had
let 'em sleep on, and played no such silly trick ;
for in scaring away one enemy I have roused up
another, with a plague to me. — Behind that tree,
master," shoving me to the right, and then adds
he, " The ounces were surfeited with their meal ;
but these others have only had their appetite
whetted for carnage."

Which others ? " says I, greatly perplexed,
yet going forward as he would have
me.

"The Ingas," says he; "I spied one of the
naked wretches as I turned about to come back
to you. He was squatting amidst the herbage
at the back of us ; but I reckon they have
shifted their place as quick as we, and Lord
knows whether we shall gain shelter amidst the
rocks before they get a fair aim at us with
their arrows."

Scarcely had these words passed his lips when
an arrow flew past us and stuck in the tree we
were about to pass.

That's a nigh squeak," says Matthew.
Take no notice, master. Push on. If we get
to yonder rock we shall have the mountain atour
back for a comfort."

Another arrow flew past and stuck in a tree
before us.

"That's odd," says Matthew; "they don't
use to miss their mark in this manner."

Still making our way towards the rocks, a

third arrow flew past with the same effect as
before.

Thrice they've missed us, and thrice hit a
tree before us," says Matthew, "and every time on
a level with our breasts. If this happens again,
'twill be a sign they are aiming at the trees, and
not at us, though with what intent I know not."

As if his words had been heard, a fourth
arrow flew by, straight to a tree a dozen paces
ahead.

"We must look at that arrow, master," says
Matthew. " 'Tis on your side ; drag it out or
break it off as you pass."

Now this business had taken longer in the
doing than I have spent in telling, for the rock
we were making for lay at some distance, and
we made a crooked way thither by reason of
bobbing from one tree to another, which was
labour we might have spared ourselves, for it
only enabled our pursuer to arm his bow the
more frequently. I make this explanation because
it is the vicious practice of some men to
cast doubt upon very true history since it is not

of their writing ; while others, by reason of their
short sight, must have everything pointed out
and magnified ere they will believe of its existence
; but, there, I should never come to an end
of this matter were I to set about satisfying
every silly caviller. This by the way : now to
continue my history.

Going to do Matthew's bidding, I stretched
out my hand to lay hold of the arrow sticking in
the tree; but ere my fingers touched it I stopped
short with a cry of joy.

Lord love you, master, what's the matter ? "
cries Matthew.

Look," says I, pointing to the head of the
arrow buried in the soft bark. " Do you see
this shred of black lace bound to the shaft ? "

Ay," says he, " and 'tis the first time I ever
saw an arrow feathered in that fashion."

'Tis part of my dear lady's gown," cries I,
snatching the arrow away, and pressing the lace
to my lips, with a mad hope that she lived, and
that this was a token sent by her.

Another arrow, being the fifth thus discharged,

shot into the trunk close by the head
of the fourth; and now I gave another joyful
shout, for round the head of this was bound a
little lock of hair that shone in the sun like
burnished copper.

'Tis a lock of her dear hair. My dearest
lady, my darling lives ! she lives — she lives ! "
says I, with the same extravagant joy as before.
'Tis a message from her."

That may be," says Matthew cheerily ;
but one thing is certain — the Ingas mean us
no harm ; for they might have riddled us like so
many flanders by this, had they been so minded,
for all our care."

Casting our e^^es about, we now spied a young
Inga (as naked as Adam) standing beside a tree
at about a dozen yards off, with a bow in his
hand, and a sheaf of arrows, in a long wallet,
slung to his shoulder. He cried out something
in his own tongue, upon which Matthew (who
had got the language by one of his wives) turns
to me and says —

"I don't know what this fellow means, master,

for he wants to know which of us saved his wife
from the Portugalss. However, 'tis no good to
stand nice about fibs at this time, so I shall tell
him you did."

That you may with truth," says I, as it
suddenly came home to my mind that this
Indian's wife must be that poor slave my dear
lady had set free and I had saved from the
shot of the arquebusier; "for though 'twas
Lady Biddy who enabled the poor woman to get
free, yet I struck up the arquebuse which was
levelled to shoot her down." This history I gave
to Matthew now, and he gave it again to the
Inga, who, not liking this sign of hesitation,
asked sternly (still with his arrow on the string)
why he had not answered at once before consulting
me.

Lord love you, master," replies Matthew
in the fellow's own tongue (as he afterwards told
me), "Englishmen are so used to practising
charity that we had to think a moment to
recollect such a trifle as that. I'm an Englishman,"
he adds hastily, for fear the Inga might

be minded to despatch him as having no
personal call on his gratitude.

"Ask him," says I, "if Lady Biddy, who
had his wife freed from her yoke, lives." When,
in response to this question, the Inga bowed his
head, I rushed forward with m}^ arms wide to
embrace him, for my joy knew no bounds. He
let me take his hand in mine, and smiled kindly
to see how I was moved ; for he also had lost
and found, being, as I say, the husband of that
poor slave my Lady Biddy had saved. Then
from the bottom of his wallet he drew out a piece
of the lace my dear lady had given him, and also
a thick tress of her hair ; showing me that he
had yet half a dozen arrows in his sheaf bound
like those already shot.

Master," says Matthew, who had moved
up to my side, and was still in a mighty
taking lest the Inga should do him a mischief,
" while he is in a good humour do you
put in a sign or two to signify I am your
friend."

So I turned about, and grasped Matthew's

hand without pretence (for I felt that I owed
him my life and happiness to show that I loved
him much.

The Inga ceased to smile, and regarded
Matthew from top to toe in silence; for these
hunted Indians have need of all precautions,
being so frequently tricked by treacherous
Portugalss ; and he was the more doubtful of
Matthew because he spoke the Inga tongue in
the manner of those accursed Portugalss.

Oh, Lord ! " says Matthew, " he don't like
the look of me."

Then the Inga put many searching questions
to him sharply, and might more readily have
believed his replies but that poor Matthew,
being of a quake for his life, did rub his hands
together as if he were a-washing them, cringing
and smiling like any chandler, which was altogether
the wrong way to win over an Inga ; for
they are a proud race, but not sycophants. However,
in the end this Inga laid his hand on
Matthew's breast (as he had on mine) for a sign
of faith and friendship, which brought a huge

sigh of content from the bottom of the honest
fellow's heart.

For," says he, " if we are to go amongst
these Indians, I shall stand in need of a
friend, lest one of 'em knows me for having
married into his family without consent of the
parents."

"Ask," says I, "where Lady Biddy lies, and
when T shall see her."

When Matthew had put this question, the
Inga pointed to the south-west ; and then turning
his hand towards the sun, lowered it to the
horizon, to indicate that we should not overtake
her before sunset. After looking around him
once more searchingly, he bade Matthew be
silent, and so led the way down the hillside.
But for all this warning Matthew could not help
communicating his thoughts to me in a low tone
now and then, for he was a generous-hearted
fellow in all things, and was as fond of the sound
of his own voice as any starling.

Look you, master," says he, " how gentleness
does rule the world above all the craft and

E

cunning of the wicked ; for while these sinful
Portugalss could not compass the ruin of an
unprotected maid with all their might, one act
of love on her part has brought about their
overthrow, and saved us from the arrows of this
Inga."

Ay, Matthew," says I ; " and if we take
Lady Biddy home to her friends, 'twill be due
to your mercy when I lay a prisoner in the
guard-house."

Mercy ! " says he ; " 'twas nothing of the
sort ; 'twas but a yearning to hear honest English
once more, for not one of my wives could I ever
bring to speak it."

In this manner we whispered our thoughts
when the difficulty of getting to the bottom of
that vast valley did not interfere.

At length we came again down to the side of
that river we had passed upon our way to Valetta;
and here Matthew begged the Inga to stay
awhile and eat a bit of cold roast mutton and a
crust of bread with us, as we were pretty nigh
spent one way and another, having taken no

food since daybreak. The Inga agreed to this,
and we shared what was left of our food, and
drained the wine-skin.

Master," says Matthew to the Inga, " are
we going to cross the river ? "

The Inga nodded.

I thought as much," says Matthew. " And
we're to swim it ? "

Again the Inga nodded.

Now should I be in a bad way but for this
wine-skin," says Matthew, "for I can swim no
further than a frog may fly."

And how is your wine-skin to help you,
friend ? " says I.

He winked his roguish eye, and putting his
lips to the empty skin blew into it until it
was full of his breath and tight as any blown
bladder.

"There," says he, tying up the mouth,
with that in my arms I'll kick myself to the
other shore for a wager."

il OF lU, LIB.

E 2

MY LADY BIDDY AND I MEET AGAIN, TO OUR
JOYFUL CONTENTMENT.

About sunset (as the Inga had promised) we
came to the place where his tribe were encamped,
which was amidst the mountains on the
further side of the river, approached by a very
intricate winding way, and so encompassed with
sharp high rocks that no man not acquainted
with those parts might find his way thither,
though he searched a life-time.

Coming through this tortuous defile to an
open space, the Inga, being in advance some
paces, suddenly came to a halt, and, turning tome,
pointed in silence to a little rising hillock
not far distant, where stood my Lady Biddy,
shielding her eyes from the rays of the setting
sun with her hand, and scanning the valley
below.

For a moment my heart stood still, feeling as
if it must burst with the great joy that flooded
it. I think I must have cried aloud in my gladness
(though I know not what I did), for she
turned that moment like a startled doe, and
came running down the hillock with her hands
stretched out. So I flew to her, and we stood
clasping each other's hands and gazing into each
other's faces, she with a look of gladness in her
face, yet a sad reproach in her eyes, as though
she would ask me why I had been so long
a-coming. But neither of us could say one word;
so with a quick impulse, as if our two minds
were but one, our silent, trembling lips drew
together, and we exchanged the first kiss they
had known since wee were boy and girl.

This kiss was none but such as a brother and
sister might have shared ; 'twas not the passionate
overthrow of modesty which covers a
maiden's face with blushes, and makes a man's
limbs to tremble under him ; 'twas simply the
overflowing of a sweet, innocent affection that
can find no other mode of expression. After

that kiss we looked in each other's hearts
with open, unwinking eyes, and hands still
clasped.

"Benet," says she faintly, "how long we
have been sundered ! "

Have we ? " says I, leading her to a little
boulder where there was room for us to sit
together.

Why, an age ! " says she, with a return of
her usual merry laugh. " Have you not missed
me ? "

Now I come to think of it," says I, " there
has been trouble in my heart ; but my joy is so
great to be with you again that the past seems
naught but an evil dream. And 'twas no more
than a dream, the worst part of it ; for one while
I imagined you lost beyond recovery, and another
while I imagined you dead and eat up by tigers ;
but this is real, and no idle fancy," holding her
sweet fair hand up to look at it and make sure I
was not stark mad. " But," says I, dropping
my voice for pity, " 'tis much thinner than it

Ay, I shall be a sad old witch to look at
ere long," says she ; " 'tis well I have no glass
to spy into."

"Trust me for a faithful mirror," says I,
when I tell j^ou that you never looked so sweet
as now."

Indeed, I said no more than the truth, as far
as my judgment went in this matter; yet I saw
that her face was not so round as of old, and her
skin was rarely pale, so that her eyes looked
larger, darker, and more lustrous thereby. And
thinking how she must have suffered by fright
and hardships to have lost flesh and blood in
this sort, I was greatly moved with compassion.

A joyful heart makes a bright face," says
she ; " but what would it have been like had the
Indians come back without you ? What would
have become of me ? "

"Nay," says I, "these Ingas would never
have harmed you."

"Is that all?" says she. "Do you think I
hold your affection so lightly that I could have
lived to forget you? "

Thus might our conversation have run on till
she had expressed all that it was in her simple
affectionate heart to say to her kinsman, but that
I became silent. For the pressure of her hand
and kind looks did stir my smouldering passion
and fan it to a flame, so that I had much ado to
restrain myself from flinging my arms about her
waist and drawing her to my breast.

All the love that a warm-souled woman has
for a dear brother she wished to bestow on me,
but I had more than innocent love in my heart.
Still, I had the sense to see that my own happiness,
as well as hers, would be blighted if I let
my mad desire be known, and I had also the
strength to control it (God be praised !) . Still, I
dared not trust myself too far, and counted it
best to let go her hand, and talk of other matters.
So getting up, as if I would look about me, I
begged her to give me an account of all that had
happened to her. Whereupon she rose also, and
slipping her hand through my arm walked beside
me up and down that pleasant spot, in the
waning twilight, telling me of her adventures ;

how Lewis de Pino had told her I was
gone on with the first part of the train, seeming
in an ill-humour, which appeared less
remarkable to Lady Biddy because I had been
particularly dull the day before; how, as they
went on and came not up with me, she grew
alarmed, yet had no means of discovering
whether Lewis's de Pino had told the truth or
not, and so of force went on, yet with a sinking
heart; how, being brought to a stand in that
narrow road in the mountain-side by the bridge
being gone, they were attacked with arrows from
above in such sort that the arquebusiers only
succeeded in wounding one of the Ingas, and
were themselves shot down one after the other
till not a man was left, even to the Indian stripling
who served De Pino for a page; how the
Indians then coming down from above, she
recognised amongst them that poor slave whom
she had begged De Pino to take from her yoke ;
and how finally the dead Portugalss, being rifled
of their arms, were cast down over the precipice,
the slaves liberated from their bonds, and they.

with my lady (who from first to last had been
treated with the utmost respect and courtesy), led
back along the mountain-path till they came to
a narrow way, by which they descended to the
river. Also she told me how with signs she had
given the Inga girl to understand her trouble
about me, which she (being of a quick wit)
readily comprehended, and, bringing forward her
husband with further signs, bade her know
that I should be sought and brought safely
to her, etc. All these particulars agreed
so well with what Matthew had suggested,
and I have set down, that I need not dwell
upon them, but may get on at once with fresh
matter.

The light faded away over the western
mountains till there was naught but a faint
glow beyond the dark peaks, and still we strolled
up and down, discoursing to one another of our
various fortunes ; and so forgetful was I of my
late fatigue in the delight of these moments that
it did not enter my head for some time that my
lady might be weary ; but suddenly bethinking



myself of my selfish disregard to her comfort I
begged to know if she was not weary.

No," says she gaily ; " 'tis a relief to talk
again, for I was getting heart-sick of silence.
But you, Benet ? — men do not care to chatter as
we women do."

Nay," says I, " you may be sure that I shall
never weary of listening till you weary of talking."
And then I ventured to tell her that I
counted this the very happiest moment of my
life. Upon which she gave my arm a little
kindly pressure with her hand, which sent a
thrill of inexpressible delight through every nerve
of my being.

And so she began to gossip again as merrily
as before, which was a great comfort to me, for I
could have found never a word to say at this
time for the tumult of joy in my heart. I would
have lingered there till morning broke, feeling
her hand so lightly lying on my arm, and listening
to the sweet purling of her gentle voice ; but
presently spying Matthew, who had drawTi up at
a respectful distance, and stood there humming

and coughing as if he would speak with me, but
dared not approach, I bethought me that I had
not yet introduced the faithful fellow to Lady
Biddy. So I called to him, and when he drew
near, scraping and shuffling with his hat in hand,
I said —

This is Lady Biddy Fane, Matthew."

Your ladyship's humble and obedient servant,"
says he, with another scrape.

"My cousin has been talking about you,
Matthew," says she, offering her hand to him ;
and I hope you will forgive me being so tardy
in acknowledging my gratitude, for in helping
him you have befriended me."

"As for your ladyship's gratitude," says he,
I hope I may yet lay better claim to it ; and
as for tardy acknowledgment, I count sou were
better occupied ; while as for the rest," adds he,
I wish you joys of your sweetheart."

At these words all the blood rushed into
my face, and happy was I there was little light
to reveal my confusion to Lady Biddy.

"How?" cries I angrily; "have I ever

spoken so disrespectfully of my lady that you
should take the liberty to speak of me in this
relation? "

Lord love you, master ! no," says he ; " but
'twas because you always spoke of her ladyship
with such mighty respect that I reckoned she
must be something more to you than a cousin.
I meant no offence ; and, indeed," adds he, with
ready wit, " 'twould have been but a mean compliment
to her ladyship's charms or your understanding
if I had set you down for aught but
her admirer."

Ay," says Lady Biddy, laughing, " and so
should I." But I observed that she was a little
more reserved towards me after this, as if she
perceived the imprudence of giving expression to
those her feelings of simple, innocent affection
which I might take for an acknowledgment of
warmer sentiment.

WE TAKE COUNSEL OF THE Incas AS TO OUR
FUTURE, ETC.

Matthew's business was to tell us that the Ingas
were waiting to hold council with us. As soon
as we heard this we hastened from that pleasant,
retired spot where we had been strolling, as I
have said, to join them, not without some self-reproach
for so slighting those to whom we
owed letter civility ; but, to tell the truth, I had
clean forgot those good Indians, for where my
sweet lady stood was all the world to me, and I
was indifferent to all outside it.

Coming beyond those jutting rocks which
had screened us from view we perceived the
Ingas' camp. They had built a fire upon the
further side of a little lake, fed by a stream
running from the mountains, in the midst of
the hollow, and here sat a score of Indians



handling the arquebuses taken from the Portugal,
and examining them by the Hight of the
fire. At a little distance a dozen of their women
were grouped together on their mats, about a
pile of pack-saddles and merchandise. Hard
by stood a couple of tents of rush mats, very
curiously woven and stained. These objects, lit
up by the dancing flames of the fire, with the
deep shade of the rocks beyond, were a pleasure
to see for all who love pictures of strange things ;
but that which gave it the finishing-touch was
an Inga with his spear, who stood on a high
rock, keeping guard, and cut the rising moon in
two halves with his dark, handsome figure.

When the Indians spied us approaching they
rose to their feet, and their captain, coming to
meet us with a very noble and courtly carriage,
laid his hand on my breast, and I did likewise
by him, seeing this was their mode of greeting.
Then the Indian woman whose life I had saved
came forward and went through the same ceremony;
but, this done, she slipped beside my
Lady Biddy and began to fondle her hand,

stroking it gently, lifting it up to her cheek, etc.,
which I thought very pretty.

I begged Matthew to make my apologies to
the captain for not having paid my respects to
him ; but this he would not do, telling me these
Ingas were a mighty touchy soit of people in
trifles, and were as like as not to take an apology
as an admission of wrong, and a mean trick of
getting cheaply out of a mess one ought never
to have got into.

Howsomever," says he, " I have settled that
matter by telling him that an Englishman's first
duty is to pay his services to the females of his
tribe, and, that being done, you are now at liberty
to devote all your attention to him."

In this matter it seemed to me Matthew
showed more sense than I or many better cultivated
men, who never meet without some paltry
excuse or other.

The Indians meanwhile led us to the tent,
where a supper had been laid out on a mat,
and insisted very civilly on our eating before
entering upon business ; then they withdrew to

their place by the fire, where a space was left in
their midst for us, every man smoking tobacco,
for I believe there is no people in the world so
given to the use of this herb.

When we had finished our meal, we escorted
Lady Biddy to the second tent, which had been
given for her use, Matthew telling us that the
Indians never speak of their affairs before the
sex. " Though why not," says he, " I cannot say,
except it be that their females are given overmuch
to talk, which leads to blabbing of secrets."

Lady Biddy retained us a minute at the entrance
to her tent to show how Wangapona, her
Indian friend, had decked the floor with soft
blooms of flowers, and bound knots of bright
feathers to the head and foot of the net which
served as her bed; also placing for her use a
bowl of fresh water, in which floated certain
fruits to give it flavour and sweetness. Then
bidding each other farewell, with a fervent wish
that we might sleep peacefully, we separated ;
but she did not again offer to let me kiss her.

Coming to the fire with Matthew, we sat

down with the Indians, and accepted of their
tobacco-sticks, which they call zigaroes ; and
now, all smoking like so many chimneys, the
chief spoke to the matter in hand, every one
listening in solemn silence. And first of all he
bade Matthew tell me that every enemy of the
Portugalss and Spaniards was regarded by them
as a friend.

Ay," says the chief, in his tongue, " we
spare the lives of those serpents and jagoaretes
that haunt the woods they hunt, and pray to
our god, the Sun, not to dry up the festering
marshes that poison the air they breathe, but to
nourish with his rays all venomous fruits that
they may eat, all loathsome reptiles whose fangs
and stings may taint their blood, and to give
strength to those beasts who tear their flesh and
break their bones.

Our forefathers," he goes on, " were mighty
kings, and the meanest of our people lived in
palaces, to which the richest abodes of these
accursed Portugalss are but dens and hovels.
Our people spurned under their feet the gold

for which our enemies sell their souls. Our meu
were wise ; our women were faithful ; our children
were obedient : all were happy. Then came
this troop of ravening jagoaretes into our slumbering
camp. Jagoaretes ! Nay, 'tis an insult to
the divine Sun to compare thee basest beast he has
fashioned to a Portugal. The jagoarete kills ; he
does not yoke our warriors with oxen and scar
their backs with whips ; he does not put chains
upon our hopeful boys and doom them to lifelong
pain ; he does not force our innocent maids to
bear a race of slaves."

Lord love us, master," says Matthew, after
translating this to me, " I hope he isn't going to
make a capital offence of this trifle."

"We are unhappy," continues the lugs,
sinking his. voice to a tone of mournful sadness .
Who can laugh in the still night? The very
flowers hang their heads : in the morning you
will find tears in their eyes. Our sun has sunk.
Will it ever rise again ? "

"Ay, that it will, I warrant," says Matthew
to him stoutly.
F 2

The Indians held up their hands as a warning
not to interrupt the chief.

They are numberless as chesketaws* on the
lagoons; they suck our blood like vampires in
the night ; we have no arms against them. Weare
scattered over the land like leaves after a
tornado. Thus scattered, what can we do against
our clustering enemies ? We are hunted into the
mountains and the desert ; but even there our
homes are not safe. The world is too small to
give refuge to the Inga. There is no limit to
the envious greed of our enemies ; no bounds to
their cruel spite. They want gold, but they will
not buy it of us, for that would give us power
and the means to live. They would not have a
single Inga free, but all should be their slaves, to
wear yokes and chains, and toil for them without
hope. Is it all darkness ? " says he piteously,
looking round him ; " is there no hope ? Yes,"
cries he, facing the moon and stretching up his
arms; "while the bride smiles, her god lives; and

The chesketaw is a venomous fly like the muskets, but
bigger and more poisonous. — B. P.

the moon's god is our god — the great father of
all."

With this he slowly sank into his place upon
the mat, saying never another word ; and thus
ended his speech, which seemed to me very fine
for such as he to deliver.

After a few minutes' silence, given in respect
to the chief, that his words might be duly digested,
another Inga rose and spoke, and his
speech was more practical and to the purpose.
He said the tribe bore us a great affection, not
only because we were enemies to the Portugalss,
but also because in the face of that foe I had
dared to strike up the musket levelled at the
breast of Wangapona. As our true friends, they
were prepared to give more consideration to our
wishes than to their own, and therefore the first
thing they wished to know was in what manner
they might serve us.

I told Matthew to ask if they could give us
an idea of our position with regard to the sea ;
upon which the chief, taking a stick of wood,
spread out the ashes of the fire in a plain to

represent the face of the earth ; then, with a
handful of ashes, he built up a very fair presentment
of the mountains, and after that traced
furrows to show the course of rivers. That river
we had crossed he called the Attract, and another
still a good distance to the west of the mountains
where we lay he called the Cauca, and one yet
further west the Magdalena (though he had
another name for it), which joins the Cauca at
some distance from its disengagement. He
also showed another stream rising from the
mountains called the Meta, and this he assured
us flowed into the Baraquan or Oronoque, though
his knowledge of the country in that part was
limited to hearsay.

Now, Matthew," says I, " what are we todo?
Our nearest way to the coast will be to
follow the Cauca and get into the Magdalena,
which flows into the sea somewhere about
Cartagena."

Ay," says he, " but we must know if weare
likely to flow with it into the hands of the
Portugalss."

To his question on this subject the Ingas
replied that the whole of that coast was overrun
with Portugalss, who had, besides, several settlements
on the Magdalena. They offered to guide
us as far as they might go in safety, but could
give us no encouragement of escaping our
enemies.

Then," says I, " we must strike out for the
Meta, and so get to the Baraquan, where I doubt
if any Portugalss are to be met with."

The Ingas said they had heard of no enemies
save certain tribes of hostile Indians on the
Baraquan, and promised to guide us to the Meta,
which they counted was a three-weeks' journey.

If we take three weeks to get to the embers,"
says Matthew, regarding the plan of ashes, "Lord
only knows when we shall get t'other side of the
fire."

While we were discussing this difficulty, the
Indians argued upon the possibility of descending
the Meta.

It seems to be a plaguy difficult job, master,
even to these fellows, who are used to travelling

those parts," says Matthew. " The open country
is impassable by reason of the woods ; and the
river is not much better travelling, by reason of
divers cataracts, lakes, and blind inlets, where
one may be lost as in a maze, to say nothing of
one part where we must go an hundred miles out
of our way to avoid a race of hungry cannibals."

Ask them," says I, " if they can offer
any alternative by which we may come to our
friends."

Upon this question a great discussion ensued,
in which Matthew took part.

Well, Matthew," says I, growing impatient,
what is it all about? "

To begin with, master," says he, " when I
told them we wished to join our friends, they
put the very pertinent question, ' Where are
they ? ' That was a poser. Howsomever, for the
glory of our country, I replied that Englishmen
were to be found pretty nearly everywhere,
especially where they are not wanted. At present,
I told 'em, we were pretty well occupied in
sweeping the seas of the Portugalss, that we had

made a very good beginning, and that when we
had finished that business we should undoubtedly
step ashore and turn them out of Gruiana. But
as we did not wish to wait here till then, we
should take it as a kindness if they would put us
in the way of getting to some part of the coast
where there were no Portugalss, and we might
keep a smart look-out for a passing vessel of our
own people."

"Was that the whole subject of discussion?"
says I, when he paused.

No, master. They don't doubt anything I
said, and are ready to believe that our ships areas
plentiful in the seas as herrings. But herrings
are not always to be caught when they are wanted,
and the possibility of our having to wait on the
shore a week before being picked up by a passing
Englishman lays open the difficulty of finding
any spot on the coast where we are not likely to
be picked up first by a passing Portugal. The
west and north coasts are to be put out of the
question. The only coast that may be safe is that
which they know nothing about, to be reached

only by the Baraquan, of which they know as
little."

Then all this talk has resulted in nothing? "
says I.

"No, master, it has not, but the subject will
have to be sifted out by us slowly ; and so I will
let them know that we will give their proposal
the consideration it deserves, and promise them
our decision in the morning."

The reply he gave evidently pleased the
Ingas, who, bidding us good-night after their
fashion, lay down to sleep, while Matthew and I
strolled in the moonlight to consider the proposal
they had made.

MATTHEW AND I CONTINUE THE DISCUSSION, BUT
WITH SMALL PROFIT.

Master," begins Matthew, " the Ingas would
have us go to their village, which lies, as I
take it, among the mountains to the west, nigh
that river Meta they have spoken about,"

There need be no hesitation in agreeing to
that," says I ; "for whether we resolve to make
for the north sea-board or the west, this village
lies all in our way."

You are in the right," says he ; " but they
would have us stay there."

"That needs no consideration neither," sa's
I ; "for we have no mind to become Ingas."

"Not so fast, master; hear me out," says he.
They would have us stay there until they have
drawn together their scattered people in such

force as we may assault the Portugalss, and take
one of their ports."

That is easier said than done, Matthew."
"Ay," says he; "like descending the Bara-
quam, but with this difference — that in attacking
a town we can ascertain pretty fairly what
opposition we shall have to encounter, and what
force we have to overcome it ; while in t'other
affair there's no knowing what obstacle may
stand in our way, or what accidents of sickness
and the like may happen to enfeeble us. Look
you, master, the furthest an Englishman has
penetrated into Gruiana by the Oronoque is a
matter of thirty or forty leagues, and that with
the succour of lusty fellows well armed with boats
and stores ; now, what we two men, with no
arms but what we can beg of the Ingas, and no
stores but what we may carry on our backs,
propose to compass is a journey through that
same Guiana by untrodden ways and broken
waters — a distance of three or four hundred
leagues, as I reckon; and with a female,
remember. Likewise I would have you reflect

that ere we are many months on our way, we
shall be overtaken by the rains, when we must
seek high ground, or be swept away by the
floods and torrents that pour through the valleys.
For you and me a month or two of misery, more
or less, may count for nothing ; but how is the
female to stand it, with not a dry thread to her
back, and, as like as not, never a bit of shoe to
her foot ? "

This perspective was terrible enough, and yet,
as I saw, not overdrawn, but indeed favourable
in comparison with the image that presented
itself to my mind, of my poor lady falling sick
under the hardships of privation, and having no
shelter but chilly rocks, no remedy, no comfort,
nor any hand to render those services which a
woman can only receive from a woman, etc.

Now, Matthew," says I, "let me hear what
you have to say in favour of t'other venture, for
I see which song your voice is most in tune
for."

I will say what I think, master," says he,
showing greater patience with me than I with

him, " for I have no wish you should count me
wiser or more foolish than I am. Yet that you
may not be disinclined to the Ingas' design by
thinking my wishes lead me to set it out in a
fairer light than it deserves, I must tell you that
I have no relish for meddling with the Portugalss.
I have seen enough of 'em to satisfy my stomach
to the last day of my life, and would rather end
my days in a wilderness than under the walls of
a town. Anyhow, master, I will try to let you
see their project as they laid it out to me. This
tribe numbers about a hundred men and boys ;
females count for nothing. Ten of their number
will be left with us in the village ; the rest will
go out to rouse up other tribes and bring them
to their purpose. They will take with them the
Portugalss' muskets, as a proof of what they have
done, and I warrant it will count for something
in their inducement that they have for
allies a couple of Englishmen who are accustomed
to whipping Portugalss ; for it is certainly to the
knowledge of these Indians that we beat them
out of Cartagena in years gone by."

"How many Indians do they think to muster
in this business ? "

"Betwixt three and four hundred, according
to the general opinion, and that within a
month."

Say they gather together all that they hope
for," says I, "what can a band of naked savages
do against a town fortified with guns and
defended by trained soldiery, Matthew? "

In the first place, master, let me tell you,
'tis no inconvenience to fight without clothes in
these parts. As for their guns, I doubt if they
will ever get a chance of firing at us. We shall
take the town by surprise, for these Ingas know
how to march easily through the woods by ways
unknown to the Portugalss. Against the trained
soldiery we shall bring ten arquebuses, with good
account, I'll answer for it, with galore of bows,
blow-guns, and pikes, all wielded by fellows who
are fighting for liberty and life."

"Supposing we carry the town, as very
probably we may, what then ? Unless every
soul in the place is massacred the news must be

carried to the Portugalss, who will lose no time
in sending slips and men to recover it. Supposing
the Ingas can withstand an assault, how long
can they hold out against an organised siege ? "

"Why, that's their look-out," says Matthew.
"What we have at heart is getting out of
Guiana, and it will be odd indeed if we can't get
some sort of craft to bear us thence ere the
Portugalss come down to lay siege to the place."

What," says I, " would you desert the
Ingas after leading 'em into this pitfall? "

Nay," says he, " 'tis their own wish to go
there, and they know full well we have no wish
to stay."

"Ay," says I; "but did you warn them of
the vengeance the Portugalss will certainly take ?
No ! On the other hand, with your prating of
our prowess on the sea, and the multitude of our
ships, and drubbing in store for the Portugalss,
you may have led them to believe that we should
come back with ships and men to help them,
which can never be while we stand at peace with
the Portugal."

Matthew scratched his head in silence for a
minute, and then says he —

'Twould be a scurvy trick to leave the poor
fellows to fight the next battle alone, and that's
a fact. If they could only hold their own — or
anybody else's."

"But they cannot, so we must set our face
against their design."

I don't mind standing by 'em, master, if
you're minded to let me take the responsibility
of this business on my own shoulders. I
warrant there's not a soul alive in England
who remembers me, or would care to see me
again."

And what would become of you, my poor
fellow ? " says I, touched by the sadness of his
speech. " Do you think you could hold the town
against the Portugalss ? "

No," says he ; " but I wager I'd thin down
the rascals before they took it from me."

Come," says I, " let us think of something-else,
for you must know this can never be."

So I turned my thoughts to the Baraquan.

and gloomy enough they were, so that I had nota
word to say ; but Matthew, though his hopes
were dashed, still revolved the Ingas and their
design in his mind, as it appeared, for presently,
breaking silence, he says —

I had no notion these Ingas were such a
fine set of fellows, which only proves once again
that we should never judge of a flock of sheep
by the ewes in the pen."

Why," says I, " did you not find your wives
amiable and kind ? "

Ay," says he ; " but what does a man want
of such trumpery as amiability and kindness ? "
(As I have tried to show, he was himself remarkable
for these qualities.) " Can you tell me
anything about these Ingas, master, for I am no
scholar? "

Nor I neither, Matthew," says I. " I
know no more of these people than what I
have learnt from you and my own limited
observation."

You know enough to perceive they are
better than the common ruck of mankind, I

warrant," says he, "for they have the bearing
and proud carriage of a noble race not used to
base practices. For my own part I feel I could
trust 'em with my life — as long as they learn
nothing to my discredit."

Ay," says I, " they do seem, as you say, a
noble race of men."

Then what a thousand pities it is," says he,
that they should be hunted from their homes,
and worried to death by such a pack of dirty
dogs as these Portugalss."

I made no reply, Nor did he continue his
theme for some time,, but strolled beside me in
silence, which was odd in him, who Alas wont to
utter his thoughts as they came into his head.
Yet I perceived his mind was still occupied, for,
taking off his hat for the greater convenience of
scratching his head, he would now and again
give his thigh a slap with it, muttering occasionally
betwixt his teeth, though I could catch no
words but "dirty dogs of Portugalss," and the
like.

G 2

MATTHEW LAYS OUT A SCHEME FOR STAYING FIVE
YEARS IN THE WILDERNESS.

What a plague it is, master," says Matthew
presently — " what a plague it is for a man who
has no learning to get a good notion in his mind.
Here am I like a young blackbird who feels he
has the makings of a sweet song in his head, and
yet can do no more than squeak out of tune ! "

"Nay, then," says I, "do as the blackbird
does — strive to sing, and I warrant the tune will
come in time."

Well, master," says he, " to begin with, do
you not think these Ingas, if they gathered
together and made head against the Portugalss,
might recover themselves some little corner of
their territory, where they could live in peace
like Christians, and trade with other nations ? "

The difficulty is," says I, " to get them to

combine steadfastly for any length of time, for,
according to their own showing, they are divided
into a hundred tribes, each more or less hostile
to the other."

Why," says he, " that is but the outcome
of their misfortunes, for no men are so snappish
as those who suffer continual persecution. Do
think how ill-tempered and cross-grained a wife
will be who has a tyrant for a husband, and how
buxom and cheerful she is whose spouse is kind.
These poor fellows are fighting for their lives.
The Poi-tugals will not trade with them, or suffer
others to traffic, so that they get no comfort, and
are forced to seek subsistence in the woods ; then
if one finds a good cover of game he must hold
it against others in order that he may exist."

All that is very true," says I ; " but how
can their case be remedied ? "

By such economy as is practised among
people who have not half their resources. What
would become of our peasants, master, if they
lived only on what they could find in the woods ?
Now if these Ingas pitched upon a fertile

and healthy valley beyond the range o£ the
Portugalss, they might enclose fields and breed
creatures for their food ; they might till the
ground and grow proper fruits and grain, so that
they would no longer have to go far afield for
fame and fishy their brethren to hold it."

"And how would you have them till the
ground when they have no iron ploughshares ? "

As for that, master," says he, " I have seen
the earth tilled with a stick in Cornwall ; but
these might make ploughshares of gold if they
were so minded."

I laughed at this notion, but bade him go on,
seeing this objection was but a trifle.

"Well, master," says he, "I take it, they
must have more comfort by this way of living
than they now can get ; and other tribes, seeing
their state, Avould willingly enough come to
partake their contentment. There would still
be much lacking to their estate ; but by laying
their plans carefully, and preparing themselves
with arms and leaders, they might in the end
take some port from the Portugalss, where the

country about would give them protection
against assault, and so come about to open
trade with any nation who wished to take their
commodity in exchange for what the Ingas
need."

Hold, Matthew," says I, " what commodity
have these Ingas to dispose of? "

"Lord love you, master," says he, "they
have that which no nation ever yet refused —
gold ! The Ingas, with their knowledge of these
mountains, could easily produce you gold by the
bushel ; while the Portugalss, with pain, get it by
the thimbleful. And look you, master, once the
traders know where they can get gold cheap,
they will take means to prevent the Portugalss
again closing that port. The project may seem
wild at the first glance, as many another achievement
has looked in the beginning, but is it
impossible ? "

It is not impossible," says I ; " but the
Ingas must be taught."

To be sure, master. And they are willing
enough to learn. All they need is a leader, as

appears clearly from their seeking our help
against the Portugalss."

Ay," says I, " but where is the teacher to
be found? "

Not a great way off, master. In a word,"
says he, " you are the man who may save thousands
from destruction by the Portugalss, and
raise up these poor Ingas from misery and despair
to happiness and prosperity."

This proposal did fairly take away my breath,
and ere it came again for me to speak, Matthew
continues — " When I tell the Ingas that you
refuse to save yourself by the means they suggest,
because they could not hold the town and would
suffer disaster, they must needs regard you with
respect and admiration, for the virtues they do
most prize are sagacity and generosity. Thus
will they be well disposed to listen to a scheme for
their surer advantage, especially when they know
that you will not leave them until they are in a
condition to maintain the independence of the
state you have set up."

And how long do you reckon it will

take to carry out your project, Matthew ? "
says I.

Why, master, I count we may do a good
deal in four or five years."

Five years ! " says I, with a gasp.

Ay, master ; but that's not half the time it
would take to get down the Oronoque. And
what are five years when you are happily and
profitably occupied ? Will it not be a great joy
to you to know that you are redeeming these
poor folks ? "

Ay, to be sure," says I ; " but Lady Biddy ? "
For she had been in my mind all this time.

Why, master, I mistake her ladyship if she
is the sort to sit down and cry for farthingales
in the midst of wild woods. No, I do rather
count upon her entering cheerfully into this
business, and teaching the women, as you teach
the men, with a good result for her pains, and
the blessing of every wife and mother that wears
a tawny skin."

Ay," says I, " they could not fail to be
happier for her tenderness."

No, master, nor lie for having such scope
for her tenderness. There's many a thing I
might teach 'em, for I have earned wages as a
blacksmith and a carpenter in my time. And if
lords, as I have heard, do live to get drunk, to
hunt, and to go gallantry, then may you live
here like the best of 'em ; for," says he, dropping
into his customary vein of humour, " you may
have a score of sweethearts, and not a man to
say you nay ; hunt without fear of trespassing
on another lord's preserves ; and 'twill be odd if
amongst the blessings of civilisation we cannot
make up some sort of liquor to get drunk on."

MY CONSCIENCE GETS THE BETTER OP DESIRE, AND
A BIRD BRINGS GREAT JOY TO MY DEAR LADY.

Master," says Matthew, " let us try and snatch
a wink of sleep, for 'tis late, and the lucas
are early risers. Moreover, we shall do well to
see how this design appears in the daylight, for
T have known many a scheme that wore an
excellent complexion over-night — like certain
females — not worth two straws in the morning.
Indeed," adds he, " we might with advantage
keep this business to ourselves and say not a
word of it to any one until we know these Ingas
better, and judge whether they be ripe enough
or too far gone for preservation."

I could but agree with him in this prudent
suggestion, and so we bade each other goodnight,
and laid ourselves down in a pleasant
spot.

But I could not close an eye all the night for
considering of this mighty project, and the
more I thought about it the more I liked it.
Yet was I not so blind but that I perceived the
difficulties which lay in the way of one man
raising a down-trodden and helpless people into a
body of such force as to overthrow the Portugalss
and hold their own hereafter. I knew I was
only an ordinary man, with no special aptitude
for governing men ; nevertheless I thought that,
with Lady Biddy at hand to temper my judgment
with her practical good sense, I might yet
manage to come out of this business pretty well
in the end.

And so all through the night I lay revolving
my plans for the future without perceiving the
folly of them any more than if I had been
reasonably sleeping and these thoughts had
taken the form of a dream.

As soon as the Ingas began to stir I roused
up Matthew, who was so heavy with sleep that
I believe he would have willingly abandoned
his scheme of regenerating the Indians on the

moment for the sake of another five minutes'
doze, and bade him let our friends know at
once that we could have nothing to do with
their plan of attacking the Portugalss.

Nay," says he, " I'll hold my tongue on
that matter until we have decided upon t'other ;
they will more readily believe in your wisdom if
they see you are not in a hurry."

If I had taken these words to heart I might
have seen what a fool I was ; for here had I
settled to take upon myself the most serious responsibility
with rather less hesitation that I
should have given to swallowing a toadstool.

We journeyed all that day and the next
through the mountains, coming a little before
nightfall within sight of the river Cauca ; but
we were still at a prodigious height, so that we
were forced to rest there again.

An Inga pointed down to a part of the valley
where their village lay, but we could see nothing
of it for the woods that lay everywhere about
like a thick mat. The sight of these vast unbroken
woods took me aback somewhat, for my

imagination had figured some gentle grassy
slope that would serve as pasturage for our
cattle ; and Matthew seemed likewise to have
fostered a pleasing hope of open country, for
turning to me, with a rueful look in his honest
face and round eyes, he says —

Master, I perceive we shall have to go
a-felling trees."

We shall see," says I, putting on an air of
indifference ; " from this point, to be sure, the
land looks somewhat encumbered " (he nodded
assent), "but we may find elsewhere a space
where there are not so many trees."

I hope to God we may, master," says he,
for, besides that, these trees are mighty big, and
most of 'em like any iron and brass for toughness
; I doubt if the Ingas have ever a saw ora
hatchet to lay our hands to."

We turned away in silence, and I think
Matthew was nothing loth to set the subject
aside and go to sleep in quiet and peace, for I
had kept him awake all the night before laying
out my schemes, consulting him as to the building

of houses, the digging of water-courses, the
setting up of smithies, workshops, and the like
indeed, my enthusiasm bore me along to such
lengths that towards daybreak I got naught but
grunts in reply to my questions, for the fellow,
though he continued to keep his body in a sitting
posture, could no longer manage to resist sleep.
Nor had I grown cool upon this business during
the day, but whenever occasion offered to talk
with Matthew privily, I pursued the same theme,
so that I do truly believe there was nothing left
unsaid. Wherefore, as I say, he was in nowise
put out by my present silence, but hied him to a
remote place where he might lie at full length
and sleep with his ears shut.

Going back with the Ingas to where the
tents had been set up, we were met by Lady
Biddy and Wangapona, who held her hand. The
girl ran to her husband's side, and I, taking my
lady, led her to the point that overlooked the
valley. On the way she laughed merrily as she
told me of her endeavour to learn a few Indian
words from Wangapona; but being come there

she became of a sudden silent, and looked over
that immense sweep of wilderness that stretched
from our feet right down to the river, and then
up to the mighty mountains beyond, in wondrous
admiration. And when she spoke, her voice was
awed to a low tone.

How magnificently grand it is, Benet," seas
she, " and yet how melancholy ! These mountains
and forests — so old, so vast, so silent — seem
to reproach us for spending our little life so
lightly."

Is the reproach merited ? " says I ; " are we
right to spend our lives lightly ? " Here I
thought was a fitting place to break our great
scheme to her.

"Nay," says she; "I cannot think it wrong
to employ the faculties that are given us for
our enjoyment. You would not tear the wings
from a butterfly because it is less laborious than
the worm that creeps ! " Then, turning her wondering
eyes over that vast wilderness, she adds
sadly, " Sure, these wilds are not for men to
live in."

The Ingas live in the midst of it," says I,
pointing down into the valley.

Then shame on those who have forced them
to such an existence," says she, for I had told
her how the Portugalss had driven them from
their cities. Then, with a tender sigh, " Poor
souls ! " says she, " ?io longer they river laugh.
The stillness of these mountains and the sadness
of the woods have filled their hearts."

These words went home to my conscience ;
and just as a soap-bubble at the slightest touch
will burst — its perfect shape and bright colours,
that were a delight to the eye, disappearing in
an instant, leaving naught behind but the . drop
of murky water from which it sprang — so did all
those fine colourable hopes in which I had toyed
for two whole days and nights vanish quite away
at this prick, giving me to contemplate the
selfish paltry motive that gave 'em birth.

I took my lady in silence back to the tent,
and, having bidden her good-night, I hied me
again in great dejection to the rock, whence the
valley looked now more gloomy and awesome

H

than before, for the creeping darkness ; and
there sitting down I took myself bitterly to
task. For I did now plainly discern that I had
been cheating and deceiving myself with false
pretences, of the design to cheating and deceiving
my dear Lady Biddy after. Why had I leapt so
readily at Matthew's scheme ? Not for the sake
of the unhappy Ingas, but for my own delight ;
not because a generous emotion moved me to
rescue them from the Portugalss, but because of
a base and selfish desire to keep Lady Biddy in
the wilderness, sundered from her friends and
companions by necessity ; not to advance the
welfare of others, but to stave off the inevitable
moment when my lady and I must part for ever.
Nor could I excuse myself by pleading ignorance
of any harmful intention, for surely I must have
felt in my heart that this design was not to my
lady's advantage, since I had not dared to mention
one word of it to her. That in itself was enough
to convict me of wickedness.

Looking down into the valley, which had
now become a black, unfathomable gulf, I

repeated Lady Biddy's words — " These wilds are
not for men to live in;" and then again, "Would
you tear the wings from a butterfly ? " and after
that, " Poor souls ! no wonder they never
laugh." And each phrase was a reproach that
did stab my heart like an avenging knife ; for I
had (in my design) doomed her whom I loved to
dwell in this gloom. I had meditated robbing
her of all the cheerful delights of youth and
liberty. I had planned to silence her merry
laughter, and overcast that bright young face
with the wan cast of grief and despair.

Nay," says I, springing up, " I will stay
not a day longer in these wilds than I can help.
We will go hence. What matter how perilous
and wearisome the way if she have hope to
strengthen her heart ? With Grod's help I will
comfort her pillow every night with some prospect
of better fortune on the morrow."

Just at that moment I heard in the woods

below the cry of a bird that had often filled Sir

Harry and me with amazement and delight

(which bird I have since heard called by the

H 2

Ingas Award), and this put me in mind how I
might dispel from my lady's mind those gloomy
thoughts inspired by the sight of the valley ; so
coming to her tent I scratched gently on one of
the mats to know if she were asleep, as I did use
to do when we were imprisoned on the pirate
ship.

*' Is that you, Benet ? " says she from within.

Ay," says I ; "if it be not too great trouble,
do come hither and listen."

So presently she came out, and no sooner had
she stood still listening a minute, but she cries,
in a trembling voice —

Oh, Benet, 'tis the bell of Falmouth church
—hark ! "

We stood quite silent again, and there came
faintly to our ears, " Dong, dong — dong, dong —
dong, dong ! " to which we listened tiU it ceased
and came no more.

What is it, Benet ? " says she, not louder
than a whisper.

'Tis but a bird," says I ; " but I take it
Providence hath winged it hither for a promise

and sign that ere long you shall hear Falmouth
bells again."

Oh ! Benet, Benet," says she, choking with
tears of joy, " how good you are ! " and with
that she pressed my hand and went hack to her
tent.

"God grant that I be worthier of such
esteem," says I to myself in passion.

WE PART COMPANY WITH OUR RIGHT GOOD FRIEND
PENNYFARDEN, TO OUR COMMON SORROW.

In the morning I told Matthew that I had resolved
to abandon my design of staying amongst
the Ingas, which he assured me he was heartily
glad to hear.

For," says he, " the more you have praised
the scheme and enlarged upon it, the more difficulties
and dangers I have perceived, till, to tell
you the truth, I have more than once wished
myself at Grilkicker before I ever put such a
notion into your head. For look you, master, a
man may be thrown from his horse in a twinkling,
but it takes him a plaguy long time to
catch the steed and get up in the saddle again.
Whereby, if these Ingas have been a matter of a
century or two sinking into their present condition,
we may safely argue that we should be

pretty old before we restored them to their former
estate. In the meanwhile, as it seems to be the
fashion all the world over to cut your king's
head off as soon as he grows tiresome, we should
have stood in a fair way to go to the block whenever
we ventured to improve the condition of our
people. You will say that this is a trifling matter
to a man under the sacred call of duty (though
for my own part I'd as soon have my head cut off
with a knife as die abed of a colic), yet it won't
do to be carried away by our own views of
pleasure : we must consider, as doubtless you
have, that we have a female on our hands, and
ought to avoid placing her in an awkward
position."

I believe the fellow would have run on in
this fashion half an hour ; but cutting him short,
I bade him tell the Ingas at once of our decision,
and this he presently did.

They heard him out patiently, but whether
they were cast down or not by our refusal to
join in their enterprise we could not judge, for
they suffer themselves to betray no sentiment

which may detract from their manhood, and
count all expressions of joy and sorrow as a weakness
only fit for women and children. And it
seems they do in all things shape their conduct
(as far as they may) in keeping with the carriage
of their god, the Sun ; for when Matthew told
them we hoped our refusal would not hinder
them from putting us on our way to reach the
Baraquan, the chief replied that they had given
their promise to do so, and would not go from
their word.

For," says he, lifting his hand, " does the
Sun cease to complete his course because of a
chilling cloud ? He gets to his height, and the
clouds part ; he goes his way and looks back
kindly on the golden streak which was an inky
cloud. Should we be worthy children to disregard
our father's teaching? "

This is well for us," says Matthew, when
he had translated this speech; "for if these fellows,
instead of following their deity were guided
by their devil — as are nine-tenths of the rest of
humanity — we should be in a pretty pickle."

AVe reached the Ingas' village about midday,
which was naught but a barren piece of ground
fenced about with stakes at a little distance from
the river, and screened from observation by a
thick growth of trees and bushes. Their nets
hung between trees, and half a dozen canoes lay
ready to be carried to the water. These, with a
beggarly account of pots and vessels made of
gourds, constituted all their belongings.

The men met each other with forced composure,
the victors showing no sign of triumph,
and those of the village none of envy, and yet it
was clear to see as they handled the arquebuses,
examined the stores carried by the mules, and
regarded the captured slaves and ourselves, that
they regarded this foray as no small matter.
Until the men had done talking together, the
women stood apart in silence, not daring to
approach their lords before they were bidden ;
but it was touching to see how they stood there,
taking no heed of us or of each other, but watching
their men with eager, loving eyes, ready to
dart forward at the first permitting signal.

How do they justify this treatment of their
women, Matthew ? " says I. " The Sun shines
on men and women alike ; but here the poor
souls are left in the shade."

Their turn will come," says he ; " and 'tis
clear by the faces of the women that they are
loved. As for justification, I have no doubt they
wil tell you that the Sun touches first the
mountain-tops, and descends afterwards to the
little his ; and for that matter — with all respect
to your ladyship " (giving a scrape to Lady
Biddy) — " I doubt if the females have any reason
to complain ; for I have observed that those who
dwell in high places, though they get more
observation and admiration than others do, have
but a chilly time of it, while they who hold
a moderate height enjoy an agreeable warmth.
Howsomever," says he, "let us leave 'em to
themselves awhile, for I see they are going to
hold a council, and we shall do well to lay our
heads together likewise."

I had not left my Lady Biddy's side in
descending the mountain, but Matthew had

walked three parts of the way conversing with
the Ingas, and for the fourth part had fallen
behind us and walked in silence, whence I
gathered there was something weighty on his
mind. And so it presently appeared, for as soon
as we were seated together on that part of the
enclosure where the canoes lay, he began as
follows : —

"I have been questioning the Ingas, your
ladyship, about getting down the Oronoque,"
says he, "and it seems to me a more hopeful
business than when we first looked at it, thanks
be to God. If I have not been quite so chatty
as I am used to be, and look a little bit chop-fallen
at this present, I do beg you to believe it
is not by reason of anything the Ingas have told
me, but on another account. When you reach
the Eiver Meta they will obtain a canoe from a
friendly tribe that dwells there, and furnish you
with store of things necessary to your journey;
and also, by means of cut sticks, which pass
among them for letters, they will give you the
means of securing help from other tribes that

you may meet with. And with their help I
doubt not but you will come safe to the mouth
of the Oronoque."

"But, Matthew," says I, "you speak as if
you were not coming with us. Have you the
heart to leave us after sharing our fortunes thus
far?"

Lord love you, master, no. I haven't the
heart to leave you, and that's the fact," says he,
with a wry face and a scratch of his head.
There's nothing in the world would please me
better than to go this journey with you, for I do
love you with all my soul. But the best things
in this world are put here for us to look at and
not to have, and we must put up with what we
can get, and be grateful to Providence it's no
worse. 'Tis in this way, your ladyship. At the
mouth of the Oronoque you would be as badly
off as you are here, if there was no one there to
meet you ; nay, worse, for here you have friends,
and there you would stand a chance of finding
naught but enemies, wherefore I design to go
down this river to Cartagena, or elsewhere, as

may be expedient, and thence go in quest of your
uncle, that he may come up the Oronoque to
meet you. 'Tis but a chance that I find him, to
be sure ; yet help of some kind I will bring to
you by hook or by crook, I warrant, and certain
am I that I may serve you better in this manner
than in any other, or I could not screw up my
courage to part."

Nay," says Lady Biddy, " why should we
part? Cannot we all descend to Cartagena?"

No, your ladyship," says he, with a rueful
shake of his head. " Your face marks you out
for observation ; your speech would betray us,
and we should be undone."

But how can we consent to let you run a
risk that we dare not encounter?" says she.

"Alone my risk is small," says he, "for, as
Master Benet knows, I have a famous preservative
against the touch of Portugalss in certain
berries that produce a distemper of my skin,
which will serve my turn to a marvel at this
season when pestilence is rife. I pray you, do
not think of me, but only of yourself; or if

your generous disposition wil not suffer that,
then think of your poor uncle and friends, to
whom your absence must be torture, and so
let me go my way without further discussion."

However, we could not thus suddenly agree
to his project, and racked our invention to devise
some better expedient ; but there was none, and
so were we forced at length to yield to his going,
but with bitter regret, for we stood in need of a
friend, and sure no man was ever a more cheerful,
sensible, and devoted comrade than our poor
Matthew.

When the time came for him to depart, the
Ingas made him a handsome present of a canoe,
stored with dried flesh (which they call buchan),
cassava bread, etc., besides one of the Portugal's
swords and a good knife ; and Lady Biddy gave
him a little chain she wore about her neck as a
token; but I had nothing to give him, save a
paltry brass tobacco-box, which I had managed
to keep through all my accidents; but I do
think he was as well pleased to have this as if it
had been a purse of a thousand crowns.

When he pushed off from the shore into the
midst of the current he waved his hat and cried
to us " Farewell " very cheerily, yet I knew by
my own feeling that his heart was sore. And
we cried to him " Farewell " as happily as we
could, but I could not see him presently for the
tears that came into my eyes. " As like as not,"
says I to myself, " we shall never meet again."

Then Lady Biddy, seeing my dejection, slips
her hand through my arm in silence, to remind
me that I had yet a friend; whereupon my heart
leapt from despondency to joy, and I thought,
"What matters it if all the world be lost, so that
this dear soul is left to me ? " Yet I felt the
more that night for poor Matthew, because he
had no such comfort in the cheerless lonely
wilds.

WE GO DOWN THE META, MY DEAR LADY AND I

THE Pleasantness JAUNT HEART OF MAN

COULD DESIRE.

We set out from the River Cauca with the whole
tribe of those Ingas, their effects, and the captive
women and spoil taken from the Portugalss ; for
they were still minded to raise their people to
carry war into the strongholds of their enemies,
and counted to bring other tribes to their intent
by a display of their force, and the trophies of
their victory. And so in a long line, with the
ablest men to the fore spying the way, we
travelled painfully through the desert wilds,
crossing the River Magdalena by a tolerable
ford, besides many mountains and valleys of
prodigious proportions; for there is no country
in the world where the mountains are so high
and steep, and the valleys so deep and bushy, I

do think ; and how we made our way, yet keeping
a fairly true course, is a mystery to me, for
one half the time we never saw the sky for the
umbrage of trees, and the other half never a blade
of grass for the stony barrenness of the rocks.

At the end of six weeks and three days we
came to the great Eiver Meta, which was as long
again as the Ingas do usually take for that
journey by reason that in many places a way had
to be hewn for the passage of the mules, where
the Indians might readily have slipped through
in their nakedness. However, though by this
delay we lost in one respect we made profit by it
in another ; for not only did my Lady Biddy and
I pick up enough of their words to make ourselves
understood (which later on served us in
good stead), but also we learnt great store of
things, for want of which we might have been
sorely pestered when we had no hands to help us
but our own. Thus we learnt to make excellent
bread from the root of the Cassava — which, made
properly, is as good as any loaf of wheat flour,
and yet for want of proper attention may poison
/

you SO that you die of it in an hour. Also they
showed me how to make a canoe with the bark
of a tree, sewn up at each end, and smeared over
with the gum of Caoutchoucona, a most admirable
natural juice, which hardens quickly, and is as
water-tight as any Sweden pitch. Likewise,
to our great comfort, we were shown a sweet-smelling
herb called Caccanowa, from which
issues a thin oil that no flies or insects can abide ;
so that by rubbing the skin therewith one may
sleep all night and never once be bitten by any
scorpion, moskitaw, or ant. And besides this we
learnt their mode of kindling fire, which is ten
times better than our fashion of striking flint and
steel together ; and this they do by making an
engine of two pieces of cane like a child's popgun,
only that the ends of these canes are open at one
end and closed at the other. In the bottom of the
bigger cane they put a store of powdered touchwood
; then slipping in the smaller cane, which
serves as a rammer, they give it a smart blow
with the hand, and this sets fire to the tinder,
though as how it passes my comprehension. In

short, we picked up more knowledge of herbs,
fruits, flowers, birds, beasts, and fishes, with the
divers manners of rearing them, with properties
of other things, their uses, etc., in those six
weeks than I could describe fairly in six months,
and so will I go back to my history.

Being come to the Meta, as I say, we made
our way to the village of those Ingas who were
friendly with ours, and there we were very well
received. With them we stayed two days,
during which time I showed them the use of the
muskets taken from the Portugalss, which I had
not done before because of wasting the munitions,
and in return they gave us as much information
as they possessed with regard to descending the
river, bidding us beware of certain falls which
would certainly be our ruin unless we escaped
them by drawing our boat through the woods
from the upper river to the lower, and also
counselling us to find a suitable shelter as soon
as the rains threatened to fall ; for they reckoned
we could by no means hope to get down even to
the Baraquan before the rainy season began.
/ 2

Then they chose the largest and fittest canoe
they had, and gave it us with a free heart ; and
in this, when we were, ready to depart, they set
imprimis) an ample store of buchan and cassava
cakes ; (2) vessels for cooking and drinking ; (3)
a Portugal sword and knife like those they gave
to Matthew ; (4) three good bows with strings to
spare, an hundred arrows, and a small gourd of
poison to envenom the points, which poison they
do esteem and prize most highly; (5) a gourd of
their tinder and two popguns, as I will call them,
for kindling it; (6) two wands, very curiously
wrought with carving of figures, to serve as
tokens to other tribes that we were their friends
and enemies to all Portugalss ; (7) two sleeping-nets
; (8) a packet of various things, such as
medicines against fevers, bites of serpents, etc.,
etc. ; and (9) a couple of soft woven mats which
these people do use for blankets. And now,
when these good kind folk had nothing more to
give us for our use, they came, every man,
woman, and child, and laid their hands on us asa
sign of love, so that our hearts ached as we got

into the canoe bidding them farewell, and the
tears coursed down Lady Biddy's cheeks as she
waved her hand to her Httle friend Wangapona,
who, kneeling on the bank by the water side,
covered her face with her hands, as if she could
no longer bear to watch one so dearly loved
sliding down that river, away, away, never to
return.

However, though I risk being deemed heartless,
I must admit that this feeling of regret
passed from my breast as soon as a bend of the
river shut the Ingas from our perspective, and in
its place sprang a sentiment of gladness and joy
that I could scarce contain ; for there before me
sat my Lady Biddy, radiant with health and
beauty, her eyes yet glittering with tears, but a
gentle smile playing about her sweet cheek as
hope revived her heart, and I knew that for
many weeks — ay, months — we must live close
together ; that for long, long days every word of
her dear lips must be for my ear, every smile forme,
and for me only. My mind was too enchanted
with the prospect of such happiness to

dwell on the blank, dreadful misery that must
follow when our journey came to an end, and she
was restored to her friends. " Why should I
plague myself," says I to myself, " with the
future when the present is all so lovely? If one
is to weep tomorrow, there is more reason in
smiling to-day." Yet, nevertheless, a wicked
hope did secretly lie at the bottom of my heart
that ere we reached our journey's end some sudden
accident might put an end to both our lives.
'Twas like some pleasant summer holiday
jaunt, for the river was broad and smooth, and
the current just swift enough to carry us merrily
onward, with no more than a stroke of the paddle
now and then to keep the canoe to her course.
On either hand were trees weighed down with
strings of rubies and opals and amethysts, for so
those twining wreaths of flowers seemed. In the
pools stood wondrous herons ; some saffron and
rosy pink, and other some crimson red; but of
the birds that started from the reeds, and those
that flew over our heads, there was no end to the
gorgeous tints.

About midday we became conscious of a most
delicate sweet scent, and at a sudden turn of the
river my dear lady clapped her hands and cried
out in delight. Turning about whither her eyes
were resting, I spied a wide, deep inlet of the
river, where there was but slight movement of
the water, all covered over with green lily leaves,
dotted with blooms of creamy white and tender
pink, from which that delicate perfume issued.
But how shall I tell, and yet be believed for a
truthful man, of the wondrous size of these
lilies ? There was not a bloom that measured
less than a yard about ; and as for the leaves, I
have seen no round table so big, for some of them
did measure a good fathom and a half from side
to side.

For some time we looked in amaze at this
wondrous field of beauty, and then perceiving a
part of that inlet very agreeably shaded with
drooping pal met toes, I thought it would be a
vastly proper place to rest in and eat our noonday
meal; and Lady Biddy being also of this
opinion, I shoved the canoe in the very midst of

these lilies, where she was like to stay as secure
as if chained to an anchor, and there we ate and
drank, refreshing ourselves at the same time with
the delights of this lily paradise.

When we had feasted to our hearts' content,
I pushed to the shore, and, having tied one of
the nets betwixt two trees, I begged my lady to
repose till the heat of the day was passed.

'Tis but changing one dream for another,
Benet," says she, lying down in her net. So she
lay facing the water and looking at the great
moths that fluttered over the still flowers, with
sweet content in her face, till her lids dropped,
and she slept.

As soon as I perceived this I got up, for to
gratify her wish I had made a pretence of sleeping
on the herb at a little distance ; and observing
that this grass was exceeding fine and soft, I
got my sword and mowed enough to make two
good trusses, and these I took down to the canoe
and bestowed them in the hinder end. Then
pushing out amongst the lilies, I cut me two
great leaves of like circumference, which I carried

to the shore, and there laying them on the ground
back to back, I made shift, with a long thorn fora
needle and some stout palmetto fibre for thread,
to sew them tightly together, so that it stood on
edge very well by reason of the edges being curled
up all round half a foot high, and one leaf supporting
the other. Then this I took down to the
canoe, and setting it up crosswise therein betwixt
the two trusses of grass, and further securing it
by means of strings from its circumference to
the hinder end of the canoe, it kept its place as
well as I could wish. By the time I had finished
this business my Lady Biddy awoke, and coming
down to where I stood looking at my handiwork,
she says, " Why, what is that for, Benet ? "

To keep the sun from your back as we go
down the river," says I, " and the sun out of my
eyes."

And that soft grass is a cushion for me to
sit on," says she ; "sure, no one in the world is
so ingenious and thoughtful as you."

But I had another purpose in view for this
screen, as I put in practice that night when we

could go no further, and I anchored our canoe ina
little shallow. While Lady Biddy was ashore
to get some fruit she had a mind to, I set this
lily-leaf screen midway in the length of the
canoe, which was some twenty feet long, or thereabouts,
dividing it, as you may say, into two
chambers, each ten feet long, and duly screened
one from another ; and this screen I secured with
strings, so that it could fall neither one way nor
t'other. In the hinder half, which was not encumbered
with our goods, I strewed one of the
trusses of grass, and from the second I drew out
a good soft armful that I set against the screen
for a pillow.

When my lady came with a leaf full of fruit
for our supper, I pointed to the provision I had
made in the boat, and says I —

There, my lady, is your bed-chamber " (indicating
the hinder part), "and here is mine"
(pointing to the fore part).

"That is famous," says she with a little blush.
And I think she was the more content for having
been troubled in her mind before as to this matter,

as I judged from lier silence. So when we lead
eaten our fruit, I stepped into the shallow, drew
the boat hither, and helped my lady to step into
her part. Then I pushed the boat out into the
current, where she was anchored, and after pressing
my lady's hand for a good-night, I stepped
into my part of the boat and lay me down with
a feeling of boundless joyful gratitude in my
heart, such as I never felt there before. To think
that she lay quite close to me, with naught buta
lily-leaf betwixt her dear head and mine, was
enough to distract my reason.

Though we had said good-night, Lady Biddy
continued to chat some time, and from her cheerful,
sprightly tone it was clear that she made her
preparations for the night without fear; but.
Lord, I do believe, had there been no screen
betwixt us, she had been as secure from my
observation, for I would have torn the eyes from
my head rather than destroy the dainty image of
virgin modesty that was hallowed in my breast.

I AM PUT TO GREAT CONCERN ON ACCOUNT OF A
PORTUGAL, WHICH PRESENTLY TAKES THE
PRETTIEST TURN IMAGINABLE.

The next morning I awoke at daybreak, but lay-very
still for a good hour, not to disturb my dear
lady ; and this time was in nowise tedious, for my
head was full of glee to think that here was
another day of joy before me. And also my
mind was well occupied in turning over the particulars
of our existence, and devising means by
which I might make the day agreeable to my
lady as well as joyful to myself.

Amongst other things, I thought it would
not be amiss if I went a-hunting in the woods
for some fresh game to replace the buchan, which
is at best but an indifferent dry kind of victuals.
Moreover," thinks I, " my absence will give
Lady Biddy occasion to bathe her sweet body if

she be so minded." Whereupon I cast off my
mat, and stepping into the shallow, that I might
not over-much joggle the canoe about, I gave
myself a sluice and dressed myself."

Presently my lady, awaking, calls to me to
know if it were time to rise.

Nays," says I, " there is no hurry, for I am
going a-hunting in the woods and shall not
return maybe for an hour."

You are sure you will not be back before,
Benet ? " says she.

As for that," says I, " I will not stir from
the place if you are afraid to be alone."

Nay," says she, with a little laugh, " I am
not afraid of that."

"Then I shall assuredly not be back for an
hour," says I. " And if you are disposed to
bathe, you will find the water very fresh and
proper. I see no danger now, but I do beg you,
ere you step) in the water, to look well about you
that there be no water serpents nor cockatrice
nigh."

She promised me she would be very careful ;

and so with a bow and a dozen arrows away I
went into the woods, as cheerful as you please.
And there, after shooting at a bird with a beak
as big as his body (which is called a Tucana) and
missing him, I had the good chance to spy a
Tumandua, which is a long-haired beast with a
snout three-parts of a yard long, that feeds on
the ants of the earth, which he licks up with a
prodigious long tongue, like any whip-thong. I
killed him with my first arrow, and having taken
the skin off I cut the best parts away, packed
them in a cool leaf, and left the rest behind.
And now I looked about for a milk-tree such
as I have spoken of, and having the good foi-tune
to find one I gave it a couple of gashes and drew
off as much as a quart of excellent good milk ina
gourd I had bethought me to sling on to my
waist-belt. And by the time this was done, and
I had plucked some good fruits, I reckoned it
was time to return to the river ; so thither I
made my way, stopping now and then to stuff
my pockets with such dry husks of nuts as make
a brisk fire, and culling a few flowers that I

thought might refresh my dear lady's senses as
she ate. In this manner I charged myself pretty
well : with this under one arm, that under
t'other, my pockets sticking out on either side,
my bow on my back, and my hands full.

But I was like to let all these things drop
from me when I came to that point of the woods
whence I could see the canoe, for the boat lay
there empty, and nowhere could I catch a
glimpse of my lady. But, to my horror, I presently
spied, through an opening in the wood to
my right, a Portugal (as I accounted him by his
dress), fitting an arrow to his bow. I caught
sight of him but for a moment, for having fitted
his arrow he stole forward stealthily, as if to take
his quarry by surprise, and disappeared behind
a thicket. Then, as I say, was I like to have
dropped all I had for amazement and terror.
And now in a moment it appeared to me that
my lady, having caught sight of this enemy, had
fled into the wood to find me, and that, hampered
by the thick growth, she had been brought to a
stand, whither this wicked Portugal was stealing

upon her to take her life. Whereupon, casting
everything to the ground, I rushed forward,
hallooing with all my force.

Turn, villain Portugal ! " shouts I. " Here
is your enemy ! "

But ere I had run fifty paces I was stayed by
a new amazement, for, coming to the edge of the
thicket, I was brought face to face with what I
had taken for a Portugal, and now found was none
other than my Lady Biddy herself, but arrayed
in a Portugal's doublet and trunks like any boy.

Hearing my terrible shout, and then catching
sight of me all unbounded with astonishment,
she must needs fall into a merry laugh ; but the
next moment she hung her head, blushing up to
the eyes, and her knees turned in together for
shame to be seen in that dress.

However, coming to herself presently, and
perceiving there was no need to be ashamed of
that which is done with no ill motive, she lifts
up her head, though her cheek yet burned and
her bright eyes twinkled, and tells me how she
had begged these clothes (which had belonged to

the stripling that was page, as I have told, to
Lewis de Pino) of the Ingas for her own use.
And now I remembered how, at our setting out,
she carried with her a packet which she put
carefully in one part of the canoe, where, as maybe
believed, I had left it untouched.

I shall need my gown," says she, " when we
get out of these wilds, and assuredly there would
be little left of it if I tried to make my way
through these woods wearing it. Now," adds
she, " I need be no plague to you, Benet, when
we have to leave the river, for I can pass as
readily as you through the bushes and thickets.
Nay, I wish to be independent, so far as my
strength will allow, that you may not fear to
leave me alone if there be occasion ; and to that
end I was practising with this boat, and I
thought I was brave enough for anything till
you frightened me out of my wits by shouting
out so terribly." And therewith she fell to
laughing again ; but now she was more at her
ease, perceiving that I did not regard her in any
unbecoming manner.


Your judgment is never at fault, cousin,"
saj^s I ; " and sure it is more fit you should
travel in this sort than in a gown which you
have no means to mend when it suffered h}' an
unseemly rent. Also 'twill he a great comfort tome
to know you will not be left helpless by any
accident that may happen to me."

"We will not think of such misfortune,"
says she ; " but I am heartily glad you approve
of what I have done ; and now, to complete the
improvement, do, prithee, cut my hair close with
your knife."

Nay," says I, " that I cannot do ; you
know not how pretty it is."

Perhaps I do," says she sadly, and yet
with a certain depth of meaning that I did not
then fathom ; " and so do as I beg of you ; for I
cannot well do it myself, and I am still woman
enough to dread the thought of its being cut
awry."

What need is there to cut it at all ? " says
I deploringly.

Why," says she, " 'tis as like to catch in

the briars as my skirts, and the vexation will be
greater. Besides, 'tis ont of character with my
dress, and I wish to feel my head as free as my
limbs are. See," says she, undoing the knot
and letting it fall, " how unbecoming it is to a
young fellow, and what a deal of trouble it may
get me into."

Here again was a hint of her meaning, yet I
could not catch it then for admiring of the long
waving tresses that came down to her waist,
and glittered like threads of spun silk, with
the colour of a chestnut just burst from its
husk.

However, seeing she would take no denial, I
screwed up courage to take off some of this
beautiful adornment; but I would cut it no
shorter than her shoulders, which I maintained
was the length that pages do wear it. And I
would not lose a single hair; but when the
business was done I tied the long locks in a
thick knot, tenderly and in silence, for my heart
was sorrowing with the reflection that one day
this would be all that I should have of her.

y 2

"You are not going to keep that, Benet? "
says she, seeing what I was about.

Ay," says I, "if you will let me." And
then, not knowing any better excuse to make, I
added, " It may serve very well for fish-lines if
there be any angling to do."

Thereupon we fell to talking of fishing and
hunting, as if that were the main question
(though, so far as I was concerned, it was a long
way therefrom), and I took her to see what I
had got us in the shape of provision; and, to
our content, no mischief had happened to those
things by casting them down so hurriedly, for
they had fallen into a tuft of grass, and the
gourd of milk was spilt. So we set about
making a fire and preparing our food, all with a
light and cheerful heart, as if 'twas the most
natural thing in the world for my lady to be
figuring in the garb of a boy. But when she
was occupied with the cooking of the tumandua,
I withdrew a little out of sight, under the pretence
of seeing that the canoe had not shifted, and
having pressed my lips and cheek to the cold

shining locks of her hair, I opened my doublet
and slipped them into my breast, where I ever
kept them thereafter.

And now, to make an end to this part of our
history, I must say here that I think my dear
lady had another and secret intent in putting
on the boy's habit and cutting off her hair,
which was that she might that way abate somewhat
the passion of love that reigned in my
heart, and was, despite my utmost endeavours
to conceal it, yet visible to her eyes. She
thought, as I believe, that by putting off the
garb and character of her sex, I might come to
regard her less as a woman, and more as a comrade
of my own kind. It is not necessary to bea
philosopher — it is enough to be a woman — to
perceive that a man's tenderness does increase
by the dependence of womankind upon his
means and love ; and 'twas for this reason she
desired to undertake what I undertook, to overcome
her weakness, and to stand alone, as one
may say.

But my passion was proof against these

devices. For I could trace no action of hers to
its motive without increasing my admiration
and delight in the contemplation of her fine
disposition. Nay, the aspect of her mind did
delight my soul, as much, I truly believe, as the
sight of her dear person ; and she could do
nothing to conceal the one or disguise the other
from my searching perception. " Lord !" thinks
I, when I dare not look at her, " can there be
another soul so beautiful in all the world ? " And
then, when her eyes were elsewhere and I could
regard her unseen, I would mark the dainty
outline of her brow and nose, and the short
upper lip that did betray her delicacy, her
rounded under lip that spoke of mirth, her full,
round chin, in which was no sign of weak or
wanton purpose ; also (with joy) how her hair
that I had cut so barbarous straight did begin
to curl at the end, and would sit shining on her
shoulder or flutter in the soft breeze lightly by
her downy cheek, like a butterfly beside a peach -
plum.

THE RAINY SEASON SETS IN WITH A VENGEANCE,
AND WE ARE PUT TO SORRY SHIFT TO KEEP
FROM DROWNING.

For five weeks we travelled down that great
river, and if I set about it I could give a good
account of every day; for 'twas my pleasure
when I lay down at night to review the incidents
of the day, since every hour did yield some
precious food for rumination. Assuredly there
were accidents, mishaps, and perils in that
journey (as notably an assault by hostile
savages, which made us mindful to trust them
not thereafter) ; but in overcoming these difficulties
and helping each other, my dear lady and I
were knit more closely together, seeing that we
had fared but miserably alone; and trouble, I take
it, is like salt, which of itself is an abomination,

but mingled sparingly with one's daily bread
does give it good savour, and serves as a zest
to the appetite.

But not to weary the reader with a tedious
detail of my happiness, I will cut this matter
short, and come to that time when the rainy
season set in, and I knew no comfort day or
night for concern on my dear lady's account.
And over this business I will not linger neither,
for surely no one with a feeling heart will care
to hear of my misery.

At first we counted that the rain would give
over at the end of the day, and that we might
yet go a little further before taking refuge for
the season ; but we soon found our mistake, for
in these parts it does not rain in showers, but
comes down cats and dogs, as you may say, for
spitefulness, a whole month without ceasing. So
when we perceived how matters stood, having
not a dry thread on us, and no means to lie
down but in a bath, we resolved to stop at the
next convenient spot we came to. And coming
at length to a part of the river where the waters

spread out into a kind of lake, we spied, standing
up out of it on its south side, a very fair
high island, which I then made for, as we
deemed it would be more proper to our purpose
than elsewhere. And a very good sort of island
Ave found it — about fifty acres in extent, well
furnished with trees, and of a sandy soil ; and
we were well pleased to find abundance of holes
in the higher part, which I knew at once for
the burrows of cutis*, which, boiled or roast,
make as good a dish as any man could have.
Here, having settled to make our dwelling on
the highest part of the island, as being the best
drained, we drew our canoe ashore, and hauled it
up thither. I say we, for my lady did haul
with all her strength bravely, for she shrank
from no helpful service, and well she aided me,
bless her good heart !

Then, with a couple of lianas that had served
us for mooring our boat, we made a shift to

These cutis are a kind of conies that dress themselves on
their hind-quarters and feed with their fore-paws in the manner
of a jack-squirrel.— B. P.

sling up our canoe bottom upwards between two
trees about seven feet from the ground; and,
this done, we went to the water-side and cut
a fair stack of cane-reeds that grew abundantly
there, and with a good deal of labour carried
them up to our canoe. And now we set about
planting our canes the length of the canoe, but a
good bit wider at the base, and inclining them
in such sort that they joined at the top within
the boat, so that no wet could enter that way ;
indeed, we set these canes so close together, and
so thickly all round and about save a little opening
at the leeward end for our door, that nota
drop of rain came through anywhere. Thus
by nightfall had we made for ourselves a
very decent little cottage, which I divided in
two by hanging my mat across midway of its
length, in order that my lady should have a
chamber to herself.

Miserable as our estate may appear to those
who have never suffered adversity, and are
frighted out of their wits if they be but caught
in an April shower, wee were, I protest, heartily

well content with our shelter, taking mighty
satisfaction to ourselves because no wet leaked
through our walls ; that the ground, by being
sandy, absorbed the water, so that there was no
mud or beastliness on our floor; that, though
our clothes were sodden, yet we felt no discomfort
of cold, etc. Nay, we even made merry
in getting our supper, because we were nearly
choked by our fire of damp nuts, which set
us coughing like any sick of a phthisic. But the
true reason of our cheerfulness was that we
were each minded to make the best of a bad
job for the sake of the other, and in that way
looked over the defects in our condition in
spying out its advantages ; and sure I am
that the less we study our personal happiness,
the less we find to be discontented with in
our lot.

When we had been here three weeks I began
to grow uneasy, for in all this time the rain
had not ceased to fall, I verily believe, half
an hour, whereby the waters were swelled to
such a prodigious extent that more than half

our island was flooded, so that I foresaw we
could not stay there above another week unless
a change in the weather came about ;
but sign of change was there none, the rain
pouring down as though it would never have
done. Yet where on earth we were to go, or
what to do for the best, I could no way imagine.
For as our island lay under water, so did
the land by the river-side. To pass afoot
amidst the trees in quest of higher ground
was not less impossible than to get thither
with the canoe — the trees about there being
as close together as nine-pins, and the water
pretty nigh a couple of fathoms high amongst
them.

At length, seeing my anxiety, Lady Biddy
accused me of keeping a secret from her against
the spirit of true friendship. Whereupon I told
her of my fears, and the perplexity they threw
me into.

I did think you had this matter on your
mind, Benet," sa's she, " and I own I have
noticed the rising of the waters with mistrust.

Indeed," adds she, " you and I are not alone
in this apprehension."

Why, who else is there here to heed
such matters ? " says I.

Look," says she, pointing before her
through the opening as we sat in our hut.

Casting my eyes as she directed, I noticed a
troop of cutis with their heads to the ground
and their ears cast back.

They have been driven from their holes by
the water," says she, " and are so subdued by
fear that they have let me take them up in
my arms."

They know they are safe here ; which
we may take for our own assurance," says I.

So I think," says she. " A change must
come ere long. Indeed, the air feels different
already."

And a change did come the very next night ;
but such as we had not bargained for. About
midnight there broke over us the most terrific
storm of thunder and lightning I ever knew,
and with it the rain came down in such torrents

that I thought the weight of it must burst the
lianas and bring our shelter down about our
ears. This continued all the night, and I could
not sleep a wink for thinking that mayhap the
end of the world was at hand, and we were to
be drowned by a second flood, despite the
rainbow.

About daybreak Lady Biddy called tome.


Benet," says she, " here's one of those
poor cutis crept right into my arms."

Upon that I sprang to my feet and went
outside, fearing the worst. And there, in the
half-light, the whole of the ground about me
was alive with these poor cutis, all so numbed
with the wet and terror that they had not the
sense to move out of my way; nor did they
even cry out when I trod upon them. I had
not gone a score of paces when I felt the sand
yielding beneath me, and caught sight of water
amidst the trees.

Cousin," says I, running back, " we must
prepare to go at once."

I am dressed, Benet," says she cheerfully ;
what can I do ? "

I could not at once reply for admiring of
the helpful ready character of that dear woman
(thus revealed), but paused to gaze on her in
wonder and love ; however, this was no time for
long delay, so we presently got all the things
out of the hut and placed them ready to our
hand; and then I unfastened the lianas that
held up our canoe, and let it slide down to
the ground. By this time it had grown light
enough to see the way by which we had drawn
up our canoe, and we had now but a short distance
to haul it ere we reached the water. Then
we stowed all our poor possessions in their place,
and launched the boat amidst the trees. When
it lays fairly afloat I begged my lady to get in.
But she hesitated, with a mournful look behind
her.

Benet," says she, " if it won't make your
labour of rowing more difficult, I should like to
take some of those poor dear conies away. 'Tis
so pitiful to leave them here to die."

I helped her with a willing and ready heart
to carry as many of the half-dead cutis to the
canoe as we could take, and then we got in, and
I pushed my way through the trees out into the
stream

WE FIND A HAVEN OF REST IN A WONDROUS LAKE ;
BUT ARE NIGH BEING SUCKED INTO A Whirlpool.


We swiftly left the island behind us, for this
lake (as I call it), which had been pretty still
when we entered it, was now hurrying along
with the force of any mill-stream. The water
was orange-tawny with the mud and sand it had
swept up in its course, and littered all over with
great trees and bushes ; and this wreck on it,
with the desolation all around, and the vast
extent and the mighty force of it, did strike us
both A\T.th awe and a feeling of our littleness and
helplessness, so that we could not speak for sometime.
However, we presently found some consolation
in perceiving that the rain had ceased
to fall, and that betwixt the black clouds was
here and there a rift of blue, which was the first

K

we had seen of the sky for six weeks or thereabouts
; and with this we grew more cheery,
and even the conies began to prick their ears
and nibble of some herb we had torn up for
them the last thing before putting off.

My attention was soon diverted from these
trifles by more serious matters ; for being carried
to that end of the lake whence the waters issued
in a narrow passage betwixt two high rocks as
through the neck of a funnel, it was with the
utmost ado I kept our canoe in mid-stream and
clear of those bushes and trees which, as I have
said, were scattered abroad, and here by the confluence
of the flood we were brought into such
close quarters that at every turn the canoe was
threatened to be nipped in their embrace or
swept into the midst of the wreck and lumber
that ground painfully against the banks, where
our frail bark (as I may truly call it) would in a
moment have been crushed like a thing of paper,
and we with it.

To make matters worse, the course of the
river was impeded by sundry huge rocks standing

up here and there, which threw the stream
into violent convulsions of eddies and torrents
that no force of man could resist, so that one
minute we faced one way, and the next another,
to our great confusion and imminent peril, for
out of all this trouble of rocks, bushes, trees,
dead carcases of cuacuaparas,* and the like,
there was promise of a speedy end (by death) to
all our troubles ; and certain I am that but for
the help of Providence we had never come out
of these straits alive.

How long we were in this pickle, whether
five minutes or five hours, I knows not ; but I
take it few men are so plagued in eighty years.
And not one instant of repose was there either
for me or my dear lady (who throughout kept a
cool head, and helped with one of the oars to
stave off this or that floating thing as surely
and stoutly as any man), for ere we were out of
one danger we were into another, and destruction
menacing us on all sides.

It seemed that our condition could be no

A sort of stag, as big as auy Devonshire cow. — B. P.
K 2

worse than it was ; but whilst I was laying this
fool's flattery to my heart, for its encouragement,
my Lady Biddy cries suddenly —

Hark, Benet ! What can that noise be ? "

Then straining my ears, yet still battling
with trees, rocks, etc., 1 caught the sound her
finer ear had first detected, which was like the
rushing of a great wind at a distance. This
perplexed me greatly for a space, for there was
but a little air stirring ; but at length, growing
more used to the sound, which increased every
instant, I hit upon an explanation of it which
struck despair into my soul.

Lord help us ! " says I, " 'tis the cataract
we were warned against by the Ingas."

Oh, what is to be done ? " says she.

Nay," says I, dropping my oar, " there is
nothing to do now but to perish, dear cousin."

But she was not minded to perish tamely
thus ; and seeing we were drifting upon a tree,
deftly turned her oar to my side and pushed the
canoe from it, to our immediate salvation. Thus
put to shame for my cowardice, I picked up my

oar and strove again vigorously to keep in clearwater.


But now the roaring of that fall was grown
to the loudness of thunder, and casting my eye
that way I perceived a kind of cloud rising
above the river, which was nothing but the
vapour thrown off by the heat of this vast river
in falling such a prodigious depth.

Hitherto we had striven only to keep to the
middle of the river, but now I glanced to the
side, for there only might we chance to escape
being engulfed in the cataract ; though only
to be crushed amidst the tearing heaps of timber
that swept the shores. To my astonishment, I
saw nothing but steep rocks on either hand ; for
being entirely occupied in steering away from
the floating masses on the river, I had taken no
note of the changing character of the country'
we had entered. In that glance I perceived
there was no escape by the sides ; so that there
seemed truly no way but to go down with the
water into that terrible abysm.

And yet my spirits recoiled from such an

end, being stirred up to a desperate antagonism
by the frightful noise of the waters, that appeared
to me like the impatient roaring of some
great cage of famished lions awaiting their meal.

Lady Biddy glanced round her at the same
moment, and I saw no look of hope in her face.
In truth, she saw no escape, for now we were
come within the cold vapours of the fall, that fell
on us like an autumn mist; and so she turned
her face to me, and seeing naught but despair
there, her sweet face lit up with a gentle smile,
and she held forth her hands for me to take.
Her lips moved as I clasped her dear hand, and
though I could hear never a sound for the
thundering of the fall now close to our ears, I
knew full well that those last words were " God
bless you, dear Benet ! "

The thought that she must die, so beautiful
and sweet, and still but in the budding season of
her life, and that after enduring so much, and
striving so bravely and heartily, did fire me with
a very madness of revolt against Providence,
which, as I wickedly conceived, had doomed this

dear girl, against all reason, justice, and mercy,
to death ; so that with a furious cry I caught up
my oar and struck it wildly against a rock ujDon
which we were being carried.

The shock of this encounter bent the oar till
it snapped, though it was made of the toughest
wood that grows in those parts, but it saved us ;
for this lusty blow turned us about from the
current that was to the left of these rocks into
that which sped to the right, and whereas that
to the left went (not more than two fathoms off)
over that mighty fall, the right passed through
an opening in this rocky shore which we had not
hitherto perceived, and here were we safe — at
least, from destruction in that frightful fall,
thanks be to God. And here could I diverge
likewise one moment from the course of my
history to point out the heinous folly of those
who abandon themselves to despair, under the
conviction that Providence has decreed their
destruction, which it were useless to struggle
against ; for in thus yielding they do most surely
oppose the decree of Providence, which hath

given us functions expressly to preserve ourselves.


And now, I say, we were in a manner safe,
for though the stream was swift and strong,
much encumbered with wreckage torn from the
banks, etc., and obstructed with rocks where the
waters shot down with incredible force, carrying
us into divers eddies and whirlpools below, yet
were our ears unassailed by that fearful roar of
torrents which had paralysed us. And after
a while being carried through that chain of hills
we came in view of a great plain, flooded over as
far as the eye could reach, so that it looked like
nothing but a vast sea, which flood was naught
but the overflow of the Eiver Baraquan, poured
through the passage by which we had escaped
the great falls. Here was there no current
except on the verge of the hills, and that running
gently ; and as these hills ran westward we kept
our canoe in the stream, hoping that it would
run again into the Baraquan at a safe distance
below the falls, which seemed to me the more
likely because it bore towards a gap in some

reasonable high mountains hemming in the pinto
the south-west.

After running about two hours, as I judge
at about a league and a half to the hour, and
passing through this gap, though with such
diminished speed that I had to use my oar, we
came into a lake of still water, about a mile
across, and shut in all round with a ragged wall
of crystal or silver, I know not which — only this
I will answer for, that when a ray of sunlight
touched them for a minute the eye was blinded
by the dazzling glister. In some parts this wall
of rock rose flush from the water ; but elsewhere
there was a little sloping ground fairly well
wooded, but so flooded with the water that had
streamed into this basin from the Baraquan that
some of the trees on the border rose not more
than four fathoms above the surface.

Issue from that lake saw I none, save by the
passage we had entered ; but I did not concern
myself greatly on this head then, my main
anxiety being to find some refuge where we
might repose, for the day was drawing to a close,

not a morsel of food had passed our lips for nigh
on twenty-four hours ; and what with our
exertion, terror, and hunger we were spent and
sick.

To this end I paddled the canoe towards
those rocks which rose (as T have said) sheer
from the water, and by good luck we came to a
craggy part on the western side which led up to
a deep cavern, which, to our great comfort, we
found as dry as any barn. But that which contented
me as well as anything in this cavern was
a great bank of dry leaves in its further extremity,
the product of countless years, borne hither by
the winds, which in these parts do constantly
blow from the east.

"Here," thinks I, with glee — "here shall
my dear lady lie warm and dry at least this
night."

However, before deciding this way we made
a fire of dry leaves, to be sure there was no
savage beast or venomous worm hiding in the
cavities; but there was no sign of any live
creature having been there before us, save birds.

whereof were some empty nests in the crevices.
So hither we transported the goods from our
canoe, not forgetting those cutis we had brought
with us ; and having satisfied the cravings of
nature with what broken victual we had (being
more hungry than nice), we knelt down side by
side with one accord, and rendered thanks to God
for His mercy to us. Indeed, our hearts were
full of gratitude and peace ; so that when our lips
had ceased to speak, our spirits were yet very still
and meditative. Thus it came about that instead
of setting to (as I intended) to make some sort
of sleeping chamber for my gentle lady, I sat
down beside her on a little knoll, and through
the mouth of our cavern we watched the pink
light fade out of the pearly clouds in silence.

Before I could rouse myself to an active disposition
my sweet little comrade, quite overcome
by the fatigue of that long day, fell asleep where
she sat. First her chin drooped upon her breast,
and then, inclining towards me, her shoulder
rested against my side, whereupon, to give her
support, I put my arm about her body, with no

unholy intent, but reverently, as any father might
encircle his child. Presently she raised her head
with a deep-drawn breath, and all unconscious
laid her face against my breast, and so fell again
into a deep slumber, with the innocent calm of a
little child. And, though her pretty head was
so near that I might have touched it with my
lips, I did not take advantage of her unconsciousness
in this way (thanks be to God), nor in any
other which it would give me shame to remember,
my heart being filled with an ecstasy of pure
love, softened with a compassionate sorrow, that
one of her sex and condition should be brought,
by rude hardship and cruel fortune, to this pitiful
estate.

When she gave signs of awaking, I made a
feint of yawning and stretching my arms, and
then jumping up I cries —

"Lord, cousin, I do believe we've been a-
napping ! "

Why, where are we, Benet ? " says she.

"That we will presently see," says I; and
putting some leaves on the embers that yet

glowed, I blew them up into a flame, and by
this light in a twinkling I set up a mat with the
oar and a half that were left us, and begged my
lady to repose herself, if she would make a shift
with that poor accommodation, for the night.

The next morning being tolerably fair we
made a voyage around our lake, and though we
examined the inlets and rocks closely we could
discover no issue, save that (as I have said afore)
by which we had come in, where the waters were
still flowing in pretty freely. This perplexed us
considerably, for besides the stream from the
Baraquan there were constantly falling into the
lake some half a dozen manners from springs in
the rocks; yet, as we could plainly see, the water
had not risen in the night, but rather fallen
away, if anything. However, on taking a second
turn round the lake, Ave were like to have had
this mystery explained in a fashion that was
more conclusive than agreeable; for coasting
closer than heretofore by those rocks that rose
sheer out of the water, we felt ourselves suddenly
within the influence of a current, which drew us

with incredible velocity towards a deep vortex of
whirlpool, by which these waters were drawn
into some subterraneous passage through the
rocks, and 'twas only by employing our utmost
strength and skill that we thrust our canoe out
of the flow, and so (thanks be to God !) escaped
being sucked into that horrid gulf.

When we were somewhat recovered of the
disorder into which this late peril had thrown
us, I pointed out to my lady that there appeared
no way of escaping from our captivity but by
the stream that had brought us thither. *' For,"
says I, "tis questionable if ever we can scale
those steep and slippery rocks that surround us."

"And could we do so," says she, "we must
go empty-handed, for sure we could never drag
our canoe up there, nor any of those things that
are necessary to us. Nor have we any assurance
that we shall be better off on the other side
of those rocks than on this."

You are in the right of it," says I ; " then
there remains nothing for it but to get back into
the Baraquan as best wee may."

"Ay," says she, "but we must assuredly
wait until the rainy season is past — which has
but just begun — for 'twere madness to venture
again into such dangers as we have by a miracle
escaped."

On hearing this I turned aside, that she might
not read in my face the exultation of joy that
filled my heart. And so as I made no reply she
said in a rallying tone —

Are you so very anxious to get rid of me,
Benet?"

'Twas on my tongue to answer, " If I could
make captivity endurable to you, I would never
take you from these rocky confines ; " but I kept
these words to myself, though what reply I
stammered in their place I cannot recall to
mind.

THE RAINY SEASON COMES TO AN END, BUT BY MY
DELAY WE ARE BALKED OF RETURNING INTO
THE BARAQUAN.

Having decided to dwell on that lake for some
months to come, we set about making our cavern
habitable. First of all we shifted our cutis into
a separate cave hard by our abode, where they
were very well housed; and thither also' we
carried all the dry leaves and rubbish, that we
might have our floor sweet and clean, and afford
no harbour for insects or worms. Then I parted
ofl" a fair corner to serve as a chamber for my
lady by setting up a hurdle which I made of
suitable wands, bound together with lianas, and
clothing it on both sides with palmetto leaves, overlapping
each other and pinned to the hurdle with
thorn-stickles. To get these materials I made
several voyages in the canoe amongst the wooded

slopes that were partly under water ; and in
these excursions I found a good store of cassava,
and many other things that would be useful tous.
When I had finished this partition to my
own satisfaction and my dear lady's admiration
(for she missed no occasion to encourage me with
her approval), I hung up her sleeping-net and
set one of the mat coverlets, which I had taken
care to dry, ready to her hand. I would have
had her use the other as a carpet to her feet, for
I could have slept without it as well as the
Ingas do; but she would by no means hear of
this, so that I was forced to forego the happiness
of yielding it to her use.

And while I was about this business my
dear comrade was not idle — no, not for one
moment. For she herself made several expeditions
in the canoe alone, getting herbs for her
conies, who were so appreciative of her gentle
interest that they came to eat from her hand,
and did (after a while) sit of a row at the mouth
of their cave straining their necks to catch sight
of her coming ; and storing up in that cave such
L

nuts and sticks as would serve for fuel when
dry. And admirable it was to see with what
skill she navigated the canoe, and how resolute,
bold, and masterful she showed herself in carrying
out her purpose — no matter what. Yet I
was heartily pleased when these journeys were
done, for all the time of her absence I was in a
flutter of fear, going every other minute to spy
out from the cavern if I could see her, and
counting upon mishaps that might come to

her.

Amongst other things, she brought home
certain heads of broom, with which she brushed
the walls and floor, so that not a speck of
dust was to be seen. And all the time we were
thus working together she kept up a lively gossip
with me, save when we had naught to talk about,
and those intervals we filled up by singing together
certain simple songs that Cornish children
sing, so that we had not a dull hour all day, and
were for the best part as merry as any grigs.

And lest any one should be disposed to think
ill of her (as that she forgot the dignity of her

birth and breeding, and the delicacy of her sex
in wearing the garb of a boy, and laying her
hand with light heart to rough toil), I would
urge this — that, in my humble thinking, she did
infinitely more to maintain her character for
nobility and true womanhood in making the
best of her position with this cheerful helpful
spirit, than if she had left all labour to me, and
sat her down to bewail and bemoan the cruel
usage of fortune. For a surety she did increase
my respect thereby, and I know no man who
would not hold her sex in greater veneration for
the addition she made to its virtues.

I lay awake best part of the next night scheming
improvements of our dwelling-place. " As
my hurdle is such a success," says I to myself,
*'I will make another as soon as possible, and part
off a corner for my own sleeping-place, which
will be more seemly and becoming than lying
here on the floor of our parlour like a tom-cat.
And while I am about it I may as well make a
third to shut off that nook against the entrance,
which will serve my lady very commodiously for
L 2

a kitchen. And there might I set up a shelf
for her vessels ; and also with stones I can fashion
a fireplace, with a bark chimney to carry off the
smoke. The flat stone there, if I can raise it up
a bit, will answer very well as a dresser to grind
cassava upon ; but I must hunt up some sort of
slate for a pan to dry it over the fire, and likewise
for baking the cakes when my lady has made
them. More gourds I must get for certain, that
my dear lady may ever have store of fresh water
to her hand; and this I shall do well to fetch
from one of the fountains ere she rises in the
morning, that she may not have to ask for it or
fetch it herself, which else she were like enough
to do. It will not be amiss, neither, if I look
about pretty soon for some convenient screened-off
pool of sparkling water, where she may bathe
freely. And now for our living-room, which
will be square and neat when I have cut off the
other two sides as I design, we must have some
sort of table and benches. Polished oak have
we none, but stones in plenty ; and a fair stone
set up straight and level must be our table ; a

stone also will serve me well enough for a seat,
but my lady shall have a chair if it cost me a
fortnight to make one. In the meantime she
can't be left a-standing; so a stone she must
have for the present, but I will make a mat of
rushes to cover it, which I may do in an hour.
And while I am cutting these rushes I may as
well get enough over and above to strew the
floor of her chamber, for I cannot abide the idea
of her tender feet encountering the cold hard
rock. As for her chair, I may fashion the frame
with stout sticks of a proper kind, bound together
with lines crosswise, like the letter X,
and it shall have a back and elbows if my
ingenuity carry me such length, and the seat
and back I may make of rushes woven together.
If I can find rushes of divers colours to plait
with a pleasing device, so much the better ; and
by working this secretly before she rises of a
morning, I may give it to her as a surprise fora
birthday gift next Monday se'nnight, which
must needs give her pleasure, however poor bethe
merits of my workmanship." And being

got upon this theme I could not get away from
it, but continued to revolve this chair in my
mind till I fell asleep.

I have no space to give an account of our
life day by day, though I fain would — for who
can tire of narrating the history of happy hours ?
And so briefly I must tell that I carried out all
I designed that night I lay awake, and more
besides, for every day discovered new necessities,
and we begrudged no labour that ministered to
our common comfort. When it was fine we
went a-hunting of waterfowl, of which there was
abundance, and other times of game in those
woods that lay high and dry; and herein did my
lady show herself as deft and skilful as in all
else to which she lent her hand, bringing down
her quarry with an arrow as surely as ever I did,
so that there was no lack of contentment on either
side. And when the day was foul we stayed
within our cavern — I fashioning arrows or suchlike,
and Lady Biddy at her needle. I say her
needle, for out of thorns we contrived to make
things that answered this purpose ; and for stuff

she had the skins of animals, which she shaped,
with incredible ingenuity, into excellent socks
for our feet, in place of our shoes, which were
now pretty nigh worn out. Nor did we lack
amusement for our leisure hours, for mj admirable
lady being an excellent player of checks,
she taught me this game, marking our dining-table
out in squares for a check-board, and
using divers-shaped nuts, ground flat at one end,
for men. Also I tried to devise an instrument
of music in the shape of a dulcimer ; but this
I succeeded worse in than anything else, for
we could get no agreeable notes out of it, nor
any sound that was worthy to mate with the
fresh sweet tones of my dear lady's voice. But
it gave us amusement, for all that, and many
a hearty laugh.

In this way the winter, as I must call it,
though there was never a chilly day, passed
away ; and in those months there was not for mea
single wretched hour, save when the thought
forced itself upon me that it must come to an
end. As suddenly as the rain had set in, it ceased,

and every cloud vanished from the sky as if
by enchantment. In twenty-four hours the
water sank as many inches, and as many more
in the next day. With the return of the sun
the birds burst into song, hallooing and whistling
from morn till night. Lady Biddy went
quietly about her duties and said nothing ; nor
did I ; yet all day long a voice seemed to be
saying in my ears, " You must go, Benet — you
must go ! " Even when I slept, the same words
were repeated in my dreams. Yet I could
not find the courage to tell Lady Biddy our
time had come. But on the third evening, as
we were standing by the mouth of our cavern,
that bird we had heard before in the mountains
gave tongue to his strange call. And my lady,
clasping her hands, cried —

Falmouth bells !— Falmouth bells ! "
Yes," says I, touched by the plaintive joy
in her voice, " they are calling us. We must
go." So the next morning we rowed over to
the gap in the mountains to see if the waters
were suitable for our departure yet awhile ; and

there we found a great bar of refuse brought
down by the winter flood and no water flowing
into the lake ; nor was there sufficient depth to
float our canoe. This proved to me that we
ought to have gone the moment I saw the water
sinking, but for shame I dared not admit the
truth.

In a few days," says I, " the plain will be
dry, and we shall be able to march well enough
to the Baraquan."

"We must leave our canoe behind us,
mustn't we, Benet ? " says my lady quietly.

Ay, but what of that ? " says I, shortly ;
cannot we make another ? "

Yes," says she ; but not a word of reproach
passed her dear lips, though she must have seen
that I was to blame not to have started while
there was yet water to float us back to the river.
And so we returned to the cave without a word,
for I was in a despicable bad temper, because I
knew I was in fault for not going when my conscience
bade me. This ill-humour possessed me
all day, though frequently my lady essayed to

return to our customary free and cordial understanding;
only when night came and I lay
awake I felt remorse and grief for my wicked
delay in the first place, and my foolish perversity
after. " Fool," says I to myself
bitterly, " not content with robbing your dear
lady of freedom, you have marred a day she
would have rendered happy. It may be the last
she will ever care to lighten for you.

I could not rest for the torment of my self-reproach.
Getting out of my net I went softly
in the dark to her kitchen, and passed my handover
the things she was wont to use.

Here," says I to myself, touching her
dresser — "here have we stood side by side
grinding our cassava, mirthful and light-hearted.
Why were we so happy and content ? Because
I had none but good intent towards her ;
because she was confident in me. Will she ever
have faith in me again, knowing I have let slip
her chance to escape? Can we ever more be
happy together ? "

Before daybreak I rowed over to the gap,

and thence as soon as it was light I perceived
that vast plain green as far as the eye could
reach with the young shoots of reeds, laid bare
by the further sinking of the water; but for
some distance round and about the gap and
extending by the hill, where the water had
flowed in from the Baraquan, was a great bed of
yellow mud, neither firm enough for the foot nor
liquid enough for the canoe. Seeing, therefore,
that no escape was possible until this mud grew
hard (if ever it should), I went back very disconsolate
to the cavern. And there was our
morning meal spread on fair fresh leaves, which
Lady Biddy employed for a table-cloth, and
that dear creature waiting to greet me with
a cheerful bright countenance, as if she had
naught to reproach me with, though I marked a
shade of anxiety beneath her sweet smile.

I told her where I had been, and, putting as
good a face on it as I well could, added that we
must wait a few days for the ground to harden
ere we started again upon our journey. " But,"
thinks I, " 'twill never harden, for surely from

those hills there must dribble streams that flow
into the lake ; and here must my dear patient
lady linger another whole year." And with this
reflection, despite all my efforts to seem easy
and hopeful, I fell into a despondent mood.

WE TRY ANOTHER MEANS OF ESCAPE, WHEREBY WE
ARE AS NEARLY UNDONE AS MAY BE.

Presently my little comrade (as I call her) got
up from her chair, and seating herself beside me
on my stone stool, laid her hand very tenderly
on my arm, and says she gently —

You will tell me what is amiss, Benet,
won't you ? "

Upon this I told her my trouble, and how I
must blame myself night and day for not having
started to get back into the Baraquan when the
rains first gave over and the water began to
sink.

Why," says she, " 'twas then too late ; for
sure the water must have ceased to overflow from
the great river before it ceased to flow into the
lake, and, therefore, we must have found at the

entrance to the Baraquan just such a deposit of
impassable mud as lies at the entrance to the
lake. Thus, had we started when your conscience
very unwisely bade you, we should have
been finely served, for there must we have stuck
betwixt two barriers, neither able to go forward
nor to get back. Nor do I see," adds she, " how
we were to have mended matters, for it had been
madness to start before the rains ceased, and 'twas
too late when they had."

In this manner did she reason with me, to my
ineffable comfort, for naught that she urged was
less cogent than tenderly considerate. But what
delighted me even more than getting this heavy
load of responsibility taken from my shoulders
was the evidence of her admirable judgment and
good sense in this matter ; for though her wealth
of goodness beggared me indeed by comparison,
I was better pleased a hundredfold to admire
her wisdom and feeling than if I had suddenly
discovered myself blessed with these excellent
qualities.

Cousin," says I, " the justice of your conclusions

leaves me no ground for regrets, save
that I had not previously consulted you in this
business."

Why," says she with a merry laugh, " that
is a regret I would not remove, for it may prompt
you not to leave your ' little comrade 'at home
in perplexity next time you go a-boating in the
dark."

After that we went together day after day
across the lake to examine the ground ; but 'twas
no better on the seventh day than on the first,
but worse, for then we gave up all hope of the
ground ever getting firm enough to traverse. As
I feared, the springs and rills from the hills kept
it continually moist, and the ground, being nothing
but filthy ooze, gave no hold whatever to
the foot, as I found, to my cost, when I attempted
it, sinking up to my middle ere I had gone two
paces, and with the greatest difficulty getting
back with no worse misfortune. In addition to
this, as the sun grew in power, this slough began
to fester and putrefy, throwing off stinking
vapours that raised our gorge. But that which

made this pestilent belt more abhorrent to my
lady than all else was the prodigious number of
great worms and hideous reptiles that came
hither to writhe and wallow in the foul slime.
So (as I say) at the end of a week we decided
that no issue by that part was possible.

And now I began to cast my eye at the
mountains that hemmed us in, for I was bent
upon getting away, and would harbour no
thought of staying there, however I might be
tempted by inclination that way ; and spying
one part which looked more broken than any
other, I begged my lady to let me go and see
if it were any way passable. But she would
not hear of my going alone, though willing
enough to go anywhere if she might share the
peril ; so, provided with a store of food for the
day and a stout stick apiece, we started off early
one morning to make the venture.

Tor the first few hours we got on well enough,
by the help of our sticks and such shrubs as grew
in the fissures and cracks ; but when we reached
that part where the mountain was less broken

and no herbs grew, our troubles began ; and to
tell of all our difficulties — how we had to leap
like goats in one part, and climb with hands and
feet like cats in another; how we had to go baelv
and try new ways time out of mind — would be
tedious indeed ; but, to cut this matter short, we
came about three in the afternoon to where the
mountain rose sheer up on one side, and lay in a
great smooth fiat table, inclining towards the
lake on the other, and there was no way to go
forward but upon this sloping table. And here
I would have my lady desist from further adventuring
; "for," says I, "if our foot slip, naught
can save us from sliding down this rock as down
the roof of a house, and shooting ourselves a
thousand feet on to the crags below."

"But our foot must not slip, Benet," says
she. " And there is no more danger here than
we have encountered before."

Still I hesitated, but she, thinking T was concerned
only for her, urged me to go on ; and T,
on the other hand, considering that this was
our last and only chance of escape, at length

consented, only bargaining that she should give
me her hand to hold.

"Ay," says she, "that wil I willingly ; for
if you go, I have no mind to stay behind."

Nor I neither," says I. And so, recommending
ourselves to Providence, we went forward
with our hands locked together.

Now went we along in this sort without
accident a hundred yards, maybe, and then to
ray horror (I being ahead, with my eyes fixed on
the rock under my feet) I discovered that we had
come to the end of that sloping rock, and that
another step would have plunged me down a
great yawning fissure that showed no bottom ;
all was black below.

What is it, Benet ? " says my lady, as I
came to a stand, for she dared not take her eyes
from the ground, lest she should be seized with
a vertigo.

We must go back," says I quietly ; " there
is an abyss beside me which we cannot cross."

Very well," says she after a moment's
pause. " Tell me when you are ready."

We will wait a minute till your strength
comes back," sa's I, for I felt her fingers quivering,
despite my close hold.

Nay, let us go at once, lest my courage
fail," says she faintly. "But have a care when
you come to the little ledge : it is loose ; I felt
it slide under my foot."

"Let me change places, that I may go first,"
says I.

"No, no I " cries she in an agony, as I was
about to move ; " for Heaven's sake, do not
venture down the slope to pass me — do not leave
go of my hand."

"So be it," says I; "but do prythee await till
you feel stouter of heart." And then I tried
to restore her confidence by all the means I
could ; but indeed my own heart quailed within
me. For to realise our terrible position, you
must fancy yourself standing on the steep sloping
roof of the highest cathedral, with no parapet to
arrest your fall, and one of the slates so loose
that it may slip under your foot, no matter how
carefully you step.
M 2

Thank you, Benet," says my dear lady.
You have brought my courage back. Come,
let us go."

So with that she begins that backward journey
; but now, instead of looking to the rock
under my own feet, T was casting my eyes to
my dear lady's for that loose rock she had
spoken of. Presently I caught sight of it — a
great slab that lay on the slope, with no space
behind for a footing, and too wide to step
across. And seeing this I sought with an eager
fury for some means of stopping our fall if this
slab should slide under our feet, but I could
spy nothing but a fissure behind the slab, into
which I might by chance thrust my arm in
falling.

Now scarcely had my eye made this out
when my dear lady stepped on the slab, and, to
my sickening horror, I perceived it tilt a little,
being very nicely poised ; and doubtless had I
set my foot firmly upon it at that moment, our
combined weight would have held it firm and
stationary, as it had in passing over it before.

until it was released of my weight. But this did
not occur to my slow wit at the right time —
na}'-, rather, seeing this movement, I held back,
and would have drawn my lady away. This
hesitation (and maybe a little jerk I gave in
my terror to her hand) was fatal, for ere I could
cry aloud to her the great slab slid, and my dear
lady, in striving to keep her balance, lost her
footing and fell ; then seeing that I was like to
be drawn down the slope myself, when nothing
in the world could have saved us from sliding
with the slab to perdition, I threw myself on
my face, and, flinging aside my stick, thrust my
arm down that rent in the rock of which I have
made mention. Thus I lay sprawled on that
steep incline, half the length of my left arm
wedged in the fissure above my head, and my
right hand linked to my Ladj^ Biddy's as she
lay prone upon the slab.

My sole thought was to hold my dear lady,
and this was no slight matter, for the edge of
the slab had caught in her waist-belt, so that
for a moment she and that great mass of rock

hung, as I may say, on my bent arm. In that
moment the bone of my forearm snapped like a
dry stick, and indeed I thought my muscles
must be torn asunder also, so sharp and strong
was the strain upon it ; but, thanks be to God,
my lady's belt bursting, the slab slid from beneath
her, and so was I relieved of that prodigious
weight.

We heard the slab screech as it grated down
the slope ; then followed an interval of silence,
in which one might have counted a score, followed
by a great crash as the rock fell upon the
crags below, smiting my soul with awe to think
how we had surely been hurled down with it to
our utter destruction but for a mercy of Providence.


But my arm was powerless to draw myself up,
and fearing the torment of it might take away
my senses, so that I might let my lady's hand
slip, I called to her —

Cousin," says I, " are you hurt sorely ? "
"No," replies she faintly, "only frightened,
Benet."

God be praised! " says I. "Now do 3^011, if
you may, roll hither and climb up by my body
to the rock above, for I have no strength left."

And this she did, but with great pain and
trouble, for the dear soul trembled in every
limb, and was faint from the shock. I helped
her as well as I might with my right arm, yet
could T do but little for my own sickness.
However, she presently got strength from a
source which never fails to invigorate such
hearts as hers ; for, coming as high as my
shoulder, she cries —

Dear Benet, your arm is broken ; " and
with that she quits my body and starts to her
feet, which had she not dared to do under other
conditions.

Nay," says I, " take no heed of that, but
do you place your feet upon that crevice, which
will give )'0U a good hold."

A}^ surely" says she, stepping up briskly.
Now may I help you, my poor Benet ; give
me your right hand, and have no fear. See how
strong I am ! "

Indeed, in helping me to my feet she proved
herself as lusty as any man ; and in getting from
that horrid slope to a place of safety I owed
more to her a hundredfold than she to me.

Of her readiness and tenderness in making
a sling to bear my arm ; of her gentle, encouraging
words as she led the way down the
rocks to our cavern, ever choosing the way most
direct and least difficult for me ; of her thoughtfulness
in running forward to fetch me cool
water from a spring to sup ; of these things, I
say, and many others, I have no words to
speak, for no words that I know of can do her
justice.

I FALL INTO A DISMAL SICKNESS, AND REf'OVER
THEREOF.

When we were got into our cavern, my dear
lady, of her own hand and wit, cut some strips
of bark to serve as splints, and some of that
grass which she used to shred for threads ; then
ripping up the sleeve of my doublet she, with
her gentle soft fingers, set the bone of my
broken arm, and bound it up in the bark as ably
and well as any clever surgeon could have served
me. After that, seeing that the sweat of agony
stood on my face, despite the joy it gave me to
feel the touch of her sweet hand, and to note
how admirably skilful she was in this business
(as in all else), she would have me lie down
awhile ; and to this end she spread one of our
mats on the floor of our living-room, that I
might get the benefit of the air, and made u]) a

pillow for my head with a bundle of soft herbs
that we kept in store for the conies ; and scarce
had I laid my head down with a look and a
little murmur to express my heartfelt gratitude
(for I had no power to speak) when the things
about me seemed to swim round and round, and
I lost consciousness.

I lay in a foolish dream some time (though
what absurdity was in my mind I cannot recall),
and waking at length to my proper senses, the
first thing I observed was that something cool
and soft pressed my forehead, and looking up I
perceived my little comrade kneeling beside me,
with grave wistfulness in her deep eyes.

What o'clock is it ? " says I, like any
fool.

Nay, never mind about the hour, dear
Benet," says she tenderly; and with that she
shifts her hand, which was that I felt so gratefully
cool on my forehead. But she shifted it
only to set the other in its place, whereupon I
sighed with comfort. Seeing I was pleased, she
smiled sweetly, and says she —

D'ye know me, Benet ? "

Ay, cousin," says I, " why should I not? "

'Tis three days since you last called me
cousin.' Your mind has been wandering away
from me."

"Is it possible ? " says I.

I feared you were going to leave me here
alone for ever," says she, her voice trembling,
and her eyes twinkling with a tear. " But
you've come back to me after all," adds she
with a faint laugh, and a little gulp as she
turned aside to dash the tears away with her
unoccupied hand.

Grod be praised ! " says I.

Amen, amen, amen ! " says she with passion.
And now do you taste of this broth I have
made."

So I quickly made a shift to sit up, with her
help, and eagerly emptied the gourd of the broth
she had prepared ; for not only was I prodigious
hungry, but a stout determination seized me that
I would overcome my weakness, and give this
dear, dear companion no further anxiety.

"Give me some more if you have it, cousin,"
says I.

To be sure I have more," says she. "What
sort of a housewife should I be if my larder were
empty when I expected company? "

Watching her narrowly as she hurried herself
to refill the gourd, I observed, with a keen pang
of sorrow, that her sweet face was thin and worn
with care, albeit her fair countenance was overspread
with a glow of happy contentment.

She bade me lie down again when I had
emptied the second bowl of broth ; and then, to
please me, she brought her breakfast (for 'twas
early morning), and ate it sitting on the ground
beside me, which was her will and not mine.
And when I asked her what had been amiss
with me, she told me I had been light-headed,
and would for ever be a-starting off to find mj
uncle Sir Bartlemy, though too weak to rise,
and obedient to her hand, though I knew her
not. " But," says she, " since yesterday morning
you have had no strength even to speak, and I
have heard no sound but " She stopped, but

I knew by the sound that rose from her tender
bosom it was her own sobs she had heard. " But
all that is past," says she cheerily; "and now
you will soon be well again, and strong, won't
you?"

Ay," says I. " I promise you I'll be master
of those mountains in a week."

Benet," says she earnestly " yon must
grant me a favour."

With all my soul," says I.

"Then promise me you will never again
essay to pass those terrible mountains. Promise!"
says she. "And this also — that you
will not approach that pestilent marsh, for
I do think 'tis the foetid mists from the corruption
there which has thrown you into this
sickness."

"You ask too much of me," says I, "for
how, but by one of these ways, can I hope to
carry you hence? You have not reflected on
that."

Yes, I have," says she quietly. " I know
that I am asking you to stay with me in the

captivity to which our fortunes have brought us.
Have we not sought by all the means in our
power to escape ? If Providence willed us to go
hence, should we be thus cruelly rebuffed ? Is
it not better, Benet, to live here together than
to perish singly ? Oh, I cannot bear the thought
of that. To be left alone — no one to speak to —
no voice to cheer me ! Have we been unhappy ?
Can we ever be without comfort, striving each to
make the other happy ? We may yet improve
our cabin : the summer is at hand."

Say not another word," says I ; " I ask no
more than to continue as we have lived." Indeed,
I was like to have become light-headed again
with the prospect revealed to me and the overflow
of joy in my heart ; and this tumult of
emotion threw me back again, not yet being quit
of my fever, so that I lay down exhausted in a
kind of lethargy, from which I could not arouse
myself even to taste the food from my dear lady's
hand, which she had prepared for me. Nay,
towards evening I felt as if my last hour had
come for weakness, and when she, kneeling by

my side, laid her sweet cool hand upon my head
as before, asking me how I did, 'twas with much
ado I could open my eyes to reply by a look that
I was very easy in m}^ mind, as indeed I was,
suffering no sort of pain, but only a very sweet
dreaminess to think she was to be my companion
always. So I lay with this drowsiness growing
on me, never moving a handstir till the moon
rose and shone upon me through the mouth of
the cavern, where doubtless I looked like one
dead, as I think, for my dear lady, still kneeling
beside me, began to weep softly, which, though
I heard it, I could find no strength to check
by any hopeful sign, because of my heaviness.
Then, taking my hand and bending low, she
murmurs with a broken voice, and in such disconsolate
tones as were enough to move the
heart of the dead —

You won't leave me, Benet dear — you
won't leave me ! "

And at that I managed to open my eyes and
say " No ; " therewith making bold to lift her
hand a little. Then she, seeing what I would

be at, aided me, so that I laid her lovely little
hand on my mouth and kissed it.

So, animated with a new vigour, and a sturdy
determination that I would not yield to this
faintness, but would master it for her sake, I
contrived to ask her if she would make me a
potion of those herbs the Ingas had given us,
which I thought would do me good.

"I have it here ready," says she, "if you can
but raise your head to drink of it. Wait, let me
slip my arm under your head and around your
neck — so."

In this tender fashion she helped me to rise,
and set the gourd to my lips, from which I drank
the brew to the bottom, which was as good as
any apothecaries' drugs, and full as bitter.

This potion, together with my persevering
resolution, did me a world of good, so that in a
couple of hours I felt strong enough to get upon
my feet, if needs be ; perceiving which, my
lady acceded to my entreaty, and laid herself
down to take some repose, which she needed
sorely, for I doubt if she had closed an eye all

through my sickness. For my own part, I had
no longer inclination to sleep, but lay devising
means for improving our cavern as my lady had
suggested, for one thing resolving I would try
to make a partition to my lady's chamber that
would let in the light, and yet secure her privacy,
which I proposed to do with a sash of canes
stretched over with bladder-skin ; " and thereon,"
thinks I, "may she paint some pretty devices
with such juice-stains as we can get, that it may
have all the pleasant gay look of a painted glass
window."

'Thus a great pleasure to me devising all
this, but the telling of it the next morning to
my lady was yet greater joy, for the delight she
showed in the scheme. She brought her chair
up, and sitting beside me listened with sparkling
eyes a whole hour to all I had to say on this
trumpery ; but no matter seemed paltry to her
which interested me, and I do believe she would
have given her serious thought to discourse on a
fiddlestick's end if my mind had been bent that
way, so entire was her sympathy.
N

Benet," says she in the end, " I do think
there is no man in the world so ingenious as
you in the service of a friend, nor so unselfish
neither. For while you thought I wished to
quit this place, naught could exhaust your
patience in seeking the means; and now that
you find I would stay, your first moments of
consciousness are devoted to making my life here
agreeable. Nay, it seems to me that you have
overcome your sickness because you saw that my
happiness, my very life, depended on it."

Why, so I have," said I ; and therewith I
told her how that I had taken that resolution to
live when I felt myself sinking into the heaviness
of death.

She looked at me with kind, wondering eyes
as I spoke, and for some moments sat in silence,
her hands folded on her knees, and bending
towards me. Then says she, " Oh ! Benet, if we
all strove to live for our friends as readily as we
offer to die for them, how much more should we
merit their love."

Soon after this she took her bow and arrows

and went off in the canoe to seek food for our
supper in the wooded slope ; but the dear girl
did so steer her course that I might as long as
possible see her from where I lay by the mouth
of the cavern.

N 2

I AM PUT TO GREAT TORMENT BY MY PASSION.

As soon as I was strong enough to get about, I
went daily with my lady into the woods amounting
; but as yet my left arm was useless, though
getting strong apace, so that I could but play
the part of squire to her. But, Lord ! to see how
dexterous she was with the bow, and how true
her aim, did give me more pride and pleasure
than any of my own prowess. Yet from the
tenderness of her love for all living things she
was averse from this practice, which we men
regard as an amusing pastime, and therefore
would she kill nothing but that which was
necessary to our existence.

I remember one day, when she had drawn
her bow to shoot a dove that sat pluming its
wings on a bough, she relaxed the string and
returned the arrow to her sheaf.

"tis a fine fat pigeon," says I, "and we
have naught for our supper : why have you
spared it ? "

"Do you not see her mate in the bough
above ? " says she. And so we supped on fruit
and cassava that night ; but with no regret.

However, if there were moments of pain in
these expeditions, there were long hours of
delight; for now the woods were as like to
Paradise as the mind of man can conceive,
nothing lacking to enchant the senses; and to
speak of all the rare and beautiful flowers and
fruits we carried home to garnish our cavern and
table would be an endless undertaking. And as
these woods, valleys, and purling streams were
like Paradise, so was I like a blessed soul therein ;
and I doubt if many men in all their lives sum
up so much pure joy as every minute yielded tome.
Here, day after day, I strolled beside my
dear lady in the shade of delicate flowers, enveloped
in sweet odours, and with warbling birds
around us. But to my senses the sweetest music
was her voice, the daintiest bloom her cheek, the

most intoxicating perfume her breath. Looking
around, it seemed to me that all Nature did but
reflect her beauty, and therein lay its perfection.
There were favourite spots where we would rest,
noting the development of familiar things — how
these buds expanded, how that fruit ripened, how
the young birds began to stretch their naked
necks beyond the nest's edge, crying for food,
etc.; indeed, there was such scope for observation,
and my dear lady was so quick to perceive
and appreciate all things of beauty, that no
moment was dull or tame.

While we indulged to the full our love for
rambling, we were not unmindful of domestic
things. The season was now come for plucking
silk grass, and of this we cut an abundance, and
laid it on the rocks to dry ; for my lady designed
to plait it, in the Ingas' style, into a long strip,
which she might make up into clothing by-and-by.
This plaiting was the first work I put my hand
to, and though I bungled sadly over it to begin
with, I grew defter in time, so that I could do it
as well in the dark as in the day. Many an

evening we sat weaving our grass hour after
hour, with no light but that of the stars as they
twinkled forth, chatting the whole while of other
matters. But before T got to this proficiency —
indeed, as soon as I could plait decently — I made
a hat for my lady ; not so much like a woman's
as a boy's, that it might go fairly with her habit;
and this, with a couple of bright tail-feathers
from a macucagui* stuck in jauntily o' one side,
became her mightily, though I say it ; but, for
that matter, anything looked well that she took
for her use.

About this time we had the good fortune to
catch a partlet sitting on a nest of fifteen eggs ;
taking these home without delay, we clapped the
eggs in a corner of our conies' cavern, where the
hen, after some little ado, sat down upon them,
being hemmed in with the hurdle that parted off
my bed-chamber from our parlour, which I fetched
out for that purpose.

About a fortnight later my Lady Biddy

These birds are as like our pheasants as any two peas ina
pod.— B. P.

came to me in great glee one morning to say
that every one of the eggs was hatched out ;
and I know not which looked the more content,
this old hen strutting carefully amidst her
chicks as proud as a peacock, or my dear lady
casting some cassava pap before them for a
meal.

And now the conies multiplying prodigiously,
that cavern was full of young live things, so
that there was as much work to provide for
their mouths as our own ; but there was never
too much for my lady to do, and she would
not part with a single one.

They are my children," she would say,
with a little sadness in her smile.

With these innocent pleasures and hardwork
my lady beguiled the days, and so two
months passed away — two months, as I say, of
inexpressible delight for me. Not a day passed
without my discovering some new charm in her
person, some fresh grace in her character, which
I had previously overlooked. And how to keep
this adoration that filled my soul from overflowing

by my lips, or my eyes, was almost more
than I could compass.

One day when I was culling a nosegay, and
seeing in the pale pink and cream hue of the
flowers resemblance to my lady's cheek, I (being
then alone) did with extravagant passion bury
my face in the fresh cool bloom, kissing them
till my transport was spent. Then, looking
again at the blossoms, I was sobered to perceive
how I had crushed out their freshness
and beauty, so that they no longer bore any
likeness to my dear lady's face.

So then I resolved I would not suffer myself
to fall in love with her ; but that was easier
said than done. For 'twere as easy to promise
you would not grow an hungered or athirst.
However, one thing was possible, if I had any
manhood, and that was to keep my love from
being known to my dear lady.

Nevertheless, before long I had reason to
believe she had guessed my secret, for she also
grew silent and downcast beyond her wont, and
more than once I spied her looking at me

with pity and sorrow, as if she knew of my
trouble.

One day, when I addressed her as " my
lady," she said —

Why should you call me by a title here
where there is no distinction ? Why not call
me ' sister,' Benet, or plain ' Biddy ? ' — for weare
as brother and sister to one another, are we
not, and must ever be ? "

This hint showed what was in her mind ;
and yet if she had learnt my secret, God knows
it was against the best I could do to hide it.

I called her " sister " after that, hoping it
would train my mind to think of her in that
relation ; but it did not, so that I knew not
what remedy to get for the fever of my heart.

One morning we were made merry at breakfast
by the partlet making her way over the
rocks that divided us from the conies' cave, and
bringing all her brood to pay us a visit, which
was as much as ever she could tempt them to
undertake, and called for prodigious chuckling
and scratching on her part. Our diversion

somewhat relaxed the feeling of restraint within
me, and when my dear lady, taking np a chick
in her fair hands, held it up that I might see
how bright and free were its eyes, I, looking all
the while upon the lovely girl's head that was
so near me, was within an ace of bending do^\^l
to touch it with my lips. Now this being a
Tuesday was the day for grinding our cassava
meal, and perceiving by my heat that I dare not
trust myself to stand by our bench all the morning
beside my lady, I made believe I had a
relish for fish that day, and begged her to take
her rod and line and go a-fishing while I ground
the cassava,

Nay," says she, " do you go a-fishing, for
your arm is not yet strong enough to do this
hard work alone."

But I protested I was able to do this, my
arm being as well as ever it had been, and that
she was a better angler than I (as indeed was
true), and so she presently took her rod and
went over the rocks to a pool where fish
abounded. When I had ground my meal and

set the kitchen neatly in order, I betook myself
to the rocks straightway; for I could never
abide to let my lady be long out of sight, for
fear of accident befalling her. And that I
might not scare the fish, I approached the pool
noiselessly; but turning a rock that screened
that part from view I was brought of a sudden
to a stand by spying my poor little comrade
sitting on a big stone, her rod lying idly beside
her, her elbows on her knees, and her face buried
in her hands. She made no sound, but I could
see, by the twitching of her shoulders, that she
was sobbing. Then would I have given all the
world to be able to go thither and comfort her —
to draw her to me and soothe her as a brother
might his sister. But reflecting that we were
but brother and sister in name, and that I should
but add to her distress by my endeavours to
assuage it, I drew back as silently as I had come,
and going back to the cavern I sank down on
my stone stool as wretched and sore at heart as
might be.

Poor soul," thinks I, " she must needs weep

at times to relieve her over-charged heart. There
are birds that do pine away in captivity. This
is no home for her. These chicks and conies can
never replace the friends she has lost and can
never hope to rejoin. Here there is naught to
hope for ; even Nature must cease to charm her
when she sees that these mountains and waters
serve as the bars of a cage. What cheerful word
can I whisper? What can I do to bring joy
into those dear eyes ? "

In this sort did I spend the time till I heard
her voice feigning to hum a merry ditty, when I
also put on a careless look to hide my care.

She had caught half a dozen fishes, so that
she could not have given way long to grief ; nor
was it in her nature to yield to useless regrets.
If I had judged only by her present manner I
should have said that nothing was amiss with
her, for she persevered in sprightly conversation,
albeit I could join in it but poorly ; still, as we
sat to our dinner, I noted that the lids of her
pretty eyes were swollen and red. Also I observed
that her cheek was thinner than it used

to be, and the blue veins in the back of her hand
more clearly marked. Then it struck me that
perhaps her dejection arose from failing health,
and that the vapours from the fens, wafting over
the lake, had already attacked her, as they had
before seized me.

Then of a sudden this thought came to me as
I looked at her —

What should I do without my dear little
comrade ? "

And at this reflection it seemed as if the food
I was eating must choke me.

Grod knows how I got through that meal.
When it was over, I made a pretence of feeding
the conies to go apart where I might give vent
to the terrible emotion that brought me to a
despairing grief. And saying again, " What
should I do without her ? " I wept like any
child, but with the difficulty of a man, so that I
felt as if my heart was being torn out of my
breast, and beat my foot upon the ground in
agony.

However, this weakness passed away with

/ny tears, and then bracing myself up with more
manly fortitude I swore, betwixt my clenched
teeth, that all the powers of Nature should not
keep my lady prisoner there. As I said this, my
eye fell upon a mark on the rock, left by the
turbid swollen waters, and marking how the
waters were now fallen from this height a good
five fathoms, I conceived a means of escape which
had never before occurred to me.

WE ENTER INTO A CAVERN, THE LIKE OF WHICH
NO MAN HAS EVER YET TOLD OP.

No sooner did this new idea come to me than
I sprang down the rocks to where our canoe
lay, stepped into it, pulled up the stone which
served as an anchor, and, in a perfect rage of
haste, paddled to that part of the lake where, as
I have told, we were like to have been drawn
down with the whirlpool.

To this region we had found no occasion to
go since our first hazardous voyage thither, there
being no woods, but only the high stony mountain.
But now, nearing this part, I perceived,
with a tumult of joy, a wide cavern in the rock,
disclosed by the falling of the water from its
previous height : moreover, there was no longer
any whirlpool there, but only a gentle current
flowing into the cavern, which was the natural

efflux of the streams that came down from the
mountains. And it can be readily understood
that when the waters were swollen so prodigiously
as to lie some depth above this cavern, there
should be that vast eddy as they were sucked
down to find vent by this passage.

Without fear I pushed ray canoe to the ver"
edge of the cavern and looked within ; and,
though the pitchy darkness of it was frightful
enough, yet I was comforted by hearing no
great noise of tumbling water, nor even the
faintest echo, save of a little ripple, which
convinced me that I might safely venture therein,
with the assurance I should come to no
horrid falls, but reach, in due course, the issue
of this stream upon the other side of the mountain.
But I could go no further at this time
for my impatience to carry comfort to my dear
lady. So back I went with as much speed as I
had come, and, seeing my dear lady standing at
the cavern-mouth, looking for me, I cried outwith
all my force for joy. Then, coming all
breathless to where she stood in amaze, I

essayed to tell her; but for some moments
could utter no comprehensible words.

"Why, what is the matter with you,
Benet ? " says she.

My little comrade," gasps I, " you shall
weep no more. Your cheek shall grow full and
rosy again. I have found the means to get
from this accursed venomous prison ! "

Lady Biddy looked at me in mute amazement,
my feverish excitement giving her good
reason to doubt whether I was not bereft of
reason ; but, to cut the matter short, for 'twas
ever to me an easier matter to act than to talk,
I begged her to step into our canoe, that I might
show her my discovery. This she did without
further ado, whereupon I pushed across the
lake till we came to the newly-found cavern, and
there cast out our anchor of stone, that we might
examine the entrance at our ease.

There," says I, pointing into the grotto —
there lies our road to liberty ! "

She peered into the darkness some time
in silence, and then, with a hushed voice —

"I see no glimmer of light, Benet," says
she.

Kay," says I, " doubtless the tunnel
reaches far and has many windings ere it disembogues
beyond the further side of these
mountains ; but assuredly it has an issue, and I
conclude the passage must be sufficiently commodious,
since it gives no echo of break or fall,
and has sufficed to carry off the vast body
of waters so speedily, for you must remember
how suddenly the lake fell after the flood ceased
to rush in from the Baraquan. I believe you
have nothing to dread here."

I am ever ready," says she, " to put my
life in your hands ; but have you no fear for
yourself ? "

I value my life only as it may serve you,"
says I with a transport.

On that, with a sudden impulse, she stretched
out both hands to me, while her eyes were
flushed with a tear of joy. As quickly I seized
them in mine, pressing them as I had not
hitherto dared. She did not try to di'aw them
o 2

away, but smiled, while a single tear coursed
down her cheek ; and if I had drawn her to
my breast that moment, I think she would have
made no resistance, so virginal innocent was her
heart, and pure from any feeling bat that of
responsive affection.

We lost no time in beginning our preparations
for departure, and that evening we made
up into cakes for next day's baking all the
cassava meal I had ground in the morning
for our week's consumption. I was up at daylight
the next morning, and, having made a good
fire on the kitchen hearth, killed and dressed four
cutis and a couple of chickens, for there was no
knowing how long we might go before we again
got fresh supplies. By this time, my lady
having come back from her morning bath all
fresh and bright as any pink after a summer
shower, we sat down to our breakfast very merry
and hopeful, discoursing all the while on the
business before us. After that she set to a-baking
of our cakes on the hearth and roasting meat at
another fire, so that one would have thought we

expected to entertain friends, and were preparing
a banquet for them. While this was about,
I went into the wood to cut some poles for
guiding us through the cavern, and also I got me
some good canes, with which I proposed to fence
about our canoe, that we might be fended from
sudden encounter with sharp rocks. In addition
I gathered a good store of fresh fruit, and a
quantity of cuati-nuts on their branches, which
the Ingas use for lamps, etc., than which no
candles of wax give better light with less smoke.

All these things I carried back to the cavern
by the time the sun had reached the meridian,
and there I found dinner spread on our table,
and no more sign of disorder than on any other
day, my Lady Biddy being one of those excellent
rare women, who, no matter how busy they be,
keep a clear head, and neglect none of those
comforting attentions on which domestic happiness
so much depends.

The rest of that day I spent in strengthening
and defending our canoe (our fate depending
thereon as much as anything), while my lady

packed up those things we were to carry with
us ; and many a time she came to me in distress
to know if we could not carry this, or if we must
leave that or t'other, for I had bid her take
no more than was needful to us.

The truth is," says she, when I went to her
once, "I have not the heart to leave anything
behind ; for I cannot touch a thing but that it
reminds me of the pleasure you have given mein
making it for my use." Then after a pause,
in which she looks around her, "Oh! Benet,"
adds she, " I never realised till now how happy
we have been here ; so I must needs feel sad in
leaving these tokens behind."

The next morning we packed our effects in
the canoe, and this being done, we carried my
lady's pets from the conies' cave (as I call it) to
the wood, and there set them free ; but, Lord, to
see these dumb things at the water's edge (the
conies on their hind-legs), looking after their
mistress, as if they had a notion they should
never see her again, touched our hearts with
sad regret.

Farewell, you dears ! " says my lady tearfully
; and then, as we glided past our cavern,
** Farewell, little home ! " but she could say
no more.

So in silence we neared that cavern where
wee where about to venture our lives ; for I now
perceived how serious and grave a business lay
before me.

Before entering the grotto, I lit one of the
cuati-nuts, and stuck it in a fork of green hardwood
I had fixed to the prow of the canoe for
that purpose. Then, my lady having a pole out
on one side, and I one on the other, we recommended
ourselves to Providence, and pushed
into the darkness.

For some time we went gently down with
the current, only using our poles to keep us
head foremost, and as nigh the middle of the
stream as we could judge. And here it was
admirable to see how the rocks on either hand
and above flashed back the light from our
flaming nuts, for all the world like cut diamonds;
but after a while, upon looking back.

the opening of this cavern (through which we
had come) looked no bigger than the flame of a
penny candle, and the glitter of the rocks grew
less perceptible, from which we concluded that
the grotto, instead of diminishing, was increasing
in capacity. At first this was no matter of
regret, but rather the contrary ; but by-and-by,
when we could descry no light at all behind us,
nor any reflection from the rocks around, a
strange feeling crept upon me, for which I can
find no name. Save the reflection of the burning
nut upon the black water, and our own
figures as we stood up in the canoe (which were
shadowy enough for creatures of another world),
we could see nothing. The water under the fire
lay as still and smooth as any polished mirror ;
for aught we could tell, the current had ceased
to flow, and we had come to a standstill. I
thrust my pole out on either side ; it touched
nothing. I slid it downwards into the water,
and my arm also up to the elbow, without
striking the bottom. Then I struck upward as
far as I could reach, without meeting any resistance.

And on this I looked in my lady's face,
and saw it white as a ghost's, and full of awe.

We seem to have drifted into the world of
nothing," says I sportively.

She lifts up her finger in silence a moment,
and then in a whisper says she —

There is no echo!'

This indeed impressed me, more deeply than
all the rest, with a sense of that vastness and
obscurity in which we stood ; and I could not
speak, for fear of I know not what. And then,
as we stood in that wondrous silence, there came
a hollow voice from the immensity above, echoing
my words after all this interval, but in such
a hollow, muffled sound as you may hear after
dropping a stone into a deep well.

"Are we moving, Benet?" says my lady,
drawing a little nearer to me.

But I could not say whether we were or not,
nor knew I any device, to ascertain the truth.

I made my lady sit down, seeing she was
much terrified by this strange experience, and
replenished the fire at the prow ; for though this

light was of no service for our guidance, yet I
felt that to be without it would be terrible, in
good sooth.

So we waited, gazing about us for some sign
of change (with the hope we were yet moving
with a current whose flow was too even for perception),
until I guessed by my feelings it must
be getting on for noon. Then, with what spirit
I could muster, I proposed we should eat our
dinner. But a more ghostly meal I never ate
in my life ; for all seemed so unreal that it was
difficult to believe in our own existence almost.
Nay, it crossed my mind that, for aught we
knew to the contrary, we were now in some
limbo of a future state.

I do not think we are moving, Benet," says
my lady, when our meal was at an end ; " shall
we not use our oars ? "

With all my heart," says I ; " but as to
steering, we must leave that to Providence."
Indeed, I should long before have brought our
oars into play but for the uncertainty as to
whither we might come. For 'twas as likely

as not we should pull in the wrong direction,
having nothing for our guidance, and so, getting
out of the current (if current there where), come
into some stagnant part of those waters, where
we might paddle about for ever and a day and
find no exit ; but of this I said nothing, lest I
should inspire my lady with more terrors than
she had already.

And so we rowed on, from time to time replenishing
our fire, and my heart sickening at
the thought that we might be pushing into the
depths of a boundless space, and away from all
hope of deliverance. We had food for a week ;
but I doubted our fire-nuts would hold out three
days. And wien they were all spent, we must
row in endless night, neither seeing each other
nor any faintest glimmer, and that only till our
food was spent. At this I did fervently pray
for mercy — if it were only to catch sight again
of the mouth by which we had entered — that
we might get back once more into the light of
day. My poor little comrade was thinking at
this time of the sunlight and her conies, with a

longing to be back in our deserted cavern, as
lie told me.

We rowed till our strength was exhausted ;
then I bade my lady lie down and rest, while I
watched and kept the nuts burning. When she
had taken her slumbers, she insisted upon my
doing likewise, and with some reluctance I, in
my turn, lay down and fell asleep.

I awoke, and then seeing nothing whatever,
for the light was no longer burning, I cried
out with a terrible fear that my lady was no
more.

But her sweet voice brought me quick relief,
as she told me that she had thought it best to
economise our fuel. " And, Benet," says she,
are we not more likely to catch sight of a faint
light in the distance if we have no fire here to
dazzle our eyes ? "

"Why, there you are in the right, as you
ever are," says I.

That emboldens me to another suggestion,"

DO '

says she. " As we have not been rowing for many
hours, it may be that we have drifted again into

a current, so do let us rest as patiently as we can
doing nothing."

I agreed to this, and we passed an interminable
time, as it seemed, as best we might;
but, truly, no hours ever spent in that dear
soul's company were ever so tedious or weary.
For, as I say, we had no means of telling
whether we were moving or standing still ; but
lay there, seeing nothing, hearing no sound,
feeling no motion, and in a state of uncertainty
and dread of unknown possibilities that was
enough to drive one to a frenzy.

And so we lay or drifted (I know not which)
for a time that seemed to have no end. Once
or twice we made a pretence of being hungered,
though. Lord knows, 'twas pain to swallow a
morsel for our vast terror ; and sometimes we
made as if we would go to sleep awhile, but
could never close our eyes for blinking at the
darkness in hope of seeing some sign of light;
and from time to time we burnt a fire-nut, but
without perceiving any change at all in our
condition

But at length, when we were beginning to
talk of the advisability of rowing again, for we
were as blind to our position as ever, to our unspeakable
joy we felt the cane fender of the canoe
grinding against the rocks, and before I could
get a light to see where we were, my lady cried
aloud with joy —

Look, dear Benet — look up there ! "

And casting my eyes round, without knowing
whither she pointed, I presently spied a bright
star ; and the next moment the whole starry
firmament was revealed.

Thus did we come out of that wondrous
cavern in the night, having gone into it in
early morning ; but whether we had been
therein one day or three we could never make
out.

KILL A SNAPPING BOAR, WE FALL UPON AN
OLD FRIEND.

No hearts were more joyful than ours at this
escape from that cave of eternal night (as my
lady called it). To us the little stars were as
full of radiance and comfort as the sun at midday,
so that we could do naught but feast our
eyes for a long while. But we were not unmindful
of our debt to Providence for this deliverance,
taking it as a special mercy that we had been
brought out in the night ; for the light of day
would have blinded ns to a certainty after being
plunged so long in impenetrable darkness, as
men eating after starvation do drop dead of
surfeit.

Being no more inclined to sleep than a

throstle in the morn (for this was to us, indeed,
rather the break of day than the fall of night),
we went gently down with the stream, which was
of a reasonable body, winding awhile amongst
rocks, but coming at length to an open country,
whence we caught sight of the moon resting on
the top of those mountains we had passed under,
and more fair than ever we had counted it
before.

For many days our minds were haunted (as
of a dream) with the recollection of those fearful
hours under the mountains, and meeting some
friendly Ingas we questioned them about it; but
as well as we could make out, they knew it only
for a mighty den, whence they supposed the
river sprang ; but they knew nothing of the
issue on the other side, none ever having dared
to go beyond a few fathoms of its entrance, because
of the prodigious darkness and obscurity
therein, etc.

I could write several books of our adventures
in descending that river into the Baraquan, and
so down the Oronoque, if I had the patience;

but I have not. For a man cannot be for ever
a-counting of mile-stones, but must needs (seeing
himself near his journey's end) run on amain,
taking little heed of things by the wayside. And,
in truth, having o-ot assail on the broad river,
with an easy free current to bear us onward, and
Nature above and around smiling upon us encouragement,
we openly deemed that the worst
of our troubles were over.

I say we openly deemed this, but secretly I
judged that the worst of my troubles was to come.
For I could no longer blind myself, as I had
in the beginning of our journey, to the fact that
in the end we must part. Nay, remembering
the terrible shock I had sustained that day in
our cavern, wien I thought it possible my dear
lady might die of fever, I now felt it my duty
to contemplate our inevitable separation, in order
that when the time came for our farewell I might
bear myself with becoming fortitude. So every
night, when I lay down, I repeated to myself
that awful question, " What should I do without
her?" setting myself to devise some manner of

F

life by which I might reconcile myself to the
will of Providence. In this way I strove to
armour myself against the sure arrow of adversity.


Whether Smidmore were alive or dead, as I
sometimes guessed he might be, the result must
be the same when my lady came again amongst
her friends in England; for there must she
resume her condition, and be honoured as a lady
of position, whilst I must ever be plain Benet
Pengilly, and a man of the woods. Thus,
knowing I must lose her, I begrudged the
movement of the sun, and saw him set each
evening with a profound melancholy, knowing
another day was past from the few that were
to yield me happiness.

How I clung to those days, how I strained
my senses to catch every word and gesture of
my dear lady's, only they can imagine who
have been warned by physicians that their
dearest friend must surely die ere long. 'Twas,
indeed, the feeling that had choked me when I
believed my dear lady to be dying, only lessened

by the hope that after my hist hour of joy
was come, long years of happiness might be her
portion.

We were many weeks — nay, months — on the
river, and, as I say, we had adventures of divers
kinds without number : some pleasant, and some
distressful; but, on the whole, my dear lady's
health and spirits being of the best, our journey
was prosperous. But as weeks and weeks passed
on, it did seem we should never come to the end
of this great river ; and now we began to grow
mighty anxious lest the rains should set in again
ere we reached the coast of Guiana, which would
enforce us to take refuge from the floods till the
season was past. One day we set ourselves to
calculate how long we had been a-coming from
the cave, and what time we might yet have for
our going ; and as near as we could reckon, rain
might be expected in three weeks. But as to our
distance from the coast, we were without means
of calculation, the I.ngas on this part of the river
whom we encountered understanding nothing
of what we said, and showing such hostile
p 2

spirit as made us clary in seeking them for
information.

It was our practice of a morning to leave our
canoe in the mooring we had found for it the
night before, and go a-hunting in the woods for
such fruit and game as we required for the day.
From one of these expeditions we were making
our way back to the canoe with nothing but some
fruit, and that none of the best, for we were in
an unfavoured part, and our eyes on the lookout
for any kind of game that might serve our
turn, when my lady, being in advance of me,
suddenly came to a stand.

I am convinced," says she in a whisper, as
I came quickly to her side, " that I saw something
leap behind yonder thicket," pointing to a
clump of shrubs about a furlong distant. " Do
you go, Benet, to the right, while I make my
way to the left, that between us we do not miss
our game, for I am greatly mistaken if it be nota
tayacutirica." *

These tayacutiricas are a kind of large snapping boars,
very fierce. — B. P.

To this I agreed, begging my lady to
have a care for her safety, for these creatures
have tusks like any jack-knife ; and so we
separated, going about to get a fair shot with
our arrows at the beast. Now, to get to the
further side of the thicket, I must either cross an
open space, or round a growth of high shrubs ;
and as, for lack of provisions, I feared greatly to
startle our quarry before getting aim, I chose
the latter. Scarce had I got beyond the thicket
when I heard a scream that I knew at once no
boar could make, and, fearing my lady had
startled some savage Inga or jagoarete and stood
in peril, I drew the sword from my belt in a
twinkling, and leaping out of the scrub into the
open rushed towards the thicket, shouting lustily.
But ere I was half across the open I heard a
voice cry out therefrom —

Lord love you, master, do me no mischief.
'Tis but your humble servant, Matthew Penny -
garden." And with this, out from the thicket
leaps my faithful friend ; but a sight to see, for
the rags of clothes that covered his nakedness all

fastened together with strings of grass in lack of
buttons, and a great bush of hair about his head,
so that but for his voice I might not have known
him.

Before I could recover of my astonishment
he seizes my hand, and cries he, " Quick, master,
behind these brambles for a refuge, though I fear
never a Portugal in the world now I have you at
hand."

There be no Portugalss here, friend Matthew,"
says I.

There you are wrong," says he ; " for I do
assure you I spied one of 'em creeping upon me
with a bow, when I sang out in the hope of
alarming my mates, and had the good chance to
bring you forth. Nay, look you, master ; there is
the young villain ! "

Then I burst into a good hearty laugh, for
the "young villain" to whom he pointed was
none but ray dear lady, who was now running
towards us. Then discerning who it was, on
spying more closely, my friend Matthew slaps
his leg, and cries he —

Lookers ! 'tis her ladyship, as I might
have seen if my eyes had not been dimmed with
a fever. I beg your pardon a thousand times,
madam, in having mistaken you for a Portugal.
'Tis not the first time I have fled from a female,
but 'twould be the last if every one wore the
breeches — saving your presence — to such advantage."


Tell me, good friend," says she, cutting
short this pleasantry on her costume, "have you
happily found my uncle ? "

Ay, madam," he replies. " That I did by
such good fortune as I shall relate to you at our
leisure ; and, sure, I was no happier to find him
than he to be found. I left him hale and hearty
at the mouth of the Oronoque, where he guards
his two ships against the accursed pirates that
practise their villainous calling in those latitudes.
His loving messages to your ladyship and to your
master I can but ill express at this moment for
my own delight in seeing you once more."

And therewith, as if unable to restrain his
affection any longer, he threw himself upon my

neck, declaring this was the happiest day of his
life. " For Lord love you, master," says he, " I
thought never to have seen you again ; and but
for the strategy I have learned of the Portugalss,
I could not have persuaded my company to persevere
in this search for you."

Where is your company, friend Matthew ? "
says I.

Best part of 'em, master, are dead of disease,
or eaten up by wild beasts," says he with a rueful
shake of his head. " Only eleven of us are
left out of twenty-five stout and lusty fellows
who left the ships in the beginning of the
summer, and they lie about a mile down the
river. 'Twas as much as three boats could hold
us, with our stores and provisions, when we
started; but now a single boat would carry
us, for our stores are long since gone, and
we are all more or less wasted with privations
and sickness. Only I have contrived to keep
a little flesh on my bones, and that was due
to a hope which the rest have long since
abandoned."

Are we still so far from the mouth of this
long river ? " asks my lady.

Nay, madam ; not so long but we may
hope to get down to it in a few weeks," says he,
though I have kept this from my company,
lest they should insist on returning. We began
our journey when the river was still swollen
with the rains, and we have been for ever a-going
up those rivers that discharge themselves into
this, whereof there are scores, and all so alike
that no man can tell which is the right but at a
guess. Howsomever, no such trouble shall we
have now, for the current must bear us to the
sea, and I have taken good note of the way."

In this discourse, and much other for which
I have no space, we made our way to the river,
and in our canoe speedily dropped down to that
part where lay the poor remnant of that good
company who had braved so much to find us.

WE COME AT LENGTH TO THE MOUTH OF THE
ORONOQUE, BUT WITH DISMAL FOREBODINGS.

It was piteous to see how these poor seamen,
ragged as any bears, and thin as hurdles, were
affected with joy when they learnt that their
troubles were as good as ended — weeping and
laughing by turns, like very fools. This extravagance
of delight was, I say, sad to behold, for
sure the sight of strong men who have lost the
dignity and composure of manhood, and are
brought to the weak condition of little children,
is not less deplorable than the aspect of young
faces overcast with the care and anxiety of
age.

However, this was but the shock of suddenly'
returning hope, and when the transport was over
they became reasonable, and mended apace. The

ease of going down that river in comparison with
ascending it is incredible, as may be gathered
from the fact that in one day we passed two
marks set up by these poor fellows at intervals
of eight and ten days. At each of such marks
they would stop to give a great cheer of delight ;
then, filled with fresh vigour by these sure signs
of rapid progress, they lay themselves with such
might to their oars that 'twas as much as my
friend Matthew and I in the canoe, with Lady
Biddy at the helm, could do to keep up with
them.

And here it may not be amiss to tell that my
dear lady, before joining this company of men,
had taken occasion to change her stripling's
dress for the gown we had carried down with us,
for now there was no longer necessity for her to
penetrate the thick woods, exposing herself to
brier and bramble, and she would no more appear
in a dress unbecoming to her sex.

We had been descending the river best part
of three weeks, when Pennyfarden assured us we
were nearing an island whereon, to lighten their

boats (ill order to make better head against the
stream), they had left some of their stores under
a tent made of a lug-sail ; and soon after this, a
joyful shout from the company in that boat that
led the way signified that the island was insight.


Now," says friend Matthew — " now shall
we be all able to dress ourselves decently, and
return to Sir Bartlemy like Christians, for
amongst the stores is a chest of excellent buff
jerkins and sea-boots."

Presently, coming up to this island, where
the seamen were already landed, we found them
wandering about in great vexation and trouble,
for the tent had been torn down, and they could
find none of their stores, save an empty barrel
and the charred end of their chest, which had
been broken up for firewood.

At first we set it down that the Ingas had
been there ; but Penny far den, casting his eyes
about that part where the empty barrel lay, shook
his head ruefully, and declared that they had no
hand in this business.

Pray how can you tell that ? " says I;

Why, look sou, master," says he, stooping
down and picking up three or four long iron
nails that lay scattered in the herb, " no Inga
would have wantonly cast these away, for he
prizes them more than all the gold and precious
stones by which we set such store. And they
have not been overlooked or dropped by accident,
for they were bound up in a paper, and lay at the
bottom of the barrel ; and, see, they are scattered
broadcast around us — scattered by those who
themselves had no need of such things, and were
meanly minded that no one else should profit by
them — wanton waste and devilry that the worst
Inga would not be guilty of. I do sadly fear
that this is the work of mad sailors ; what say
you. Master Palmer?" adds he, addressing an
old seaman who had joined us.

Like enough — like enough," says Palmer
dismally; "and if it be as you suppose, then
Heaven help us all. For," adds he, after a long-drawn
sigh, " none of our shipmates would thus
destroy and waste our stores unless he had

mutinied against our captain, and sought to bring
grief by our undoing."

The rest of our company, coming up, joined in
this opinion, and one cried that there was no hope
left us. But my lady, who was ever quick to
spy a comforting gleam where none saw aught
but dismal clouds, told them they did wrong to
despond so readily, "for," says she, "if some of
the men have rebelled, 'tis clear they have gained
but little by it, or they would not have come
hither."

You are in the right of it, madam," says
Palmer. " If they mutinied, 'twas because they
would no longer lie at the mouth of the
Oronoque, awaiting our return ; and had they
succeeded in overcoming our good captain, they
would at once have set sail and gone thence."

The company, seeing the soundness of this
argument, plucked up courage again ; but we all
agreed that, as the mutineers might be somewhere
betwixt us and Sir Bartlemy, we must proceed
with caution ; and as the nights were fairly light
(though no moon), and the river pretty well

known to us, we resolved to journey only by
night henceforth.

By the end of that week the rains began to
fall. However, this gave us but little trouble,
for not only did it increase the strength of the
current that bore us onwards, but it lessened our
danger of falling in with marauders, who would
now be forced to seek shelter of some sort. My
chief concern was for Lady Biddy ; but I contrived
to protect her from the pelting storm
with a very fair kind of tent set up in the
canoe.

We reached that mouth of the Oronoque
where the ships lay at nightfall on the third day
of the rains, and without molestation ; and here,
though it was too dark to make out the vessels,
we discerned a light about a mile out, as Ave
judged. Thither we considered it advisable to
proceed at once, for if we found that the
mutineers had overcome my uncle and held the
ships, then might we with more likelihood return
to land, and escape with our lives under cover of
the nisrht.

So now, with as little noise as possible, we
drew out into the open, Thomas Palmer, who
was an admirable good seaman, leading the
way in the biggest of our boats.

We were yet a couple of furlongs from the
light when Palmer stayed his rowers, and we
coming up with him, he whispered us that
one of the ships lay hard by without light
aboard ; and sure enough, on straining our eyes,
we perceived on our right hand a dark mass,
which might well be a ship's hulk, but I could
make out nothing clearly for the pelting rain
and obscurity.

"Well, Palmer," says I, "what is best
to do ? Shall we examine this closer or goon
? "

Master," says he, " I am for examining
this vessel. For if we get an ill-reception on the
further ship, and alarm is given, our retreat to
the shore may be cut off b}'- a sortie from this
here."

So, being agreed amongst ourselves, we drew
on till we reached the ship, and then we found

that she lay aground and on her side, as if she
had been careened. Twice we pulled right round
her, raising our voices to draw attention ; but
no one stirred aboard, and we remained unchallenged.
Not a sound could we hear, nor could
we find out much more with our eyes for the
darkness and rain (as I say) ; but in passing
those ports on the under side of the ship, that
lay pretty near on a level with our heads as we
stood up in our boats, a most sickening stench
assailed our nostrils. Not knowing what to beat,
we lay still for a few minutes, listening in
silence ; then Palmer called out lustily, and
we beat the side of the ship with our oars.
Never a sound did we get in reply, nor could we
spy sign of movement or glimmer of light anywhere,
which put our superstitious seamen to
great fear. But this Thomas Palmer, being
bolder than the rest, presently volunteered to go
into the ship by one of the ports and get some
explanation of the mystery, which he accordingly
did, and after being absent some time he
comes again to the port, and cries out that we
Q

can come aboard if we will, for there is none
there to do us mischief.

What ! " cries one of the seamen, " are
none of our old mates aboard?"

That I cannot tell for the darkness," says
Palmer ; " but, mates or not, this I will answer
for — every man-jack of 'em is dead."

At this moment Pennyfarden, catching me
by the arm, calls out—

Lord love us, master ! look above there."

Looking up as he bade us we then perceived
(our eyes being now grown accustomed to this
obscurity) two bodies hanging over the sea about
a fathom from our heads as we sat in our boats,
on that side of the ship which (as I say) inclined
over towards the water. Despite the dimness,
we made these out to be the corpses of men, and
doubted not that they hung there from the
yard-arms above.

For some while we could do nothing but
strain our eyes at these indistinct objects as they
slowly swung in the little breeze that was springing,
being pierced (as it were) with fear that this

was my poor old uncle, thus barbarously put to
death by the mutineers ; but still more terrified
with the uncertainty of the whole business, the
silence, the darkness, and that foul stench of
corruption that imprisoned the air.

Let us get hence ! " says one of the seamen
hoarsely.

Nay, we must know if this be our commander
that hangs here ere we venture to the
ship where there is light," says Palmer. " Have
you never a tinder-box, master, or anything dry
enough to burn? "

I had my tinder-gun dry in my pocket, and
my lady found amongst our store in the canoe
two or three of the cuati-nuts, and with some
ado we contrived to get these alight under the
tent that I have mentioned. And when they
were well ablaze we rowed right under the
hanging bodies, where, standing up, I suddenly
brought the flaming nuts out of the tent and
lifted them up as high as I could over my head,
so that the light shone full on the faces above.
Their eyes were staring wide open, and their
Q 2

lower jaws were dropped. But one was an eye
short, and I knew bim at once for Ned Parsons ;
while the other, by his pointed teeth alone,
I could have sworn to amongst a thousand for
our old enemy Eodrigues !

TOUCHING THOSE ACCIDENTS THAT HAD Happened
TO SIR Barley AS HE LAY AT THE
MOUTH OF THE ORONOQUE.

Turning from this grisly spectacle while still
the flame was bright, Thomas Palmer cries of
a sudden —

Why, this is none of our ships ; for our
sides are painted of a lively hue."

Whereupon, casting my eyes that way, I
perceived that this was none but that great
black ship which had been our undoing.

So now, guessing pretty well how matters
stood, we no longer hesitated to draw towards
that light we had been making for. And
coming to it anon, and calling out loudly for
those aboard, we were answered at once by the
lusty voice of my stout old uncle, who had been

brought on deck by the watch on perceiving our
light alongside the black ship.

Hearing his voice, my Lady Biddy cried in
her sweet voice, as clear as any bell — " We are
here, dear heart ; we have come back to you."

To tell of the great, unbounded joy in every
heart when we came on deck would call for
more wit than I possess, so I must span that
over and come to the time when, the day beginning
to break, my Lady Biddy was induced
to go into the cabin prepared for her ; and my
uncle and I, grown calm, sat us down together
with a bottle and a paper of tobacco, and he fell
to telling of his adventures ; of which (not to
weary the reader) will I repeat no more than
is necessary.

You see, nephew," says my uncle, " when
we anchored in these roads, the water was prodigiously
swollen by reason of the flux of rains ;
for you must understand that there is a bar to
the east, which does in a manner hem in the
flood. Well, here lay we very peacefully a week
after the party had set out in search of you.

when what should we spy in the offing one early
morn but the black ship, which I knew at once
for my old enemy, and another, which hath
turned out to be none other than our first ship,
the Adventurer, fitted out as a pirate, and commanded
by that villain Parsons. My first intent
was to stand up to them and pay off" old
scores ; but having regard to the weakness of
our company by the absence of those picked
men gone up the Oronoque, and reflecting that
if I were by any accident crippled in this bout,
it would go hard with you on your coming
hither, I was persuaded from my purpose ; but
as to showing our heels to the enemy, as some
advised, that would I not do. They came on,
thinking to make light work of such small fry
as we were ; but we stood to our guns and beat
'em off all day. However, when we could no
longer see to fight, I found myself so crippled
that I resolved to draw our little barks into
shallow water, where their heavy ships might
not dance round us on the morrow as they had
that day. Accordingly we put out our boats

and towed us in till we touched bottom. The
next day our enemy, spying us in our new
ground, lifted anchor and bore down on us,
thinking to pepper us all round and about as
before ; but presently they ran aground at a
decent distance from us by reason that they
drew so much more than we ; nevertheless, they
were near enough to bruise us again sorely with
their great guns, and that was all they wanted,
for 'twas the design of that accursed Rodrigues
to waste none of his mien in hand-to-hand fight,
but just riddle us day after day with his large
shot until we sank or yielded. But herein did
he reckon without taking account of the hand of
Providence, which is ever on the side of right ;
though it does seem at times as if He would befor
ever a-scourging us. That night the waters
sank so prodigiously that ere daybreak both we
and the pirate careened over in such sort that
our guns could no longer be brought to bear one
upon another, which was a comfort to us. Out
of this pickle was there no way until the
waters should again swell. Seeing which, this



Eodrigues sent me a mighty civil letter, saying
that he had come there but to refresh his company
and get water ; bearing me no ill-will, but
rather the contrary ; and since, as it was evident,
we must lie there neighbours for months to
come, we should do better to make terms of
peace and live in comfort than to go plaguing
each other out of existence. To this I sent
answer that I would by no means make terms
with a villain, and that if he would live he must
keep out of my reach. A reply came saying
that he should certainly have regard to my
amiable warning, and that as he was averse to
useless bloodshed, he should order his company
to keep to the east of our position in their expeditious
ashore, and while mine kept to the west
no injury would be offered us ; therewith he
signed himself my ' obedient, humble servant,
Eodrigues.' Well, nephew, I perceived it would
be to our advantage to agree to this condition —
tacitly, for I would never put my hand to compact
with such a rascal. And, to be brief," says
my uncle, " we passed the summer without conversing

or coming to blows with our neighbours.
But foreseeing full well that Eodrigues, as soon
as the waters rose, and he could float his ships,
would certainly give his company the pleasure of
spoiling us before going away, I took my measures
to be prepared against him, keeping my company
cheerful, sober, hopeful, and God-fearing, which
Eodrigues could not do b}'- his men because they
were naturally of a violent, wilful disposition.
So while mine daily increased in steadfastness
and vigour, his grew more violent and lawless,
as we could hear every night by their drunken
revelry and singing of filthy songs. And then,
knowing the advantage must be to him who
could first get afloat, I did secretly by night
convey all my heavy stores out of this ship into
my companion bark, keeping aboard only such
shot as I intended to deliver into that scurvy
pirate. The first day of the rains we lifted ; yet
I still of purpose kept her careened over to
deceive Eodrigues. The second morning, the
water having risen within the bay still further,
I found we might contrive, with the next breeze,

to right the ship and get into that deeper water
where the Black Death lay; and with this design
I got all my men to their posts, and everything
ready for a speedy start. In the afternoon came
a sweet little breeze from the land, on which I
gave the signal ; and all replying with a hearty
cheer and stout hearts, we presently righted ourselves,
and shaking out our sails slid easily off
the sand, like a duck into a mill-pond. And
now, nephew, I bore right up to Rodriguez with
a warlike blast of our trumpets, and passing to
that side of her where she lay exposed below the
water-line, I poured such a volley through her
timbers as would stay her from taking to the
water if she had the mind. Then wore we round
by her other side, and gave her just such another
dose over her bulwarks and through her decks ;
but my gunners, at my desire, did take especial
care to bruise all her boats, so that they could
not put off to our attack. And having served
Rodrigues' ship in this sort, we wore away and
served his consort — for they were a couple — in
the like fashion. In fine, Benet, we riddled 'em

both like a pair of flanders, and seeing by the
disablement of their boats that neither of 'em could
do us any further mischief, I held off, knowing
they must come to yield themselves up to our
mercy in the end from sheer starvation; for
they had no store aboard, by reason of their
wilful improvidence and headstrong insubordination,
and no means to provide themselves with
necessaries from the land neither, now that every
boat was disabled. We counted that a few days
would humble E-odrigues and bring his rascals
to their knees ; but they were in no mood to
suffer privation long, and that very evening one
of their number swam to us, while his fellows
spread out a white sheet over the side of their
ship for a sign of peace. Coming aboard, this
messenger said he had been sent by his commanders,
Edward Parsons and Sanchez Rodriguez,
to acknowledge themselves at my mercy,
and to know what terms I would make with
them and their company.

' Surrender yourselves prisoners to me,' says
I, ' and you shall receive such treatment at m}'

hands as humanity prescribes, until I may deliver
you to the ministers of justice to be dealt with
according to your deserts.'

* Why, your honour,' says he ruefully,
that is but to offer us a safe conduct to the
gallows ; and for my own part I would as soon
trust to Providence in these wilds as to justice
in England. 'Tis hard on us poor fellows, who
would die honest men, and have no love for such
plaguy adventurers as those who have brought
us to ruin.'

' Nay,' says I, ' if you would have indulgence
of me I must have good assurance that
you are not willing accomplices of your commanders.
'

' I take your honour at that,' says he
quickly, ' for though I be here in the name of
our commanders, my chief purpose is to plead
for my mates. You shall have that assurance
you demand before another day is past : set everyone
of us down for a born scoundrel else.'

And with that he leaps into the sea, and
swims back to his ship. In the middle of the

night following we were aroused by slits fired
on the Black Death, whereby we knew that the
men had risen in mutiny against their captains ;
but clearly they were prepared for this assault,
for the fighting continued on and off all that
night and best part of the day following ; but
about six in the evening the battle grew to its
loudest, and after half an hour we perceived that
'twas decided one way or the other by the firing
coming to an end, and a prodigious cheer being
raised. Nor were we long in learning how
matters stood, for shortly after the company,
coming to the side of their ship with a waving
of hats and much hallooing, swung up that
wretch Rodrigues and his fellow. Parsons, by
their necks to the yard-arm."

When my uncle had made an end of his discourse,
I ventured to ask him if he had chanced
to hear anything of Sir Harry Smidmore since
he had been lying in these parts.

"Nay," says he, "I have seen naught of
him ; but I got tidings of him only yesterday
from one of the pirates we have now aboard.

He tells me that before coming hither Eodrigues
put ashore on that island where he set you and
Smidmore, to see if hardship had subdued your
spirits and inclined you to cast in your lot with
him. There, on a post planted in the shore,
they found a bottle tied, with a letter inside it
signed by Sir Harry, telling how — to his great
joy and the praise of Heaven — he had been found
by an honest merchant putting in for water, and
was about to sail with him thence for the city of
Bristol. And so, Benet," says he, " you have no
reason to torment yourself on that score."

LADY BIDDY BREAKS HER TROTH, AND WE HEAR
FALMOUTH BELLS AGAIN.

Our carpenters set to work and patched up the
sides of the pirate ships without delay, so that
when the water gained still more they floated
without leakage.

While this was doing, the rest of the companies
were mightily busy making all ready for
our departure. And to see the nimble bustle on
all sides, and to hear the lively mirth, mingled
with snatches of sea-songs, in every part, one
would have thought there was not a sad heart
aboard ; yet. Lord knows, there was one amongst
them as heavy and dull as lead. For now I could
reckon the number of days (within a few) that it
would take us to reach England ; and once my
Lady Biddy was landed there, and I was assured
that Smidmore was alive, I must quit her forever,

and go elsewhere to finish the rest of my
life as I best could alone. However, I did my
utmost to bear a cheerful and contented mien,
for Killjoy is but a poor friend. I could find
nothing to talk upon without constraint ; but I
went about with a quick step, as though I had
all the business in the world to look after, and
made a good pretence to sing songs and whistle
old tunes — though they nearly choked me, for I
could recall none but the ditties my dear lady
and I used to sing together in our home in the
cave. Nevertheless, despite my whistling, etc.,
I could see m}^ dear cousin was anxious about
me — for women do see through deceit and right
into the very heart of a man as we can in nowise
; and many a time out of the corner of my
eye I perceived her watching of me with grave
eyes and a drawn face — nay, once when I broke
off whistling because I found I had got on to the
tune of " Spring flowers be sweet " (which was
our old favourite song), I saw her turn away'
with her dear eyes full of tears.

To cut this matter short, we set sail ere long'



and with a prosperous gale came ere long to
the Canaries, where we rested to revictual and
better equip ourselves. Here were two or three
English ships ; and one day Sir Bartlemy, having
come from a visit to one of our countrymen, told
me that he had learnt for a certainty that Sir
Harry Smidmore was in England, and that all
the world did talk of his escape, etc., etc.

Hearing this, I perceived that now the time
was come for making my last sacrifice ; for 'twas
useless to return to England, and, worse than
that, to pain my dear lady with that dejection of
spirit which I could not conceal. And so, after a
night of such hitter struggling between my baser
and better self as I am willing to pass over, I
went to my uncle, as he sat alone in his cabin,
and told him I had given up my design of returning
to England with him, and should count
it a favour if he would entrust me with one of
the ships to go a- trading as his agent to Cam-peach
and those regions.

Why, what maggot has bit you, nephew? "
says he in amaze. " You have shown no disposition

to go roaming since we quitted the
Oronoque; nay, it seemed to me that your sole
joy was to be nth us, and that you could not
rest out of sight of niece Biddy."

That was indeed true, but I felt I must
indulge this delight no longer, but break away
from that perilous, passionate attachment while I
had the manhood to obey the advice of my conscience.
But I could not explain this to my
uncle, and so hung my head in silence, being as
sore at heart as any man could be.

Do you feel it is your duty, Benet ? " says
my uncle tenderly, after a pause ; seeing, as I
take it, how matters stood.

I nodded my head, not daring to speak, lest
my strength should give way under the strain of
anguish that I felt in thinking I must never
again see my dear lady.

"In that case, dear fellow," says the kindhearted
old gentleman, getting up and lasting his
hand on my neck, " God forbid I should balk
your design. You shall have a ship, and means
for your venture, to boot, as being but a little out
^ 2

of that great store of gold we have taken from
the pirates. May the Lord prosper you m all
you undertake, as doubtless He will, being just,
as well as merciful."

We wall say naught of this to my Lady
Biddy uncle," says I, " for I know not how to
explain my sudden turn of intention to her
satisfaction."

"As you will, nephew," sa3''s he — "as j^ou
will."

Then, taking my friend Matthew Penny-garden
aside, I asked him if he would come with
me and share my fortunes.

Lord love you, master," says he, " that will
I with all my heart, be it anywhere in the
world."

So we secretly fitted out a ship, and got all
ready for the venture I had in my mind; and
that being done, there was nothing left to do
but to bid my dear lady farewell, which was a
thing I dreaded woefully, yet saw no way of
avoiding. However, the night before I designed
to set sail, my uncle undertook to break the

news to my lady lightly, as if 'twere a sudden
whimsy that possessed me.

The next morning as I sat in my cabin, looking
at the chart which was to guide me to Cam-peach,
but my eye wandering from that part to
the wilderness where the sweetest moments of
my existence had been passed, my lady came onboard,
and ere I knew it stole to my side.

Is that where you are going, Benet? " says
she, leaning over my shoulder.

Ay," says I, stammering like a fool ; " Sir
Bartlemy has told you ? "

Yes," says she, " and I've come to know
where you mean to bestow your little comrade."

"My little comrade?" says I, choking with
despair ; " I have none."

What's become of the little comrade ? "
asks she.

I could make no reply save by putting my
finger on the map where, as I guessed, we had
encountered the party sent to meet us, and my
little comrade had put off her stripling's dress
and donned her sown ao^ain.

Your little comrade," says lie, bending over
me till her glowing cheek was side by side with
mine — " your little comrade has changed her
dress, but not her heart, Benet. The little comrade
who saw you striving to be a brother, knew
you to be a lover, and liked you none the less
because you failed. To hide your love was an
effort; to hide mine a grief. Now you know
why I was dull, Benet. I was sick of love, dear
sick of love."

And with that she laid her cheek to mine,
and such rapture seized me that I knew not what
I did.

Yet presently a sudden recollection chilled
me, and I said with a groan, " Smidmore ! "

Smidmore ! " says she, her pretty brows
creasing in anger and her lip curling with scorn.
Hast not my uncle told you of his treachery?"

His treachery ! " said I in amaze — " never
a word."

'Tis because he would hide the weakness
and shame of a man he had taken for a friend.
When he found we were gone from England he

gave himself up to the flattery of his friends ;
and instead of following us to our help, as we
followed him, is paying his court to another.
But why should I be vexed with him ? " says
she, her face melting with sweet kindness ; " for,
sure, no troth should bind us when we cease to
love. And, in truth, dear Benet, had he been
constant I must have broken my pledge, having
no love but for you, dear — no love but for you.
Take me, sweetheart," adds she, stretching forth
her hands, "or else I die an old maid."

THE END.

Painted dy Cassel & Company, Limited, La Belle Sauvage, London, Eg.

Abbeys and Churches of England and Wales, The: Descriptive, Historical,

Pictorial. 21s.
After London ; or. Wild England. By the late Richard Jefferies. Cheap

Edition, 3s. 6d.
Along Alaska's Great River. By Lieut. Schwatka. Illustrated. 12s. 6d.
American Penman, An. By Julian Hawthorne. Boards, 2s. ; cloth, 3;;. 6d
American Yachts and Yachting. Illustrated. 6s.
Animal Painting In Water Colours. With Eighteen Coloured Plates b^

Frederick Tatler. 5s.
Arabian Nights Entertainments (Cassel's). With about 400 Illustrations. los. 6d.
Architectural Drawing. By Phen6 Spiers. Illustrated. los. 6d.
Art, The Magazine of Yearly Volume. With several hundred Engravings, and

Twelve Etchings, Photogravures, &c. i6s.
Behind Time, by G. P. Lathrop. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.
Bimetallism, The Theory of. By D. Barbour. 6s.

Bismarck, Prince. By C. Lowe, M.A. Two Vols. Cheap Edition. los. 6d.
Black Arrow, The. A Tale of the Two Roses. By R. L. Stevenson. 55.
British Ballads. 275 Original Illustrations. Two Vols. Cloth, 7s. 6d. each.
British Battles on Land and Sea. By the late James Grant, With about 600

Illustrations. Three Vols., 410, jE^z 7s. ; Library Edition, £1 los.
British Battles, Recent. Illustrated. 410, 9s. Library Edition, los.
British Empire, The. By Sir George Campbell. 3s.
Browning, An Introduction to the Study of. By Arthur Symons. 2s. 6d.
Butterflies and Moths, European. By W. F, Kirby. With 61 Coloured

Plates. Demy 4to, 358.

Canaries and Cage-Birds, The Illustrated Book of. By W. A. Blackstone

SwAVSLAND, and A. F. Wiener. With 56 Fac-simile Coloured Plates, 35s.

Cannibals and Convicts. By Julian Thomas (the Vagabond). Cheap

Edition, 5s.

Captain Trafalgar. By Westall and Laurie. Illustrated. 53.

Cassel's Family Magazine. Yearly Vol. Illustrated. 9s.

Celebrities of the Century : Being a Dictionary of Men and Women of the

Nineteenth Century. 21s. ; roxburgh, discharging
Year, The. With Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

Chess Problem, The. With Illustrations by C. Planck and others. 7s. 6d.
Children of the Cold, The. By Lieut. Schwatka. 2s. 6d.
China Painting. By Florence Lewis. With Sixteen Coloured Plates, and a

selection of Wood Engravings. With full Instructions, ss.

Choice Dishes at Small Cost. By A. G. Payne. Cheap Edition, is.
Christmas in the Olden Time. By Sir Walter Scott. With charming

Original Illustrations. 7s. 6d.
Cities of the World. Three Vols. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. each.
Civil Service, Guide to Employment in the. New and Enlarged Edition. 3s. 6d.
Civil Service.— Guide to Female Employment In Government Offices. Cloth, is.
Clinical Manuals for Practitioners and Students of Medicine. {A List of

V volumes forwarded post free on affirmation to the Publishers.)

Clothing, The Influence of, on Health. By Frederick Treves, F.R.C.S. 2s.
Cobden Club, Some Works published for the :—

writings of Richard Cobden. 65.

Iiocal Government and Taxation in the

United Kingdom. 5s. Salmon,

Displacement ol Labour and Capital. v\. Pleas lor Protection Examined. KyA. Mon-free
Trade versus Pair Trade. 5s. grecian. New and Rtvtstd titian. 6d

Free Trade and English Commerce. By 'What Protection does for the Farmer. Bv

A. M .nsjreiiien. 6d. J. S. Leading. M. A. 6d.

Crown Colonies, is. Tno Old Poor Law and the New Socialism :
Popular Fallacies Regarding Trade. 6d. or. Pauperism and Taxation. By F C

Western Farmer of America. 3d. Montague. 6d.

Reform of the English Land System. 3d. The Secretary of State for India In Couo-
Fair Trade Unmasked. By G. W. Medley. 6d. oiL 6d.

Technical Education. By F. C Moii- The National Income and Taxation B»

tagus, M.A Sd. Sir Louis Mallet. 6d. '

6 G-7.,^S

Geometry, First Elements of Experimental. By Paul Bert. is. bd.

Geometry, Practical Solid. By Major Ross. 2s.

Germany, William of. By Archibald Forbes. 3s. 6d.

Gladstone, Life of the Rt. Hon. W.E. By G. Barnett Smith. With Portrait. 3s. 6d.

Gleanings from Popular Authors. Two Vols. With Original Illustrations.

4to, gs. each. Two Vols, in One, 15s.
Gold to Grey, From. Being Poems and Pictures of Life and Nature. By Mary

D. Brine. Illustrated. 7s. 6d.

Great Bank Robbery. The. A Novel. By Julian Hawthorne. Boards, 2s,
Great Industries of Great Britain. With 400 Illustrations. 3 Vols., 7s. 6d. each.
Great Northern Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the. is. ; cloth, 2s.
Great Western Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the. is. ; cloth, 2s.
Great Painters of Christendom, The, Iron Cimabue to Wilkie. By John

Forbes-Robertson. Illustrated throughout. Popular Edition, cloth gilt, 12s. 6d.
Gulliver's Travels. With 88 Engravings by Morten. Cheap Edition. Cloth,

3s. 6d. ; cloth gilt, 5s.
Gum Boughs and Wattle Bloom. By Donald Macdonald. 5s.
Gun and its Development, The. By W. W. Greener. Illustrated. los, 6d.
Guns, Modern Shot. By W. W. Greener. Illustrated. 5s.
Health at School. By Clement Dukes, M.D., B.S. 7s. 6d. [burgh, 25s.

Health, The Book of By Eminent Physicians and Surgeons. Cloth, 21s. ; rox-
Health, The Influence of Clothing on. By F. Treves, F. R.C.S. 2s.
Heavens, The Story of the. By Sir Robert Swell Ball, LL.D., F.R.S.,

Royal Astronomer of Ireland. Coloured Plates and Wood Engravings. 31s. 6d.

Heroes of Britain in Peace and War. In Two Vols., with 300 Original Illustrations.
5s. each ; or One Vol., library binding, its. 6d.
Holy Land and the Bible, The. By the Rev. Cunningham Geikie, D.D.

With Map. Two Vols. 24s.

Homes, Our, and How to Make them Healthy. By Eminent Authorities.

Illustrated. 15s. ; roxburgh, i8s.

Horse-Keeper, The PracticaL By George Fleming, LL.D.\ F.R.C.V.S.

Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d.
Horse, The Book of the. By Samuel Sidney. With 28 facsimile Coloured
Plates. Demy 4to, 35s. ; half-morocco, i,i 5s.

Horses, The Simple Ailments of By W. F. Illustrated. 5s.
Household Guide, Cassel's. With Illustrations and Coloured Plates. New and
Revised Edition, complete in Four Vols., dos.

How Dante Climbed the Mountain. By Rose Emily Selfe. With Eight

Full-page Engravings by Gustave Dore. 2S.

How Women may Earn a Living. By Mercy Grogan. is.

Imperial White Books. In Quarterly Vols. los. 6d. per annum, post free ;

to subscribers separately, 3s. 6d. each.
India. Cassel's History of. By the late James Grant. With 400 Illustrations. 15s.
India: the Land and the People. By Sir James Cairo, K.C.B. ios. 6d.
In-door Amusements, Card Games, and Fireside Fun, Cassel's. 3s. 6d.
Industrial Remuneration Conference. The Report of. 2s. 6d.
Insect Variety : its Propagation and Distribution. By A. H. Swinton. 7s. 6d.
Irish Parliament, The, What it Was, and What it Did. By J. G. Swift

McNeill, M.A., M.P. is.
Irish Parliament, A Miniature History of the. By J. C. Haslam. 3d.
Irish Union ; Before and After. By A. K. Connell, M. A. 2s. 6d.
John Parmelee's Curse. By Julian Hawthorne. 2s. 6d.
Kennel Guide, PracticaL By Dr. Gordon Stables. Illustrated. Cheap Edition, is.
Kidnapped. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated Edition. 53.
King Solomon's Mines. By H. Rider Haggard. Illustrated Edition. 53,
Khiva, A Ride to. By Col. Feed Burnaby. is. 6d.
Ladies' Physician, The. By a London Physician. 6s.
Lady Biddy Fane. By Frank Barrett. Three Vols. Cloth, 31s. 6d.
lAdy's World, The. An Illustrated Magazine of Fashion and Society. Yrly, Vol. island
Question, The. By Prof. J. Elliot, M. R.A.C. Including the Land Scare

and Production of Cereals. 3s. 6d.

Landscape Painting in Oils, A Course of Lessons in. By A. F. Grace.

With Nine Reproductions in Colour. Cheap Edition, 25$.

Law, About Going to. By A. J. Williams, M. P. 2s. 6d.

Laws of Every Day Life, The. By H. O. Arnold-Forster. is. 6d.

Letts's Diaries and other Time-saving Publications are now published exclusively
by Cassel & Com tan v. (A List sent /•ost free on application.)

Local Dual Standards. By John Henry Norman. Gold and Silver Standard
Currencies, is.

Local Government In England and G^'-many. By the Rt. Hon. Sir Robert

MORIER, G.C.B., &C. IS.

London, Brighton, and South Coast Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide

to the. IS. ; cloth, 2s.

London and North Western RaUway, The Official Illustrated Guide to thais

; cloth, 2s.

London and South Western Railway, The Official Illustrated C Jde to the.

IS. ; cloth, 2S.

London, Greater. By Edward Walford. Two Vols. With about 400

Illustrations. 9s. each. Library Edition. Two Vols. £,\ the set.

London, Old and New. By Walter Thornbury and Edward Walford.

Six Vols., each containing about 200 Illustrations and Maps. Cloth, 9s. each. Library
Edition. Imitation roxburgh, £■>,.

Longfellow, H. W., Choice Poems by. Illustrated by his Son, Ernest W.

Longfellow. 6s.
Longfellow's Poetical Works. Fine-Art Edition. Illustrated throughout with
Original Engravings. Royal 410, cloth gilt, £3 3s. Popular Edition. i6s.

Luther, Martin: the Man and his Work. By Peter Bayne, LL.D. Two

Vols., 24s.
Marine Painting. By Walter W. May, R.I. With i6 Coloured Plates. Cloth, 53.
Mechanics, The Practical Dictionary of. Containing 15,000 Drawings. Four

Vols. 21S. each.
Medicine, Manuals for Students of. {A List forwarded post free on application.)
Midland Railway, The Official Illustrated Guide to the. New and Revised

Edition. IS. ; cloth, 2s.

Modem Europe, A History of. By C. A. Fyffe, M.A. Vol. I. From 1792 to

1814. Is. Vol. II. From 1814 to 1848. 12s.
Music, Illustrated History of. By Emil Naumann. Edited by the Rev.

Sir F. A. Gore Moseley, B.irt. Illustrated. Two Vols. 31s. 6d.
National Library, Cassel's. In Weekly Volumes, each contain about 192

pages. Paper covers, 3d. ; cloth, 6d. (A List of the Volumes already published sent

post free on application.)

Natural History, Cassel's Concise. By E. Perceval Wright, M.A., M.D.,

Fel S. With several Hundred Illustrations. 7s. 6d. ; roxburgh, los. 6d.

Natural History, Cassel's New. Edited by Prof. P. Martin Duncan, Mab.,

F.R.S., F.G.S. With Contributions by Eminent Scientific Writers. Complete in
Six Vols. With about 2,000 high-class Illustrations. Extra crown 410, cloth, 9s. each.

Nature, Short Studies from. Illustrated. Cheap Edition. 2s. 6d.

Neutral Tint, A Course of Painting In. With Twenty-four Plates by R. P.

Leitch. With full Instructions to the Pupil. 5s.

Nimrod in the North ; or. Hunting and Fishing Adventures In the Arctic

Regions. By Lieut. Schwatka. Illustrated. 7s. 6d.

Nursing for the Home and for the Hospital, A Handbook of. By Catherine

J. Wood. Cheap Edition, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s.
Oil Painting, A Manual of. By Hon. John Collier. Cloth, 2s. 6d.
On the Equator. By H. De W. Illustrated with Photos. 3s. 6d.
Orion the Gold Beater. A Novel. By Sylvanus Cobb, Junr. Cloth, 3s. 6d.
Our Own Country. Six Vols. With 1,200 Illustrations. Cloth, 7s. 6d. each.
Outdoor Sports and Indoor Amusements, Cassel's Book of. With about

900 Illustrations. Cheap Edition. 992 pages, medium Bvo, cloth, 3s. fid.

Paris, Cassel's Illustrated Guide to. Cloth, 2s.

Parliaments, A Diary of Two. By H. W. Lucy. The Disraeli Par'Uimeiit,

1874—1880. Is. The Gladstone Parliament, 1881— 1886. 12s.
Paxton's Flower Garden. By Sir Joseph Paxton and Prof. Lindley. Revised

by Thomas Haines, F.R.H.S. Three Vols. With loo Coloured Plates. li is. each.
Peoples of the World, The. By Dr. Robert Brown. Complete in Six Volumes.

With Illustrations. 7s. fid. each.

Phantom City, The. By W. Westall. 5s.

i?botogn:-aphy for Amateurs. ByT. C. Hepworth. Illustrated, is. ; or cloth, is. 6d.

Phrase and Fable, Dictionary of. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Cheap Edition,

Enlarged, cloth, 3s. 6d. ; or with leather back, 4s. 6d.
Picturesque America. Complete in Four Vols. , with 48 Exquisite Steel Plates,

and about 800 Original Wood Engravings. £1 2s. each.
Picturesque Canada. With about 600 Original Illustrations. Two Vols.,

Picturesque Europe. Complete in Five Vols. Each containing 13 Exquisite Steel
Plates, from Original Drawings, and nearly 200 Original Illustrations. ;Cio los. ;
half-morocco-i.^ 15s. ; morocco gilt, £i(> ss. The Popular Edition is now complete
in Five Vols., i8s. each.

Pigeon Keeper, The Practical. By Lewis Wright. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.
Pigeons, The Book o£ By Robert Fulton. Edited by Lewis Wright. With

50 Coloured Plates and numerous Wood Engravings. 31s. 6d. ; half-morocco, {.■z 2S.
Pocket Guide to Europe (Cassel's). Size 5J in. x sf in. Leather, 6s.
Poems, Representative of Living Poets, American and English. Selected by

the Poets themselves. 15s.

Poets, CasseU'B Miniature Library of the :—

1 Vols. Cloth, IS. each ; or cloth,

Bairns.

guilt edges, 2S. 6d. the set
Byron. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ; or cloth,

Milton. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ; or cloth,

gilt edges, 2s. 6d. the set.
Scott. Two Vols. Cloth, IS. each; or cloth,

gilt edges, 2S. 6d. the set.
Sheridan and Goldsmith. 2 Vols. Cloth, is.

each ; or cloth, gilt edges, 2s. 6d. the set.
wordsworth Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ;

or cloth, erilt edges, 2s. 6d. the set.
Vols., half cloth, in box, 12s.

each ; or cloth,
gilt edges, 2S. 6d. the set.
Longfellow. Two Vols. Cloth, is. each ; 01
cloth, gilt edges, zs. 6d. the set.

Shakespeare. Twelve
Popular Library, Cassel's. A Series of New and Original Works. Cloth, is. each,

John 'Wesley.

The Story of the EngUsh Jacobins.

Domestic Folk Lore.

The Rev. Howland Hill.

Boswell and Johnson.

Bttstory of the Free-Trade Movement In

With Coloured Plates

The Russian Empire

The Religious Revolution in the Sixteenth
Century.
English Journalism.
Our Colonial Empire.
The Young Man in the Battle of Life.

Post Office of Fifty Years Ago, The. is.

Poultry Keeper, The PracticaL By Lewis Wright,

and Illustrations. 3s. 6d.

Poultry, The Book of. By Lewis Wright. Popular Edition. With Illustrations
on Wood, los. 6d.

Poultry, The Illustrated Book of. By Lewis Wright. With Fifty Exquisite

Coloured Plates, and numerous Wood Engravings. Cloth, 31s. 6d. ; half-morocco, .1^225.

Pre-Raphselltes (The Italian) in the National Gallery. By Cosmo Monk-house.
Illustrated, is.
Printing Machinery and Letterpress Printing, Modern. By Fred. J. F.

Wilson and Douglas Gkev. Illustrated. 21s.

Queen Victoria, The Life and Times of. By Robert Wilson. Complete in

2 Vols. With numerous Illustrations, representing the Chief Events in the Life of the
Queen, and Portraits of the Leading Celebrities of her Reign. Extra crown 410, cloth
gilt, qs. each.

Queer Race, A. By W. Westall. 5s.

Rabbit-Keeper, The PracticaL By Cuniculus. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.

Red Library of English and American Classics, The. Stiff covers, is. each ;

cloth, 2S. each.

People I have Met.

The Pathfinder.

Evening.

Scott's Poems.

Last of the Barons.

Adventures of Mr. Ledbury and his

friend Jack Johnson.
Ivanhoe.
diver Twist.

Selections from Hood's 'Works.
Iiongfellow'B Prose Works.
Sense and Sensibility.
Lytton's Plays. [Harte).

Tales, Poems, and Sketches (Bred
Martin Chuzzlewit. Two Vols.
The Prince of the House of David.
Sheridan's Plays,
tlncle Tom's Cabin.
Deerslayer.
Eugene Aram.
Jack Hinton, the Guardsman.

The Talisman. | Pickwick (Two Vols.

Rome and the Early Christians

The Trials of Ma ' "

Edgar Allan Poe

The Trials of Margaret Lindsay.
Agar Allan Poe. Pn
d Mortality.

rose and Poetry, Select

[tions from.

The Hour and the Man.

washington Irving's Sketch-Book,

Last Days of Palmyra.

Tales of the Borders.

Pride and Prejudice.

Last of the Mexicans.

Heart of Midlothian.

Last Days of Pompeii.

Yellowish Papers.

Handy Andy.

Selected Plays.

American Humour.

Sketches by Boz.

Macaulay's Lays and Selected Essays.

Hard '

Old

Scarlet Letter.

and a Series of beautiful Engravings. C'^ zs.
Russia. By .Sir Donald Mckenzie \V.-\llace, M.A. 5s.
Russo-turkish War, Cassel's History of. With about 500 Illustrations. Two

\'oIs., OS. each ; library binding. One Vol., 15s.

Saturday Journal, Cassel's. Yearly Vols. , 7s. 6d.

Science for All. Edited by Dr. Robert liROWN, M.A., F.L.S., &c. With
1,500 Illustrations, five Vols., gs. each.

Sea, The: Its Stirring Story of Adventure, Peril, and Heroism. By

V. WiiY.Mi'ER. With 400 Illustrations. Four Vols., 7s. 6d. each.

Section 558, or the Fatal Letter. A Novel. By Julian Hawthorne.

Boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.
Sent Back by the Angels. And other Ballads of Home and Homely Life. By

Frederick Cambridge, M.A. 4s. 6d. Popular Edition, is.
Sepia Painting, A Course of. Two Vols., with Twelve Coloured Plates in each,

and numerous Engravings. Each, 3s. Also in One Volume, 5s.

Shaftesbury, The Seventh Earl of, Keg., The Life and Work of. By Edwin

Holder. With Portraits. Three Vols., 36b. Fopjilar Edition, in One Vol., 7s. 6d.
Shakspere, The International. Edition de luxe.

King Henry IV." Illustrated by Herr Edward Grutzner. ;{^3 los.

"As You Like It." Illustrated by Mons. Emile Bayard. £,■}, 10^.

"Romeo and Juliet." Illustrated by Fr.\nk; Dicksee, A.R.A. .£5 5s.
Shakspere, The Leopold. With 400 Illustrations, and an Introduction by F. J.

FuKNivALL. Small 4to, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-morocco, los. 6d. ; full morocco, £,\ is.

Cheap Edition. 3s. fid.

Shakspere, The Royal. With Exquisite Steel Plates and Wood Engravings.

Thre Vols. 15s. each.

Shakespeare, Cassel's Quarto Edition. Edited by Charles and Mary Bowden

Clarke, and containing about 600 Illustrations by H. C. Selous. Complete in

Three Vols., cloth gilt, £3 3s. — Also published in Three separate Volumes, in cloth,

viz. : — The Comedies, 21s. ; The Historical Plays, i8s. 6d. ; The Tragedies, 25s.

Shakespeare, Miniature. Illustrated. In Twelve Vols., in box, 12s. ; or in

Red Pas-te Grain (bo.\ to match), with spring catch, lettered in gold, 21s.

Shakespearean Scenes and Characters. Illustrate of Thirty Plays of Shakespeare,
with Thirty Steel Plates and Ten Wood Engravings. The Text written by
Austin Bretton. Royal 4to, 21s.

Sketching from Nature in Water Colours. By Aaron Penley. With lus

orations in Chronic-Lithography. 15s.

Skin and Hair, The Management of the. By Malcolm Morris, F.R.C.S. 2s.

Sonnets and Quatorzains. By Chrys, M.A. (Oxon). 53.

Standards, Local DuaL By John Henry Norman. is.

Steam Engine, The Theory and Action of the : for Practical Men. By W. H.

NORTHCOTT, CE. 3S. 6i.

stock Exchange Year-Book, The. By Thomas Skinner. 12s. 6d.
Summer Tide, Little Folks Holiday Number, is.
Sunlight and Shade. With numerous Exquisite Engravings. 7s. 6d.
Surgery, Memorials of the Craft of, in England. With an Introduction by

Sir James Paget. 21s.
Thackeray, Character Sketches from. Six New and Original Drawings by

Frederick Barnard, reproduced in Photogravure. 21s.
Thorah, The Yoke of the. A Novel. By Sidney Luska. Boards, 2s. ; cloth, 3s. 60
Three and Sixpenny Library ot Standard Tales, &c. All Illustrated and bound

in cloth gilt. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. each.
Jane Austen and her Works.

Mission Life in Greece and Palestine.

The Romance of Trade.

The Three Homes.

Deepdale Vicarage.

In Duty Bound.

The Half Sisters.

Peggy Oglivie's Inheritance.

The Family Honour.

Esther West.

Working to Win.

Krilof and his Fables. By

Ralston, M.A.
Fairy Tales. IJy Prof. Morley.

Tot Book for all Public Examinations. By W. S. Thomson, M.A. is.
Town Holdings, is.

Tragedy of Brinkwater, The. A Novel. By Martha L. Moodey. Boards, as.;

cloth, ^s. 6d.
Tragic Mystery, A. A Novel. By Julian Hawthorne. Boards, as. ; cloth, 3s. 6d.
Treasure Island. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated. 5s.
Tree Painting in Water Colours. By W. H. J. Boot. With Eighteen

Coloured Plates, and valuable instructions by the Artist. 5s.
Trees, Familiar. By G. S. Boulger, F.L.S F.G.S. Two Series. With Forty
full-page Coloured Plates, from Original Paintings by W. H. J. Boot. 12s. 6d. each.

Twenty Photogravures of Pictures in the Salon of 1885, by the leading

French Artists. In Portfolio. Only a limited number of copies have been produced,
terms for which can be obtained of all Booksellers.

"Unicode": The Universal Telegraphic Phrase Book. Pocket and Desk

Editions. 2s 6d. each. .

United States, Cassel's History of the. By the late Edmund Ollier. With 600

Illustrations. Three Vols. gs. each.

United States, The Youth's History of. By Edward S. Ellis. Illustrated.

Four Vols. 36s.

Universal History, Cassel's Illustrated. With nearly One Thousand
Illustrations. Vol. I. Early and Greek History.— Vol. II. The Roman Period.—
Vol. III. The Middle Ages.— Vol. IV. Modern History. 9s. each.

Vaccination Vindicated. An Answer to the leading Anti Vaccinators. Bv John
C. McVail. M.D., D.P.H. Camb. 5s.

Veiled Beyond, The. A Novel. By S. B. Alexander. Cloth, 3s. 6d.

Vicar of Wakefield and other Works by Oliver Goldsmith. Illustrated.

3s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, ^s.
Water-colour Painting, A "Course of. With Twenty-four Coloured Plates by
R. P. Leitch, and full Instructions to the Pupil. 5s.

What Girls Can Do. By Phyllis Browne, as. 6d.

Who is John Noman ? A Novel. By Charles Henry Beckett, Boards, as. ;

Cloth, 3s. ed.
WUd Birds, Familiar. By W. Swaysland. Four Series. With 40 Coloured

Plates in each. 12s. 6d. each.
Wild Flowers, Familiar. By F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., F.S.A. Five Series. With

40 Coloured Plates in each. 12s. 6d. each.

Wise Woman, The. By George Macdonald. as. 6d.

Woman's World, The. Yearly Volume. i8s.

World of Wit and Humour, The. With 400 Illustrations. Cloth, 7s. 6d. ; cloth

gilt, gilt edges, los. 6d.
World of Wonders, The. Two Vols. With 400 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. each.
World's Lumber Room, The. By Selina Gaye. Illustrated, as. 6d.
Yule Tide, Cassel's Christmas Annual, is.

ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINES.
The Quiver y for SwnHay and General Rcadinff. Monthly, 6d.

Cassel Family Magazine. Monthly, yd.

little Folks " Magazine. Monthly, 6d.

The Magazine of Art. Monthly, is.

The Woman's World. Monthly, is.

Cassel Saturday Journal. Weekly, id. ; Monthly, 6d.

•,• Full particulars of Cassel & COMPANY'S Monthly Serial Publications

will be found in Cassel & Company's COMPLETE CATALOGUE.

Catalogues of Cassel & Company's Publications, which may be had at all

Booksellers', or will be sent post free on application to the Publishers : —
Cassel's Complete Catalogue, containing particulars of One Thousand

Volumes.
Cassel's Classified Catalogue, in which their Works are arranged according

to price, from Threepence to Twenty-Jive Guineas.
Cassel's Educational Catalogue, containing particulars of Cassel &
Company's Educational Works and Students' Manuals.

Cassel & COMPANY, Limited, Lydgate Hill, London.

18ibba anb Ildi0i0ua Morea.

Bible, The Crown Illustrated. With about 1,000 Original Illustrations. With

References, &c. 1,248 pages, crown 410, cloth, 7s. 6d.
Bible, Cassel's Illustrated Family. With 900 Illustrations. Leather, gilt

edges, ^1 los. ; full morocco, £,j, los.
Bible Dictionary, Cassel's. With nearly 600 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. ; roxburgh.

los. 6(J.
Bible Educator, The. Edited by the Very Rev. Dean Plumptre, D.D. With

Illustrations, Maps, &c. Four Vols., cloth, 6s. each.

Bible Work at Home and Abroad. Yearly Volume, 3s.

Bible Talks about Bible Pictures. Illustrated by Gustave DoKft and others.
Large 4to, ss.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress (Cassel's Illustrated). 4to. 7s. 6d.
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. With Illustrations. Popular Edition, 3s. 6d.
Child's Life of Christ, The. Complete in One Handsome Volume, with about

200 Original Illustrations. Demy 410, gilt edges, 21s.
Child's Bible, The. With 200 Illustrations. Demy 410, 830 pp. 145//^ Thousand.

Cheap Edition, 7s. 6d.

Commentary, The New Testament, for English Readers. Edited by the

Rt. Rev. C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. In Three
Volumes, 21s. each.

Vol. I.— The Fotir Gospels.

Vol. II.— The Acts, Romans, Corinthians, Galatians.

Vol. III.— The remaining Books of the New Testament.

Commentary, The Old Testament, for English Readers. Edited by the Rt.
Rev. C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. Complete in
5 Vols., 2 IS. each.
Vol. I.— Genesis to Numbers. I Vol. III.— Kings I. to Esther.

Vol. II.— Deuteronomy to Samuel II. | Vol. IV.— Job to Isaiah.

Vol. V. — Jeremiah to Malachi.

Dictionary of Religion, The. An Encyclopaedia ot Christian and other

Religious Doctrines, Denominations, Sects, Heresies, Ecclesiastical Terms, History,

Biography, &c. &c. By the Rev. William Benham, B.D. Cloth. 21s. ; roxburgh, 25s.

Dore Bible. With 230 Illustrations by Gustave DoRfi. Original Edition.

Two Vols., cloth, £?, ; best morocco, gilt edges, £1$.
Early Days of Christianity, The. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F. Res.
Library Edition. Two Vols., 24s. ; morocco, £■2 as.

Popular Edition. Complete in One Volume, cloth, 6s. ; cloth, gilt edges,
7s. 6d. ; Persian morocco, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s.
Family Prayer-book, The. Edited by Rev. Canon Garbett, M.A. , and Rev.

S. Martin. Extra crown 4to, cloth, 5s. ; morocco, 18s.
Geikie, Cunningham, D.D., Works by:—

The Holy Land and the Bible. A Book of Scripture Illustrations gathered in Palestine With

Map. Two Vols. 24s.
Hours with the Bible. Six Vols. 6s. each.
Entering on Life. 3s. 6d.
The Precious Promises. 2s. 6d.
The English Reformation. 5s.
Old Testament Characters. 6s.
The Life and Words of Christ. Illustrated. Two Vols., cloth. sos. Library Edition Two

Vols., cloth, sos. Shtdenls' Edition, Two Vols., i6s. Cheap Edition, in One Vol. 7s. 6d.

Glories of the Man of Sorrows, The. Sermons preached at St. James's,

Piccadilly. By the Rev. H. G. Bonavia Hunt, Mus.D., F.R.S.Edin. 2s. 6d.
Gospel of Grace, The. By a Lindesie. Cloth, 2s. 6d.

Helps to Belief. A Series of Helpful Manuals on the Religious Difficulties of the
Day. Edited by the Rev. Teignmouth Shorb, M.A., Chaplain in Ordinary to
the Queen. Cloth, is. each. ,

Creation. By the Lord Bishop of Carlisle. 1 The Morality of the Old Testament By
Miracles. liy the Hev. Brownlow Mattie Kev. Newman Smyth, D.D.

Prayer? By the Rev. T. Teignmouth Shore, ' THE Divinity OF OUR Lord. By the Lord
jlj^, I Bishop of Derry.

The Atonement. By the Lord Bishop of Peterborough.

li-7.88

'Heart Chords." A Series of Works by Eminent Divines. Bound in cloth, red

edges, IS. each.

op c

My Bible. By the Rt. Kev. W. Boyd Carpenter,
Bishop of Ripon.

My 'Work for God. By the Right Rev. Bishop
Cotterill.

My Object in Life. By the Ven. Archdeacon
Farrar, U.D.

My Aspirations. By the Rev. G. Matheson, D.D.

My Emotional Life. By the Rev. Prob. Chadwick,
U.D.

My Body. By the Rev. Prof. W. G. Blaikic, D.D.

seeth.
My walk with God. By the Very Rev. Dean

Montgomery.
My Aids to the Divine Life. By the Very

Rev. Dean Boyle.
My Sovirees of Strength. By the Rev. E. E.

Jenkins, M.A Secretary of the Wesleyan

Missionary Society.

Holy Land and the Bible, The. A Book of Scripture Illustrations gathered in
Palestine. By the Rev. Cunningham Geikie, D.D. Two Vols., demy 8vo, i,i2o
pages, with Map. Price 24s.

"I Must." Short Missionary Bible Readings. By Sophia M. Nugent.
Enamelled cover, 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, is.

Life Of Christ, The. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S., Chaplain
in Ordinary to the Queen.

Illustrated Edition, with about 300 Original Illustrations. Extra crown 410,

cloth, gilt edges, 21s. ; morocco antique, 42s.
Library Edition. Two Vols. Cloth, 24s. ; morocco, 42s.
Popular Edition, In One Vol. 8vo, cloth, 6s.; cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. ; Persian

morocco, gilt edges, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s.

Luther, Martin: his Life and Times. By Peter Bayne, LL.D. Two Vols.,

demy 8vo, 1,040 pages, cloth, miscarriage

Ring, The. By William Landels, D.D. Bound in white
leatherette, gilt edges, in box, 6s. ; French morocco, 8s. 6d.

Moses and Geology ; or, The Harmony of the Bible with Science. By

the Rev. Samuel Kinds, Ph.D., F.R.A.S. Illustrated. Cheap Edition. 6s.

Protestantism, The History of. By the Rev. J. A. Wylie, LL.D. Containing

upwards of 600 Original Illustrations. Three Vols., 27s. ; Library Edition, sos.

Quiver Yearly Volume, The. With 250 high-class Illustrations. 7s. 6d. Also
Monthly, 6d.

St. George for England; and other Sermons preached to Children. Fifth
Edition. By the Rev. T. Teignmouth Shore, M.A. 5s.

St. Paul, The Life and Work of. By the Van. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D.,
F.R.S., Chaplain in Ordinary to the Queen.
Library Edition. Two Vols., cloth, 24s. ; calf, 42s.
Illustrated Edition, complete in One Volume, with about 300 Illustrations,

£,\ IS. ; morocco, ^■z 2s.
Popular Edition. One Volume, 8vo, cloth, 6s. ; cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. ;
Persian morocco, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s.

Secular Life-The Gospel of the. Sermons preached at Oxford. By the Hon.
W. H. Fre.mantle, Canon of Canterbury. 5s.

Shall We Know One Another? By the Rt. Rev. J. C. Ryle, D.D., Bishop of

Liverpool. Neu and Enlarged Edition. Cloth limp, is.

Twilight of Life, The. Words of Counsel and Comfort lor the Aged. By

John Ellerton, M.A. is. 6d.
Voice of Time, The By John Stroud. Cloth gilt, is.

St. Mark. 3s.

St. Lake. 3s. 6d.

St. John. 3S. 6d.

The Acts of the Apostles.

Titus, Philemon, Hebrews,

The Revelation. 3s.
An Introduction to the New
Testament. 2s. 6d.

Selections from Swell <{• Company's Piihlicit'ofis.

(Bburatxonal Works anb ^tubmta' Manuals.

Alphabet, Cassel's Pictorial. Size, 35 inches by 42^ inches. Mounted on

Linen, with rollers. 3s. 6d.

Arithmetics, The Modem SchooL By George Ricks, B.Sc. Lord. With Test

Cards. (List on application.)

Book-Keeping. By Theodore Jones. For Schools, as. ; or cloth, 3s. For

The Million, 2s. ; or cloth, 3s. Books for Jones's System, Ruled Sets of, 2S.

Chemistry, The Public SchooL By J. H. Anderson, M.A. 2s. 6d.
Commentary, The New Testament. Indited by Bishop Ellicott. Handy

Volume Edition. Suitable for School and general use.
Romans. 2s 6d.
Corinthians I. and II. 3s.
Galatians, Ephesians, and

Philippians. 3s.
Colossians, Thessalonians,
3s. 6d. " i and Timothy. 3s.

Commentary, Old Testament. Edited by Bishop Ellicott. Handy Volume
Edition. Suitable for School and general use.
Genesis. 3s. 6d. I Leviticus. 3s. I Deuteronomy. 2s. 6d.

Exodus. 3s. I Numbers. 2s. 6d. |

Copy-books, CasseU's Graduated. Complete in 18 Books. 2d. each.
Copy-books, The Modern SchooL Complete in 12 Books. 2d. each.
Drawing Copies, CasseU's "New Standard." Fourteen Books.

Books A to F, for Standards L to IV ' 2d. each,

„ G, H, K, L, M, O, for Standards V. to VII 3d. each.

„ N, P 4d. each.

Drawing Copies, Cassel's Modem School Freehand. First Grade, is. ; Second

Grade, as.

Electricity, Practical. By Prof. W. E Ayrton. 7s. 6d.

Energy and Motion : A Text-book of Elementary Mechanics. By William

Price, M.A. Illustrated, is. 6d.
English Literature, A First Sketch of, from the Earliest Period to the Present

Time. By Prof Henry Motley. 7s. 6d.
Euclid, Cassel's. Edited by Prof. Wallace, M.A. is.
Euclid, The First Four Books of. In paper, 6d. ; cloth, gd.
French Reader, Cassel's Public School. By Guillaume S. Conrad. 2s. 6d.
French, Cassel's Lessons in. New and Revised Edition. Parts I. and II., each

2S. 6d. ; coiiiijlete, 4s. 6d. Key, is. 6d.

French-english and English-French Dictionary. Entirely New and Enlarged

Edition. 1,150 pages, 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

Galbraith and Haughton's Scientific Manuals. By the Rev. Prof. Galbraith,

M.A., and the Rev. P- f. Haughton, M.D., D.C.L.

Natural Philosophy. 3s. 6d.
Optics. 2s. 6d.
Hydrostatics. 3s. 6d.

Arithmetic. 3s. 6(1.

Plane Trigonometry. 2s. 6d.

Euclid. Books L, U., 111. 2s. 6d. Book

v., VI. 2S. 6d.
Mathematical Tables. 3s. 6d.
Mechanics. 3s. 6d. Algebra. Part I., doth, as. 6d. Complete, 7s. 6d.

Tides and Tidal Currents, with Tidal Cards, 3s.

Geometry, First Elements of Experimental. By Paul Bert. Fully Illustrated.

IS. 6d.

Geometry, Practical Solid. By Major Ross, R.E. 2s.
German of To-Day. By Dr. h'kinemann. is. 6d.
German-English and English-germain Dictionary. 3s. 6d.
German Reading, First Lessons in. By h. Jags r. Illustrated, is.
Handbook of New Code of Regulations. By John F. Moss. is. ; cloth, 2s.
Historical Course for Schools, Cassel's. Illustrated throughout. I.— Stories

from English History, is. II.— The Simple Outline of English History, is. 3d.

III.— The Class History of Kn-land, zs. 6d.

Historical Cartoons, Cassel's Coloured. Size 45 in. X 35 in. 2s. each.

Mounted on canvas and varnished, with rollers, 5s. each.
Latin-English Dictionary, Cassel's. Thoroughly revised and corrected, and in
part re-written by J. R. V. Marchant, M.A. 3s. 6d.

Latin-english and English-Latin Dictionary. By J. R. Beard, D.D., and C.

B.Ard, B.A. Crown 8vo, 914 pp., 3s. 6d.

Latin Primer, The New. By Prof. J. P. Postgate. as. 6d.

Laws of Every-Day Life. For the Use of Schools. By H. O. Arnold-Forster.

7S. 6d.

Lay Texts for the Young, in EngUsh and French. By Mrs. Richard

Strachey. 2s. 6d. [is. 6d.

Little Folks' History of England. By Isa Craig-Knox. With 30 Illustrations.
Making of the Home, The : A Book of Domestic Economy for School and Home

Use. By Mrs. Samuel A. Barnett. is. 6d.
Marlborough Books.

Arithmetic Examples. 3s. I French Exercises. 3s- 6d.

Arithmetic Rules. is. 6d. I French Grammar, as. 6d.

German Grammar. 3s. 6d.

Mechanics and Machine Design, Numerical Examples in PracticaL By

R. G. Blaine, M.E. With Diagrams. Cloth, 2s. 6d.

Music, An Elementary Manual of. By Henry Leslie, is.

Popular Educator, Cassel's. New and Thoroughly Revised Edition. Illustrated
throughout. Complete in Six Vols., 5s. each ; or in Three Vols., half calf, 42s. the set.

Readers, Cassel's "Higher Class:— "The World's Lumber Room," Illustrated,
2S. 6d. ; " Short Studies from Nature," Illustrated, 2S. 6d. ; " The World
in Pictures." (Ten in Series.) Cloth, 2S. each.

Readers, Cassel's Readable. Carefully graduated, extremely interesting, and
illustrated throughout. (List on application.)

Readers, Cassel's Historical. Illustrated throughout, printed on superior paper,
and strongly bound in cloth. (List on application.)

Readers for Infant Schools, Coloured. Three Books. Each containing 48

pages, including 8 pages in colours. 4d. each.

Reader, The Citizen. By H. O. Arnold-Forster. With Preface by the late

Rt. Hon. W. E. FoRSTER, M.P. is. 6d.
Readers, The Modern Geographical Illustrated throughout, and strongly bound

in cloth. (List on application.)

Readers, The Modern School. Illustrated. [List on application )

Reading and Spelling Book, Cassel's Illustrated, is.

School Bank Manual, A. By Agnes Lambert. 6d.

S'' aspire Reading Book, The. By H. Courthope Bowen, M.A. Illustrated.

3s. 6d. Also issued in Three Books, is. each

Shakspere's Plays for School Use. 5 Books. Illustrated. 6d. each.

"Slbjd," as a means of Teaching the Essential Elements of Education.

By Emily Lord. 6d.
Spelling, A Complete Manual of. By J. D. Morelll, LL.D. is.
Technical Manuals, Cassel's. Illustrated throughout : —

Machines & Engineers, Drawing for. 4s. 6d.

Model Drawing. 3s.

Orthographical and Isometrical Project

and Staircase. 3s. 6d.
Bricklayers, Drawing for. 3s.
Building Construction.

Cabinet-makers, Drawing for. 3s.
Carpenters & Joiners, Drawing for. 3s. 6d.
Gothic Stonework. 3s.

Goth

Linear Drawing & Practical Geometry, as.
Linear Drawing and Projection. The

Two Vols, in One, 3s. 6d.
Metal-Plate Workers, Drawing for.

tion.

Stonemasons, Drawing

Applied Mechanics. By Sir R. S. Ball,

LL.D. 23.
Systematic Drawing and Shading. By

Charles Ryan. 25.

Technical Educator, Cassel's. Illustrated throughout. Popular Edition. Four

Vols., 5s. each.
Technology, Manuals of. Edited by Prof. Ayrton, F.R.S., and Richard
Cornell, D.Sc, M.A. Illustrated throughout.
The Dyeing of Textile Fabrics. By Prof. Design in Textile Fabrics. By T. R. Ashen-hummed.
5S. hurst. 4S. 6d.
Watch and Clock Making. By D. Glasgow. .•,-,^^- T,T>f„ .-
.^."d. Practical Mesdames. By Prof. Perry, M.E.
Steel and Iron. By Prof W. H. Greenwood, 3s. 6d.

spinning Wooife/and= Worsted. By W. Cutting Tools Worked by Hand and Mas.
McLaren, M.P. 4s. 6d. chine. By Prof. Smith. 3s. 6d.

A Prospectus on application.
Test Cards, Cassel's Combination. In sets, is. each.
Test Cards, Cassel's Modem School In sets, is. each.
4 Copy of Cassel and Company's Complete Catalogue will

be forwarded post free on application.

IBooka for young '^t^^Xt.

"Little Folks" Half Yearly Volume. With 200 Illustrations, with Pictures in

Colour. Boards, 3s. 6d. ; or cloth gilt, 5s.
Bo-Peep. A Book for the Little Ones. With Original Stories and Verses.

Illustrated throughout. Yearly Volume. Boards, 2s. 6d. ; cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
Everyday Heroes. By Laura Lane. Illustrated. Cloth, 2s. 6d.
Legends for Lionel New Picture Book by Walter Crane. 5s.
Flora's Feast. A Masque of Flowers. Penned and Pictured by Walter

Crane. With 40 pages in Colours. 5s.
The New Children's Album. Fcap. 410, 320 pages. Illustrated throughout. 3s. 6d.
The Tales of the Sixty Mandarins. By P. V. Ramasvvami Raju. With an

Introduction by Prof. Henry Morley. Illustrated, ss.
Sunday School Reward Books. By Popular Authors. With Four Original

Illustrations in each. Cloth gilt, is. 6d. each.

Rags and Rainbows : a Story of Thanks-seeking

a City.
Rhoda's Reward; or, "

Horses."
Jack Marston's Anchor.
Frank's Life-Battle ;

Friends.

If Wishes were

give „
Dnele William'

Trust.
Pretty Pink's

Street Merchant!

Charge ; or, The Broken
pose; or. The Little

'Golden Mottoes" Series, The.

full-page Original Illustrations.

Each Book containing 208 pages, with Four
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2S. each.

Nil Desperado." By the Rev. F. Lang-bridge,
M.A.

Bear and Forbear." By Sarah Pitt.

Foremost if I Can." By Helen Atteridge.

Honour is my Guide." By Jeanie Hearing

I Mrs. Adams Acton).
Aim at a Sure End." By Emily Searchfield.
'He Conquers who Endures." By the Author

of " May Cunningham b Trial," &c.

The " Proverbs " Series. Consisting of a New and Original Series of Stories by
Popular Authors, founded on and illustrating well-known Proverbs. With Four Illustrations
in each Book, printed on a tint. Crown 8vo, 160 pages, cloth, is. 6d. each.

Fritters ; or, " It's a Long Lane that has

mine." By Sarah Pitt.

r, 'those who Live

no Turning." By Sarah Pitt.
Trixy; or, 'those who Live in Glass
Houses shouldn't throw Stones." By

castles ; or, " A Friend ir
Need is a Friend Indeed." By Madeline
Bonavia Hunt.

Major Monk's Motto; or, "Look Before
you Leap." By the Rev. F. Cambridge.

Tim Thomson's Trial; or, "All is not Gold
that Glitters." By George Weatherly.

The " Cross and Crown " Series. Consisting of Stories founded on incidents
which occurred during Religious Persecutions of Past Days. With Illustrations in
each Book. 2s. 6d. each.

By Fire and Sword: a Story of the

Huguenots. By Thomas Archer.
Adam Hepburn's Vow: a Tale of Kirk

and Covenant. By Annie S. Swan.
No. XIII ; or. The Story of the Lost

Vestal. A Tale of Early Christian Days.

By Emma Marshall.

Strong to Suffer: A Story of the Jews.

By E. Wynne.
Heroes of the Indian Empire ; or. Stories

of Valour and Victory. By Ernest Foster.
In Letters of Flame : A Story of the

Waldeuses. By C. L, Bateaux.
Through Trial to Triumph. By Madeline

B. Hunt.

The World's Workers. A Series of

Authors. With Portraits printed on a
The Earl of Shaftesbury. By Henry Frith.
Sarah Robinson, Agnes Weston, and Mrs.

Meredith. By E. M. Tomlinson.
Thomas A. Edison and Samuel F. B.

Morse. By Dr. Denslow and J. Marsh

I'arkcr.
Mrs. Somerville and Mary Carpenter. By

Phyllis Browne.
General Gordon. By the Er. S. A. Swain.

Frances ridley Havergal, Mrs. Ran-yard
(" L. N. B."J By Lizzie Abridge.

New and Original Volumes by Popular
tint as Frontispiece, is. each.

Dr. Guthrie, Father Mathew, EHhu Bur-rite,
Joseph Liveseyey. By the Rev. J. W.

Sir Henry Havelock and Coin Campbell,

Lord Clyde. By E. C. Phillips.
Abraham Lincoln. By Ernest Foster.
David Livingstone. By Robert Smiles.
George Muller and Andrew Reed. Ber

E. R. Pitman.
Richard Cobden. By R. Cowing.
Benjamin Franklin. By E. M. Tomlinson.
Handel. By eliza Clarke.

Turner the Artist. By the Rev. S. A. Swain.
George and Robert Stephenson. By C. U

4Utiaux.

Five Shilling Books for Young People.

gilt, 5S. each.
Te Palace Beautiful. By L. T. Meade.
"Follow my Leader;" or, the Boys of

Templeton. By Talbot Baines Rf ed.
For Fortune and Gloi-y; a Story of the

Soudan War. By Lewis Hough.
Under Bayard's Banner. By Henry Frith.

The Romance of Invention. By Jas. Burnley.

With Original Illustrations. Cloth

The Champion of Odin ; or, Viking Life
in the Days of 0" ' "

Bound by a Spell;

of the Forest. By the Hon. Mrs. Greene.

The King's Command. A Story for Girls.
Maggie Syi '

Three and Sixpenny Books for Young People. With Original Illustrations.

Cloth gilt, 3S. 6d. each.
The Cost of a Mistake. By Sarah Pitt.
A World of Girls : A Story of a School.

By L. T. Meade.
On Board the " Emeralds ; " or, Martin

Leigh's Log. By John C. Hutchison.
Lost among White Africans : A Boy's

Adventures on the Upper Congo. By

David Er.

In Quest of Gold ; or, Inter the WTianga

Falls. By Alfred St. Johnston.
For Queen and King ; or, the Loyal

'Prentice. By Henry Frith.
Perils Afloat and Brigands Ashore. By

Alfred Ewes.
Freedom's Sword : A Story of the Days of

Wallace and Bruce. By Anni S. Swan.

With Four Full-page

The "Boy Pioneer" Series. By Edward S. Ellis.

Illustrations in each Book. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. each,
Ned in the Woods. A Tale of Early Days I Ned on the Eiver. A Tale of Indian River
in the West. I Warfare.

Ned in the Block House. A Story of Pioneer Life in Kentucky.

The "Log Cabin " Series. By Edward S. Ellis. With Four Full-page Illustrations
in each. Crown Svo, cloth, 2S. 6d. each.

The Lost Trail. | Camp-Pire and Wigwam.

Footprints in the Forest.

The "Great River" Series. (Uniform with the "Log Cabin" Series.) By

Edward S. Ellis. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, bevelled boards, 2S. 6d. each.

Down the Mississippi. I Lost in the Wilds.

Up the 'i'apajos : or. Adventures in Brazil.

The " Chimes " Series. Each containing 64 pages, with Illustrations on every
page, and handsomely bound in cloth, is.
Bible Chimes. Contains Bible Verses for Every I Holy Chimes. Verses for Every Sunday in the

Day in the Month. Year.

Daily Chimes. Verses from the Poets for Old World Chimes. Verses from old writers for

Every Day in the Month. I Every Day in the Month.

Sixpenny Story Books.

well-known Writers.
The Smuggler's Cave.
Little Lizzie.
The Boat Club.
Luke Barnicott.

All Illustrated, and containing Interesting Stories by

Little Bird.

Little Pickles.

The Elehester College

My First Cruise.

The Little Peacemaker.

The Delft Jug.

Cassel's Picture Story Books. Each containing 60 pages of Pictures and

Stories, &c.
Little Talks.
Bright Stars.
Nursery Toys.
Pet's Posy.
Tiny Tales.

Daisy's Story Book.
Dot's Story Book.
A Nest of Stories.
Good Night Stories.
Chats for Small Chatterers.

Auntie's Stories.
Birdie's Story Book.
Little Chimes.
A Sheaf of Tales.
Dewdrop Stories.

Illustrated Books for the Little Ones. Containing interesting Stories. All
Illustrated, is. each.

Our Pretty Pets. I Up and Down the Garden.

Our Sehoolday Hours. Au Sorts of Adventures.

Creatures Tame. Our Sunday Stories.

Creatures Wild. Our Holiday Hours.

Indoors and Out.
Some Farm Friends.
Those Golden Sands.
Little Mothers and their

Children.

Shilling Story Books. All Illustrated, and containing

The Cuckoo in the Robin's j
John's Mistake. [Nest.

Diamonds in the Sand.

Seventeen Cats.
Bunty and the Bo.vs.
The Heir of Elmdale.
The Mystery at Shoucliff

Sett ol.
Claimed at Last, and Hoy's

Reward.
Thorns and Tangles.

Surly Bob.

The History of Five Little

Pitchers.
The Giant's Cradle.
Shag and DolL

Interesting Stories.

Aunt Lucia's Locket.
The Magic Mirror.
The Cost of Revenge.
Clever Frank.
Among the Redskins.
The Ferryman of Brill.
Harry Maxwell.
A Banished Monarch.

Cassel's Children's Treasuries. Each Volume contains Stories or Poetry, and

is profusely Illustrated. Cloth, is. each.

Cook Robin, and other Nursery Rhymes.
The Queen of Hearts.
Old Mother Hubbard.
Tuneful Lays for Merry Days.
Cheerful Songs for Young Folks.
Pretty Poems for Young People.
The Children's Joy.

Pretty Pictures and Pleasant Stories.

Our Picture Book.

Tales for the Little Ones.

My Sunday Book of Pictures.

Sunday Garland of Pictures and Stories.

Sunday Readings for Little Folks.

Little Folks" Painting Books. With Text
Water-colour Painting, is. each.

Little Folks

md Outline Illustrations for

Fniita and Blossoms for
to Faint.

The

I The " Little Folks " Illuminating Book.
I Pictures taint.
Little Folks" Proverb Painting Book.

Eighteenpenny Story Books. .^.11 Illustrated throughout.

Wee Willie Winkle.

tips aud uowiis of a Donkey's L

Three Wee Ulster Lassies.

Up the Ladder.

Dick's Hero ; and other Stories.

The Chip Boy.

Faith's Father.

By Land and Sea.

The Yovmg Barrington.

Jeff and Left.

Tom Morris's Error.

Worth more than Gold.

"Through Flood— Through Fire;"

other Stories.
The Girl with the Golden Locks.
Stories of the Olden Time.

The "World in Pictures" Series. Illustrated throughout. 2s. 6d. each.

A Ramble Round France.

AU the Russia.

Chats about Germany.

The Land of the Pyramids (Egypt).

Peeps into China.

The Eastern Sunderland (Japan).
Glimpses of South America.
Round Africa.

The Land of Temples (India)
The Isles of the Pacific.

Two-shilling Story Books. All Illustrated.

stories of the Tower.
Mr. Burke's Nieces.
May (Cunningham's Trial.
The Top of the Ladder :

How to Reach it.
Little Flotsam.
Madge and her Friends.

The Children of the Court.
A Moonbeam Tangle.
Maid Marjory.
The Four Cats of the Tip-persons.


Marion's Two Homes.
Little Folks' Sunday Book.

Two Fourpenny Bits.

Poor Nelly.

Tom Heriot.

Aunt Tabitha's Waifs.

In Mischief Again.

Through Peril to Fortune

Peggy, and other Tales.

The Magic Flower Pot.

School Girls.

Half-crown Books.

Little Hinges.

Margaret's Enemy.

Pen's Perplexities.

Notable Shipwrecks.

Golden Days.

Wonders of Common Things.

At the South Pole.

Soldier and Patriot (George Washington).

Truth will Out.

Pictures of School Life and Boyhood.

The Young Man in the Battle of Life. By

the Rev. Dr. Lands.
The True Glory of Woman. By the Rev.

Dr. Tenders.
The Wise Woman. By George Macdonald.

Picture Teaching Series.

gilt, coloured edges, 2S. (

Each book Illustrated throughout. Fcap. 410, cloth

1. each.

Through Picture-Land.

Picture Teaching for Young and Old.

Picture Natural History.

Scraps of Knowledge for the Little

Ones.
Great Lessons from Little Things.

Woodland Romances.

Stories of Girlhood.

Frisk and his Flock.

Pussy Tip-Toes' Family.

The Boy Joiner and Model Maker.

The Children of Holy Scripture.

Library of Wonders. Illustrated Gift-books for Boys. Paper, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

wonders of Acoustics.
wonderful Adventures.
wonders of Animal Instinct,
wonders of Architecture.

wonderful Balloon Ascents.
wonders of Bodily Strength and Skill.
wonderful Escapes.
Wonders of Water.

The " Home Chat " Series. All Illustrated throughout. Fcap. 4to. Boards, 3s. 6d.
each ; cloth, gilt edges, 5s. each.
Home Chat.

Peeps Abroad or Folks at Home.
Decisive Events in History.

Around and About Old England.
Half-hours with Early Explorers.
Paws and Claws.

Books for the Little Ones. Fully Illustrated.

A Dozen and One; or. The Boys and
Girls of Polly's King. By Mary D.
Brine. Ful of Illustrations. 5s.

The Merry-go-Kound. Poems for Children.
Illustrated throughout. 5s.

Rhymes for the Young Folk. By William
Allingham. Beautifully Illustrated. 3s. fid.

The Little Doings of some Little Folks.
By Chatty Cheerful. Illustrated, ss.

The Sunday Scrap Book. With One Thousand
Scripture Pictures. Boards, ss. ; cloth,
75. 6d.

Daisy Dimple's Scrap Book. Containing
about 1,000 Pictures. Boards, 5s. ; cloth gilt,
7s. 6d. 1^

The History Scrap Book. With nearly

By Chatty Cheerful. Illustra
Myself and my Friends.
With numerous Illustrations.

I. By

numerous Illustrations. Crown 4to.
Little Folks' Picture Album.

Large Pictures. 5s.
Little Folks* Picture Gallery.
Illustrations. 55.

Patch.

The Old Fairy Tales. With Original illustrations.
Boards, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

My Diary. With Twelve Coloured Plates and
366 Woodcuts. IS.

Happy Little People. By Olive

The.

Patch. With
Illustrations. ^-

"Little Folks'' Album of Music,
Illustrated. 3s. 6d.

Cheerful Clatter. Nearly One Hundred Full-page
Pictures. 3s. 6d.

Twilight Fancies.

Boards, 2s. 6d.
Happy Go Lucky.

Full of charming Pictures.

Joy Little Stories, is. 6d.

Our Little Friends, is. 6d.

Daisy Dell's Stories, is. 6d.

Little Toddlers, is. 6d.

wee Little Rhymes. is. 6d.

Little One's 'Welcome, is. 6d.

Little Gossips, is. 6d.

Ding Dong Bell. is. 6d.

The Story of Robin Hood. With (

Illustrations. 2s. 6d,
The Pilgrim's Progress. With Coloured

Illustrations. 2s. 6d.

Books for Boys.

I's Rock. A Romance. By Q. 5s.

A Queer Race. By W. Vestal. 5s.

Captain Trafalgar. A Story of the Mexican
Gulf. By W. Westall. Illustrated. 5s.

Kidnapped. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated, ss.

King Solomon's Mines. By H. Rider Haggard,
ss.

Treasure Island. By R. L. Stevenson. With
Full-page Illustrations, ss.

Ships, Sailors, and the Sea. By R. J.
Cornwall-Jones. Illustrated. 5s.

Books for all Children.

edges, ss.

CasBcU's Swiss Family Robinson. Illustrated.
Cloth, 3S. 6d. ; gilt edges, 5S.

Sunny Spain: Its People and: Places,
with Glimpses of its History. By
Olive Patch. Illustrated. «.

Rambles Round London Town. By C. L.
Matiaux. Illustrated. 5s.

Favorite Album of Fun and Fancy, The.
Illustrated. 3s. 6d.

Familiar Friends. By Olive Patch. Illustrated.
Cloth gilt, ss.

The Phantom City. By W. Westall. famous
Sailors of Former Times, History

of the Sea Fathers. By Clements

Markham. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.
Modern Explorers. By Thomas Frost. Illustrated,
ss.
wild Adventures in wild Places. By Dr.

Gordon Stables, M.D., R.N. Illustrated, ss.
Jungle, Peak, and Plain. By Dr. Gordon

Stables, R.N. Illustrated, ss.
O'er Many Lands, on Many Seas. By Gordon

Stables, R.N. Illustrated. 5s.
At the South Pole. By \V. H. G. Kingston.

New Edition. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.

Odd Folks at Home. By C. L.

With nearly 150 Illustrations, ss.
Field Friends and Forest Foes.

lush

Folks' Holiday Album. Illustrated.
3S- 6d.

Tiny Houses and their Builders. Illustrated,
children

of aU Nations. Their Homes, their
Schools, their Playgrounds. Illustrated. 5s.

Tim Tremble's "Little Mother." By C
L. Matiaux. Illustrated. 5s.

Cassel de COMPANY, Limited, Lydgate Hill, London, Paris, New
York «fc Melbourne,
