-Wii^M .<r-

EX-LIBRIS

F. E. Din SHAW

"L I E) Mary

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

V. 1

l(«

6 d

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.
University of Illinois Library

M c^ 73

SEP


i^«38

nsji

L161— O-1096

VOL. I.

SPGTTISV.'OODE AND CO., NEW-street Square

AND TAKLIARiENT STREET

^

^l^M^

,3

' There, sir, I have read them.

BV

WALTER BESANT

JVIT// ILLUSTRATIONS BY FRED. BARNARD

IN THREE VOLUMES— VOL. L

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights reserved

^

TO THE

MEMORY

OF

JAMES RICE

The ten years' partnership of myself and my
late friend Mr. James Vice lias been terminated
by death I am persuaded that nothing
short of death would have put an end to a
partnership which was conducted throughout
with perfect accord, and without the least
difference of opinion. The long illness which
terminated fatally on April 25th of this year
began in January of last year. There were
intervals during which he seemed to be
recovering and gaining strength ; he was,
indeed, well enough in the autumn to try
change of air by a visit to Holland ; but he
broke down again very shortly after his return :
though he did not himself suspect it, he was
under sentence of death, and for the last six

months of this life his downward course was
steady and continuous.

Ahxiost the last act of his in our partnership
was the arrangement, with certain country-papers
and elsewhere, for the serial publication
of this novel, the subject and writing of which
were necessarily left entirely to myself.

The many wanderings, therefore, which I
undertook last summer in Stepney, Whitechapel,
Poplar, St. George's-in-the-East, Lime-house.
Bow, Stratford, Shadwell, and all that
great and marvellous unknown country which
we call East London, were undertaken, for the
first time for ten years, alone. They would
have been undertaken in great sadness had one
foreseen the end. In one of these wanderings
I had the happiness to discover Eotherhithe,
which I afterwards explored with carefulness ;
in another, I lit upon a certain Haven of Best foraged
sea captains, among whom I found Captain
Sorensen ; in others I found many wonderful
things, and conversed with many wonderful
people. The ' single-mindedness,' so to speak,

of this book would have been a mere episode
in the history of the Firm, a matter of no concern
or interest to the general public, had my
friend recovered. But he is dead ; and it
therefore devolves upon me to assume the sole
responsibility of the work, for good or bad.
The same responsibility is, of course, assumed
for the two short stories ' The Captain's Room,'
published at Christmas last, and 'They were
Married,' published as the summer number of
the ' Illustrated London News.' The last story
was, in fact, written after the death of my partner
; but as it had already been announced, it
was thought best, under the circumstances, to
make no change in the title,

I have been told by certain friendly advisers
that this story is impossible. I have,
therefore, stated the fact on the title-page, so
that no one may complain of being taken in or
deceived. But I have never been able to
understand why it is impossible.

Walter Besa^'t.

United Universities' Club :
Av-rjnd 19, 1882.

THE FIRST VOLUME.

'"TflEEE, Sir, 1 have read them'" , , Frontispiece

*'• Vert GOOD. That's practical " * . . Tofacep.lOQ

'sit reminded me of Canaan City in

July"' ,, „ 230

PROLOGUE.

Part I.

It was the evening of a day in early June,
The time was last year, and the place was
Cambridge. The sun had been visible in the
heavens, a gracious presence, actually a whole
week — in itself a thing remarkable ; the hearts
of the most soured, even of landlords and
farmers, were coming to believe again in the
possibility of fine weather ; the clergy were
beginning to think that they might this year
hold a real Harvest Thanksgiving instead of a
sham ; the trees at the Backs were in full foliage
; the avenues of Trinity and Clare were
splendid ; beside them the trim lawns sloped to
the margin of the Cam, here most glorious and

VOL. I. B'

proudest of English rivers, seeing that he laves
the meadows of those ancient and venerable
foundations, King's, Trinity, and St. John's, to
say nothing of Queen's and Clare and Magdalen
; men were lazily floating in canoes, or leaning
over the bridges, or strolling about the
walks, or lying on the grass ; and among them
but not — oh ! not with them — walked or
rested many of the damsels of learned Newnham,
chiefly in pairs, holding sweet converse

On mind and art,
And labour and the clinging mart,
And all the framework of the land ;

not neglecting the foundations of the Christian
faith and other fashionable topics, which ladies
nowadays handle with so much learning, originality,
dexterity, and power.

We have, however, to do with only one
pair, who were sitting together on the banks
opposite Trinity. These two were talking
about a subject far more interesting than any
concerning mind, or art, or philosophy, or the
chances of the Senate House, or the future of
Newnham : for they were talking about themselves

and their own lives, and what they were
to do each with that one life which happened,
by the mere accident of birth, to belong to
herself. It must be a curious subject for reflection
in extreme old age, when everything has
happened that is going to happen, including
rheumatism that, but for this accident, one's
life might have been so very different.

Because, Angela,' said the one who wore
spectacles and looked older than she was, by
reason of much pondering over books and
perhaps too little exercise, ' because, my dear,
we have but this one life before us, and if we
make mistakes with it, or throw it away, or
waste it, or lose our chances, it is such a dreadful
pity. Oh, to think of the girls who drift
and let every chance go by, and get nothing
out of their lives at all — except babies ' (she
spoke of babies with great contempt). * Oh !
it seems as if every moment were precious : oh !
it is a sin to waste an hour of it.'

She gasped and clasped her hands together

with a sigh She was not acting, not at all ;

this girl was that hitherto rare thing, a girl of

study and of books ; she was wholly possessed,

■B 2

like the great scholars of old, with the passion
for learning.

Oh ! greedy person ! ' replied the other
with a laugh. ' if you read all the books in the
University library, and lose the enjoyment of
sunshine, what shall it profit you, in the long
run ? '

This one was a young woman of much finer
physique than her friend. She was not shortsighted
; but possessed, in fact, a pair of orbs
of very remarkable clearness, steadiness, and
brightness. They were not soft eyes, nor languishing
eyes, nor sleepy eyes, nor downcast,
shrinking eyes ; they were wide awake, brown,
honest eyes, which looked fearlessly upon all
things, fair or foul. A girl does not live at
Newnham two clears for nothing, mind you ;
when she leaves that seat of learning, she has
changed her mind about the model, the perfect,
the ideal woman. More than that, she will
change the minds of her sisters and her cousins :
and there are going to be a great many Newn-
hams ; and the spread of this revolution will
be rapid ; and the shrinking, obedient, docile,
man-reverencing, curate-worshipping maiden

of our youth will shortly vanish and be no
more seen. And what Avill the curate do then,
poor thing? Wherefore let the bishop look to
certain necessary changes in the Marriage
Service ; and let the young men see that their
own ideas change with the times, else there
will be no sweethearts for them. More could
1 prophesy, but refrain.

This young lady owned, besides those mentioned
above, many other points which will
always be considered desirable at her age, whatever
be the growth of feminine education
(wherefore, courage, brothers !). In all these
points she contrasted favourably with her companion.
For her face was sunny, and fair to
look upon ; one of the younger clerical dons —
now a scanty band, almost a Remnant — was
reported to have said, after gazing upon thai
face, that he now understood, which he had
never understood before, what Solomon meant
when he compared his love's temples to a piece
of a pomegranate within her locks. Xo one
asked him what lie meant, but he was a mathematical
man, and so he must have meant something,
if it was only trigonometry. As to her

figure, it was what a healthy, naturally dressed,
and strong young woman's figure ought to be,
and not more slender in the waist than was the
figure of Venus or Mother Eve ; and her limbs
were elastic, so that she seemed when she
walked as if she would like to' run, jump, and
dance, which, indeed, she would have greatly
preferred, only at Newnham they ' take it out '
in lawn tennis. And whatever might be the
course of life marked out by herself, it was
quite certain to the intelligent observer that
before long Love the invincible — Love that
laughs at plots, plans, conspiracies, and designs
would upset them all, and trace out quite
another line of life for her, and most probably
the most commonplace fine of all.

'Your life, Constance,' she went on, 'seems
to me the most happy and the most fortunate.
How nobly you have vindicated the intellect of
women by your degree ! '

No, my dear : ' Constance shook her head
sadly. ' No ; only partly vindicated our intellect
; remember I was but fifth Wrangler, and
there were four men — men, Angela — above me.
I wanted to be senior.'

Everybody knows that the fifth is always
as good as the first.' Constance, however,
shook her head at this daring attempt at consolation.
' At all events, Constance, you will goon
to prove it by your original papers when
you publish your researches. You will lecture
like Hypatia ; you will have the undergraduates
leaving the men and crowding to your theatre.
You will become the greatest mathematician
in Cambridge ; you will be famous for ever.
You will do better than man himself, even
on man's most exalted level of intellectual
strength.'

The pale cheek of the student flushed.

I do not expect to do better than men,'
she replied humbly. ' It will be enough if I do
as well. Yes, m}^ dear, all my life, short or
long, shall be given to science. I will have no
love in it, or marriage, or — or — anything of
that kind at all.'

Nor will I,' said the other stoutly, yet
with apparent effort. 'Marriage spoils a
woman's career ; we must live our life to its
utmost, Constance.'

We must, Angela. It is the only thing in

this world of doubt that is a clear duty. I

owe mine to science. You, my dear, to '

She would have sard to •" Political Economy,'
but a thought checked her. For a singular
thing had happened only the day before. This
friend of hers, this Angela Messenger, who had
recently illustrated the strength of woman's
intellect by passing a really brilliant examination
in that particular science, astonished her
friends at a little informal meeting in the
library by an oration. In this speech she went
out of her way to pour contempt upon Political
Economy. It was a so-called science, she said,
not a science at all: a collection of theories
impossible of proof. It treated of men and
women as skittles, it ignored the principal
motives of action, it had been put together for
the most part by doctrinaires who lived apart,
and knew nothing about men and less about
^vomen, and it was the favourite study, she
cruelly declared, of her own sex, because it
was the most easily crammed and made the
most show. As for herself, she declared that
for all the good it had done her, she might
must as well have 2^one throu2fli a course of

esthetic or studied the symbols of advanced
Eitualism.

Therefore, remembering the oration, Constance
Woodcote hesitated. To what Cause
(with a capital C) slioidd Angela Messenger
devote lier life ?

I will tell you presently,' said Angela,
how I shall begin my life. Where the beginning
will lead me, I cannot tell.'

Then there was silence for a while. The
sun sank lower and the setting rays fell upon
the foliage, and every leaf showed like a leaf
of gold, and the river lay in shadow and became
ghostly, and the windows of Trinity
library opposite to them glowed, and the New
Court of St. John's at their left hand became
like unto the palace of Kubla Khan.

Oh ! ' sighed the young mathematician,
I shall never be satisfied till Newnham crosses
the river. We must have one of these colleges
for ourselves. We must have King's. Yes,
King's will be the best. And oh ! low differently
we shall live from the so-called students who
are now smoking tobacco in each other's rooms,
or playing billiards, or even cards — the superior
sex ! '

As for US, we shall presently go back to
our rooms, have a cup of tea and a talk, my
clear. Then we shall go to bed. As regards
the men, those of your mental level, Constance,
do not, I suppose, play billiards ; nor do they
smoke tobacco. Undergraduates are not all
students, remember. Most of them are nothing
but mere Pass-men who will become curates.'

Two points in this speech seem to call for
remark. First, the singular ignorance of mankind,
common to all women, which led the girl
to believe that a great man of science is superior
to the pleasures of the weaker brethren ; for
they cannot understand the delights of fooling.

The second point is but it may be left to

those who read as they run.

Then they rose and walked slowly under
the grand old trees of Trinity Avenue, facing
the setting sun, so that when they came to the
end and turned to the left, it seemed as if they
pkmged into night. And presently they came
to the gates of Newnham, the newer Newnham,
with its trim garden, and Queen Anne mansion.
It grates upon one that the beginnings of a
noble and lasting reform should be housed ina

palace built in the conceited fashion of the
day. What will they say of it in fifty years,
when the fashion has changed and new styles
reign?

Come,' said Angela. ' come into my room.
Let my last evening in the dear place be spent
with yon, Constance.'

Angela's own room was daintily furnished
and adorned with as many pictures, pretty
things, books, and bric-à-brac as the narrow
dimensions of a Newnham cell will allow. Ina
more advanced Newnham there will be two
rooms for each student, and these will be
larger.

The girls sat by the open window : the air
was soft and sweet. A bunch of cowslips from
the Coton meadows perfumed the room : there
was the jug-jug of a nightingale in some tree
not far off; opposite them where the lights of
the other ISTewnham.

The last night ! ' said Angela. ' I can
hardly believe that I go down tomorrow.'

Then she was silent again.

My life,' she went on, speaking softly in
the twilight, ' begins tomorrow. What am I

to do with it? Your own solution seems so
easy because you are clever and you have no
money, while I, who am— well, dear, not
devoured by thhst for learning— have got so
much. To begun with, there is the Brewery.
You cannot escape from a big Brewery if it
belongs to you. You cannot hide it away.
Messenger, Marsden, and Company's Stout, their
XXX, their Old and Mild, their Bitter, their
Family Ales (that particularly at eight-and-six
the nine-gallon cask, if paid for on delivery),
their drays, their huge horses, their strong men,
whose very appearance advertises the beer, and
makes the weak-kneed and the narrow-chested
rush to Whitechapel — my dear, these things
stare one in the face wherever you go. I am
that Brewery, as you know. I am Messenger,
Marsden, and Company, myself, the sole partner
in what my lawyer sweetly calls the Concern.
Nobody else is concerned in it. It is — alas ! —
my own Great Concern, a dreadful responsibility.'


'why? Your people manage it for you.'
Yes — oh ! yes — they do. And whether
they manage it badly or well I do not know ;

whether they make wholesome beer or bad,
whether they treat their clerks and workmen
generously or meanly, whether the name of the
Company is beloved or hated, I do not know.
Perhaps the very making of beer at all is a
wickedness.'

'But — Angela,' the other interrupted; 'it
is no business of yours. Naturally, wages are
regulated by supply and '

No, my dear. That is political economy.
I prefer the good old English plan. If I employ
a man, and he works faithfully, I should
like that man to feel that he grows every day
worth to me more than his marketable value.'

Constance was silenced.

Then, beside the Brewery,' Angela went
on, ' there is an unconscionable sum of money
in the Funds.'

There, at least,' said her friend, ' you need
feel no scruple of conscience.'

But indeed I do ; for how do I know that
it is right to keep all this money idle? A
hundred pounds saved and put into the Funds
means three pounds a year. It is like a perennial
stream flowing from a hidden reservoir

ill a hillside. But this stream, in my case,
does no good at all. It neither fertilises the
soil nor is it drunk by man or beast, nor does
it turn mills, nor is it a beautiful thing to look
upon, nor does its silver current flow by banks
of flowers or fall in cascades. It all runs away,
and makes another reservoir in another hillside.
My dear, it is a stream of compound interest,
which is constantly getting deeper and broader
and stronger, and yet is never of the least use,
and turns no wheels. Now, what am I to do
with this money ? '

Endow Ne^vnham ; there, at least, is something
practical.'

I will found some scholarships, if you
please, later on, when you have made your own
work felt. Again, there are my houses in the
East End.'

Sell them.'

'That is only to shift the responsibility.
My dear, I have streets of houses. They all lie
about Whitechapel way. My grandfather,
John Messenger, bought houses, I believe, just
as other people buy apples, by the peck, or
some larger measure, a reduction being made

on taking a quantity. There they are, and
mostly inhabited.'

You have agents, I suppose P ' said Constance
unsympathisingly. ' It is their duty to
see that the houses are well kept.'

Yes, I have agents. But they cannot
absolve me from responsibility.'

Then,' asked Constance, ' what do you
mean to do ? '

I am a native almost of Whitechapel. My
grandfather, who succeeded to the Brewery,
was born there — his father was also a Brewer :
his grandfather is, I believe, prehistoric : he
lived there long after his son, my father, was
born. When he moved to Bloomsbury Square
he thought he was getting into quite a fashionable
quarter ; and he only went to Portman
Square because he desired me to go into society.
I am so rich that I shall quite certainly be welcomed
in society. But, my dear, Whitechapel
and its neighbourhood are my proper sphere.
Why, my very name ! I reek of beer ; I am all
beer ; my blood is beer. Angela Marsden
Messenger ! Wliat could more plainly declare
my connection with Messenger, Marsden, and

Company ? I only wonder that he did not call
nie Marston-and' Company Messenger.'

<- But — Angela . . . '

He would, Constance, if he had thought
of it. For, you see, I was the heiress from the
very beginning, because my father died before
my birth. And my grandfather intended me
to become the perfect Brewer, if a woman can
attain to so high an ideal. Therefore I was
educated in the necessary and fitting lines.
They taught me the industries of England, the
arts and manufactures, mathematics, accounts,
the great outlets of trade, book-keeping,
mechanics — all those things that are practical.
How it happened that I was allowed to learn
music I do not know. Then, when I grew up,
I was sent here by him, because the very air of
Cambridge, he thought, makes people exact ;
and women are so prone to be inexact. I was
to read while I was here all the books about
Political and Social Economy. I have also
learned for business purposes two or three
languages. I am now finished. I know all
the theories about people, and I don't believe
any of them will work. Therefore, my dear,

I shall get to know the people before I apply
them.'

Was your grandfather a student of Political
Economy ? '

Not at all. But he had a respect for
justice, and he wanted me to be just. It is so
difficult, he used to say, for a woman to be just.
For either she flies into a rage and punishes
with excess, or she takes pity and forgives.
As for himself, he was as hard as nails, and the
people knew it.'

And your project ? '

It is very simple. I efface myself. I vanish.
I disappear.'

What ? '

If anybody asks where I am, no one will
know, except you, my dear ; and you will not
tell.'

You weill be in '

In Whitechapel, or thereabouts. Your
Angela will be a dressmaker, and she will live
by herself, and become — what her great-grandmother
was — one of the people.'

You will not like it at all.'

Perhaps not ; but I am weary of theories,
VOL. I. c

facts, statistics. I want liesli and blood. 1
want to feel myself a part of this striving, eager,
anxious humanity, on whose labours I live in
comfort, by whom I have been educated, to
whom I owe all, and for whom I have done
nothing — no, nothing at all, selfish wretch that
I am ! '

She clasped her hands with a fine gesture of
remorse.

Oh ! woman of science,' she cried ; ' you
sit upon the heights, and you can disregard —
because it is your right — the sorrows and the
joys of the world. But I cannot. I belong to the
People — with a great, big P, my dear — I cannot
bear to go on living by their toil and giving
nothing in return. What a dreadful thing is a
She-Dives ! '

I confess,' said Constance, coldly, ' that I
have always regarded wealth as a means for
leading the higher life — the life of study and
research — unencumbered by the sordid aims
and mean joys of the vulgar herd.'

It is possible and right for you to live
apart, my dear. It is impossible, because it
would be wrong, for me.'

But— alone ? You will venture into the
dreadful region alone ? '

Quite alone, Constance.'

And — and — your reputation, Angela ? '

Angela laughed merrily.

As for my reputation, my dear, it may take
care of itself. Those of my friends who think
I am not to be trusted may transfer their affection
to more worthy objects. The first thing
in the emancipation of the sex, Constance, is
equal education. The next is '

What ? ' for Angela paused.

She drew forth from her pocket a small
bright instrument of steel, which glittered in
the twilight. Not a revolver, dear readers.

'The next,' she said, brandishing the
weapon before Constance's eyes, ' is — the

latch-key;

Prologue.

Part II.

The time was eleven in the forenoon; the
season was the month of roses ; the place was
a room on the first floor at the Park-end of
Piccadilly — a noisy room, because the windows
were open, and there was a great thunder and
rattle of cabs, omnibuses, and all kinds of
vehicles. When this noise became, as it sometimes
did, intolerable, the occupant of the
room shut his double windows, and immediately
there was a great calm, with a melodious roll
of distant wheels, like the buzzing of bees about
the marigolds on a summer afternoon. With
the double window a man may calmly sit down
amid even the roar of Cheapside, or the never-ending
cascade of noise at Charing Cross.

The room was furnished with taste; the
books on the shelves were well bound, as if the

owner took a proper pride in them, as indeed
was the case. There were two or three good
pictures ; there was a girl's head in marble ;
there were cards and invitations lying on the
mantelshelf and in a rack beside the clock.
Everybody could tell at the first look of the
room that it was a bachelor's den. Also because
nothing was new, and because there were
none of the peacockeries, whims and fancies,
absurdities, fads and fashions, gimcrackeries —
the presence of which does always and infallibly
proclaim the chamber of a young man —
this room manifestly belonged to a bachelor
who was old in the profession. In fact, the
owner of the chambers, of which this was the
breakfast, morning, and dinner room, whenever
he dined at home, was seated in an armchair
beside a breakfast table, looking straight
before him, with a face filled with anxiety.
An honest, ugly, pleasing, rugged, attractive
face, whose features were carved one day when
Dame Nature was benevolently disposed, but
lead a blunt chisel.

I always told him,' he unuttered, ' that he
should learn the whole of his family history as

soon as he was three-ands twenty years of age.
One must keep such promises. Yet it would
have been better that he should never know.
But then it might have been found out, and
that would have been far Averse. Yet, how
could it have been found out ? No ; . that is
ridiculous.'

He mused in silence. In his fingers he held
a cigar which he had lit, but allowed to go
out again. The morning paper was lying on
the table, unopened.

How will the boy take it .^ ' he asked ;
will he take it crying ? Or will he take it
laughing ? '

He smiled, picturing to himself the ' boy's '
astonishment.

Looking at the man more closely, one became
aware that he was really a very pleasant-looking
person. He was about five-and-forty
years of age, and he wore a full beard and
moustache, after the manner of his contemporaries,
with Avhom a beard is still considered a
manly ornament to the face. The beard was
brown, but it had begun to show, as wine merchants
say of port, the 'appearance of age.'

In some light , there was more grey than brown.
His dark-brown hair, however, retained its
original thickness of thatch, and was as yet
untouched by any streak of grey. Seeing that
he belonged to one of the oldest and best of
English families, one might have expected
something of that delicacy of feature which
some of us associate with birth. But, as has
already been said, his face was rudely chiselled,
his complexion was ruddy, and he looked as
robust as a ploughboy ; yet he had the air of
an English gentleman, and that ought to satisfy
anybody. And he was the younger son of a
Duke, being by courtesy Lord Jocelyn Le
Breton.

While he vv^as thus meditating, there was a
quick step on the stair, and the subject of his
thoughts entered the room.

This interesting young man was a much
more aristocratic person to look upon tliau his
senior. He paraded, so to speak, at every
point, the thoroughbred air. His thin and
delicate nose, his clear eye, this high though
narrow forehead, his well cut lip, his firm chin,
his pale cheek, his oval face, the slim figure,

the thin, long fingers, the spring of his wall,
the poise of his head — what more could one
expect even from the descendant of All the
Towards? But this morning the pallor of his
cheek was flushed as if with some disquieting
news.

Good morning, Harry,' said Lord Jocelyn
quietly.

Harry returned the greeting. Then he
threw upon the table a small packet of papers.

There, sir, I have read them ; thank you
for letting me see them.'

Sit down, boy, and let us talk ; will you
have a cigar ? No ? A cigarette, then ? No ?
You are probably a little upset by this — new —
unexpected revelation ? '

A little upset ! ' repeated the young man,
with a short laugh.

To be sure — to be sure — one could expect
nothing else ; now sit down, and let us talk
over the matter calmly.'

The young man sat down, but he did not
present the appearance of one inclined to talk
over the matter calmly.

'In novels,' said Lord Jocelyn, 'it is always

the good fortune of young gentlemen brought
up in ignorance of their parentage to turn out,
Avhen they do discover their origin, the heirs to
an illustrious name ; I have always admired
that in novels. In your case, my poor Harry,
the reverse is the case ; the distinction ought
to console you.'

Why was I not told before ?'

Because the boyish brain is more open
to prejudice than that of the adult : because,
among your companions, you certainly would
have felt at a disadvantage had you known
yourself to be the son of a '

You always told me,' said Harry, ' that
my father was in the army ! '

What do you call a Sergeant in a line
regiment, then? '

Oh ! of course, but among gentlemen — I
mean — among the set with whom I was brought
up, to be in the army means to have a commission.'


Yes ; that was my pardonable deception.
I thought? that you would respect yourself more
if you felt that your father, like the fathers of
your friends, belonged to the upper class.

Now, my dear boy, you will respect yourself
just as much, although you know that he was
but a Sergeant, and a brave fellow who fell at
my side in the Indian Mutiny.'

And my mother ? '

I did not know her ; she was dead before
I found you out, and took you from your Uncle
Bunker.'

Uncle Bunker ! ' Harry laughed, with a
little bitterness. ' Uncle Bunker ! Fancy asking
one's Uncle Bunker to dine at the club!
What is he by trade ? '

He is something near a big Brewery, a
Brewery Boom, as the Americans say. What
he actually is, I do not quite know. He lives,
if I remember rightly, at a place, an immense
distance from here, called Stepney.'

Do you know anything more about my
father's family ? '

No I the Sergeant was a tall, handsome,
well set-up man ; but I know nothing about
Ins connections. His name, if that is any help
to you, was, was — in fact ' — here Lord Jocelyn
assumed an air of ingratiating sweetness — ' was
Goslett — Goslett ; not a bad name, I think,

pronounced with perhaps a leaning to an
accent on the last syllable. Don't 'you agree
with me, Harry ? '

Oh ! yes, it will do. Better than Bunker,
and not so good as Le Breton. As for my
Christian name, now ? '

There I ventured on one small variation.'

Am I not, then, even Harry ? '

Yes, yes, yes, you are — now ; formerly
you where Harry without the aitch. It is the
custom of the neighbourhood in which you
where born.'

I see ! If I go back among my own
people, I shall be, then, once more 'Army P '

Yes ; and shout on penny steamers, and
brandish pint bottles of stout, and sing along
the streets, in simple abandonment to Arcadian
joy ; and trample on flowers ; and break pretty
things for wantonness ; and exercise a rude but
effective wit, known among the ancients as
Fescennine, upon passing ladies ; and get drunk
o' nights ; and walk the streets with a pipe in
your mouth. That is what you would be, if
you went back, my dear child

Harry laughed.

After all,' he said, ' this is a very difficult
position. I can no longer go about pretending
anything ; I must tell people.'

Is that absolutely necessary ? '

Quite necessary. It will be a deuce of a
business, explaining.'

Shall we tell it to one person, and let him
be the town crier ? '

That, I suppose, would be the best plan ;
meantime, I could retire, while I made some
plans for the future.'

Perhaps, if you really must tell the truth,
it would be well to go out of town for a bit.'

As for myself,' Harry continued, ' I suppose
I shall get over the wrench after a bit.
Just for the moment I feel knocked out of
time.'

Keep the secret, then ; let it be one between
you and me only, Harry ; let no one
know.'

But he shook his head.

Everybody must know. Those who refuse
to keep up the acquaintance of a private
soldier's son — well, then, a non-commissioned
officer's son — will probably let me know their

decision, some way or other. Those who do
not ' he paused.

Nonsense, boy ; who cares nowadays what
a man is by birth ? Is not this great city full
of people who go anywhere, and are nobody's
sons ? Look here, and here ' — he tossed half-a-dozen
cards of invitation across the table —
can you tell me who these people were twenty
years ago — or these — or these ? '

No : I do not care in the least who they
were. I care only that they shall know who I
am ; I will not, for my part, pretend to be
what I am not.'

'I believe you are right, boy. Let the
world laugh if they please, and have done
with it.'

Harry began to walk up and down the
room ; he certainly did not look the kind of
man to give in ; to try hiding things away.
Quite the contrary. And he laughed — he took
it laughing.

I suppose it will sound comic at first,' he
said, ' until people get used to it. Do you
know what he turns out to be .^ That kind of
thing : after all, we think too much about what

people say — what does it matter what they say
or how they say it? If they like to laugh,
they can. Who shall be the town crier ? '

I was thinking,' said Lord Jocelyn slowly,
of calling to-day upon Lady Wimbledon.'

The young man laughed, with a little
heightening of his colour.

Of course — a very good person, an excellent
person, and tomorrow it will be all over
London — there are one or two things,' he went
on after a moment, ' that I do not understand
from the papers which you put into my hands
last night.'

What are those things ? ' Lord Jocelyn
for a moment looked uneasy.

<• Well — perhaps it is impertinent to ask.
But — when Mr. Bunker, the respectable Uncle
Bunker, traded me away, what did he get forme
? '

Every bargain has two sides,' said Lord
Jocelyn. ' You know what I got, you want to
know what the honourable Bunker got. Harry,
on that point I must refer you to the gentleman
himself.'

'Very good. Then I come to the next

difficulty — a staggerer. What did you do it
for? One moment, sir — ' for Lord Jocelyn
seemed about to reply. ' One moment. You
were rich, you were well born, you were young.
What on earth made you pick a boy out of the
gutter and bring him up like a gentleman ? '

You are twenty-three, Harry, and yet you
ask for motives. My dear boy, have you not
learned the golden rule ? In all human actions
look for the basest motive, and attribute that.
If you see any reason for stopping short of
quite the lowest spurs to action, such as revenge,
hatred, malice, and envy, suppose the next
lowest, and you will be quite safe. That next
lowest is — son altesse, ma vanity'

Oh ! ' replied Harry, ' yet I fail to seo
how a child of the lowest classes could supply
any satisfaction for even the next lowest of
human motives.'

It was partly in this way. Mind, I do not
for one moment pretend to answer the whole
of your question. Men's motives, thank heaven,
are so mixed up, that no one can be quite
a saint, while no one is altogether a sinner.
Nature is a leveller, which is a comfort to us

who are born in levelling times. In those days
I was by Avay of being a kind of Eadical. Nota
Eadical sncli as those who delight mankind
in these happier days. But I had Liberal leanings,
and thought I had ideas. When I was a
boy of twelve or so, there were the '48 theories
floating about the air ; some of them got into
my brain and stuck there. Men used to believe
that a great time was coming — perhaps I
heard a whisper of it ; perhaps I was endowed
with a greater faculty for credulity than my
neighbours, and believed in humanity. However,
I do not seek to explain. It may have
occurred to me — I do not say it did — but I
have a kind of recollection as if it did — one
day after I had seen you, then in the custody
of the respectable Bunker, that it would be an
instructive and a humorous thing to take a boy
of the multitude and bring him up in all the
culture, the tastes, the ideas of ourselves — you
and me, for instance, Harry. This idea may
have seized upon me, so that the more I
thought of it, the better pleased I was with it.
I may have pictured such a boy so taught, so
brought up, with such tastes, returning to his

own people. Disgust, I may have said, will
make him a prophet ; and such a ]prophet as
the world has never yet seen. He would belike
a follower of the Old Man of the Mountain.
He would never cease to dream of the
paradise he had seen : he would never cease to
tell of it ; he would be always leading this
friends upward to the same levels on which he
had once stood.'

Humph ! ' said Harry.

Yes, I know,' Lord Jocelyn went on. 'I
ought to have foretold that the education I prepared
for you would have unfitted you for the
role of prophet. I am not disappointed in you,
Harry — quite the reverse. I now see that
what has happened has been only what I should
have expected. By some remarkable accident,
you possess an appearance such as is generally
believed to belong to persons of long-continued
gentle descent. By a still more remarkable
accident, all your tastes prove to be those of
the cultured classes ; the blood of the Goslett's
and the Bunkers has, in yourself, assumed the
most azure hue.'

That is very odd,' said Harry.

VOL. I. D

It is a very remarkable thing, indeed,'
continued Lord Jocelyn gravely. ' I have
never ceased to wonder at this phenomenon.
However, I was enable to send you to a public
school on account of the necessity, as I thought,
of concealing your parentage. But I gave you
instruction of the best, and found for you companions
— as you know, among the '

Yes,' said Harry. ' My companions were
gentlemen, I suppose ; I learned from them.'

Perhaps. Still, the earthenware pot cannot
become a brass pot, whatever he may
pretend. You were good metal from the
beginning.'

You are now, Harry,' he went on, ' three-and-twenty.
You are master of three foreign
languages ; you have travelled on the Continent
and in America ; you are a good rider, a good
shot, a good fencer, a good dancer. You can
paint a little, fiddle a little, dance a great deal,
act pretty well, speak pretty well ; you can, I
dare say, make love as becomes a gentleman ;
you can write very fair verses ; you are good-looking
; you have the a?'r noble ; sou are nota
prig ; you are not an assthete ; you possess
your share of common sense.'

One thing you have omitted which, at the
present picture, may be more useful than any
of these things.'

What is that ? '

You were good enough to give me a lathe,
and to have me instructed in the mysteries of
turning. I am a practical cabinet-maker, if
need be.'

But why should this be of use to you ? '

'Because, Lord Jocelyn ' — Harry ran and
leaned over the table with a sweet smile of
determination on his face — 'because I am
going back to my own people for a while, and
it may be that the trade of cabinet-making
may prove a very backbone of strength to me
among them ■'

Harry — you would not — indeed, you could
not go back to Bunker ? ' Lord Jocelyn asked
this question with every outward appearance of
genuine alarm.

I certainly would. My very kind guardian
and patron, would you stand in my way ? I
want to see those people from where I am
sprung : I want to learn low they differ from
you and your kin. I must compare myself

D 2

with them — I must prove the brotherhood of
humanity.'

You will go ? Yes — I see you will — it is
in your eyes. Go then, Harry. But return tome
soon. The slender fortune of a younger
son shall be shared with you so long as I live,
and given to you when I die. Do not stay
among them. There are, indeed — at least, I
suppose so, — all sorts and conditions of men.
But to me, and to men brought up like you
and me, I do not understand how there can be
any but one sort and one condition. Come
back soon, boy. Believe me — no — do not
believe me — prove it yourself ; in the social
pyramid, the greatest happiness, Harry, lies
near the top.'

CHAPTEE I.

NEWS FOR HIS LORDSHIP.

'I HAVE news for your lordship,' said Mrs.
Bormalack, at the breakfast table, ' something
that will cheer you up a bit. We are to have
an addition to our family.'

His lordship nodded his head, meaning that
he would receive her news without more delay
than was necessary, but that at present his
mind was wholly occupied with a contest between
one of his teeth and a crust. The tooth
was an outlying one, all its lovely companions
having withered and gone, and it was undefended
; the crust was unyielding. For the
moment no one could tell wdiat might be the
result.

Her ladyship replied for him.

Lady Davenant was a small woman, if you
go by inches ; her exalted rank gave her, however,

a dignity designed for very much larger
persons ; yet she carried it with ease. She was
by no means young, and her hair was thin as
well as grey ; her face, which was oval and
delicately curved, might formerly have been
beautiful ; the eyes were bright and eager, and
constantly in motion, as is often the case with
restless and nervous persons ; her lips were
thin and as full of independent action as her
eyes ; she had thin hands, so small that they
might have belonged to a child of eight ; and
she might boast, when inclined for vaunting,
the narrowest and most sloping shoulders whatever
were seen, so sloping that people unaccustomed
to her were wont to tremble lest the
whole of her dress should suddenly slide
straight down those shoulders, as down a slope
of ice ; and strange ladies, impelled by this
apprehension, had been known to ask her in a
friendly whisper if she could thoroughly depend
upon the pins at her throat. As Mrs.
Bormalack often said, speaking of her noble
boarders among her friends, those shoulders of
her ladyship were Quite a Feature. Next to
the pride of having at her table such guests —

who, however, did not give in to the good old
English custom of paying double prices for
having a title — was the distinction of pointing
to those unique shoulders and of talking about
them.

Her ladyship had a shrill, reedy voice, and
spoke loudly. It was remarked by the most
superficial observer, moreover, that she possessed
a very strong American accent.

'At our first boarding-house,' she said,
replying indirectly to the landlady's remark,
at our first boarding-house, which was in
Cellulose Square, next to the Board Schools,
there was a man who once actually slapped his
lordship on the back. And then he laughed !
To be sure, he was only a Dane, but the disrespect
was just the same.'

'My dear,' said his lordship, who now
spoke, having compromised matters with the
crust, ' the ignominy of being slapped on the
back by a powerful sea captain is hardly to be
weighed in comparison with the physical pain
it causes.'

We are quite sure, however, Mrs. Boreas
the lady went on, ' that you will admit

none under your roof but those prepared to
respect rank ; we want no levellers or mischievous
Eadicals for our companions.'

It is to be a young lady,' said Mrs. Barra
alack.

Young ladies, at all events, do not slap
gentlemen on the back, wli ether they are
noblemen or not,' said his lordship kindly.
We shall be happy to welcome her, ma'am.'

This ornament of the Upper House was a
big, fat man, with a face like a full moon. His
features were not distinctly aristocratic ; his
cheeks were shabby and his nose broad ; also
he had a double chin. His long hair was a
soft, creamy white, the kind of white which in
old age follows a manhood of red hair. He satin
an arm-chair at the end of the table, with his
elbows on the arms, as if he desired to get as
much rest out of the chair as possible. His
eyes were very soft and dreamy ; his expression
was that of a man who has been accustomed
to live in the quieter parts of the world. He,
too, spoke with a marked American accent and
with slowness, as if measuring his words and
appreciating himself their importance. The.

dignity of his manner was not wholly due to
his position, but in great measure to his former
profession. For his lordship had not always
rejoiced in his present dignity, nor, in fact, had
he been brought up to it. Persons intending
to become peers of Great Britain do not, as a
rule, first spend more than forty years as
schoolmasters in their native town. And just
as clergymen, and especially young clergymen,
love to talk loud, because it makes people
remember that they are in the presence of
those whose wisdom demands attention, so old
schoolmasters speak slowly because their words
even the lightest, which are usually pretty
heavy — have got to be listened to, under
penalties.

As soon, however, as he began to ' enjoy
the title,' the ex-schoolmaster addressed himself
with some care to the cultivation of a manner
which he thought due to his position. It was
certainly pompous ; it was intended to be
affable ; it was naturally, because he was a man
of a most kind disposition and an excellent
heart, courteous and considerate.

'I am rejoiced, Mrs. Bormalack,' he went

on grandly, and with a bow, ' that we are to be
cheered m our domestic circle by the addition
of a young lady. It is an additional proof, if
any were needed, of the care with which you
consider the happiness of your guests.' The
Professor, who owed for five weeks, murmured
that no one felt it more than himself. ' Sometimes,
ma'am, I own that even with the delightful
society of yourself ('oh, my lord,
your lordship is too kind,' said Mrs. Bormalack)
and of the accomplished Professor,' — here he
bowed to the Professor, who nodded and spread
out his hands professionally, 'and of the learned
Mr. Daniel Faggggg,' — here he bowed to Mr. Faggggg,
who took no notice at all, because he was
thinking of his triangles and was gazing straight
before him — ' and of Mr. Josephus Coppin,' —
here he bowed to Josephus Coppin, who
humbly inclined his head without a smile, ' and
of Mr. Maliphant,' — here he bowed to Mr.
Mahphant, who with a breakfast-knife was
trying to make a nobly crust assume the shape
of a human head, in fact, the head of Mr.
Gladstone, ' and of Mr. Harry Goslett, who is
not with us so much as we could desire of so

sprightly a young man ; and surrounded as weare
by all the gaiety and dissipation and splendour
of London, I sometimes suspect that weare
not always so cheerful as we might be.'

Give me,' said his wife, folding her little
hands and looking round her with a warlike
expression, as if inviting contradiction, 'give
me Canaan City, New Hampshire, for gaiety.'

Nobody combated this position, nor did
anybody reply at all, unless the pantomime of
the Professor was intended for a reply by
gesture, like the learned Thaumast. For, with
precision and abstracted air, he rolled up a little
ball of bread, about as big as a marble, placed
it in the palm of his left hand, closed his fingers
upon it, and then opened them, showing that
the ball had vanished. Then he executed the
slightest possible shrug of his shoulders, spread
out his hands, and nodded to his lordship, saying,
with a sweet smile, —
Pretty thing, isn't it ? '
I hope, sir, that she will be pretty,' said
his lordship, thinking of the young lady. ' To
look at a pretty face is as good as a day of
sunshine.'

She is a beautiful girl,' Mrs. Bormalack
replied with enthusiasm, ' and I am sure she
must be as good as she is pretty ; because she
paid three mouths in advance. With a piano,
too, which she will play herself. She is a
dressmaker by trade, and she wants to set herself
up in a genteel way. And she's got a little
money, she says ; ' a sweet smile crossed her face
as she thought that most of this little money
would probably come into her own pocket.

A dressmaker ! ' cried her ladyship. ' Do
tell ! I was in that line myself before I married.
That was long before we began to enjoy the
title. You don't know, ma'am ' — here she
dropped her voice — ' you don't know how
remarkably fond his lordship is of a pretty face ;
choice with them, too. Not every face pleases
him. Oh ! you wouldn't believe how particular.
Which shows his aristocratic descent ;
because we all know what his ancestors were.'

To be sure,' said the landlady, nodding
significantly. ' We all know what they were.
Lovers to a man — I mean a lord. And as for
the young lady, she will be here this evening,
in time for tea. Shrimps and Sally Linn,

my lord. And her name is Miss Kennedy.
Respectable, if poor ; and illustrious ancestors
is more than we can all of us have, nor yet
deserve.'

Here the Professor rose, having finished his
breakfast. One might have noticed that he
had extremely long and delicate fingers, and
that they seemed always in m.ovemcDt ; also
that he had a Avay of looking at yon as if he
meant yon to look straight and steady into his
eyes, and not to go rolling your eyes about in
the frivolous, irresponsible way affected by
some people. He walked slowly to the window
; then, as if seized with an irresistible
impulse to express his feelings in pantomime,
or else, it may be, to try an experiment, returned
to the table, and asked for the loan of
his lordship's pocket-handkerchief, which was a
large red silk one, well fitted for the purpose.
How he conveyed a saucer unseen from the
table into that handkerchief, and how that
saucer got into the nobleman's coat-tail pocket,
were things known only to himself. Yet
familiarity breeds contempt, and though everybody
looked on, nobody expressed delight or

astonishment, for this exhibition of magic and
spells went on every day, and whenever the
Professor was among them. He moved about
accompanied, so to speak, by a legion of invisible
attendants and servants, who conveyed,
hid, brought back, uncovered, discovered, recovered,
lost, found, rapped, groaned, cried,
whistled, sang, moved chairs and tables, and,
in fact, behaved as only a troop of well-drilled
elves can behave. He was a young man of
twenty-five, and he had a great gift of silence.
By trade he was a Professor of legerdemain.
Other Professors there are who hold up the
light of this science, and hand it down to posterity
undimmed ; but none with such an
ardent love for their work as Professor Clio.
For he practised all day long, except when he
was reading the feats of the illustrious conjurers,
sorcerers, necromancers, and wizards of old
time, or inventing new combinations, traps for
the credulous, and contrivances to make that
which was not seen like unto that which was.
The East End of London is not the richest
field for such performers ; but he was young,
and he lived in hope — very often, when there

were no engagements — upon it. At such times
he became a simple lodger, instead of a boarder,
at Mrs. Bormalack's, and went without any
meals.

The situation of this boarding-house, poetically
described by his lordship as in the midst
of the gaiety of London, was in the far East,
in that region of London which is less known
to Englishmen than if it were situated in the
wildest part of Colorado, or among the pine
forests of British Columbia. It stood, in fact,
upon Stepney Green, a small strip of Eden
which has been visited by few, indeed, of those
who do not live in its immediate vicinity. Yet,
it is a romantic spot.

Two millions of people, or thereabouts, live
in the East End of London. That seems a
good-sized population for an utterly unknown
town. They have no institutions of their own
to speak of, no public buildings of any importance,
no municipality, no gentry, no carriages,
no soldiers, no picture-galleries, no theatres, no
opera — they have nothing. It is the fashion to
believe that they are all paupers, which is a
foolish and mischievous belief, as we shall presently

see. Probably there is no such spectacle
in the whole world as that of this immense,
neglected, forgotten great city of East London.
It is even neglected by its own citizens, who
have never yet perceived their abandoned condition.
They are Londoners, it is true, but
they have no part or share of London ; its
wealth, its splendours, its honours exist not for
them. They see nothing of any splendours ;
even the Lord Mayor's show goeth westward :
the city lies between them and the greatness of
England. Tliey are beyond the wards, and
cannot become aldermen ; the rich Tendon
merchants go north and south and west ; but
they go not east. Nobody goes east ; no one
wants to see the place ; no one is curious about
the way of life in the east. Books on London
pass it over ; it has little or no history ; great
men are not buried in its churchyards, which
are not even ancient, and crowded by citizens
as obscure as those who now breathe the
upper airs about them. If anything happens
in the east, people at the other end have
to stop and think before they can remember
where the place may be.

The house was old, built of red bricks with
a ' shell ' decoration over the door. It contained
room for about' eight boarders, who had
one sitting-room in common. This was the
breakfast-room, a meal at which all were present
; the dining-room — but nobody except his
lordship and his wife dined at home ; the tea-room
— but tea was too early for most of the
boarders ; and the supper-room. After supper
tobacco was tolerated. The boarders were
generally men, and mostly elderly men of staid
and quiet manners, with whom the evening
pipe was the conclusion and solace of the day.
It was not like the perpetual incense of a tap-room,
and yet the smell of tobacco was never
absent from the room, lingering about the folds
of the dingy curtain, which served for both
summer and winter, clinging to the horsehair
sofa, to the leather of the chairs, and to the
rusty table-cloth.

The furniture was old and mean. The
wall-paper had once been crimson, but was
now only dark ; the ceiling had for many years
wanted white-washing badly ; the door and
windows wanted painting ; the windows always

VOL. I. E

wanted cleaning ; the rope of one of the binds
was broken ; and the bUnd itself, not nearly so
white as it might have been, was pinned halfway
up. Everything was shabby ; everything
wanted polishing, washing, brightening up.

A couple of arm-chairs stood, when meals
were not going on, one on either side of the
replace — one being reserved for his lordship,
and the other for his wife ; they were, like the
sofa, of horsehair, and slippery. There was a
long table covered by a faded red cloth ; the
carpet was a Brussels once of a warm crimson,
now worn threadbare ; the hearth rug was worn
into holes ; one or two of the chairs had
broken out and showed glimpses of stuffing.
The sideboard was of old-fashioned build, and
a shiny black by reason of its age ; there were
two or three hanging shelves filled with books,
the property of his lordship, who loved reading
; the mantel-shelf was decorated by a small
collection of pipes ; and above it hung a portrait
of the late Samuel Bormalack, formerly a
Collector in the great Brewing House of Messenger,
Marsden and Company.

His widow, who carried on the house, was

a comfortable — a serenely comfortable woman,
who regarded the world from the optimist's
point of view. Perfect health and a tolerably
prosperous business, where the returns are
regular though the profits are small, make the
possessor agree with Pope and Candide that
everything is for the best in this best of all
possible worlds. Impossible not to be contented,
happy, and religious, when your wishes
are narrowed to a tidy dinner, a comfortable
supper with a little something hot, boarders
who pay up regular, do not grumble, and goto
bed sober ; and a steady hope that you will
not ' get something,' by which of course is
meant that you may not fall ill of any disagreeable
or painful disease. To ' get something' is
one of the pretty euphemisms of our daily
speech.

She had had one or two unlucky accidents,
such as the case of Captain Jeffrey, who stayed
two months, and drank enough beer to float a
three-decker, and then sailed away, promising
to pay, and would have done so — for he was
an honest man — but had the misfortune to fall
overboard while in liquor. But her present

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

boarders seemed most respectable, and she was
at ease.

Of course, the persons of greatest consideration
among them were the noble pair
who enjoyed the title. Rank is respected, if
you please, even at the East End of London,
and perhaps more there than in fashionable
quarters, because it is so rare. King John, it
is true, had once a palace at Stepney ; but that
is a long thine to look back upon, and even the
oldest inhabitant can now not remember to
have been kicked by the choleric monarch.
Then the Marquis of Worcester had once a
great house here, what time the sainted Charles
was ripening things for a row Eoyal. That
house is gone too, and I do not know where it
used to stand. From the time of this East
End Marquis to the arrival of Lord and Lady
Davenant, last year, there have been no resident
members of the English aristocracy, and no
member of the foreign nobility, with the exception
of a certain dusky Marquis of Chou-fleur,
from Hayti, who is reported on good
authority to have once lived in these parts for
six months, thinking he was in the politest and

most fashionable suburb of London. He is
further said to have carried on with Satanic
wildness in Limehouse and the West India
Dock Eoad of an evening. A Japanese, too, certainly
once went to an hotel in America Square,
which is not quite the East End, and said he
was a Prince in his own country. He stayed a
week, and drank champagne all day long.
Then he decamped without paying the bill ;
and when the landlord went to the Embassy to
complain, he thought it was the Ambassador
himself, until he discovered that all Japanese
are exactly alike. Wherefore he desisted from
any further attempt to identify the missing
Prince for want of the missing link, namely,
some distinctive feature.

The illustrious pair had now been in the
House for six weeks. Previously they had
spent some time in Wellclose Square, which is
no doubt well known to fashionable readers,
and lies contiguous to St. George's Street.
Here happened that accident of the back-slapping
so feelingly alluded to by her ladyship.
They were come from America to take up an
old family title which had been in abeyance

for two or three generations. They appeared
to be poor, but able to find the modest weekly
sum asked by Mrs. Bormalack ; and in order
to secure her confidence and goodwill, they
paid every week in advance. They drank
nothing but water, but, to make up, his lordship
ate a great deal, especially at breakfast,
and they asked for strange things, unknown to
English households. In other respects they
gave no kind of trouble, were easily satisfied,
never grumbled, and were affable. For their
rank they certainly dressed shabbily, but high
social station is sometimes found coupled with
eccentricity. Doubtless Lord Davenant had
his reasons for going about in a coat white at
the seams and shiny at the back, which, being
made of sympathetic stuff, and from long habit,
had assumed the exact shape of his noble back
and shoulders, with a beautiful model of his
illustrious elbows. For similarly good and
sufficient reasons Lady Davenant wore that old

black gown and those mended gloves and ;

but it is cruel to enumerate the shortcomings of
her attire.

Perhaps on account of his public character.

the Professor would rank in the House after
his lordship. Nothing confers greatness more
quickly than an unabashed appearance upon a
platform. Mr. Mahphant, however, who lead
travelled and could relate tales of adventure,
might dispute precedence with him. He was
now a carver of figure-heads for ships. It is
an old and honourable trade, but in these latter
days it has decayed. He had a small yard at
Limehouse, where he worked all by himself,
turning out heads in the rough, so that they
might be transformed into the beauteous
goddess Venus, or a Saucy Poll, or a bearded
Neptune, as the owners might prefer. He was
now an old man, with a crumpled and million-heed
face, but active still and talkative. His
memory played him tricks, and he took little
interest in new things. He had a habit, too,
which disconcerted people unaccustomed to
him, of thinking one part of a reminiscence to
himself and saying the rest aloud, so that one
got only the torso or mangled trunk of the
story, or the head, or the feet, with or without
the tail, which is the point.

The learned Daniel Faggg, rapt always in

contemplation, was among them but not of
them. He was lately arrived from Australia,
bringing with him a Discovery which took
away the breath of those who heard it, and
filled all the scholars and learned men of
Europe with envy and hatred, so that they
combined and formed a general conspiracy to
keep him down, and to prevent the publication
of his great book, lest the world should point
the finger of scorn at them, and laugh at the
blindness of its great ones. Daniel himself
said so, and an oppressed man generally knows
his oppressor. He went away every morning
after breakfast, and returned for tea. He was
behoved to occupy the day in spreading a
knowledge of his Discovery, the nature of
which was unknown at the boarding-house,
among clergymen and other scholars. In the
evening he sat over a Hebrew Bible and a dictionary,
and spoke to no one. A harmless
man, but soured and disappointed with the
cold reception of his Great Discovery.

Another boarder was the unfortunate Josephus
Coppin, who was a clerk in the great
brewing-house of Messenger, Marsden and

Company. He had been there for forty years,
being now fifty-five years of age, grey, and sad
of face, because, for a certain well known
reason, he was not advanced, but remained
for ever among the juniors at a salary of thirty
shillings a week. Other men of his own standing
were Chief Brewers, Collectors, and Chief
Accountants. He was almost where he had
started. The young men came and mounted
the ladder of promotion, passing him one after
the other ; he alone remained upon the rung
which he had reached one day, now thirty
years bygone, when a certain thing happened,
the consequences of which were to keep him
down, to ruin his prospects, to humiliate and
degrade him, to sadden and embitter his whole
life. Lastly, there was a young man, the only
young man among them, one Harry Goslctt byname,
who had quite recently joined the boardinghouse.
He was a nephew of Mr. Coppin,
and was supposed to be looking for a place of
business.

But he was an uncertain boarder. He paid
for his dinner, but never dined at home ; lie
had brought with him a lathe, which he set up

in a little garden-house, and here he worked
by himself, but in a fitful, lazy way, as if it
mattered nothing whether he worked or not.
He seemed to prefer strolling about the
place, looking around him as if he had
never seen tidings before, and he was wont to
speak of familiar objects as if they were
strange and rare. These eccentricities were
regarded as due to his having been to America .
A handsome young man and cheerful, which
made it a greater pity that he was so
idle.

On this morning the first to start for the
day's business was Daniel Faggg. He put his
Hebrew Bible on the bookshelf, took out a
memorandum-book and the stump of a pencil,
made an entry, and then counted out his
money, which amounted to eight-and-sixpence,
with a sigh. He was a little man, about sixty
years of age, and this thin hair was sandy in
colour. His face was thin, and he looked
hungry and under-fed. I believe, in fact, that he
seldom had money enough for dinner, and so
went without. Nothing Alas remarkable in his
face, except a pair of very large and thick

eyebrows, also of sandy hue, wliicli is unusual,
and produces a very curious effect. With these
he was wont to frown tremendously as he went
along, frightening the little children into fits ;
when he was not frowning, he looked dejected.
It must have been an unhappy condition of
things which made the poor man thus alternate
between wrath and depression. There were,
however, moments — those when he got hold of
a new listener — in which he would light up
with enthusiasm as he detailed the history of
his Discovery. Then the thin, drawn cheek
would fill out, and his quivering lips would
become firm, and his dejected eyes would
brighten with the old pride of discovery, and
he would laugh once more, and rub his hands
with pride, when he described the honest sympathy
of the people in the Australian township,
where he first announced the great Revelation
he was to make to the world, and received
their enthusiastic cheers and shouts of encouragement.


Harry Goslett was his last listener, and, as
the enthusiast thought, his latest convert.

As Daniel passed out of the dining-room,

and was looking for his hat among a collection
of hats as bad as was ever seen out of Canadian
backwoods, Harry Goslett himself came
downstairs, his hands in his pockets, as slowly
and lazily as if there was no such thing as
work to do or time to keep. He laughed and
nodded to the discoverer.

Oho ! Dan'l,' he said ; ' how are the triangles
? and are you really going back to the
Lion's Den ? '

Yes, Mr. Goslett, I am going back there !
I am not afraid of them ; I am going to seethe
Head of the Egyptian Department. He
says he will give me a hearing ; they all said
they would, and they have. But they won't
listen ; it's no use to hear unless you listen.
What a dreadful thing is jealousy among the
learned, Mr. Goslett ! '

It is indeed, my Prophet ; have they subscribed
to the book ? '

Sto ! they won't subscribe. Is it likely
that they will help to bring out a work which
proves them all wrong? Come, sir, even at
your age you can't think so well of poor
inanity.'

Daniel — ' the young man laid his hands
impressively upon the little man's shoulders —
you showed me yesterday a hist of forty-five
subscribers to your book, at twelve shillings and
sixpence apiece. Where is that subscription-money
? '

The poor man blushed, and hung his head.

A man must hive,' he said at length, trying
to frown fiercely.

Yes, but unpleasant notice is sometimes
taken of the way in which people live, my
dear friend. This is not a free country ; not
by any means free. If I were you, I would
take the triangles back to Australia, and print
the book there, among your friends.'

No ! ' The little man stamped on the
ground, and rammed his head into his hat
with determination. ' No, Mr. Goslett, and no
again. It shall be printed here. I will hurl
it at the head of the so-called scholars here, in
London — in their stronghold, close to the
British Museum. Besides ' — here he relaxed,
and turned a pitiful face of sorrow and shame
upon his adviser — ' besides, can I forget the
day when I left Australia ? They all came

aboard to say good-bye. The papers had paragraphs
about it. Tliey shouted one after the
other., and cobblers went around surprising,
and they slapped me on the back and said,
'ego, Dan'l," or "Go, Egg," or 'ego, Mr.
Faggg," according to their intimacy and the
depth of their friendship — " Go where honour
and glory and a great fortune, with a pension
on the Queen's Civil List, are waiting for you."
On the voyage I even dreamed of a title ; I
thought Sir Daniel Faggg, Knight or Baronet,
or the Eight Reverend Lord Faggg, would sound
well to go back to Australia with. Honour ?
Glory ? Fortune ? where are they ? 
in my pocket ; and the Head of the
Greek Department calls me a fool, because I
won't acknowledge that truth— yes, Truth
is error. Laughs at the triangles, Mr.
Goslett ! '

He laughed bitterly and went out, slamming
the door behind him.

Then Harry entered the breakfast-room,
nodding pleasantly to everybody ; and without
any apology for lateness, as if breakfast could
be kept about all the morning to suit his convenience,

sat down and began to eat. Jonathan
Coppin got up, sighed and went away to
his brewery. The Professor looked at the last
comer with a meditative air, as if he would
like to make him disappear, and could do it
too, but was uncertain how Harry would take
it. Mrs. Bormalack hurried away on domestic
business. Mr. Maliphant laughed and rubbed
his hands together, and then laughed again as
if he were thinking of something really comic,
and said, ' Yes, I knew the Sergeant very well,
a well set-up man he was, and Caroline Coppin
was a pretty girl.' At this point his face
clouded and his eyes expressed doubt. ' There
was,' he added, ' something I wanted to ask
you, young man, something ' — here he tapped
his forehead — ' something about your father or
your mother, or both ; but I have forgotten —
never mind. Another time — another time.'

He ran away with boyish activity and a
schoolboy's laugh, being arrived at that time
of life when one becomes hsjht of heart once
more, knowing by experience that nothing
matters very much. There were none left in
the room but the couple who enjoyed the title.

His lordship sat in his arm-chair, apparently
enjoying it, in meditation and repose ; this, one
perceives, is quite the best way of enjoying an
hereditary title, if you come to it late in life.

His wife had, meanwhile, got out a little
shabby portfolio in black leather, and was
turning over the papers with impatience ; now
and then she looked up to see whether this late
young man had finished his breakfast. She
fidgeted, arranged, and worried with her papers,
so that anyone, whose skull was not six inches
thick, might have seen that she wanted to be
alone with her husband. It was also quite
clear to those who thought about things, and
watched this little lady, that there may be
meaning in certain proverbial expressions
touching grey mares.

Presently Harry Goslett finished his coffee,
and, paying no attention to her little ladyship's
signals of distress, began to open up conversation
on general subjects With the noble lord.

She could bear it no longer. Here Averse
the precious moments wasted and thrown away,
every one of which should be bringing them
nearer to the recognition of their rights.

Young man,' she cried, jumping up in her
chair ; ' if you've got nothing to do but to loll
and lop around, all forenoon, I guess we lev,
and this is the room in which we do our
work.'

I beg your pardon. Lady Davenant '

Young man — Git '

She pointed to the door.

VOL. I, P

CHAPTEE II.

A VERY COMPLETE CASE.

His lordship, left alone with his wife, manifested
certain signs of uneasiness. She laid the
portfolio on the table, turned over the papers,
sorted some of them, picked out some for reference,
fetched the ink, and placed the penholder
in position.

ISTow, my dear,' she said, ' no time to lose.
Let us set to work in earnest.'

His lordship sighed. He was sitting with
his fat hands upon his knees, contented with
the repose of the moment.

'Clara Martha,' he grumbled, 'cannot I
have one hour of rest ? '

'Not one, till you get your rights.' She
hovered over him like a little falcon, fierce and
persistent. ' Not one. What ? You a British
peer ? You, who ought to be sitting with a

coronet on your head — you to shrink from the
trouble of writing out your Case ? And such
a Case ! '

He only moaned. Certainly he was a very
lethargic person.

You are not the Carpenter, your father.
Nor even the Wheelwright, your grandfather,
who came down of his own accord. You
would rise, you would soar — you have the
spirit of your ancestors.'

He feebly flapped with his elbows, as if he
really would like to take a turn in the air, but
made no verbal response.

Cousin Nathaniel,' she went on, ' gave us
six months at six dollars a week. That's none
too generous of Nathaniel, seeing we have no
children, and he will be the heir to the title.
I guess Aureha Tucker set him against the
thing. Six months, and three of them gone
already, and nothing done. What v>^ould
Aurelia say if we went home again, beaten ? '

The little woman gasped, and would have
shrugged her shoulders, but they were such a
long way down — shoulders so sloping could
not be shrugged.

r2

Her remonstrances moved the heavy man,
v^ho drew his chair to the table with great
deliberation.

We are here,' she continued — always the
exhorter and the strengthener of faith — ' not to
claim a title but to assume it. We shall present
our Case to Parliament, or the Queen, or
the House of Lords, or the Court of Chancery,
or whosoever is the right person, and we shall
say, " I am Lord Davenant." That is all

Clara Martha,' said her husband, ' I wish
that were all we had to do. And, on the
Avhole, I would as soon be back in Canaan
City, New Hampshire, and the trouble over.
The memoranda are all here,' he said. ' Can't
we get someone else to draw up the Case ? '

Certainly not. You must do it. Why,
you used to think nothing of writing out a
Fourth of July speech.'

He shook his head.

And you know that you have often said,
yourself, that there wasn't a book written that
could teach you anything up to Quadratic
Equations. And self-raised, too ! '

It isn't that, Clara Martha. It isn't that.

Listen ! ' he sank his voice to a whisper-It's
the doubt. That's the point. Every time I
face that doubt it's like a bucket of coal water
down my back.'

She shivered. Yes : there was always the
doubt.

Come, my dear,' she said presently ; ' we
must get the Case drawn up, so that anyone
may read it. That is the first thing — never
think of any doubt.'

He took up one of the loose papers, which
was covered with writing.

Timothy Clitheroe Davenant,' he read
with a Aweary sigh, ' died at Canaan City, New
Hampshire, in the year of our Lord one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-four. By trade
he was a Wheelwright. His marriage is recorded
in the church register of July 1, 1773.
His headstone still stands in the old churchyard,
and says that he was born in England in
the year one thousand seven hundred and
thirty two — it does not say where he was born —
and that he was sixty-two years of age at the
day of his death. Also, that long time he
bore '

Yes, yes, but you needn't put that in.
Go on with your Case. The next point is your
own father. Courage, my dear ; it is a very
strong Case.'

The Case is very strong.' His lordship
plucked up courage, and took up another
paper. ' This is my father's record. All is
clear : Born in Canaan City on October 10,
1774, the year of Independence, the eldest son
of the aforesaid Timothy Clitheroe Davenant,
Wheelwright, and Dinah his wife — here is a
copy of the register. Married on May 13,
1810, which was late in life, because he didn't
somehow get on so fast as some, to Susanna
Pegiey, of the same parish. Described as a
Carpenter — but a poor workman, Clara Martha,
and fond of chopping yarns, in which he was
equalled by none. He died in the year 1830,
his tombstone still standing, like his father's
before him. It says that his end was peace.
Wal — he always wanted it. Give him peace,
with a chair in the verandah, and a penknife
and a little bit of pine, and he asked for no
more. Only that, and his wife wouldn't let
him have it. His end was peace.'

You all want peace,' said his wife. ' The
Davenants always did thmk that they only had
to sit still and the plums would drop in their
mouths. As for you, I believe you'd be content
to sit and sit in Canaan City till Queen
Victoria found you out and sent you the coronet
herself. But you've got a wife as well as your
father.'

I lev,' he said, with another sigh. ^ Perhaps
we were wrong to come over — I think I
Alas happier in the schoolroom, when the boys
were gone hum. It was very quiet, there, fora
sleep in the afternoon by the stove. And in
summer the trees looked handsome in the sunlight.'


She shook her head impatiently.

Come,' she cried. ' Where are the " Recollections
" of your grandfather ? '

He found another paper, and read it slowly,

My grandfather died before I was born.
My father, however, said that he used to throat
out hints about his illustrious family, and that
if he chose to go back to England some people
would be very much surprised. But he never
explained himself. Also he would sometimes

speak of a great English estate, and once lie
said that the freedom of a Wheelwright was
better than the gilded chains of a British aristocrat
— that was at a cometh of July Meeting.'

Men talk wild at meetings said his wife.
Still, there may have been a meaning' behind
it. Go on Timothy — I mean, my lord.'

As for my father, it pleased him, when he
could put up his feet and crack with his friends,
to brag of his great connections in England.
But he never knew rightly who they were, and
he was too peaceful and restful a creature to
take steps to find out.'

'Waiting' for King George,' observed his
wife. ' Just Avhat you would be coin', but forme.'


That's all the " Recollections." ' Here
comes my own declaration :

" I, Timothy Clitheroe Davenant, make
affidavit on oath, if necessary — but 1 am not
quite clear as to the righteousness of swearing —
that I am the son of the late Timothy Chtheroe
Davenant, sometime carpenter of the City of
Canaan, New Hampshire, U.S.A., and Susanna
his wife, both now deceased ; that I was born

in the year of grace one thousand eight hundred
and fifteen, and that I have been for forty
years a teacher in my native town." That is
all clean and above-board, Clara Martha; no
weak point so far, father to son, marriage certificates
regularly found, and baptism registers.
Ko one can ask more. " Further, I, the above-named
Timothy, do claim to be the lawful and
legitimate heir to the ancient barony of Davenant,
supposed to be extinct in the year 1783
by the death of the last lord, without male
issue." Legally worded, I think,' he added
with a little proud smile.

Yes : it reads right. Now for the connection.'


Oh ! the connection.' His lordship's face
clouded over. His consort, however, awaited
the explanation, for the thousandth time, in
confidence. Where the masculine mind found
doubt and uncertainty, the quick woman's
intellect, ready to believe and tenacious of faith,
had jumped to certainty.

'The connection is this.' He took up
another paper, and read :

" The last Lord Davenant had one son

only, a boy named Timothy Clitlieroe. All the
eldest sons of the House were named Timothy
Clitlieroe, just as all the Ashley are named
Anthony. When the boy arrived at years of
maturity he was sent on the Grand Tour, which
he made with a tutor. On returning to England,
it is believed that he had some difference
with this father, the nature of Which has never
been ascertained. He then embarked upon a
ship sailing for the American Colonies. Nothing
more was ever heard about him, no news
came to his father or his friends, and he was
supposed to be dead." '

Even the ship was never heard of,' added
]her ladyship, as if this was a fact which would
greatly help in lengthening the life of the young
man.

That, too, was never heard of again. If
she had not been thrown away, we might have
learned what became of the Honourable
Timothy Clitheroe Davenant.' There was
some confusion of ideas here, which the ex-schoolmaster
was not slow to perceive.

I mean,' he tried to explain, ' that if she
got safe to Boston, the young man would have

landed there, and all would be comparatively
clear. Whereas, if she was cast away, we
must now suppose that he was saved and got
ashore somehow.'

Like Saint Paul,' she cried triumphantly,
on a piece of wreck — what St. Paul did, he
could do, I should hope.'

Because,' her husband continued, ' there
is one fact which proves that he did get ashore,
that he concluded to stay there, that he descended
so far into the social scale as to become
a wheelwright ; and that he lived and died in
the town of Canaan, New Hampshire.'

Go on, my dear. Make it clear. Put it
strong. This is the most interesting point
of all '

• And this young man, who was supposed
to be cast away in the year one thousand seven
hundred and fifty-four, aged twenty-two, was
exactly the same age as my grandfather,
Timothy Clitheroe Davenant, who bore the
same names which is proved by the headstone
and the church books.'

Could there,' asked this wife, springing to

her feet, ' could there have been two Englishmen
? '

Of the same illustrious and historic surname,
both in America ? ' replied her husband,
roused into a flabby enthusiasm.

Of the same beautiful Christian name ? —
two Timothy ? '

Born both in the same year ? '

The little woman with the bright eyes and
the sloping shoulders threw her arms about her
husband's neck.

You shall have your rights, my dear,' she
said; 'I will hive to see you sitting in the
House of Lords with the hereditary statesmen
of England. If there is justice in the land of
England, you shall have your rights. There is
justice, I am sure, and equal law for poor and
rich, and encouragements for the virtuous.
Yes, my dear, the virtuous. Whatever your
faults may be, your virtues are many, and it
can't but do the House of Lords good to see a
little virtue among them. Not that I hold
with Aurelia Tucker that the English House of
Lords are wallowers in sin ; whereas, Irene
Pascoe once met a Knight on a missionary platform

and found he'd got religion. But virtue
you can never have too much of. Courage, my
lord ; forget the Carpenter, and think only of
the Nobleman, your grandfather, who condescended
to become a Wheelwright.'

He obediently took up the pen and began.
When he seemed fairly absorbed in the task of
copying out and stating the Case, she left him.
As soon as the door was closed, he heaved a
gentle sigh, pushed back his chair, put up his
feet upon another chair, covered his head with
his red silk pocket-handkerchief — for there were
flies in the room — and dropped into a gentle
slumber. The Carpenter was, for the moment,
above the condescending Wheelwright.

CHAPTER III.

ONLY A DRESSMAKER.

Harry Goslett returned to the boarding-louse
that evening, in a mood of profound dejection ;
he had spent a few hours with certain cousins,
whose acquaintance he was endeavouring to
make. ' Hitherto,' he said, writing to Lord
Jocelyn, ' the soil seems hardly worth cultivating.'
In this he spoke hastily, because every
man's mind is worth cultivating as soon as you
fid out the things best fitted to grow in it.
But some minds will only grow turnips, while
others produce the finest strawberries.

The cousins, for their part, did not, as yet,
take to the new arrival, whom they found
difficult to understand — his speech was strange,
his manner stranger : these peculiarities, they
thought in their ignorance, were due to residence
in the United States, where Harry had

found it expedient to place most of this previous
years. Conversation was difficult between two
rather jealous workmen and a brother artisan,
who greatly resembled the typical Swell — an
object of profound dislike and suspicion to the
working classes.

He had now spent some three weeks among
his kinsfolk. He brought with him some
curiosity, but little enthusiasm. At first he
was interested and amused ; rapidly he became
bored and disgusted ; for as yet he saw only the
outside of things. There was an uncle, Mr.
Benjamin Bunker, the study of whom, regarded
as anybody else's uncle, would have been
pleasant. Considered as his own connection
by marriage — Benjamin and the late Serjeant
Goslett having married sisters — he was too
much inclined to be ashamed of him. The
two cousins seemed to him — as yet he knew
them very little — a pair of sulky, ill-bred young
men, who had taken two opposite fines, neither
of which was good for social intercourse. The
people of the boardinghouse continued to
amuse him, partly because they were in a way
afraid of him. As for the place — he looked

about him, standing at the north entrance of
Stepney Green — on the left hand, the Whitechapel
Eoad ; behind him, Stepney, Limehouse,
St. George's-in-the-East, Poplar, and Shad well ;
on the right, the Mile End Eoad, leading to
Bow and Stratford ; before him. Ford, Hackney,
Bethnal Green. Mile upon mile of streets
with houses — small, mean, and monotonous
houses ; the people living the same mean and
monotonous lives, all after the same model. In
his ignorance he pitied and despised those
people, not knowing how rich and full any life
may be made, whatever the surroundings, and
even without the gracious influences of Art.
Under the influence of this pity and contempt,
when he returned in the evening at half-past
nine, he felt himself for the first time in his life
run very low down indeed.

The aspect of the room was not calculated
to cheer him up. It was ht with a mean two-jet
gas burner ; the dingy curtain wanted
looping up, the furniture looked more common
and mean than usual. Yet, as he stood in the
doorway, he became conscious of a change.

The boarders were all sitting there, just as

usual, and the supper cloth was removed ; Mr.
Maliphant had his long pipe fixed in the corner
of his mouth, but he held it there with an
appearance of constraint, and he had let it go
out. Mr. Josephus Coppin sat in the corner in
which he always put himself, so as to be out of
everybody's way ; also with a pipe in his hand,
unlighted. Daniel Faggg had his Hebrew Bible
spread out before him, and his Dictionary, and
his coj^y of the Authorised Version — which he
used, as he would carefully explain, not for
what schoolboys call a crib, but for purpose of
comparison. This was very grand ! A man
who can read Hebrew at all inspires one with
confidence ; but the fact is the more important
when it is connected with a discovery ; and to
compare Versions — one's own with the collected
wisdom of a Eoyal Commission — is a very
grand thing indeed. But to-night he sat with
his head in his hands, and his sandy hair pushed
back, looking straight before him; and Mrs.
Bormalack was graced in her best black silk
dress, and ' the decanters ' were proudly placed
upon the table with rum, gin, and brandy in
them, and beside them stood the tumblers, hot

VOL. I. G

water, cold water, lemons, and spoons, in the
most genteel way. The representative of the
Upper House, who did not take spirits and
Vater, sat calmly dignified in his arm-chair by
the fireplace, and in front of him, on the other
side, sat his wife, with black thread mittens
drawn tightly over her little hands and thin
arms, bolt upright, and conscious of her rank.
All appeared to be silent, but that was their
custom, and all, which was not their custom,
wore an unaccustomed air of company manners
which was very beautiful to see.

Harry, looking about him, perplexed at
these phenomena, presently observed that the
eyes of ah, except those of Daniel Faggg, were
fixed in one direction ; and that the reason why
Mr. Mahphant held an unlighted pipe in his
mouth, and Josephus one in his hand, and that
Daniel was not reading, and that his lordship
looked so full of dignity, and that ardent spirits
were abroad, was nothing less than the presence
of a young lady.

In such a house, and, in fact, all round
Stepney Green, the word ' lady ' is generally
used in a broad and catholic spirit ; but in this

case Harry unconsciously used it in the narrow,
prejudiced, one-sided sense peculiar to Western
longitudes. And it was so surprising to think
of a young lady in connection with Boreas
that he gasped and caught his breath.
And then Mrs. Bormalack presented him to
the new arrival in her best manner. ' Our
youngest ! ' she said, as if he had been a son
of the house — ' our youngest and last — the
sprightly Mr. Goslett. This is Miss Kennedy,
and I hope — I'm sure — that you two will get
to be friendly with one another, not to speak
of keeping company, which is early days yet
for prophecies.'

Harry bowed in his most superior style.
What on earth, he thought again, did a young
lady want at Stepney Green .^

She had the carriage and the manner of a
lady ; she was quite simply dressed in a black
Cashmere ; she Adore a red ribbon round her
white throat, and had white cuffs. A lady —
unmistakably a lady ; also young and beautiful,
with great brown eyes, which met his own
frankly, and with a certain look of surprise
which seemed an answer to his own.

Our handsome young cabinet-maker. Miss
Kennedy,' went on the landlady — Harry wondered
whether it was worse to be described as
sprightly than as handsome, and which adjective
was likely to produce the more unfavourable
impression on a young lady — ' is wishful
to establish himself in a genteel way of business,
like yourself.'

When I was in the dressmaking line,'
observed her ladyship, ' I stayed at home with
mother and Aunt Keziah. It was not thought
right in Canaan City for young women to go
about setting up shops by themselves. Not
that I say you are wrong. Miss Kennedy, but
London ways are not New Hampshire ways.'

Miss Kennedy murmured something softly,
and looked again at the handsome cabinetmaker,
who was still blushing with indignation
and shame at Mrs. Bormalack's adjectives, and
ready to blush again on recovery to think that
he was so absurd as to feel any shame about so
trifling a matter. Still, every young man likes
to appear in a good light in the presence of
beauty.

The young lady, then, was only a dressmaker.

For the moment she dropped a little
in his esteem, which comes of our artificial and
conventional education ; because — Why not a
dressmaker? Then she rose again, because
WHAT a dressmaker ! Could there be many
such in Stepney ? If so, how was it that poets,
novelists, painters, and idle young men did not
flock to so richly endowed a district ? In this
unexpected manner does nature offer compensations.
Harry also observed with satisfaction
the novel presence of a newly arrived piano,
which could belong to no other than the newcomer
; and finding that the conversation
showed no signs of brightening, he ventured
to ask Miss Kennedy if she would play to
them.

Now, when she began to play, a certain
magic of the music fell upon them all, affecting
everyone differently. Such is the power of
music, and thus diverse is it in its operation.
As for his lordship, he sat nodding his head
and twinkling his eyes and smiling sweetly,
because he was in imagination sitting among
his Peers in the Upper House with a crown of
gold and a robe of fur, and all his friends of

Canaan City, brought across the Atlantic at his
own expense for this very purpose, were watching
him with envy and admiration from the
gallery. Among them was Aurelia Tucker,
the scoffer and thrower of cold water. And
her ladyship sat beating time with head and
hand, thinking how the family estates would
probably be restored, with the title, by the
Queen. She had great ideas on the Eoyal
Prerogative, and lead indeed been accustomed
to think in the old days that Englishmen go
about in continual terror lest her Majesty, in
the exercise of this Prerogative, should order
their heads to be removed. This gracious
vision, due entirely to the music, showed her
in a stately garden entertaining Aurelia Tucker
and other friends whom she, like her husband,
had imported from Canaan City for the purpose
of exhibiting the new greatness. And Aurelia
was green with envy, though she wore her best
black silk dress.

The other boarders were differently affected.
The melancholy Josephus leant his head upon
his hand, and saw himself in imagination the
Head Brewer, as he might have been, but for

the misfortune of his early youth. Head
Brewer to the Firm of Messenger, Marsden,
and Company ! What a position !

Daniel Faggg, for his part, was dreaming of
the day when his Discovery was to be received
by all and adequately rewarded. He anticipated
the congratulations of his friends in
Australia, and stood on deck in port surrounded
by the crowd, who shook his hand and cheered
him, in good Australian fashion, as Daniel the
Great, Daniel the Scourge of Scholars, Daniel
the Prophet — a second Daniel. The Professor
took advantage of this general rapture or abstraction
from earthly things to lay the plans
for a grand coup in legerdemain, a new experiment,
which should astonish everybody. This
he afterwards carried through with success.

Mrs. Bormalack, for her part, filled and
slowly drank a large tumbler of hot brandy
and water. When she had finished it she
wiped away a tear. Probably, stimulated by
the brandy, which is a sentimental spirit, she
was thinking of her late husband. Collector for
the Brewery, who was himself romantically
fond of brandy and water, and came to an

early end in consequence of over-rating his
powers of consumption.

Mr. Maliphant winked his eyes, rolled his
head, rubbed his hands, and laughed joyously,
but in silence. Why, one knows not. When
the music finished, he whispered to Daniel
Faggg. ' No,' he said, ' this is the third time in
the year that you have asked leave to bury
your mother. Make it your grandmother,
young man.' Then he laughed again, and said
that he lead been with Walker in Nicaragua.
Harry heard this communication, and the
attempt to fill up the story from these two
fragments afterwards gave him nightmare.

Miss Kennedy played a gavotte, and then
another, and then a sonata. Perhaps it is the
character of this kind of music to call up
pleasant and joyous thoughts ; certainly there
is much music, loved greatly by some people,
which makes us sad, notably the strains
sung at places of popular resort. They probably
become favourites because they sadden
so much. Who would not shed tears on hearing
' Tommy Dodd ? '

She played without music, gracefully, easily,

and with expression. While she played Harry
sat beside the piano, still wondering on the
same theme. She, a Stepney dressmaker !
Who, in this region, could have taught her that
touch .^ She ' wishful to establish herself in a
genteel way of business ' ? Was art, then,
permeating downwards so rapidly ? Were the
people just above the masses, the second or
third stratum of the social pyramid, taught
music, and in such a style ? Then he left off
wondering, and fell to the blissful contemplation
of a beautiful woman playing beautiful
music. This is an occupation always delightful
to young Englishmen, and it does equal credit
to their heads and to their hearts that they
never tire of so harmless an amusement.
When she finished playing, everybody descended
to earth, so to speak.

The noble pair remembered that their Avork
was still before them — all to do : one of them
thought, with a pang, about the drawing of the
Case, and wished he had not gone to sleep in
the morning.

The clerk in the Brewery awoke to the
recollection of his thirty shillings a week, and

reflected that the weather was such as to necessitate
a pair of boots which had soles.

The learned Daniel Faggg bethought him
once more of his poverty and the increasing
difficulty of getting subscribers, and the undisguised
contempt with which the head of the
Egyptian Department had that morning received
him.

Mr. Maliphant left off laughing, and shook
his puckered old face with a little astonishment
that he hid been so moved.

Said the Professor, breaking the silence :

'1 like the music to go on, so long as no
patter is wanted. They listen to music if it's
lively, and it prevents 'em from looking round
and getting suspicious. You haven't got an
Q.gg upon you, MVs. Bormalack, have you?
Dear me, one in your lap ! Actually in a
lady's lap I A common egg, one of our
selected," at sentence the dozen. Ah ! In
your lap, too ! How very injudicious ! You
might have dropped it, and broken it. Perhaps,
Miss, you wouldn't mind obliging once
more with "Tommy, make room for your
uncle " or " Over the garden wall," if you
please.'

Miss Kennedy did not know either of these
airs, but lie laughed and said she would play-something
lively, while the Professor went on
with his trick. First, he drew all eyes to meet
his own like a faschiatiiig constrictor,. and then
he began to ' palm ' the <^gg in the most surprising
manner. After many adventures it was
ultimately found in Daniel Faggg's coat pocket.
Then the Professor smiled, bowed, and spread
out his hands as if to show the purity and
honesty of his conjuring.

You play very well,' said Harry, to Miss
Kennedy, when the conjuring was over and the
Professor had returned to his clair and his
nightly occupation with a pencil, a piece of
paper, and a book.

Can you play ? '

I fiddle a little. If you will allow me, we
will try some evening a duet together.'

I did not know ' she began, but

checked herself. ' I did not expect to find a
violinist here.'

A good many people of my class play,'
said Harry, tenaciously, because the English
workman is the least musical of men.

Few of mine,' she returned, rising, and
closing the piano, ' have the chance of learning.
-But I have had opportunities.'

She looked at her watch, and remarked
that it was nearly ten o'clock, and that she was
going to bed.

I have spoken to Mr. Bunker about what
you want, Miss Kennedy,' said the landlady.
He will be here tomorrow morning about
ten on his rounds.'

Who is Mr. Bunker P ' asked Angela.

They all seemed surprised. Had she never,
in whatever part of the world she had lived,
heard of Mr. Bunker — Bunker the Great ?

He used to be a sort of a factotum to old
Mr. Messenger,' said Mrs. Bormalack. ' His
death was a sad blow to Mr. Bunker. He's a
general agent by trade, and he deals in coal,
and he's a house agent, and he knows everybody
round Stepney and up the Mile End Eoad
as far as Bow. He's saved money, too, Miss
Kennedy, and is greatly respected.'

He ought to be,' said Harry ; ' not only
because he was so much with Mr. Messenger,
whose name is revered for the kindred associations

of beer and property, but also because he
is my uncle — he ought to be respected.'

Your uncle ? '

My own — so near, and yet so dear — my
uncle Bunker. To be connected with Messenger,
Marsden, and Company, even indirectly,
through such an uncle, is in itself a distinction.
You will learn to know him, and you will
learn to esteem him. Miss Kennedy. You will
esteem him all the more if you are interested
in beer.'

Miss Kennedy blushed.

Bunker is great in the Company. I believe
he used to consider himself a kind of
partner while the old man lived. He knows
all about the big Brewery. As for that, everybody
does round Stepney Green.'

The Company,' said Josephus gloomily,
'is nothing but a chit of a girl.' He sighed,
thinking how much went to her, and how little
came to himself.

We are steeped in beer,' Harry went on.
Our conversation turns for ever on beer ; we
live for beer ; the houses round us are filled
with the Company's servants ; we live by beer.

For example, Mrs. Bormalack's late liiis-
band -'

He was a Collector for the Company,' said
the landlady, with natural pride.

You see, Miss Kennedy, what a responsible
and exalted position was held by Mr. Bore
(The widow thought that sometimes
it was hard to know whether' this sprightly
young man was laughing at people or not, but
it certainly was a very high position, and most
respectable.) 'He went round the Houses,'
Harry went on. ' Houses, here, mean public-houses
; the Company owns half the public-houses
in the East End. Then here is my
cousin, the genial Josephus. Hold up your
head, Josephus. He, for his part, is a clerk in
the House.'

Josephus groaned. ' A junior clerk,' he
murmured.

The Professor is not allowed in the
Brewery. He might conjure among the vats,
and vats have never been able to take a practical
joke ; but he amuses the Brewery people.
As for Mr. Maliphant, he carves figure-heads
for the ships which carry away the Brewery

beer ; and perhaps when the Brewery wants
cabinets made they will come to me.'

It is the biggest Brewery in all England,'
said the landlady. ' I can never remember —
because my memory is like a sieve — how
much beer they brew every year ; but somebody
once made a calculation about it, compared
With Niagara Falls, which even Mr.
Bunker said was surprising.'

Think Miss Kennedy,' said Harry, ' of an
Entire Niagara of Messenger's Entire.'

But how can this Mr. Bunker be of use tome
P ' asked the young lady.

Why ! ' said Mrs. Bormalack. ' There is
not a shop nor a street nor any kind of place
within miles Mr. Bunker doesn't know, Who
they are that live there, how they make their
living, what the rent is, and everything.
That's what made him so useful to old Mr.
Messenger.'

Miss Kennedy, for some reason, changed
colour. Then she said that she thought she
would like to see Mr. Bunker.

When she was gone Harry sat down beside

his lordship and proceeded to smoke tobacco
in silence, refusing the proffered decanters.

Said the Professor, softly :

She'd be a fortune — a gem of the first
water — upon the boards. As pianoforte player
between the feats of magic, marvel, and mystery,
or a medium under the magnetic influence of
the operator, or a clairvoyante, or a thought-reader
— or ' Here he relapsed into silence

with a sigh.

She looks intelligent,' said Daniel Faggg.
When she hears about my Discovery she

will ' Here he caught the eye of Harry

Goslett, who was shaking a finger of warning,
which he rightly interpreted to mean that
dressmakers must not be asked to subscribe to
learned works. This abashed him.

' Considered as a figurehead,' began Mr.
Mahphant, ' I remember '

As a dressmaker, now — ' interrupted
Harry. 'Do Stepney dressmakers often play

the piano like well, like Miss Kennedy?

Do they wear gold watches ? Do they talk and
move and act so much like real ladies, that no

one could tell the difference ? Answer me that,
Mrs. Bormalack.'

Well, Mr. Goslett, all I can say is, that
she seems a very proper young lady to have in
the house.'

'Proper, ma'am? If you were to search
the whole of Stepney, I don't believe you
could find such another. What does your ladyship
say ? '

I say, Mr. Goslett, that in Canaan City the
ladies who are dressmakers set the fashions to
the ladies who are not ; I was myself a dressmaker.
And Aurelia Tucker, though she turns
up her nose at our elevation, is, I must say, a
lady who would do credit to any circle, even
yours, Mrs. Bormalack. And such remarks
about real ladies and dressmakers I do not
understand, and I expected better manners, I
must say. Look at his lordship's manners, Mr.
Goslett, and his father was a carpenter, like
you.'

VOL. I.

CHAPTEE IV.

UNCLE BUNKER.

My uncle ! '

It was the sprightly young cabinet-maker
who sprang to his feet, and grasped the hand of
the new-comer with an effusion not returned.

Allow me, Miss Kennedy, to present to
you my uncle, my uncle Bunker, whose praise
you heard us sing with one consent last night.
We did, indeed, revered one ! Whatever you
want brought. Miss Kennedy, from a piano to
a learned pig, this is the man who will do it for
you. A percentage on the cost, with a trifling
charge for time, is all he seeks in return. He
is generally known as the Benevolent Bunker ;
he is everybody's friend ; especially he is beloved
by persons behindhand with their rents,
he is '

Here Mr. Bunker drew out his watch, and

observed with severity that his time Alas variable,
and that he came about business.

Angela observed that the sales of his
nephew were received with disfavour.

Can we not,' pursued Harry, regardless of
the cloud upon his uncle's brow — ' can we not
escape from affairs of urgency for one moment?
Show us your lighter side, my uncle. Let Miss
Kennedy admire the gifts and graces which j^ou
hide, as well as the sterner qualities which you
exhibit.'

Business, young lady,' the agent repeated,
with a snort and a scowl. He took off his hat
and rubbed his bald head with a silk pocket-handkerchief
until it shone like polished marble.
He was short in stature and of round figure.
His face was red and puffy, as if he was fond
of hot brandy-ands water, and he panted, being
a little short of breath. His eyes were small
and close together, which gave him a cunning-look
; his whiskers were large and • grey ; his
lips were thick and firm, and his upper lip was
long : his nose was broad, but not humorous ;
his head was set on firmly, and he had a square
chin. Evidently he was a man of deterring


tion, and he was probably determined to look
after his own interests first.

'I want,' said Angela, ' to establish myself
in this neighbourhood as a dressmaker.'

'Very good,' said Mr. Bunker. 'That's
practical. It is my business to do with practical
people, not sniggerers and idle gigglers.' He
looked at his nephew.

I shall want a convenient house, and a
staff of workwomen, and — and someone acquainted
with business details and management,'


Go on,' said Mr. Bunker. ' A foreman
you will want, of course.'

Then, as I do not ask you to give me your
advice for nothing, how are you generally paid
for such services ? '

I charge,' he said, ' as arranged for beforehand.
Time for talking, arranging, and house-hunting,
half-a-crown an hour. That won't
break you. And you won't talk took much,
knowing you have to pay for it. Percentage
on the rent, ten per cent, for the first year,
nothing afterwards ; if you want furniture, I
will furnish your house from top-to bottom on

the same terms, and find you work-girls at five
shillings a head.'

Yes,' said Angela. ' I suppose I must
engage a staff. And I suppose — ' here she
looked at Harry, as if for advice. ' I suppose
that you are the best person to go to
for assistance.'

There is no one else,' said Mr. Bunker.
That is why my terms are so low.'

His nephew whistled softly.

Mr. Bunker, after an angry growl at people
who keep their hands in their pockets, proceeded
to develop his views. Miss Kennedy
listened languidly, appearing to care very little
about details, and agreeing to most expensive
things in a perfectly reckless manner. She was
afraid, for her part, that her own ignorance would
be exposed if she talked. The agent, however,
quickly perceived how ignorant she was, from
this very silence, and resolved to make the
best of so promising a subject. She could not
possibly have much money — who ever heard of
a Stepney dressmaker with any? — and she
evidently had no experience. He would get as
much of the money as he could, and she would

be the gainer in experience ! A most equitable
arrangement, he thought, being one of
those — too few, alas ! — who keep before their
eyes a lofty ideal, and love to act up to it.

When he had quite finished and fairly
embarked his victim on a vast ocean of expenditure,
comparatively, and with reference to
Stepney and Mile End customs, he put up his
pocket-book and remarked, with a smile, that
he should want references of respectability.

That's usual,' he said : ' I could not work
without.'

Angela changed colour. To be asked for
references was awkward.

'You can refer to me, my uncle,' said
Harry.

Mr. Bunker took no notice of this proposition.


You see. Miss,' he said, ' we don't know
you, nor where you come from, nor what
money you've got, nor how you got it. No
doubt it is all right, and I'm sure you look
honest. Perhaps you've got nothing to hide,
and very likely there's good reasons for wanting
to settle here.'

My grandfather was a Whitechapel man
by birth,' she replied. ' He left me some
money. If you must have references, of course
I could refer you to the lawyers who managed
my little affairs. But I would rather, to save
trouble, pay for everything on the spot, and
the rent in advance.'

Mr. Bunker consented to waive his objection
on payment of a sum of ten pounds down,
it being understood and concluded that everything
bought should be paid for on the spot,
and a year's rent when the house was fixed
upon, paid in advance ; in consideration for
which he said the young lady might, in subsequent
transactions with strangers, refer to himself,
a privilege which Alas nothing less than
the certain passport to fortune.

'As for me,' he added, 'my motto is?
Think first of your client." Don't spare
yourself for him ; toil for him, think for him,
rise up early and lie down late for him, and
you reap your reward from grateful hearts.
Lord ! the fortunes I have made ! '

Virtuous Uncle Bunker ! ' cried Harry
with enthusiasm. ' Noble, indeed ! '

The good man for the moment forgot the
existence of his frivolous nephew, who had
retired up the stage, so to speak. He opened
his mouth as if to say something in anger, but
refrained, and snorted.

Now that we have settled that matter, Mr.
Bunker,' the girl said without noticing the
interruption, ' let us talk about other matters.'

Are they business matters ? '

Not exactly ; but still '

Time is money; an hour is half a-crown.'
He drew out his watch, and made a note of the
time in his pocket-book. 'A quarter to eleven.
Miss. If I didn't charge for time, what would
become of my clients ? Neglected ; their
interests ruined ; the favourable moment gone.
If I could tell you of a lady I established two
years ago in one of the Brewery Houses, and
what she's made of it, and what she says of me,
you would be astonished. A grateful heart!
and no better brandy-and-water, hot, with a
slice of lemon, in the Whitechapel Eoad. But
you were about to say. Miss '

She was going to begin with a hymn of
praise. Uncle Bunker ; paid in advance, like

the rest. Gratitude for favours to come. But
if you like to tell about the lady, do. Miss
Kennedy will only charge you half-a-crown an
hour. I'll mark time.'

I think, young man,' said Mr. Bunker,
that it is time you should go to your work.
Stepney is not the place for sniggerin' peacocks
; they'd better have stayed in the United
States.'

I am waiting till you have found me a
place, too,' the young man replied. ' I too would
Lavish to experience the grateful heart. It is
peculiar to Whitechapel.'

I was going to say,' Angela went on, ' that
I hear you were connected with old Mr. Messenger
for many years.'

I was,' Mr. Bunker replied, and straightened
his back with pride. ' I was — everybody
knows that I was his confidential factotum and
his familiar friend, as David was unto Jonathan.'


Indeed I I used to — to — hear about him,
formerly, a great deal.'

Which made his final behaviour the more
revolting,' Mr. Bunker continued, completing
his sentence.

Eeally ! How did he finally behave ? '
It was always — all ! for twenty years,
between his, "Bunker, my friend," or "Bunker,
my trusted friend," tell me this, go there, find
out that. I bought his houses ; I let his
houses ; I told him who were responsible
tenants ; I warned him when shooting of moons
seemed likely ; I found out their antecedents
and told him their stories. He had hundreds
of houses, and he knew everybody that lived
in them, and what their fathers were and their
mothers were, and even their grandmothers.
For he was a Whitechapel man by birth, and
was proud of it.'

But — the shameful behaviour ! '
All the time ' — he shook his head and
looked positively terrible in his wrath — ' all the
time I was piling up his property for him,
houses here, streets there, he would encourage
me in his way. " Go on, Bunker," he would
say, " go on. A man who works for duty, like
yourself, and to please his employers, and not
out of consideration for the pay, is one of a
million ; " as I certainly was. Miss Kennedy.
One of a million," he said ; " and you will

have your reward after I am gone." Over andover
again he said this, and of course I reckoned
on it, and only wondered how much it would
tot up to. Something, I thought, in four
figures ; it couldn't be less than four figures.'
Here he stopped and rubbed his bald head
again.

Angela caught the eyes of his nephew, who
in his seat behind was silently laughing. He
had caught the situation which she herself now
readily comprehended. She pictured to herself
this blatant Professor of Disinterestedness
and Zeal buzzing and fluttering about her
grandfather, and the quiet old man egging him
on to more protestations.

Four figures, for certain, it would be.
Once I asked his advice as to how I should
invest that reward when it did come. He
laughed. Miss. Yes, for once he laughed,
which I never saw him do before or after. I
often think he must be sorry now to think of
that time he laughed. Yah ! I'm glad of it.'

So far as Angela could make it, his joy
grew out of a persuasion that this particular fit
of laughter was somehow interfering with her

grandfather's present comforts, but perhaps she
was wrong.

He laughed,' continued Mr. Bunker, ' and
he said that house property, in a rising neighbourhood,
and if it could be ]properly looked
after, was the best investment for money.
House property, he said, as far as the money
would go.'

And when he died ? ' asked the listener,
with another glance at Harry, the unsympathetic,
whose ftice expressed the keenest enjoyment.


Nothing, if you please ; not one brass
farthing. Hunks ! Hunks ! ' He grew perfectly
purple, and clutched his list as if he
would fain be punching of heads. ' Not one
word of me in his will. All for the girl :
millions — millions — for her ; and for me who
done his work — nothing.'

You have the glow of virtue,' said his
nephew.

It seems hard,' said Angela quickly, for the
man looked dangerous, and seemed capable of
transferring his wrath to his nephew ; ' it seems
hard to get nothing, if anything was promised.'


It seems a pity Harry chimed in, ' that
so much protesting was in vain. Perhaps Mr.
Messenger took him at his Avoid. What a
dreadful thing to be believed ! '

A Hunks,' replied Mr. Bunker ; ' a miserly
Hunks.'

Let me write a letter for you,' said Harry,
to the heiress ; we might forward it with a
deputation of grateful hearts from Stepney.'

Mind your own business,' growled his
uncle. ' Well, Miss, you wanted to hear about
Mr. Messenger, and you have heard. What
next?'

I should very much like, if it were possible,'
Angela replied, ' to see this Great
Brewery, of which one hears so much. Could
you, for instance, take me over, Mr. Bunker ? '

At a percentage,' whispered his nephew,
loud enough for both to hear.

'Messenger's Brewery,' he replied, 'is as
familiar to me as my own fireside. I've grownup
beside it. I know all the people in it.
They all know me. Perhaps they respect me.
For it was well known that a handsome legacy
Alas promised, and expected. And nothing,
after all. As for taking you over, of course I

can. We will go at once. It will take time :
and time is money.'

May I go, too ? ' asked Harry.

No, sir ; you may not. It shall not be
said in the Mile End Eoad that an industrious
man like myself, a Worker for Clients, was
seen in working time with an Idler.'

The walk from Stepney Green to Messenger
and Marsden's Brewery is not far. You turn
to the left if your house is on one side, and to
the right if it is on the other ; then you pass a
little way down one street, and a little way,
turning again to the left, up another — a direction
which Avill guide you quite clearly. You
then find yourself before a great gateway, the
portals of which are closed ; beside it is a
smaller door, at which, in a little lodge, sits
one who guards the entrance.

Mr. Bunker nodded to the porter, and
entered unchallenged. He led the way across
a court to a sort of outer office.

Here,' he said, 'is the book for the visitors'
names. We have them from all countries :
great lords and ladies ; foreign princes ; and all
the brewers from Germany and America, who

come to get a wrinkle. Write your own name
in it, too. Something, let me tell you, to have
your name in such noble company.'

She took a pen and wrote hurriedly.

Mr. Bunker looked over her shoulder.

Ho ! ho ! ' he said, ' that is a good one !
See what you've written.'

In fact, she had written her own name —
Angela Marsden Messenger.

She blushed violently.

How stupid of me ! I was thinking of the
heiress — they said it was her name.'

She carefully effaced the name, and wrote
under it, ' A. M. Kennedy.'

That's better. And now come along. A
good joke, too! Fancy their astonishment if
they had come to read it ! '

Does she often come — the heiress ? '

Never once been nigh the place ; never
seen it; never asks after it; never makes an
inquiry about it. Draws the money and despises
it.'

I wonder she has not got more curiosity.'

Ah ! It's a shame for such a Property to
come to a girl — a girl of twenty-one. Thirteen

acres it covers — think of that ! Seven hundred
people it employs, most of them married.
Why, if it was only to see her own vats, you'd
think she'd get off of her luxurious pillows for
once, and come here.'

They entered a great Hall remarkable, at
first, for a curious smell, not offensive, but
strong and rather pungent. In it stood half-a-dozen
enormous vats, closed by wooden slides,
like shutters, fitting tightly. A man standing
by opened one of these, and presently Angela
was able to make out, through the volumes of
steam, something bright going round, and a
brown mess going with it.

That is hops. Hops for the biggest
Brewery, the richest, in all England. And all
belonging to a girl who, likely enough, doesn't
drink more than a pint and a half a day.'

I dare say not,' said Angela ; ' it must bea
dreadful thing indeed to have so much beer,
and to be able to drink so little.'

He led the way upstairs into another great
Hall, where there was the grinding of machinery
and another smell, sweet and heavy.

This is where we crush the malt,' said

Mr. Bunker — ' see ! ' He stooped, and picked
out of a great box a handful of the newly
crushed malt. ' I suppose you thought it was
roasted. Boasting, young lady,' he added
with severity, ' is for Stout, not for Ale ! '

Then he took her to another place, hind
showed her where the liquor stood to ferment ;
how it was cooled, how it was passed from one
vat to another, how it was stored and kept in
vats, dwelling perpetually on the magnitude of
the business, and the irony of fortune in conferring
this great gift upon a girl.

I know now,' she interrupted, * what the
place smells like. It is fusel oil.' They were
standing on a floor of open iron bars, above a
row of long covered vats, within which the
liquor was working and fermenting. Every
now and then there would be a heaving of the
surface, and a quantity of malt w^oiild then
move suddenly over.

We are famous said Mr. Bunker ; ' I say
lue having been the confidential friend and
adviser of the late Mr. Messenger, deceased ;
we are famous for our Stout ; also for our Mill ;
and we are now reviving our Bitter, which wee

VOL. I. I

had partially neglected. We use the Artesian
Well, which is four hundred feet deep, for our
Stout, but the Company's water for our Ales ;
and our water rate is two thousand pounds a
year. The Artesian Well gives the ale a grey
colour, which people don't like. Come into
this room, now' — it was another great Hall
covered with sacks. ' Hops again, Miss Kennedy
; now, that little lot is worth ten thousand
pounds — ten — thousand — think of that ; and it
is all spoiled by the rain, and has to be thrown
away. We think nothing of losing ten thousand
pounds here, nothing at all ! ' — he snapped
his fingers — ' it is a mere trifle to the girl who
sits at home and takes the profits ! '

He spoke as if he felt a personal animosity
to the girl. Angela told him so.

No wonder,' he said ; 'she took all the
'legacy that ought to have been mine : no man
can forgive that. You are young. Miss Kennedy,
and are only beginning business ; mark
my Avoids, one of these days you will feel how
hard it is to put a little by — work as hard as
you may — while here is this one having it put
by for her, thousands a day, and doing nothing
for it — nothing at all.'

Then they went into more great Halls, and
up more stairs, and on to the roof, and saw
more piles of sacks, more malt, and more hops.
When they smelt the hops, it seemed as if
their throats were tightened ; when they smelt
the fermentation, it seemed as if they were
smelling fusel oil ; when they smelt the plain
crushed malt, it seemed as if they were getting
swiftly, but sleepily, drunk. Everywhere and
always the steam rolled backwards and forwards,
and the grinding of the machinery went
on, and the roaring of the furnaces ; and the
men went about to and fro at their woi-k.
They did not seem hard worked, nor were they
pressed ; their movements were leisurely, as if
beer was not a thing to hurry ; they were all
rather pale of cheek, but fat and jolly, as if the
beer was good and agreed with them. Some
wore brown paper caps, for it was a pretty
draughty place ; some went bare-headed, some
wore the little round hat in fashion. And they
went to another part, where men were rolling
barrels about, as if they had been skittles, and
here they saw vats holding three thousand
barrels ; and one thought of giant armies — say

I 2

two hundred and fifty thousand thirsty Germans
beginning the Loot of London with one of
these royal vats. And they went through
stables, where hundreds of horses were stalled
at night, each as big as an elephant, and much
more useful.

In one great room, where there was the
biggest vat of all, a man brought them beer to
taste ; it was Messenger's Stout. Angela took
her glass and put it to her hips with a strange
emotion — she felt as if she should like a
quiet place to sit down in and cry. The great
place vas hers — all hers — and this was the
Beer with which her mighty fortune had been
made.

Is it,' she asked, looking at the heavy
foam of the frothing stout ; ' is this Messenger's
Entire ? '

Bunker sat down and drank off his glass
before replying. Then he laid his hands upon
his stick and made answer, slowly, remembering
that he was engaged at half-a-crown an
hour, which is one halfpenny a minute.

This is not Entire,' he said. ' You see,
Miss Kennedy, there's fashions in beer, same as

in clothes ; once it was all Cooper, now you
never hear of Cooper. Then it was all 
— you never hear of anyone ordering
Half-an-arf now. Then it was Stout. Nothing
would go down but Stout, which I recommend
myself, and find it nourishing. Next, Bitter
came in, and honest Stout was despised ; now,
we're all for Mild. As for Entire, why — bless
my soul! — Entire went out before I was born.
Why, it was Entire which made the fortune of the
first Messenger that was — a poor little brewery
he had, more than a hundred years ago, in this
very place, because it was cheap for rent. In
those days they used to brew Strong Ale, Old
and Strong ; Stout, same as now ; and Twopenny,
which was small beer. And because
the Old Ale was too strong, and the Stout too
dear, and the Twopenny too weak, the people
used to mix them all three together, and they
called them " Three Threads ; " and you may
fancy the trouble it was for the pot-boys to goto
one cask after another, all day long, because
they had no beer engines then. Well, what
did Mr. Messenger do ? He brewed a beer as
strong as the Three Threads, and he called it

Messenger's Entire Three Threads, meaning
that here you had 'em all in one, and that's
what made his fortune ; and now, young lady,
you've seen all I've got to show you, and we
\vill go.'

I make bold, young woman,' he said, as
they went away, ' to give you a warning about
my nephew. He's a good-looking chap, for all
he's worthless, though it's a touch-and-go style
that's not my idea of good looks. Still, no
doubt some would think him handsome. Well,
I warn you.'

That is very good of you, Mr. Bunker.
Why do you warn me .^ '

Why, anybody can see already that he's
taken with your good looks. Don't encourage
him. Don't keep company with him. He's
been away a good many years — in America —
and I fear he's been in bad company.'

I am sorry to hear that.'

You saw his sniggerin', sneering' way with
me, his uncle. That doesn't look the right sort
of man to take up with, I think. And as for
work, he seems not to want any. Says he can
afford to wait a bit. Talks about opening a

cabinet-making' shop. Well, he will have none
of my money. I tell hmi that beforehand. A
young jackanapes ! A painted peacock ! I
believe, Miss Kennedy, that he drinks. Don't
have nothing to say to him. As for what he
did in the States, and why he left the country,
I don't know ; aid if I were you, I wouldn't
ask.'

With this warning he left her, and Angela
went home trying to realise her own great possessions.
Hundreds of houses ; rows of streets ;
this enormous brewery, working day after day
for her profit and advantage ; and these invested
moneys, these rows of figures which represented
her personal property. All hers ! All her
own ! All the property of a girl ! Surely,
she thought, this was a heavy burden to be
laid upon one frail back.

CHAPTEE V.

THE CARES OF WEALTH.

It is, perhaps, a survival of feudal customs
that in English minds a kind of proprietorship
is assumed over one's dependents, those who
labour for a man and are paid by him. It was
this feeling of responsibility which had entered
into the mind of Angela, and was now firmly
fixed there. All these men, this army of seven
hundred brewers, drivers, clerks, accountants,
and the rest, seemed to belong to her. Not
only did she pay them the wages and salaries
which gave them their daily bread, but they
lived in her own houses among the streets
which lie to the right and to the left of the
Mile End Eoad. The very chapels where they
worshipped, being mostly of some Nonconformist
sect, stood on her own ground — everything
was hers.

The richest heiress in England ! She repeated
this to herself over and over again, in
order to accustom herself to the responsibilities
of her position, not to the pride of it. If she
dwelt too long upon the subject, her brain
reeled. What was she to do with all her
money ? A man — like her grandfather — often
feels joy in the mere amassing of wealth ; to
see it grow is enough pleasure ; other men in
their old age sigh over bygone years, which
seem to have failed in labour or effort. Then
men sigh over by-gone days in which more
might have been saved. But girls cannot be
expected to reach these heights. Angela only
weakly thought what an immense sum of money
she had, and asked herself what she could do,
and how she should spend her wealth to the
best advantage.

The most pitiable circumstance attending
the possession of wealth is that no one sympathises
with the possessor. Yet his or her sufferings
are sometimes very great. They begin
at school where a boy or a girl, who is going
to be very rich, feels already set apart. He
loses the greatest spur to action. It is when

they grow up, however, that the real trouble
begins. For a girl with large possessions is
always suspicious lest a man should pretend to
love her for the sake of her money ; she has
to suspect all kinds of people who want her to
give, lend, advance, or promise them money ;
she is the mere butt of every society, hospital,
and institution ; her table is crowned every
morning with letters from decayed gentlewomen
and necessitous clergymen and recommenders
of ' cases ; ' she longs to do good in
her generation, but does not know how ; she is
expected to buy quantities of things which she
does not want, and to pay exorbitant prices
for everything ; she has to be a patron of Art :
she is invited to supply every woman throughout
the country who wants a mangle, with that
useful article ; she is told that it is her duty to
build new churches over the length and breadth
of the land ; she is earnestly urged to endow
new Colonial bishoprics over all the surface of
the habitable globe. Then she has to live in a
great house and have troops of idle servants.
And, whether she likes it or not, she has to go
a great deal into society.

All this, without the least sympathy or pity
from those who ought to feel for her, who are
in the happy position of having no money.
Nobody pities an heiress ; to express pity would
seem like an exaggerated affectation of virtue,
the merest pedantry of superiority ; it would
not be believed. Therefore, while all the world
is agreed in envying her, she is bemoaning her
sad fate. Fortunately, she is rare.

As yet, Angela was only just at the commencement
of her troubles. The girls at Newnham
had not spoiled her by flattery or envy ;
some of them even pitied her sad burden
of money ; she had as yet only realised part of
the terrible isolation of wealth ; she had not
groan jealous, or suspicious, or arrogant, as in
advancing years often happens with the very
rich ; she had not yet learned to regard the
whole world as composed entirely of money-robbers.
All she had felt hitherto was that
she went in constant danger from interested
wooers, and that youth, combined with moneybags,
is an irresistible attraction to men of all
ages. Now, however, for the first time she
understood the magnitude of her possessions,

and felt the real weight of her responsibilities.
She saw, for the first time, the hundreds of
men working for her ; she saw the houses
whose tenants paid rent to her ; she visited her
great Brewery ; and she asked herself the
question, which Dives no doubt frequently
asked — What she had done to be specially set
apart and selected from humanity as an exception
to the rule of labour? Even Bunker's
complaint about the difficulty of putting by a
little, and his indignation because she herself
could put by so much, seemed pathetic.

She walked about the sad and monotonous
streets of East London, reflecting upon these
subjects. She did not know where she was,
nor the name of any street ; in a general way
she knew that most of the street probably belonged
to herself, and that it was an inexpressibly
dreary street. When she was tired she
asked her way back again. No one insulted
her ; no one troubled her ; no one turned aside
to look at her. When she went home, she sat,
silent for the most part, in the; common sitting
room. The boardinghouse Alas inexpressibly
stupid except when the sprightly young mechanic

was present, and she was even angry
with herself for finding his society pleasant.
What could there be, she asked, in common
between herself and this workman ? Then she
wondered, remembering that so far she had
found nothing in her own mind that was not
also in his. Could it be that two years of
Newnham had elevated her mentally no higher
than the level of a cabinet-maker ?

Her meditation brought her, in the course
of a few days, to the point of action. She
would do something. She therefore wrote a
letter instructing her solicitors to get her, immediately,
two reports, carefully drawn up.

First, she would have a report on the
Brewery, its average profits for the last ten
years, with a hist of all the employees the
number of years' service, the pay they received,
and, as regards the juniors, the characters they
bore.

Next, she wanted a report on her property
at the East End, with a list of her tenants, their
occupations and trades, and a map showing the
position of her houses.

When she had got these reports she would

be, she felt, in a position to work upon
them.

Meantime, Mr. Bunker not having yet succeeded
in finding; a house suitable for her dressmaking
business, she had nothing to do but
to go on walking about and to make herself
acquainted with the place. Once or twice she
was joined by the Idle Apprentice, who, to do
him justice, was always ready to devote his
unprofitable time to these excursions, which his
sprightliness enlivened.

There is a good deal to see in and about
Stepney, though it can hardly be called a
beautiful suburb. Formerly it was a very big
place, so big that, though Bethnal Green was
once chopped off at one end and Limehouse at
the other, not to speak of Shadwell, Tapping,
Stratford, and other great cantles, there still
remains a parish as big as St. Pancreas. Yet,
though it is big, it is not proud. Great men
have not been born there or lived there : there
are no associations. Stepney Green has not
even got its Polly, like Haddington Green
and Wapping Old Stairs ; the streets are all
mean, and the people for the most part stand.

upon that level where respectability — beautiful
quality ! — begins.

Do you know the West End ? ' Angela
asked her companion when they were gazing
together upon an. unlovely avenue of small
houses which formed a street. She was thinking
how monotonous must be the daily life in
these dreary streets.

Yes, I know the West End. What is it
you regret in your comparison ? '

Angela hesitated.

'There are no carriages here said the
workman ; ' no footmen in powder or coachmen
in wigs ; there are no ladies on horseback, no
great squares with big houses, no clubs, no
opera-house, no picture-galleries. All the rest
of life is here.'

But these things make life,' said the heiress.
Without society and art, wdiat is life ? '

Perhaps these people find other pleasures ;
perhaps the monotony gets relieved by hope,
and anxiety, and love, and death, and such
things.' The young man forgot how the weight
of this monotony lead fallen upon his own
brain : he remembered, now, that his companion

would probably have to face this dreariness
all her life, and he tried in a kindly spirit
to divert her mind from the thought of it.
You forget that each life is individual, and has
its own separate interests ; and these are apart
from the conditions which surround it. Do you
know my cousin, Tom Coppin ? '

No ; what is he ? '

'He is a printer by trade. Of late years
he has been engaged in setting up atheistic
publications. Of course, this occupation has had
the effect of making him an earnest Christian.
Now he is a Captain of the Salvation Army.'

But I thought '

Don't think. Miss Kennedy ; look about
and see for yourself. He lives on five-and-twenty
shillings a week, in one room, in just
such a street as this. I laughed at him at first;
now I laugh no longer. You can't laugh at a
man who spends his whole life preaching and
singing hymns among the Whitechapel roughs,
taking as part of the day's work all the rotten
eggs, brickbats, and kicks that come in his way.
Do you think his life would be less monotonous
if he lived in Belgrade Square ? '

But all are not preachers and captains in
the Salvation Army.'

'No; there is my cousin Dick. We are,
very properly, Tom, Dick, and Harry. Dick is,
like myself, a cabinet-maker. He is also a
politician, and you may hear him at his Club
denouncing the House of Lords, and the Church,
and Monarchical Institutions, and hereditary
everything, till you wonder the people do not
rise and tear all down. They don't, you see,
because they are quite accustomed to big talk,
and it never means anything, and they are not
really touched by the dreadful wickedness of
the Peers.

I should like to know your cousins.'

You shall They don't like me, because I
have been brought up in a somewhat different
school. But that does not greatly matter.'

Will they like me ? ' It was a very innocent
question, put in perfect innocence, and yet
the young man blushed.

Everybody,' he said, ' is bound to like
you.'

She changed colour and became silent, fora
while.

VOL* I. ^ K

He went on presently :

We are all as happy as we deserve to be,
I suppose. If these people knew what to do
in order to make themselves happier, they
would go and do that thing. Meantime, there
is always love for everybody, and success,
and presently the end — is not life everywhere
monotonous '

No,' she replied stoutly ; ' mine is not.'

He was thinking at the moment that of all
lives a dressmaker's must be one of the most
monotonous. She remembered that she was a
dressmaker, and explained.

There are the changes of fashion, you see.'

Yes, but you are young,' he replied, from
his vantage-ground of twenty-three years, being
two years her superior. ' Mine is monotonous
when I come to think of it. Only, you see,
one does not think of it oftener than one can
help. Besides, as far as I have got, I like the
monotony.'

Do you like work ? '

Not much, I own. Do you ? '

'No.'

'Yet you are going to settle down at
Stepney.'

And you, too ? '

As for me, I don't know.' The young
man coloured slightly. ' I may go away again,
soon, and find work elsewhere.'

I was walking yesterday,' she went on, ' in
the great, great churchyard of Stepney Church.
Do you know it ? '

Yes — that is, I have not been inside the
walls. I am not fond of churchyards.'

There they lie — acres of graves. Thousands
upon thousands of dead people, and not one of
the whole host remembered. All have lived,
worked, hoped much, got a little, I suppose,
and died. And the world none the
better.'

Nay, that you cannot tell.'

Not one of all remembered,' she repeated.
There is an epitaph in the churchyard which
might do for everyone : —

Here lies the body of Daniel Saul,
Smithfield weaver ; and that is all.

That is all'

What more did the fellow deserve .^ ' asked
her companion. ' No doubt he was a very good

weaver. Why, lie has got a great posthumous
reputation. You have quoted hin.'

He did not quite follow her line of thought.
She was thinking in some vague way of the
waste of material.

They had very little power of raising the
world, to be sure. They were quite poor, ill-educated,
and without resource.'

'It seems to me,' replied her companion,
that nobody has any power of raising the
world. Look at the preachers and the writers
and the teachers. By their united efforts they
contrive to shore up the world and keep it
from falling lower. Every now and then down
we go, flop — a foot or two of civilisation lost.
Then we lose a hundred years or so until we
can get shoved up again.'

Should not rich men try to shove up, as
you call it ? '

Some of them do try, I believe,' he replied ;
I don't know how they succeed.'

Suppose, for instance, this young lady, this
Miss Messenger, who owns all this property,
were to use it for the benefit of the people,
how would she begin, do you suppose ? '

Most likely she would bestow a quantity
of money to a hospital, which would pauperise
the doctors, or she would give away quantities
of blankets, bread, and beef in the winter, which
would pauperise the people.'

Angela sighed.

That is not very encouraging.'

'What you could do, by yourself, if you
pleased, among the working girls of the place,
would be, I suppose, worth ten times what she
could do with all her giving. I'm not much
in the Charity line myself. Miss Kennedy, but
I should say, from three weeks' observation of
the place and conversation with the respectable
Bunker, that ]\iiss Messenger's money is best
kept out of the parish, which gets on very well
without it.'

'Her money! Yes, I see. Yet she herself
' She paused.

We working men and women '

You are not a working man, Mr. Goslett.'
She faced him with her steady, honest eyes,
as if she would read the truth in his. ' Whatever
else you are, you are not a workingman.'


He replied without the least change of
colour —

Indeed, I am the son of Serjeant Goslett
of the — th Regiment, who fell in the Indian
Mutiny. I am the nephew of good old Benjamin
Bunker, the virtuous and the disinterested.
I was educated in rather a better way than most
of my class, that is all.'

Is it true that you have lived in America ? '

Quite true.' He did not say how long he
had lived there.

Angela, with her own guilty secret, was
suspicious that perhaps this young man might
also have his.

Men of your class,' she said, ' do not as a
rule talk like you.'

Matter of education — that is all.'

And you are really a cabinet-maker ? '

If you will look into my room and see my
lathe, I will show you specimens of my work,
thou unbeliever ! Did you think that I might
have " done something," and so be fain to hide
my head ? '

It was a cruel thing to suspect him in this
way, yet the thought had crossed her mind

that he might be a fugitive from the Law and
society, protected for some reason by Bunker.

Harry returned to the subject of the place.

What we want here he said, ' as it seems
to me, is a little more of the pleasures and
graces of Hfe. To begin with, we are not poor
and in misery, but for the most part fairly well
off. We have great works here — half-a-dozen
Breweries, though none so big as Messenger's
; chemical works, sugar refineries, though
these are a little depressed at present, I believe
; here are all the docks ; then we have
silk weavers, rope-makers, sail-makers, matchmakers,
cigar-makers ; we build ships ; we
tackle jute, though what jute is, and what we
do with it, I know not ; we cut corks ; we
make soap, and we make fireworks ; we build
boats. When all our works are in full blast,
we make quantities of honey. See us on Sundays,
we are not a bad-looking lot ; healthy,
well-dressed, and tolerably rosy. But we have
no pleasures.'

There must be some.'

A theatre and a music-hall in Whitechapel
Eoad. That has to serve for two millions of

people. Now, if this young heiress wanted todo
any good, she should build a Palace of
Pleasure here.'

A Palace of Pleasure ! ' she repeated. ' It
sounds well. Should it be a kind of Crystal
Palace ? '

Well ! ' It was quite a new idea, but
he replied as if he had been considering the
subject for years. ' Not quite — with modifications.'


Let us talk over your Palace of Pleasure,'
she said, ' at another time. It sounds well.
What else should she do ? '

That is such a gigantic thing, that it seems
enough for one person to attempt. However,
wee can find something else for her — why, take
schools. There is not a public school for the
whole two millions of East London. Not one
place in which boys — to say nothing of girls —
can be brought up in generous ideas. She must
establish at least half-a-dozen public schools for
boys and as many for girls.'

That is a very good idea. Will you write
and tell her so ? '

Then there are libraries, reading-rooms,

clubs, but all these would form part of the
Palace of Pleasure.'

Of course. I would rather call it a Palace
of Delight. Pleasure seems to touch a lower
note. We should have music-rooms for concerts
as well.'

And a school for music' The young man
became animated as the scheme unfolded itself.

'And a school for dancing.'

'Miss Kennedy,' he said with enthusiasm,
• you oucjlit to have the spending of all this
money ! And — why, you would hardly believe
it — but there is not in the whole of this parish
of Stepney a single dance given in the year.

Think of that ! But perhaps ' he stopped

again.

You mean that dressmakers do not, as a
rule, dance ? However, I do, and so there
must be a school for dancing. There must bea
great college to teach all these accomplishments.'


'Happy Stepney!' cried the young man,
carried out of himself. ' Thrice happy Stepney !
Glorified Whitechapel ! Beatified Bow ! What
things await ye in the fortunate future ! '

He left her at the door of Bormalack's, and
went off on some voyage of discovery of his
own.

The girl retreated to her own room. She
had now hired a sitting-room all to herself, and
paid three months in advance, and sat down to
think. Then she took paper and pen and began
to write.

She was writing down, while it was hot in
her head, the threefold scheme which this remarkable
young workman had put into her
head.

We women are weak creatures,' she said
with a sigh. ' We long to be up and doing,
but we cannot carve out our work for ourselves.
A man must be with us to suggest or direct it.
The College of Art — yes, we will call it the
College of Art ; the Palace of Dehght ; the
public schools. I should think that between
the three a good deal of money might be got
through. And oh ! to think of converting this
dismal suburb into a home for refined and
cultivated people ! '

In blissful reverie she saw already the mean
houses turned into red brick Queen Anne

terraces and villas ; the clings streets were
planted with avenues of trees ; art flourished in
the house as well as out of it; life was rendered
gracious sweet, and lovely.

And to think that this result was due to
the sucfo'estion of a common working: man !

But then, he had lived in the States. Doubtless
in the States all the workiucr men .

But was that possible ?

CHAPTER VI.

A FIRST STEP.

Wjtii tills great programme before her, the
responsibilities of wealth were no longer so
oppressive. When power can be used for beneficent
purposes, who would not be powerful?
And beside the mighty shadow of this scheme,
the smaller project for which Bunker was finding
a house looked small indeed. Yet, was it
not small, but great, and destined continually
to grow greater ?

Bunker came to see her from day to day,
reporting progress. He heard of a house here
or a house there, and went to see it. But it
was too large ; and of another, but it was too
small ; and of a third, but it was not convenient
for her purpose; and so on. Each
house took up a whole day in examination,

and Bunker's bill was getting on with great
freedom.

The delay, however, gave Angela time to
work out her new ideas on paper. She invoked
the assistance of her friend, the cabinet-maker,
with ideas ; and, under the guise of amusing
themselves, they drew up a long and businesslike
prospectus of the proposed new institutions.

First, there were the High Schools, of which
she would found six — three for boys and three
for girls. The great feature of these schools
was to be that they should give a liberal education
for a very small fee, and that in their
playgrounds, their discipline, and, as fair as
possible, their hours, they were to resemble the
great public schools.

They must be endowed for the masters'
and mistresses' salaries, and with scholarships ;
and — and — I think the boys and girls ought to
have dinner in the school, so as not to go home
all day ; and — and — there will be many things
to provide for each school.'

She looked as earnest over this amusement,
Harry said, as if she were herself in possession
of the fortune which they were thus administering.

They agreed that when the schools were
built, an endowment of 70,000/. each, which
would yield 2,000/. a year, ought to be enough,
with the school fees, to provide for the education
of five hundred in each school. Then they
proceeded with the splendid plan of the new
College. It was agreed that learning, properly
so called, should be entirely kept out of the
programme. No Political Economy, said the
IS'ewnham student, should be taught there. Nor
any of the usual things — Latin, Greek, mathematics,
and so forth — said the young man from
the United States. What, then, remained ?

Everything. The difficulty in making such
a selection of studies is to know what to omit.

We are to have,' said Harry, now almost
as enthusiastic as Angela herself, ' a thing never
before attempted. We are to have a College
of Art. What a grand idea ! It was yours.
Miss Kennedy.'

No,' she replied, ' it was yours. If it
comes to anything, we shall always remember
that it was yours.'

An amiable contest was finished by their
recollecting that it was only a play, and they

laughed and went on, half ashamed, and yet
both full of enthusiasm.

The College of Art ! ' he repeated ; ' why,
there are a hundred kinds of art ; let us
include accomplishments.'

They would ; they did.

They finally resolved that there should ])e
professors, lecturers, or teachers, with convenient
class rooms, theatres and lecture halls in
the following accomplishments and graces : —
Dancing, but there must be the old as well as
the new kinds of dancing. The waltz was not
to exclude the minuet, the reel, the country
dance, or the old square dances ; the pupils
would also have such dances as the bolero
the tarantella and other national nunneries.
Singing, which was to bo a great feature, as
anybody could sing, said Angela, if they were
taught. ' Except my Uncle Bunker ! ' said
Harry. Then there were to be musical instruments
of all kinds. Skating, bicycling, lawn
tennis, racquets, fives, and all kinds of games ;
rowing, billiards, archery, rifle shooting. Then
there was to be acting, with reading and recitation;
there were to be 'classes on gardening, on

cookery, and on the laws of beauty in costume.
'The East End shall be dependent of the
rest of the world in fashion,' said Angela ; ' we
will dress according to the rules of Art ! ' 'You
shall,' cried Harry, 'and your own girls shall bethe
new dressmakers to the whole of glorified
Stepney.' Then there were to be lectures, not
in literature, but in letter-writing, especially
love-letter writing, versifying, novel-writing,
and essay writing ; that is to say, on the more
delightful forms of literature — so that poets
and novelists should arise, and the East End,
hitherto a barren desert, should blossom with
flowers. Then there was to be a Professor of
Grace, because a graceful carriage of the body
is so generally neglected ; and Harry, who had
a slim figure and long legs, began to indicate
how the Professor would probably carry himself.
Next there were to be Professors of
Painting, Drawing, Sculpture and Design ; and
lectures on Furniture, Colour, and Architecture.
The arts of photography, china painting, and
so forth were to be cultivated ; and there were
to be classes for the encouragement of leather
work, crewel work, fret-work, brass-work, wood
and ivory carving, and so forth.

There shall be no house in the East End,'
cried the girl, ' that shall not have its panels
painted by one member of the family ; its woodwork
carved by another, its furniture designed
by a third, its windows planted with flowers by
another.'

Her eyes glowed, her lips trembled.

You ought to have had the millions,' said
Harry*

Nay, you, for you devised it all ! ' she
replied. She was so glowing, so rosy red, so
soft and sweet to look upon ; her eyes were so
full of possible love — though of love she was
not thinking — that almost the young man fell
upon his knees to worship this Venus.

'And all these beautiful things,' she went
on, breathless, ' are only designed for the sake
of the Palace of Delight.'

It shall stand somewhere near the central
place, this Stepney Green, so that all the East
can get to it.

*It shall have many halls,' she went on.
One of them shall be for concerts, and there
shall be an organ : one of them shall be for a
theatre, and there will be a stage and every-vol.

I. L

thing : one shall be a dancing hall, one a
skating rink, one a hall for lectures, readings
and recitations : one a picture gallery, one a
permanent exhibition of our small Arts. We will
have our concerts performed from our School
of Music : our plays shall be played by our
amateurs taught at our School of Acting ; our
exhibitions shall be supplied by our own people ;
the things will be sold, and they weill soon be
sold off and replaced, because they will be
cheap. Oh ! oh ! oh ! ' She clasped her hands,
and fell back in her chair, overpowered with
the thought.

*It will cost much money,' said Harry,
weakly, as if money was any object — in dreams.

The College must be endowed with 30,000^.
a year, which is a million of money,' Angela
replied, making a little calculation. ' That
money must be foimd. As for the Palace, it
will require no tiling but the building, and a
small annual income to pay for repairs and
servants. It will be governed by a Board of
Directors, elected by the people themselves, to
whom the Palace wall belong. And no one
shall pay or be paid for any performance. And

the only condition of admission will be good
behaviour, with exclusion as a penalty.'

The thing which she contemplated was a
deed the like of which makes to tingle the ears
of those who hear it. To few, indeed, is it
given to communicate to a whole nation this
strange and not unpleasant sensation.

One need not disguise the fact that the
possession of this power, and the knowledge of
her own benevolent intentions, gave Angela a
better opinion of herself than she had ever
known before. Herein, my friends, lies, if you
will rightly regard it, the true reason of the
feminine love for power illustrated by Chaucer.
For the few who have from time to time
wielded authority have ever been persuaded
that they wielded it wisely, benevolently, religiously,
and have of course congratulated
themselves on the possession of so much virtue.
What mischiefs, thought Elizabeth of England,
Catharine of Russia, Semiramis of Babylon, and
Angela of Whitechapel, might have followed
had a less wise and virtuous person been on
the throne !

It was not unnatural, considering how much
L 2

she was with Harry at this time, and how long
were their talks with each other, that she should
have him a great deal in her mind. For these
ideas were certainly his, not hers. Newnham,
she reflected humbly, had not taught her to
originate. She knew that he was but a cabinetmaker
by trade. Yet, when she involuntarily
compared him, his talk, his manners, his bearing,
with the men whom she had met, the
young Dons and the undergraduates of Cambridge,
the clever young fellows in society who
were reported to write for the ' Saturday,' and
the Bertie and Allies of daily life, she owned
to herself that in no single point did this
cabinet-maker fellow compare unfavourably
with any of them. He seemed as well taught
as the last made Fellow of Trinity who came
to lecture on Literature and Poetry at Newnham
; as cultivated as the mediaeval Fellow
who took Philosophy and Psychology, and was
supposed to entertain ideas on religion so original
as to amount to a Fifth Gospel : as quick
as the most thoroughgoing Society man who
has access to studios, literary circles, musical
people and esthetes ; and as careless as any

Bertie or Algae of the whole set. This it was
which made her blush, because, if he had been
a common man, a mere Bunker, he might, with
his knowledge of his class, have proved so
useful a servant to her, so admirable a vizier.
Now, unfortunately, she felt that she could
only make him useful in this way after she had
confided in him ; and that to confide in him
might raise dangerous thoughts in the young
man's head. Ko ; she must not confide in
him.

It shows what a thoughtful young person
Angela was that she would blush all by herself
only to think of this danger to Harry Goslett.

She passed all that night and the whole of
the next day and night in a dream over the
Palace of Delight and the College for educating
people in sweet and pleasant things — the
College of Art.

On the next morning a cold chill fell upon
her, caused I know not how ; not by the
weather, which was the bright and hot weather
of last July ; not by any ailment of her own,
because Angela owned the most perfect mechanism
ever constructed by Nature ; nor by

any unpleasantness in the House, because, now
that she had lier own room, she generally
breakfasted alone ; nor by anything in the
daily papers — which frequently, by their evil
telegrams and terrifying forebodings, do poison
the spring and fountain-head of the day ; nor
by any letter, because the only one she had
was from Constance Woodcote at Newnham,
and it told the welcome news that she was
appointed Mathematical Lecturer with so mucha
head for fees, and imploring Angela to remember
her promise that she would endow
Newnham with a scholarship. Endow Newnham
! Why, she was going to have a brand-new
college of her own, to say nothing of the
High Schools for boys and girls. Perhaps the
cause of her depression was the appearance of
Bunker, who came to tell her that he had at
last found the house which would suit her. No
other house in the neighbourhood was in anyway
to compare with it ; the house stood close
by, at the south-west corner of Stepney Green.
It was ready for occupation, the situation was
as desirable as that of Tirzah the Beautiful ;
the rent was extremely low, considering the

many advantages ; all the nobility and gentry
of the place, he declared, would flock round a
dressmaker situated in Stepney Green itself;
there were rooms for show-rooms, With plenty
of other rooms and everything which Avould be
required ; finally, as if this were an additional
recommendation, the house belonged to himself.

I am ready,' he said with a winning smile,
to make a sacrifice of my own interests in
order to oblige a young lady, and I will take a
lower rent from you than I would from anybody
else.'

She went with him to ' view ' the house.
One looks at a picture, a horse, an estate, a
book, but one ' views ' a house. Subtle and
beautiful distinction, which shows the poetry
latent in the heart of every house agent ! It
was Bunker's own. Surely that was not the
reason wdiy it was let at double the rent of the
next house, which belonged to Angela herself,
nor why the tenant had to undertake all the
repairs, paper, and painting, external and internal,
nor why the rent began from that very
day, instead of the half-quarter or the next
quarter-day. Bunker himself assured Miss kennedy

that he had searched the whole neighbourhood
for a suitable place, but could find none
so good as his own house. As for the houses
of the Messenger property, they were liable, he
said, to the demands of a lawyer's firm, which
had no mercy on a tenant, while as for himself,
he was full of compassion, and always ready to
listen to reason. He wanted no other recommendation
than a year's rent paid in advance,
and would undertake to execute, at the tenant's
cost, the whole of the painting, papering, whitewashing,
roofing, pipes, chimneys, and general
work himself ; ' whereas, young lady,' he added,
^ if you had taken one of those Messenger
houses, you cannot tell in what hands you
would have found yourself, nor what charges
you would have had to pay.'

He shook his fat head, and rattled his keys
in his pocket. So strong is the tendency of
the human mind to believe what is said, in spite
of all experience to the contrary, that his victim
smiled and thanked him, knowing very well
that the next minute she would be angry with
herself for so easily becoming a dupe to a
clumsy rogue.

She thanked him for his consideration, she
said, yet she was uneasily conscious that lie
was overreaching her in some way, and she
hesitated.

On the Green,' he said. ' What a position !
Looking out on the garden ! With such rooms !
And so cheap ! '

I don't know,' she replied, ' I must consult
some one.'

As to that,' he said, ' there may be another
tenant ; I can't keep offers open. Take it. Miss,
or leave it. There ! '

While she still hesitated, he added one more
recommendation .

'An old house it is, but solid, and will
stand for ever. Why, old Mr. Messenger was
born here.'

Was he ? ' she cried, ' was my — was Mr.
Messenger actually born here ? '

She hesitated no longer. She took the
house at his own price ; she accepted his terms,
extortionate and grasping as they were.

When the bargain was completed — when
she had promised to sign the agreement for a
twelvemonth, pay a year in advance, and

appoint the disinterested one lier executor of
repairs, lie returned to Bormalack's. In the
doorway, a cigarette in his mouth, lounged the
Idle Apprentice.

I saw you,' he said, ' with the benevolent
Bunker. You have fallen a prey to my uncle ? '

I have taken a house from him.'

'The two phrases are convertible. Those
who take his houses are his victims. I hope
no great mischief is done.' '

« Not much, I think.'

The young man threw away his cigarette.

Seriously, Miss Kennedy,' he said, ' my
good uncle will possess himself of all the money
he can get out of you. Have a care.'

He can do me no harm, thank you all the
same. I wanted a house soon, and he has found
me one. What does it matter if I pay a little
more than I ought ? '

What does it matter ? ' Harry was not
versed in details of trade, but he knew enough
to feel that this kind of talk was unpractical.
What does it matter ? My dear young lady,
if you go into business, you must look after the
sixpences.'

Miss Kennedy looked embarrassed. She
had betrayed herself, she thought. ' I know —
I know. But he talked me over.'

I have heard,' said the practical man, looking
profoundly wise, ' that he who would save
money must even consider that there is a difference
between a guinea and a sovereign ; and that
he shouldn't pay a cabman more than twice his
fare, and that it is wrong to pay half-a-guinea
for Heidsieck Monopoly when he can get Pom-very
and Greco at seven-and-sixpence.'

Then he, too, paused abruptly, because he
felt as if he had betrayed himself. What have
cabinet-makers to do with Pompey and Greco?
Fortunately, Angela did not hear the latter part
of the speech. She was reflecting on the ease
with which a crafty man — say Bunker — may
compass his ends with the simple — say herself.

I do not pretend,' he said, ' to know all
the ropes, but I should not have allowed you to
be taken in quite so readily by this good uncle.
Do you know — ' his eyes, when they were
serious, which was not often, were really good.
Angela perceived they were serious now — ' Do
you know that the name of the Uncle who was

indirectly, so to speak, connected with the
Robin Redbreast, was originally Bunker? He
changed it after the children were dead, and he
came into the property.'

I wish you had been with me,' she said
simply. ' But I suppose I must take my chance
as other girls do.'

Most other girls have got men to advise
them. Have you no one ? '

I might have ' — she was thinking of her
lawyers — who were paid to advise her if required.
' But I will find out things for myself.'


And at what a price ! Are your pockets
lined with gold, Miss Kennedy ? ' They certainly
were, but he did not know it.

I will try to be careful. Thank you.'

As regards going with you, I am always at
your command. I will be your servant, if you
will accept me as such.'

This was going a step farther than seemed
altogether safe. Angela was hardly prepared
to receive a cabinet-maker, however polite and
refined he might seem, as a lover.

I believe,' she said, ' that in our class of

life it is customary for young people to " keep
company," is it not ? '

It is not uncommon,' lie replied, with much
earnestness. * The custom has even been imitated
by the higher hisses.'

What I mean is this, that I am not going
to keep company with any one ; but, if you
please to help me, if I ask your advice, I shall
be grateful.'

'Your gratitude,' he said with a smile,
ought to make any man happy ! '

'Your compliments,' she retorted, 'will
certainly kill my gratitude ; and now, Mr.
Goslett, don't you really think that you should
try to do some work? Is it right to lounge
away the days among the streets? Are your
pockets, I may ask, lined with gold ? '

I am looking for work. I am hunting
everywhere for work. My uncle is going to
find me a workshop. Then I shall request the
patronage of the nobility and gentry of Stepney,
Whitechapel, and the Mile End Eoad. H. G.
respectfully solicits a trial.' He laughed as if
there could be no doubt at all about the future,
and as if a few years of looking around were of

no importance. Then lie bowed to Angela in
the character of the Complete Cabinet-maker.
Orders, madam, orders executed with neatness
and despatch. The highest price given for
second-hand fmiiiture. '

She had got her house, however, though
she was going to pay far too much for it. That
was a great thing, and, as the more important
schemes could not be all commenced at a
moment's notice, she would begin, with the lesser
her dressmaker's shop.

Here Mr. Goslett could not help her. She
applied, therefore, again to Mr. Bunker, who
had a Registry office for situations wanted.
My terms,' he said, ' are five shillings on application
and five shillings for each person
engaged.'

He did not say that he took half-a-crown
from each person who wanted a place and five
shillings on her getting the place. His ways
were ways of pleasantness, and on principle he
never spoke of things which might cause unpleasant
remarks. Besides, no one knew the
trouble he had to take in suiting people.

I knew,' lie said, ' that you would come
back to me. People will only find out my
worth dien I am gone.'

I hope you will be worth a great deal, Mr.
Bunker,' said Angela.

Pretty well, young lady. Pretty well.
Ah ! my nephews will be the gainers. Bat not
what I might have been if it had not been for
the meanness, the — the — Hunxiness of that
wicked old man.'

'Do you think you can find me what I
want, ]vir. Bunker ? '

Can I ? ' He turned over the leaves of a
great book. look at this long list ; all ready
to better themselves. Apprentices anxious to
get through their articles, and improvers to be
dressmakers, and dressmakers to be foregone,
and foregone to be mistresses. That is the
way of the world, young lady. Sweet contentment,
where art thou P ' The pastoral simplicity
of his words and attitude were inexpressibly
comic.

'And how are you going to begin, Miss
Kennedy ? '

Quietly, at first.'

Then you'll want a matter of one or two
dressmakers, and half-a-dozen improvers. The
apprentices will come later.'

What are the general wages in this part of
London ? '

The dressmakers get sixteen shillings a
week ; the improvers six. They bring their
own dinners, and you give them their tea. But,
of course, you know all that.'

Of course,' said Angela, making a note of
the fact, notwithstanding.

'As for one of your dressmakers, I can
recommend you Eebekah Hermitage, daughter
of the Eev. Percival Hermitage. She cannot
get a situation, because of her father's religious
opinions.'

That seems strange. What are they '^ '

'Why, he's Minister of the Seventh Day
Independents. They've got a chapel in Median's
Eow ; they have their services on Saturday
because, they say— and it seems true — that the
Fourth Commandment has never been abolished
any more than the rest of them. I wonder the
Bishops don't take it up. Well, there it is. On
Saturdays she won't work, and on Sundays

she don't like to, because the other people
don't.'

Has she any religious objection,' asked
Angela, ' to working on Monday or Tuesday? '

No ; and I'll send her over. Miss Kennedy,
this evening, if you will see her. You'll get
her cheap because no one else will have her.
Very good. Then there is Nelly Sorensen. I
know she would like to go out, but her father
is particular. Not that he's any right to be,
being a Pauper. If a man like me or the late
Mr. Messenger, my friend, chooses to be particular,
it's nothing but right. As for Captain
Sorensen — why, it's Pride after the fall, instead
of before it. Which makes it, to a substantial
man, sickening.'

Who is Captain Sorensen ? '

He lives in the Asylum along the Whitechapel
Eoad, only ten minutes or so from here.
Nelly Sorensen is as clever a workwoman as
you will get. If I were you, Miss Kennedy, I
would go and find her at home. Then you
can see her work and talk to her. As for her
father, keep him in his right place. Pride in
an Almshouse ! Why, you'd hardly believe it ;

VOL. L M

but I wanted to put this girl in a slip where
they employ fifty hands, and he wouldn't have
it, because he didn't like the character of the
proprietor. Said he was a grinder and an
oppressor. My answer to such is, and always
will be, " Take it or leave it." If they won't
take it, there's heaps that must. As old Mr.
Messenger used to say, " Bunker, my friend,"
or " Bunker, my old friend," sometimes, " Your
remarks is true wisdom." Yes, Miss Kennedy,
I Avill go with you, to show you the way.' He
looked at his watch. ' Half-past four. I daresay
it will take half an hour there and back —
which with the last quarter of an hour's talk,
we shall charge as an hour's time, which is
half-a-crown. Thank you. An hour,' he added,
with great feeling, ' an hour, like a pint of beer, ,
cannot be divided. And on these easy terms,
Miss Kennedy, you will find me always ready
to work for you from sunrise to sunset, thinking
of your interests even at meals, so as not to
split an hour or waste time, and to save trouble
in reckoning up.'

CHAPTER Iii.

THE TRINITY ALMSHOUSE.

From Stepney Green to the Trinity Almshouse
is not a long way ; you have, in fact, little more
than to pass through a short street and to cross
the road. But the road itself is noteworthy :
for, of all the roads which lead into London or
out of it, this of Whitechapel is the broadest
and the noblest by nature. Man, it is true, has
done little to embellish it. There are no
avenues of green and spreading lime and plane
trees, as, one day, there shall be : there are no
stately buildings, towers, spires, miracles of
architecture ; but only houses and shops which,
whether small or big, are all alike mean, unlovely,
and depressing. Yet, in spite of all, a
noble road.

This road, which is the promenade, breathing-place,
place of resort, place of gossip, place of

M 2

amusement, and place of business for the greater .
part of East London, stretches all the way from
Aldgate to Stratford, being called first the
Whitechapel Eoad, and then the Mile End
Eoad ; then the Bow Eoad, and then the Stratford
Eoad. Under the first name the road has
acquired a reputation of the class called, by
moralists, unenviable. The history of police-court
records, under the general heading of
Whitechapel Eoad, so many free fights, brave
robberies, gallant murders, dauntless kicking,
cudgelling, pummellings, pocket-pickings, shop-lifting,
watch snatching, and assaults on constables,
with such a brave display of disorderly
drunks, that the road has come to be regarded
with admiration as one of those Alsatian retreats,
growing every day rarer, which are
beyond and above the law. It is thought to
be a place where manhood and personal bravery
reign supreme. Yet the road is not worthy of
this reputation : it has of late years become
orderly; its present condition is dull and awaiting,
brilliant as the past has been, and
whatever greatness may be in store for the
future. Once out of Whitechapel, and within

the respectable region of Mile End, the road
has always been eminently respectable ; and as
regards dangers quite safe, ever since they built
the bridge over the Ever Lea, which used now
and again to have freshness, and, at such times,
tried to drown harmless people in its ford.
Since that bridge was built in the time of
Edward I., it matters not for the freshness.
There is not much in the Bow Eoad when the
stranger gets there, in his journey along this
great thoroughfare, for him to visit, except its
almshouses, which are many ; and the beautiful
old church of Bow, standn:ig in the middle of
the road, crumbling slowly away in the East
End fog, with its narrow strip of crowded
churchyard. One hopes that before it has
quite crumbled away some one will go and
make a picture of it — an etching would be best.
At Stratford the road divides, so that you may
turn to the right and get to Barking, or to the
left and get to Epping Forest. And all the
way, for four miles, a broad and noble road,
which must have been carved originally out of
No Man's Land, in so generous a spirit is it laid
out. Angela is now planting it with trees ;

beneath the trees she will set seats for those who
wish to rest. Here and there she will erect
drinking-fountains. Whitechapel Eoad, since
her improvements begun, has been transformed ;
even the bacon shops are beginning to look a
little less rusty ; and the grocers are trying to
live up to the green avenues.

Angela's imagination Alas fired by this road
from the very first, when the Idle Apprentice
took her into it as into a new and strange
country. Here, for the first time, she realised
the meaning of the universal curse, from which
only herself and a few others are unnaturally
exempted ; and this only under heavy penalties
and the necessity of finding out their own work
for themselves, or it will be the worse for them.
People think it better to choose their own
work. That is a great mistake. You might
just as well want to choose your own disease.
In the West End, a good many folk do work — -
and work pretty hard some of them — who need
not, unless they please ; and a good many
others work who must, whether they please or
no ; but somehow the forced labour is pushed
into the background. We do not perceive its

presence : people drive about in carriages, as if
there were nothing to do ; people lounge ;
people have leisure ; people do not look pressed,
or in a hurry, or task-mastered, or told to make
bricks without straw.

Here, in the East End, on the other hand,
there are no strollers. All day long the place
is full of passengers hasting to and fro, pushing
each other aside, with set and anxious faces,
each driven by the invisible scourge of necessity
which makes slaves of all mankind. Do you
know that famous picture of the Israelites in
Egypt ? Upon the great block of stone, which
the poor wretches are painfully dragging, while
the cruel lash goads the weak and terrifies the
strong, there sits one in authority. He regards
the herd of slaves with eyes terrible from their
stony gaze. What is it to him whether the
feeble suffer and perish, so that the Pharaoh's
will be done? The people of the East reminded
Angela, who was an on-looker and had
no work to do, of these builders of pyramids :
they worked under a taskmaster as relentless as
that stony-hearted captain or foreman of works.
If the Israelites desisted, they were flogged back

to work with cats of many tails : if our workmen
desist, they are flogged back by starvation.

Let us hope,' said Harry, to whom Angela
imparted a portion of the above reflection and
comparison, — 'let us hope that the Pharaoh
himself means well and is pitiful.' He spoke
without his usual flippancy, so that perhaps his
remark had some meaning, for himself.

All day long and all the year round there
is a constant Fair going on in Whitechapel
Eoad. It is held upon the broad pavement,
which was benevolently intended, no doubt, for
this purpose. Here are displayed all kinds of
things ; bits of second-hand furniture, such as
the head of a wooden bed, whose griminess is
perhaps exaggerated, in order that a purchaser
may expect something extraordinarily cheap.
Here are lids of pots and saucepans laid out, to
show that in the warehouse, of which these
things are specimens, will be found the
principal parts of the utensils for sale ; here are
unexpected things, such as rows of skates, sold
cheap in summer; light clothing in winter;
workmen's tools of every kind, including, perhaps,
the burglarious jemmy; second-hand

books — a miscellaneous collection, establishing
the fact that the readers of books in Whitechapel
— a feeble and scanty folk — read nothing
at all except sermons and meditations among
the tombs ; second-hand boots and shoes ; cutlery
; hats and caps ; rat-traps and mouse-traps
and bird cages ; flowers and seeds ; skittles ;
and frames for photographs. Cheap-jacks have
their carts beside the pavement; and with
strident voice proclaim the goodness of their
wares, which include in this district bloaters and
dried haddocks, as well as crockery. And one
is amazed, seeing how the open-air Fair goes
on, why the shops are kept open at all.

And always the same. It saddens one, I
know not why, to sit beside a river and see the
water flowing down with never a pause. It saddens
one still more to watch the current of human
life in this great thoroughfare and feel that, as
it is now, so it was a generation ago, and so it
will be a generation hence. The bees in the
hive die, and are replaced by others exactly
like them, and the honey-making goes on
merrily still. So, in a great street, the waggons
always go up and down ; the passengers never

cease ; the shopboy is always behind the
counter ; the workgirl is always sewing ; the
workman is always carrying his tools as he goes
to his work ; there are always those who stay
for half a pint, and always those who hurry on.
In this endless drama, which repeats itself like
a musical box, the jeime premier of to-day becomes
tomorrow the lean and slippered pantaloon.
The day after tomorrow he will have
disappeared, gone to join the silent ones in the
grim, unlovely cemetery belonging to the
Tower Hamlets, which lies beyond Stepney, and
is the reason why on Sundays the 'frequent
funeral blackens all the road.'

One can moralise,' said Harry one day,
after they had been exchanging sentiments of
enjoyable sadness, ' at this rate for ever. But
it has all been done before.'

'Everything, I suppose,' replied Angela,
'has been done before. If it has not been done
by me, it is new — to me. It does not make it
any better for a mean who has to work all the
days of his life, and gets no enjoyment out of it,
and lives ignobly and dies obscurely, that the
same thing happens to most people.'

We cannot help ourselves.' This time it
was the Cabinet-maker who spoke to the Dressmaker.
' We belong to the crowd, and we
must live with the crowd. You can't make
much glory out of a mercenary lathe nor out of
a dressmaker's shop, can you, Miss Kennedy ? '

It was by such reminders, one to the other,
that conversations of the most delightful kind,
full of speculations and comparisons, were
generally brought up short. When Angela
remembered that she was talking to an artisan,
she froze. When Harry reflected that it was a
dressmaker to whom he was communicating
bits of his inner soul, he checked himself.
When, which happened every day, they forgot
their disguises for a while, they talked quite
freely, and very prettily communicated all sorts
of thoughts, fancies, and opinions to each other ;
insomuch that once or twice a disagreeable
feeling would cross the girl's mind that they
were perhaps getting too near the line at which
keeping company ' begins ; but he was a
young workman of good taste, and he never
presumed.

She was walking beside her guide, Mr.

Bunker, and pondering over these things as she
gazed down the broad road, and recollected the
talk she had held in it ; and now her heart was
warm within her, because of the things she
thought and had tried to say.

Here wee are, Miss,' said Mr. Bunker, stopping.
' Here's the Trinity Almshouse.'

She awoke from her dream. It is very odd
to consider the strange thoughts which flash
upon one in waking. Angela suddenly discovered
that Mr. Bunker possessed a remarkable
resemblance to a bear. His walk was something
like one, with a swing of the shoulders,
and his hands were big and his expression was
hungry. Yes, he was exactly like a bear.

She observed that she was standing at a
wicket-gate, and that over the gate was the
effigy of a ship in full sail done in stone. Mr.
Bunker opened the door, and led the way to the
court within.

Then a great stillness fell upon the girl's
spirit. Outside, the waggons, carts, and omnibuses
thundered and rolled. You could hear
them plainly enough ; you could hear the tramp
of a thousand feet. But the noise outside was

only a contrast to the quiet within. A wall of
brick with iron railings separated the tumult
from the calm. It seemed as if, within that
court, there was no noise at all, so sharp and
sudden was the contrast.

She stood in an oblong court, separated from
the road by the wall above-named. On either
hand was a row of small houses, containing,
apparently, four rooms each. They were built
of red brick, and were bright and clean. Every
house had an iron tank in front for water ;
there was a pavement of flags along this row,
and a grass lawn occupied the middle of the
court. Upon the grass stood the statue of a
benefactor, and at the end of the court was a
chapel. It was a very little chapel, but was
approached by a most enormous and disproportionate
flight of stone steps, which might have
been originally cut for a portal of St. Paul's
Cathedral. The steps were surmounted by a
great doorway, which occupied the whole west
front of the chapel. No one was moving about
the place except an old Lady, who was drawing
water from her tank.

Pretty place, ain't it ? ' asked Mr. Bunker.

It seems peaceful and quiet,' said the girl.

Place where you'd expect Pride, ain't it ? '
he went on scornfully. ' Oh ! yes. Paupers
and Pride go together, as is well known. Lowliness
is for them who've got a bank and money
in it. Oh, yes, of course. Gar ! The Pride
of an Inmate ! '

He led the way, making a most impertinent
echo with the heels of his boots. Angela observed,
immediately, that there was another
court beyond the first. In fact, it was larger :
the houses were of stone, and of greater size ;
and it was if an? thing more solemnly quiet. It
was possessed of silence.

Here there is another statue erected to the
memory of the Founder, who, it is stated on
the pedestal, died, being then ' Commander of a
Ship ' in the East Indies, in the year 1 6 86. The
gallant captain is represented in the costume of
the period. He wears a coat with many buttons,
large cuffs, and full skirts ; the coat is buttoned
a good way below the waist, showing the fair
doublet within, also provided with many buttons.
He wears shoes with buckles, has a soft silk
wrapper round his neck, and a sash to carry his

sword. On his head there is an enormous wig,
well adapted to serve the purpose for which
Solar Topers were afterwards invented. In his
right hand he carries a sextant, many sizes bigger
than those in modern use, and at his feet dolphins
sport. A grass lawn covers this court, as
well as the other, and no voice or sound ever
comes from any of the houses, whose occupants
might well be all dead.

Mr. Bunker turned to the right, and presently
rapped with his knuckles at a door.
Then, without waiting for a reply, he turned
the handle, and with a nod invited his companion
to follow him.

It was a small but well-proportioned room
with low ceiling, furnished sufficiently. There
were clean white curtains with rose-coloured
ribbons. The window was open, and in it stood
a pot of mignonette, now at its best. At the
window sat, on one side, an old gentleman with
silvery white hair and spectacles, who was
reading, and on the other side a girl with work
on her lap, sewing,

Now, Cap'n Sorensen,' said Mr. Bunker,
without the formality of greeting, ' I've got you

another chance. Take it or leave it, since you
can afford to be particular. I can't ; I'm not
rich enough. Ha ! ' He snorted and looked
about him with the contempt which a man who
has a Banker naturally feels for one who hasn't,
and lives in an Almshouse.

What is the chance ? ' asked the Inmate
meekly, looking up. When he saw Angela in
the doorway he rose and bowed, offering her a
chair. Angela observed that he was a very tall
old man, and that he had blue eyes and a rosy
face — quite a young face it looked — and was
gentle of speech and courteous in demeanour.
Is the chance connected with this young lady,
Mr. Bunker?'

It is,' said the great man. ' Miss Kennedy,
this is the young woman I told you of. This
young lady ' — he indicated Angela — ' is setting
herself up, in a genteel way, in the dressmaking
line. She's taken one of my houses on the
Green, and she wants hands to begin with.
She comes here, Cap'n Sorensen, on my recommendation.'


We are obliged to you, Mr. Bunker.'
The girl was standing, her work in her

hands, looking at Angela, and a little terrified
by the sight of so grand a person. The dressmakers
of her experience were not young and
beautiful ; mostly they were pinched with years,
troubles, and anxieties. When Angela began
to notice her, she saw that the young work-girl,
who seemed about nineteen years of age, Alas
tall, rather too thin, and pretty. She did not
look strong, but her cheeks were flushed with
a delicate bloom ; her eyes, like her father's,
were blue ; her hair was light and feathery,
though she brushed it as straight as it would
go. She was dressed, like most girls of her
class, in a frock of sober black.

Angela took her by the hand. ' I am sure,'
she said kindly, ' that we shall be friends.'

Friends ! ' cried Mr. Bunker, aghast. ' Why,
she's to be one of your girls. You cant befriends
with your own girls.'

'• Perhaps,' said the girl, blushing and
abashed, ' you would like to see some of my
work.' She spread out her work on the table.

'Fine weather here, Cap'n,' Mr. Bunker
went on, striking an attitude of patronage, as if
the sun was good indeed to shine on an Alms-vol.

I. N

house. ' Fine weather should make grateful
hearts, especially in them as is provided for —
having been improvident in their youth — with
comfortable roofs to shelter them.'

Grateful hearts, indeed, Mr. Bunker,' said
the Captain quietly.

Mr. Bunker ' — Angela turned upon him
with an air of command, and pointed to the
door — ' you may go now. You have done all
I wanted.'

Mr. Bunker turned very red. ' He could
go ! ' Was he to be ordered about by every
little dressmaker .^ ' He could go ! '

If the lady engages my daughter, Mr.
Bunker,' said Captain Sorensen, ' I will try to
find the five shillings next week.'

Five shillings ! ' cried Angela. ' Why, I
have just given him five shillings for his recommendation.'


Mr. Bunker did not explain that his practice
was to get ^\^Q shillings from both sides, but
he retreated with as much dignity as could be
expected.

He asked, outside, with shame, how it was
that he allowed himself thus to be sat upon and

ordered out of the house by a mere girl Why
had he not stood upon his dignity ? To be told
he might go, and before an Inmate — a common
Pauper !

There is one consolation always open, thank
Heaven, for the meanest amongst us poor worms
of earth. We are gifted with imaginations ; we
can make the impossible an actual fact, and can
with the eye of the mind make the unreal stand
before us in the flesh. Therefore, when we are
down-trodden, we may proceed, without the
trouble and danger of turning (which has been
known to bring total extinction upon a worm),
to take revenge upon our enemy in imagination.
Mr. Bunker, who was at this moment uncertain
whether he hated Miss Kennedy more than he
hated his nephew, went home glowing with the
thought that but a few short months would
elapse before he should be able to set his foot
upon the former and crush her. Because, at
the rate she was going on, she would not last
more than that time. Then would he send in
his bills, sue her, sell her up, and drive her out
of the place stripped of the last farthing. ' He
might go ! ' He, Bunker, was told that he might

N 2

go ! And in the presence of an Inmate !
Then he thought of his nephew, and while he
smote the pavement with the iron end of his
umbrella, a cold dew appeared upon his nose,
the place where inward agitation is frequently
betrayed in this way, and he shivered, looking
about him suddenly as if lie was frightened.
Yet, what harm was Harry Goslett likely to do
him ?

What is your name, my dear ? ' asked
Angela softly, and without any inspection of
the work on the table. She was wondering
how this pretty, fragile flower should be found
in Whitechapel. Oh, ignorance of Newnham !
For she might have reflected that the rarest and
most delightful plants are found in the most
savage places — there is beautiful botanising, one
is told, in the Ural Mountains ; and that the sunshines
everywhere, even, as Mr. Bunker remarked,
in an Almshouse ; and that she herself
had gathered in the ugliest ditches round Cambridge
the sweetest flowering mosses, the
tenderest campion, the loveliest little herb-robert.


My name is Ellen,' replied the girl.

I call her Nelly,' her father answered, ' and
she is a good girl. Will you sit down, Miss
Kennedy ? '

Angela sat down and proceeded to business.
She said, addressing the old man, but looking
at the child, that she was setting up a dressmaker's
shop ; that she had hopes of support,
even from the West End, where she had
friends; that she was prepared to pay the
proper wages, with certain other advantages, of
which more would be said later on ; and that,
if Captain Sorensen approved, she would engage
his daughter from that day.

I have only been out as an improver as
yet,' said Nelly. ' But if you will really try meas
a dressmaker — oh, father, it is sixteen
shillings a week ! '

Angela's heart smote her. A poor sixteen
shillings a week ! And this girl was delighted
at the chance of getting so much.

What do you say. Captain Sorensen ! Do
you want references, as Mr. Bunker did ? I
am the granddaughter of a man who was born
here and made — a little — money here, which
he left to me. Will you let her come to me ? '

'You are the first person,' said Captain
Sorensen, ' who ever, in this place, where work
is not so plentiful as hands, offered work as if
taking it was a favour to you.'

I want good girls — and nice girls,' said
Angela. ' I want a house where wee shall all
be friends.'

The old sailor shook his head.

There is no such house here,' he said
sadly. 'It is " take it or leave it " — if you
won't take it, others will. Make the poor
girls your friends, Miss Kennedy? You look
and talk like a lady born and bred, and I fear
you will be put upon. Make friends of your
servants? Why, Mr. Bunlvcr will tell you
that Whitechapel does not carry on business
that way. But it is good of you to try, and I
am sure you will not scold and drive like the
rest.'

You offended Mr. Bunker, I learn, by
refusing a place which he offered,' said Angela.

'Yes: God knows if I did redit. We are
desperately poor, else we should not be here.
That you may see for yourself. Yet, my blood
boiled when I heard the character of the man

whom my Nelly was to serve. I could not let
her go. She is all I have, Miss Kennedy' —
the old man drew the girl towards him and
held her, his arm round her waist. ' If you
will take her and treat her kindly, you will
have — it isn't worth anything, perhaps — the
gratitude of one old man in this world — soon
in the next.'

'Trust your daughter with me, Captain
Sorensen,' Angela replied, with tears in her
eyes.

Everybody round here is poor,' he went
on. ' That makes people hard-hearted ; there
are too many people in trade, and that makes
them mean ; they are all trying to undersell
each other, and that makes them full of tricks
and cheating. They treat the work girls worst
because they cannot stand up for themselves.
The long hours, and the bad food, and the
poisonous air — think a little of your girls, Miss
Kennedy. But you will — you will.'

I will, Captain Sorensen.'

It seems worse to us old sailors,' he went
on. ' We have had a parish life, but it has
been in open air. Old sailors haven't had to

cheat and lie for a living. And we haven't
been brought up to think of girls turning night
ito day, and working sixteen hours on end at
twopence an hour. It is hard to think of my

poor girl ^ ' he stopped and clenched his fist.

Better to starve than to work hi such a mill ! *
He was thinking of the place which he had
refused.

Let us try each other, Nelly,' she said,
kissing]: her on the forehead. ^ -

The Captain took his hat to escort her as
far as the gate.

A quiet place,' he said, looking round the
little court, ' and a happy place for the last
days of improvident old men like me. Yet
some of us grumble. Forgive my plain speech
about the work.'

There is nothing to forgive, indeed. Captain
Sorensen. Will you let me call upon you
sometimes ? '

She gave him her hand. He bowed over
it with the courtesy of a captain on his own
quarter-deck. When she tuned away she saw
that a tear was standing in his eyes.

Father ! ' cried Nelly, rushing into his
arms, ' did you ever see anybody like her ?
Oh ! oh ! do you think I really shall do for
her?'

You will do your best, my dear. It is a
long time, I think, since I have seen and
spoken with any one like that. In the old
days I've had passengers to Calcutta like
her ; but none more so, Nelly — no, never one
more so.'

You couldn't, father.' His daughter
wanted no explanation of this mysterious
qualification. ' You couldn't. She is a lady,
father ; ' she looked up and laughed.

It's a funny thing for a real lady to open
a dressmaker's shop on Stepney Green, isn't
it?'

Remark, if you please, that this girl had
never once before, in all her life, conversed with
a lady ; using the word in the prejudiced and
narrow sense peculiar to the West End. Yet,
she discovered instantly the truth. Whence
this instinct ? It is a world full of strange and
wonderful things ; the more questions we ask,

the more we may ; and the more things we
consider, the more incomprehensible does the
sum of things appear. Inquiring reader, I do
not know how Nelly divined that her visitor
was a lady.

Chapter VIII.

WHAT HE GOT BY IT.

A dressmaker's shop, without a dressmaker
to manage it, would be, Angela considered, in
some perplexity, like a ship without a steersman.
She therefore awaited with some impatience
the promised visit of Eel^ekah Hermitage,
whom she was to ' get cheap,' according
to Bunker, on account of her Sabbatarian
views.

She came in the evenings, while Angela was
walking on the Green with the sprightly
Cabinet-maker. It was sunset, and Angela lead
been remarking to her companion, with a sort
of irrational surprise, that the phenomena
coincident with the close of the day are just as
brilliantly coloured and lavishly displayed for
the squalid East as for the luxurious West.
Perhaps, indeed, there are not many places in

London where sunset does produce such good
effects as at Stepney Green. The narrow strip,
so called, in shape resembles too nearly a closed
umbrella or a thickish walking-stick ; but there
are trees in it, and beds of flowers, and seats
for those who wish to sit, and walks for those
who wish to walk. And the better houses of
the Green — Bormalack's was on the west, or
dingy side — are on the east, and face the setting
sun. They-are of a good age, at least a hundred
and listy years old ; they are built of a
warm red brick, and some have doors ornamented
with the old-fashioned shell, and all
have an appearance of solid respectability,
which makes the rest of Stepney proud of
them. Here, in former days, dwelt the aristocracy
of the parish ; and on this side was the
house taken by Angela for her dressmaking
institution, the house in which her grandfather
was born. The reason why the sunsets are
more splendid and the sunrises brighter at
Stepney than at the opposite end of London,
is, that the sun sets behind the great bank of
cloud which for ever lies over London town.
This lends his departure to the happy dwellers

of the East strange and wonderful effects.
Now, when he rises, it is naturally in the East,
where there is no cloud of smoke to hide the
brightness of his face.

The Green this evening was crowded : it is
not so fashionable a promenade as Whitechapel
Eoad, but, on the other hand, it possesses the
charm of comparative quiet. There is no
noise of vehicles, but only the shouting of
children, the loud laughter of some gaillard
'prentice, the coy giggle of the young lady to
whom he has imparted his latest merry jape,
the loud whispers of ladies who are exchanging
confidences about their complaints and the complaints
of their friends, and the musical laugh
of girls. The old people had all crept home ;
the mothers were at home putting their
children to bed ; the fathers were mostly
engaged with the evening pipe, which demands
a chair within four walls and a glass of something
; the Green was given up to youth ; and
youth was principally given up to love-making.

In Arcadia,' said Harry, ' every nymph is
wooed, and every swain '

He was interrupted by the arrival of his

uncle, who pushed his way through the crowd
with his usual important bustle, followed by a
'young person.'

I looked for you at Mrs. Bormalack's,' he
said to Angela reproachfully, 'and here you
are — with this young man, as usual. As if my
time was no object to you! '

'Why not with this young man, Mr.
Bunker ? ' asked Angela.

He did not explain his reasons for objecting
to her companion, but proceeded to introduce
his companion.

Here she is, Miss Kennedy,' he said. 'This
is Eebekah Hermitage ; I've brought her with
me to prevent mistakes. You may take her on
my recommendation. Nobody, in the neighbourhood
of Stepney, wants a better recommendation
than mine. One of Bunker's, they
say, and they ask no more.'

What a beautiful, what an enviable reputation
! ' murmured his nephew. ' Oh, that I
were one of Bunker's ! '

Mr. Bunker glared at him, but answered
not ; never, within his present experience, had
he found himself at a loss to give indignation

words. On occasion, he had been known to
swear ' into shudders ' the immortal gods who
heard him. To swear at this nephew, however,
this careless sniggering youth, who looked and
talked like a 'swell,' would, he felt, be more
than useless. The boy would only snigger more.
He would have liked knocking him down, but
there were obvious reasons way this was not to
be seriously contemplated.

He turned to the girl who had come with
him.

'Eebekah,' he said with condescension,
you may speak up ; I told your other I would
stand by you, and I will.'

Do not, at least,' said Angela, in her stateliest
manner, ' begin by making Miss Hermitage
suppose she will want your support.'

She saw before her a o'irl about two or
three-ands twenty years of age. She was short
of stature and sturdy. Her complexion was
dark, with black hair and dark eyes, and these
were bright. A firm mouth and square chin
gave her a pugnacious appearance. In fact,
she had been fighting all her life, more desperately
even than the other girls about her.

because she was heavily handicapped by the
awkwardness of her religion.

Mr. Bunker,' said this young person, who
certainly did not look as if she wanted any
backing up, ' tells me you want a foreman.'

You want a foreman,' echoed the agent,
as if interpreting for her.

Yes, I do,' Angela replied. ' I know, to
begin with, all about your religious opinions.'

She knows,' said the agent, standing between
the two parties, as if retained for the
interests of both, — ' she knows, already, your
religious opinions.'

'Very well. Miss.' Eebekah looked disappointed
at losing a chance of expounding
them. ' Then, I can only say, I can never
give way in the matter of truth.'

In truth,' said the agent, ' she's as obstinate
as a pig.'

I do not expect it,' replied Angela, feeling
that the half-a-crown-an-hour man was really a
stupendous nuisance.

She does not expect it,' echoed Mr.
Bunker, turning to Eebekah. ' What did I

tell you ? — now you see the effect of tiny recommendations.'


Take it off the wages,' said Eebekab, with
an obvious effort, which showed how vital was
the importance of the pay. ' Take it off the
wages, if you like ; and, of course, I can't
expect to labour for five days and be paid for
six ; but on the Saturday, which is the Sabbath
day, I do no work therein, neither I, nor my
manservant, nor my maidservant, nor my ox,
nor my ass.'

'Neither her manservant, nor her maidservant,
nor her ox, nor her as,' repeated the
agent solemnly.

'There is the Sunday, however,' said
Angela.

What have you got to say about Sunday,
now ? ' asked Mr. Bunker, with a change of
front.

Of all the days that's in the week,' interpolated
the sprightly one, ' I dearly love but one
day — and that's the day '

Eebekah, impatient of this frivolity, stopped
it at once.

'I do as little as I can,' she said, 'on
VOL. I.

Sunday, because of the weaker brethren. The
Sunday we keep as a holiday.'

Well ' Angela began rather to envy

this young woman, dio was a clear gainer of a
whole day by her religion ; ' well, Miss Hermitage,
weill you come to me on trial ? Thank
you, we can settle about deductions afterwards,
if you please. And if you will come tomorrow
that is right. Now, if you please to take a
turn with me, we will talk things over together ;
good-night, Mr. Bunker ! '

She took the girl's arm and led her away,
being anxious to get Bunker out of sight. The
aspect of this agent annoyed and irritated her
almost beyond endurance ; so she left him with
his nephew.

One of Bunker's ! ' Harry repeated softly.

You here ! ' growled the uncle ; * dangling
after a girl when you ought to be at work I
How long, I should like to know, are we hardworking
Stepney folk to be troubled with an
idle, good-for-nothing vagabond? Eh, sir?
How long ? And don't suppose that I mean todo
anything for you dien sour money is all
gone. Do you hear, sir ? do you hear ? '

I hear, my uncle ! ' As usual, the young
man laughed ; he sat upon the arm of a garden
seat, with his hands in his pockets, and laughed
an insolent, exasperating laugh. Now, Mr.
Bunker in all his life had never seen the least
necessity or occasion for laughing at anything
at all, far less at himself. Nor, hitherto, had
any one dared to laugh at him.

Sniggerin' peacock ! ' added Mr. Bunker
fiercely, rattling a bunch of keys in his pocket.

Harry laughed again, with more abandon.
This uncle of his, who regarded him with so
much dislike, seemed a very humorous person.

Connection by marriage,' he said, — ' there
is one question I have very much wished to
put to you. When you traded me away, now
three-and-twenty years ago, or thereabouts —
you remember the circumstances, I dare say,
better than I can be expected to do — what did
you get for mew

Then Bunker's colour changed, his cheeks
became quite white., Harry thought it was the
effect of wrath, and went on.

Half-a-crown an hour, of course, during
the negotiations, which I dare say took a week



that we understand ; but what else P come,
my uncle, what else did you get ? '

It was too dark for the young man to
perceive the full effect of this question — the
sudden change of colour escaped his notice ;
but he observed a strange and angry light in
his uncle's eyes, and he saw that he opened his
mouth once or twice as if to speak, but shut his
hips again without saying a word ; and Harry
was greatly surprised to see his mile presently
turn on his heel and walk straight away.

That question seems to be a facer ; it must
be repeated whenever the good old man becomes
offensive. I wonder what he did get forme?'


As for Mr. Bunker, he retired to his own
house in Beaumont Square, walling with quick
step and hanging head. He let himself in with
his latch-key, and turned into his office, which,
of course, Alas the first room of the ground-floor.


It was quite dark now, save for the faint
light from the street gas, but Mr. Bunker did
not want any light.

He sat down and rested his face on his

hands, with a heavy sigh. The house was
empty, because his housekeeper and only servant
was out. He sat without moving for half
an hour or so ; then he lifted his head, and
looked about him — he had forgotten where he
was and wh}^ he came there — and lie shuddered.


Then he hastily lit a candle, and went
upstairs to his own bedroom. The room had
one piece of furniture, not always found in bedrooms
: it was a good-sized fireproof safe, which
stood in the corner. Mr. Bunker placed his
candle on the safe, and stooping down began to
grope about with his keys for the lock. It
took some time to find the keyhole ; when the
safe was opened, it took longer time to find the
papers which he wanted, for these were at the
very back of all. Presently, however, he lifted
his head, with a bundle in his hand.

iN'ow, if we are obliged to account for
everything, which ought not to be expected,
and is more than one asks of scientific men, I
should account for what followed by remarking
that the blood is apt to get into the brains of
people, especially elderly people, and above all,

stout, elderly people, when they stoop for any
length of time ; and that history records many
remarkable manifestations of the spirit world
which have followed a posture of stooping too
prolonged. It produces, in fact, a condition of
brain beloved by ghosts. There is the leading
case of the man at Cambridge who, after stooping
for a book, saw the ghost of his own bed-maker
at a time when he knew her to be in the
bosom of her family eating up his bread-and-butter
and drinking his tea. Eats have been
seen by others — troops of rats— as many rats as
followed the Piper, where there were no rats ;
and there is even the recorded case of a man
who saw the ghost of himself, which prognosticated
dissolution, and, in fact, killed him exactly
fifty-two years after the event. So that, really,
there is nothing at all unusual in the fact that
Mr. Bunker saw something, dien he lifted his
head. The remarkable thing is that he saw
the very person of whom he had been thinking
ever since his nephew's question — no other than
his deceased wife's sister ; he had never loved
her at all, or in the least desired to marry her,
which makes the case more remarkable still;

and she stood before liiiii," just as if lie was
alive, and gazed upon him with reproachful
eyes.

He behaved with great coolness and presence
of mind. Few men would have shown more
bravery. He just dropped the candle out of
one hand and the papers out of the other, and
fell back upon the bed with a white face and
quivering lips. Some men would have run —
he did not ; in fact, he could not. His knees
instinctively knew that it is useless to run from
a ghost, and refused to aid him.

Caroline I ' he groaned.

As he spoke the figure vanished, making no
sign and saying no word. After a while, seeing
that the ghost came no more, Mr. Bunker
pulled himself together. He picked up the
papers and the candle, and went slowly downstairs
again, turning every moment to see if his
sister-in-law came too. But she did not, and
he went to the bright gas-lit back parlour,
where his supper was spread.

After supper he mixed a glass of brandy-ands
water, stiff. After drinking this, he mixed

another, and began to smoke a pipe while he
turned over the papers.

He can't have meant anything,' he said.
What should the boy know ? What did the
gentleman know? nothing. What does anybody
know ? nothing. There's nobody left.
The will was witnessed by Mr. Messenger and
Bob Coppin. Well, one of them is dead, and
as for the other'— he paused and winced — 'as
for the other, it is five-and-twenty years since
he was heard of, so he's dead, too ; of course,
he's dead.'

Then he remembered the spectre, and he
trembled. For suppose Caroline meant coming
often ; this would be particularly disagreeable.
He remembered a certain scene where, three-and-twenty
years before, he had stood at a bedside
while a dying woman spoke to him ; the
words she said where few and he remembered
them quite well, even after so long a time,
which shows his real goodness of heart.

'You are a hard man. Bunker, and you
think too much of money, and you were not
kind to your wife. But I'm going too, and
there is nobody left to trust my boy to, except

you. Bo good to him, Bunker, for your dead
wife's sake.'

He remembered, too., how lie had promised
to be good to the boy, not meaning much by
the words, perhaps, but softened by the presence
of death.

It is not as if the boy was penniless,' she
said ; ' his houses will pay you for his keep, and
to spare. You will lose nothing by him.
Promise me, again.'

He remembered that he had promised a
second time that he would be good to the boy ;
and he remembered, too, how the promise
seemed then to involve great expense in canes.

If you break the solemn promise,' she said,
with feminine prescience, ' I warn you that he
shall do you an injury when he grows up.
Eemember that.'

He did remember it noah, though he had
quite forgotten this detail a long while ago.
The boy had returned ; he was grown up ; he
could do him an injury, if he Jcneiv how. Because
he only had to ask his uncle for an
account of those houses. Fortunately, he did
not know. Happily, there was no one to tell

him. With his third tiimblor Mr. Bunker became
quite conhclent and reassured ; with his
fourth he fel inclined to be merry, and to slap
himself on the back for wide-nakedness of
the rarest kind. With his fifth he resolved to
go upstairs and tell Caroline that unless she
went and told her son, no one would. He
carried part of this resolution into effect ; that
is to say, he went to his bedroom, and his
housekeeper, unobserved herself, had the
pleasure of seeing her master ascending the
stairs on his hands and feet, a method which
offers great advantages to a gentleman who has
had five tumblers of brandy and Vater.

When he got there, and had quite succeeded
in shutting the door — not always so easy a thing
as it looks — Caroline was no longer visible. He
could not find her anywhere, though he went
all round the room twice, on all-fours, in search
of her.

The really remarkable part of this story is,
that she has never paid a visit to her son at all.

Meantime, the strollers on the Green were
grown few. Most of them had gone home ;

but the air was warm, and there were still some
who lingered. Among them were Angela and
the girl who was to be her foreman.

When Eebekah found that her employer
was not apparently of those who try to cheat,
or bully, or cajole her subordinates, she lost
her combative air, and consented to talk about
things. She pave Ano-ela a great deal of information
about the prospects of her venture,
which were gloomy, she thought, as the competition
was so severe. She also gave her an
insight into details of a practical nature concerning
the conduct of a dress-maker, into
which we need not follow her.

Angela discovered before they parted that
she had two sides to her character; on one
side she was a practical and practised woman
of work and business, on the other lie was a
religious fanatic.

We wait,' she said, ' for the world to come
round to us. Oh ! I know Ave are but a little
body and a poor folk. Father is almost alone;
but what a thing it is to be the appointed
keepers of the truth ! Come and hear us, Miss
Kennedy. Father always converts any one who
will listen to him. Oh, do listen ! '

Then she, too, went away, and Angela was
left alone in the quiet place. Presently she
became aware that Harry was stand whig beside
her.

Don't let us go home yet,' he said ; ' Bore
is desperately dull — you can picture it
all to yourself. The Professor has got a new
trick ; Daniel Faggg is looking as if he had met
with more disappointment; her ladyship is short
of temper, because the Case is getting on so
slowly ; and Josephus is sighing over a long
pipe ; and Mr. Malignant is chuckling to himself
in the corner. On the whole, it is better
here. Shall we remain a little longer in the
open air. Miss Kennedy ? '

He looked dan onerous. Anselm, who had
been disposed to be expansive, froze.

We will have one more turn, if you
please, Mr. Goslett.' She added stiffly, ' Only
remember — so long as you don't think of
keeping company." '

I understand, perfectly, Miss Kennedy
Society " is a better word than " company ; "
let us keep that, and make a new departure for
Stepney Green '

CHAPTEE IX.

THE DAY BEFORE THE FIRST.

Mr. Bu^'^ker, en hon chrelien^ dissembled his
wrath, and continued his good work of furnishing
and arranging the house for Angela,
insomuch that before many days the place was
completely ready for opening.

In the meantime Miss Kennedy was away —
she went away on business — and Bormalack's
was dull without her. Harry found some consolation
in superintending some of the work for
her house, and in working at a grand cabinet
which he designed for her : it was to be a
miracle of wood-carving ; he would throw into
the work all the resources of this art and all
his genius. When she came back, after the
absence of a week, she looked full of business
and of care. Harry thought it must be money
worries, and began to curse Bunker's long bill ;

but she was gracious to him in her queenly
way. Moreover, she assured him that all was
going on well with her, better than she could
have hoped. The evening before the ' Stepney
Dressmakers' Association ' was to open its doors,
they all gathered together in the newly furnished
house for a final inspection — Angela, her two
aides Eebekah and Nelly, and the young man
against whose companionship Mr. Bunker had
warned her in vain. The house was large, with
rooms on either side the door. These were
show rooms and workroom. The first floor
Angela reserved for her own purposes, and
she was mysterious about them.

At the back of the house stretched a long
and ample garden. Angela had the whole of
it covered with asphalte ; the beds of flowers or
lawns were all covered over. At the end she
had caused to be built a large room of glass,
the object of which she had not yet disclosed.

As regards the appointments of the house,
she had taken one precaution — Eebekah superintended
them. Mr. Bunker, therefore, was
fain to restrict his enthusiasm, and could not
charge more than twenty or thirty per cent.

above the market value for the things. But
Eebekah, though she faithfully carried out her
instructions, could not but feel disappointed at
the lavish scale in which things were ordered
and paid for. The show rooms were as fine as
if the place were Eegent Street ; the work-rooms
where looked after with as much care for
ventilation as if, Mr. Bunker said, w^orkgirls
were countesses.

'It is too good,' Eebekah expostulated,
much too good for us. It will only make
other girls discontented.'

I want to make them discontented,' Angela
replied. 'Unless they are discontented, there
will be no improvement. Think, Eebekah,
what it is that lifts men out of the level of the
beasts. We find out that there are better
things, and wee are fighting our way upwards.
That is the mystery of Discontent — and perhaps
of Pain, as well'

Ah ! ' Eebekah saw that this was not a
practical answer.' ' But you don't know, jq{^
the competition of the East End, and the straits
we are put to. It is not as at the West End.'

The golden West is ever the Land of

Promise. No need to undeceive : let her goon
in the belief that the three thousand girls
who wait and work about Eegent Street and
the great shops are everywhere treated generously,
and paid above the market value of
their services. I make no doubt, myself, that
many a great West End mercer sits down when
Christmas warms his heart, in his mansion at
Finchley, Camden Hill, Fits John's Avenue,
or Stoke Lexington, and writes great cheques
as gifts to the uncomplaining girls who build
up his income.

'She would learn soon,' said Eebekah,
hoping that the money would last out till the
shijD was fairly launched.

She was not suspicious, but there was something
'funny,' as Nelly said, in a girl of Miss
Kennedy's stamp coming among them. Why
did she choose Stepney Green ? Surely, Bond
Street or Eegent Street would be better fitted
for a lady of her manners. How would customers
be received and orders be taken ? By
herself, or by this young lady, who would certainly
treat the ladies of Stepney with little of
that deferential courtesy which they expected

of thee dressmakers ? For, as you may have
remarked, the lower you descend, as well as
the higher you climb, the more deference do
the ladies receive at the hands of their tender
folk. No duchess sweeps into a milliner's
showroom with more dignity than her humble
sister at Clare Market on a Saturday evening
displays when she accepts the invitation of the
butcher to rally up, ladies, and selects her Sunday's
piece of beef. The Ladies of Stepney and
the Mile End Eoad, thought Eebekah, look for
attention. Would Miss Kennedy give it to
them ? If Miss Kennedy herself did not attend
to the showroom, what would she do?

On this evening, after they had walked over
the whole house, visited the asphalted garden,
and looked into the great glass-room, Angela
unfolded lier plans.

It was in the workroom. She stood at the
head of the table, looking aliout her with an
air of pride and anxiety. It was her own
design — her own scheme ; small as it was,
compared with that otlicr vast project, she was
anxious about it. It had to succeed; it mit
succeed.

VOL. I. P

All its success, she thought, depended upon
that sturdy little fanatical Seventh-Day young
person. It was she who was to rule the place
and be the practical dressmaker. And now she
was to be told.

Now,' said Angela, with some hesitation,
the time has come for an explanation of the
way we shall work. First of all, will you,
Eebekah, undertake the management and control
of the business ? '

I, Miss Kennedy .^ But what is your department
? '

'I will undertake the management of the
girls — ' she stopped and blushed — ' out of their
ivory-time.'

At this extraordinary announcement the

«/

two girls looked blankly at their employer.

You do not quite understand,' Angela
went on. ' Wait a little. Do you consent,
Eebekah?'

The girl's eyes flashed and her cheeks became
aflame. Then she thought of the sudden promotion
of Joseph in Egypt, and she took confidence.
Perhaps she really was equal to the place ; perhaps
she had actually merited the distinction.

'Very well, then,' Miss Kennedy went on,
as if it was the most natural thing in the world
that a humble workwoman should be suddenly
raised to the proud post of manager. 'Very
well : that is settled. You, nelly, will try to
take care of the workroom when Eebekah is

not there. As regards the accounts '

I can keep them too,' said Eebekah. ' I
shall work — on Sundays,' she added with a
blush.

Miss Kennedy then proceeded to expound
her views as regards the management of her
establishment.

The girls will be here at nine,' she said.
Eebekah nodded. There could be no objection
to that.

They will work from nine till eleven.'
Eebekah started. ' Yes, I know what I mean.
The long hours of sitting and bending the back
over work are just as bad a thing for girls of
fifteen or so as could be invented. At eleven,
therefore, we shall have, all of us, half an
hour's exercise.'

Exercise ? Exercise in a dressmaker's shop ?
Was Miss Kennedy in her senses ?

Exercise. You see that asphalte. Surely
some of you can guess what it is for ? ' She
looked at Harry.

Skittles ? ' he suggested.

No. Lawn tennis. Well ! why not P '

What is lawn tennis ? ' asked Nelly.

A game, my dear ; and you shall learn it.'

'I never play games,' said Eebekah. 'A
serious person has no room in her life for
games,'

Then call it exercise, and you will be able
to play it without wounding your conscience.'
This was Harry's remark. ' Why not, indeed,
Miss Kennedy ? The game of lawn tennis,
Nelly,' he went on to explain, 'is greatly in
vogue among the bloated aristocracy, as my
cousin Dick will tell you. That it should
descend to you and me and the likes of us is
nothing less than a social revolution.'

Nelly smiled, but she only half understood
this kind of language. A man who laughed at
things, and talked of things as if they were
meant to be laughed over, was a creature she
had never before met with. My friends, lay
this to heart, and ponder. It is not until a

certain standard of cultivation is readied that
people do laugh at things. They only began in
the last century, and then only in a few salons.
When all the world laughs, the perfection of
humanity will have been reached, and the
comedy will have been played out.

It is a beautiful same,' said Angela, meaning
Lawn Tennis, not the Comedy of Humanity.
It requires a great deal of skill and exercises
a vast quantity of muscles ; and it costs no tiling.
Asphalte makes a perfect court, as I know very
well.' She blushed, because lie was thinking
of the Newnham courts. ' We shall be able to
play There, whenever it does not rain. When
it does, there is the glass house.'

What are you going to do in the glasshouse
? ' asked Harry ; ' throw stones at other
people's windows? That is said to be very
good exercise.'

I am going to set up a gymnasium for the
girls.'

Eebekah stared, but said nothing. This
was revolutionary, indeed.

If they please, the girls can bring their
friends ; we will have a course of gymnastics as

well as a school for lawn tennis. You see, Mr.
Goslett, that I have not forgotten what you
said once.'

'What was that, Miss Kennedy? It is
very good of you to remember anything that I
have said. Do you mean that I once, accidentally,
said a thing worth hearing .^ '

Yes ; you said that money was not wanted
here so much as work. That is what I remembered.
If you can afford it, you may work
with us, for there is a great deal to do.'

I can afford it for a time.'

We shall work again from half-past eleven
until one. Tien we shall stop for dinner.'

They bring their own dinner,' said Eebe-
kah. 'It takes them five minutes to eat it.
You will have to give them tea.'

No ; I shall give them dinner too. And
because growing girls are dainty and sometimes
cannot fancy things, I think a good way
will be for each of them, even the youngest, to
take turns in ordering the dinner and seeing it
prepared.'

Eebekah groaned. What profits could

stand up against such lavish expenditure as
this ?

After an hour for dinner we shall go to
work again. I have thought a good deal
about the afternoon, which is the most tedious
part of the day, and I think the best thing will
be to have reading; aloud.'

Who is to read ? ' cried Eebekah.

We shall find somebody or other. Tea at
five, and work from six to seven. That is my
programme.'

Then, Miss Kennedy,' cried her fore-woman,
'you will be a ruined woman in a
year.'

'Xo' — she shook her head with her gracious
smile — ' no, I hope not. And I think
you will find that we shall be very far from
ruined. Have a little faith. What do you
think, Nelly ? '

Oh, I think it beautiful ! ' she replied, ilia
gaze of soft worship in her limpid eyes. ' It
is so beautiful that it must be a dream, and
cannot last.'

What do you say, Mr. Goslett ? '

I say that cabinet-making ought to be conducted

in the same liberal spirit. But I am
afraid it won't pay.'

Then Miss Kennedy took them to the room
on the first floor. The room at the back was
fitted as a dining room, quite simply, with a
dozen chairs and a long table. Plates, cups,
and things were ranged upon shelves as if in a
kitchen.

She led them to the front room. When
her hand was on the lock she turned and
smiled, and held up her finger as if to prepare
them for a surprise.

The floor was painted and bare of carpet ;
the windows were dressed with pretty curtains.
There were sconces on the walls for candles ;
in the recess stood her piano ; and for chairs
there were two or three rout seats ranged
along the wall.

What is this ? ' asked Eebekah.

My dear, girls want play as well as work.
The more innocent play they get, the better
for them. This is a room where we shall play
all sorts of things : sometimes we shall dance ;
sometimes wee shall act; sometimes we shall
sing ; sometimes wee shall read poetry or tales ;

sometimes we shall romp ; the girls shall bring
their friends here as well as to the gymnasium
and the lawn tennis, if they please.'

And who is to pay for all this ? ' asked
Eebekah.

'My friends,' said Angela, colouring, because
this was a crisis, and to be suspected at
such a point would have been fatal, — ' my
friends, I have to make a confession to you.
I have worked out the design by myself. I
saw how the girls in our workshops toil for
long hours and little pay. The great shops,
whose partners are very rich men, treat them
no better than do the poor traders whose
living has to be got by scraping it off their
wages. Now, I thought that if we were to
start a shop in which there was to be no mistress,
but to be self-governed, and to share the
proceeds among them all in due order and with
regard to skill and industry, we might adjust
our own hours for the general good. This kind
of shop has been tried by men, but I think it
has never succeeded, because they wanted the
capital to start it with. What could we three
girls have done with nothing but our own

hands to help us? So I wrote to a young
lady who has much money. Yes, Mr. Goslett,
I wrote to that Miss Messenger of whom we
have so often talked.'

Miss Messenger ! ' Eebekah gasped ; ' she
who owns the Great Brewery ? '

The same. She has taken up our Cause.
It is she who finds the funds to start us, just as
well as if we had capital. She gives us the
rent for a year, the furniture, the glass house —
everything, even this piano. I have a letter
from her in my pocket.' She took it out and
read it. ' Miss Messenger beo's to thank Miss
Kennedy for her report of the progress made
in her scheme. She quite approves of the engagements
made, particularly those of Eebekah
Hermitage and Nelly Sorensen. She hopes,
before long, to visit the house herself and make
their acquaintance. Meanwhile, she will employ
the house for all such things as she requires,
and begs Miss Kennedy to convey to
Miss Hermitage the first order for the workshop.'
This gracious letter was accompanied
by a long list of things, at sight of which the
foreman's eyes glittered with joy.

'Oh, it is a splendid order!' she said.
May we tell everybody about this Miss Messenger
? '

I think,' Angela replied, considering carefully,
' that it would be better not. Let
people only know that we have started, that
we are a body of workingmen governing ourselves
and working for ourselves. The rest is
for our private information.'

While you are about it,' said Harry, ' you
might persuade Miss Messenger to start the
Palace of Delight and the College of Art.'

'Do you think she would?' asked Angela.
'Do you really think it would be any use at
all?'

Did she haggle about your Co-operative
Association ? '

1^0, not at all. She quite agreed with me
from the beginning.'

Then, try her for the Palace. See, Miss
Kennedy ' — the young man had become quite
earnest and eager over the Palace — ' it is only
a question of money. If Miss Messenger wants
to do a thing unparalleled among the deeds of
rich men, let her build the Palace of Delight.

If I were she, I should tremble for fear some
other person with money got to hear of the
idea, and should step in before lier. Of course,
the grand thing in these cases is to be the first.'

'What is a Palace of Delight?' asked
Nelly.

Truly wonderful it is,' said Harry, ' to
think how monotonous are the gifts and bequests
of rich men. Schools, churches, almshouses,
hospitals — that is all ; that is their
monotonous round. Now and again, a manlike
Peabody remembers that men want
houses to live in, not hovels ! or a good woman
remembers that they want sound and wholesome
food, and builds a market ; but as a rule,
schools, churches, almshouses, hospitals. Look
at the lack of originality. Miss Kennedy, go
and see this rich person ; ask her if she wants
to do the grandest thing ever done for men ;
ask her if she will, as a new and startling point
of departure, remember that men want joy. If
she will ask me, I will deliver a lecture on the
necessity of pleasure, the desirableness of pleasure,
the beauty of pleasure.'

A Palace of Delight ! ' Eebekah shook her

head. 'Do you know that half the people
never go to church ? '

When we have got the Palace,' said Harry,
they will go to church, because religion is a
plant that flourishes best where life is happiest.
It will spring up among us, then, as luxuriantly
as the wild honeysuckle. Who are the most
religious people in the world. Miss Hermitage ? '

They are the worshippers in Eed Man's
Lane, and they are called the Seventh-Day
Independents

The worst of the Socratic method of argument
is that, when the wrong answer is given,
the whole thing comes to grief. Xow, Harry
wanted her to say that the people who go most
to church are the wealthy classes. Eebekah
did not say so, because she knew nothing of
the wealthy classes ; and in lier own circle of
sectarian enthusiasts nobody had any money at
all.

CHAPTER X.

THE GREAT Covenant CASE.

Ofl ! you obstinate old man ! Oh ! you lazy
old man ! '

It was the high-pitched voice of her ladyship
in readiest tones, and the time was eleven
o'clock in the forenoon, when, as a rule, she
was engaged in some needlework for herself, or
assisting Mrs. Bormalack with the pudding, ina
friendly way, while her husband continued
the statement of the Case, left alone in the
enjoyment of the sitting-room — and his title.

You lazy old man ! '

The words were overheard by Harry Goblet.
He had been workings at his miraculous
Cabinet, and was now, following the example
of Miss Kennedy's work girls, ' knocking off '
for half an hour, and thinking of some excuse
for passing the rest of the morning with that
young lady. He stood in the doorway, looking

across the Green to the sacred windows of the
Dressmakers' Association. Behind them at
this moment were sitting, he knew, the Queen
of the Mystery, with that most beauteous
nymph, the matchless Nelly, fair and lovely to
look upon ; and with her, too, Eebekah the
downright, herself a Mystery, and half-a-dozen
more, some of them, perhaps, beautiful. Alas !
in working hours these doors were closed.
Perhaps, he thought, when the Cabinet was
finished he might make some play by carrying
it backwards and forwards, measuring, fitting,
altering.

You lazy, sinful, sleepy old man ! '

A voice was heard feebly remonstrating.

Oh ! oh ! oh ! ' she cried again in accents
that rose higher and higher, ' we have come all
the way from America to prove our Case.
There's four months gone out of six — oh ! oli ! —
and you with your feet upon a chair — oh ! oh ! —
do you think you are back in Canaan City ? '

Clara Martha,' replied his lordship, in
clear and distinct tones, — the window Alas
wide open, so that the words floated out upon
the summer air, and struck gently upon

Harry's ear, — ' Clara Martha, I wish I was — it
is now holiday time and the boys are out in the
woods. And the schoolroom—' he stopped,
sighed deeply, and yawned — 'it was very
peaceful.'

She groaned in sheer despair.

He is but a Carpenter,' she said, ' he
grovels in the shavings ; he wallows in the
sawdust. Fie upon him ! This man a British
Peer ? Oh ! shame — shame ! ' Harry pictured
the quivering shoulders and the finger of
reproach. ' Oh ! oh ! He is not worthy to
wear a coronet. Give him a chunk of wood to
whittle, and a knife and a chair in the shade,
and something' to rest his feet upon. That's all
he wants, though Queen Victoria and all the
angels was calling' for him across the ocean to
take his seat in the House of Lords. Shame on
him ! Shame upon him ! '

These taunts, apparently, had no effect.
His lordship was understood by the listener to
say something disrespectful of the Upper House,
and to express regret at having exchanged his
humble but contented position of school teacher
and his breakfasts, where a man could look

around him and see hot rolls and muffins and
huckleberry pies, for the splendour of a title,
with the meagre fare of London and the hardwork
of drawing up a Case.

I will rouse him ! ' she cried, as she executed
some movement, the nature of which
could only be guessed by the young man outside.
The windows, it is true, were open, but
one's eyes cannot go outside to look in without
the rest of the head and body going too.
Whatever it was that she did, his lordship
apparently sprang into the air with a loud cry,
and, if sound means anything, ran hastily round
the table, followed by his illustrious consort.

The listener says and always maintains —
Hairpin.' Those who consider her ladyship
incapable of behaviour which might appear undignified
reject that interpretation. Moral, not
physical, were, according to these thinkers, the
means of awakening adopted by Lady Davenant.
Even the officers of the Salvation Army,
they say, do not use hairpins.

In the name of common humanity,' said
Harry to himself, ' one must interfere.' He
knocked at the door, and allowed time for the

VOL. I. Q

restoration of dignity and the smoothing of
ruffled ponies.

He found his lordship seated, it is true, butin
the wrong chah\ and his whole frame was
trembling with excitement, terror, or some
other strong emotion, while the effort he was
making to appear calm and composed caused
his head to nod and his cheeks to shake. Sever
was a member of the Upper House placed in a
more uncomfortable position. As for her ladyship,
she was standing bolt upright at the other
side of the room at the window. There was a
gleam in her eye and a quivering of her lip
which betokened wrath.

Pardon me, Lady Davenant,' said Harry,
smiling sweetly. ' May I interrupt you for a
few moments ? '

You may,' replied lier husband, speaking
for her. ' Go on, Mr. Goslett. Do not hurry
yourself, pray. We are glad to see you ' — he
cleared his throat — ' very glad, indeed.'

I came to say,' he Event on, still addressing
the lady, ' that I am a comparatively idle man ;
that is, for the moment I have no work, and
am undecided about my movements, and that.

if I can be of any help in the Preparation of
the Case, you may command my services. Of
comes, Lady Davenant, everybody knows the
importance of your labours and of his lordship's,
and the necessity for a clear Statement of your
Case.'

Lady Davenant replied with a cry like a
sea-gull. ' Oh ! his lordship's labours, indeed !
Yes, Mr. Goslett, pretty labours! Day after
day goes on — I don't care, Timothy —I don't
care who knows it — day after day goes on, and
we get no further. Four months and two
weeks gone of the time, and the Case not even
written out yet.'

Wliat time ? ' asked Harry.

The time that nephew Nathaniel gave us
to prove our claim. He found the money for
our passage : he promised us six dollars a week
for six months. In six months, he said, we
should find whether our claim was allowed or
not. There it was, and we were welcome for
six months. Only six weeks left, and he goes
to sleep ! '

But, Lady Davenant — only six weeks ! It

Q 2

is impossible — you cannot send in a claim and
get it acknowledged in six weeks. Why, such
claims may drag on for years before a Committee
of the House of Lords.'

He wastes all the time : he lias got no
ambition : he goes to sleep when he ought to
be waking. If we have to go home again,
with nothing done, it will be because he is so
lazy. Shame upon you, obstinate old man !
Oh! lazy and sleepy old man!' She shook
her finger at him in so terrifying a manner, that
he was fain to clutch at the arms of the chair,
and his teeth chattered.

'Aurelia Tucker,' her ladyship went on,
warming to her work as she thought of her
wrongs, — ' Aurelian Tucker always said that,
Lord or no Lord, my husband was too lazy to
stand up for his rights. Everybody in Canaan
City knew that he was too lazy. She said
that if she was me, and trying to get the family
title, she wouldn't go across the water to ask
for it, but she v/oald make the American
Minister in London tell the British Government
that they would just have to grant it, whether
they liked it or not, and that a plain American

citizen was to take his place in their House of
Lords. Otherwise, she said, let the Minister
tell their Mr, Gladstone that Canada would be
annexed. That's line talking', but as for me I
-want things done friendly, an' I don't want to
see my husband walking' into his proper place
in Westminster with Stars and Stripes flying'
over his head and a Volunteer Fire Brigade
Band plain' "Hail! Columbia" before him.
Xo. I said that justice was to be o't in the
old country, and we only had to cross over and
ask for it. Then nephew Nathaniel said that he
didn't expect much more justice was to be expected
in England than in New Hampshire.
And that what you can't always get in a free
country isn't always got where there's Lords and
Bishops and a Queen. But we might try if we
liked for six months. And he would find the
dollars for that time. Now there's only six
weeks left, and we haven't even begun to ask
for that justice.'

Clara Martha,' said his lordship ; ' I've
been thinking the matter over, and I've come
to the conclusion that Aurelia Tucker is a sensible
woman. Let us go home again, and send

the Case to the Minister. Let us frighten
them.'

It does not seem bad advice,' said Harry.
Hold a meeting in Canaan City, and promise
the British Lion that he shall be whipped into
a cocked hat unless you get your rights. Make
a national thing of it.'

No ! ' She stamped her foot, and became
really terrible. ' We are here, and we will demand
our rights on the spot. If the Minister
likes to take up the Case, he may ; if not, we
will fight our own battles. But oh ! Mr.
Goslett, it's a dreadful hard thing for a woman
and a stranger to do all the fiditin' while her
husband goes to sleep.'

Can't you keep awake till you have stated
your Case .^ ' asked Harry. ' Come, old boy,
you can take it out in slumber afterwards ; and
if you go on sleeping till the Case is decided, I
expect you will have a good long refreshing rest.'

It was a beautiful morning, Clara Martha,'
his lordship explained in apology, ' quite a
warm morning. I didn't know people
ever had such warm weather in England.
And somehow it reminded me of Canaan City

in July. When I think of Canaan, my dear,
I always feel sleepy. There was a garden, Mr.
Goslett, and trees and flowers, at the back of
the school-house. And a Dee came in. I
didn't know there were bees in England. While
I listened to that bee, cummin' around most the
same as if he was in a Free Republic, I began
to think of home, Clara Martha. That is all.'

Was it the bee,' she asked with asperity,
that drew your handkerchief over your head ? '

Clara Martha,' he replied with a little
hesitation, * the bee was a stranger to me. . He
was not like one of our New Hampshire bees.
He had never seen me before. Bees stings


Harry interrupted what promised to be the
beginning of another lovers' quarrel, to judge
by the twitching of those thin shoulders and
the frowning of those bead-like eyes.

Lady Davenant,' he said, ' let us not Wciste
the time in recrimination ; accept my services.
Let me help you to draw up the Statement of
your Case.'

This was something to the purpose : with a
last reproachful glance upon her husband, her

ladyship collected the papers and put them into
the hands of lier new assistant.

I'm sure,' she said, ' it's modern kind of
you, Mr. Goslett. Here are all the papers.
Mind, there isn't the least doubt about it, not
the shadow of a doubt ; there never was a
claim so strong and clear. Timothy Clitheroe
Davenant is as much Lord Davenant by right
of lawful descent, as — as — you are your father's
son.'

Harry spent the morning with the papers
spread before him, arranging the Case. Lord
Davenant, now undisturbed, slept quietly in his
arm-chair. Her ladyship left them alone.

About Jialf-past twelve the sleeping claimant
awoke and rubbed his eyes. ' I have had a
most refreshing slumber, Mr. Goslett,' he
yawned ; ' a man who is married wants it.
Sometimes it is what we shall do when we
get the title confirmed ; sometimes it's why we
haven't made out our Case yet ; sometimes it's
why I don't go and see the Queen myself;
sometimes it is how we shall crow over Aureha
Tucker when we are established in our rights
but, Whatever it is, it is never a quiet

iiiglit. I think, Mr. Goslett, that if she'd only'
hold her tongue and go to sleep, I might make
headway with that Case in the morning.'

'It seems straightforward enough,' said
Harry. ' I can draw up the thing for you
without any trouble. And then you must find
out the best way to bring your claim before the
House of Lords.'

'Put it into the Post-Office, addressed to
the Queen,' suggested the Claimant.

No — not quite that, I think,' said Harry.
There's only one weak point in the Case.'

'I knew you'd find out the weak point.
She won't allow there's any weak point at all.
Says it's clear from beginning to end.'

So it is, if you make an admission.'

Well, sir, what is that admission ? Let us
make it at once, and go on. Nothing can be
fairer ; we are quite prepared to meet you halfway
with that admission.'

His lordship spoke as if conferring an
immense advantage upon an imaginary opponent.


'I do not mind,' he said, ' anybody else
finding out the V\Tak point, because then I can

tackle liii. What vexes me, Mr. Goslett, is to
find out that weak point myself. Because then
there is nobody to argue it out with, and it is
like cold water running down the back, and it
keeps a man awake.'

'As for your admission ■' said Harry,

lansfhino;.

'Well, sir, what is it?'

Why, of course, you have to admit, unless
you can prove it, that this Timothy Clitheroe
Davenant, wheelwright, was the Honourable
Timothy Clitheroe Davenant, only son of Lord
Davenant.'

His lordship was silent for a while.

Do you think, sir, that the Queen will see
this weak point ? '

I am quite sure that her advisers will.'

And do you think — hush, Mr. Goslett, let
us whisper. Do you think that the Queen will
refuse to give us the title because of this weak
point ? Hush ! she may be outside.' He meant
his wife, not Her Majesty.

A Committee of the House of Lords most
undoubtedly may refuse to consider your claim
proved.'

His lordship nodded his head in consideration
of this possibility. Then he tangled gently,
and rubbed his hands.

It would be rough at hast. That is so, for
certain, sure. There would be sleepless nights.
And Aurelia Tucker would laugh. Clara

Martha would ' he shuddered. 'Wal, if

we lev to go home without our title, I should
be resigned. Ashen a man is sixty years of
age, sir, and, though born to greatness, not
brought up according' to his birth, he can't
always feel like setting' in a row with a crown
upon his head ; and though I wouldn't own
up before Clara Martha, I doubt whether the
British Peers would consider my company quite
an honour to the Upper House. Though a plain
citizen of the United States, sir, is as good as
any Lord that lives.'

Better,' said Harry. ' He is much better.'

'He is, Mr. Goslett, he is. In the land
where the Bird of Freedom '

Hush, my Lord. You forget that you area
British Peer. No spread-eagle for you.'

Lord Davenant sighed.

It is difficult,' lie said, ' and I suppose

there's no more loyal citizens than us of
Canaan City.'

'Well, low arc we to connect this Wheelwright
Timothy with the Honourable Timothy
who was supposed to be drowned ? '

'There is his age, and there is his name.
You've got those, Mr. Goslett. And then, as
we agreed before, we will agree to that little
admission.'

But if everybody does not agree ? '

There is also the fact that we were always
supposed to be heirs to something in the old
country.'

'I am afraid that is not enough. There is
this great difficulty. Why should a young
Englishman, the heir to a title and a great
property, settle down in America and practise
a handicraft ? '

Wal, sir, I can't rightly say. My grandfather
carried that secret with him. And if
you'll oblige me, sir, you'll tell her ladyship
that we are agreed upon that little admission
which makes the connection complete. It
will be time enough to undeceive her when
the trouble begins. As for Aurelia Tucker,

why ' here he smiled sweetly. ' If I

know Clara Martha aright, she is quite able
to tackle Aurelia by herself.'

This was the way in which the conduct of
the Great Davenant Case fell into the hands of
a mere working man.

CHAPTER XI.

THE FIRST DAY.

Angela's genteel place of business, destined as
it was to greatness, came into the world with
little pomp and no pretence. On the day appointed,
the work-girls came at nine, and found
a brass plate on the door and a wire blind in
the windows, bearing the announcement that
this was the ' Dressmakers' Association.' This
information gave them no curiosity, and produced
no excitement in their minds. To them
it seemed nothing but another artifice to
attract the attention of a public very hard
to move. They were quite used to these crafty
announcements ; they were cynically incredulous
of low prices ; they knew the real truth as
to fabrics of freshness dilating and stuffs which
would never wear out ; and as regards forced
sales, fabulous prices, and incredible bargains,

they merely lifted the eyelid of the scoffer and
went into the work-room. Whatever was
written or printed on bills in the window, no
difference was ever made to them. Nor did
the rise and fall of markets alter their wages
one penny. This lack of interest in the success
of their work is certainly a drawback to this
metiei\ as to many others. Would it not be
well if workmen of all kinds were directly
interested in the enterprise for which they hire
out their labour ?

If you have the curiosity to listen to the
talk of work-girls in the evenings "when they
walk home, or as they journey homewards
slowly in the crawling omnibus, you will be
struck by a very remarkable phenomenon. It is
lot that they talk Without stopping, because
that is common to youthful . woman in every
rank. It is that in the evening the' are always
exasperated. They snap their lips, they breathe
quick, they flash their eyes, they clench their
fingers, and their talk is a narrative of indignation
full of ' sezee,' ' sei,' and ' sezshe ' — mostly
the last, because what ' she ' said is generally
the cause of all this wrath. A philosopher,

who once investigated the subject, was fortunate
enough to discover why work-girls are always
angry at eventide. He maintains that it means
nothing in the world but Nagging ; they all, he
says, sit together — foregone, dressmakers,
improvers, and apprentices — in one room. The
room, whether large or small, is always close,
the hours are long ; as they sit at their work,
head bent, back bent, feet still, they gradually
get the Fidgets. This is a real disease while it
lasts. In the workroom it has got to last until
the time to knock off. First it seizes the limbs,
so that the younger ones want to get up and
jump and dance, while the elder ones would
like to kick. If not relieved, the patient next
gets the Fidgets in her nerves, so that she wriggles
in her chair, gets spasmodic twitching,
shakes her head violently, and bites her thread
with viciousness. The next step is extreme
irritability ; this is followed by a disposition
on the part of the foreman to find fault,
and by a determination on the part of the
work-girls not to be put upon, with an intention
of speaking up should the occasion arise.
Then comes Nagginsr, which is, in fact, nothing

but Fidgets translated into English Prose. Some
foregone are excellent translators. And the
end is general exasperation, with fines, notices
to leave, warnings, cheekiness, retorts, accusations,
charges, denials, tears, fault-findings,
sneers, angry words, bitter things, personal
reflections, innuendoes, disrespect, bullying, and
every element of a Eow Eoyal. Consequently,
when the girls go home they are exasperated.

We know how Angela proposed to prevent
the outbreak of this contagious disorder by
ventilation, exercise, and frequent rests.

She took her place among the girls, and
worked with them, sitting beside Nelly Sores
who was to have charge of the work-room.
Eebekah, with Miss Messenger's magnificent
Order on her mind, sat in the show-room waiting
for visitors. But none came except Mrs.
Bormalack, accompanied by her Ladyship, who
stepped over to offer their congratulations and
best wishes, and to see what Miss Messenger
was going to have.

At eleven o'clock, when the first two hours'
,pull is beginning to be felt by the younger
hands, Angela invited everybody to rest for

VOL. I. R

half an hour. They obeyed with some surprise,
and followed her with considerable suspicion,
as if some mean advantage was going
to be taken of them, some trick 'sprung ' upon
them.

She took them into a kind of court, which
had been the back garden, paved with asphalte
and provided with nets, racquets, and all the
gear for lawn tennis. She invited them to play
for half an hour. It was a fine morning in
early September, with a warm sun, a bright
sky, and a cool breeze — the very day for lawn
tennis. The girls, however, looked at the
machinery and then at each other, and showed
no inclination for the game. Then Angela led
the way into the great glass room, where she
pointed out the various bars, ropes, and posts
which she lead provided for their gymnastic
exercises. They looked at each other again,
and showed a disposition to giggle.

They were seven girls in all, not counting
Eebekah, who remained in the show-room ; and
Nelly, who was a little older than the rest,
stood rather apart. The girls were not ,
being all quite young, and

therefore not as yet ruined as to the complexion
by gas and bad air. But they looked dejected,
as if their work had no charms for them — indeed,
one can hardly imagine that it had — they
were only surprised, not elated, at the half-hour's
recreation ; they expected that it would
be deducted from their wages, and were resentful.


Then Angela made them a speech. She
said, handling a racquet to give herself confidence,
that it was highly necessary to take
plenty of exercise in the open air ; that she
was sure work would be better done and more
quickly done if the lingers did not get too
tired ; therefore, that she had had this tennis-court
prepared for them and the gymnasium
fitted up, so that they might play in it everyday.
And then selecting Nelly and two others,
who seemed active young creatures, she gave
them their first lesson in lawn tennis.

The next day she gave a lesson to another
set. In a few days tennis became a passion
with the girls. The fashion spread. Lawn
tennis is not an expensive game ; shortly there
will be no bit of square garden or vacant space
K 2

ill Stepney but will be marked out into its
lawn-tennis courts.

The gymnasium took longer to become
popular. Girls do not like feats of strength ;
nor was it until the spell of wet weather last
October, when outdoor games became impossible,
that the gymnasium began to attract at
all. Then a spirit of emulation was set up,
and bodily exercises became popular. After
becoming quite sure that no deduction was
made on account of the resting time, the girls
ceased to be suspicious, and accepted the gift
with something like enthusiasm. Yet, Miss
Kennedy was their employer : therefore, a
natural enemy ; therefore, gifts from her continued,
for some time, to be received with doubt
and suspicion. This does not seem, on the
whole, a healthy outcome of our social system ;
yet such an attitude is unfortunately common
among work-girls.

At half-past eleven they all resumed work.

At one o'clock another astonishment awaited
them.

Miss Kennedy informed them that one of
the reforms introduced by her was the providing

of dinner every day, without deducting anything[
from the waives. Those to whom dinner
was, on most days, the mockery of a piece of
bread-and-butter, or a bun, or some such figment
and pretence of a meal, simply gasped,
and the stoutest held her breath for a while,
wondering what these things might mean.

Yes, there was dinner laid for them upstairs
on a fair white cloth ; for every girl a plentiful
dish of beef with potatoes and other good
things, and a glass of Messenger's Family Ale —
that at eight and six the nine-gallon cask ; —
and bread a discretion. Angela would have
added pudding, but was dissuaded by her fore-woman,
on the ground that not only w^oidd
pudding swallow up too much of the profits,
but that it would demoralise the girls. As it
was, one of them, at the mere aspect and first
contemplation of the beef, fell a-weeping. She
was lame, and she was the most dejected among
them all. Why she wept, and how Angela
followed her home, and what that home was
like, and why she and her mother and her
sisters do now continually praise and pray for
Angela, belong to another story, concerned

with the wretchedness and misery which are
found at Whitechapel and Stepney, as well as
in Soho and Marylebone and the back of
Eegent Street. I shall not write many chapters
of that story, for my own part.

Truly a most wonderful workshop. Was
ever such an association of dressmakers ?

After dinner they frolicked and romped,
though as yet in an untaught way, until two,
when they began work again.

Miss Kennedy then made them another
speech.

She told them that the success of their
enterprise depended in great measure upon
their own industry, skill and energy ; that they
were all interested in it, because they were to
receive, besides their wages, a share in the
profits ; this they only partly understood. Nor
did they comprehend her scheme much more
when she went on to explain that they had the
house and all the preliminary furniture found
for them, so that there would be nothing, at
first, to pay for rent. They had never considered
the question of rent, and the thing did
not go home to them. But they saw in some

vague way that here was an employer of a
kind very much unlike any they bad ever before
experienced, and they were astonished and
excited.

Later on, when they might be getting tired
again, they had a visitor. It was no other than
Captain Sorensen. He said that by permission
of Miss Kennedy he would read to them for an
hour, and that, if she permitted and they liked,
as he was an old man with nothing to do, he
would come and read to them often.

So this astonishing day passed on.

They had tea at five, with another half-hour's
rest. As the evening was so fine, it was
served in the garden.

At seven they found that it was time to
strike work — an hour at least earlier than at
any other house. What could these things
mean ?

And then fresh marvels. For when the
work was put away, Miss Kennedy invited
them all to follow her upstairs. There she
formally presented them with a room for their
own use in the evening if they pleased. There
was a piano in it ; but, unfortunately, nobody

could play. The floor was polished for dancing,
but then no one could dance ; and there was a
table with games upon it, and magazines and
illustrated papers. In this room, Miss Kennedy
told them, they could sing, dance, play, read,
talk, sit, or do anything else in reason, and
within the limits of modest recreation. They
might also, on Saturday evenings, bring their
friends, brothers, and so forth, who would also
be expected to behave within the limits of
modesty and good breeding. In short, the
place was to be a drawing-room, and Angela
proposed to train the girls by example and
precept into a proper feeling as regards the use
of a drawing-room. There was to be no
giggling, no whispering in corners, nor was
there to be any horseplay. Good manners lie
between horseplay on the one hand and giggling
on the other.

The kind of evening proposed by their
wonderful mistress struck the girls at first with
a kind of stupefaction. Outside, the windows
being open, they could hear the steps of those
who walked, talked, and laughed on Stepney
Green. They would have preferred to be

among that throng of idle promenaders ; it
seemed to them a more beautiful thing to walk
up and down the paths than to sit about in a
room and be told, to play. There where no
young men. There was the continual presence
of their employer. They were afraid of her ;
there was also Miss Hermitage, of whom also
they were afraid ; there was, in addition, Nelly
Sorensen, of whom they might learn to be
afraid. As for Miss Kennedy, they were the
more afraid of her because, not only did she
walk, talk, and look like a person out of another
world, but, oh! wonderful! she knew
nothing — evidently nothing — of their little
tricks. Naturally one is afraid of a person who
knows nothing of one's wicked ways. This is
the awkwardness in entertaining angels. Tliey
naturally assume that their entertainers stand
on the same elevated level as themselves ; this
causes embarrassment. Most of us, like Angela's
shop-girls, would, under the circumstances,
betray a tendency to giggle.

Then she tried to relieve them from their
awkwardness by sitting down to the piano and
playing a lively gallop.

Dance, girls ! ' she cried.

In their early childhood, before they went
to school or work-slip, the girls had been accustomed
to a good deal of dancing. Their
ball-room was the street ; their floor was the
kerbstone ; their partners had been other little
girls ; their music the organ-grinder's. They
danced with no steps, save such as came by
nature; but their little feet struck true and
kept good time. Now they were out of practice
; they were grown big, too ; they could no
longer seize each other by the waist and caper
round and round. Yet the music was inspiriting
; eyes brightened, their heels became as
light as air. Yet, alas ! they did not know the
steps.

Angela stopped playing and looked round
her. The girls were crowded together.

Eebekah Hermitage sat apart at the table.
There was that in her face which betokened
disapproval, mingled with curiosity, for she had
never seen a dance, and never, except on a
barrel-organ, heard dance music. Nelly Sores
stood beside the piano watching the player
with the devotion which belongs to the disciple

who loves the most. Whatever Miss Kennedy
did was right and sweet and beautifuL Also,
whatever she did filled poor Nelly with a sense
of humiliation, because she herself felt so
ignorant.

'Eebekah! Nelly!' cried Angela. 'Can
you not help me .^ '

Both shook their heads.

I cannot dance,' said Eebekah, trying to
show a little scorn or, at least, some disapprobation.
' In our Connection we never dance.'

You never dance .^ ' Angela forgot for
the moment that she was in Stepney, and among
a class of girls who do not dance. ' Do you
sing ? '

If any is merry,' replied Eebekah, ' let him
sing hymns.'

Nelly, can you help me ? '

She, too, shook her head. But, she said,
her father could play the fiddle. Might he
come ? '

Angela begged her to invite him immediately,
and on her way to ask Mr. Goslett, at
Mrs. Bormalack's, to bring his fiddle too. Between
them they would teach the girls to
dance.

Then she sat down and began to sing. First
she sang, ' By the Banks of Allan Water,' and
then ' The Bailiff's Daughter of Islington,' and
next, ' Drink to me only with thine eyes ' —
sweet and simple ditties all. Then came
Captain Sorensen, bearing his fiddle, and happy
to help ; and while he played, Angela stood all
the girls in a row before her, headed by Nelly,
and gave them their first lesson in the giddy
dance.

Then came Harry Goslett ; and at sight of
his cheerful countenance and at the mere beholding
how he bowed to Miss Kennedy, and
asked to be allowed, and put his arm round her
waist and whirled her round in a gallop, their
hearts were lifted up, and they longed no more
for Stepney Green. Then he changed Miss
Kennedy for Nelly ; and though she was
awkward at first, she soon fell into the step,
while Miss Kennedy danced with another ; and
then Mr. Goslett with another, and so on till all
had had a practical lesson. Then they ceased
altogether to long for the jest of the gallant
'prentice ; for what were jests to this manly,
masterful seizure by the waist, this lifting almost

off the feet, this whirl round and round to the
music of the fiddle which the brave old Captain
played as merrily as any bo's'n's mate or
quartermaster on an East Indiamen ? In half
an hour the feet of all but one — the one who,
poor gill, was lame — felt that noble sympathy
with the music so readily caught by those intelligent
organs, and — they could dance. Perhaps
for the first time in the annals of Stepney, her
daughters had learned to dance.

The rest would be easy. They tried a
quadrille, then another gallop. Harry endeavoured
to do his duty, but there were some
who remarked that he danced twice, that second
gallop, with Nelly Sorensen, and they were
jealous. Yet it was only an unconscious tribute
paid to beauty. The young fellow was among
a bevy of dressmakers ; an uncommon position
for a man of his bringing-up. One of them,
somehow, was, to all appearance, and to any
but perhaps the most practised eye, a real
genuine lady — not a copy at all ; the other was
so graceful and sweet that she seemed to want
but a touch to effect the transformation. As
for the other girls, they were simple young

persons of the work-room and counter — n common
type. So common, alas ! that we are apt
to forget the individuality of each, her personal
hopes, and her infinite possibilities. Yet, however
insignificant is the crowd, the individual is
so important.

Then he was interested in the dark-eyed
girl who sat by herself at the table, looking on
anxiously, at an amusement she had always
heard of as ' soul-destroying.' She was wondering
wliy her ears were pleased with the playing,
and why her brain was filled with strange
images, and why it was so pleasant to watch
the girls dancing, their eyes aglow and their
cheeks flushed.

Do not tempt me,' she said, when Harry
ventured to invite her, too, to join the giddy
throng. ' Do not tempt me — no — go away ! '

Her very brusqueness showed how strong
was the temptation. Was she, already, giving
way at the first temptation ?

Presently, the evening was over, the girls
had all trooped noisily out of the house, and
Angela, Captain Sorensen, Nelly, and the young
workman, were walking across the Green in the
direction of the Almshouse.

When Angela got home to the Boarding
House the dreariness of the evening was in full
blast. The boarders were sitting in silence,
each wrapt in his own thoughts. The Professor
lifted his head as she entered the room, and
regarded her with thoughtful eyes, as if appraising
her worth as a clairvoyante. David Faggg
scowled horribly. His lordship opened his
mouth as if to speak, but said nothing. Mr.
Maliphant took his pipe out of his mouth, and
began a story. ' I remember,' he said, ' the
last time but one that he was ruined ' — he did
not state the name of the gentleman — ' the
whole town was on fire, and his house with
them. What did he do ? Mounted his horse
and rode around, and bought up all the timber
for twenty miles around. And see what he's
worth now ! ' When he had told his story he
relapsed into silence. Angela thought of that
casual collection of unsympathetic animals put
into a cage and called ' Happy Family.'

CHAPTER Xir.

SUNDAY AT THE EAST END.

Sunday morning in and about the Whitechapel
and Mile End Roads, Angela discovered to bea
time of peculiar interest. The closing of the
shops adds to the dignity of the broad thoroughfares,
because it hides so many disagreeable and
even humiliating things. But it by no means
puts a stop to traffic, which is conducted with
an ostentatious disregard of the Fourth Commandment
or Christian custom. At one end,
the City end, is Houndsditch, crowded with
men who come to buy and sell ; and while the
bells of St. Botolph call upon the faithful with
a clanging and clashing which ring like a cry
of despair, the footpath is filled with the busy
loungers, who have long since ceased to regard
the invitation as having anything at all to do
with them.

Strange and wonderful result of the gathering
of men in great cities ! It is not a French,
or an English, or a German, or an American
result — it is universal ; in every great city of
the world, below a certain level, there is no
religion — men have grown dead to their higher
instincts ; they no longer feel the possibilities of
humanity; faith brings to them no more the
evidence •of things unseen. They are crowded
together, so that they have ceased to feel their
individuality. The crowd is eternal — they are
part of that eternity ; if one drops out, lie is
not missed ; nobody considers that it will be
his own turn some day so to drop out. Life is
nothing for ever and ever, but work in the week
with as much beer and tobacco as the money
will run to, and loafing on Sundays with more
beer and tobacco. This, my friends, is a truly
astonishing thing, and a thing unknown until
this century. Perhaps, however, in ancient
Piome, the people lead ceased to believe in their
Gods ; perhaps, in Babylon, the sacred bricks
were kicked about by the unthinking mob ;
perhaps, in every great city, the same loss of
individual manhood may be found.

VOL. I. S

It was on a Sunday morning in August that
Angela took a little journey of exploration, accompanied
by the young workman who washer
companion in these excursions. He led her
into Houndsditch and the Minores, where she
had the pleasure of inspecting the great Mercantile
Interest of old clothes, and of gazing upon
such as buy and sell therein. Then she turned
her face northwards, and entered upon a journey
which twenty years ago would have been full
of peril, and is now, to one who loves his fellowman,
full of interest.

The great Boulevard of the East was thronged
with the class of men who keep the Sabbath in
holy laziness with tobacco. Some of them
lounge, some talk, some listen, all have pipes in
their mouths. Here was a circle gathered
round a man who was waving his arms and
shouting. He was an Apostle of Temperance ;
behind him stood a few of his private friends to
act as a claque. The listeners seemed amused
but not convinced. ' They will probably,' said
Harry, ' enjoy their dinner beer quite as much
as if they had not heard this sermon.' Another
circle was gathered round a man in a cart, who

had a flaming red flag to support him. Ho
belonged, the flag told the world, to the Tower
Hamlets Magna Charta Association. What he
said was listened to with the same languid
curiosity and tepid amusement. Angela stopped
a moment to hear what he had to say. He was
detailing, with immense energy, the particulars
of some awful act of injustice committed upon
a friend unknown, who got six months. The
Law of England is always trampling upon some
innocent victim, according to this sympathiser
with virtue. The working men have heard it
all before, and they continue to smoke their
pipes, their blood not quickened by a single
beat. The ear of the people is accustomed to
vehemence ; the case must be put strongly
before it will listen at all ; and listening, as
most bathers discover, is not conviction.

Next to the Magna Charta brethren a cheap-jack
had placed his cart. He drove a roaring
trade in two-pennyworth, which, out of compliment
to a day which should be devoted to good
works, consisted each of a bottle of sarsaparilla,
which he called ' passable,' and a box of pills.
Next to him the costers stood beside their carts

8 2

loaded with cheap ices, ginger-beer, and lemonade
— to show that there was no deception, a
great glass jar stood upon each cart with actual
undeniable slices of lemon floating in water and
a lump of ice upon the top ; there were also
piles of plums, plums without end, early August
apples, and windfall pears ; also sweet things
in foot-long lumps sticky and gruesome to look
upon ; Brazil nuts, always a favourite article of
commerce in certain circles, though not often
met with at the tables of the luxurious ; late
oranges, more plums, many more plums, plums
in enormous quantities ; and periwinkles, which
last all the year round, with whelks and vinegar,
and the toothsome shrimp. Then there came
another circle, and in the midst stood a young
man, with long fair hair and large blue eyes.
He was preaching the Gospel, as he understood
it ; his face was the face of an enthusiast ; a
little solitude, a little meditation among the
mountains, would have made this man a seer of
visions and a dreamer of dreams. He was not
ridiculous, though his grammar was defective
and his pronunciation had the cockney twang,
and his aspirates were wanting ; nothing is

ridiculous that is in earnest. On the riofht of
the street they passed the head-quarters of the
Salvation Army ; the brave warriors were now
in full blast, and the fighting, ' knee-drill,' singing,
and storming of the enemy's fort were at
their highest and most enjoyable point ; Angela
looked in and found an immense hall crammed
with people who came to fight, or to look onto
scoff, or gaze. Higher up, on the left, stands
a rival in red-hot religion, the Hall of the
Jubilee Singers, where another vast crowd was
worshipping, exhorting, and singing.

There seems,' said Angela, ' to be too much
exhorting ; can they not sit down somewhere in
quiet for praise and prayer ? '

We working people,' replied her companion,
'like everything loud and strong. If weare
persuaded to take a side, we want to be
always fighting on that side.'

Streams of people passed them, lounging or
walking with a steady purpose. The former
were the indifferent and the callous, the hardened
and the stupid, men to whom preachers
and orators appealed in vain ; to Avhom Peter
the Hermit might have bawled himself hoarse,

and Bernard would have thrown all his eloquence
away; they smoked short pipes, with
their hands in their pockets, and looked good-tempered
; with them were boys, also smoking
short pipes, with their hands in their pockets.
Those who walked were young men dressed in
long frock-coats of a shiny and lustrous black,
who carried Bibles and Prayer Books with some
ostentation. They were on their way to church ;
with them were their sisters, for the most part
well-dressed, quiet girls, to whom the noise and
the crowds were a part of life, a thing not to
be avoided, hardly felt as a trouble.

I am always getting a new sensation,' said
Angela.

'What is the last?'

I have just realised that there are thousands
and thousands of people who never, all their
lives, get to a place where they can be quiet.
Always noise, always crowds, always buying
and selling.'

'Here, at least,' said Harry, 'there is no
noise.'

They were at the wicket gate of the Trinity
Almshouse.

What do you think, Miss Kennedy ? '

It is a haven of rest,' she replied, thinking
of a certain picture. ' Let us, too, seek peace
awhile.'

It was just eleven o'clock, and the herdsmen
were going to their chapel. They entered the
square, and joined the old men in their weekly
service. Angela discovered to her disappointment,
that the splendid flight of steps leading
to the magnificent portal was a dummy, because
the real entrance to the chapel was a
lowly door beneath the stone steps, suited, Mr.
Bunker would have said, to the humble condition
of the moneyless.

It is a plain chapel, with a small organ in
the corner, a tiny altar, and over the altar the
ten commandments in a black wood frame —
rules of life for those whose life is well-nigh
done — and a pulpit, which serves for reading
the service as well as delivering the sermon.
The congregation consisted of about thirty of
the albumen, with about half as many old
ladies; and Angela wondered why these old
ladies were all dressed in black, and all wore
crape. Perhaps they desired by the use of this

material to symbolise mourning for the loss of
opportunities for making money ; or for the
days of beauty and courtship, or for children
dead and gone, or to mark the humility which
becomes an Inmate, or to do honour to the
day which is still revered by many Englishwomen
as a day of humiliation and rebuke, orin
the belief that crape confers dignity. We
know not, we know nothing ; the love which
women bear for crape is a mystery ; man can
but speculate idly on their ways. We are like
the philosopher picking up pebbles by the seaside.
Among the old people sat Nelly Sorensen,
a flower of youth and loveliness, in her simple
black dress, and her light hair breaking out
beneath her bonnet. The Catholics believe
that no church is complete without a bone of
some dead saint or beatified person. Angela
made up her mind, on the spot, that no act of
public worship is complete without the assistance
of youth as well as of age.

The men were all dressed alike in blue
coats and brass buttons, the uniform of the
place ; they seemed all, with the exception of
one who was battered by time, and Alas fain to

sit while the rest stood, to be of the same age,
and that might be anything between a hearty
sixty-five and a vigorous eighty. After the
manner of sailors, they were all exact in the
performance of their share in public worship,
following the prayers in the book and the
lessons in the Bible. When the time came
for listening they straightened themselves out,
in an attitude comfortable for listening. The
Scotch elder assumes, during the sermon,
the air of a hostile critic ; the face of the
British rustic becomes vacant ; the eyes
of the ordinary listener in church show that
his thoughts are far away ; but the expression
of a sailor's face, while he is performing the
duty — part of the day's duty — of listening to
the sermon, shows respectful attention, although
he may have heard it all before,

Angela did not listen much to the sermon :
she was thinking of the old men for whom that
sermon was prepared. There was a fresh
colour upon their faces, as if it was not eo very
long since their cheeks had been fanned by the
strong sea breeze ; their eyes were clear, they
possessed the bearing which comes of the habit

of command, and they carried themselves as if
they were not ashamed of their poverty. Now
Bunker, Angela reflected, would have been
very much ashamed, and would have hung his
head in shame. But then Bunker was one of
the nimble-footed hunters after money, while
these ignoble persons had contented themselves
with the simple and slavish record of duty done.

The service over, they were joined by
Captain Sorensen and his daughter, and for
half an hour walked in the quiet court behind
the church, in peaceful converse. Angela
walked with the old man, and Nelly with the
young man. It matters little what they talked
about, but it was something good, because
when the Captain went home to his dinner, he
kissed his daughter, and said that it seemed to
him that it was the best day's work he ever
did when he let her go to Miss Kennedy.

In the evening, Angela made another
journey of exploration with the same escort.
They passed down Stepney Green, and plunged
among the labyrinth of streets lying between
the Mile End Eoad and the Thames. It is as
unlovely a collection of houses as may be found

anywhere, always excepting Hoxton, which
may fairly be considered the Queen of Unlove-lines.
The houses in this part are small, and
they are almost all of one pattern. There
is no green thing to be seen ; no one plants
trees, there seem to be no gardens ; no flowers
are in the windows ; there is no brightness of
paint or of clean windovv^s ; there is nothing of
joy, nothing to gladden the eye.

Think,' said Harry, almost in a whisper, as
if in homage to the Powers of Dirt and Dreariness,
' think what this people could be made if
we could only carry out your scheme of the
Palace of Delight.'

'We could make them discontented, at
least,' said Angela. ■ Discontent must come
before reform.'

We should leave them to reform themselves,'
said Harry. ' The mistake of philanthropists
is to think that they can do for
people what can only be done by the people.
As you said this morning, there is too much
exhorting.'

Presently they struck out of a street rather
more dreary than its neighbours, and found

themselves in a broad road with a great
church.

This is Limehouse Church,' said Harry.
'All round you are sailors. There is East
India Dock Eoad. Here is West India Dock
Eoad. There is the Foreign Sailors' Home :
and we will go no further, if you please, because
the streets are all full, you perceive, of
the foreign sailors and the English sailors and
the sailors' friends.'

Angela had seen enough of the sailors.
They turned back. Harry led her through
another labyrinth into another broad street,
also crowded with sailors.

This is Shadwell,' said her guide ; ' and if
there is anything in Shadwell to interest you,
I do not know what it is. Survey Shadwell
! '

Angela looked up the street and down the
street ; there was nothing for the eye in search
of the beautiful or the picturesque to rest upon.
But a great bawling of rough voices came from
a large tent stuck up, oddly, beside the road.
A white canvas sheet with black letters proclaimed
this as the place of worship of the

'Happy Gypsies.' They were holding their
Sunday Function.

More exhorting ! ' said Angela.

]sow, this,' he said, as they walked along,
'is a more interesting place. It used to be
called Eatchffe Highway, and had the reputation
of being the wickedest place in London.
I dare say it was all brag, and that really it
was not much worse than its neighbours.'

It is a distinctly squalid street, that now
called St. George's-in-the-East. But it has its
points ; it is picturesque, like a good many
dirty places ; the people are good-tempered,
though they do not wash their faces even on
Sundays. They have quite left off knocking
down, picking pockets, kicking, and robbing
the harmless stranger ; they are advancing
slowly towards civilisation.

Come this way,' said Harry.

He passed through a narrow passage, and
led the way into a place at the sight of which
Angela was fain to cry out in surprise.

In it was nothing less than a fair and
gracious garden planted with flowers, and these
in the soft August sunshine showed sweet and

lovely. The beds were well kept; the walks
were of asphalte ; there were seats set about, and
on them old women and old men sat basking
in the evening sun. The young men and
maidens walked along the paths — an Arcadian
scene.

This little strip of Eden,' said Harry, ' was
cut out of the old churchyard.'

The rest of the churchyard was divided
from the garden by a railing, and round the
wall were the tombstones of the departed
obscure. From the church itself was heard the
rolling of the organ and the soft singing of a
hymn.

This,' said Angela, ' is better than exhortation.
A garden for meditation and the
church for prayer. I like this place better
than the Whitechapel Eoad.'

I will show you a more quiet place still,'
said her guide. They walked a little way
farther down the main street, then he turned
into a narrow street on the north, and Angela
found herself in a square of clean houses round
an enclosure of grass. Within the enclosure
was a chapel, and tombs were dotted on the
grass.

They went into the chapel, a plain edifice
of the Georgian kind with round windows, and
the evening sun shone through the window in
the west. The high pews were occupied by a
congregation of forty or fifty, all men. They
all had light brown hair,, and as they turned
round to look at the new-comers, Angela saw
that they all had blue eyes. The preacher, who
wore a black gown and bands, was similarly
provided as to hair and eyes. He preached in a
foreign tongue, and as it is difficult to be edified
by a sermon not in one's native speech, they
shortly went out again. They were followed
by the verger, who seemed not indisposed to
break the monotony of the service by a few
minutes' walk.

He talked English imperfectly, but he told
them that it was the Church of the Swedes.
Angela asked if they were all sailors. He said,
with some seeming contempt for sailors, that only
a few of them Avere sailors. She then said that
she supposed that they were people engaged in
trade. He shook his head again, and informed
her with a mysterious air that many of the
Swedish nobility lived in that neighbourhood.

After this they came away, for fear of greater
surprises.

They followed St. George's-in-the-East to
the end of the street. Then they turned to the
right, and passed through a straight and quite
ignoble road leading north. It is a street
greatly affected by Germans. German names
are over every shop and on every brass plate.
They come hither, these honest Germans, because
to get good work in London is better
than going after it to New York or Philadelphia,
and nearer home. In the second generation
their names will be Anglicised, and their
children will have become rich London merchants,
and very likely Cabinet ministers. They
have their churches, too, the Reformed and the
Lutheran, with nothing to choose between
them on the score of ugliness.

'Let us get home,' said Angela; 'I have
seen enough.'

It is the joylessness of the life,' she explained,
' the ignorant, contented joylessness,
which weighs upon one. And there is so much
of it. Surely there is no other city in the

world which is so utterly without joy as this
East London.'

'No,' said Harry, ' there is not in the whole
world a city so devoid of pleasant things. They
do not know how to be happy. They are like
your work-girls when you told them to dance.'

Look ! ' she cried, ' what is that ? '

There was a hoarse roar of many voices
from a court leading out of the main road ; the
roar became louder ; Harry drew the girl aside
as a mob of men and boys and women rushed
headlong out of the place. It was not a fight
apparently, yet there was beating with sticks
and kicking. For those who were beaten did
not strike back in return. After a little, the
beaters and kicked desisted, and returned to
their court as to a stronghold whose rights
they had vindicated.

Those who had been beaten were a band of
about a dozen men and women. The women's
shawls were hanging in tatters, and they had
lost their bonnets. The men were without
hats, and their coats were grievously torn.
There was a thing among them which had

VOL. I. T

been a banner, but the pole was broken, and
the flag was clra2[crecl in the dirt and smirched.

One of them dio seemed to be the leader
he wore a uniform coat something like a
volunteer's coat — stepped to the front and
called upon them all to form. Then with a
loud voice he led off a hymn, in which all
joined as they marched down the street.

He was hatless, and his cheek was bleeding
from an open wound. Yet he looked undaunted,
and his hymn was a song of triumph,
j^ we'll set up young fellow, with thick black
hair and a black beard, but pale cheeks. His
forehead was square and firm ; his eyes were
black and fierce.

Good heavens ! ' cried Harry. ' It is my
cousin Tom, Captain in the Salvation Army.
And that, I suppose, is a regiment. Well, if
standing still to be kicked means a victory,
they have scored one to-night.'

The pavement was even more crowded than
in the morning. The political agitators bawled
more fiercely than in the forenoon to their
circle of apathetic listeners ; the preachers exhorted
the unveiling more fervently to embrace

the Faith. Cheap-jack was dispensing more
volubly his two pennyworth of ' passable.' The
workmen lounged along, with their pipes in
their mouths, more lazily than in the morning.
The only difference was that the shop boys
were now added to the crowd, every lad with
a ' twopenny smoke ' between his lips ; and
that the throng was increased by those dio
were goings home from church.

Let us, too, go home,' said Angela ; ' there
is too much humanity here : we shall lose ourselves
among the crowd.'

T 2

CHAPTER XIII.

Angela's experiment.

No, Constance,' Angela wrote, ' I cannot believe
that your lectures will be a failure, or that
your life's work is destined to be anything
short of a brilliant success — an " epoch-making
" episode in the history of Woman's Else.'
If your lectures have not yet attracted reading
men, it must be because they are not yet
known. It is unworthy of faith in your own
high mission to suppose that personal appearance
or beauty has anything to do With popularity
in matters of mind. Who asks — who
can ask ? — whether a woman of genius is lovely
or not ? And to take lower ground : every
woman owns the singular attractiveness of your
own face, which has always seemed to me,
apart from personal friendship, the face of pure
intellect. I do not give up my belief that the

men will soon begin to run after your lectures
as they did after those of Hypatia, and that
you will become in the University as great a
teacher of Mathematics as Sir Isaac Newton
himself. Meantime, it must be, I own, irksome
to lecture on Vulgar Fractions, and the
First Book of Euclid, and unsatisfactory to
find, after you have made a Research and
arrived at what seemed a splendid result, that
some man has been before you. Patience,
Constance ! '

At this point the reader, who was of course
Constance Woodcote, paused and smiled bitterly.
She was angry because she had advertised
a course of lectures on some desperately
high mathematical subject and no one came to
hear them. Had she been, she reflected, a
pink and white girl with no forehead and soft
eyes, everybody would have rushed to hear
her. As it was, Angela, no doubt, meant well,
but she was always disposed to give men credit
for qualities which they did not possess. As if
you could ever persuade a man to regard a
woman from a purely intellectual point of
view ! After all, she thought, civilisation was

only just begun : we live in a world of darkness
: the reign of woman is as yet afar off.
She continued her reading with impatience.
Somehow her friend seemed to have drifted
away : their lines were diverging : already the
old enthusiasms had given place to the new,
and Angela thought less of the great cause
which she had once promised to further with
her mighty resources.

As regards the Scholarship which I promised
you, I must ask you to wait a little,
because my hands are full — so full of important
things that even a new scholarship at Newnham
seems a small thug. I cannot tell you in a
letter what my projects are, and how I am trying
to do something new with my great wealth.
This, at least, I may tell you, partly because I
am intoxicated with my own schemes, and
therefore, I must tell everybody I speak to ;
and partly because you are perfectly certain not
to sympathise with me, and therefore you will
not trouble to argue the point with me. I
have found out, to begin with, a great truth.
It is that would-be philanthropists and benefactors
and improvers of things have all along

been working on a false assumption. They
have taught and believed that the people look
lip to the " better class " — a phrase invented by
the well-to-do in order to show how riches and
virtue go together — for guidance and advice.
My dear, it is the greatest mistake ; they do
not look up to us at all ; they do not want to
copy our ways ; they are perfectly satisfied
with their own ways ; they will naturally take
as much money as we choose to give them, and
as many presents ; and they consider the exhortations,
teachings, preaching admonitions,
words of guidance, and advice as uncomfortable
but unavoidable accompaniments of this
gift. But we ourselves are neither respected
nor copied. Nor do they want our culture.'

'Angela,' said the mathematician, ' is really
very prolix.'

This being so, I am endeavouring; to make
such people as I can get at discontented as a
first step. Without discontent, nothing can be
done. I work upon them by showing, practically,
and by way of example, better things.
This I can do because I am here as simply one
of themselves — a workwoman among other

workwomen. I do not work so much as the
others in our newly-formed Association because
I am supposed to run the machine, and to go to
the West End for work. Miss Messenger is
one of our customers. So much am I one of
them, that I take my wages on Saturday, and
am to have the same share, and no more, in
the business as my dressmakers. I confess to
you that in the foundation of my Dressmakers'
Association I have violated most distinctly
every precept of political and social economy.
I have given them a house rent-free for a year ;
I have fitted it up with all that they want ; I
have started them with orders from myself ; I
have resolved to keep them going until they
are able to run alone ; I give wages, in money
and in food, higher than the market value. I
know what you will say. It is all quite true,
scientifically. But outside the range of science
there is humanity. And only think what a
great field my method opens for the employment
of the unfortunate rich — the unhappy,
useless, heavily-burdened rich. They will all
follow my example, and help the people to help
themselves.

'My girls were at first and for the most
part uninteresting, until I came to know them
individually : everyone, when you know her,
and can sympathise with her becomes interesting.
Some are, however, more interesting than
others ; there are two or three, for instance, in
whom I feel a special interest. One of them,
whom I love for her gentleness and for her
loyalty to me, is the daughter of an old ship
captain now in an almshouse. She is singularly
beautiful, with an air of fragility which one
hopes is not real ; she is endowed by nature
with a keenly sensitive disposition, and has had
the advantage, rare in these parts, of a father
who learned to be a gentleman before he came
to the almshouse. The other is a religious
fanatic, a sectarian of the most positive kind.
She knows what is truth more certainly than
any Professor of Truth we ever encountered ;
she is my manager and is good at business. I
think she has come to regard me with less contempt,
from a business point of view, than she
did at first, because in the conduct of the show-room
and the trvinof-on room she has all her
own Avay.

My evenings are mostly spent with the
girls in the garden and " drawing-room." Yes,
we have a drawing-room over the work-room.
At first we had tea at five and struck work at
seven ; now we strike at half-past six and take
tea with lawn tennis. I assure you my dressmakers
are as fond of lawn-tennis as the
students of Newnham. When it is too dark to
play, we go upstairs and have music and dancing.'
Here followed a word which had been
erased. The mathematical lecturer held the
letter to the liszt and fancied the word was
Harry.' This could hardly be ; it must be
Hetty, or Kitty, or Lofty, or some such feminine
abbreviation. There could be no Harry.
She looked again. Strange ! It certainly was
Harry. She shook her head suspiciously, and
went on with the letter.

The girls' friends and sisters have begun to
come, and we are learning all kinds of dances.
Fortunately my dear old captain from the almshouse
can play the fiddle, and likes nothing
better than to play for us. We place him in
the corner beside the piano, and he plays as
long as we please, being the best of all old

captains. We are not well off for men, having
at present to rely principally on a superior
young cabinet-maker, who can also play the
iidclle on occasions. He dances very well, and
perhaps he will fall in love with the captain's
daughter.

What I have attempted is, in short, nothing
less than the introduction of a love of what
we call culture. Other things will follows but
at present I am contented with an experiment
on a very humble scale. If I were to go among
the people in my name, most of them would
try to borrow or steal from me ; as I am only
a poor dressmaker, only those who have business
with me try to take me in. I do not goon
a platform and lecture the people : nor do
I open a school to teach them ; nor do I print
and circulate tracts. I simply say, ^' My dears,
I am going to dance and sing, and have a little
music, and play lawn-tennis ; come with me
and we will dance together." And they come.
And they behave well. I think it is a strange
thing that young women of the lover class
always prefer to behave well when they can
while young men of their own station take so

much pleasure in noise and riot. We have no
difficulty in our drawing-room, where the girls
believe perfectly and enjoy themselves in a
surprising manner. I find, already, a great
improvement in the girls. They have acquired
new interests in life : they are happier : consequently,
they chatter like birds in spring and
sunshine ; and whereas, since I came into these
regions, it has been a constant pain to listen to
the querulous and angry talk of work-girls in
omnibuses and in streets, I rejoice that we have
changed all this, and while they are with
me my girls can talk without angry snapping
of the lips, and without the " sei " and
sezee " and " seshee " of the omnibus. This
is surely a great gain for them.

Next, I observe that they are developing a
certain amount of pride in their own superiority
: they are lifted above their neighbours, if
only by the nightly drawing-room. I fear they
will become unpopular from hauteur: but
there is no gain without some loss. If only
one felt justified in doubling the number of the
girls! But the Stepney ladies have hitherto
shown no enthusiasm in the cause of the Association.

The feeling in these parts is, you see,
commercial rather than co-operative.

'The dinner is to me the most satisfactory
as well as the most unscientific part of the
business. I believe I have no rif^^ht to drive
them a dinner at all : it is against the custom
in dressmakers' shops, where girls bring their
own dinners, poor things : it costs quite a shilling
a head every day to find the dinner, and
Eebekah, my foreman, tells me that no
profits can stand against such a drain : but I
must go on with the dinner even if it swallows
up all the profits.

On Sundays the drawing-room is kept
open all day long for those who like to come.
Some do, because it is quiet. In the evening
we have sacred music. One of the young men
plays the violin ' — the reader turned back and
referred to a previous passage — yes ; she lead
already mentioned a cabinet-maker in connection
with a fiddle — no doubt it must be the
same — ' and we have duets, but I fear the girls
do not care much, yet, for classical music '

Here the reader crumpled up the letter in
impatience.

And this,' lie groaned, ' is the result of
two years at JN'ewnluun ! After lier course of
political economy, after all those lectures, after
actually distinguishing herself and taking a
place, this is the end ! To play the piano for a
lot of work-girls : with a cabinet-maker : and
an old sailor : and to be a dressmaker ! She
actually enjoys being a dressmaker ! That is,
alas ! the very worst feature in the case : she
evidently likes it : she has no wish to return to
civilisation : she has forgotten her science : she
is setting a most mischievous example : and she
has forgotten her distinct promise to give us a
]mathematical scholarship.

Oh ! Angela ! '

She had imagined that the heiress would
endow Newnham with great gifts, and she was
disappointed. She had imagined this so very
strongly that she felt personally aggrieved and
injured : what did she care about Stepney
work-girls ? What have mathematics to do
with poor people in an ugly and poor part of
town ?

Angela's letter did not convey the whole
truth, because she herself was ignorant of the discussions,

gossip, rumours, and reports Which were
flying about in the neighbourhoods of Stepney
Green concerning her venture. There were
some, for instance, who demonstrated that such
an institution must fail for reasons which they
learnedly expounded : among these was Mr.
Bunker. There were some who were ready to
prove, from the highest authorities, the wickedness
of trying to do without a proprietor,
master, or boss ; there were some who saw in
this revolutionary movement the beginning of
those troubles which will afflict mankind towards
the coming' of the end ; there were
others, among whom was also mr. Bunker,
who asked by what right this young woman
had come among them to interfere, where she
had got her money, and what where her antecedents
? To Bunker's certain knowledge, and
no one had better sources of information,
hundreds had been spent by Miss Kennedy in
starting the Association ; while, whether it was
true that Miss Messenger supported the place or
not, there could never be enough work to get
back all that money, pay all the wages, and the
rent, and the dinners : and hot dinners everyday!

There was even talk of getting up a
memorial praying Miss Messenger not to interfere
with the trade of the place, and pointing
out that there were many most respectable
dressmakers' shops where the work could be
quite as well done as by Miss Kennedy's girls,
no doubt cheaper, and the profit would go to
the rightful claimant of it, not to be divided
among the workwomen.

As for the privileges bestowed upon the
girls, there was in certain circles but one
opinion — they were ridiculous. Recreation
time, free dinner of meat and vegetables, short
hours, reading aloud, and a club-room or 
for the evening : what more could
their betters have ? For it is a fixed article of
belief, one of the Twenty-nine Articles in certain
strata of society, that people ' below them '
have no right to the enjoyment of anything.
They do not mean to be cruel, but they have
always associated poverty with dirt, discomfort,
disagreeable companions, and the absence of
pleasantness ; for a poor person to be happy is
either to them an impossibility, or it is a flying
in the face of Providence. But then, these

people know nothing of the joys which can be
had without money. Xow, when the world
discovers and realises how many these are and
how great they are, the reign of the almighty
dollar is at an end. Whatever the Stepney
folk thought, and however diverse their judgment,
they were all extremely curious : and
after the place had been open for a few weeks
and began to get known, all the ladies from
Whitechapel Church to Bow Church began
with one consent to call. They were received
by a young person of grave face and grave
manner, who showed them all they wanted to
see, answered all their questions, and allowed
them to visit the work-rooms and the show-rooms,
the dining-room and the drawing-room ;
they also saw most beautiful dresses which
were being made for Miss Messenger; those
who went there in the morning might see with
their own eyes dressmaker girls actually playing
lawn-tennis, if in the afternoon they might
see an old gentleman reading aloud while the
girls worked ; they might also observe that
there were flowers in the rooms ; it was perfectly
certain that there was a piano upstairs,
VOL. I. u

because it had been seen by many, and the
person in the show-room made no secret at all
that there was dancing in the evening, with
songs, and reading of books, and other diversions.


The contemplation of these things mostly
sent the visitors away in sorrow. They did not
dance or sing or play, iliey never wanted to
dance or sing, lawn-tennis was not played by
ikeir daughters, the]) did not have bright-covered
books to read ; what did it mean,
giving these things to dressmaker girls ? Some
of them not only resolved not to send their
custom to the Association, but directed tracts
to the house.

They came, however, after a time, and had
their dresses made there, for a reason winch
will appear in the sequel. But at the outset
they held aloof.

Far different was the reception given to the
institution by the people for whose benefit it
was designed. Wlien they had quite got over
their natural suspicion of a strange thing, when
the girls were found to bring home their pay
regularly on a Saturday, when the dinner

proved a real thing and the hours continued to
be merciful, ^vhen the girls reported continuously
kind treatment, when the evenings spent
in the drawing-room were found to be delightful
and when other doubts and whisperings about
Miss Kennedy's motives, intentions, and secret
character gradually died away, the Association
became popular, and all the needle-girls of the
place would fain have joined Miss Kennedy.
The thing which did the most to create the
popularity was the permission for the girls to
bring some of their friends and people on the
Saturday evening. They ' received ' on Saturday
evening : they were at home : they entertained
their guests on that night : and, though
the entertainment cost nothing but the lights,
it soon became an honour and a pleasure to
receive an invitation. Most of those who came
at first were other girls ; they were shy and
stood about all arms : then they learned their
steps : then they danced : then the weariness
wore out of their eyes and the roses came back
to their cheeks : they forgot the hangings of
the work-room, and felt for the first time the
joy of their youth. Some of them were iu-

u2

lined at first to be rough and bold, but the
atmosphere carried them ; they either came no
more, or if they came they were quiet ; some
of them affected a superior and contemptuous
air, not uncommon with ' young persons ' when
they are jealous or envious, but this is a mood
easily cured ; some of them were frivolous, but
these were also easily subdued. For always with
them was Miss Kennedy herself, a Juno, their
queen, whose manner was so kind, whose smile
was so sweet, whose voice was so soft, whose
greeting was so warm, and yet — yet . . . who
could not be resisted, even by the boldest or
the most frivolous. The first step was not to
be afraid of Miss Kennedy : at no subsequent
stage of their acquaintance did any cease to
respect her.

As for Eebekah, she would not come on
Saturday evening, as it was part of her Sabbath
; but Nelly proved of the greatest use in
maintaining the decorum and in promoting the
spirit of the evenings, which wanted, it is true,
a leader.

Sometimes the girls' mothers would come,
especially those who had not too many babies ;

they sat with folded hands and wondering eyes,
while their daughters danced, while Miss
Kennedy sang, or J\Ir. Goslett played his fiddle.
Angela went aniono; them, talking in her
sympathetic way, and won their confidence,
so that they presently responded and told her
all their troubles and woe. Or sometimes the
fathers would be brought, but very seldom
came twice. Now and then a brother would
appear, but it was many weeks before the
brothers began to come regularly ; when they
did, it became apparent that there was something
in the place more attractive than brotherly
duty or the love of dancing. Of course, sweethearts
were bound to come whether they liked
it or not. There were, at first, many little
hitches, disagreeable incidents, rebellious exhibitions
of temper, bad behaviour, mistakes, social
sins, and other things of which the chronicler must
be mute, because the general result is all that
we desire to record. And this was satisfactory.
For the first time the girls learned that there
were joys in life, joys even within their reach,
with a little help, poor as they were ; joys
which cost them nothing. Among them were

girls of the very humblest, who had the
greatest difficulty in presenting a decent
appearance, who lived in crowded lodgings orin
poor houses with their numerous brothers
and sisters : pale-faced girls : heavy-hearted
girls : joyless maidens, loveless maidens : girls
dio from long hours of work, and from want of
open air and good food, stooped their shoulders
and dragged their limbs — when Angela saw
them first, she wished that she was a man to
use strong language against their employers.
How she violated all principles of social
economy, giving clothes, secretly lending
money, visiting mothers, paying rent, and all
without any regard to supply and demand,
marketable value, price current, worth of
labour, wages rate, averages, percentages, interest,
capital, commercial rules, theory of
trade, encouragement of over-population, would
be too disgraceful to narrate ; indeed, she
blushed dien lie thought of the beautiful and
heart-warming science in which she had so
greatly distinguished herself, and on which she
trampled daily. Yet if, on the one side, there
stood cold science, and, on the other, a suffering

girl, it is ridiculous to acknowledge that
the girl alway's won the day.

Among the girls Alas one who interested
Angela greatly, not because she was pretty, for
she was not pretty at all, but plain to look
upon, and lame, but because she bore a very
hard lot with patience and courage very beautiful
to see. She had a sister who was crippled
and had a weak back, so that she could not
sit up long, nor earn much. She had a mother
who was growing old and weak of sight, so
that she could not earn much : she had a young
brother who lived like the sparrows, that is
to say, he ran wild in the streets and stole his
daily bread, and was rapidly rising to the dignity
and rank of an habitual criminal. He seldom,
however, came home, except to borrow or beg
for money. She had a father, whose name
was never mentioned, so that he was certainly
an undesirable father, a bad bargain of a father,
a father impossible, viewed in connection with
the Fifth Commandment. This was the girl
who burst into tears when she saw the roast
beef for the first time. Her tears were caused
by a number of reasons : first, because she

was liUDgry and her condition was low ;
secondly, because roasted beef to a hungry
girl is a thing too beautiful ; thirdly, because
Awhile she was feasting, her sister and her
mother were starving. The crippled sister
presently came to the house and remained in
it all day. What special arrangements were
made with Rebekah, the Spirit of Commerce,
as regards her pay I know not : but she came,
did a little work, sat or lay down in the 
most of the time ; and presently,
under Miss Kennedy's instruction, began to
practise on the piano. A work-girl, actually
a work-girl, if you please, playing scales, with
a one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four,
just as if she was a lady living in the Mile End
Eoad or the daughter of a clerk in the
brewery !

Yes : the girls who had formerly worked in
unhealthy rooms till half-past eight now worked
in well-ventilated rooms till half-past six : they
had time to rest and run about : they had good
food : they had cheerful talk : they were encouraged
: Captain Sorensen came to read
to them : in the evening they had a delightful

room to sit in, where they could read and talk,
or dance, or listen. While they read the
books which Miss Kennedy laid on the table
for them, she would play and sing. First, she
chose simple songs and simple pieces ; and as
their taste for music grew, so her music improved
; and every day found the drawing-room
more attractive, and the girls more loth
to go home. She Watched her experiment
with the keenest interest ; the girls were certainly
growling more refined in manner and in
thought. Even Eebekah was softening daily ;
she looked on at the dance without a shudder,
even when the handsome young workman
clasped Nelly Sorensen by the waist and
whirled her round the room ; and she owned
that there was music in the world, outside
her little chapel, far sweeter than anything
they had within it. As for Nelly she simply
worshipped. Whatever Miss Kennedy did was
right and beautiful and perfect in her eyes ;
nor, in her ignorance of the world, did she
prouder any more over that first difficulty of
hers, why a lady, and such a lady, had come
to Stepney Green to be a dressmaker.

CHAPTEE XIV.

THE TENDER Passion.

It is always a dangerous tiling f(jr two young
persons of opposite sexes to live together under
the same roof, even when the lady is plain and
at first sight unattractive, and when the young
man is stupid. For they get to know one
another. Now, so great is the beauty of human
nature, even in its second-rate or third-rate
productions, that love generally follows when
one of the two, by confession or unconscious
self-betrayal, stands revealed to the other. It
is not the actual man or woman, you see, who
is loved — it is the ideal, the possible, the model
or type from which the specimen is copied, and
which it distinctly resembles. But think of
the danger when the house in which these
young people find themselves is not a large
country house, where many are gathered together
of like pursuits, but an obscure boarding

louise in a Society-forgotten suburb, where
these two had only each other to talk to.
Add to this that they are both interested
in an experiment of the greatest delicacy, in
Avliich the least false step would be fatal.
Add, further, the fact that each is astonished
at the other : the one to find in a dressmaker
the refinement and all the accomplishments of
a lady ; the other to find in a cabinet-maker the
distinguishing; marks of a gentleman ; the same
way of looking at things and talking about
them ; the same bearing and the same courtesy.
The danger was even made greater by what
seemed a preventive, namely, by the way in
which at the beginning Angela so very firmly
put down her foot on the subject of ' keeping
company ' : there was to be no attempt at love-making
; on that understanding the two could,
and did, go about together as much as they
pleased. What followed naturally was that
more and more they began to consider, each
the other, as a problem of an interesting
character. Angela observed that the young
workman, whom she had at first considered of
a frivolous disposition, seemed to be growing
more serious in his views of things, and even

when lie laughed there was method m his folly.
No men are so solemn, she reflected, as the
dull of comprehension ; perhaps the extremely
serious character of the place in which they
lived was making him dull, too. It is difficult,
certainly, for anyone to go on laughing at
Stepney ; the children, who begin by laughing,
like children everywhere, have to give up the
practice before they are eight years of age,
because the streets are so insufferably dull ; the
grown-up people never laugh at all ; when
immigrants arrive from livelier quarters, say
Manchester or Sheffield, after a certain time of
residence — the period varies with the mercurial
temperament of the patient — they laugh no
more. ' Surely,' thought Angela, ' he is settling
down ; he will soon find work ; he will
become like other men of his class ; and then,
no doubt, he will fall in love with Nelly.
Nothing' could be more suitable,'

By saying to herself, over and over again,
that this arrangement should take place, she
had got to persuade herself that it certainly
would. ' Nelly possessed,' she said, ' the refinement
of manner and nature, without which

the young man would be wretched ; she was
affectionate and sensible ; it would certainly
do very well.' And she was hardly conscious,
while she arranged this in her own head, of a
certain uneasy feeling in her mind, which in
smaller creatures might have been called
jealousy.

So far, there had been little to warrant the
belief that think's were advancing in the direction
she desired. He was not much more
attentive to Nelly than to any other of her
girls : worse still, as she reflected with trepidation,
there were many symptoms by which
he showed a preference for quite another person.

As for Harry, it was useless for him to
conceal from himself any longer the fact that
lie was by this time head-overseers in love.
The situation offered greater temptations than
his strength could withstand. He succumbed
whatever the end might be he was in love.

If one comes to think of it, this was rather
a remarkable result of a descent into the Lower
Regions. One expects to meet in the Home of
Dull Ugliness things repellent, coarse, enjoying
the freedom of Nature, unrestrained, unconventional.

Harry found, on the contrary,
the sweetness of Eden, a fair garden of delights,
in winch sat a peerless lady, the Queen of
Beauty, a very Venus. All his life, that is,
since he had begun to think about love at all,
he had stoutly held and strenuously maintained
t^\at it was lese-niajeste, high treason to love,
for a man to throw away — he used to say
throw away ' — upon a maiden of low degree
the passion which should be offered to a lady
— a demoiselle. The position was certainly
altered, inasmuch as he was no longer of gentle
birth Therefore, he argued, he would no
longer pretend to the hand of a lady. At first
he used to make Resolutions, as bravely as a
Board of Directors : he would arise and flee to
the desert — any place would be a desert without
her : he would get out of temptation : he
would go back to Piccadilly, and there forget
her. Yet he remained : yet every day he
sought her again ; every day his condition
became more hopeless : every day he continued
to walk with her, play duets with her, sing
with her, dance with her, argue with her, learn
from her, teach her, watch over her, and felt

the sunshine of her presence, and at meeting
and parting touched her fingers.

She was so well educated, he said, strengthening
his faith : she was so kindly and considerate
: her manners were so perfect : she was
so beautiful and graceful : she knew so well
how to command, that he was constrained to
own that no lady of his acquaintance was, or
could be, her superior. To call her a dressmaker
was to ennoble and sanctify the whole
craft. She should be to that art what Cecilia
is to music — its patron saint : she should be to
himself — 3'et, what would be the ends He
smiled grimly, thinking that there was no need
to speculate on the end, when as yet there had
been no beginning. lie could not make a
beginning. If he ventured on some shy and
modest tentative in the direction of — call it an
understanding — she froze. She was always
on the watch : she seemed to say, ' Thus far
you may presume, but no farther.' What did
it mean ? Was she really resolved never to
receive his advances ? Did she dislike him ?
That could hardly be. Was she watching him ?
Was she afraid to trust him ? That might be.

Or was she already engaged to some other
fellow — some superior fellow — perhaps with a
shop — gracious heavens ! — of his own ? That
might be, though it made him cold to think it
possible. Or did she have some past history,
some unhappy complication of the affections,
which made her as cold as Dean ? That, too,
might be.

The ordinary young man, thrown into the
society of half-a-dozen working girls, would
have begin to flirt and talk nonsense with all
of them together, or with one after the other.
Harry was not that kind of young man. There
is always, .by the blessing of kind heaven, left
unto us a remnant of those who hold woman
sacred, and continually praise, worship, and
reverence the name of love. He was one of
those young men. To flirt with a milliner did
not seem a delightful thing to him, at any time.
And in this case there was another reason why
he should not behave in the manner customary
to the would be Don Juan : it was simply
foi che gentilhomme ; he was tolerated among
them all on a kind of unspoken, but understood,
parole. Miss Kennedy received him in

confidence that he would not abuse her kindness.


One Sunday afternoon when they were
walking together — it was in one of the warm
days of last September — in Victoria Park, they
had a conversation which led to really important
things. There are one or two very pretty
walks in that garden, and though the season
was late, and the leaves mostly yellow, brown,
crimson, or golden, there were still flowers, and
the ornamental water was bright, and the path
crowded with people who looked happy, because
the sun was shining ; they lead all dined
plentifully, With copious beer, and the girls had
got on their best things, and the swains were
gallant with a flower in the button-hole and a
cigar between the lips. There, is, indeed, so
little difference between the rich and the poor ;
can even Hyde Park in the season go beyond
the flower and the cigar ? In certain tropical
lands, the first step in civilisation is to buy a
mosquito curtain, though your dusky epidermis
is as impervious as a crocodile's to the sthig of
a mosquito. In this realm of England the first
step towards gentility is the twopenny smoke,

VOL. I. X

to which we ding, though it is made of medicated
cabbage, though it makes the mouth raw,
the tongue sore, the lips cracked, the eyes red,
the nerves shaky, and the temper short. Who
would not suffer in such a cause ?

It bei2fan with a remark of Ano-ela's about
his continued laziness. He replied, evasively,
that he had intended to take a long holiday, in
order to look round and consider what was
best to be done : that he liked holidays : that
he meant to introduce holidays into the next
trade dispute : that his holidays enabled him to
work a little for Miss Kennedy, without counting
his lordship, whose Case he lead now drawn
up : that lie Alas now ready for work whenever,
he added airily, work was ready for him : and
that he was not, in fact, quite sure that Stepney
and its neighbourhood would prove the best
place for him to work out his life.

I should think,' said Angela, ' that it would
be as good a ]place as any you would find in
America.'

If you tell me to stay. Miss Kennedy,' lie
replied, with a sudden earnestness, ' I will stay.*

She instantly froze, and willingly said that

if Isis interests required liii to go, of course lie
would go.

Therefore, Harry, after a feA\- mom cuts'
silence, during wliicli lie battled with the temptation
to 'have it out' there and then, before
all the happy shepherds and shepherdesses of
Bethnal Green, returned to his original form,
and made as if those words had not been
spoken and that effect not been produced. You
may notice the same thing with children who
have been scolded.

Did you ever consider. Miss Kennedy, the
truly hapjiy condition of the perfect cabinetmaker
? '

No : I never did. Is he happy above his
fellows ? '

Your questions betray your ignorance. Till
lately — till I returned from America — I never
wholly realised what a superior creature he is.
Why, in the first place, the cabinet-maker is
perhaps the only workman who never scamps
his work : he is a responsible man : he takes
pride in producing a good and honest thing.
We have no tricks in our trade. Then, if you

care to hear '

n 2

Pray go on ; let me learn all I can.'

'Then, we were the first to organise ourselves.
Our society was founded eighty years
ago. We had no foolish strike, but we just
met the employers and told them we were
going to arrange with them what our share
should be ; and we made a book about wages —
I do not think so good a book has been put
together this century. Then, we are a respectable
lot : you never hear of a cabinet-maker
in trouble at a ]police court ; very few of us
get drunk ; most of us read books and papers,
and have opinions. My cousin Dick has very
strong opinions. We are critical about amusements,
and we prefer Henry Irving to a music-hall
; we do not allow rough talk in the
workshops ; we are mostly members of some
Church, and we know how to value ourselves.'


I shall know how to value your craft in
future,' said Angela, ' especially Avhen you are
working again.'

Yes. I do not want to work in a shop,
you know ; but one may get a place, perhaps,
in one of the railway carriage depots, or a

hotel, or a big factory, where they always keep
a cabinet-maker in regular pay. My cousin
Dick — Dick the Eadical — is cabinet-maker in a
mangle factory. I do not know what he makes
for his mangles, but that is what he is.'

1 have seen your cousin Tom, when he
was rolled in the mud and before he led off
the hymn and the procession. You must bring
me your cousin Dick.'

Dick is better fun than Tom. Both are
terribly iu earnest ; but you will lind Dick
interesting.'

Does he walk about on Sunday afternoons P
Should we be likely to meet him here ? '

Oh, no. Dick is forging his speech for tonight.
He addresses the Advanced Club almost
every Sunday evening on the House of Lords,
or the Church, or the Country Bumpkin's Suffrage,
or the Cape question, or Protection, or
the Xihilists, or Ireland, or America, or something.
The speech must be red-hot, or his
reputation would be lost. So lie spends the
afternoon sticking it into the furnace, so to
speak. It doesn't matter what the subject is,
always provided that he can lug in the bloated

aristocrat and the lintel Tory. I assure you
Dick is a most interesting person.'

Do you ever speak at the Advanced
Club ? '

I go there ; I am a member ; nov and
then I say a word. When a member makes a
red-hot speech, brimful of insane accusations,
and sits down amid a roimd of applause, it is
pleasant to get up and set him right on matters
of fact, because all the enthusiasm is killed
^vhen you come to facts. Some of them do
not love me at the Chin.'

They are real and in earnest, while you — '

No, Miss Kennedy, they are not real,
whatever I may be. They are quite conventional.
The people like to be roused by red-lot,
scorching speeches ; they want burning
questions, intolerable grievances ; so the speakers
find them or invent them. As for the audience,
they have had so many sham grievances
told in red-hot words that they have become
callous, and don't know of any real ones. The
indignation of the speakers is a sham ; the
enthusiasm of the listeners is a sham ; they
poland the eloquence, bnt as for the stuff that

is said, it moves them not. As for his politics,
the British workman has got a vague idea that
things go better for him under the Liberals.
When the Liberals come in, after making promises
by the thousand, and when, like their
predecessors, they have made the usual mess,
confidence is shaken. Then he allows the Conservatives,
who do not, at all events, promise
oranges and beer all round, back again, and
gives them another shoal. As if it matters
which side is in to the British workman ! '

And they are not discontented,' asked
Angela, ' with their own lives ? '

Not one bit. They don't want to change
their own lives. Why should they ? '

All these people in the park to-day,' she
continued, 'are they working men P "

Yes : some of them : the better sort. Of

course ' Harry looked round and surveyed

the croAvd, ' of course, when you open a garden
of this sort for the people, the well-dressed
come, and the ragged stay a\vay and hide.
There is plenty of ragged stuff round and about
us, but it hides. And there is plenty of comfort
which walks abroad and shows itself. This

end of Loiidou is the home of little industries.
Here, for instance, they make the things which
belong to other things.'

That seems a riddle,' said Angela.

I mean things like card-boxes, ]pill-boxes,
ornamented boxes of all kinds, for confectioners,
druggists, and drapers ; they make all kinds
of such things for wholesale houses. Why,
there are hundreds of trades in this great neglected
city of East London, of which we know
notliino^. You see the manufacture's. Here
they are with their wives, and their sons, and
their daughters : they all lend a hand, and between
them the thing is made.'

And are they discontented ? ' asked Angela
with persistence.

Not they : they get as much happiness as
the money will run to. At the same time, if
the Palace of Delight were once built '

Ah ! ' cried Angela, with a sigh. ' The
Palace of Delight : the Palace of Delight : we
must have it : if it is only to make the people
discontented.'

They walked home presently, and in the
evening they played together, one or two of

the girls being present, in the ' drawing-rooms
The music softens : Angela repented her coldness
of the afternoon. When the girls were
gone, and they were walking side by side beneath
moonlight on the quiet green, she made
shyly a little attempt at compensation.

If,' she said, ' you should find ^^'ork herein
Stepney, you Avould be willing to stay ? '

I would stay,' he replied, ' if you bid me
stay — or go, if you bid me go.'

I would bid you stay,' she replied, speaking
as clearly and as firmly as lie could, ' because
I like your society and because you have been,
and will be, I hope, very helpful to us. But if
bid you stay,' she laid her hand upon his arm,
it must be on no misunderstanding.'

I am your servant,' he said, with a little
agitation in his voice. ' I understand nothings
but what you wish me to understand.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

^■poitiiwo^de (L Co. Printers NtfW-street Square, London.

^lONini JO
Aiis^-a AiN n

IHl JO

A>i v~a g 1 1

\^^, 4!.^^^/yrt "^<^v/v^; .

^mtt*

\K'

%

<;

result in dismissal from the University.
University oflUmoisJ^abrary^

SEP - 7



L161— O-1096

VOL. II.

WALTER BESANT

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY FRED. BARNARD

IN THREE VOLUMES— VOL. IL

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



wall rights reserved]

THE SECOND VOLUME.

'rafter he'd knocked him down, Harry

INVITED THAT ChAP TO STAND UP AND

Have IT out'" Frontispiece

The Audacity op the Little Man excited
Angela's Curiosity . . . Tq face ]%. 122

'In the pull Enjoyment op the Intoxication
produced by his Morning
Pipe'. ,.' „,, 254

'He beckoned her, without a Word, to

rise' j> V-85

CHAPTEE XV.

A SPLENDID OFFER.

It was a strange coincidence that only two
days after this conversation with Miss Kennedy,
Harry received his first offer of employment.

It came from the Brewery, and was in the
first instance a mere note sent by a clerk, inviting
' H. Goslett ' to call at the Accountant's
Office at ten in the morning. The name,
standing bare and naked by itself, without any
preliminary title of respect, Mister, Master, or
Sieur, presented, Harry thought, a very miserable
appearance. Perhaps it would be difficult
to find a readier method of hisultmg
a man than to hurl his own name at his
head. One may understand how Louis Capet

VOL. II. B

must have felt when thus reduced to a plain
simplicity.

'Wliat on earth Harry asked, forgetting
his trade, ' can they want with me ? '

In business houses, working men, even of
the gentle craft of cabinet-making, generally
carry with them tools, sometimes wear an
apron, always have their trousers turned up,
and never wear a collar — using, instead, a red
muffler, which keeps the throat warmer, and
does not so readily show the effects of London
fog and smoke. Also some of their garments
are sometimes made of corduroy, and their
jackets have bulging pockets, and their hats
not infrequently have a pipe stuck in them.
This young working man repaired to the
trysting-place in the easy attire in Which he was
wont to roam about the bowers of the East
End. That is to say, he looked like a carelessly
dressed gentleman.

Harry found, at the office, his uncle,
Mr. Bunker, who snorted when he saw his
nephew.

What are you doing here ? ' he asked.
Can't you waste your time and bring disgrace

on a hard-working uncle outside the place
where he is known and respected ? '

Harry sighed.

Few of us,' he said, ' sufficiently respect
their uncles. And with such an uncle — ah ! '

What more might have passed between
them, I know not. Fortunately, at this point,
they were summoned to the presence of the
Chief Accountant.

He knew Mr. Bunker and shook hands with
him.

'Is this your nephew, Mr. Bunker?' he
asked, looking curiously at the very handsome
Tounoj fellow who stood before him with a
careless air.

Yes, he's my nephew ; at least, he says
so,' said Mr. Bunker surlily. 'Perhaps, sir,
you wouldn't mind telling him Avhat you want,
and letting him f(o. Then we can cet to
business.'

My business is with both of you.'

Both of us ? ' Mr. Bunker looked uneasy
What business could that be in Which he was
connected with his nephew ?

Perhaps I had better read a portion of a

B 2

letter received by me yesterday from Miss
Messenger. That portion which concerns you,
Mr. Bunker, is as follows.'

Father a remarkable letter had been received
at the Brewery on the previous day
from Miss Messenger. It was remarkable, and,
indeed, disquieting, because it showed a disposition
to interfere in the management of the
Great Concern, and the interference of a young
lady in the Brewery boded ill.

The Chief Brewer and the Chief Accountant
read it together. They were a grave and
elderly pair, both in their sixties, who had
been regarded by the late Mr. Messenger as
mere boys. For he was in the eighths.

'Yes,' said the Chief Brewer, as his colleague
read the missive with a sigh, ' I know
what you would say. It is not the thing itself;
the thing is a small thing ; the man may even
be worth his pay ; but it is the spirit of the
letter, the spirit, that concerns me.'

'It is the spirit,' echoed the Chief Accountant.


Either,' said the Chief Brewer, ' we rule
here, or we do not.'

Certainly said the Chief Accountant, ' and
well put.'

'If we do not,' — here the Chief Brewer
rapped the middle knuckle of the back of his
left-hand forefinger with the tip of his right-hand
forefinger, — ' if we do not, what then ? '

They gazed upon each other for a moment
in great sadness, having before their eyes a
hazy vision in which Miss Messenger walked
through the Brewery, putting down the mighty
and lowering salaries. A grateful reward for
lonsj and faithful services ! At the thought of
it, these two servants in their own eyes became
patriarchal, as regards the length of years spent
in the Brewery, and their long services loomed
before then as so devoted and so faithful as to
place them above the rewarding power of any
salary.

The Chief Accountant was a tall old gentleman,
and he stood in a commanding position
on the hearth-rug, the letter in one hand and a
pair of double eye-glasses in the other.

'You will see from what I am about to
read to you, Mr. Bunker,' he began, ' that your

services, such, as they were, to the late Mr.
Messenger, will not go unrewarded.'

Very good, so far; but what had his
reward to do with his nephew ?

You were a good deal with Mr. Messenger
at one time, I remember, Mr. Bunker.'

I was ; a great deal.'

Quite so — quite so ; and you assisted him,
I believe, with his house property and tenants,
and so forth .^ '

'I did.' Mr. Bunker cleared his throat.
I did, and often Mr. Messenger would talk
of the reward I was to have when he was
took.'

'He left you nothing, however; possibly
because he forgot. You ought, therefore, to
be the more grateful to Miss Messenger
for remembering you ; particularly as the
young lady has only heard of you by some
kind of chance.'

Has she — has she — sent something ? ' he
asked.

The Chief Accountant smiled graciously.

She has sent a very considerable present
indeed.'

All ! ' Mr. Bunker's fingers closed as if
they were grappling with bank notes.

Is it,' he asked in trembling accents, — ' is
it a cheque ? '

^ I think, Mr. Bunker, that you will like her
present better than a cheque.'

There can be nothing better than one of
Miss Messenger's cheques,' he replied gallantly.
'Nothing in the world, except perhaps one
that's bigger. I suppose it's notes, then ? '
•^ ' Listen, Mr. Bunker : —

" Considering the various services rendered
to my grandfather by Mr. Bunker, with whom
I believe you are acquainted, in connection
with his property in Stepney and the neighbourhood,
I am anxious to make him some
substantial present. I have therefore caused
inquiries to be made as to the best way of
doing this. I learn that he has a nephew
named Henry Goslett, by trade a cabinetmaker,"
* here Mr. Bunker made violent efforts
to suppress emotion, ' " who is out of employment.
I propose that he should be received
into the Brewery, that a shop with all that he
wants should be fitted up for him, and that he

attend daily until anything better offers, to do
all that may be required in his trade, I should
wish him to be independent as regards time of
attendance, and that he should be paid at the
proper rate for piece-work. In this way, I
hope Mr. Bunker may feel that he has received
a reward more appropriate to the friendly
relations which seem to have existed between
my grandfather and himself than a mere matter
of money ; and I am glad to be able to gratify
him in finding honourable employment for one
who is, I trust, a deserving young man."

Then, Mr. Bunker, there is this why,

good heavens ! man, what is the matter? '

For Mr. Bunker was purple with wrath.
Three times he essayed to speak, three times
he failed. Then he put on his hat and fled
precipitately.

What is the matter with him ? ' asked the
Chief Accountant.

The young workman laughed.

I believe,' he replied, ' that my uncle expected
the cheque.'

Well, well ! ' the Chief Accountant waved
his hand. ' There is nothing more to be said,

You will find your shop ; one of the porters
will take you to it; you will have all the
broken things that used to be sent out, kept for
you to mend, and — and — all that. What we
want a cabinet-maker for in the Brewery, I do
not understand. That will do. Stay — jo\x
seem a rather superior kind of workman.'

'I have had an education,' said Harry,
blushing.

Good ; so long as it has not made you
discontented. Eemember that we want sober
and steady men in this place, and good work.'

I am not certain yet,' said Harry, ' that I
shall be able to take the place.'

Not take the place ? Not take a place in
Messenger's Brewery? Do you know that
everybody who conducts himself well here is
booked for life ? Do you know what you are
throwing away P Not take the place ? Wliy,
you may be cabinet-maker for the Brewery
till they actually pension you off.'

I am — I am a little uncertain in my
designs for the future. I must ask for a day
to consider.'

'Take a day. If, tomorrow, you do not

present yourself in the workshop prepared for
you, I shall tell Miss Messenger that you have
refused her offer.'

Harry walked away with a quickened pulse.
So far he had been posturing only as a
cabinet-maker. At the outset he had no intention
of doing more than posture for a while,
and then go back to civilised Hfe with no more
difference than that caused by the revelation of
his parentage. As for doing work, or taking a
wage, that was very, very far from his mind.
Yet now he must either accept the place, with
the pay, or he must stand confessed a humbug.
There remained but one other way, which was
a worse way than the other two. He might,
that is to say, refuse the work without assigning
any reason. He would then appear in the
character of a lazy and worthless workman —
an idle apprentice, indeed ; one who would dono
work while there was money in the locker
for another day of sloth. With what face
would he stand before Miss Kennedy, revealed
in these — his true colours ?

It was an excellent opportunity for flight.
That occurred to him. But flight ! — and after

that last talk with the woman whose voice,
whose face, whose graciousness had so filled his
head and inflamed his imagination.

He walked away, considering.

When a man is very much perplexed, he
often does a great many little odd things.
Thus, Harry began by looking into the office
where his cousin sat.

Josephus's desk was in the warmest part ot
the room, near the fire — so much promotion
he had received. He sat among half-a-dozen
lads of seventeen or twenty years of age, who
did the mechanical work of making entries in
the books. This he did too, and had done everyday
for forty years. Beside him stood a great
iron safe where the books were put away at night.
The door was open. Harry looked in, caught
the eye of his cousin, nodded encouragingly,
and went on his way, his hands in his
pockets.

When he came to Mr. Bormalack's, he went
in there too, and found Lord Davenant
anxiously waiting for the conduct of the Case
to be resumed, in order that he might put up
his feet and take his morning nap.

This is my last morning,' Harry said. ' As
for your Case, old boy, it is as complete as
I can make it, and we had better send it in as
soon as we can, unless you can find any more
evidence

No — no,' said his lordship, dio found this
familiarity a relief after the stately enjoyment
of the title, ' there will be no more evidence.
Well, if there's nothing more to be done, Mr.
Goslett, I think I will ' — here lie lifted his feet
* and if you see Clara Martha, tell her that
that— '

Here he fell asleep.

It was against the rules to visit the Dressmakers'
Association in the morning: or afternoon.
Harry therefore went to the room
where he had fitted his lathe, and began to
occupy himself with the beautiful cabinet he
was making for Miss Kennedy. But he was
restless : he was on the eve of a very important
step. To take a place ; to be actually paid for
piece-work ; is, if you please, a very different
thing from pretending to have a trade.

Was he prepared to give up the life of
culture ?

He sat down and thought what such a surrender
would mean.

First, there would be no club : none of the
pleasant dinners at the little tables with one
or two of his own friends : no easy chair in the
smoking-room for a wet afternoon : none of
the talk with the men who are actually in
the ring — political, literary, artistic, and dramatic
: none of the pleasant consciousness that
you are behind the scenes, which is enjoyed
by so many young fellows who belong to
good clubs. The club in itself would be a
great thing to surrender.

Next, there would be no society.

He was at that age when society means the
presence of beautiful girls : therefore, he loved
society, whether in the form of a dance, or a
dinner, or an at-home, or an afternoon, or a
garden party, or any other gathering where
young people meet and exchange those ideas
which they fondly imagine to be original.
Well, he must never think any more of society.
That was closed to him.

Next, he must give up most of the accomplishments,
graces, arts, and skill which he had

acquired by dint of great assiduity and much
practice. Billiards, at which he could hold his
own against most ; fencing, at which he was
capable of becoming a professor ; shooting, in
which he was ready to challenge any American
; riding ; the talking of different languages ;
what would it help him now to be a master in
these arts ? They must all go ; for the future
he would have to work nine hours a day for
sentence an hour, which is two pounds a week,
allowing for Saturday afternoon. There would
simply be no time for practising any single one
of these things, even if he could afford the
purchase of the instruments required.

Again : he would have to grieve and disappoint
the kindest man in the whole world —
Lord Jocelyn.

I think it speaks well for this young man
that one thing did not trouble him — the question
of eating and drinking. He would dine
no more ; working men do not dine ; they
stoke. He would drink no more wine ; well,
Harry always considered beer a most excellent
and delicious beverage, particularly when you
get it unadulterated.

Could he give np all these things? He
did not conceive it possible, you see, that a
man should go and become a workman, receiving
a wage and obeying orders, and afterwards
resume his old place among gentlemen,
as if nothing lead happened. Indeed, it would
require a vast amount of explanation.

Then he began to consider what he would
get if he remained.

One thing only would reward him. He
was so far gone in love, that for this girl's sake
he would renounce everything and become a
workman indeed.

He could not work : the quiet of the room
oppressed him : he must be up and moving
while this struj^o-le went on.

Then he thought of his uncle Bunker and
laughed, remembering his discomfiture and
wrath. While he was laughing the door
opened, and the very man appeared.

He had lost his purple hue, and was now, in
fact, rather pale, and his cheeks looked flabby.

!Nephew' he said huskily, ' I want to talk
to you about this thing ; give over sniggerin',
and talk serious now.'

Let us be serious.'

'This is a most dreadful mistake of Miss
Messenger's : you know at first I thought it
must be a joke. That was why I went away ;
men of my age and respectability don't like
jokes. But it was no joke. I see now it is
just a mere dreadful mistake, which you can
set right.'

How can I set it right ? '

'To be sure, I could do it myself, very
easily. I have only got to write to her, and
tell her that you've got no character, and nobody
knows if you know your trade.'

'I don't think that would do, because I
might write as well '

The best plan would be for you to refuse
the situation and go away again. Look here,
boy : you come from no one knows where ;
you live no one knows how ; you don't do any
work — my impression is, you don't want any; and
you've only come to see what you can borrow
or steal. That's my opinion. Now, don't let's
argue, but just listen. If you'll go away
quietly, without any fuss, just telling them at
the Brewery that you've got to go, I'll give

you — yes — I'll give you — twenty pounds down!
There ! '

Very liberal indeed ! But I am afraid '

I'll make it twenty-five. A man of spirit
can do anything with twenty-five pounds down.
Why, he might go to the other end of the world.
If I were you I'd go there. Large openings
there for a lad of spirit — large openings !
Twenty-five pounds down, on the nail.'

It seems a generous offer, still '

Nothing,' Mr. Bunker went on, ' has gone
well since you came. There's this dreadful
mistake of Miss Messenger's ; then that Miss
Kennedy's job. I didn't make anything out of
that compared with what I might, and there's

the ' He stopped because he was thinking

of the houses.

I leant you to go,' he added, almost plaintively.


And that, very much, is one of the reasons
why I want to stay. Because, you see, you
have not yet answered a question of mine.
What did you get for me when you traded me
away ? '

VOL. II. c

For the second time his question produced
a very remarkable effect upon the good man.

When he had gone, slamming the door behind
him, Harry smiled sweetly.

I know,' he said, ' that he has done " something,"
as they call it. Bunker is afraid. And
I — yes — I shall find it out and terrify him still
more. But, in order to find it out, I must stay.
And if I stay, I must be a workman. And
wear an apron ! And a brown-paper cap !
No. I draw the line above aprons. No consideration
shall induce me to wear an apron.
Not even — no — not if she were to make the
apron a condition of marriage.'

CHAPTEE XVI.

Harry's decision.

He spent the afternoon wandering about the
streets of Stepney, full of the new thought that
here might be his future home. This reflection
made hun regard the place from quite a novel
point of view. As a mere outsider, he had
looked upon the place critically, with amusement,
with pity, with horror (in rainy weather),
with wonder (in sunshiny days). He was a
spectator, while before his eyes were played as
many little comedies, comediettas, or tragedies,
or melodramas as there were inhabitants. But
no farces, he remarked, and no burlesques.
The life of industry contains no elements of
farce or of burlesque. But if he took this
decisive step he would have to look upon the
East End from an inside point of view; he
would be himself one of the actors, he Avould

c 2

play his own little comedy. Therefore he
must introduce the emotion of sympathy, and
suppress the critical attitude altogether.

There was once an Earl who went away
and. became a sailor before the mast ; he seems
to have enjoyed sailoring better than legislating,
but was, by accident, ingloriously drowned
while so engaged. There was also the Honourable
Timothy Clitheroe Davenant, who was
also supposed to be drowned, but in reality
exercised until his death, and apparently with
happiness, the craft of wheelwright. There
was another unfortunate nobleman, well known
to fame, who became a butcher in a colony,
and .liked it. Precedents enough of voluntary
descent and eclipse, to say nothing of the involuntary
observations, as when an emigre had
to teach dancing, or the son of a Eoyal Duke
was fain to become a village schoolmaster.
These historical parallels pleased Harry's fancy
until he recollected that he was himself only a
son of the people and not of noble descent, so
that they really did not bear upon his case,
and he could find not one single precedent in
the whole of history parallel with himself.

Mine,' he said, formulating the thing, ' is a
very remarkable and unusual case. Here is a
man brought up to believe himself of gentle
birth, and educated as a gentleman, so that
there is nothing in the most liberal training of
a gentleman that he has not learned, and no
accomplishment which becomes a gentleman
that he has not acquired. Then he learns that
he is not a gentleman by birth, and that he is
a pauper ; wherefore, why not honest work ?
Work is noble, to be sure, especially if you get
the kind of work you like, and please yourself
about the time of doing it ; nothing could be a
more noble spectacle than that of myself working
at a lathe for nothing, in the old days ;
would it be quite as noble at the Brewery,
doing piece-work ? '

These reflections, this putting of the case to
himself, this grand dubiety, occupied the whole
afternoon. When the evening came, and it
was time for him to present himself in the
drawing-room, he was no further advanced towards
a decision.

The room looked bright and restful ; whereever
Angela went, she was accompanied and

surrounded by an atmosphere of refinement.
Those who conversed with her became infected
with her culture ; therefore, the place was like
any drawing-room at the West End, save for
the furniture, which was simple. Ladies would
have noticed, even in such little things, in the
way in which the girls sat and carried themselves,
a note of difference. To Harry these
minutiae were unknown, and he saw only a
room-full of girls quietly happy and apparently
well-bred : some were reading ; some were talking
; one or two were ' making ' something for
themselves, though their busy fingers had been
at work all day. Nelly and Miss Kennedy
were listening to the Captain, who was telling
a yarn of his old East Indiamen. The three
made a pretty group. Miss Kennedy seated on
a low stool at the Captain's knee, while the
old man leaned forward in his arm-chair,
his daughter beside him watching, in her
affectionate and pretty way, the face of her
patron.

The quiet, peaceful air of the room, the happy
and contented faces which before had been so
harassed and worn, struck the young man's

heart. Part of this Iiacl been his doing ; could
he go away and leave the brave girl who
headed the little enterprise to the tender
mercies of a Bunker ? The thought of what
he was throwing up — the club life, the art life,
the literary life, the holiday time, the delightful
roving in foreign lands which he should
enjoy no more — all seemed insignificant considered
beside this haven of rest and peace in
the troubled waters of the East End. He was
no philanthropist ; the cant of platforms was
intolerable to him ; yet he was thinking of a
step which meant giving up of his own
happiness for that of others : with, of course,
the constant society of the woman he loved.
Without that compensation the sacrifice would
be impossible.

Miss Kennedy looked up and nodded to
him kindly, motioning him not to interrupt the
story, which the Captain presently finished.

Then they had a little music and a little
playing, and there was a little dancing — all just
as usual ; a quiet, pleasant evening ; and they
went away.

'You are silent to-night, Mr. Goslett,'

said Angela, as they took their customary-walk
in the quiet little garden called Stepney
Green.

Yes. I am like the parrot ; I think the
more.'

What is in your mind ? '

This : I have had an offer — an offer of work
from the Brewery. Miss Messenger herself
sent the offer, which I am to accept, or to
refuse, tomorrow morning.'

An offer of work ? I congratulate you.
Of course you will accept P ' She looked at
him sharply, even suspiciously.

I do not know.'

You have forgotten,' lie said — in other
girls the words and the tone of her voice
would have sounded like an encouragement —
you have forgotten what you said only last
Sunday evening.'

'No, I have not forgotten. What I said
last Sunday evening only increases my embarrassment.
I did not expect then — I did not
think it possible that any work here would be
offered to me.'

Is the pay insufficient ? '

Xo ; the pay is to be at the usual market
rate.'

Are the hours too long ? '

I am to please myself. It seems as if the
young lady had done her best to make me as
independent as a man wl^o works for money
can be.'

Yet you hesitate. Why ? '

He was silent ; thinking what he should
tell her. The whole truth would have been
best ; but then, one so seldom tells the whole
truth about anything, far less about oneself.
He could not tell her that he had been masquerading
all the time, after so many protestations
of being a real working man.

Is it that you do not like to make friends
among the East End workmen ? '

'No.' He could answer this with truth.
It is not that. The working men here are
better than I expected to find them. They are
more sensible, more self-reliant, and less dangerous.
To be sure, they profess to entertain
an unreasoning dislike for rich people, and, I
believe, think that their lives are entirely spent
over oranges and skittles. I wish they had

more knowledge of books, and could be got to
think in some elemental fashion about Art. I
wish they had a better sense of beauty, and I
wish they could be persuaded to cultivate some
of the graces of life. You shall teach them,
Miss Kennedy. Also, I wish that tobacco
was not their only solace. I am very much
interested in them. That is not the reason

If you please to tell me — ' she said.

Well, then 'she would tell that fatal half-truth,
— ' the reason is this : you know that I
have had an education above what Fortune
intended for me when she made me the son of
Sergeant Goslett.'

I know,' she replied. ' It was my case as
well ; we are companions in this great happiness.'


The man who conferred this benefit upon
me, the best and kindest-hearted man in the
world, to whom I am indebted for more than I
can tell you, is willing to do more for me. If
I please, I may live with him, in idleness.'

You may live in idleness ? That must be
indeed a tempting offer ! '

Idleness,' he replied, a little hurt at her

contempt for what certainly was a temptation
for him, ' does not always mean doing nothing.'
What would you do, then ? '

There is the life of culture and art '

'Oh, no ! ' she replied. ' Would you really
like to become one of those poor creatures who
think they lead lives devoted to art ? Would
you like to grow silly over blue china, to
quarrel about colour, to worship Form in
poetry, to judge everything by the narrow
rules of the latest pedantic fashion P '
You know this art world, then ? '
I know something of it, I have heard of it.
Never mind me, think of yourself. You would
not, you could not, condemn yourself to such a
life.'

Not to such a life as you picture. But,
consider, I am offered a life of freedom instead
of servitude.'

Servitude ! Why, we are all servants one
of the other. Society is like the human body,
in which all the limbs belong to each other.
There must be rich and poor, idlers and
workers ; we depend one upon the other ; if
the rich do not ivory with and for the poor,

retribution falls upon them. The poor must
work for the rich, or they will starve ; poor or
rich, I think it is better to be poor ; idler or
worker, I know it is better to be worker.'

He thought of Lord Jocelyn : of the pleasant
chambers in Piccadilly : of the club : of
his own friends : of society : of little dinners :
of stalls at the theatre : of suppers among
actors and actresses : of artists and their
smoking parties : of the men who write, and
the men who talk, and the men who know
everybody, and are full of stories : of his riding,
and hunting, and shooting : of his fencing, and
billiards, and cards.

All these things passed through his brain
swiftly, in a moment. And then he thought of
the beautiful woman beside him, whose voice
was the sweetest music to him that he had ever
heard.

You must take the offer,' she went on,
and her words fell upon his ear like the words
of an oracle to a Greek in doubt. ' Work at
the Brewery is not hard. You will have no
taskmaster set over you ; you are free to go
and come, to choose your own time : there will

be, in so great a place there must be, work,
quite enough to occupy your time. Give up
yearning after an idle life, and work in
patience.'

Is there anything,' he said, ' to which you
could not persuade me ? '

Oh, not for me ! ' she replied impatiently.
It is for yourself. You have your life before
you, to throw away or to use. Tell me — ' she
hesitated a little ; ' you have come back to
your own kith and kin, after many years.
They were strange to you at first, all these
people of the East End — your own people.
Now that you know them, should you like to
go away from them, altogether away, and forget
them? Could you desert themes You
know, if you go, that you will desert them, for
between this end of London and the other
there is a great gulf fixed, across which no one
ever passes. You will leave us altogether if
you leave us now.'

At this point Harry felt the very strongest
desire to make it clear that what concerned
him most would be the leaving her, but he
repressed the temptation, and merely remarked

that if he did desert his kith and kin, they
would not regret him. His uncle Bunker, he
explained, had even offered him five-and-twenty
pounds to go.

'It is not that you have done anything,
you know, except to help us in our little
experiment,' said Angela. ' But it is what you
may do, what you shall do, if you remain.'

What can I do ? '

You have knowledge : you have a voice :
you have a quick eye and a ready tongue :
you could lead, you could preside. Oh, what
a career you might have before you ! '

You think too v/ell of me, Miss Kennedy.
I am a very lazy and worthless kind of
man

'No.' She shook her head and smiled.
I know you better than you know yourself.
I have watched you for these months. And
then, we must not forget, there is our Palace
of Delight.'

Are we millionaires ? '

Why, we have already begun it. There
is our drawing-room ; it is only a few weeks
old, yet see what a difference there is already.

The girls are happy; their finer tastes are
awakened ; their natural yearnings after things
delightful are partly satisfied ; they laugh and
sing now ; they run about and play. There is
already something of our dream realised. Stay
with us, and we shall see the rest.'

He made an efibrt and again restrained
himself.

I stay, then,' he said, ' for your sake —
because you command me to stay.'

Had she done well ? She asked herself the
question in the shelter of her bedroom, with
great doubt and anxiety. This young workman,
who might if he chose be a — well, yes —
a gentleman — quite as good a gentleman as
most of the men who pretend to the title —
was going to give up whatever prospects he
had in the world, at her bidding, and for her
sake. For her sake ! Yet, what he wished
was impossible.

What reward, then, had she to offer him
that would satisfy him ? Nothing. Stay, he
was only a man. One pretty face was as good
as another ; he was struck with hers for the
moment. She would put him in the way of

being attracted by another. Yes ; that would
do. This settled in her own mind, she put the
matter aside, and, as she was very sleepy, she
only murmured to herself, as her eyes closed,
Nelly Sorensen.'

CHAPTER XVII.

WHAT LORD JOCELYN THOUGHT.

The subject of Angela's meditations was not
where she thought him, in his own bedroom.
When he left his adviser, he did not go in at
once, but walked once or twice up and down
the pavement, thinking. What he had promised
to do was nothing less than to reverse,
altogether, the whole of his promised life ; and
this is no light matter, even if you do it for
love's sweet sake. And Miss Kennedy, being
no longer with him, he felt a little chilled from
the first enthusiasm. Presently he looked at
his watch : it was still early ; only half-past
ten.

There is the chance,' he said. ' It is only
a chance. He generally comes back somewhere
about this time.'

There are no cabs at Stepney, but there

VOL; IL D

are tramways which go quite as fast, and,
besides, give one the opportunity of exchanging
ideas on current topics with one's traveling
companions. Harry jumped into one, and sat
down between a bibulous old gentleman, who
said he lived in Fore Street, but had for the
moment mislaid all his other ideas, and a lady
who talked to herself as she carried a bundle.
She was rehearsing something dramatic, a
monologue, in which, she was ' giving it ' to
somebody unknown. And she was so much
under the influence and emotion of imagination,
that the young man trembled lest he
might be mistaken for the person addressed.
However, happily, the lady so far restrained
herself, and Aldgate was reached in peace.
There he took a hansom and drove to Piccadilly.


The streets looked strange to him after his
three months' absence ; the lights, the crowds
on the pavements, so different from the East
End crowd ; the rush of the carriages and cabs
taking the people home from the theatre, filled
him with a strange lonsfinix. He had been
asleep; he had had a dream; there was no

Stepney ; there was no Whitechapel Eoad : a
strange and wondrous dream. Miss Kennedy
and her damsels were only part of this vision.
A beautiful and delightful dream. He was
back again in Piccadilly, and all was exactly as
it always had been.

So far all was exactly the same, for Lord
Jocelyn was in his chamber, and alone.

You are come back to me, Harry ? ' he
said, holding the young man's hand ; ' you
have had enough of your cousins and the
worthy Bunker. Sit doAvn, boy. I heard your
foot on the stairs. I have waited for it a longtime.
Sit down and let me look at you. Tomorrow
you shall tell me all your adventures.'

It is comfortable,' said Harry, taking his
old chair and one of his guardian's cigarettes.
Yes, Piccadilly is better, in some respects, than
Whitechapel.'

And there is more comfort the higher up
you climb, eh .^ '

Certainly, more comfort. There is not, I
am sure, such an easy chair as this east of St.
Paul's.'

Then they were silent, as becomes two men
D 2

who know what is in each other's heart, and .
wait for it to be said.

You look well,' said Harry presently.
Where did you spend the summer? '
Mediterranean. Yacht. Partridges.'
Of course. Do you stay in London long ? '
And so on. Playing with the talk, and
postponing the inevitable, Harry learned where
everybody had been, and who was engaged,
and who was married, and how one or two had
joined the majority since his departure. He
also heard the latest scandal, and the current
talk, and what had been done at the Club, and
who had been black-balled, with divers small
bits of information about people and things.
And he took up the talk in the old manner, and
fell into the old attitude of mind quite naturally,
and as if there had been no break at all. Presently
the clock pointed to one, and Lord
Jocelyn rose.

We will talk again tomorrow, Harry my
Doy, and the day after to morrow, and many
days after that. I am glad to have you back
again.' He laid his hand upon the young man's
shoulder.

Do not go just yet said Harry, blushing
and feeling guilty, because he was going to inflict
pain on one who loved him. 'I cannot
talk with you tomorrow.'

'Why not?'

Because — sit down again and listen — because
I have made up my mind to join my kith
and kin altogether, and stay among them.'

What ? Stay among them ? '

You remember what you told me of your
motive in taking me. You would bring up
a boy of the people like a gentleman. You
would educate him in all that a gentleman can
learn, and then you would send him back to his
friends, whom he would make discontented,
and so open the way for civilisation.'

I said so — did I ? Yes ; but there were
other things, Harry. You forget that motives
are always mixed. There was affection for my
brave sergeant and a desire to help his son ;
there were all sorts of things. Besides, I expected
that you would take a rough kind of
polish only — like nickel, you know, or pewter
and you turned out real silver. A gentleman,
I thought, is born, not made. This proved

a mistake. The puddle blood would slow, I
expected : which was prejudice, you see, because
there is no such thing as puddle blood.
Besides, I thought you would be stupid and
slow to pick up ideas, and that you would pickup
only a few ; supposing in my ignorance, that
all persons not " born," as the Germans say,
must be stupid and slow.'

And I was not stupid .^ '

You ? The brightest and cleverest lad in
the whole world — you stepped into the place I
made for you as if you had been born for it.
Now tell me why you wish to step out of it.'

Like you, sir, I have many motives. Partly,
I am greatly interested in my own people :
partly, I am interested in the place itself and
its ways ; partly, I am told, and I believe, that
there is a great deal which I can do there — do
not laugh at me.'

I am not laughing, Harry ; I am only
astonished. Yes, you are changed : your eyes
are different, your voice is different. Go on,
my boy.'

I do not think there is much to say — I
mean, in explanation. But of course I understand

— it is a part of the thing — that if I stay
among them I must be independent. I could
no longer look to your bounty, which I have
accepted too long. I must work for my living.'

Work ? And what will you do ? '

I know a lot of things, but somehow they
are not wanted at Stepney, and the only thing
by which I can make money seems to be my
lathe — I have become a cabinet-maker.'

Heavens ! You have become a cabinetmaker?
Do you actually mean, Harry, that
you are going to work — with your hands — for
money ? '

Yes ; with my hands. I shall be paid for
my work ; I shall live by my work. The
puddle blood, you see.'

Sto, no,' said Lord Jocelyn, ' there is no
proof of puddle blood in being independent.
But think of the discomfort of it.'

'I have thought of the discomfort. It is
not really so very bad. What is your idea of
the life I shall have to live ? '

Why,' said Lord Jocelyn, with a shudder,
you will rise at six ; you will go out in working
clothes, carrying your tools, and with your

apron tied round and tucked up like a missionary
bishop, on his way to a confirmation. You
will find yourself in a workshop full of disagreeable
people, who pick out unpleasant
adjectives and tack them on to everything, and
whose views of life and habits are — well, not
your own. You will have to smoke pipes at a
street corner on Sundays ; your tobacco will be
bad ; you will drink bad beer — Harry ! the
contemplation of the thing is too painful.'

Harry laughed.

The reality is not quite so bad,' he said.
'Cabinet-makers are excellent fellows. And
as for myself, I shall not work in a shop, but
alone. I am offered the post of cabinet-maker
in a great place where I shall have my own
room to myself, and can please my own convenience
as to my hours. I shall earn about
sentence an hour, say seven shillings a day, if I
keep at it.'

If he keeps at it,' murmured Lord Jocelyn,
he will make seven shillings a day.'

Dinner in the middle of the day, of course,'
Harry went on, with a cheerful smile. ' At
the East End everybody stokes at one. We

have tea at five and supper when we can get it.
A simpler life than yours.'

'This is a programme of such extreme
misery,' said Lord Jocelyn, ' that your explanations
are quite insufficient. Is there, I wonder,
a woman in the case ? '

Harry blushed violently.

There is a woman, then ? ' said his guardian
triumphantly. ' There always is. I might have
guessed it from the beginning. Come, Harry,
tell me all about it. Is it serious ? Is she —
can she be — at Whitechapel — a lady ? '

Yes,' said Harry, ' it is quite true. There
is a woman, and I am in love with her. She is
a dressmaker.'

'Oh!'

'And a lady.'

Lord Jocelyn said nothing.

'A lady,' Harry repeated the words, to show
that he knew what he was saying. ' But it is
no use. She won't listen to me.'

That is more remarkable than your two
last statements. Many men have fallen in love
with dressmakers ; some dressmakers have acquired
partially the manners of a lady ; but

that any dressmaker should refuse the honourable
attentions of a handsome young fellow like
you, and a gentleman, is inconceivable.'

A cabinet-maker, not a gentleman. But
do not let us talk of her, if you please.'

Then Lord Jocelyn proceeded, with such
eloquence as was at his command, to draw a
picture of what he was throwing away compared
with what he was accepting. There was
a universal feeling, he assured his ward, of
sympathy with him ; everybody felt that it was
rough on such a man as himself to find that he
was not of illustrious descent ; he would take
his old place in society, all his old friends would
welcome him back among them, with much
more to the same purpose.

It was four o'clock in the morning when
their conversation ended, and Lord Jocelyn
went to bed sorrowful, promising to renew his
arguments in the morning. As soon as he was
gone, Harry went to his own room and put
together a few little trifles belonging to the past
which he thought he should like. Then he
wrote a letter of farewell to his guardian, promising
to report himself from time to time, with

a few words of gratitude and affection. And
then he stole quietly down the stairs and found
himself in the open street. Like a school-boy,
he had run away.

There was nobody left in the streets. Half-past
four in the morning is almost the quietest
time of any ; even the burglar has gone home,
and it is too early for anything but the market-garden
carts on their way to Covent Garden.
He strode down Piccadilly and across the silent
Leicester Square into the Strand. He passed
through that remarkable thoroughfare, and, byway
of Fleet Street, where even the newspaper
offices were deserted, the leader-writers and the
editor and the sub-editors all gone home to bed,
to St. Paul's. It was then a little after five,
and there was already a stir. An occasional
foot-fall along the principal streets. By the
time he got to the Whitechapel Pioad there
were a good many up and about, and before he
reached Stepney Green the day's work was
beginning. The night had gone and the sun
was rising, for it was six o'clock and a cloudless
morning. At ten he presented himself once
more at the accountant's office.

Well ? ' asked the Chief.
I am come,' said Harry, ' to accept Miss
Messenger's offer.'

o

You seem pretty independent. However,
that is the way with you working men nowadays.
I suppose you don't even pretend to feel
any gratitude ? '

I don't pretend,' said Harry pretty hotly,
to answer questions outside the work I have
to do.'

The Chief looked at him as if he could, if he
wished, and was not a Christian, annihilate him.

Go, young man,' he said presently, pointing
to the door, ' go to your work. Rudeness
to his betters a working man considers due to
himself, I suppose. Go to your work.'

Harry obeyed without a word, being in
such a rage that he could not speak. When
he reached his workshop, he found waiting to
be mended an office-stool with a broken leg. I
regret to report that this unhappy stool immediately
became a stool with four broken legs
and a kicked-out seat.

Harry was for the moment too strong for
the furniture.

Not even the thought of Miss Kennedy's
approbation could bring him comfort. He was
an artisan, he worked by the piece, that was
nothing. The galling thing was to realise that
he must now behave to certain classes with a
semblance of respect, because now he had his
betters.'

The day before, he was a gentleman who
had no ' betters.' He was enriched by this
addition to his possessions, and yet he was not
grateful.

CHAPTEE Xviii.

THE PALACE OF DELIGHT.

There lies on the west and south-west of
Stepney Green a triangular district, consisting
of an irregular four-sided figure — what Euclid
beautifully calls a trapezium — formed by the
Whitechapel Eoad, the Commercial Eoad,
Stepney Green and High Street, or Jamaica
Street, or Jubilee Street, whichever you please
to call your frontier. This favoured spot
exhibits in perfection all the leading features
which characterise the great Joyless City. It
is, in fact, the heart of the East End. Its
streets are mean and without individuality or
beauty ; at no season and under no conditions
can they ever be picturesque ; one can tell,
without inquiring, that the lives led in those
houses are all after the same model, and that
the inhabitants have no pleasures. Everything

that goes to make a city, except the means of
amusement, is to be found here. There are
churches and chapels — do not the blackened
ruins of Whitechapel Church stand here?
There are superior ' seminaries ' and ' academies,'
names which linger here to show
where the yearning after the genteel survives ;
there is a Board School, there is the great
London Hospital, there are almshouses, there
are even squares in it — Sidney Square and
Bedford Square, to wit — but there are no
gardens, avenues, theatres, art galleries, libraries,
or any kind of amusement whatever.

The leading thoroughfare of this quarter "is
named Oxford Street, which runs nearly all the
way from the New Eoad to Stepney Church.
It begins well with some breadth, a church
and a few trees on one side, and almshouses
with a few trees on the other. This promise is
not kept ; it immediately narrows and becomes
like the streets which branch out of it, a double
row of little two-storied houses, all alike. Apparently
they are all furnished alike ; in each
ground-floor front there are the red curtains
and the white blind of respectability, with the

little table bearing something, either a basket
of artificial flowers, or a big Bible, or a vase,
or a case of stuffed birds from foreign parts,
to mark the gentility of the family. A little
farther on, the houses begin to have small
balconies on the first floor, and are even more
genteel. The streets which run off north and
south are like unto it but meaner. Now, the
really sad thing about this district is that the
residents are not the starving class, or the
vicious class, or the drinking class ; they are a
well-to-do and thriving people, yet they desire
no happiness, they do not feel the lack of joy,
they live in meanness and are contented therewith.
So that it is emphatically a representative
quarter and a type of the East End generally,
which is for the most part respectable
and wholly dull, and perfectly contented never
to know what pleasant strolling and resting-places,
what delightful interests, what varied
occupation, what sweet diversions there are in
life.

As for the people, they follow a great
variety of trades. There are ' travelling drapers '
in abundance ; it is, in fact, the chosen quartier

of that romantic following ; there are a good
many stevedores, which betrays the neighbourhood
of docks ; there are some who follow the
mysterious calling of herbalist, and I believe
you could here still buy the materials for those
now forgotten delicacies, saloop and tansy
pudding. You can, at least, purchase medicines
for any disease under the sun if ' you
know the right herbalist to go to. One of
them is a medium as well ; and if you call on
him, you may be entertained by the artless
prattle of the ' sprouts,' of whom he knows
one or two. They call themselves all sorts of
names — such as Peter, Paul, Shakespeare, Napoleon,
and Byron — but in reality there are only
two of them, and they are bad actors. Then
there are cork-cutters, ' wine-merchants' engineers
' — it seems rather a grand thing for a
wine merchant, above all other men, to want
an engineer ; novelists do not want engineers
sealing-wax manufacturers, workers in shellac
and zinc, sign-painters, heraldic painters,
coopers, makers of combs, iron-hoops, and sun-blinds,
pewterers, feather makers — they only
pretend to make feathers ; what they really do

VOL. II. E

is to buy them, or to pluck the birds, and then
arrange the feathers and trim them ; but they
do not really make them — ship-modellers, a
small but haughty race ; mat-dealers, who
never pass a prison without using bad language,
for reasons which many who have enjoyed the
comforts of a prison will doubtless understand.
There are also a large quantity of people who
call themselves teachers of music. This maybe
taken as mere pride and ostentatious pretence,
because no one wants to learn music in
this country, no one ever plays any music, no
one has a desire to hear any. If any one called
and asked for terms of tuition, he would be
courteously invited to go away, or the professor
would be engaged, or he would be out of
town. In the same way, a late learned professor
of Arabic in the University of Cambridge
was reported always to have important business
in the country if an Arab came to visit the
colleges. But what a lift above the stevedores,
pewterers, and feather pretenders to be a professor
of music !

Angela would plant her Palace in this
region, the most fitting place, because the most

dreary; because here there exists nothing,
absolutely nothing, for the imagination to feed
upon. It is, in fact, though this is not generally
known, the purgatory prepared for those
who have given themselves up too much to the
enjoyment of roses and rapture while living at
the West End. How beautiful are all the
designs of Nature ! Could there be, anywhere
in the world, a more fitting place for such a
purgatory than such a city? Besides, once
one understands the thing, one is further
enabled to explain why these grim and sombre
streets remain without improvement. To
beautify them would seem, in the eyes of
pious and religious people, almost a flying
in the face of Providence. And yet, not really
so ; for it may be argued that there are other
places equally fitted for the punishment of these
purgatorial souls — for instance, Hoxton, Bethnal
Green, Battersea, and the Isle of Dogs.

Angela resolved, therefore, that on this spot
the Palace of Joy should stand. There should
be, for all who chose to accept it, a general
and standing invitation to accept happiness
and create new forms of delight. She would
E 2

LIBRARY

iiNiVFRSrfY OF lllWWw

awaken in dull and lethargic brains a new
sense, the sense of pleasure ; she would
give them a craving for things of which as
yet they knew nothing. She would place
within their reach, at no cost whatever, absolutely
free for all, the same enjoyments as are
purchased by the ricci. A beautiful dream.
They should cultivate a noble discontent ; they
should gradually learn to be critical ; they
should import into their own homes the spirit
of discontent ; they should cease to look on
life as a daily uprising and a down-sitting, a
daily mechanical toil, a daily rest. To cultivate
the sense of pleasure is to civilise. With
the majority of mankind the sense is undeveloped,
and is chiefly confined to eating and
drinking. To teach the people how the capacity
of delight may be widened, how it may be
taught to throw out branches in all manner of
unsuspected directions, was Angela's ambition.
A very beautiful dream.

She owned so many houses in this district
that it was quite easy to find a place suitable
for her purpose. She discovered upon the map
of her property a whole four-square block of

small houses, all her own, bounded north,
south, east, and west by streets of other small
houses, similar and similarly situated. This
site was about five minutes west of Stepney
Green, and in the district already described.
The houses were occupied by weekly tenants,
who would find no difficulty in getting quarters
as eligible elsewhere. Some of them were in
bad repair; and what wdtli maintenance of
roofs and chimneys, bad debts, midnight fittings,
and other causes, there was little or no
income derived from these houses. Mr. Messenger,
indeed, who was a hard man, but not
unjust, only kept them to save them from the
small owner like Mr. Bunker, Avhose necessities
and greed made him a rack-rent landlord.

Having fixed upon her site, Angela next
proceeded to have interviews — but not on the
spot, where she might be recognised — with
lawyers and architects, and to unfold partially
her design. The area on which the houses
stood formed a pretty large plot of ground,
ample for her purpose, provided that the most
was made of the space and nothing wasted.
But a great deal was required ; therefore she

would have no lordly staircases covering half
the ground, nor great ante-rooms, nor handsome
lobbies. Everything, she carefully explained,
was to be constructed for use and not
for show. She wanted, to begin with, three
large halls : one of them was to be a dancing-room,
but it might also be a children's playroom
for wet weather : one was to be used fora
permanent exhibition of native talent, in
painting, drawing, wood and ivory carving,
sculpture, leather work and the like, everything
being for sale at low prices ; the last was
to be a library, reading and writing-room.
There was also to be a theatre, which would
serve as a concert and music-room, and was to
have an organ in it. In addition to these there
were to be a great number of class-rooms for
the various arts, accomplishments, and graces
that Avere to be taught by competent professors
and lecturers. There were to be other rooms
where tired people might find rest, quiet, and
talk — the women with tea and work, the men
with tobacco. And there were to be billiard-rooms,
a tennis-court, a racquet-court, a fives-court,
and a card-room. In fact, there was to

be space found for almost every kind of recreation.


She did not explain to lier architect how
she proposed to use this magnificent place of
entertainment ; it was enough that he should
design it and can out her ideas : and she
stipulated that no curious inquirers on the spot
should be told for what purpose the building
was destined, nor who was the builder.

One cannot get designs for a palace in a
week : it was already late in the autumn, after
Harry had taken up his appointment, and was
busy among the legs of stools, that the houses
began to be pulled down and the remnants
carted away. Angela pressed on the work:
but it seemed a long and tedious delay before
the foundations were laid and the walls began
slowly to rise.

There should have been a great Function
when the foundation-stone was laid, with a procession
of the clergy in white surplices and college
caps, perhaps a bishop, Miss Messenger herself,
with her friends, a lord or two, the officers
of the nearest Masonic Lodge, a few Foresters,
Odd Fellows Ancient Buffaloes, . Druids and

Shepherds, a flag, the chanty children, a dozen
policemen, and Venetian masts, with a prayer,
a hymn, a speech, and a breakfast — nothing
short of this should have satisfied the
founder. Yet she let the opportunity slip, and
nothing was done at all ; the great building,
destined to change the character of the Gloomy
City into a City of Sunshine, was begun with
no pomp or outward demonstration. Gangs
of workmen cleared away the ignoble bricks ;
the little tenements vanished ; a broad space
bristling with little garden walls gaped where
they had stood ; then the walls vanished ; and
nothing at all was left but holes where cellars
had been ; then they raised a hoarding round the
whole, and began to dig out the foundation.
After the hoarding was put up, nothing more,
for a long time was visible. Angela used to
prowl round it in the morning, when her girls
were all at work, but fearful lest the architect
might come and recognise her.

As she saw her Palace begin to grow into
existence, she became anxious about its success.
The first beatific vision, the rapture of imagination,
was ovej% and would come no more ; she

had now to face the hard fact of an unsympathetic
people who perhaps would not desire
any pleasure — or if any, then the pleasure of a
spree ' with plenty of beer. How could the
thing be worked if the people themselves would
not work it? How many could she reckon
upon as her friends ? Perhaps two or three at
most. Oh ! the Herculean task, for one woman,
with two or three disciples, to revolutionise the
City of East London !

With this upon her mind, her conversations
with the intelligent young cabinet-maker
became more than usually grave and earnest.
He was himself more serious than of old,
because he now occupied so responsible a
position in the Brewery. Their relations remained
unchanged. They walked together,
they talked and they devised things for the
drawing-room, and especially for Saturday
evenings.

I think,' he said, one evening when they
were alone except for Nelly in the drawing-room,
' I think that we should never think or
talk of working men in the lump, any more
than we think of rich men in a lump. All

sorts and conditions of men are pretty much
alike, and what moves one moves all. We are
all tempted in the same way ; we can all be
led in the same way.'

Yes, but I do not see how that fact
helps.'

They were talking, as Angela loved to do,
of the scheme of the Palace.

If the Palace were built, we should offer
the people of Stepney, without prejudice to
Whitechapel, Mile End, Bow, or even Cable
Street, a great many things which at present they
cannot get and do not desire. Yet they have
always proved extremely attractive. We offer
the society of the young for the young, with
dancing, singing, music, acting, entertainments
— everything except, which is an enormous
exception, feasting : we offer them all for nothing
; we tell them, in fact, to do everything
for themselves: to be the actors, singers,
dancers, and musicians.'

And they cannot do anything.'

A few can ; the rest will come in. You
forget. Miss Kennedy, the honour and glory of
acting, singing, and performing in^public. Can

there be a greater reward than the applause of
one's friends ? '

It could never be so nice,' said Nelly, ' to
dance in a great hall among a lot of people as
to dance up here, all by ourselves.'

The Palace was not, in these days, very
greatly in the young man's mind. He was
occupied with other things : his own work and
position; the wisdom of his choice: the prospects
of the future. For surely, if he had
exchanged the old life and got nothing in return
but work at a lathe all day at sentence
an hour, the change was a bad one. Nothing
more had been said to him by Miss Kennedy
about the great things he was to do, with her,
for her, among his people. Was he, then, supposed
to find out for himself these great things ?
And he made no more way with his wooing.
That was stopped, apparently, altogether.

Always kind to him ; always well pleased
to see him ; always receiving him with the
same sweet and gracious smile ; always frank
and open with him ; but nothing more.

Of late he had observed that her mind was
greatly occupied ; she was brooding over something

; he feared that it might be something todo
with the Associated Dressmakers' financial
position. She did not communicate her
anxieties to him, but always, when they were
alone, wanted to go back to their vision of the
Palace. Harry possessed a ready sympathy;
he fell easily and at once into the direction
suggested by another's words. Therefore,
when Angela talked about the Palace, he too
took up the thread of invention, and made
believe with her as if it were a thing possible,
a thing of brick and mortar.

I see,' he went on this evening, warming
to the work, ' I see the opening day, long
announced, of the Palace. The halls are furnished
and lit up ; the dancing-room is ready ;
the theatre is completed, and the electric
lights are lit ; the concert-rooms are ready
with their music-stands and their seats. The
doors are open. Then a wonderful thing
happens.'

What is that ? ' asked Angela.

Nobody comes.'
- 'Oh!'

The vast chambers echo with the footsteps

of yourself, Miss Kennedy, and of Nelly who
makes no more noise than a demure kitten.
Captain Sorensen and I make as much trampling
as we can, to produce the effect of a crowd.
But it hardly seems to succeed. Then come
the girls, and we try to get up a dance ; but,
as Nelly says, it is not quite the same as your
drawing-room. Presently two men, with pipes
in their mouths, come in and look about them.
I explain that the stage is ready for them, if
they like to act ; or the concert-room, if they
will sing ; or the dancing-room, should they
wish to shake a leg. They stare and they go
away. Then we shut up the doors and go
away and cry.'

Oh, Mr. Goslett, have you no other comfort
for me ? '

Plenty of comfort. While we are all crying,
somebody has a happy thought. I think it is
Nelly.'

She blushed a pretty rosy red. ' I am sure
I could never suggest anything.'

Nelly suggests that we shall offer prizes, a
quantity of prizes, for competition in everything,
the audience or the spectators to be

judges ; and then the Palace will be filled and
the universal reign of joy will begin.'

Can we afford prizes ? ' asked Angela, the
practical.

Miss Kennedy,' said Harry severely, ' permit
me to remind you that, in carrying out
this project, money, for the first time in the
world's history, is to be of no value.'

If Newnham does not teach women to
originate — which a thousand Newnhams will
never do — it teaches them to catch at an idea
and develop it. The young workman suggested
her Palace ; but his first rough idea was
a poor thing compared with Angela's finished
structure — a wigwam beside a castle, a tabernacle
beside a cathedral. Angela was devising
an experiment, the like of which has never yet
been tried upon restless and dissatisfied mankind.
She was going, in short, to say to them :
Life is full, crammed full, overflowing with all
kinds of delights. It is a mistake to suppose
that only rich people can enjoy these things.
They may buy them, but everybody may create
them; they cost nothing. You shall learn
music, and forthwith all the world will be

transformed for you ; you shall learn to paint,
to carve, to model, to design, and the day shall
be too short to contain the happiness you will
get out of it. You shall learn to dance, and
know the rapture of the waltz. You shall
learn the great art of acting, and give each
other the pleasure which rich men buy. You
shall even learn the great art of writing, and
learn the magic of a charmed phrase. All
these things which make the life of rich people
happy shall be yours ; and they shall cost you
nothing. What the heart of man can desire
shall be yours ; and for nothing. I ^V\\\ give
you a house to shelter you, and rooms in which
to play ; you have only to find the rest. Enter
in, my friends ; forget the squalid past ; here
are great halls and lovely corridors — they are
yours. Fill them with sweet echoes of dropping
music ; let the walls be covered with your
works of art ; let the girls laugh and the boys
be happy within these walls. I give you the
shell, the empty carcase ; fill it with the Spirit
of Content and Happiness.'

Would they, to begin with, 'behave according
' ? It was easy to bring together half a

dozen dressmakers : girls always like behaving
nicely ; would the young men be equally
amenable ? And would the policeman be inevitable,
as in the corridors of a theatre ? The
police, however, would have to be voluntary,
like every other part of the Institution, and the
guardians of the peace must, like the performers
in the entertainments, give their services
for nothing. For which end, Harry suggested,
it would be highly convenient to have a
professor of the noble art of self-defence, with
others of fencing, single-stick, quarter staff, and
other kindred objects.

CHAPTER XIX.

DICK THE RADICAL.

In the early days of winter, the walls of the
palace being now already well above the hoarding,
Angela made another important convert.
This was no other than Dick Coppin, the cousin
of whom mention has been already made.

I weill bring him to your drawing-room,'
said Harry. ' That is, if he will come. He
does not know much about drawing-rooms, but
he is a great man at the Stepney Advanced
Club. He is the reddest of red-hot Eats, and
the most advanced of Republicans. I do not
think he would himself go a-murdering of
kings and priests, but I fancy he regards these
things as accidents naturally rising out of
a pardonable enthusiasm. His manners are
better than you will generally find, because he
belongs to my own gentle craft. You shall
tame him. Miss Kennedy.'

VOL. II. P

Angela said lie would try.

He shall learii to waltz,' Harry went on.
This will convert him from a fierce Republican
to a merely enthusiastic Eadical. Then
he shall learn to sing in parts : this will drop
him down into advanced Liberalism. And if
you can persuade him to attend your evenings,
talk with the girls, or engage in some Art,
say painting, he will become, quite naturally, a
mere Conservative.'

With some difficulty, Harry persuaded his
cousin to come with him. Dick Coppin was
not, he said of himself, a dangler after girls'
apron-strings, having something else to think
of ; nor was he attracted by the promise, held
out by his cousin, of music and singing.
But he came under protest, because music
seemed to him an idle thing while the House
of Lords remained undestroyed, and because
this cousin of his could somehow make him do
pretty nearly what he pleased.

He was a man of Harry's own age ; a short
man, with somewhat rough and rugged features
strong, and not without the beauty of
strength. His forehead was broad : he lead

thick eyebrows, the thick lips of one who
speaks much in public, and a straight chin —
the chin of obstinacy. His eyes were bright
and full ; his hair was black : his face was
oval : his expression was masterful : it was
altogether the face of a man who interested
one. Angela thought of his brother, the Captain
in the Salvation Army : this man, she felt,
had all the courage of the other, with more
common-sense ; yet one who, too, might become
a fanatic, who might be dangerous if he
took the wrong side. She shook hands with
him and welcomed him. Then she said that
she wanted dancing men for her evenings, and
hoped that he could dance. It was the first
time in his life that Mr. Coppin had been
asked that question, and also the first time that
he had thought it possible that any man in his
senses, except a sailor, should be expected to
dance. Of course he could not, and said so
bluntly, sticking his thumbs in his waistcoat
pockets, which is a gesture peculiar to the trade,
if you care to notice so small a fact.

Your cousin,' said Angela, ' will teach you.
Mr. Goslett, please give Mr. Coppin a lesson in

F 2

a quadrille. Nelly, you will be his partner.
Now, if you will make up the set, I will play.'

An elderly bishop of Calvinistic principles
could not have been more astonished than was
this young workman. He had not the presence
of mind to refuse. Before he realised his
position, he was standing beside his partner :
in front of him stood his cousin, also with a
partner : four girls made up the set. Then the
music began, and he was dragged, pushed,
hustled, and pulled this way and that. He
would have resented this treatment but that
the girls took such pains to set him right, and
evidently regarded the lesson as one of the
greatest importance. Nor did they cease until
he had discerned what the mathematician
called the Law of the Quadrille, and could tread
the measure with some approach to accuracy.

'We shall not be satisfied, Mr. Coppin,'
said Angela, when the Quadrille was finished,
until we have taught everybody to dance.'

'What is the good of dancing?' he asked
good-humouredly, but a good deal humiliated
by the struggle.

Dancing is graceful : dancing is a good

exercise ; dancing should be natural to young
people : dancing is delightful. See — I will
play a waltz ; now watch the girls.'

She placed. Instantly the girls caught
each other by the waist and whirled round the
room with brightened eyes and parted lips.
Harry took Nelly in the close embrace which
accompanies the German dance, and swiftly,
easily, gracefully, danced round and round the
room.

Is it not happiness that you are witnessing,
Mr. Copying' asked Angela. 'Tell me, did
you ever see dressmakers happy before ? You,
too, shall learn to waltz. I will teach you,, but
not to-nio'ht.'

Then they left off dancing and sat dowai,
talking and laughing. Harry took his violin
and discoursed sweet music, to which they
listened or not as they listed. Only the girl Who
was lame looked on with rapt and eager face.

See her ! ' said Angela, pointing her out.
She has found wdiat her soul was ignorantly
desiring. She has found music. Tell me, Mr.
Coppin, if it where not for the music and this
room, what would that poor child be .^ '

He made no reply. Never before had lie
witnessed, never had he suspected, such an
evening. There were the girls whom he despised,
who laughed and jested with the lads in
the street, who talked loud and were foolish.
Why, they were changed. What did it mean ?
And who was this young woman, who looked
and spoke as no other woman he had ever met,
yet was only a dressmaker ?

'I have heard of you, Mr. Coppin,' this
young person said, in her queen-like manner,
and I am glad that you have come. We shall
expect you, now, every Saturday evening. I
hear that you are a political student.'

'I am a Eepublican,' he replied. 'That's
about what I am.' Again he stuck his thumbs
into his waistcoat pockets.

'Yes. You do not perhaps quite under-understand
what it is that we are doing here, do
you? In a small way — it is quite a little thing
it may interest even a political student like
yourself. The interests of milliners and dressmakers
are very small compared with the
House of Lords. Still — your sisters and
cousins '

'It seeing pleasant,' he replied, 'if jowl
don't all get set up witJi high notions. As forme,
I am for root-and-branch Eeform, I am.'

'Yes: but all improvement in Government
means improvement of the people, does it not ?
Else, I see no reason for trying to improve a
Government.'

He made no reply. He was so much
accustomed to the vague denunciations and
cheap rhetoric of his class, that a small practical
point was strange to him.

Now,' said Angela, ' I asked your cousin
to bring you here, because I learn that you area
man of great mental activity, and likely if
you are properly directed, to be of great use
to us.'

He stared acrain. Who was this dressmaker
who spoke about directing him ? The
same uncomfortable feeling came over him, a
cold doubt about himself, which he often felt
Avhen in the society of his cousin. No man
likes to feel that he is not perfectly and entirely
right, and that he must be right,

We are a society,' she went on, ' of girls
who want to work for ourselves : avo all of us

belong to your class ; we therefore look to you
for sympathy and assistance. Yet you hold
aloof from us. We have had some support here
already, but none from the people who ought
most to sympathise with us. That is, I suppose,
because you know nothing about us.
Very well, then. While your cousin is amusing
those girls, I will tell you about our
Association.'

'Now you understand, Mr. Coppiu. You
men have long since organised yourselves — it is
our turn now ; and we look to you for help.
We are not going to work any longer for a
master : we are not going to work long hours
any longer : and we are going to get time
every day for fresh aii% exercise, and amusement.
You are continually occupied, I believe,
at your Club, in denouncing the pleasures of
the rich. But we are actually going to enjoy
all those pleasures ourselves, and they will cost
us nothing. Look round this room — we have
a piano lent to us : there is your cousin with
his fiddle, and Captain Sorensen with his : weare
learning part-songs, Which cost us three-halfpence

each : we dance : we play : we read
■ — a subscription to Smith's is only three
guineas a year : we have games which are
cheap : the whole expense of our evenings is
the fire in winter and the gas. On Saturday
evenings we have some cake and lemonade,
which one of the girls makes for us. What
can rich people have more than society, lights,
music, singing, and dancing ? '

He was silent, wondering at this thinijj.

Don't you see, Mr. Coppin, that if we are
successful we shall be the cause of many more
such Associations Don't you see, that if we
could get our principle established, Ave should
accomplish a greater revolution than the overthrow
of the Lords and the Church, and one
for more beneficial ? '

You can't succeed,' he said. ' It's been
tried before.'

'Yes: by men: I know it. And it has
always broken down because the leaders were
false to their principles and betrayed the

cause.'

Where are the girls to get money to start
with?'

'We are fortunate,' Angela replied. 'We
have this house and furniture given to us by a
lady interested in us. That, I own, is a great
thing. But other rich people v/ill be found
to do as much. Why, how much better it is
than leaving money to hospitals ! '

Each people ! ' he echoed with contempt.

Yes : rich people, of whom you know so
little, Mr. Coppin, that I think you ought to
be very careful how you speak of them. But
think of us, look at the giiis. Do they not
look happier than they used to looks '

He replied untruthfully, because he was
not going to give in to a woman all of a sudden,
that he did not remember how they used
to look, but that undoubtedly they now looked
very well. He did not say — which he felt — •
that they were behaving more quietly and
modestly than he had ever known them to
behave.

'You,' Angela went on, with a little emphasis
on the pronoun, which made her speech
a delicate flattery, — ' you, Mr. Coppin, cannot
fail to observe how the evening's relaxation
helps to raise the whole tone of the girls. The

music which they hear sinks into their hearts
and lifts them above the little cares of their
lives : the daiicicg makes them merry : the
social life, the talk among ourselves, the books
they read, all help to maintain a pure and
elevated tone of thought — I declare, Mr. Cop-pin,
I no longer know these girls. And then
they bring their friends, and so. their influence
spreads. They will not, I hope, remain in the
work-rooms all their lives. A woman should
be married, do not you think so, Mr. Coppin ? '

He was too much astonished at the whole
conversation to make any coherent reply.

I think you have perhaps turned your
attention too much to politics, have you not ?
Yet practical questions ought to interest you.'

They say, at the Club,' he answered, ' that
this place is a sham and a humbug

Will you bring your friends here to slow
them that it is not r '

Harry stood up for you the other night.
He's plucky, and they like him for all he looks
a swell'

Does he speak at your Club ? '

Sometimes — not to say speak. He gets

up after the speech, and saj^s so and so is wrong.
Yet they like him — because he isn't afraid to
say what he thinks. They call him " Gentleman
Jack." '

I thought he was a brave man said
Angela, looking at Harry, who was rehearsing
some story to the delight of Nelly and the
girls.

Yes — the other night they were talking
about you, and one said one thing, and one said
another, and a chap said he thought he'd seen
you in a West End music-hall, and he didn't
believe you were any better than you should
be.'

Oh ! ' She shrank as if she had been struck
some blow.

He didn't say it twice. After he'd knocked
him down, Harry invited that chap to stand up
and have it out. But lie wouldn't.'

It was a great misfortune for Harry that he
lost the soft and glowing look of gratitude and
admiration which was quite wasted upon him.
For he was at the very point, the critical point,
of the story.

Angela had made another convert. When

ALL SORTS and Conditions of MEh\ 77

Dick Coppice went home that night, he was
humbled but pensive. Here was a thing of
which he had never thought — and here was a
woman the like of whom he had never imagined.
The House of Lords, the CIuutIi, the Land
Laws, presented no attraction that night for
his thoughts. For the first time in Ins life, he
fek the influence of a Avoman.

CHAPTER XX.

DOWN, ox THEIR LUCK.

Engaged in these pursuits, neither Angela nor
Harry paid much heed to the circle at the
Boarding House, where they were still nominally
boarders. Eor Angela was all day long at
her Association, and her general assistant, or
Prime Minister, after a hasty breakfast, hastened
to his daily labour. He found that he was left
entirely to his own devices ; work came in
which he did or left undone, Miss Messenger's
instructions were faithfully carried out, and his
independence was respected. During work
time he planned amusements and surprises for
Miss Kennedy and her girls, or he meditated
upon the Monotony of Man, a subject wdiicli I
may possibly explain later on ; or when he
knocked off, he would go and see the draymen
roll about the heavy casks as if they were footballs

: or he should watch the raacliiiierv and
look at the great brown mass of bcihng hops,
or he would drop suddenly upon his cousin
Josephus, and observe him faithfully entering
names, ticking off and comparing, just as he had
done for forty years, still a Junior Clerk. But
he gave no thought to the Boarders.

One evening, however, in late September,
he happened to look in towards nine o'clock,
the hour when the frugal supper was generally
spread. The usual occupants of the room were
there, but there was no supper on the table,
and the landlady was absent.

Harry stood in the doorway, with his hands
in his pockets, carelessly looking at the group.
Suddenly he became aware, with a curious
sinking of heart, that something was gone
wrong with all of them. They where all silent,
all sitting bolt upright, no one taking the least
notice of his neighbour, and all apparently in
some physical pain.

The illustrious Pair were in their usual
places, but his lordship, instead of looking
sleepy and sleepily content, as was his custom,
at the evening hour, sat bolt upright and

thrummed the arm of his chair with his fingers,
restless and ill at ease ; opposite to him sat his
consort, her hands tightly clasped, her bright
beady eyes gleaming with impatience, which
might at any moment break out into wrath.
Yet the Case was completely drawn np, as
Harry knew, because he had finished it himself,
and it only remained to make a clean copy
before it was ' sent in ' to the Lord Chancellor.

As for the Professor, he was seated at the
window, his legs curled under the chair, looking
moodily across Stepney Green — into space, and
neglecting his experiments. His generally
cheerful face wore an anxious expression, as if
he was thinking of something unpleasant, which
would force itself upon his attention.

Josephus was in his corner, without his
pipe, and more than usually melancholy. His
sadness always, however, increased in the evening,
so that he hardly counted.

Daniel, frowning like a Thine Baron of the
good old time, had his books before him, but
they were closed. It was a bad sign that even
the Version in the Hebrew had no attraction
for him.

Mr. Maliphant alone was smiling. His
smiles, in such an assemblage of melancholy
faces, produced an incongruous effect. The
atmosphere was charged with gloom : it was
funereal : in the midst of it the gay and cheerful
countenance, albeit wrinkled, of the old
man, beamed like the sun impertinently shining
amid foss and rain, sleet and snoAv. The thing
was absurd. Harry felt the force of Miss
Kennedy's remark that the occupants of the
room reminded her of a fortuitous concourse of
flies, or of ants, or rooks, or people in an omnibus,
each of whom was profoundly occupied
with its own affairs and careless of its neighbours.
Oat of six in the room, five were unhappy
: they did not ask for, or expect, the
sympathies of their neighbours : they did not
reveal their anxieties : they sat and suffered in
silence : the sixth alone was quite cheerful : it
was nothing to him what experiences the rest
were having, whether they were enjoying the
sweetness of the upper airs, or enduring hardness.
He sat in his own place near the Professor
: he laughed aloud : lie even talked and
told stories, to which no one listened. When

VOL. ir. G

Harry appeared, he was just ending a story
which he had never begun.

So it was given to the other fellow. And
he came from Baxter Street, close to the City
Hall, which is generally allowed to be the
wickedest street in New York City.'

He paused a little, laughed cheerfully,
rubbed his dry old hands together, smoked his
pipe in silence, and then concluded his story,
having filled up the middle in his own mind,
without speech.

And so he took to the coasting trade off
the Andes.'

Harry caught the eye of the Professor, and
beckoned him to come outside.

'Now,' he said, taking his arm, 'what the
devil is the matter with all of you ? '

The Professor smiled feebly under the gas
lamp in the street, and instantly relapsed into
his anxious expression.

I suppose,' he said, ' that is, I guess, because
they haven't told me, that it's the same
with them as with me.'

And that is ? '

The Professor slapped his empty pockets

Want of cash,' he said. ' I'm used to it
in the autumn, just before the engagements
begin. Bless you ! It's nothing to me. Though,
when you've had no dinner for a week, you do
begin to feel as if you could murder and roast
a cat, if no one was looking. I've even begun
to wish that the Eighth Commandment was
suspended during the autumn.'

Do you mean, man, that you are all
hungry ? *

All except old Maliphant, and he doesn't
count. Josephus had some dinner yesterday,
but he says he can't afford supper and dinner
too at the rate his heels wear out. Yes, I don't
suppose there's been a dinner a-piece among us
for the last week.'

Good Heavens ! ' Harry hurried off to find
the landlady.

She was in the kitchen sitting before the
fire, though it was a warm night. She looked
up when her lodger entered, and Harry observed
that she, too, wore an air of dejection.

Well, Mrs. Bormalack ? '

She groaned and wiped away a tear.

My heart bleeds for them, Mr. Goslett,'

G 2

she said. ' I can't bear to set eyes on them : I
can't face them. Because to do what I should
like to do for them, would be nothing short of
ruin. And how to send them away I cannot
tell'

He nodded his head encouragingly.

You are a young man, Mr. Goslett, and
you don't consider — and you are thinking day
and night of that sweet young thing, Miss
Kennedy. And she of you. Oh ! you needn't
blush : a handsome young fellow like you is a
prize for any woman, however good-looking.
Besides, I've got eyes.'

Still, that does not help us much to the
polit. Mis. Bormalack, wench is, what can we
do for them ? '

Oh, dear me ! the poor things don't board
and lodge any more, Mr. Goslett. They've had
no board to-day. If I did what I should like
to do — but I can't. There's the rent and rates
and all. And how I can keep them in the
house, unless they pay then* rent, I can't tell.
I've never been so miserable since Captain
Jeffrey went away, owing for three months.'

Not enough to eat ? '

Lady Davenant came to me this morning,
and paid the rent for this week, but not the
board : said that her nephew Nathaniel hadn't
sent the six dollars, and they could only have
breakfast, and must find some cheap place for
dinner somewhere else. In the middle of the
day they went out. Her ladyship put quite a
chirp face upon it : said they were going into
the city to get dinner, but his lordship groaned.
Dinner ! The came home at two, and his
groans have been heartrending all the afternoon.
I never heard such groaning.'

Poor old man ! '

And there's the Professor, too. It's low
water with him. No one wants conjuring till
winter comes. But he's quite used to go without
his dinner. You needn't mind him ! '

Eels,' said Harry, ' are used to being
skinned. Yet they wriggle a bit.'

He produced a few coins and proffered a
certain request to the landlady. Then he returned
to his fellow-lodgers. ?

Presently there was heard in the direction
of the kitchen a cheerful hissing, followed by a
perfectly divine fragrance. Daniel closed his

eyes, and leaned back in his clair. The Professor
smiled. His lordship rolled in his chair
and groaned. Presently Mrs. Bormalack appeared,
and the cloth was laid. His lordship
showed signs of an increasing agitation. The
fragrance increased. He leaned forward clutching
the arm of his chair, looking to his wife as
if for help and guidance at this most difficult
crisis. He was frightfully hungry : all his
dinner had been a biscuit and a half, his wife
having taken the other half. What is a biscuit
and a half to one accustomed to the flesh-pots
of Canaan City ?

Clara Martha,' he groaned, trying to
whisper, but failing in his agitation, ' I must
have some of that beefsteak or I shall '

Here he relapsed into silence again.

It was not from a desire to watch the
sufferings of the unlucky Peer, or in order to
laugh at them, that Harry hesitated to invite
him. Xow, however, he hesitated no longer.

I am giving a little supper to-night, Lady
Davenant, to — to — celebrate my birthday. May
I hope that you and his lordship will join us P '

Her ladyship most affably accepted.

Well : they were fed ; they made up for
the meagreness of the midday meal by such a
supper as should be chronicled, so large, so
generous was it. Such a supper, said the Professor,
as should carry a man along for a week,
were it not for the foolish habit of getting
hungry twice at least in the four-and-twenty
hours. After supper they all became cheerful,
and presently went to bed as happy as if there
were no tomorrow, and the next day's dinner
was assured.

When they were gone, Harry began to
smoke his evening pipe. Then he became aware
of the presence of the two who were left — his
cousin Josephus and old Mr. Maliphant.

The former was sitting in gloomy silence,
and the latter was making as if he would say
something, but thought better of it, and smiled
instead.

Josephus,' said Harry, * what the devil
makes you so gloomy ? You can't be hungry
still?'

No,' he replied. ' It isn't that : a junior
clerk fifty-five years old has no right to get
hungry.'

What is it, then ? '

They talk of changes in the office, that is
alL Some of the juniors ^vill be promoted ;
not me, of course ; and some will have to go.
After forty years in the Brewery, I shall have
to go. That's all.'

Seems rough, doesn't it ? Can't you borrow
a handful of malt, and set up a little Brewery
for yourself? '

It is only starvation. After all, it doesn't
matter — nobody cares wdiat happens to a junior
clerk. There are plenty more. And the workhouse
is said to be well managed. Perhaps
they weill let me keep their accounts.'

When do you thmk — the — the reduction
will be made ? '

Next month, they say.'

Come, cheer up, old man,' said his cousin.
Why, if they do turn you out — which would
be a burning shame — you can fid something
better.'

No,' replied Josephus sadly, ' I know my
place. I am a junior clerk. They can be got
to do my work at seven bob a week. Ah ! in
thousands.'

Well, but can't you do anything else ? '

Nothing else.'

'In all these 3'eai>', man, have you learned
nothing at all ? '

Nothing at all.'

Is there, thought Harry, gazing upon his
luckless cousin, a condition more miserable
than that of the cheap clerk ? In early life he
learns to spell, to read, to write, and perhaps
to keep books, but this only if he is ambitious.
Here his education ends : he has no desire to
learn anything more : he falls into whatever
place he can get, and then he begins a life in
which there is no hope of preferment and no
endeavour after better tidings. There are, in
every civilised country, thousands and thousands
of these helpless and hopeless creatures :
they mostly suffer in silence, being at the best
ill-fed and ill-paid : but they sometimes utter a
feeble moan, when one of them can be found
with vitality enough, about their pay and prospects
: no one has yet told them the honest
truth, that they are already paid as much as
they deserve : that their miserable accomplishments
cannot for a moment be compared with

the skill of an artisan : that they are self-condemned
because they make no effort. They
have not even the energy to make a Union :
they have not the sense of self-protection : they
are content, if they are not hungry, if they have
tobacco to smoke and beer to drink.

How long is it since you — did — whatever
it was you did, that kept you down ? ' asked the
younger man, at length.

I did nothing. It was an accident. Unless,'
added Josephus with a smile, — ' unless it was
the Devil. But devils don't care to meddle
with junior clerks.'

What was the accident, then .^ '

It was one day in June ; I remember the
day, quite well. I was alone in my office, the
same office as I am in still. The others, younger
than myself, and I was then twenty-one, were
gone off on business. The safe stood close to
my desk. There was a bundle of papers in
it sealed up, and marked "Mr. Messenger,
Private," which had been there a goodish
while, so that I suppose they were not important
: some of the books were there as
well, and Mr. Messenger himself had sent

down, only an hour before . . . before . . .
it happened, a packet of notes to be paid into
the bank. The money lead been brought in
by our country collectors — fourteen thousand
pounds, in country bank-notes. Now remember,
I was sitting at the desk and the safe was
locked, and the keys where in the desk, and no
one was in the office except me. And I will
swear that the notes where in the safe. I told
Mr. Messenger that I would take my oath toit,
and I would still.' Josephus grew almost
animated as he approached the important point
in his history.

'Well?'

Things being so — remember, no one but
me in the office, and the keys '

I remember. Get along.'

I was sent for.'

By Mr. Messenger ? ' *

Mr. Messenger didn't send for junior clerks.
He used to send for the Heads of Departments,
who sent for the chief clerks dio ordered the
juniors. That was the way in those days. No,
I was sent for to the chief clerk's office and
given a packet of letters for copying. That

took three minutes. When I came lack the
office was still empty, the safe was locked and
the keys in my desk.'

'Well?'

Well — but the safe was empty ! '

What ! all the money gone ? '

All gone, every farthing — with Mr. Messenger's
private papers.'

What a strange thing ! '

No one saw anybody going into the office
or coming out. Nothing else was taken.'

'Come — with 14,000/. in his hand, no
reasonable thief would ask for more.'

And what is more extraordinary still, not
one of those notes has ever since been presented
for payment.'

And then, I suppose, there was a row.'

Josephus assented.

First, I was to be sacked at once ; then I
was to be watched and searched ; next, I was
to be kept on until the notes were presented
and the thief caught. I have been kept on,
the notes have not been pi-resented ; and I've
had the same pay, neither more nor less, all
the time. That's all the story. Now, thereto

be an end of that. I'm to be sent
away.'

Mr. Malignant had not been listening to
the story at all, being pleasantly occupied with
his own reminiscences. At this point one of
them made him laugh and rnb his hands.

When Mr. Messenger's father married
Susanna Coppin, I have heard '

Here he stopped.

Hallo ! ' cried Harry. ' Go on, Venerable.
Why, we are cousins or nephews, or something,
of Miss Messenger. Josephus, my boy,
cheer up ! '

Mr. Maliphant's memory now jumped over
two generations, and he went on.

Caroline Coppin married a sergeant in the
army, and a handsome lad — I forget his name.
But Mary Coppin married Bunker. The Copies
were a good old Whitechapel stock, as good as
the Messengers. As for Bunker, he was an upstart,
he was ; and came from Barking, as I
always understood.'

Then he vva3 once more silent.

CHAPTER XXL

LADY Covenant.

It was a frequent custom with Lady Davenant
to sit with the girls in the work-room in the
morning. She liked to have a place where
she could talk ; she took an ex-professional
interest in their occupation ; she had the eye
of an artist for their interpretation of the
fashion. Moreover, it pleased her to be in the
company of Miss Kennedy, who was essentially
a woman's woman. Men who are so unhappy
as to have married a man's woman will understand
perfectly what I mean. On the morning
after Harry's most providential birthday, therefore,
when she appeared, no one was in the
least disturbed. But to-day she did not greet
the girls with her accustomed stately inclination
of the head, which implied that, although now
a Peeress, she had been bight up to their

profession and in a Eepublican School of
Thought, and did not set herself up above her
neighbours. Yet respect to rank should be
conceded, and was expected. In general, too,
she was talkative, and enlivened the tedium of
work with many an anecdote illustrating Canaan
City and its ways, or showing the lethargic
manners of the Davenants, both her husband
and his other, to say nothing of the grandfather,
contented with the lowly occupation of
a wheelwright, while he might have soared to
the British House of Lords. This morning,
however, she sat down and was silent, and her
head drooped. Angela, who sat next her and
watched, presently observed that a tear formed
in her eye and dropped upon her work, and
that her lips moved as if she was holding a
conversation with herself. Thereupon she arose,
put her hand upon the poor lady's arm,
and drew her away without a word to the
solitude of the ding-room, where her ladyship
gave way and burst into an agony of
sobbing.

Angela stood before lier saying nothing. It
Alas best to let the fit have its way. When the

crying was nearly over, she laid her hand upon
her hair and gently smoothed it.

Poor dear lady ! ' she said. ' Will you tell
me what has happened ? '

Everything,' she gasped. ' Oh ! everything.
The six months are hone, all but one.
Nephew Nathaniel writes to say that as we
haven't even made a start, all this time, he
reckons we don't count to make any, and he's
got children, and as for business, it's got down
to the hard pan, and dollars are source, and we
may come back again right away, and there's
the money for the voyage home whenever we
like, but no more.'

Oh ! ' said Angela, beginning to understand.
' And . . . and your husband ? '

'There's where the real trouble begins. I
wouldn't mind for myself, money or no money.
I would write to the Queen for money. I
would go to the workhouse. I would beg my
bread in the street, but the Case I never would
give up — never— never — never.'

She clasped her hands, dried her eyes, and
sat bolt upright, the picture of unyielding determination.


And your husband is not, perhaps, so resolute
as yourself? '

He says, " Clara Martha, let us go hum.
As for the title, I would sell it to nephew
Nathaniel, who's the next heir, for a - week of
square meals; he should have the coronet, if
I'd got it, for a month's certainty of steaks and
chops and huckleberry pie ; and as for my seat
in the House of Lords, he should have it for
our old cottage in Canaan City, which is sold,
and the school which I've given up and lost."
He says : " Pack the box, Clara Martha — there
isn't much to pack — and we will go at once.
If the American minister won't take up the
Case for us, I guess that Case may slide till
Nathaniel takes it up for himself." That is
what he says. Miss Kennedy. Those were his
words. Oh ! Oh ! Oh ! Mr. Feeblemind ! Oh !
Mr. Facing-Both-Ways ! '

She wrung her hands in despair, for it
seemed as if her husband would be proof
against even the scorn and contempt of these
epithets.

But what do you mean to do ? '

I shall stay,' she replied. ' And so shall

VOL. n. II

he, if my name is Lady Davenant. Do you
think I am goiiig back to Canaan City to be
scorned by Aurelia Tucker ? Do you think I
shall let that poor old man, who has his good
side. Miss Kennedy — and as for virtue he is an
angel, and knows not the taste of tobacco or
whisky — face his nephew, and have to say
what good he has done with all those dollars ?
No, here we stay.' She snapped her hips, and
made as if she would take root upon that very
chair. ' Shall he part with his birthright like
Esau, because he is hungry ? Never ! The
curse of Esau would rest upon us.'

'He's at home noW,' she went on, 'preparing
for another day without dinner ; groans
won't help him now ; and this time there will
be no supper — unless Mr. Goslett has another
birthday.'

Why ! Good gracious ! you will be starved.'
'Better starve than go home as we
came. Besides, I shall write to the Queen
when there's nothing left. When Nathaniel's
money comes, which may be tomorrow,
and may be next month, I shall give a
month's rent to Mrs. Bormalack, and save the

rest for one meal a day. Yes, as long as
the money lasts, lie shall eat meat — once a
day — at noon. He's been scampered, like all
the Canaan City folk ; set up with turkey roast
and turkey boiled, and ducks and beef everyday,
and buckwheat cakes and such. Oh ! a
change of diet will bring down his luxury and
increase his pride.'

Angela thought that starvation was a new
way of developing pride of birth, but she did
not say so.

Is there no way,' she asked, ' in which he
can earn money .^ '

She shook her head.

As a teacher he was generally allowed to be
learned but sleepy. In our city, however, the
boys and girls didn't expect too much, and ita
sleepy place. In winter, they sit round the
stove and they go to sleep ; in summer, they
sit in the shade and they go to sleep. It's the
sleepiest place in the States. No, there's no
kind o' way in which he can earn any money.
And if there were, did you ever hear of a
British Peer working for his daily bread .^ '

'But you, Lady Davenant? Surely your
H 2

ladyship would not mind — if the chance offered
— if it were a thing kept secret — if not
even your husband knew — would not object to
earning something every week to find that
square meal which your husband so naturally
desires ? '

Her ladyship held out her hands, without a
word.

Angela, in shameful contempt of Political
Economy, placed in them the work which she
had in her own, and whispered :

You had better,' she said, ' take a week in
advance. Then you can arrange with Mrs.
Bormalack for the usual meals on the old terms ;
and if you would rather come here to work,
you can have this room to yourself all the
morning. Thank you, Lady Davenant. The
obligation is entirely mine, you know. For,
really, more delicate work, more beautiful work,
I never saw. Do all American ladies work so
beautifully ? '

Her ladyship, quite overcome with these
honeyed words, took the work and made no reply.

Only one thing, dear Lady Davenant,'
Angela went on, smiling. ' You must promise

me not to work too hard. You know that such
work as yours is worth at least twice as much
as mine. And then you can push on the Case,
you know.'

The little lady rose, and threw her arms
round Angela's neck.

My dear I ' she cried, with more tears.
You are everybody's friend. Oh ! yes, I know.
And how you do it and all — I can't think, nor
Mrs. Bormalack neither. But the day may
come — it shall come — when we can show our
gratitude.'

She retired, taking the work with her.

Her husband was asleep as usual, for he had
had breakfast, and as yet the regular pangs of
noon were not active. The Case was not spread
out before him, as was usual, ever since Mr.
Goslett had taken it in hand. It was ostentatiously
rolled up, and laid on the table, as if
packed ready for departure by the next mail.

His wife regarded him with a mixture of
affection and contempt.

He would sell the Crown of England,' she
murmured, ' for roast turkey and apple fixing.
The Davenants couldn't have been always like

that. It must be his mother's blood. Yet she
was a Church member, and walked consistent.'

She did not wake him up, but sought out
Mrs. Bormalack, and presently there was a
transfer of coins and the Resurrection of Smiles
and Doux Parler, that Fairy of Sweet Speech,
who cowers and hides beneath the cold wind
of poverty.

Tell me, Mr. Goslett,' said Angela that
evening, still thinking over the sad lot of the
claimants ; ' tell me : you have examined the
claim of these people — what chance have they ? '

I should say, none whatever.'

Then, what makes them so confident of
success ? '

'Hush! listen. They are not really confident.
His noble lordship perfectly understands
the weakness of his claim, Which depends upon
a pure assumption, as you shall hear. As for
the little lady, his wife, she has long since
jumped to the conclusion that the assumption
requires no proof. Therefore, save in moments
of dejection, she is pretty confident. Then,
they are hopelessly ignorant of how they should
proceed and of the necessary delays, even if

their Case was unanswerable. They thought
they had only to cross the ocean and send in a
statement in order to get admitted to the rank
and privilege of the peerage. And I believe
they think that the Queen will, in some mysterious
way, restore the property to them.'

Poor things ! '

'Yes, it's rather sad to think of such magnificent
expectations. Besides, it really is a
most beautiful case. The last Lord Davenant
had one son. That only son grcAv up, had
some quarrel with his father, and sailed from
the Port of Bristol bound for some American
port, I forget which. Neither he uDr his ship
was ever heard of again. Therefore the title
became extinct.'

'Well?'

Very good. Now the story begins. His
name was Timothy Clitheroe Davenant, the
name always given to the eldest son of the
family. Now, our friend's name is Timothy
Clitheroe Davenant, and so was his father's, and
so was his grandfather's.'

That is very strange.'

It is very strange — what is stranger still

is, that his grandfather was born, according to
the date on his tomb, the same year as the
lost heir, and at the same place — Davenant,
where Alas the family seat.'

Can there have been two of the same name
born in the same place and in the same year ? '

'It seems improbable, almost impossible.
Moreover, the last lord had no brother, nor had
his father, the second lord. I found that out
at the Herald's College. Consequently, even if
there were another branch, and the birth of
two Timothy in the same year was certain, they
Vf^ould not get the title. So that their one
hope is to be able to prove what they call the
Connection. That is to say, the identity of
the lost heir with this wheelwright.'

'That seems a very doubtful thing to do,
after all these years.'

'It is absolutely impossible, unless some
documents are discovered which prove it. But
nothing remains of the wheelwright.'

No book ? No papers .^ '

'Nothing, except a small book of songs,
supposed to be convivial, with his name on
the inside cover, written in a sprawling hand,

and misspent with two v's, — ^'Davvenant," and
above the name, in the same hand, the day of
the week in which it was written, 'saturday,"
with two tt's. No Christian name.'

Does it not seem as if the absence of the
Christian name would point to the assumption
of the title ? '

Yes they do not know this, and I have not
yet told them. It is, however, a very small
point, and quite insufficient in itself to establish
anything.'

'Yes,' Angela mused. She was thinking
whether something could not be done to help
these poor people and settle the case decisively
for them one way or the other. ' What is to
be the end of it ? '

Harry shrugged his shoulders.

'Who knows how long they can go on.^
Wlien there are no more dollars, they must
go home again. I hear they have got another
supply of money : Mrs. Bormalack has been
paid for a fortnight in advance. After that is
gone — perhaps they had better go too.'

It seems a pity,' said Angela, slightly reddening
at mention of the money, ' that some researches

could not be made, so as to throw a Httle
light upon this strange coincidence of names.'

'We should want to know first what to
look for. After that, we should have to find
a man to conduct the search. And then we
should have to pay him.'

As for the man, there is the Professor : as
for the place, first there is the Herald's College,
and secondly, there are the parish registers of
the village of Davenant ; and as for the money,
why, it would not cost much, and I believe
something; mio-ht be advanced for them. If
you and I, Mr. Goslett, between us, were to
pay the Professor's expenses, would he go
about for us ? '

She seemed to assume that he was quite
ready to join her in giving his money for this
object. Yet Harry was now living, having
refused his guardian's proffered allowance, on
his pay by the piece, which gave him, as
already stated, sentence for every working hour.

What would the Professor cost ? ' she asked.

The Professor is down upon his luck,' said
Harry. ' He is so hard uj) at present that I
believe we could get him for nothing but his

expenses. Eighteen shillings a week would
buy him outright until his engagements begin
again. If there were any travelling expenses, of
course that would be an extra. But the village
of Davenant is not a great way off. It is
situated m Essex, and Essex is but a suburb of
London, its original name having been ,
which is not generally known.'

'Very well,' she replied gravely. 'That
would be only nine shillings a-piece, say eleven
hours of extra work for you : and probably it
would not last lonc^, more than a week or two.
Will you give two hours a day to his lordship ? '
Harry made a wry face, and laughed. This
young person had begun by turning him into
a journeyman cabinet-maker, and was now
making him work extra time. What next ?
Am I not your slave, Miss Kennedy ? '
Oh ! Mr. Goslett ! I thought there was to
be no more nonsense of that kind. You know
it can lead to nothing — even if you desired
that it should.'

Even ? Miss Kennedy, can't you see '

No — I can see nothing — I will hear nothing.
Do not — oh, Mr. Goslett — we have been

we are — such excellent friends. You have
been so great a help to me : I look to you for
so much more. Do not spoil all : do not seek
for what could never be : pray — pray do not.'

She spoke with so much earnestness : her
eyes were filled with such a frankness : she laid
her hand upon his arm with so charming a
camaraderie that he could not choose but
obey.

'It is truly wonderful,' he said, thinking,
for the thousandth time, how this pearl among
women came to Stepney Green.

What is wonderful .^ ' she blushed as she
asked.

'You know what I mean. Let us both be
frank. You command me not to say the thing
I most desire to say. Very good. I will be
content to wait, but under one promise '

What is that ? '

If the reason or reasons which command
my silence should ever be removed — mind, I
do not seek to know what they are — you will
yourself '

What ^ ' she asked, blushing sweetly.

You will yourself — tell me so.'

She recovered her composure and gave him
her hand.

If, at any tune, I can listen to you, I will
tell you so. Does that content you ? '

Certainly not : but there was no more to
be got ; therefore, Harry was fain to be contented,
whether he would or not. And this
was only one of a hundred little skirmishes in
which he endeavoured to capture an advanced
fort or prepared to lay the siege in form. And
always he was routed with heavy loss.

And now,' she went on, ' we will get back
to our Professor.'

Yes. T am to v»'ork two extra hours a
day that he may go about in the luxury of
eighteen shillings a week. This it is to be one
of the horny-handed. What is the Professor todo
first ? '

Let us first,' she said, ' find him and secure
his services.'

It has been seen that the Professor was
already come to the period of waist tightening,
which naturally follows a too continued succession
of banyan days.

He listened with avidity to any proposition

which held forti a prospect of food. The
work, he said, only partly understanding it,
would be difficult, but therefore the more to be
desired. Common conjurers, he said, would
spoil such a case. As for himself, he would
undertake to do just whatever they wanted
with the register, whether it was the substitution
of a page or the tearing out of a page,
under the very eyes of the parish clerk.
•^ There must be,' he said, ' a patter suitable to
the occasion. I will manage that for you.
I'm afraid I can't make up as I ought for the
part, because it would cost too much, but we
must do without that. And now. Miss
Kennedy, what is it exactly that you want me
to do?'

He was disappointed on learning that there
would be no ' palming ' of leaves, old or new,
among the registers : nothing, in fact, but a
simple journey and a simple examination of the
books. And though, as he confessed, he had
as yet no experience in the art of falsifying
parish registers, where science was concerned its
interests were above those of mere morality.

CHAPTEE XXII.

DANIEL Fag.

What would have happened if certain things
had not happened ? This is a question which
is seldom set in examination papers, on
account of the great scope it offers to the
imaginative faculty, and we all know how
dangerous a thing it is to develop this side of
the human mind. Many a severe historian has
been spoiled by developing his imagination. But
for this, Scott might have been another Arson,
and Thackeray a Mill. In this Stepney business
the appearance of Angela certainly worked
changes at once remarkable and impossible to
be dissociated from her name. Thus, but for
her, the unfortunate claimants must have been
driven back to their own country like baffled
invaders ' rolling sullenly over the frontier.'
Jelly would have spent her whole life in the

sadness of short rations and long hours, with
hopeless prayers for days of fatness. Eebekah
and the improvers and the dressmakers and the
apprentices would have endured the like hardness.
Harry would have left the Joyless City
to its joylessness, and returned to the regions
whose skies are all sunshine — to the young
and fortunate — and its pavements all of gold.
And there would have been no Palace of
Dehglit. And what would have become of
Daniel Faggg, one hardly likes to think. The
unlucky Daniel had, indeed, fallen upon very
evil days. There seemed to be no longer a
single man left whom he could ask for a subscription
to his book. He had used them all
up. He had sent begging letters to every
Fellow of every Scientific Society : he had levied
contributions upon every Secretary : he had
attacked in person every official at the
Museums of Great Russell Street and South
Kensington : he had tried all the publishers :
he had written to every bishop, nobleman,
clergyman, and philanthropist of whom he
could hear, pressing upon them the claims of
his great Discovery. Now he could do no

more. The subscriptions lie had received for
publishing his book were spent in necessary
food and lodging : nobody at the Museum
would even see him : he got no more answers
to this letters : starvation stared him in the face.

For three days he had lived upon nhie-
pence. Threepence a day for food. Think of
that, ye who are fed regularly, and fed well.
Threepence to satisfy all the cravings of an excellent
appetite ! There was now no more
money left. And in two days more the week's
rent would be due.

On the morning when he came forth, hungry
and miserable, without even the ]denny for a
loaf, it happened that Angela was standing at
her upper window on the other side of the
Green, and, fortunately for the unlucky scholar,
she saw him. His strange behaviour made her
watch him. First, he looked up and down the
street in uncertainty : then, as if he had business
which could not be delayed a moment, he
turned to the right and marched straight away
towards the Mile End Eoad. This was because
he thought he would go to the Head of the
Egyptian Department at the British Museum

VOL. II. I

and borrow five shillings. Then he stopped
suddenly ; this was because he remembered
that he would have to send in his name, and
that the Chief would certainly refuse to see
him. Then he turned slowly and walked,
dragging his limbs and hanging his head, in the
opposite direction — because he was resolved to
make for the London Docks, and drop accidentally
into the sluggish green water, the first
drop of which kills almost as certainly as a glass
of Bourbon whisky. Then he thought that
there would be some luxury in sitting down fora
few moments to think comfortably over his
approaching demise, and of the noise it would
make in the learned world, and how remorseful
and ashamed the scholars — especially he of
the Egyptian Department — would feel for the
short balance of their sin-laden days, and he
took a seat on a bench in the Green garden
with this view. As he thought he leaned forward,
staring into vacancy, and in his face there
grew so dark an expression of despair and
terror, that Angela shuddered and ran for her
hat, recollecting that she had heard of this
poverty and his disappointments.

I am afraid you are not well, Mr. Faggg.'

He started and looked up. In imagination
he was already lying dead at the bottom of the
green water, and before his troubled mind there
were floating confused images of his former life,
now past and dead and gone. He saw himself
in his Australian cottage arriving at his grand
Discovery : he was lecturing about it on a platform
: he was standing on the deck of a ship,
drinking farewell cobblers with an enthusiastic
crowd: and he was wandering hungry,
neglected, despised, about the stony streets of
London.

*Well? No: I am not well,' he replied
presently, understanding things a little.

'Is it distress of mind or of body, Mr.

Yesterday it was body ; to-night it will be
both ; just now it is only one.'

'Which one?'

Mind,' lie replied fiercely, refusing to acknowledge
that he was starving. He threw his
hat back, dashed his subscription book to the
ground, and banged the unoffending bench with
his fist.

1 3

As for Mind,' he went on, ' it's a pity I
was born with any. I wish I'd had no more
Mind than my neighbours. It's Mind, and
nothing else, that has brought me to this.'

What is this, Mr. Faggg? '

Nothing to you. Go your ways ; you are
young ; you have yet your hopes, which may
come to nothing, same as mine; even though
they are not, like mine, hopes of Glory and
Learning. There's Mr. Goslett in love with
you ; what is Mind to you ? Nothing. And
you in love with him. Very likely he'll go off
with another woman, and then you'll find out
what it is to be disappointed. What is Mind
to anybody ? Nothing. Do they care for it in
the Museum? No. Does the head of the
Egyptian Department care for it? Not he;
not a bit. It's a cruel and a selfish country.'

Oh, Mr. Faggg ! ' She disregarded his
allusion to herself, though it was sufficiently
downright

Yes ; but I will be revenged* I will do
something— yes— something that shall tell all
Australia how I have been wronged ; the colony
of Victoria shall ring with my story. It shall

sap their loyalty ; they shall grow discontented ;
they will import more Irishmen ; there shall be
separation. Yes ; my friends shall demand
separation in revenge for my treatment.'

It is Christian to forgive, Mr. Faggg.'

I will forgive, Avhen I have had my revenge.
No one shall say I am vindictive. Ah ! '
he heaved a profound sigh. ' They gave mea
dinner before I came away ; they drank my
health; they all told me of the reception I
should get, and the glory that awaited me.
Look at me now. Not one penny in my pocket.
Not one man who believes in the Discovery.
Wherefore I may truly say that it is better to
be born without a brain.'

This is your subscription book, I believe.*
She took it and turned over its pages.

Come, Mr. Faggg, you have come to the
fifty-first copy of the book. Fifty one copies
ordered beforehand does not look like disbelief.
May I add my name ? That will make fifty-two.
Twelve shillings and sixpence, I see. Oh,
I shall look forward with the greatest interest
to the appearance of the book, I assure you.
Yet, you must not expect of a dressmaker much

knowledge of Hebrew, Mr Faggg. You great
scholars must be contented with the simple
admiration of ignorant work-girls.' He was too
far gone in misery to be easily soothed, but he
began to wish he had not said that cruel thing
about possible desertion by her lover.

Admiration ! ' he echoed with a hollow
groan. 'And yesterday nothing to eat farther
than threepence ; and the day before the same ;
and the day before that. In Australia, when I
was in the speaking line, there was always
plenty to eat. Starvation, I suppose, goes to
the bran. And is the cause of suicide, too. I
know a beautiful place in the London Docks,
where the water's green with minerals. I shall
go there.' He pushed his hands deeper into his
pockets, while his bushy eyebrows frowned so
horribly that two children who were playing in
the walk screamed with terror and fled without
stopping. ' That water poisons a man directly
he drops into it. It's surer and quicker than
drowning, and doesn't hurt so much.'

Come, Mr. Faggg,' said Angela, ' we allow
something for the superior activity of great
minds ; but wee must not talk of despair dien

there should be nothing beyond a little despondency.'


He shook his head.

Too much reading has probably disordered
your digestion, Mr. Faggg. You want rest and
society, with sympathy — a woman's sympathy.
Scholars, perhaps, are sometimes jealous.'

'Reading has emptied my purse,' he said.
'Sympathy won't fill it.'

'I do not know. Sympathy is a wonderful
medicine sometimes. It works miracles. I
think, Mr. Faggg, you had better let me pay my
subscription in advance. You can give me the
change when you please.'

She placed a sovereign in his hand. His
fingers clutched it greedily ; then his conscience
smote him ; her kind words, her flattery touched
his heart.

'I cannot take it,' he said. 'Mr. Goslett
warned me not to take your money. Besides '
he gasped and pointed to the subscription
list. ' Fifty-one names ! They've all paid their
money for printing the book. I've eaten up all
the money, and I shall eat up yours as well.
Take the sovereign back. I can starve. Wien

I ara dead, I would rather be remembered for
my Discovery than for a shameful devourer of
subscription money.'

She took him by the arm and led him, unresisting,
to the Establishment. ' We must look
after you, Mr. Faggg,' she said. ' Now, I have
got a beautiful room, where no one sits all day
long except sometimes a crippled girl and sometimes
myself. In the evening the girls have it.
You may bring your books there if you like,
and sit there to work, when you please. And
by the way,' she added this as if it were a
matter of the very least consequence, hardly
worth mentioning, ' if you would like to join us
any day at dinner — we take our simple meal atone
— the girls, no doubt, will all think it a
great honour to have so distinguished a scholar
at table with them.'

Mr. Faggg blushed with pleasure. WJiy, if
the British Museum people treated him with
contumely, if nobody would subscribe to his
book, if he was weary of asking and being refused,
here was a haven of refuge where he
would receive some of the honour due to a
scholar.

'And now that you are here, Mr. Faggg,'
said Angela, when he had broken bread and
given thanks, ' you shall tell me all about your
Discovery. Because, you see, we are so ignorant,
we girls of the working classes, that I do not
exactly know what is your Discovery.'

He sat down and asked for a piece of paper.
With this assistance he began this exposition.

I was drawn to my investigation,' he said
solemnly, ' by a little old book about the wisdom
of the ancients. That is now five years ago,
and I was then fifty-five years of age. No time
to be lost, says I to myself, if anything is to be
done. The more I read and the more I thought
I was in the speaking trade, and I'm not
ashamed to own it, for it's a fine business for
such as are born with a head for thinking — the
more I thought, I say, the more I was puzzled.
For there seemed to me no way possible of reconciling
what the scholars said.'

You have not told me the subject of your
research, yet.'

Antiquity,' he replied grandly. ' All antiquity
was the subject of my research. First,
I read about the Egyptians, and the hieroglyphics.

Then I got hold of a new book all
about the Assyrians and the cuneiform character.'


I see,' said Angela. ' You were attracted
by the ancient inscriptions ? '

Naturally ; without inscriptions, where are
you? The scholars said this, and the scholars
said that. They talked of reading the Egyptian
language, and the Assyrian, and the Median,
and what not. That wouldn't' do for me.'

The audacity of the little man excited
Angela's curiosity, which had been languid.

Pray go on,' she said.

The scholars have the same books to go to
as me. Yet they don't go. They've eyes as
good, but they won't use them. Now follow
me, Miss, and you'll be surprised. When
Abraham went down into Egypt, did he understand
their language or didn't he ? '

Why, I suppose — at least, it is not said that
he did not.'

Of course he did. When Joseph went
there, did he understand them ? Of course he
did. When Jacob and his sons came into the
country, did they talk a strange speech ? Not

The aitddcUy of the little man excited Angela's curiosity:

they. When Solomon married an Egyptian
princess, did he understand her talk? Why,
of course he did. Now, do you guess what's
coming next ? '

No, not at all'

None of the scholars could. Listen, then.
If they ail understood each other, they must
have all talked the same language, mustn't
they?'

Why, it would seem so.'

It's a sound argument, which can't be
denied. Nobody can deny it — I defy them.
If they understood each other, there must have
been a common language. Where did this
common language spread ? Over all the
countries thereabout. What was the common
language ? Hebrew.'

Oh ! ' said Angela. ' Then, they all talked
Hebrew ! '

Every man Jack. Nothing else known.
What next ? They wanted to Avrite it. Now,
we find what seems to be one character in
Egypt, and another in Syria, and another in
Arabia, and another in Phoenicia, and another
in Judaea. Bless you, I know all about their

alphabets. What I say is — if a common
language, then a common alphabet to write it
with.'

I see, a common alphabet. Which you
discovered perhaps.'

That, young lady, is my Discovery. That
is the greatest Discovery of the age. I found
it, myself, once a small shoemaker in a little
Victorian township ; I alone found out that common
alphabet, and have come over here to make
it known. Not bad, says you, for a shoemaker
who had to teach himself his own Hebrew.'

And the scholars here '

They're jealous, that's what it is; they're
jealous. Most of them have written books to
prove other things, and they won't give in and
own that they've been wrong. My word ! The
scholars — ' He paused and shook his hands
before her face. ' Some of them have got the
Hebrew alphabet, and try to make out how one
letter is a house and another a bull's head.
And so on. And some have got the cunei-forms,
and they make out that one bundle of
arrows is an A and another a B. And so on.
And some have got the hieroglyphic, and it's

the same game with all. While I — if you
please — with my little plain simple Discovery
just show that all the different alphabets — different
to outward seeming — are really one and
the same.'

This is very interesting,' said Angela. The
little man was glowing with enthusiasm and
pride ; he was transformed ; he walked up and
down throwing about his arms ; he stood before
her, looking almost tall ; his eyes flashed with
fire, and his voice was strong. ' And can you
read inscriptions by your simple alphabet ? '

There is not,' he replied, ' a single inscription
in the British Museum that I can't read.
I just sit down before it, with my Hebrew
dictionary in my hand — I didn't tell you T
learned Hebrew on purpose, did I? — and I
read that inscription, however long it is. Ah ! *

This seems extraordinary. Can you show
me your alphabet ? '

He sat down, and began to make figures.

What is the simplest figure ? A circle .^ a
square ? a nought ? No. A triangle. Very
good, then. Do you think they were such
fools as to copy a great ugly bull's head when

they'd got a triangle ready to their hands and
easy to draw? Not they; they just made a
triangle — so — ' he drew an equilateral triangle
on its base — ' and called it the first letter ; and
two triangles, one a-top of the other — so — and
called that the second letter. Then they stuck
their triangle in another position, and it was
the third letter ; and m another, and it is the
fourth — ' Angela felt as if her head was
swimming as he manipulated his triangles,
and rapidly produced his primitive alphabet,
which really did present some resemblance to
the modern symbols. ' There — and there—
and there — and what is that ? and this ? And
so you've got the whole. Now, young lady,
with this in your hand, which is the key to all
learning — and the Hebrew dictionary — there's
nothing you can't manage.'

And an account of this is to be given in
your book, is it .^ '

That is the secret of my book. Now you
know what it was I found out ; now you see
why my friends paid my passage home, and
are now looking for the glory which they
prophesied.'

Don't get gloomy again, Mr. Faggg. It is
a long lane, you know, that has no turning.
Let us hope for better luck.'

'No one will ever know,' he went on, ' the
inscriptions that I have found — and read — in
the Museum. They don't know what they've
got. I've told nobody yet, but they are all in
my book, and I'll tell you beforehand, Miss
Kennedy, because you've been hid to me.
Yes, a woman is best ; I ought to have gone to
the Avoient first. I would marry you. Miss
Kennedy, I would indeed ; but — I am too old,
and besides, I don't think I could afford a
family.'

I thank you, Mr. Faggg, all the same. You
do me a great honour. But about these inscriptions
? '

Mind, it's a secret.' He lowered his voice
to a whisper. ' There's cuneiform inscriptions
in the Museum with David and Jonathan on
them, — ah ! — and Balaam and Bala — Aho ! — '
he positively chuckled over the thought of
these great finds — ' and the whole life of Jezebel
— Jezebel ! what do you think of that ?
And what else do you think they have got,

only they don't know it ? The two tables of
STONE ! ! Soothing short of the Two Tables,
with the Ten Commandments written out at
length ! ! ! '

Angela gazed with amazement at this admirable
man : his faith in himself; his audacity ;
the grandeur of his conceptions ; the wonderful
power of his imagination overwhelmed her.
But, to be sure, she had never before met a
genuine enthusiast.

I know where they are kept ; nobody else
knows. It is in a dark corner ; they are each
about two feet high ; and there's a hole in the
corner of each for Moses's thumb to hold them
by. Think of that ! I've read them all through,
only ' — he added with a look of bewilderment—
I think there must be something wrong with
my Hebrew dictionary, because none of the
commandments read quite right. One or two
come out quite surprising. Yet the stones
must be right, mustn't they ? There can be no
question about that ; and the Discovery must
be right. No question about that. And as for
the dictionaries — who put them together ? tell
me that ! Yah ! the scholars I '

CHAPTEE XXm.

THE MISSING LINK.

The Professor, then, started on his quest with a
cheerful heart, caused by the certainty of dinner
for some days to come. But he was an honest
Professor, and he did not prolong his absence
for the sake of those dinners. On the other
hand, he made the most rapid despatch consistent
with thorough work, and returned after an
absence of four days, bearing with him the
fruits of his research.

'I think,' said Harry, after reading his
report — ' I think. Miss Kennedy, that we have
found a Missing Link.'

Then they really will make their claim
good ? '

I did not say that — quite. I said that we
have found a Missing Link. There might be,
if you will think of it — two. One of them

VOL. II. K

would have connected the condescending wheelwright
with his supposed parent, the last Lord
Davenant. The other would connect him with
quite another father.'

The truth, which was for some time carefully
concealed from the illustrious pair, was,
in fact, this.

There is a village of Davenant surroundings
or adjoining a castle of Davenant, just as
Fenwick, Arundel, Durham, Lancaster, Chep-
stow, Raglan, and a great many more English
towns have a castle near them. And whether
Davenant town was built to be protected by
the castle, or the castle for the protection of
the town, is a point on which I must refer you
to the county historian, who knows all about it
and is not likely to deceive you on so important
a point. The castle is now a picturesque ruin,
with a country house built beside it. Li this
country house the last Lord Davenant died and
the last heir to the title was born. There is an
excellent old church, with a tower and ivy, and
high-pitched roof, as an ancient church should
have, and in the family vault under the chancel
all the Davenants, except the last heir, lie
buried.

There is also in the village a small country
inn called the Davenant Arms, where the Professor
put up, and where he made himself
extraordinarily popular, because, finding himself
among an assemblage of folk slow to see
and slower still to think, he astonished them for
four nights consecutively. The rustics still tell,
and will continue to tell so long as memory
lasts, of the wonderful man who took their
money out of their waistcoats, exchanged
handkerchiefs, conveyed potatoes into strange
coat pockets, read their thoughts, picked out
the cards they had chosen, made them take a
card he had chosen whether they wanted it or
not, caused balls of glass to vanish, changed
halfpence into half-crowns, had a loaded pistol
hired at himself and caught the ball, with
other great marvels all for nothing, to oblige
and astonish the villagers, and for the good
of the house. These were the recreations of
his evening hours. The mornings he spent in
the vestry of the old church searching the
registers.

There was nothing professional about it,
only the drudgery of clerk's work ; to do it
K 2

at all was almost beneath his dignity ; yet he
went through with it conscientiously, and restrained
himself from inviting the sexton, who
stayed with him, to lend him his handkerchief
or to choose a card. Nor did he even hide a
card in the sexton's pocket, and then convey it
into the parish register. Nothing of the sort.
He was sternly practical, and searched diligently.
Nevertheless, he noted how excellent
a place for the simpler feats would be the .
The fact is, that gentlemen of his
profession never go to church, and therefore
are ignorant of the uses of its various parts.
On Sunday morning they lie in bed ; on Sunday
afternoon they have dinner, and perhaps the
day's paper, and on Sunday evening they gather
at a certain house of call for conjurers in Drury
Lane and practise on each other. There is,
therefore, no room in the conjurer's life for
church. Some remedy should be found for
this by the bishops.

What have I got to look for ? ' said the
Professor, as the sexton produced the old
books. ' Well, I've got to find what families
there were living here a hundred years ago, or

thereabouts, named Davenant, and what Christian
names they had, and whether there were
two children born and baptised here in one
year, both bearing the name of Davenant.'

The sexton shook his head. He was only
a middle-aged man, and therefore not yet
arrived at sextonial ripeness ; for a sexton only
begins to be mellow when he is ninety or thereabouts.
He knew nothing of the Davenants
except that there were once Lords Davenant,
now lying in the family vault below the chancel,
and none of them left in the parish at all, nor
any in his memory, nor in that of his father's
before him, so far as he could tell.

After a careful examination of the books,
the Professor was enabled to state with confidence
that at the time in question the Davenant
name was borne by none but the family at the
castle ; that there were no cousins of the name
in the place ; and that the heir born in that
year was christened on such a day, and received
the name of Timothy Clitheroe.

If this had been the only evidence, the case
would have made in favour of the Canaan City
claimant ; but, unfortunately, there was another

discovery made by the Professor, at sight of
which he whistled and then shook his head,
and then considered whether it would not be
best to cut out the page, while the sexton
thought he was forcing a card, or palming a
ball, or boiling an Q<gg., or some other ingenious
feat of legerdemain. For he instantly perceived
that the fact recorded before his eyes had an
all-important bearing upon the case of his illustrious
friends.

The little story which he saw was, in short,
this.

In the same year of the birth of the infant
Timothy Clitheroe, there was born of a poor
vagrom woman, who wandered no one knew
where from into the parish, and died in giving
him to the world, a man-child. There was no
one to rejoice over him, or to welcome him, or
to claim him, therefore he became parish property,
and had to be christened, fed, flogged,
admonished, and educated, so far as education
in those days was considered necessary, at the
charge of the parish. The first step was to
give him a name. For it was formerly, and
may be still, a custom in country parishes to

name a waif of this kind after the village itself,
which accounts for many odd surnames, such
as Stepney, Marybone, or Hoxton. It was nota
good custom, because it might lead to complications,
as perhaps it did in this case, when
there was already another family legitimately
entitled to bear the name. The authorities,
following this custom, conferred upon the baby
the lordly name of Davenant. Then, as it was
necessary that he should have a Christian name,
and it would be a pity to waste good Richard
or Robin upon a beggar brat, they gave him
the day of the week on which he was born.
This was intended to keep him humble, and to
remind him that he had no right to any of the
distinguished Christian names bestowed upon
respectably born children.

He was called Saturday Davenant.

The name, the date, and the circumstances
were briefly recorded in the parish register.

In most cases this book contains three
entries for each name, those of the three important
events in his life ; the beginning, the
marrying, which is the making or the marring,
and the ending. One does not, of course, count

the minor occasions on which he may be mentioned,
as on the birth or death of a child.
The Professor turned over the pages of the
register in vain for any further entry of this
Saturday Davenant.

He appeared no more. His one public
appearance, so far as history records it, was on
that joyful occasion when, held in hireling
arms, he was received into the Christian
Church. The one thing to which lie was born
was his brotherhood in the Christian faith, no
doubt the grandest of all possessions, yet in
itself not professing to provide the material
comforts of life. The baby was presented at the
font, received a contemptuous name, squealed
a little, no doubt, when he felt the cold water,
and then — then — nothing more. What he did,
whither he went, where he died, might be left
to conjecture. A parish brat, a cottage home,
bread and bacon to eat, with more bread than
bacon, plenty of stick, the Church Catechism
and particular attention called to the clauses
about picking and stealing, practical work as a
scarecrow at seven, the plough later on ; for
pleasures, quarter-staff, wresting, fighting, bullbaiting,

and perhaps poaching, with strong beer
and small beer for drink ; presently a wife,
then children, then old age, then death. One
was free to conjecture, because there was no
more mention of this baby ; he did not marry
in the parish nor did he die in it. He therefore
went away. In those days, if a man went
away, it was for one of two reasons ; either he
fell into trouble and went away, to escape the
wrath of the Squire ; or he enlisted, marched
ois wdtli beer in his head and ribbons in his
hat, swore terribly with the army in Flanders,
and presently earned the immortal glory Aldrich
England rejoices to confer upon the private
soldier who falls upon the ensanguined field.
The enjoyment of this glory is such a solid,
substantial, and satisfying thing, that fighting
and war and the field of honour are, and
always will be, greatly beloved and desired by
private soldiers.

There was no other entry of this boy's
name. When the Professor had quite satisfied
himself upon this point he turned back to the
first entry, and then became aware of a note in
faded ink, now barely legible, written in the

margin. It was as follows, and he copied it
exactly : —

y above s'^ Saturday J)~^ was a Eoag in
Grane : he was bro't up in the Fear of God
yet feared Him not ; taught his Duty, yet did
it not : admonished without stint of Odd in
Virtue, yet still inclined to Vice : he was app'^
to the Wheelwright : was skillful, yet indolent :
notorious as a Pother who could not be caught :
a Deceiver of Maidens : a Tosspot and a Striker.
Compelled to leave the Parish to avoid Prison
and the Lash he went to London, Latronum
officina. Was reported to have been sent to
His Majesty's Plantations in Virginia, whereof
nothing certain is known.'

This was the note which the Professor read
and copied out, with misgivings that it would not
prove acceptable. Of course, he knew the story,
and quite understood what this might mean.

The next day, nothing more remaining to
be found in the register, the Professor examined
the brasses and tablets in the church, and paid
a visit to the castle. And when he had faithfully
executed his commission he went away,
amid the regrets of the villagers, who had never

before been entertained by so delightful and surprising
a stranger, and brought back his spoils.

What are we to think ? ' said Harry after
reading this report. ' " The Eoag in Grane,"
this wheelwright by trade, who can he be but
the grandfather of our poor old friend ? '

I fear it must be so,' said Angela. ' Saturday
Davenant. Eemember the little book.'

Yes,' said Harry, ' the little book came
into my mind at once.'

JSTot a doubt,' added the Professor. ' Why,
it stands to reason. The fellow found himself
a long way from England, among strangers,
with no money and only his trade. What was
to prevent him from pretending to be one of
the family whose name he bore ? '

And at the same time,' said Harry, ' with
reserve. He never seems to have asserted that
he was the son of Lord Davenant ; he only
threw out ambiguous words, he fired the imagination
of his son, he christened him by the
name of the lost heir, he pretended that it was
his own Christian name, and it was not until
they found out that this was the hereditary
name that the claim was thought of. This

Poacher and Striker seems to have possessed
considerable native talent.'

But what,' asked Angela, ' are we to do? '
Let us do nothing. Miss Kennedy. We
have our secret, and wee may keep it for the
present. Meantime, the case is hopeless on
account of the absolute impossibility of connecting
the wheelwright with the man supposed
to have been drowned. Let them go on
enjoying " the title, ignorant of the existence
of this unlucky Saturday Davenant.'

So, for the present, the thing was hidden
away and nothing was said about it. And
though about this time the Professor gave one
or two entertainments in the drawing-room, we
cannot suppose that his silence was bought, and
it would be unjust to the noble profession of
which he was a member to think that he would
let out the secret had not Miss Kennedy paid
him for their performance. Indeed, the Professor
was an extremely honourable man, and
would have scorned to betray confidence, and
it was good of Miss Kennedy to find out that
an evening of magic and miracle would do the
girls good.

But a profound pity seized the heart of
Angela. These poor people who believed themselves
to be entitled to an English peerage,
who were so mistaken, who would be so disappointed,
who were so ignorant, who knew
so little what it was they claimed — could not
something be done to lessen their disappointment
— to break their fall ?

She pondered long over this difficulty. That
they would in the end have to return to their
own country was a thing about which there
could be no doubt whatever ; that they should
return with no knowledge whatever of the
reality of the thing they had claimed, what it
meant, what it involved, its splendours and its
obligations, seemed to her a very great pity.
A little experience, she thought, even a glimpse
of the life led by the best-bred and most highly
cultivated and richest people of England, would
be of so much advantage to them, that it would
show them their own unfitness for the rank
which they assumed and claimed. And presently
she arrived at a project which she put
into execution without delay. What this was
you will presently see.

CHAPTEE XXIV.

LORD JOCELYN's TROUBLES.

As the season advanced, and the autumn
deepened into winter, Angela found that there
were certain social duties which it was impossible
altogether to escape. The fiction of the
country-house was good enough for the general
world, but for her more intimate friends and
cousins this would not do for long. Therefore,
while she kept the facts of her present occupation
and place of residence a secret from all
except Constance Woodcote, now the unsympathising,
she could not wholly shut herself off
from the old circle. Among others there was
one lady whose invitations she was in a sense
bound to accept. What her obligations were,
and dio this lady was, belongs in no way to
this history — that is to say, the explanation
belongs to Angela's simple chronicle of the old

days when she was only Miss Messenger, the
heiress presumptive of the Great Brewery.
Therefore it need not concern us. Suffice it to
say that she was a lady in society, and that she
gave great dinners and held other gatherings,
and was at all times properly awake to the
attractions which the young, and beautiful,
and wealthy Angela Messenger lent to her
receptions.

On this occasion Constance Woodcote,
among others, was invited to meet her old friend ;
she came, but she was ungracious, and Angela
felt, more than she had expected, how great
already was the gulf between the old days of
Newnham and her life of active, practical work.
Six months before, such coldness would have
hurt and pained her ; now she hardly felt it.
Yet Constance meant to demonstrate by a becoming
frost of manner how grievous was her
disappointment about those scholarships. Then
there were half-a-dozen men — unmarried men,
men in society, men of clubs, men who felt
strongly that the possession of Miss Messenger's
millions might reconcile them to matrimony,
and were much interested by the possibility of

an introduction to her, and came away disappointed
because they got nothing out of her, not
even an encouragement to talk ; and everybody
said that she was singularly cold, distraite and
even embarrassed that evening ; and those who
had heard that Miss Messenger was a young
lady of great conversational powers, went away
cynically supposing that any young lady with
less than half her money could achieve the
same reputation at the same cost of energy.
The reason of this coldness, this preoccupation,
was as follows.

The dinner party was large, and the conversation
by no means general. So far as
Angela was concerned, it was held entirely with
the man who took her down, and his name was
Lord Jocelyn le Breton — a rugged-faced man,
with a pleasing manner and agreeable voice ; no
longer young. He talked to her a good deal ina
light, irresponsible vein, as if it mattered very
little what he said, so that it amused the young
lady. He discoursed about many things, principally
about dinners, asking Angela what were
her own views as to dinners, and expostulating
with her feminine contempt for the subject.

Each dinner,' he said, ' should be Hke a separate
and distinct work of art, and should be
contrived for different kinds of wine. There
should be a champagne dinner, for instance, light
and composed of many dishes, but some of these
substantial ; there shoukl be a claret dinner,
grave and conscientious ; a Burgundy dinner of
few courses, and those solid ; a German wine
dinner, in which only the simplest flats should
appear. But unto harmony and consistency
in dining we have not yet arrived. Perhaps,
Miss Messenger, you may be induced to bring
your intellect to bear upon the subject. I hear
you took high honours at l!^ewnham lately.'

She laughed.

You do too much honour to my intellect,
Lord Jocelyn. At Newnham they teach us
political economy, but they have not trusted
us with the art of dining. Do you know, we
positively did not care much what we had for
dinner ! '

My ward, Harry, used to say — but I forget
if you ever met him.'

I think not. What is his name ? '

Well, he used to bear my name, and

VOL. II. L

everybody knew him as Harry le Breton ; but
he had no right to it, because he was no relation
of mine, and so he gave it up and took his
own.'

Oh ! ' Angela felt profoundly uninterested
in Mr. Henry le Breton.

Yes. And now you never will meet him.
For he is gone ' — Lord Jocelyn uttered these
words in so sepulchral a tone that Angela
gave them greater significance than they deserved.


I am very sorry,' she said.

No, Miss Messenger, he is not dead. He
is only dead to society. He has gone out of
the world; he has returned to — in fact, his
native rank of life.'

Angela reddened. What could he mean ?

You interest me, Lord Jocelyn. Do you
say that your ward has voluntarily given up
society, and — and — everything ? ' She thought
of herself at the moment, and also, but vaguely,
of Harry Goslett. For, although she knew
that this young man had refused some kind of
offer which included idleness, she had never
connected him in her mind quite with her own

rank and station. How could she ? He was
only a cabinet-maker, whose resemblance to a
gentleman she had learned to accept without
any further wonder.

He gave up everything : he laughed over it :
he took a header into the mob just as if he was
going to enjoy the plunge. But did you not
hear of it? Everybody talked about it — the
story got into the Society journals — and people
blamed me for telling him the truth.'

I have not been in London much this year,
therefore I heard nothing,' said Angela. Just
then the dinner came to an end.

Will you tell me more about your ward,
Lord Jocelyn ? ' she asked, as she left him. His
words had raised in her mind a vague and uncertain
anxiety.

Half an hour later he came to her side.
The room was by this time full, and Angela
was surrounded. But she made room for Lord
Jocelyn, and presently the others dropped away
and they could talk. A young lady began, too,
a long and very brilliant piece of music under
cover of which everybody would talk.

'Do you really want to hear my trouble

about Harry?' lie asked. 'You look a very
sympathetic young lady, and perhaps you will
feel for me. You see, I brought hin up in
ignorance of his father, whom he always
imagined to be a gentleman ; whereas he was
only a sergeant in a Line regiment. What is it,
Miss Messenger ? '

For she became suddenly white in the cheek.
Could there be two Harry, sons of sergeants,
who had taken this downward plunge ? More
wonderful than a pair of Timothy Clitheroes.

It is nothing. Lord Jocelyn. Pray go on.
Your adopted son, then '

1 had always resolved to tell him all about
his people when he was twenty-three. Who
would have thought, however, that he would
take it as he did ? '

You forget that you have not told me
what he did do. If I am to sympathise, you
must tell me all.'

As far as the world knows, he went away
on leave, so to speak. Perhaps it is only on
leave, after all. But it is a long leave, and it
looks more like desertion.'

You are mysterious, Lord Jocelyn.'

Are you curious, Miss Messenger ? '

Say, am I sympathetic ? Tell me as much
as you can about your ward.'

Lord Jocelyn looked in his listener's face.
Yes ; there was sympathy in it and interest,
both, as phrenologists say, largely developed.

Then I will explain to you, Miss Messenger,
how the boy did this most remarkable and unexpected
thing.' He paused a moment considering.
'Imagine a boy whom I had taken
away from his own people at three, or thereabouts,
so that he should never know anything
of them at all, or dream about them, or yearn,
you know, or anything of that kind — an orphan,
too, with nothing but an Uncle Bunker — it is
inconceivable ! '

But we do not get on,' said Angela in great
impatience ; yet relieved to find from the reference
to her worthy friend Bunker that there
was only one Harry. ' What is inconceivable ? '

I am coming to that. I gave the boy the
best education I could get for him ; he was so
eager and apt that he taught himself more than
he could be taught ; if he saw anybody doing
a thing well, he was never satisfied till he could

do it as well himself — not better, mark you ! a
cad might have wanted to do it better : a gentleman
is content to do it as well as any — any
other gentleman. There is hardly anything he
could not do ; there was nobody who did not
love him ; he was a favourite in society ; he
had hosts of friends ; nobody cared who was
his father : what did that matter ? As I put it
to him, I said, " Look at So-and-so and So-and-so
; who are their fathers ? Who cares ? Who
asks ? " Yet when he learned the truth he
broke away, gave up all, and went back to his
own relations — to Whitechapel ! '

Angela blushed again, and her lip trembled
a little. Then she said softly :

To Whitechapel ! That is very interesting
to me. Because, Lord Jocelyn, I belong to
Whitechapel myself.'

Do you ? ' She might as well have said
that she belonged to Seven Dials. In fact,
much better, because in his young days, his
Corinthian days. Lord Jocelyn had often repaired
to Seven Dials to see noble sportsmen
chez Ben Count, and rat-killing and cock-fighting,
and many other beautiful forms of sport.

Do you really ? Do you belong to that remarkable
part of London ? '

Certainly. My grandfather — did you
know him ? '

Lord Jocelyn shook his head.

He had the Brewery, you know, Messenger
Marsden and Company, in Whitechapel.
He was born there, and always called himself
a Whitechapel man. He seemed to be proud
of it, so that in common filial respect I, too,
should be proud of it. I am, in fact, a Whitechapel
granddaughter.'

But that does not seem to help my unlucky
Harry.'

It gives one a little more sympathy, perhaps,'
she said. 'And that is, you know, so
very useful a possession.'

Yes,' but he did not seem to recognise its
usefulness as regards his ward. ' Well, he
went to Whitechapel with a light heart. He
would look round him, make the acquaintance
of his own people, then he would come back
again and we would go on just as usual. At
least, he did not exactly say this, but I understood
him so. Because it seemed impossible

that a man who had once lived in society,
among ourselves, and formed one of us, could
ever dream of living down there.'

Angela laughed. From her superior knowledge
of ' down there ' she laughed.

He went away, and I was left without
him, for the first time for twenty years. It
was pretty dull. He said he would give the
thing a trial ; he wrote to me that he was trying
it, that it was not so bad as it seemed, and
yet he talked as if the experiment would bo a
short one. I left him there. I went away fora
cruise in the Mediterranean ; when 1 came
home he returned to me.'

He did return, then ? '

Yes, he came back one evening a good
deal changed. I should not have thought it
possible for a boy to change so much in so
short a time. He wasn't ill-fed ; he hadn't
suffered any privation, apparently ; but he was
changed : he was more thoughtful ; his smile
and his laugh were not so ready. Poor boy ! '

Lord Jocelyn sighed heavily. Angela's
sympathy grew deeper, for he evidently loved
the ' boy.'

What had he clone, then ? '

He came to say farewell to me ; he
thanked me for — you know what a good
honest lad would say ; and he told me
that he had had an offer made to him of
an unexpected nature which he had determined
to accept. You see, he is a clever
fellow with his fingers, he can play and paint
and carve, and do all sorts of tidings. And
among his various arts and accomplishments he
knows how to turn a lathe, and so he has become
a joiner or a cabinet-maker, and he told
me that he has got an appointment in some
great factory or works or something, as
cabinet-maker in ordinary.'

What is his name ? '

Harry Goslett.'

Goslett ! Goslett ! ' Here she blushed again,
and once more made play with the fan. ' Has
he got a relation, a certain Mr. Bunker ? '

Why — yes — I told you, an Uncle Bunker.'

Then I remember the name. And, Lord
Jocelyn, I hope you will be grateful to me,
because I have been the humble means of
procuring him this distinguished post. Mr.

Bunker, in fact, was, or conceived that he had
been, useful to my grandfather, and was said
to be disappointed at getting nothing by the wilL
Therefore I endeavoured to make some return
by taking his nephew into the House. That
is alL'

And a great deal more than enough, because,
Miss Messenger, you have all out of your
kindness done a great mischief, for if you had
not employed him I am quite certain no one
else would. Then he would have had to come
back to me. Send him away. Do send him
away. Miss Messenger. There are lots of
cabinet-makers to be had. Then he will come
back to society, and I will present him to you
and he shall thank you.'

She smiled and shook her head.

People are never sent away from the
Brewery so long as they behave properly. But
it is strange indeed that your ward should
voluntarily surrender all the advantages of life
and social position for the hard work and poor
pay of an artisan. Was it . . . was it affection
for his cousins?' She blushed deeply as
she put this simple question.

'Strange indeed. When he came to me
the other night, he told me a long story about
men being all alike in every rank of life — I
have noticed much the same thing in the
army ; of course he did not have the impudence
to say that women are all alike ; and he talked
a quantity of prodigious nonsense about living
among his own people. Presently, however, I
got out of him the real truth.'

'What was that?'

He confessed that he was in love.'

With a young lady of Whitechapel .^ This
does Teat credit to the excellent education
you gave him, Lord Jocelyn.' She blushed for
the fourth or fifth time, and he wondered why,
and she held her fan before her face. ' But,
perhaps,' she added, 'you are wrong, and
women of all ranks, like men, are the same.'

Perhaps, I ought not to have told you this
Miss Messenger. Now you will despise him.
Yet he had the impudence to say that she was
a lady — positively a lady — this Whitechapel
dressmaker.'

A dressmaker ? — oh ! ' She threw into her
voice a little of that icy coldness with which

ladies are expected to receive this kind of
announcement.

'Ah! now you care no more about him.
I might have known that your sympathy would
cease directly you heard all. He went into
raptures over this young milliner. She is
as beautiful as the day ; she is graceful, accomplished,
well-bred, well-mannered, a
queen '

No doubt,' said Angela, still frozen. ' But
really, Lord Jocelyn, as it is Mr. Goslett, the
cabinet-maker, and not you, who is in love
with this paragon, we may be spared her
praises.'

And, which is more remarkable still, she
won't have anything to say to him.'

That is indeed remarkable. But perhaps,
as she is the Queen of Dressmakers, she is looking
for the King of Cabinet-makers.'

No doubt,' said Lord Jocelyn ; ' I think
the music is coming to an end. However —
Miss Messenger, one favour.'

A dozen, Lord Jocelyn, if I can grant
them.'

He refuses to take any help from me ; he

lives on work paid for at the rate of sentence
an hour. If you will not send him away —
then — oh, then '

'' Quick, Lord Jocelyn, what is it ? '

'Tax the resources of the Brewery. Put
on the odd twopence. It is the gift of the
Samaritan — make it a shilling an hour.'

I will, Lord Jocelyn — hush ! The music
is just over, and I hope that the dressmaker
will relent, and that there will be a wedding in
Stepney Church, and that they will be happy
ever after. Oh, brave and loyal lover ! He
gives up all, all — ' she looked round the room
filled with guests, and her great eyes became
limpid, and her voice fell to a murmur — ' for
love, for love. Do you think. Lord Jocelyn,
that the dressmaker will continue to be obdurate?
But perhaps she does not know, or
cannot suspect, wdaat he has thrown away — for
her sake — happy dressmaker ! '

'I think,' said Lord Jocelyn afterwards,
that if Harry had seen Miss Messenger before
he saw his dressmaker we shouldn't have heard
so much about the beautiful life of a workingman.
Why the devil couldn't I wait? This

girl is a Helen of Troy, and Harry should have
written his name Paris, and carried her off, by
gad ! before Menelaus or any other fellow got
hold of her. What a woman! What a. match
it would have been ! '

CHAPTER Xxi.

AN INVITATION.

Very shortly after the fatal discovery made by
the Professor, Lord Davenant received the first
outside recognition — so to speak — of his rank.
It is true that no one within a mile of Stepney
Green — that is, anywhere between Aldgate
Pump and Bow Church — would have had the
hardihood to express a doubt on the validity of
a claim which conferred a lustre upon the
neighbourhood ; yet even Lord Davenant, not
remarkable for quickness of perception, was
sharp enough to know that recognition at
Stepney is not altogether the same thing as
recognition at Westminster. He was now
once more tolerably comfortable in his mind.
The agonies of composition were over, thanks
to his young friend's assistance ; the labour of
transcription was finished ; he felt, in looking

at the bundle of papers, all the dignity of
successful authorship ; the Case, in fact, was
now complete and ready for presentation to
the Queen, or to any one, Lord Chancellor,
Prime Minister, I^ord Chamberlain, or American
Minister, who would undertake and faithfully
promise to lay it before Her Majesty.
For his own part, brought up in the belief that
the British Lion habitually puts his heroic tail
between his legs when the name of America is
mentioned, he thought that the Minister of
the States was the proper person to present his
Case. Further, the days of fatness were come
again. Clara Martha, in some secret way
known only to herself, was again in command
of money : once more bacon and tea, and
bread and butter, if not coffee, cream, and
buckwheat cakes, with maple syrup and hot
compone — delicacies of his native land — were
spread upon the board at eight in the morning ;
and again the succulent steak of Stepney,
yielding to none, not even to him of Fleet
Street, appeared at stroke of one; and the
noble lord could put up his feet and rest the
long and peaceful morning through, unre-

preached by his consort. Therefore he felt no
desire for any change, but ^voiild have been
quite content to go on for ever enjoying his
title among this simple folk, and careless about
the splendours of his rank. How Clara Martha
got the money he did not inquire. We, who
know, may express our fears that here was
another glaring violation of political economy,
and that the weekly honorarium received every
Saturday by Lady Davenant was by no means
adequately accounted for by her weekly work.
Still, her style was very fine, and there were
no more delicate workers in the association
than the little peeress with the narrow
shoulders and the bright eyes.

Not one word, mark you, spoken of Saturday
Davenant — that Eoag in Grane — and the
Professor as respectful as if his lordship had
sat through thirty years of deliberation in the
Upper House, and Mr. Goslett humbly deferential
to her ladyship, and in secret confidential
and familiar, even rollicking, with my lord, and
Miss Kennedy respectfully thoughtful for their
welfare.

This serenity was troubled and dissipated

VOL. II. M

by the arrival of a letter addressed to Lady
Davenant.

She received it — a simple letter on ordinary
note-paper — with surprise, and opened it with
some suspicion. Her experience of letters was
not of late happy, inasmuch as her recent correspondence
had been chiefly with American
friends, who reminded her how they had all
along told her that it was no good expecting
that the Davenant claim would be listened to,
and now she saw for herself, and had better
come home again and live among the plain
folk of Canaan, and praise the Lord for making
her husband an American citizen — with much
more to the same effect, and cruel words from
nephew Nathaniel, who had no ambition, and
would have sold his heirship to the coronet
for a few dollars.

She looked first at the signature, and turned
pale, for it was from that mysterious young
lady, almost divine in the eyes of Stepney,
because she was so rich. Miss Messenger.

Lord ! ' cried Mrs. Bormalack. ' Do read
it quick.'

Her ladyship read it thorough very slowly.

much too slowly for her hiiidlady's impatience.


Her pale cheeks flushed with pride and joy
when she comprehended exactly wdiat the letter
meant ; she drew herself up straight, and her
shoulders became so sloping that the uneasy
feeling about her clothes, already alluded to,
once more passed through Mrs. Bormalack's
sympathetic mind.

'It will be a change, indeed, for us,' she
murmured, looking at her husband.

Change ? ' cried the landlady.

What change ? ' asked his lordship. ' Clara
Martha, I do not want any change ; I am comfortable
here, I am treated with respect, the
place is quiet, I do not want to change.'

He was a heavy man and lethargic — change
meant some kind of physical activity — he disliked
movement.

His wife tossed her head with impatience.

Oh ! ' she cried, ' he would rather sit in
his armchair than walk even across the Green
to get his coronet. Shame upon him !
Carpenter! Shh ! '

His lordship quailed and said no more.

M 2

That allusion to his father's trade was not intended
as a sneer ; the slothfulness of his parent
it was which the lady hurled at his lordship's
head. No one could tell, no living writer is
able to depict faithfully, the difficulties encountered
and overcome by this resolute woman in
urging her husband to action ; how she had
first to persuade him to declare that he was
the heir to the extinct title ; how she had next
to drag him away from Canaan City ; how she
had to bear with his meanings, lamentations,
and terrors, when he found himself actually onboard
the steamer, and saw the land slowly
disappearing, while the great ship rolled beneath
his unaccustomed feet, and consequences which
he had not foreseen began to follow. These
were things of the past, but it had been hard
to get him away even from Wellclose Square,
which he found comfortable, making allowance
for the disrespectful Dane ; and now — but it
must and should be done.

His lordship,' said the little woman, thinking
she had perhaps said too much, ' is one of
them who take root wherever you set them
down. He takes after his grandfather, the

Honourable Timothy Clitheroe. Set himself
down in Canaan City, and took root at once,
never wanted to go away. And the Davenants,
I am told, never left the village from the day
they built their castle there till the last lord
died there. In other people, Mrs. Bormalack,
it might be called sloth, but in his lordship's
case we can only say that he is quick to
take root. That is all, ma'am. And when we
move him, it is like tearing him up by the
roots.'

'It is,' said his lordship, changing to the
arms of the chair ; ' it is.'

The letter was as follows, and Lady Davenant
read it aloud : —

Dear Lady Davenant, — I have quite recently
learned that you and Lord Davenant
are staying at a house on Stepney Green which
happens to be my property. Otherwise, perhaps,
I might have remained in ignorance of
this most interesting circumstance. I have also
learned that you have crossed the Atlantic for
the purpose of presenting a claim to the Davenant
title, which was long supposed to be

extinct, and I hasten to convey to you my
most sincere wishes for your success.

I am at this moment precluded from
doing myself the pleasure of calling upon you,
for reasons with which I will not trouble you.
I hope, however, to be allowed to do so before
very long. Meantime, I take the liberty of
offering you the hospitality of my own house
in Portman Square, if you will honour me by
accepting it, as your place of residence during
your stay in London. You will perhaps find
Portman Square a central place, and more convenient
for you than Stepney Green, which,
though it possesses undoubted advantages in
healthful air and freedom from London fog, is
yet not altogether a desirable place of residence
for a lady of your rank.

I am aware that in addressing you without
the ceremony of an introduction I am
taking what may seem to you a liberty. I
may be pardoned on the ground that I feel
so deep an interest in your romantic story, and
so much sympathy with your courage in crossing
the ocean to prosecute your claim. Such
claims as these are, as you know, jealously

regarded and sifted with the greatest care, so
that there may be difficulty in establishing a
perfectly made-out case, and one which shall
satisfy the House of Lords as impregnable to
any attack. There is, however, such a thing
as a moral certainty, and I am well assured
that Lord Davenant would not have left his
native country had he not been convinced in
his own mind that his cause is a just one, and
that his claim is a duty owed to his illustrious
ancestors. So that, whether he wins or loses,
whether he succeeds or fails, he must in either
case command our respect and our sympathy.
Under these circumstances I trust that I maybe
forgiven, and that your ladyship will honour
my poor house with your presence. I will send,
always provided that you accept, my carriage
for you on any day that you may appoint.
Your reply may be directed here, because all
letters are forwarded to me, though I am not,
at the present moment, residing at my townhouse.


Believe me to remain, dear Lady Davenant,
yours very faithfully,

'Angela Marsden Messenger.'

It is a beautiful letter ! ' cried Mrs. Borraa-
lack, ' and to think of Miss Messenger knowing
that this house is one of hers ! Why, she's got
hundreds. Now, I wonder who could have
told her that you were here.'

'No doubt,' said her ladyship, 'she saw it
in the papers.'

What a Providence that you came here !
If you had stayed at Wellclose Square, which
is a low place and only fit for foreigners, she
never would have heard about you. Well, it
will be a sad blow losing your ladyship, but of
course you must go. You can't refuse such a
noble offer ; and though I've done my best,
I'm sure, to make his lordship comfortable, yet
I knoAV that the dinner hasn't always been
such as I could wish, though as good as the
money would run to. And we can't hope to
rival Miss Messenger, of course, in housekeeping,
though I should like to hear what she
gives for dinner.'

You shall, Mrs. Bormalack,' said her ladyship
; ' I will send you word myself, and I am
sure wee are very grateful to you for all your
kindness, and especially at times when — when

my husband's nephew Nathaniel, who is not
the whole-souled and high-toned man that the
heir to a peerage ought to be '

'Don't speak of it,' interrupted the good
landlady, ' don't speak of it, your ladyship. It
will always be my pride to remember that your
ladyship thought I did my little best. But,
there, with mutton at eleven pence halfpenny ! '

The name of Portman Square suggested
nothing at all to the illustrious pair. It might
just as well have been Wellclose Square. But
here was an outside recognition of them ; and
from a very rich young lady, who perhaps was
herself acquainted with some of the members
of the Upper House.

It is a proper letter,' said Lady Davenant
critically, ' a letter written in a becoming spirit.
There's many things to admire in England, but
the best thing is the respect to rank. Now, in
our own City did they respect his lordship for
his family ? Not a mite. The boys drew pictures
of him on the walls with a crown on his
head and a sword in his hand.'

Must we go, Clara Martha ? ' his lordship
asked in a tremulous voice.

Yes, we must go ; we must show people
that we are ready to assume the dignity of the
position. As for my husband, Mrs. Bormalack '
she looked at him sideways while she
addressed the landlady — ' there are times when
I feel that nothing but noble blood confers real
dignity ' — his lordship coughed — ' real dignity
and a determination to have your rights, and a
behaviour according.'

Lord Davenant straightened his back and
held up his head. But when his wife left him
he drooped it again and looked sad.

Lady Davenant took the letter with her, to
show Miss Kennedy.

I shall never forget old friends, my dear
she said kindly, when Angela had read it
through, 'never; and your kindness in my
distress I could not forget if I tried.' The
tears stood in her eyes as she spoke. ' We are
standing now on the very threshold of Greatness
; this is the first step to Recognition ; a
short time more, and my husband will be in
his right place among the British peers. As
for myself, I don't seem to mind any. Miss
Kennedy. It's for him that I mind. Once in

his own place, he will show the world what he
is capable of. You only think of him as a
sleepy old man, who likes to put up his feet
and shut his eyes. So he is — so he is. But
wait till he gets his own. Then you will see.
As for eloquence, now, I remember one Fourth
of eJuly — but of course we were Americans
then.'

Indeed, Lady Davenant, we shall all be rejoiced
if you succeed. But do not forget Miss
Messenger's warning. There is a moral success,
and there is a legal success. You may have to
be contented with the former. But that should
be enough for you, and you would then return
to your own people with triumph.'

Aureha Tucker,' said her ladyship, smiling
gently, ' will wish she hadn't taken up the
prophesy in' line. I shall forgive her, though
envy is indeed a hateful passion. However,
we cannot all have illustrious ancestors, though
since our own elevation, there's not a man,
woman, or child in Canaan City, except the
Dutchmen, who hasn't connected himself with
an English family, and the demand for Eed-
books and books of the County Famines is

more than 3^011 could believe, and they do say
that many a British peer will have to tremble
for his title.'

Come,' said Angela, interrupting these interesting
facts, ' come, Lady Davenant, I knew
beforehand of this letter, and Miss Messenger
has given me work in anticipation of your visit.'

She led the little lady to the show room,
and here, laid out on the chairs, were marvels.
For there were dresses in silk and in velvet :
dresses of the best silk, moire antique, brocaded
silk, silk that would stand upright, of itself,
without the aid of a chair back, and velvet of
the richest, the blackest, and the most costly.
There could be no doubt whatever as to the
person for whom these dresses had been designed,
because nobody else had such narrow
and such sloping shoulders. Never in her
dreams had her ladyship thought it possible
that she should wear such dresses.

They are a present from Miss Messenger,'
said Miss Kennedy. ' Now, if you please, we will
go into the trying-on room.'

Then Lady Davenant discovered that these
dresses were trimmed with lace, also of the

most beautiful and delicate kind. She had
sometimes seen lace during her professional
career, but she never possessed any, and the
sight of it created a kind of yearning in her
heart to have it on, actually on her sleeves and
round her neck.

When she was dressed in her velvet with
the lace trimming she looked a very stately
little lady. When Angela had hung about her
neck a heavy gold chain with a watch and seals ;
when she had deftly added a touch to her still
luxuriant hair, and set in it a small aigrette of
brilliant ; when she had put on her a pair of
gloves and given her a large and beautifully
painted fan, there was no nobler-looking lady
in the land, for all she was so little.

Then Angela curtsied low and beo'o-ed her
ladyship to examine the dress in the glass.
Her ladyship surveyed herself with an astonishment
and delight impossible to be repressed,
although they detracted somewhat from the
dignity due to the dress.

Oh, Aurelia ! ' she exclaimed, as if, in the
joy of her heart, she could have wished her
friend to share her happiness.

Then Miss Kennedy explained to lier that
the velvet and the magnificent silk dresses were
for the evening only, while for the morning
there were other black silk dresses, with beautiful
fui* cloaks and things for carriage exercise,
and all kinds of things provided, so that she
might make a becoming appearance in Portman
Square.

As for his lordship,' Miss Kennedy went
on, ' steps have been taken to provide him also
with garments due to his position. And I
think. Lady Davenant, if I may venture to
advise '

My dear,' said her ladyship simply, 'just
tell me, right away, what I am to do.'

Then you are to write to Miss Messenger
and tell her that you will be ready tomorrow
morning, and say any kind thing that occurs to
your kind heart. And then you will have
undisturbed possession of the big house in
Portman Square, with all its servants, butler,
coachman, footmen, and the rest of them, at
your orders. And I beg — that is, I hope —
that you will make use of them. Eemember
that a nobleman's servant expects to be ordered.

not asked. Drive every clay ; go to the
theatres to amuse yourselves — I am sure after
all this time you want amusement.'

We had lectures at Canaan City,' said her
ladyship ; ' shall we go to lectures ? '

'N — no. I think there are none. But
you should go to concerts if you like them, and
to picture galleries. Be seen about a good
deal ; make people talk about you, and do not
press your Case before you have been talked
about.'

Do you think I can persuade Timothy — I
mean, his lordship — to go about with me .^ '

You will have the carriage, you know ;
and if he likes he can sleep at the theatre ; you
have only to take a private box — but be seen
and be talked about.'

This seemed very good advice. Lady
Davenant laid it to heart. Then she took off
her magnificent velvet and put on the humble
stuff again, with a sigh. Happily, it was the
last day she would wear it.

On returning to the boardinghouse she
found her husband in great agitation, for he,
too, had been ' trying on,' and he had been

told peremptorily that the whole of the existing
wardrobe must be abolished, and changed
for a new one which had been provided for
him. The good old coat, whose sleeves were
so shiny, whose skirts so curly, whose cuffs so
worn, must be abandoned ; the other things
which long custom had adapted to every projection
of his figure must go too ; and, in place
of them, the new things which he had just
been trying on.

There's a swallow-tail, Clara Martha, for
evening wear. I shall have to change my
clothes, they tell me, every evening ; and frock-coats
to button down the front like a congressman
in a statue ; and — oh ! Clara Martha, weare
going to have a terrible time ! '

Courage, my lord,' she said. ' The end
will reward us. Only hold up your head and
remember that you are enjoying the title ! '

The evening was rather sad, though the
grief of the noble pair at leaving their friends
was shared by none but their landlady, who
really was attached to the little birdlike woman,
so resolute and so full of courage. As for the
rest, they behaved as members of a happy

family are expected to behave — that is to say,
they paid no heed whatever to the approaching
departure of two ont of their number, and
Josephus leaned his head against the wall, and
Daniel Faggg plunged his hands into his hair,
and old Mr. Maliphant sat in the corner with
his pipe in his mouth and narrated bits of
stories to himself, and laughed.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXVI.

LORD DAVEN^ANT's GREATNESS.

Probably no greater event had ever happened
within the memory of Stepney Green than the
arrival of Miss Messenger's carriage to take
away the illustrious pair from the boardinghouse.
Mrs. Bormalack felt, with a pang,
when she saw the pair of greys, with the
coachman and footman on the box, actually
standing before her own door, for all to see, as
if she had not thoroughly appreciated the
honour of having a peer and his consort
residing under her roof, and paying every week
for board and lodging the moderate sum of

but she could not bear to put it into

words. Now, however, they were going.

His lordship, in his new frock-coat tightly
buttoned, stood, looking constrained and stiff,
with one hand on the table and the other

thrust into his breast, like a certain well-known
statue of Washington. His wife had
instructed him to assume this attitude. With
him were Daniel Faggg, the Professor, and
Harry, the rest of the boarders being engaged
in their several occupations. Mrs. Boreas
was putting the final touches to Lady
Davenant's morning toilette.

'If I was a lord,' said Daniel, 'I should
become a great patron to discoverers. I would
publish their works for them.'

I will, Mr. Faggg, I will,' said his lordship ;
give me time to look around and to see how
the dollars come in. Because, gentlemen, as
Clara Martha — I mean her ladyship — is not
ready yet, there is time for me to explain that
I don't quite know what is to happen next, nor
where those dollars are to come from unless it
is from the Davenant estates. But I don't
think, Mr. Faggg, that we shall forget old
friends. A man born to a peerage — that is an
accident, or the gift of Providence ; bust to be a
Hebrew scholar comes from genius. When a
man has been a school-teacher for near upon forty

X 2

years, he knows what genius means — and it's
skurse, even in America.'

Then, my lord,' said Daniel, producing
his note-book, ' I may put your lordship's name
down for How many copies P '

'Wal, Mr. Faggg, I don't care how many
copies you put my name down for, provided
you don't ask for payment until the way is
clear. I don't suppose they will play it so
low on a man as to' give him his peerage without
a mite of income, even if it has to be raised
by a tax on something.'

American beef will have to be taxed,' said
Harry. ' Never fear, my lord, we will pull
you through, somehow. As Miss Messenger
said, "moral certainty" is a fine card to play,
even if the committee of the House of Lords
don't recognise the connection.'

The Professor looked guilty, thinking of
that 'Eoag in Grane,' Saturday Davenant,
wheelwright, who went to the American
colonies.

Then her ladyship appeared, complete and
ready, dressed in her black silk, with a fur
cloak and a magnificent muff of sable, stately,

gracious, and happy. After her, Mrs. Boreas
awed. ' I arn ready, my lord,' she said,
standing in the doorway. ' My friends, we
shall not forget those who were hospitable tous
and kind in the days of our adversity. Mr.
Egg, you may depend upon us ; you have his
lordship's permission to dedicate your book to
his lordship ; we shall sometimes speak of your
discovery. The world of fashionable London
shall hear of your circles.'

Triangles, my lady,' said Daniel, bowing.

I beg your pardon, Mr. Faggg, I ought to
have known ; and the triangle goes with the
fife and the drum in all the militia regiments.
Professor, if there is any place in Portman
Square where an entertainment can be held,
we will remember you. Mr. Goslett — ah ! Mr.
Goslett — we shall miss you., very much. Often
and often has my husband said that but for
your timely aid he must have broken down.
What can we now do for you, Mr. Goslett ? '

Nothing could have been more generous
than this dispensing of patronage.

Nothing,' said Harry, ' but I thank you all
the same.'

Perhaps Miss Messenger wants a cabinet
made

No, no,' he cried hastily. ' I don't want
to make cabinets for Miss Messenger. I mend
the office stools for the Brewery, and I work
for . . for Miss Kennedy,' he added, with
a blush. ^

Lady Davenant nodded her head and
laughed. So happy was she, that she could
even show for the first time an interest in something
outside the Case.

'A handsome couple,' she said simply.
'Yes, my dear, go on working for Miss
Kennedy, because she is worth it. And now,
my lord ! Gentlemen, I wish you farewell.'

She made the most stately, the most dignified
obeisance, and turned to leave them. But
Harry sprang to the front and offered his arm.

Permit me, Lady Davenant.'

It was extraordinary enough for the coachman
to be ordered to Stepney Green to take
up a lord ; it was more extraordinary to see
that lord's noble lady falling on the neck of an
ordinary female in a black stuff gown and an
apron, namely, Mrs. Bormalack, and still more

wonderful to see that noble lady led to the
carriage by a young gentleman who seemed to
belong to the place.

'I know him,' said James the footman,
presently.

Who is he ? '

He's Mr. Le Breton, nephew or something
of Lord Jocelyn. I've seen him about, and
what he's doing on Stepney Green the Lord
only knows.'

James ! ' said the coachman.

John ! ' said the footman.

When you don't understand what a young
gentleman is a-doing', what does a man of your
experience conclude .^ '

'John,' said the footman, 'you are right as
usual. But I didn't see her.'

There was a little crowd outside, and it was
a proud moment for Lady Davenant when she
walked through the lane— which she could
have wished a mile long — formed by the
spectators, and took her place in the open
carriage beneath the great fur rug. His lordship
followed with a look of sadness or apprehension
rather than triumph. The door was

slammed, the footman mounted the box, and the
carriage drove off. One boy called ' Hooray ! '
and jumped on the curbstone; to him Lord
Davenant took off his hat; another turned
catherine-wheels along the road, and Lord
Davenant took off his hat to him, too, with
aristocratic impartiality, till the coachman
flicked at him with his whip, and then he ran
behind the carriage and used language for a
quarter of a mile.

Timothy,' said her ladyship, ' would that
Aurelia Tucker were here to see ! '

He only groaned. How could he tell what
sufferings in the shape of physical activity
might be before him? When would he be
able to put up his feet again ? One little disappointment
marred the complete joy of the
departure. It was strange that Miss Kennedy,
who had taken so much interest in the business,
who had herself tried on the dresses, should
not have been there to see. It was not kind of
her — who was usually so very kind — to be
absent on this important occasion.

They arrived at Portman Square a little
before one.

Miss Messenger sent them lier compliments
by her OAvn maid, and hoped they would be
perfectly comfortable in her house, which was
placed entirely at their disposal. She was only
sorry that absence from town would prevent
her from personally receiving Lady Davenant.

The spaciousness of the rooms, the splendour
of the furniture, the presence of many
servants, awed the simple little American
woman. She followed her guide, who offered
to show them the house, and led them into all
the rooms — the great and splendidly furnished
drawing-room, the dining-room, the morning-room,
and the library — without saying a word.
Her husband walked after her in the deepest
dejection, hanging his head and dangling his
hands in forgetfulness of the statuesque attitude.
He saw no chance whatever for a place
of quiet meditation.

Presently they came back to the morning-room.
It was a pleasant, sunny room, not so
large as the great dining-room, nor so gaunt in
its furniture, nor was it hung with immense
pictures of game and fruit, but with light and
bright water-colours.

I should like,' said her ladyship, hesitating,
because she was a little afraid that her dignity
demanded that they should use the biggest room
of all — ' I should like, if we could, to sit in
this room when are alone.'

Certainly, my lady.'

We are simple people,' she went on, trying
to make it clear why they liked simplicity,
' and accustomed to a plain way of life, so
that his lordship does not look for the splendour
that belongs to his position.'

No, my lady.'

Therefore, if we may use this room mostly
—and — and keep the drawing-room for when
we have company — ' She looked timidly at
the grave young woman who was to be her
maid.

Certainly, my lady.'

As for his lordship,' she went on, ' I beg
that he may be undisturbed in the morning
when he sits in the library. He is much occupied
in the morning.'

Yes, my lady.'

I think I noticed,' said Lord Davenant, a
little more cheerfully, ' as we walked through

the library, a most beautiful chair.' He cleared
his throat, but said no more.

Then they were shown their own rooms,
and told that luncheon would be served immediately.


And I hope, Clara Martha,' said his lordship
when they were alone, ' that luncheon in
this house means something solid and substantial.
Fried oysters, now, with a beefsteak and
tomatoes, and a little green com in the ear, I
should like.'

It will be something, my dear, worthy of
our rank. I almost regret, now, that you area
teetotaller. Wine, somehow, seems to belong
to a title. Do you think that you could break
your vow and take one glass, or even two, of
wine, just to show that you are equal to the
position ? '

No, Clara Martha,' her husband replied
with decision. ' ]^o. I will not break the
pledge, not even for a glass of old Bourbon.'

There were no fried oysters at that day's
luncheon, nor any green corn in the ear, but it
was the best square meal that his lordship had
ever sat down to in his life. Yet it was marred

by the presence of an imposing footman, who
seemed to be watching to see how much an
American could eat. This caused his lordship
to drop knives and upset glasses, and
went very near to mar the enjoyment of the
meal.

After the luncheon he bethought him of the
chair in the library and retired there. It was,
indeed, a most beautiful chair, low in the seat,
broad and deep, not too soft, and there was a
footstool. His lordship sat down in this chair
beside a large and cheerful fire, put up his feet,
and surveyed the room. Books were ranged
round all the walls, books from floor to ceiling ;
there was a large table with many drawers
covered With papers, magazines, and reviews,
and provided with ink and pens. The door
was shut, and there was no sound save of a
passing carriage in the square.

This,' said his lordship, ' seems better than
Stepney Green. I wish nephew Nathaniel were
here to see.'

With these words upon his lips he fell into
a deep slumber.

At half-past three his wife came to wake

him up. She bad ordered the carriage, and
was ready and eager for another drive along
those wonderful streets which she had seen for
the first time. She roused him with c^reat difficulty,
and persuaded him, not without words of
refusal, to come with her. Of course she was
perfectly wide awake.

This,' she cried, once more in the carriage,
this is London, indeed. Oh ! to think that we
have wasted months at Stepney, thinking that
was town. Timothy, we must wake up ; we
have a great deal to see and to learn. Look at
the shops, look at the carriages. Do tell ! It's
better than Boston City. Now we have got the
carriage, we will go out every day and see
something ; I've told them to drive past the
Queen's Palace, and to show us where the
Prince of Wales lives. Before long we shall
go there ourselves, of course, with the rest of
the nobility. There's only one thing that
troubles me.'

'What is that, Clara Martha? You air
thinking', perhaps, that it isn't in nature for them
to keep the dinners every day up to the same
pitch of elevation .^ '

She repressed her indignation at this unworthy
suggestion.

No, Timothy ; and I hope your lordship
will remember that in our position we can
afford to despise mere considerations of meat
and drink, and wherewithal we shall be clothed.'
She spoke as if pure Christianity was impossible
beneath their rank, and, indeed, she had never
felt so truly virtuous before. 'No, Timothy,
my trouble is that we want to see everything
there is to be seen.'

That is so, Clara Martha. Let us sit in
this luxurious chaise, and see it all. I never
get tired o' setting', and I like to see things.'

But we can only see the things that cost
nothing, or the outside of things, because we've
got no money.'

No money at all ? '

None : only seven shillings, and threepence
in coppers.'

This was the dreadful truth. Mrs. Boreas
had been paid, and the seven shillings was
all that remained.

'And, oh, there is so much to see! We'd
always intended to run round some day, only

we were too busy with the Case to find the
time, and see all the shows we'd heard tell of —
the Tower of London and Westminster Abbey,
and the Monument and Mr. Surgeon's Tabernacle
— but we never thought things were so
grand as this. When we get home we will ask
for a guide-book of London, and pick out all
the things that are open free.'

That day they drove up and down the
streets gazing at the crowds and the shops.
When they got home, tea was brought them in
the morning-room, and his lordship, who took it
for another square meal, requested the loaf to
be brought, and did great things with the bread
and butter — and having no footman to fear.

At half-past seven a bell rang, and presently
Miss Messenger's maid came and whispered that
it was the first bell, and would her ladyship goto
her own room, and could she be of any
help?

Lady Davenant rose at once, looking, however,
much surprised. She went to her own
room, followed by her husband, too much
astonished to ask what the tiling meant.

There was a beautiful fire in the room.

which was very large and luxuriously furnished,
and lit with gas burning in soft-coloured
glass.

Nothing could be more delightful,' said her
ladyship, 'and this room is a picture. But I
don't understand it.'

Perhaps it's the custom,' said her husband,
for the aristocracy to meditate in their bedrooms.'


I don't understand it,' she repeated. ' The
girl said the first bell. What's the second?
They can't mean us to go to bed.'

They must,' said his lordship. ' Yes, we
must go to bed. And there will be no supper
to-night. To-morrow, Clara Martha, you must
speak about it, and say we're accustomed to
later hours. At nine o'clock or ten we can go
with a cheerful heart — after supper. But —
well — it looks a soft bed, and I dare say I can
sleep in it. You've nothing to say, Clara
Martha, before I shut my eyes? Because if
you have, get it off your mind, so's not to disturb
me afterwards.'

He proceeded to undress in his most leisurely
manner, and in ten minutes or so was getting

into bed. Just as his head fell upon the pillows
there was a knock at the door.

It was the maid who came to say that she
had forgotten to tell her ladyship that dinner
was at eig;lit.

What ? ' cried the poor lady, startled out
of her dignity. ' Do you mean to say that
we've got to have dinner ? '

Certainly, my lady ; ' this young person
was extremely well-behaved, and in presence
of her masters and mistresses and superiors
knew not the nature of a smile.

'My!'

Her ladyship standing at the door looked
first at the maid without and then at her
husband, whose eyes were closed and who was
experiencing the first and balmy influences of
sweet sleep. She felt so helpless that she threw
away her dignity and cast herself upon the
lady's-maid. ' See now ! ' she said, ' what is
your name, my dear ? '

Campion, my lady.'

I suppose you've got a Christian name ? '

I mean that Miss Messenger always calls
me Campion.'

VOL. II.

Well, then, I suppose I must too. We are
simple people. Miss Campion, and not long from
America, where they do things different, and
have dinner at half-past twelve and supper at
six. And my husband has gone to bed. What
is to be done .^ '

That a gentleman should suppose bed possible
at eight o'clock in the evening was a thing
so utterly inconceivable that Campion could for
the moment suggest nothing. She only stared.
Presently she ventured to suggest that his lordship
might get up again.

Get up, Timothy, get up this minute ! '
Her ladyship shook and pushed him till he
opened his eyes, and lifted his head. 'Don't
stop to ask questions, but get up, right away.'
Then she ran back to the door. ' Miss
Campion ! '

Yes, my lady.'

'I don't mind much about myself, but it
might not look well for his lordship not to seem
to know things just exactly how they're done
in England. So please don't tell the servants.
Miss Campion.'

She laid her hand on the maid's arm and

looked SO earnest, that the girl felt sorry for
her.

No, my lady,' she replied. And she kept
her word, so that though the servants' hall
knew how the noble lord and his lady had been
brought from Stepney Green, and how his lordship
floundered among the plates at lunch, and
ate up half a loaf with afternoon tea, they did
not know that he went to bed instead of dressing
for dinner.

And, Miss Campion,' she was now outside
the door, holding it ajar, and the movements of
a heavy body hastily putting on clothes could
be distinctly heard, ' you will plcas3 tell me,
presently, what time they do have things.'

Yes, my lady.'

Family prayers, now ? His lordship will
lead, of course, a thing he is quite used to, and
can do better than most, having always — ' here
she stopped, remembering that there was no
absolute necessity to explain the duties of a
village schoolmaster.

There are no family prayers, my lady, and
your ladyship can have dinner or any other
meal at any time you please.'



His lordship's times for meals will be those
of his brother peers

Yes, my lady. Breakfast at ten ? '

Ten will do perfectly.' It was two hours
later than their usual time, and her husband's
sufferings would be very great. Still, everything
must give way to the responsibilities of
the rank.

Will your ladyship take luncheon at half-past
one, and tea at half past five, and dinner
at eight ? '

Yes, now that we know them, these hours
will suit me perfectly. We do not in our own
country take tea before dinner, but after it.
That is nothing, however. And supper ? '

Your ladyship can have supper whenever
you want it,' replied the maid. She hesitated
for a moment and then went on. 'It is not
usual for supper to be served at all.'

Oh ! then we must go without.'

By this time her husband was dressed, and,
obedient to instruction, he had put on his new
dress coat, without, however, making any alteration
in the rest of his morning garments. The
effect, therefore, when they descended to the

drawing-room would have been very startling,
but for the fact' that there was nobody to
see it.

If luncheon was a great meal, dinner was
far more magnificent and stately ; only there
were two footmen instead of one, and his lordship
felt that he could not do that justice to
the dinner which the dinner deserved, because
those two great hulking fellows in livery watched
him all the time. After dinner they sat in the
great drawing-room, feeling very magnificent
and yet uncomfortable.

The second dinner,' said his lordship in a
half-whisper, ' made me feel, Clara Martha,
that we did right to leave Canaan City. I
never before knew what they really meant by
enjoying a title, and I don't think I ever
thoroughly enjoyed it before. The red mullet
was beautiful, and the little larks in paper
baskets made me feel a Lord all over.'

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE SAME SIGNS.

This he lias done — for love.'

When Angela returned to her dressmaker,
it was with these words ringing in her ears,
like some refrain which continually returns and
will not be silenced.

This he has done— for hove.'

It was a great deal to do — a great deal to
give up ; she fully realised, after her talk with
Lord Jocelyn, how much it was that he had
given up — at her request. What had she herself
done, she asked, in comparison ? She had
given money — anybody could give money. She
had lived in disguise, under false pretences, fora
few months ; but she never intended to goon
living in the East End, after she had set her
Association on a firm basis. To be sure, she
had been drawn on into wider schemes, and

could not retire until these, including the Palace
of Delight, were well started. But this young
man had given up all, cheerfully, for her sake.
Because she was a dressmaker, and lived at
Stepney, he would be a workman and live
there as well. For her sake he had given up
for ever the life of ease and culture, which
might have been his, among the gentle-folk to
whom he belonged ; for her sake he left the
man who stood to him in loco 'parentis ; for her
sake he gave up all the things that are dear to
young men, and became a servant. And without
a murmur. She watched him going to his
work in the morning, cheerful, with the sunshine
ever in his face — in fact, sunshine lived
there — his head erect, his eyes fearless, not
repenting at all of his choice, perhaps hopeful
that in the long run those impediments spoken
of might be removed ; in that hope he lived.
Should that hope be disappointed— what then ?
Only to have loved, to have sacrificed so much
for the sake of love, Angela said to herself,
thinking of something she had read, was enough.
Then she laughed because this was so silly, and
the young man deserved to have some reward.

Then, as a first result of this newly-acquired
knowledge, the point of view seemed changed.
Quite naturally, after the first surprise at finding
so much cultivation in a working-man, she
regarded him, like all the rest, from her own
elevated platform. In the same way he, from
his own elevation, had been, in a sense, looking
down upon herself, though she did not suspect
the fact. One might pause here, in order to
discuss how many kinds of people do consider
themselves on a hither level than their neighbours.
My own opinion is, that every man
thinks himself on so very high a platform as to
entitle him to consider the greater part of mankind
quite below him ; the fact that no one
else thinks so has nothing to do with it. Anyone,
however, can understand how Angela would
at first regard Harry, and Harry the fair dressmaker
; further, that, whatever acquaintance or
intimacy grew up between them, the first impression
would always remain, with the mental
attitude of a slight superiority in both minds, so
long as the first impression, the first belief as to
the real facts, was not removed. Now that it
was removed on one side, Angela, for her part.

could no longer look down ; there was no superiority
left, except in so far as the daughter of
a Whitechapel brewer might consider herself
of finer clay than the son of a sergeant in the
Army, also of Whitechapel origin.

All for love of her !

The words filled her heart ; they made her
cheeks burn and her eyes glow. It seemed so
great and noble a thing to do; so grand a
sacrifice to make.

She remembered her words of contempt
when, in a shamefaced, hesitating way, as if it
was something wrong, he had confessed that he
might go back to a life of idleness. Why, she
might have known — she ought to have known
that it was not to an ignoble life among
ignoble people that he would go. Yet she was
so stupid.

What a sacrifice to make ! And all for
love of her !

Then the flower of love sprang up and immediately
blossomed, and was a beauteous rose,
ready for her lover to gather and place upon
his heart. But as yet she hardly knew it.

Yet she had known all along that Harry

loved her. He never tried to conceal his passion.
' Why,' she said to herself, trying to
understand the meaning of the sudden change
in herself, — 'Why, it only seemed to amuse
me ; the thing was absurd ; and I felt pity for
him, and a little anger because he .was so presumptuous
; and I was a little embarrassed for
fear I had compromised myself with him. But
it wasn't absurd at all ; and he loves me, though
I have no fortune. Oh ! Heaven ! I am a she
Dives, and he doesn't know it, and he loves me
all the same.'

She was to tell him when the ' impediments
' were removed. Why, they were removed
already. But should she tell him ? How
could she dare to tell him P No girl likes to do
her own wooing ; she must be courted ; she
must be won. Besides — perhaps — but here she
smiled — he was not so very much in love, after
all. Perhaps he would change ; perhaps he
would grow tired and go home and desert her ;
perhaps he would fall in love with someone
else. And perhaps Angela, the strong-minded
student of ISTewnham, who would have no love
or marriage, or anything of the kind in her

life, was no stronger than any of her sisters at
the approach of live the Unconquered.

She came back the evening after that
dinner. Her cheek had a new colour upon
it ; there was a new smile upon her lips ; there
was a new softness in her eyes.

You look so beautiful this evening,' said
Kelly. ' Have you been happy while you were
away ? '

I have heard something that has made me
happier,' said Angela. 'But you, dear Nelly,
have not. Why are your cheeks so pale, and
what is the meaning of the dark lines under
your eyes ? '

It is nothing,' the girl replied quickly. ' I
am quite well. I am always well.' But she
was not. She was nervous and preoccupied.
There was something on her mind.

Then Harry came, and they began to pass
the evening in the usual way, practising their
songs, with music, and the little dance, without
which the girls could not have gone away
happy. And Angela, for the first time, observed
a thing which struck a chill to her heart and
robbed her of half her joy.

Why had she never before discovered this
thing ? Ah ! ignorant maiden, despite the
wisdom of the schools ! Hypatia herself was
not more ignorant than Angela, who knew not
that the chief quality of the rose of love in her
heart was to make her read the hearts of others.
Armed with this magic power, she saw what
she might have seen long before.

In the hasty glance, the quick flush, the
nervous trembling of her hands, poor Nelly
betrayed her secret. And by those signs the
other girl, who loved the same vin, read that
secret.

Oh ! selfish woman ! ' said Angela's heart.
Is your happiness to be bought at such a
cost?'

A girl of lower nature might have been
jealous. Angela was not. It seemed to her no
sin in Nelly that she thought too much of such
a man. But she pitied her. Nor did she, as
some women might have done, suspect that
Harry had trifled with her feelings. She knew
that he had not. She had seen them together,
day after day ; she knew what his bearing had
always been towards her, frank, courteous, and

brotherly. He called her by her Christian
name; he liked her; her presence was pleasant
; she was pretty, sweet, and winning. No ;
she did not suspect him. And yet, what should
she say to the poor girl ? how comfort her ?
how reconcile her to the inevitable sorrow ?

Nelly,' she whispered at parting, ' if you
are unhappy, my child, you must tell me what
it is.'

I cannot,' Nelly replied. ' But oh ! do
not think about me, Miss Kennedy ; I am not
worth it.'

Perhaps she, too, had read those same
signs, and knew what they meant.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Harry FINDS LIBERTY.

Mention has been made of the Stepney
Advanced Chin, where Dick Coppin thundered,
and burning questions were discussed, and
debates held on high political points, and
where more ideas were submitted and more
projects set forth in a single year than in all
the rest of London in two years. The members
of the Advanced Club were mostly young men,
but there was a sprinkling among them of
grizzled beards who remembered '48 and the
dreams of Chartism. They had got by this
time pretty well all they clamoured for in their
bygone days, and when they thought of this,
and remembered how everything was to go
well as soon as the five points of the Charter
were carried, and how everything still remained
in the same upsydown, topsy-turvy, one-sided,

muddle-headed perverseness, just as if those
points had not been carried, they became sad.
Nevertheless, the habit of demanding remained,
because the reformer is like the daughter of the
horse-leech, and still cries for more. Yet they
had less confidence than of old in the reformer's
great nostrum of destruction. The younger
men, of course, were quite sure, absolutely
sure, that with a little more upsetting and
down pulling the balance would be set right
and a beautiful straight level of universal happiness
would be reached.

Angela heard, from time to time, of the
meetings of this club. Harry told her how his
cousin Dick had surpassed himself, how they
were going to abolish Crown, Church, and
House of Lords, with landlordism, lawyers,
established armies, pauperdom, Divesdom,
taxes, and all kinds of tidings which the hateful
Tory or that pitiful creature the moderate
Liberal considers necessary for the welfare of
the State. And she knew that Harry went
there and spoke occasionally, and that he had
made in a quiet way some sort of mark among
the members. One evening, about this time.

she met Dick Coppin returning from his work,
in which. unlike his cousin, he did not disdain
the apron nor the box of tools.

There's going to be a debate on Sunday,'
he said, half shyly and half, boastfully, ' at the
Club. It's on the Abolition of the House of
Lords. I am going to speak, and if you like
to come, you and one or two of the girls, I'll
pass you in, and you will hear a thing or two
that will open your eyes.'

That is very good of you, Mr. Coppin. I
always like to have my eyes opened. Will
there be many speakers ? '

There will be me,' he replied with simple
grandeur. ' I don't think, when I've said my
say, that there will remain much more to be
said by anybody. Cousin Harry may get up,
perhaps ' — his face assumed a little uneasiness
- — ' but no, I don't think he will find any holes
in me. I've got the facts, I've gone to the
right quarter to get 'em. No ; he can't deny
my facts.'

Very well, Mr. Coppin. Perhaps we will
go to hear you. But be very sure about your
facts.'

Angela said nothing about the proposed
debate or her intention of being present, but
she learned from Harry that there really was
going to be a field night, and that Dick Coppin
was expected to come out in more than his
usual strength. The informant said nothing
about his own intentions. Indeed, he had none,
but he was falling into the habit of spending an
hour or two at the Club on Sunday evening
before finishing off with the girls ; sometimes
he spoke, but oftener he listened and came
away silent and reflective. The Advanced
Club offered ample material for one who
knows how to reflect. Humanity is a grand
subject, and, in fact, is the only subject
left for an epic poem. But perhaps the action
would drag. Here, Harry saw, was a body of
men, old and young, all firmly persuaded that
things were wrong, that things might be made
better, yet casting about blindly for a remedy
and crying aloud for a leader. And those who
desired to lead them had nothing to offer but a
stone instead of bread. The fact that this
young man did listen and reflect shows how
greatly he was changed from him whom we

VOL, II. P

first met in the Prologue. Regular hours,
simple living, reasonably hard work, strengthened
his nerves for anything ; he was harder ;
the men with whom he talked were rougher,
and the old carelessness was gone. He kept
his gaiety of heart, yet it was sobered ; he felt
responsible ; he knew so much more than the
men around him, that he felt a consuming
desire to set them right, but could not, for he
was tongue-tied ; he had not yet found liberty,
as the old preachers used to say ; when he felt
most strongly that the speakers were on a false
tack, he spoke most feebly ; he wanted to be a
Prophet, and there were only confused ideas,
blurred perceptions to work upon. Now, the
first step towards being a Prophet — which is a
most laudable ambition — is to see quite clearly
oneself and to understand what one means.
He could set a man right as to facts ; he could
shut up a speaker and make the Club laugh, but
he could not move them. As yet Harry was
only in the position occupied during a long life
by the late Prophet of Chelsea, inasmuch as he
distinctly perceived the folly of his neighbours,
but could teach no way of wisdom. This

is a form of prophetical utterance which has
never possessed much weight with the people ;
they want direct teaching, and a leader who
knows what he means and whither he would
conduct them, if it be only in the direction of
one of those poor old worn-out panaceas once
warranted to guarantee universal happiness,
like the ballot-box. Not that Harry grew
miserable over his failure to prophesy, not at
all ; he only wished for words of wisdom and
power, and sat meanwhile with his hands in his
pockets and his hat pulled over his eyes, like a
Minister in the House of Commons, while the
members of the Club poured forth their frothy
declamation, each louder than his predecessor,
trying to catch the applause of an assembly
which generally shouted for the loudest. The
times might be out of joint, but Harry felt no
certain inspiration as to the way of setting
them right ; if a thing came to him, he would
say it; if not, he would wait. The great
secret about waiting is that while a man waits
he thinks, and if he thinks in solitude and
waits long enough, letting words lie in his
brain and listening to ideas which come upon

p 2

him, sometimes singly and slowly, sometimes in
crowds like the fancies of a wakeful night, there
presents itself an idea at last which seizes upon
him and holds him captive, and works itself
out in his brain while he mechanically goes on
with the work, the rest, the toil, and the
pleasure of his daily life. Solitary work is
favourable to meditation ; therefore, while
Harry was shaping things at his lathe, undisturbed
by any one, his brain was at work.
And a thought came to him which lay there
dimly perceived at first, but growing larger
daily till it filled his head and drew unto itself
all his other thoughts, so that everything he
saw, or read, or heard, or meditated upon,
became like a rill or rivulet which goes to
swell a great river. And it was this thought,
grown into shape at last, which he proclaimed
to the members of the Advanced Club on the
night of their great debate.

It was not a large Hall, but it was perfectly
filled with people ; chiefly they were men and
young men, but among them where a good
many women and girls. Does it ever occur to
the ' better class ' that the work of woman's

emancipation is advancing in certain circles
with rapid strides ? That is so, nevertheless ;
and large, if not pleasant, results may be
expected in a few years therefrom. It must be
remembered that for the most part they start
perfectly free from any trammels of religion.
It has been stated that the basis of all their
philosophy is, and always will be, the axiom
that every one must get as much as possible for
herself out of the rather limited rations of
Pleasure supplied to Humanity. Whether that
is true I know not. Angela watched these
women with curiosity ; they were mostly young
and some of them were pretty, and there was
absolutely nothing to show that they thought
differently from any other women. Some
of them had brought their work ; some were
talking ; they were not excited by the prospect
of the coming debate ; they expected, in fact,
nothing more than they had already heard
over and over again. There was too much gas,
the atmosphere was already heavy and the
walls already shiny, before the meeting began.
On the platform was a chair for the chairman,
with a table and a hammer and a decanter of

water and a glass. Angela sat far back against
the door, with Captain Sorensen and Nelly.
She was silent, wondering at these people
and why they should trouble themselves
about the House of Lords, and whether they
never felt any desire at all for the religion
which brings joy and happiness to so many
suffering lives. Presently she saw Harry walk
slowly up the middle aisle and take a place, for
there was no chair, on the steps which led to
the platform. She was so far back that he
could not see her, for which afterwards she
was glad.

The chairman, a man stricken in years, with
grey hair and a grizzled beard, and one of
those ex-Chartists of whom we have spoken,
took the chair, hammered the table, and
opened the debate. He was a man of great
reputation, having been all his life an Irreconcilable,
and he was suspected of being a
Socialist, and was certainly a Eed Eepublican.
He began in the usual way by stating as an
axiom that the People can do no wrong ; that
to entrust the destinies of a Nation to the
People is to ensure its greatness; that Manhood

is the only rank : — and so forth, all in
capital letters with notes of admiration. The
words were strong, but they produced no effect,
because the speech had been made before a
great many times, and the people knew it by
heart. Therefore, though it was the right
thing to say, and the thing expected of a chairman,
nobody paid any attention.

The Discussion, which was all one-sided,
then began. Two or three young men rose
one after the other ; they were listened to with
the indulgence which is always accorded to
beginners. None of them made a point, or
said a good thing, or went outside the crude
theories of untaught, if generous, youth ; and
their ignorance was such as to make Angela
almost weep.

Then Dick Coppin mounted the platform,
and advanced amid the plaudits of the expectant
audience. He ran his fingers through his
coarse black hair, straightened himself up to
his full height of five feet six, drank a little
water, and then, standing beside the chairman's
table, with his right hand resting upon it,
when he was not waving it about, he began,

slowly at first, but afterwards with fluent
speech and strong words and a ringing voice,
the harangue which he had so carefully
prepared. Of course he condemned the House
of Lords tooth and nail ; it must be destroyed
root and branch ; it was a standing insult to
the common sense of the nation ; it was an
effete and worn-out institution, against which
the enlightenment of the age cried out aloud ;
it was an obstruction to Progress ; it was a
menace to the People ; it was a thing of the
Past ; it was an enemy of the working-man ;
it was a tyrant who had the will but not the
power to tyrannise any longer ; it was a toothless
old wolf who could bark but could not
bite. Those free and enlightened men sitting
before him, members "of the Advanced Club,
had pronounced its doom — therefore it must
go. The time had come when the nation
would endure , no longer to have a privileged
class, and would be mocked no more by
the ridiculous spectacle of hereditary legislators.


He pursued this topic with great freedom
of language and a great natural eloquence of

a rough and uncultivated kind ; his hearers,
getting gradually warmed, interrupted him by
those plaudits which go straight to the heart of
the born orator, and stir him to his strongest
and his best.

Then he changed his hne and attempted
to show that the families which compose the
Upper House are themselves, as well as their
Institution, worn out, used up, and lost to the
vigour which first pushed them to the front.
Where were now their fighting men ? he asked.
Where were their orators? Which among
them all was of any real importance to his
Party ? Which of them had in modern times
done anything, proposed anything, or thought
of anything for the advancement of knowledge,
or the good of the people ? JSTot one able man,
he said, among them ; luxury had ruined and
corrupted all ; their blood was poisoned ; they
could drink and eat ; they could practise other
luxurious habits, which he enumerated-with
fidelity, lest there should be any mistake about
the matter ; and then they could go to the
House, reeling into it drunk with wine, and
oppose the Will of the People.

Then he turned from generalities to particulars,
and entertained his audience with
anecdotes gleaned, Heaven knows how, from
the private histories of many noble families,
tending to show the corruption into which the
British Aristocracy had fallen. These anecdotes
were received with that keenness which always
awaits stories which show how wicked other
people are, and what are the newest fashions
and hitherto unknown forms of vice. Angela
marvelled, on her part, to hear ' Scandal about
Queen Elizabeth ' at Stepney.

Then, after an impeachment which lasted
for half an hour, he thundered forth an
appeal — not at all novel to his hearers, yet still
effective, because his voice was like a trumpet
the men before him to rise in their millions,
their majesty, and their might, and to tear the
accursed thing down.

He sat down, at last, wiping his forehead
and exhausted, but triumphant. Never before
had he so completely carried his audience with
him ; never before had he obtained such flow
of language, and such mastery over his voice ;
never before had he realised so fully that he

was, he himself, an orator inferior to none. Ashe
sat down, while the men clapped their hands
and cheered, a vision of greatness passed before
his mind. He would be the Leader of the
People ; they should look to him as they had
never yet looked to any man for guidance.
And he would lead them. Whither .^ But this,
in the dream of the moment, mattered nothing.

A cold chill came over him as he saw his
cousin Harry leap lightly to the platform and
take his place at the table. For he foresaw
trouble ; and all the more because those of the
audience who knew Gentleman Jack laughed
in expectation of that trouble. Fickle and
fleeting is the breath of popular favour ; only
a moment before, and they were cheering him
to the skies ; now they laughed because they
hoped he was to be made to look a fool. But
the orator took heart, considering that his facts
where undeniable.

When the tumult had subsided, Harry, to
everybody's astonishment, laid his hand upon
his cousin's shoulder — a gesture of approbation
— and looked round the room and said
quietly, but loud enough to be heard by all ;

My cousin, Dick Coppin, can talk. That
was a very good speech of his, wasn't it ? '

Voices were heard asking if he coukl
better it.

No,' Harry replied, ' I can't. I wish I
coukl.' He took his place beside the table, and
gazed for a few moments at the faces below
him. Angela observed that his face was pale,
though the carriage of his head was brave. ' I
wish,' he repeated, ' that I could. Because,
after all these fireworks, it is such a tame thing
just to tell you that there wasn't a word of
sense in the whole speech.'

Here there were signs of wrath, but the
general feeling was to let the speaker have
his say.

'Do you suppose — any of you— that Dick
believes that the Lords go rolling drunk to the
House ? Of coin-se he doesn't. Do you suppose
that he thinks you such fools as to believe
it ? Of course he doesn't. But then, you see,
Dick must have his fireworks. And it was a
first-rate speech. Do you suppose he believes
that the Lords are a worn-out lot? Not he.
He knows better. And if any of you feel in-dined

to think so, go and look at them. You
will find them as well set np as mos and
better. You can hear some of them in the
House of Commons, where you send them,
you electors. Wherever there are Englishmen
working, fighting, or sporting, there are some
of those families among them. As for their
corruption, that's fireworks too. Dick has told
you some beautiful stories which he challenged
anybody to dispute. I dare say they are all
true. What he forgot to tell you is that he has
picked out these stories from the last hundred
and fifty years, and expects you to believe that
they all happened yesterday. Shall we charge
you members of the Club with all the crimes
of the Whitechapel Eoad for a hundred years ?
If you want to upset the House of Lords, go
and do it. But don't do it with lies on your
lips, and on false pretences. You know how
virtuous and moral you are yourselves. Then
just remember that the members of the House
of Lords are about as moral as you are, or
rather better. Abolish the House of Lords, if
you like. How much better will you be when
it is gone ? You can go on abolishing. There.

is the Church. Get it disestabhshed. Think
how much better you will all be when the
churches are pulled down. Yet you couldn't
stay away any more then than you do. You
want the Laud Laws reformed. Get them reformed,
and think how much land you will get
for yourselves out of that Eeform.

Dick Coppin says you have got the Power.
So you have. He says the last Eeform Bill
gave it to you. There he makes a mistake.
You have always had the Power. You have
always had all the Power there is. It is yours,
because you are the people, and what the people
want they will have. Your Power is your
birthright. You are an irresistible giant who
has only to roar in order to get what he wants.

Well, why don't you roar ? Because you
don't know what you do want. Because your
leaders don't know, any more than yourselves ;
because they go bawling for things which will
do you no good, and they don't know what it
is you do want.

You think that by making yourselves
into Clubs and calling yourselves Eadicals,
you are getting forward. You think that

by listening to a chap like my cousin Dick,
who's a clever fellow and a devil for fireworks,
you somehow improve your own condition.
Did you ever ask yourselves what difference
the form of Government makes ? I have been
in America, where, if anywhere, the people
have it their own way. Do you think work
is more plentiful, wages better, hours shorter,
things cheaper in a Republic ? Do you think
the heels of your boots last any longer If
you do, think so no longer. Whether the
House of Lords, or the Church, or the Land
Laws stand or fall, that, my friends, makes not
the difference of a penny piece to any single
man among us. You who agitate for their destruction
are generously giving your time and
trouble for things which help no man. And
yet there are so many things that can help us.

It comes of your cursed ignorance ' — Harry
was warming up — ' I say, your cursed ignorance.
You know nothing : you understand
nothing ; of your own country. You do not
know how its institutions have grown up : why
it is so prosperous : why changes, when they
Jive to be made, should be made slowly, and

not before they are necessary ; nor how you
yourselves may dumb up, if you will, into a
life above you, much happier, much more
pleasant. You do not respect the old institutions,
because you don't know them ; you desire
new things because you don't understand
the old. Go — learn — make your orators learn
and make them teach you. And then send
them to the House of Commons to represent you.

You think that Governments can do
everything for you. You FOOLS ! Has any
Government ever done anything for you ? Has
it raised your wages ? Has it shortened your
hours ? Can it protect you against rogues and
adulterers ? Will it ever try to better your
position ! Never : never : never. Because it
cannot. Does any Government ask what you
want, what you ought to want ? No. Can it
give you what you want ? No.

Listen. You want clean streets and houses
in which decent folk can live. The Government
has appointed sanitary officers. Yet, look
about you : put your heads in the courts of
Whitechapel — what has the sanitary officer
done ? You want strong and well-built houses.

There are Government inspectors. Yet, look
at the lath-and-plaster houses that a child could
kick over. You want honest food. All that
you eat and drink is adulterated. How does
the Government help you there ?

You have the Power — all the Power there
is ; you cannot use it because you don't know
how. You expect the Government to use your
Power — to do your work. My friends, I will
tell you the secret — whatever you Avant done
you must do for yourselves — no one else will doit
for you. You must agree that such and such
shall be done, and then be very sure, you will
get it done.

In politics you are used as the counters of
a game, each side plays with you : not for yoii,
mind. You get nothing, whichever side is in :
you are-the pawns.

It is something, perhaps, to take even so
much part in the game ; but as you get nothing
but the honour, I am rather surprised at your
going on with it. And if I might advise, it
would be that we give that game over and play
one by ourselves in which there really is something
to be got.

VOL. II. Q

Wliat we must play for is Avliat we want.
What we have got to do is to remember that
when we say we will have a thing, nobody can
resist us. Have it we must, because we are the
masters.

Now, then, what do we want? '

Harry was quite serious by this time, and
so were the faces of those who listened, though
there was a little angry doubt on some of them.
No one replied to the question. Some of the
younger men looked as if they might perhaps
have answered in the words of the sailor,
more rum.' But they refrained, and preserved
silence.

What do we want ? Has any one of you
ever considered what you do want ? Let me
tell you a few things — I can't think of many,
but I know a few that you ought to put first.

You want your own local Government.
What every little country town has, you have
not. You want to elect your own Aldermen,
Mayors, Guardians, and School Boards, yourselves
— by yourselves. Get that first, and
abolish the House of Lords afterwards.

There is your food. You ought to get

your beef from America at threepence a
pound, and you are contented to give a shilling
; you ought to have your fish at twopence
a pound, and you pay whatever they choose to
charge you ; you drink bad beer, bad spirits,
bad tea, bad cocoa, bad coffee — because you
don't know that the things are bad and dear,
and because you don't understand that you
have only got to resolve in order to get all
this changed. It is, you see, your cursed
ignorance.

'There are your houses. The rich people,
having more knowledge than you, and more
determination, have found out how to build
houses so as to prevent fevers. You live
in houses built to catch fever — fever-traps.
When you find out what you want, you will
refuse to live in such houses ; you will refuse
to let anybody live in such houses ; you will
come out of them ; you will have them pulled
down. When it comes to building up better
houses, you will remember that paid inspectors
are squared by the builders, so that the cement
is mud and sand, and the bricks are crumbling
play, and the walls crack, and the floors are

«2

shaky. Therefore, you will be your own inspectors.


'The Government makes us send our
children to Board Schools to be educated.
That would be very noble of the Government
if they at first considered, which nobody has,
what sort of education a working-man wants.
As yet they have only got as far as spelling.
When a boy can spell, they think he is
educated. Once it was all Kings of Israel;
now it is all spelling. Is that what you want ?
Do you think it matters how you spell, so that
you know? Are you contented that your
children shall know nothing about this great
country, nothing of its wealth and people,
nothing of their duties as citizens, nothing of
their own trade ? Shall they not be taught that
theirs is the Power, that they can do what they
like and have what they like — if they like?
Do you resolve that the education of your
children shall be real, and it will become real.
But don't look to Government to do it, or it
will continue to be Spelling. Find out the
thing that you want, and send your own men
to the School Boards to get that thing done.

Another tiling that you want is Pleasure.
Men can't do without it. Can Government
give you that's They can shut the pubHc-
houses at twelve. What more can they do?
But you — you do not know how to enjoy yourselves.
You don't know what to do. You
can't play music, nor sing, nor paint, nor
dance : you can do nothing. You get no
pleasure out of life, and you won't get it, even
by abolishing everything.

Take that simple question of a holiday.
We take ours, like the fools we are, all in
droves, by thousands and millions, on Bank
holidays. Why do we do that ? Why do we
not insist on having our holidays at different
times in the year, without these monstrous
crowds which render enjoyment impossible?
And why do we not demand — what is granted
to every little quill driving clerk in the City —
our fortnight every year, with nothing to do
and drawing full pay? That is one of your
wants, and you don't know it. The reform of
the Land Laws, my brothers, will not bring
you one inch nearer getting this want.'

At this point the chairman nodded his head

approvingly. Perhaps he had never before
realised how all his life he had neglected the
substance and swallowed the shadow. The old
man sat listening patiently with his head in
his hands. Never before had any workman,
anyone of his own class, spoken like this young
fellow, who talked and looked like a swell,
though they knew him for what he was.
Pleasure ! Yes : he had never considered that
life might have its delights. Yet, what
delights ?

There's another thing, and the blackest of
all.' Harry paused a moment. But the men
were listening, and now in earnest.

I mean the treatment of your girls, your
sisters and your daughters. Men ! You have
combined together and made your Unions for
yourselves. You have forced upon your employers
terms which nothing but combination
would have compelled them to accept ; you are
paid twice what you received twenty years
ago ; you go in broadcloth ; you are well fed ;
you have money in your pocket. But you
have clean forgotten the girls.

Think of the girls !

They have no protection but a Government
Act, forbidding more than ten hours'
work. Who cares for a Government Act ? It
is defied daily ; those who frame these Acts
know very well that they are powerless to
maintain them. Because, my friends, the
Power is with the People — you. If you resolve
that an Act shall become a law, you
make it so. Everything, in the end, is by the
people and through the people.

'You have done nothing for your girls.
You leave them to the mercies of employers
who have got to cut down expenses to the
last farthing. They are paid starvation wages ;
they are kept in unwholesome rooms ; they are
bound to the longest hours ; they are oppressed
with foes. The girls grow up narrow-chested,
stooping, consumptive. They are used up
wholesale. And Avhat do you do for them?
Nothing. There are girls and women in this
hall. Can any one of them here get up and
say that the working men have raised a finger
for them ?

'The worst charge any man can bring
against you is that you care nothing for your girls.

Why, it is only the other clay that a Dressmakers'
Association has been opened among
you. You all know where it is ; you all
know what it tries to do for the girls ; yet,
what single man among you has ever had the
pluck to stand up for his sisters who are working
in it ? '

Then Harry stepped right to the edge of
the platform and spread out his hands, changing
his voice.

You are good fellows,' he said, ' and you've
given me fair play. There isn't a country in
the world except England where I could have
had this fair play. Don't misunderstand me.
I tell you, and I don't think you knew it
before, that the time has come when the people
should leave off caring much about the Government
or expecting any good thing for themselves
from any Government, because it can't
be done in that way. You must find out for
yourselves what you want, and then you must
have that done. You must combine for these
things as you did for wages, and you will get
them. And if you spend half the energy in
working for yourselves that you have spent in

working for things that do you no good, you
will be happy indeed.

Your Politics — I say again — will do
nothing for you. Do you hear — nothing at
ALL. But yours is the Power. Let us repeat
it again and again : all the Power is yours.
Try what Government can do. Send Dick
Coppin into Parliament — he's a clever chap —
and tell him to do what he can for you. He
will do nothing. Therefore, work for yourselves,
and by yourselves. Make out what you
Avant, and resolve to have it. Nobody can
prevent you. The world is yours to do what
you like with. Here in England, as in
America, the working man is master, provided
the working man knows what he wants. The
first thing you want, I reckon, is good lodging ;
the second is good food ; the third is good
drink — good unadulterated beer, and plenty of
it ; the fourth is good and sensible education ;
the fifth is holiday and pleasure ; and the last,
which is also the first, is justice for your girls.
But don't be Fools. I have been among you
in this Club a good many times. It goes to
my heart every time I come to see so many

clever men, and able men, wasting their time over
grievances which don't hurt them, when they
are surrounded by a hundred grievances which
they have only to perceive, in order to sweep
them away. I am a Eaclical, like yourselves,
but I am a Social Eadical. As for your
political Jaw, it plays the game of those who
use you : Politics is a game of lying accusations
and impossible promises : the accusations
make you angry : the promises make you hopeful.
But you get nothing in the long run, and
you never will : because, promise what they
may, it is not laws or measures that will
improve our lot ; it is by our own resolution
that it shall be improved. Hold out your
hands and take the things that are offered you.
Everything is yours if you like to have it.
You are in a beautiful garden filled with fruits,
if you care to pick them, but you do not : you
lie grubbing in the mud and crying out for
what will do you no good. Voices are calling"
to you : they offer you such a life as was never
yet conceived by the loveliest House of Lords,
a life full of work and full of pleasure ; but
you don't hear : you are deaf : you are blind ;

you are ignorant.' He stopped — a hoarse shout
greeted his peroration — Harry wondered for a
moment if this was applause or disapproval
It was the former. Then one man rose and
spoke.

Damn him ! ' he cried. Yet the phrase
was used in no condemnatory spirit — as when
a mother addresses her boy as a naughty little
rogue-rogue. ' Damn him ! He shall be our
next member.'

No,' said Harry, clapping his cousin on the
shoulder, 'here is your next member, Dick
Coppin is your boy. He is clever: he is
ambitious : tell him what you want, and he'll
get it for you if any one can. But — oh !
men — find out what you want : and have
it. Yours — yours — yours is the Power —
you are the masters of the world. Leave the
humbug of Radicalism and Liberalism and
Toryism. Let dead politics bury their dead.
Learn to look after your own interests. You
are the Kings and Lords of humanity : the old
Kings and Lords are no more : they are swept
away : they are only shadows of the past.
With you are the sceptre and the crown : you

sit upon the throne : and when you know how
to reign, you shall reign as never yet king was
known to reign. But firsts find out ivhat you
leant. '

He lightly leapt from the platform, and
stepped down the hall. He had said his say,
and was going. The men laughed and
shouted, half angry, half pleased, but wholly
astonished. And Dick Coppin, with a burning
cheek, sat humiliated, yet proud of his cousin.

At the door Harry met Miss Kennedy with
Captain Sorensen and Nelly.

We have heard your speech,' said Angela,
with brightened eyes and glowing cheeks.
Oh ! what did I tell you ? You can speak,
you can persuade — you can lead. What a
career — what a career — lies before the man
who can persuade and lead ! '

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE FIGUREHEADS.

It was Sunday morning, after breakfast, and
Harry was sitting in the boardinghouse
common room, silently contemplating his two
fellow-boarders, Josephus and Mr. Mahphant.
The circle at Bormalack's was greatly broken
up. Not to speak of the loss of the illustrious
pair, Daniel Faggg had now taken to live entirely
among the dressmakers, except in the
evenings, when their music and dancing drove
him away ; in fact, he regarded the place as
his own, and had so far forgotten that he took
his meals there by invitation, as to criticise the
dinners, which Avere always good, although
plain, and to find fault with the beer, which
came from Messenger's. Miss Kennedy, too,
only slept at the boardinghouse, though by
singular forgetfulness she always paid the landlady

every Saturday morning in advance for a
week's board and lodging. Therefore Josephus
and the old man for the most part sat in the
room alone, and were excellent company, because
the ill-used junior clerk never wanted to
talk with anybody, and the aged carver of
figureheads never wanted a listener.

Almost for the first time, Harry considered
this old man, the rememberer of fag ends and
middle bits of anecdote, with something more
than a passing curiosity and a sense of irritation
caused by the incongruity of the creature.
You know that whenever you seriously address
yourself to the study of a person, however insignificant
in appearance, that person assumes
an importance equal to that of any lord. A
person, you see, is an individual, or an indivisible
thing. Wherefore, let us not despise our
neighbour. The ancient Mr. Maliphant was a
little, thin old man, with a few grey hairs left,
but not many ; his face was entrapped, so to
speak, in a pair of very high collars, and he
wore a black silk stock, not very rusty, for he
had been in the reign of the fourth George a
dapper young fellow, and possessed a taste in

dress beyond the lights of Limehouse. But this
was in his nautical days, and before he developed
his natural genius for carving ships'
figiu-eheads. He had no teeth left, and their
absence greatly shortened the space between
nose and chin, which produced an odd effect ;
he was closely shaven ; his face was covered allover
like an ocean with innumerable wrinkles,
crows feet, dimples, furrows, valleys, and winding
watercourses, which showed like the universal
smile of an accurate map. His forehead,
when the original thatch was thick, must have
been rather low and weak ; his eyes were still
bright and blue, though they wandered while
he talked : when he was silent they had a far-off
look ; his eyebrows, as often happens with
old men, had grown bushy and were joined
across the bridge ; when his memory failed
him, which was frequently the case, they
frowned almost as terribly as those of Daniel
Faggg ; his figure was spare and his legs thin,
and he sat on one side of the chair with his
feet twisted beneath it ; he never did anything,
except to smoke one pipe at night ; he never
took the least notice of anybody ; when he

talked, he addressed the whole company, not
any individual ; and he was afFected by no
man's happiness or suffering. He had lived so
long that he had no more sympathy left ; the
world was nothing more to him ; he had no
further interest in it ; lie lead gone beyond it
and out of it ; he was so old that he had not a
friend left, who knew him when he was young ;
he lived apart ; he was, perforce, a hermit.

Harry remembered, looking upon this survival,
that the old man had once betrayed a
knowledge of his father and of the early history
of the Co[)pin and Messenger families. He
wondered now why he had Riot tried to get
more out of him. It would be a family chronicle
of small beer, but there could be nothing,
probably, very disagreeable to learn about the
career of the late sergeant, his father, nor anything
painful about the chinese of the Copies.
On this Sunday morning, when the old man
looked as if the cares of the week were off his
mind, his memory should be fresh — clearer than
on a week-day.

In the happy family of boarders, none of
whom pretended to take the least interest in

each other, nobody ever spoke to Mr. Mali-plant,
and nobody listened when he spoke :
nobody, except Mrs. Bormalack, who was bound
by rules of politeness, took the least notice of
this coming or of his going ; nobody knew how
he lived or what he paid for his board and
lodging, or anything else aljout him. Once, it
was certain, he had been in the mercantile
marine. Now he had a ' yard ' ; he went to
this yard every day ; it was rumoured that in
this yard he carved figureheads all day for
large sums of money ; he came home in the
evening in time for supper ; a fragrance, as of
rum and water, generally accompanied him at
that time ; and after a pipe and a little more
grog, and a few reminiscences chopped up in
bits and addressed to the room at large, the
old fellow would retire for the night. A perfectly
cheerful and harmless old man, yet not
companionable.

Did you know my father, Mr. Maliphant? '
asked Harry, by way of opening up the conversation.
' He was a sergeant, you know, in
the army.'

Mr. Maliphant started and looked be-vol.

II. B

withered : lie had been, in imagination, somewhere
off Cape Horn, and he could not get
back at a moment's notice. It irritated him to
have to leave his old friends.

Your father, young gentleman ? ' he asked
in a vexed and trembling quaver, ' Did I know
your father ? Pray, sir, how am I to know that
you ever had a father ? '

You said, the other day, that you did.
Think again. My father, you know, married
Caroline Coppin.'

Ay, ay — Caroline Coppin — I remember
Caroline Coppin. Oh ! Yes, sister she was to
Bob — when Bob was third mate of a East
Indiamen ; a devil of a fellow was Bob, though
but a boy, and if living now, which I much
misdoubt, would be but sixty or thereabouts.
Everybody, young man, knew Bob Coppin,' . .
. here he relapsed into silence. When he
spoke again, he carried on aloud the subject
of his thoughts — ' below he did his duty. Such
a man, sir, was Bob Coppin.*

Thank you, Mr. Mahphant. I seem to
know Bob quite well from your description.
And now he's gone aloft, hasn't he.^ And

when the word comes to pass all Lands, there
will be Bob with a hitch of his trousers and a
kick of the left leg. But about my mother ? '

Young gentleman, how am I to knows that
you W' ere born with a mother ? Law ! law !
One might as well — ' here his voice dropped
again and he finished the sentence with the
silent motion of his lips.

Caroline Coppin, you know ; your old
friend.'

He shook his head.

No, oh ! no. I knew her when she was
as high as that table. My young friend, not
my old friend, she was. How could she be
my old friend ? She married Sergeant Goslett,
and he went out to India and — and — something
happened there. Perhaps he was castaway.
A many get cast away in those seas.'

Is that all you remember about her ? '

I can remember,' said the old man, ' a
wonderful lot of things at times. You mustn't
ask any man to remember all at once. Not at
his best, you mustn't, and I doubt I am hardly
at what you may call my tip-top ripest — yet.
"Wait a bit, young man ; wait a bit. I've been
R 2

to a many ports and carved figurelieads for a
many ships, and they got cast away, one after
the other, but dear to memory still, and paid
for. Like Sergeant Goslett. A handsome man
he was, with curly brown hair, like yours,
young gentleman. I remember how he sang
a song in this very house when Caroline — or
was it her sister ? — had it, and I forget whether
it was before Bunker married her sister or after
Caroline's baby was born, which was when the
child's father was dead. A beautiful evening,
we had.'

Caroline's baby, Harry surmised, was himself.


Where was Caroline's baby born ? ' Harry
asked.

Where should he be ? Wliy, o' course, in
his mother's own house.'

Why should he be born in his mother's
own house ? I did not know that his mother
had a house.'

The old man looked at him with pity.

Young man,' he said, ' you know nothing.
Your ignorance is shameful.'

'But why?'

Enough said, young gentleman,' replied
Mr. Maliphant with dignity. ' Enough said :
youth should not sport with age : it doth not
become grey hairs to — to — '

He did not finish the sentence, except to
himself, but what he did say was something
emphatic and improving, because he shook his
head a good deal over it.

Presently he got up and left the room.
Harry watched him getting his hat and tying
his muffler about his neck. When things were
quite adjusted the old man feebly tottered down
the steps. Harry took his hat and followed
him.

May I walk with you, sir .^ ' he asked.

Surely, surely ! ' Mr. Maliphant was surprised
; ' it is an unusual thing for me to have
a companion. Formerly, they came — ah ! — all
the way from Eotherhithe to — to — sing and
drink with me.'

Will you take my arm ? ' Harry asked.

The little old man, who wore black trousers
and a dress coat out of respect to the day, but,
although the month was December, no greatcoat
— in fact, he had never worn a great-coat

in all his life — was trotting along with steps
which showed weakness bnt manifest intention.
Harry wondered where he meant to go. He
took the proffered arm, however, and seemed
to get on better for the support.

Are you going to church, sir ? ' asked
Harry, when they came opposite the good old
church of Stepney, with its vast acres of dead
men, and heard the bells ringing,

Ko, young gentleman, no, certainly not.
I have more important business to look after.'

He quickened his steps, and they left the
church behind them.

Church ? ' repeated Mr. Maliphant with
severity. ' When there's Property to look after,
the bells may ring as loud as they please.
Church is good for paupers and churchwardens.
Where would the Property be, do you think, if
1 were not on the spot every day to protect
it .P '

He turned off the High Street into a short
street of small houses, neither better nor worse
than the thousands of houses around : it was a
cul-de-sac, and ended in a high brick wall with
a large gateway in the middle and square stone

pillars and a ponderous pair of wooden gates,
iron bound, as if they guarded things of the
greatest value. There was also a small wicket
beside it, which the old man carefully unlocked
and opened, looking round to see that no
burglars followed.

Harry saw, within, a tolerably large yard,
in the middle of which was a little house of one
room. The house was a most wonderful structure
; it was built apparently of packing-cases
nailed on four or eight square posts : it was furnished
with a door, a window, and a chimney,
all complete ; it was exactly Hke a doll's house,
only that it was rather larger, being at least six
feet high and eight feet square. The house was
painted green ; the roof was painted red ; the
door blue ; there was also a brass knocker ; so
that in other respects it was like a doll's house.

Aha ! ' cried the old man, rubbing his
hands and pointing to the house. ' I built it,
young man. That is my own house, that is ; I
laid the foundations ; I put up the walls ; I
painted it. And I very well remember when
it was. Let me see : Mr. Messenger, who was
a younger man than me by four years, married

in that year, or lost this son — I forget which,'
his voice lowered, and he went on talking to
himself — ' Caroline's grandfather went bankrupt
in the building trade ; or her father, perhaps,
who afterwards made money and left houses.
And here I am still. This is ray Property,
young gentleman, and I come here every day
to execute orders. Oh ! yes,' — he looked about
him in a kind of mild doubt — ' I execute orders.
Perhaps the orders don't come in so thick as
they did. But here I am — ready for work —
always ready, and I see my old friends too,
aha I They come as thick as ever, bless you,
if the orders don't. Quite a gathering in here,
some days.' Harry shuddered, thinking who
these old friends might be. ' Sundays and all
I come here, and they come too. A merry
company ! '

The garrulous old man opened the door of
the little house. Harry saw that it contained
a cupboard with some simple cooking utensils,
and a fireplace, where the proprietor began to
make a fire, and one chair, and a little table,
and a rack with tools ; there were also one or
two pipes and a tobacco jar.

He looked about the yard. A strange place,
indeed! It was adorned or rather furnished
with great ships' figureheads, carved in wood,
standing in rows and circles, some complete,
some half finished, some just begun ; so that
here was a Lively Peggy with rudimentary
features just emerging from her native wood,
and here a saucy Sal of Wapping still clothed
in oak up to her waist ; and here a Neptune,
his crowned head only as yet indicated, though
the weather-beaten appearance of his wood
showed that the time was long since he was
begun ; or a Father Thames, his god-like face
as yet showing like a blurred dream. Or there
were finished and perfect heads, painted and
gilded, waiting for the purchaser who never
came. They stood or sat — whichever a head
and shoulder can be said to do— with so much
pride, each so rejoicing in himself, and so disdainful
of his neighbour, in so haughty a silence,
that they seemed human and belonging to the
first circles of Stepney ; Harry thought, too,
that they eyed him curiously, as if he might bethe
long-expected shipowner come to buy a
figurehead.

Here is Property, young man ! ' cried the
old man ; lie had lit his fire now and came to
the door, craning forward and spreading his
hands. ' Look at the beauties. There's truth !
There's expression ! Mine, young man, all mine.
Hundreds — thousands of pounds here, to be
protected.'

Do you come here every day ? ' Harry
asked.

Every day. The Property must be looked
after.'

• And do you sit here all day, by yourself? '

Why, who else should I sit with ? And a
man like me never sits alone. Bless your heart,
young gentleman, of a morning, when I sit
before the fire and smoke a pipe, this room gets
full o' people. They crowd in, they do. Dead
people, I mean, of course. I know more dead
men than living. They're the best company,
after all. Bob Coppin comes, for one.'

Harry began to look about, wondering
whether the ghost of Bob might suddenly
appear at the door. On the whole, he envied
the old man his company of departed friends.

So you talk,' he said ; ' you and the dead

people.' By this time the old man had got into
his chair, and Harry stood in the doorway, for
there really was not room for more than one in
the house at the same time, to say nothing of
inconveniencing and crowding the merry company
of ghosts.

You wouldn't believe,' said the old man,
the talks we have nor the yarns we spin, when
we're here together.'

It must be a jovial time,' said Harry. ' Do
they drink ? '

Mr. Maliphant screwed up his lips and
shook his head mysteriously.

Not of a morning,' he replied, as if in the
evening the old rollicking customs were still
kept up.

And you talk about old times — eh ? '

There's nothing else to talk about, as I
know.'

Certainly not. Sometimes you talk about
ni}^ — about Caroline Coppin's father, I suppose.
I mean the one who made money, not the one
who went bankrupt.'

Houses,' said Mr. Maliphant ; ' houses it
was.'

Oh ! '

Twelve houses there were, all his own.
Two sons and two daughters to divide among.
Bob Coppin sold his at once — Bunker bought
'em — and we drank up the money down Poplar
way, him and me and a few friends together ina
friendly and comfortable spirit. A fine time
we had, I remember. Jack Coppin was in his
father's trade, and he lost his money ; speculated,
he did. Builders are a believing' people.
Bunker got his houses, too.'

Jack was my cousin Dick's father, I suppose,'
said Harry. ' Go ahead, old boy. The
family history is reeling out beautifully. Where
did the other houses go ? '

But the old man had gone off on another
tack,

There were more Coppins,' he said. 'When
I was a boy, to be a Coppin of Stepney was a
thing of pride. Josephus's father was Churchwarden
and held up his head.'

'Did he, really?'

If I hadn't the Property to look after, I
would slow you his tombstone in Stepney
churchyard.'

That,' said Harry, ' would be a great
happiness for me. As for Caroline Coppin,
now '

She was a pretty maid, she was,' the old
man went on. ' I saw her born and brought
up. And she married a sober.'

'I know, and her three houses were lost
too, I suppose ? '

'Why should her houses be lost, young
man ? ' Mr. Maliphant asked with severity.
Houses don't run away. This Property doesn't
run away. When she died, she left a baby,
she did, and when the baby was took — or was
stolen — or something — Bunker said those houses
were his. But not lost. You can't lose a house.
You may lose a figurehead ; ' he got up and
looked outside to see if his were safe — ' or a
big drum. But not a house.'

Oh ! ' Harry started. ' Bunker said the
houses were his, did he ? '

Of course he did.'

And if the baby had not died, those houses
would still be the property of that baby, I
suppose ? '

But Mr. Maliphant made no reply. He was

now ill the full enjoyment of the intoxication
produced by his morning pipe, and was sitting
in his arm-chair with his feet on the fender, disposed,
apparently, for silence. Presently he
began to talk, as usual, to himself. Nor could
he be induced, by any leading questions, to
remember anything more of the things which
Harry wanted him to remember. But he let
his imagination wander. Gradually the room
became filled with dead people, and he was
talking with them. Nor did he seem to know
that Harry was with him at all.

Harry slipped quietly away, shutting the
door after him, so that the old man might be
left quite alone with his ghosts.

The yard, littered with wood, crowded with
the figureheads, all of which seemed turning
inquiring and jealous eyes upon the stranger,
was silent and ghostly. Thither came the old
man every day, to sit before the fire in his little
red and green doll's house, to cook his own
beefsteak for himself, to drink his glass of grog
after dinner, to potter about among his carved
heads, to talk to his friends the ghosts, to guard
his Property, and to execute the orders which

never carac. For the shipbuilders who had
employed old Mr. Mahphant were all dead and
gone, and nobody knew of his yard any more,
and he had it all to himself. The tide of time
had carried away all his friends and left him
alone ; the memory of him among active men
was gone : no one took any more interest in
him : and he had ceased to care for anything :
to look back was his only pleasure. No one
likes to die at any time, but who would wish to
grow so very old .^

And those houses ! Why, if the old man's
memory was right, then Bunker had simply appropriated
his property. Was that, Harry asked,
the price for which he traded the child away ?

He went straight away to his cousin Dick,
who, mindful of the recent speech at the Club,
was a little disposed to be resentful. It fortunately
takes two to make a quarrel, however,
and one of those two had no intention of a
familvrow.

Never mind, Dick,' he said, in answer to
2± allusion to the speech. 'Hang the Club. I
want to ask you about something else. ISTow,
then. Tell me about your grandfather.'

I cannot. He died before I can remember.
He was a builder.'

Did lie leave property ? '

There were some houses, I believe. My
father lost his share, I know. Speculated it
away.'

Your uncle Bob — what became of his
share ? '

Bob was a worthless chap. He drank
everything, so of course he drank up his
houses.'

Then we come to the two daughters.
Bunker married one, and of course he got his
wife's share. What became of my mother's
share ? '

Indeed, Harry, I do not know.'

Who would know ? '

Bunker ought to be able to tell you all
about it. Of course he knows.'

'Dick,' said Harry, ' should you bb astonished
to learn that the respectable uncle B\>:iker
is a mighty great rogue? But say nothr.,^^
Dick. Say nothing. Let me consider how i^
bring the thing home to him.'

CHAPTEE XXX.

THE professor's PROPOSAL.

Whej^ the Professor called upon Angela that
same Sunday morning and requested an interview,
she perceived that something serious was
intended. He had on, as if for an occasion, a
new coat with a flower in the buttonhole —
a chrysanthemum. His face was extremely
solemn, and his fingers, which always seemed
restless and dissatisfied unless they were making
things disappear and come again, vere quite
still. Certainly, he had something on his
mind.

The drawing-room had one or two girls in
it, who were reading and talking, though they
ought to have been in church — Angela left
their religious duties to their own consciences.
But the dining-room was empty, and the interview
was held there.

VOL. II. S

The Professor had certainly made up in
his own mind exactly what was going to be
said ; he had dramatised the situation — a very
good plan if you are quite sure of the replies ;
otherwise, you are apt to be put out.

Miss Kennedy,' he began, with a low
voice, ' allow me, first of all, to thank you for
your great kindness during a late season of
depression.'

I am glad it is a late season,' said Angela ;
that means, I presume, that the depression
has passed away.'

Quite, I am glad to say ; in fact,' the Professor
laughed cheerfully, ' I have got engagements
from now to nearly the end of April, in
the country, and am in treaty for a west end
engagement in May. Industry and application,
not to speak of talent, will make their way in
the long run. But I hope I am none the less
grateful to you for your loan — let me call it a
loan — when things were tight. I assure you,
Miss Kennedy, that the run into the country,
after those parish registers, was as good as a
week's engagement, simple as it looked ; and as
for that Saturday night for your girls '

Oh ! Professor, we were agreed that it
should appear to be given by you for nothing.'

Never mind what was agreed. You know
very well what was paid for it. Now, if it
hadn't been for that night's performance and
that little trip into the country, I verily believe
they would have had to send for a nice long-box
for me, a box that can't be palmed, and I
should have gone off in it to a country where
perhaps they don't care for conjuring.'

In that case, Professor, I am very glad to
have been of help.'

And so,' he went on — following the programme
he had laid down in his own mind ;
'and so I have come here to-day, to ask if
your interest in conjuring could be stimulated
to a professional height.'

Eeally, I do not know — professional ?
You mean '

Anybody can see that you've showed an
interest in the subject beyond what is expected
or found in women. What I came here to-day
for is to ask whether you like the conjurer well
enough to take to conjuring ? '

Angela laughed 'and was astonished after
being told by Daniel Faggg that he would
honour her by making her his wife, but for
certain reasons of age. Stow, having become
hardened, it seemed but a small thing to
receive the offer of a conjurer, and the proposal
to join the profession.

I think it must be the science, Professor,'
she said ; ' yes ; it must be the science that I
like so much. Not the man who exhibits his
skill in the science. Yes, I think always of
your admirable science.'

Ah ! ' he heaved a deep sigh, ' you are
quite right. Miss ; science is better than love.
Love ! what sort of a thing is that, when you
get tired of it in a month ? But science fills
up all your life — and we are always learning —
always.'

I am so glad. Professor, that I can agree
with you entirely.'

'Which makes me bolder,' he said, 'because
we could be useful to each other, without
pretending to be in love, or any nonsense
of that sort.'

Indeed ! Now, I shall be very pleased to

be useful to you without, as you say, any
foolish pretence or nonsense.'

'The way is this; you can play, can't
you?'

'Yes.'

And ship ? '

Yes.'

Did you ever dance in tights ? '

1^0, I never did that.'

Ah well — it's a pity — but one can't ex -
pet everything. And no doubt you'd take toit
easy. They all do. Did you ever sing on
the stage — at a music-hall, I mean ? '

No ; I never did.'

There was a chap — but I suppose he was
a liar — said you used to sing under an electric
light at the Canterbury, with a character dance
and a topical song and a kick-up at the finish.'

Yes, Professor. I think that " chap "
must certainly be written down a liar. But
go on.'

I told him he was, and he offered to fight
me for half a- crown. When I said I'd do it,
and willing, for a bob, he went away. I think
he's the fellow Harry Goslett knocked down

one night. Bunker put him up to it. Bunker
doesn't like you. Never mind him. Look
here now.'

I am looking, as hard as I can.'
There's some things that bring the money
in, and some that don't. Dressmaking don't,
conjuring' does.'

Yet, you yourself, Professor '

Why ? ' he asked ; ' because I am only four-ands
twenty, and not much known as yet. Give
me time — ■ wait — Lord ! to see the clumsy
things done by the men who've got a name ;
and how they go down ! And a child would
spot the dodge. Now, mark my words, if you
will stand in with me, there's a fortune in
it.'

For your sake, I am glad to hear it, but it
must be without me.'

It's for your sake that I tell you of it.'
He was not in love at all — love and science
have never yet really composed their differences
and there was not the least dropping of his
voice or any other sign of passion in his
speech.

For your sake,' he repeated, ' because if

you can be got to see your way as I see it,
there's a fortune for both of us.'

Oh I '

*Yes. Now, Miss, you listen ; conjuring,
like most things, is making' believe and cleceiv-
in'. What we do is to show you one thing
and to do another. The only thing is, to doit
so quick that it shan't be seen, even by the
few men who know how it is done. No
woman yet was ever able to be a conjurer,
which is a rum thing, because their fingers do
pretty for music and lacework and such. But
for conjuring', they haven't the mind. You
want a man's brain for such work.'

I have always,' said Angela, ' felt what
poor weak things we are compared with men.'

'Yes, you are,' continued the Professor
gallantly ; ' but you do have your uses in the
world. Most things have. Now, as a confederate
or an assistant, there's nobody like a woman.
They do what they are told to do ; they are
faithful over the secrets ; they learn their place
on the platform, and they stay there. Some
professors carry about a boy with them. But
you can't place any real trust in a boy. He's

always up to tricks, and if you wallop him,
likely as not, next night, he'll take and spoil
your best trick, out of revenge. Some have a
man to help, but then he learns the secrets and
tries to cut you out. But with a woman you're
always pretty safe. A daughter's best, because
then you pocket all the money yourself;
but a wife is next best, so long as she keeps
steady and acts on the square.'

I never thought of it before,' said Angela.
But I suppose it is as you say, and the real
object for which women were created must
have been the assistance of conjurers.'

Of course,' said the Professor, failing to
see the delicate sarcasm of this remark. ' Of
course : what better thing could they do ?
Why : here you sit slaving all day long and all
the year round, and what are you better for
it ? A bare living : that's all you get out of
it. Whether you go into shops, behind a bar,
or into the workroom, it's the same story : a
bare living. Look at the conjuring' line, now.
You live in splendour : you go on the stage in a
most beautiful custom — silks and satins, gold
and spangles, tights if you like : you travel about

the country free : you hear the people cLip-pin'
their hands whenever you go on, and
believing' that you do it all yourself: you've
got nothing to do but just what you are told :
and — and that's your life, with pockets full of
money and the proud consciousness that you
are making your fortune.'

'It certainly seems very beautiful to look
at. Are there no drawbacks ? '

None,' answered the enthusiast. ' It's the
best profession in the world. There's no
danger in it : there's no capital required : all it
wants is cleverness. That's why I come to
you, because you are a real clever girl, and
what's more, you're good-looking. It is not
always that looks and brains go together.'

Very well. Professor. Let us come to the
point. What is it you want me to do ? '

I want you. Miss Kennedy, to go about
the country with me. You shall be my assistant :
you shall play the piano and come on dressed
in a pink custom, which generally fetches at
an entertainment. Nothing to say : and I
will teach you, by degrees, all the dodges ; and
the way it's done you will learn. You'll be

surprised when you find how easy it is, and
yet how you can't do it ; and when you hear
the people telling what they saw, and you
know just exactly what they could have seen
if they'd had their eyes in their heads, you'll
laugh — you will.'

But I am afraid I can't think -'

Don't raise difficulties, now,' he spoke persuasively.
' I am coming to them directly.
I've got ideas in my head which I can't carry
through without a real clever confederate, and
you must be that confederate. Electricity,
now,' lie lowered his voice and whispered,
none of the conjurers have got a battery at
work. Think of new feats of marvel and
magic, never before considered possible — and
done secret by electricity. What a shame —
what a cruel shame— to have let the world get
hold of electricity. Why, it ought to have
been kept for conjurers. And telephones,
again : what a scope there is in a good telephone.
You and me together, Miss Kennedy,
could knock up an entertainment as nobody
yet ever dreamed of. If you could dance a
bit, it would be an advantage: but if you

won't, of course we must give it up ; and as
to the dressmaking rubbish, why, in a week
you will be wondering how in the world you
ever came to waste your time upon it at all
while such a chance was going about in the
world. Not that I blame you for it: not at
all : it was yom ignorance kept you out of it
and your good luck threw you in the way of
it.'

That may be so ; but still I am not
sure '

I haven't done yet. Look here, I've been
turning the thing over in my own mind a good
bit. The only way I can think of for such a
girl as you to go about the country with a
show, is for you to be married to the showman.
So I'll marry you before we start, and then we
shall be comfortable and happy, and ready for
the fortune to come in, and you'll be quite sure
of your share in it.'

Thank you. Professor.'

Very good then, no need for thanks. I've
got engagements in the country for over three
months. We'll marry at once, and you can
spend that time in learning.'

Angela laughed. Were women of ' her
class,' she thought, so easily won and so unceremoniously
wooed? Were there no preliminary
advances, soft speeches, words of
compliment and flattery ?

I've been laying out a plan,' the Professor
went on, ' for the most complete thing you
ever saw — never before attempted on any stage
marvellous optical illusion. Hush ! Electricity
; ' he said this in a stage whisper.
'You are to be a fairy — stale old business,
isn't it? but it always pays. Silk stockings'
and gauze, with a wand. I'm Sinbad the Sailor
or Robinson Crusoe — it doesn't matter what
and then you '

Stay a moment. Professor ; ' she laid her
hand upon his arm ; ' you have not waited for
my answer. I cannot, importunately, marry
you, nor can I go about the country with you,
nor can I possibly become your confederate
and assistant.'

You can't marry me ? Why not ? When
I offer you a fortune ? '

Not even for the fortune.'

« Why not ? '

Well, for many reasons. One of them is
that I cannot leave my dressmaking, rubbish as
it seems to you. That is, indeed, a sufficient
reason.'

Oh ! ' his face becoming very sad. ' And
I set my heart upon it ! The very first time I
saw you, I said to myself, " There's a girl for
the business." Never was such a girl ! And
to think that you're thrown away on a dressmaking
business ! Oh ! it's too bad. And
that you're contented with your lot, humble
as it is, when I offer to make you an artist and
to give you a fortune ! That's what cuts me
to the quick ; that you should be contented.'

I am very much ashamed of myself,' said
Angela with contrition. ' But you see, what
you ask is impossible.'

'And I only made up my mind last night,
that I would marry you, if nothing else would
do.'

Did you ? poor Professor ! I am quite
sorry for you. But you should never marry a
woman unless you are in love with her. ISTow,
it is quite clear that you are not in love with
me.'

Love ! I've got my work to think of.'

Then good morning, Professor ; let us part
friends, if I cannot accept your offer.'

He took lier offered hand with reluctance,
and in sorrow more than in anger.

Do you really understand,' he asked,
'what you are throwing away? Fame and
fortune. Nothing less.'

She laughed and drew back her handshaking
her head.

Oh ! the woman's a fool,' cried the Professor,
losing Ills temper and slamming the
door after him.

Chapter XXXI.

CAPTAIN COPPIN.

It was at this time that Tom Coppin, Captain
Coppin of the Salvation Army, paid his only
visit to Angela, that visit which caused so
great a sensation among the girls.

He chose a quiet evening early in the
week. Why he came has never been quite
clear. It was not curiosity, for he had none ;
nor was it a desire to study the kind of culture
which Angela had introduced among her friends,
for he had no knowledge of, or desire for, culture
at all. Nor does the dressmakers' workshop
afford a congenial place for the exercise
of that soldier's gifts. He came, perhaps, because
he was passing by on his way from a
red-hot prayer meeting to a red-hot preaching
he thought he would see the place which,
among others — the Advanced Club, for instance

— was keeping his brother from following
in his own steps, and helping him to regard
the world, its pleasures and pursuits, with eyes
of affection. One knows not what he expected
to find or what he proposed by going there,
because the things he did find completely upset
all his expectations, if he had any. Visions,
perhaps, of the soul destroying dance, and the
red cup, and the loud laughter of fools, and the
talk that is as the crackling of thorns, were in
his mind.

The room was occupied, as usual, with the
girls, Angela among them ; Captain Sorensen
was there too ;. the girls were quietly busy, for
the most part, over ' their own ' work, because,
if they would go fine, they must make their
own fineries; it was a frosty night, and the
fire was burning clear ; in the most comfortable
chair beside it sat the crippled girl of
whom we know ; the place was hers by a sort
of right ; she was gazing into the flames,
listening lazily to the music — Angela had been
playing — and doing nothing, with contentment.
Life was so sweet to the child when she was
not suffering pain, and was warm, and was not

hungry, and was not hearing complaints, that
she wanted nothing more. Nelly, for her ]part,
sat with hands folded pensively, and Angela
wondered, but with knowledge, what, of late
days, it was that seemed to trouble her.

Suddenly the door opened, and a man,
dressed in a tight uniform of dark cloth and a
cap of the same with S. S. upon it like the
Lord Mayor's gold chain, stood before them.

He did not remove his cap, but he looked
round the room, and presently called in a loud
harsh voice : —

'Which of you here answers to the name
of Kennedy ? '

I do,' replied Angela ; ' my name is Kennedy.
What is yours ? and why do you come
here ? '

My name is Coppin. My work is to save
souls. I tear them out of the very clutches
and claws of the devil ; I will have them ; I
leave them no peace until I have won them ; I
cry aloud to them ; I shout to them ; I pray
for them ; I sing to them ; I seek them out in
their hiding-places, even in their dens and
courts of sin ; there are none too far gone for

VOL. II. T

my Avork; none that I will let go once I get
a grip of them ; once my hand is on them, out
they must come, if the devil and all his angels
were pulling them the other way. For my
strength is not of myself ; it is '

But why do you come here ? ' asked
Angela.

The man had the same black hair and
bright eyes as his brother ; the same strong
voice, although a long course of street shouting
had made it coarse and rough ; but his eyes
were brighter, his lips more sensitive, his forehead
higher ; he was like his brother in all
respects, yet so unlike that, while the Eadical
had the face of a strong man, the preacher had
in his the indefinable touch of weakness which
fanaticism always brings with it. Whatever
else it was, however, the face was that of a
man terribly in earnest.

I have heard about you,' he said ; ' you
are of those who cry peace when there is no
peace ; you entice the young men and maidens
who ought to be seeking pardon, and preaching
repentance, and you destroy their souls
with dancing and music. I come here to tell

you that you are one of the instruments of the
devil in this-wicked town.'

Have you really come here, Mr. Coppin,
on purpose to tell me that ? '

That,' he said, ' is part of my message.'

Do you think,' asked Angela, because this
"was almost intolerable, ' that it is becoming a
preacher like yourself to invade a quiet and
private house, in order to insult a woman ? '

Truth is not insult,' he said ; ' I come here
as I would nro to a theatre or a singeing hall or
any soul destroying place. You shall hear the
plain truth. With your music and your dancing
and your pleasant ways, you are corrupting
the souls of many. My brother is hardened in
his repentance, since he knew you. My
cousin goes on laughing, and dances over the
very pit of destruction, through you. These
girls '

'Oh!' cried Eebekah, who had no sympathy
with the Salvation Army, and felt herself
an authority when the religious question
was touched, ' they are all mad. Let him go
away.'

'I would,' replied the Captain, 'that you
twere

half as mad. Oh ! I know you now : I
know you smug professors of a Saturday region
'

Your mission,' AngeLa interrupted, ' is not,
I am sure, to argue about another sect. Come,
Mr. Coppin, now that you have told us who
you are, and what is your profession, and why
you come here, you might like to preach to us.
Do so, if you will. We were sitting here
quietly when you came, and you interrupt
nothing. So that, if it would really make you
feel any happier, you may preach to us for a
few minutes.'

He looked about him in hesitation. This
kind of preaching was not in his line : he loved
a vast hall with a thousand faces looking at
him ; or a crowd of turbulent roughs ready to
answer the Message with a volley of brickbats ;
or a chance gathering of unrepentant sinners ina
wide thoroughfare. He could lift up his voice
to them : but to preach in a quiet room to a
dozen girls was a new experience.

And it was not the place which he had expected.
His brother, in their last interview,
had thrown in his teeth this house and its

doings as offering a more reasonable solution of
life's problems than his own. ' You want everybody,'
he said, ' to join you in singing and
preaching every day : what should we do when
there was nobody left to preach at? ISTow,
there, what they say is, *' Let us make ourselves
comfortable." There's a deal in that, come to
think of it. Look at those girls, now : while
you and your Happy Ehzas are tramping' in the
mud with your flag and your procession, and
getting' black eyes and brickbats, they are singing'
and laughing' and dancing', and making' what fun
they can for themselves. It seems to me, Tom,
that if this kind of thing gets fashionable, you
and your army will be played out.'

Well : he had come to see this place which
offered pleasure instead of repentance as a
method of improving life. They were not
laughing and singing at all : there where no men
present except one old gentleman in a blue coat
wdtli brass buttons. To be sure, he had a fiddle
lying on a chair beside him. There was no
indication whatever of the red cup, and no
smell of tobacco. Now, pleasure without drink,
tobacco, and singing, had been in Tom's unregenerate

days incomprehensible. ' I would
rather,' said Dick, ' see an army of Miss Kennedy's
girls than an army of Hallelujah Pols.'
Yet they seemed perfectly quiet. ' Make 'em
happy, Tom, first,' said Dick, who was still
thinking over Harry's speech as a possible point
of departure. Happiness is not a Avoid in the
dictionary of men like Tom Coppin : they know
not what it means : they know a spree : they
understand a drink : they knoAv misery, because
it is all round them ; the misery of hunger, of
disease, of intemperance, of dirt, of evil temper,
of violence : the misery which the sins of one
bring upon all, and the sins of all bring upon
each. Indeed, we need not go to Whitechapel
to find out misery. But they know not happiness.
For such as Captain Coppin there is, as
an alternative for misery, the choice of Glory.
What they mean by Glory is the ecstasy, the
rapture, the mysteries of emotional religion :
he, they believe, is the most advanced who is
most often hysterical : Tom, like many of his
followers, yearned honestly and unselfislily to
extend this rapture which he himself so often
enjoyed ; but that there should be any other

way out of misery save by way of the humble
stool of Conviction was a thing which he could
not understand. Happiness, calm, peace, content,
the sweet enjoyment of innocent recreation,
— these things he knew nothing of; they
had not come in his way.

He had come : he had seen : no doubt, the
moment his back was turned the orgies would
begin. But he had delivered his message : he
had warned the young woman who led the
girls — that calm, cold woman who looked at
him with curiosity and was so unmoved by
what he said ; he might go. With his whole
heart he had spoken, and had so far moved no
one except the daughter of the Seventh Day
Independent — and her only a little. This kind
of thing is very irritating. Suppose you were
to put a red-hot poker into a jug of water without
producing any steam or hissing at all ; how,
as a natural philosopher, would you feel ?

You may preach to us, if you like,' said
Miss Kennedy.

She sat before him, resting her chin upon
her hand. He knew that she was beautiful,
although women and their faces, graces, and

sweet looks played no part at all in his
thoughts. He felt, without putting the thing
into words, that she was beautiful ; also, that
she regarded him with a kind of contempt, as
well as curiosity ; also, that she had determined
not to be moved by anything he might say ;
also, that lie relied on her own influence over
the girls. And he felt for a moment as if his
trusty weapons were dropping from his hands,
and his whole armour was slipping from his
shoulders. Not her beauty : no : fifty Helens of
Troy would not have moved this young apostle :
but her position as an impregnable outsider.
For against the curious outsider, who regards
Captains in the Salvation Army only as so many
interesting results of growing civilisation, their
officers are powerless indeed.

K there is any real difference between the
working man of England and the man who does
other work, it is that the former is generally
emotional and the latter is not. To the man of
emotion things cannot be stated too strongly ;
his leader is he who has the greatest command
of adjectives ; he is singularly open to the
charm of eloquence ; he likes audacity of statement

; he likes to be moved by wrath, pity and
terror ; he has no eye for shades of colour ; and
when he is most moved he thinks he is most
right. It is this which makes him so angry
with the people who cannot be moved.

Angela was one of those persons who cannot
be moved by the ordinary methods. She looked
at Tom as if he was some strange creature ;
watching what he did, listening to what he said,
as if she was not like unto Mm. It is not quite
a fair way of describing Angela's attitude of
mind ; but it is near enough ; and it represents
what passed through the brain of the Salvation
Captain.

Will you preach to us ? ' she repeated a
third time.

He mechanically opened his hymn-book.

Number three hundred and sixty-two,' he
said quietly.

He sang the hymn all by himself, at the top
of his voice, so that the windows rattled, to one
of those rousing and popular melodies which
have been pressed into the service of the Army;
it was, in fact, ' Molly Darling,' and the people
on Stepney Green asked each other in wonder

if a meeting of the Salvation Army was actually
being held at Miss Kennedy's.

When he had finished his hymn, he began
to preach.

He stammered at first, because the surroundings
were strange ; besides, the cold,
curious eyes of Miss Kennedy chilled him.
Presently, however, he recovered self-possession,
and began his address.

There is one merit, at least, possessed by
these preachers : it is that of simplicity. Whatever
else they may be, they are always the
same ; even the words do not vary while there
is but one idea.

If you want to influence the dull of comprehension,
such as the common donkey, there
is but one way possible. He cannot be led, or
coaxed, or persuaded ; he must be thwacked.
Father Stick explains and makes apparent,
instantly, what the logic of all the schools has
failed to prove. In the same way, if you wish
to awaken the spiritual emotions among people
who have hitherto been strange to them, your
chance is not by argument, but by appeals,
statements, prophecies, threats, terrors, and

pictures, which, in fact, do exactly correspond,
and produce the same effect as Father Stick ;
they are so many knock-down blows ; they
belabour and they terrify.

The preacher began : the girls composed
themselves to listen, with the exception of
Eebekah, who went on with her work ostentatiously,
partly to show her disapproval of such
irregular proceedings, and partly as one who,
having got the Truth from an independent
source and being already advanced in the
narrow way, had no occasion for the Captain's
persuasion.

It is one thing to hear the voice of a street
preacher in his own church, so to speak, that is,
on the curb stone, and quite another thing to
hear the same man and the same sermon in a
quiet room. Tom Coppin had only one sermon,
though he dressed it up sometimes, but not
often, in new words. Yet it Alas relieved of
monotony by the earnestness which he poured
into it. He believed in it, himself: that goes a
long way. Angela began by thinking of the
doctrine, but presently turned her attention to
the preacher, and began to think what manner

of man he was. Personally lie was pale and
thin, with strong black hair, like his brother,
and his eyes were singularly bright.

Here was a man of the people ; self-taught,
profoundly ignorant as to the many problems
of life and their many solutions ; filled, however,
with that noble sympathy which makes
prophets, poets, ]martyrs; wholly possessed
of faith in his narrow creed ; owning no authority
of church or priest : believing himself under
direct Divine guidance, chosen and called, the
instrument of merciful Heaven to drag guilty
souls from the pit ; consciously standing as a
servant day and night before a Throne which
other men regard afar off, or cannot see at all ;
actually having the life of hardship, privation,
and ill-treatment which he preached ; for the
sake of others, enduring hardness, poverty, contumely
; taking all these thugs as part and
parcel of the day's work ; and in the name of
duty, searching into corners and holes of this
great town for the vilest, the most hardened,
the most depraved, the most blinded to a higher
life.

This, if you please, is not a thing to be

laughed at. What did Wesley more ? What
did Whitefield ? Nay— what did Paul ?

They paid him for his services, it is true ;
they gave him five-and-twenty shillings a week;
some of this great sum he gave away ; the rest
provided him with poor and simple food. He
had no pleasures or joys of life ; he had no recreations
; he had no hope of any pleasures ;
some of the officers of his Army — being men
and women as well as preachers — loved each
other and were married ; but this man had no
thought of any such thing ; he, as much as any
monk, was vowed to the service of the Master,
without rest or holiday, or any other joy than
that of doing the work that lay before him.

A great pity and sympathy filled Angela's
heart as she thought of these things.

The man before her was for the moment a
prophet ; it mattered nothing that his creed
was narrow, his truths only half-truths, his
doctrine commonplace, his language in bad
taste, his manner vulgar ; the faith of the man
covered up and hid these defects ; he had a
message to mankind ; he was delivering that
message ; to him it was a fresh new message ;

never before entrusted to any man ; he had to
deliver it perpetually, even though he went in
starvation.

Angela's heart softened as she realised
the loyalty of the man. He saw the softening
in her eyes, and thought it was the first sign of
conviction.

But it was not.

Meantime, if Angela was thinking of the
preacher, the girls of course, with the exception
of Eebekah, where trembling at his words.

Suddenly — the unexpected change was a
kind of rhetorical trick which often proved
effective — the preacher ceased to denounce and
threaten, and spoke of pardon and peace ; he
called upon them in softer voice, in accents full
of tears and love, to break down their pride,
to hear the voice that called them We
know well enough what he said, only we do
not know how he said it. Angela looked about
the room. The Captain sat with his hands on
his knees and his face dutifully lifted to the
angle which denotes attention ; his expression
was unmoved ; evidently, the Captain was not
open to conviction. As for the girls, they

might be divided into classes. Tliey had all
listened to the threats and the warnings, though
they had heard them often enough before ; now,
however, some of them seemed as if they were
impatient, and as if with a little encouragement
they could break into scoffing. But
others were crying, and one or two were steadfastly
regarding the speaker, as if he had mesmerised
them. Among these was Nelly. Her
eyes were fixed, her lips were parted, her
breathing was quick, her cheek was pale.

Great and wonderful is the power of eloquence
; there are fcAv orators ; this ex-printer,
this uneducated man of the ranks, was, like his
brother, born with the gift that is so rare. He
should have been taken away and taught, and
kept from danger, and properly fed and cared
for. And now it is too late. They said of him
in his Connection that he was blessed n the
saving of souls ; the most stubborn, the most
hardened, Avhen they fell under the magic of
his presence and his voice, were broken and
subdued : what wonder that a weak girl should
give way?

When he paused he looked round ; he

noted the faces of those whom he had mesmerised
; he raised his arm ; he pointed to
Nelly, and beckoned her without a word to
rise.

Then the girl stood up as if she could not
choose but obey. She moved a step towards
him ; in a moment she woLild have been at his
feet, with sobs and tears, in the passion of self-abasement
which is so dear to the revivalist.
But Angela broke the spell. She sprang towards
her, caught her in her own arms, and
passed her hand before her eyes.

Nelly ! ' she said gently ; ' Nelly, dear ! '

The girl sank back in her chair and buried
her face in her hands. But the moment was
gone, and Captain Coppin had lost his recruit.

They all breathed a deep sigh. Those who
had not been moved looked at each other and
laughed ; those who were, dried their eyes and
seemed ashamed.

Thank you,' said Angela to the preacher.
You have preached very well, and I hope
your words will help us on our way, even
though it is not quite your way.'

'Then, be of our way. Cease from scoffing.'


c^

■'^-'i H

XT'/

(v.:' )l

\ ,

I, t'

M\

-^^:

She shook her head.

No, I do not scofF, but I cannot join your
way. Leave ns now, Mr. Coppin. You are a
brave man. Let us reverence course and
loyalty. But we will have no more sermons
in this room. Good night ! '

She offered him her hand, but he would
not take it, and with a final warning addressed
to Angela in particular and the room in general,
he went as he had come, without orreetino^ or
word of thanks.

'These Salvation people,' said Eebekah,
are all mad. If people want the way of
truth there's the chapel in Eedman's Eow, and
father's always in it every Saturday.'

What do you say, Captain Sorensen ? '
asked Angela.

'The Church of England,' said the Captain,
who had not been moved a whit, 'says that two
sacraments are necessary. I find nothing about
stools of repentance. Come, Nelly, my girl,
remember that you are a ClnuThwoman.'

Yet,' said Angela, ' what arc we to say
dien a man is so brave and true and when he

VOL. II. u

lives the life ? Nelly dear — girls all — I think that
religion should not be a terror, but a great
calm and a trust. Let us love each other, and
do our work, and take the simple happiness
that God gives, and have faith. What more
can we do ? To-night, I think, we cannot
dance or sing, but I will play to you.'

She played to them — grand and solemn
music — so that the terror went out of their
brains, and the hardening out of their hearts,
and next day all was forgotten.

In this manner, and this once, did Tom
Coppin cross Angela's path. Now he will
cross it no more, because his work is over. If
a man lives on less than the bare necessaries,
in order to give to others, if he does the work often
men, if he gives himself no rest any day
in the week, what happens to that man when
typhus seizes him ?

He died, as he had lived, in glory, surrounded
by Joyful Jane, Hallelujah Jem, Happy
Pol, Thankful Sarah, and the rest of them.
His life has been narrated in the ' War Cry ' ;
it is specially recorded of him that he was

always ' on the mountains ' ; which means, in
their language, that he was a man of strong
faith, free from doubt, and of emotional
nature.

The extremely wicked and hardened family,
consisting of an old woman and half-a-dozen
daughters, for whose souls' sake he starved
himself, and thereby fell an easy prey to the
disease, have nearly all found a refuge in the
workhouse, and are as hardened as ever,
though not so wicked, because some kinds of
wickedness are not allowed in that palace of
virtue. Therefore it seems almost as if poor
Tom's life has been fooled away. According
to a philosophy which makes a great deal of
noise just now, every life is but a shadow, a
dream, a mockery, a catching at things impossible,
and a waste of good material, ending
v;ith the last breath. Then, all our lives are
fooled away, and why not Tom's as well as the
rest .^ But if the older-way of thinking is,
after all, right ; then, that life can hardly have
been wasted which was freely given — even if
the gift was not accepted — for the advantage of
tj2

others. Because the memory and the example
remain, and every example — if boys and girls
could only be taught this copy-book truth — is
like an inexhaustible horn, always filled with
precious seed.

CHAPTER XXXII.

BUiVKER AT BAY.

Harry was thinking a good deal about the old
man's strange story of the houses. There was,
to be sure, little dependence to be placed in the
rambling, disjointed statements made by so old a
man ; but then, this statement was so clear and
precise ; — there were so many children ; there
were so many houses — three for each child ;
and he knew exactly what became of all those
houses. If the story lead been told by a man
in the prime of life, it could not have been
more exact and detailed. But Avhat were the
houses ? where were they ? and how could he
prove that they were his own ?

What did Bunker get, when he traded the
chill away ?

Harry lead always been of opinion that he
got a sum of money down, and that he was

now ashamed of the transaction and would
fain have it remain unknown. This solution
accounted, or seemed to account, for this great
wrath and agitation when the subject was mentioned.
Out of a mischievous delight in making
his uncle angry, Harry frequently alluded to
the point. But the story of the houses was a
better solution still ; it accounted for Mr.
Bunker's agitation as well as his wrath. But
his wrath and his terror appeared to Harry to
corroborate very strongly the old man's story.
And the longer he thought about it, the more
strongly he believed it.

Harry asked his landlady whether, in her
opinion, if Mr. Maliphant made a statement,
that statement was to be accepted as true.

Mrs. Bormalack replied that as he never
made any statement except in reference to
events long since tidings of the past, it was
impossible for her to say whether they were
true or not ; that his memory was clean gone
for things of the present, so that of to-day and
yesterday he knew nothing ; that his thoughts
were always running on the old days ; and
that when he could be heard right through

without dropping his voice at all, lie sometimes
told very interesting and curious things. His
board and lodging were paid for him by his
grandson, a most respectable gentleman and a
dockmastcr ; and, as to the old man's business,
he had none, and had had none for many years,
being clean forgotten, although he did go everyday
to his yard and stayed there all day long.

Harry thought he would pay him another
visit. Perhaps something more would be
remembered.

He went there again in the morning?. The
street at the end of which was the yard was
as quiet as on the Sunday, the children being
at school and the men at work. The o-reat
gates were closed and locked, but the small
side door was unlocked. "When he opened it
all the figureheads turned quickly and anxiously
to look at him : at least, Harry declares they
did, and spiritualists will readily believe him.
Was he, they asked, going to take one of them
away and stick it on the bow of a great ship
and send it u}) and down upon the face of the
ocean to the four corners of the world .^ Ha !
They were made for an active life : they pined

away in tins inactivity : a fig for the dangers of
the deep. From Saucy Sal to Neptune, they
all asked the same question in the same hope.
Harry shook his head, and they sighed sadly
and resumed their former positions, as they
were, eyes front, waiting till night should still
and the old man should go, and they could
talk with each other.

This,' thought Harry, * is a strange and
ghostly place.'

You know the cold and creepy feeling
caused by the presence — albeit unseen — of
ghosts ; one may feel it anywhere and at all
times : in church : at a theatre : in bed at
night : by broad daylight : in darkness : or in
twilight. This was in the sunshine of a bright
December day — the last days of the year
eighty-one were singularly bright and gracious :
the place was no dark chamber or gloomy
vault, but a broad and open yard, cheerfully
decorated with carved figureheads. Yet even
here Harry experienced the touch of ghostliness.

The place was so strange that it did not
astonish him at all to see the old man suddenly
appear in the door of his doll's house, waving

his hand and smiHng cheerily as one who
speeds the parting guest. The salutations Acre
not intended for Harry, because Mr. Maliphant
was not looking at him.

Presently he ceased gesticulating, became
suddenly serious (as happens to one when his
friend's back is turned or he has vanished), and
returned to his seat by the fire.

Harry softly followed and stood before him,
waiting to be recognised.

The old man looked up at last and nodded
his head.

Been entertaining your friends, Mr. Mali-plant
? '

'Bob was here, only Bob. You have just
missed Bob,' he replied.

That's a pity. Never mind. Can you, my
ancient, carry your memory back some twenty
years ? You did it, you know, last Sunday
for me.'

Twenty years ? Ay — ay — twenty years. I
was only sixty-five or so, then. It seems a longtime
until it is gone. Twenty years. Well,
young man, twenty years. Why, it is only
yesterday.'

I mean to the time when Caroline Coppin,
you know, your old friend Caroline, was
married.'

That was twenty years before, and more :
when William the Fourth died and Queen
Victoria, then a young thing, came long to

XQVjyi over us — ' his voice sank and he continued

the rest of his reminiscence to himself.

But Caroline Coppin ? '

'I'm telling you about Caroline Conjoin,
only you won't listen.'

There was nothing more to be got out of
him. His recent conversation with Bob's spirit
had muddled him for the day, and he mixed up
Caroline with her mother or grandmother. He
relapsed into silence, and sat with his long pipe
unfilled in his hand, looking into the fireplace,
gone back in imagination to the past. As the
old man made no sign of conversation, but
rather of a disposition to ' drop off' for a few
minutes, Harry began to look about the room.
On the table lay a bundle of old letters : it was
as if the living and the dead had been reading
them together. Harry took th em up and turned
them over, wondering what secrets of long ago

were contained in those yellow papers with
their faded ink. The old man's eyes were
closed : he took no heed of his visitor, and
Harry standing at the table began shamelessly
to read the letters.

They were mostly the letters of a young
sailor addressed to one apparently a good deal
older than himself, for they abounded in such
appellations as ' my ancient,' ' venerable,' ' old
salt,' and so forth ; but the young man did not
regard his correspondent with the awe which
age should inspire, but rather as a gay and rollicking
spirit who would sympathise with the
high jinks of younger men even if he no longer
shared in them, and who was an old and still
delighted reader of those flowery paths which
are said by moralists to be planted with the
frequent pitfall and the crafty trap. The old
man, thought Harry, must have been an admirable
guide to youth, and the disciple was apt
to learn. Sometimes the letters were signed
Bob : sometimes E. Copia : sometimes E. C.
Harry therefore surmised that the writer was
no other than his own uncle job, whose ghost
he had just missed.

Bob was au officer on board of an East
Incliaman : but he spoke not of such commonplace
matters as the face of ocean or the voice
of the tempest : he only wrote from port, and
told what things he had seen and done on shore,
and what he had consumed in ardent drink.
The letters were brief, which seemed as well,
because if literary skill had been present to
dress up effectively the subjects treated, a literary
monument might have been erected the
like of which the world has never seen. It is,
indeed, a most curious and remarkable circumstance,
that even in realistic France the true
course of the Prodigal has never been faithfully
described. Now, the great advantage formerly
possessed by the sailor — an advantage cruelly
curtailed by the establishment of Homes and
the introduction of Temperance — was that he
could be, and was, a Prodigal at the end of
every cruise, while the voyage itself was an
agreeable interval provided for recovery, recollection,
and anticipation.

Bob — uncle Bob — was a flyer,' said Harry.
One should be proud of such an uncle. With

Bob, and Bunker, and the bankrupt Builder, I
am indeed provided.'

There seemed nothing in the letters which
bore upon the question of his mother's property,
and he was going to put them down again,
when he lighted upon a torn fragment on which
he saw, in Bob's big handwriting, the name of
his cousin Joseph us.

Josephus, my cousin, that he will ' — here
a break in the continuity — ' nd the safe the
bundle ' — another break — ' for a lark. Josephus
is a Square-toes. I hate a man who won't
drink. He will' — another break — 'if he looks
there. Your health and song, shipment. Eg.'
He read this fragment two or three times
over. What did it mean ? Clearly nothing to
himself. ' Josephus is a Square-toes.' Very
likely ; the Prodigal Bob was not ; quite the
contrary ; he was a young man of extremely
mercurial temperament. ' Josephus, my cousin,
that he will nd the safe the bundle.'
He put down the paper, and then, without
waking the old man, he softly left the room and
the place, shutting the door behind him. And

then lie forgot immediately the torn letter and
its allusion to Josephus. He thought, next,
that he would go to Bunker and put the
question directly to him. The man might be
terrified ; might show confusion ; might tell
lies. That would matter little. But if he
showed his hand too soon, Bunker might be
put upon his guard. Well, that mattered little.
What Harry hoped was rather to get at the
truth than to recover his houses.

I want,' he said, finding his uncle at home
and engaged in his office, drawing up bills — ' I
want a few words of serious talk with you, my
uncle.'

I am busy ; go away. I never want to
talk to you. I hate the very sight of your
face.'

He looked, indeed, as if he did, if a flushing
cheek and an angry glare of the eyes are
any sign.

I am not going away until you have
answered my questions. As to your hatred or
your affection, that does not concern me at
all. Now, will you listen, or shall I wait? '

To o;et rid of you the sooner,' Bunker

growled, ' I will listen now. If I was twenty
years younger, I'd kick you out.'

If you were twenty years younger, there
might, it is true, be a fight. Now then.'

Well, get along. My time is valuable.'

I have several times asked you what you
got for me dien you sold me. You have on
those occasions allowed yourself to fall into a
rage, which is really dangerous in so stout a
man. I am not going to ask you that question
any more.'

Mr. Bunker looked relieved.

Because, you see, I know now what you
got.'

Mr. Bunker turned very pale.

What do you know ? '

I know exactly what you got when I was
taken away.'

Mr. Bunker said nothing. Yet there was
in his eyes a look as if a critical moment, long
expected, had at last arrived. And he waited.

When my mother died, and you became
my guardian, I was not left penniless.'

It's a lie. You were.'

If I had been, you would have handed me

over to your brother-in-law, Coppin the builder.
But I had property.'

You had nothing.'

'I had three houses. One of those houses
is, I believe, that which has been rented — from
you — by Miss Kennedy. I do not know yet
where the other two are, but I shall find out.'

You are on a wrong tack,' said his uncle.
Now I know why you wouldn't go away ; you
came here to ferret and fish, did you? You
thought you were entitled to property, did you ?
Ho ! You're a nice sort o' chap to have house
property, ain't you ? Ha ! Ho ! ' '

But his laughter was not mirthful.

Let me point out to you,' Harry went on
gravely, ' what it is you have done. The child
whom you kept for a year or two was heir to a
small estate bringing in, I suppose, about eighty
or a hundred pounds a year. We will say that
you were entitled to keep that money in return
for his support. But when that child was
carried away and adopted, you said nothing
about the property. You kept it for yourself,
and you have received the rents year after year
as if the houses belonged to you. Shall I goon,

and tell you what judges and lawyers and
police people call this sort of conduct ? '

Where's yoiu^ proofs ? ' asked the other,
his face betraying his emotion. ' Where's your
proofs P '

I have none yet, I am going to search for
those proofs.'

You can't find them. There are none. Now,
young man, you've had your say, and you
can go. Do you hear ? You can go.'

'You deny, then, that the houses were
mine ? '

If you'd come to me meek and lowly, as
is your humble station in life, I would' ha' told
you the history of those houses. Yes, your
mother had them, same as her brothers and her
sister. Where are they now? I've got 'em.
I've got 'em all. How did I get 'em .^ By lawful
and honourable purchase. I bought 'em.
Do you want proofs P You shan't have any
proofs. If you'd believed hmnble, you should
ha' seen those proofs. Nov you may go away
and do your worst. Do you hear ? You may
do your worst.'

He shook his fist in Harry's face ; his words

VOL. II. X

were brave ; but his voice was shaky and this
lips were trembling.

I don't believe you,' said Harry ; ' I am
certain that you did not buy my houses.
There was no one left to care for my interests,
and you took those houses.'

This is the reward,' said Mr. Bunker, ' for
nusshi ' of this child for nigh upon three years !
Who would take an orphan ito his bosom !
But it was right-and I'd do it again. Yes ;
I'd do it again.'

I don't doubt you,' the lui grateful nephew
replied, ' especially if that other orphan had
three substantial houses and there was nobody
but yourself to look after him.'

As for your proofs, go and look for them.
When you've found 'em, bring *em to me.
You and your ]proofs ! '

Harry laughed.

I shall find them,' he said, ' but I don't
know where or when. Meantime, you Avill goon,
as you do now, thinking continually that
they may be found ; you won't be able to sleep
at night ; you will dream of police courts ; you
will let your thoughts run (m handcuffs ; you

^vill take to drink; you Avill have iiu pleasure
in your life ; you ^vill hasten your end ; you

will ' here he desisted, for his uncle, dropping

into his chair, looked as if lie was about
to swoon. * Remember — I shall hind rliese
proofs — some day. A hundred a year for
temerity years is two thousand pounds ; that's a
large sum to hand over, and then there is the
interest. Upon my word, my uncle, you will
have to l}egin the world again."

Ex\D OF THE SECOND VOLUME

Tendon' : rniN'TED BY

^I'OTTISJWOOKK Asia ( O., NK\r-STIlK.KT Stalk

AXU PARl.IAMKXT STIIKKT

'W^-^'

■*;">•«;••//-

r4i^. rS'/-^//^'^^^ ^^^^^^^'■-

h^V.';^-.V,>

MSaSi

^mr":.

EX-LIBRIS
F. E.DlNSHAW

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

B46a4
ossa

y.3

w

c^

X

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.
University of Illinois Library






7isn

L161— O-1096

r

VOL. III.

SFOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

?~^=F^

'"/ am — ^/le — flie dressmaker." \

BY

WALTER BESANT

IFITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY FRED. BARNARD

TN THREE VOLUMES— VOL. III.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



\ All rights reserved']

CONTENTS

OP

THE THIRD VOLUME.

^ " I AM — THE — THE Dressmaker" ' , . Frontispiece

''•She loves him herself' Angela was

thinking' To face p. 121

'Mr. Bunker dropped into a Chair' . „ „ 167

'"do tou deliberately choose a life of
AVoRK AND Ambition — with — perhaps
— Poverty ? " ' .

CHAPTER XXXIII.

MR. Bunker's letter.

Two days after this, Angela received a very
wonderful letter. It was addressed to Miss
Messenger, and vas signed Benjamin Bunker.
It ran as follows : —

Honoured Miss, — As an old and Humble
friend of your late lamented grandfather,
whose loss I can never recover from nor has
it yet been made up to me in any way ' —
Angela laughed — '• I venture to address you
the following lines in secrecy and confidence
knowing that what ought not to be concealed
should be told in the proper quarter, which is
you Miss and none other.

Everybody in these parts knows me ;

VOL. III. B

everybody knows Bunker, your grandfather's
right-hand man ; wherefore, what I write is no
other design than to warn you and to put you
on your guard against the deceitful and such
as would abuse your confidences, being but
young as yet, and therefore ignorant of dodges,
and easy come round.

'You have been come round, and that in
such a shameful way that I cannot bear myself
any longer, and must take the liberty of telling
you so, being an old and confidential
adviser ; your grandfather used to say that
even the Brewery wouldn't be where it is now,
if it hadn't been for me, not to speak of the
house property which is now a profitable investment
with rents iTgular^ and respectable
tenants, whereas before I took it in hand, the
houses was out of repair, the rents backward
and the tenants too often such as would bring
discredit on any estate. I therefore beg to
warn you against two persons — young, I am
sorry to say, which makes it worse, because it
is only the old who should be thus depraved —
whom you have benefited and they are unworthy
of it.

One of them is a certain Miss Kennedy, a
dressmaker, at least she says so. The other is,
I write this with the bhish of indignant shame,
my own nephew, whose name is Harry
Goslett.'

Banker, Bunker ! ' murmured Angela, ' is
this fair to your own tenant and your own
nephew ? '

As regards my nephew, you have never
inquired about him, and it was out of your
kindness and a desire to mark your sense of
me that you gave him a berth in the Brewery.
That young man, Miss, who calls Himself a
cabinet-maker and doesn't seem to know that
a joiner is one thing and a cabinet-maker
another, now does the joinery for the Brewery,
and makes, I am told, as much as two pound a
week, being a handy chap. If you had asked
me first, I should have told you that he is a lazy,
indolent, free and easy, disrespectful, dangerous
young man. He has been no one knows
where ; no one knows where he has worked,
except that he talks about America ; he looks
like a betting man ; I believe he drinks of a
night : he has been living like a gentleman,

B 2

doing no work, and I believe, though up to
the present I haven't found out for certain, that
he has been in trouble and knows y/hat is a
convict's feelings when the key is turned. Because
he is such a disgrace to the family, for
his mother was a Coppin and came of a respectable
Whitechapel stock, though not equal
to the Bunkers or the Messengers, I went to
him and offered him five-and-twenty pound out
of my slender stock to go away and never come
back any more to disgrace us. Five-and-twenty
pound I would have given to save
Messenger's Brewery from such a villain.'

'Bunker, Bunker — ' murmured Angela
again.

'But he wouldn't take the money. You
thought to do me a good turn and you done
yourself a bad one. I don't know what mischief
he has already done in the Brewery and
perhaps he is watched ; if so it may not yet be
too late. Send him about his business. Make
him go. You can then consider some other
way of making it up to me for all that work
for your grandfather whereof you now sweetly
reap the benefit.

The other case, Miss, is that of the young
woman, Kennedy by name, the dressmaker.'

What of her, Bicker? ' asked Angela.

I hear that you are viii' her your
custom, not knowing, maybe, the kind of
Avomau she is nor the mischief she's about.
She's got a house of mine on false pretences.'

Eeally, Mr. Bunker,' said Angela, ' you are
too bad.'

Otherwise I wouldn't let her have it, and
at the end of the year out she goes. She has
persuaded a lot of foolish girls, once contented
with their lowly lot and thankful for
their wages and their work, nor inclined to
grumble when homes was long and work had
to be done. She has promised them the
profits and meantime she feeds them up so
that their eyes swell out with fatness, she gives
them short hours and sends them out into the
garden to play games. Games, if you please,
and short hours for such as them. In the
evening it's worse ; for then they play and sing
and dance, having young men to caper about
with them, and you can hear them half a mile
up the Mile End Eoad so that it is a scandal to

Stepney Green, once respectable, and the
police Avill probably interfere. Where she
came from, who she was, how she got her
money, wee don't know. Some say one thing,
some say another, whatever they say it's a bad
way. The worst is that when she smashes as
she must, because no ladies who respect virtue
and humble mindedness with contentment will
employ her, is that the other dressmakers and'
shops will have nothing to do with her girls,
so that what will happen to them, no one can
tell.

I thought it right. Miss, to give you this
information, because it is certain that if you
withdraw your support from these two undeserving
people, they must go away, which asa
respectable Stepney man, I unite in wishing
may happen before long, when the girls shall
go on again as before and leave dancing and
singing to the rich and be humble and contented
with the crust to which they were born.

And as regards the kindness you were
meditating towards me. Miss, I think I may
say that none of my nephews — one of whom is
a Eadical, and another a Captain in the Salvation

Army — deserves to receive any benefits at
your hands, least of all that villain who works
in the Brewery. Wherefore, it may take the
form of something for myself. And it is not
for me to tell you, Miss, how nuicli that something
ought to be for a man in years, of
respectable station and once the confidential
friend of your grandfather, and prevented
thereby from saving as much as he had otherwise
a right to expect.

I remain, Miss, Your humble Servant,
Benjamin Bunker.'

This,' said Angela, ' is a very impudent
letter. How shall wee bring him to book
for it ? '

When she learned, as she speedily did, the
great mystery about the houses and the Coppin
property, she began to understand the letter,
the contents of which she kept to herself for
the present. This was perhaps for the theory
implied rather than stated in the letter, that
both should be ordered to go ; for if one only
was turned out of work, both would stay. This
theory made her smile and blush, and pleased

her, insomuch that she was not so angry as
she might otherwise have been and shoukl have
been with the crafty double-dealer who wrote
the letter.

It happened that Mr. Bunker had business
on Stepney Green, that morning, while Angela
was reading the letter. She saw him from the
window, and could not resist the temptation of
inviting him to step in. He came not in the
least abashed, and with no tell-tale signal of
confusion in his rosy cheeks.

Come in, Mr. Bunker,' said Angela. ' Come
in ; I Avant five minutes' talk with you. This
way, please, where we can be alone.'

She led him into the refectory, because
Daniel Faggg was in the drawing-room.

I have been thinking, Mr. Bunker,' she said,
how very, very fortunate I was to fall into
such hands as yours, when I came to Stepney.'

You were, Miss, you were. That was a
fall, as one may say, which meant a rise.'

I am sure it did, Mr. Bunker. You do
not often come to see us, but I hope you approve
of our plans.'

As for that,' he replied, ' it isn't my business.

People come to me, and I put them in
the way. How they run in the way is not my
business to inquire. As for you and your
girls, now, if you make the concern go, you
may thank me for it. If you don't, why it
isn't my fiuilt.'

'Very well put indeed, Mr. Bunker. In
six months the first year, for which I prepaid
the rent, will come to an end.'

It will.'

We shall then have to ^ consider a fresh
agreement. I was thinking, Mr. Bunker, that,
seeing how good a man you are, and how
generous, you would like to make your rent,
like the wages of the girls, depend upon the
profits of the business.'

What ? ' he asked.

Angela repeated her proposition.

He rose, buttoned his coat, and put on his hat

Kent depend on profits ? Is the girl mad ?
Kent comes first and before anything else. Kent
is even before taxes ; and as for rates — but
you're mad. My rent depend on profits .^ Kent,
Miss, is sacred. Remember that.'

Oh ! ' said Angela.

And what is more,' he added, ' people who
don't pay up get sold up. It's a Christian duty
to sell 'em up. I couldn't let off even my own
nephews.'

As for one of them, you would like to sell
him up, would you not, Mr. Bunker ? '

I would,' lie replied truthfully, ' I should
like to see him out of the place. You knov/
what I told you when you came. Have nothing
to do, I said, with that chap. Keep him at
arm's length, for he is a bad lot. Now you see
what he has brought you to. Singing', dancing',
plain', laughing', every night ; respectable ladies
driven away from your shop ; many actually
kept out of the place ; expenses doubled ; all
through him. What's more — bankruptcy ahead !
Don't . I know that not a lady in Stepney or
Mile End comes here? Don't I know that
you depend upon your West End connection ?
When that goes, where are you ? And all for
the sake of that pink and white chap ! Well,
when one goes, the other '11 go too, I suppose.
Went out of profits, indeed ! No ; no. Miss,
it '11 do you good to learn a little business even
if you do get sold up.'

Thank you, Mr. Bunker. Do you know,
I do not think you will ever have the pleasure
of selling me up ? '

She laughed so merrily that lie felt he
hated her quite as much as he hated his
nephew. Why, six months before, no one
laughed in Stepney at all ; and to think that
any one should laugh at him, would have been
an impossible dream.

You laugh,' he said gravely, ' and yet
you are on the l)rink of ruin. Where's your
character ? Dropped up with the character
of that young man. Where's your business?
Drove away — by him. You laugh. Ah ! I'm
sorry for you, Miss, because I thought at one
time you were a plain-spoken, honest sort of
young woman : if I'd ha' known that you
meant to use my house — mine — the friend of
all the respectable tradesmen — for such wicked
fads as now disgrace it, I'd never ha' taken you
for a tenant.'

Oh ! yes, you would, Mr. Bunker.' She
laughed again, but not merrily this time.
Oh ! yes — you would. You forget the fittings
and the furniture, the rent paid in advance.

and the half-crown an hour for advice. Is
there anything, I should like to know, that
you would not do for half-a-crown an hour? '

He made no reply.

Why, again, do you hate your nephew ?
What injury has he done you, that you should
bear him such ill-will ? '

This, which was not altogether a shot in
the dark, went straight to Mr. Bunker's heart.
He said nothing, but put on his hat and rushed
out. Clearly, these two between them would
drive him mad.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

PROOFS IN PRINT.

It is quite finished now,' Scaicl Daniel Faggg,
blotting the last page.

When he began to live with the dressmakers,
Angela, desiring to find him some
employment, had suggested that he should rewrite
the whole of his book, and redraw the
illustrations. It was not a large book, even
though it was stuffed and padded with readings
of inscriptions and tablets. An ordinary
writer Avould have made a fair copy in a fortnight.
But so careful an author as Daniel, so
anxious to present his work perfect and unassailable,
and so slow in the mere mechanical
art of writing, wanted much more than a fortnight.
His handwriting, like his Hebrew, had
been acquired comparatively late in life : it
was therefore rather ponderous ; and he had

never learned the art of writing half o. word
and leaving the other half to be guessed. Then
there were the Hebrew words, which took a
great deal of time to get right ; and the equilateral
triangles, which also caused a considerable
amount of trouble. So that it was a good
six weeks before Daniel was ready with a fair
copy of his manuscript. He was almost as
happy in making this transcript as he had
been with the original document, perhaps more
so, because he was now able to consider his
great discovery as a whole, to regard it as an
architect may regard his finished work, and to
touch up, ornament, and improve his translations.


It is quite complete,' he repeated, laying
the last page in its place and tapping the roll
affectionately. ' Here you will find the full
account of the two tables of stone and a translation
of their contents, with notes. What will
they say to that, I wonder ? '

But how,' asked Angela, ' how did the
tables of stone get to the British Museum ? '

Mr. Faggg considered his reply for a while.

There are two ways,' he said, ' and I don't

know which is the right one. For either they
were brought here when we, the descendants
of Ephraim, as everybody knows, landed in
England, or else they were brought here by
Phoenician traders after the Captivity. However,
there they are, as anybody may see with
the help of my discovery. As for the scholars,
how can they see anything? Wilful ignorance.
Miss, is their sin : pride and wilful ignorance.
You're ignorant, because you are a
woman, and it is your nature to. But not to
love darkness ! '

Fo, Mr. Faggg. I lament my ignorance.'

Then there's the story of David and Jonathan,
and the history of Jezebel and her great
wickedness, and the life and death of King
Jehoshaphat, and a great deal more. Now
read for the first time from the arrow-headed
character — so called — by Daniel Faggg, self-taught
scholar, once shoemaker in the colony
of Victoria, Discoverer of the Primitive Alphabet
and the Universal Language.'

That is indeed a glorious thing to be able
to say, Mr. Faggg.'

But now it is written, what next ? '

You mean, how can you get it printed ? '

Of course, that's what I mean,' he reached
almost angrily. ' There's the book, and no one
will look at it. Haven't I tried all the publishers
? What else should I mean ? '

Tie old disappointment, kept under and
forgotten during the excitement of rewriting
the book, was making itself felt again. How
much farther forward was he ? The work had
been finished long before ; all \\q had done
during the last six. weeks was to write it
afresh.

I've only been wasting my time here,' he
bait querulously. ' I ought to have been up
and about. I might have gone to Oxford,
where, I'm told, there are young men who
would perhaps give me a hearing : or there's
Cambridge, where they have never heard of
my discovery. You've made me waste six
weeks and more.'

Angela forbore to ask him how he would
have lived during those six weeks. Lie replied
softly :—

Nay, Mr. Faggg : not wasted the time.
You were over-worked : you wanted rest. Besides,

I think we may find a plan to get this
book published.'

What plan ? How ? '

If you would trust the manuscript to my
hands — yes ; I know well how precious it is,
and what a dreadful thing it would be to lose
it : but you have a copy, and you can keep
that while I take the other.'

Where are you going to take it ? '

I do not know yet. To one of the publishers,
I suppose.'

He groaned.

I have been to every one of them. Not a
publisher in London but has had the offer of
my book. They won't have it, any of them.
Oh ! it's their loss, I know that— but what is it
to me ? '

Will you let me try .^ Will you trust me
with the manuscript ? '

He reluctantly and jealously allowed her to
take away the precious document. When it
was out of his hands, he tried to amuse himself
with the first copy, but found no pleasure
in it at all, because he thought continually of
the scorn which had been hurled upon him

A^OL. III. c

and his discovery. He saw the heads of departments,
one after the other, receiving him
politely, and listening to what he had to say :
he saw them turning impatient, interrupting
him, declining to hear any more, referring him
to certain books in which he would fid a
refutation of his theories, and finally refusing
even to see him. Never was discoverer treated
with such contempt. Even the attendants at
the Museum took their cue from their chiefs, and
received his advances with scorn. Should they
waste their time— the illiterate — in listening
unprofitably to one whom the learned Dr.
Birch and the profound Mr. Newton had sent
away with contempt ? Better sit in the spacious
halls, bearing the wand of office, and allowing
the eyelids to fall gently, and the mind to
wander away among pleasant pastures where
there was drink with tobacco. Then there
were the people who had subscribed. Some
of them were gentlemen connected with Australia
: they had tossed him the twelve and
sixpence in the middle of his talk, as if to get
rid of him : some of them had subscribed in
pity for his poverty : some persuaded by his

importunity. There was not one among them
all, he reflected with humiliation, who subscribed
because he believed. Stay, there was
this ignorant dressmaker : one convert out of
all to whom he had explained his Discovery !
One — only one ! There have been many religious
enthusiasts, prophets, preachers, holders
of strange doctrines, who have converted
women so that they believed them inspired of
heaven : yet these men made other converts,
whereas he, Faggg, had but this one, and she
was not in love with him, because he was old
now, and no longer comely. This was a grand
outcome of that Australian enthusiasm !

That day Mr. Faggg was disagreeable, considered
as a companion. He found fault with
the dinner, which was excellent, as usual ; he
complained that the beer was thick and flat,
whereas it sparkled like champagne, and was
as clear as a bell ; he was cross in the afternoon,
and wanted to prevent the child who satin
the drawing-room from practising her music ;
and he went out for his walk in a dark and
gloomy mood.

Angela let him have his querulous way, unrebuked,

because .she knew the cause of it. He
was suffering from that dreadful hopeless anger
which falls upon the unappreciated. He was
like some poet who brings out volume after
volume, yet meets with no admirers and remains
obscure : he was like some novelist who
has produced a masterpiece — which nobody
will read ; or like some actor, the foremost of
his age — who replete the house ; or like a
dramatist from whose acted works the public
fly ; or like a man who invents something which
is to revolutionise things, only people prefer
their old way. Good heavens ! is it impossible
to move this vast inert mass called the world .^
Why, there are men Who can move it at their
will, even by a touch of their little finger ; and
the Unappreciated, with all their efforts, cannot
make the slightest impression This, from time
to time, makes them go mad, and at such
periods they are unpleasant persons to meet.
They growl at their clubs, they quarrel with
their blood relations, they snarl at their wives,
they grumble at their servants. Daniel was
having such a fit.

It lasted two whole days, and on the second

Eebekah took upon herself to lead him aside
and reprove him for the sin of ingratitude,
because it was very well known to all that the
man would have gone to the workhouse but for
Miss Kennedy's timely help. She asked him
sternly, what he had done to merit that daily
bread which was given him without a murmur :
and what excuse he could make for his bad
temper and his rudeness towards the woman
who had done so much for him.

He had no excuse to make, because Eebekah
would not have understood the true one.
Wherefore, she bade him repent and reform, or
he would hear more from her. This threat
frightened him, though it could not remove his
irritation and depression. But on the third
day, sunshine and good cheer and hope — new
hope and enthusiasm — returned to him.

For Miss Kennedy announced to him, with
many smiles, that a publisher had accepted his
manuscript, and that it had already been sent
to the printers.

He will publish it for you she said ' at no
cost to yourself. He will give you as many
copies as you wish to have, for presentation

among your friends and among your subscribers
you will like to send copies to your subscribers,
will you not ? '

He rubbed this hands and laughed aloud.
That,' he said, ' will prove that I did not
eat up the subscriptions.'

Of course.' Angela smiled, but did not
contradict the proposition. ' Of course, Mr
Faggg ; and if ever there was any doubt in your
own mind about that money it is now removed,
because the book will be in their hands. And
all they wanted was the book.'

Yes — yes. And no one will be able to
say . . . you know what — will they ? '

No, no. You will have proofs sent to

you '

Proofs ! ' he murmured. ' Proofs in print !
Will they send me proofs soon ? '

'I believe you will have the whole book setup
in a few weeks.'

Oh ! The whole book — my book — set up
in print ! '

Yes ; and if I were you, I would send an
announcement of the work by the next mail to
your Australian friends. Say that your discovery

has at length assumed its final shape and
is now ripe for publication, after being laid
before all the learned societies of London, and

that it has been accepted by Messrs. , the

well-known publishers, and will be issued almost
as soon as this announcement reaches Melbourne.
Here is a slip that I have prepared
for you.'

He took it with glittering eyes and stammering
voice. The news seemed too good to
be true.

Now, Mr. Faggg, that this has been settled,
there is another thing which I should like to
propose for your consideration. Did you ever
hear of that great Woman who saved his country
in a time of peril and then went back to the
plough ? '

Daniel shook his head. ' Is there any
Hebrew inscription about him .^ ' he asked.

Not that I know of What I mean is this.
When your volume is out, Mr. Faggg, when you
have sent it — triumphantly — to all the learned
societies, and all your subscribers, and all the
papers and everywhere, including your Australian
friends ; because the publisher will let you

have as many copies as you please ; would it
not be a graceful tiling, and a thing for future
historians to remember, that you left England
at the moment of your greatest fame, and went
back to Australia to take up your old — occupation
? '

Daniel had never considered the thing in
this light, and showed no enthusiasm at the
proposal.

When your friends in Victoria prophesied
fortune and fame, Mr. Faggg, they spoke out of
their hopes and their pride in you. Of course
I do not know much about these things — how
should I? Yet I am quite certain that it takes
a long time for a learned discovery to make
way. There are jealousies — you have experienced
them — and unwillingness to admit new
things — you have met with that too — and reluctance
to unlearn old things — why, you have
met with that, as well.'

I have,' he said, ' I have.'

As for granting a pension to a scholar, ora
title, or anything of that sort, it is really
never done, so that you would have to make
your own living if you remained here.'

I thought that when the book was published
people would buy it.'

Angela shook her head.

Oh ! no. That is not the kind of book
which is bought. Very few people know anything
about inscriptions. Those who do will
go to the British Museum and read it there.
One copy will do for all.'

Daniel looked perplexed.

You do not go back empty-handed,' she
said. ' You will have a fine story to tell of how
the great scholars laughed at your discovery,
and how you got about and told people, and
they subscribed, and your book was published,
and how you sent it to all of them, to show the
mistake they had' made, and how the English
people have got the book now, to confound the
scholars, and how your mission is accomplished,
and you are home again to live and die among
your own people. It will be a glorious return,
Mr. Faggg. I envy you the landing at Melbourne,
your book under your arm. You will
go back to your old township ; you will give a
lecture in the schoolroom on your stay in
England and your reception ; and then you

will take up your old place again and follow
your old calling exactly the same as if you lead
never left it, but for the honour and reverence
which people will pay you.'

Daniel cooed like a dove.

It may be,' the siren went on, ' that people
will pay pilgrimages to see you in your old age.
They will come to see the man who discovered
the Primitive Alphabet and the Universal
Language ; they will say, " This is Daniel Faggg,
the great Daniel Faggg, whose unaided intellect
overset and brought to confusion all the scholars
and showed their learning was but vain pretence
; who proved the truth of the Scriptures
by his reading of tablets and inscriptions, and
who returned, when he had .finished his task,
with the modesty of a great mind to his simple
calling ! " '

T will go,' said Daniel, banging the table
with his fist. ' I will go as soon as the book is
ready.'

CHAPTER XXXV.

'THEN" we'll keep COMPANY.'

After the celebrated Debate on the Abortion
of the Lords, Dick Coppin found he took, for
the moment, a greatly diminished interest in
burning political questions. He lost, in fact,
confidence in himself, and went about with
hanging head. The Sunday evening meetings
were held as usual, but the fiery voice of Dick
the Eadical was silent, and people wondered.
This was the effect of his cousin's address upon
him : as for the people, it had made them
laugh, just as Dick's had made them angry;
they came to the hall to get these little
emotions, and not for any personal or critical
interest in the matter discussed ; and this was
about all the effect produced by them.

One evening the old Chartist who had
taken the chair met Dick at the Club.

Come out,' he said, ' come out and have a
crack while the boys wrangle.'

They walked from Eedman's Lane, where
the Club stands, to the quiet side pavement of
Stepney Green, deserted now, because the
respectable people were all in church, and it
was too cold for the lounging of the more
numerous class of those who cannot call themselves
respectable.

The ex-Chartist belonged, like Daniel Faggg,
to the speaking trade in its humbler lines.
The connection between Leather and Socialism.,
Chartism, Radicalism, Atheism, and other
things detrimental to old institutions, has frequently
been pointed out and need not be
repeated. It is a reflecting trade, and the
results of meditation are mainly influenced by
the amount of knowledge the meditation
begins with, In this respect, the Chartist of
thirty years ago had a great advantage over his
successors of the present day, for he had read ;
lie knew the works of Owen, of Holyoake, and
of Cobbett ; he understood something of what
he wanted and why he wanted it. The proof
of which is, that they have got all they wanted

and we still survive. Wlien next the people
really make up their minds that they want
another set of things, they weill probably get
them, too.

'Let us talk,' he said. ' I've been thinking
a bit about that chap's speech the other night.
I wanted an answer to it.'

Have you got one ? '

It's all true what he said. First of all, it's
true. The pinch is just the same whether the
Liberals are in or the Tories. Government
don't help us. Why should we help them .^ '

Is that all you' answer ? '

Wait a bit, lad. Don't hurry a man. The
chap was right. We ought to co-operate, and
get all he said and a deal more. And once we
do begin, mind you, there'll be astonishment.
Because you see, Dick', my lad, there's work
before us. But we must be educated. We
must all be got to see what we can do if we
Like. That chap's clever, now. Though he
looks like a swell.'

He's got plenty in iii ; but he'll never be
one of us.'

If we can use him, what does it matter

whether he is one of us or not ? Come to
that, who is " us " ? You don't pretend, before
me, that you call yourself one of the common
workmen, do you ? That does for the Club,

but between ourselves Why, man, you

and me, we're leaders ; we've got to think for
'em. What I think is — make that chap draw
up a plan, if he can, for getting the people to
work together. For we've got all the power
at last, Dick ; we've got all the power. Don't
forget, when we old uns are dead and gone,
who done it for you.'

He was silent for a moment. Then he
went on.

We've got what we wanted — that's true —
and Ave seem to be no better off. That's true,
too. But we are better off ; because we feel
that every man has his share in the rule of
the nation ; that's a grand thing ; we are not
kept out of our vote ; we don't see, as we used
to see, our money spent for us Without having
a say ; that's a very grand thing which he
doesn't understand ; nor you neither, because
you are too young. Everything we get which
makes us feel our power more is good for us,

The chap was right, but he was wrong as well.
Don't give up politics, lad.'

What's the good if nothing comes ? •

There's a chance now for the workings
man such as he has never had before in all
history. You are the lad to take that chance.
I've watched you, Dick, since you hast began to
come to the Club. There's life in sou. Lord !
I watch the young fellows one after the other :
they stamp and froth, but it comes to nothing:
you're different : you want to be something
better than a bellows — though your speech the
other night came pretty nigh to the bellows kind.'

Well — what is the chance .^ '

The House, Dick. The working men will
send you there if you can show them that
you've got something in you. It isn't froth
they want : it's a practical man with knowledge
: you go on reading : go on speaking : goon
debating : keep it up : get your name
known ; don't demean yourself : get reported
and learn all that there is to learn. Once in the
House, Dick, if you are not afraid '

I shall not be afraid '

Humph ! well : we shall see — well : there's

your chance. A working man's candidate :
one of ourselves : that's a card for you to play.
But not so ignorant as your mates — eh P able,
if you want, to use the swells' sneering' talk,
so's to call a man a liar without saying' the
words : to make him feel like a fool and a
whipped cur with just shown' your white teeth.
Learn them ways, Dick. They'll be useful

But if,' said the young man, doubtfully, ' if
I am to keep on debating, what subjects shall
we take up at the Club ? '

I should go in for practical subjects. Say
that the Club is ready to vote for the abolition
of the Lords and Church, and reform of the
Land Laws, when the time comes, but it hasn't
come yet. You haven't got the choice of subjects
that we had. Lord! what with Rotten
Boroughs and the Black Book of Pensions, and
younger sons and favouritism in the service —
why, our hands were full.'

What practical subjects ? '

'Why, them as your cousin talked about.
There's the wages of the girls ; there's food,
and fish, and drink ; there's high rent ; there's
a world o' subjects. You go and find out all
about them. Give up the rest for a spell and

make yourself master of all these questions.
If you do, Dick, I believe your fortune is
made.'

Dick looked doubtful. It seemed disheartening
to be sent back to the paltry matter of
wages, prices, and so on, when he was burning
to lead in something great. Yet the advice
was sound.

Sometimes I think, Dick,' the old man
went on, ' that the working man's best friends
would be the swells, if they could be got hold
of. They've got nothing to make out of the
artisan ; they don't run factories nor keep
shops ; they don't care, bless you, how high
his wages are ; why should they ? They've got
their farmers to pay the rent, and their houses,
and their money in the funds ; Av'iat does it
matter to them ? They're well brought up too,
most of them, civil in their manner, and disposed
to be friendly if you're neither stand-fish
nor familiar, but know yourself and talk
according'.

If the swells should ever come to us, we
ought to go to them. Eemember that, Dick.
Very soon there will be no more questions of
VOL. ir.

Tory and Liberal, but only what is the best
thing for us. You play your game by the
newest rules ; as for the old ones, they've seen
their day.'

Dick left him, but he did not return to the
Club. He communed beneath the stars, turning
over these and other matters in his mind.
Yes, the old man was right ; the old indignation
times were over ; the long lists of crimes
which the political agitator could bring against
King, Church, Lords, and Commons, thirty,
forty, fifty years ago, are useless now ; they
only serve to amuse an audience not too
critical : he was ashamed of what he had himself
said about the Lords ; such charges are
like the oratory of an ex-minister on the
stump, finding no accusation too reckless to be
hurled against his enemies.

He was profoundly ambitious. To some
men, situated like himself, it might have been a
legitimate and sufficient ambition to recover by
slow degrees and thrift, and in some trading
way, the place in the middle class from which
the Coppins had fallen. Not so to Dick
Coppin. He cared very little about the former

greatness of the Copies, and the position once
occupied by Coppin the builder, his father,
before he went bankrupt. He meant, secretly,
something very much greater for himself; he
would be a member of Parliament ; lie would
be a working man's member. There have
already been half a dozen working men's
members in the House ; their success has not
hitherto been marked, probably because none
of them have shown that they know what they
want, if indeed they want anything ; up to
the last few days, Dick simply desired in the
abstract to be one of them — only of course a
red-hot Eadical, an Irreconcilable. Now, however,
he desired more ; his cousin's words and
the Chartist's words fell on fruitful soil ; he
perceived that to become a power in the House
one must be able to inform the House on the
wants, the programme of his constituents ;
what they desire and mean to have. Dick
always mentally added that clause, because it
belongs to the class of speech in which lie had
been brought up, ' and we mean to have it
You accompany the words with a flourish of
the left hand, which is found to be more

D 2

effective than the right for such purposes.
They don't really mean to have it — whatever it
may be — but with their audiences it is necessary
to put on the appearance of strength before
there arises any confidence in strength. Dis-establishes
of all kinds invariably mean to
have it, and the phrase is perhaps getting
played out.

Dick went home to his lodgings, and sat
among his books, thinking. He was a man
who read ; for the sake of being independent
he became a teetotaller, so that, getting good
wages, he was rich : he would not marry,
because he did not want to be encumbered :
he bought such books as he thought would be
useful to him, and read them, but no others :
he was a man of energy and tenacity, whose
chief fault was the entire absence, as yet, of
sympathy and imagination. If these could be
supplied in any way, Dick Coppin's course
would be assured. For with them would come
play of fancy, repartee, wit, illustration, and
the graces as well as the strength of oratory.

He went on Monday evening to see Miss
Kennedy. He would • find out from her, as a

beginning, all that lie could tell him about the
wages of women.

But I have told you,' she said, ' I told you
all the first night you came here. Have you
forgotten ? Then, I suppose I must tell you
again.'

The first time he was only bored with the
story, because he did not see how he could use
it for his own purposes. Therefore, he had
forgotten the details.

She told him the sad story of woman's
wrongs, which go unredressed while their
sisters clamour for female suffrage, and make
school boards intolerable by their squabbles.
The women do but copy the men ; therefore,
while the men neglect the things that lie ready
to their hand, and hope for things impossible,
under new forms of Government, what wonder
if the women do the like ?

This time Dick listened, because he now
understood that a practical use might be made
out of the information. He was not a man of
highly sensitive organisation, nor did he feel
any indignation at the things Angela told him,
seeing that he had grown up among these

things all his life, and regarded the inequalities
of wages and work as part of the bad luck of
being born a woman. But he took note of all,
and asked shrewd questions, and made suggestions.


If,' he said, ' there's a hundred women
asking for ten places, of course the governor '11
give them to the cheapest.'

That,' replied Angela, ' is a matter of
course as things now are. But there is another
way of considering the question. If we had a
Woman's Trade Union, as we shall have before
long, where there are ten places, only ten
women should be allowed to apply, and just
wages be demanded I '

How is that to be done ? '

My friend, you have yet a great deal to
learn.'

Dick reddened, and replied rudely, that if
he had, he did not expect to learn it from a
woman.

A great deal to learn,' she repeated
gently ; ' above all, you have got to learn the
lesson which your cousin began to teach you
the other night — the great lesson of finding

out what you want, and then getting it for
yourselves. Governments are nothing : you
must help yourselves ; you must combine.'

He was silent. The girl made him aitgry,
yet he Alas afraid of her, because no other
woman whom he had ever met spoke as she
did, or knew so much.

Combine,' she repeated. ' Preach the doctrine
of combination ; and teach us the purposes
for which we ought to combine.'

The advice was just what the cobbler had
given.

Oh, Mr. Coppin ' — her voice was as winning
as her eyes were kind and full of interest, —
you are clever ; you are persevering ; you are
brave ; you have so splendid a voice ; you have
such a natural gift of oratory, that you ought
to become — you must become — one of the
leaders of the people.'

Pride fell prone — like Dagon — before these
words. Dick succumbed to the gracious influence
of a charming woman.

Tell me,' he said, reddening, because it is
humiliating to seek help of a girl, ' tell me what
I am to do.'

You are ambitious, are you not ? '

Yes,' he replied boldly,' ' I am ambitious.

I don't tell them outside,' he jerked his thumb

a; . .

over his shoulder to indicate the Advanced

Club, ' but I mean to get into the 'Ouse — I

mean the House.' One of his little troubles

was the correction of certain peculiarities of

speech common among his class. It vas his

cousin who first directed his attention to this

point.

Yes ; there is no reason why you should

not get into the House,' said Angela. ' But it

would be a thousand pities if you should get in

yet.'

Why should I wait, if they will elect
me?'

Because, Mr. Coppin, you must not try to
lead the people till you know whither you
would lead them ; because you must not pretend
to represent the people till you have
learned their condition and their wants ; because
you must not presume to offer yourself
till you are prepared with a programme.'

Yet plenty of others do.'

They do ; but what else have they done ? '

Only tell me, then — tell me what to do.
Am I to read ? '

No ; you have read enough for the present.
Best your eyes from books ; open them
to the world ; see things as they are. Lookout
of this window. What do you see ? '

Nothing ; a row of houses ; a street ; a
road.'

I see, besides, that the houses are mean,
dirty, and void of beauty : but I see more. I
see an organ-player ; on the kerbstone the little
girls are dancing ; in the road the ragged boys
are playing. Look at the freedom of the girls'
limbs ; look at the careless grace of the children.
Do you know how clever they are ?
Some of them who sleep where they can, and
live as they can, can pick pockets at three, go
shop-lifting at four, plot and make conspiracies
at five : see how they run and jump and
climb.'

I see them. Thej^ are everywhere. How
can we help that ? '

You would leave these poor children to
the Government and the police. Yet I think
a better wav to redeem these little ones is for

the working men to resolve together that they
shall be taken care of, taught, and apprenticed.
Spelling, which your cousin says constitutes
most of the School Board education, does not
so much matter. Take them off the streets
and train them to a trade. Do you ever walk
about the streets at night ? Be your own police,
and make your streets clean. Do you ever go
into the courts and places where the dock
labourers sleep ? Have a committee for everyone
such street or court, and make them
decent. When a gang of roughs make the
pavement intolerable, you decent men step off
and leave them to the policeman, if he dares
interfere. Put down the roughs yourselves
with a strong hand. Clear out the thieves'
dens and the drinking-shops ; make rogues and
vagabonds go elsewhere. I am always about
among the people : they are full of sufferings
which need not be ; there are a great many
workers — ladies, priests, clergymen — among
them, trying to remove some of the suffering.
But why do you not do this for yourselves ?
Be your own almoners. I find everywhere.

too, courage and honesty, and a desire for
better things. Show them how their lot maybe
alleviated.'

• But I don't know how,' he replied humbly.

You must find out, if you would be their
leader. And you must have sympathy. Never
was there yet a leader of the people who did
not feel with them as they feel.'

This saying was too hard for the young
man, who had, he knew, felt hitherto only for
himself.

You say what Harry says. I sometimes

think ' He stopped short as if an idea had

suddenly occurred to him. ' Look here, is it
true that you and Harry are keeping company
? '

'No, we are not,' Angela replied, with a
blush.

'Oh, I thought you were. Is it off, then ? '

It never was — more — on — than it is at
present, Mr. Coppin.'

Oh ! ' He looked doubtful. ' Well,' he
said, ' I suppose there is no reason wliy a girl
should tell a lie about such a simple thing.'

He certainly was a remarkably rude young
man. ' Either you are or you ain't. That's it,
isn't it ? And you ain't ? '

We are not,' said Angela, with a little
blush, for the facts of the case were, from one
point of view, against her.

Then, if you are not — I don't care —
though it's against my rules, and I did say I
would never be bothered with a woman. . . .
Look here — you and me will '

'Will what?'

Will keep company,' he replied firmly.
Oh, I know : it's a great chance for you ;
but then, you see, you ain't like the rest of
'em, and you know things, somehow, that maybe
useful — though how you learned 'em, nor
where you came from, nor what's your character
— there — I don't care, we'll keep company
! '

Oh ! '

Yes : we'll begin next Sunday. You'll be
useful to me, so that the bargain is not all on
one side.' It was not till afterwards that
Angela felt the full force of this remark. ' As
for getting married, there's no hurry : we'll

talk about that when I'm member. Of course,
it would be silly to get married now.'

Of course,' said Angela.

Let's get well up the tree first. Lord help
you ! How could I climb, to say nothing o'
you, with a round half-dozen o' babies at my
heels?'

But, Mr. Coppin,' she said, putting aside
these possibilities, ' I am sorry to say that I
cannot possibly keep company with you. There
is a reason — I cannot tell you what it is — but
you must put that out of your thoughts.'

Oh ! ' his face fell, ' if you won't, you
won't. Most girls jump at a man who's in
good wages and a temperance man, and sought
after, like me. But — there — if you won't, there's
an end. I'm not going to waste my time crying'
after any girl.'

We will remain friends, Mr. Coppin ? '
She held out her hand.

Friends ? wdiat's that ? wee might ha' been
pals — I mean partners.'

'But I can tell you all I think; I can
advise you in my poor way still, whenever
you please to ask my advice, even if I do not

share your greatness. And believe me, Mr.
Coppin, that I most earnestly desire to see you
not only in the House, but a real leader of the
people, such a leader as the world has never
yet beheld. To begin with, you will be a man
of the very people.'

Ay ! ' he said, ' one of themselves ! '

A man not to be led out of his way by
flatterers.'

No,' he said, with a superior smile, ' no
one, man or woman, can flatter me.'

A man who knows the restless unsatisfied
yearnings of the people, and what they mean,
and has found out how they may be satisfied.'

Ye — yes ! ' he replied, doubtfully, ' certainly.'


A man who will lead the people to get
what is good for themselves and by themselves,
without the help of Government.'

And no thunders in the Commons? No
ringing denunciation of the Hereditary House ?
Nothing at all that he had looked to do and to
say? Call this a leadership? But he thought of
the Chartist and his new methods. By different
roads, said Montaigne, we arrive at the same end.

CHAPTEE Xxxii.

WHAT WILL BE THE END?

The end of the year drew near, the end of that
last year of 'eighty-one, which, whatever its
shortcomings, its burning heat of July and its
wretched rain of August, went out in sweet
and gracious sunshine, and a December like
unto the April of a poet. For six months
Angela had been living among her girls ; the
place was become homelike to her ; the workwomen
were now her friends, her trusted
friends ; the voice of calumny about her antecedents
was silent, unless when it was the voice
of Bunker ; the Palace of Delight, whose meaning
was as yet unknown and unsuspected, was
rising rapidly, and, indeed, was nearly complete,
a shell which had to be filled with things
beautiful and delightful, of which Angela did
not trust herself to speak. She had a great

deal to think of in those last days of the year
'eighty-one. The dressmaking was nothing;
that went on : there was some local custom,
and more was promised. It seemed as if, on the
soundest principles of economy, it would
actually pay ; there was a very large acquaintance
made at odd times among the small streets
and mean houses of Stepney : it was necessary
to visit these people and to talk with them.
Angela had nothing to do with the ordinary
channels of charity ; she would help neither
curate, nor sister of mercy, nor Bible woman,
Why, she said, do not the people stand shoulder
to shoulder and help themselves ? To be sure,
she had the great advantage over the professional
visitors that she was herself only a workwoman,
and was not paid for any services.
And, as if there was not already enough to
make her anxious, there was that lover of hers.
Were she and Harry keeping company?
Dick Coppin asked this question, and Angela,
not altogether truthfully, said that they were
not. What else were they doing, indeed?
Into word of love now ; had he not promised to
abstain ? Yet she knew his past ; she knew what

he had given up for her sake, believing her only
a poor dressmaker — all for love of ]her — and she
could not choose but let her heart go forth to
so loyal and true a lover. Many ladies in
many tales of chivalry have demanded strange
services from their lovers, none so strange as
that asked by Angela, when she ordered her
lover not only to pretend to be a cabinet-maker
and a joiner, but to work at his trade and to live
hy it. Partly in self-reproach, partly in admiration,
she watched him going and coming to and
from the Brewery, where he now earned, thanks
to Lord Jocelyn's intervention, the sum of a whole
shilling an hour. For there was nothing in his
bearing or his talk to show that he repented
his decision ; he was always cheerful, always of
good courage : more, he was always in attendance
upon her. It was he dio thought for
her, invented plans to make her evenings
attractive, brought raw lads — recruits in the
army of Culture — from the Advanced Club
and elsewhere, and set them an example of
good manners, and was her prime minister, her
aide-de-camp, her chief vizier.

And the end of it all ? Nay ; the thing

VOL. III. E

itself being so pleasant, why hasten the end ?
And if there was to be an end, could it not be
connected with the opening of the Palace?
Yes, when the Palace was ready to open its
gates, then would Angela open her arms. For
the moment, it was the sweet twilight of love,
the half-hour before the dawn, the sweet uncertainty
when all was certainty. And as yet
the Palace was only just receiving its roof ; the
fittings and decorations, the organ and the
statues and all had still to be put in. When
everything was ready, then then
Angela would somehow, perhaps, find
words to bid her lover be happy if she could
make him happy.

There could be but one end. Angela
came to Whitechapel, incognita, a princess disguised
as a milkmaid, partly out of curiosity,
partly to try lier little experiment for the good
of the work girls, with the gaiety and light
heart of youth, thinking that before long she
would return to her old place, just as she had
left it. But she could not : her old views of
life were changed ; and a man had changed
them ; more than that, a man whose society,

whose strength, whose counsel, had become
necessary to her. ' Who,' she asked herself,
'would have thought of the Palace, except —
him ? Could I— could any woman ? I could
have given away money ; that is all : I could
have been robbed and cheated; but such an
idea, so grand, so simple — it is a man's, not a
woman's. When the Palace is completed,

when all is ready for the opening — then '

And then the air became musical with the
clang and clash of wedding bells, up the scale,
down the scale, in thirds, in fifths, with triple
bob-majors, and the shouts of the people, and
the triumphant strains of a Wedding March.

How could there be any end but one ? seeing
that not only did this young man present
himself nearly every evening at the drawing-room,
when he was recognised as the Director
of Ceremonies, or the Leader of the Cotillon,
or the Deviser of Sports, from an acted
Proverb to a Madrigal, but that, in addition,
the custom was firmly established that he and
Angela should spend their Sundays together ;
when it rained they went to church together,
and had readings in the drawing-room in the

afternoon, with perhaps a little concert in the
evening of sacred music, to which some of the
girls would come. But if the day was sunny
and bright there were many places where they
might go, for the East is richer than the West
in pretty and accessible country places. They
would take the tram along the Mile End Eoad,
past the delightful old church of Bow to Stratford,
with its fine Town Hall and its round
dozen of churches and chapels — a town of fifty
thousand people, and quite a genteel place,
whose residents preserve the primitive custom
of fetching the dinner beer themselves, from its
native public-house, on Sunday after church.
At Stratford there are many ways open if you
are a good walker, as Angela was. You may
take the Woodward Eoad, and presently turn to
the right and find yourself in a grand old forest
only there is not much of it left — called
Hainault Forest. When you have crossed the
forest you get to Chigwell, and then if you are
wise you will take another six miles, as Angela
and Harry generally did, and get to Epping,
where the toothsome steak may be found, or
haply the simple cold beef not to be despised

after a fifteen miles walk. And so home by
train. Or you may take the northern road at
Stratford, and walk through Edmonstone and
Woodward, and leaving Epping Forest on the
right, walk aloncr the bank of the river Lea till
you come to Waltham Abbey, where there is a
church to be seen, and a cross, and other marvels.
Or you may go still farther afield and take train
all the way to Ware, and walk through country
roads and pleasant lanes, if you have a map, to
stately Hatfield, and on to St. Albans — but do
not try to dine there, even if you are only one-and-twenty,
and a girl. All these walks, and
many more, were taken by Angela, with her
companion, on that blessed day which should
be spent for the good of body as well as soul.
They are walks which are beautiful in the
winter as well as in the summer : though the
trees are leafless, there is an underwood faintly
coloured with its winter tint of purple, and
there are stretches of springy turf, and bushes
hung with catkins ; and, above all, there was
nobody in the Forest or on the roads except
Angela and Harry. Sometimes the night fell
on them Avhen they were yet three or four

miles from Epping : then, as they walked in
the twilight, the trees on either hand silently
glided past them like ghosts, and the mist rose
and made things look shadowy and large, and
the sense of an endless pilgrimage fell upon
them, as if they would always go on like this,
side by side ; then their hearts would glow
within them, and they would talk, and the girl
would think it no shame to reveal the secret
thoughts of her heart, although the man with
her was not her accepted lover. .

As for her reputation, where was it ? Not
gone, indeed, because no one, among her old
friends, knew of these walks and this companionship
; but in grievous peril.

Or, when the day was cloudy, there was
the City. I declare there is no place which
contains more delightful walks for a cloudy
Sunday forenoon, when the clang of the bells
has finished, and the scanty worshippers are in
their places, and the sleepy serious have shut
the doors, than the streets and lanes of the old
City. You must go, as Harry did, provided
with something of ancient lore, otherwise the
most beautiful places will quite certainly be

thrown away and lost for you. Take that
riverside walk from Billingsgate to Blackfriars.
Why, here were the quays, the ports, the
whole commerce of the City in the good old
days. Here was Cold Herbert, that great,
many-gabled house where Harry Prince of
Wales ' carried on ' with FalstafF and his merry
crew : here was Queenhithe ; here Newgate
with Walbrook ; here Barnard's Castle, and
close by the tower of Montfichet ; also a little
to the north a thousand places dear to the
antiquary, though they have pulled down so
much : there is Tower Eoyal, where Richard
the Second lodged his mother : there is the
church of Whittington, close by the place where
his college stood : there are the precincts of
Paul's and the famous street of Chepe — do
people ever think what things have been done
in Chepe ? There is Austin Friars with its grand
old church, now given to the Dutch, and its
quiet City square, where only a few years ago
lived Lettuce Langton, of whom some of us may
have heard ; there is the Tower Hill, on which
was formerly the residence of one Alderman
Medlycott, guardian of Nelly Careless : and west

of Paul's there is the place where once stood the
house of Dr. Gregory Shovel, who received the
orphan Kitty Pleyel. But, indeed, there is
no end to the histories and associations of the
City, and a man may give his life profitably to
the mastery and mystery of its winding streets.

Here they would wander in the quiet
Sunday forenoons, while their footsteps echoed
in the deserted streets, and they could walk
fearless in the middle of the road, while they
talked of the great town and its million dwellers,
who come like the birds in the morning and
vanish like the birds in the evening.

Or they would cross the river and wander
up and down the quaint old town of Others
or visit Southwark, the town of hops
and malt and all kinds of strange things, or
Hertford the Deserted, or even Greenwich ;
and if it was rainy they would go to church.
There are a great many places of worship
about Whitechapel, and many forms of creed,
from that of the Baptist to that of the man
with the Brett ; and it would be difficult to
select one which is more confident than another
of possessing the real Philosopher's Stone,

the thing for which we are always searching,
the Whole Truth. And everywhere, church
and chapel filled with the well-to-do, and the
respectable, and a sprinkling of the very poor.
But of the working men — none.

Why have they all given up religion ? '
asked Angela. ' Why should the workingmen
all over the world feel no need of religion,
if it were only the religious emotion ? '

Harry, who had answers ready for many
questions, could find none for this. He asked
his cousin Dick, but he could not telL Personally,
he said, he had something else to do,
but if the women wanted to go to church they
might, and so long as the parsons and priests
did not meddle with him, he should not meddle
with them. But these statements hardly seemed
an answer to the question. Perhaps in Berlin
or in Paris they could explain more clearly
how this strange think; has come to pass.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

Truth WITH FAITHFULNESS.

To possess pure truth — and to know it — is a
thing which affects people in two ways, both
of them uncomfortable to their fellow-creatures.
It impels some to go pointing out the purity of
truth to the world at large, insisting upon it,
dragging unwilling people along the road which
leads to it, and dwelling upon the dangers
which attend the neglect of so great a chance.
Others it affects with a calm and comfortable
sense of superiority. The latter was Rebekah's
state of mind : to be a Seventh Day Independent
was only one degree removed from
belonging to the Chosen People, to begin with :
and that there is but one chapel in all England
where the Truth reposes for a space, as the Ark
of the Covenant reposed at Shiloh, ' in curtains,'
is, if you please, a thing to be proud of!
It brings with it elevation of soul.

There is at present, whatever there may
once have been, no proselytising zeal about
the Seventh Day Independents : they are, in
fact, a torpid body : they are contented with
the conviction — a very comforting one, and
possessed by other creeds besides their own —
that, sooner or later, the whole world will
embrace their faith. Perhaps the Jews look
forward to a day when, in addition to the
Restoration which they profess to desire, all
mankind will become proselytes in the Court
of the Gentiles : it is something little short of
this that the congregation of Seventh Day Independents
expect in the dim future. What a
splendid, what a magnificent field for glory —
call it not vain-glory ! — does this conviction
present to the humble believer! There are,
again, so very few of them, that each one may
feel himself a visible pillar of the Catholic
Church, bearing on his shoulders a perceptible
and measurable quantity of weight. Each is
an Atlas. It is, moreover, pleasing to read the
Holy Scriptures, especially the books of the
Prophets, as written especially for a Connection
which numbers just one chapel in Great

Britain and seven in the United States. How
grand is the name of Catholic applied to just
one church ! Catholicity is as yet all to come,
and exists only as a germ, or seedling ! The
Early Christians may have experienced the
same delight.

Eebekah, best and most careful of shop-women
and accountants, showed her religious
superiority more by the silence of contempt
than by zeal for conversion. When Captain
Tom Coppin, for instance, was preaching to the
girls, she went on with her figures, casting up,
ruling in red ink, carrying forward in methodical
fashion, as if his words could not possibly
have any concern with her : and when a church
bell" rang, or any words were spoken about
other forms of worship, she became suddenly
deaf and blind and cold. But she entreated
Angela to attend their services. ' We want
everybody to come,' she said : * we only ask
for a single hearing ; come and hear my father
preach.'

She believed in the f^iitli of the Seventh
Day. As for her father — when a man is paid
to advocate the cause of an eccentric or a

ridiculous form of belief ; wlieii he lias to plead
that cause week by week to the same slender
following, to prop up the limp, and to keep
together his small body of believers ; when he
has to maintain a show of hopefulness, to
strengthen the wavering, to confirm the strong,
to encourage his sheep in confidence ; when lie
gets too old for anything else, and his daily
bread depends upon this creed and no other, —
Who shall say what, after a while, that man
believes or does not believe ? Need-hot words
fall from his lips, but they fall equally red-hot
each week ; his arguments are conclusive, but
they were equally conclusive last week ; his
logic is irresistible, his encouragement is warm
and glowing ; but logic and encouragement
alike are those of last week and many weeks
ago — surely, surely there is no worse fate possible
for any man than to preach, week by
week, any form whatever of dogmatic belief,
and to live by it ; surely nothing can be more
deadly than to simulate zeal, to suppress doubt,
to pretend certainty. But this is dangerous
ground ; because others besides Seventh Day
Independents may feel that they are upon

it, and that beneath them there are quagmires.


Come,' said Eebekah. ' We want nothing
but a fair hearing.'

Their chapel was endowed, which doubtless
helped the flock to keep together: it had a
hundred and ten pounds a year belonging toit
; and a little house for the minister, and
there were scanty pew rents, which almost
paid for the maintenance of the fabric and the
old woman who cleaned the windows and
dusted the pews. If the Reverend Percival
Armitage gave up that chapel, he would have
no means of subsistence at all. Let us not
impute motives : no doubt he firmly believed
what he taught ; but his words, like his creed,
were stereotyped ; they had long ceased to be
persuasive ; they now served only to preserve.

If Angela had accepted that invitation for
any given day, there would have been, she
knew very well, a sermon for the occasion,
conceived, written, and argued out expressly
for herself. And this she did not want. Therefore
she said nothing at all of her intentions,
but chose one Saturday when there was little

doing, and lie could spare a forenoon for her
visit.

The chapel of the Seventh Day Independents
stands in Eedman's Lane, close to the
Advanced Club House. It is a structure
extremely plain and modest in design. It was
built by an architect who entertained humble
views — perhaps he was a Churchman — concerning
the possible extension of the Connection,
because the whole chapel if quite filled
would not hold more than two hundred people.
The front, or facade, is flat, consisting of a
surface of grey brick wall, with a door in the
middle and two circular windows, one on each
side. Over the door there are two dates —
one of erection, the other of restoration. The
chapel within is a well-proportioned room,
with a neat gallery running round three sides,
resting on low pillars and painted a warm and
cheerful drab : the pews are jointed of the
same colour. At the back are two windows
with semicircular arches, and between the
windows stands a small railed platform with
a reading-desk upon it for the minister. Beside
it are high seats with cushions for elders,

or other ministers if there should be any. But
these seats have never been occupied in the
memory of man. The pews are ranged in
front of the platform, and they are of the
old and hide-backed kind. It is a wonderful
a truly wonderful thing that clergymen,
priests, ministers, padres, rabbis, and church
architects, with churchwardens, sidesmen, vergers,
bishops, and chapel-keepers of all persuasions
are agreed, whatever their other
differences, in the unalterable conviction that
it is impossible to be religious — that is, to
attend services in a proper frame of mind —
unless one is uncomfortable. Therefore we are
offered a choice : we may sit in high-backed,
narrow-seated pews, or we may sit on low-backed,
narrow seated benches ; but sit in
comfort we may not. The Seventh Day people
have got the high backed pew (which catches
you in the shoulder-blade, and tries the backbone,
and affects the brain, and causes softening
in the long run), and the narrow seat (which
drags the muscles and brings on premature
paralysis of the lower limbs). The equally
narrow, low-backed bench produces injurious

effects of a different kind, but similarly pernicious.
How would it be to furnish one aisle,
at least, of a cliurcb with broad, low, and comfortable
chairs having arms ? They should be
reserved for the poor, who have so few easy
chairs of their own : rightly managed and properly
advertised, they might help towards a
revival of religion among the working classes.

Above the reading platform in this little
chapel, they have caused to be painted on the
wall the Ten Commandments — the fourth emphasised
in red — with a text or two, bearing
on their distinctive doctrine : and in the corner
is a door leading to a little vestry ; but, as
there are no vestments, its use is not apparent.
As for the position taken by these people,
it is perfectly logical, and, in fact, impregnable.
There is no answer to it. They say,
Here is the Fourth Commandment. All the
rest you continue to observe. Why not this ?
When was it repealed .^ And by whom .^ ' If
you put these questions to Bishop or Presbyter,
he has no reply. Because that Law never
has been repealed. Yet, as the people of the
Connection complain, though they have reason

VOL. III. F

and logic on their side, the outside world will
not listen, and go on breaking the Commandment
with light and unthinking heart. It is a
dreadful responsibility — albeit a grand thing —
to be in possession of so simple a truth of such
vast importance, and yet to get nobody ever
to listen. The case is worse even than that of
Daniel Faggg.

Angela noted all these things as she entered
the little chapel a short time after the service
had commenced. It was bewildering to step
out of the noisy streets, where the current of
Saturday morning was at flood, into this quiet
room with its strange service and its strange
flock of Nonconformists. The thing, at first,
felt like a dream : the people seemed like the
ghosts of an unquiet mind.

There were very few worshippers ; she
counted them all : four elderly men, two
elderly women, three young men, two girls,
one of whom was Eebekah, and five boys.
Sixteen in all. And standing on the platform
was their leader.

Eebekah's father, the Eev. Percival Armytage,
was a shepherd who from choice led his

flock gently, along peaceful meadows and in
shady quiet places : he had no prophetic fire :
he had evidently long since acquiesced in the
certain fact that under him, at least, whatever
it might do under others, the Connection would
not greatly increase. Perhaps he did not himself
desire an increase which would give him
more work. Perhaps he never had much enthusiasm.
By the simple accident of birth he
was a Seventh Day Christian : being of a
bookish and unambitious turn, and of an indolent
habit of body, mentally and physically
unfitted for the life of a shop, he entered the
ministry : in course of time he got this chapel,
where he remained, tolerably satisfied with his
lot in life, a simple, self-educated, mildly pious
person, equipped with the phrases of his craft,
and comforted with the consciousness of superiority
and separation. He looked up from
his book in a gentle surprise when Angela
entered the chapel : it was seldom that a
stranger was seen there : once, not long ago,
there was a boy who had put his head in at
the door and shouted 'Fool' and run away
again : once there was a drunken sailor who
F 2

thought it was a public-house, and sat down
and began to sing and wouldn't go, and had to
be shoved out by the united efforts of the
whole small congregation — when he was gone,
they sang an extra hymn to restore a religious
calm : but never a young lady before. Angela
took her seat amid the wondering looks of the
people, and the minister went on in a perfunctory
way with his prayers and his hymns
and his exposition. There certainly did seem
to an outsider a want of heart about the service,
but that might have been due to the
emptiness of the pews. When it came to the
sermon, Angela thought the preacher spoke
and looked as if the limit of endurance bad
at last almost arrived, and he would not much
longer endure the inexpressible dreariness of
the conventicle. It was not so : he was always
mildly sad : he seemed always a little bored :
it was no use pretending to be eloquent anymore
: fireworks were thrown away : and as
for what he had to say, the congregation
always had the same thing, looked for the
same thing, and would have risen in revolt
at the suggestion of a new thing. His sermon

was neither better nor worse than may be
heard any day in church or chapel ; nor was
there anything in it to distinguish it from the
sermons of any other body of Christians. The
outsider left off listening and began to think
of the congregation. In the pew with her
was a man of sixty or so, with long black
hair streaked with grey, brushed back behind
his ears : he was devout and followed the
prayers audibly, and sang the hymns out of
a manuscript music-book, and read the text
critically : his face was the face of a bull-dog
for resolution. The man, she thought, would
enjoy going to the stake for his opinions : and
if the Seventh Day Independents were to be
made the National Established Church, he
would secede the week after and make a new
sect, if only by himself. Such men are not
happy under authority : their freedom of
thought is as the breath of their nostrils, and
they cannot think like other people. He was
not well dressed, and was probably a shoemaker
or some such craftsman. In front of
her sat a family of three : the wife was attired
in a sealskin rich and valuable, and the son, a

young man of one or two-and-twenty, had the
dress and appearance of a gentleman — that is
to say, of what passes for such in common
City parlance, \yhat did these people do in
such a place ? Yet they were evidently of the
religion. Then she noticed a widow and her
boy : the widow was not young ; probably,
Angela thought, she had married late in life :
her hips were thin and her face was stern.
The boy thought Angela, ' will have the doctrine
administered with faithfulness.' Only
sixteen altogether : yet all, except the pastor,
seemed to be grimly in earnest and inordinately
proud of their sect. It was as if the emptiness
of their benches and their forsaken condition
called upon them to put on a greater show of
zeal, and to persuade themselves that the Cause
was worth fighting for. The preacher alone
seemed to have lost heart. But his people,
who were accustomed to him, did not notice
this despondency.

Then Angela, while the sermon went slowly
on, began to speculate on the conditions of
belonging to such a sect. First of all, with the
apparent exception of the lady in sealskin and

her husband and son, the whole sixteen — perhaps
another two or three were prevented from
attending — were of quite the lower middle
class ; they belonged to the great stratum of
society whose ignorance is as profound as their
arguments are loud. But the un comfortableness
of it ! They can do no work on the
Saturday — ' neither their manservant nor their
maidservant,' — their shops are closed and their
tools put aside. They lose a sixth part of the
working time. The followers of this creed areas
much separated from their fellows as the
Jews. On the Sunday they may work if they
please, but on that day all the world is at
church or at play. Angela looked round again.
Yes ; the whole sixteen had upon their faces
the look of pride ; they were proud of being
separated ; it was a distinction, just as it is to
be a Samaritan. Who would not be one of the
recipients, however few they be in number, of
Truth ? And what a grand thing, what an inspiriting
thing it is to feel that some day or other,
perhaps not to-day nor tomorrow, nor in one's
lifetime at all, the whole world will rally round
the poor little obscure banner, and shout altogether,

with voice of thunder, the battle-cry
which now sounds no louder than a puny
whistle-pipe ! Yet, on the whole, Angela felt
it must be an uncomfortable creed ; better to
be one of the undistinguished crowd which
flocks to the parish church and yearns not for
any distinctions at all. Then the sermon ended
and they sang another hymn — the collection in
use was a volume printed in New York and
compiled by the Committee of the Connection,
so that there were, manifestly, congregations on
the other' side of the Atlantic hinge in the same
discomfort of separation.

At the departure of the people Eebekah
hurried out first and waited in the doorway to
greet Angela.

I knew you would come some day,' she
said, ' but oh ! I wish you had told me when
you were coming, so that father might have
given one of his doctrine sermons. What we
had to-day was only one of the comfortable
discourses to the professed members of the
church which we all love so much. I am
so sorry. Oh ! he would convince you in ten
minutes.'

But, Eebekah,' said Angela, ' I should be
sorry to have seen your service otherwise than
is usual. Tell me, does the congregation of
to-day represent all your strength ? '

Eebekah coloured. She could not deny
that they were, numerically, a feeble folk.
We rely,' she said, ' on the strength of our
cause ; and some day — oh ! some day — the
world will rally round us. See, Miss Kennedy,
here is father ; when he has said good-bye to
the people' — she was talking to the lady in
sealskin — ' he will come and speak to us.'

^ I suppose,' said Angela, ' that this lady is
a member of your chapel ? '

Yes,' Eebekah whispered ; 'oh I they are
quite rich people — the only rich people we
have. They live at Ley tons tone ; they made
their money in the bookbinding, and are consistent
Christians. — Father ' — for at this point
Mr. Armitage left his rich followers in the
porch, — ' this is Miss Kennedy of whom you
have heard so much.'

Mr. Armitage took her hand with a weary
smile, and asked Eebekah if Miss Kennedy
would come home with her.

They lived in a small house next door to
the chapel. It was so small that there was but
one sitting-room, and this was filled with
books.

Father likes to sit here,' said Eebekah,
by himself all day. He is quite happy if he
is let alone. Sometimes, however, he has to goto
Edmonstone.'

To the rich people ? '

Yes.' Eebekah looked troubled. ' A
minister must visit his flock, you know; and
if they were to leave us it would be bad for
us, because the endowment is only a hundred
and ten pounds a year, and out of that
the church and the house have got to be kept
in repair. However, a clergyman must not be
dictated to, and I tell father he should go his
own way and preach his own sermons. Whatever
people say. Truth must not be hidden
away as if we were ashamed of it. Hush I
here he is.'

The good man welcomed Angela, and said
some simple words of gratitude about her
reception of his daughter. He had a good
face, but he wore an anxious expression, as if

something was always on his mind. And tie
sighed when he sat down at his table.

Angela stayed for half an hour, but the
minister said nothing more to her, only when
she rose to go he murmured with another
heavy sigh, ' There's an afternoon service at
three.'

It is quite impossible to say whether he
intended this announcement as an invitation to
Angela, or whether it was a complaint, wrung
from a heavy heart, of a trouble almost intolerable.


CHAPTEE XXXVIII.

I AM THE Dressmaker.

It happened on this very same Saturday that
Lord Jocelyn, feeling a little low, and craving
for speech with his ward, resolved that he would
pay a personal visit to him in his own den,
where, no doubt, he would find him girt with a
fair white apron and crowned with brown
paper, proudly standing among a lot of his
brother workmen — glorious fellows ! — and upto
his knees in shavings.

It is easy to take a cab and tell the driver
to go to the Mile End Eoad ; had Lord Jocelyn
taken more prudent counsel with himself, he
would have bidden him drive straight to
Messenger's Brewery ; but he got down where
the Whitechapel Eoad ends and the Mile End
Eoad begins, thinking that he would find his
way to the Brewery with the greatest ease.

First, however, he asked the way of a lady
with a basket on her arm ; it was, in fact, Mrs.
Bormalack going a-marketing, and anxious
about the price of greens ; and he received a
reply so minute, exact, and bewildering, that
he felt, as he plunged into the labyrinthine
streets of Stepney, like one who dives into the
dark and devious ways of the catacombs.

First of all, of course, he lost himself ; but
as the place was strange to him, and a strange
place is always curious, he walked along in
great contentment. Nothing remarkable in the
streets and houses, unless, perhaps, the entire
absence of anything to denote inequality of
wealth and position ; so that, he thought wdtli
satisfaction, the happy residents in Stepney all
receive the same salaries and make the same
income, contribute the same amount to the tax
collectors, and pay the same rent. A beautiful
continuity of sameness ; a divine monotony
realising partially the dreams of the socialist.
Presently he came upon a great building which
seemed rapidly approaching completion ; not a
beautiful building, but solid, big, well proportioned,
and constructed of real red brick, and

without the ' Queen Anne ' conceits which
mostly go with that materiaL It was so large
and so well built that it was evidently intended
for some special purpose ; a purpose of magnitude
and responsibility, requiring capital : nota
factory, because the windows were large and
evidently belonged to great halls, and there
were none of the little windows in rows which
factories must have in the nature of things :
not a prison, because prisons are parsimonious
to a fault in the matter of external windows ;
nor a school — yet it might be a school ; then —
how should so great a school be built in
Stepney? It might be a superior almshouse,
or a union — yet this could hardly be. While
Lord Jocelyn looked at the building, a workingman
lounged along, presumably an out-working
man, with his hands in his pockets
and kicking stray stones in the road, which is a
sign of the penniless pocket, because he who
yet can boast the splendid shilling does not
slouch as he goes, or kick stones in the road,
but holds his head erect and anticipates with
pleasure six half-pints in the immediate future.
Lord Jocelyn asked that industrious idle, or

idle industrious, if lie knew the object of the
building. The man replied that he did not
know the object of the building ; and to make
it quite manifest that he really did not know,
he put an adjective before the word ' object,'
and another — that is, the same — before the
word ' building.' With that he passed upon his
way, and Lord Jocelyn was left marvelling at
the slender resources of our language which
makes one adjective do duty for so many
qualifications. Presently he came suddenly
upon Stepney Church, which is a landmark or
initial point, like the man on the chair in the
maze of Hampton Court. Here he again asked
his way, and then, after finding it and losing it
again about six times more, and being generally
treated with contumely for not knowing so
simple a tiling, he found himself actually at
the gates of the Brewery, which he might have
reached in five minutes had he gone the
shortest way.

So,' he said, ' this is the property of that
remarkably beautiful girl, Miss Messenger ;
who could wish to start better ? She is young ;
she is charming ; she is queenly ; she is fabulously

rich ; she is clever ; she is — ah ! if only
Harry had met her before he became an ass ! '

He passed the gate and entered the courtyard,
at one side of which he saw a door on
which was painted the word 'Office.' The
Brewery was conservative ; what was now a
hive of clerks and writers was known by the
same name and stood upon the same spot as
the little room built by itself in the open court
in which King Messenger I., the inventor of
the Entire, had transacted by himself, having
no clerks at all, the whole business of the
infant Brewery for his great invention. Lord
Jocelyn pushed open the door and stood irresolute
: looking about him, a clerk advanced
and asked his business. Lord Jocelyn was the
most polite and considerate of men : he took off
his hat humbly, bowed, and presented his card.

I am most sorry to give trouble,' he said ;
I came to see '

Certainly, my lord.' The clerk, having
been introduced to Lord Davenant, was no
longer afraid of tackling a title, however grand,
and would have been pleased to show his
familiarity with the Great even to a Eoyal

Highness. ' Certainly, my lord ; if your lordship
will be so good as to write your lordship's
name in the visitors' book, a guide shall take
your lordship round the Brewery immediately.'


Thank you, I do not wish to see the
Brewery,' said the visitor. ' I came to see a —
a — a young man who, I believe, Avorks in this
establishment : his name is Goslett.'

Oh ! ' replied the clerk, taken aback
Goslett ! can any one,' he asked generally
of the room which he had just left, ' tell
me whether there's a man working here
named Goslett ? '

Josephus — for it was the juniors' room —
knew and indicated the place and the man.

If, my lord,' said the clerk, loth to separate
himself from nobility, ' your lordship will be
good enough to follow me, I can take your
lordship to the man your lordship wants.
Quite a common man, my lord — quite. A
joiner and carpenter. But if your lordship
wants to see him '

He led Lord Jocelyn across the court, and
left him at the door of Harry's workshop.

VOL. III. G

It was not a great room with benches, and
piles of shavings, and a number of men. Not
at all : there were racks with tools, a bench,
and a lathe : there were pieces of furniture
about waiting repair, there was an unfinished
cabinet with delicate carved work, which Lord
Jocelyn recognised at once as the handiwork of
his boy ; and the boy himself stood in the room,
his coat off and his cuffs turned up, contemplating
the cabinet. It is one of the privileges
of the trade, that it allows — nay, requires — a
good deal of contemplation. Presently Harry
turned his head and saw his guardian standing
in the doorway. He greeted him cheerfully
and led him into the room, where he found a
chair with four legs, and begged him to sit
down and talk.

You like it, Harry ? '

Harry laughed. ' Why not ? ' he said. ' You
see, I am independent, practically. They pay
me pretty well according to the work that
comes in. Plain work, you see — joiner's work.'

Yes, yes, I see. But how long, my boy —
how long ? '

Well, sir, I cannot say. Why not all my
life?

Lord Jocelyn groaned.

I admit,' said Harry, ' that if things were
different I should have gone back to you long
ago. But now I cannot, unless *

Unless what ? '

Unless the girl who keeps me here goes
away herself or bids me go.'

Then, you are really engaged to the dress
^I mean, the young lady ? '

'No, I am not. Nor has she shown the
least sign of accepting me. Yet I am her
devoted and humble servant.'

Is she a witch — this woman ? Good
heavens, Harry ! Can you, who have associated
with the most beautiful and best-bred
women in the world, be so infatuated about a
dressmaker ? '

It is strange, is it not .^ But it is true.
The thought of her fills my mind day and night.
I see her constantly. There is never one word
of love, but she knows already, without that
word.'

Strange indeed ! ' repeated Lord Jocelyn,
but it will pass. You will awake, and find
yourself again in your right mind, Harry.'

G 2

He shook his head.

From this madness,' he said, ' I shall never
recover. For it is my life, whatever happens.
I am her servant.'

'It is incomprehensible,' replied his guardian.
You vere always chivalrous in your ideas of
women. They are unusual in young men of
the present day, but they used to sit well upon
you. Then, however, your ideal was a lady.'

It is a lady still,' said the lover, ' and yet a
dressmaker. How this can be I do not know ;
but it is. In the old days men became the
servants of ladies. I know, now, what a good
custom it was, and how salutary to the men.
Petit Jean de Sainte in his early days had the
best of all possible training.'

'But if Petit Jean had lived at Stepney
'

Then there is another thing. The life
here is useful.'

'You now tinker chairs and get paid a
shilling an hour. Formerly you made dainty
carved workbox, and fans, and pretty things
for ladies, and got paid by their thanks. Which
is the more useful life ? '

It is not the work I am thinking of. It
is the . do you remember what I said the
last time I saw you ? '

'Perfectly. About your fellow creatures,
was it not ? My dear Harry, it seems to me as
if our fellow-men get on very well in their own
way, without our interference.'

Yes : that is to say — no : they are all getting
on as badly as possible. And somehow I want,
before I go away, to find out what it is they
want — they don't know — and how they should
set about getting it if it is to be got, as I think
it is. You will not think me a prig, sir ? '

You will never be a prig, Harry, under
any circumstances. Does, then, the lady of
your worship approve of this — this study of
humanity ? '

Perfectly. If this lady did not approve of
it, I should not be engaged upon it.'

Harry, wil you take me to see this goddess
of Stepney Green ? It is there, I believe,
that she resides ? '

Yes, I would rather not — yet.' The young
man hesitated for a moment. ' Miss Kennedy
thinks I have always been a working man. I

would not undeceive lier yet. I would rather
she did not know that I have given up — for her
sake — such a man as you, and such companionship
as yours.'

He held out both his hands to his guardian,
and his eyes for a moment were dim. Lord
Jocelyn made no reply for a moment. Then
he cleared his throat and said he must go, and
asked Harry rather piteously if he could do
nothing for him at all, and made slowly for the
door. The clerk who had received the distinguished
visitor was standing at the door of the
office waiting for another glimpse of the noble
and illustrious personage. Presently he came
back and reported that his lordship had crossed
the yard on the arm of the young man called
Goslett, and that on parting with him he had
shaken him by the hand and called him ' my boy.'
Whereat many marvelled, and the thing was a
stumbling block, but Josephus said it was not
at all unusual for members of his family to be
singled out by the Great for high positions of
trust, that his own father had been churchwarden
of Stepney, and he was a far-off cousin
of Miss Messenger's, and that he could himself

have been by this time superintendent of his
Sunday school if it had not been for his misfortunes.
Presently the thing was told to the
Chief Accountant, who told it to the Chief
Brewer ; and if there had been a Chief Baker,
one knows not what would have happened.

Lord Jocelyn walked slowly away in the
direction of Stepney Green. She lived there,
did she ? Oh ! and her name was Miss
Kennedy. Ah ! and a man by calling upon
her might see her. Very good. He would
call. He would say that he was the guardian
of Harry, and that he took a warm interest in
him, and that the boy was pining away (which
was not true), and that he called to know if
Miss Kennedy, as a friend, could divine the
cause (which was crafty). Quite a little domestic
drama he made up in his own mind, which
would have done beautifully had it not been
completely shattered by the surprising things
which happened, as Avill immediately be seen.

Presently he arrived at Stepney Green, and
stopped to look about him. A quiet, 
place, with many good and
solid houses, and a narrow strip of garden

running down the middle. In which of these
houses did Miss Kennedy dwell ?

There came along the asphalte walk an old,
old man ; he was feeble, and tottered as he
went ; he wore a black silk stock and a
buttoned-up frock coat ; his face was wrinkled
and creased. It was, in fact, Mr. Maliphant
going rather late, because he had fallen asleep
by the fire, to protect the property. Lord
Jocelyn asked him politely if he would tell him
where Miss Kennedy lived.

The patriarch looked up, laughed joyously,
and shook his head. Then he said something,
inaudibly, but his lips moved. And then,
pointing to a large house on the right, he said
aloud, —

Caroline Coppin's house it was. She that
married Sergeant Goslett. Mr. Messenger, whose
grandmother was a Coppin and a good old
Whitechapel family, had the deeds. My memory
is not so good as usual this morning, young
man, or I could tell you who had the house
before Caroline's father. But I think it was old
Mr. Messenger, because the young man who
died the other day, and was only a year or two

older than I, was born here himself.' Then
he went on his way laughing and wagging his
head.

That is a wonderful old man,' said Lord
Jocelyn. ' Caroline Coppin's house : that is
Harry's mother's house. Pity she couldn't
keep it for her son. The Sergeant was a thrifty
man, too. Here is another native. Let us try
him.'

This time it was Daniel Faggg, and in one of
his despondent moods, because none of the promised
proofs had arrived.

Can you tell me, sir,' asked Lord Jocelyn,
where Miss Kennedy lives ? '

The ' native,' who had sandy hair and a
grey beard and immense sandy eyebrows,
turned upon him fiercely, shaking a long finger
in his face as if it was a sword.

Mind you,' he growled, ' Miss Kennedy's
the only man among you. Talk of your
scholars ! Gar ! Jealousy and envy ! But
I've remembered her. Posterity shall know
her when the head of the Egyptian department
is dead and forgotten.'

Thank you,' said Lord Jocelyn as the man

left him. ' I am likely to be forwarded at this
rate.'

He tried again.

This time it happened to be none other
than Mr. Bunker. The events of the last few
weeks were preying upon his mind. He
thought continually of handcuffs and prisons ;
he was nervous and agitated.

But he replied courteously and pointed out
the house.

Ah ! ' said Lord Jocelyn, ' that is the house
which an old man whom I have just asked said
was Caroline Coppin's.'

Old man P What old man ? ' Mr. Bunker
turned pale. It seemed as if the atmosphere
itself was full of dangers. ' 'Ouse was whose ?
That 'ouse, sir, is mine — mine, do you hear ? '

Lord Jocelyn described the old man. In
fact, he was yet within sight.

'I know him,' said Mr. Bunker. ' He's mad,
that old man — silly with age. Nobody minds
him. That 'ouse, sir, is mine.'

Oh! and you ' — for Lord Jocelyn now recollected
him — ' are Mr. Bunker, are you ? Do
you not remember me ? Think, man.'

Mr. Bunker thought his hardest ; but if you
do not remember a man, you might as well
stand on your head as beg to think.

Twenty years ago,' said Lord Jocelyn, ' I
took away your nephew, who has now come
back here.'

You did — you did,' cried Bunker, eagerly.
Ah ! sir, why did you let him come back
here ? A bad business, a bad business ! '

I came to see him to-day, perhaps to ask
him why he stays here.'

Take him away again, sir. Don't let him
stay. Rocks ahead, sir ! ' Mr. Bunker put up
his hands in warning. 'When I see youth
going to capsize on virtue, it makes my blood,
as a Christian man, to curdle. Take him
away.'

Certainly. It does you great credit, Mr.
Bunker, as a Christian man, because curdled
blood must be unpleasant. But-what rocks ? '

A rock. One rock, a woman. In that
'ouse, sir, she lives. Her name is Miss Kennedy.
That is what she calls herself. She's a dressmaker
by trade, she says, and a captivator of
foolish young men by nature. Don't go nigh

her. She may captivate you. Daniel Faggg
made her an offer of marriage, and he's sixty.
He confessed it to me. She tried it on with
me, but a man of principles is proof. The conjurer
wanted to marry her. My nephew, Dick
Coppin, is a fool about her.'

She must be a very remarkable woman,'
said Lord Jocelyn.

'As for that boy, Harry Goslett' — Bunker
uttered the name with an obvious effort, — ' he's
farther gone than all the rest put together. If
it wasn't for her, he would go back to where
he came from.'

Ah ! and where is that ? '

Don't you know, then .^ You, the man
who took him away ? Don't you know where
he came from ? Was it something very bad ? '

There was a look of eager malignity about
the man's face ; he wanted to hear something
bad about his nephew.

Lord Jocelyn encouraged him.

Perhaps I know, perhaps I do not.'

A disgraceful story, no doubt,' said Bunker,
with a pleased smile. ' I dreaded the worst
when I saw him with his white hands and his

sneering' fleeting' ways. I thought of Newgate
and gaol-birds ; I did indeed, at once. Oh,
prophetic soul ! Well, now we know the worst ;
and you had better take him away before
all the world knows it. I shan't talk, of
course.'

Thank you, Mr. Bunker. And about this
Miss Kennedy — is there anything against her,
except that the men fall in love with her ? '

There is plenty against her that would
astonish you. But I'm not the man to take
away a woman's character. If all secrets
were knoAvn we should find what a viper
we've been cherishing. At the end of her
year out she goes of my 'ouse. Bag and
baggage, she goes. And wherever she goes
that boy '11 go after her, unless you prevent
it.'

Thank you again, Mr. Bunker. Good
morning.'

Angela, just returned from her chapel, was
sitting at the window of the workroom in her
usual place. She looked out upon the green
now and again. Presently she saw Mr. Mali-plant
creep slowly along the pavement, and

observed that lie stopped and spoke to a gentleman
: then she saw Daniel Faggg swinging his
arms and gesticulating as he rehearsed to himself
the story of his wrongs, and he stopped
and spoke to the same man ; then she saw Mr.
Bunker walking moodily on his way : and he
stopped too, and conversed with the stranger.
Then he turned, and she saw his face. It was
Lord Jocelyn Le Breton, and he was walking
with intention towards her own door.

She divined the truth in a moment. He
was coming to see ' the dressmaker ' who had
bewitched his boy.

She whispered to Nelly that a gentleman
was coming to see her who must be shown upstairs
; she took refuge in the drawing-room,
which was happily empty, and she awaited him
with a beating heart.

She heard his footsteps on the stairs. The
door opened. She rose to meet him.

You here, Miss Messenger ? This is indeed
a surprise.'

No, Lord Jocelyn,' she replied, confused,
yet trying to speak confidently. ' In this house,

if you please, I am not Miss Messenger ; I am
Miss Kennedy, the — the— — ' low she remembered
exactly what her next words would mean
to him, and she blushed violently. ' I am —
the — the dressmaker.'

CHAPTEE XXXIX.

THRICE HAPPY BOY.

A MAN of the world at forty-five seldom feels
surprised at anything, unless indeed, like Moliere,
he encounters virtue in unexpected quarters.
This, however, was a thing so extraordinary
that Lord Jocelyn gasped.

Pardon me, Miss Messenger,' he said, recovering
himself, ' I was so totally unprepared
for this — this discovery.'

Now that you have made it. Lord Jocelyn,
may I ask you most earnestly to reveal it to no
one ? I mean, no one at all'

'I understand perfectly. Yes, Miss Messenger,
I will keep your secret, since it is a
secret. I will tell it to none. But I would ask
a favour in return, if I may.'

What is that ? '

'Take me further into your confidence.

Let me know why you have done this most
wonderful thing. I hope I am not impertinent
in asking this of you.'

Not impertinent, certainly. And the thing
must seem strange to you. And after what you
told me some time asjo about — ' she hesitated
a moment, and then turned her clear brown
eyes straight upon his face — ' about your ward,
perhaps some explanation is due to you.'

Thank you beforehand.'

First, however, call me Miss Kennedy here ;
pray — pray do not forget that there is no Miss
Messenger nearer than Portman Square.'

I will try to remember.'

I came here,' she went on, ' last July,
having a certain purpose and a certain problem
in my mind. I have remained here ever since,
working at that problem. It is not nearly
worked out yet, nor do I think that in the
longest life it could be worked out. It is a
most wonderful problem. For one thing leads
to another, and great schemes rise out of small,
and there are hundreds of plans springing out
of one — if I could only carry them out.'

To assist you in carrying them out, you

VOL. III. U

have secured the services of my ward, I
learn.'

Yes ; he has been very good to me.'

I have never,' said Lord Jocelyn, ' been
greatly tempted in the direction of philanthropy.
But pray go on.'

The first thing I came to establish was an
association of dressmakers, myself being one.
That is very simple. I have started them with
a house free of rent, and the necessary furniture
— which I know is wrong, because it introduces
an unfair advantage — and we divide all
the money in certain proportions. That is one
thing,'

But, my dear young lady, could you not
have done this from Portman Square ? '

I could, but not so well. To live here asa
workwoman among other workwomen is, at
least, to avoid the danger of being flattered,
deceived, and paid court to. I was a most
insignificant person when I came. I am now
so far advanced that a great many employers of
women's labour cordially detest me, and would
like to see my association ruined.'

Oh, Lord Jocelyn ! ' she went on, after a

pause, ' you do not know, you cannot know, the
dreadful dangers which a rich woman has to
encounter. If I had come here in my own
name, I should have been besieged by every
plausible rogue who could catch my ear for
half an hour. I should have had all the clergy
round me imploring help for their schools and
their churches ; I should have had every unmarried
curate making love to me ; I should
have paid ten times as much as anybody else ;
and, worse than all, I should not have made a
single friend. My sympathies, whenever I read
the parable, are always with Dives, because he
must have been so flattered and worshipped
before his pride became intolerable.'

I see. All this you escaped by your
assumption of the false name.'

Yes. I am one of themselves, one of the
people ; I have got my girls together : I have
made them understand my project : they have
become my fast and faithful friends : the better
to inspire confidence, I even sheltered myself
behind myself: I said Miss Messenger was interested
in our success : she sends us orders : I
went to the West End with things made up for

her. Thanks, mainly to her, we are flourishing :
we work for shorter hours and for greater pay
than other girls: I could already double my
staff if I could only, which I shall soon, double
the work. We have recreation, too, and we
dine together, and in the evening we have singing
and dancing. My girls have never before
known any happiness ; now they" have learned
the happiness of quiet, at least, with a little of
the culture, and some of the things which make
rich people happy. Oh ! would you have me
go away and leave them, when I have taught
them things of which they never dreamed
before? Should I send them back to the
squalid house and the bare pittance again .^
Stay and take your luncheon with us when we
dine, and ask yourself whether it would not be
better for me to live here altogether — never to
go back to the West End at all — than to go
away and desert my girls ? '

She was agitated because she spoke from
her heart. She went on without waiting for
any reply : —

If you knew the joyless lives, the hopeless
days of these girls, if you could see their work-rooms,

if you knew what is meant by their long
hours and their insufficient food, you would not
wonder at my staying here ; you would cry
shame upon the rich woman so selfish as to
spend her substance in idle follies when she
might have spent it upon her unfortunate
sisters.'

I think,' said Lord Jocelyn, ' that you area
very noble girl.'

Then there is another scheme of mine ; a
project so great and generous — nay, I am not
singing my own praises, believe me — that I can
never get it out of my mind. This project.
Lord Jocelyn, is due to your ward.'

'Harry was always an ingenious youth.
But pray tell me what it is.'

I cannot,' she replied ; ' when I put the
project into words, they seem cold and feeble.
They do not express the greatness of it. They
would not rouse your enthusiasm. I could not
make you understand in any degree the great
hopes I have of this enterprise.'

And it is Harry's invention ? '

'Yes — his. All I have done has been to
find the money to carry it out.'

That is a good part of any enterprise,
however.'

At this point a bell rang.

That is the first bell,' said Angela. ' Now
they lay down their work and scamper about —
at least the younger ones do — for ten minutes
before dinner. Come with me to the diningroom.'


Presently the girls came trooping in, fifteen
or so, with bright eyes and healthy cheeks.
Some of them were pretty ; one. Lord Jocelyn
thought, of a peculiarly graceful and delicate
type, though too fragile in appearance : this
was Nelly Sorensen. She looked more fragile
than usual to-day, and there were black lines
under her lustrous eyes. Another, whom Miss
Kennedy called Eebekah, was good-looking ina
different way, being sturdy, rosy-cheeked, and
downright in her manner. Another, who would
otherwise have been quite common in appearance,
was made beautiful — almost — by the
patient look which had followed years of suffering
; she was a cripple : all their faces during
the last few months had changed for the better ;

not one among them all bore the expression
which is described by the significant words
bold ' and ' common.' Six months of daily-drill
and practice in good manners had abolished
that look at any rate.

The dinner was perfectly plain and simple,
consisting of a piece of meat with plenty of
vegetables and bread, and nothing else at all.
But the meat was good and well cooked, and
the service was on fair white linen. Moreover,
Lord Jocelyn, sitting down in this strange company,
observed that the girls behaved with great
propriety. Soon after they began, the door
opened and a man came in. It was one of
those to whom Lord Jocelyn had spoken on the
green, the man with the bushy sandy eyebrows.
He took a seat at the table and beo-an to eat
his food ravenously. Once he pushed his plate
away as if in a temper, and looked up as if he
was going to complain. Then the girl they
called Eebekah — she came to dinner on Saturdays,
so as to have the same advantages as the
rest, though she did no work on that days — held
up a forefinger and shook it at him, and he

relapsed into silence. He was the only one
who behaved badly, and Miss Kennedy made
as if she had not seen.

During the dinner the girls talked freely
among themselves without any of the giggling
and whispering which in some circles is considered
good manners ; they all treated Miss
Kennedy with great respect, though she was
only one workwoman among the rest. Yet
there was a great difference, and the girls knew
it ; next to her on her left sat the pretty girl
whom she called Nelly.

When dinner was over, because it was
Saturday there was no more work. Some of
the girls went into the drawing-room to rest for
an hour and read : Kebekah went home again
to attend the afternoon service : some went into
the garden, although it was December, and
began to play lawn tennis on the asphalte ; the
man with the eyebrows got up and glared
moodily around from under those shaggy eyebrows,
and then vanished. Angela and Lord
Jocelyn remained alone.

You have seen us,' she said ; ' what do you
think of us ? '

I have nothing to say. And I do not
know what to thmk.'

Your ward is our right hand. We women
want a man to work for us always. It is his
business, and his pleasure too, to help us amuse
ourselves. He finds diversions ; he invents all
kinds of things for us. Just now he is arranging
tableaux and plays for Christmas.'

Is it — is it — oh ! Miss — Kennedy — is it for
the girls only ? '

That is dangerous ground,' she replied, but
not severely. ' Do you think we had better
discuss the subject from that point of view? '

Poor boy ! ' said Lord Jocelyn. ' It is the
point of view from which I must regard it.'

She blushed again, and her beautiful eyes
grew limpid.

'Do you think,' she said, speaking low —
do you think I do not feel for him ? Yet
there is a cause — a sentiment perhaps. The
time is not quite come. Lord Jocelyn, be
patient with me ! '

You will take pity on him ? '

Oh ! ' — she took the hand he offered her.
^ If I can make him happy '

If not,' replied Lord Jocelyn, kissing her
hand, ' he would be the most ungrateful dog
in all the world. If not, he deserves to get
nothing but a shilling an hour for the miserable
balance of his days. A shilling ? No : let him
go back to his sentence. My dear young lady,
you. have made me, at all events, the happiest
of men ! No, do not fear : neither by word nor
look shall Harry — shall any one — know what
you have been so very, very good, so generous,
and so thoughtful as to tell me.'

He loves me for myself,' she murmured.
He does not know that I am rich. Think of
that, and think of the terrible suspicions which
grow up in every rich woman's heart when a
man makes love to her. Now I can never,
never doubt his honesty. For my sake he has
given up so much : for my sake — mine — oh !
why are men so good to women P '

No,' said Lord Jocelyn. ' Ask what men
can ever do that they should be rewarded with
the love and trust of such a woman as you ! '

That is indeed a difficult question, seeing
in what words the virtuous woman has been
described by one who writes as if he ought to

have known. As a pendant to the picture 'tis
pity, 'tis great pity, that we have not the Eulogy
of the Virtuous Man. But there never were
any, perhaps.

Lord Jocelyn stayed with Angela all the
afternoon. They talked of many things : of
Harry's boyhood ; of his gentle and ready
ways ; of his many good qualities ; and of
Angela herself, her hopes and ambitions ; and
of their life at Bormalack's. And Angela told
Lord Jocelyn about her proteges the claimants
to the Davenant peerage, With the history of
the ' Eoag in Grain,' Saturday Davenant ; and
Lord Jocelyn promised to call upon them.

It was five o'clock when she sent him away,
with permission to come again. Now this.
Lord Jocelyn felt, as he came away, was the
most satisfactory, nay, the most delightful day
that he had ever spent.

That lucky rascal, Harry ! To think of this
tremendous stroke of fortune ! To fall in love
with the richest heiress in England : to have
that passion returned : to be about to marry
the most charming, the most beautiful, the
sweetest woman that had ever been made !

Happy, thrice happy boy ! What wonder, now,
that he found tinkering chairs, in company, so
to speak, with that incomparable woman, better
than the soft divans of his club or the dinners
and dances of society? What had he. Lord
Jocelyn, to offer the lad, in comparison with
the delights of this strange and charming courtship?


CHAPTER XL.

SWEET NELLY.

In every love story there is always, though it is
not always told, a secondary plot, the history of
the man or woman who might have been left
happy but for the wedding bells which peal for
somebody else and end the tale. When these
ring out, the hopes and dreams of some one else,
for whom they do not ring, turn at last to dust
and ashes. We are drawing near the church,
we shall soon hear those bells. Let us spare a
moment to speak of this tale untold, this dream
of the morning doomed to disappointment.

It is only the dream of a foolish girl : she
was young and ignorant : she was brought up
in a school of hardship until the time when a
gracious lady came to rescue her. She had
experienced, outside the haven of rest where
her father was safely sheltered, only the buffets

of a hard and cruel world, filled with greedy
taskmasters who exacted the uttermost farthing
in work, and paid the humblest farthing for
reward. More than this, she knew, and her
father knew, that when his time came for exchanging
that haven for the cemetery, she
would have to fight the hard battle alone, being
almost a friendless girl, too shrinking and timid
to stand up for herself. Therefore, after her
rescue, at first she was in the Seventh Heaven ;
nor did her gratitude and love towards her
rescuer ever know any abatement. But there
came a time when gratitude was called upon to
contend with another feeling.

From the very first Harry's carriage towards
Nelly was marked by sympathetic interest and
brotherly affection. He really regarded this
pretty creature, with her soft and winning ways,
as a girl whom he could call by her Christian
name, and treat as one treats a sweet and
charming child. She was clever at learning —
nobody, not even Miss Kennedy, danced better :
she was docile : she was sweet-tempered, and
slow to say or think evil. She possessed
naturally, Harry thought — but then he forgot

that her father had commanded an East India-man
— a refinement of thought and manner
far above the other girls ; she caught readily
the tone of her patron ; she became in a few
weeks, this young dressmaker, the faithful
effigies of a lady under the instruction of Miss
Kennedy, whom she watched and studied day
by day. It was unfortunate that Harry continued
to treat her as a child, because she was
already a woman.

Presently she began to think of him, to
watch for him, to note his manner towards
herself.

Then she began to compare and to watch
his manner towards Miss Kennedy.

Then she began to wonder if he was paying
attention to Miss Kennedy, if they were engaged,
if they had an understanding.

She could find none. Miss Kennedy was
always friendly towards him, but never more.
He was always at her call, her faithful servant,
like the rest of them, but no more.

Eemember that the respect and worship
with which she regarded Miss Kennedy were
unbounded. But Harry she did not regard as

on the same level. No one was good enough
for Miss Kennedy. And Harry, clever and
bright and good as he seemed, was not too
good for herself.

They were a great deal together. All Nelly's
evenings were spent in the drawing-room ;
Harry was there every night ; they read together
; they talked and danced and sang together.
And though the young man said no
single word of love, he was always thoughtful
for her, in ways that she had never experienced
before. Below a certain level men are not
thoughtful for women. The cheapness of
women's labour at the East End are not by
any means thoughtful towards them. No one
had ever considered Nelly at all, except her
father.

Need one say more ? Need one explain
how tender flowers of hope sprang up in this
girl's heart and became her secret joy ?

This made her watchful, even jealous. And
when a change came in Miss Kennedy's manner
it was after her first talk with Lord Jocelyn

when Nelly saw her colour heighten and her

eyes grow brighter when Harry appeared, a

dreadful pain seized upon her, and she knew,
without a word being spoken, that all was over
for her. For what was she compared with this
glorious woman, beautiful as the day, sweet asa
rose in June, full of accomplishments ? How
could any man regard her beside Miss Kennedy ?
How could any man think of any other woman
when such a goddess had smiled upon him ?

In some stories, a girl who has to beat down
and crush the young blossoms of love, goes
through a great variety of performances, always
in the same order. The despair of love demands
that this order shall be followed. She
therefore turns white; she throws herself on her
bed, and weeps by herself, and miserably owns
that she loves him ; she tells the transparent lib
to her sister or mother ; she has received a blow
from which she will never recover ; if she is
religious it brings her nearer Heaven ; — all this
we have read over and over again. Poor little
Nelly knew nothing about her grander sisters
in misfortune ; she knew nothing of what is due
to self-respect under similar circumstances ; she
only perceived that she had been foolish, and
tried to show as if that was not so. It was a

VOL III. I

make-believe of rather a sorry kind. When
she was alone she reproached herself; when
she was with Miss Kennedy she reproached
herself; when she was with Harry she reproached
herself. Always herself to blame, no
one else, and the immediate result was that her
great limpid eyes were surrounded by dark
rings, and her cheeks grew thin.

Perhaps there is no misfortune more common
among women, especially among women
of the better class, than that of disappointed
hope. Girls who are hard worked in shops
have no time, as a rule, to think of love at all ;
love, like other gracious influences, does not
come in their way. It is when leisure is arrived
at with sufficiency of food and comfort of
shelter and good clothing, that love begins.
To most of Angela's girls, Harry Goslett was
a creature far above their hopes or thoughts :
it was pleasant to dance with him, to hear
him play, to hear him talk, but he did not
belong to them ; it was not for nothing that
their brothers called him Gentleman Jack ;
they were, in fact, ' common ' girls, although
Angela by the quiet and steady force of example

was introducing such innovations in the
dressing of the hair, the carriage of the person,
and the style of garments, that they were
rapidly becoming uncommon girls ; but they
occupied a position lower than that of Nelly,
who was the daughter of a ship's captain now
in the asylum, or of Eebekah, who was the
daughter of a minister, and had the key to all
Truth. To Nelly, therefore, there came fora
brief space this dream of love ; it lasted,
indeed, so brief a space, it had such slender
foundations of reality, that, when it vanished,
she ought to have let it go without a sigh, and
have soon felt as if it never had come to herat
all. This is difficult of accomplishment, even
for women of strong nerves and good physique ;
but Nelly tried it, and partially succeeded. - That
is, no one knew her secret except Angela, who
divined it, having special reason for this insight,
and Eebekah, who perhaps had also her own
reasons ; but she was a self-contained woman,
who kept her own secret.

She cannot,' said Eebekah, watching Angela
and Harry, who were walking together on
I 2

the Green — ' she cannot marry anybody else.
It is impossible.'

But why,' said Nelly — ' why do they not
tell us, if they are to be married ? '

There are many things,' said Eebekah,
which Miss Kennedy does not tell us. She
has never told us who she is, or where she
came from, or how she gets command of money:
or how she knows Miss Messenger : or what
she was before she came to us. Because, Nelly,
you may be sure of one thing : that Miss Kennedy
is a lady born and bred. Not that I want
to know more than she chooses to tell : and I
am as certain of her goodness as I am certain
of anything : and what this j)l^ce will do for
the girls if it succeeds no one can tell. Miss
Kennedy will tell us perhaps, some day, why
she has come among us, pretending to be a
dressmaker.'

Oh ! ' said Nelly. ' What a thing for us
that she did pretend ! And oh, Eebekah, what
a thing it would be — if she were to leave off
pretending ! But she would never desert us —
never.'

No, she never would.'

Eebekah continued to watch them.

'You see, Nelly, if she is a lady, he is a
gentleman.' Nelly blushed, and then blushed
again for very shame at having blushed at all.
Some gentlemen, I am told, take delight in
turning girls' heads. He doesn't do that. Has
he ever said a word to you that he shouldn't ? '

No,' said Nelly. ' Never.'

Well, and he hasn't to me : though as for
you, he goes about saying everywhere that you
are the prettiest girl in Stepney, next to Miss
Kennedy : and as for me and the rest, he has
always been like a brother, and a good deal
better than most brothers are to their sisters.
Being a gentleman, I mean, he is no match for
you and me who are real work girls : and there
is nobody in the parish except Miss Kennedy
for him.'

Yet he works for money.'

So does she. My dear, I don't understand
it : I never could understand it. Perhaps, some
day, we shall know what it all means. There
they are, making believe — they go on making
believe and pretending, and they seem to enjoy
it. Then they walk about together and play in

words with each other, one pretending not to
understand, and so on. Miss Kennedy says,
But then I speak from hearsay, for I am only
a dressmaker ;" and he says," So I read, because,
of course, a cabinet-maker can know nothing of
these things." Mr. Bunker, who ought to be
made to learn the Epistle of St. James by heart,
says dreadful things of both of them : and one
his own nephew. But what does he know ?
Nothing.'

But, Kebekah, Mr. Goslett cannot be a very
great gentleman if he is Mr. Bunker's nephew.
His father was a Sergeant in the army.'

He is a gentleman by education and training.
Well, some day we shall learn more.
Meantime, I for one am contented that they
should marry — are you, Nelly .^ '

I too,' she replied, ' am contented if it will
make Miss Kennedy happy.'

He is not convinced of the Truth,' said
Eebekah, making her little sectarian reservation,
' but any woman who would want a better
husband must be a fool. As for you and me,
now, after knowing those two, it will be best
for us never to marry, rather than to marry

one of the drinking tobacco-smoking workmen
who would have us.'

Yes,' said Nelly, ' much best. I shall never
marry anybody.'

Certainly, it was not likely that more young
gentlemen would come their way. One Sunday
evening, the girl, being alone with Miss Kennedy,
took courage and dared to speak to her.
In fact, it was Angela herself who began the talk.

Let us talk, Nelly,' she began ; ' we are
quite alone. Tell me, my dear, what is on
your mind.'

Nothing,' said Nelly.

'Yes, there is something. Tell me what
it is.'

Oh, Miss Kennedy, I cannot tell you. It
would be rudeness to speak of it.'

There can be no rudeness, Nelly, between
you and me. Tell me what you are thinking.'

Angela knew already what was in her mind,
but after the fashion of her sex she dissembled.
The brutality of Truth among the male sex is
sometimes very painful. And yet we are so
proud — some of us — of our earnest attachment
to Truth.

Oh, Miss Kennedy, can you not see that
he is suffering ? '

I^elly ! ' but she was not displeased.

He is getting thinner : he does not laugh
as he used to : and he does not dance as much
as he did. Oh, Miss Kennedy, can you not
take pity on him ? '

Nelly, you have not told me whom you
mean. Nay' — as, with a sudden change of tone,
she threw her arms about Nelly's neck, and
kissed her —' nay, I know very well whom
you mean, my dear.'

I have not offended you ? '

'No, you have not offended me. But,
Nelly, answer me one question ; answer it
truthfully. Do you — from your own heart —
wish me to take pity on him ? '

Nelly answered frankly and truthfully.

Yes ; because how can I wish anything
but what will make you happy ? Oh ! how
can any of us help wishing that ? And he is
the only man who can make you happy. And
he loves you.'

You want him to love me — for my sake —

//ii

i^^'(k

She loves him herself' Angela was thinking.

for my own sake. Nelly, dear child, you
humble me.'

But Nelly did not understand. She had
secretly offered up her humble sacrifice — her
pair of turtle-doves — and she knew not that her
secret was known.

She loves him herself,' Angela was thinking,
' and she gives him up for my sake.'

He is not,' Nelly went on, as if she could
by any words of hers persuade Angela — ' he is
not like any of the common workmen : see how
he walks, and how independent he is : and he
talks like a gentleman ; and he can do all the
things that gentlemen learn to do. Who is
there, among us all, that he could look at —
except you ? '

Nelly, . do not make me vain.'

As for you. Miss Kennedy, there is no man
fit for you in all the world. You call yourself
a dressmaker, but we know better. Oh ! you
are a lady. My father says so. He used to
have great ladies sometimes on board his ship :
he says that never was any one like you for
talk and manner. Oh, we don't ask your

secret, if you have one. Only some of us — not
I for one — are afraid that some day you will
go away, and never come back to us again.
What should we do then ? '

My dear, I shall not desert you.'

And if you marry him, you will remain
with us. A lady should marry a gentleman,
I know — she could not marry any common
man. But you are — so you tell us — only a
dressmaker ; and he is — he says — only a
cabinet-maker. And Dick Coppin says that
though he can use a lathe, he knows nothing at
all about the trade, not even how they talk,
nor anything about them. If you two have
secrets, Miss Kennedy, tell them to each other.'

My secrets, if I have any, are very simple,
Nelly ; and very soon you shall know them :
and as for his, I know them already.'

Angela was silent awhile, thinking over this
thing. Then she kissed the girl, and whispered,
—

'Patience yet a little while, dear Nelly.
Patience, and I will do — perhaps — what you
desire.'

Father,' said Nelly later on that night, as
they sat together by the fire — ' father, I spoke
to Miss Kennedy to-night.'

'What did you speak to her about, my
dear ? '

I told her that we knew — you and I —
that she is a lady, whatever she may pretend.'

That is quite true, Nelly.'

And I said that Mr. Goslett is a gentleman,
whatever lie may pretend.'

That may be true, even though he is not a
gentleman born. But that's a very different
thing, my dear.'

Why is it different .? '

Because there are many ladies who go
about among poor people, but no gentlemen,
unless it's the clergymen. Ladies seem to like
it : they do it, however hard the work, for
nothing ; and all because it is their duty and
an imitation of the Lord, Some of them go
out nursing. I have told you how I took them
out to Scutari : some of them go, not a bit
afraid, into the foul courts, and find out the
worst creatures in the world and help them :
many of them give up their whole lives for the

poor and miserable. My dear, there is nothing
that a good woman will shrink from : no misery,
no den of wickedness — nothing. Sometimes
I think Miss Kennedy must be one of those
women. Yes : she's got a little money, and
she has come here to work, in her own way,
among the people here.'

And Mr. Goslett, father ? '

Men don't do what women do. There
may be something in what Mr. Bunker says,
that he has reasons of his own for (coming here
and hiding himself.'

Oh, father, you don't mean it ! And his
own uncle, too, to say such a thing ! '

Yes, his own uncle. Mr. Goslett certainly
does belong to the place. Though why Bunker
should bear him so much malice is more than
I can tell.'

And — father — there is another reason why
he should stay here.' Nelly blushed and laughed
merrily.

What is that, my dear ? '

Nelly kissed him and laughed again.

It is your time for a pipe. Let me fill it
for you. And the Sunday ration ; here it is —

and here is a light. Oh, father — to be a sailor
so long, and to have no eyes in your head ! '

What ! ' He understood now. ' You
mean Miss Kennedy ! Nell, my dear, forgive
me. I was thinking that perhaps

you '

No, father,' she replied hurriedly. ' That
could never be. I want nothings but to stay
on here with you and Miss Kennedy, who has
been so good to us that we can never — never
thank her enough — nor can we wish her too
much joy. But please never, never say that
again.'

Her eyes filled with tears.
Captain Sorensen took a book from the table.
It was that book which so many people have
constantly in their mouths, and yet it never
seems to get into their hearts : the book which
is so seldom read and so much commented
upon. He turned it over till he found a certain
passage beginning, ' Who can find a virtuous
woman ? ' He read this right through to
the end : one passage — ' She stretched out
her hand unto the poor : yea, she reacheth
forth her hands unto the needy ' — he read twice ;

and the last line — ' Let her own works praise
her in the gates ' — he read three times.

My dear,' he concluded, ' to pleasure Miss
Kennedy you would do more than give up a
lover : ay, and with a cheerful heart.'

CHAPTEE XLI.

BOXING-NIGHT.

'Let us keep Christmas,' said Angela, 'with
something like original treatment. We will
not dance, because we do that nearly every

night.'

Let us,' said Harry, ' dress up and act.'
What were they to act .^ That he would
find for them. How were they to dress ? That
they were to find for themselves. The feature
of the Christmas festival was, they were to be
mummers, and that there was to be mimicking,
and, of course, there would be a little feasting,
and perhaps a little singing.

We must have just such a programme,'
said Angela to her master of ceremonies, 'as
if you were preparing it for the Palace of
Delight

'This is the only Palace of Delight,' said
Harry, ' that we shall ever see. For my own
part I desire no other.'

'But, you know, we are going to have
another one, much larger than this little place.
Have you forgotten all your projects ? '

Harry laughed : it was strange how persistently
Miss Kennedy returned to the subject
again and again; how seriously she talked
about it ; how she dwelt upon it.

'We must have,' she continued, 'sports
which will cost nothing, with dresses which we
can make for ourselves. Of course we must
have guests to witness them.'

Guests cost money,' said Harry. ' But, of
course, in a Palace of Dehght money must
not be considered. That would be treason to
your principles.'

'We shall not give our guests anything
except the cold remains of the Christmas dinner.
And as for champagne, we can make our
own with a few lemons and a little sugar. Do
not forbid us to invite an audience.'

Fortunately, a present which arrived from
their patron, Miss Messenger, the day before

Christmas Day, enabled them to give their
guests a substantial supper at no cost whatever.
The present took the form of several
hampers, addressed to Miss Kennedy, with a
note from the donor conveying her love to the
girls and best wishes for the next year, when
she hoped to make their acquaintance. The
hampers contained turkeys, sausages, ducks,
geese, hams, tongues, and the like.

Meantime Harry, as stage manager and
dramatist, had devised the tableaux, and the
girls between them devised the dresses from a
book of costumes. Christmas Day, as everybody
remembers, fell last year on a Sunday.
This gave the girls the whole of Saturday afternoon
and evening with Monday morning for
the conversion of the trying-on room into the
stage and the show-room for the audience. But
the rehearsals took a fortnight, for some of the
girls were stupid and some were shy, though
all were willing to learn, and Harry was patient.
Besides, there was the chance of wearing the
most beautiful dresses, and no one was left
out : in the allegory, a pastoral invented by
their manager, there was a part for every one.

VOL. III. K

The gift of Miss Messenger made it possible
to have two sets of guests ; one set consisting
of the girls' female relations, and a few private
friends of Miss Kennedy's who lived and suffered
in the neighbourhood, for the Christmas
dinner, held on Monday ; and the other set was
carefully chosen from a long list for the select
audience in the evening. Among them were
Dick and his friend the ex-Chartist cobbler,
and a few leading spirits of the Advanced Club.
They wanted an audience who would read
between the lines.

The twenty-sixth day of last December was,
in the neighbourhood of Stepney, dull and
overcast ; it promised to be a day of rebuke
for all quiet folk, because it was a general holiday,
one of those four terrible days when the
people flock in droves to favourite haunts if it
is in the summer, or hang about public-houses
if it is winter ; when, in the evenings the air is
hideous with the shouts of those who roll about
the pavements : a day when even Comus and
his rabble rout are fain to go home for fear of
being hustled and evilly treated by the holiday-makers
of famous London town : a day when

the peaceful and the pious, the temperate and
the timid, stay at home. But to Angela it was
a great day, sweet and precious — to use the
language of ancient Puritan and modern prig
because it was the first attempt towards the
realisation of her great dream ; because her
girls on this night for the first time showed the
fruits of her training in the way they played
their parts, their quiet bearing and their new
refinement. After the performances of this
evening she looked forward with confidence
to her palace.

The day began, then, at half-past one with
the big dinner. All \\iQ^ girls could bring their
mothers, sisters, and female relations generally,
who were informed that Miss Messenger, the
mysterious person who interfered perpetually,
like a goddess out of a machine, with some new
gift, or some device for their advantage, was
the giver of the feast.

It was a good and ample Christmas dinner,
served in the long workroom by Angela and
the girls themselves. There were the turkeys
of the hamper, roasted with sausages, and roast

K 2

beef and roast fowls and roast goose and roast
pork, with an immense supply of the vegetables
dear to London people ; and after this
first course there were plum puddings and mince
pies. Messenger's ale, with the stout so much
recommended by Bunker, flowed freely, and
after the dinner there was handed to each a
glass of port. None but women and children
no boy over eight being allowed — Avere
present at the feast ; and when it was over most
of the women got up and went away, not without
some little talk with Angela, and some
present in kind from the benevolent Miss Messenger.
Then they cleared all away and set
out the tables again, with the same provisions,
for the supper of the evening, at which there
would be hungry men.

All the afternoon they spent in completing
their arrangements. The guests began to
arrive at five. The music was supplied by
Angela herself, who did not act, with Captain
Sorensen and Harry. The piano was brought
downstairs, and stood in the hall outside the
trying on room.

The performance was to commence at six,

but everybody had come long before half-past
five. At a quarter to six the little orchestra
began to play the old English tunes dear to
pantomimes.

At the ringing of a bell the music changed
to a low monotonous plaint, and the curtain
slowly rose on a tableau.

There was a large, bare, empty room ; its
sole furniture was a table and three chairs ; in
one corner was a pile of shavings ; upon them
sat crouching, with her knees drawn uj), the pale
and worn figure of a girl ; beside her were the
crutches Which showed that she was a cripple ;
her white cheek was wasted and hollow ; her
chin was thrust forward as if she was in suffering
almost intolerable. During the tableau she
moved not, save to swing slowly backwards
and forwards upon the shavings which formed
her bed.

On the table — for it was night — was a candle
in a ginger-beer bottle, and two girls sat at the
table working hard ; their needles were running
a race with starvation ; their clothes were
in rags ; their hair was gathered up in careless
knots ; their cheeks were pale ; they were

pinched and cold and feeble with hunger and
privation.

Said one of the women present, ' Twopence
an hour they can make. Poor things ! poor
things ! '

Dick,' whispered the cobbler, ' you make
a note of it ; I guess what's coming.'

The spectators shivered with sympathy.
They knew so well what it meant : some of
them had themselves dwelt amid these garrets
of misery and suffering.

Then voices were heard outside in the
street singing.

They were the waits, and they sang the
joyful hymns of Christmas. When the working
girls heard the singing, they paid no heed
whatever, plying the needle fast and furiously ;
and the girl in the shavings paid no heed, slowly
swinging to and fro in her pain and hunger.
At the sight of this callous contempt, this disregard
of the invitation to rejoice, as if there
was neither hope no joy for such as themselves,
with only a mad desire to work for
something to stay the dreadful pains of hunger,
some of the women among the spectators wept
aloud.

Then the waits went away, and there waft:
silence adam.

Then one of the girls — it was Nelly —
stopped, and leaned back in her chair with her
hand to her heart : the work fell from her lap
upon the floor ; she sprang to her feet, threw
up her hands, and fell in a lifeless heap upon
the floor. The other girl went on with her
sewing ; and the cripple went on swinging
backwards and forwards. For they were all
three so miserable, that the misery of one could
no more touch the other two.

The curtain dropped. The tableau represented,
of course, the girls who work for an
employer.

After five minutes it rose again. There
were the same girls and others; they were
sitting at work in a cheerful and well-furnished
room ; they were talking and laughing. The
clock struck six, and they laid aside the work,
pushed back the table, and advanced to the
front, singing all together. Their faces were
bright and happy ; they were well dressed ; they
looked well fed ; there was no trouble among
them at all ; they chattered like singing-birds ;
they ran and played.

Then Captain Sorensen came in with his
fiddle, and first he played a merry tune, at the
sound of which the girls caught each other by
the waist, and fell to dancing the old Greek
ring. Then he played a quadrille, and they
danced that simple figure, and as if they liked
it ; and then he played a waltz, and they whirled
round and round.

This was the labour of girls for themselves.
Everybody understood perfectly what was
meant without the waste of words. Some of
the mothers present wiped their eyes, and told
their neighbours that this was no play-acting,
but the sweet and blessed truth ; and that the
joy was real, because the girls were working
for themselves, and there were no hangings, no
fines, no temper, no bullying, no long hours.

After this there was a concert, which seemed
a falling off in point of excitement. But it was
pretty. Captain Sorensen played some rattling
sea ditties ; then Miss Kennedy and Mr. Goslett
played a duet ; then the girls sang a madrigal
in parts, so that it was wonderful to hear them,
thinking how ignorant they were six months
before. Then Miss Kennedy played a solo,

and then the girls sang another song. By what
magic, by what mystery, were girls so transformed?
Then the audience talked together,
and whispered that it was all the doing of that
one girl — Miss Kennedy — who was believed by
everybody to be a lady born and bred, but
pretended to be a dressmaker. She it was who
got the girls together, gave them the house,
found work for them, arranged the time and
the duties, and paid them week by week for
shorter hours, better wages. It was she who
persuaded them to spend their evenings with
her instead of traversing about the streets
getting into mischief; it was she who taught
them the singing and all manner of pretty
things ; and they were not spoiled by it, except
that they would have nothing more to say to
the rough lads and shopboys who had formerly
paid them rude court and jested with them on
Stepney Green. Uppish they certainly were ;
what mother would find fault with a girl for
holding up her head and respecting herself?
And as for manners, why, no one could tell
what a difference there was.

The Chartist looked on with a little suspicion

at first, which gradually changed to the
liveliest satisfaction.

Dick,' he whispered to his friend and disciple,
'I am sure that if the working men like,
they may find the swells their real friends.
See, now we've got all the power : they can't
take it from us ; very good, then, who are the
men we should suspect? Why, those who've
got to pay the wages — the manufacturers and
such. xvTot the swells. Make a note of that,
Dick. It may be the best card you've got to
play. A thousand places such as this — planted
all about England, started at first by a swell —
why, man, the working classes would have not
only all the power, but all the money. Oh, if
were ten years younger! What are they
going to do next ? '

The next thing they did pleased the women,
but the men did not seem to care much about
it, and the Chartist went on developing the
new idea to Dick, who drank' it all in, seeing
that here, indeed, was a practical and attractive
idea, even though it meant a new departure.
But the preacher of a new doctrine has generally
a better chance than one who only
hammers away at an old one.

The stage showed one figure. A beautiful
girl, her hair bound in a fillet, clad in Greek
dress, simple, fiowmg, graceful, stood upon a
loan pedestal. She was intended — it was none
other than Nelly — to represent woman dressed
as she should be. One after the other there advanced
upon the stage, and stood beside this
statue, women dressed as women ought not to
be : there they were, the hideous fashions of
generations ; the pinched waists, monstrous
hats, high peaks, hoops, and crinolines, hair
piled up, hair studied out, gigot sleeves, high
waists, tight skirts, bending walk, boots with
high heels — an endless array.

When Nelly got down from her pedestal
and the show was over, Harry advanced to the
front and made a little speech. He reminded
his hearers that the Association was only six
months old ; he beo'o'ed them to consider what

CO

was its position now. To be sure, the girls had
been started, and that, he said, was the great
difficulty ; but, the start once made and prejudice
removed, they found themselves with
work to do, and were now paying their own
way and doing well ; before long they would
be able to take in more hands ; it was not all

work with them, but there was plenty of play,
as they knew. Meantime the girls invited
everybody to have supper with them, and after
supper there would be a little dance.

They stayed to supper, and they appreciated
the gift of Miss Messenger ; then they had the
little dance — Dick Coppin now taking his part
without shame. While the dancing went on,
the Chartist sat in a corner of the room and
talked with Angela. When he went away, his
heart — which was large and generous — burned
within him, and he had visions of a time when
the voices of the poor shall not be raised against
the rich, nor the minds of the rich hardened
against the poor. Perhaps he came unconsciously
nearer to Christianity, this man who
was a scoffer and an unbeliever, that night
than he had ever before. To have faith in the
future forms, indeed, a larger part of the Christian
religion than some of us ever realise. And
to believe in a single woman is one step,
however small, towards believing in the
Divine Man.

CHAPTEE XLII.

NOT JOSEPHUS, BUT ANOTHER.

The attractions of a yard peopled with ghosts,
discontented figure-heads, and an old man, are
great at first, but not likely to be lasting if one
does not personally see or converse with the
ghosts, and if the old man becomes monotonous.
We expect too much of old men. Considering
their years we think their recollections must be
wonderful. One says, ' Good heavens ! Methuselah
must recollect William the Conqueror, and
King John, and Sir John Falstaff, to say nothing
of the Battle of Waterloo ! ' As a matter of
fact, Methuselah generally remembers nothing
except that where Cheapside now stands was
once a green field. As for Shakespeare, and
Coleridge, and Charles Lamb, he knows nothing
whatever about them. You see, if he had
taken so much interest in life as to care about

things going on, lie would very soon, like his
contemporaries, have worn out the machine,
and would be lying, like them, in the grassy
enclosure.

Harry continued to go to the carver's yard
for some time, but nothing more was to be learnt
from him. He knew the family history, however,
by this time, pretty well. The Coppins
of Stepney, like all middle-class families, had
experienced many ups and downs. They had
been churchwardens ; they had been bankrupts
; they had practised many trades ; and
once there was a Coppin who died leaving
houses — twelve houses — three apiece to his
children — a meritorious Coppin. Where were
those houses now .^ Absorbed by the omnivorous
Uncle Bunker. And how Uncle Bunker
got those belonging to Caroline Coppin could
not now be ascertained, except from 'Uncle
Bunker himself. Everywhere there are scrapers
and scattered ; the scrapers are few, and the
scatter hers are many. By what scatter er or
what process of scattering did Caroline lose her
houses ?

Meantime, Harry did not feel himself

obliged to hold his tongue upon the subject ;
and everybody knew, before long, that something
was going on likely to be prejudicial to
Mr. Bunker. People whispered that Bunker
was gong to be caught out ; this rumour lent
to the unwilling agent some of the interest
which attaches to a criminal. Some went sofar
as to say that they had always suspected him
because he was so ostentatious in his honesty ;
and this is a safe thing to say, because any person
may be reasonably suspected ; and if we did
not suspect all the world, why the machinery
of bolts and bars, keys and patent safes ? But
it is the wise man who suspects the right
person, and it is the justly proud man who
strikes an attitude and says, ' What did I tell
you ? ' As yet, however, the suspicions were
vague. Bunker, for his part, though not generally
a thin-skinned man, easily perceived that
there was a change in the way he was received
and regarded ; people looked at him with
marked interest in the streets ; they turned
their heads and looked after him ; they talked
about him as he approached ; they smiled with
meaning ; Josephus Coppin met him one day,

and asked him why he would not tell his
nephew how he obtained those three houses,
and what consideration he gave for them. He
began, especially of an evening, over brandy
and water, to make up mentally, over and over
again, his own case, so that it might be presented
at the right moment absolutely perfect
and without a flaw ; a paragon among cases.
His nephew, whom he now regarded with
a loathing almost lethal, was impudent enough
to go about saying that he had got those
houses unlawfully, was he ? Very good ; he
would have such law as is to be had in
England for the humiliation, punishment,
stamping out, and ruining of that nephew ; ay,
if it cost him fine hundred pounds, he would.
He should like to make his case public ; he was
not afraid, not a bit ; let all the world know :
the more the story was known, the more would
his contemporaries admire his beautiful and
exemplary virtue, patience, and moderation.
There were, he said, with the smile of
benevolence and the blush of modesty which
so well become the good man, transactions,
money transactions, between himself and his

sister-in-law, especially after her marriage with
a man who was a secret scattered. These
money matters had been partly squared by the
transfer of the houses, which he took in part
payment ; the rest he forgave when Caroline
died, and when, which showed his own goodness
in an electric light, he took over the boy
to bring him up to some honest trade, though
he was a beggar. Where were the proofs ot
these transactions ? Unfortunately they were
all destroyed by fire some years since, after
having been carefully preserved, and docketed,
and endorsed, as is the duty of every careful
man of business.

!Now, by dint of repeating this precious
story over and over again, the worthy man
came to believe it entirely, and to believe that
other people would believe it as well. It
seemed, in fact, so like the truth, that it would
deceive even experts, and pass for that priceless
article. At the time when Caroline died,
and the boy went to stay with him, no one
asked any questions, because it seemed nobody's
business to inquire into the interests of
the child. After the boy was taken away it

VOL. III. L

gradually became known among the surviving
members of the family that the houses had
long before, owing to the profligate extravagance
of the Sergeant — as careful a man
as ever marched — passed into the hands of
Bunker, who now had all the Coppin houses.
Everything was clean forgotten by this time.
And the boy must needs turn up again, asking
questions. A young villain ! A serpent ! But
he should be paid out.

A very singular accident prevented the
•' paying out ' quite in the sense intended by
Mr. Bunker. It happened in this way.

One day when Miss Messenger's cabinetmaker
and joiner-inordinate, having little or
nothing to do, was wandering about the Brewery
looking about him, lazily watching the process
of beer-making on a large and extensive scale,
and exchanging the compliments of the season,
which was near the new year, with the workmen,
it happened that he passed the room in
which Josephus had sat for forty years among
the juniors. The door stood open and he
looked in, as he had often done before, to nod
a friendly salutation to his cousin. There

Josephus sat, with grey hair, an elderly man
among boys, mechanically ticking off entries
among the lads. His place was in the warm
corner near the fire : beside him stood a large
and massive safe ; the same safe out of which
during an absence of three minutes the country
notes had been so mysteriously stolen.

The story, of course, was well known.
Josephus's version of the thing was also well
known ; everybody, further, knew that until
the mystery of that robbery was cleared up,
Josephus would remain a junior on thirty
shillings a week ; lastly, everybody, with the
kindliness of heart common to our glorious
humanity, firmly believed that Josephus had
really cribbed those notes, but had been afraid
to present them, and so dropped them into the
fire or down a drain. It is truly remarkable
to observe how deeply we respect, adore, and
venerate virtue, insomuch that we all go about
pretending to be virtuous ; yet how little we
believe in the virtue of each other ! It is also
remarkable to reflect upon the extensive fields
still open to the moralist after all these years
of preaching and exhorting.
L 2

Now as Harry looked into the room, his
eye fell upon the safe, and a curious thing
occurred. The fragment of a certain letter
from Bob Coppin, in which he sent a message
by his friend to his cousin, Sureties Josephus,
quite suddenly and unexpectedly returned to
his memory. Further, the words assumed a
meaning.

Josephus,' he said, stepping into the office,
'lend me a piece of paper and a pencil.
Thank you.'

He wrote down the words, exactly as he
recollected them, half destroyed by the tearing
of the letter.

'Josephus, my cousin, that he will
. nd the safe the bundle for a
lark. Josephus is a Sureties. I hate a man
who won't drink. He will if he looks
there.'

When he had written these words down
he read them over again, while the lads looked
on with curiosity and some resentment. Cabinet-makers
and joiners have no business to swagger
about the office of young gentlemen who are
clerks in breweries, as if it were their own

place. It is an innovation, a levelling of
rank.

Joseplius,' Harry whispered, ' you remember
your cousin, Bob Coppin ? '

Yes, but these are office hours ; conversation
is not allowed in the juniors' room.

He spoke as if he was still a boy, as indeed
he was, having been confined to the society of
boys, and having drawn the pay of a boy for so
many years.

Never mind rules. Tell me all about Bob.'

He was a drinker and a spendthrift.
That's enough about him.' Josephus spoke ina
whisper, being anxious not to discuss the
family disgrace among his fellow clerks.

Good. Were you a friend as well as a
cousin of his ? '

No ; I never was. I was respectable — in
those days — and desirous of getting my character
high for steadiness, I went to evening
lectures, and taught in the Wesleyan Sunday
schools. Of course, when the notes were
stolen it-was no use trying any more for
character ; that was gone : a young man suspected
of stealing fourteen thousand pounds

can t get any character at all. So I gave up
attending the evening lectures, and left off
teaching in the school and going to church and
everything.'

'You were a great fool, Josephus. You
ought to have gone on and fought it out. Now,
then, on the day that you lost the money had
you seen Bob ? Do you remember ? '

'That day?' the unlucky junior replied.
I remember every hour as plain as if it was
to-day. Yes, I saw Bob. He came to the
office half an hour before I lost the notes ; he
wanted me to go out with him in the evening
I forget where — some gardens and dancing
and prodigality. J. refused to go. In the
evening I saw him again, and he did nothing
but laugh while I was in misery. It seemed
cruel, and the more I suffered the louder he
laughed.'

Did you never see Bob again ? '

No ; he went away to sea, and he came
home and went away again. But somehow I
never saw him. It is twenty years now since
he went away last, and Alas never heard of,
nor his ship. So of course he's dead long ago.
But what does it matter about Bob? And

these are office hours, and there will really be
things said if we go on talking. Do go away

Harry obeyed and left him. But he went
straight to the office of the Chief Accountant,
and requested an interview. The Chief
Accountant sent word that he could communicate
his business through one of the clerks.
Harry replied that his business was of a nature
which could not be communicated by a clerk,
that it was very serious and important business,
which must be imparted to the chief alone ;
and that he would wait his convenience in the
outer office. Presently he was ushered into
the presence of the great man.

This is very extraordinary,' said the
official. ' What can your business be which is
so important that it must not be entrusted to
the clerks? Now come to the point, j^oung
man. My time is valuable.'

I want you to authorise me to make a
little examination in the junior clerks' room.'

What examination ? And why ? '

Harry gave him the fragment of the letter,
and explained where he found it.

I understand nothing. What do you learn
from this fragment ? '

There is no date,' said Harry, ' but that
matters very little. You will observe that it
clearly refers to my cousin, Josephus Coppin.'

'That seems evident. Josephus is not a
common name.'

'You know my cousin's version of the loss
of those notes ? '

Certainly ; he said they must have been
stolen during the two or three minutes that he
was out of the room.'

'Yes. Now — ' Harry wrote a few words
to fill up the broken sentences of the letter —
read that, sir.'

Good heavens ! '

My cousin tells me too,' he went on, ' that
this fellow, Bob Coppin, was in the office half
an hour before the notes were missed : why,
very likely he was at the time hanging about
the place : and that in the evening when his
cousin was in an agony of distress. Bob was
laughing as if the whole thing was a joke.'

Upon my word,' said the Chief, ' it seems
plausible.'

We can try the thing at once,' said Harry.
But I should like you to be present when we do.'

Undoubtedly I will be present. Come, let us
go at once. By the way, you are the young man
recommended by Miss Messenger, are you not ? '

Yes ; not that I have the honour of knowing
Miss Messenger personally.'

The Chief Accountant laughed. Cabinet-makers
and joiners do not generally know
young ladies of position. But this was such
a remarkably cheeky young workman.

They took with them four stout fellows from
those who toss about the casks of beer. The
safe was one of the larger kind, standing three
feet six inches high on a strong wooden box
with an open front. It was in the corner next
to Josephus's seat : between the back of the
safe and the wall was a space of an inch or so.

I must trouble you to change your seat,'
said the Chief Accountant to Josephus. ' Weare
about to move this safe.'

Josephus rose, and the men presently with
mighty efforts lugged the great heavy thing a
foot or two from its place.

Will you look, sir .^ ' asked Harry. ' If
there is anything there I should like you, who
know the whole story, to find it.'

The Chief stooped over the safe and looked
behind it. Everybody now was aware that
something was going to happen, and though
pens continued to be dipped into inkstands with
zeal, and heads to be bent over desks with the
devotion which always seizes a junior clerk in
presence of his chief, all eyes were furtively
turned to Joseplius's corner.

There is a bundle of papers,' he said.
'Thank you.' Harry picked them up and
placed them in his hands.

The only person who paid no heed to the
proceedings was the one most concerned.

The Chief Accountant received them ; a
rolled bundle, not a tied-up parcel, and covered
inch deep with black dust. He opened it and
glanced at the contents. Then a strange and
unaccountable look came into his eyes as he
handed them to Josephus.

Will you oblige me, Mr. Coppin,' he said,
by examining these papers ? '

It was the first time that the title of Mr.
had been bestowed upon Josephus during all
the years of his long servitude. He was
troubled by it ; and he could not understand

the expression in his chief's eyes : and when he
turned to Harry for an explanation, he met
eyes in which the same sympathy and pity
were expressed : when he turned to the boys,
his fellow-clerks, he was struck by their faces
of wondering expectation.

What was going to happen ?

Recovering his presence of mind, he held
out the dusty papers and shook the dust off
them.

Then he began slowly to obey orders and
to examine them.

Suddenly he began to turn them over
with fierce eagerness. His eyes flashed ; he
gasped.

come, Josephus,' said his cousin, taking
his arm ; ' gently, gently. What are they —
these papers ? '

The man laughed — an hysterical laugh.

'They are — ha! ha! — they are — ha! ha!
ha ! ' He did not finish because his voice
failed him, but he dropped into a chair with
his head in his hands.

They are country bank notes, and other
papers,' said Harry, taking them from his

cousin's hands. He had interpreted the missing
words rightly.

The Chief looked round the room. ' Young
men,' he said solemnly, ' a wonderful thing has
happened. After many years of undeserved
suspicion and unmerited punishment, Mr.
Coppin's character is cleared at last. We cannot
restore to him the years he has lost, but
we can rejoice that his innocence is established.'


Come, Josephus,' said Harry, ' bear your
good fortune as you have borne the bad.
House yourself.'

The senior junior clerk lifted his head and
looked around. His cheeks were white : his
eyes were filled with tears : his lips were
trembling.

Take your cousin home,' said the Chief to
Harry, ' and then come back to my office.'

Harry led Josephus, unresisting, home to
the Boarding-house.

We have had a shock, Mrs. Bormalack.
Nothing to be alarmed about, quite the contrary.
The bank notes have been found after
all these years, and my cousin has earned his

promotion and recovered his character. Give
him some brandy-and-water and make him lie
down for a bit.' For the man was dazed. He
could not understand as yet what had happened.


Harry placed him in the arm-chair and
left him to the care of the landlady. Then he
went back to the Brewery.

The Chief Brewer was with the Chief
Accountant, and they were talking over what
was best to be done. They said very kind
things about intelligence, without which good
fortune and lucky finds are wasted ; and they
promised to represent Harry's conduct in a
proper light to Miss Messenger, who would be
immediately communicated with. And Josephus
would at once receive a very substantial
addition to his pay, a better position, and more
responsible work.

May I suggest, gentlemen,' said Harry,
that a man who is fifty-five, and has all his
life been doing the simple work of a junior,
may not be found equal to more responsible
work?'

That may be the case.'

My cousin, when the misfortune happened,
left off taking any interest in things. I believe
he has never opened a book or learned anything
m all these years.'

.well, we shall see.' A workman was not
to be taken into counsel. ' There is, however,
something here which seems to concern yourself.
Your mother was one Caroline Coppin,
was she not ? '

Yes.'

Then these papers, which were deposited
by some persons unknown with Mr. Messenger,
most likely for greater care, and placed in the
safe by him, belong to you, and I hope will
prove of value to you.'

Harry took them without much interest,
and came away.

In the evening Josephus held a reception.
All his contemporaries in the Brewery, the men
who entered with himself; all those who had
passed over his head, all those with whom he
had been a junior in the Brewery, called to
congratulate him. At the moment he felt as if
this universal sympathy fully made up for all
his sufferings of the past. Nor was it until the

morning that he partly perceived the truth, that
no amount of sympathy would restore his
vanished youth and give him what he had
lost. But he will never quite understand this ;
and he looked upon himself as having begun
again from the point where Fie stopped. When
the reception was over and the last man gone,
he began to talk about his future.

'I shall go on again with the evening
course,' he said, 'just where I left it off. I
remember wee were having Monday for bookkeeping
by single and double entry, Tuesday
for French, Thursday for arithmetic — we where
in mixed fractions, — and Friday for Euclid.
Then I shall take up my class at the Sunday
school again, and I shall become a full Church
member of the Wesleyan connection. For
though my father was once churchwarden at
Stepney Church, I always favoured the Wesley
ans myself.'

He talked as if he was a boy again, withall
his life before him ; and, indeed, at the
moment he thought he was.

CHAPTER XLIII.

OH, MY PROPHETIC SOUL !

Harry thought nothing about the papers which
were found among the notes that evening,
because he was wholly engaged in the contemplation
of a man who had suddenly gone back
thirty-five years in his life. The grey hairs,
thin at the top and gone at the temples, were
not, it is true, replaced by the curly brown
locks of youth, though one thinks that Josephus
must always have been a straight-haired young
man. But it was remarkable to hear that man
of fifty-five talking as if the years had rolled
backwards, and he could take up the thread of
life where he had dropped it so long ago. He
spoke of his evening lectures and his Sunday
school with the enthusiasm of a boy. He
would study — work of that sort always paid :
he would prepare his lessons for the school

beforehand, and stand well with the superintendent
: it was good for men in business
offices, he said, to have a good character with
the superintendent. Above all, he would learn
French and book-keeping, with mensuration,
gauging, and astronomy, at the Beaumont Institute.
All these things would come in useful,
some time or the other, at the Brewery ; besides,
it helps a man to be considered studious in
his habits. He became, in fact, in imagination
a young man once more. And because in the
old days, when he had a character to earn, he
did not smoke tobacco, so now he forgot that
former solace of the day, his evening pipe.

The Brewery,' he said, ' is a splendid thing
to get into. You can rise : you may become —
ah ! even Chief Accountant : you may look
forward to draw over a thousand a year at the
Brewery, if you are steady and well conducted,
and get a good name. It is not every one,
mind you, gets the chance of such a service.
And once in, always in. That's the pride of the
Brewery. No turning out : there you stay,
with your salary always rising, till you die.'

In the morning, the exultation of spirits

VOL, III. M

was exchanged for a corresponding depression.
Joseplius went to the Brewery, knowing that
he should sit on that old seat of his no longer.
He went to look at it : the wooden stool
was worn black : the desk was worn black : he
knew every cut and scratch in the lid at which
he had written so many years. There were all
the books at which he had worked so long :
not hard work, nor work requiring thought,
but simple entering and ticking off of names,
which a man can do mechanically — on summer
afternoons, with the Window open and an occasional
bee buzzing in from Hainault Forest,
and the sweet smell of the vats and the drowsy
rolling of the machinery — one can do the work
half asleep and never make any mistake.
Now he would have to undertake some different
kind of work, more responsible work : he
would have to order and direct : he would
have a chair instead of a stool, and a table
instead of a desk. So that he began to wish
that he had in the old days gone farther in his
studies — but he was always slow at learning —
before the accident happened ; and to wonder
if anything at all remained of the knowledge

he had then painfully acquired, after all these
years.

As a matter of fact, nothing remained.
Josephus had become perfectly, delightfully,
inconceivably stupid. He had forgotten everything,
and could now learn no new thing.
Pending the decision of Miss Messenger, to
whom the case was referred, they tried him withall
sorts of simple work — correspondence,
answering letters, any of the things which
require a little intelligence. Josephus could
do nothing. He sat like a helpless boy and
looked at the documents. Then they let him
alone, and for a while he came every day, sat all
day long, half asleep, and did nothing, and
was much less happy than when he had been
kept at work from nine o'clock in the morning
till six o'clock at night.

When Harry remembered the packet of
papers placed in his hand, which was on the
following morning, he read them. And the
effect of his reading was that he did not go to
work that morning at all.

He was not a lawyer, and the principal
paper was a legal instrument, the meaning of
M 2

which it took him some little time to make
out.

Hum — hum — um — why can't they write
plain English ? "I give to my said trustees
John Skelton and Benjamin Bunker the three
freehold houses as follows that called number
twenty-nine on Stepney Green forty-five in
Beaumont Square and twenty three in Median's
Now upon trust to apply the rents and
income of the same as in their absolute discretion
they may think fit for the maintenance
education and benefit of the said Caroline
until she be twenty-one years old or until she
marry and to invest from time to time the
accumulations of such rents and income as is
heretofore provided and to apply the same
when invested in all respects as I direct concerning
the last above - mentioned premises
And when the said Caroline shall attain the age
of twenty-one or shall marry I direct my said
trustees to pay to her the said rents and income
and the income of the accumulation of the
same if any during her life by four equal
quarterly payments for her sole and separate
use free from the debts and engagements of any

husband or husbands she may marry and I
direct that on the death of the said Caroline
my said trustees shall hold and stand possessed
of all the said premises for such person or
persons and in such manner in all respects as
the said Caroline shall by deed or will appoint
And in default of such appointment and so far
as the same shall not extend upon trust " — and
so on — and so on.'

Harry read this document with a sense, at
first, of mystification. Then he read it a second
time, and began to understand it.

The houses,' he said, ' my mother's houses,
are hers, free from any debts contracted by
her husband : they are vested in trustees for
her behalf: she could not sell or part with
them. And the trustees were John Skelton
and Benjamin Bunker. John Skelton — gone
to Abraham's bosom, I suppose. Benjamin
Bunker — where will he go to ? The houses
were tied up — settled — entailed.'

He read the document right through for
the third time.

So,' he said. ' The house at number
twenty-nine Stepney Green. That is the

house which Bunker calls his own ; the house
of the Associated Dressmakers ; and it's mine —
mine.' He clenched his fist and looked dangerous.
' Then the house at twenty three Median's
Eow, and at forty-five Beaumont Square.
Two more houses. Also mine. And Bunker,
the perfidious Bunker, calls them all his own !
What shall be done to Bunker ? '

'Next,' he went on, after reading the
document again, ' Bunker is a fraudulent
trustee, and his brother trustee too, unless he
has gone dead. Of that there can be no doubt
whatever. That virtuous and benevolent
Bunker was my mother's trustee — and mine.
And he calmly appropriates the trust to his
own uses — Uncle Bunker ! Uncle Bunker !

I knew from the beginning that there was
something wrong. First, I thought he had
taken a sum of money from Lord Jocelyn.
Then I found out that he had got possession of
houses in a mysterious manner. And now I
find that he was simply the trustee. Wicked
Uncle Bunker ! '

Armed with this precious document, he put
on his hat and walked straight off, resolution on

his front, towards his uncle's office. He
arrived just when Mr. Bunker was about to
start on a daily round among his houses. By
this frequent visitation he kept up the hearts
of his tenants, and taught them the meaning of
necessity ; so that they put by their money and
religiously paid the rent. Else

Pray,' said Harry, 'be so good as to take
off your hat, and sit down and have five minutes'
talk with me.'

'No, sir,' said Bunker, 'I will not. You
can go away, do your hear ? Be off : let me
lock my office and go about my own business.'

Do take off your hat, my uncle.'

Go, sir, do you hear ? '

Sit down and let us talk — my honest —
trustee ! '

Mr. Bunker dropped into a chair.

In all the conversations and dramatic
scenes made up in his own mind to account for
the possession of the houses it had never
occurred to him that the fact of his having
been a trustee would come to light. All were
dead, except himself, who were concerned with
that trust : he had forgotten by this time that

there was any deed : by ignoring the trust he
simplified, to his own mind, the transfer of the
houses : and during all these years he had
almost forgotten the obligations of the trust.

What do you mean ? ' he stammered.

Virtuous uncle ! I mean that I know all.
Do you quite understand me ? I mean really
and truly all. Yes : all that there is to know :
all that you hide away in your own mind and
think that no one knows.'

What — what — what do you know ? '

'First, I know which the houses are — I
mean, my houses — my mother's houses. The
house in Stepney Green that you have let to
Miss Kennedy is one ; a house in Beaumont
Square — do you wish to know the number? — is
another ; and a house in Eedman's Eow — and
do you want to know the number of that ? — is
the third. You have collected the rents of
those houses and paid those rents to your own
account for twenty years and more.'

'Go on. Let us hear what you pretend to
know. Suppose they were Caroline's houses,what
then ? ' He spoke with an attempt at bounce ;
but he was pale, and his eyes were unsteady.

This next. These houses, man of probity,
were not my mother's property to dispose of as
she pleased.'

Oh ! whose were they, then ? '

They were settled upon her and her heirs'
after her ; and the property displaced in the
hands of two trustees : yourself, my praiseworthy
; and a certain John Skelton, of whom
I know nothing. Presumably, he is dead.'

Mr. Bunker made no reply at all. But his
cheek grew paler.

Shall I repeat this statement, or is that
enough for you ? ' asked Harry. 'The situation
is pretty, though perhaps not novel: the heir has
gone away, probably never to come back again ;
the trustee sole surviving, no doubt receives the
rents. Heir comes back. Trustee swears the
houses are his own. When the trustee is
brought before a court of law and convicted,
the judge says that the case is one of peculiar
enormity, and must be met by transportation for
five-ands twenty years ; five — and — twenty —
years, my Patriarch ! think of that, in uniform
and with short hair.'

Mr. Bunker said nothing. But by the

agitation of his fingers it was plain that he was
thinking a great clear

I told you,' cried Harry. ' I warned you,
some time ago, that you must now begin to
think seriously about handcuffs and prison, and
men in blue. The time has come, now, when,
unless you make restitution of all that you have
taken, action will be taken, and you will realise
what it is that people think of the fraudulent
trustee. Uncle Bunker, my heart bleeds for
you.'

Why did you come here?' asked his uncle
piteously. ' Why did you come here at all ?
We got on very well without you — very welland
comfortably, indeed.'

This seemed a feeble sort of bleat. But, in
fact, the Bunker's mind was for the moment
prostrated. He had no sound resistance left.

I offered you,' he went on, ' twenty-five
pounds — to go. I'll double it — there. I'll give
you fifty pounds to go, if you'll go at once. So
that there will be an end to all this trouble.'

Consider,' said Harry, ' there's the rent of
Miss Kennedy's house — sixty-five pounds a year
for that : there's the house in Beaumont Square

fifty for that ; and the house m Bellman's Eow
at five-and-twenty at least : comes to a hundred
and forty pounds a year, which you have drawn,
my precious uncle for twenty one years at
least. That makes, without counting interest,
two thousand nine hundred and forty pounds.
And you want to buy me off for fifty pounds ! '

Not half the money — not half the money,'
his uncle groaned. ' There's repairs and painting
— and bad tenants : not half the money.'

We will say, then,' lightly replied his
nephew, as if nine hundred were a trifle, ' we
will say two thousand pounds. The heir to
that property has come back : he says, " Give
me my houses, and give me an account of the
discharge of your trust." Now ' — Harry rose
from the table on which he had been sitting —
let us have no more bounce : the game is up.
I have in my pocket — here,' he tapped his coat
pocket, ' the original deed itself. Do you want
to know where it was found ? Behind a safe
at the Brewery, where it was hidden by your
brother-in-law. Bob Coppin, with all the country
notes which got Joseph us into a mess. As for
the date, I will remind you that it was executed

about thirty-five years ago, when my mother
was still a girl and unmarried, and you had recently
married her sister. I have the deed
here. What is more, it has been seen by the
Chief Accountant at the Brewery, who gave it
me. Bunker, the game is up.'

He moved towards the door.

Have you anything to say before I go ? I
am now going straight to a lawyer.'

What is the — the — lowest Oh ! good

Lord ! — the very lowest figure that you will
take to square it ? Oh ! be merciful ; I am a
poor man, indeed a very poor man, though they
think me warm. Yet I must scrape and save
to get along at all.'

Two thousand,' said Harry.

Make it fifteen hundred. Oh ! fifteen
hundred to clear off all scores, and then you can
go away out of the place ; I could borrow fifteen
hundred.'

Two thousand,' Harry repeated. ' Of course,
besides the houses, which are mine.'

'Besides the houses? Never. You may
do your worst. You may drag your poor
old uncle, now sixty years of age, before the

courts, but two thousand besides the houses?
Never ! '

He banged the floor with his stick, but his
agitation was betrayed by the nervous tapping
of the end upon the oilcloth which followed the
first hasty bang.

No bounce, if you please.' Harry took
out his watch. 'I will give you five minutes
to decide ; or, if your mind is already made
up, I will go and ask advice of a lawyer at
once.'

I cannot give ' you that sum of money,'
Bunker declared : ' it is not that I would not ;
I would if I could. Business has been bad :
sometimes I've spent more than I've made ; and
what little I've saved I meant always for you — I
did indeed. I said, I will make it up to him.
He shall have it back with '

One minute gone,' said Harry relentlessly.

Oh ! this is dreadful. Why, to get even
fifteen hundred I should have to sell all my
little property at a loss ; and what a dreadful
thing it is to sell property at a loss ! Give me
more time to consider, only a week or so, just
to look round.'

Three minutes left,' said Harry the
hardened.

Oh ! oh ! oh ! ' He burst into tears and
weeping of genuine grief, and shame, and rage.
Oh ! that a nephew should be found to persecute
his uncle in such a way ! Where is your
Christian charity? Where is forgiving and
remitting ? '

Only two minutes left,' said Harry, unmoved.


Then Bunker fell upon his knees : he
grovelled and implored pardon ; he offered one
house, two houses, and twelve hundred pounds,
fifteen hundred pounds, eighteen hundred
pounds.

One minute left,' said Harry.

Then he sat down and wiped the tears
from his eyes, and in good round terms — in
Poplar, Limehouse, Shadwell, Wapping, and
Eatchff Highway terms — he cursed his nephew
and the houses and the trust, and all that therein
lay, because before the temptation came he
was an honest man, whereas now he should
never be able to look Stepney in the face again.

Time's up,' said Harry, putting on his hat.

111 face of the inevitable, Mr. Bunker showed
an immediate change of front. He neither
prayed, nor wept, nor swore. He became once
more the complete man of business. He left
the stool of humiliation, and seated himself on
his own Windsor chair before his own table.
Here, pen in hand, he seemed as if he was
dictating rather than accepting terms.

Don't go, he said. 'I accept.'

Very good,' Harry replied. ' You know
what is best for yourself. As for me, I don't
want to make more fuss than is necessary. You
know the terms ? '

Two thousand down ; the three houses ;
and a complete discharge in full of all claims.
Those are the conditions.'

Yes, those are the conditions.'

I will draw up the discharge,' said Mr.
Bunker, ' and then no one need be any the wiser.'

Harry laughed. This cool and business-ike
compromise of felony pleased him.

You may draw it up if you like. But m}^
opinion of your ability is so great, that I shall
have to show the document to a solicitor for his
approval and admiration.'

Mr. Bunker was disconcerted. He had
hoped — that is, thought — he saw his way ; but
never mind. He quickly recovered, and said,
with decision, —

Go to Lawyer Pike in the Mile End Eoad.'

Why ? Is the Honourable Pike a friend of
yours ? '

Into, he isn't ; that is why I want you to goto
him. Tell him that you and I have long
been wishing to clear up these accounts, and
that you've agreed to take the two thousand
with the houses.' Mr. Bunker seemed now
chiefly anxious that the late deplorable scene
should be at once forgotten and forgiven.
He said the other day that I was nothing
better than a common grinder and oppressor.
Now, when he sees what an honourable trustee
I am, he will be sorry he said that. You can
tell everybody if you like. Why, what is it ?
Here's my nephew comes home to me and says.
Give me my houses. I say. Prove your title.
Didn't I say so ? How was I to know that he
was my nephew ? Then the gentleman comes
who took him away, and says. He is your long-lost
nephew; and I say. Take your houses, young

man, With the accumulations of the rent hoarded
up for you. Why, you can tell everybody that
story.'

I will leave you to tell it. Bunker, your
own way. Everybody will believe that way of
telling the story. What is more, I will not go
out of my way to contradict it.'

Very good, then. And on that understanding
I withdraw all the harsh things I may have
said to you, nephew. And we can be good
friends again.'

Certainly, if you like,' said Harry, and
fairly ran away for fear of being called upon to
make more concessions.

It's a terrible blow ! ' The old man sat
down and wiped his forehead. ' To think
of two thousand down ! But it might have
been much worse. Ah ! it might have been
very, very much worse. I've done better
than I expected, when he said he had the
papers. The young man's a fool — a mere fool.
The houses let for 150/. a year, and they have
never been empty for six months together ; and
the outside repairs are a trifle, and I've saved it
all every year. Ha ! now a hundred and fifty

VOL. III. N

pounds a year for twenty years and more, at
compound interest only five per cent., is close
on 5,000/. I've calculated it out often enough
to know. Yes, and I've made five per cent, on
it, and sometimes six and seven, and more, with
no losses. It might have been far, far worse.
It's come to 7,000/. if it's a penny. And to get
rid of that awful fear and that devil of a boy
with his arms and his sneers at 2,000/., why, it's
cheap, I call it cheap. As for the houses, I'll
get them back, see if I don't.'

CHAPTEE XLIV.

A FOOL AND HIS MONEY.

Mr. Pike, the solicitor of the Mile End Eoad,
does not belong to the story — which is a pity,
because he has many enviable qualities — further
than is connected with Harry's interview with
him.

He read the documents and heard the story
from beginning to end. When he lead quite
mastered all the details he began mildly to express
astonishment and pity that any young
man could be such a fool. This was hard,
because Harry really thought he had done a
mighty clever thing. ' You have been taken
in, sir,' said Mr. Pike, ' in a most barefaced
and impudent manner. Two thousand pounds !
Why, the mere rent alone, without counting
interest, is three thousand. Go away, sir ; find
out this fraudulent impostor, and tell him that

n2

you will have nothing to do with him short of
a full account and complete restitution.'

I cannot do that,' said Harry.

Why not ? '

Because I have passed my word.'

I think, young man, you said you were a
cabinet-maker — though you look something
better.'

Yes, I belong to that trade.'

'Since when, may I ask, have cabinet-makers
been so punctilious as to their promises?'

The fact is,' said Harry gravely, ' we have
turned over a new leaf, and are now all on the
side of truth and honour.'

Humph ! Then there is nothing to do but
to give the man a receipt in full and a discharge.
You are of age ; you can do this if
you like. Shall I draw it up for you, and receive
the money, and take over the houses ? '

This was settled, therefore, and in this way
Harry became a rich man, with houses and
money in the funds.

As for Bunker, he made the greatest mistake
in his life when he sent his nephew to Mr.

Pike. He should have known, but he was like
the ostrich when he runs his head into the
sand, and believes from the secure retreat that
he is invisible to his hunters. For his own
version of the incident was palpably absurd :
and, besides, Mr. Pike heard Harry's account of
the matter. Therefore, though Bunker thought
to heap coals of fire upon his enemy's head, he
only succeeded in throwing them under his
feet, which made him kick — ' for who can go
upon hot coals and his feet not be burned ? '
The good man is now, therefore, labouring
under a cloud of prejudice which does not
seem to hft, though perhaps he will live it
down. Other events have happened since,
which have operated to his prejudice. Everybody
knows how he received his nephew ; what
wicked things he said everywhere about him ;
and what rumours he spread about Miss Kennedy
: everybody knows that he had to disgorge
houses — actually, houses — which he had appropriated.
This knowledge is common property
: and it is extremely unpleasant for Mr.
Bunker when he takes his walks abroad to be
cruelly assailed by questions which hit harder

than any brickbat : they are hurled at Lin by
working men and by street boys. ' Who stole
the 'ouse ? ' for instance, is a very nasty thing
to be said to a gentleman who is professionally
connected with house property. I know not
how this knowledge came to be so generally
known. Certainly Harry did not spread it
abroad. People, however, are not fools, and
can put things together : where the evil-doings
and backsliding of their friends are concerned
they are surprisingly sharp.

Stow when the ownership of the house in
Stepney Green became generally known, there
immediately sprang up, as always happens on
occasions of discovery, rooting out of facts, or
exposure of wickedness, quite a large crop of
old inhabitants ready to declare that they knew
all along that the house on Stepney Green was
one of those belonging to old Mr. Coppin. He
bought it, they said, of Mr. Messenger, who
was born there ; and it was one of three left
to Caroline, who died young. Who would believe
that Mr. Bunker could have been so
wicked ? Where is faith in brother man since
so eminent a professor of honesty has fallen ?

Mr. Bunker suffers, but he suffers in silence ;
he may be seen any day in the neighbourhood
of Stepney Green, still engaged in his usual
business : people may talk behind his back, but
talk breaks no bones : they don't dare talk
before his face : though he has lost two thousand
pounds, there is still money left — he feels
that he is a warm man, and has money to leave
behind him : it will be said of him that he cut
up well. Warmth of all kinds comforts a man ;
but he confesses with a pang that he did wrong
to send his nephew to that lawyer, who took the
opportunity, when he drew up the discharge
and receipt, of giving him an opinion — unasked
and unpaid for — as to his conduct in
connection with the trust. There could be no
mistake at all about the meaning and force of
that opinion. And, oddly enough, whenever
Mr. Bunker sees the Queen's omnibus — that
dark painted vehicle, driven by a policeman —
pass along the road, he thinks of Mr. Pike, and
that opinion returns to his memory, and he feels
just exactly as if a bucket of cold water was
trickling down his back by the nape of the
neck. Even in warm weather this is disagreeable.

And it shows that the lawyer must have
spoken very strong words indeed, and that
although Mr. Bunker, like the simple ones and
the scorners, wished for none of the lawyers'
counsel, unlike them he did not despise their
reproof Yet he is happier, now that the blow
has fallen, than he was while he was awaiting
it and dreaming of handcuffs.

We anticipate : but we have, indeed, seen
almost the last of Mr. Bunker. It is sad to
part with him. But we have no choice.

In the evening Harry went as usual to the
drawing-room. He stayed, however, after the
girls went away. There was nothing unusual
in his doing so. ' Girls in my position,' said
the dressmaker, ' are not tied by the ordinary
rules.' To-night, however, he had something
to say.

Congratulate me,' he cried as soon as they
were alone. ' I have turned out, as the story-books
say, to be the heir to vast sums of
money.'

Angela turned pale. She was reassured,
however, on learning the extent of the heritage.

Consider my romantic story,' said Harry.

Instead of finding myself the long-lost heir,
strawberry-mark and all, to an earldom, I am
the son of a Sergeant in the Line. And then,
just as I am getting over the blow, I find
myself the owner of three houses and two
thousand pounds. What workman ever got
two thousand pounds before? There was an
under-gardener I knew,' he went on meditatively,
' who once got a hundred : he called ita
round hundred, I remember. He and his
wife went on the Hospitable Drink for a fortnight
: then they went to hospital for a month
with Trimmings : and then went back to work —
the money all gone — and joined the Primitive
Methodists. Can't we do something superior
in the shape of a Burst, or a Boom, for the
girls, with two thousand pounds ? '

Tell me,' said Angela, ' how you got it.'
He narrated the whole story, for her instruction
and amusement, with some dramatic
force impersonating Bunker's wrath, terror, and
entreaties, and final business-like collapse.

So that,' said Angela, ' you are now a man
of property, and will, I suppose, give up the
work at the Brewery.'

Do you think I should ? '

I do not like to see any man idle, and — '
she hesitated — ' especially you.'

Thank you,' said Harry. ' Then I remain.
The question of the two thousand pounds — my
cool Two Thousand — I am the winner of the
Two Thousand — in reserve. As for this house,
however, decided steps must be taken. Listen,
Queen of the Mystery of Dress ! You pay
Bunker sixty-five pounds a year or so for the
rent of this house ; that is a good large deduction
from the profits of the Association. I have been
thinking, if you approve, that I will have this
house conveyed to you in trust for the Association.
Then you will be rent-free.'

'But that is a very, very generous osier.
You really wish to give us this house altogether
for ourselves ? '

If you will accept it.'

You have only these houses, and you give
us the best of them. Is it right and just to
strip yourself ? '

How many houses should I have ? Now
there are two left, and their rent brings in
seventy pounds a year, and I have two thousand

pounds wMcli will bring in another eighty
pounds a year. I am rich — much too rich fora
common cabinet-maker.'

Oh ! ' she said, ' what can we do but accept ?
And how shall we show our gratitude ? But,
indeed, we can do nothing.'

I want nothing,' said Harry. ' I have had
so much happiness in this place that I can
want for nothing. It is for me to show my
gratitude.'

Thank you,' she replied, giving him her
hand. He stooped and kissed it, but humbly,
as one who accepts a small favour gratefully
and asks for no more.

They were alone in the drawing-room ; the
fire was low ; only one lamp was burning ;
Angela was sitting beside the fire ; her face was
turned from him. A mighty wave of love was
mounting in the young man's brain ; but a little
more, a very little more, and he would have
been kneeling at her feet. She felt the danger :
she felt it the more readily because she was so
deeply moved herself What had she given the
girls, out of her abundance, compared with
what he had given, out of his slender portion ?

Her eyes filled with, tears. Then she sprang to
her feet and touched his hand again.

Do not forget your promise she said.

My promise ? Oh ! how long '

Patience,' she replied. ' Give me a little
while — a little while — only — and '

Forgive me,' he said, kissing her hand
again. 'Forgive me.'

Let me go,' she went on. ' It is eleven
o'clock.' They put out the lamp and went out.
The night was clear and bright.

Do not go in just yet,' said Harry. ' It is
pleasant out here, and I think the stars are
brighter than they are at the West End.'

Everything is better here,' said Angela,
than at the West End. Here we have hearts,
and can feel for each other. Here we are all
alike — workmen and workwomen together.'

You are a prejudiced person. Let us talk
of the Palace of Delight — your dream.'

Your invention,' said Angela.

Won't my two thousand go some way to
starting it ? Perhaps, if we could just start it,
the thing would go on of its own accord.
Why, see what you have done with your girls
already.'

'But I must have a big Palace — a noble
building, furnished with everything that we
want. No, my friend, we will take your house
because it is a great and noble gift, but you
shall not sacrifice your money. Yet we will
have that Palace, and before long. And when
it is ready '

Yes, when it is ready.'

Perhaps the opening of the Palace will befor
all of us, the beginning of a new happiness.'


You speak in a parable.'

No,' she said, ' I speak in sober earnestness.
Now let me go. Eemember what I say : the
opening of the Palace may be, if you will — for
all of us '

For you and me ? '

'For — yes — for you — and for me. Goodnight.'


CHAPTER XLV.

Lady Davenant had now been in full enjoyment
of her title in Portman Square, where
one enjoys such things more thoroughly than
on Stepney Green, for four or five weeks. She
at first enjoyed it so much that she thought of
nothing but the mere pleasure of the greatness.
She felt an uplifting of heart every time she
walked up and down the stately stairs ; another
every time she sat at the well-furnished
dinner table ; and another whenever she looked
about her in the drawing-room. She wrote
copious letters to her friend Aurelia Tucker
during these days. She explained with fulness
of detail, and in terms calculated to make that
lady expire of envy, the splendour of her position
; and, for at least five weeks, she felt
as if the hospitality of Miss Messenger actually
brought with it a complete recognition of the

claim. Her husband, not so sanguine as herself,
knew very well that the time would come
when the Case would have to be taken up again
and sent in to the proper quarter for examination.
Meantime he was resigned, and even
happy. Three square meals a day, each of them
abundant, each a masterpiece of art, were
enough to satisfy that remarkable twist which,
as her ladyship was persuaded, one knows not on
what grounds, had always been a distinguishing
mark of the Davenants. Familiarity speedily
reconciled him to the presence of the footmen ;
he found in the library a most delightful chair
in which he could sleep all the morning ;
and it pleased him to be driven through the
streets in a luxurious carriage under soft warm
furs, in which one can take the air and get a
splendid appetite without fatigue.

They were seen about a great deal. It was
a part of Angela's design that they should,
when the time came for going back again, seem
to themselves to have' formed a part of the
best society in London. Therefore she gave
instructions to her maid that her visitors were
to go to all the public places, the theatres,
concerts, exhibitions, and places of amusement.

The little American lady knew so little what
she ought to see and whither she ought to
go, that she fell back on Campion for advice
and help. It was Campion who suggested a
theatre in the evening, the Exhibition of Old
Masters or the Grosvenor Gallery in the
morning, and Eegent Street in the afternoon ;
it was Campion who pointed out the recognised
superiority of Westminster Abbey, considered
as a place of worship for a lady of exalted
rank, over a chapel up a back street, of the
Baptist persuasion, to which at her own home
Lady Davenant had belonged. It was Campion
who went with her and showed her the shops,
and taught her the delightful art of spending
her money — the money ' lent ' her by Miss Messenger
— in the manner becoming to a peeress.
She was so clever and sharp, that she caught at
every hint dropped by the lady's-maid ; she
reformed her husband's ideas of evening dress ;
she humoured his weaknesses ; she let him
keep his eyes wide open at a farce or a ballet
on the understanding that at a concert or a
sermon he might blamelessly sleep through it :
she even began to acquire rudimentary ideas
on the principles of Art.

I confess, my dear Aurelia,' she wrote,
that habit soon renders even these marble
halls familiar. I have become perfectly
reconciled to the splendour of English patrician
life, and now feel as if I had been born to it.
Tall footmen no longer frighten me, nor the
shouting of one's name after the theatre. Of
course, the outward marks of respect one
receives as one's due, when one belongs, by
the gift of Providence, to a great and noble
house.'

This was all very pleasant ; yet Lady
Davenant began to yearn for somebody, if it
was only Mrs. Bormalack, with whom she
could converse. She wanted a long chat.
Perhaps Miss Kennedy or Mrs. Bormalack, or
the sprightly Mr. Goslett, might be induced to
come and spend a morning with her, or a
whole day, if only they would not feel shy and
frightened in so splendid a place.

Meantime some one 'connected with the
Press ' got to hear of a soi-disant Lord
Davenant who was often to be seen with his
wife in boxes at theatres and other places of
resort. He heard, this intellectual connection

VOL. III.

of the Press, people asking each other who
Lord Davenant was ; he inquired of the Eed
Book, and received no response ; he thereupon
perceived that here was an opportunity for a
sensation and a mystery. He found out where
Lord Davenant was having, by great good hick
it was through taking a single four of
whisky in a bar frequented by gentlemen in
plush ; and he proceeded to call upon his lordship
and to interview him.

The result appeared in a long communique
which attracted general and immediate interest.
The journalist set forth at length and in the
most graphic manner the strange and romantic
career of the Condescending Wheelwright ; he
showed how the discovery was made, and how,
after many years, the illustrious pair had
crossed the Atlantic to put forward their claim ;
and how they were offered the noble hospitality
of a young lady of princely fortune. It was a
most delightful godsend to the paper in which
it appeared, and it came at a time when the
House was not sitting, and there was no
wrangle-wrangle of debates to furnish material
for the columns of big type which are supposed

to sway the masses. The other papers therefore
seized upon the topic and had leading
articles upon it, in which the false Demerits,
the pretending Pal^ologus, Pekin Warbeck,
Lambert Simnel. George Psalmanazar, the Languishing
Nobleman, the Earl of Mar, the Count
of Albany, with other claims and claimants,
furnished illustrations to the claims of the
Davenants. The publicity given to the Case
by these articles delighted her ladyship beyond
everything, while it abashed and confounded
her lord. He saw in it the bemnninoj of more
exertion, and strenuous efforts after the final
recognition. And she carefully cut out all the
articles and sent them to her nephew Nicholas,
to her friend Aurelia Tucker, and to the editor
of the Canaan City Express with her compliments.
And she felt all the more, in the midst
of this excitement, that if she did not have
some one to talk to she must go back to
Stepney Green and spend a day. Or she
would die.

It was at this juncture that Campion,
perhaps inspired by secret instructions, suggested
^ that her ladyship must be feeling a


little lonely, and must want to see her friends.
Why not, she said, ask them to dinner ?

A dinner party. Lady Davenant reflected,
would serve not only to show her old friends
the reality of her position, but would also
please them as a mark of kindly remembrance.
Only, she reflected, dinner at Stepney Green
had not the same meaning that it possesses at
the West End. The best dinner, in that
locality, is that which is most plentiful, and
there are no attempts made to decorate a table.
Another thing, dinner is taken universally
between one o'clock and two. ' I think, Clara
Martha,' said his lordship, whom she consulted
on this affair of state, ' that at any time of day
such a Feast of Belshazzar as you will give
them will be grateful; and they may call it
dinner or supper, whichever they please.'

Thereupon Lady Davenant wrote a letter to
Mrs. Bormalack inviting the whole party. She
explained that they had met with the most
splendid hospitality from Miss Messenger, in
whose house they were still staying ; that they
had become public characters, and had been the
subject of discussion in the papers, which

caused them to be much stared at and followed
in the streets, and in theatres and concert
rooms ; that they were both convinced that
their Case would soon be triumphant ; that
they frequently talked over old friends of
Stepney, and regretted that the distance
between them was so great — though distance,
she added kindly, cannot divide hearts ; and
that, if Mrs. Bormalack's party would come
over together and dine with them, it would bo
taken as a great kindness, both by herself and
by his lordship. She added that she hoped
they would all come, including Mr. Faggg and
old Mr. Maliphant, and Mr. Josephus, ' though,'
she added with a little natural touch, ' I doubt
whether Mr. Maliphant ever gave me a
thought ; and Mr. Josephus was always too
much occupied with his own misfortunes to
mind any business of mine. And, dear Mrs.
Bormalack, please remember that when we
speak of dinner we mean what you call supper.
It is exactly the same tiling, only served a little
earlier. We take ours at eight o'clock instead
of nine. His lordship desires me to add that
he shall be extremely disappointed if Mr.

Goslett does not come ; and yon will tell
Miss Kennedy, whose kindness I can never
forget, the same from me, and that she inst
bring Kelly and Eebekah and Captain .'


The letter was received with great admiration.
Josephus, who had blossomed into a
completely new suit of clothes of juvenile cut,
declared that the invitation did her ladyship
great credit, and that now this misfortunes
were finished he should be rejoiced to take
his place in society. Harry laughed, and said
that of course he would go. ' And you, Miss
Kennedy ? '

Angela coloured. Then she said that she
would try to go.

And if Mr. Maliphant and Daniel only go
too,' said Harry, ' we shall be as delightful a
party as were ever gathered together at one
dinner table.'

It happened that about this time Lord
Jocelyn remembered the American claimants,
and his promise to call upon them. He therefore
called, and was received with the greatest
cordiality by her little ladyship, and with wondrous

affability, as becomes one man of rank
towards another, by Lord Davenant.

It was lier ladyship who volubly explained
their claim to him, and the certainty of the
assumption that their Timothy Clitheroe was
the lost heir of the same two Christian names :
her husband only folded his fat hands over
each other, and from time to time wagged his
head.

You are the first of my husband's brother
peers,' she said, ' who has called upon us. We
shall not forget this kindness from your lordship.'


But I am not a peer at all,' he explained ;
I am only a younger son with a courtesy
title. I am quite a small personage.'

Which makes it all the kinder,' said her
ladyship ; ' and I must say that, grand as it is
in this big house, one does get tired of hearing'
no voice but your own — and my husband
spends a good deal of his time in the study.
Oh ! a man of great literary attainments, and
a splendid mathematician. I assure your lordship
not a man or a boy in Canaan City can
come near him in algebra.'

Up to a certain point, Clara Martha,' said
her husband, meaning that there might be lofty
heights in science to which even he himself
could not soar. ' Quadratic equations, my lord.'

Lord Jocelyn made an original remark
about the importance of scientific pursuits.

And since you are so friendly' continued
her ladyship, ' I will venture to invite your
lordship to dine with us.'

Certainly. I shall be greatly pleased.'

We have 2^ot a few friends coming; tomorrow
evening,' said her ladyship, rather
grandly. ' Friends from Whitechapel.'

Lord Jocelyn looked curious.

Yes, Mr. Josephus Coppin and his cousin
Mr. Goslett, a sprightly young man who respects
rank.'

He is coming, is he ? ' asked Lord Jocelyn,
laughing.

And then there is Miss Kennedy '

She is coming too ? ' He rose with alacrity.
Lady Davenant, I shall be most happy to
come, I assure you.'

It was most unfortunate that next day
Miss Kennedy had such a dreadful headache.

that she found herself prevented from going
with the rest. This was a great disappointment,
and at the last moment old Mr. Mali-plant
could not be found, and they had to start
without him.

How they performed the journey, how
Harry managed to let most of the party go on
before, because of his foolish pride, which
would not let him form one of a flock all
going out together, and how he with Captain
Sorensen and Nelly came on after the rest,
may be passed over.

When he got to Portman Square, he found
the first detachment already arrived, and, to
his boundless astonishment, his guardian. Lady
Davenant, arrayed in her black velvet and the
jewels which Angela gave her, looked truly
magnificent. Was it possible, Mrs. Bormalack
thought, that such a transformation could be
effected in a woman by a velvet gown ? She
even looked tall. She received her friends with
unaffected kindness, and introduced them all to
Lord Jocelyn.

Mrs. Bormalack, your lordship, my former
landlady, and always my very good friend.

Professor Clio, your lordship, the famous
conjurer. And I'm sure the way he makes
things disappear makes you believe in magic.
Mr. Faggg, the great scholar ; of whom, perhaps,
your lordship has heard. Mr. Josephus
Coppin, who has been unfortunate.' Lord
Jocelyn wondered what that meant. 'Miss
Eebekali Hermitage, Avhose father is minister
of the Seventh Day Independents, and a most
respectable Connection, though small in number.
Captain Sorensen, your lordship, who
comes from the Trinity almshouse, and Nelly
his daughter : and Mr. Goslett. And I think
that is all ; and the sooner they let us have
dinner the better.'

Lord Jocelyn shook hands with everybody.
When it came to Harry, he laughed, and they
both laughed, but they did not say why.

And where is Miss Kennedy ? ' asked her
ladyship. And there were great lamentations.
I wanted your lordship to see Miss Kennedy.
Oh, there's nobody like Miss Kennedy, is
there, Estella ? '

Nobody,' said Nelly. ' There can be
nobody like Miss Kennedy.' Lord Jocelyn

was struck with the beauty of this girl, whom
he remembered seeing at the Dressmaker.
He began to hope that she woukl sit next to
him at dinner.

Nobody half so beautiful in all Stepney, is
there ? '

Nobody half so good,' said Eebekah.

Then the dinner was announced, and there
was confusion in going down, because nobody
would go before Lord Jocelyn, who, therefore,
had to lead the way. Lord Davenant offered
his arm to Mrs. Bormalack, Harry to Nelly,
and Captain Sorensen to Eebekah. The Professor,
Mr. Faggg, and Josephus came last.

To be sure,' said Mrs. Bormalack, looking
about her, thankful that she had put on her
best cap, 'magnificence was expected, as was
your lordship's due, but such as this — no,
young man, I never take soup unless I've made
it myself, and am quite sure — such as this, my
lord, we did not expect.'

She was splendid in her beautiful best cap,
all ribbons and bows, with an artificial dahha
in it of a far-off fashion — say, the Forties ; the
sight of the table, with its plate and flowers

and fruit, filled lier with admiration, but, as
she now says in recalling that stupendous
feed, there was too much ornament, which
kept her mind off the cooking, so that she
really carried away no new ideas for Stepney
use. Nelly did sit next to Lord Jocelyn, who
talked with her, and found that she was shy
until he touched upon Miss Kennedy. Then
she waxed eloquent, and told him marvels, forgetting
that he was a stranger who probably
kncAv and cared nothing about Miss Kennedy.
But Nelly belonged to that very numerous
class which believes its own affairs of the
highest interest to the world at large, and in
this instance Miss Kennedy was a subject of
the deepest interest to her neighbours. Wherefore
he listened while she told what had been
done for the work girls by one woman, one of
themselves.

Opposite, on Lady Davenant's left, sat
Captain Sorensen. In the old days the captains
of East Indiamen were not unacquainted
with great men's tables, but it was long since
he had sat at such a feast. Presently Lord
Jocelyn began to look at him curiously.

Who is the old gentleman opposite ? ' he
whispered to Nelly.

That is my father ; he was a Captain once,
and commanded a great ship.'

I thought so,' said Lord Jocelyn. 'I remember
him, but he has forgotten me

Next to the Captain sat Eebekah, looking
prepared for any fate, and not unduly uplifted
by the splendour of the scene. But for her, as
well as for nearly all who were present, the word
dinner will henceforth have a new and exalted
meaning. The length of the feast, the number
of things offered, the appointments of the table,
struck her imagination ; she thought of Belshazzar
and of Herod ; such as the feast before
her where those feasts of old : she tasted the
champagne, and it took away her breath ; yet
it seemed good. Mr. Goslett seemed to think
so too, because he drank so many glasses.

So did the others, and, being unexperienced
in wine, they drank with more valour than discretion,
so that they began to talk loud ; but
that was not till later.

Do people — rich people — always dine like
this ? ' asked Nelly of her neighbour.

'Something like this; yes; that is, some
such dinner, though simpler, is always prepared
for them.'

I was thinking,' she said, ' how differently
people live. 1 would rather live in our way —
with Miss Kennedy — than in so much grandeur.'


Grandeur soon becomes a matter of habit.
But as for Miss Kennedy, you cannot live
always with her, can you ? '

Why not ? '

Well, she may marry, you know.'

Nelly looked across the table at Harry.

I suppose she wull ; wee all of us hope she
will, if it is to stay with us ; but that need not
take her away from us.'

Do you know Miss Messenger ? '

No.' said Nelly ; 'she has been very kind
to us ; she is our best customer ; she sends us
all sorts of kind messages, and presents even ;
and she sends us her love and best wishes ; I
think she must be very fond of Miss Kennedy.
She promises to come some day and visit us.
Whenever I think of Miss Messenger, I think,
somehow, that she must be like Miss Kennedy ;

only I cannot understand Miss Kennedy being
ricci and the owner of this great house.'

When the ladies retired, at length, it became
manifest that Josephus had taken more
wine than was good for him. He laughed
loudly ; he told everybody that he was going
to begin all over again, classes and lectures and
everything, including the Sunday school and
the church membership. The Professor, who,
for his part, seemed indisposed for conversation,
retained the mastery over his fingers, and
began to prepare little tricks, and presently
conveyed oranges into Lord Haven ant's coattails
without moving from his chair. And
Daniel Faggg, whose cheek was flushed, and
whose eyes were sparkling, rose from his chair
and attacked Lord Jocelyn, note-book in
hand.

Is your lordship,' he began, with a perceptible
thickness of speech — Lord Jocelyn recognised
him as the man whom he had assisted
at Stepney Green, and who subsequently took
dinner with the girls — ' is your lordship interested
in Hebrew christians ? '

Very much indeed,' said Lord Jocelyn,
politely.

'Low me to put your lordship's name down
for christian, twelve-and-six ? Book will come
out next month, Miss Kennedy says so.'

'Put up your book, Daniel,' said Harry
sternly, ' and sit down.'

'I want — show — his lordship — a Hebrew
christian.'

He sat down, however, obediently, and immediately
fell fast asleep.

Said Lord Jocelyn to Captain Sorensen, —

'I remember you. Captain, very well
indeed, but you have forgotten me. Were
you not in command of the " Sussex " in the
year of the Mutiny ? Did you not take me
out with the 120th?'

'To be sure — to be sure I did ; and I remember
your lordship very well, and am very
glad to find you remember me. You were
younger then.'

I was ; and how goes it with you now,
Captain ? Cheerfully as of old ? '

Ay, ay, my lord. I'm in the Trinity
Almshouse, and my daughter is with Miss
Kennedy, bless her ! Therefore I've nothing
to complain of.'

May I call upon you, some day, to talk
over old times? You used to sing a good
song in those days, and play a good tune, and
dance a good dance.'

Come, my lord, as often as you like,' he
replied in great good humour. ' The cabin is
small, but it's cosy, and the place is hard to
get at.'

'It is the queerest dinner I ever had,
Harry,' Lord Jocelyn whispered. ' I like your
old Captain and his daughter. Is the hardhearted
dressmaker prettier than Nelly ? '

Prettier ! why, there is no comparison
possible.'

Yet Jelly hath a pleasing manner.'

Miss Kennedy turns all her girls into
ladies. Come and see her.' •

Perhaps, Harry, perhaps ; when she is no
longer hard-hearted ; when she has named the
happy day.'

This evening,' said Lady Davenant, when
they joined her, 'will be one that I never can
forget. For I've had mj old friends round me,
who were kind in our poverty and neglect ; and
now I've your lordship too, who belongs to

VOL. III. P

the new time. So that it is a joining together,
as it were, and one don't feel like stepping out
of our place into another quite different, as I
shall tell Aurelia, who says she is afraid that
splendour may make me forget old friends ;
whereas there is nobody I should like to have
with us this moment better than Aureha. But
perhaps she judges others by herself

Lor ! ' cried Mrs. Bormalack, ' to hear
your ladyship go on ! It's like an angel of
goodness.'

'And the only thing that vexes me — it's
enough to spoil it all — is that Miss Kennedy
couldn't come. Ah ! my lord, if you had only
seen Miss Kennedy ! Eebekah and Nelly are
two good girls and pretty, but you are not
to compare with Miss Kennedy — are you,
dears ? '

They both shook their heads and were not
offended.

It was past eleven when they left to go
home in cabs : one contained the sleeping
forms of Josephus and Mr. Faggg ; the next
contained Captain Sorensen and Nelly, with
Harry. The Professor, who had partly revived,

came with Mrs. Bormalack, and Eebekah
in the last.

You seemed to know Lord Jocelyn, Mr.
Goslett,' said the Captain.

I ought to,' replied Harry simply ; ' he
gave me my education.'

He was always a brave and generous
officer,. I remember,' the Captain went on.
Yes, I remember him well ; all the men
would have followed him everywhere. Well,
he says he will come and see me.'

'Then he will come,' said Harry, 'if he
said sop

Very good ; if he comes, he shall see
Miss Kennedy too.'

s2

CHAPTEE XLVI.

THE END OF THE CASE.

This dinner, to wliicli her ladyship will always
look back with the liveliest satisfaction, was the
climax, the highest point, so to speak, of her
greatness, which was destined to have a speedy
fall. Angela asked Lord Jocelyn to read
through the papers and advise. She told him
of the Professor's discovery, and of the book
which had belonged to the wheelwright, and
everything.

Of course, the opinion which he formed
was exactly that formed by Angela herself,
and he told her so.

I have asked them to my house,' Angela
wrote, ' because I want them to go home to
their own people with pleasant recollections of
their stay in London. I should like them to
feel, not that their claim had broken down.

and that they were defeated, but that it had
been examined, and was held to be not proven.
I should be very sorry if I thought that the
little lady would cease to believe in her husband's
illustrious descent. Will you help me
to make her keep her faith as far as possible,
and go home with as little disappointment as
possible ? '

I will try,' said Lord Jocelyn.
He wrote to Lady Davenant that he had
given careful consideration to the Case, and had
taken opinions, which was also true, because
he made a lawyer, a herald, and a peer all
read the documents, and write him a letter on
the subject. He dictated all three letters, it is
true ; but there is generally something to conceal
in this world of compromises.

He went solemnly to Portman Square bearing
these precious documents with him. To
Lady Davenant his opinion was the most important
step which had yet occurred in the
history of the claim : she placed her husband in
the hardest arm-chair that she could find, with
strict injunctions to keep broad awake ; and
she had a great array of pens and paper laid

out on the table in order to look business-like.
It must be owned that the good feeding of the
last two months, with carriage exercise, had
greatly increased his lordship's tendency to
sleep and inaction. As for the Case, he had
almost ceased to think of it. The Case meant
worry, copying out, writing and re-writing, hunting
up facts, and remembering : when the Case
was put away he could give up his mind to
breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Never had the
present moment seemed so delightful to him.

Lord Jocelyn wore an expression of great
gravity, as befitted the occasion. In fact, he
was entrusted with an exceedingly delicate mission
: he had to tell these worthy people that
there was not the slightest hope for them : to
recommend them to go home again ; and though
the counsel would be clothed in sugared words,
to renounce for ever the hope of proving their
imaginary claim. But it is better to be told
these things kindly and sympathetically, by a
man with a title, than by any coarse or common
lawyer.

Before I begin ' — Lord Jocelyn addressed
himself to the lady instead of her husband — ' I

would ask if you have any relic at all of that
first Timothy Clitheroe who is buried in your
cemetery at Canaan City ? '

'There is a book,' said her ladyship.
Here it is,'

She handed him a little book of songs,
roughly boimd in leather ; on the title-page
was written at the top ' Saturday,' and at the
bottom ' Davvenant.'

Lord Jocelyn laid the book down and
opened his case.

First, he reminded them that Miss Messenger
in her first letter had spoken of a possible
moral, rather than legal, triumph ; of a possible
failure to establish the claim before a committee
of the House of Peers to whom it would
be referred. This, in his opinion, was the
actual difficulty : he had read the Case as it
had been carefully drawn up and presented by
his lordship — and he complimented the writer
upon his lucid and excellent style of drawing
up of facts — and he had submitted the Case
for the opinion of friends of his own, all of
them gentlemen eminently proper to form and
to express an opinion on such a subject. He

held the opinions of these gentlemen in his
hands. One of them was from Lord de Lusi-
gan, a nobleman of very ancient descent. His
lordship wrote that there were very strong
grounds for supposing it right to investigate a
case which presented, certainly, very remarkable
coincidences, if nothing more : that further
investigations ought to be made on the spot ;
and that, if this Timothy Clitheroe Davenant
turned out to be the lost heir, it would be
another romance in the history of the Peerage.
And his lordship concluded by a kind expression
of hope that more facts would be discovered
in support of the claim.

'You will like to keep this letter,' said
the reader, giving it to Lady Davenant. She
was horribly pale and trembled, because it
seemed as if everything was slipping from
her.

The other letters,' Lord Jocelyn went on,
are to the same effect. One is from a lawyer
of great eminence, and the other is from a
herald. You will probably like to keep them
too, when I have read them.'

Lady Davenant took the letters, which were

cruel in their kindness, and the tears came into
her eyes.

Lord Jocelyn went on to say that researches
made in their interest in the parish
registers had resulted in a discovery which
might even be made into an argument against
the claim. There was a founding child baptised
in the church in the same year as the young
heir ; he received the name of the village with
the day of the week on which he was found for
Christian name ; that is to say, he was called
Saturday Davenant.

Then, indeed, his lordship became very
red, and her ladyship turned still paler and
both looked guilty. Saturday Davenant ! the
words in the book. Suppose they were nota
date and a name, but a man's whole name
instead !

He left the parish,' said Lord Jocelyn,
and was reported to have gone to America.'

Neither of them spoke. His lordship
looked slowly around the room, as if expecting
that everything, even the solid mahogany of
the library shelves, would vanish suddenly
away. And he groaned, thinking of the

dinners which would soon be things of the
golden past.

'But, my friends,' Lord Jocelyn went on,
do not be downcast. There is always the
possibility of new facts turning up. Your
grandfather's name may have been really
Timothy Clitheroe, in which case I have very
little doubt that he was the missing heir ; but
he may, on the other hand, have been the
Saturday Davenant, in which case lie lived and
died with a he on his lips, which one would be
sorry to think possible.'

Well, sir — if that is so — what do you
advise that wee should do now ? ' asked the
grandson of this mystery. He seemed to have
become an American citizen again, and to have
shaken off the aristocratic manner.

What I should advise is this. You will
never, most certainly, never get recognition of
your claim without stronger evidence than you
at present offer. On the other hand, no one will
refuse to admit that you have a strong case.
Therefore I would advise you to go home to
your own people, to tell them what has happened
— how your case was taken up and carefully

considered by competent authorities ' —
here lie named again the lawyer, the herald,
and the peer — ' to show them their opinions,
and to say that you have come back for further
evidence, if you can find any, which will
connect you beyond a doubt with the lost
heir.

That is good advice, sir,' said the claimant,
'No, Clara Martha, for once I will have my
own way. The connection is the weak point ;
we must go home and make it a strong point,
else we had better stay there. I said, all along,
that we ought not to have come. Nevertheless,
I'm glad we came, Clara Martha. I shan't
throw it in your teeth that we did come. I'm
grateful to you for making us come. We've
made good friends here, and seen many things
which we shouldn't otherwise have seen. And
the thought of this house and the meals we've
had in it — such breakfasts, such luncheons, such
dinners — will never leave us, I am sure.'

Lady Davenant could say nothing. She
saw everything torn from her at a rough blow
her title, her consideration, the envy of her
fellow-citizens, especially of Aurelia Tucker.

She put her handkerchief to her eyes and
sobbed aloud.

'You should not go back as if you were
defeated,' Lord Jocelyn went on in sympathy
with the poor little woman. ' You are as much
entitled to the rank you claim as ever. More :
your Case has been talked about ; it is known :
should any of the antiquaries who are always
grubbing about parish records find any
scrap of information which may help, he
will make a note of it for you. When you
came you were friendless and unknown. Now
the press of England has taken you up : your
story is romantic : we are all interested in you,
and desirous of seeing you succeed. Before
you go you will write to the papers stating
why you go, and what you hope to find. All
these letters and papers and proofs of the
importance of your claim should be kept and
shown to your friends.'

We feel mean about going back, and that's
a fact,' said his lordship. ' Still, if we must
go back, why, we'd better go back with drums

and trumpets than sneak back '

Ah ! ' said his wife, ' if you'd only shown
that spirit from the beginning, Timothy ! '

He collapsed.

'If we go back,' she continued thoughtfully,
' I suppose there's some sort of work we
can find, between us. Old folks hadn't ought
to work like the young, and I'm sixty-five, and
so is my husband. But '

She stopped, with a sigh.

I am empowered by Miss Messenger,'
Lord Jocelyn went on, with great softness of
manner, * to make you a little proposition. She
thinks that it would be most desirable for you
to have your hands free while you make those
researches which may lead to the discoveries
we hope for. Now, if you have to waste the
day in work you will never be able to make
any research. Therefore Miss Messenger proposes
— if you do not mind — if you will accept
an annuity on your joint lives of six hundred
dollars. You may be thus relieved of all
anxiety about your personal wants. And Miss
Messenger begs only that you may let this
annuity appear the offering of sympathising
English friends.'

'But we don't know Miss Messenger,' said
her ladyship.

'Has she not extended her hospitality to

you for two months and more ? Is not that a
proof of the interest she takes in you ? '

Certainly it is. Why — see now — we've
been living here so long, that we've forgotten
it is all Miss Messenger's gift.'

Then, you will accept ? '

Oh, Lord Jocelyn, what can we do but
accept ? '

And with grateful hearts,' added his lordship.
'Tell her that. With grateful hearts
They've a way of serving quail in her house,
that ' He stopped and sighed.

They have returned to Canaan City ; they
live in simple sufficiency. His lordship, when
he is awake, has many tales to tell of London.
His friends believe Stepney Green to be a part
of May-fair, and Mrs. Bormalack to be a distinguished
though untitled ornament of London
society ; while as for Aurelia Tucker, who fain
would scoff, there are her ladyship's beautiful
and costly dresses, and her jewels, and the
letters from Lord Jocelyn Le Breton and the
rich Miss Messenger, and the six hundred
dollars a year drawn monthly, which proclaim

aloud that there is something in the
claim.

These are things which cannot be gainsaid.


Nevertheless, no new discoveries have yet
rewarded his lordship's researches.

CHAPTEE XLVII.

THE PALACE OF DELIGHT.

During this time the Palace of Dehght was
steadily rising. Before Christmas its walls
were completed and the roof on. Then began
the painting, the decorating, and the fittings.
And Angela was told that the building would
be handed over to her, complete according to
the contract, by the first of March.

The building was hidden away, so to speak,
in a corner of vast Stepney, but already rumours
were abroad concerning it, and the purpose for
which it was erected. They were conflicting
rumours. No one knew at all what was
intended by it ; no one had been within the
walls ; no one knew who built it. The place
was situated so decidedly in the very heart and
core of Stepney, that the outside public knew
nothing at all about it, and the rumours were

confined to the small folk round it. So it rose in
their midst without being greatly regarded. No
report or mention of it came to Harry's ears,
so 'that he knew nothing of it, and suspected
nothing, any more than he suspected Miss
Kennedy of being some other person.

The first of March in this present year of
grace 1882 fell upon a Wednesday. Angela
resolved that the opening day should be on
Thursday, the second, and that she would open
it herself: and then another thought came into
her mind ; and the longer she meditated upon
it, the stronger hold did the idea take upon her.

The Palace of Delight was not, she said, her
own conception : it was that of the man — the
man she loved. Would it not be generous, in
giving this place over to the people for whom
it was built, to give its real fouiicler the one
reward which he asked .^

Never any knight of old had been more
loyal : he obeyed in the spirit as well as the
letter her injunction not to speak of love : not
only did he refrain from those good words
which he would fain have uttered, but he
showed no impatience, grumbled not, had no

VOL. III. Q

fits of sulking : he waited, patient. And in all
other things he did her behest, working with a
cheerful heart for her girls, always ready to
amuse them, always at her service for things
great and small, and meeting her mood with a
ready sympathy.

One evening, exactly a fortnight before the
proposed opening day, Angela invited all the
girls and, with them, her faithful old Captain,
and her servant Harry, to follow her because
she had a Thing to show them. She spoke with
great seriousness, and looked overcome with the
gravity of this Thing. What was she going to
show them ?

They followed, wondering, while she led the
way to the church, and then turned to the right
among the narrow lanes of a part where, by
some accident, none of the girls belonged.

Presently she stopped before a great building.
It was not lit up, and seemed quite dark
and empty. Outside, the planks were not yet
removed, and they were covered with gaudy
advertisements, but it was too dark to see them.
There was a broad porch above the entrance,
with a generously ample ascent of steps like

unto those of St. Paul's Cathedral . Angela
rang a bell and the door was opened. They
found themselves in an entrance hall of some
kind, imperfectly lighted by a single gas jet.
There were three or four men standing about,
apparently waiting for them, because one
stepped forward, and said, —

'Miss Messenger's party? '

'We are Miss Messenger's party,' Angela
replied.

Whoever we are,' said Harry, ' we are a
great mystery to ourselves.'

'Patience,' Angela whispered. 'Part of
the mystery is going to be cleared up.'

Light up. Bill,' said one of the men.

Then the whole place passed suddenly into
daylight, for it was lit by the electric globes.

It was a lofty vestibule. On either side
were cloak-rooms : opposite were entrance
doors. But what was on the other side of these
entrance-rooms none of them could guess.

My friend,' said Angela to Harry, ' this
place should be yoiu:s. It is of your creation.'

What is it, then .? '

It is your Palace of Dehght. Yes : nothing
Q 2

short of that. Will you lead me into your
Palace?'

She took his arm while he marvelled greatly,
and asked himself what this might mean. One
of the men then opened the doors, and they
entered, followed by the wondering girls.

They found themselves in a lofty and
very spacious hall. At the end was a kind of
throne — a red velvet divan, semicircular under
a canopy of red velvet. Statues stood on
either side : behind them was a great organ :
upon the walls were pictures. Above the pictures
were trophies in arms, tapestry carpets, all
kinds of beautiful things. Above the entrance
was a gallery for musicians ; and on either side
were doors leading to places of which they
knew nothing.

Miss Kennedy led the way to the semicircular
divan at the end. She took the central
place, and motioned the girls to arrange themselves
about her. The effect of this little group
sitting by themselves and in silence, at the end of
the great hall, was very strange and wonderful.

My dears,' she said after a moment — and
the girls saw that her eyes were full of tears —

my dears, I have got a wonderful story to tell
you. Listen.

There was a girl, once, who had the great
misfortune to be born rich. It is a thing which
many people desire. She, however, who had it,
knew what a misfortune it might become to
her. For the possessor of great wealth, more
especially if it be a woman, attracts all the
designing and wicked people in the world, all
the rogues and all the pretended philanthropists
to her, as wasps are attracted by honey ; and
presently, by sad experience, she gets to look
on all mankind as desirous only of robbing and
deceiving her. This is a dreadful condition of
mind to fall into, because it stands in the way
of love and friendship and trust, and all the
sweet confidences which make us happy.

'This girl's name was Messenger. Now,
when she was quite young she knew what was
going to happen, unless she managed somehow
differently from other women in her unhappy
position. And she determined as a first step to
get rid of a large quantity of her wealth, so that
the cupidity of the robbers might be diverted.

'Now, she had a humble friend — only a

dressmaker — who, for reasons of her own, loved
her, and would have served her if she could.
And this dressmaker came to live at the East
End of London.

'And she saw that the girls who have to
work for their bread are treated in such a way
that slavery would be a better lot for most of
them. For they have to work twelve hours in
the day, and sometimes more : they sit in close,
hot rooms, poisoned by gas : they get no change
of position as the day goes on : they have no
holiday, no respite, save on Sunday : they draw
miserable wages, and they are indifferently fed.
So that she thought one good thing Miss
Messenger could do was to help those girls, and
this was how our Association was founded.'

But we shall thank you, all the same,' said
Nelly.

Then another thing happened. There was
a young — gentleman,' Angela went on, ' staying
at the East End too. He called himself
a working man, said he was the son of a Sergeant
in the army, but everybody knew he was
a gentleman. This dressmaker made his acquaintance,
and talked with him a great deal.

He was full of ideas, and one clay lie proposed
that we should have a Palace of Dehght. It
would cost a great deal of money; but they
talked as if they had that sum, and more, at
their disposal. They arranged it all : they provided
for everything. When the scheme was
fully drawn up, the dressmaker took it to
Miss Messenger. Oh, my dear girls ! this is
the Palace of Delight. It is built as they proposed
; it is finished ; it is our own : and here is
its inventor.'

She took Harry's hand. He stood beside
her, gazing upon her impassioned face ; but he
was silent. ' It looks cold and empty now, but
when you see it on the opening day ; when you
come here night after night ; when you get to
feel the place to be a part, and the best part, of
your life, then remember that what Miss
Messenger did was nothing compared with
what this — this young gentleman did. For he
invented it.'

Now,' she said, rising — they were all too
much astonished to make any demonstration —
now let us examine the building. This Hall
is your great Reception Eoom. You will use it

for the ball nights, when you give your great
dances : a thousand couples may dance here
without crowding. On wet days it is to be the
playground of the children. It will hold a
couple of thousand, without jostling against each
other. There is the gallery for the music, as
soon as you have got any.'

She led the way to a door on the right.

This,' she said, ' is your Theatre.'

It was like a Woman theatre, being built
in the form of a semicircle, tier above tier, having
no distinction in places, save that some were
nearer the stage and some farther off.

Here,' she said, ' you will act. Do not think
that players will be found for you. If you
want a theatre you must find your own actors.
If you want an orchestra you must find your
own for your theatre, because in this place
everything will be done by yourselves.'

They came out of the Theatre. There was
one other door on that side of the Hall.

This,' said Angela, opening it, ' is the
Concert Eoom. It has an organ and a piano
and a platform. When you have got people
who can play and sing you will give concerts.'

They crossed the HalL On the other side
were two more great rooms, each as big as the
Theatre and the Concert Eoom. One was a
gymnasium, fitted up with bars and ropes and
parallel rods and trapezes.

This is for the young men,' said Angela.
They will be stimulated by prizes to become
good gymnasia. The other room is the Library.
Here they may come, when they please, to
read and study.'

It was a noble room, fitted with shelves and
the beginning of a great library.

Let 115 go upstairs,' said Angela.

Upstairs the rooms were all small, but there
were a great many of them.

Thus there were billiard-rooms, card-rooms,
rooms with chess, dominoes, and backgammon
tables laid out, smoking-rooms for men alone,
tea and coffee rooms, rooms where women could
sit by themselves if they pleased, and a room
where all kinds of refreshments were to be procured.
Above these was a second floor, which
was called the School. This consisted of a
great number of quite small rooms, fitted with
desks, tables, and whatever else midst be necessary.

Some of these rooms were called music-rooms,
and were intended for instruction and
practice on different instruments. Others were
for painting, drawing, sculpture, modelling,
wood carving, leather work, brass work, embroidery,
lacework, and all manner of small arts.

In the Palace of Delight,' said Angela, ' we
shall not be like a troop of revellers, thinking
of nothing but dance and song and feasting.
We shall learn something every day ; we shall
all belong to some class. Those of us who
know already will teach the rest. And oh !
the best part of all has to be told. Everything
in the Palace will be done for nothing, except
the mere cleaning and keeping in order. And
if anybody is paid anything, it will be at the
rate of a working man's wage — no more. For
this is our own Palace, the club of the working
people ; we will not let anybody make
money out of it : we shall use it for ourselves,
and we shall make our enjoyment by ourselves.

All this is provided in the deed of trust
by which Miss Messenger hands over the building
to the people. There are three trustees.
One of these, of course, is you — Mr. Goslett.'

I have been so lost in amazement,' said
Harry, ' that I have been unable to speak. Is
this, in very truth, the Palace of Delight that
we have battled over so long; and so often ? '

It is none other. And you are a trustee
to carry out the intentions of the founder —
yourself.'

They went downstairs again to the great Hall.

Captain Sorensen,' Angela whispered,
will you go home with the girls ? I will
follow in a few minutes.'

Harry and Angela were left behind in the
Hall.

She called the man in charge of the electric
light, and said something to him. Then he
went away and turned down the light, and they
were standing in darkness, save for the bright
moon which shone through the windows and fell
upon the white statues and made them look
like two ghosts themselves standing among rows
of other ghosts.

Harry,' said Angela.

Do not mock me,' he replied, ' I am in a
dream. This is not real. The place '

It is your own Palace of Delight. It will

be given to the people in a fortnight. Are you
pleased with your creation ? '

Pleased ? And you ? '

I am greatly pleased. Harry ' — it was the
first time she had called him by his Christian
name, — ' I promised you — I promised I would
tell you — I would tell you — if the time should
come '

'Has the time come? Oh, my dear love,
has the time come ? '

There is nothing in the way. But oh ! —
Harry — are you in the same mind .^ No — wait
a moment.' She held him by the wrists:
'Eemember what you are doing. Will you
choose a lifetime of work among working people .^
You can go back, now, to your old life ; but
perhaps — you will not be able to go back,
then.'

I have chosen, long ago. You know my
choice — oh ! love — my love.'

Then, Harry, if it will make you happy —
are you quite sure it will ? — you shall marry me
on the day when the Palace is opened.'

You are sure,' she said presently, ' that

you can love me, though I am only a dressmaker
? '

Could I love you,' he replied passionately,
if you were anything else ? '

You have never told me,' he said presently,
' your Christian name.'
■' It is Angela.'

Angela ! I should have known it could
have been no other. Angela, kind Heaven,
surely, sent you down to stay awhile with me.
If in time to come you should be ever
unhappy with me, dear, if you should not be
able to bear any longer with my faults, you
would leave me and go back to the heaven
whence you came.'

They parted, that night, on the steps of
Mrs. Bormalack's dingy old boardinghouse, to
both so dear. But Harry, for half the night,
paced the pavement, trying to calm the tumult
of his thoughts. 'A life of work — with
Angela — with Angela .^ Why, how small, how
pitiful seemed all other kinds of life in which
Angela was not concerned ! '

CHAPTER XLVIII.

MY LADY SWEET.

My story, alas ! has come to an end, according
to the nature of all earthly things. The love
vows are exchanged, the girl has given herself
to the man — rich or poor. My friends, if you
come to think of it, no girl is so rich that she
can give more, or so poor that she can give
less, than herself; and in love one asks not for
more or less. Even the day is appointed, and
nothing is going to happen which will prevent
the blessed wedding bells from ringing, or the
clergyman from the sacred joining together
of man and of maid, till death do part them.
What more to tell? We ought to di^op the
curtain while the moonlight pours through the
windows of the silent palace upon the lovers,
while the gods and goddesses, nymphs, naiads,
and reads in marble look on in sympathetic
joy. They, too, in the far-off ages, among the

woods and springs of Hellas, lived and loved,
tliougli their forests know them no more. Yet,
because this was no ordinary marriage, and
because we are sorry to part with Angela
before the day when she begins her wedded
life, we must fain tell of what passed in that
brief fortnight before the palace was opened,
and Angela's great and noble dream became
a reality.

There was, first of all, a great deal of
business to be set in order. Angela had
interviews with her lawyers, and settlements
had to be drawn up about which Harry knew
nothing, though he would have to sign them ;
then there were the trust deeds for the palace.
Angela named Harry, Dick Coppin, the old
Chartist, now lier firm and fast friend, and
Lord Jocelyu, as joint trustees. They were to
see, first of all, that no one got anything out of
the palace unless it might be workmen's wages
for work done. They were to carry out the
spirit of the house in making the place support
and feed itself, so that whatever amusements,
plays, dances, interludes, or mummers, were
set afoot, all might be by the people themselves
for themselves ; and they were to do their

utmost to keep out the discordant elements of
politics, religion, and party controversy.

All the girls knew by this time that Miss
Kennedy was to be married on the second of
March — the day when the palace was to be
opened. They also learned, because the details
were arranged and talked over every evening,
that the opening would be on a very grand
scale indeed. Miss Messenger herself was
coming to hand it over in person to the
trustees on behalf of the people of Stepney
and Whitechapel. There was to be the acting
of a play in the new theatre, a recital on
the new organ, the performance of a concert
in the new concert-room, playing all the
evening long by a military band, some sort of
general entertainment, and the whole was to be
terminated by a gigantic supper given by Miss
Messenger herself, to which fifteen hundred
guests were bidden ; namely, first, all the
employed of the brewery with their wives, if
they had any, from the Chief Brewer and the
Chief Accountant down to the humblest boy on
the establishment ; and secondly, all the girls of
the Association, with two or three guests for

each ; and thirdly, a couple of hundred or so
chosen from a list drawn up by Dick Coppin
and the cobbler and Harry.

As for Harry, he had now, by Angela's
recommendation, resigned his duties at the
Brewery, in order to throw his whole time into
the arrangement for the opening day ; and this
so greatly occupied him that he sometimes
even forgot what the day would mean to him.
The invitations were sent in Miss Messenger's
own name. They were all accepted, although
there was naturally some little feeling of irritation
at the Brewery when it became known
that there was to be a general sitting down of
all together. Miss Messenger also expressed
her wish that the only beverage at the supper
should be Messenger's beer, and that of the
best quality. The banquet, in imitation of
the Lord Mayor's dinner on the ninth of
November, was to be a cold one, and solid,
with plenty of ices, jellies, puddings, and fruit.
But there was something said about glasses of
wine for every guest after supper.

I suppose,' said Angela, talking over this
pleasant disposition of things with Harry, ' that

VOL, III. R

she means one or two toasts to be proposed.
The first should be to the success of the Palace.
The second, I think ' — and she blushed
' will be the health of you, Harry, and of
me.'

I think so much of you,' said Harry, ' all
day long, that I never think of Miss Messenger
at all. Tell me what she is like, this giver
and dispenser of princely gifts. I suppose she
really is the owner of boundless wealth ? '

She has several millions, if you call that
boundless. She has been a very good friend
to me, and will continue so.'

You know her well ? '

I know her very well. Oh, Harry, do
not ask me any more about her or myself.
When we are married I will tell you all about
the friendship of Miss Messenger to me. You
trust me, do you not ? '

Trust you ! Oh, Angela ! '

My secret, such as it is, is not a shameful
one, Harry ; and it has to do with the very
girl, this Miss Messenger. Leave me with it
till the day of our wedding. I wonder how
far your patience will endure my secrets .^ for

here is another. You know that I have a little
money ? '

I am afraid, my Angela,' said Harry, laughing,
' that you must have made a terrible hole
in it since you came here. Little or much, what
does it matter to us ? Haven't we got the Two
Thousand ? Think of that tremendous lump.'

What can it matter .^ ' she cried. ' Oh,
Harry, I thank Heaven for letting me, too,
have this great gift of sweet and disinterested
love. I thought it would never come to me.'

To whom, then, should it come ? '

Don't, Harry, or — yes — go on thinking
me all that you say, because it may help to
make me all that you think. But that is not
what I wanted to say. Would you mind
very much, Harry, if I asked you to take my
name ? '

I will take any name you wish, Angela.
If I am your husband, what does it matter
about any other name ? '

And then one other thing, Harry. Will
your guardian give his consent .^ '

Yes, I can answer for him that he with
And he will come to the wedding if I ask him.'
E 2

So,' said Lord Jocelyn, ' the dressmaker
has relented, has she? Why, that is well.
And I am to give my consent ? My dear boy,
I only want you to be happy. Beside, I
am quite sure and certain that you will be
happy.'

Everybody is, if he marries the woman he
loves,' said the young man sententiously.

'Yes — yes, if he goes on loving the woman
he has married. However, Harry, you have
my best wishes and my consent, since you are
good enough to ask for it. Wait a bit.' He
got up and began to search about in drawers
and desks. ' I must give your fiancee a
present, Harry. See — here is something good.
Will you give her, with my best love and
good wishes, this ? It was once my
mother's.'

Harry looked at the gaud, set with pearls
and rubies in old-fashioned style.

Is it not,' he asked, ' rather too splendid
for a — poor people in our position ? '

Lord Jocelyn laughed aloud.

Nothing,' he said, ' can be too splendid
for a beautiful woman. Give it her, Harry,
and tell her I am glad she has consented to
make you happy. Tell lier I am more than
glad, Harry. Say that I most heartily thank
her. Yes, thank her. Tell her that. Say
that I thank her from my heart.'

As the day drew near the girls became
possessed of a great fear. It seemed to all as
if things were going to undergo some great
and sudden change. They knew that the
house was secured to them free of rent ; but
they were going to lose their queen, that
presiding spirit who not only kept them
together, but also kept them happy. In her
presence there were no little tempers and
jealousies were forgotten. When she was with
them they were all on their best behaviour.
Now it is an odd thing in girls, and I really
think myself privileged, considering my own
very small experience of the sex, in being the
first to have discovered this important truth —
that, whereas to boys good behaviour is too
often a gene and a bore, girls prefer behaving
well. They are happiest when they are good,

nicely dressed, and sitting all in a row with
company manners. But who, when Miss
Kennedy Event away, would lead them in the
drawing-room ? The change, however, was
going to be greater than they knew or guessed
the drawing-room itself would become before
many days a thing of the past, but the Palace
would take its place.

They all brought gifts : they were simple
things, but they were offered with willing and
grateful hearts. Eebekah brought the one
volume of her father's library which was well
bound. It was a work written in imitation of
Hervey's ' Meditations,' and dealt principally
with tombs, and was therefore peculiarly
appropriate as a wedding present. Nelly
brought a ring which had been her mother's,
and was so sacred to her that she felt it must
be given to Miss Kennedy ; the other girls
gave worked handkerchiefs, and collars, and
such little things.

Angela looked at the table on which she
had spread all her wedding presents : the
plated teapot, from Mrs. Bormalack ; the girls'
work ; Nelly's ring ; Eebekah 's book ; Lord

Jocelyn's bracelet. She was happier with
these trifles than if she had received in
Portman Square the hundreds of gifts and
jewelled things which would have poured in
for the young heiress.

And in the short fortnight she thought for
everybody. Josephus received a message that
he might immediately retire on the pension
which he would have received had he been
fortunate in promotion, and been compelled to
go by ill-health : in other words, he was set free
with three hundred pounds a year for life. He
may now be seen any day in the Mile End Eoad
or on Stepney Green, dressed in the fashion of
a young man of twenty one or so, walking
with elastic step, because he is so young, yet
manifesting a certain gravity, as becomes one
who attends the evening lectures of the Beaumont
Institute in French and arithmetic, and
takes a class on the Sabbath in connection with
the Wesleyan body. After all, a man is only
as old as he feels ; and why should not
Josephus, whose youth was cruelly destroyed,
feel young again, now that his honour has been
restored to him ?

On the morning before the wedding, Angela
paid two visits of considerable importance.

The first was to Daniel Faggg, to whom she
carried a small parcel. ' My friend,' she said,
I have observed your impatience about your
book. Your publisher thought that, as you are
inexperienced in correcting proofs, it would be
best to have the work done for you. And here,
I am truly happy to say, is the book itself.'

He tore the covering from the book and
seized it, as a mother would seize her child.

My book ! ' he gasped, ' my book ! '

Yes, his book ; bound in sober cloth, with
an equilateral triangle on the cover for simple
ornament. * The Primitive Alphabet, By
Daniel Faggg.' ' My book ! '

Angela explained to him that his passage
to Melbourne was taken, and that he would
sail in a week ; and that a small sum of money
would be put into his hands on landing : and
that a hundred copies of the book would be
sent to Australia for him, with more if he
wanted them. But she talked to idle ears, for
Daniel was dining over the leaves and devouring
the contents of his book.

At all events,' said Angela, ' I have made
one man happy

Then she walked to the Trinity Almshouse,
and sought her old friend Captain Sorensen.

To him she told her whole story from the
very beginning, begging only that he would
keep her secret till the next evening.

But, of course,' said the sailor, ' I knew,
all along, that you were a lady born and bred.
You might deceive the folk here, who've no
chance, poor things, of knowing a lady when
they see one — how should they ? But you
could not deceive a man who's had his quarterdeck
full of ladies. The only question in my
mind was why you did it.'

You did not think that what Bunker said
was true — did you. Captain Sorensen ? '

Nay,' he replied. ' Bunker never liked
you ; and how I am to thank you enough for
all you've done for my poor girl '

Thank me by continuing to be my dear
friend and adviser,' said Angela. ' If I thought
it would pleasure you to live out of this

place '

'No, no,' said the Captain, 'I could not

take your money ; any one may accept the
provision of the asylum and be grateful.'

I knew you would say so. Stay on, then,
Captain Sorensen. And as regards Nelly, my
dear and fond Nelly '

It needs not to tell what she said and
promised on behalf of Nelly.

And at the house the girls were trying on
the new white frocks and white bonnets in
which they were to go to the wedding. They
were all bridesmaids, but Nelly had the post
of honour.

CHAPTER XLIX.

UPROUSE YE THEN, MY MERRY, MERRY MEN.'

At nine in the morning Harry presented himself
at the House, no longer his own, for the
signing of certain papers. The place was closed
for a holiday, but the girls were already
assembling in the show-room, getting their
dresses laid out, trying on their gloves, and
chattering like birds up in the branches on a
fine spring morning. He found Angela sitting
with an elderly gentleman — none other than
the senior partner in the firm of her solicitors.
He had a quantity of documents on the table
before him, and as Harry opened the door he
heard these remarkable words : —

So the young man does not know — even
at the eleventh hour ! '

What it was he would learn, Harry cared
not to inquire. He ]had been told that there

was a secret of some sort which he would learn
in the course of the day.

These papers, Harry, said his bride, ' are
certain documents which you have to sign, connected
with that little fortune of which I told
you.'

I hope,' said Harry, ' that the fortune,
whatever it is, has been all settled upon yourself
absolutely.*

You will find, young gentleman,' said the
solicitor gravely, ' that ample justice — generous
justice — has been done you. Very well, I will
say no more.'

Do you want me to sign without reading,
Angela?'

If you will so far trust me.'
He took the pen and signed where he was
told to sign, without reading one word. If
he had been ordered to sign away his life
and liberty, he would have done so blindly
and cheerfully at Angela's bidding. The deed
was signed, and the act of signature was
witnessed.

So that was done. There now remained
only the ceremony. While the solicitor, who

evidently disliked the whole proceeding, as
irregular and dangerous, was putting up the
papers, Angela took her lover's hands in hers,
and looked into his face with her frank and
searching look.

You do not repent, my poor Harry ? '

Repent ? '

You might have done so much better :
you might have married a lady '

The solicitor, overhearing these words, sat
down and rubbed his nose with an unprofessional
smile.

Shall I not marry a lady ? '

You might have found a rich bride : you
might have led a lazy life, with nothing to do,
instead of which — oh I Harry, there is still
time. We are not due at the church for half
an hour yet. Think. Do you deliberately
choose a life of work and ambition — with —
perhaps — poverty ? '

At this point the solicitor rose from his
chair and walked softly to the window, where
he remained for five minutes looking out upon
Stepney Green with his back to the lovers. If
Harry had been watching him, he would have

remarked a curious tremulous movement of the
shoulders.

There is one thing more, Harry, that I
have to ask you.'

Of course, you have only to ask me,
whatever it is. Could I refuse you anything,
who will give me so much ? '

Their fingers were interlaced, their eyes
were looking into each other. No ; he could
refuse her nothing.

I give you much ? Oh ! Harry — what is
a woman's gift of herself ? '

Harry restrained himself. The solicitor
might be sympathetic ; but, on the whole, it was
best to act as if he was not. Law has little todo
with Love : Cupid has never yet been represented
with the long gown.

It is a strange request, Harry. It is connected
with my — my little foolish secret. You
will let me go away directly the service is over,
and you will consent not to see me again until
the evening, when I shall return. You, withall
the girls, will meet me in the porch of the
Palace at seven o'clock exactly. And, as Miss
Messenger will come too, you will make your —

perhaps your last appearance — my poor boy —
in the character of a modern English gentleman
in evening dress. Tell your best man that
he is to give his arm to Nelly : the other girls
will follow two and two. Oh, Harry, the first
sound of the organ in your Palace will be your
own Wedding March : the first festival in your
Palace will be in your own honour. Is not
that what it should be ? '

In your honour, dear, not mine. And
Miss Messenger ? Are we to give no honour
to her who built the Palace ? '

Oh ! yes — yes — yes.' She put the question
by with a careless gesture. ' But any one who
happened to have the money could do such a
simple thing. The honour is yours because
you invented it.'

From your hands, Angela, I will take all
the honour that you please to give. So am I
doubly honoured.'

There were no wedding bells at all : the
organ was mute : the Parish Church of Stepney
was empty : the spectators of the marriage
were Mrs. Born alack and Captain Sorensen,

besides the girls and the bridegroom, and Dick
his best man. The Captain in the Salvation
Army might have been present as well ; he
had been asked, but he was lying on the sickbed
from which he was never to rise again.
Lord and Lady Davenant were there : the
former sleek, well contented, well dressed in
broadcloth of the best ; the latter agitated,
restless, humiliated, because she had lost the
thing she came across the Atlantic to claim,
and was going home, after the splendour of the
last three months, to the monotonous levels of
Canaan City. Who could love Canaan City
after the West End of London .^ What woman
would look forward with pleasure to the dull
and uneventful days, the local politics, the
chapel squabbles, the little gatherings for tea
and supper, after the enjoyment of a carriage
and pair and unlimited theatres, operas, and
concerts, and footmen, and such dinners as the
average American, or the average Englishman
either, seldom arrives at seeing, even in visions ?
Sweet content was gone : and though Angela
meant well, and it was kind of her to afford
the ambitious lady a glimpse of that great world

into which lie desired to enter, the sight — even
this Pisgah glimpse — of a social Paradise to
which she could never belong, destroyed lier
peace of mind, and she will for the rest of her
life lie on a rock deploring. JSTot so her husband
: his future is assured ; he can eat and
drink plentifully ; he can sleep all the morning
undisturbed ; he is relieved of the anxieties
connected with his Case : and though the respect
due to rank is not recognised in the
States, he has to bear none of its responsibilities,
and has altogether abandoned the Grand
Manner. At the same time, as one who very
nearly became a British Peer, his position in
Canaan City is enormously raised.

They, then, were in the church. They
drove thither, not in Miss Messenger's carriage,
but with Lord Jocelyn.

They arrived a quarter of an hour before
the ceremony. When the curate who was to
perform the ceremony arrived, Lord Jocelyn
sought him in the vestry and showed him a
special licence by which it was pronounced
lawful, and even laudable, for Harry Goslett,

VOL. III. s

bachelor, to take unto wife Angela Marsden
Messenger, spinster.

And at sight of that name did the curate's
knees begin to tremble, and his hands to shake.

Angela Marsden Messenger ^ Is it, then,'
he asked, ' the great heiress ? '

It is none other,' said Lord Jocelyn. ' And
she marries my ward — here is my card — by
special licence.'

But — but — is it a clandestine marriage .^ '

Not at all. There are reasons why Miss
Messenger desires to be married in Stepney.
With them we have nothing to do. She has,
of late, associated herself with many works of
benevolence, but anonymously. In fact, my
dear sir ' — here Lord Jocelyn looked profoundly
knowing — ' my ward, the bridegroom, has always
known her under another name, and even now
does not know whom he is marrying. When
wee sign the books, we must, just to keep the
secret a little longer, manage that he shall write
his own name without seeing the names of the
bride.'

This seemed \ very irregular in the eyes of
the curate, and at first he was for referring the

matter to the rector, but finally gave in, on the
understanding that he was to be no party to
any concealment.

And presently the wedding party walked
slowly up the aisle, and Harry, to his great
astonishment, saw his bride on Lord Jocelyn's
arm. There were cousins of the Messengers in
plenty who should have done this duty, but
Angela would invite none of them. She came
alone to Stepney ; she lived and worked in the
place alone ; she wanted no consultation or
discussion with the cousins ; she would tell
them when all was done ; and she knew very
well that so great an heiress as herself could do
nothing but what is right, when one has time
to recover from the shock, and to settle down
and think things over.

No doubt, though we have nothing to do
with the outside world in this story, there was
a tremendous rustling of skirts, shaking of
hands, tossing of curls, wagging of tongues,
and uplifting of hands, the next morning when
Angela's cards were received, and the news was
in all the papers. And there was such a run
upon interjections that the vocabulary broke

s2

down, and people were fain to cry to one another
in foreign tongues.

For thus the announcement ran : —

'On Thursday, March 20, at the Parish
Church, Stepney, Harry, son of the late Samuel
Goslett, Sergeant in the 120th Regiment of the
Line, to Angela Marsden, daughter of the late
John Marsden Messenger, and granddaughter
of the late John Messenger, of Portman Square
and Whitechapel.'

This was a pretty blow among the cousins.
The greatest heiress in England, whom they
had hoped would marry a duke, or a marquis,
or an earl at least, had positively and actually
married the son of a common soldier — well,
a non-commissioned officer — the same thing.
What did it mean ? What could it mean ?

Others, who knew Harry and his story, who
had sympathy with him on account of his
many good qualities; who owned that the
obscurity of his birth was but an accident
shared with him by many of the most worthy,
excellent, brilliant, useful, well-bred, delightful
men of the world ; rejoiced over the strange
irony of Fate which had first lifted this soldier's

son out of the gutter, and then, with apparent
malignity, dropped him back again, only, however,
to raise him once more far higher than
before. For, indeed, the young man was now
rich — with his vats and his mash tubs, his millions
of casks, his Old and his Mild and his Bitter,
and his Family at nine shillings the nine-gallon
cask, and his accumulated millions, 'beyond
the potential dream of avarice If he chooses
to live more than half his time in Whitechapel,
that is no concern of anybody's ; and if his wife
chooses to hold a sort of court at the abandoned
East, to surround herself with people unheard
of in society, not to say out of it, why should
she not ? Any of the Eoyal princes might
have done the same tiling if they had chosen
and had been well advised. Further, if, between
them, Angela and her husband have established
a superior Aquarium, a glorified Crystal Palace,
in which all the shows are open, all the performers
are drilled and trained amateurs, and
all the work actually is done for nothing ; in
which the management is by the people themselves,
who will have no interference from
priest or parson, rector or curate, philanthropist

or agitator ; and no patronage from societies,
well-intentioned young ladies, meddling
benevolent persons and officious promoters,
starters, and showers along, with half an eye
fixed on heaven and the remaining eye and a
half on their own advancement ; if, in fact, they
choose to do these things, wliy not ? It is an
excellent way of spending their time, and a
change from the monotony of society.

Again, it is said that Harry, now Harry Mes ■
singer, by the provision of old John Messenger's
will, is the President, or the Chairman, or
the Honorary Secretary, in fact, the spring and
stay and prop, of a new and most formidable
Union or Association, which threatens, unless
it be nipped in the bud, very considerable
things of the greatest importance to the country.
It is, in fact, a League of Working Men for
the Promotion and Advancement of their own
interests. Its Prospectus sets forth that, having
looked in vain, among the candidates for the
House of Commons, for any representative who
had been in the past, or was likely to be in the
future, of the slightest use to them in the
House ; havingTound that neither Conservatives,

nor Liberals, nor Eadicals, have ever been, or
are ever likely to be, prepared with any real
measure which should in the least concern
themselves and their own wants ; and fully
recognising the fact that in the Debates of the
House the interests of labour and the duties of
Government towards the labouring classes are
never recognised or understood ; the workingmen
of the country hereby form themselves
into a General League or Union, which shall
have no other object whatever than the study
of their own rights and interests. The question
of wages will be left to the different Unions,
except in such cases where there is no Union,
or where the men are inarticulate (as in the
leading case, now some ten years old, of
the gas stokers), through ignorance and drink.
And the immediate questions before the Union
will be, hast, the dwelling-houses of the workingmen,
which are to be made clean, safe, and
healthy ; next, their food and drink, which are
to be unadulterated, pure, and genuine, and are
to pass through no more hands than is necessary,
and to be distributed at the actual cost
price without the intervention of small shops :

next, instruction, for which purpose the working
men will elect their own School Boards and
burn all the foolish reading books at present in
use, and abolish spelling as a part of education,
and teach the things necessary for all trades :
next, clothing, which will be made for them by
their own men working for themselves, without
troubling the employers of labour at all : next,
a newspaper of their own, which will refuse any
place to political agitators, leaders, partisans,
and professional talkers, and be devoted to the
questions which really concern working men,
and especially the question of how best to employ
the Power which is in their hands, and
report continually Avhat is doing, what must be
done, and how it must be done. And lastly,
emigration, so that in every family it shall be
considered necessary for some to go, and the
whole country shall be mapped out into districts,
and only a certain number be allowed to
remain.

Now, the world being so small as it is, and
Englishmen and Scotchmen being so masterful
that they must needs go straight to the front
and stay there, it cannot but happen that the

world will presently — that is, in two generations,
or three at the most — be overrun with the good
old English blood : whereupon until the round
earth gets too small, which will not happen for
another ten thousand years or so, there will bethe
purest, most delightful, and most heavenly
Millennium. Each people may come into it if
they please, but they will not be wanted : in
fact, rich people will die out, and it will soon
come to be considered an unhappy thing, as it
undoubtedly is, to be born rich.

Lastly, the Union will devote part of its
energies to the consideration of how life maybe
made happy.

Who daughters ye are,' concluded

the curate, closing his book, ' as long as ye do
well, and are not afraid with any amazement.'

He led the way into the vestry, where the
book lay open, and sitting at the table he made
the proper entries.

Then Harry took his place and signed. Now,
behold ! as he took the pen in his hand. Lord
Jocelyn artfully held blotting-paper in readiness,
and in such a manner as to hide the name

of the bride : then Angela signed : then the
witnesses, Lord Jocelyn and Captain Sorensen.
And then there were shaking of hand and
hissing. And before they came away the
curate ventured timidly to whisper congratulations,
and that he had no idea of the honour

And then Angela stopped him, and bade him
to her wedding feast that evening at the new
Palace of Delight.

Then Lord Jocelyn distributed largess, the
largest kind of largess, among the people of
the church.

But it surely was the strangest of weddings.
For when they reached the church door the
bride and bridegroom kissed each other, and
then he placed her in the carriage, in which
the Davenants and Lord Jocelyn also seated
themselves, and so they drove off.

We shall see her again to-night,' said
Harry. ' Come, Dick, we have got a long day
to get through — seven hours. Let us go for a
walk. I can't sit down : I can't rest : I can't
do anything. Let us go for a walk, and
wrangle.'

They left the girls and strode away, and

did not return until it was past six o'clock, and
already growing dark.

The girls, in dreadful lowness of spirits,
and feeling as flat as so many pancakes, returned
to their house and sat down with their
hands in their laps, to do nothing for seven
hours. Did one ever hear that the maidens
at a marriage — do the customs of any country
present an example of such a thing — returned
to the bride's house without either bride or
bridegroom ? Did one ever hear of a marriage
where the groom left the bride at the
church door, and went away for a six hours'
walk?

As for Captain Sorensen, he went to the
Palace and pottered about, getting snubbed by
the persons in authority. There was still much
to be done before the evening, but there was
time : all would be done. Presently he went
away ; but he, too, was restless and agitated :
he could not rest at home : the possession of
the secret, the thought of his daughter's future,
the strange and unlooked-for happiness that had
come to him in this old age — these things
agitated him ; nor could even his fiddle bring

him any consolation ; and the peacefulness of
the Almshouse, which generally soothed him,
this day irritated him. Therefore he wandered
about, and presently appeared at the House,
where he took dinner with the girls, and they
talked about what would happen.

The first thing that happened was the
arrival of a cart — a spring cart — with the
name of a Eegent Street firm upon it. The
men took out a great quantity of parcels and
brought them into the show-room. All the
girls ran down to see what it meant, because
on so great a day everything, said Nelly, must
mean something.

Name of Armitage ? ' asked the man. ' This
is for you. Miss. — Name of Sorensen ? This is
for you.' And so on, a parcel for every one of
the girls.

Then he went away, and they all looked at
each other.

Hadn't you better,' asked Captain Sores
' open the parcels, girls ? '

They opened them.

Oh h ! '

Behold ! for every girl such a present as

none of them had ever imagined ! The masculine
pen cannot describe the sweet things which
they found there ; not silks and satins, but
pretty things ; with boots, because dressmakers
are apt to be shabby in the matter of boots ;
and with handkerchiefs and pretty scarves and
gloves and serviceable things of all sorts.

More than this : there was a separate
parcel tied up in white paper for every girl,
and on it, in pencil, ' For the wedding supper
at the Palace of Delight.' And in it gauze, or
lace, for bridesmaids' head-dress, and white kid
gloves, and a necklace with a locket, and inside
the locket a portrait of Miss Kennedy, and
outside her Christian name, Angela. Also

for each girl a little note, ' For , with

Miss Messenger's love ; ' but for Nelly, whose
parcel was like Benjamin's mess, the note
was, ' For Nelly, with Miss Messenger's kindest
love.'

That,' said Eebekah, but without jealousy,
is because you were Miss Kennedy's favourite.
Well! Miss Messenger must be fond of her,
and no wonder ! '

No wonder at all,' said Captain Sorensen.

And nobody guessed. Nobody had the
least suspicion.

While they were all admiring and wondering
Mrs. Bormalack ran over breathless.

My dears ! ' she cried, ' look what's come ! '

Nothing less than a beautiful black silk
dress.

'Now go away, Captain Sorensen,' she
said ; ' you men are only hindering. And
we've got to try on things. Oh ! good
gracious ! To think that Miss Messenger would
remember me, of all people in the world!
To be sure, Mr. Bormalack was one of her
collectors, and she may have heard about
me '

'No,' said Eebekah, 'it is through Mies
Kennedy; no one has been forgotten who
knew her.'

At seven o'clock that evening the great
hall of the Palace was pretty well filled with
guests. Some of them, armed with white
wands, acted as stewards, and it was understood
that on the arrival of Miss Messenger a
lane was to be formed and the procession to

the dais at the end of the hall was to pass
through that lane.

Outside, in the vestibule, stood the wedding
party waiting : the bridegroom with his best
man. and the bridesmaids in their white dresses,
flowing gauze and necklaces, and gloves, and
flowers — a very sweet and beautiful bevy of
girls ; Harry for the last time in his life, he
thought with a sigh, in evening dress. Within
the hall there were strange rumours flying
about. It was said that Miss Messenger herself
had been married that morning, and that
the procession would be for her wedding ; but
others knew better : it was Miss Kennedy's
wedding ; she had married Harry Goslett, the
man they called Gentleman Jack ; and Miss
Kennedy, everybody knew, was patronised by
Miss Messenger.

At ten minutes past seven, two carriages
drew up. From the first of these descended
Harry's bride, led by Lord Jocelyn ; and from
the second the Davenants.

Yes, Harry's bride. But whereas in the
morning she had been dressed in a plain white
frock and white bonnet like her bridesmaids :

she Alas now arrayed in white satin, mystic,
wonderful, with white veil and white flowers,
and round her white throat a necklace of
sparkling diamonds, and diamonds in her hair.

Harry stepped forward with beating heart.

Take her, boy,' said Lord Jocelyn proudly.
But you have married — not ]\iiss Kennedy at
all — but Angela Messenger.'

Harry took his bride's hand in a kind of
stupor. What did Lord Jocelyn mean ?

Forgive me, Harry,' she said, ' say you
forgive me.'

Then he raised her veil and kissed her
forehead before them all. But he could not
speak, because all in a moment the sense of
what this would mean poured upon his brain
in a great Avave, and he would fain have been
alone.

It was Miss Kennedy indeed, but glorified
into a great lady ; oh !— oh— MISS Messenger!


The girls, frightened, were shrinking together
; even Eebekah was afraid at the great
and mighty name of Messenger.

Angela went among them, and kissed them

all with words of encouragement. ' Can you
not love me, Nelly she said, ' as well when I
am rich as when I was poor ? '

Then the chief officers in the Brewery
advanced, offering congratulations in timid
accents, because they knew now that Miss
Kennedy the dressmaker, of whom such hard
things had been sometimes said in their own
presence and by their own wives, was no other
than the sole partner in the Brewery, and that
her husband had worked among them for a
daily wage. What did these things mean?
They made respectable men afraid. One person
there was, however, who at sight of Miss
Messenger, for whom he was waiting with
anxious heart, having a great desire to present
his own case of unrewarded zeal, turned pale,
and broke through the crowd with violence and
fled. It was Uncle Bunker.

And then the stewards appeared at the
open doors, and the procession was formed.

First the stewards themselves — being all
clerks of the Brewery — walked proudly at the
head, carrying their white wands like rifles.
Next came Harry and the bride, at sight of

VOL. III. T

whom the guests shouted and roared; next
came Dick Coppin with l^elly, and Lord
Jocelyn with Eebekah, and the Chief Brewer
with Lady Davenant, of course in her black
velvet and war paint, and Lord Davenant with
Mrs. Bormalack, and the Chief Accountant
with another bridesmaid, and Captain Sorensen
with another, and then the rest.

Then the organ burst into a Wedding
March, rolling and pealing about the walls and
roof of the mighty hall, and amid its melodious
thunder, and the shouts of the wedding
guests, Harry led his bride slowly through the
lane of curious and rejoicing faces, till they
reached the dais.

When all were arranged with the bride
seated in the middle, her husband standing at
her right and the bridesmaids grouped behind
them, Lord Jocelyn stepped to the front and
read in a loud voice part of the deed of gift,
which he then gave with a profound bow to
Angela, who placed it in her husband's
hands.

Then she stepped forward and raised her
veil, and stood before them all, beautiful as the

day, and with tears in her eyes. Yet she spoke
in firm and clear accents which all could hear.
It was her first and last public speech : for
Angela belongs to that rapidly diminishing
body of women dio prefer to let the men do
all the public speaking.

My dear friends,' she said, ' my kind
friends : I wish first that j^ou should clearly
understand that this Palace has been invented
and designed for you by my husband. All I
have done is to build it. Now it is yours, withall
it contains. I pray God that it may be
used worthily, and for the joy and happiness of
all. I declare this Palace of Dehght open, the
property of the people, to be administered and
governed by them and them alone, in trust for
each other.'

This was all she said, and the people
cheered again, and the organ played 'God
save the Queen.'

With this simple ceremony was the Palace
of Delight thrown open to the world. What
better beginning could it have than a wedding
party? What better omen could there be
than that the Palace, like the Garden of Eden,

T 2

should begin with the happiness of a wedded
pair?

At this point there presented itself, to those
who drew up the programme, a grave practical
difficulty. It was this. The Palace could only
be declared open in the Great Hall itself. Also,
it could be only in the Great Hall that the
banquet could take place. Now, how were the
fifteen hundred guests to be got out of the way
and amused while the tables were laid and the
cloth spread? There could not be, it is true,
the splendour and costly plate and epergnes and
flowers of my Lord Mayor's great dinner, but
ornament of some kind there must be upon the
tables ; and even with an army of drilled waiters
it takes time to lay covers for fifteen hundred
people.

But there was no confusion. Once more
the procession was formed and marched round
the hall, headed by the band of the Guards,
visiting first the gymnasium, then the library,
then the concert-room, and lastly the theatre.
Here they paused, and the bridal party took
their seats. The people poured in : when every

seat was taken the stewards invited the rest
into the concert-room. In the theatre a Httle
sparkling comedy was played : in the concert
room a troupe of singers discoursed sweet
madrigals and glees. Outside, the waiters ran
backwards and forwards as busy as Diogenes
with his tub, but more to the purpose.

When, in something over an hour, the performances
were finished, the stewards found
that the tables were laid, one running down the
whole length of the hall, and shorter ones across
the hall. Everybody had a card with Ins place
upon it : there was no confusion, and while
trumpeters blared a welcome, they all took
their places in due order.

Angela and her husband sat in \\\q, middle
of the long table ; at Angela's left hand was
Lord Jocelyn, at Harry's right Lady Davenant.
Opposite the bride and bridegroom sat the
Chief Brewer and the Chief Accountant. The
bridesmaids spread out right and left. All
Angela's friends and acquaintances of Stepney
Green were there, except three. For old Mr.
Maliphant was sitting as usual in the boardinghouse,
conversing with unseen persons and

laughing and brandishing a pipe ; and with hia
Daniel Faggg sat hugging his book. And in his
own office sat Bunker, sick at heart. For he
remembered his officious private letter to Miss
Messenger, and he felt that he had, indeed, gone
and done it.

The rest of the long table was filled up by
the clerks and superior officers of the Brewery :
at the shorter tables sat the rest of the guests,
including even the draymen and errand-boys.
And so the feast began, while the band of the
Guards played for them.

It was a royal feast, with the most magnificent
cold sirloin of roast beef and rounds
of salt beef, legs of mutton, saddles of mutton,
haunches of mutton, loins of veal, ribs of pork,
legs of pork, great hams, huge turkeys, capons,
fowls, ducks, and geese, all done to a turn ; so
that the honest guests fell to with a mighty will,
and wished that such a wedding might come once
a month at least, with such a supper. And
Messenger's beer, as much as you pleased, for
everybody. At a moment like this, would one, even
at the High Table, venture to ask, to say nothing
of wishing for, aught but Messenger's beer ?

After the hacked and mangled remains of
the first course were removed there came puddings,
pies, cakes, jellies, ices, blancmange, all
kinds of delicious things.

And after this was done, and eating was
stayed, and only the memory left of the enormous
feed, the Chief Brewer rose and proposed
in a few words the health of the bride and
bridegroom. He said that it would be a lasting
sorrow to all of them that they had not
been present at the auspicious event of the
morning ; but that it was in some measure
made up to them by the happiness they had
enjoyed together that evening. If anything,
he added, could make them pray more heartily
for the happiness of the bride, it would be the
thought that she refused to be married from
her house in the West End, but came to Stephen"
among the workmen and managers of her own
Brewery, and preferred to celebrate her wedding
feast in the magnificent hall which she
had given to the people of the place. And he
had one more good thing to tell them. Miss
Messenger, when she gave that precious thing,
her hand, retained her name. There would

still be a Messenger at the head of the good
old House.

Harry replied in a few words, and the wedding
cake went round. Then Dick Coppin
proposed success to the Palace of Delight.

Harry,' whispered Angela, ' if you love me,
speak now, from your very heart.'

He sprang to his feet, and spoke to the
people as they had never heard any yet speak.

After telling them what the Palace was,
what it was meant to be, a place for the
happiness and recreation of all ; how they were
to make their own amusements for themselves ;
how there were class-rooms where all kinds of
arts and accomplishments would be taught ;
how, to ensure order and good behaviour, it was
necessary that they should form their own
volunteer police ; how there were to be no
politics and no controversies within those walls,
and how the management of all was left to committees
of their own choosing, he said, —

Friends all, this is, indeed, such a thing as
the world has never yet seen. You have been
frequently invited to join together and combine
for the raising of wages : you are continually

invited to follow leaders who promise to reform
land laws, when you have no land and never
will have any ; to abolish the House of Lords, in
which you have no part, share, or lot ; to sweep
away a Church which does not interfere with
you ; but who have nothing — no, nothing to offer
you, out of which any help or advantage will
come to you. And you are always being told
to consider life as a long period of resignation
inter inevitable suffering : and you are told to
submit your reason, your will, yourselves, to
authority, and all will be well with you. No
one yet has given you the chance of making
yourselves happy. In this place you will find,
or you will make for yourselves, all the things
which make the lives of the rich happy. Here
you will have music, dancing, singing, acting,
painting, reading, games of skill, games of
chance, companionship, cheerfulness, light,
warmth, comfort — everything. When these
things have been enjoyed for a time they will
become a necessity for you, and a part of the
education for your young people. They will
go on to desire other things which cannot be
found by any others for you, but which must

be found by yourselves and for yourselves. My
wife has placed in your hands the materials for
earthly joy : it lies with you to learn how to
use them : it lies with you to find what other
tidings are necessary ; how the people who
have all the Power there is, must find out
what they want, and help themselves to it,
standing shoulder to shoulder by means of
that Power; how those enemies are not the
rich, whom your brawlers in Whitechapel Eoad
ignorantly accuse, but quite another kind — and
you must find out for yourselves who these are.
It is not by setting poor against rich, or by
hardening the heart of rich against poor,
that you will succeed: it is by independence
and by knowledge. All sorts and conditions
of men are alike. As are the vices of
the rich, so are your own : as are your virtues,
so are theirs. But, hitherto, the rich have had
things which you could not get. Now all that
is altered : in the Palace of Delight we are
equal to the richest : there is nothing which
we, too, cannot have : what they desire we
desire ; what they have we shall have : we
can all love ; we can all laugh ; we can all feel

the power of music ; we can dance and sing ;
or we can sit in peace and meditate. In this
Palace, as in the outer world, remember that
you have the Power. The time for envy,
hatred, and accusations has gone by : because
we working men have, at last, all the Power
there is to have. Let us use it well. But the
Palace will be for joy and happiness, not for
political wrangles. Brothers and sisters, we
will no longer sit down in resignation : we will
take the same joy in this world that the rich
have taken. Life is short for us all : let us
make the most of it for ourselves and for each
other. There are so many joys within our
reach ; there are so many miseries which we
can abolish. In this house, which is a Temple
of Praise, we shall all together continually bethinking
how to bring more sunshine into our
lives, more change, more variety, more happiness.'


A serious ending; because Harry spoke
from his heart. As he took his seat in deep
silence, the organ broke forth again and played,
while the people stood, the grand Old Hundredth
Psalm.

A serious ending to the feast ; but Life is
serious.

• »*••■

Ten minutes later the bride rose, and the
band played a joyful march, while the wedding
procession once more formed and marched
down the hall, and the people poured out into
the streets to cheer, and Angela and her husband
drove away for their honeymoon.

The Palace of Delight is in working order
now, and Stepney is already transformed. A
new period began on the opening night for all
who were present. For the first time they
understood that life may be happy: for the
first time they resolved that they would find
out for themselves the secret of happiness.
The angel with the flaming sword has at last
stepped from the gates of the earthly Paradise,
and we may now enter therein and taste, unreproved,
of all the fruits except the apples of
the Tree of Life — which has, indeed, been removed,
long since, to another Place.

THE END.

SpottUvDoodt & Cost Printers, Ncvi-itred Square, London,



Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. per volume.

Wanderer's Library, The :

Merrier England in the Olden

Time. By George Daniel. With
iUu3tra.t;nns by Root. Cruikshank.

The Old Showmen ana tb.o Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

The Wilds of London. By
James Greenwood.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings ;
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Handley. With Lusts.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers.
By Thomas Frost.

The Life and Adventures of a

Cheap Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Handley.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Lusts.

Low-life Deeps. An Account
of the Strange Fish to be found there.
By James Greenwood.

Seven Generations of Executioners
: Memoirs of the Samson
Family (1688 to 1847). Edited by
Henry Samson.

The "World Behind the Scenes:
By Percy Fitzgerald.

London Characters. By Henry
Mathew. Illustrated.

The Genial Showman: Life

and Adventures of Artemis Ward.
By E. P. Kingston. Frontispiece.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or,

Life among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm, Illustrated.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By Charles Warren Standard.
Illustrated by Wallis Mackay.



Savage Life. By Frederick
Boyle. lln the press.

Camp Notes, By Frederick
Boyle. [//t the press.

Carefully printed on paper to imitate the Original, 22 in. by 14 in., 2s.

Warrant to Execute Charles I.

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals.

Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS., price 25.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots.

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and
a Facsimile of the Great Seal.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with numerous Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery and Force-lain

; or. History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Holder
M. Westropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Marks.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is.

Whistler v. Ruskin : Art and Art Critics.

By J. A. Macneill Whistler,

Large 4to, cloth extra, 31s. 6d.

White Mountains (The Heart of the) :

Their Legend and Scenery. By Samuel Adams Drake, With
nearly 100 Illustrations by W. Hamilton Gibson.

Williams (Mattieuu), Works by ;

Science in Short Chapters. By W. Mattieuu Williams,

Fer. Ass., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6rf. [In the press.

A Simple Treatise on Heat. By W. Mattieuu Williams.
F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, ^o. ors.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew), Works by :

Chapters on Evolution : A Popular History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development, By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 300 Illustrations, ys. 6d. Shortly.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Note-book. By Andrew Wilson,
Ph.D., F.R.S.E. (A Volume of "The Mayfair Library") Post 8vo,
cloth limp. 25. 6d.

Leisure - Time Studies, chiefly Biological. By Andrew

Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with

Illustrations, 6s.

"It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator,

who in the intervals of his more serious professional labours sets himself to impart

knowledge in such a simple and elementary finn as may attract and instruct,

ivith no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this

little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr.

Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in Science at Edinburgh and Glasgow,

at leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages teem

with matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the

truths of nature." — Saturday Review.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 65.

Wooing (The) of the Water Witch :

A Northern Oddity. By Evan Daldorne, lust. bye. Moor Smith.
Crown 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-way' Matters. By
Believer Edwards.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:

Caricature History of the Georges. (The House of Hanover.)
With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides, Window Pictures,
&c. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

History of Caricature and of the Grotesque in Art, Literature,

Sculpture, and Painting. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated
by F. W. Fairport, F.S.A. Large post 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Demy 8vo, 2S.

Zululand, (A Defence of), and its King.

With an Appendix containing Correspondence on the subject of the
Release of Cetswayo, &c. By Lady Florence Dixie.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, I72, ST, JOHN STREET, Eg.
