''\r\S\

^f^ >'/--'^f "^4^. ^'

':«i^' ,^'?

Wi^f^WMi^^

-/ej9-. yy^i'y^

e).

/ ^

'•3,-i%>i

'.m

EX-LIBRIS
F. E.DlNSHAW

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

8a3

B46te

\

v\r^

TEN YEARS' TENANT

VOL. I.

MRS. LINTON'S NEW NOVEL.
THE REBEL OF THE FAMILY. By E.Lynn

Linton. Three vols, crown 8vo.

MR. FRANCILLON's NEW NOVEL.
QUEEN COPHETUA. By R. E. Francisco.

Three vols, crown 8vo.

MRS. HUNTS NEW NOVEL.
THE LEADEN CASKET. By Mrs. Alfred W.

Hunt. Three vols, crown Svo.

JULIAN HAWTHORNE'S NEW NOVEL.
ELLICE Quest IN, and other Stories. By Julian

Hawthorne. Two vols, crown 8vo.

JAMES Pain's NEW NOVEL.
A CONFIDENTIAL AGENT. By James Pain.

Illustrated by Arthur Hopkins. 3 vols, crown 8vo. Second
Edition.

NEW NOVEL BY CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A LIFE'S ATONEMENT. By David Christie

Murray. 3 vols, crown 8vo. Second Edition.
OUIDA 'S NEW WORK.
A VILLAGE COMMUNE. By Ouida. Two vols.

crown 8vo.

r

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

TEN YEARS' TENANT

AND OTHER STORIES

BY

WALTER BESANT & JAMES RICE

AUTHORS OF

ready-MONEY MORTIBOY ' * THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY' 'THE MONKS OF Helena

THE SEAMY SIDE ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. L

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY


«

[All rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

V. I

CONTENTS

^
^

OF

THE First VOLUME.
THE TEN YEARS' TENANT.

latter PAGE

I. How I MET Him 3

II. How I DID Him a Signal Service . . . 25

III. How HE Rewarded Me 38

IV. How HE Confided in Me 56

V. How HE USED his most Excellent Gift . . 82

SWEET NELLY, MY HEARTS DELIGHT.

o ^ I. In Sackcloth and Slavery 131

II. On Tower Hill 164

III. Rival Suitors 211

IV. My Lord Eardesley 247



TEN Years' TENANT,

VOL. I.

HOW I MET HIM.

Tt is now twenty years ago. I was staying at
an hotel in Scarborough, one of the great places
where they have a couple of liundrecl people
every day at their table d'hote. In the evening
some of the company who had been long
enough in the place to make each other's acquaintance
had got up an entertainment for the
rest in the shape of private theatricals, which
was given, after the Elizabethan manner, without
the accessories of scenery, in the dining-hall.
I forget what the play was ; but it
needed no scenery, being a comedy of the last
century, for which the actors were dressed in

B 2

the fashions of the second George, stately and
splendid, though rather stiff.

I am not very fond of private theatricals.
It always seems to me that the best amateur
actors are those who have most carefully
studied the gestures and tricks of professionals
in the same parts. Therefore my attention was
gradually diverted from the performance to the
audience, where were all the materials from
which an old-fashioned moralist would have
drawn his weary old moral, with a tag of ' telle
est la vie ' about the group met together that
night, never again, perhaps, to gather under the
same roof. There was the doddering old gentleman
; there was the bright and happy girl of
seventeen, to whom life seemed made up of
lovers and sugar-candy, a most delightful object
of contemplation for men of all ages ; there
were the two elderly maiden ladies, who were

enjoying the representation enormously, with
a fearful joy, because they had been taught to
regard the drama as wicked beyond all things ;
could, it was always asked, a serious person,
with a regard to his soul, look even at the
outside of a theatre without shuddering ?
There was a comfortable old widow, sound
asleep with her mouth open ; there was a group
of children, in happy raptures ; there were
young men and maidens, half listening and
half flirting ; there were the usual superior young
men from Oxford, who looked on with tolerant
pity ; there were the country cousins, half
ashamed of enjoying the performance too
much ; there were the waiters and servants at
the door, mouths and eyes wide open. Presently
my eyes fell upon a listener who somehow
compelled m}^ attention, so that I forgot
all the rest, even that sweet rosebud of

seventeen, and gazed steadfastly upon him
alone.

He was a man between fifty and sixty years
of age ; his hair was ' grayed,' but not white ;
his whiskers were grayer than his hair ; his face
was puffy and red ; his nose was certainly
swollen with good living and little exercise ;
his lips were rather thick ; his eyes were
bright ; his forehead was broad ; his chin was
square. It was the face of a man who had
lived and enjoyed all his fifty years.

He was listening to the performance with a
curious intentness which the subject scarcely
deserved. What did he see in the old-fashioned
play ? The dialogue was stilted, the sentiment
was false. Lord Bellamour, Captain Lovelace,
and Amanda were tedious to me, with their
parade of musty epigrams and stale claptrap,
though their dresses were fine. Yet to this

man they seemed full of interest. Yet lie
neither laughed nor sighed ; what pathos
there was in the piece moved him not, nor
did the low-comedy servant provoke a smile.
There was a good deal of ' business ' with
snuff-boxes and fans : at this he shook his
head critically, as if the by-play left much
to be desired ; when they performed a
minuet he turned away his head despondingly,
as if he must draw the line of endurance
somewhere, and he could not stand that. Yet
I thought the minuet gracefully danced.

He was, perhaps, an actor himself; or he
might be a London manager on the look-out
for talent. That, no doubt, was the meaning of
it. Managers in strange towns always go to seethe
play, I believe, just as the attendants at one
Turkish bath spend their little holiday in visiting
rival establishments, or conscientious mutes

off duty haunt cemeteries. Yes, he must be a
London manager.

After the performance some of the men
found themselves presently in the smoking-room.
Here, instead of gloomily staring at
each other, we fell to talking over the evening's
entertainment. Hither came my friend with the
red face and thick lips. He took a chair next to
mine, and, calling for a brandy-and-soda, began
to talk. His utterance was slow and measured.

It is always,' he said, when his mixture
was set before hin, ' advisable to fall in with
the habits of the current generation. A
hundred years ago — in 1760, for instance-gentlemen
did not drink brandy-and-soda, nor
did they smoke tobacco. Common people,
country clergy, light porters, and the like took
their pipes. But not gentlemen.'

These propositions, thus baldly stated, produced

on my mind much the same effect as two
or three copy-book texts.

'I suppose,' I replied, presently rallying,
that one cannot help adopting the manners of
his own generation.'

Perhaps,' he said, ' it is difficult for ordinary
people to avoid doing so. As for myself, I confess
it is sometimes pleasant to live again in the
past — sometimes to dine off peacock-pie at
noon, to eat a larded swan, to order a plum-porridge,
now and then to exchange claret for
mead, and to breakfast off that neglected
beverage, small ale.'

Not a London manager : an antiquary, an
eccentric of uncommon type. It would,
perhaps, reward one to encourage him by a nod
of approval, as if mead, larded swans, and
plum-porridge were within the art of every
plain cook at sixteen pounds a year.

It gratified me to-night,' he went on, ' to
witness an attempt, laudable though unsuccessful,
to revive something of the great and glorious
eighteenth century. The dresses were fairly
correct ; it is difficult to go wrong in the matter
of dress with so many pictures before one ; at
the same time the fashion of one wig was that
of L750, and of another that of 1770, while I
think the patches in the year 1760 were worn
quite differently. But perhaps I am thinking
of 1745 ; one's memory sometimes plays one
false in the matter of ten years or so. As for
the language, it was, of course, that of the
time ; where they failed was in the tone, the
pitch, the management of the voice. Good
Heavens, sir ! ' — he turned quite red with emotion
as he said this — ' what would be your
surprise and indignation were a modern actor
to represent a young gentleman of the Victorian

age talking in the cockney accent and the nasal
twang of an omnibus cad ? And the management
of the fan and snuff-box ! Deplorable,
sir ! Quite pitiable ! And the minuet ! How
contemptible a failure ! To think of that
courtly dance being executed as if by whimsy
boys and girls in a dancing academy ! '

But, my dear sir,' I ventured to say, ' it is
not everybody who has studied the period so
deeply as yourself. What, for instance, was
wrong about the snuff-box ? '

They handed it so ; ' he imitated with
exaggeration the offering of the box as rendered
by our actors of the evening. ' So. Did one
ever see the like ? Wliy, sir, a cit at Vauxhall,
a London mercer trying to pass for a gentleman
at Epsom Wells or Tunbridge, a country
bumpkin thinking to put on the manner of St.
James's at Bath, would have done better ! The

true way to offer the snuff-box, the courtly
way, is — thus.'

He stood up and assumed an attitude which,
in his frock-coat, seemed profoundly ridiculous.
The body was slightly bent, the head inclined
in an attitude of courteous and deferential
invitation, the right hand held out the snuffbox
with the lid open, the left was raised as if
partly to protect the snuff-box and partly to
emphasise the offering. The attitude of the
legs was similarly studied, the right leg being
advanced ?nd slightly bent at the knee, the left
being held in readiness for immediate action.

That, sir,' said the antiquary, ' was the
courtly method of offering the snuff-box, and,
of course, with the lid open. I would I could
by any attitude of mine figure to you the
elegance and ease with which the charming
ladies of the period handled their fans. Believe

me, they as far surpassed the present age in
their grace and beauty (which was the triumph
of Art practising on Nature in her most generous
mood) as the beaux of the time surpassed
the uncouth moderns in carriage, wit, and politeness.'


He sat down again, and drank off his tumbler
of soda-and-bi^andy.

A theory,' I said very weakly, ' which you
would have to defend against a formidable
array of facts.'

'Facts! what facts r ' he burst in. 'Where
are they ? Can literature, books, letters, poetry,
reconstitute a salon? Can we actually see
Horace Walpole amusing old Madame du
Defiant, for instance, or can we again hear the
witty Mrs. Montague or see the beautiful Peggy
Banks, or cry over the fate of the lovely Miss
Eay cut off in her prime? Can you even

imagine the atmosphere, the light, the grace of
an evening when men met ladies, not to rush
round the room with them, but to talk ? I say
advisedly, talk. Why, sir, every sentence was
an epigram ; the meaner wits studied their
phrases before they came ; the ladies were as
ready as the men — ay, readier sometimes —
with their arrows, whose points were so sharp,
though they were no longer than the point of a
pin. A dance in such an assembly was a
stately thing, in which every lady walked as if
she were a goddess, and every man as if he
were a great lord. Attitudes were taught and
studied in those days ; a proper carriage of the
body was part of a gentleman's education, and
the art of deportment, now lost, was a thing
which could never be truly acquired save at
Courts and under the wing of great ladies. .
This art alone, sir, marked the distinctions of

rank, and taught the classes who work for their
bread that between themselves and the nobility-was
fixed a gulf never to be bridged over.
Why, why did the nobility of England and
France resign that inestimable advantage ?
Why has a school of manners been allowed to-grow
up which opens the salons of the greatest
to every scrub dio can boast that he does
not jump a counter and can buy a black tailcoat
? A dress-coat ! Saw one ever a more
frightful, a more meaningless, a more levelling
garb ? Into what days are we fallen, when our
gentlemen sit down to dinner in the same dress
as the lacqueys and fellows who wait upon
them ! '

This was given with socii earnestness, that
one felt exactly as if the man were delivering
himself of a personal reminiscence. Of course
that was nonsense. But one felt so. The

other men in the room were attracted, and
chairs were pushed closer to the table at which
we sat. Presently conversation ceased, and all
listened.

Every century,' he went on, his eyes
having a far off look, ' takes something away
with it which can never be restored. I dare say
there is something, if one knew it, in this dull
and driving age of yours which is to be prized ;
but one by one the old things leave us. What
I most regret in the eighteenth century is its
politeness. What have you gained to compensate
for the loss of politeness ? Think what it
means. The attitude of body proper for every
circumstance in life — can one ever forget the
dignity with which, for instance. Lord Ferrets
went to be hanged ? — that is one thing ; the
tone of voice suitable for every kind of necessary
or complimentary speech, such as that

proper for a tradesman or a servant, that for a
lady, that for a pretty woman. Lord Dodington
in the play may show you what I mean. There
is the true manner of estimating your own position
and rank compared with those of other
people, None of your accursed revolutionary
levelling down; no freedom in print over a nobleman's
name ; a gentleman was a gentleman ; rank
had a real meaning ; every younger son of a
squire did not consider himself as good as an
earl ; and lawyers, doctors, chaplains, ushers,
actors, artists, writers, curates, and such cattle,
worth' enough in their way, did not pretend
to be gentlemen. Think of the absurdity of
any man who earns his living by work calling
himself a gentleman ! When levelling began,
politeness vanished. Where are your manners
now? How do you treat ladies? What respect
remains for rank ? What have you got in
VOL. I. c

^

exchange for the good old rules which laid
down the deference to be paid to woman and
the aristocracy ? I saw, only a month ago,'
here he shuddered, ' I actually saw a common
man, whom I knew to be a person in the City,
tap a Duke — a Duke ! — upon the shoulder ! '

The men laughed. One of them replied
conventionally :

We have railways. We can travel.'

The better sort travelled then,' replied the
antiquary, ' and quite fast enough. As for
the rest, they stayed at home, did their work,
went to church, died, and went to the heaven
set apart for the unbred and the allured.'

Electric telegraph,' proposed a second.

Rubbish ! what good to know bad news
a minute before you need ? '

Free-trade,' said a third. ' You will allow
that '

That the farmers are on the high road to
ruin.'

Universal education is fast coming,' suit
a fourth. ' That alone '

'Will complete the ruin of the world.
Society will dissolve into universal anarchy
when you have taught even your farm-labourers
to read, write, learn, and compare.
Stick to your old Church Catechism : " Learn
and labour to get your own living in that
state of life " — ah, good and honest teaching,
how is it disregarded ! Your own state I
You would like my state ! '

Come, sir,' said a man who looked as if
lie belonged to Birmingham — that is, he had
an intensely practical and self-satisfied air, so
that one felt sure that, if he was not really a
native of that illustrious town, he must sympathise
with the opinions of the majority —

c 2

Come, sir, what do you say to the spread of
Radical ideas and the progress of national freedom
? What do you think of universal suffrage
and the ballot, which we are bound to introduce
? '

'Tut, tut!' The learned antiquary put
him aside with a wave of his hand, and
declined to reply. As no one else made any
suggestion, he went on himself :

Your steam has turned the working man
into a machine. He is no longer an intelligent
man; he makes a little bit of something,
always the same little bit ; away from his work
he is a barrel for the reception of beer,
which you have not the sense to supply
unadulterated ; he can read, but he cannot
think, therefore he is a tool in the hands of
any agitator. Your railways incite people to
travel about and look for visionary joys abroad

instead of finding substantial ones at home ;
your electricity threatens to upset everything
left that we value — but never mind. Of all
your boasted inventions, only two deserve to
be mentioned with respect. One is the use of
chloroform. This shows that when mankind
begin to pay one-tenth the attention to medicine
which they pay for the accursed arts
by which accidents are multiplied and life
made noisy and noxious, they will be on the
right path. I believe the sewing-machine is
also a useful invention. And upon my word,
gentlemen ' — he rose and took a candle from
the table — ' upon my word, there is no other
invention of modern days worth a thought,
and your losses are greater than your gains.
Politeness, rank, conversation, dress, dancing,
cookery — all these are gone.'

Pardon me, sir ' — it was a young fellow

who had played in the piece — ' you have forgotten
one thing. Permit me to suggest that
we have gained by the loss of the tallow candle

The antiquary set down his candlestick,
and regarded the speaker with a benignant
admiration.

'That,' he said, ' is the most sensible speech
1 have heard to-night. You are the young
man who made an exhibition of ignorance with
a snufF-box just now, are you not? Come tome
tomorrow morning, and I will teach you
better, as a reward for this reminder. Yes ;
you have gained by the adoption of a composite
candle. Everything which adds to the comfort
of the upper classes is a distinct gain to humanity,
if only because it promotes admiration
of their happy lot. I allow, gentlemen, that
the tallow candle was, in the last century, a
serious grievance. No house, however rich.

could afford wax candles for the kitchen ; few,
indeed, of the middle classes could afford a
sufficiency of common di}3s. From the palace
to the tavern we were cursed with the continual
dropping of tallow. The servants
smeared the loaf with it and poisoned the
butter with it ; they snuffed candles with
their fingers, and then handled the white
French bread for breakfast ; the cook held a
tallow candle with one hand while she fried
a cutlet with the other ; the tallow mingled
with the hot bread-crumbs ; you found a melted
di'op in the soup; it lurked in the sauce; it
poisoned the gravy ; it lay upon the browning ;
it corrupted the pudding ; you smelt it in the
air, especially when you passed a bevy of
servant-girls on a Sunday; the smell of the
candle-snuffing destroyed the illusion at the
theatre and shocked the flow of devotion in

the church The saloon, ht with wax candles
and crowded with high-bred ladies and gentlemen
who knew the value of manners, more
nearly resembled heaven than anything you
have to show ; but to reach these sweet and
pleasant places you had to pass through a
purgatory of stinking tallow. Gentlemen, I
wish you good-night.'

CHAPTEE II.

HOW I DID HIM A SIGNAL SERVICE.

By the simple process of asking the waiter, who
consulted the visitors' book, I discovered before
going to bed that this remarkable lover of the
past was named Mr. Montagu Jekyll, and that
his room in the hotel was next to my own, both
being at the end of a long passage on the first-floor.
The name taught me nothing. I knew
of no books written, so far as I could remember,
by anyone of that name ; I had never
heard of any great historian or scholar of the
name. Possibly he was one of those little
known but learned antiquaries who grub along
among their books in the country, acquire

immense knowledge, keep it to themselves,
chuckling over the ignorance of mankind, and
never write anything except, perhaps, a paper
for a meeting of the Archaeological Institute,
should that rambling body pass their way.

We continued to talk of him after he went
away at eleven o'clock. The reality and vividness
which he had thrown into his talk concerning
the past ; the confidence with which he
spoke of such little details as the snuff-box,
whose lid was always to be open when offered ;
the attitude with which he illustrated his teaching
; the way in which he spoke of us and our
gaucheries as 'you ' and 'yours,' just as if he
did not belong to the century at all — all
these things pointed to an absorbing study of
our period. Then we began to recollect
similar instances from our own experience and
from the pages of history.

I knew a man,' said one, ' who never read
anything which was not connected with the history
of his own cathedral '

I knew a man,' said a second, ' who never
read anything that did not bear on the subject
of infant baptism.'

'I knew a man,' said a third, 'who was
always engaged in finding out mysterious
things about the Great Pyramid.'

I knew a man,' said a fourth, ' who was
for ever occupied with the site of Solomon's
Temple. He couldn't talk about anything
but the Temple.'

I knew a man ,said a fifth ; and so on.

They went on telling anecdotes about men
they had known. I listened until two superior
undergraduates began to relate marvels about
the men of their college. Then I left them
and went to bed.

I found the antiquary putting this boots
outside the door. He looked up and nodded.

Very interesting conversation to-night,' I
said, ' thanks to you.'

'About the last century Yes, you know
nothing, any of you — nothing at all, conceited
though you are — of that most remarkable
period.'

In what books,' I asked, ' can a man find
those curious details which you presented to us
to-night in t he smoking-room ?

Books ! books ! ' — he spoke with great contempt
— ' I never read. Men — and women —
women especially — are the only books worth
studying.'

Then how in the name of goodness '

Good-night, sir. It is past twelve o'clock.'

I went to my own room and sat down on

the bed, pondering over this very singular person.

Perhaps he was mad ; perhaps he was only
affected. Men have been known to study repartees
and ions mots which they afterwards bring
out under the pretence of their being impromptu.
No doubt this humbug had carefully got up
the whole scene beforehand. Not read books !
Of course he must read books. How else could
he know things ? To be sure it was possible,
and perhaps not unlikely, that he invented.
Anybody, with the necessary impudence and a
little practice beforehand could have invented
the whole thing. Likely enough he was posturing
before his looking-glass at that very moment
in an eighteenth-century attitude. Or was he
the Devil ?

I went to bed with just that little touch of
nervousness which always comes over a man
widen he seems to touch upon the, domain of
the supernatural ; and I confess that I should

have been better pleased had my room been at
the other end of the house. There was a door
of communication between my room and his ;
there was a bolt on my side, which I drew.
The key was on Ms side, to be sure ; but it was
useless while my bolt held. With such reflections
to soothe me, I fell asleep.

1 was awakened an hour or so later by a
suffocating smell of smoke. I sprang to my
feet, rushed to tic door, and looked into the
passage ; there the gas was burning tranquilly,
and I could see no sign of fire. I
ran to the end of the passage ; all Alas
quiet and safe. I returned to my own room :
there was no mistake possible, the room
was filled with smoke. But where was the fire ?
My candle had long been out. The fire, I said
to myself, must be below me ; the ceiling very
likely was already on fire. At any moment the

flames might break through the floor. At least,
I thought, rapidly weighing the chances, the
joists might hold out long enough to enable me
to escape either through the door or the window.
One thinks quickly in moments of great
danger. I bethought me, next, of my neighbour,
the man in the next room. I ran to the door
of communication, unbolted it, and tried to
open it. It was locked on the other side. With
one firm and judicious kick, I burst the lock
open and rushed in. Good Heavens ! the man
was lying in a heavy sleep on the right side of
the bed, while on the left, close to him, the
curtains, sheets, mattress and all, were in flames.
I threw myself upon him, dragged him, still
half asleep, from the bed, and began to pile the
blankets upon the flaming mass. There were a
couple of cans full of water, for the bath in his
room and my own. I ]poured the whole over

the bed, pulled down the curtains, and succeeded,
at the expense of a few slight burns, in
rapidly subduing a fire which might have
burned the house down. When I saw that
there was no more danger, I opened the windows
in both rooms, and lit a candle in my owai.
Then, and not till then, I remembered my
friend the antiquary. He was sitting on a sofa
in his room in the dark, shivering and shaking.
He had taken no part in extinguishing the fire ;
he had said nothing ; and now, when it was allover,
he sat still in helplessness, terrified out of
his wits.

Come,' I said, taking him by the arm, ' you
must not sit there any longer ; you will catch
cold. The fire's out, however; that's the great
thing. Get up and come into my room, out of
this horrible mess.'

He followed without a word. His teeth

were chattering, his face was horribly pale, his
limbs shook with terror.

I had a spirit-flask containing brandy. I
made him drink a couple of glasses, one after
the other ; then he looked up, gasped, and said
incoherently

I lost it in the eighteenth century.'

What did you lose ? ' I asked, to humour
his wandering wits.

'I lost my Religion. In a moment like this
one feels to want it ; but it is quite gone. I
have not looked after it for close upon two
hundred years.'

You had better get between my blankets
and go to sleep,' I said, wondering if the
man was really mad, or only frightened out
of his wits. ' This business has upset you.
Come.'

I laid him in my bed and covered him u]:)

VOL. I. D

like a child. Then I stole to look at the extinguished
fire — what a mess the place was in !
shut the windows, wrapped myself in my rug,
and went to sleep on my sofa.

In the morning I awoke and found my
guest still sleeping. I rang for the waiter and
explained things ; the manager was called ; he
came and saw the mischief and heard my story.
He used bad words about the cause of the accident,
still asleep, and good words about my
promptitude in action. Truly the house had
had a most narrow escape.

After breakfast I found my antiquary still
sleeping. In fact, it was not until past eleven
that he awoke ; then he sat up with lacklustre
eyes and looked round. If it was a
remarkable face which I had observed the
night before, the face of the morning was still
more remarkable : it seemed the face of a very,

very old man, older than any man one has ever
read of, full of wrinkles, crows' feet, and lines ;
shrunken were the cheeks and feeble were the
eyes. As I looked on, the sleep passed from
him, a change came upon him : the hues rapidly
disappeared, the cheeks filled out, the eyes
brightened. The face became again that of a
man of fifty or so.

I know now,' he said, nodding his head.
I remember now what happened last night.
I was reading in bed. I went to sleep. (I
shall never, never, never read again in bed,
unless by daylight, as long as I escape accident.)
The bed caught fire. You got in, somehow,
and dragged me out. You saved my life. I
do not know your name, sir, but I thank
you.'

That is nothing,' I replied. ' Of course I
did what '

You call it nothing ' — he had by this time
got one leg out of bed — ' you call it nothing ?
Sir, the life you have saved is no common
ephemeral existence. It is a most remarkable
life, sh although you know it not.'

I bowed.

'It is a life to which history affords no
parallel, one of which the world is ignorant.'

Really ! '

One naturally felt a little angry at this extraordinary
boastfulness. Both legs were out
of bed.

Sir ' — he stood upright with the blanket
round him — ' the life you have saved is a unique
life.'

He strode with the grandest air into his
own room and closed the door of communication.
Presently, while I was packing my portmanteau,
he opened it again.

In case I do not see you again to-day,' he
said, ' would you kindly give me your card ?
Thank you. I will do myself the pleasure, if
you will allow me, of calling upon you in town.
You have saved, sir, a life which is unique in
history.

CHAPTEE III.

HOW HE REWARDED ME.

After my return to town, I thought little more
about the strange old antiquary. Perhaps the
adventure, with its hero, made with too much
learning, served for an after-dinner story more
than once. But I hardly expected to see him,
and nothing ever surprised me more than to
receive his card, brought to my room by a
clerk one afternoon in the following winter.
He followed his card. He called, he said, to
thank me again for the presence of mind and
courage I had displayed, and begged me to
believe that he was not insensible nor ungrateful.
Having satisfied me upon this point, he

invited me to dine with him that evening at a
well-known private hotel in Jermyn Street. I
accepted, and he went away. When he was
gone I began 10 recall the many curious things
connected with the fire ; low old and worn he
looked when he woke up in the morning,
the strange words he used about his own
life.

A maniac,' I said. ' Probably a harmless
one, mad on one point. One had better
humour him.'

He gave me an excellent dinner, with no
attempt at emulating the ancients in the
matter of larded swans and plum-porridge.
On the contrary, the menu was as modern as
could be desired, and the dinner as well
cooked and as well put on the table as could
be wished.

Come,' I said, 'the eighteenth century

could not beat a dinner like this, and there
couldn't have been better wines.'

'The century was greater at suppers,' he
replied, ' than at dinners. As for wines, the
claret and champagne and German wines were
as good as they are now. The port, I admit,
was generally too fiery. Many a quarrel has
been caused, many a valuable life has been
thrown away, by the ardent nature of the
eighteenth-century port.'

We do not light duels now,' I urged.
'You must give us credit for so much.'

But he refused to give us any credit on that
account. He said that a quiet and unpretending
gentleman need never fight a duel ; that
the knowledge of its dangers made ail men
practise and acquire the noble art of fencing,
which brought with it a dignified carriage ;
that polite manners were greatly assisted by

the fear of being called out if you offended a man;
and that public opinion was set dead against
unnecessary duels and professional bullies.

I humoured him, and he enlarged at
length on the eighteenth century. He seemed
to know the beginning as well as the end, and
was as familiar with Queen Anne's reign as
with George Iii's. Yet it was a strange sort of
familiarity. He showed no interest in political
events, regarded Ministries with contempt, and
such things as wars, alliances, sieges, and
victories, or the growth of national liberty —
about which modern historians keep such a
coil — he had either forgotten or was ready to
forget. Nor did he care at all to talk about
poetry and literature, evidently holding authors
and poets hi the greatest contempt. Indeed,
he professed not to know who Oliver Goldsmith
was, and called Dr. Johnson himself a

dictionary grub. He loved, however, to talk
about dinners, society, the coffee-houses, amusements,
theatres, actresses, young lords, gambling
hells, and so forth ; and he told me some
excellent stories about Cupid's Gardens, the
Folly, Eanelagh, the Marylebone Bowling Green,
and Yauxhall. One thing presently struck me ;
he seemed to have collected and to remember
quite clearly every story he could hear connected
with accidents.

It was not nearly such a time for accidents,'
he said, after telling me some of them,
as the present. To be sure there were a
good many fires, and the service for extinguishing
them was next to useless ; but there
were no railways. There was a great thing
to begin with. There were no hansom cabs,
no mail-carts, no galloping butchers' carts, no
enormous vans thundering down the street.

Things everywhere went slow. There was no
hurry. Only think of the safety to life and
the immunity from accident involved in that
single statement. Things went slow. Then
there was no steam-engine of any kind ; not a
locomotive yet built, not a paddle-wheel boat
yet devised, no machinery, no boilers, no
driving wheels, no explosions, no bursting of
pipes, no scalding by escape pipes, no collisions.
Think of there being no fear of accident
on the hne or on the liver. To be sure, one
could not wholly escape the danger of accident.
If you rode, yom' horse sometimes ran away
with you and killed you ; but you might
easily get a quiet pad. In the streets there
were sometimes mad bulls ; a friend of
mine — that is, a man of whom I have read
was once killed by an escaping bear;
there was once a highly respectable merchant

of the City, also a friend of mine —
that is to say — well — such a man was once
killed by the fall of a shop sign upon his
head ; another, I remember to have read, was
knocked over by a crowd chasing a pickpocket,
and trampled on so that he died ; or a man
might be bitten by a mad dog, or he might be
run through by mistake, being supposed in the
twilight to be quite a different person. Then
there were such things as occur everywhere,
such as the fall of things from roofs upon your
head, or slipping and breaking your ribs, or
being upset in a coach, or — in fact, one can
never escape the chance of an accident. Butin
quiet and slow times one has comfort intaking
precautions, and I say that the precautions
one had to take a hundred years ago
were as nothing, merely nothing, compared to
those one must take now.'

He spoke with heat, and as if labouring
under the sense of some personal injury,
I said that everybody must run his chance,
and that if we did nothing but look out for
accidents, we should have no time to look
after our business. The observation was
weak.

Ay,' he groaned, ' you are right. That
is what I find : looking out for accidents
absorbs the whole of a man's time.'

At eleven o'clock I left him. He very
kindly hoped that we might meet again, and
spoke of calling upon me when next he should
be in London.

In the morning I received a small parcel with
Mr. Montagu Jekyll's components. It contained
a splendid gold watch and chain. This
was very handsome. I wrote to thank the
donor, but received my letter back. Mr.

Jekyll had left the hotel, given no address, and
ordered that letters were not to be kept for
him.

It was in the year 1870, ten years later,
that I saw my friend again. He called at my
office as before, and asked me to dinner as
before I congratulated him on his excellent
health. In fact, he looked younger than he
had some ten years before, yet he must then
have been considerably over sixty. He said
he had been at some German baths, and had
found great relief as to gout.

We old fellows,' he said, ' like to look as
young as we can.'

In the course of the evening he informed
me that he had married since he saw me last,
but had lost his wife. I condoled with him,
but found him singularly cold on the matter.

or perhaps he affected a coldness which he
did not feel.

It is the way of life,' he said. ' We
desire a wife ; we take a wife ; if she is a
good wife she dies, to disappoint him ; if she
is a bad wife she lives, to torment him. My dear
friend, if I could only tell you my experiences!
Are you married ? '

No ; but I am engaged.'

'Ah!'

The expression he threw into that interjection
was wonderful, but he did not pursue the
subject.

The day after the dinner he came to my
office and desired to confer with me on professional
matters. He proposed, he said, to buy a
certain house standing in its own grounds about
ten miles north of London.

I managed the business for him and drew

up the conveyance of the property. After he
had bought it, however, something disgusted
him — I think it Alas the fall of a slate from the
roof, which he said might have come upon his
own head and killed him — and he begged me to
sell it again. I managed that, and my friend
disappeared without telling me he intended to
leave London.

I saw him no more for ten years. It was
in May of this present year of grace eighteen
hundred and eighty, while the young spring'
days were still like January for rigour, that he
came to see me once more. For the third time
I went to dine with him, and he looked positively
younger than ever, yet he must have
been seventy-five at least. He was very
friendly ; produced a pretty set of presents,
which he begged me to give to the wife and
children, made a-little speech about that fire

business, and offered me as good a dinner as
the heart of man could desire. I asked him
where he had been during the last ten years.
He said that he grew restless from time to time ;
that England, France, and other civilised
countries became during these fits insufferable
to him, and that, under the influence of one
of these fits, which were a kind of melancholy,
or, as he boldly put it, due to the extraordinary
isolation of his position, he had thought that a
few years in some quiet place, reasonably free
from the chances of accident, quite removed
from western civilisation, would act as a beneficial
change, and probably restore his mind to its
usual groove of contentment. The place which
he fixed upon, after very great inquiry and
search among gazetteers and consular .bluebooks,
was a small island in the Greek Archipelago.


VOL. I. E

'The wine there,' he said, 'is rough, but
remarkably good ; it keeps a long while, like
Commandery, and when you get it old it has a
luscious fragrance, quite peculiar ; the climate
is delightful ; the fare simple, it is true, but
wholesome for a few years. No carts, no
horses, no railways, because there are no roads ;
none of the ordinary causes of accident. There
were dangers in getting there, to be sure,
and I meditated long whether I should go on
grumbling over the dulness and stupidity of
this century, of which thirty years more had
then to be got through before we began a new
period' — did the man expect to live another
thirty years ? — ' but I turned everything over
in my own mind, and at last resolved to pluck
up courage and brave the dangers of the
journey. You will probably laugh when you
hear me speaking of danger which common



men, ordinary men of the groove, so to speak,
recklessly meet every day and think nothing
of them. But you do not know, my friend, you
do not know what risk I, alone among men,
have to face. You, and the rest of you, may
lose the short remainder of your contemptible
lives . . . bah ! ten years, twenty, thirty, forty
at the outside . . . while I . . . but you do
not know. Horrors ! I did face the danger. I
went across the continent in an express train,
and a tumult of terror ; had three days of gale
and peril in a steamer, with four and twenty
hours of risk in a half-decked boat ; and finally
landed with all my stores and with my French
valet on the island. Ah ! ' He breathed a long
sigh. ' Here I lived for nine years and a half.
I married a wife ' — good Heavens ! he had
actually married again — ' found that the place
suited nie remarkably Avell, and, in fact, was for

LIBRARY

University OF ILLINOIS

a short time perfectly happy. They murdered
my valet ; but as I found that the Greeks of that
island only stick knives into each other when
they are jealous, I did not consider myself in
any peril. My wife was, at first, a most remarkably
beautiful girl, with such eyes as one
dreams of when one is young. She fell off,
however, terribly, and — and, in fact, the reason
why I came away was that I made the dreadful
discovery that Greek women are sometimes
jealous without a cause. There was not a
creature of her sex upon the island on whom
I dared to cast an eye, on account of their
brothers' knives. Yet she was jealous. And
her temper was violent, and I love a philosophical
calm. So I ordered a steam-yacht;
gave instructions to the skipper to pretend it
was his own ; went on board to see the craft
when she arrived, and — ho ! ho ! steamed away.'

And your wife ? '

'She will, I dare say, think that I was
drowned. No doubt by this time she has dried
her eyes. Do not let us trouble ourselves
about her.'

It seemed afterwards, when I came to think
of it, a tolerably cold-blooded thing to do.

We drank a good deal of wine during
dinner and after. My friend's red cheeks
became redder and he began to talk faster.
When we were in the middle of the second
bottle of claret he laughed oddly, and said :

And who do you think I am .^ '

I have not the slightest idea. You are an
enigma to me.'

And to every one else who knows me :
that is the reason why I am unhappily compelled
to change all my friends every twenty
or thirty years.'

'Of course, I do not understand a word
you say.'

'I have a great mind to tell you. Yet I
fear. Are you sure that you can keep a
secret ? '

It is part of my profession to hear and to
keep secrets.'

True, true ; and it would be comfortable
to have a man like yourself to advise
with on matters. You see, my position is a
lonely one : I have never confided my history
to a single person, not even to any of my
wives.'

Any of your wives ? '

I have had seventeen,' he replied calmly.
Now to you I think I might, perhaps,
communicate part of my history. People
are no longer burned for possessing knowledge,
even if you should break confidence.

Aid besides, I may sometimes want an
adviser.'

Pray go on.'

I was by this time extremely curious and
interested.

I was born,' he said solemnly, ' in the
parish of Malvern, being the eldest son of a
gentleman of good family, on the fourteenth
day of August, in the year one thousand six
hundred and fifteen.

What ! ' I pushed the chair back, ready to
fly from a madman. ' In what year ? '

In the year one thousand six hundred and
fifteen. Sit down again, my dear sir ; I am no
more mad than yourself. Shall I repeat the
words .^ In the year one thousand six hundred
and fifteen.'

CHAPTEE lY.

HOW HE CONFIDED IN ME.

I WAS born,' he continued, ' in the year one
thousand six hundred and fifteen. Ah ! a longtime
it seems to look back upon, but nothing
when it is gone. The Jekyll are an old
family, although ours was a younger branch.
They sent me to Cambridge, and thence to Lincoln's
Inn, where I studied such law as is
useful for a country gentleman and a justice of
the peace. There came a time, however, when
I exchanged the pursuit of the law for one
more fascinating and useful. After profiting
by the result of those studies for two hundred
and fifty years, it would be ungracious to join

in the ignorant outcry which your men of
science (poor bhncl mortals, most of them)
carry on against the search which we of the
seventeenth century made after the philosopher's
stone and the elixir of life. I allow that
you know more about electricity, with which,

if you used it rightly, you could ' here he

stopped short and paused for a moment.
What we sought was effect ; that is the only
thing in this world worth looking for ; what
you seek is cause. You consider that when
you have formulated laws, you have found a
cause ; you think that when you have classified
facts and deduced a rule, you have laid
your hand on the final cause ; you escape
from God by substituting an equation ; you
thhik it better to live under the reign of law
than the reign of love. Cause ! Can any one
among you all tell me why the sun puts out

the fire, why the poker placed in front of it
gets it up again ; or why the moon causes the
rain to fall ? Yet these are little things. How,
then, can you explain birth, growth, and
decay? We did not try to explain. We
sought to prevent decay, to find out, not the
secret of life, but the preserver of life, the universal
specific to cure all things, even the slow
decay of man's strength. Glorious and noble
pursuit !

You never heard, I suppose, of John
Eowley, reputed necromancer and astrologer?
Yet history preserves the smaller names of
Cromwell, Milton, and Hampden, who lived
about the same time. Eowley was no astrologer,
though he did not doubt the influence of
the stars, a thug no reasonable man who has
weighed the evidence can for a moment doubt.
He was a searcher after the secrets of Nature ;

he worked upon the properties of matter ; he
looked to find the primitive metal from which
all the common metals have descended ; he
wanted to make gold for himself, because the
possession of gold gives power to conduct experiments
; and he worked at the discovery
of this universal medicine.

I made the acquaintance of this remarkable
man, it matters not how, I was admitted
to his laboratory. I acquired his confidence ;
I worked with him. In those days I was
young, hopeful, and enthusiastic ; I worked
with an ardour the contemplation of Which at
this moment appals me : sometimes our labours
were continued without remission for two or
three days and nights continuously, one of us
taking turn now and then to snatch an hour's

slumber while the other watched at the
fire. All other work was thrown aside,

all other friends were neglected, and from
my twenty-second to my twenty eighth year
it was hardly known whether I was
living or dead. Yet during this long period
I was but on the threshold, working for
the master as his apprentice, by whom all
kinds of work must be done, while his master
teaches him by slow degrees the mysteries
of the craft.

After serving John Eowley as long as
Jacob served Laban for Each el (which is an
allegory for the patient working after the
Elixir), and received Leah (which means that
he got that lower, yet most excellent, gift
which came to me), the master called me apart
and spoke to me very gravely.

It had given him, he was good enough to
say, the greatest pleasure to watch the zeal and
patience with which I had worked for seven

years, and it cut him to the heart to discourage
any student in our glorious science, the only
science worthy of the name. Yet I must
understand, and be under no illusions, that
the highest prize of philosophy is given to
none but those who possess, to a degree beyond
that of my own gifts, an insight almost prophetic,
and the power of reaching out, as it
were, into the darkness and depths of ignorance
which enables the truly great man to walk
blindfold among pitfalls and traps. Therefore
he would not encourage me to persevere
in researches which would lead me
to disappointment. Let me leave them to
others more favoured by Heaven than
myself.

I was greatly dashed at hearing this advice,
for I was already so far advanced as to
know something of the infinite possibilities of

chemistry. Yet the master spoke with so
much wisdom, and with such evident sorrow,
that 1 could not choose but be persuaded that
he spoke true words.

" Those," he continued, " to whom it is
given to discover the Great Secret of Life,
hidden away by Nature till the time shall come,
must keep that secret jealously and hand it
down to few. No greater misfortune to
humanity could possibly happen than a general
immortality with all their sins and vices
still upon them. Think of an immortal Nero !
Think of an immortal Grand Inquisitor ! It
is the prospect of dissolution alone which
prevents men from committing the most frightful
crimes. Thanks to death, there is a limit
to suffering as well as to sin. The tyrant must
die as well as his victim ; the torturer must
lie down beside the tortured."

I asked him, were there many who knew
the secret ?

He replied that, so far as he knew, there
were but two or three to whom it had been
given to discover it, and that they had communicated
it to none. He was himself, he said,
one of those who had arrived at it after a long
life of research. '^ I hold it in my power," he
said solemnly, " to live as long as I please ; to
die when I please ; to ward off all diseases ; to
suffer no pain ; to return to youth, if youth
should seem desirable to me. If I please I
can go on enjoying the pleasures of life, or I
can spend a deathless period, as long as the
world endures, in research and contemplation.
I can follow the slow growth of true religion,
and mark the onward march of mankind, a
man among men. Or, by a simple effort of the
will, I can stay the beating of the pulse, and

pass away painlessly to an unknown and unknowable
Eternity."

I asked him, then, if his studies gave him
any glimpse or vision of the other world.

He replied that Nature can only yield up
her own secrets. As to the mysteries of the
hereafter, they were hidden from the search of
man, and could only be seen and apprehended
by the eye of faith. And here he changed the
discourse, and informed me with further expressions
of goodwill that he was resolved
upon giving me such a proof of his affection as
the world had never before heard of.

It was, in fact, this. He offered me nothing
short of the absolute power of living as
long as I pleased. There were certain conditions
which, he said, were necessarily imposed
upon the gift ; otherwise I should grow to
regard myself as an Immortal. The mention

of conditions, I confess, troubled me : but ashe
proceeded to unfold the plan, I found the
conditions light indeed compared with the
magnificence of the gift.

'Briefly, because it would be tedious to
relate all the discourses we held and the instructions
I received, I learned that by following
a simple course in which he instructed me
I could arrest my age for ten years — that is to
say, supposing I began at thirty, I could for
ten years remain thirty, and then after ten
more years I could again remain thirty for
another decade ; but that should I pass
beyond the ten years without renewing the
term, I should at one leap become forty ; and if
I did not choose to continue, the ordinary lot
of human life would be mine, and in course of
time decay of strength and gradual decline
would follow. During each period of ten years

VOL. I. F

I was to be subject to no other disease than
any which might be upon me or in my constitution
at r before the beginning of that
period ; so ,t ,<: if I were subject to rheumatism,
gout, col!, or fever, I should remain subject,
but yet not be killed by any attack. The rules,
further, did not hold me free from accident.
A drunken man's club, a quarrelsome man's
knife, a chance gun-shot, the kick of a horse,
anything might bring upon me the death which
otherwise I had no occasion to fear. When,
in cold blood, I came to think of this danger, it
became certain to me that some day or other I
should fall a victim to accident. For though
a man may possibly pass through the wretchedly
short tenure of life allotted to the common
herd without accident ; and although one mayas
I have done, pass through two centuries and
a half in perfect safety, yet the time may come

nay, sometimes I think it must come — when
the inevitable accident will happen, and I shall
perish.'

He paused again, overcome )v this apprehension.
It was not till much letter that I
realised how differently the chance of an accident
would appear to him. For to us, though a
hansom cab may run over us or a train may
have a collision, yet there is always the feeling
(in anticipation) that we are all of us in the
same boat ; whereas to my friend Mr. Jekyll
the feeling was always that he was alone. He
would live for ever ; he had lived already fora
quarter of a thousand years ; and there was
only this one danger to fear: no disease, no
decay could kill him — only the danger of accident.
Presently he went on again, with a
long sigh.

The conditions once understood, and the
V 2

instructions learned, we had next to decide
upon the age of commencement. This, on
reflection, proved a much more difficult
matter than would at first be supposed.
The master was for my waiting until I was
seventy, and then beginning life. '' For," he
said, " at seventy one is free from the passions
of youth and the ambitions of middle life ; one
is full of wisdom, reflection, experience, and
learning. There may be, it is true, a few of
the inconveniences of old age, but think of the
advantages of beginning with the stock of a
lifetime of work ! " Now a singular change
had come over me from the very first moment
that the master communicated his design to me.
My thoughts flew away from the dingy and
smoky laboratory to the joys of the world.
"Let me," I cried, "be twenty-two.' "Fie
upon thee! " said the master; " wouldst remain

ever a boy? Well, I see that the last and
greatest gift could never have been thine.
Choose rather some ripe age, when the passion
of youth is over, and the strength of the brain
is at its best ; an age which commands reverence,
but not as yet pity." I had, however,
no taste for gray locks, and pleaded at last to
begin at once, being then about twenty-eight.
To this, however, he would not accede. Finally
he consented to my beginning at thirty-five, provided
that I should wait in patience and take
my chance with the rest of mankind until then.
Thirty-five, he reminded me, is an age when
one should be strongest in body and fittest in
brain for undertaking any kind of work, and
most ready for any kind of enjoyment. I
have always thought it a happy thing that I
consented to wait for seven years in order to
begin the long period during which I remained

steadily at thirty-five. Fool, insensate fool that
I was, ever to pass that limit !

Further, the master promised me that just
as my health and vigour should continue unabated,
so my fortune should be unimpaired.
Both were to remain unaffected by time or
waste. Therefore he urged upon me to live
with economy and thrift, as well as with great
moderation as regards eating, drinking, exercise,
and so forth, for the seven years between me
and full fruition. Then he took a solemn farewell
of me. We shoidd never more, he said,
meet in this world ; he was about to retire to
the wastes of Arabia, where, removed from the
clash of arms and the struggles of men, he
could work on until he felt tired and satisfied
and content to fall asleep. As for me, he wished
me a happy use of the gift which he had placed
in my hands, and hoped that I should find this

limited tenure of life so satisfactory that T.
should be induced to prolong it indefinitely.
He exhorted me to use it well, and for the
benefit of mankind ; to work on, accumulating
knowledge, extirpating diseases, discovering
new modes of increasing happiness, preventing
famines, and spreading wisdom. " Then," he
said, " you will be a benefactor to the human
race such as the world has never yet seen. We
who learn and meditate can assist you who will
learn and work. My friend, you may become
the greatest of mankind." He added cautions
about certain temptations which might draw
me aside, but I will not repeat these. " Farewell
!" he said. " I have hopes, but I have
misgivings. Take the gift and use it as you
w411. When you are tired of your work or dissatisfied,
let the years go on unheeded ; take
your chance with the rest ; lie down and die

with the common herd." He left me, and I sat
dov/n, wondering, overwhelmed at this great
and wonderful fortune. Now consider my
situation. I was twenty-eight years of age ; I
owned an estate of five hundred pounds a year
in Warwickshire (what was then five hundred
has since risen, by increase in the value of
money — for I have long since sold my land — to
live thousand a year). I had seven years to
wait, during which my life was exposed hourly
to the same dangers which threaten Tom, Dick,
or Harry. I might in quiet times have gone to
live on my estate, content to wait there in comparative
safety. But the times were not good
for quiet men. Everybody in the year 1643
was taking a side : a man had to be Cavalier or
Roundhead, and to fight for his cause. Was it
likely that I, with so great a gift, was to imperil
my precious life, my unique life, for the

sake of a party ? Wliy, from that very moment
I ceased to take the least interest in either side
or in any politics. Men who had only a few
trumpery years to throw away might go and
fight for King or Parliament. Was a man
who had hundreds, nay thousands — perhaps
to hazard them for any cause whatever?
I made up my mind, therefore, to withdraw.
I put my affairs into such order as was
possible, and I retired to Ley den, under the
pretence of studying at the newly-founded University.


Few places in Europe were better suited to
my purpose than Ley den. It was retired ; it
was not a great city ; it was peaceful ; it was
healthy; the students were not brawlers or
strikers ; one might reasonably expect there, if
anywhere, to escape accident and disease. I
entered my name as a student, and I began

the seven years — a longer seven years than any
captive ever passed — with an anxiety which
made me, who had previously been as brave
a man as my neighbours, nothing short of a
coward. I passed for one who was entirely absorbed
in study. Alas ! I read but little, being
continually pondering over the chances of
accident. I had narrow escapes, too, which
made me more anxious. Once there was a
rumour of the plague ; once a neighbour's house
took fire in the night and was burned down ;
once, when I was walking with a companion, a
drunken fellow ran past us with a knife and
stabbed him to the heart, so that he fell dead.
It might just as well have been myself. They
accused me of cowardice because I did not run
after the flying madman. Why, what would have
been the sense in pursuing a man who would
have finished the race with a stab in the vitals ?

Was such a life as mine to be fooled away in an
attempt to revenge the death of another ? And
another time I was rmi over by a trooper on
horseback. It seemed as if sudden and horrible
accidents were around and about me on
every side.

The years passed slowly on ; there came
a time when twelve — six — three months only
remained to complete the time. The three
months became one ; the four weeks became one
week ; and then, because I would be alone when
the time arrived, I left Leyden and sought a
lodging in a farmhouse some four or five miles
from the town. The farmer, who lived therewith
his family of two or three sons and a
daughter, gave me his best room, thinking that
the grave and serious scholar from the University
would benefit by the country air.

Then came the eve of the day, my birthday,

my thirty-fifth birthday. I spent the day
in the fields, meditating. The words of the
master returned to me. I was to be a benefactor
to the human race. I was to use his gift in the
acquisition of knowledge. I resolved that I
would do so. I would master all knowledge ;
I would confer such benefits on mankind as
they had not dreamed '

And have you done so ? ' I asked eagerly.

Not yet,' he replied ; ' all in good time.
Why, man, it is only two hundred and fifty
years since I began to live. Give a man a little
rope — — '

He grumbled and growled for a few moments
about the hardships of expecting a man
to begin work at once before he had had
his King. Presently he resumed his narrative.

In the evening I went early to my room.
Now I suppose I could have considered the day

as beginning at midnight. I would not ; it should
begin at sunrise. All night long I sat up waiting.
The casement was closed ; I would not
begin the new life with a cold in the head.
Then I considered myself carefully. I wa
well made, strong, and had no complaint, weakness,
or defect of any kind. Every function of
mind and body in perfect working order. What
a future lay before me !

As I waited and watched, full of fears,
calculations, and doubts, it seemed, just at the
darkest hour, about two in the morning, when the
whole world is sleeping, as if the room became
suddenly filled with ghosts. I saw nothing ;
but I knew they Avere there, and that they had
come to reason with me. First it was the voice
of my mother who spoke to me. " Son," she
said, " I looked to see thee soon among us in
the Islands of the Happy Dead. Now must I

wait — and how long? Yet forget not that,
soon or late, Death will come even to you, and
the past shall be but as a dream of the night,
even if thy days be as long as the days of
Noah. Forget not this ; and remember that
men do not live until the after life."

Then spoke the voice of my father.
*' 'Twere better, son, to fight the good fight and
then to die like thy forefathers. Thou hast
turned aside from thy country and thy kin in
their sorest need. Turn not aside from the
Faith. We watch and wait for thee."

Then spoke the voice of one whom I had
loved in my youth and forgotten. " Sweetheart,"
she said, " bethink thee. There is no
life without love ; there is no love between
our generation and those which follow after."

Then it was the voice of my little sister.
"- Brother," she said, " come to us before you

have forgotten us all ; do not quite desert me.
Come soon and play with me again."

Strange. It is two hundred and fifty years
ago. I have indeed forgotten them. During
all these years I have never thought of them
again until now. Can it be that they wait
for me still .^ My sister must long since have
grown up — grown old — do they grow old
there .P'

His face changed as he said these words ;
his eyes softened ; but only for a moment.
Then he went on again :

These appeals annoyed me. Just at the last
moment, when I was entering upon my glorious
career, to be thus addressed by my own people,
who should have been proud of their son's distinction
! I thought of the future, and hardened
my heart against the past. Then the voices
ceased, though I heard a weeping and sobbing

as of women over the death of one they love.
Yet this moved me not ; for I was mad to begin
the new life free from fear of death, disease,
want, and age. The weeping of the spirits
ceased, and they left me. Then another vision
began, and it seemed as if the world with all
its pleasures lay at my feet, waiting for me to
enter upon my inheritance and enjoy.

A long night, but it came to an end. I
saw the streak of light in the east ; I saw the
gray grow into red, the darkness into dawn.
Then up' sprang the glorious sun, bright, warm,
clear ; the sky was blue ; the birds burst out
a-singing. Nature rejoiced with me as I rose
and followed the instructions I had so long
known by heart.

Why, I was filled with a new life ; I was
like one intoxicated with the joy of breathing ;.
I was strong with a strength you cannot dream

of. Heavens ! what a splendid man I was ;
what a splendid man I remained for two
hundred and sixty years ! You shall hear,
presently, by what mad folly I threw away that
glorious manhood.'

VOL. I.

CHAPTER V.

HOW HE USED HIS MOST EXCELLENT GIFT.

I REMAINED ill my room,' he went on, after
a pause, ' while the sun rose higher in the
heavens. With every moment my pulse beat
stronger, the blood coursed more freely through
the veins, my heart sounded the note of stronger,
eager, and impetuous manhood. I was more
than a king — I was a demigod, because Death,
the slayer of all, and Time, the slow subduer
of all, had no power over me. I, alone of created
things, was free from the law of decay. In the
fields below me I saw the farm drudges creeping
about their day's work ; I heard the song
of my landlord's daughter as she began her

work in the dairy ; I watched the birds in the
trees, the cattle in the meadows, the horses
being led from the stable, all alike, at first, with
that pity which naturally seized the mind in
thinking of the pitiful condition from which I
had myself only that moment emerged.'

And you still feel that pity? ' I asked.

Not at all,' he replied promptly. ' I feel
no more pity for those who are beneath me —
in fact, for all humanity — than you feel for
the menial condition of the waiter who has
just brought in the soda-and-brandy, or for the
abject state of any wretched beggar in the
street, or for the sufferings of any unknown
patient in a hospital. It is Fate. We have
nothing to do with Fate. When I think of my
long life behind me and the long life before me
I am glad, that is all.'

I was silent, and he proceeded :

'I went downstairs, presently, in a dream,
and my landlord's daughter, a blue-eyed girl of
eighteen, gave me a cup of milk, for which I
thanked her with a kiss. She laughed and
said she did not expect that of the grave scholar
from Leyden schools ; and then she blushed
and started, and wanted to know what I had
done with myself ; for my feet seemed to dance
as they went, and my eyes were bright with
life and love ; my lips were ready to sing, or
to kiss, or to drink ; my cheek was ruddy and
healthy, and dotted with a couple of dimples ;
and my arms were swinging so loosely that it
seemed the most proper and seemly thing i^n the
world for them to seize the girl by the waist and
kiss her again. Poor Lisa ! Well, she has forgotten
her troubles this many a day.

After a few weeks I began to think it vv^as
time to devise some plan for the future, and

without saying farewell to the poor fond
creature — indeed, I found consolation in the
thought that a short forty or fifty years would
bring her to the end of any sorrow my departure
might occasion. I therefore returned to
Leyden, where I sat down, resolved to draw
out a fixed plan for work.

First, I recalled the words of the master,
how I was to use my gift so that it might
become a boon to the whole of mankind. How
was this best to be effected P Not, I thought,
by conferring the same gift upon the whole of
humanity. Why, if there were no end to life,
there would be no need of religion, to begin
with. Why, if there were only two such menin
the world at the same time as myself, very
serious difficulties might arise.

I would not make men immortal ; but I
would free them from disease.

I conceived the most beautiful dream
some day I mean to work it out thoroughly,
if it takes me a thousand years
to do it ; but not just yet, not yet. To remember
that dream causes me the greatest
satisfaction, because it shows how fit and
worthy a man I am for the confidence bestowed
in me. I thought that if a man
situated as happily as myself were to devote
himself, taking one disease at a time, not
only to its alleviation and cure, but also — a
very much more important thing — to its complete
and entire suppression, he would become
in very truth the greatest benefactor to the
human race that has ever appeared upon
the world. It would take time to collect
statistics, facts, figures, and accounts ; but what
was time to me? Nothing. If each disease
were to take me a century of uninterrupted

labour, consider what that would mean to mankind
if it ended in its entire abolition.

You see, there are the big things first :
fevers, plagues, smallpox, consumption, rheumatism,
gout ; then the smaller things, for
which surgeons use the knife ; then the many
little ailments of life which cause so many
grievous moments, such as toothache, earache,
headache, and all the pains. I would begin
with the great things, and after destroying
them from off the face of the earth I would
attack the smaller, and finally the smallest
diseases. Acknowledge that this was a great
a noble dream. I pictured myself at work
in my laboratory for generation after generation,
discovering why this or that disease
existed, and what should be done to meet it
and prevent it. What, to me, were centuries
of patient labour? I pictured to myself at

last a strong and grateful humanity plagued no
longer with diseases, or, if the symptoms showed
themselves in punishment for excesses, able to
meet them at once, and, with little suffering, to
subdue them. My friend, I declare to you that
this dream, while it lasted, filled me with an
ineffable rapture ; my old religion, which
seemed to have deserted me, came back and
filled my soul; I was able to thank God
solemnly for His great and wonderful gift,
and to implore His blessing on my most beneficent
enterprise.'

He was silent, and shook his head sorrowfully.


Why did the dream leave you ? ' I asked
him.

There is always between the conception
and the realisation of a dream,' he replied,
the interposition of something from the outside.

This time it was the arrival at Ley den
of Lisa's brothers. I fled with such precipitation
that the dream was for the time shattered
to atoms.

'I repaired to Paris, whither I was quite
certain those young Hollanders would not
follow me. Here, as an English gentleman
of fortune, I was hospitably received, although
I Alas fain to assume the disguise of a Woman
Catholic, as an excuse for not having fought
for the king.

Paris, in the year 1650, was a much less
desirable place of residence than London, except
that there were fewer theological controversies.
The streets were narrow, accidents
were fearfully common, the people were rough
and rude, gentlemen were given to duelling on
small provocation, and there were always the
dangers of the Bastille. Suppose, I thought

sometimes, that I was to incur the misfortune
of being imprisoned for life on suspicion of
some libel. How long would it be before my
gaolers would have their suspicions aroused by
the youthfulness of their prisoner ? And what
would the Church say, if the problem were set
before it? And with what face could I tell
the story and bear the tender mercies of the
secular arm, which was heavy indeed upon
magicians? Had it not been for disquietude
on these accounts, I should have been happy
in Paris. It was a city which possessed
(should my dream of labour come back to me)
the best library of medical books in the
world, and when I was inclined to enjoy the
pleasures of life, gave me such boon companions
as Chapelle, Beaumont, and Bois-robert ;
such evenings as none but well-bred ladies
of Paris could offer ; and such talk as was to

be heard nowhere but among the scholars of
Paris.

'After a year or two of Paris, when it
seemed as if things were becoming more
settled in my own country, I returned to
Warwickshire. In the calm retreat of my
estate, I thought, I could carry out undisturbed
those projects which I had only laid aside fora
while, and proposed to undertake in earnest.'

And what prevented you .^ '

The usual thing — a woman. I fell in
love. She was a girl of twenty four, handsome,
well-born, with a considerable fortune,
and was reported to have a good temper. I
have nothing to say against her at all ; she
was a most excellent housekeeper. At
making of strong waters, brewing, baking,
pickling, preserving, and the knowledge of
herbs, there was never any one her equal.

We married, and for the first twenty years
of my married state I was perfectly happy.
But in each experiment made in a life like
mine there are new dangers and difficulties
which were unforeseen. The danger which
I had overlooked was that my wife would
grow old while I should not. In fact, when
she was forty-five and I was, in the eyes of
the world, fifty-live or so, I was freely congratulated
on my wonderful preservation.
This, which was only matter for laughter then,
became, ten years later, when I should have
been sixty-five, a thing of unwelcome notoriety.
To be sure, it is not every day that one sees a
man of sixty-five with the crisp beard and brown
curls, the clear eyes and the elastic tread of
thirty-five. To avoid this kind of talk I once
kept my bed for a week, pretending illness, and
came out of it with a stoop in the shoulders

and a shaking at the knees. I also adopted
an old-fashioned periique, and painted every
morning crows-feet and lines about the eyes.

'It is very well to make up (being five
and thirty) into five and sixty. But what
about five and seventy, ^^^ and eighty, five
and ninety? My friend, the most unforeseen
thing happened. The life of my wife was prolonged
so far beyond the usual span that she
actually reached the age of ninety-eight. Know
consider what that meant to me. First, there
was the discomfort, which lasted for sixty years
and more, of being married to a wife older
than yourself. How should you at thirty-five
like to be married to a woman of ninety-five, eh?
Then there was the inconvenience of having to
look as if age was telling upon me more and
more. It would be positively indecent for a
man at a hundred to shake a leg as merrily asa

man at thirty : he may not laugh, nor sing,
nor ride, nor dance, nor talk cheerfully,
nor even drink. Now when she had got
to ninety-eight, T, though still only thirty-five,
was actually supposed to be a hundred and
nine. You may walk bowed and bent ; when
any one is looking, you may shake in every
limb ; you may pull an old-fashioned wig over
your ears, or sit muffled up in a nightcap ; yet
your eye ivill hole young. You cannot pretend
at five and thirty to get along on the same
amount of food as does for an old man of a hundred
; you cannot disguise the fact that you have
all your teeth ; you cannot wholly dissemble
your vigour. Therefore it became the fashion
in my neighbourhood to see, and bring strangers
to see, this wonderful old fellow, who, at a
hundred and eight, was so vigorous. " Look
at him," they would say, as if I was a prize ox ;

there is health for you at a hundred and eight.
Look at his eye, full and clear and strong. A
hundred years, gentlemen, and eight I This is-marvellous
! He ate two mutton-chops yesterday
to his dinner, and a dish cf hot sausages to
his supper, and drank a quart of October. Saw-one
ever the like? His teeth, too, look at
them ! And your memory, good sir ? "

" Alack," would I reply, in feeble pipe,
there my age finds me out ; for my memory,
gentlemen, save for things of my childhood,
when Charles I. was king, is but a poor
thing."

Clergymen preached about me, books
were written upon me ; and I sat still in my
chair opposite the poor old lady, who was now
bent double, wondering what would happen,
and how to get out of the difficulty. A cruel
thing, to desire the death of a wife, yet what

else could I wish for ? And in the end I killed
her.'

You murdered your wife ? '

'Not exactly; yet I killed her. Thus it
was. On one Saturday afternoon in June, the
year being 1724, I felt an uncontrollable desire
to leave the armchair, in which after dinner at
noon I was left for my afternoon nap, and to
move about somewhere. The maids were in
some distant part of the house. I took my
sticks and hobbled slowly along, intend uig
to creep into the garden, where, if no one
were about, I might straighten my back
and stand upright for a bit. On the way I
passed the cellar door, and thought I should
like for once a full tankard of ale. I descended,
and throwing away the sticks, I sat on
a stool and poured down the strong October
tankard after tankard, till it mounted to my

head. Still, I did not so far forget myself but
that I returned to my own room on the crutches,
stooping and staggering, so that the maids
whispered that the old gentleman was failing
fast. When I found myself alone, as I thought,
I contained myself no longer ; but, locking the
door, I threw my wig up to the ceiling, my
crutches on the floor, and I began to dance, the
jolly old ale in my heels.

Ouf ! It was a relief. For many days I
had been so carefully watched, that here had
been no chance of any exercise. The quiet
house, in which the only noise was the slow
ticking of the cuckoo-clock ; the aged lady who
sat opposite to me all day long, bowed and bent,
meditating on the past and future — for to the
old there is no present — the old servants, the
old dogs, the old furniture, amid which our
married life of seventy-five years had been

VOL. I. H

spent — all these things fell upon my spirits like
lead. So that, warmed by the strong ale, believing
myself free from observation, I shook
off all disguise, and danced with the agility of
a man in his twenties.

'A loud shriek interrupted me. I had
made a mistake in the room, the beer being in
my head : instead of my own bedroom, I was in
our common sitting-room. My poor old wife
stood before me, pointing with her shrivelled
finger, gasping for terror and amazement.
Then her head turned, and she fell headlong to
the ground. The shock and affright were too
much for her, and she never spoke again.'

'After that,' I said, 'there would be
nothing to prevent your beginning the Grand
Eesearch ? '

'Stop a moment. Think. Another difficulty
began here. How was I to get rid of

myself? An old man of a hundred and eight
could not suddenly leave his house and go away
by himself. How was I to make the old man
disappear ? This difficulty occupied my thoughts
continually. Sometimes I thought of escaping
at night ; but I wanted to keep my estate,
which, when I disappeared, would fall to my
heirs. Now, here an accident happened which
proved of the greatest use to me. My eldest
son (cut off at seventy) had left a grandson,
his own son having also died, who was at the
time living quietly, being a young man of
twenty-two, and of studious habits, in a lodging
at Westminster. Here he contracted a fever
of some kind, which quickly carried him off.
No one of the family, except myself, knew his
place of residence ; none of his cousins or great
uncles (my sons) had ever seen him ; for an obscure
country lad to die in an obscure London
n 2

lodging makes but little stir. Therefore I
made use of his death to my own advantage.
I instructed my lawyers that my heir, Mr.
Montagu Jekyll the younger, would shortly call
upon them. He did call : he had a long talk
with them about the estate and the failing
health of the old squire ; but when he came to
pay his respects at the Hall I was nowhere to
be found.

It was strange ; I had disappeared. They
dragged the rivers ; they searched the woods ;
they found my crutches; they found my
clothes, my wig, and my hat. But my body
was never recovered. I need not tell you that
the young man, the heir, was no other than
myself.

That difficulty surmounted, I resolved that
it should not occur again. The estates were
not entailed, and I sold them, reckoning on the

promise that I should always have the equivalent
to what I started upon in an annual income.'

And the rest of your children and grandchildren
? '

I do not know. It is absurd to suppose
that I could keep the genealogical tables of so
large a family as mine. Why, at the estimate of
four children apiece, I have reckoned that my
present descendants amount to over a million
and a quarter ; and, of course, many of them
must have lead more than four children. It
is long, however, since I cared about following
the fortunes of my grandchildren. I
start the sons and portion the daughters ; then
they go out into the world, and I know
nothing more about them. Long before the
grandchildren begin to get troublesome, I am
away and forgotten.'

Do you, then, change your name P '

Sometimes, for a generation or two. Then
I take it again, and display a curious acquaintance
with the family history of the Jekyll of
Worcestershire. At present I am bearing my
own name.'

Then, having got rid of your estate, I
suppose the Eesearch was fairly begun ? There
were no longer any obstacles ? '

He laughed gently.

'No obstacles? Why, I was beginning
the world all over again. I, who had for
forty years pretended to be an old man, I was
a young fellow adam of five and thirty. My
heart was young as well as my body ; I quickly
forgot the poor old lady with whom I lead for
so long been unequally yoked ; and I burned
to make a new departure.'

But your studies, your resolutions — did
you think nothing of them ? '

Yes, at times I thought of them ; but they
would always wait ; meantime, I wanted to
enlarge my experience of the world.

I Event to London this time ; the glorious
eighteenth century was well begun : when
shall we see its like again ? I found myself
among wits of whose talk you can have no
conception, among ladies whose beauty was
only equalled by their incomparable grace, and
in a school of manners the like of which the
world has never seen. It was only in the
eighteenth century that men and women
succeeded in defeating age. By means of
wigs, powder, paint, stays, and other artificial
adornments, they kept up the pretence of
always being young. When they failed, as
sometimes happened through an unmannerly
palsy or a disconcerting blindness, or anything
of that sort, the rest of us pretended that

nothing was wrong. But, short of their afflictions,
men and women — I mean gentlemen and
ladies, of comes — went on with their suppers,
their cards, and their dice, until they fell down
and died. To me, of course, who dreaded
nothing but an accidental knock with a chair-pole,
or the upset of a coach, or the falling of
something on my head, there was no merit in
this kind of acting ; but I confess that I was
then, and am still, lost in admiration of the
admirable way in which these poor creatures of
a few short years behaved as if centuries at
least where before them.'

He sat still and stroked his chin reflectively.


How well I remember it, that century of
gaming, drinking, suppers, and what preachers
call unreality! Unreality, indeed ! when men
and women took all there was to be had in

life, and said : " Thus will we live while weare
in health. Sufficient for the present the
wax-tapers, the supper-table, the wit and conversation
of well-bred men." Ah ! '

He heaved a profound sigh.

We might have been going on still in the
same way, making a little Paris in every
capital, the rich enjoying life, and the poor —
I suppose the poor were no worse off then than
they are now. But the French Revolution
came and spoiled everything. I never before
thoroughly realised the selfishness of mankind
The most beautiful society that the world had
ever seen, smashed and destroyed ; a whole
continent in flames ; and all because a few
demagogues persuaded the people that they
were unhappy. For the first time I was disgusted
with my epoch, and for the first time
for a hundred and fifty years I was contented

to think that I had uot spent my time in toiling
for them.

Long, however, before the crash of the
Revolution, which altered and upset so much,
I left London and retired to the country, where
I met with that great misfortune which '

Which retarded the prosecution of the
Great Eesearch ? '

'No, sir, worse than that — which added
ten years to my life. It began, naturally, with
a woman. I formed for her the most serious
passion of my life. Can you wonder if I postponed,
for the sake of her society, the prosecution
of my stupendous design, which could
always wait, and might be commenced when
she grew old ?

She was eighteen when I married her.
She was the daughter of the old vicar of the
parish. She was innocent and true ; her temper

was of the sweetest ; her face was the loveliest
; she loved me' — here he paused and
sidled ao'ain. ' Never, never shall I meet
again anyone like her. We lived together in
perfect bliss for eight years ; at the end of
that time a fever carried her off.

I was entirely cast down at this sad misfortune
: her religion had softened me ; her
faith at the end subdued me; I made a resolution
that, come what might, I would give
up my immortality for her sake, and take my
lot among my fellow-creatures. I kept that
resolution with firmness. I saw the hour
approach when I must either go back ten years
again, or take the irrevocable step of going
on ten years. Life was so dreary vvdthout my
Susan that I did not care to face it again ; and
on the last night of the tenth year, when I
should have become five and thirty for the

fifteenth time, I went to bed heroically resolved
to pass straight on to forty-five, and after that
to endure the rapid advance of time, and
sink to the grave with my seventieth year. I
would live, I said, always in the country ;
I would know no joys but those of meditation
and retrospect ; I would recover, if I
could, the consolation of religion ; my future
years should be spent in making me worthy
to join my Susan in heaven, where she awaited
me.

Nothing could have been more laudable
than my resolution ; but there was one thing
which I had forgotten. There was a clause
in our agreement that should I slip a decade,
and therefore carry on my age for ten years, I
should be, like other men, liable to punishment
in the flesh for the sins of my past life. Now
before I fell in love with Susan I had been

drinking in the company of the hardest livers
of the time — with perfect disregard of the
futile, as I had a right to do — port, punch, and
strong waters of all kinds. I had gone to bed
in the most beautiful, resigned, and religious
mood possible. I felt, for the first time since
many a long year, repentance for the past
follies, and a sincere desire to amend during the
brief future. I would, I was resolved, die when
my time came, and join my Susan in heaven.
And at that moment I even remembered my
mother and sister departed so long before, and
forgotten since that night in the Dutch farmhouse.


This peaceful and holy frame of mind was
to be rudely disturbed in a way quite unexpected
and most disagreeable. I fell asleep.
At midnight I awoke suddenly to find that
not only was I forty-five years of age, in

itself a fearful misfortune, but also that I
was afflicted with the most violent attack
of out in the ofreat toe that ever unfortunate
man experienced. What can withstand
gout? Not love, not religion, not regrets.
All these vanished, and I cursed the
hour when I was fool enough voluntarily, actually
without being obliged, to surrender the
best part of my manhood.

I got through the gout ; but, my dear
friend, forty-five is not thirty-five. The elasticity
of life is gone at forty five ; the muscles
are no longer young ; the stomach is beginning
to be used. They say that a man of forty-five
is in his full vigour. I deny it ; he is not. He
has already begun to feel the pricking of time ;
he has passed the first fresh rush of feeling and
enjoyment. The world has no more to give
him ; and to think that I might have continued

my vigour and enjoyment but for mere
boyish, weak, mawkish , sentimental regret over
a girl I loved ! '

He paused again, this time deeply
moved.

That was,' he resumed, ' about the year
1795, more than eighty years ago. I confess
that my life since then has been a wandering
and uncertain life. You, as a moralist, might

condemn it ' He hesitated, and looked at

me with uncertain eyes.

I am your confidant first,' I said, ' and a
moralist afterwards. Let me hear such particulars
as you wish to tell me.'

I told you before,' he went on, ' that 1
have had seventeen wives. I have only as yet
accounted for two. That leaves fifteen for
eighty-four years, an average of less than six
years apiece.'

You don't mean to say, man,' I cried,
that yon have murdered fifteen wives ? '

Nay, I am not Bluebeard. I did not
murder them ; I only deserted them.'

You —-deserted — them ? '

Yes.' He was quite calm, and looked as
if he was confessing an action neither virtuous
nor the opposite, but just of the commonplace
kind. ' Yes ; you see, after my last experiences
of marriage, I was difficult to please. If my
poor Susan, blameless herself, was the cause of
my gout, my forty-five years, the loss of my
youth, the appearance of crows-feet, fatness,
puffed cheeks, thin hair, and a red nose, she
had also instilled into my mind an ideal of
womanly perfection which, while it was delightful
to possess and to reflect upon, stood greatly
in the way of conjugal happiness. I passed in
review one maiden after another ; I considered,

but without profit, the widows : I failed anywhere
to find my ideaL I did not, perhaps,
consider that most unfortunate rule of human
life, that, as a man grows older 'and knows
women better, he becomes more difficult to
please, because his imagination is duller ;
while it is more difficult for him to please,
because he is no longer a young man and
comely. To be sure, I was less comely just
then than I am now, having upon me the
effects of a hundred years' suppers. Still, with
a courtly manner, good means, and such experience
of the world as was mine, one might
have hoped for something better than what
I found. Eight of my wives lasted for an
average of two years each. Then they became
insupportable, and, after making due provision
for their welfare, I left them.'
'Children and all?'

VOL. J. I

Children and all. I never did care greatly
for children, and latterly I have cared less than
ever. They are the most selfish creatures inexistence.
To be sure, women are not much
better.'

He was silent again, and reflected for a few
minutes.

'- 1 did not expect much ; but a little
honour, a little respect to my extraordinary
attainments, I did look for. Yet — would you
believe it ? — they treated my science as if it was
so many old women's tales, and my stories of
the past as if I had made them up, and the
halo of romance, which I could not help
wreathing round my own brow, they laughed
at. Women have no poetry, no imagination !
And then they annoyed me by always wanting
to know about my parents and connections ;
searching among my papers when the thought

I was out of the way ; putting leading questions
about the origin of my fortune ; giving
me, all round, no peace.

It was this intolerable curiosity which
caused me to desert my vows, not, I assure
you, any roaming disposition, nor any selfish
desire to seek for greater beauty. Selfishness
is a vice of which I have never, I am happy to
say, been guilty, though my wives have frequently
brought it against me as a charge.
The difficulty in each case was to get rid of
them quietly and without fuss. The best way
seemed to make them widows. You can't calla
man selfish who makes away with himself in
order to benefit his wife — come. Once, when
we lived by the seaside, I pretended a violent
passion for boating, kept a sailing boat, and one
evening set the sail, stove a great hole in her
side, and launched her. I then walked away.

The boat was found, capsized, and of course
they concluded I was drowned. On another
occasion, later on, when we were in London
there was a great accident on the river — a
steamer run down, with two or three hundred
people drowned. I did not go home that
evening or ever after, and had the satisfaction,
a few days later, of seeing my own name
among the list of the supposed victims. One
cannot, however, always find an accident ready
to one's hand, and different means had to be
devised. In these I think I showed considerable
ingenuity. On one or two occasions, however,
I was compelled to adopt a common and even
a brutal plan, as when, after a more than stormy
scene with a very bad-tempered and long-tongued
wife (although a beautiful creature), I
left home, and sent her a letter to say that I
was going away and should return no more.

This was in 1808, I remember. Lie was living
in Edinburgh, but I suppose she lives nowhere
now. Ah ! she promised well at the beginning.
But they all fall off— they all fall off* after the
first month or two. Selfishness, morbid curiosity,
and inability to appreciate my exceptional
qualities! . . . But these details tire
you. Of course I had to leave the place
and move to quite another part of the world
after every such little change.

They have been, one with another,' he
went on, ' a good-looking lot of women ; fair,
clark, brunette, blonde ; eyes of every shade,
blue, gray, brown, black, violet, hazel ; tall and
petites ; majestic, like Juno, or gracieuses, like
Venus. I have had little to complain of about
their beauty. Their tempers have, of course,
varied from " set stormy " to " change.' They
could all be coaxed into good temper, and

most of them would believe anything, unless
they were jealous. One of them, whom I could
only stand for three months, was extraordinary
in her jealousy — gave me no peace at all.'

And about your friends ? '

My — my friends ! ' He lifted his voice a
little, and smiled. 'You are comparatively
young; you think there are such things as
friends in the world. Perhaps some day you
will know better. Friends ! I never had any.
Nobody ever has any. A few men become
close acquaintances, and are fools enough to
tell them all their private concerns ; but I was
never that kind of man. No ; we were acquaintances
m the dear delightful eighteenth century
who conversed with each other, gambled, drank,
and banqueted, at arm's length ; ready at a
moment to draw the sword upon each other,
distrustful and distrusted, anxious to get the

best for ourselves, and careless about anybody
else. Friendship means the association of men
for the purpose of making the best out of life ;
marriage means a compact in which either
party expects the other to work for him or her ;
children love their parents for the good things
they get '

And parents love their children — for
what ? ' I asked.

You forget,' he answered coldly, ' I told
you I did not like children.'

He went on talking ; but I fell into a sort
of reverie, and only half heard what he said.
He was describing his different wives, I believe.
I was thinking what a strange effect this man's
wonderful gift had produced upon his moral
nature ; of his cold and callous crust of selfishness,
which made him insensible to any of the
ordinary feelings of human nature ; how the

sight of SO many generations dying around him
had robbed him of sympathy, power of love,
friendship, inanity — all the qualities which
draw men together, and make them seem less
lonely. He could no longer love woman, manor
child ; he could no longer shed tears for
bereavement, or feel the sorrow of the hastening
years. He could no longer feel for the
sufferings of others ; he pretended to perish
suddenly, thinking only how to get rid of
a woman of whom he was tired ; he walked
away, deserting a creature who loved him,
with children who looked for his love, in
cruel, heartless, unheeding callousness. It
seemed to me as if, were that the inevitable
result of such a gift, it would be better to take
one's chance with the rest, and live out the
three-score years and ten.

When I listened again he was still talking.

On leaving her, my fifteenth wife, a truly
dreadful thing happened. I had been so continually
occupied for a whole year in devising this
notable scheme of separation, that I actually
forgot that the fatal ten years was once more
drawing to a close. The time arrived in the
middle of the night, when I was still walking
away from the house, on the hard and frosty
road, rejoicing to be once more free, and resolving
that it should be indeed a long time
before I would again run the risks of matrimony.
Suddenly I heard the clock strike
twelve ; in a moment I remembered, with
horror and agony, what had happened. A
sudden loss of vital force, a curious feeling
of comparative weakness. I had forgotten
to renew my forty-fifth year, and I was fifty -
five.

'That, my friend, I am still; that I intend

to remain. It is not a bad age. My gout is
with me still, but it is not so troublesome
as it has been. I have contracted no fresh
diseases. I lead a regular life, drink little,
go to bed early, and enjoy things in moderation.'


And now,' I said, ' that you have given
up marriage, you will be able to commence the
Eesearch.'

Oh, the Eesearch — the Eesearch ! ' he spoke
impatiently. ' Yes ; no doubt some day I shall
begin it. Meantime, is my experience complete
— have I done with matrimony? Truly, I
cannot say. Stay; I will show you some of
my manuscripts.'

He opened a desk, and took out a volume
bound in leather, fastened with brass, and put
it into my hands.

Sir,' he said, ' one of my old volumes.

This contains all the chemistry of the sixteenth
century.'

I opened it. The volume was closely
written in a small and crabbed handwriting, on
paper gone yellow with age, and in ink still
black and clear.

All the chemistry of the sixteenth century.
I have only to read that book again, to
read the discoveries of modern science, and I
am furnished with the materials for the Grand
Eesearch. Yes, I am resolved to begin it. Sometimes,
though, I confess, my desire to benefit
my fellow-creatures is much less than my desire
to live comfortably and beyond the reach of
accident. And, to live quite comfortably, I
want the right kind of wife. Find her for me,
my friend, and I will show my gratitude to you
in any way you prefer.'

We had more talk, but it was of no further

importance ; and presently, as I saw that my
host was growing silent, and besides, as it was
already half-past eleven, I took my leave. He
promised to call upon me the next morning
about some business, the nature of which he
did not state, and, shaking my hand, he said :

My friend, I am in earnest about a wife.
Find me a sensible, kind, good-tempered girl,
who will put herself out a little to please a man
no longer young.'

But you would grow tired of her after a
little, and leave her.'

Not till she grew tired of me,' he replied.
Believe me, my wives were as glad to get
rid of me as I was to be free. "Selfish, thoughtless,
except about my own pleasures" — such
were the epithets they used to hurl at me ! What
a benefactor I have been, to make so many
widows — and all so young ! '

• What a benefactor,' I said, ' you might
have been, had you stuck to your Grand Research
! '

Perhaps,' he replied airily. ' Patience ;
your great-grandchildren will reap the benefit
of my work. I shall begin — say in thirty,
forty, fifty years. Who knows ? I am now
two hundred and sixty-four years of age.
During' nearly the whole of that time I
have lived for my own pleasure. What • a
life I have had ! And how I wish the eighteenth
century would return with my five
and thirty years ! Oh, to sit at the play in wig-and
satin coat, with your hat under your arm
and your little telescope in your eye, ogling
the women behind the wax-candles ! Oh, for
the little suppers after the play, with songs and
the wine and the punch ! Oh, for the faro-table
and the sweet rapture of winning a cous I Oh,

for St. James's Park in the afternoon and Eane-
laugh in the evening, and the dominoes and
hoods and the chase of the fair incognita I
But the century is gone, and with it half the
grace and pleasure of life. Good-night, my
friend ! '

I was very busy next day, and forgot all
about his appointment, which was for half-past
twelve. At about two o'clock in the afternoon,
however, a policeman came to see me, with
a letter addressed to me. I opened it. The
lines which were written were illegible. The
signature alone remained, ' Montagu Jekyll,'
with the address.

Sad accident, sir,' said the policeman.
The gentleman slipped in the road and was
run over and instantly killed. It was a hearse
as did it.'

A sad accident, indeed. I went to the hotel.
My poor friend was laid out, quite dead, ready
for his funeral. The odd thing was that his
face had grown already quite old, incredibly
old ; a thousand lines were round the eyes and
mouth, the skin looked like parchment, the
fingers were lean and shrivelled.

He made up wonderfully well,' the head-waiter
whispered. ' Who would have thought
he was such an old man ? He looks like
ninety.'

He looks, John,' I said, ' like two hundred
and sixty-four — or,' I added, because the number
might seem strange, ' like any other age
you like. I was his lawyer once, in some business
matters. I will, if you please, open his
desk, and ascertain, if possible, the address of
his present advisers.'

We searched the desk. There was money in

it, but no more than enough to pay his hotel
and funeral expenses, and a number of papers,
but all of them illegible. Nor have I learned
anything since then about this wonderful
client.

VOL. I.

IN SACKCLOTH AND SLAVERY.

In a trackless country, through a forest stretching
away for hundreds, and perhaps thousands,
of miles — for no traveller has ever yet crossed
the great continent of America and measured
its breadth — there journeyed, slowly and with
pain, a woman who sometimes carried and
sometimes led a little girl four years old. The
woman wore no hat nor hood, and her clothes
were torn to shreds and tatters by the thorny
briars through which she had made her way.
Her eyes were wild, and her face, save when
she looked at the little child, was set stern :
her lips moved as she went along, showing that

she was engaged in some internal struggle.
The forest since she first plunged into it had
changed its aspect. Everywhere now were
pines, nothing but pines, growing in clumps,
or in belts, or in great masses, in place of the
oaks, maples, hemlocks, and birches through
which she had passed. There were no longer
any wild vines ; the air was resinous to the
smell ; the ground was soft and yielding. In
some places the fugitive drew back her foot
in dismay, because the soil sank beneath' her
weight.

The sun was making rapid way down to
the west ; the shadows were long ; the child
dragged its steps, and presently began to burst
into a little crying ; the woman soothed her.
Presently the little cry became a great sobbing.
Nelly is hungry,' she sobbed.

Then the woman sat down on a f^ilJen

trunk, and looking round her, wrung her hands
in despair, for she was quite lost ; she knew
not where to go, and she had no food.

I thought to find revenge,' she cried, ' and
I have found death and murder. Heaven is
just. I shall sit and watch the little one starve
to death — the child will go first — and then I
shall die. Oh, wretched woman ! why wast
thou born ? Child, child ' — she burst into
tears of despair, and clutched the little one
to her heart — ' curse me with your dying-breath.
Oh ! my little innocent, my lamb, I
have murdered thee ; for I have no food, no
water. Hush ! hush ! Try to sleep.'

She soothed and rocked the little one, who
presently, weary with the long day's march,
dropped asleep, hungry as she was.

Then the sun sank lower ; a little more,
and he woidd have disappeared altogether',

and the woman would have been left alone
for the night with the starving child : but
while the red colour was beginning to spread
in the west, she saw emerging from a clump of
pines before her an old man.

He was a white man, but his skin was now
dark with exposure to the sun and air ; he was
clad in skins ; he was very old ; his hair and
beard were long and white ; he leaned upon
a stick as he went ; his steps were feeble ; his
eyes wandered up and down the glades of
the forest, as if he were afraid of being
watched. Presently he saw the woman and
the child, and after a moment's hesitation he
made his way, in a curious and zigzag fashion,
across the green space which lay between
himself and the woman, and accosted her.

Who are you ? ' he asked.

A runaway,' she replied.

Show me your hand.'

She held out her left hand ; he held out
his ; on both was the same mark — the brand
of a convict.

I am a thief,' she said ; ' I was rightly
punished.'

I am an Anabaptist,' he replied. ' I was
punished by the law of the land. Who is the
child?'

I stole the child. It is my master's. I
stole it for revenge, because they were going to
flog me. I have brought it all the way. My
food is exhausted, and so she will die. And
now,' she added, with a despairing cry, ' I ama
murderess as well as a thief and the companion
of thieves, and there can be no more
hope for me in this world or the next.'

The old man shook this head and looked at
the child, still asleep.

Come with me,' lie said ; ' the little-one
shall not die. I have a hut, and there
is food. Both hut and food are poor and
rough.'

He led her with the greatest care across
the treacherous quagmire by steps of which he
alone knew the secret. ' Here I am quite safe,'
he explained, 'because no one except myself
can cross the place. Safe, so long as I am in
hiding. This place is an island of firm land in
the midst of a bog.'

There was a hut standing beneath pines
which grew on ground a little elevated. It
was furnished with a few skins and an earthenware
pot of the rudest kind. There was.
besides, another earthenware vessel containing
water. In the pot was meal. The old man
mixed the water with the meal.

When the child wakes,' he said, ' sive her

some, and take some yourself at once. Now
sleep in hope: tomorrow I return.'

Oh ! do not leave us alone,' said the
woman.

You are quite safe. I go to fetch more
meal ; there are some friendly blacks who will
provide me. Sleep in peace.'

Then he disappeared, and the woman,
laying the child upon one of the skins and
covering it with the other, sat beside her,
wondering, and presently fell fast asleep. In
the morning when she awoke the sun was
already up, and her host was standing in the
doorway. Then the child awoke too, and
presently sat up and ate her breakfast with a
hearty good will. The old man, leaning upon
his stick, thereupon began a very serious and
solemn discourse. He told the woman what
a wicked thing she had done in carrying

away a helpless child to the great Dismal
Swamp, a place inhabited by none but runaways,
and those scattered about, difficult to
find, and poorly provided. ' Here,' he said,
^ the whites who have exchanged slavery for
this most wretched freedom live separately,
each by himself; they are jealous of one
another, they suspect each his brother ; and
the blacks, who live together in communities,
change their quarters continually, for fear of
being caught by the planters, who come outwith
guns and dogs to hunt them down. I
have had to lie hidden here without fire or
food for days, while the hounds followed my
track until the morass threatened to swallow
them up. You, who might have courted such
a life yourself — did you think what it meant
for a child ? '

The woman shook her head.

I have been here twenty years and more.
I have lost the count of time ; I know only the
seasons as they follow. I think that I am over
seventy, and when I can no longer beg meal
of my friends, I must lie down to starve. I
have spoken to no white person except to you
during all this time. When I came I had
a Bible. That was lost one night of storm.
Since then I have had nothing but my meditations
and my hopes ; and you — what would you
have had ? The continual memory of a murdered
child.*

^ What shall I do ? what shall I do ? ' she
cried.

'Take back the child ; whatever happen
afterwards, take back the child.'

The little girl looked up in the woman's
face, and laughed and clapped her hands.

I have sinned,' said the woman. ' Let me

take her back. God forgive me ! She shall
go home to her mother.'

She rose at once, as if there was not a
moment to be lost. The old Anabaptist put
up some meal in a bag of skin, and led her
again over the treacherous path.

You have lost your way,' he said. ' I will
be your guide.'

He led her by paths known to himself
across forty miles and more of thick forest.
When they came near any cleared land, they
rested by day and travelled by night. After
four days of travelling, they came to their
destination.

The old man took the child in his arms and
solemnly blessed her in all her doings. Then
he prayed with the woman for a while, and
then, grasping his stick, he disappeared in the
forest.

The woman, left alone, began to tremble.
Before her were the broad fields of tobacco
belonging to the plantation. On the fields she
saw the gangs of men and women at work,
the overseers going about among them armed
with their heavy whips. Some of the labourers
were white, like herself; some were black.
Far away, beyond the fields, she saw the house.
It was afternoon. She retreated . to the forest
and sat down, thinking. Finally, she resolved
to delay her return until the day's work was
done and the gangs had left the fields.

It was past seven o'clock and already dark
when she came to the house. Lie told the
little one to be very quiet. There was no one
in the portico, but there were lights in the
state room. The woman opened the door and
set the little one down.

Eun to your mother, child,' lie whispered.

A pattering of little feet, and a wild cry as
the mother snatched up her lost babe, and then
the woman, leaning against the door, sighed
heavily and sank to the ground. They found
her there — those who came running at the cry
of the mother — and brought her within the
room.

It is the woman Alice Purview,' said the
master.

'Leave her to me, husband,' said his wife.
'If she carried away the child, she hath
brought her back again. Let me deal with
her.'

Madam dealt very gently with her. Her
past offence, whatever that was, received
pardon ; her wounded and torn feet were
bandaged and cared for ; her broken spirit was
soothed. When she recovered she was taken
from her former office of nurse to the sick

ward, and made nurse to the little girl ; and, a&
the sequel will show, no girl ever had nurse
more faithful, loving, and true.

The woman was my nurse ; I was the little
girl ; that journey to the Dismal Swamp is the
first thing I can recollect ; and when I read of
Elijah, I think of the poor runaway Anabaptist,
whose face, I am sure, was like unto the face
of the prophet.

It was my fortune to be born in His
Majesty's Plantations of Virginia. I am persuaded
that there is not anywhere upon this
earth a country more abundantly supplied than
this with all that God hath provided for the
satisfaction and delight of man. It is not forme,
a simple woman, to undertake the praise
of this happy colony, which has been already
fitly set forth by those ingenious gentlemen

whose business or pleasure it is to recommend
the place for the enterprise of gentlemen adventurers,
planters, and those whose hearts
are valiant though their fortunes be desperate.
Yet, when I contemplate the hard and cruel
lives led by so many poor people in the great
city of London, I am moved to wonder that
His Majesty the King, who with his council is
ever considering the happiness of his subjects,
doth not order the way to be made plain and
easy for all who are in poverty to reach this
happy land. Who, for instance, in the hope of
a few pence, earned with trouble and sometimes
with kicks and blows, would cry up and down
the street dry faggots, small coal, matches,
Spanish blacking, pen and ink, thread, laces,
and the like, when he might with little toil
maintain himself in comfort on a farm which
lie poidd get for nothing? There is room for



all on the banks of the Potomac, the Eappahan-
nock, and the James Elvers. Yet the crowd of
the city grows daily greater, and the forests
of Virginia remain uncleared. Or when learned
men demonstrate that, at the present rate of
increase, our own population long before the
end of this eighteenth century will be so vast
that there will not be enough food for all, and
thousands, nay, millions, will yearly parish of
starvation, I am constrained to think of those
broad tracts which are ready to receive thousands
upon thousands of Englishmen. Sure
I am, that if those at home knew the richness
and fertility of the American colonies, every
newly-born English child would be regarded asa
fresh proof of Heaven's benevolence to this
country, and another soldier in the cause of
liberty and the Protestant faith.

I was born in the year one thousand seven

VOL. I. L

hundred, on my father's great Virginian estate.
It stretched for six miles and more along the
banks of a little river, called Cypress Creek,
which runs through the Isle of Wight County
into the James Eiver. My father, Robert
Carellis, Esquire, was a Virginian gentleman of
old stock, being a grandson of one John Careless
who came to the Province in the ship which
brought the first company of Gentlemen Adventurers.
There were, alas ! too many gentlemen
on board that vessel, there being fifty of
that rank to a poor three of labouring men.
They were too proud to dig, being all armiger
and esquires, although younger sons. Some of
them in consequence proudly perished of starvation
; some fell fighting the Indians ; a few,
however, of whom John Carellis was one,
survived the first disasters of the colony, and
became lords of vast territories covered with

forest, in a corner of which they began to plant
tobacco. It has been said of the Virginian
gentlemen that they would all be kaisers, and
obey none. In sooth, they are all kaisers, inasmuch
as they live each on his own estate — the
lord and seigneur whose will none questions ;
the owner and absolute master of slaves whom
they reckon by hundreds. When I read the
narratives of those unfortunate men who have
served in captivity to Turk or Moor, I think
of our slaves in the plantations ; and the
life of the Turkish bashaw, in my mind,
greatly resembles that of his honour, Robert
Carellis, save that my father was ever a
merciful man, and inclined to spare the
lash.

Those who worked for us were, of course,
all slaves. They were of many kinds, white,
black, and copper-coloured. They were Eng-

L 2

lish, Irish, Scotch, French, Africans — men of
every country. First, as regards the negroes.
There are some, I know, who doubt the righteousness
of this trade in men. Yet it cannot
be denied that it must be a laudable thing to
bring these poor creatures from a land, where
they live in constant danger of life, to one
where they are maintained in security ; and
from the most brutish ignorance of religion ta
a knowledge of the Christian faith. I am aware
that the Reverend Matthew Marling, Master of
Arts, our late learned rector, held that it is
uncertain, the Church not having pronounced
upon the matter, whether black negroes,
children of Ham and under his curse, have
souls to be saved or lost. Yet, I have seen so-many
proofs of intelligence, fidelity, and affection
among them, that I would fain believe
them to be in all respects, save for their colour.

which for this life dooms them to a condition
of slavery, like unto ourselves.

Side by side with the negroes worked in
our fields the white slaves, sent over to the
plantations from the London and Bristol gaols
the forgers, thieves, foot-pads, shoplifters,
Highway robbers, passers of counterfeit coin,
vagabonds, and common rogues, ivho had, by
their ill-doing at home, forfeited their lives to
the law and lain in prison under sentence of
death. They had been respited by the King's
mercy, some of them even rescued at the very
last moment, when the noose that was to kill
them Alas already hanging from the fatal beam,
and the bitterness of death was already tasted,
and the dismal funeral service had been already
commenced by the ordinary. The Royal
clemency gave these fortunate wretches a reprieve,
but they were pardoned only on condition

of being sold for a term of years to work
on the plantations of Virginia, whither they
were conveyed after being branded in the handy
and sold on their arrival by public auction to
the highest bidder.

It might be thought that desperate creatures
such as these, the offscourings of the country,
would prove troublesome, mutinous, or murderous.
But the contrary was the rule. No
one, seeing their obedience, their docility (to be
sure, the overseer's terrible whip was always
present before their eyes), would have imagined
that these men and women had once been
hardened criminals, common rogues and vagabonds.
For the most part they worked cheerfully,
though they lived hardly. Some of the
more prudent of them, when their time was
out, took up small plantations of their own,
grew tobacco, and even advanced so far as to

become themselves the owners of slaves, as well
as of lands. Then would they fain forget the
past, and, in company, when they thought
themselves unknown, would even try to pass for
Gentlemen Adventurers.

There was a third class of plantation slaves
of whom my father would have none. I mean
the men sold into captivity for religious opinions
or for political offences. It was a most dreadful
thing, my either said, that men whose only
crime was a lack of reasoning power should be
driven to work under the lash. Therefore he
would never buy any Papists, Anabaptists, or
Quakers, although on other plantations there
were plenty of these gentry. And while other
planters had servants who had been out with
Monmouth, or were concerned in some of the
little conspiracies of that unquiet time, my
father would have nothing; to do with them.

Once, indeed, in the year one thousand seven
hundred and sixteen, he bought and brought
home with him half-a-dozen gallant gentlemen
(though they were at the time greatly cast
down and unhappy in their appearance) who
had been engaged on the wrong side in the
rising of the Pretender. These, I say, he
brought home to his house, and then, calling
for wine, he made them a speech. ' Gentlemen,'
he said, ' it grieves me to see you in this
piteous case. Yet believe me it might have
been worse, because, although I have bought
you, and, for so many years, your services are
mine, yet I cannot find it in my heart to subject
persons of your consideration to the rigours
contemplated by your judges. I cannot, however,
break the law and give you your freedom.
I propose, therefore, to establish you all together
on a piece of land which you will cultivate

for yourselves, according to such rules as
you choose to establish for your own guidance.
There I will help you to what you want for
necessaries. And now, gentlemen ' — for all
began to cry aloud for surprise and joy — ' here
is wine, and we will drink to the health of
the King — and on this side of the Atlantic we
must all, whatever our opinions, add — " over
the water." '

We lived in a large house built entirely
of wood, like all the houses in the country,
and embellished with a wooden portico after
the Grecian style, erected in front : this served
instead of the verandah which most Virginian
houses possess. The great chimney, which served
for all the rooms, was built of brick outside
the house. The room of state where my
mother sat was a low room, forty feet long, lit
with five windows, opening upon the great portico

; in the summer the glass windows were
replaced by green jalousies ; the ceiling was
plastered white ; the walls were painted of a
dull lead colour ; the fireplace and mantelpiece,
which were very grand, were made of walnut-wood
richly carved by a London workman, in
flowers, fruits, and the arms of the Carellis
family, gilt. In the winter there was a screen
and a carpet before the fire, but in the summer
these were taken away ; the tables and chairs
were all from London ; there were portraits of
our ancestors on the walls ; there was a genealogical
tree carrying back the family of Carellis
to a patriarch who lived about the same time as
Abraham (it was so stated on the tree), but
who is passed over in the sacred narrative because,
as I always supposed, his estate was far
from that of Abraham, and they never met ;
and outside, in the portico, were chairs made of

hickory wood with sloping backs, where, in the
summer evenings, my father sat with his friends
and smoked a cool pipe of his best Virginia.

One does not look for books on a Virginian
estate, yet we had a goodly library, consisting
of Captain John Smith's History of Virginia,
Speed's English History, Livy done into English
by Several Hands, the History of the Tm^ks,
the History of the Spaniards' Conquest of
Mexico, and the True Relation of Bacon's Horrid
Conspiracy. These books served for lesson
books for myself, though I do not remember
that anyone else ever read them. As for our
overseers and people, my father was ever of
opinion, in the which I agree with him, that
the arts of reading and writing should only be
taught to those who are in a position of authority,
so that they may with the greater dignity
admonish unto godliness and contentment those

placed under them. The Church Catechism
warrants this doctrine, to my thinking.

Our house was, in fine, a country seat
which any English gentleman would be proud
to call his own, furnished with guest-chambers,
dining-rooms, and every sort of convenience
and luxury. Behind it lay a great garden
planted with fruit trees, vegetables for the table,
and herbs for the still-room. Before it was
the square, a large cleared ground, on the three
sides of which stood the houses of the overseers
and the slaves. All these houses were
alike, built of logs, the windows without glass,
the brick or mud-built chimney standing at one
end ; each with a little projecting verandah or
lean-to, and some with a small garden, where
the people grew what liked them best. There
were stables, too, and coach-houses, with horses,
mules, cows, turkeys, ducks, geese, fowls, and

pigs. A running stream ran through the
square, and after providing drinking-water
above the clearing, became, below it, a gutter
to carry off refuse. The pigs ran about everywhere,
save in the gardens of the house ; and
here and there were enclosures where fatting
hogs lay grunting and eating till their time
arrived. It was like a great farmstead, only
there were no corn ricks ; the barns held meal
(but it was not grown on the estate) and homemade
pork and bacon : the pigs and cattle, like
the slaves, belonged to his honour ; all was for
him.

Beyond the house and square lay the ,
and beyond them forest, everywhere
forest. Save on that side where you
rode down to the banks of the great James
Eiver, running into Chesapeake Bay, you had
forest on all sides, boundless and without end.

Unless you knew the forest very well ; unless
you knew the Indian compass, the hemlock-tree
which always inclines its head to the east ; and
unless you could read the blazing of the trees
which pointed to the homestead, you could lose
yourself in the forest in fiwQ minutes ; and then
wander round and round in a ring of twenty
yards, thinking you were walking straight ahead
for miles, till starvation seized you and you fell
down and presently died.

The Virginian manner of life was simple,
yet plentiful. It becomes not a woman to
think overmuch about eating, yet I own that
the English breakfast tables seem to me but
poorly provided compared with those of Virginia.
Here, indeed, you have cold meat and
small ale in plenty, v/ith bread and cheese, and,
for the ladies, a dish of tea ; there you had
daily set forth fried fowl, fried ham, bacon

and eggs, cold meat, preserved peaches, quinces
and grapes, hot wheaten biscuit, short-cake,
corn cake, griddle-cake soaked in butter, with
claret or small ale for the gentlemen, and milk
or milk and water for the women and children.
Our wine, our malt for brewing, the best sort
of our beer, our spices, our sugar, our clothes,
our furniture, all came from England.

Virginia has been divided into parishes —
not like your little London parishes, which consist
of half an acre of houses, but great broad
districts half the size of an English county. To
each parish is a clergyman of the Established
Church. No dissenters are allowed, nor any
meeting-houses save one of Quakers. Our
clergyman was paid ten thousand pounds of tobacco
for all his stipend ; and as he could sell
it for threepence the pound, you will perceive
that the clergy of Virginia are better paid than

those of Ed gland. In addition to their stipend,
they received two hundred pounds of tobacco
for a christening, three hundred pounds for a
wedding, and four hundred pounds for a funeraL
Add to these advantages that the clergyman
was not expected, as is too often the custom
here, to rise from the table at the third course,
or to drink less wine than his host and the
other guests.

Thus, then, and in so great state, did we
live, in the enjoyment of every luxury that can
be procured in England, together with those
which are peculiar to America — notably, the
soft sweet air of Virginia. We were, on our
estates, our own builders, carpenters, gardeners,
graziers, bakers, butchers, brewers (only we
used English malt), pastry-cooks, tailors, and
shoemakers. We had every variety of fish,
flesh, and game ; we drank Madeira, Canary,

claret, cider, peach brandy, and apple wine ;
we formed a society of gentlefolk, separated
and set apart from the settlers who had been
our bought servants, and who bore in their
hands the brand which no years can ever efface.
We had been Cavaliers in King Charles's time,
but we stood up for Church and State, and welcomed
the Protestant hero, great William the
Deliverer. We had scant sympathy with those
who would trouble the peace for the sake of a
Papist Pretender, who, if all reports were true,
was no son of King James at all, but lead been
brought into the Queen's chamber in a warming
pan. Open house was kept for all comers —
all, that is, of our own station, for no peer in
England was prouder of his rank than we of
Virginia were of ours — and should there bea
decayed gentleman of good family among us,
he might still live at ease and gallantly by jour-vol.

I. M

eying from one plantation to another, only-taking
care never to outstay his welcome. And
this, provided he were a man of cheerful disposition,
or one who could sing, shoot, drink, and
tell stories, would be difficult, or well-nigh impossible,
in a Virginian house.

So we lived, and so I grew up ; bred in
such courtly and polite manners as were familiar
with my mother, the most dignified gentlewoman
in Virginia ; taught to read, write, cypher
(but indifferently) ; to work samplers, to
make puddings, pies, and preserves, to distil
strong waters, to brew home-made wines, to
say the Catechism and respect the Church, and,
naturally, to believe that there was nowhere on
the surface of the earth, except, perhaps, the
King of Great Britain, a man of nobler birth
and grander position than his honour, Robert
Carellis, my father.

But at the age of nineteen a great misfortune
happened to me. The overseers brought
from James Town, where they had purchased
them, six men who, though we did not know it,
were suffering from gaol-fever. They all died ;
two of the overseers died ; many of the people
died ; lastly, my father and mother caught the
infection and died too.

Then I was left alone in the world.

I had many cousins to whom I could go, but
by my father's will — made while in full expectation
of death and in true Christian resignation —
I was to be sent across the Atlantic to our agent
in London, there to remain as his ward until I
was twenty-one, when I was to be at liberty todo
what I pleased with my inheritance .

M 2

CHAPTER 11.

ON TOWER HILL.

We had a favourable voyage of five weeks
and two days, with fair weather and no adverse
winds until we arrived off the More, where we
were compelled to lie to and anchor in the
Roads, together with over a hundred other
vessels, small and great, waiting for the wind to
change, so that we might beat up the river to
the port of London. If I was surprised at the
sight of so many ships gathered together in one
place, you may think how much more I was
astonished as we slowly made our way up the
crowded river, and finally dropped anchor in
the Pool over against the Tower of London, in

the midst of so many masts and such a crowd
of ships as, in my ignorance, I had never
dreamed of. There were East Indiamen ;
dusky colliers ; brightly painted traders with
France and Spain ; prodigious great ships in the
Levantine trade, armed with long carronades ;
round Dutch sloops ; with every kind of pm-name,
tender, smack, hoy, brig, schooner, yacht,
barge, and ferryboat. On all these ships men
where running about, loading, unloading,
painting, repairing, fetching, carrying, and
shouting. There, before my very eyes, rose the
White Tower, of which Speed speaks so much ;
London Bridge was on the left ; beyond it the
Monument to the Great Fire ; then the dome of
St. Paul's, and innumerable spires, steeples, and
towers of this rich and prosperous city. I remembered,
standing on the deck of the ship and
seeing all these things for the first time, low

we colonists had been accustomed to speak in
our boastful way of America's vast plains.
Why, is the greatness of a country to be measured
by her acres ? Then should the Dismal
Swamp be more illustrious than Athens,
Virginia more considerable than Middlesex, and
the Potomac a greater river than the Tiber or
the Thames. What have these new countries
to show with the old ? Why, the very stones
of the old Tower, the narrow arches of the
bridge, the towering cathedral, even the
roofs of the houses, cry aloud to the people
to remember the past, how they fought for
liberty and religion, and to be jealous for the
future.

It was late m the afternoon, about five
o'clock, when wee finally came to anchor in
the Pool, and I began to wonder what was
coming next. My guardian's name was

Alderman Benjamin Medlycott, and he lived
on Tower Hill. He and his had been agents
to the Carellis plantation since we first settled
there. They were far-off cousins, John
Carellis the Gentleman Adventurer having
been a first cousin of Carellis Medlycott, the
alderman's great-grandfather; so that I was
not going among strangers, but my own kin.

What was he like, this formal merchant
whose letters I had read .^ They were full
of the prices ciuTent ; they advised the arrival
of cargo, and the despatch of wine, spices,
furniture, clothes, wigs, saddles, guns, swords,
sashes, and all the things which were required
in the settlement of a Virginian gentleman of
rank. But nothing about himself or his
family.

I had not long to wait in suspense.
Presently, standing on the quarter-deck with

Nurse Alice, I saw the captain shake hands
with a young man soberly attired in a brown
square-cut coat, with long calamanco waistcoat
down to his knees. I had time to look at
him, because he conversed with the captain
for a few minutes before the latter led him
aft and presented him to me. I set him down
at once as a messenger from my guardian,
and I made up my mind that his dress, which
was by no means so splendid as that which
my father habitually wore, was in the fashion
of London merchants. There was no finery ;
the cuffs were wide and large; steel clocks
adorned the shoes ; the stockings were silk,
but of a dark colour ; his peruke was long
and curled, but not extravagant ; a black silk
cravat, of the kind they call a steenkirk, was
round his neck, and his laced linen cuffs
were of a dazzling whiteness. This splendour

of linen, I learned afterwards, was thought much
of by London citizens. On his hands, which
were white, he wore a single signet ring. He
carried no sword, but a short stick was under
his arm. His hat was trimmed with silver
galloon. As for his face, I could only see
then that his features were straight and
handsome. Was he, I thought, a son of my
guardian ?

After the exchange of a few words with the
captain, and receiving a packet of papers, he
climbed the companion, and, taking off his
hat, bowed low.

Mistress Elinor Carellis,' he said, * I have
the honour to present myself as the alderman's
chief factor, though unworthy of that position,
and your most obedient servant. My
name is Christopher March.'

I made him a courtesy.

- ' I hope,' I said, ' that my guardian is in
good health.'

He suffers fi'om gout, otherwise he is
well. I trust,' continued the chief clerk,
'that you have had a favourable passage, and
as much comfort as is possible on board a ship.'

These compliments exchanged, Christopher
March — I call him so henceforth, because
he never received any other style or title
informed me that he had waiting alongside
a boat to carry me ashore, and that the
ship's officers would see all my boxes brought
up to the house as soon as convenient.
Upon that I took leave of my friend the captain
— an honest brave sailor, and less addicted
than most seafaring' men to the vice of
swearing — and so into the boat with Alice,
my nurse.

The little voyage lasted but a few minutes,

and we were presently landed at the stairs.
Our conductor led us through a narrow lane,
with tall Warehouses on either side, and paved
with round stones, which were muddy and
slippery ; then we turned to the right, and
found ourselves in a broad and open space,
which was, he told me. Tower Hill, the
place where so many unfortunate gentlemen's
heads have fallen. On the other side I
saw the beef eaters in their scarlet embroidered
uniform. But I was so bewildered
with the noise and the novelty of everything,
that I hardly saw anything or heard what was
said to me. But we had not far to go. We
passed a warehouse four storeys high, and from
every storey a projecting beam with ropes,
which made me think of the gallows. But the
beams were only for the pulleys and ropes
by which bales where lifted up and down.

i

This,' said Christopher March, 'is Mr.
Alderman Medlycott's warehouse, and this — '
he stopped at the door of a private house
next to the warehouse — ' this is Mr. Alderman
Medlycott's residence.'

He spoke of the alderman in tones of
such great respect, that I began to feel as if
part of my education had been neglected —
that part, I mean, which teaches resjDCCt to the
aldermen of London. A thought also crossed
my mind that this excessive respect for his
master was useful in exalting his own position.

However, there was no time to think,
because the door was presently opened, and we
found ourselves in a large and spacious hall,
containing chairs and a fireplace, with a stand
of strange weapons. Horns, heads of buffaloes
and deer, and curious things of all sorts,
brought to Tower Hill by the alderman's

captains, hung upon the walls. Then the maid
opened a door to the right, and I found
myself in the parlour of a great London city
merchant.

The room was lofty, and had two windows
looking upon Tower Hill ; the walls
were wainscoted and painted in a fashion
strange to me and unknown in Virginia. A
soft Turkey carpet was on the floor, a bright
sea-coal fire was burning in the fire-place,
though the air was not cold to one fresh from
the sea breezes ; there was a high mantelshelf,
on which were displayed more curiosities
from beyond the seas, and above them wonderful
specimens of ladies' work in samplers, representing
peacocks, birds of paradise, landscapes,
and churches all in satin. Seated at one window
were two ladies and a gentleman, who rose
to receive me. Christopher March, I observed,

left me at the door with a profound bow.
We made deep reverences to each other, and
then T blushed because, although Alice had
dressed me in all my best, I felt how countrified
and rustic was my appearance compared
with the fine new fashions of these London
ladies.

The elder lady, who was about forty-five
years of age, and had a most kind face,
with soft eyes, held out her hand.

My dear,' she said, ' I am Mistress Medly-cost,
the wife of your guardian, the alderman,
who is now ill with the gout, but Avill see you ^•
shortly ; and this is my daughter Jenny, who
desires your better acquaintance.'

Jenny here in her turn took me by the hand.
She was a little thing, and so pretty and
agreeable was her face, with bright laughing
blue eyes, light brown hair, a dimple in her

chin, and saucy lips, that I thought I had
never seen the like. ' Good heavens ! ' I
thought ; ' what must they think of me — ill-dressed,
tall, and ungainly ? '

Mistress Eh nor,' said Jenny, ' if I were
tall enough I would kiss you As I am not,
I hope you will stoop and kiss me. We shall
be very good friends, I hope.'

I may present my Lord Eardesley,' said
madam, with dignity. ' His lordship, being
here upon business with the alderman, liatb
requested permission to see ' — here she stopped
and smiled very kindly — ' to see the Princess
Pocahontas of Virginia.'

At that little joke we all laughed. His
lordship was a young man, about the same
height as Christopher March, but very much
unlike the chief factor. For while Christopher
had a way of dropping his eyes when he met

your OAvn, and of hanging his head, and in
many other ways of showing that he was not
perfectly at his ease with ladies, the young lord
looked you frankly in the face and laughed,
and was not only happy himself in being with
two girls, but also made us all happy as well.
Only this knowledge came later.

'I must call you Nelly,' said Jenny, pressing
my hand. ' Elinor, or Mistress Elinor, is too
long. How tall you are ! And oh ! ' — she
broke off, with a sigh and a laugh — ' Nelly, the
hearts of all the men will be broken.'

Pray Heaven,' said my lord, ' that the
fragments of one, at least, be put together
again.'

This is idle talk,' said madam. ' Mistress
Elinor will despise us after the grave discourse
to which, no doubt, she has been accustomed
in Virginia.'

'■ We had grave discourse,' I explained,
when the Reverend Matthew Marling came
to see us, twice a year. At other times Ave
talked about the crops, and my father's sport,
and such topics.'

Presently Lord Eardesley took his leave
with more compliments. When he went away
it seemed as if some of the sunshine of the
room had gone with him. To be sure, a great
deal of the colour had gone, for his coat was
of scarlet silk, and he wore a crimson sash for
his sword.

Do not think, Nelly,' said Jenny, in her
quick way, ' that lords associate every day
with City merchants, or that we know more
than one peer. Lord Eardesley has had money
affairs with my father for many years, and
the custom has grown up for him to call
upon us whenever he calls at the counting-vol.

I. X

house. Oh, Nelly ! they did not tell us what
to expect.'

My dear,' I said, ' you will make me vain.
And, indeed, I am not so pretty as you.'

Oh, I ? I am a City girl, little and saucy ;
but I know what a beautiful lady of family
should be — she should be like you. You ought

to be Lady '

Jenny,' her mother interrupted, ' for
shame. As for Lord Eardesley, Elinor, he is
an excellent young man ; but he is, unfortunately,
very poor, his father having gambled
away all the money and most of the estates.
Poor young Lord Eardesley will probably have
to take service with the Austrian.'

Jenny shook her head.

He had better carry the Virginian colours,'
she said, with a laugh. ' Come with me, Nelly.
I will show you your room.'

They had bestowed me m the best room on
the first floor, which had a little room beside it
for Alice. I was at first much awed by the
magnificence of the bed, which was much
finer and more richly hung than any in our
Virginian home. But familiarity presently reconciles
us to the most majestic things. Here
I found my boxes and trunks, which had been
brought ashore, and here was Alice taking
everything out. Jenny looked on, naturally
interested at the display of dress, and though
she kindly said nothing, it was plain to me
that she found my frocks of a fashion quite impossible
to wear in London. Presently, however,
we came to my jewel-case, wherein lay
all the family treasures, which had been my
mother's ; and her delight was extraordinary
when she had dressed herself up in all the
necklaces, bracelets, rings, chains, and glittering

gauds][which had been worn by many successive
matrons in the Carellis family. She
then threw her little head back, waved her
hands, and went through a hundred pasturing
and bowing.

I am Mrs. Bracegirdle, at the theatre,' she
said. ' This is how she looks and carries her
fan, and makes eyes at the beaux in the pit.'

However, we could not stop playing there,,
because madam sent word that the alderman
was ready to see me.

It was nr)w past six, and candles were lit.
Madam herself led me to the back of the
house, where was a covered wa}- to the
counting-house. Here the alderman himself
was sitting with his clerk, Christopher March.
One foot was wrapped in flannel, and lying on
a cushion ; a stick stood by the side of the armchair
in which he sat, with a pillow to give

him ease ; bundles of papers were on the
table before Inn.

Come in, my dear,' he said, in a cheery
voice — ' come in. Leave her here, wife, to
talk to me. Send for her when you take
your dish of tea. I^ow, Christopher, your
day's work is done. Good-night to you, and
be off.'

The words were peremptory, but the tone
was gentle. Christopher March bowed low to
him, and lower still to madam, and departed.
Meanwhile I looked to see what manner of
man this guardian of mine might be. He was
a man of sixty or so, and he had a monstrously
red face, but his nose was redder still ;
his lips were thick and projecting ; his wig was
pushed a little off one side, which made him
look, somehow, as if he were going to say
something to make everybody laugh. His eyes

were kind and soft, and his voice, though a
little rough, was kind, too. In fact, as I afterwards
found out, the alderman was well known
for being the kindest man who ever sat on the
bench of magistrates, or ruled a great house
with many clerks and servants.

The first thing that he did, however, was
not reassuring. He clutched the arm of his
chair, leaned forward, and gazing upon me
with intense eyes, he shouted :

Death and zounds ! '

Naturally, I shrank back, frightened.

'Do not be alarmed, my dear,' said his
wife calmly. ' It is his only relief when a
pinch seizes his toe.'

I thought he would have a fit, for his eyes
stood out of his head, and his face became
quite purple. But he recovered suddenly, and,
with a sigh of relief, resumed the benevolent

expression which the redness of his face and
his puffed cheeks could not altogether conceal.
Sit down, my dear,' he said. ' I am
better now ! Phew ! That was a pinch. If
you want to know what gout is like, take a
hair-pin from your pretty head and put it in
the fire till it is a white heat. Then put it to
the middle joint of — your thumb will do for
illustration — and hold it there tight ; and if
you find that any method besides swearing w411
relieve you, I shall be glad to know what that
method is. Sit down, my dear, and let us talk.'

I took a chair opposite to him, and madam
left us alone. He arranged his papers, and
began to talk to me about my affairs.

First, after some kind compliments on my
beauty (which I may pass over), he told me of
his grief on receiving intelligence of my father's
death, by which unhappy event he had lost a

much esteemed correspondent. He had always
hoped, he said, to see my honoured father some
day at this poor home, and offer him such hospitality
as a London merchant, with the aid of
his company — that of the Grocers — could
command. He added, with much consideration,
that it would have been his duty to recommend
my father to the hospitality of the
Lord Mayor, as a Virginian Gentleman Adventurer
of the highest position ; and he gave
me to understand that in the important matter
of turtle soup and fat capons, without speaking
of venison, turkey, Christmas ducks, small fowl,
haunches of mutton, and barons of beef, and
without dwelling on the hypocras, loving cups,
and their vast cellars filled with such wine as
even kings cannot equal, the Worshipful Company
of Grocers stood pre-eminent among the
City guilds.

Our kitchen motto,' he added, with a fine
feeling of pride, which, somehow, seemed to
reflect credit upon him, as indicating a thrifty
habit as well as a large enjoyment of good
things, ' is one ^vhich should be engraved on
the heart of every one Who loveth the good
gifts of Heaven, ' Waste not — spare not ; ' so
that while the reputation of the City be maintained,
we may ever remember that there are
others outside our hall not so richly favoured
as ourselves. And you may see, my dear,
within a stone's throw of Grocers' Hall itself,
boys and even men who have, poor wretches,
to make a dinner oflP a penny dish of beef
broth, with a cup of small ale added by the
charity of the cook.'

After this digression, he proceeded with the
main thread of his discourse, which was to the
effect that, although I had some two years to

wait before I attained my majority, it was his
duty to lay before me an account of my affairs
and of his stewardship.

And then occurred the greatest surprise of
all my life. Of course I knew without being
told that the daughter of Mr. Eobert Car ell is,
his only child, was certain to be what in
Virginia would be called wealthy. I could not
live in the rough splendour of the plantation
without looking on myself as belonging to the
ranks of those who are called rich. But I was
not prepared for the greatness of the fortune
which my guardian announced to me.

The successive owners of the Camels estate
had all transmitted their tobacco every year to
Medlycott and Company. The merchants received
the cargo, sold it, and after remitting
to Virginia all those things which were
required, invested the remainder of the

money as advantageously as was possible.
Mine was the fourth generation of this annual
consignment ; and though some years might
be poor, some cargoes might be wrecked or
spoiled, yet in the space of a hundred years
the profits of the tobacco had grown up to a
vast amount of money. In a word, I was a
very great heiress. My guardian held in trust
for me over one hundred thousand pounds,
and my plantation in Virginia produced,
even under the careless and easy rule of
my father, more than a thousand pounds a
year.

You are worth,' said Mr. Medlycott,
looking at the figures with admiring eyes, ' you
are worth more than a plum.' He smacked his
lips over the word. ' A plum, my dear. How
few of us, unworthy and unprofitable servants
that we are, achieve a plum ! and how many

things can be boiiglit when one lias a plum
in one's hand to buy them with.'

Ey a prim, I learned afterwards, he meant
a hundred thousand pounds.

But what am I to do with all this money?'
I cried, aghast.

You will buy, my dear,' he said, laughing,
Halbalas for your frocks, quilted petticoats,
gold kickshaws, china, pet negro boys '

Oh, no,' I said, laughing ; ' I Jive had
quite enough of negro boys already.'

Then there is one expense saved. And as
for the rest, why, my child, unless we take
heed, your husband — nay, never blush — will
show you how to spend it. There are
gamblers enough, I warrant, among the gallants
of St. James's, who would cock their hats
for our Virginian heiress, and leave lier in
the end as ragged as any fish-wife. But fear

not, Cousin Elinor. Here shall we keep you
under lock and ward, safe from the Shocks.'

Presently he stopped, and I, fearing to
trespass longer on his patience, rose to
go.

He took my hand, and was about to raise
it to his lips, when another twinge of gout
seized him.

My dear ward Death and zounds ! '

When I returned to the parlour I found
Jenny waiting for me.

Come,' she said, ' let us sit down and talk.
We shall be alone for half an hour, and we
have so many things to say that one does not
know where to begin.'

I noticed then that there was some appearance
of preparation.

It is our evening for cards,' Jenny
explained. ' Most ladies in the City have one

evening a week ; and, indeed, my mother, who
is fond of a game, generally plays four or fiwQ
evenings in the week. But, for my part, I love
better to sit out and talk.'

Two silver candlesticks were on the mantelshelf,
lighted, and four more stood, ready to be
lighted, on the card-table, set out with counters
and cards.

Have we,' I asked, ' so much to say ? '

Why, surely. Princess Pocahontas. Weare
to be friends, and to tell each other everything.
Now, show your friendship by telling
me how you like the name — the name ' — here
she blushed and laughed — ' of Lysander.'

Of Lysander ^ '

And Clarissa ? Lysander and Clarissa.
Do they go well together ? I will show you
his poems, and on Sunday next I will show
you — himself.'

I began to understand. It was a little love
story that was to be confided to me.

And does no one know anything about it ?'

Hush — sh ! ' She opened her eyes very
wide and shook her pretty head. ' No one.
Christopher March receives his letters and
gives them to me privately. I send mine to
Wills's Coffee House. It is like the novel of
Clarissa, or the Secrets of a Heart," all in
letters. And on Sunday mornings we sigh at
each other across the pews while the people
are singing the psalms.'

The young man, Christopher March, then,
was assisting to deceive his master by secretly
receiving letters for his master's daughter.
This was very remarkable in so good a young-man.
But I could say no more then, because
the company began to arrive. They were all
ladies, except Christopher March himself, who

had assumed a gayer coat for the evening ;
and, still ^vitli the exception of that young
man, they all came to play cards. A little
delay, at which some waxed impatient,
happened while I was introduced as the Virginian
newly arrived, but presently they were
all seated at the table and deep in play.
Among them were one or two quite young
girls, no older than Jenny or myself, and it
surprised me to see them staking and losing
little piles of counters, which meant, I knew,
money. The ladies were very finely dressed,
with patches set on artfully — some of them
with more paint than I could approve — and
their manners very stately. But, Lord! to
see what a change the chances of the game
presently wrought in my hostess's face, which
had naturally so much kindness in it. For
her colour came and went, her eyes brightened,

and her mouth stiffened. She represented in
turns, and in a most Kvely manner, the varied
emotions of hope, terror, indignation, joy, and
despair. The other ladies were like her, but
they concerned me less.

'Look at my mother,' whispered Jenny.
That is the way with her every night. She
says there is no other joy so great as to win
at cards. Let us play and sing.'

She played the spinet very prettily, and
presently sang with great spirit, ' As down
in the meadows I chanced to pass.'

Christopher March applauded, and then
asked me to sing. I declined, because I
wished to do nothing but look on that first
night. Then he began to talk to us, and
paid compliments, at which Jenny laughed
contemptuously — it was clear that her father's
clerk was a person of small position in her eyes.

VOL. I. o

At twelve o'clock the chairs came, and
the ladies presently rose to go. After what
promised to be an endless shouting of bearers
and link-boys, with more swearing, the chairs
were got away at last.

Madam sank into a seat and pressed her
hands to her head.

Did ever woman have such luck ? ' she

cried, lifting her face,

You have lost, madam ? ' asked Christopher,

with a grave face.

She groaned.

I shall want to see you tomorrow raorn-
king, Christopher,' she said. ' Girls, go to bed.
Elinor, my dear, I thought you would bring
me good luck.'

To be sure, as the sequel proved, my
arrival was the beginning of the worst luck in
the world.

All night I lay awake listening to the
rolling and rumbling of carts and coaches,
which never seemed to stop. About three in
the morning there was a lull, but the noise
began again at six, and at seven it was at its
height again, with shouting of men and cries
of the streets.

Oh, nurse ! ' I cried, ' is London always
so full of noise ? '

Always,' she replied. ' There is never
any lull from year to year. It is the
labour of the world which makes this
noise.'

She dressed me, and I went downstairs.
No one was there yet, although it was already
half-past seven, and Betty, the maid, when she
came to clear away the card-tables and set
out the breakfast, was astonished to see me so
early. I waited a little, and then took refuge

with Jenny, who was lying awake, reading
Lysander's last.

It is beautiful, Nelly,' she cried, with
sparkling eyes. ' How should you like to
have a man writing to you — verses, you know,
not prose — beautiful verses like this :

Sure, Jenny hath some secret charm
That she doth guard, but not discovers,

To raise the hopes and soothe th' alarm
Of all her sighing, anxious lovers.'

It did not seem to me very real, or if the
poet meant it ; but it would have been unkind
to say so.

When my mother loses at cards,' she told
me, * she always sends for Christopher March.
He gives her money without my father
knowing any thing about it. What she does
with the money which she wins, I cannot

their

Then we went downstairs and had a dish
of chocolate for breakfast. The chocolate was
good, but I missed the abundant and plentiful
provision of things which we had in Virginia.
xTot that one wanted to eat more, but in
America, as I have already said, there is
always on the table a prodigality of good
things, as if nature was lavish with her gifts.

After breakfast I stood at the window
and looked at the people. There was a company
of soldiers in red coats going through
drill ; at the right-hand side, a little in advance,
stood the fugleman, with a pike, and it seemed
to me as if the men were all copying him ;
in front of them was a sergeant, brave with
ribbons, giving the orders in a hoarse voice,
and with him a drummer boy, smart and ready.
The open space north of the Tower was
crowded with groups of sailors waiting to be

hired by the captains of trading ships, who
marched gravely about among them, asking
questions of one and another, and sometimes
engaging one. In one place a quarrel and a
fight, quickly begun and soon ended ; in another
a pump, whither I see a crowd haling a
boy with shout and laughter, and presently
pumping upon him till he is half drowned.
Then they let him go, and he creeps away, wet
and faint with ill-usage.

Then, when I had tired of looking out of
the window, nothing would please Jenny but
that I must go a-shopping in Cheapside. It
was already eleven of the forenoon, and the
streets were filled with people. I was so
rustic and ignorant that I was for stopping at
every shop and gazing stupidly at every crowd,
so that people had much ado not to run against
me. However, Jenny made me take the wall,

and by leading me through the narrow lanes
and passages which make this wonderful city
like an anthill, she conveyed me safely to
Cheapside, where for two hours we were shown
the most wonderful things, and I laid out a
great sum of money, by Jenny's advice and
instigation, all to make me fine. There were
wadded calico wrappers ; a musk-coloured velvet
mantle, lined with squirrel skins ; falbalas ;
laced shoes with high heels ; roundabout
aprons with pockets ; hoods ; satin frocks ;
whalebone hoops ; a gold repeating watch, with
a gold chain ; a gold etui for needles and
scissors ; and all sorts of vanities, the like of
which I had never before dreamed of; and
yet they pleased me. Heaven knows, being a
girl, and therefore by nature prone to love
these worthless yet pretty things. Besides, as
Jenny said, ' You are a great heiress, my dear.

It is fitting that you should dress so that no
one will mistake you for a poor, penniless
country maid.' I wanted to present her with
something to hansel friendship, but she would
have nothing except an ostrich egg, set in a
rim and feet of silver, which took her fancy,
together with a silver-gilt box for carrara
comfits, to be taken during long sermons :
the lid, I remember, was beautifully enamelled
with a Cupid fishing for hearts. And
one little thing she bought herself. It was a
ninepenny-piece, bent both ways by no less
a person than the great Lilly, the fortuneteller.
Jenny bought it for luck at langter-a-
loo. But I never heard that it brought her any,
and I fear that the man who sold it was dishonest
— perhaps Lilly never saw the coin, and
the dealer himself may have bent that piece.
As for lip-salves, rouge, and all the things

which we were asked to buy, I would have none
of them ; and, indeed, Jenny owned that I
needed not the artifices with which some of the
pale City madams are fain to heighten and
set off their graces.

The next day we went to church at ten in
the morning. The church of our parish was
that of St. Slave, a beautiful structure, built by
that great architect Sir Christopher Wren. Our
own pew was square, with straw hassocks and
red serge seats, high and narrow. . I was astonished
to see the ladies as they came in
bowing to their friends in the pews. I^or did
it seem to me becoming for gentlemen carrying
their hats under one arm, and having
their canes suspended from the button of their
right sleeve, to take out little telescopes and
look up and down the church, spying out their
friends. Several of these tubes were directed

at our pew, and I saw Jenny suddenly drop
her eyes upon lier prayer-book, and assume an
air of devotion which I had not thought to
belong to her nature.

In Virginia we had service for all alike, the
household, the convicts, and the negroes, so that
I was sorry to see in this church none but the
well-to-do, with the respectable clerks and their
wives. Surely, I thought, free-born Britons
of all kinds should be brought to the ordinances
of religion as much as negroes and convict
slaves. The clergyman who read the prayers
was a young gentleman fresh from the University
of Oxford, where, I learn, they for ever
run after some new thing. The language of
the prayer-book was not, it seems, to his liking.
He would have ' pardons ' instead of ' pardoned,*
and ' absolves ' for ' absolved ; ' but I think
his taste was wrongs when he chose to read,

endue 'um, enrich 'um, prosper 'um,' instead of
endue them,' &c., as I had been accustomed
to read.

While the psalms Avere singing, Jenny-nudged
me gently with her hand, and I saw
her turn her head half round and look straight
across the church. Then she shut her eyes,
and gently raised and dropped her head, and I
remembered what she told me about their sighs
in church. Sure enough, on the opposite side
of the church, Alas a young gentleman who was
affected in exactly the same manner. He did
not appear to me to be possessed of a very
noble appearance, being small, pale, and with a
turned-up nose, a feature which in men should
be straight, or perhaps Woman. When we sat
down, our heads being well below the top of
the pew, Jenny whispered to me that it was
Lysander. The lesson for the day was a

chapter of Proverbs, and there were in it certain
verses which seemed a special rebuke for the
frivolity of us gulls. ' Favour is deceitful and
beauty is vain ; but a woman that feareth the
Lord, she shall be praised.'

The sermon, a very long one under five
heads, was preached by the rector himself, in
whose face and voice I seemed to perceive some
resemblance to my guardian the alderman, for
his cheeks and nose were red and puffed, and
his voice was thick. He was, in fact, the
chaplain of the Grocers' Company, and, as such,
was present at all their feasts. At last he
finished the sermon, and we all got up and
came away. If the ragged boys had not come
to the service, at least they were standing outside
the doors, and while we thronged the
porch there was a cry of pickpocket, and one
of them darted from the crowd and fled

through some of the lanes, followed by two or
three.

The next day, after serious talk with madam,
I began to undertake the study of those things
in which I could not fail to be ignorant. The
most important were that I should learn to
dance, and that I should be improved in music
and singing, and for these I had masters. My
dancing master, who took the first place, and
considered himself an artist of the greatest distinction,
was Sieur Isaac Venire, a French
gentleman of Huguenot descent, born in London.
He was a man of little stature, somewhat over
the middle age, "with thin features and bright
eyes. He was very careful about his dress,
which was always in accordance with the most
recent French fashion ; he spoke English as
well as French ; and when he went out to give
a lesson he was followed by a negro boy carrying

the fiddle with which he accompanied his
instruction.

Mademoiselle,' he said with a profound
bow, on being introduced to me, ' I am charmed
by the prospect of lending a fresh grace to one
already possessed of so fine a figure and so
beautiful a face. Mistress Jenny, I am your
very humble servant. You will, I trust, assist
us in our task.'

Jenny always stayed, partly because she
loved dancing and partly because this professor
talked during the whole lesson, and gave us
the latest West End news, which we could not
get from the ' Postman ' or the ' Examiner.'

A young lady dancing,' said the professor,
tuning his fiddle and occasionally allowing one
foot a preliminary flourish as if for a treat ; ' a
young lady dancing is a brandished torch of
beauty. She is then most dangerous to the

heart of man ; she is then most powerfuL'
Twang-twang. ' You will now, mademoiselle,
have the goodness to pay attention to the
carriage of Miss Jenny while she treads with
me the minuet de la cour' It is a beautiful
dance, the minuet. My heart warmed for it at
once ; the stateliness of it ; the respect for
woman which is taught by it ; the careful bearing
of the body, the grace of the studied
gestures, which must be in harmony with the
music ; all these things made me love the minuet.
That was our first lesson; but the professor
was not contented with the minuet only, although
that dance was the most important.
We had, besides, the English country dances ;
we danced the Hey, with Joan Sanderson, the
Scotch reel, the round, and the jig. He taught
us, besides, the old-fashioned dances, such as
used to be danced at Court, the saraband, which

Jenny did very prettily, with the help of castanets,
and coranto, and the cotillon. And
then he taught us figures of his own country,
such as the Auvergne hourree^ the Basque step,
and the jigs of Poitou and Picardy.

Once, when we were in the midst of our
lesson, Lord Eardesley paid us a visit. Then it
was delightful to practise with him as a partner,
while Jenny played the spinet and the professor
the violin. And his lordship and the
professor, and Jenny, too, all said kind things
of my grace and quickness in learning.

So began my new life, with kindness, hospitality,
and affection, such as I had not looked
for nor expected. When the alderman grew
better I found him the most delightful of companions,
full of stories about the greatness of
London and the vastness of her commerce. I
was troubled, however, in my mind when I

thought what he would say if he knew that his
wife secretly took money from Christopher
March, and that his daughter, by help of the
same agent, was carrying on a correspondence
with a secret lover.

As for nurse, she began by being heavy and
dull, whereat I guessed, rightly, that she was
thinking over that bad past which never left
her mind. She spoke little of it, but once
when we were crossing Tower Hill, and I gave
a penny to a ragged brat, she began to cry
gently, and told me that she had once a son
who might have been like that poor boy, as
friendless and neglected. ' And their end, my
dear, is to carry a musket for sixpence a day,
and so get killed in battle, or to go a-thieving,
and so get hung.'

After a while, however, she cheered up and
found her way to the place which most de-vol.

I, P

lighted her, the still-room. Here she sat among
the bottles and compounds, making lavender
water, ratafia water, decoction of primroses for
toothache, cowslip wine, elder-flower wine,
and elder-berry wine, preserving poppy-heads
and camomile for fever pains, horehound for
coughs, trying all the thousand recipes which
a woman of her condition of life should, if she
be a notable woman and take a pride in her
own knowledge, understand perfectly. And
madam said that she had never a still-room
maid with half her handiness and knowledge.

CHAPTEE III.

RIVAL SUITORS.

Naturally, I had to unlearn a good many of
the opinions which I had learned in Virginia.
For instance, I thought there that in England
everyone was honest except those few exceptions
who, being caught, were either hanged or
else branded in the hand, well flogged, and sent
across the seas to us. I now learned that for
one so caught there were a hundred thieves at
large, and that every unknown person was considered
dishonest until the contrary was proved.
As for my ideas of religion, it was always difficult
for me to believe that the fine ladies and
gentlemen in the City churches were so devout
p 2

as our poor Virginian convict. As for our
amusements, I could not learn to like cards, because
it seemed to me cruel to take the money of
a player who could not afford to lose it. But I
liked the City shows, when we could look out
from a window and see the processions, the Lord
Mayor's day of state when he sat in his gilded
coach, preceded by the train-bands, the City
companies, and the masons, singing, ' Hey ! the
merry masons ! Ho ! the merry masons,' as
they went, while the cannon were fired and the
bells clashed. On the Fifth of November they
carried Gog and Magog through the streets
with more bands. Sometimes the butchers
made a wedding merry-making with bones and
cleavers. At Christmas the waits came at
midnight —

Sing high, sing low, sing to and fro,
Gro tell it ont with speed ;

and the mummers came without being invited
Turks, sweeps, kings and queens — and
flocked among us as long as they listed.
And at the New Year we had parties at which
the alderman would have no cards, but only
the merry old games of blind man's buff, hot
cockles, and country bumpkin. On Twelfth
Night we looked for the bean in the cake. In
the spring, when the flowers came, whenever
there was a City rejoicing we had gardeners'
walks made in the streets and lanes with green
arches and rows of flowers — lupins, bachelors'
buttons, peony roses, ribbon grass, and the like.
There was, indeed, no lack of amusement forme,
a girl who had seen so little.

It took me long to learn the value of
money. To teach it was the alderman's share
in my education. He gave me whatever I
wanted, but made me enter it in a book which

he kept for the purpose. I put it down on the
left-hand side, and on the right I set out all
that I had bought. It was a record of vanity,
for the most part, and my cheeks burned while
the alderman read it aloud.

To laced gloves, two shillings ; to satin
for a frock, five guineas ; to hoops for ditto,
twelve shillings. Truly, my dear, no husband
will be wanted to teach thee how money may be
spent. Let us consider how it has been made.
These gloves of thine stand for eight pounds of
tobacco ; this satin for four hundredweight —
a grievous load of tobacco for your young
slender shoulders. How many naked wretches
have risen early and toiled all day in the sun
beneath the whip to sow, plant, weed, keep clean,
pick, and roll this tobacco before it could be sold
or exchanged for thy satin frock ? They have
fared of the worst, these creatures, and toiled

the hardest, all that thou lightest go in satin
and hoops. Of a truth, my dear, thy lines have
been cast in pleasant places.'

The alderman, to be sure, had his own
weaknesses. I might have asked him, for
example, why he ate turtle soup and drank the
strong wine of Oporto, when so many boys
were running ragged and uncared for about
the streets. . !Nevertheless, his words were
timely, and made me understand what a
thoughtless gul was I, who could, without
reflection, thus waste and lavish the money
which the labour of so many poor wretches
had been given to save up. And yet, whether
I spent the money or whether I saved it, made
no difference to the convicts or to the
negroes.

But the thing which most astonished me
was the conversation of the young ladies who

called upon Jenny and me, and were our
friends. For, when we were all alone together,
they talked about nothing but love-making and
how to attract the admiration and attention of
men. For my own part, I suppose that if I had
ever thought about it at all, I had considered
it likely that I should some day marry some one,
and so dismissed the matter from my mind.
The ordered course of things would come indue
time. But these girls were continually
thinking and talking about the lover of the
present or of the future ; they had their little
secrets ; they would show each other songs
and verses addressed to their fair ej^es, just as
Jenny did ; they discussed the beaux, their
dress, their carriage, their impudence, or
their wit (mostly, I believe, their wit
was impudence) ; and they openly pitied, or
derided, any of their friends who had failed to

find a lover and was destined to lead apes in
that place which frivolous and thoughtless
persons are too ready to name lightly.

Were you not so tall, Nelly,' said Jenny,
when I first remonstrated with her on this idle
talk, ' I would call you little Puritan. But
prithee consider. If it were not for the attention
and thought that men bestow upon us and
we upon them, what would become of the men.
It is for their own good, my dear, more than
for ours, that we seek to attract their foolish
eyes.'

Here, indeed, was a pretty turning of the
tables !

No man, my dear,' she went on, laughing,
can possibly make any figure in the world
imtil he begins to hope for our favours. Then,
indeed, he pays attention to his figure and his
manners, learns to talk, dresses himself in the

latest mode, carries himself with a fashionable
air, and becomes a pretty fellow. Then, to
attract the eyes of one of us, he studies to
distinguish himself, and when he cannot
succeed he tries to be different from his fellows,
and commits a thousand pretty follies.
Such, my dear, are a few of the benefits we
confer upon our lovers.'

Jenny stopped and laughed again.

What part does Lysander play ? ' I
asked.

At that she smiled and blushed prettily.
Lysander,' she said, ' has offended his
Clarissa. I have had enough verses, and I
have written to say that if he wishes to gain
my favours in reality, he must now, in person,
inform me of his rank and name.'

Good heavens, child ! ' I cried. ' Do you
mean that you have been in correspondence

with a man whose very name you have not
learned ? '

'Tis even so,' she replied, laughing. 'No
harm has been done, my fair Puritan princess ;
Clarissa has written nothing that would hurt her
reputation ; trust Clarissa, who is a Londoner,
for taking care of herself As Lysander
prettily says, " Clarissa doth command an awe,
would straight confound the great Bashaw'
He may be a lord, or he may be a templar ; I
fear he is the latter. But what a noble air he
shows, particularly when he sighs during the
psalms ! '

I thought of his turned-up nose, and was
unable to agree with Jenny, but did not tell
her so.

The one thing which displeased me at this
time was the constant intrusion of Christopher
March into all our plans and conversation.

We could oro nowhere without meeting him

&

g

and then he would walk with us ; if we were
playing or singing he would join us without
being asked ; he generally took dinner with us,
and on madam's evenings was always one of
the company. That did not matter much but
for his attentions to me, which were incessant,
especially before company. It was as if he
wished the world to consider me as his property.
Of course, I was not so foolish but that I understood
the meaning of his politeness ; a week of
Jenny's talk had been sufficient to remove the
ignorance of my Virginian days ; but, naturally,
being a Carellis, I was not so mad as to think of
encouraging the mere clerk of my guardian,
a paid servant, to aspire to such a thing as
marriage with me. My only difficulty was to
know how, without being cruel and unkind, I
could get rid of the man.

I supposed, and rightly too, that it was he
who sent me verses and epistles written in the
same extravagant fashion as that followed by
Jenny's Lysander, and signed ' A Lover.' I
kept them all carefully and said nothing even
to Jenny. But I told Nurse Alice, and bade
her watch and find out by what means they
were conveyed to my bedroom.

Alice presently informed me that they were
placed on my table by Prudence, the housemaid.
So I sent for the young woman and
roundly taxed her with the fact, which she confessed
with tears and promises of amendment.

But, girl,' I said, ' who gave you the
verses ? '

At first* she refused to tell me, but being
pressed and threatened, she owned that it was
none other than Christopher March. And here
I made another discovery. Not only had this

man won the alderman's complete confidence
by reason of his industry and zeal, not only had
he gotten a holder madam by secretly giving
her money, and over Jenny by conniving at her
correspondence, but he had made the very
servants afraid of him by acquiring a knowledge
of their secrets, and by letting them feel
that their situations and characters depended
upon his pleasure. When I understood the
state of the case I considered whether I ought
not to let the alderman know, and to ask him
Whether it was proper for one of his servants
to gain this footing and authority in his own
house. And yet I dared not for the sake of
madam, for I knew not how much money
Christopher had supplied her with. I would
that I had told him all, and so saved — but
that I could not know — the honour and the
fortune of that good old man !

Well ; I sent away the girl forgiven and a
little comforted — be sure I did not ask the
nature of her secret — and I determined to seek
out Christopher March and explain myself
openly to him.

I waited till one afternoon, when madam
and Jenny had both gone out a-shopping,
and I was private in the parlour. Tien I
sent Alice to invite my gallant to an interview.


He came straight from the counting-house,
wearing his office brown coat, and looking
exactly what he was, a merchant's clerk and
servant. Yet he tried to assume a gallant air,
and stepped with as much courtiers as he
could manage.

Christopher March,' I began, ' I have
asked you to come here when I am alone because
I have a serious discourse to hold with you.'

He bowed and made no reply.

I am an ignorant American girl,' I went
on, ' and unused to the ways of London. But
I am not so ignorant as not to know the meaning
of those compliments and attentions with
which you have honoured me.'

Oh, Mistress Elinor,' he cried, sinking on
his knees, ' give your most humble adorer a
little hope.'

Get up immediately,' I said, ' or I will
leave the room. Get up, sir, and stand or
sit, as you will, but do not presume again to
address me in that way.' I was now really
angry. ' Eemember, sir, if you can, that I ama
gentlewoman, and you are a clerk. Know
your position.'

He rose as I bade him.

In London,' he said, in a soft, slow voice,
with down-dropped eyes, ' young men of obscure

family have a chance of rising. Many a
Lord Mayor began by being an errand-boy.
It is true that I have no coat-of-arms. Yet I
am already well-considered. If the alderman
does not make me a partner, some other merchant
may. No clerk in the tobacco trade hasa
better reputation than I have. I could bring
your ladyship a good name and an honest heart.
What better things can a man have than honesty
and honour ? '

Assuredly, nothing. Give them, therefore,
to some young woman of your own station.
Meantime, Master Christopher March, take
back these foolish verses and these letters.
Let me have no more nonsense. There can
be no question of that kind between us ; none
at all.'

He received the letters with dark and
gloomy brow.

VOL. I. Q

You will not only cease your letters, you
will entirely cease you compliments and your
attentions. You understand what you have
to do?'

And if I disobey your ladyship's commands
? '

In that case I must inform the alderman.
I should, at the same time, ask him to consider
the nature of that " honour and honesty " of
which you make such boast, when it permits
you to advance madam sums of money of which
her husband knows nothing ; secretly to assist
his daughter in a silly correspondence ; and
secretly to threaten his servants.'

You would, then,' he replied coldly, ' do
much more harm to the alderman's happiness
than you would do to mine.'

'Perhaps. But I should do all the harm
to you that I wish ; which is nothing but that

you should continue to be the faithful servant
which the alderman believes you to be, that
you should not aspire beyond your station, and
that you should confine yourself entirely, so far
as I am concerned, to your duties. Perhaps
you had better return, then, at once to the
counting-house, or the alderman my be examining
the books for himself, and find out where
some of his money goes.'

He turned suddenly white, and glared at
me with eyes which had as much terror as rage
in them. Then he left me without another
word. But I know that I had made of Christopher
March an enemy, though being young
and fooHsh I did not believe he could harm me.
I have since learned that there is no man, however
humble, who cannot at least do mischief.
Some men, by their evil lives and base thoughts
may lose the power of doing good ; but the

q2

power of wickedness never leaves us. I had,
however, the good sense to tell Alice what I
had done. She, though this I knew not till
afterwards, began to watch the movements
of the man until, long before the rest of lis
knew anything about him, she had learned all
his secrets.

I told Jenny something of what had passed,
and, to my great joy, she laughed and clapped
her hands, and kissed me.

Oh, Nelly,' she said, ' I am so glad. I have
seen for a long while what was coming, and
I did not dare to warn you. Besides, he
threatened '

• Jenny ! ' I cried. ' Is it possible ? Did
you allow your father's servant to threaten
you?'

What could I do ? ' she replied. ' He
knows all about — about Lysander, you know.'

Oh ! this is dreadful, Jenny. Go straight
and tell your father, child, and then you can
laugh at him.' But this she would not do,
fearing the alderman's displeasure.

The next thing I tried to do was to persuade
madam to go to her husband for money to pay
her debts of honour. The good lady was
growing more passionately addicted to cards
every day, and, whether she played ill or had
continual bad luck, she seemed never to win.
Then it was difficult for me, a young woman,
to remonstrate freely with her, and though I
spoke a little of my mind once, Jenny being
out of the room, I could not persuade her to
tell her husband all. So that failed. Yet had
I succeeded, all the unhappiness that was to
follow would have been averted. Fate, as the
Turk calls it, or Providence, as we more rightly
say, is too strong to be set aside by the efforts

of a weak girl. We were all to be punished
in a way little expected for our sins and weaknesses,
and the wicked man was to work his
wicked will for a little space.

Alas ! ' said Jenny, sitting in my room,
where we could talk freely. ' He is a dangerous
man, and I would he were not so much in my
father's confidence. Before you came the
attentions which displeased you were offered tome.
He actually wanted me to marry him !
Perhaps that would have been my fate, but
for your arrival. The chance of getting a
hundred thousand pounds for a fortune with
such a wife as you turned his head, and I now
fear him no longer. It would, indeed, be a
rise in life for a gutter-boy like him to marry
you, the Virginian heiress.'

Why do you call him a gutter-child ? '
Because he was, as much as any of those

ragged little wretches playing out there on
Tower Hill. He would willingly hide the story
if he could ; but he never shall, so long as I
live to tell it for him. Such as those boys are,
such was he ; as ragged, as dirty, as thievish,
I daresay ; as ready to beg for a penny to get
him a dish of broth. He was found lying on
the doorstep one cold wintry day in March,
barefooted, bareheaded, stupid with cold and
hunger. My father had him taken to the
kitchen to be warmed and fed. Then, seized
with pity for a boy so forlorn, he gave him to
one of his porters to be brought up at his expense.
Then he sent the lad to school, where
he got on, being quick and clever. Finally he
took him into his own counting-house, and
gave him a chance to rise in the world, as so
many poor boys have already done in London.
Methinks he has risen already high enough.'

Let US leave Christopher March for the
present, and talk of more pleasant things.

I have said that Lord Eardesley once or
twice called upon us when we were with
Monsieur Venire, the dancing-master, and took
part in our lesson. During the winter he came
but little, to my chagrin ; because, having then
no thought of what was to follow, I found his
manner and discourse pleasing. He brought
new air to the house, and talked of tidings which
otherwise we should not have heard of. It
did us all good when his lordship came in the
evening and took a dish of tea with us. Then
madam forgot her cards, Jenny put on her
finest airs, and the alderman, who generally
despised tea, joined us and told stories. The
best tea-cups were set out — those, namely,
brought from Canton by one of the alderman's
seafaring friends — the reserve or company

candles were lit, and the tea brewed was
stronger and better than that which we allowed
ourselves. After tea we would go to the
spinet and sing, Jenny and I in turn or together.


Those were pleasant evenings, but there
were few of them. My lord was a most cheerful
and agreeable man, without any of the
fashionable affectations of which Jenny had told
me ; full of sense and understanding. He did
not waste the time in paying us foolish compliments,
and when he spoke of himself, he
laughed at his own lamentable condition as an
impoverished peer. He told us once, I remember,
that he seldom dined at his friends'
houses, because he could not afford the wails
expected by the servants.

So the winter passed quickly away, and
the spring came upon us with those easterly

winds which in England do so poison and
corrupt that sweet season.

As the year advanced the attention of
everyone was settled upon that great bubble,
the South Sea Company, whose stock advanced
daily till it reached seven hundred, eight
hundred, and even a thousand pounds. I
knew little, indeed, and cared nothing, because
I understood nothing, of the general
greediness ; yet we heard daily from the alderman,
at dinner and supper, how the shares
were fought for, and what prodigious prices
they fetched. And once he took me to the
Exchange, where I saw a crowd of finely-dressed
ladies and gentlemen mixed with a
throng of merchants and tradesmen, all struggling,
fighting, and shouting together. They
were buying and selling South Sea Stock.
The street posts or the backs of porters served

for writing-desks ; lie who had a bunk or a
stall commanded as much rent as if it had
been a great house in Eastcheap ; and, in that
crowd, a petty huckster of Houndsditch, if he
had but a single share, was as great a man asa
lord.

See, Nelly,' said the alderman ; ' the love
of money is like the hand of death ; for it
strikes at all alike, both rich and poor.'

The alderman, who believed that Sir
Eobert Walpole was the greatest and wisest
of statesmen, took fright when he heard that
the minister had spoken in the House
vehemently against the South Sea Scheme, to
which, before this, he had perhaps secretly
inclined. ' It was a project,' said this great
man, ' which would lure many thousands of
greedy and unwary people to their ruin ;
holding out promises which it never could

keep, and offering dividends which no scheme
ever devised could maintain

While everybody else was mad with this
dream of wealth, we in our house were full of
our own thoughts, careless of the tumult
which raged in every heart. As the spring
advanced, Lord Eardesley came oftener, and
would go with us when we drove out to take
the air. London is a great city, indeed, but
it is richly provided with fields, gardens, parks,
and places of recreation. We could drive
to the spring gardens of Knightsbridge ; to the
bowling-green of Marylebone ; to the fields
beyond Islington, where we bought cakes ; to
those of Stephen, where there is another kind
of cake; or to the walk of Chelsea, where
there are buns. We could go farther afield,
and visit Caen Wood and Hampstead, or
to the gardens beyond Hyde Park, where they

sold syllabus. We were a gay and happy
party whenever we had his lordship with us.
And for one thing I am grateful, indeed, to
Jenny, that though she suspected what was
coming, she was so good as not to spoil the
innocence of my happiness by telling me her
suspicions.

One evening in April — ah ! happy evening
— Lord Eardesley took us to the theatre.

Suppose you were never to go to a theatre
at all until you were nineteen years of age ;
suppose you had read of a dramatic performance,
but never seen one ; and suppose you
had no idea whatever what it would be like.
Then think of going — for the first time !

It was to Drury Lane. We drove to the
doors, where we were met by my lord, iu
brave attire. He led us to the first row of
boxes, where, for the most part, only ladies of

quality are found, the wives of citizens commonly
using the second row. Truly it passes my
power to express the happiness of this evening
and the splendour of the scene. The pit contained
only gentlemen, but the boxes in which
we sat were full of ladies dressed in extravagance
of splendour of which I had never
dreamed, nor Jenny either. But the patches
spoiled all ; nor could I ever, although for the
sake of the mode, I wore two or three small
ones, reconcile myself to the custom of sticking
black spots over a pretty face. The house
was brilliantly lit With many thousands of
candles. I say nothing about the play, except
that the players did so artfully represent the
characters, that you would have thought the
house, with all the audience, a dream, and
only the play itself the reality. Yet I was
astonished to find so many fine ladies whispering,



laughing, and flirting with the fan, while
the most moving scene and the most eloquent
passages failed to rouse their interest.

'You know not your sex, fair Virginian,'
said Lord Eardesley, when I ventured to take
this objection to the behaviour of the spectators.
' The ladies do not come here to see,
but to be seen. They are the principal spectacle
of the house to the gentlemen in the pit.'
And then I observed that, although I
myself could see with the greatest ease whatever
was done upon the stage, and the faces of
the actors and actresses, a large number of
gentlemen, especially those of the younger
kind, were afflicted with a sort of blindness
which forced them to carry to the theatre
the little magnifying tubes which I had seen
in church. And such was the strange callousness
of these unfortunate young men to the

piece performed, that many of them at the side
of the pit stood with their backs to the stage,
and, with their tubes held to one eye, surveyed
the glittering rows of beauties on the first
tier of boxes.

Nelly,' whispered Jenny, ' you are the
prettiest girl in the house. Half a hundred
beaux are gazing upon you.'

In the delight of the play 1 forgot the
annoyance of this attention, and, perhaps,
Jenny was mistaken.

When we came away, at the falling of the
curtain, we found the entrance-hall lined With
a double row of pretty fellows, all hat under
arm and right leg thrust forward. One of
them stepped audaciously forward to the front
and offered to lead me to the coach.

This young lady, sir,' said my lord, ' is of
my party. We thank you.'

The young fellow said something about
pretty faces and hoods, upon which our escort
stepped forward and whispered in his ear.

'I am Lord Eardesley,' he said aloud.
You can find me when you please.'

I did not know enough of polite customs
to suspect that the altercation might possibly,
although so slight, Iccad to a duel.

Alas ! that this custom of duelling should
make every young man hold his life in his
hand ; so that it is less dangerous to cross the
Atlantic Ocean, or to travel among the Indians
of Western Virginia, or to serve a campaign
against the Turk, than it is to live in London
for a season — I mean, for a young gentleman
of birth and rank. As for plain citizens, I
have never heard that the custom of the duello
has been brought into the manners of the
London merchant.

VOL. I. R

I thought little that night of the matter,
my head being full of the wonderful play.
But the next day, when I was sitting alone
and feeling a little sad, as is the way with
foolish girls after an evening of great happiness,
Jenny burst in upon me in a half hysterical
state of excitement.

Nelly ! ' she cried. ' Have you heard
the news ? They have fought, and my lord
has pricked his man.'

What do you mean ? ' I asked.

You remember the dapper little man at
the theatre last night, who insulted us by
calling us pretty girls — the wretch ! As if we
did not know so much already. 'Twas an
officer in the Guards. Lord Eardesley fought
him this morning in the Park with small
swords, and ran him through the left shoulder.
He is as brave as he is generous.'

It was quite true. Our evening's pleasure
had ended in two gallant gentlemen trying
to kill each other, and one being wounded.
Surely the laws of honour did not need so
tragic a conclusion to so simple an adventure
Nevertheless, I was proud of Lord Eardesley,
and rejoiced that he was so brave a gentleman.


He came that evening. Madam was
abroad, playing cards. Jenny and I were
alone, and presently Jenny rose and left the
room. She told me afterwards that my lord
had asked her to do so.

Then he begged permission to speak
seriously to me, and my heart beat, because
I knew, somehow, what he was going to
say.

That is, I knew what his speech would
contain, but I could not guess the manner in

R 2

which he would say it. He began by saying
that he was the poorest man of his rank in
Great Britain ; that all his wealth consisted of
a barren mountain, a marshy valley, and a
ruined castle in Wales ; that in offering his
hand to a rich heiress like myself he should
be accused of fortune-hunting.

Nay, Mistress Nelly,' he went on, ' I must
confess that at first my thoughts ran much
upon the money of which you are possessed.
That was the reason why, having had the
happiness of seeing you, I came here once or
twice, and then ceased my visits. But,' he
added, ' I was constrained to return. And
having come, I was drawn daily by irresistible
ropes to the shrine of my affection.'
He took my hand and held it. ' Nelly, rich or
poor, believe that I love you tenderly.'

I made no reply. Oh ! that life could be one

long rapture such as that which followed
when he took me m his arms and kissed my
lips.

I cannot write more of that moment. It
would be a sacrilege of that first baptism or
sacrament of love when we promised our hands
and hearts to each other.

Presently, however, Jenny came back, discreetly
knocking at the door — the little witch !

Jenny, my dear,' cried my lord, ' come
kiss me.' He laid his hands upon her shoulders,
and kissed the pretty little laughing thing
as gaily as if a kiss meant nothing. Heavens,
what had it meant to me ? ' See, this Princess
of Virginia, this queen of fair maidens — she
has promised, my pretty Jenny, to be my wife.'

No — not a queen at all," I murmured,
while Jenny flew into my arms and kissed me
again and again. ' Not a queen — only my

lord's handmaid. It may be that I have

found favour m the sight of my king '

Not a queen ? No,' he replied, kissing my
hands. ' No — not a queen — only my mistress
sweet and fond— only Nelly, my Heart's Delight!'


CHAPTER IV.

MY LORD EARDESLEY.

When" my lover left me lie immediately sought
the alderman, in order to convey to his worship
the substance of what he had said to me. My
guardian heard the story patiently, and then,
falling into a kind of muse, sat with his head
upon his hands, saying never a word.

Why, su,' said my lord with some heat,
after waiting for a reply, ' surely my proposal
hath no dishonour in it. I can but offer Mistress
Elinor what I have to give. It is little,
as you know, besides my hand and a coronet.'

Sit down, lord,' said the alderman gravely.

I have much to sey.'

He then proceeded in such terms, as would
give the young suitor as little pain as possible,
to remind him that his own estates, save for
the mountain and valley in Wales, were gone
altogether, and that by his father's rashness
over the gaming-tables, so that had it not been
for the small fortune left him by his mother his
lordship would have nothing. But, said the
alderman, the lack of fortune would have been
a small thing, considering the ample inheritance
of his ward, were he assured that none of the
late lamented peer's weaknesses had descended
upon his son. Lord Eardesley must excuse
him for speaking plainly, but it was rumoured,
rightly or wrongly, that he himself was addicted
to the same pernicious habit.

Here my lord protested strongly that the
rumour was based upon no foundation whatever
in fact, and that he never gambled.

Indeed,' the alderman replied gravely.

'Then am I rejoiced, and I hope that
these words of yours can be made good.'

After this he became more serious still, and,
speaking in a whisper, he reminded the young-lord
that there were other sins besides the
grievous sin of gaming, that many — nay,
most of the young gentlemen of rank took a
pleasure and pride in deriding and breaking all
God's laws ; that they were profane swearers,
professed atheists, secret Jacobites, duellists,
deceivers of maidens, and contemners of order ;
that the voice of rumour had been busy with
his name as concerns these vices as well.

Here Lord Eardesley protested again. He
would confess to none of these things. A duel
he had certainly fought only a few days before,
but that was in defence of two ladies — in
fact, Mistress Elinor Cares herself and Mistress

Jenny, the alderman's own daughter —
but, lie added, he had spared the life of his
adversary, and only given him a lesson. That
personally he abhorred the cursed laws of so-called
honour which obliged a gentleman to
risk his. life or seek to take another life at any
fancied insult. As for the other vices mentioned
by the alderman, he declared that he was
not guilty of any of them ; that his life
and conversation were pure, and his religion
that of his forefathers.

It may be so,' said the alderman. ' Nevertheless,
we do well to be careful. The young
lady is an orphan ; she hath neither brother
nor near relation to protect her, should her husband
use her ill ; she is a stranger in the land
and ignorant of the wickedness of this great
town ; like all innocent maidens, she is accustomed
to look on every stranger, if he be a

gentleman, as a good man ; she admires a gallant
carriage, a noble name, a long pedigree, a
handsome face — and all these, my lord, she
admires in you. Then, she is a great heiress ;
her husband will have, with her, a hundred
thousand pounds in bonds, scrip and mortgages,
and none of your perilous South Sea Stock, besides
a great estate in Virginia. Think of all
this, my lord. Consider further that she hath
been placed in my charge as a most sacred
trust by my far-off cousin, Eobert Care! lis, now
deceased, out of great confidence which he was
good enough to repose in me — and own that
I do well to be careful. Eemeniber that she
is all virtue and innocence ; and that, according
to the voice of rumour, you, my lord — pardon
the plain speaking — are addicted to the
the same manner of life as most young
noblemen. Why, you would be a wicked man.

indeed, if you thought that I should easily consent
to her marriage and without due forethought.


Take all forethought and care possible
said my lord. ' I assure you the voice of rumour
was never so wrong as when it assigned
me the possession of those fashionable follies
which, I may remind you, require the waste
of a great deal of money.'

True,' my guardian replied. ' That is a
weighty argument in your favour. Meanwhile,
my lord, we thank you for the honour you have
offered to confer upon this house. I am sure
that his lordship Eobert Carellis would have
wished for no higher alliance for his daughter,
were he satisfied on those points on which I
have ventured to speak. I go now, my lord,
or I shall go shortly, to make such enquiry into
your private life as is possible. I expect that,

meanwhile, you will abstain from visiting this
house or from malting any attempt to see my
ward. The delay shall not be longer than I can
help, and if the issue be what your words assure
me, there shall be no further opposition
on my part, but, on the contrary, rejoicing and
thankfulness.'

He bowed low to his lordship and conducted
him to the door of the counting-house,
which led to the outer office. Christopher
March was there ; he looked up, and, seeing
Lord Eardesley, he changed colour. The alderman,
walking slowly back, beckoned his chief
clerk.

You told me,' he said, ' that Lord Eardesley
fought a duel the other day.'

Yes. On account of some quarrel over
cards, I heard,' said Christopher.

Where did you hear it .? '

It was the talk at Wills's Coffee House. It
was the talk at all the coffee-houses.'

'So they make free with his name,
then.'

They make free with every name,' replied
Christopher. ' Yes, sir, they call him-gamester,
like his father ; duellist, like his father ; profligate,
like his father. Of course, I know nothing
except what I learn from these rumours.'

Ay, ay,' the alderman mused. ' No smoke
without fire. It is, indeed, a perilous thing
to be born to rank and title 1 We humble folk,
Christopher, should thank Heaven continually
that we are not tempted, in the same way as
our betters, to overstep the bounds of the moral
law. No dicing, no profligacy, for the sober
London merchant.'

I understood, presently, that I was not to
see my lord until the alderman was perfectly

satisfied as to his private character. This gave
me no uneasiness, as I was so assured of my
lover's goodness that I felt no pain on that
score, and was only anxious for the time of probation
to be passed.

Now a thing happened during the time
when my lord was conferring with the alderman
concerning his suit, which caused in my
mind a little surprise, but which I thought no
more of for the moment. It was this.

Outside the house my lord's servant, holding
his horse, was waiting for his master. It was
midsummer, and the evening was quite light.
One does not in general pay much heed to
men-servants, but this fellow caught my eye as
I stood at the window and wondered what my
guardian would say. When the mind is greatly
excited a little thing distracts the attention for
the moment and gives relief. Therefore I observed

that the groom was a rosy-faced fellow,
not very young, but fresh of cheek, who looked
as if he had come up from the country only the
day before, so brown and rustic was his appearance.
In his mouth there was a straw, and his
hair was of a bright red, of the kind called
shock. While I was idly noting these matters
I saw Christopher March standing by one of
the posts of the street, looking, as men will doat
the horse. Presently the groom looked in
his direction, and a sudden change came over
him. For his rosy cheeks grew pale and his
knees trembled.

Then Christopher started and slowly walked
nearer the horse. He spoke to the man, and
began stroking the animal's neck, as if he were
talking about the horse. I knew, however, by
some instinct, perhaps because I now suspected
Christopher in everything, that he was not talking

of the horse at all. But what could he
have to say to a country bumpkin, the groom
of Lord Eardesley ? I watched more narrowly.
They were having some sort of explanation.
Gradually my bumpkin seemed to recover from
his apprehension, and began to laugh at something
Christopher said. And when the latter
left him he nodded after him with a familiarity
that was odd indeed.

Nor was that all. While I was still wondering,
partly how the alderman would take it,
and partly who this servant could be, that he
should be an old acquaintance of Christopher
March, another thing happened.

Alice, who had been out on some errand
or other connected with my wants, was returning
home. I saw the dear old woman
slowly walking along the rough stones within
the posts, and transferred my thoughts easily

VOL. I. s

enough to her and her fidelity. Why, I
should have something that night to tell her
worth the hearing! Then, all of a sudden
was I dreaming ? — she, too. stopped short
on sight of Thomas Marigold, which was, I
learned afterwards, the fellow's name, and
gazed upon him with an air of wonder and
doubt. Then she, too, stepped out into the
road and accosted him. Again that look of
terror on his face ; and again, after a few
moment's talk, the look of relief.

What they said was this, as nurse told me
afterwards. She touched his arm and said
sharply, ' What are you doing here ? '

Then it was that he turned pale.

What are you doing. Canvas Dick ? '

Upon this he staggered and nearly dropped
the reins.

Who — who — are you ? ' he asked.

'Never mind who I am. It is enough
that I remember you, and that you are
Canvas Dick, and that what I know about
you is enough to hang you any day.'

Then his knees trembled and his jaws chattered
for fear.

It is nigh upon twenty years ago he said,
since I heard that name. Too long for anybody
to remember ; and, besides, what is it you know?
Perhaps, after all, you are only pretending.'

'Then will this help you? A man and
two boys, one of them fifteen years of age,
that is yourself, and one six or seven years
younger ; a house in the Radcliffe Highway ;
a great robbery of jewels, planned by a man
and carried out by the boldness and dexterity
of the two boys ; and '

Hush ! ' whispered the man. ' Don't say
another word. Tell me who you ares

2

'They call me Alice,' said nurse, looking
him straight in the face. ' That does not help
you much. If you want to know more, I am
nurse to Mistress Carellis, who lives in this
house.'

The man stared hard at her. ' No,' he
said ; ' I can't remember who you are. Do
you mean mischief, or do you mean halves ? '

First, what are you doing here ? '

I'm groom to Lord Eardesley.' He grinned
from ear to ear. ' Who would think to find
me as Tummas Marigold, honest Tummas,
fresh from the country, and grooming a
nobleman's horse ? '

'Groom to Lord Eardesley, are you?
Oh ! ' and here a sudden light sprang into her
face. ' And what,' she asked with a catch in her
voice, ' What became of the other boy ? '

Honest Tummas hesitated. Then he replied

taking the straw out of his mouth and
stroking the horse's neck : ' Why — the
other boy — the little un' — he was hanged a
matter of five years ago, on account of a girl's
purse which he snatched in the fields behind
Sadler's Wells.'

Oh ! ' she groaned, with a kind of despair.
It was the end to be looked for. It is the end
of you all.'

Ay,' he said ; ' give us a long day and
plenty of rope. Then we climb the ladder
gaily and kick off the shoes, game to the
last.'

She shook her head. ' Well,' she said,
now I know where to find you, I must use
you for my own purposes. Come here if
you can tomorrow evening at nine, and I
will ask you certain questions. Be sure that
you answer me truthfully.'

Then you don't mean mischief. '

If you serve me faithful I will not harm
you. If you dare to play me false I will tell
his worship, Alderman Medlycott, who you are,
and give evidence against you at Newgate.'

The man still hesitated. Presently, however,
he held out his hand.

Honour, he said, was the only thing on which
poor rogues and gentlemen of the road had
to depend. And as he was satisfied that the
good lady meant him no harm, he would
meet her the next day and take her to a quiet
place in the fields where they could talk.

Here muse laughed. ' Thou art a villain
indeed, Dick, but put that thought out of your
mind. An old woman like me may be knocked
o' the head, but suppose she writes a history
of Thomas Marigold, and lays it in a place
where, after her murder, it might be found ! '

Thomas laughed at this, and protested that
he was a most honest and harmless fellow,
and that he would certainly come and answer
all her questions.

That night, nurse, Jenny, and I had a
long and serious talk together in my chamber ;
so long that when I went to bed the watchman
below was bawling, ' Past two o'clock
and a fine night.' And all our talk was
about my lord.

Nurse had foreseen what was coming ; so had
Jenny ; so had everybody except the principal
person concerned. Nurse was sure that he was
as good as he was brave and handsome, and
only owned to some misgivings on the subject
of wine, which, she said, when gentlemen exceeded
their couple of bottles or so, was apt
to fly to the head and make them quarrelsome.
Then, because she was a very wise

woman, and knew the world, she began to
tell me how different my life would be when
I was a peeress.

Oh ! ' said Jenny, with a long sigh, ' I
wonder if Lysander is a peer. There is an
air about him ; he may be anything. Happy,
happy, happy Nelly ! ' she cried, kissing me
before she went to bed. ' To marry such a
man, and to gain a title and — oh I Lysander
! '

She ran upstairs to her own room — and
I began to mistress.

As for my lord's character,' said nurse,
the alderman may make any enquiries he
pleases. But I have a surer way to find the
truth.'

In two or three days she told me that
she had learned all. Lord Eardesley was the
most quiet and steady young man in London.

He was studious, and read and wrote a great
deal. In the evening he might be seen at a
coffee-house or at the play. He went but
little into society. He neither drank nor
gambled. He attended church. His friends
were chiefly gentlemen older than himself.
No character could have been more satisfactory.
I was in the highest spirits. I did not ask
nurse how she came by the information, which
I trusted entirely ; and I waited impatiently
for the alderman to tell me that all was welland
that my lord was coming to the house
as my betrothed lover.

It was bright sunny weather in early
summer, I remember. The June and July
of 1720 were full of splendid days, in which
every stone in the White Tower stood out
clear and distinct, and the river sparkled in the
sunshine. They were all days of hope and joy

Yet a week — a fortnight — passed, and the
alderman made no sign. That is, he became
more silent. He had an attack of gout upon
him, though not a serious one. Yet it laid
him up, so that he could not get about.

One day I sought him in the counting-house,
and asked him, seeing that he was
alone, what was the meaning of his continued
silence.

'My dear,' he said, ' I hope you will
receive with resignation the news I have to
give you. I would fain have spared you yet.
But you force it from me.'

Go on quickly,' I said. ' Is Lord Eardesley
ill?'

'More than that,' he replied solemnly.
He is not worthy of your hand. He must
not marry you.'

He laid his kindly hand on mine, to keep

me quiet, while with sad eyes and sad voice
he said what he had to say.

'He is a fortune-hitter, Ehnor. He is a
gamester ; he is a wine-bibber ; he is a profligate.
Such as his father was, so is he ; and
the late Lord Eardesley was the most notorious
of all the men about Court twenty years
ago. Such as his grandfather was, so is he ;
and the grandfather was the private friend and
intimate of Charles the Second, Buckingham,
and Rochester.'

How do you know, sir, that the son inherits
the vices of the father ? You speak from
some envious and lying report.'

'Nay, child, nay. I would I did. At
first I had only my fears on account of idle
reports which reached my ears ; now, however,
these reports are confirmed, and I
know from a most certain, although a secret

source, the whole private life of this young
nobleman.'

I was silent, bewildered.

Consider for a moment, child, what a
dreadful thing it is to be the wife of a gambler.
At the beginning of an evening's play
he hath a noble fortune, say, perhaps a hundred
thousand pounds ; at the close of the
night all is gone — all gone. Think of that.
The money which represents the patience of
generations and the labours of hundreds of
men, all gone in a moment — in the twinkling
of an eye, fooled away upon a chance.
Why, girl, the profligate and the drunkard
are better ; they, at least, have some semblance
of pleasure for their money; the
gambler alone hath none.'

I do not believe,' I said doggedly, ' that
my lord is a gambler at all.' Then I remembered

my nurse's discoveries. ' Why, my dear
alderman, I can prove you are wrong. I
have my secret way of finding out, too, and
my information is trustworthy. What do you
say to that .^ '

I say, EHnor,' replied the alderman, ' that
I cannot promise the hand of the daughter of
my late correspondent and honoured friend,
Eobert Carellis, to the young Lord Eardesley,
and that I have written to tell him so. Believe
me, child, it was the hardest letter that I
ever had to write. Now it is written.'

In a year or so I shall be of age,' I said bitterly.
' Then I shall not want your consent.'

Be it so,' he replied. ' Let me do my
duty meanwhile as it becomes an honest man.
Go, child. You are sorrowful, and with reason.
The day will come when you will own that I
have acted rightly.'

I returned sadly. Jenny and madam
knew what had been done, and we sat and
cried together. Presently Jenny whispered,
What if Lysander should prove a gambler ! '

All the sorrow in the world said madam
solemnly, ' comes from the extreme wickedness
of man. What vice is so terrible as the love of
gaming ? '

I thought of her own passion for cards and
wondered. I know, now, that people are
never so virtuously indignant as when they
denounce the sins to which they are themselves
most prone.

Before night a letter was brought to me.
It was from my lord.

Dearest and best of women,' he said, and
I seemed to feel again the touch of his hand
and to hear his soft and steady voice, so that
m}' head swam and my heart sank, 'I have

received a letter from the alderman, in which
I learn that I possess such vices as unfit me
for your hand. I know not, in very truth,
what they are. Have courage, my dear, and
cheer your Geoffrey with an assurance that
you will trust him until he can clear away
these clouds. I have promised that I will not
intrude myself upon your house. My intention
is to do nothing for a week or two, and then to
ask if the alderman will bring before me the
reasons, clearly and certainly, for his bad
opinion. So now farewell, and believe that
I may be unworthy of so great a blessing as
your love, but that I am not insensible to it
and not ungrateful.'

Had any girl so sweet a letter ? Be sure
I answered it with such silly words as I could
command, telling him that I was altogether
his, and that I firmly believed in his innocence.

And so, with lighter heart and with an
assured hope in the future, I lay down to sleep
on the first night after my lover was sent
from me.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BT

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Square

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 041403566

^

St:

'Viri

S^.

^■•■-Sl

Wm^

'-^N

EX-LIBRIS
F. E.DlNSHAW

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of Ill Noise

u^

TEN YEARS' TENANT

VOL. II.

MBS. LINTON'S NEW NOVEL.
THE REBEL OF THE FAMILY. By E.Lynn

Linton. Three vols, crown 8vo.

AIR. FRANCILLON's NEW NOVEL.
QUEEN COPHETUA. By R. E. Francisco.

Three vols, crown 8vo.

MRS. HUNT'S NEW NOVEL.
THE LEADEN CASKET. By Mrs. Alfred W.

Hunt. Three vols, crown 8vo.

JULIAN HA Thorn's NEW NOVEL.

ELLICE Question, and other Stories. By Julian

Hawthorne. Two vols, crown 8vo.

JAMES Pain's NEW NOVEL.
A CONFIDENTIAL AGENT. By James Pain.

Illustrated by Arthur Hopkins. 3 vols, crown 8vo. Second
Edition.

NEW NOVEL BY CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A LIFE'S ATONEMENT. By David Christie

Murray. 3 vols, crown 8vo. Second Edition.

OUIDA 'S NEW WORK.
A VILLAGE COMMUNE. By Ouida. Two vols.

crown 8vo.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

TEN YEARS' Tenant

AND OTHER STORIES

BY

WALTER BESANT & JAMES RICE

AUTHORS OF

Ready-money MORTIBOY ' ' THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY* ' THE MONKS OF Helena,

THE SEAMY SIDE ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. IL

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY


\,All rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OP

THE SECOND VOLUME.
SWEET KELLY, MY HEARTS DELIGHT

[CONTINUED].
CHAPTER Fate

V. Getting at the Truth 3

VI. A Day oe Fate 40

VII. Between Life and Death . . . .71

VIII. Home again 104

OVER THE SEA WITH A SAILOR.

I. In the Port op Boscastle . . . .143

11. Stephen Cobbledice, Pilot 189

III. Jack bears a Hand 236

Continued

VOL. IL

GETTING AT THE TRUTH.

It was hard upon us. We were at the
mercy of two most hardened villains, who had
no conscience, no fear, no gratitude, nor any
principles at all of truth or virtue. One of
them, of course, was the man who called
himself Thomas Marigold ; the other, as you
will presently see, was Christopher March. Sofar,
we knew no more against the alderman's
factor than that he consented to receive
Jenny's secret letters, advanced money to
madam that she might pay her card debts,
and knew all the little doings of the maids,
so that he could threaten them into obedience.

We were to learn before long that this power
in the house, the confidence of his master, and
his position, were all used for our own undoing,
and that if seven devils possessed the
spirit of Thomas Marigold, seventy times seven
held that of Christopher March.

When the valet found that all the old
woman wanted was authentic information on
the, private life of his master, he was greatly
relieved, and swore that nothing but truth
should pass his lips. And then he revealed
so sweet a picture of a virtuous life, that the
tears came into my eyes, and thankfulness with
praise into my heart, when first I heard it
from my nurse. An end, now, to those fears
and anxieties which, in spite of faith in my
lord, would yet sometimes darken my soul.

But one day, shortly after her first discovery
of the servant, Ace found out the

chief cause of the alderman's prejudice against
my suitor. It was caused, indeed, by no other
than Thomas Marigold himself, at the instigation
or the bidding of Christopher March.

It was in the morning, and the door of the
outer office was open. Alice, who was in the
fore-yard, saw the groom walk in, a letter in
his hand : he handed this with a reverence to
Christopher, who in his turn carried it into the
inner office, to his master. Alice waited,
hidden behind some bales, looked, and listened.

Then the alderman called his clerk.

Christopher,' he said with a groan, ' this
will not last' long. Make up to-day his lordship's
book.'

Does he want more money, sir ? '

'Ay, lad — more money — every day more
money. And for what? It grieves me sore
that so well spoken and so frank a gentleman

should be so ready to protest the thing which
is not. Let me write to him.'

Christopher left him and came back to the
outer office, leaving the door open.

Well, honest Thomas,' he said, speaking
loud, ' how doth the noble lord, your master,
this morning ? '

Bad, sir,' said Thomas, shaking his honest
shock of yellow hair.

Speak up, you fool you,' whispered
Christopher. Then, loud again : ' I am sorry,
Thomas, to hear it.'

Drunk again last night,' sir, the man went
on, in louder key, ' and at the gaming-table
till three this morning. Such a life ! 'twould
kill an ox.'

'Tis pity,' Christopher said, glancing at
the door of the counting-house, where his
worship was listening to the talk, pen in hand.

Pity. Tell me, good man, couldst thou not,
respectfully, put in a word of advice ? '

Nay, sir,' said Thomas ; ' I am but a poor
servant, with my character to keep.'

But you might try. Is his temper quick
Louder, this time.'

As for his temper,' Thomas lifted up his
voice and laughed, ' 'tis a word, and an oath,
and a blow. One poor fellow, as honest and
sober a creature as walks, his lordship disabled
1)y breaking three ribs, so that he now goes
with short breath, and is nothing but a stable
help or does odd jobs, and lives on cabbage-stalks.'


Christopher groaned.

A spendthrift, a gamester, a brawler, and
striker — what a character is this for a Christian
man ! '

Just then the alderman came out with

the money in a little bag of brown sackcloth.


Ee careful, good Thomas,' he said.
There is the money, and here is a note
for his lordship. Be careful ; rogues are
abroad. But yesterday se'nnight an honest
clerk carrying two hundred pounds to a goldsmith
in Lombard Street was tripped up, so
that he fell and dropped the bag, which, when
he recovered his feet, was gone.'

I will take care, sir,' said Thomas. So he
made a leg and came away. But outside the
house he found Nurse Alice.

So,' she said, ' I shall, after all, have to
make an end of thee for a black-hearted and
lying villain.*

Why, mother, what is the matter ? '
I have overheard all that you told
Christopher March but now.*

Thomas changed colour, but presently
laughed and whistled.

Phew ! ' he said. ' Why, is that all ? I
have told you no lies, mistress. Be sure of that.'

Then why tell lies to him, for the alderman
to hear ? '

That is a little business between me and
the respectable Christopher, mother.'

You and Christopher ^ What has Christopher
got to do with you ? '

Now we all knew — nurse as Avell as the
rest of us — that Christopher had been picked
up out of the street ; yet it did not occur to
her that there could possibly be any acquaintance
between the chief factor and this professed
thief, so great is the power of fine
clothes.

Thomas Marigold chewed his straw for a
few moments before he answered.

'Suppose lie wants the alderman to believe
that Lord Eardesley is a lad of spirit
and a gallant player, and suppose he pays
me to say so ; think you I should refuse his
money ? '

This seemed plausible, because the fellow
never pretended to any kind of honesty. He
would bear false witness, just as he would
cheat, lie, and rob, for money.

He a gamester ! ' continued Thomas, with
a laugh of superiority. ' A dull and tedious
gentleman, who spends his time a-reading.
Now, mother, I don't tell you no lies. You
go on a trusting of me, and never mind what
I tell the alderman to please that Christopher.
Set him up ! '

'But tell no more lies about Lord Eardesley.
Mind, Dick, that is my last word. If I find
you out again I shall act at once.'

Between the pair of you,' said Thomas,
scratching his head, ' a man's fairly sped.
Look you, mistress, for a spell I must do what
he wants.' He jerked his thumb over his
shoulder to indicate Christopher. • Curse him !
You don't think I like him. Eunniniy another
man's neck into the noose, and keeping this
own out.' This he said in a lower voice.
Only you wait a day or two, and I do no
more service for Christopher March.'

A day or two.' She thought very little
mischief could be done in so short a time.
What service doth he require of you besides
that of lying ? '

stone,' he replied quickly. ' Oh, don't
you go to think that I would do anything
dishonest, mother. Come, now, a pore man
may repent and turn over a new leaf.'

Ay,' said Alice, ' he may. But he seldom

does. And you, Dick, are, I doubt not, a
rogue in grain.'

Nurse told me these things, and we talked
them over, but without any present understanding
how best to act.

Meantime, I received daily letters from my
lord. In them he assured me of his passionate
love, and exhorted me to patience and constancy.
As regarded himself, we knew, he said,
the worst of him ; that he was of a verity exceeding
poor, and possessed of little beside a
barren mountain, a swamp, and a ruined castle
in Wales which he could not sell ; that he was
not versed in those arts by which men become
rich ; that he had no party in politics ; and
that he could court no man's favour for place
or pension. Indeed, he spoke of himself at all
times with the true modesty which ever attends
virtue.

Jenny knew that I was in communication
with Lord Eardesley, and delighted in the contemplation
of an amour which possessed the
first element of intrigue — namely, that it was
carried on in opposition to the will of my
guardian. This reminded her of her own
affair with Lysander, which seemed to progress
slowly.

Why,' she asked once, ' if the man really
wants me, cannot he see my father and tell
him so ? '

Because,' I said, ' that would be too commonplace
a plan, and your lover would fain,
being a poet, nourish his passion in rhymes a
little longer — perhaps as long as your patience
will allow. Pray, Mistress Jenny,' I asked, ' do
you, too, reply with a madrigal, and send him
a sigh in a sonnet ? '

Jenny blushed.

Girls,' she said, pursing up her pretty Hps,
must not be asked the little secrets of their
courtship. My Lysander is satisfied with the
answers which I send hill.'

I was not, however, and it did not please
me to be taking a part, however small, in an
affair which was kept a secret from the good
old alderman and from madam his wife, whose
only fault was her love of cards. And the
sequel proved that I had reason to be uneasy.


We resolved, after Alice had spoken with
the groom, to let matters go on as they were
for the time named by the man. We should
have gone to the alderman immediately and
told him all. But we knew little of the great
-web of helots with which this Christopher March
had surrounded us all. We found it quite easy
to understand that the man should wish the

character of Lord Eardesley to be represented
in the blackest light ; that was common revenge
upon me. We also saw clearly that the alderman
could easily be brought to believe that
Christopher as well as himself had been deceived
by the servant.

Stow, two days after Thomas Marigold
opened himself on the subject of Christopher
March, he came voluntarily and frightened us
out of our senses. First he said that he wanted
the young lady to hear what he had to tell.
When I was fetched, he told us that he was
going to leave the service of his lordship in a
day or two ; that as he could do no more for
us than he had done, he wished to tell us that
Christopher March was a black-hearted villain,
who would stick at nothing ; that he hated
Lord Eardesley, and would do him an ill turn
if he could ; that he would never rest till his

lordship was ruined, and that, in the end, he
would be the ruin of everyone who had benefited
him.

Then Alice asked him how it was that he
knew Christopher so well.

The fellow replied that perhaps he would
tell her when next they met. Meantime, he
said, he had warned us, and his mind was
clear. 'While I was with his lordship,' he
added, ' no harm should be done to him ; but
after I leave his service I cannot answer for
him.'

Then we began to look at each other and
to tremble, and I lined the man's palm with
five pieces of gold for his honesty.

'I almost wish,' he said, putting up the
money, ' that I had come to your ladyship first.
Anyhow, them lies about his lordship are soon
set right.'

So he went away, and we began to consider
what was best to be done.

The man will tell us said Alice, ' no more
than he chooses. If he goes away tomorrow
from his lordship's service, I shall not see him
again. That is very certain. How can we
prove anything against Christopher ? '

Nothing could be proved, but it would be
well to set Lord Eardesley on his guard and to
inform him of what had passed. We decided,
at length, that we would go ourselves to his
lodgings on the morrow, and lay before him the
whole matter.

So far, very little mischief had been done.
The character of a man of honour and virtue
had been maligned, but only in the ear of the
alderman, who would easily be led back to his
former confidence. That is what we said to
each other. Alas! we little knew all the

VOL. II. c

mischief that had been done, and was, even
then, on the point of discovery.

While we talked, the alderman sent me an
invitation to converse with him.

He was suffering from another attack of
gout — an unfortunate thing in all respects,
because it prevented him from getting about
and making those enquiries into the private life
of my lord, as he had promised. He was now,
being dependent on the reports of Christopher
March and the man, in great mental trouble
about Lord Eardesley.

I do not disguise from myself, my ward,'
he said, ' that an alliance with a nobleman of
his exalted rank (albeit his estates are small)
would have been gratifying to your lamented
father, as it would, under other circumstances,
to myself. Yet the profligacy of the young
man is such that no hope can be entertained of

his amendment before his final ruin overtakes
him.'

You know of his profligacy,' I replied,
only by report and rumour. Have you asked
any of his friends about him ? '

His friends, child ? I am a plain London
citizen, and have no acquaintance with noblemen.
Besides, they would be, doubtless, all of
a tale. But I have clear proof. Not only
hath his man confessed to Christopher March,
in my hearing, that his master gambles, but to
pay his losses he sends to me sometimes daily,
sometimes thrice a week, for money. Very
soon, sooner than his lordship thinks, there
will be an end. Doth he hope, then, to send
your hundred thousand pounds after his own
hundreds? My dear, should I be an lion est
guardian did I counsel thee to marry a gamester
? '

c 2

The good old man 1 It was the last time
that I received any admonition from him at all,
almost the last time that I ever saw him ; because
his troubles began almost on that very
day — with my own, and Jenny's, and my lord's,
and even my nurse's.

I confess I was staggered at first. I must
needs believe in my lover's truth and fidelity.
What has a girl to trust in if she cannot trust
her lover? Yet that he should send nearly
every day to the alderman for money, when he
had so little left, and when his lodgings were
so mean and ill-proportioned to his rank — why,
what did that mean ?

I went to my nurse and consulted with her.
She, too, began to fear that the man might
have played us false, and that the information
which he gave to Christopher March was true.

You must see him at once, my dear,' she

said. ' There must be no time lost. You must
see him somehow by himself, and speak to
him, and ask him what it means. Let me
consider.'

I could not ask him to the house, because
he had promised the alderman that he would
not come without his permission. It would be
best, on all accounts, to seek him secretly.

Then my nurse proposed a thing which, I
own, I should have been afraid by myself to
undertake.

It was oiu: evening for cards. Alice advised
me to make some excuse, while madam was
entertaining and receiving her visitors, to slip
out of the room. I was to choose a time when
the tables were laid, and the ladies were in the
first height and interest of the game. Thus I
should not be missed. I was to run upstairs,
where she Avould be in waiting for me with

dominoes and hoods, in which she and I would
take coach and go ourselves in search of his
lordship. In case of necessity, I was to take
Jenny into confidence.

I confess my heart beat when I thought of
this adventure. For a young girl to go out
alone, or protected only by an old nurse, was a
perilous thing, indeed.

Still, we were not going into the country,
or as far as the fields of Knightsbridge, and we
were not going to be out late at night. And
then there was the necessity of seeing my lord
as soon as possible. In fine, I consented to go.
Glad am I now and thankful for a resolution
which, if anything could have been, was an
inspiration from Heaven, and served to save,
out of the general wreck, at least one pair of
happy lovers.

This, then, was decided. Nurse went away

to buy the masks and hoods. I stayed at home
and went on with my usual work.

At three we dined as usual, the alderman
being laid up, as I have said, with gout.

At four we all walked into the City to
Cheapside, where we bought some ribbons and
stuffs, and presently returned ; we two girls
being both silent and depressed, but neither
noticing, till later on, the trouble of the other.
At six o'clock some visitors called, and we had
a dish of tea. The time seemed long before
our guests arrived and the cards were laid out.
I excused myself from playing, and after they
were all sat down, and madam's attention was
entirely occupied with the game, I slipped out
of the room, and found my nurse waiting forme
with the masks and the hoods. I did not
tell Jenny anything, and, indeed, thought
nothing about her at all.

The hood was so long that it hid the
whole of my dress and covered my head,
while the mask, made of black silk, covered
and concealed my face, except the eyes.
It was impossible for anyone to recognise
me. Alice was attired in exactly the same
fashion ; and, thus disguised, we slipped down
the stairs and were out of the door without
anyone having the least suspicion of my
absence.

It was just striking half-past eight. We
took a coach on Tower Hill, and ordered the
driver to proceed to Bury Street, where Lord
Eardesley had lodgings. We proposed driving
to the very door of the house, so as to encounter
as little risk as possible from fellows
who think it no shame to address a lady who
may be unprotected.

The streets were full, and the progress of

the coach was slow. In Fleet Street the driver
got down to fight a drayman who refused to
make way or to go en. The battle lasted for
ten minutes, while we trembled within. The
drayman defeated, his horses were drawn out
of the way, and we went on. It was a rainy
evening, and dark, though in the middle of
summer. There was a high wind, and I remember
how, to the noise and fury of the
combatants and their friends, was added the
dreadful shrieking and groaning of the great
signs which swung over our heads. Surely
shopkeepers might find a more convenient
method of advertising their goods than by
hanging out a sign which is so heavy that it
threatens to drag down the front of the house,
and so noisy that it keeps one awake at night,
and so surrounded by the other great signs
that passers-by cannot see it.

When we got through Temple Bar we
made better way, and after a little further
delay at Charing Cross, we finally arrived
safely at Bury Street.

But his lordship was abroad, nor did the
maid know with any certainty when he would
return. We sent for his servant.

When Thomas saw us, he became suddenly
pale.

Man ! ' cried nurse, angrily. ' What ails
him ? One would think he had never set eyes
on us before.'

He recovered, but showed such hesitation
in his manner as made me sure that there was
something wrong.

You would see my lord ? ' he said. 'His
lordship is abroad this evening.'

Where can you find him, Thomas ? ' I
asked. ' Our business with him is urgent.' .

He hesitated again.

I know where he is,' he replied at last.
He went to the Eoyal Chocolate House,
in St. James's Street, intending to go afterwards
to the Theatre in Lincoln's Inn Fields.
But he met some friends, who have taken him
instead to Covent Garden, to the house kept
by one Denton.'

What is the house kept for ? ' I asked.
And can ladies get in ? '

It is kept for music, dancing, supper, and
gambling. Ladies can go in if they have the
pass word.'

But how can we get the pass-word ? Can
we not send for my lord ? '

Thomas shook his head. Then he considered,
and presently said that he might be
able to get us the pass-word, because the
porter was a friend of his. He also assured us

that though the company was not entirely what
I might wish, we need be under no apprehensions
of ill-usage or insult ; and that ladies,
especially court ladies, often put on a hood and
mask, and so disguised, went to this house, or
to Cupid's Gardens, or the Folly on the
Thames, for a frolic — where they could see
without being seen, and watch their lovers or
their husbands.

Truly, it seemed a chance. If my lord was
what this creature had told his confederate,
now was the time to find him out ; if not, then
we had proof to the contrary in our own hands.

So, with Thomas on the box beside the
coachman, we drove to Covent Garden — oh !
the crowded, dirty place, with its pile of 
! — and presently stopped at a door
where there was no light. We got down and
told the coachman to wait for half an hour.

Then Thomas knocked gently, and the door
was opened by one of the biggest and most
ferocious-looking fellows I ever saw. After
a little parley, he let us in, and called up the
stairs, whereupon another tall bully appeared,
bearing a light.

This way, ladies,' he said. ' Up the stairs.
Have no fear. There is goodly company here
to-night.'

There was, indeed, a goodly company.
Many ladies were present, all of them, like
ourselves, with hoods and masks ; some alone,
but mostly in pairs. They walked about the
rooms, which were en suite and all brilliantly
lit with wax candles, talking incessantly to
the men, some of whom they addressed byname.
The men seemed to consist almost of
the very rich class, so splendid were their laced
ruffles and their coats ; and upon their faces

there was mostly that assured look which one
never finds except among gentlemen whose
position and rank cannot be questioned.

In the first room there was a band of
music, which was playing a minuet as we entered.
Four couples were dancing. I looked
hurriedly to see if my lord was among them,
but he was not. It was a foolish girl's jealousy.
Why should he not dance, if the fancy
took him? We passed on, my nurse and I,
while many a curious look was turned upon
us, to the next room. Here there was supper
laid out, with bottles of Port, Malmsey, and
Bordeaux in plenty, apparently free for all
comers. But no one as yet was eating or
drinking. Then we came to the third room,
where there were tables set with cards and
counters, and parties were sitting at them playing
ombre and quadrille, just as madam at

home, at that same time, was playing with her
friends. Lastly, there was the fourth room.
And this was crowded. For here they were
gambling indeed. At a table sat one who
held the bank ; he played against all ; a pile of
gold was before him ; a man stood on either
side of him raking in the money and paying
it out ; round the table were clustered a group
of players, men and women. Several of the
women had discarded their masks and thrown
back their hoods ; one or two were young
and pretty, most of them were old or middle-aged
; but all alike, men and women, had
stamped upon their faces the same eager look —
that of the gambler. It is anxious, it is expectant,
it is hopeful, yet it is despairing,
because at heart there is no gamester but
knows that in the end ruin awaits him.

I looked hurriedly round the tables.

Lord Eardesley was not playing at any. But
I saw him presently standing beside one of the
doors, in company with a gentleman, not
young, whose star and ribbon, as well as his
splendid apparel, spoke his high rank.

I moved nearer to him and listened. He
looked handsome and noble, and there was
no trace in his clear eyes and lofty brow of
the profligacy, drink, and gambling with which
my guardian charged him.

Come,' said his companion. ' Shall we,
for half an hour, try fortune ? '

But Lord Eardesley shook his head.

'I think,' he said, 'that my House has
had enough of the green table. You know
that I never play.'

His friend ceased to press him, and joined
the throng at the table.

Lord Eardesley watched the play a little.

and then, as if it had Kettle interest for him,
he began to walk through the rooms.

I would have followed him, but Alice
touched my arm and pointed to another figure
at the table.

Heavens ! It was Christopher March. He
was attired in a brave show of scarlet and
silk, with a sword at his side, a wig fully equal
to any other in the room, and laced ruffles very
fine indeed. And he was gaming with a sort
of madness. I watched him lose time aftertime,
yet he never ceased to play ; his eyes
were lit with a fire of anxiety ; his cheek was
flushed ; his hands trembled ; he played on
with a sort of rapture. Once he turned
round suddenly and saw Lord Eardesley. Then
he started and half sprang from his seat ; but the
voice of the banker called him back, and he
turned round again, preferring play to revenge.

VOL. II. D

'What do you make of this, Alice?' I
asked.

'This will be something new to tell the
alderman,' she said. ' Do not let his lordship
go before you can speak with him

One moment I waited, because I saw
another familiar face. There sat Jenny's
Lysander.

He was winning. His sharp and mean
little features were full of satisfaction as he
raked in the money. He seemed, too, to be
winning a great deal.

Jenny,' I thought, ' this will be something
new for you. Lysander gambles.'

Then I hastened after Lord Eardesley.
The black look of hatred which shot out of
Christopher's eyes when they turned upon his
enemy, as he, perhaps, thought him, warned
me that the man Thomas had spoken the

truth, and that Christopher would do him a
hurt if he could. I did not want to see my
lord mixed up in a vulgar brawl at a common
gambling-house, got up by a City clerk.

Alice it was who accosted him.

My lord,' she said, in a low voice, ' this is
not a wholesome air for you. Better leave it.'

He looked surprised. He did not recognise
her voice.

Why not wholesome, fair incognita ? '

Because, first. Mistress Carellis would not
like it.'

Come with me,' she said, ' and I will show
you — what it will please your lordship to see.'

I had descended the stairs, and was waiting.
We went out, all three together. I got into
the carriage and took off my mask.

Nelly ! ' he cried, springing into the coach
after me. ' My Nelly ! Here ! '

D 2

It is for your sake,' I said. ' There is
mischief brewing against you.'
'What mischief? '

First tell me — nay, my lord, leave my
hands alone. This is serious. Tell me why it
is that you send your servant to the alderman
thrice a week for money ? '
He stared at this.

Thrice a week ! Nelly, I have not asked
the alderman for money these three months.'

This was a pretty discovery of villany.
Then, who had forged the letters and the
drafts ?

The man who brought them ?
Alice said he could not read. We looked
at each other, and I whispered, ' Christopher
March.'

On the way back, my lord sitting beside
me, I told him how we had detected his servant

giving false information at the suborning of
Christopher March ; how the man had warned
us against him ; and how the alderman was
grieved at paying those daily drafts.

As for the drafts,' said my lord, ' there has
been some grievous forgery. I will call on
the alderman tomorrow. As for the factor,
Christopher March, why does he seek my
injury ? '

Because — oh, my lord ! indeed, I gave him
no encouragement — because he dared to fall in
love with — a person whom you have thought
worthy of your own love.'

The drivers cursed and swore at each other ;
the rain fell ; the sign-boards groaned ; the
people crowded and pressed in the narrow ways ;
the ink-boys ran by shouting.

I heeded not the noise or crowd ; for I
had taken my love away from the place where

his enemy might harm him, and he was sitting
beside me, and I was ready to clear his
character.

We parted at the alderman's door. The
adventure had taken altogether about two
hours ; and, on my return to the party, I discovered
that, as I had hoped, my absence had
not been remarked. Only two hours, and yet
how much had happened ! But who could tell
that my cheek was glowing with my lover's kiss,
and my eyes were bright with the fruition of
hope deferred ? The ladies were playing as
eagerly as the company I had left at Denton's
house in Covent Garden.

I was greatly excited and out of myself, as
they say, by what had happened. Yet I could
not but observe that Jenny had red eyes, as if
she had been crying. So I sat down beside her
and took her hand in mine.

What is it, Jenny, my dear ? ' I
asked.

She looked at me sorrowfully, and her eyes
filled with tears again. Then she turned away
her head and did not answer.

After our guests departed, Jenny ran away
quickly, so that her mother might not notice
her eyes. But madam was too full of the various
fortunes of the evening to heed her, and she
kept me waiting half an hour while she fought
the battles over again.

CHAPTER YI.

A DAY OF FATE.

The morrow was the day of fate. Could one
read the future, each day would be a day of
fate, full of issues important and eventful. But
just as we cannot foresee the future so we
forget the lesser links in the chain of the past.
Methinks he who would prophesy must first be
able to remember.

In the morning Alice began to talk about
the forged drafts. She said that considering
everything, how Christopher March was a
gambler, how he hated my lord, and how he
knew, or had some power over, Thomas
Marigold, she could have no doubt that he,

and none but he, was the forger. Indeed,
who else could it be ? But the difficulty
would be to bring it home to him and prove
it.

My lord was to call upon the alderman at
twelve. A little before noon I went to the
counting-house and found my guardian sitting,
as usual, before books and papers, but with his
foot still bandaged. His gout had not left
him.

My dear,' he said kindly, ' I am always
glad to see you here. Sit down and let us talk.
Nay, the' papers can wait. Did you have a
merry party last night ? '

Why, truly, sir,' I replied, ' I do not
play at cards. But the ladies seemed to enjoy
their game.'

Ay,' he said, with a cloud over his face.
Those who won doubtless enjoyed their game.

Do not play cards, girl. Never play cards.
You have an example in' — I thought he was
going to say, ' my own wife,' but he did not —
in my Lord Eardesley.'

It is of him that I would speak with you
this morning, sir,' I said.

'Nay, EHnor. There lacks but a little
while, a twelvemonth or so, of the time when
you will pass out of your minority. Let us
leave your spendthrift lord till then. I have
said my say and cannot alter it.'

Nevertheless, sir,' I said, laughing, for I
could very well afford to be merry now ;
nevertheless, I prophesy that you will
alter your say before another half-hour is
over.'

Say you so, lasses Why, then, let us wait.
Where lies the wind now .^ '

Lord Eardesley is coming to see you, sir,

at twelve of the clock. You will not refuse to
see him ? '

Not if he brings with him anything beyond
his word.'

Alas ! sir. Can you not trust the word of
a nobleman ? '

The alderman shook his head but said
nothing. And just then, as the clocks began to
strike twelve, and there arose the mighty clamour
which betokens the dinner-hour of all
the craftsmen, lightened, dock labourers,
boatmen, porters, and carters who throng about
Tower Hill, Christopher March opened the door
and announced the arrival of his lordship. I
snatched a glance at Christopher's face ; nothing
that would recall the eager, frantic gambler of
last night ; a calm, sober air, such as befits an
honest factor with a conscience at ease. Yet I
thought his cheek was pale and his eyes anxious.

I hope,' said my lord, ' that all is well with
my old friend.'

No,' replied the alderman ; ' all is ill. I
doubt if we shall ever make things well again
between yom' lordship and myself Yet my
ward will have it that you have an important
communication to make.'

Mr. Alderman,' Lord Eardesley said,
I have many things to say. But first, because
Mistress Elinor Carellis has told me a
thing which surprised me greatly, let me
know when last you honoured any draft of
mine.'

^ ^ Surely,' said the alderman, ' yesterday
morning, and the day before, and" twice last
week, and I think three times the week before
last '

Stop. The last draft I sent to you for
cash was more than two months ago.'

What ! ' cried the alderman. ' Say that

again.

I repeat that the last time I drew upon
you for money was more than two months
ago.'

Then there has been villany, Elinor, go
call Christopher March. Christopher,' he cried,
in quick and peremptory tones, ' my lord's
book, and quickly ; and all his latest drafts, all
his drafts of the last six months. Quick, I
say.'

The clerk obeyed, and brought the books,
standing beside his master as if ready to answer
questions. But his hands trembled and his
eyes were drooped.

The alderman seemed changed suddenly.
He the most gentle of men, was now rough,
quick, and even rude.

'Now, my lord,' he said, snatching the

drafts from Christopher's hands. ' We shall see.
Your man brought the drafts and received the
money. Where is he ? '

Gone. He went away, without notice,
last night.'

That is suspicious. Could he write? '

No. He was a common country lad, out
of Gloucestershire, he said.'

Well, then, here are the drafts, which we
duly honoured and cashed. Look at them all,
my lord.'

Lord Eardesley looked them through. The
earlier ones he laid aside. Those dated during
the last eight weeks he put together in a
separate pile.

There,' he said, ' are the forged drafts.'

They represented the sum of two thousand
and fifty pounds, so that the moneys belonging
to Lord Eardesley still in the alderman's hands

now amounted to no more than three hundred
pounds and some odd shillings.

I wonder said my lord, showing one to
the alderman, ' that so clumsy a cheat was not
suspected.'

Why, indeed,' the alderman was looking
at the paper, ' it is not like your lordship's
writing. Christopher, you received
and opened the letters. Had you no suspicion
? '

I looked at the signature, sir,' replied the
clerk ; ' and if you will look at that carefully,
I think you will agree with me that it is so like
his lordship's writing as to deceive anyone.'

Let me look, ' I cried. ' My lord, I have
certain letters of yours by me which no one, I
think, will deny to be your own.' In fact
there were then lying in my bosom a collection
of the sweetest letters ever received by lovesick

maid. I pulled them forti, and, taking
one, opened it and laid it beside the draft.
There, my guardian,' I said, 'compare the two.'

There was no comparison possible, because
in the forged draft the body of the document
was not in the least like Lord Eardesley's handwriting,
and the signature alone had been
imitated, but this so clumsily, that even the
slightest acquaintance with his hand should
have been enough to detect the forgery.

Why,' said the alderman, ' this is palpable.

This is so gross a forgery that even

Christopher March, hast thou taken leave of
thy senses ? '

'With submission, sir,' said Christopher,
speaking slowly and steadily, ' am I to blame ?
I am imperfectly acquainted with my lord's
hand ; I received the letters from his servant ;
I opened them to save you trouble '

Ay, ay,' said the merchant. ' You did
your best, Christopher, no doubt. The house
has been robbed, not you, my lord. The
house must bear this loss.'

Surely, my kind old friend,' Lord
Eardesley went on, ' you might have asked
yourself for what purpose I wanted these constant
supplies, for what extravagances and
follies they were required.'

'Alas ! I knew too well. They were
wanted, I thought, to repair your losses at
the gaming-table.'

Then I spoke.

'The alderman has been greatly deceived,
Geoffrey, in this as in other things. I know
that your servant, Thomas Marigold, suborned
by a person who was also, I believe, the
forger of these drafts ' — here I glanced at
Christopher, and his eyes, full of a fearful

VOL. II. ' E

curiosity, met mine for a moment before they
fell again — ' reported in the alderman's hearing,
day after day, tales of drunkenness, gambling,
and other wickedness such as gentlemen
practise who forget their Christian profession.
And these stories he invented to suit the
purpose of this other man with whom he
shared the proceeds of the crime.'

We seem to be surrounded by villains,'
said the alderman. ' Speak, Christopher : what
do you know ? '

Nothing, sir. I suspected nothing. It is
true that the man told me in your hearing the
stories of his lordship's alleged profligacy.'

He did. But those other reports.
Why, Christopher, 'twas you yourself brought
them.'

Lord Eardesley drew himself up, and
turned towards the clerk, who was trying his

utmost to preserve an appearance of composure.


You — you spread reports about me ?
Pray, Master Clerk, what business have you
with me ? '

None, my lord. Nor am I a carrier of
tales. I but answered a question of the alderman's,
and told him what had been said at a
coffee-house.'

Then my lord recollected what I had told
him, that it was none other than Christopher
March himself who had suborned his man, and
was proposing to do himself some harm.

Well,' he said, turning it off for the time,
there will be something to be said another
time between you and me, Master March.'

Mr. Alderman,' I struck in, fearful that
the villain should be too soon accused of the
crime, ' let us address ourselves to the forgery.

E 2

The servant was but the tool We want to
find the instigator and principal.' The papers
were lying close to the hand of the clerk. I
snatched them up. ' We must find the man
who wrote the drafts ; it matters little who
presented them. I venture to advise that the
alderman initials every one of them, and that
my lord keeps them, and carries them about.
It will not be difficult,' I said this with an air
of confidence, ' to find out the man who wrote
them.'

You are right, child,' said the alderman.
I will not keep these papers ; Lord Eardesley
shall have them, with my name to each. My
lord, I confess to you that my opinion was •
formed by the bad reports brought to me by
Christopher March, and by the tales I heard
your servant tell, and by the rapidity with
which your fortune was wasting away.'

Nay,' said Geoffrey ; ' surely you should
have known me better, who have known me so
long. Do I look like a drunkard ? Hath my
face the open and manifest signs, legible to all
the world, which belong to the man who drinks
much wine ? Believe me, sir, on the honour
of a peer, that I have never in my life-touched
cards or played with dice.'

I believe you,' said the alderman, holding
out his hand.

If,' interrupted Christopher, in a strange
strident voice, ' if Mistress Ehnor thinks it easy
to find the forger, she would perhaps kindly
advise us which way to begin, for I confess I
am at fault.'

You have to find out, Christopher March,
in the first place a man who tlihiks he has an
object to gain in robbing or inflicting other
injury on Lord Eardesley ; he must, next, be

one who had some previous friendship with the
servant ; he must be a man in want of money
for his own secret vices ; he must be wicked
enough to conceive and bold enough to carry
out so vile a plot. Indeed, I could lay my
hand on such a man.'

He lifted his face, and tried to meet my
ofaze, but he could not.

All this helps nothing,' he said.

'Well, Christopher,' said the alderman.
'Go now, and think, or consult a lawyer — ^
leave me with his lordship.'

Christopher took his departure. I longed
to tell the alderman what we knew, where we
had seen his clerk, and what we suspected ;
but I refrained. I thought the next day would
do as well. Besides, my lord turned the talk
away.

'Let us leave the forgeries awhile,' he said.

Mr. Alderman, I have to speak of other
things. Again I have the honour to ask your
consent to marry your ward. You have seen
til at the worst accusations are false. Believe
til at the others are as unfounded and as
slanderous.'

I cannot choose,' said the alderman, * but
believe. My lord, as the guardian of Mistress
Elinor, I confide her to your care and protection.'


He sat upright in his chair, and cleared his
voice. We knew what was coming. On
any occasion of ceremony and importance, a
London citizen loves to deliver an appropriate
discourse. It is a goodly custom and laudable,
inasmuch as it enables every man to magnify
his own office and dignity. Now, the best
safeguard against vice is, methinks, respect of
oneself.

My Lord Eardesley,' he began, ' and
Elinor Carellis, my ward. The condition of
matrimony (wherein the bond of love should,
be, from each to either, equal and lasting ;
and wherein the one should be well assured of
the other's virtue and goodness) hath been
specially designed by Heaven for the solace
and happiness of the human race. Wherefore,
if '

Here he was interrupted by an admonition
in the great toe, which demanded all his
attention. He stopped, turned purple and
even black in the cheeks, and presently
thundered forth a volley of oaths, which
seemed to linger about the corners of the
room, and echoed from the walls, so that it
was like a very tempest. When he recovered,
the thread of his discourse was lost, and he
could only murmur, lying back on his pillows,

exhausted with his efforts : ' Take her, my
lord, and make her happy.' Then he whispered,
with the least little nod of his head in
the direction of the door : ' And never let her
play cards.'

Thus we were betrothed.

Alas ! This day, which should have been
the first of many happy days, proved the beginning
of our calamities.

We left the alderman, and sought madam,
to whom I presented my lord as my accepted
lover. The good lady, who, in all but her
passion for cards, was a most kind and unselfish
woman, rejoiced with us, and wished us
happiness, and then, by means of a pack of
cards, told us our fortunes. The most important
part of it was, that after surmounting
certain obstacles and checks placed in our way
by a dark man, we should undertake a long

voyage, and meet v/ith great prosperity ever
after.

It is, indeed, strange how the chance disposition
of foolish cards enables some to read
the future. The dark man could be none
other than Christopher. We had, immediately
after our betrothal, such checks and hindrances
as fall to the lot of few ; we did make a long
voyage ; and we have enjoyed prosperity and
increase. Yet it is against the divine ordinance
to enquire of any oracle, and I cannot but
think the punishment of witches in New
England, of which so much has been said, was
necessary, albeit severe.

Then Jenny came downstairs, and we had
to tell her. She was very pale, and had dark
rims round her eyes, with traces of tears. She
fell on my neck and kissed me, and burst outcrying.


Why, Jenny, foolish child,' I said ; ' why
do you cry ? '

Oh, Nelly ! I cry because I am glad for
you and sorry for myself. Nelly, Nelly, I ama
wretch.'

I could not understand, but it was not
the time to press her, and nothing would
serve my lord but that we should all drive
to his lodgings, there to dine and afterwards
to get such amusements as the town at that
season afforded. Jenny excused herself, saying
that she had a headache, and could not go.
We left her at home, therefore, and took a
coach — madam, my lord, and I. On the way
we stopped at a goldsmith's, where Geoffrey
presented me with a beautiful emerald ring,
and so to his lodgings in Bury Street.

Our entertainment was simple, the dinner
being sent over from a tavern. Madam was

in high spirits, and talked and laughed. I was
glad of this, because my heart was too full for
talk. After dinner we walked in the park,
which was crowded with a collection of ladies
of quality, beaux, gallants, and courtiers, with
ragamuffins, pickpockets, girls selling flowers,
women with curds-and-whey, soldiers, grave
clergymen, solemn physicians, members of
Parliament, beggars, and common thieves.
Everybody looked at us as we passed along
with the stream of people. I was afraid that
there was something wrong with my dress,
for, indeed, though I had been in London
so long, I was still somewhat distrustful
when we went abroad. But Geoffrey said
they stared at my face and figure, not at my
dress. Many other pleasant things he said
that day, which I pass over. After the
promenade in the park, which I should have

liked better had I been alone with him, we
went back to his lodgings. Here a dish of tea
was waiting for us, and after tea we went to the
theatre in the Haymarket. The play was —
but I forget play, actors, and everything. I
sat in a dream, thinking of what had happened
; wondering if it where true, and fearing
tha t I did not possess attractions enough
to fix the affections of so handsome, gallant,
and noble a lover as he who sat by my side.
At last it ended, and we were on our
way home. The streets were crowded with
people — link-boys ran up and down ; the
coaches rumbled along the way ; we passed
out of the broad Strand into narrow Fleet
Street, and in a few minutes were set
down in Tower Hill, at the door of the alderman's
house. My lord paid the man, who
drove off, and we stood at our door waiting

for it to be opened. It was about half-past
eleven, or a little before midnight ; the sky
was clear, and there was no darkness — only
twilight.

At that hour Tower Hill is comparatively
deserted ; there was no one in the street. Yet
in the darkness of a penthouse higher up the
Hill I saw the forms of two men lurking, and
a thought of uneasiness crossed my heart.
But only for a moment.

Madam went in as the door was opened ;
we stood outside, and my lord took my hand
and held it.

'Will my Nelly, my Princess of Virginia,
always trust her love ? ' he whispered.

Always and always,' I replied. ' Oh,
who am I, I ask again and again, that you
should love me so ? '

You are the dearest girl in all the worldlie

said, kissing my hands. ' You are my own
sweet Nelly

He drew me towards him by both my
hands and kissed my lips. Then he tore
himself away and left me. The maid — I hoped
she had not seen that lover-like farewell — held
the door for me. I stepped forward ; then,
moved by the impulse of love, I turned my head
to catch a last glimpse of my betrothed. He
was striding with manly step over the stones.
When he was just at the turning which led from
Tower Hill, I saw the two men whose figures
I had discerned beneath the penthouse rush out
upon him, and I saw the gleam of steel in their
hands. I rushed down the steps and along the
road, crying, ' Geoffrey, Geoffrey ! Help, help !
They will murder him ! '

It was my voice, thank God for ever, which
saved his Hfe, else he had been stabbed in the

back. He turned, saw his assailants, and in a
moment drew Ms sword and was on guard.
As I still ran and cried I saw his sword flashing
in the moonlight, and one man fell ; but his foot
slipped as I reached him. I threw myself before
him, and while my arms were thrown about
his neck, the thrust which would have pierced
him to the heart pierced me instead.

That moment will live for ever in my memory.
As the cruel cold steel ran through me
I saw that the wounded man, whose mask
had fallen off, was Thomas Marigold ; and the
other, my murderer, whom I knew, although
he was masked, by his figure, his dress, his
voice — as he cried out on seeing me — was
none other than Christopher March. He fled
at once, and was lost in the dark and winding
lanes of the city.

They carried me home, Geoffrey and the

maid, and sent for a surgeon. The alderman
and madam wept and cried over me.
Alice had me carried to my own bed, and cutaway
my dress — that bravery of silver gauze
and crimson satin and lace in which I had
been so fine all day — and tried to staunch
the blood, while my lord bathed my face
and whispered prayers until the surgeon came
and turned him out.

He was a pompous man in an immense
wig. After he had probed the wound and
applied some Hnt, and instructed the nurse in
other matters, he descended and found the
whole household, servants, and all, waiting to
hear his judgment.

She will live,' he said, speaking like an
oracle, ' through the night, I doubt not. In
the morning inflammation will set in and she
will die.'

VOL. II. F

They all burst into tears and lamentations.
Where is Jenny ? ' cried madam. ' Go
call her, one of yen. Let her come down and
weep with us.'

Nay,' said the alderman ; ' what use ?
Let her sleep on. As for my lord and me,
we will wait with this learned gentleman.
Do you all go to bed.'

But no one went to bed that night.
Presently there was a knocking at the
door. It was a pair of constables bringing with
them a wounded man.

He will be brought here, sir,' they explained
to the alderman. 'We know not if
your worship knows him.'

Know him ! ' cried Lord Eardesley, ' why
it is my own man, Thomas. You, too, among
the murderers ? '

Yes, my lord,' said the man, whose face

was pale with death. ' I'd rather help you to
die than see myself hung. There was all them
forgeries in your pocket.'

Who was the forger ?' asked his master.

The fellow was silent.

Man ! ' said the alderman, ' you are on the
brink of eternity. Let it be reckoned as
proof of a death-bed repentance that you give
up the name of the forger.'

Thomas laughed. At the point of death
he laughed. But it was laughter without
merriment.

Honour among thieves,' he said. ' Let me
see the woman, Mistress Carellis's nurse. I
want to speak with her

She would not leave my bed. But the
doctor promised that if a change took place
she should be called. And then she went
slowly downstairs.

F 2

Alas ! ' she cried, ' that you should be a
murderer, and that you should murder the innocent
young lady.'

I did not,' he said. ' I tried to kill my
lord, to save my own neck. And he hath
killed me. So am I sped.'

• And the other man ! Who was he ? '

Tell me first,' he said, ' who you are, and
how you know me for Canvas Dick ? '
She bent over him and whispered :

I was once, long ago, a woman of your
gang. I was Kate Collyer ! '

Ay ! ' • he murmured, his face feebly
lighting up. 'I remember you now, Kate
Collyer ! '

And who was the other murderer ? ' she
repeated.

He was the forger, of course ; he was
the villain who pushed me on ; he threatened to

betray me ; he was the man who took all the
money ; he spent it where he spent his master's
money — in the gaming-house, and lost it there.
He has boasted to me that he has ruined you
all — he is

Christopher March ? ' asked my nurse.

You've guessed it, Kate. But you needn't
be too proud of it, now you do know it, although
he is your own son.'

My son ! Christopher March my son ! '

' Tis true, Kate. Little Jack Collyer that
was : the cleverest and safest young thief
that ever cracked a crib, even before you
was lagged, and cleverer since. Your son,
Kate. Lift up my head.' His voice sank.
I've cheated Tyburn tree. Yes, I never
could — abide — the — thought — of that — that
cart — and — that — dance upon nothing.'

His head fell back, and he was dead.

Alice took no heed ; her hands were clenched,
and she min-cured :

The hand of God is heavy upon me. My
son ! my son ! '

CHAPTER VII.

BETWEEN LIFE AND DEATH.

This, indeed, was a most dreadful discovery.
Yet it was no time for poor Alice to sit and
weep, or to think about lier son. She had
that gift, denied to men, and granted only to
women, which enables them to repress and
drive back for the time one grief so that it
shall not hinder the discharge of the present
duty. Therefore my nurse forced herself to
leave the matter for the time, and, after calling
to the constables to remove the deadman,
she mounted the stairs and returned to
the chamber where I lay unconscious and under
the surgeon's hands.

The wound was right through the body from
the back under the left shoulder, and when
I recovered from the swoon I began to feel
such tortures of pam as I did not believe
were possible for the body to endure and yet
to hive. For the passage made by the sword
was like a rod of red-hot iron.

All that night I lay and suffered, while
Alice watched by the bedside, and my lord,
the alderman, and madam remained below,
waiting for news. The news which the shire
brought from time to time was the worst
possible. ' Inflammation,' he said, ' has set in,
with violent pain. It should be followed by
fever : that will produce delirium : death will
follow.'

At break of day, when I was a little
quieter, Alice went to the still-room and
came back bearing a basket full of simples.

I was not yet light-headed, and I knew that
she was going to take me out of the doctor's
hands and nurse me herself with the herbs
in which all country women put their trust.
She turned the contents of the basket upon
the table.

Patience, my dear, patience. Oh ! patience
for a little while, my pretty lamb.
Here is St. John's wort, and here is knapweed
to lay in the open wound, and plantains to
close it up, and blood-won if the knapweed
fails : and here is self-heal, but I doubt if it
is strong enough ; and comfrey, which never
fails ; and strong kiss-me-quick. Courage, my
pretty. We have here what is better than all
the 'apothecaries' shops.'

Then I found that the pain was growing
greater than I could bear, and I called
upon my nurse to tear off the bandage

and let me die. And then some good angel
came to my bedside and helped me up and
carried me away — far — far away-to sweet
Virginia.

I was back in the old plantation. It was
Sunday morning, and we were all going to
church — my father, my mother, my nurse, and
I, the convicts standing in a line to let his
honour pass : the negroes chattering and grinning,
who understood, poor souls ! little enough
of the service they were going to hear,
but yet could sing the psalms, having sweet
voices, and ears which caught the tune correctly
; and in the pine-wood pulpit was our
convict chaplain, proclaiming aloud that we —
meaning everybody outside his honour's pew —
were all miserable sinners.

It was many days before my reason came
back to me, and then I was weak and helpless

indeed ; though my nurse multiplied her infusions
of galyngale for internal strength, and
tea of thyme for headache, and snakeweed to
keep me safe from infection, which is fatal to
poor creatures just recovering from illness.
Would I could describe the joy and thankfulness
which I felt when, on coming to my senses,
I found my lover by my bedside, and saw by
his eyes that he had been weeping for me.

'No one else was in the room. He thought
I was sleeping. When he saw that my eyes
were open he thought I was still in my lightheadedness,
about to prattle of all things that
have no sense. First of all I did not understand
things, though I knew him, and wondered
where I was and how I came to be lying
there, and he to be in my room. Then it all
came back to me little by little, the attack
upon my lover and my wound.

Geoffrey,' I whispered, ' are you watching
over me ? '

He was like one who knows not what to
say when he found that I was indeed in my
right mind. But he had sense to command
himself, and bade me, while he tenderly kissed
my lips, keep silence and be quiet. Then he
thanked God solemnly, for my lord was never
one of those men who think they honour
themselves and gain credit among their fellows
by dishonouring their Creator. And then he
left me, and in a moment my nurse came back,
and seeing that I was in my senses again, and
that the fever had left me — hands and brow
being cool and moist — she, too, burst into a
crying for thankfulness, and fell to kissing my
hands and cheeks. Oh, poor woman ! Because,
now that my trouble was over, her own was to
begin. 1 slept well that night, and next

morning was stronger and able to take broth
and other things which my nurse got forme.
Presently I remembered Jenny, and
asked that she might b^ brought to see me.

Then Alice changed colour and pretended
not to hear ; and when I repeated my question
she said :

Oh ! Mistress Jenny is not at home. She
has gone abroad on a visit.'

With that I was fain to be content,
although I saw that something had happened,
and besides, being still weak and faint, was
glad to forego further questions and go to sleep
again.

Next day, I asked after madam, and again
my niu-se seemed confused, and put me off.

This set me wondering. It was strange,
indeed, that neither Jenny nor her mother
came to see me, and no message from the

alderman. Yet a week passed, and it was
not till I was quite well enough to hear any
kind of news, however bad, that my lord entreated
my permission for him to tell me
things which, he said, gravely and grievously,
affected both himself and me.

He was, indeed, very grave, and told me
the story little by little, fearful lest too many
dreadful events at the same time might bring
back my illness. Nor was it till many days
afterwards that I was able to put everything
together, and to understand it all.

When the alderman, one of the most
benevolent and charitable citizens of London,
received the boy whom he found starving with
hunger and cold (as seemed from his pretending)
on his door-step, he prepared for himself,
even by this most Christian act, his own
absolute and hopeless ruin. The boy, as I

have said, rapidly received instruction, and
proved himself a lad of astonishing quick parts,
with great industry, sober habits, and respectful,
obedient behaviour. The alderman, who
made haste to put the boy into his counting-house,
thought he had never before been
blessed with a servant more honest, more
willing, and more capable ; therefore, he
advanced him rapidly ; and when his own
confidential clerk and chief factor died, he put
the young man, then about twenty-five years
of age, into his place.

Christopher March had all the keys, knew
of all the securities, bills, drafts, mortgages,
ventures, debts, and profit of the house ; he
opened the letters, received the customers, and
carried on the correspondence. So blind, in
short, did the alderman become, that he ceased,
for the most part, to carry on his business

himself, and was generally content with receiving
his clerk's report.

The house held the private fortunes of
m£iny gentlemen of Virginia, besides that of
my late father ; it also held in trust the fortune
of the Lord Eardesley, as we have seen, and
of many widows, orphans, and poor pensioners,
who had nothing to depend upon but the integrity
of the alderman. Of that, indeed,
there was never any doubt. The business of
the house, again, was large, and the income of
the alderman substantial. I know not what
was the amount of his savings, but I have been
well assured that there were few merchants
even in the great and prosperous city of
London who surpassed him in fortune. His
condition would have been more splendid, but
for the thousand charitable actions which he
continually practised. However, there was a

capital stock in the alderman's hands, including
that accumulated by his own thrift, the principal
employed in his business, and the moneys
entrusted to him, amounting to near a quarter
of a million of money.

There was one thing that Christopher
March could not do. He might persuade his
master to ventures ; he might deceive him
with false reports ; but he could never persuade
him to have aught to do with South Sea Stocky
nor could he make him consent to sign papers
without first learning and approving their contents.
Therefore, as Geoffrey told me, everyone
of the receipts, agreements, and papers of
advance, with regard to South Sea Stock, in the
counting-house were forgeries. Nor could there
be any reasonable doubt as to the forgeries in
the sale and transfer of mortgages and securities.

When the books of the house were placed

VOL. II. G

in the hands of accountants skilled in examining
and detecting frauds, it was discovered
that, not only were these robberies of many
years' standing, with the falsifying of accounts,
and the forgery of authority given under the
alderman's own hand, but that during the
excitement of the late few months, Christopher
March under cover of his forgeries had been
trading, day after day, in South Sea Stock, in
bubble companies, and in any kind of reckless
speculation. He had lent money for short
terms of a week or a fortnight on South Sea
Stock ; he had bought the stock on account of
his master ; he held shares in a dozen schemes,
each of which pretended to be able by itself to
make the fortune of the smallest shareholder ;
there was no project so wild and visionary, but
that he must invest in it. Now, I do not believe
that Christopher March was so foolish as to believe

that his shares were going to make his fortune.
Not at all ; he was impelled into the
struggle for shares by the desire to prey upon
his fellow-creatures. They were like silly sheep ;
he was the wolf. He would sell his shares
again when the price went up.

There were no methods of deception
which were not tried by this wicked man.
He received moneys and kept no account ; he
pretended to pay money and put it in his
pocket ; the liabilities of the house remained
unpaid, while the poor alderman was cheated
by the books, which told a lying tale ; ships
which brought rich cargoes were omitted in
the books ; great sales were not entered ; and
because Christopher March was the only man
who in the later days approached the master,
no one knew, no one suspected, what was
being done ; and those who thought there was

something wrong in the house, once so respectable
and of such tried integrity, attributed it to
the speculation and madness of the hour, and
hoped that Benjamin Medlycott would come
well out of it.

None to speak to the old man ; not one to
warn him ; none to remonstrate on the madness
of his supposed investments — truly it was
pitiful. And he, and all of us, living in a fool's
paradise, having no suspicion, not the least.
We girls occupied with our little love affairs,
madam with her cards, and the whole house
rushing headlong to ruin.

The trouble began with my wound. Next
day, when the alderman called his household
together for morning prayers, Jenny did not
appear with the rest. Her mother sent to call
her, for a lazy lie-abed. The maid came running
downstairs, scared and pale — Mistress

Jenny had not slept in her bed all night. A
note was found lying on the pillow. ' Dear
parents,' said poor silly Jenny, ' I hope you will
forgive me, for I have gone off with my
Lysander. Your affectionate daughter.'

There were no prayers, and no breakfast
either, that morning. The alderman said
nothing, but went to his counting-house, without
even asking who Lysander was, and then
sat down in great unhappiness. And truly It
was a cruel thing of Jenny thus to abuse the
love and confidence of a father who had ever
treated her with so much indulgence and affection.


My ward,' he said presently to Christopher
March, ' is lying at the point of death, being
murdered by a villain. My daughter has left
me. What is the news with you, man, that you
look so pale ? '

Am I pale, sir ? ' asked Christopher. ' It
is perhaps the sudden shock of your news.
Mistress Jenny gone, sir ? With whom ? '

'I know not. That is her concern. Ask
me no questions, Christopher. Let us to
business. We build our estates and pile up
our gold, and we know not who shall spend
it.'

Alas ! poor man. His own gold had been
already spent.

'Well' — he tried to speak as if he were
no longer concerned about his daughter — -' and
what about the great madness ? '

The stock is falling, sir,' said Christopher.
There is a run upon it. It was yesterday
morning at six hundred, and is now at two
hundred and ninety. Yet I cannot but think
it will recover.'

Recover ! ' echoed the alderman. ' Cana

burst bladder recover its shape ? Can a felon
recover his honour ? Go to, Christopher. Let
us thank Heaven that we have been spared
this infectious plague, and have continued sober
citizens — to make our money by thrift, and

save it for our ,' children, he was going to

say, but he refrained, and groaned, ' Oh ! Jenny,
Jenny ! '

Then there came into his counting-house
two friends of his — grave and quiet merchants,
well known on 'Change and of his own
company.

Christopher March bowed to them with
humility, and immediately retired.

How goes it, brother alderman ? ' asked
one.

Badly,' replied my guardian. ' It goes
very badly.'

'Why,' said the other, 'we guessed it, to

our sorrow, and so we have come to render
any help we can.'

It is neighbourly,' said the alderman,
but the case is not one for friends. None can
help me in such a plight. What is gone, is
gone.'

Ay ! That is true. Let us hope it is not
so much as people have spread about.'

As much, man ? ' My guardian stared.
Why, what mean you ? — as much as people
say?'

There are various rumours, Alderman
Medlycott,' the younger man interposed. ' Some
say that a hundred thousand would not clear
you. Others think you may stand the loss of
fifty thousand. Your creditors, of whom I am
one, as you know '

Nay — nay,' said the alderman, putting his
hand on a great book. ' Not so, friend Paterson.

We have your quittance here. But
what does this mean ? Have I not trouble
enough, but there must be rumours to touch my
credit ? '

The visitors stared at one another.

Truly, alderman,' said the first, ' we do
not understand you. Tell us first what is this
trouble that you lament.'

It is that my daughter hath left me, to fly
with I know not whom ; and that my ward
hath been foully wounded — I think to death ;
and that I have been cheated out of two thousand
pounds by forgeries. Call ye that trouble ^ '

They sat down, like the friends of Job, and
were silent for a space.

I would not,' said the elder, ' add to thy
grief, my old friend. But it is right to bid you
be up and doing, because your name is very
freely handled this morning.'

But why — why ? '

Why — why ? ' His visitor spoke angrily.
This is childishness, alderman. Know you not
of the fall in South Sea Stock ? '

Ay ; what has that to do with me ? '

Was the man mad? Did he understand
nothing since his daughter had left him ?

Alderman,' said the younger, ' think.
Your reason is tottering under the blows of
Providence. Try to speak calmly. That
quittance of mine you spoke of — where is it ? '

Surely, here,' said the alderman, opening
the book which contained receipts and substances.
' See — here it is — here — with your
signature and date.'

The merchant looked surprised ; then he
took the book in his hands, carried it to the
window for better light, and looked at the
signature.

Here is villainy,' he said ; ' that receipt
is a forgery, alderman. I have not received
the money from you.'

Forgery ? — more forgeries ? ' murmured
the alderman. ' Call Christopher March. He
is without.'

He was not, however, without. He had
gone away, leaving no message.

Christopher March told me he had paid
it himself,' said my guardian. ' But go on.
Tell me more, if there is more. What is this
about my credit ? What is South Sea Stock tome?'


My friend,' said the elder man, laying
his hand on the alderman, ' this is no time for
trifling. We may all be ruined at any moment.
Wliy — why — did this madness seize you ? '

I think,' replied the alderman, ' since you
came here. What madness .^ '

Doth not all the world know by this time,
although you kept the secret so well, that of
all the adventurers in this new stock and these
new projects, no one has been more venturous
than yourself?'

The alderman looked from one to the other.

Where is Christopher March ? ' he asked.
I cannot be going mad.'

Christopher March,' replied his friend, ' is
the man who negotiated all your transactions
for you.'

My transactions ? Man, I have had no
transactions. I have neither bought nor sold
south Sea Stock. I have never meddled with
the accursed thing.'

While they were all thus gazing upon
each other there burst upon them a third
man. His wig was disordered, his ruffles were
loose.

Mr. Alderman,' he cried, ' I crave your
indulgence for a day or two ; or for a week
perhaps, when, doubtless, I shall be able to
repay the money.'

The money, friend ? I know not you, and
I know not your money. Tell me more.'

The ten thousand pounds you lent me on
security — of my South Sea Stock.' He whispered
this eagerly, looking with suspicion upon
the other men.

The alderman gazed at him with a wonderfull
of affright.

I lent you nothing,' he said.

Oh, pardon, sir. Behave me, I would
defraud no one. You have my securities ; they
were bonds worth nine hundred apiece when I
borrowed the money. Now, alas! they are
worth but a poor hundred and thirty. But I
will defraud no one.'

And while he yet spake there came another,
a creditor.

I come,' he said, ' Mr. Alderman, from Mr.
Ephraim Fourscore, your wife's draper, about
your bill of ^yq thousand pounds fourteen
shillings and threepence, money lent on security
of South Sea Stock.'

Good heavens ! ' cried the first visitor.
Did he both borrow and lend on the stock ? '

That it appeared was the case, for the very
securities on which one man had borrowed
ten thousand of Christopher March, had been
pledged to this honest woollen-draper for ^^e
thousand.

My friends,' said the alderman, trying to
assume a calm which he did not feel, * help mein
this trouble. Is there witchcraft in it, think

you?'

Nay,' replied the elder merchant. ' But

such villainy as the world, thank Heaven !
seldom sees. Where is this man, this Christopher
March, that we may bring him to the
gallows ? '

He never came back. The game was up,
he felt, when the stock, which was at one
thousand on August 1, steadily went down and
never recovered, day by day, its figure of the
day before. Then despair seized him. Nothing
now could save him. And on the morning
after his desperate assault upon my lord,
he vanished on the first appearance of visitors
to his master.

I hardly know why he tried to murder Lord
Eardesley. My fortune was gone ; my lord's
was gone ; the moneys entrusted to the alderman
were all stolen and wasted. As regards
the forgeries, they were but a small trifle in comparison
with the rest — the countless pile of

frauds, forgeries and deceits, by wHcli he had
carried on his wicked course, and lulled his
master into confidence. Why, then, did he
try to murder my lord? Perhaps, because
this crime was the first discovered, and if followed
up would lead to the discovery of all the
rest. But one never knows the secret springs
of action in the career of any man, even a goodman.
Let it suffice that Christopher March
was a murderer, if ever there was one, though
his victim escaped him.

Now all that day the alderman sat, steady
as a rock, in the counting-house. Little by
little the whole truth was got at. One man
after the other called ; one after the other revealed
a fresh tale of treachery. It is true that
most of the frauds had been committed quite
recently, and evidently with a view to meet the
most pressing claims rising out of old ones, so

as to put off the evil day as long as possible.
By nightfall the poor old man knew all. He
had lost not only his own fortune, but his
good name. Hardly a merchant of credit but
had been cheated by him — that is, in his name ;
those who had entrusted their money to him
the poor widows and orphans — had lost
it : the Gentlemen Adventurers of Virginia who
had made him their banker had lost all their
savings ; men like Lord Eardesley who had deposited
with him their few thousands found their
little fortunes stolen. I, the great Virginian
heiress, who had inherited the thrift and accumulations
of three generations of prosperity,
had lost every farthing. Of all my hundred
thousand pounds, my much envied ' plum,' not
one penny was left.

This, all this, did the poor alderman have
to learn and to endure. It took many days

VOL. II. H

to get at the whole, to discover the extent of
the ruin. Yet his creditors — the poor women
whose daily bread was gone, the tradesmen
who saw no way left except bankruptcy and
perhaps a lifelong prison — were kind to him.
He had been so honest, he had been so benevolent,
so religious, so charitable, that none upbraided
him. There were no reproachful eyes
upon him when, the accountants having laid
everything bare, nothing more remaining to be
learned, he called his creditors together, told
them all, which indeed they knew already, and
spoke his farewell speech.

My friends,' he said, ' I am old, and have
been young ; yet never have I seen the righteous
man beg his bread. I have been righteous,
according to my lights. God knoweth when
we do amiss. As foi this trouble that hath
fallen upon you all, I pray you to remember

that man is prone to err. I have been over-confident,
and I have been deceived and robbed.
In this cursed South Sea Stock, remember, I
pray you, that I had neither part nor lot. Forgeries,
forgeries all around me — with forgeries
have I been undone.'

His lips trembled as he tottered slowly to
the door. Lord Eardesley, who was there,
supported him from the counting-house to his
own parlour. There sat his wife, sad and terrified.

They brought him wine, but he refused to
drink it, sitting mute and sorrowful. His wife
knelt before him, crying and sobbing, and imploring
pardon for all her follies. He meekly
bade her rise, saying that she had been a goodwife
to him, albeit fond of cards, and that during
the years which were left to him and to
her, there would be little fear of cards interfering
between them. Then he turned to Lord

H 2

Eardesley, and very piteously lamented the
loss of his fortune and that of his betrothed,
myself.

'Nevertheless,' he said, just and righteous
to the last, ' I lament not so much for you, my
lord, and my dear ward Ehnor, as for those
poor women — those widows — whose honourable
bread is gone. For who will help them ? who
will feed them, unless it is He who fed the
prophet ? And chiefly let us pray for that
wretched boy, Christopher March, who hath
brought this terrible trouble upon us, that he
may be led to repent.'

Neither his wife nor Lord Eardesley spoke.
I think that^at the moment they would rather
have joined in prayer that he might speedily
meet with the rope that was to hang him.

'Wife,' he said, trying to rise, 'let me to
bed. I have much to think of.'

They led him to his room, and presently-left
him.

All night long his wife sat beside him
watching. His eyes were closed, but he was
not sleeping, and from time to time he spoke.
Yet at last he dropped asleep.

Early in the morning he sat up, looked
about him, and asked, in his usual voice, if all
was well. Being assured that all was well, he
fell back, and slept like a child.

They awakened him at ten in the forenoon.
His face was rather pale, but smiling and happy.
And — oh ! wonderful interposition of Providential
benevolence ! — he knew nothing, simply
nothing, of what had happened. My poor old
guardian had gone mad.

Afterwards, when I was recovered. Lord
Eardesley took me to a place where they kept
him. His friends, the company over which he

had presided, and the Court of Aldermen, could
not bear to think that the good old man,
reduced to the utmost penury, should suffer in
his lunacy. They placed him in the house of
a physician, where but a few madmen were
received— not the great awful Hospital of St.
Bethlehem — and provided for him a room to
himself, with such creature comforts as were
judged best for him. Hither came, every day
to sit with him, soothe him, and please him,
his faithful wife. Was it possible that this good,
devoted, and honourable creature could have
been the woman who once found all her happiness
in cards, and all her hope in a good hand ?
It was but once that I saw him. We passed
through a hall whose horrors were enough to
drive faith in the goodness of Heaven away forever
from the breast, where poor creatures were
chained by short lengths to the wall like wild

beasts, and wandered round and round like
them, crying and howling with rage and fury
and despair. When we reached my poor old
guardian's room, we found him playing a game
of backgammon with his wife. He did that
all day long ; he never tired of it ; she played
with him, without a murmur. And when he
won, he would laugh and crow.

He did not know us. He only invited us
to sit down and watch the game.

The only sign of any recollection of the
past that he gave was once or twice a week,
when he used to laugh feebly, rub his hands,
and say :

Wife, I alma; s said that South Sea Stock
was no better than any bubble.'

CHAPTEE VIII.

HOME AGAIN.

It was in August that I was stricken ; it was
late in September that the fever left me ; it
was in October that I learned all — the wreck'
of our fortunes, the ruin and madness of ray
poor guardian, the elopement of Jenny.

My Nelly,' said Geoffrey, ' we have nothing
; neither you nor I. The very daily
expenses of this house are maintained by
money borrowed from a friend, who lends it, I
know, willingly enough. Will you come with
me to my poor barren acres in Wales, where we
may live, somehow, like rustics, on pig, cow,
sheep, garden, and orchard? The acres are

broad enough, I know, but they are overgrown
with wood and corrupted with marsh. No one
will take my farms ; there is not a tenant in
the place. Yet what else can I offer you ? '

To me it seemed like a haven of bliss.
Anything to get away from London, from this
dreadful place of corruption whence, like the
Valley of Hinnom, the stench and flame went
up to the high heavens. Anything to change
the current of my thoughts. Wales ! The
broad barren acres ! Why, the place would belike
Virginia. I should see, once more, forests
and hills.

I hesitated not ; I would marry my lord
where and when he pleased. We were married
at the parish church, at St. Slave's, by the good
old clergyman, whose manner of reading the
service reminded me so much of the alderman.
He was proud to marry a nobleman, and as

there was no wedding feast he made us a little
speech in the vestry-room. He reminded us
that adversity, like good fortune, was a jade
which came and went, according to the behests
of high Heaven ; that we must not look forward
to a continuation of those buffets by which our
worldly effects had been suddenly and violently
bereft from us ; but rather must cast around for
means to use that rank, to which it had pleased
God to call my husband, as a stepping-stone to
fortune. Above all, we might bear in mind
that the world is for the young, that success is
for the brave, and that where there is no
ambition there is no struggle, and where no
struggle there no glory. He meant well, the
good old man, and when I took him aside and
asked him if he knew aught of my poor Jenny,
the tears ran down his cheeks and into the corners
of his great fat hips. But he knew nothing.

So we were married. There was no ringing
of bells ; there was no wedding feast ; there
were no rejoicing ; my old nurse was present,
crying, my only friend ; the clerk gave me
away ; no one was in the church ; outside the
carts and waggons drove up and down the
narrow street ; the drivers swore ; the porters
set down their loads and fought ; the signs
hanging over the shop windows creaked and
groaned in the autumn breeze ; and no one
took any notice of it.

After the ceremony I bade farewell fora
while to my nurse, who returned for the
present to the desolate house on Tower Hill,
and we took coach to my lord's lodgings in
Bury Street.

Here we remained for a fortnight or three
weeks. He had but few friends — where should
a poor nobleman find friends ? — but these came

to see me and invited us to their great houses,
and were as civil as if we were rich instead of
being paupers.

In those days we talked a great deal about
our future. We were young, and laughed at the
disaster of losing all our money — at least, I did.
We were to go, we said, to Wales ; we would
repair a corner of the ruined castle, and farm
such of the land as was not too barren ; we
would live away from the world, forgotten, and
cultivate the simple mode of life praised by
philosophers. That was our dream. I thought
so much of Wales that I forgot Virginia. But
one day a sudden thought came into my head.

My dear,' I said, ' the man Christopher
March could not have gambled away my estate
in Virginia.'

He started. ' Surely not,' he said, ' unless
your title-deeds were in his hands.'

I believe we have no title-deeds,' I replied.
I should wonder, however, if any would dare
to dispute the right of a Carellis. Geoffrey,
look into it. Oh ! my dear, we are not poor
but rich. There is no estate like it in Virginia.
It produces more than a thousand pounds by
the year, and might produce two in careful
hands. Geoffrey,' I added, laying my hand on
this arm and looking into his noble face, ' shall
we go to Virginia, you and I, and grow rich on
our own lands ?'

Well ; he was strangely moved at the proposal,
and went away to consult a lawyer. By
this time all the poor alderman's papers were
in the hands of attorneys. It was discovered
that he had never possessed my title-deeds,
which were still in Virginia. Here was good
news, indeed ; and now my whole thought was
how to get away from this London, this city of

villainy and rogues, and find myself back in my
own country, where, if we lived among thieves,
which was true, they were in bondage and
enduring hardness.

My husband reasoned with me soberly about
it. He was at first averse to leaving England.
He thought that if we had a thousand pounds
a year we might live on his estate in Wales,
build a house, and, though we could not hope
to make a figure, yet we might maintain a
household in. some degree worthy of our rank.
I replied that I was as careful as he could be to
keep up the dignity of a peer ; but that we must
remember how the plantation was governed by
servants, who, though they might be now men
of integrity, might also become through temptation
men like Christopher March himself, and
rob us of all we had. This was so true that it
turned the scale, and my husband consented to

embark for Virginia, there to become a planter
of tobacco.

Now, after my marriage — though this I
did not learn till long after — my nurse, free at
last to remember her own private troubles, set
to work to find her son. She rightly guessed
that he would, while the hue-and-cry Alas hot
after him, take refuge in those dens and dark
holes of London known to none but the professional
rogue. She knew these places, and
had lived in them in the days of her degradation.
Now she began to seek them out
afresh. She put on an old and ragged dress,
carried a basket, assumed the manner of a
decrepit woman, and ventured boldly into the
dark dens where an honest person's life was not
worth the chance of a fourpenny-piece.

Here she asked for her son by his old name.
Some knew nothing of him ; some remembered

the name ; some told, with pride, how he had
become a great gentleman, and was robbing on
the grand scale. This was no new thing among
them ; for although it was, perhaps, the first
time that a pickpocket and common thief had
become a City merchant, yet it was quite
common for one of them, when he had gotten
a gallant suit of clothes and a sword, to become
a gamester and adventurer of the dice, and so
ruffle it among the best while fortune lasted.

At first, however, she could learn nothing
about him. But after patience for three or
four days, she was rewarded. It was a woman,
quite a young woman, who answered her
whispered enquiries with a fierce question, and
the usual profane oath, what she wanted to
know about him for.

Because,' said Alice boldly, ' because I am
his mother.'

You're not,' replied the girl. ' His mother
was hanged.'

My nurse shook her head.

I was not hanged,' she said, showing her
hand, which was branded by the executioner.
I was reprieved and sent to Virginia. My
name is Kate Colly er, and I want-to find my
son. You know that the hue-and-cry is out
for him, and the reward is proclaimed. They
will hang him if they catch him. The mob
will tear him to pieces if they can.'

'How am I to know if you are his
mother ? '

Because I say so. But that, I doubt, is
not enough. See, then, tell him this.' She
whispered in her ear. ' Ask him who could
know that except his mother. Then take me
to him.'

She sat down in the doorway and waited.

VOL. IT. I

The girl, with a look of suspicion and distrust,
walked swiftly down the narrow and filthy-street
they call Houndsditch, and disappeared.

Alice waited for about an hour. She knew
the kind of people. If she got up and went
away, she would be suspected ; if she remained
where she was, suspicion might be lulled.
Presently the girl returned.

You may come with me,' she said ; ' but
if you have deceived me or betrayed him, I
will kill you — remember that.'

I know not where the girl took Ace.
They passed from one lane full of rogues and
thieves to another; everywhere wickedness,
profanity, and drinking. At last the girl
stopped at a house, and, opening the door, led
Alice to a small room at the back, dark and
dirty, where Christopher March was sitting
alone. His fine cloth coat and waistcoat were

exchanged for a suit of common workman's
clothes ; a red cotton handkerchief tied up his
neck ; he had discarded his wig and grown his
own hair ; he looked in his new disguise what
he was, the thief and burglar of twenty years
before — grown up, but not reformed.

When he saw Alice, he sprang to his feet
with an oath.

You ? ' he cried. ' She said it was my
mother. You ? The nurse ? '

Yes ; it is I, my son.'

Alice sat down upon the bed and sighed
heavily.

I only knew, on the night when you tried
to murder Lord Eardesley, that you were my
son.'

Dick told you, did he ? Then he knew,
too, and kept it from me. Yet I thought I saw
him killed.'

I 2

Such as he take time to die. They are
allowed to live a little, so that they may tell
something of their wickedness before they die.
He told me — he — that you were the boy whom,
in an evil hour, I brought into the world.'

Well,' said Christopher, ' if you come to
that, we were all brought into the world at an
evil hour. We live and thieve, and then we
get hanged. Fool that I was, when I might
have lived honestly and died in my bed.'

He told me that when the gang was
broken up '

It lasted two years after you were
lagged at Bristol. We thought you were
hanged.'

They respited me at the last moment. I
have been in Virginia.'

'I know — go on.'

That when the gang was broken up inconsequence

of the cry after the great diamond
robbery '

My doing ! ' said Christopher, laughing.
All the years of his education and work in an
honest office had not destroyed that pride ina
successful villainy which was taught him in
his infancy, and by the poor woman who stood
before him repentant and shamed.

You were sent, to get out of the way, into
the very heart of the enemy's camp, to the
house of Alderman Medlycott himself; you
were educated by him ; taken into the house
by him ; paid well by him ; and, in return,
you robbed him.'

Why, mother,' cried the son in great
surprise, ' you are not come here to preach —
you!'

It was part of her punishment. Her very
son, who had been for fifteen years and more

under godly tutors, could not even yet understand
that a wicked woman could ever turn
away from her wickedness.

She shook her head.

No, no,' she said, ' I shall not preach.
For you I can only pray. But this is foolish
talk. Let us rather consider how you may
best escape.'

Why,' he replied, ' I' think I am safest
here. Bess, here — but you don't know Bess —
will look after me.'

'You are never safe where there are so
many who know you. Why, there is a hundred
guineas reward offered for your apprehension.
Once caught, they will have no mercy on you,
be sure of that.'

I am sm-e,' he said ; ' I knew it all along.
Why, what odds a little danger? I am not
caught yet, and perhaps there is many a jolly

day between this and the journey to Tyburn ;
isn't there, Bess ? '

The girl laughed uneasily. She was one of
those who can never contemplate without a
shudder the certainty of her doom, and the
uncertainty of its appointed time.

Confess, mother,' the hardened villain went
on, ' I have done well. A dozen years of good
behaviour, with church on Wednesday and
Friday evenings, as well as Sunday ; ten years
of slavery and hard work, and then the reward
came — a rich and unexpected reward : the
confidence of the most confiding merchant in
London ; a double set of books ; the handing
of vast sums of money ; all day long robbing
the alderman ; all night long gaming and
drinking, and having like a lord. A fine time,
Bess, wasn't it.

Yes, it was,' she said ; ' pity it is over.'

I would have made it last longer, but my
luck became so bad. I believe it was your girl
Elinor Carellis who brought me bad, luck.
Little she knew that every evening some of her
fortune was being melted away in Covent
Garden.'

Why did you dare to make love to her ? '

He make love to her ! ' cried the girl,
springing to her feet like a mad thing. ' He
make love to her ? '

Easy, Bess, easy — sit down.' Christopher
took her by the waist, and sat her on his knee.
You don't understand. Why, girl, I wanted
her money to put back the rest — Lord
Eardesley's and the alderman's and the others.
Then we should have started fair again ; he
would have made me a partner, and all would
have gone merrily.'

She was not satisfied, and her colour came

and went, while her breath was quick and her
eyes bright.

I should like to kill her,' she murmured
between her teeth.

You need not be jealous,' said Alice ; 'she
is married and gone away.'

Ho ! ho r laughed Christopher, ' without
a penny-piece. That's revenge worth having,
isn't it, mother ? '

Then his mother grew sick at heart, and
weary, and rose to go.

I cannot see you any more. I cannot bear
to look upon you, or to hear you talk. But I
would aid you to escape before it is yet too late.
Perhaps, if you escape now, your heart may be
softened in after years. But I warn you.
Among all the rogues and thieves who surround
you, there nest be many — try to think how
many — who know where you are hiding, and

who will be tempted by the reward. A hundred
guineas ! It is a great sum of money.
Leave London ; go where no one knows you.
Go where you may find some honest means of
livelihood. See, I have brought you all my
savings.' She drew out a little bag, and
poured some money into her lap. Christopher
and the girl bent eagerly over it with greedy
eyes. ' There are ten guineas and some silver
pieces. Take them, and fly for your life out of
the City of Destruction.'

There was no hesitation about taking the
money ; not the least. Nor about promising
whatever the man's mother wished.

I will go,' he said. ' I will go this very
evening. We will try the north. This will
keep us for a while, and then we shall see.
Yes, mother' — he thrust his tongue in his cheek
for the amusement of the girl — ' honesty is the

only thing. You are right. Henceforth I ama
respectable tradesman, ruined by the wicked
directors of the South Sea Scheme.'

She left him without taking his hand, or
saying more words. And she lived to learn
that he had broken his word, was still lurking
in London, and had been captured.

All this she told me later, when we were faraway
from land on the blue ocean.

Then we began our preparations for Virginia.
We wanted little, because everything was
already on the plantation. My lord's interest
procured us a passage on board the ' Gloucester,'
one of His Majesty's ships, under orders for
James Town, and we were to set sail at
Portsmouth.

A week before we started a letter was
brought to me by a meanly-dressed, poor little
creature of a servant-maid. It was addressed

to Mistress Elinor Carellis, care of Lord
Eardesley.

Oh, Heaven ! it was from my dear, flighty,
foolish Jenny.

Dearest Nelly,' she began, ' I know not if
I dare to address you as I used. Forgive me
and pity me. I am very unhappy. I know
about my father's bankrupt condition and his
madness. Pray Heaven it be not caused partly
by my undutiful conduct. Come quickly tome,
for I have much to tell you. My mother
will not forgive me, and my husband is such a
wretch that you will pity me when you know.
But, oh ! that such a man as Christopher March
should have been allowed to live ! Your
affectionate Jenny.'

The letter was dated from a street near
High Lowborn, called Fetter Lane, where I
supposed she had found lodgings. My husband,

who would not let me go alone, accompanied
me, and we carried with us the little half-starved
girl in a coach.

Alas ! the street was narrow and noisy, full
of shops, and crowded with rough people.
Jenny's lodging was in a court leading off the
street. Who, then, was her Lysander? Could
he have deceived her for the sake of the money
which it might be reasonably supposed she
would have ?

The girl led us into a mean house with
narrow passages and dirty stairs. In a room
at the back, ill-furnished, squalid, and unwashed,
I found the poor girl. She was in dishabille,
her hair hanging about her shoulders,
her feet in slippers. Before her stood, cowering,
the man who had carried her off. But was
this Lysander ? Why, all the bravery had gone
out of the man ; the ruffle and smirk ; the

square carriage of his elbows ; the toss of his
head ; all were gone. His clothes were shabby
and common ; his wig lay on the table, and a
handkerchief tied up his head. I think they
had been quarrelling, for when Jenny heard
our footsteps and turned to me, her face was
flushed and her hips were quivering.

Nelly ! ' she said, throwing herself into my
arms. ' Oh, Nelly, Nelly ! what a wretch —
what a foolish wretch I have been ! '

Then she tore herself from me passionately,
and placed me in a chair, while she pointed the
finger of scorn at her husband.

Sit there. You shall hear, you and my
lord, what I have suffered from this man.'

Lysander looked as if he fain would escape,
but knew not how. I do not think he was a
brave man, because his knees shook while his
wronged wife poured out her tale.

You know how he used to write me
poems, Nelly ? The poems were copied. You
remember his letters ? They were stolen from
a book. The wretch hath no knowledge of
writing, save of copying for a shop cashbook.
He told me a tale of himself: he said he was
the son of a country squire — oh ! lying villain !
that his father wished him to marry a lady
of title ; that his only chance was a secret
marriage, after which his father would certainly
relent ; that he would never be able to persuade
the alderman to any secret course ; and
that if I would elope with him, all would go
well afterwards.

Nelly ! you know what a fool I have
always been, loving to read about men and
love-making — all this went to my heart. It
seemed so noble in a gentleman to fall in love
with the daughter of a citizen : it was grand

to be carried away. No secret marriage in
London would do with my fine gentleman ; no
Fleet marriage, if you please ; nothing but a
coach and four, and Scotland.

'So I went. Oh! the long, long journey
on the road ; and the shaking over the roads ;
but who so grand as this great gentleman, if
you please ? His-hand was ready with a
guinea for the postboy and a crown for boots ;
while at the sound of horses on the road none
so brave as he, with his sword ready loosened
in the scabbard, and his pistols before him in
the coach. " If we are caught," he said, " if
we have to fight, I will die rather than surrender
my Clarissa." I felt proud of being
about to have a husband who, if he was little
in stature, had yet so high a spirit.

We got safely to Scotland, after many
days, and there we were married.



Then we came home again, but without
the grandeur with which we went. This time
we travelled to York by posting, and then all
the way to London by the coach.

When I got to town I learned all that had
happened ; your wound ; my father's ruin and
illness ; the villainy of Christopher March. I
thought my heart would break, to think of all
the troubles that had fallen upon us. Yet there
was some comfort ; I should not be a burden
upon my friends, poor and in misery. I should,
perhaps, be able to help them.'

She stopped, and the miserable man, now
that the climax was approaching, trembled not
only in his knees, but all over, while a cold
moisture broke out on his-forehead.

One more misfortune was to fall upon me
one more trouble. I deserved it. I must
not repine ; but it was harder to bear than all

VOL. II. K

the rest. Oh, Nelly 1 See him now. Does he
look at all like the son of a country esquire ?
Hath he any air of gentle blood and noble
birth ? Does he look like a roan who would
marry a lady of rank ? I found out at length,
but not until his money was come to an end.
I found out, I say, from his own confession, who
he is and what. Nelly, he made the money for
our wedding journey by gambling. He was
lucky, and won enough to pay for all in a
single night. And he is not a gentleman at all.
He is but just out of his apprenticeship. He
is a hosier by trade. His name is Joshua
Crump. I am plain Mistress Crump, wife of
the hosier's apprentice, who was once Jenny
Medlycott, and daughter of an alderman who
had passed the chair ! Oh ! oh ! oh ! '

She paused. Then, fired to fury with the
thought of her wrongs, she cried again, with

a passion of tears, ' Oh, villain ! ' and gave lier
husband, one with each hand, two such mighty-boxes
on the ear that I expected, little as she
was, some dreadful injury would be done to
him. I pulled her from him ; for, indeed, she
was now quite mad with passion, and no longer
mistress of herself.

Joshua Crump, all this time, said nothing,
only he gazed with appealing eyes to me, as if
for protection.

My husband stepped forward while I was
soothing Jenny.

Tell me,' he asked the man, ' have you
any money .^ '

'j^o, my lord, none, except a single
guinea.'

And when that is done, what will you do
next ? '

I know not, my lord, indeed.'

K 2

Are you not a pretty villain, thus to carry
away a young lady deceived by these lies ? '

I am, my lord. Yet I thought her father
was rich, and would forgive us

Come outside, and speak with me.'

They went outside, and I heard my husband
speaking gravely. They talked for a quarter
of an hour. Then my lord returned alone.

• Come, Nelly,' he said ; ' the coach waits.
Jenny, child, will you come with us and share
our lot ? Your husband will let you go, and it
shall be as if you had never been married.'

I dressed her hair, and tied on her hat, and
led her crying and sobbing down the stairs.

She never saw her husband again.

So, on a fine morning in late autumn, we
left London for good ; and rode, stopping at
Guildford for the night, all together — my
husband, myself, Jenny, and Nurse Alice, with

my husband's new man. And so we journeyed
to Portsmouth, where we embarked on board
His Majesty's man-of-war 'Gloucester,' seventy-five
guns, then lying off Spithead, and presently
were standing gallantly across the open
sea, all sails set, making for my dear Virginia.

My story is finished. It only remains forme
to say a few words more.

First, I have been a happy wife in the
affection of a great and noble husband. We
lived on our plantation, without once wishing
to leave it, for five and twenty years. At the
end of that time, our affairs having prospered
beyond our expectation, my husband was
seized with a longing to go home and live the
rest of his life upon his own estate in Wales,
where, he thought, he might build a house, and
cultivate the ground, and, perhaps, help the

advancement of our eldest son. The second
son we left in Virginia. He hath taken the
surname of Camels, and I hope that there may
never fail a Carellis in the colony to illustrate
by his own virtues and worth those of the
English race. So we returned, and, in the
autumn of our lives, before old age dims my
memory or impairs my faculties, I have written
this story of my sorrows and my joys, and
have called it, fondly, after the name by which
my dear husband, who hath ever been my
lover, still delights to call his wife.

About a year after we landed my husband
had a letter from London, ix which an unknown
correspondent informed him that he
would be interested in learning the death of
Master Joshua Crump, formerly a hosier's
apprentice. I showed the letter to Jenny, who

first looked grave, as was becoming, and then
became joyful.

After all,' she said, ' it was the only thing
he could do to prove his repentance. I think
better of him for dying, and perhaps I may
forgive him altogether in time. But now I
can think of nothing but that I am free.'

She was ; and a few weeks later she
married a young gentleman of great promise
and a considerable estate upon the Potomac
Eiver. She has brought up a large family of
handsome children, and no one but myself
and my husband ever knew the story of her
elopement. Alice knew, of course, but Alice
never talked. And here I may relate that
when (after many years) we returned to
London, the first time I walked again in
Cheapside I espied a monstrous great sign
of a golden glove hanging over my head,

and read the name written below of J. Crump.
I remembered Lysander, and, moved with
curiosity, I entered the shop. Why, there
behind the counter, stood Lysander himself.
He was little changed, except for a certain
smugness of aspect peculiar to the thriving
London hosier. He bowed, and asked me
what I might be pleased to lack.

I leaned across the counter and whispered:

'Hath Lysander quite forgotten his Clarissa
? '

He trembled and turned pale, and his yard
wand dropped from his hands.

Madam,' he whispered, ' I know your
ladyship now. You are Lady Eardesley. For
Heaven's sake ! I am married and the father often

'

Fear not, Lysander,' I replied, ' your
secret is safe with me. After the death of

her first liiisbancl Clarissa found consolation
ill the arms of a second.'

So I left him abashed and confounded.

We had been in Virginia five years or so
when our overseer came to me one morning,
my husband being then shooting in the forest,
with a tale about a certain convict servant
whom he lead bought at James Town, and
conveyed, with others, to the estate. He was
a man about thirty-three or four, who had
been found guilty and sentenced to be hanged,
but, by the clemency of the judge, was branded
and sent to the plantations. The offence was
shop-lifting. This gloomy story was too common
to move my pity. But the overseer
added, when the man heard that Lord Eard-
wesley had bought him, he fell upon his knees,
and begged that he might never be seen by this
lordship.

A dreadful suspicion seized me. I bade the
overseer lead me to the man. He was sitting
in chains, waiting to be told off for a field
gang. I never went near our wretched people
on their first arrival, or when they were at
work in the fields, for the sound of the lash,
even though one knew that it was part of the
punishment, or felt that if it was a negro receiving
chastisement it was part of his education
in religion and civilisation, never failed to bring
the tears to my eyes.

The overseer called him, and he lifted his
head. At sight of me he fell grovelling and
crying at my feet. For it was Christopher March.

I said nothing to him, good or bad, but
being assured that it was the wicked wretch
himself, thus placed by Providence in our
hands, I left him and went home. When my.
husband returned I told him all.

It would be too long a story to relate how
my lord sent for this rogue, whose sins had
found him out, and discoursed with him upon
his miraculous escape and the occasion mercifully
laid open to him for repentance, and how
the man with plentiful tears declared that he
was already deeply penitent. We kept from
Alice the knowledge that her son was on the
estate until such time as the overseers reported
favourably of the man's good behaviour and
willingness. We then granted to nurse, for
her own use, a strip of ground at the far north
of our plantation, which had a cottage on it ;
and we assigned her own son to her as servant,
so that no one on the estate should know of the
relationship.

Alien she died, a year or two later, it was
in the thankful confidence that her son was as
deeply and sincerely penitent as she was herself.

I never greatly believed in the repentance
of one whose sins showed so hard a heart, but
I was glad that his hanging did not take place
until after the death of his mother. He was
executed at James Town, and hung in chains,
for a highway robbery, quite unnecessary and
wanton, because at the time he was in easy
circumstances.

As I write these last lines, the setting sun
is shining on the Welsh hills ; in the gardens
are playing my grandchildren ; sitting about
me are my three daughters, happy matrons
all ; walking up the broad valley I see my
husband, and, with him, two gallant sons. My
heart is full.

IN THE PORT OF BOSCASTLE.

On a certain evening in early summer a couple
of young men were lying on the brow of a
cliff between Boscastle and Tintagel on the
Cornish coast. Before them was the broad
Atlantic, with no land between them and the
coast of Labrador except a little bit of Newfoundland
— no mankind all the way, an exhilarating
thought ; beloAv them on one side
was the little harbour and old-world town of
Boscastle, and on the other, two or three miles
to the south, Ravenna and King Arthur's
Stronghold. Everybody knows that there are
two ways of lying on a seaboard cliff. You

may lie as if you were where you most Ravished
to be, in perfect repose, lazily looking out at the
blue stretch of water, icily following the course
of a sea-gull, and marking on the horizon a
sail or the smoke of a steamer, while the sun
gently warms you all over till you feel ' done
through,' like a conscientious steak on the gridiron,
while sweet breezes play on your cheek,
and you feel as if you would hardly exchange
these zephyrs for the breath of your mistress,
and as if you intended to remain until that
great king and despot, who, as Rabelais teaches,
commands everything, causes the invention of
everything, is Lord of all, and must be obeyed,
namely, Hunger, orders you to get up and
walk in the direction of prevent. The other
is the restless and uneasy manner, as if your
heart was not in idleness and your mind not in.
harmony with the seeming repose of legs and

spinal column. Both methods were apparent
in the attitude and appearance of the two companions.
They illustrated in their friendship
a very old maxim of philosophy. It is not in
Solomon's Proverbs nor is it in Plato, but I am
sure it is old, because it is too profound for
myself, or any other modern philosopher, to
have invented. ' It is best,' said the anonymous
sage — very likely he was a Chinaman —
in choosing a friend to choose one who will
wear. Therefore he must not follow the same
calling as yourself. In true friendship there
must be no professional jealousy, no rivalry,'
Now one of these young men — he who sat and
rested with such perfect joy — was a poet ; and
the other — the restless person — was a painter.
The poet, by an unlucky stroke of fate, did not
look poetical ; he was short in stature, wore a
beard and spectacles, and his legs were not so

VOL. II. L

straight as those of more favoured brethren —
in fact, they formed that interesting conic section,
an elongated elapse. This curve, applied
to human legs, is said to be bad for stopping
pigs. As for his name, as it has got nothing todo
with the story, and as it was an ugly name,
and as the poet always committed the sin of
cursing his ancestors for having such a name
whenever he thought about it, and as his friends
always called him Poet, Maker, Bard, or Inspired
One, there is no need to mention it at alL
He wrote his immortal verses under an assumed
name, and used to grind his teeth when admiring
maidens (of ravishing beauty) wrote him
rapturous letters, and he was fain to remember
straight hair, curly legs, and unromantic name.

The artist, on the other hand, who could not
write verses, had curly brown hair, the brightest
eyes possible, a manly complexion composed of

brown, red, and white, laid on in artful gradations
by nature, and features as straight and
handsome as those which made the pride of
Paris's mother. For young maidens to look
upon those features was a sovereign specific for
headache, ennui, languor, despondency, listlessness,
vapours, and lowness of spirits, for they
straightway began to sit upright, grow cheerful,
take a bright view of life, pity the sad condition
of nuns, and think how thankful they themselves
ought to be to Heaven for making them
so beautiful. For comeliness in man, they
thought, not knowing that even ugly men have
their feelings, is attracted magnetically towards
beauty in woman.

His name was much better than the poet's,
being Davenant, and his Christian name was
something of the romantic and reverent kind
greatly favoured by tender mothers in the days

L 2

when Miss Sewell's novels prepared the way fora
generation of Cyril, Guys, and Cjrprians, few
of whom have proved themselves fathers of the
Church, though many have become her prodigal
sons. But, by reason of a certain quality in
the youth which one cannot explain, he was
always called by his friends Jack. This being
so, it is useless to give his real name in full.
The curious may refer to his baptismal register.
He it was, as I have said, who looked restless.
Something was on his mind, else he
would have felt the repose of the hour and
enjoyed the splendour of the setting sun.
The poet spoke slowly and critically :
I agree with you, Jack. She is pretty —
she is very pretty, indeed. I like the dark blue
eye best, I think, of all eyes that be. Wordsworth
might have written a sonnet on the Dark-blue
Eye.' He took out his pocket-book and

made a note. ' I am sure that Wordsworth
would have Written a sonnet, had he thought of
it, on the Dark Blue Eye — dark and true and
tender — beautiful collocation ! — pity I am too
late with it. Her features are straight. In
this day of snub noses and little round faces it
is refreshing to come across the classical type.
Her figure '

I declare,' Jack cried, ' that you poets are
the least imaginative of mortals. To be sure
it must be destructive to the imagination to befor
ever thinking what ought to be said about
a thing. You " agree with me ! " Hang it, man,
you talk as if you were discussing the merits of
a ]poena. I say that her beauty is a beauty that
takes possession of a man — unless he be a poet
and fills his brain, and makes him go mad
with longing and delight.'

'• Take care, Jack.'

What am I to take care of ? Think of her
hair, man of sluggish blood ! how it ripples like
silk threads in the sunshine ; Dorothea by the
brook had not such long and lovely locks ; and
then think of her figure, the tall graciousness
of her presence. Helen of Troy was not more
queenly than this village girl. Think of her
voice, so musical and clear ; it is the voice of
Juliet. With such tones that maiden ravished
the heart of Romeo. Think of her smile,
when one is happy enough to make her smile ;
did ever man dream of a woman's smile more
sweet ? Venus must never laugh, but she should
smile often. Think of her eyes when she looks
at you. Poet ! They are the eyes of the Goddess
of Love herself, the Queen of Heaven and
of Earth.'

Take care. Jack,' repeated his friend again.

Why should I take care ? ' he asked for
the second time.

Granted that she is about a tenth part as
beautiful as you say and think ; granted that
you fancy yourself in love with her ; granted,
again, that she is as good as a woman can
be '

This methodical and cold-blooded person
calls himself,' said Jack, ' a poet ! '

How would it do to transplant her to
London ? For a cottage by the sea, a house
and a studio in the Abbey Road ; for the companionship
of fishermen, that of your friends ;
for a boat in the harbour, a walk in Regent's
Park;

Poor child ! ' said Jack the lover ; ' but we
would come to Cornwall as often as we could.
I should paint nothing but the cliffs of Bos-castle.'


How would she like the ladies who would
call upon her? How would the ladies Hke
her? Jack, give it up.'

I shall not give it up. I can never forget
her face. Why, I think of her all day
long, and when I think of her I tremble.'

Poor old boy ! Do you think she is
worth it ? '

I am sure she is worth all the worship
and respect a man can give her. Every
woman is for that matter.'

Humph ! ' said the poet. ' Go on. Jack.'

It is by the special mercy of Heaven,'
continued the painter, ' that such women are
sent into the world : else the standard of things
beautiful would be lowered, and so our endeavours
slacken, and all mankind sink back
into the mud.'

*I will take a note of that idea. Jack.'

The poet made his note. ' If you take no
thought yourself how things should be said,
permit me to do so. Thank you, I am now
glistening again.'

'No,' replied Jack, 'I have done. My
mind is made up. I shall ask Avis to marry
me. If she will not take me — and I don't
know ' — he added this ruefully, as if unaware
of his good looks, pleasant ways, and gallant
bearing — ' I don't know why she should, being
what she is compared with what I am, why
then we will go away, and the sooner the better.*

T think, Jack,' said the poet, ' that Miss
Avis will say Yes. Who would have thought
that out of a simple journey to the Cornish
coast such dreadful things could follow ? '

Jack laughed.

Was it for this,' continued his friend,
that I, who hate walking* and love London,

and especially the Temple, in June, was persuaded
to assume the disguise of a muscular
Christian ' — she pointed to his knickerbockers
— ' and to put on a knapsack, whereby
my shoulders are bruised into a horrible
black and blue, instead of remaining a pearly
white ? We were to travel all the summer, to
make sketches, collect legends, examine pools
by the sea-side, grow learned over anemones.
What have we done ? Sat down in a village,
and fallen in love with a country girl.'

'I can't help it,' Jack groaned. Then
he said stoutly : ' I wouldn't help it, if I could.
It would be too great happiness for me to win
Avis.' His voice sank as he pronounced the
sacred name of the girl he loved.

How shall I go back to the club and tell
them that their Jack is lost to them — their
Jack of Trumps — because he is engaged to

marry a young lady of surpassing beauty, niece
to a seafaring party — I think party is the right
word — who has certainly been a mariner, who
Lias certainly been a pilot, and is also suspected
of having been a pirate ? '

Pirates are scarce,' said Jack. ' I shall
swear he has been a pirate. I will paint his
portrait in character.'

'True, there is distinction in being a
pirate.'

As for those little awkward things,* Jack
continued, harking back to a previous point,
the convenances of society, the tone of the
world, I would as soon that Avis never
changed at all: I want no change in her.
Heaven knows. The man or woman either —
only women are so confoundedly jealous of
each other — who can't see with half an eye
that here is a gracious and blessed damsel

fresh from heaven, to whom the world can add
no charm of manner or of style '

Spare me, Jack.'

'Why, that man or that woman,' I say,
may go to the devil.'

A very lame and commonplace conclusion
to a sentence begun with commendable
originality. Well, what am I to do ? Shall I
up, take off these confounded knickerbockers,
and go back to town ? '

No,' said Jack ; * you are going to stay
here cid see me through it.'

'I will. Jack, I will, if I have to wear
knickerbockers for a twelvemonth ; only let
us send to Exeter or somewhere for some
decent 'dacca, and, as I am not in love, and
like a glass of respectable claret, let us order
some to be brought as quickly as may be.
And one thing I am quite certain of: the girl,

whether it is the village beauty or anybody
else, who marries Jack Davenant, will get as
good a husband as she deserves, and I hope
she will behave according.'

They had been together enjoying the girl's
society, yet one had fallen in love with her and
the other had not. To be sure the lover was
an Artist. Now people whose thoughts are
occupied a great deal with form and colour are
naturally susceptible ; and when one of them
really meets with a woman whose form is a
dream of beautiful curves, and whose colouring
drives a painter to despair, so delicate is it,
yet so firm, so beautifully shaded, and so full of
light, he is at once ready to believe that here
must be the long sought for perfect woman.
Poets experience greater difficulty in losing
their hearts ; it is not, as Jack irreverently said,
that they are of slow imagination, but that the

ideal woman, the dream of a poet, is so hard
to find ; mere grace will not do, nor exquisite
colour. They would have her at once lovely
as Phryne, sweet as Laura, sympathetic as
Cornelia, quick as Rosalind, queenly as
Cleopatra, loving as Juliet, and wise as Eloise.
]sow, Stature makes few such women ; there
are more poets than mistresses for them, therefore
they fall in love less readily than men of
coarser mould. So that when Jack saw in that
simple Cornish maiden the one girl in all the
world whom he would care to marry, when
he raved of her beauty and her grace, when he
contrasted her with the girls of society — poor
gh^ls of society ! how rough is their treatment
in love stories, yet how well they do marry,
as a rule ! — when he prated (I have omitted
most of his prating) of artificial ways and the
falsities of London life, the poet only saw a tall

and pretty girl, whose beauty he could have
wished to express by magic art in immortal
verse ; whom, always in poetry, he would have
decked with most of the virtues. He might,
too, have fallen in love, not with the sweet
girl of flesh and blood, but with the phantom
of his own creation, as in the leading case of
Pygmalion, or as a certain noble Woman fell
in love — vigorously — with the pictures of
Atlanta and Helen, and another — but this
story I take to be an allegory — who conceived
a violent passion for an Effigies of Fortune.

It was in the year 1863. You Vv^ho can
remember seventeen years may pass over the
next page or two ; you who cannot, being yet
in the bloom and blossom of youth, on which
happy circumstance I congratulate you, and
wish you every kind of enjoyment while it lasts,

must not, on any account, omit to learn something
of that older generation which seems to
you already far advanced in fogeydom.

There were a great many more places,
in that year, to begin with, where the traveller
could find quiet nooks, pleasant abiding-places,
seaside villages, unknown to the general
autumn outpouring, than there are nov. He
would put up at a simple inn, and sit in the
evening, pipe in mouth, among the rustics on a
shiny settle ; or he would find a bed over the
shop of the universal provider of the place,
which smelt of everything all at once, but
mostly of tallow, soap, and bacon. When he
went home he made his friends envious with
reminiscences of the beauty of that place.
Gradually the bruit and renown of it spread
abroad, people flocked, a hotel was built, and
its principal charm was gone.

The man who did most mischief in causing
these discoveries and developments was Charles
Kingsley, for he not only taught people how
to look at beautiful places, what to find at the
seashore, and how to talk about a seaboard
village, but he also inspired them with a
craving to search for new places. Also by the
might and magic of his pen he peopled the
coasts of North Devon and Cornwall with fiction-folk
far more real than any creatures of real
blood, so that at Lovely one always thinks of
Sebastian Yeo, just as on Exmoor one thinks of
Lorna Done — which proves how good and
great and desirable a thing it is to be a novelist,
and what a benefactor he is who can so touch
the hearts of kindly folk. Again, by his own
enthusiasm and its contagion, he stimulated the
sluggish brains of men and women who, but
for him, would have gone to the end of their

VOL. II. M

days contented with the Parade of Brighton,
or even the Jetty of Margate, and sent them
abroad, all athirst for rock and valley, cliff and
rolling wave. The love of things beautiful is
not, if you please, born with us — it must be
taught ; the child of nature stands unmoved
looking upon the curves of the valley which
broadens as it slopes towards the sea, whether
the rains slant upon its hanging woods, or the
sunshine lies on every leaf; whether the ocean
lies beyond, far and far away, a sheet of
burnished gold in the evening sunset, or the
sea-fog rolls up the comb with the morning,
and clings to every meadow like a bridal veil.
Therefore children of nature, as well as innkeepers,
lodging-house keepers, and owners of
seaside property, ought to be very grateful to
Charles Kingsley, Mr. Blackmore, and all who
teach them what to see and what to love, and

their statues should be erected in every town and
village on the north coast of Devon or wherever
they have led the people to wander and admire.
Another thing, which was a curious feature
of this seventeen years' old time, was this doing :
he gave the people a taste for what, in those unscientific
days, was called science. After he had
written ' Westward Ho ' and ' Two Years Ago,'
tourists of the ' higher culture ' used to carry
hammers, and solemnly knock ofi* bits of rock,
never weary of collecting specimens, which they
afterwards mixed ; or they would, with much
gravity, drag home ropes of gruesome seaweed ;
or they would peer into the pools left by the
sea, as once, they remembered, had peered that
great and good and crafty Tom Diurnal, whom
you, young friends, have clean forgotten. Yet,
Tom was once a person of considerable influence.


M 2

They did not learn a great deal of science,.
I think, for all their chipping, collections, and
pool-gazing. Geology and natural history remained
very much where they were. As for the
young men and maidens, it made them feel like
having an improving time when they looked
about for anemones, unrolled the seaweed,,
found Latin names, and reflected how much
superior they were to their grandparents (who
had stayed at home and minded the shop and
made the money). And there was another
thing. When it came to gazing in the pools
by the rocks, it not unfrequently happened that
the agile shrimp, the crafty water-beetle, the
crab with his sidelong glance, the limpet, the
cockle, the anemone, and the green slime,
were all neglected when, in the untroubled
mirror of the surface, eye met eye and gazed
each upon either with more intentness and

meaning than had been bestowed upon the
wonders of the deep. This led to the study of
another kind of knowledge, namely, how one
person can lay himself out to the best advantage
in order to please another person. This is a
very delightful and interesting study at a
certain time of life, and, indirectly, proves
beneficial to trade — notably, in stimulating the
industry of the plain gold ring, the mystery of
the artificial orange blossom, and the craft of
wedding-cakes — which shows that everybody
scan set a ball a rolling, but no one knows where
it will stop.

Other visitors, such as the middle-aged,
who had already studied this branch of philosophy,
but were now fired by the new love of
science, went about with bottles and nets,
caught a triton, and put him into an aquarium,
where they watched his kicks and his customs.

and dreamed ambitiously of writing a monogram
upon him which should for ever place them on
a pinnacle of fame. Alas ! the worship of this
nameless ' science ' is over ; the triton lives un-regarded
in his pool, the sea-anemone attracts
but little attention, and middle-aged men have
ceased to net grubs and water-lizards in stagnant
pools.

As for the amusements of that remote
period, young folks played croquet and archery;
they danced, but their waltzing was of the
kind called deux tevips^ which, for most of
the dancers, meant a rush and a scramble ;
athletics were in their infancy, and unfortunate
girls had to wear crinoline. A whole generation,
a seven years' generation, of girls wore
hideous hoops — the recollection of them brings
tears to the eyes and rage to the heart, so ugly,
so misshapen, so inartistic, so abominable and

horrible was the fashion. I think that it was
somewhere about the year 1860 that the Evil
One put it into the heads of women that the
best way to set themselves off to advantage was
to put on hoops. They did so ; they put them
on ; they allowed them to grow greater and
greater, until those girls who were pretty — an
enthusiastic Frenchman once said that no young
woman can possibly be called plain — looked like
rose-buds growing out of summer cabbages,
and those who were not pretty looked like a
continuation or upper blossom of the cabbage.
The pity of it !

For the rest, there are a good many things
nowadays which were not then even thought
of. I am afraid the new inventions, however,
are chiefly intended to make life more uncomfortable.
They got on without telephones,
dynamite, electric bells, electric lights, or

torpedoes, though these were just getting
invented. The whole of England was looking
on the great Civil War of America, and most
of our people — though we are rather ashamed
of it now, and wish we hadn't — were taking
the wrong side, which meant the defence of the
Peculiar Institution. We are, indeed, a strange
and a wonderful people : a problem for all
foreign countries to gaze upon in wonder. Why
we sympathised with the South, why we, as a
body, were ready to believe the worst of the
North, and failed to understand the passionate
resolution to keep together their splendid
country, and to destroy the traffic in human
flesh, is a thing which passeth all understanding.
Therefore I cannot stop here to expound at
length my great theory that at times there falls
upon the nations of the earth a plague or
pestilence of stupidity, wrong-headedness, or

madness, whereby evil appears good. No
remedy has been found for this disease, and the
only medicine yet tried — that of continual talk,
stump oratory, and leading articles — has only,
as yet, made the mischief worse.

A few weeks before the conversation above
recorded, there was gathered together in the
bar parlour of the Wellington Arms, in the
village of Boscastle, a certain club, consisting
of the better sort, who met nightly to talk,
smoke a pipe, and discuss the affairs of the
parish, the country, and the world. It was the
intellectual centre of Boscastle — its only solace,
distraction, and amusement. What would life
be in an English country town, to the people
who never leave it, without the inn where they
can sit of an evening and talk ?

On this evening there were two strangers
present — gentlemen from London, that day

arrived, having walked over from Bute carrying
their knapsacks. It was early in the season
for tourists, but those who visit Cornwall in
May are wiser in their times of walking than
those who ofo in August. For the inns are not
yet full, and the air is that sweet air of early
summer which in this far east of London we so
seldom breathe. While the season is young the
tourist meets with a warmer welcome ; the
people are not yet weary of the perpetual
coming and going of the curious stranger ;
they have forgotten the questions asked last
season ; they are ready to advance a visitor's
knowledge as to local matters ; they even try
to guess at the distances of neighbouring places
for him ; his presence is a change in the
perennial parliament, which after the long
winter has become a little dull and wants a
fillip. Yet the presence of a stranger brings

with it some restraint ; the customary jokes are
not understood by him, and have to be explained
; allusions to personal peculiarities,
historiettes of the past, the small change of
conversation which passes current, as a rule,
and serves to keep the talk from awkward
pauses, seems out of place before strangers ;
and without these counters of conversation
the men feel strange.

The club this evening, among whom were
Joel Heard the blacksmith, William Helter
the sexton, Isaac Ago the shipwright, and
others of lesser note, sat mostly silent, every
man with his pipe in his hand, while the two
strangers, whom we already know, tried to getup
the talk.

Jack asked if there were many wrecks
upon the coast. It appeared that there were
many, but no one volunteered any further

information about wrecks. The Poet enquired
if there was any smuggling going on. It appeared
that there had once been a creditably
large trade in smuggling, but that was in the
good old war times, when things were taxed,
and brandy was worth any price. But, even
then, their smuggling was nothing compared to
that on the south coast.

An attempt to draw the men on the subject
of local traditions and legends broke down
completely, as no one knew any legends ; no
one had ever heard King Arthur's name ; nor
been told of pity or fairy ; nor whispered to
each other ghostly stories round a winter fire
feared no ghosts, in fact ; and were
altogether as practical a folk as could be expected
anywhere. But then, the way to get to
the superstitions of a man is not to ask him
what they are; that only makes him declare

loudly that he has got none, just as a demand
for money inches the mean of spirit to button
up their pockets. To extract the jewel of folklore
another and a better way must be
adopted.

You gentlemen want stories,' said the
Sexton. ' There's some can tell a story, and
some can't. I'm one of them as can't. First
you gets the storm : then a slip she comes
driven' down upon the rocks, and gets wrecked
into lucifer matches ; then the sailors they gets
drownded and cast ashore ; then they gets
buried by the sexton and the parson. I don't
see much of a story in that. But Stephen
Cobbledick, he would spin you a yarn about
that, or any other wreck, would keep you
gentlemen listening all a winter evening.
Pilot, he was, in America, where they are
fighting.'

Ay ! ' murmured another ; ' Stephen Cob-benedick,
who has been in foreign parts and
sailed the world around and round again, and
fought with pirates and sharks, he can tell
a tale or two. Stephen hath gifts.'

At that moment the door opened, and the
great man himself walked in.

The visitors observed that a place had been
kept for him, which he immediately occupied
with the air of one who steps into this own seat.
It was the most comfortable seat in the room,
that in the corner nearest the fire-place, with an
arm for one elbow, the fender for a footstool,
and the table within reaching distance.

He was a man of about sixty years of age,
or perhaps more. He had white hair, curling
about his head as thickly as when he was a
young man ; his eyes were hazel and bright ;
his nose was broad and rather flat ; his expression,

which was naturally good-natured and
somewhat weak, conveyed the idea that he
wished to seem stern and fierce ; he was not
above the middle height, and he wore a suit of
blue, as becomes a seafaring man.

The maid of the inn followed him.

He sat down, looked at her with great
severity for some moments, and then said :

I will take, Mary, a glass of rum and water
— hot, with a slice of lemon.'

The girl instantly set it before him, because,
knowing his tastes, she had brought it into the
room with her.

Hope you are well, gentlemen,' he began
affably. ' The wind is freshening, and if it blows
up you'll have a chance of seeing a bit of a sea
on tomorrow. You can't say you have seen
our coast till you've seen it in a nor-wester.
Lord ! I've seen it in every wind that blows, ay

in such a gale that we had to be lashed to the
masts.'

'Never a gale that would wreck you,' said
one of the company.

Mr. Cobbledick made no reply to this compliment.


I know this coast, gentlemen, as well as I
know any, except, perhaps, the coast of the
Carolinas, where I was pilot. I know this
coast, and this coast knows me.'

Queer if it didn't,' said the Blacksmith.


I have been, gentlemen,' the Pilot had a
little American drawl, due doubtless to his long-residence
in Carolina, ' north, south, east, and
west ; and there are not many ports on this
earth into which I could not find my way.
Nor is there many charts which I have not
learned, till I snowed them as well as I snowed

iiow to box the compass, and could give the
soundings ; ay, even among the West Inly Cays.
The world is a big place to land lubbers, but
weseafarin men take the measure of it between
us.'

A hard life,' murmured one of the young
men.

'No, sir, not a hard life. Regular work,
regular food, regular pay. What more does
a man want ? There's no women aboard to
fall in love with ; you can't get married if you
keep where you be ; whereas, ashore, the difficulty
is to keep single. Pitfalls everywhere.'

I have not felt any difficulty yet,' said
the Poet, ' in keeping single.'

Any fool can get married,' the Pilot went
on, ' but it takes a strong man to keep single.
For why? The single man grows unmindful
of his blessings ; he waxes fat and kicks, like

VOL. IT. N

Jeshurun ; he goes to sleep on watch, whereby
he falls a victim to the first as dares to
tackle him.'

A murmur of assent.

I grant you,' continued the Pilot, ' that
there's dangers even in the single life : he
drinks too much rum, maybe ; he smokes too
much baccy ; he keeps himself too much to his
own craft, whereby his wisdom is lost to his
fellow-man, and his remarks and maxims are
th rowed away upon the boy.'

There seems a great deal in what you say
observed one of the strangers.

We all know,' said the Sexton, ' that
Stephen is a rover, with a rover's eye.'

'Gentlemen, a man who remains unmarried,
especially a seaman, generally does have something
good to say. Do not think that my
maxims, which may be next best to Solomon's

Proverbs (though he was a married man),
grower of their own accord. They come of
long reflection and observation, from a putting
of two and two together, and a separating of
two and two into one.'

But if you are not married, Stephen,'
said the Sexton, ' you can show the experience
of them as is husbands. For you have had
your niece in the house for three months and
more.'

'A niece isn't a wife,' said the Pilot.
When I feel to want a cruise, I can up sail
and away. Could I hist the blue-peter with a
wife in the house ? '

^ I saw her to-day,' said the Shipwright ;
she grows tall and comely, Stephen.'

She does, Isaac Ago. She grows to
favour the Cobbledicks. She's got the Cobble-dick
chin, which means determination ; and

N 2

the Cobbledick eyes. About those eyes, gentlemen,
they do tell the story that my father, who
was a bo's'n in the Eoyal Navy, and greatly resembled
me, had eyes of such a fierceness, with
eyebrows so like bolsters for shagginess, that
when they boarded he was always reckoned as
three — one for his cutlass and two for his eyes.
When it came to the prize money, they cheated
him out of two shares, and only counted him
as one ; which shows how the best men in
this world have been treated. Else Stephen
Cobbledick would this day be sitting among
you all a rich man, and gladly would he stand
the drinks around. As for her nose, it is the
exact picture of mine ' — the young men stared
straight at the feature named, but forbore to
laugh ; the Pilot's nose, indeed, besides being
broader than a nose should be. was rosy red, and
possessed more flesh than becomes a maiden's

nose — ' and her figure is just my own to a
T. Here the young men smiled. ' As for
her voice ' — his was a rich and husky organ
• I shouldn't wonder, come to hear her
sing, that you'd say she even beat her poor old
uncle. The toast,' he sang in a hoarse and rusty
bass, 'For 'twas Saturday night, was the
wind that blows, and the ship that goes, and
the lass that loves a sailor.'

'This is truly wonderful,' whispered the
Poet.

And one day you'll have to be marrying'
of the young maid, Stephen,' said the Sexton.
What will you say then to the chap as
marries her ? Will you up and tell him and
her what a fool he be ? '

'I never said,' replied the Pilot, that 'wasn't
good for women to be married, did I ? It is
their nature to, as dogs delight to bark and

bite. Else they would go off their claims
with chatter and clack.'

Delicately and feelingly put,' said Jack.

A sentiment, sir,' said the Poet, ' which I
have heard before, but never in language more
befitting its truth and beauty. Truth is always
beautiful, however conveyed — whether it be
handed up in a shovel with rags, broken
bottles, and dust, or brought on a silver salver.'

You mean well, gentlemen, no doubt,'
said the Pilot, ' but you are a talking' just a bit
too high for me. When my niece marries I
shall find a jolly sailor for her — a honest
Cornishman, or even an American, maybe, for
the Americans, come to plain swearing, will
take the wind out of any Englishman's sails.
Or a Devonshire lad, at least. None of your
firkin' fine gentlemen for me. There was one
down here last week, high connected, being a

draper's assistant at Camelford. Well, I sent
him to the righteous before he got ever a
chance to speak to the gell

Sto doubt, sir,' said the Poet, ' j^ou are
quite right ; and your reasons for preferring an
American do you credit. It would be an enviable
distinction indeed to boast in one's
family the possession of a really hard swearer.
I should lead him to the Thames bank, on a
Sunday afternoon, just to take the conceit out
of the riverside men. I suppose, sir, you
would, to a certain extent, consult the young
lady's feelings ? '

I should, sir,' replied the Pilot with dignity
; ' my niece's feelings, as a good young
woman's, would go the same way as her
uncle's. I pass the word : she feels according'.
Mary, another glass of rum and water.'

With his fourth glass of rum, the worthy

Pilot became more personal, and communicated
to the young men — the rest of the company
having already gone — many valuable
and useful facts connected with his own life.
He was, it appeared, one of those who put
their light in a lamp, and then hold it up on
high;

I have been, gentlemen,' he said, ^ upon
hie water since I was a boy that high.' He
held his hand about nine inches from the
ground, to show the very early age at which
he first embarked. ' I could handle the ropes,
take a rope's ending' without so much as a wink,
play the fife while they raised the anchor, make
a sea-pie, pour down a glass o' rum, dance a
hornpipe — ay ! and even make love to the tells
before most boys left their nurses' laps.
That's Stephen Cobbledick, gentlemen.'

The Poet said that this information warmed

his own heart, because he had himself been
also such a boy.

Since then, gentlemen,' said Stephen,
swallowing the rest of the glass, ' where
haven't I been? '

I suppose,' said the Poet, ' that Ulysses was
nothing to it ? '

^ I don't know them seas,' Stephen replied,
catching the last syllable ; ^ but I've been in
all other seas as roll — roll they high or roll
they low — while the stormy winds do blow,
and the land lubbers lying' down below. I've
fought with pirates, sharks, whales, and sea-serpents
; I've been blowed about with monsoons,
tornadoes, cyclones, and hurricanes ;
I've been wrecked on most every shore '

Have another glass,' said Jack.

Sir,' his voice began to thicken a little,
you're a gentleman. Now there's a singular

thing about me — nothing never hurt me yet.
I'm one o' them as nothing never can hurt.
Not fevers, nor cholera, nor even a mangrove
swamp on the New Guinea coast. Not crimps,
nor gambling saloons, nor clinking' shops, nor
sing-songs, nor dignity balls, where the drink
is free and knives is handy. Not alligators,
nor rattles, nor cobras, nor hippopotamosses,
nor bears, nor panthers. Not arrows, nor
stink pots, nor creases, nor assegais, nor six-shooters,
nor spears. It can't be done, gentlemen.'


He then proceeded to narrate circumstantially
a few diabolical things connected
with natives, in which he had been concerned
with one Captain Ramsay, an officer whose
gallantry, spirit, and freedom from the restraints
of the Ten Commandments he esteemed as of
the highest value and most proper for universal

admiration. He retired about eleven o'clock,
having had as much as it was safe even for so
seasoned a vessel to carry, and started for
home, the night being fine with but little
wind, and that from a quarter favourable
to one so heavily laden, bound in his direction.


Jack,' said the Poet, ' I should like to see
Miss Cobbledick.'

So should I,' replied Jack. ' Such a young
lady, with her uncle's nose, his voice, his eyes
those eyes which were like gimlets, and
made a Cobbledick when going a boarding
count for three, one for his cutlass and two for
his eyes — his figure, which is a truly beautiful
figure for any girl to own — such a girl, my
boy, will be a pleasing subject for me to paint
and for you to sing.'

Of such stuff as the Pilot,' said the Poet

reflectively, ' are novelists made. He is a
Captain Marryat spoiled. Did you observe the
broad square brow, and the sharp observant
eye ? The lips, too, are mobile, which shows
imagination.'

No,' said Jack, ' his is the mobility caused
by rum. I think he has been a pirate.'

A novelist wasted. No, not wasted. He
amuses his neighbours. Did you remark how
his old comrade. Captain Ramsay, has seized
upon his imagination ? Unless, indeed. Captain
Ramsay is a delicate creation of the fancy.
And did you further remark how Captain
Ramsay is a most desperate rogue, who ought
to be hanged from the yard-arm ^ It is
pleasant to look upon an old man, and reflect
that, with better opportunities, he might have
become even a poet.'

CHAPTEE II.

STEPHEN COBBLEDICK, PILOT.

I DO not know, for reasons I will presently
explain, who my parents were, nor where I
was born, nor how old I am, nor when I was
christened (if indeed that ceremony Alas ever
performed upon me), nor my Christian name,
nor my surname. So that I start at a great
disadvantage compared with other people.
For a long time I thought my Christian name
was Avis and my surname Cobbledick. But
now I am not at all sure.

When I began to remember anything I
answered to the name of Avis, and was the
charge of an old granny who was very good

to me and never tired of looking after me.
When I was old enough to feel the want of
a surname I asked her what mine was. She
replied that she did not know, but that as my
uncle's name was Cobbledick she supposed
that might be mine also. Therefore I remained
Cobbledick. She taught me, while
I was with her, a good many useful and solid
things : to behave nicely and to repeat the
Catechism ; to tell the truth and say grace
before meat ; to sew a hem and read my
book ; to make a bed or a pudding ; fold a
blanket, toss up pastry, and sing hymns. I
am sure that when you come to think of it,
that means a good deal of teaching. Much
more she did not teach me, because that was
all she knew. My uncle it was who committed
me to her charge, and his lawyer or the person
who had charge of his money paid the bills.

My uncle was a pilot in America. When I was
(to guess) eleven years of age and a great girl,
I was sent by this man of business to school.
It was at Launceston, and because my poor
granny presently died I remained at school ;
the school bills continuing to be paid by
my uncle's order, as was supposed, for six or
seven years.

It was disagreeable at first to have the
deficiencies of my condition thrown in one's
teeth by the other girls, but gradually they
grew to like me, and then it became a really
romantic distinction to be uncertain in those
points where all the rest were certain. I suppose
a girl with two heads might in the same
way come to be envied. And, to be sure,
if there is nothing enviable, there is nothing
disgraceful in the accident of knowing nothing
about yourself. A foundling is in exactly the

same situation. And for myself, I had a most
respectable uncle, pilot in America, who, when
I came to know him, would, of course, be able
to explain all doubtful points to my entire
satisfaction.

As a guardian he was not what one couch
wish, because he never sent me any letters,
messages, or tokens of affection of any kind.
It was not until I was already past seventeen,
as near as could be guessed, that he wrote tome.
It was not at all a pleasant letter. It
was badly written, and badly spelt; evidently
the letter of an illiterate person. He grumbled
about the expenses of school, said that he had
come home for good, and ordered me to join
him at Boscastle.

'My dear,' said my schoolmistress, when
with a sinking heart I showed her the note,
we must judge people by their actions.

Your uncle lias evidently never studied the
art of expressing ideas in kindly words. But
you must remember that for many years he
has cheerfully borne the charges of your maintenance
and education. Therefore, child, goto
him with hopefulness.'

This was suitable advice, and I resolved
to be of good courage and to hope for the
best.

Now,' I said on the last evening at
school, ' I am going to find a father and a
mother : perhaps, who knows, a sister and a
brother ; I shall find a birthday, a christening,
one godfather and two godmothers, a Christian
name, a surname ' — because I never believed
that a really nice girl could have such a surname
as Cobbledick — ' and an age. Fancy !
I may be twenty, or thirty, or forty. Oh!
my dears, suppose I turn out to be forty.'

VOL. If.

194 OVER THE SEA

In the school at Launceston we were a
quiet collection of girls, mostly daughters of
professional men, retired officers, and so forth ;
they looked forward to a quiet life, whose
mornings should be spent in household matters,
and evenings over needlework, music, and
books. Somebody would come some day to
marry them, then they would lead the lives
which their mothers had led before them,
wrestling with servants, watchful of children,
anxious to make both ends meet. And they
envied me the romance of my position.

I came away from the school with hundreds
of good wishes, little presents, and
prophecies of happiness. Alas! I little knew
that I was taking a blindfold leap to that
lower level, beneath the ' respectable ' stratum,
out of which a woman finds it so difficult to
climb. To be sure, my schoolfellows were not

distinguished for birth and family, but they
were the daughters of men who could call
themselves gentlemen and expect Esquire
after their name, although they did not belong
to the gentry and bore no coats of arms. As
for me — but you shall learn. It is painful to
tell the truth about one who had done so
much for me ; but if I write my part of the
narrative at all, I must set down exactly what
occurred, and how my guardian behaved tome,
and what he did for me, after I came home
to him. I will exaggerate nothing, and I will
try to write without anger or bitterness. But,
indeed, I have long since forgiven.

Boscastle, when I got there after a long
journey of sixteen miles up and down the
Cornish hills, seemed to me the very queerest
place one would wish to see. I left my boxes
at the inn where I was set down, and without


asking for my uncle, set off to find him somewhere
in the town.

The houses of Boscastle stand for the
most part on the slope of the hill above the
little landlocked harbour. There are not
many houses, because there are not many
people living there. I looked from one to
the other, wondering which was my uncle's.
Standing apart from the small cottages, which
made up most of the village, were two or
three pretty villas. I at first made up my
mind that he must be living in one of these ;
it had always formed part of my ideal life to
live in such a villa, with such wide and ample
gardens as these houses possessed. But I
thought of my letter and trembled. The rude
spelling, the blunt expressions, the roughness
of the letter, would not allow me to associate
the writer with houses so pretty, trim, and well

kept. I thought I would first try the humbler
cottages.

One of these attracted my attention by
the fact of its having a mast — with ropes,
rigging, and yard-arm complete — run up in
the front ; also a flag was flying. Such an
ornamental structure is like a sign-post : it
shows that a nautical man lives in the house
to which it belongs. I believe they are generally
used to decorate the back garden, but at
Boscastle the cottages have no back garden.
Therefore it was put up in the front, where
a few broken palings served to form a small
enclosure adorned by a tub and a heap of
oyster-shells, broken bottles, and other things
which in well-ordered houses are generally
taken away to their own place.

The house was a small stone-built cottage,
with a window on each side of the door, an

upper storey with a similar pair of windows, a
slated roof, and a very large porch, also built
of stone and with its own slated roof. The
porch was out of all proportion to the size of
the house, being about as big as a church
porch, with a window in it. It was set up
sideways so as to face the east and to keep
its back to the sea, whence blow the south-west
gales. It formed, in fact, except in such cold
weather as seldom falls upon King Arthur's
Land, another room to the house. In it was
an arm-chair, and upon the arm-chair I saw
an old man. His feet were crossed, his hands
were folded, his head was on one side, his eyes
were closed ; he was at peace with all the
world, for he was sound asleep.

Anyone who saw that old man sleeping
would have fallen in love with him on the
spot; he should have been painted for the

everlasting admiration of the world ; his hair
was curly, and of a beautiful silvery whiteness ;
his features were strong and rugged as if
carved by a skilful sculptor who knew exactly
what lines to put in and where to put them,
and did not spoil his subject by anything which
would interfere with his original conception ;
his cheek was browned by sun and rain and
wind ; his hands were not only browned by
the weather but they bore also marks of tar ;
he wore white ducks, in the construction of
which great liberality had been bestowed in
the matter of stuff, a blue flannel shirt, a black
ribbon tied loosely under the collar, a blue
cloth jacket, and at his feet lay a ' shiny ' hat.

This man,' 1 thought, ' is a sailor ; he is
clearly above the rank of common sailor ; he
lives in a house which is better, but not much
better, than the neighbouring cottages ; he is

well enough off to be able to spend his afternoons
asleep ; he seems by his face to be a
good old man ; I believe he must be my uncle
and guardian, himself.'

My footsteps, as I lifted the latch and
walked into the garden, awakened the sleeper ;
he opened his eyes, rubbed them, yawned,
stretched his legs, yawned again, and finally
stood upon his feet and stared at his visitor.

A very curious thing happened then. It
takes a sleeper a few moments to recover consciousness
; during those few moments I observed
a remarkable change come over the face
of this benevolent-looking old sailor. He was
not, in fact, so benevolent-looking awake as he
was asleep. His face now showed a lower
level of virtue ; the lines changed, the features
broadened, the mouth widened ; it became a
common face, that of a man, you could easily

see, who was self-indulgent : his eyes were

fiery, the veins in his forehead swelled up and

became blue ; one became aware of tobacco

and rum without seeing any. And I began

to hope that this person, at least, might not be

my uncle. Alas ! he was.

Who are you ? ' he growled, still half

asleep.

I am in search of Mr. Stephen Col^ble-

dick,' I said.

Oh ! you are, are you ? Then,' here he
yawned, ' you couldn't have come, my pretty,
to no more likely a man to give you such
information as you can trust about that man
and gallant officer. Cause no man on this
birth knows him better and loves him more
nor me.' He spoke with a slight American
accent, which strengthened my suspicions.

Pray, sir, are you yourself Mr. Cobble-dick

? ' It is SO unusual a thing in this
jealous and censorious world for one man to
speak well of another, that I now felt almost
sure of my conjecture.

Why not ? ' he replied, giving question
for question, after the Scotch manner. ' Why
not ? And what might you be wanting ? '

I want,' I said — ' I want a few words of
conversation with him.'

And that, my dear,' he replied airily,
being now fully awake, 'you shall have.
Lord bless my soul ! a few minutes ? you shall
have a few hours. Hang me if I wouldn't
like to make it a few years. Step inside, my
beauty, and sit down. If you are not too
proud — as many of your sect, within my
recollection, and not so very long ago, didn't
used to be too proud — there's rum in the
locker.'

I would rather,' I replied, shirking the
reference to rum, ' talk outside for the present.'

'Outside, my dear, if you please. Though
if you ask them as once run after Steve Cob-benedick,
his communications was straightforward
and his walk upright. Nothing' mean about
Stephen, old or young. On the deck you
might find him, the broad, the wide, the ever
free, visible for all eyes to see. Therefore,
pretty, whether in the open or below, up steam
and forge ahead, trustful. I am a listening.
You comes here first, and you axes, saying'
'where is that pride and boast of the Cornish
coast ? " says you. Full speed it is

I was perfectly overwhelmed by this burst,
and could not for the moment think of a suitable
reply.

Ah ! Time was,' he went on, without
waiting for one, ' not so long ago, when they

came to Stephen in swarms they did ; not
more than others he deserved, but more he
got. Sought out he was, and loved by high
and low. Sought for by short and tall,
black hair and brown, curls and plain. Now
he's grown old, they mostly ranges alongside
of the curate. With his crowkett and his
cricket, and his boat upon the bay. And it's
hymns they do sing and sweetly they do play.
Go on, my dear. Your cheeks is a thought
paler than the cheeks in Plymouth Port, but
you've a finger of your own as makes amends.
You comes here, you says, for old Steve Cob-benedick.
'Tis hard, they say at Boscastle, to
find a proper man.'

I want to see him, certainly, and, as I

make out, you are yourself But I think

I should like to talk to Mrs. Cobbledick firsts
if I could;

A look of the most profound amazement
greeted this proposal.

'Mrs. Cobbledick? Mrs. Cob ' he

cried. ' Now, pretty, look at me straight in
the face. Do I look like the sort to have a
missus? Missus Cobbledick! My pretty,
Stephen may have his tender points. Find
them out first, and lead him with a hairpin
ever after ; he may have his weaknesses : them
as knew him best loved him better therefor.
You and your Missus Cobbledickery ! Like
Lord Nelson he has his faults. But to take

and make a Missus Cob Come, young

woman, say you didn't mean it. Young folks
is skittish and will have their jokes.'

It was not a joke at all,' I said, feeling
rather frightened. ' I am your niece. Avis,
and I thought I would Hke to '

'You my niece? You Avis ? Ay, that's

the name. Avis ? ' His face showed a variety
of conflicting expressions, in which I vainly-endeavoured
to find one indicative of affection.
Mostly, I read disappointment and disgust.

'You wrote me a letter ' I began,

trembling.

I did,' he said. ' Directly I found out
what had been again' on. That's the way us
poor fellows of the sea gets robbed.'

What do you mean ? ' I asked. For it
really seemed as if he meant that I had been
robbing him.

I leave this girl,' he replied, addressing
the world at large and the high heavens, ' in
charge of a old woman to be brought up
according'. I give over all my money to my
man of business when I ships for North
Carolina shore, and I tells him about that
little girl. I keeps sending' him over the

money as fast as it comes in : never thinking'
nothing in the world about her ; and when I
comes home after close upon twenty years
of work, I find they've been spending' a matter
of sixty pounds a year — nigh upon seventy
pounds a year — in bringing' of her up onto
pride, luxury, kid gloves, high living', and
piannerforty. That's the way they treated my
money I '

Then do you mean,' I said, ' that you did
not intend to educate me ? '

I tell you,' he replied, ' that I clean forgot
all about you. I gave the old woman a pocketful
of money, and I said : " There's the little
one, take care of her." And then I came away
and clean forgot it.'

Then you are not glad to see me?'

Not at all,' he replied. ' I'm tarnation
sorry, and that's a fact ! '

Then you Avould have allowed your niece
to starve ? '

I dare say somebody would have taken
you,' he replied, sulkily. ' As for starving'
well, there, I was in America. It wasn't
no business of mine. I suppose there's the
parish.'

I stood considering what to do or to say.
What I might have told him, with justice,
was that he was a wicked and selfish old man,
and that I owed him nothing, since it was
by an accident that I had been so well and
carefully brought up. What I did say was
this — being a good deal shaken by so surprising
a reception, and feeling inclined to sit
down and cry :

Will you let me have shelter and food
here while I look round and think what todo
? I will pay you back, later on.'



I suppose I must,' he replied ; ' you can
come for a little while.'

It was beginning to rain, and I was glad
to avail myself of the permission. I followed
my uncle into a small sitting-room, intolerably
close, and reeking with the smell of grog and
tobacco. I threw open the window.

What are you coin' that for ? ' he asked.

Fresh air. This room is stifling.'

Fresh an ! ' he growled. ' If a sailor
wants fresh air, he goes on deck for it ; there's
the porch for you. Now, then, sit down ;
let us hear if you have been taught anything
useful to earn your grub. Seventy
pounds a year ! There's a outlay ! How is
that to be got back ? '

I am afraid,' I said, ' that I could never
pay back all that money.'

No ; that's gone, that is. Clean chucked

VOL. II. P

away.' He plunged his hands into his pockets,
and looked surprisingly unlike the old man I
had found asleep.

'I might be a governess,' I suggested
meekly, thinking how truly horrid it must be
to go out as a governess. ' I could teach
what I have learned myself.'

He nodded his head grimly.

Some tells,' he said, ' go into service ;
there's housemaids, ladies'-maids, and kitchen-maids
; some go dressmaking, which is more
genteel. There's always a opening' down Plymouth
way, for a gell as is good-lookin', in
the barmaid line. The sailors, both officers
and men, like 'em pretty, and it's a cheerful
life, especially for them as can take a joke,
and box a fellow's ears when he gets massy.'

I shuddered.

I think I could not very well take that

kind of place. But I am too much taken by
surprise — I did not expect — I will try to do
something and keep myself.'

Spoken like a honest gell,' he said.
'That's what I like. Give me a independent
spirit. As for hanging' around in idleness, I
never could abide it in man or woman, specially
woman. And for why ? Because, the
more work they do, the less mischief they make.'

I thought this a favourable opportunity
for asking a fe^v questions about myself.

Will you tell me,' I said, ' who and
what my father was ? '

Let me see ' — he looked at me thoughtfully
' you're my niece, ain't you ? And Avis is
your name ? Likewise your native.' I think
he meant nothing at all by this last remark,
except to gain time while he reflected.
'You are the daughter of my brother Ben,
p 2

now gone to Davy's locker, where lie lays all
Ills days in the Bay of Biscay oh.'

What was he by profession ? '

A Bible Christian, he was.'

I mean what was his trade ? '

Why don't you say what you mean, then ?
Look here, my gell ; if you and me is to
continue friends, don't ask too many questions,
and let them questions be straight. He was
third officer, he was, aboard a East Indiamen.'

Oh ! and how did he die ? '

A shark took him off Rangoon. When the
shark had done ambition' of him he was dead.'

How long ago is that ? '

'Nigh upon thirty years ago, that was.
I was aboard at the time, and see it with my
own eyes.'

It cannot be so long, because I am sure
that I am not more than eighteen.'

Then it was about eighteen years ago,
I daresay. I can't be particular to a year.'

And my mother ? '

Here's more questions ! Here's curiosity !
What do you want to know about your mother
for?'

Is she living ? '

He shook his head. ' No, she's dead, too.*

'What did she die of?'

Yellow Jack. We buried her at Kingston
in Jamaica.'

What was she doing in Jamaica ? '

How can I tell you what she was doing.'

Did she leave nothing for me ? Were
there no books, no mementoes of any kind, not
even a portrait ? '

She hadn't got no books, because she
couldn't read ; and nobody hadn't taken her
picture.'

Who was she by birth ? '

She was ' He reflected for a few

moments. ' She was a Knobling, at Devon-port.
It was a most respectable family. You
may be proud of your connections, both sides.
Her father carved ships' figureheads in his
back-yard, and her brother was transported
for twenty years for forging the admiral's
name — nothing short of the admiral, if you
please, which shows a soaring' spirit — for five
hundred pounds. She was known in port as
Lively Bess, and her lines were genially considered
as clean cut, though built more for
show than for speed, as any woman's on the
coast.'

I began to hope that the rest of the family
had remained in obscurity. If this is the
end of the romance, I thought it must be
better to be commonplace, and know from

the beginning who one's parents actually
were.

Now,' he continued. ' Have you anymore
questions to put ? '

^ One or two, if you please. Had I any
brothers or sisters ? '

'No ; you were a lone orphan, by yourself.'


Do my mother's relations know of my
existence ? '

No ; they do not. And if you go to
Plymouth you won't find them, cause they've
gone, and it's no use expecting' nothing from
them.' He said this very quickly, as if afraid
of my making demands upon them.

I wonder how my mother came to be in
Jamaica, when I was in England .^ '

I told you I don't know.'

Yet you were with her, you say, when she

died. And with my father, when he died. It
is very strange. Where was I born ? '

I never axed and I never heard.'

Where was I christened ? '

I can't say. Now you know all about
yourself, and we'll change the subject. As for
slinging' your hammock and stain' here a bit,
now.'

It was evident that he would not answer
any more questions. I therefore refrained
from asking any, and waited for him to explain
his views. This he did at length, and we presently
proceeded to draw up certain articles
which were to govern the household.

He started with the maxim that in marriage,
or any other condition of life in which
a woman is concerned, the only way to ensure
happiness is to live as much apart from that
woman as the dimensions of the roof will permit.

He therefore placed at my disposal the
room in which we were then sitting, and one
of the bedrooms upstairs. I was to have the
right to open the windows in them as much as
I pleased ; he wouldn't interfere with me in
any way.

He, for his part, was to have the kitchen,
the porch, and the other bedroom. And I
was not to interfere with him. As regards
the cost of my maintenance, that was to be
defrayed by him, with such other small money
as might be necessary to keep me neat ; it
being understood that these charges were to
be considered as a loan, to be repaid afterwards,
when I began to earn money by going
a governesses, or being called to the bar, or
by any other method which I should choose to
adopt ; the said cost of maintenance being set
down at thirty shillings a week. When one

comes to think of it, the bargain was not disadvantageous
to him.

And that, my gell,' he continued, ' is what I
will do for you. Don't hurry yourself. Look
round a bit. Stay a month or so. You can easily
pay me back. Though as to that outlay, that
seventy pounds a year, I reckon I shan't get
that back in a hurry. Unless,' he added reflectively,
' that was to turn up which once I
fondly hoped and still will fondly pray.'

I did not understand what he meant, but
was afraid to ask.

Some British uncles,' he said, with a
rolling of his head which meant great pride
and satisfaction with himself, ' even among seafaring'
men, would ha' said : " Take and go
and get your own living' ; you and your seventy
pounds a year ! " Stephen Cobbledick is not
one of that sort. He is resigned ; he says

sweetly, " Heaven's will be done ! '^ He offers
his prodigal niece forgiveness, and opens Ms
arms with a secular blessing' and a bedroom
all to herself.'

He did open his arms, but I did not fall
into them. I would gladly have kissed that
nobly benevolent old man whom I found asleep
in a chair. But the other old man — so full of
words, so selfish, so inflated with self-satisfaction
— I could not kiss, even to receive an
secular ' blessing.

The convention agreed to on both sides, my
uncle, whom I propose to call for the future,
partly because everybody called him so, and
partly for other reasons which will presently
appear, Stephen Cobbledick, went in quest of
my luggage, and the new life began.

Thus was I enriched* with relations ; at last
I had learned who my father was ; it was now

apparent that I belonged to the louver class of
the Queen's subjects ; it was also clear that the
fewer enquiries I made into the history of my
connections, the better it would be for my
pride. This was the end of my dreams.
Instead of an affectionate uncle, I found a
rough sailor, who had been made to pay forme
without knowing it and by mistake ; instead
of a welcome, I received a plain notice
that I must expect nothing more ; instead of
the pleasant ways of ladyhood, I was to look
for a life of poverty, hard work, and dependence.
It was with a heavy heart that I sought
my room that night and tried to face my
fortune with courage.

Well, never mind the tears of disappointment
at this sudden blow to my hopes. One
may cry, but the inevitable had to be faced,
and my new life began.

Its manner was simple. We lived, as
Stephen wished, almost entirely apart. I
messed in the cabin,' and he in the kitchen.
After breakfast he took his pipe to the port,
and sat upon the quay among the great
hawsers, watching and criticising any little
operation which might be in hand, such as
the repairing of a ship, 01 unfading her cargo,
or warping her out of port. This occupied
the morning. Dinner was served at one.
This meal was regarded by Stephen as a mere
taking in of coal and water. You need not
sit down to it, or wash your hands for it, or
put on your coat for it, or pull down your
sleeves for it, or brush your hair for it, or lay
a cloth for it. Nothing of the kind ever entered
into his head. He preferred to conduct
his own cooking on principles well known to
the retired British sailor : a piece of pork

should be boiled for so long ; the flavour of a
cabbage is enhanced by companionship with
the pork in a pot ; potatoes may be made
ready in twenty minutes ; onions may be fixed
in less time ; anybody can put a chop or a
steak on a ' griddle ' ; victuals, when cooked,
can be turned out into any dish that is handy,
and then, messmates, fall to and eat, standing
or sitting, as seems you best ; for knives, what
better than the great clasp-knife which does
duty for everything? For grace, what better
than a preliminary sharpening of the blade ?

Dinner over, a single glass of grog with a
pipe prepared him for his afternoon nap in the
porch ; another critical visit to the port completed
the labours of the day, and brought
nearer the evening, which he spent at the
Wellington Armes. On Saturday evening he
was always carried or led home by his friends ;



and lie sang songs as lie tumbled up the stairs
to his bed. At first I was frightened, because
a gull who has been naturally taught to regard
drunkenness as a most horrible thing, cannot
suddenly be got to regard it without loathing.
But one becomes used to most dreadful
habits. On Sunday morning (being none the
worse for his Saturday evening's excess) Stephen
went to chapel. He had ' found religion,' he
said, while in America. This made him conform
outwardly to the Bible Christians. I
never observed that his religion produced the
least effect upon his life, his manners, his
thoughts, or his conversation.

I must confess that, next to the shame of
having to take a lower level than I had fondly
hoped, I was chiefly concerned with the necessity
for earning my daily bread. I do not
think there could have been anything more

dreadful for me tliau thus suddenly to discover
that there was absolutely nothing for me to
fall back upon — no friends, no relations, no
helping hands. I was waiting there, like one
of JSFero's Christians in his prison, before being
thrown to the lions who lived in the outer
world. All I knew of that outer world was
what I had gathered from the talk of girls ina
little town and from certain novels. Women
who have to work, I knew, are mostly horribly
cheated and imposed upon; they are paid
wretched wages ; they have long hours ; they
cannot make money ; they are scolded if they
are not cheerful, and bullied if they are not
brisk. And then there is so tremendous a gulf
fixed between the women who work and those
who do not. Alas ! the latter, who should be
kinder, make the difference felt. Perhaps in
those days we thought woman's work more

unlovely than we do now, when our sex are
better paid, better taught, better able to hold
their own. Yet I think that whatever improvements
are made, it will always be the happier
lot to sit at home and enjoy the fruits of others'
labour. The novels of the time were full of
the woes of governesses, their doleful lives, the
wickedness of men, and the cruelty of women
who engaged them. Even the more cheerful
novels never held out a better prospect than
that of marrying the curate. For my own part
I always disliked that prospect, and hoped to
marry a man of some more hopeful profession.
At the beginning Stephen left me altogether
alone ; by degrees he seemed to tolerate my
presence ; he even offered me the indulgence of
a chair in his own porch ; and, when he found
out that I could listen, he gave way to a natural
garrulity and began to tell me stories about

VOL. II. Q

himself. I learned from them that he had
been a sailor for many years before the mast ;
that he rose somehow to the rank of chief
officer ; that he had made money in certain
ventures the nature of which he did not communicate
; that he had the good sense to bring
the money home and give it to a trustworthy
person to keep for him ; and that, for reasons
unexplained, he left the open sea and became a
pilot in the port of Wilmington, North Carolina.
When the war broke out he retired, having
saved more money, and returned to England
resolved to roam no more.

I found that he was a very great boaster ;
all his talk turned upon his own extraordinary
ferocity, smartness, and insight. Certainly no
sailor ever had so many adventures, or passed
through them with such immunity from accidents.


Now in most of his perils he seemed to
have been accompanied by a certain Captain
Ramsay, who seemed to my uncle a sort of
demi-god or hero. To me this model of a
gallant and chivalrous sailor seemed a filibuster
certainly, a pirate probably, and a murderer if
he were a pirate. But my uncle was dominated
by Captain Ramsay ; he seemed to lose sight of
morality, honour, and religion in contemplating
the career of this man. What in other men he
might have loathed, in Captain Ramsay seemed
additional proof of the man's heroic character.
And although he professed, as I have said, to
have ' found religion,' and was by profession a
Bible Christian, he certainly lost sight of what
he had found when he talked of his former
chief. His admiration was perhaps heightened
by the fact that the object was twenty years
younger than himself.

<i2

Presently I made a very interesting discovery
It was Stephen's custom to vary his
stories every time he told them, changing the
place, the surroundings, and the circumstances,
which he always gave in great detail, and the
actors, whom he always described at length, giving,
so far as he knew it, the family history of each
in all its branches. Thus, if he began a story say
at four in the afternoon, after his nap, he would
make it last until seven or eight o'clock, when it
was time to go to the tavern. It was startling
at first, until I became accustomed to it, to note
the discrepancies in his statements about them.
Once or twice I turned his attention to my
father or my mother. At different times I
learned that my father had been an officer onboard
an Indiamen, a ship's carpenter, the
purser, and the quartermaster. Also that he
was bitten in two by a shark ; that he died of

cholera ; that he was wrecked off Hallygoey
Bay ; and that he was knocked on the head at a
dignity ball. As regards my mother, she was
by birth a Knobling, a Chick, and a Hamlin ;
she was a native of Love, St. Russell, and
Plymouth ; her father followed the callings of
figure-head carver, dealer in marine stores,
market gardener, pay agent, and ropemaker.
She died at Kingston, Jamaica (my uncle being
present), of Yellow Jack ; and at Halifax, Nova
Scotia (expiring in his arms), of frost-bite ; at
Falmouth (my uncle buried her) of dropsy ;
and at Wilmington (my uncle engaged in vain
the first doctors) of earache. Why she was
travelling about was never explained ; and,
indeed, these statements were extremely hard
to reconcile In plain terms I found that
Stephen was a most untruthful person ; that he
was, so to speak, niggardly of truth, avaricious

of expending facts, and of most brilliant imagination.


Again, there was an old woman who came
every day to ' do ' for us. Stephen proposed
at first that I should do her work, so as to save
the money, but I refused. She has nothing
whatever to do with this story except for one
thing. In conversation with her one day, I
learned that she, being at that time nigh upon
a hundred years of age, yet fresh and vigorous,
with all her faculties about her, had known her
master from childhood. And she told me,
which was a very great surprise, that he had
neither brother nor sister.

So that I could not be his niece.

I forbore to bring this discovery before
Stephen, because I knew very well that he
would at once invent some new story to account
for and explain those which had gone before.

So far, therefore, from finding father and
mother and the rest of it, I remained in as
great an uncertainty as ever, and was only
quite convinced upon one point, that not one
word Stephen said could be believed.

I am ashamed, now, to think how poor-spirited
and feeble a creature I must have been.
Some girls would have strained every nerve to
get some situation by which they could be
relieved of such a dependence as mine. I only
wrote to my schoolmistress and asked her help.
She promised to ' let me know if she heard ' —
the usual phrase. Then I sat down and waited.
I suppose she heard of nothing, because nothing
offered. And I was too ignorant to know how
to help myself.

Then I began to fall into bad ways. I had
no companions. There were no girls at Bos-castle
with whom I could associate, being — save

the mark ! — a young lady, whose mother was
a Knowing born in three different towns and
buried in three more towns, and whose father
followed at least four professions at once and
died in four different ways, all painful, and
whose uncle had had neither brother nor
sister. With that distinguished connection I
could not foregather with the honest rosy-faced
lasses of the village. Stephen, again, was a
Bible Christian, like most Cornish men. Now
I could not bear the chapel, and yet I could
not walk to Forrabury by myself, and feel that
the people were saying that this girl was she
who went by the name of Stephen Cobbledick's
niece, whereas it was well known that Stephen
was an only child. It was a foolish feeling, of
course, but I was young and shy. Therefore
I left off going to church, which was wrong.
Presently I left off going out for walks, except

in the evenings, for much the same reason. I
fancied that people turned and looked at me,
and thought they were sneering at me for not
being like any other sailor's daughters, red-armed,
bareheaded, and dressed in a flannel
frock. What business had 1, indeed, to go
about in the disguise of a young lady ? Also
another terror, suppose any of my old schoolfellows
should come to Boscastle and meet me !
With what face should I return their greetings ?
With what shame should I explain m}^ fall
from the levels of Launceston respectability and
tea-parties ?

That dreadful debt, the thirty shillings a
week, went on growing. Stephen kept a book
in which T was to enter the weekly bill. I did
so faithfully, and used to look at the amount
with a kind of terror. For it quickly grew
from shillings to pounds — five pounds — ten

pounds — fifteen pounds. I had nothing to pay
it with ; I knew no way to make money ; I had
no spirit to enquire or to try, being dejected
with the trouble of my position and too much
solitude. Yet the time must come when I
should have to pay up in full. And the bill
became a horrible nightmare.

It was in February that I went to Boscastle.
It was four months afterwards, in June, that
the time of my deliverance began, and kind
Heaven took pity on a helpless girl, yet after
such strange adventures as fall to the lot of few.

One thing alone redeemed the life. Stephen
had a boat, which he called the Carolina. It
was his custom, when the weather permitted, to
go a sailing in her outside the harbour along
the grand and terrible coast of Cornwall. It
was not often in the stormy and windy spring
of that year that he would venture in his little

craft outside the quay. One day, however, he
asked me if I would go with him. I acceded
listlessly. Now whether it was that lie had experienced
my powers of listening, or whether
he found me good, as he said, at holding the
lines and obeying orders, he asked me again,
and so we took to sailing together every day that
weather permitted, and while he talked I looked
at the cliffs, and, although on shore I continually
brooded over my unhappy position, the
grandeur of the rocks and headlands grew upon
me, and while the Carolina flew over the water
I forgot my troubles.

Yet I never received from my guardian one
word of affection or even friendship. I was
with him on sufferance ; I ought not to have
lived. The loss of all that money was a thing
he could not forgive.

CHAPTEE III.

JACK Bears A HAND.

BoscASTLE in the morning,' said the young
man who answered to the name of Jack, ' is, if
anything, finer than Boscastle in the' evening.'
It was seven o'clock, and a sunny morning,
and they were coming out of the inn, bearing
towels, with intent to have a swim. ' Poet,
look about you, and think what rhymes to
harbour, sunshine, landlocked water, green
water, boats at anchor, and overhanging rocks ;
because your poem on Boscastle will have to
contain all those things.'

They were, in fact, at the most curious
place in all England. Here the sea has pushed

^2>7

a winding creek through rocks which rise
steep on either hand ; where this ' arm of the
sea,' as geographers call it, which is really only
a finger, a baby's little finger, comes to an end,
they have made a toy port by running out a
pier, which leaves room at the end for a craft
of reasonable smallness to be towed and
warped in and out ; great hawsers as thick as
any used to tow the hull of the fighting
Temeraire he about on the pier in readiness.
There is generally one ship in the harbour and
a dozen boats lying within the pier ; the water
is so green and transparent that you can see the
crabs, big and little, taking their walks abroad
on the stony bottom ; on either side of the
little harbour stand workshops, where pigmy
things in the shipwright way are done to the
craft which trade to Boscastle. Standing upon
the hill and looking seawards, you may mark

how the little inlet wads between its guardian
rocks ; if the stormy winds do blow, especially
from the south-west, you may see the waves
madly rolling and rushing with white foam
into this narrow prison from the broad Atlantic.
It is bad, then, for ships to be off this ruthless
coast. Or you may see it when the sun is
setting upon a cloudless day, when the sky and
ocean have no parting line, and a splendid glow
of colour les upon the rocks and is reflected in
the motionless waters below. Whether you
see it in storm or in calm, you gaze upon a
place as wild, as strange, as picturesque as any
on the coast of England.

The two young mei bathed, sat on the
rocks, looked at Willapark Headland and Mea-chart
Island, where there is a great souffleur
in windy weather, and presently made their
way back with a view to breakfast. On their

way they saw Stephen Cobbledick, the hero of
last night's talk.

See,' said Jack, while the gallant tar was
yet afar off, ' there is the man whose niece hasa
figure exactly like his own, Remarkable, yet
happy maiden ! We must make the acquaintance
of that niece. I must draw her. She
should be better known. Such a fi!2jure in one
SO young is a distinction I have never before
met Avitli. Good-morning, my captain,' he
shouted.

Morning', gentlemen,' replied Stephen ;
'fine morning'. Are you for a sail this morning'
? I am going to get my boat ready while
the rasher is a fry in' and the water is a boiling'.
Soft tommy and cocoa, that's what we come to
in our old age.'

No doubt,' said the Poet, ' when you were
young it was curried peppercorns and boiling

brandy. You've been a devil of a fellow, Mr.
Cobbledick. Plenty to repent of in your old
age — eh ? '

You may well say that, gentlemen. Repentance
is a solid job with an old salt like me.
Lord ! Lord ! Well ' — he heaved a deep sigh —
I essay it'll be got through with after a bit.
Though there's work ahead. It's a lovely
breeze to-day. Come with me, and I'll show
you as good a bit o' coast in a small way as
you're likely to see. Not the Andes, nor the
coast of Peru. I can't promise you that, but a
tidy show of cliff.'

They accepted the invitation and went on
their way.

The retired Pilot,' said Jack, at breakfast,
seems inclined to be friendly. Give me
another sole — I like them with the bread-crumbs
— and pour me out more tea. I think

this place is good for us. Let us roam no more,
Poet. Let us fix the camp at Boscastle, go out
sailing with our friend, sketch the cliffs — that's
a splendid fellow with the ragged edges opposite
Willapark — bathe in the morning, watch
the sun set in the evening — Nature is good at
scene-painting — and hear all the Pilot's yarns.
What a splendid old liar it is ! No doubt
you'll get some verses soon.' Jack thought
that verses came to poets like trout to anglers.
And I daresay they do.

They found the old fellow, presently, on
the pier waiting for them. There was lying in
the harbour, besides a couple of schooners engaged
in the potato trade, a little half-decked
yacht twenty feet long moored beside the steps.

This was the Pilot's boat.

Look at her, gentlemen,' he said. ' There's
a beauty! She was built at Falmouth, on

VOL. II. R

lines laid down by me.' This, like most of
his statements, was a fabrication, to which he
presently gave the lie by asserting that the
boat had been built first for the Prince of
Wales. ' I rigged her ; I carved her figurehead
; I christened her ; I painted her. Nobody's
hands but mine and the shipwright's
touched that craft, and she's the fastest boat of
her size that you'll find outside the Solent. I
called her the Carolina in remembrance of the
country where I made that proud and glorious
name as a pilot which you've read of in the
papers. And here comes my niece with the
tiller and the lines.'

The young men turned their heads quickly
to see the niece who in figure, voice, and features
was reported to resemble so marvellously
her uncle. They looked and saw ; their eyes
caught each other's and fell with a kind of shame.

For they saw a tall and beautiful girl of
eighteen or nineteen, of graceful carriage, stepping
delicately over the rough stones. She
was dressed simply, with a straw hat, white
cotton gloves, and some sort of plain stuff dress.

They took off their hats and saluted this
delectable nymph.

Jump in, Avis,' said her uncle. ' Gentlemen,
this is my niece. She ships as cox'un.
I'm captain and crew, and you're the passengers.
Now, then, all aboard.'

Avis took her place in the stern, saying
nothing. The young men sat on each side of
her. If they caught each other's eyes they
were abashed, thinking of the blasphemy
against beauty of which they had been guilty
in talking lightly of the pilot's niece ; and they
tried not to be caught looking at her face, but
this was difficult.

There is fashion in faces and figures, as
there is fashion in dress. Now in the year
eighteen hundred and sixty-three faces were
round, noses Avere tip-tilted, figures were short,
tall girls were rare. Later fashions have
caused the growth of tall and slender maidens
with classical features. Girls are, I am told,
instructed while at school how to conduct their
growing according to the requirements of
fashion. It is not an extra, and is taught to all
alike ; but, of course, all are not equally successful.
The prizes are obvious. Avis was
one of the unsuccessful girls ; that is, she had
grown beyond the fashionable stature, and her
features were of the Grecian type. She wore
her hair — unconsciously, for she thought little
of the fashion in those sad days — in a simple
knot, which went straight to the hearts of
both painter and poet. The latter, after the

wont of his tribe, began to think by what collection
of words, phrases, and rhymes he
could best illustrate this beauteous image.
Poets and book-people are unhappy in this
respect, that they must needs perpetually bethe
slaves of words. Jack, on the other hand,
who was not concerned with description, immediately
felt his heart leap up in contemplating
the most perfect and wonderful work of
creation, the last and best, a lovely girl.
Stephen Cobbledick put out his sculls and
rowed the boat along the narrow and winding
creek to the mouth. Then he put up his sail,
and the little vessel caught the breeze and
glided out to sea.

They ran along the shore to the east, under
headlands and cliffs of dark slate, mined by
the sea into deep caverns, where seals resort,
and fishermen go at night to knock them on

their silly heads ; past broad bays and narrow
coves and gloomy chasms in the rocks, which
look like prison houses for criminal tritons.
The breeze was fresh ; the sea was cried
with little waves, and heaving with the mighty
roll of the Atlantic.

Think,' said the Poet softly, addressing no
one in particular, but looking at the face of
the coxswain, ' how the waves would dash
and the spray fly over these cliffs in stormy
weather.'

The girl lifted her eyes, but made no
reply.

Ay,' said the Pilot, ' think of having this

coast on your lee at such a time ! I was once

t/

thirty years ago and more — sailing the
Merry Maid of Penzance, two hundred ton
barque, bound from Falmouth to Bristol Port.'
He proceeded at full length to tell how by

extraordinary craft of seamanship he had
succeeded, when such a storm fell upon them,
and all thought they were doomed to certain
destruction, in steering that vessel straight into
Boscastle Harbour, and bringing her up taut
and safe, not a spar carried away, nor a rope
lost.

While he related this story his hearers were
silent, looking about them. It was a dull
story, told with an immense number of details,
with the names of the sailors who could be
called upon to testify to the truth of his
statement, if required ; a story which called
for no listening.

'That is a most interesting yarn, Mr.
Cobbledick,' said the Poet. 'I am sure you
have another to tell us. We would much
rather listen than talk.'

They listened while the garrulous old man

told them another, and then a third, and a
fourth, while still the little craft discovered
headland after headland, and still the black
inhospitable rocks rose steep and high, a fortification
of Nature's own design.

Jack said not a word ; the presence of the
girl, so silent, so beautiful, so mysterious,
weighed down his soul. How could such a
girl belong to such a man? She had not
spoken. Perhaps her beauty was one of those
accidents whereby out of a rustic and common
stock sometimes a beautiful flower is produced ;
the village beauty is often the daughter of a
hind no whit distinguished above his fellows ;
her grace, her bearing, her face, comes to her
as a gift of the gods ; such a girl should be
called Theodora. But generally when she
speaks the charm is broken ; for out of that
maiden's mouth there drop no pearls, but

quite the contrary ; and the beauty of the
village belle is too often of the kind which
Ave are taught to associate with the devil ; it
looks better upon the stage, whither it is
generally brought, than in the drawing-room,
where it is seldom allowed to appear. This
girl possessed such a profile, such delicate
drawing, such graceful hues, as might belong
to the descendant of a hundred queens of
beauty. Where did she get it from? Was
Cobbledick of aristocratic descent ? Have
noble families intermarried with the Cobble-ticks
F Are they connected by half a dozen
descents with royalty ? All the morning long
they sailed — all the morning long the old
Pilot fascinated with story after story of his
own extraordinary courage — in situations
where a lesser creature must have been
crushed. Captain Ramsay was generally with

him. He went on, the young men observed,
without seeming to care whether any one
listened or not ; he took no notice whatever
of his niece. The girl remained perfectly
silent ; once or twice, when the Poet addressed
her by name, she replied with a ' yes ' or ' no,'
without adding a word. Still Jack lay and
looked, listened and wondered.

Presently their captain put the ship about
and they made for home, beating up against the
wind. Then there were fewer stories, because
frequent tacks cause the thread of a narrative
to be broken, and it is difficult when one is
interrupted in the full flight of imagination
and has to descend to earth, to renew with
fidelity, truthfulness, and consistency. Now,
Stephen was always consistent in his details
while the story lasted. He only altered the
story when he told it on another occasion.

The voyage homeward, therefore, was more
silent. The girl still preserved the same reserve
; the Poet ceased his endeavours to make
her talk. Jack still wondered. Presently the
boat entered the creek of Boscastle ; Stephen
lowered sail, and in a few minutes they were
standing on the quay. The girl, with a slight
inclination of her head, walked quickly away.

Poet,' said Jack, when a few minutes later
they were standing on the rocks above — ' Poet,
this is some of your handiwork. I have
dreamed a dream. I thought we were in a
boat out at sea ; there were cruel cliffs along
the shore, with sharp teeth ready to grind and
destroy any ship that should be driven upon
them ; there were black caves ; there were
long, hungry looking reefs running out to sea ;
there were rocks of strange shapes standing
by themselves in the water ; there was a bright

sunshine and a dancing sea ; there was an old
sailor whose talk was like the sound of the
brook which ceases not, as the splash of the
water from the roof on a rainy day ; and
there was a maiden — such a maiden, so dainty,
so sweet. Give me back my dream.'

Do you remember,' Jack presently asked,
'- what the old fellow was saying ? '

Not a word,' replied the Poet. ' I was
thinking how such a girl could be his niece.
Why, his wife, and his daughters, his female
cousins, and their daughters, his female connections
by marriage, and their daughters,
must be, or have been, or are about to be,
dumpy, blowsy, full-blown, broad-nosed. Call
that girl his niece ? '

I was thinking about her, too,' said Jack ;
I was thinking how she came there. Do you
think she is really a person named Cobble-dick

? Beauty should have a graceful name.
Every girl who turns out well ought to be
allowed to change her name for something
appropriate, just as the actresses do. Avis is
pretty. How did she get that name, I wonder?
Did you notice how sad she seemed? What
is the matter with her, I wonder ? She would
not speak ; she did not smile ; her face is too
pale ; her eyes are weighed down with some
grief. Good heavens ! Does that old villain
ill-treat her ? ' Jack clenched his fists as the
thought came into his mind.

For two days they had no chance of
seeing her again, because she did not leave
the cottage. Yet the weather was fine. Was
she ill ? Did she never come out ?

I must and will see her,' said Jack, on
the third day.

His mind was made up ; he would attack

the citadel itself. He boldly went to the
cottage ; no one was in the porch ; the door
stood open ; he stepped in ; before him was
another door : he knocked gently, receiving
the customary invitation ; he opened it and
found within the girl he desired to speak
to. She was sitting at the table ; before
her was a book, but it was shut; she was
leaning her head upon her hand, in a weary,
listless way.

Do you want my uncle ? ' she asked.
You will find him at the harbour.'

No,' said Jack, turning very red. ' I
wanted to speak to you.'

'To me ? ' She looked up wondering.
To me ? '

'Yes.' Jack blushed more violently. 'I
am guilty of great presumption in daring to
call here ; but,' here he stammered, ' the

truth is, you are unhappy, and I want to
know if I, if we, my friend and I, can

help ? '

What makes you think that I am unhappy
? ' she asked , coldly.

Because you are pale, and your eyes
are heavy ; because you stay indoors all day,
when you ought to be in the sunshine ; because
you never once smiled during the whole time
when we were in the boat. Do not think
that I alone remarked these things ; my
companion saw them too. I know you are
unhappy.'

You cannot help,' she said, sadly. ' No
one can help.'

Let me try,' he replied. ' Behave me, I
am not forcing myself upon you through any
idle curiosity. I know the world better than
you — better, perhaps, than your uncle '

She shuddered slightly, as if the name
pained her. Was it, then, a fact that this
old villain ill-treated her ? ' Let us advise '

Oh ! ' she replied ; ' you are very good,
but you cannot help. If you could do meany
good, I think I would take your help.
You look as if you were a gentleman, and
true.'

I do my best to be a gentleman, and true,*
said Jack, humbly. ' Try me.'

She shook her head again. He saw that
the tears stood in her eyes.

Come,' said Jack. ' Will you do one
thing which will help ? '

What is that ? '

Put on your hat and come With me fora
walk upon the cliffs. That will do you
good.'

She hesitated. It was not through the

fear that to walk with a young man would
be improper, because she had never learned
by experience or example that certain most
innocent things may be regarded as improper.
Not only was the girl innocent herself, but
she was also ignorant of conventionalities.
How should she learn them, brought up ina
school where no men were present or
talked about ?

Come,' said the tempter. ' The day is
bright and warm ; it is a pleasure even to
breathe on such a day as this. Come with me.'

She looked at him again. He was tall
and handsome. Perhaps comeliness does produce
some effect upon the minds of girls,
though they certainly manage to fall in love
with the most remarkably ugly men. The
face was bright, too, and the eyes were
straight.' She looked and yielded.

VOL. II. s

Ten minutes later the port and town of
Boscastle were lying at their feet, far below
them. They were climbing the headland of
Willapark. The girl was a good walker,
though she had taken to bad ways of late,
and stayed indoors.

When they reached the top, her pale face
Alas flushed, and her eyes were bright ; the set
look had left her lips, and on her mouth was a
smile.

Jack was almost afraid to look at her;
she seemed to him, still, a kind of dream.

Let us talk,' he said.

They sat down, side by side, as if they
had known each other since infancy.

The first day they talked about the place :
the second day Jack felt his way to more
personal and confidential talk : the third day
he astonished himself by his boldness and success.

Let me be your brother,' he began, this
artful deceiver, who would have refused the
offer of becoming the young lady's brother
if it had been made in earnest. ' My name
is Davenant, and they always call me Jack ;
that is, my name is not John, you know ; but
if you will call me Jack, it would make things
simpler.'

But I hardly know you at all,' she replied,
with a little laugh. ' It is so odd to see a man
for the third time or so, and then to call him
by his Christian name.'

'Not if that man calls you by your
Christian name. Let us try. Now then : Avis

what a pretty name ! '

Jack ! ' — she blushed a rosy red — ' what a
good name — for a man ! '

Avis,' he repeated, ' now then that weare
brother and sister — let us take hands upon

s 2

it' — he held out his right hand and folded
hers with his strong grasp — ' tell me why
you are unhappy ? '

'That would be to tell you all my poor
little history.'

Then tell it me.'

She told him, as we know it. He was
a youth of quick sympathies, and guessed more
than what she told him. How could he
help ?

Avis,' he said, ' this kind of life cannot
go on. You must leave your guardian as soon
as possible. Strange ! I wonder if he told
the truth when he said you were his niece ? '

I do not know. The old woman who
waits upon us says that he had neither
brother nor sister.'

I do not believe that you are his niece
at all,' said Jack, stoutly ; ' but that does not

matter. By his own showing, your education
was an accident ; you owe him nothing for
that ; he makes no pretence at affection ; he
even charges you an exorbitant sum every
week for your simple maintenance ; you are
left wholly alone and neglected ; you know no
one in this place ; you must leave it quickly

But I can hear of nothing to do. My
schoolmistress can find me no place as governess,
and, indeed, I fear I am not clever enough
to teach ; and I am haunted, day and night,
with the thought that he will force me to
take any place that I can get — even — even — to
stand behind a bar and serve sailors with rum.'

By heaven ! ' cried Jack, ' that would be
too much. But, Avis, there are other people
in the world besides your schoolmistress.
There are, for instance, the Poet and myself.'

Now I have told you,' she said simply,

I feel as if hope was coming back to me.
Jack ' — lie wished again very prettily as she
called him a second time by his name — ' you
will not think I am ashamed to work, and
would rather live on with him in the little
cottage. To be sure, it is net pleasant for a
o'irl to be told that she is not, which she
always thought she was, a lady, but only a
common sailor's daughter, or a ship-carpenter's
daughter, or whatever profession my
uncle's fancy chooses to give my father ; and
it is dreadful to think of leaving the very
pretence and outward show of being a lady,
and of descending to the lower levels ; and
then there is the terrible debt. However can
that money be paid .^ I owe him now for
fifteen weeks, at thirty shillings a week.'

I know a way of paying that debt,' said
Jack.

i

I cannot take money from you, Mr. Davenant,'
she replied, with a sudden change in her
manner.

You shall not, Avis. Here is my plan.
I am a painter, an artist. What I paint best
are heads. My pictures are worth — well, not
too much, but something. I will paint your
head, and I will offer you for the permission to
make that painting the sum of thirty guineas.
Then you can pay your debt.'

But that is taking money from you,' she
said.

Not at all. It is earning money by work.
You will have to sit to me a dozen times' while
I am painting it. That is you' part of the work,
and very tedious work it is. When the picture
is finished, it will be sent to the Eoyal
Academy, and, if it is sold, will fetch a hundred
guineas, at least.'

'But if it is not sold?'

Then it will be worth to me,' said Jack,
a great deal more than a hundred guineas.'

But she refused to take his money, though
she promised to let him paint her. Two days
afterwards she was astonished by a most unexpected
burst of generosity on the part of
Stephen Cobbledick, who informed her, with
effusion, that she was to consider the debt due
to him on account of board and lodging as
wiped off the books.

Stephen Cobbledick,' he said, ' was always
a generous man. None of his enemies ever
accused him of meanness. Therefore, when
his niece came to stay with him, he was content
to share and share so long as there remained a
shot in the locker.' So that, in fine, the past
was to count as nothing, and the thirty shillings
a week was to begin from that day only.

He did not think it necessary to inform the
girl that in an interview with Mr. Davenant,
that young gentleman had used strong expressions
as to the vices of greed and graspmgness ;
that Mr. Davenant had further informed him
that he was not hit to have a girl at all in his
charge ; that it was his, Mr. Davenant's, intention
to find a more fitting asylum for her ; and
that, meantime, he would pay her generous
benefactor for what he had already spent upon
her since her arrival, at the rate of a pound a
week.

Stephen was not one of those thin-skinned
people who shrink into their shell on the
administration of rebuke ; not at all. It was
customary on board ship both to give and to
take admonition, with or without kicks, representing,
cudgelling, or knocking down, and no
offence on either side, or subsequent malice,

grumpiness, or thought of revenge. He therefore
took the money ; acknowledged by his
salute Jack's rank as a superior officer, and
made no difference in his cheerful manner
when he met him that evening at the Wellington
Arms. He liked Jack, in fact, all the
better for it.

Mr. Davenant, he said, was born to tread
the quarter deck and to give his orders through
a trumpet. He should have been sent to sea,
by rights, where he would have turned out an
admiral, or a pilot, at the very least.

As for the Poet, Mr. Cobbledick regarded
him with aversion. He was always sneering,
he said ; he turned up his nose at the finest
yarn, and asked searching questions as if they
were not true.

He was not such a fool as not to see that
the girl was pretty, and that Jack had eyes,

and that the best way to get rid of his niece,
and at the same time secure a firm hold upon
hei financially, was to facilitate, as well as his
inexperience would allow, the growth of a
tender feeling towards the girl, as well as the
interest she had already aroused in the heart of
the young fellow from London.

He wanted ardently to get rid of her. She
was in his way ; he could not live as he liked
while she was there ; he wanted, as most
people do, to revert as much as possible to
the ways of the Primitive Man ; he would
have gnawed his bones, cracked them with
his teeth to extract the marrow ; he would
not have been unwilling to clothe himself in
skins, if there were any to be got ; and he
would have made his cottage like the cave of
the flint weapon period. It is painful to reflect
that mankind have not only to be dragged

against their will to the chilly heights of culture,
but that they must be kept there forcibly, else
they will relapse and wallow once more in the
mire. Poor Pat, who loves the society of his
pig in his cabin, is a type of what we should
all become but for the tyranny of people who
are not only clean but also powerful.

Next to getting rid of her, he wanted to
recover the money which had been, against
his knowledge, spent upon the girl. Seventy
pounds a year ! This dreadful prodigality for
ten years at least, besides what he had spent
before ; and when he complained to his man of
business with Avhom he had left his money,
that unfeeling person called him names. He
reckoned it up. Seventy pounds a year for
ten years : that made seven hundred, with
which he could have bought half-a-dozen
cottages, the only form of investment which

he knew. Then there was the interest — three
pounds a year, at least ; thirty pounds more
gone. Now, if a gentleman — Stephen thought
that all gentlemen were rich — were to fall in
love with Avis, it would be hard if he could
not extract from him, either before or after
marriage, the return of that sum, with a Httle
more. ' I should make it,' he said, with
glistening eyes; 'I should make it — ay — a
round thousand, or fifteen hundred pounds.
Hang me, if for such a girl as Avis a man
ought uDt to pay two thousand down. And
that would make me very comfortable; very
comfortable indeed, it would. Ah ! if you do
keep a going' on a casting' of your bread upon
the waters, how it does come back, some day,
to be sure ! If I'd forty nieces, bio wed if
I wouldn't treat 'em all the same way —
make 'em ladies, with silk stockings and white

haDcls, and take two thousand pound apiece
for 'em all round when their chaps came to.
marry them. It's beautiful ! It's what the
lawyers call, I suppose, a marriage settlement.
I only wish I'd had forty — ay, or fifty nieces —
or a hundred, at the same rate.

With this blissful dream of a numerous and
penniless family all dependent on himself, all
girls, and all bringing him large dots, he indulged
his waking hours.

I must take you back to town, Jack,' said
the Poet.

Not yet. I must paint her face. I have
promised that.'

'Do not promise too much,' the Poet added,
with a meaning in his words. It was at this
period that the conversation was held which I
have already recorded. ' Do not promise too
much.'

Jack turned from this friend with impatience,
because at this time he was ready to promise
anything.

She was changed in those few days since
first he saw her ; no longer silent and depressed.
She was bright, smiling, and ready
to talk and ask questions. Life had begun to
look cheerful again ; hope was in her heart, but
not yet love. She was humble ; the knowledge
of her birth had made her more humble
than before. She was ignorant of the world,
but she knew enough to be sure a gentleman
ought not to marry beneath him ; not to marryat
all seemed a light affliction to her, and she
was resolute that, since no gentleman could
marry her, she would marry no one at all.
Had she been brought up among girls of
Stephen Cobbledick's class, she would, on the
other hand, have dreamed continually of some

gentleman falling in love with her. That is,
indeed, the dream of the London dressmaker,
and, I daresay, of the humblest girl that lives.
The kmg and the beggar-maid ; the Prince and
Cinderella ; how many stories have been written,
how many dreams dreamed, upon this
theme? Because poor Avis had been taught
to believe, as all gentlewomen try to believe,
that a gentleman cannot fall in love below his
station, she concluded that she was never to
marry at all. A sad thing to have no lover,
no husband, and no joy of little children; a
grievous thing, yet a light thing in comparison
with that threatened descent into the rouse
world, from which her new friend promised
somehow to rescue her. She had no thought
of love. Jack, the kind and generous-hearted
Jack, pitied her loneliness ; he would find something
for her, some place somewhere ; she

asked not what or when ; she left it trustfully
to him.

The portrait, too, was begun. While
she sat, Jack could gaze upon her without
reproach.

As he looked and transferred her features
to the canvas, he fell more and more in love.
Yet he said no word of love ; nor did he by
any of those outward signs, common among
lovers, betray his passion. "For as yet he was
uncertain what to do ; he thought of her
happiness, or tried to think of that, first ; but
while he set himself to work to reason out the
thing calmly, the recollection of her voice,
which was cheerful and sweet — not low, which
is so common an affectation among women —
came upon him, and his heart leaped up ; or he
thought of her eyes so limpid and so deep ; or
the outline of her face, which he drew per-vol.

II. T

equally upon every margin ; or her tall and
lissom figure ; and he could not reason because
he felt.

At first he argued with himself that a girl
living in such a manner could not but be
coarse in her ideas ; yet she had so lived, he
remembered, but three short months, and it
was pain and misery to her. There are minds
which can never be coarse and common, just as
there are some which can never be pure and
sweet.

It had not entered into his scheme of life to
marry early. He was one of the men who
preach the doctrine that it is best to make your
way first, your name, if that is possible, and
your income, before you commit yourself to
the chances of matrimony. Now, his name
was not yet made, but was already in the
making, so to speak ; and his fortune was all to

be made. As for any feeling that he would
marry beneath him, that was far from being in
his thoughts at all. Who marries Avis, he
said, cannot possibly marry beneath him.

It was so pleasant, this time of roaming
about with the girl, talking, sitting together,
walking on the cliffs, or sailing in the boat,
that he was loth to disturb it. The days went
on, and every day he saw more of her ; the
honest fishermen of Boscastle took it for granted
that they were courting. Avis had no shame
to run and meet him while he was yet afar off;
she had no shame in telling him all she thought
and hoped ; she showed him her very soul
unconsciously in perfect trust. Together they
made journeys to see the places of which the
girl had heard so many weird legends in her
childhood. The Castle of Tintagel, St. Nigh •
ton's Keive, and Minster Church, where Jack

made sketches, always with Avis in the foreground
; and they went to Forrabury Church
together, Avis haunted no more by the foolish
fear of meeting any of her schoolfellows.

I told the girls,' she said, ' that I was
going into the world to find a father and a
mother, and, perhaps, a sister and a brother.
But, Jack, I never thought that I should find so
kind a brother as you

Remarks such as these are difficult to
receive under similar circumstances. Yet Jack,
through some fear of the result, or some scruple
about himself, would not say the words which
would sever that fraternal bond.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

I.OSDON : PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODK Ail CO., NEW-street 8QDARH

AJfD PARLIAMENT BTRKKT

.Vt^'y.^RSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 041403574

)!^4:-:-^:m

W^'

^^/'

'^mm^

w.

z<^-%

<7-

-^^''.1

A>

f^^^

^^

< .X^.

m

*w4

^fc'^^«h.'^'>1«^.

.Ms'V^^i*;!^

-^^-^ .^^'^vVl^,^ J^;> kj.

Wi >JiaE/} mfi'

^^K:

EX-LIBRIS
F. E.DlNSHAW

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

or ILLINOIS

'^

H^

k

//.

>

TEN YEARS' TENANT

VOL. III.

MRS. LINTON'S NEW NOVEL.
THE REBEL OF THE FAMILY. ByE. Lynn

Linton. Three vols, crown 8vo.

MR. FRANCILLON's NEW NOVEL.
QUEEN COPHETUA. By R. E. Francisco.

Three vols, crown 8vo.

MRS. HUNT'S NEW NOVEL.
THE LEADEN CASKET. By Mrs. Alfred W.

Hunt. Three vols, crown 8vo.

JULIAN HAWTHORNE'S NEW NOVEL.

ELLICE Quest IN, and other Stories. By Julian

Hawthorne. Two vols, crown 8vo.

JAMES PA YN'S NEW NOVEL.
A CONFIDENTIAL AGENT. By James Pain.

Illustrated by Arthur Hopkins. 3 vols, crown Svo. Second
Edition.

NEW NOVEL BY CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A LIFE'S ATONEMENT. By David Christi

Murray. Three vols, crown Svo. Second Edition.

OUIDA 'S NEW WORK.
A VILLAGE COMMUNE. By Ouida. Two vols.

crown Svo.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

TEN YEARS' TENANT

AND OTHER STORIES

BY

WALTER BESANT & JAMES RICE

AUTHORS OF
READY-.MONEV MORTIBOY ' 'THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY* ' THE MONKS OF Helena'

'the seamy side' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. in.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



Sall rights reserved']

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

Discontents



OF

THE Third VOLUME.

OVER THE SEA WITH A SAILOR '

[continued].

CHAPTER • PAGE

IV. Ramsay, alias Angel 3

V. The Course op True Love 27

VI. Nothing but a Common Pick-me-up . . .56

VII. The Cleverness of the Commodore . . • . 93

VIII. The Wreck of the Maryland ■ . . . 146

IX. All the Way by the Underground . . . 209

X. The Whirlpool of Niagara . . . 254:

Continued

VOL. III.

Ramsay, ALIAS ANGEL.

Now, while these two were rapidly passing
through all those nicely graduated emotions of
admiration, wonder, respect, longing, and
ardent desire for each other's society, which
make up and lead to the delightful passion of
love (which, unless a man feel it at least once
in his life, he had better never have been born),
an event happened which was destined to
trouble everything. Always that detestable
hitch in human affairs which interrupts and
hinders ! The American j^oet observes on this
point, that the course of true love may fitly be
compared with the flow of the Mississippi ; for

it is a full and mighty stream ; and it is irresistible
; and it has snags ; and there are incertain
of its latitudes alligators in its waters,
and rattles on its shores, besides fevers. The
snags, also, are not found in the early reaches
of the river, which further assists that poet's
metaphor.

The event was this.

Stephen Cobbledick was one morning seated
on a hawser on the harbour quay. His short
pipe was in his mouth, his legs were stretched
out, and he was contemplating, with an air of
great satisfaction, the wreaths of tobacco smoke,
for they contained a delicious castle of Spain
connected with the ' marriage settlement ' of
his niece. It had occurred to the Wicked old
man that, while he was about it, eighty or even
ninety pounds a year might as easily be set
down as the cost of Avis's maintenance as

seventy, and the same sum might be charged
for every year of her existence. Now, as
she was eighteen years of age, that meant
a total of sixteen hundred and twenty
pounds, as he chalked it up on a neighbouring-stone.


She owes me,' he said, ' sixteen hundred
and twenty pounds ; or, counting' the interest
out of which I have been choused, seventeen
hundred pounds in all. There's a sum ! She
shall go for it, though. I shall charge nothing
nothing at all — for loss of her services and
agonies at parting from my dearly beloved
niece. What a uncle I am ! '

He was, indeed, as he was about to prove,
the most remarkable of all uncles recorded in
history, except perhaps Richard the Third, the
guardian of the Babes in the Wood, and the
Barber Fiend.

So rapt was he in the vision of his own
goodness, that he paid no attention to the
operation conducted just below him, of inserting
a new plank in the side of a coaster, nor
did he hear the footsteps of a man who was
walking leisurely towards him. He was a thin,
slenderly-built man, about the average height,
dressed in a black frock coat, buttoned up,
black trousers, and a tall hat. He might have
been a dissenting minister, or a traveller for a
religious publication, or a temperance lectm-er,
or a promoter of public companies, so much
did his appearance betoken ostentatious respectability.
His age might have been anything,
but was certainly over forty, as was
manifested by the crows-feet round his eyes.
His features were good and certainly handsome,
though too long and sharp ; his eyes were keen
and small ; his lips were thin, with a nervous

twitch ill them, and they were flexible ;
his hands and feet were small and delicate.


He stood awhile looking at the good visionary,
who sat gazing into space as he counted
up his gains, and heard him not. The stranger
smiled. ' What mischief is the old man thinking
of now ? ' he murmured. ' He looks aged,
but there's work in Stephen yet.'

He stepped over the ropes which lay
about the quay, and laid this hand on
Stephen's shoulder, not heavily, but with a
quick, hard grip, as if he had caught his
victim at last.

Shipmate,' he said, ' how goes it .^ '

Stephen started, looked up in his face,
jumped to his feet, dropping his pipe, which
was smashed on the stones, and forgetting his
vision of marriage settlements. Never was

man more astonished. His jaw dropped, this
eyes opened, he spread out his hands in helpless
astonishment.

Cap'en Ramsay I ' he cried at length. ' It
is himself.'

Shake hands, old salt,' said the other. ' It
is myself, I guess. No other loss has got into
this skin. Why, there ; it's cheerful lookin'
at your old face again. Kind o' brings back
the old days ; doesn't it ? '

It does ; it does,' responded Stephen. ' But
come, Cap'en, this demands a drink.'

Hold hard ; you come in my tow so longs
I'm here,' said Captain Ramsay. ' Let us goto
the bar.'

They went there and drank each other's
health at the Captain's expense.

And where,' asked the stranger, ' can we
have a place where we can sit and talk by ourselves,

with nobody pricking' up their ears to
listen ? '

Stephen led the way to his own cottage,
where, appropriating Avis's room for the
occasion, they sat and talked.

To think.' cried Stephen, ' that I should
live to see you a setting' down in my own
house.'

Here I am, you see. I was at Liverpool,
when I remembered that you had given up the
piloting, and were come home. And by reason
of your sometimes answering to the name of
Boscastle Steve, I concluded to run down here,
and prospect around till I found you.'

In my own house,' replied the other with
iteration ; ' the same house as I bought with
half a dozen others when I come home eighteen
years ago, after that little job of ours, where
we done so well.'

'What little job?'

You know, the black job, when we shipped
Ho ! ho ! — that crew of carries in Boston,
pretending' — Ho ! ho ! ho ! — that we were bound
for Liverpool, and run 'em down to New
Orleans and sold 'em every man jack.'

I remember,' Captain Ramsay replied ;
and divided the plunder. It was risky, but
creditable. It wouldn't quite do to have shown
up in Boston for a while after that, would it ? '

And what have you been a coin' of since,
Cap'en? Have you sot down to enjoy the proceeds
of honest industry, or have you fooled
away your pile ? '

I've fooled away that pile, and I've made
more piles, and I've fooled them away.'

Euchre ? ' asked the pilot.

And monty, and any other darned thing
going. Guess if the Prodigal Son had gone to

New Orleans lie would have dropped the old
man's dollars in a way to reflect credit on that
city.'

Ay, ay. When I set eyes last upon you,
Cap'en, you was a Salem man, and a Quaker
by profession when in shore-going togs, and
religion was useful. And you'd changed your
name from Ramsay to Angel. Ho ! ho ! Angel ! '

Yom' memory is so good, old mate, that
I must ask you to remember nothing about me
'kept what I tell yon. And what I tell you
now is this : I am Ramsay again, Jefferson
Ramsay, Commodore in the Navy of the Confederate
States. I was born and reared in
Norfolk. I am Secesh to the back-bone. Bully
for the blue flag ! I hail from the South, the
land of chivalry, where no abolitionist skunk
shall be permitted to dwell, and all the whites
air gentlemen born, most of them of the

ancient aristocracy of Great Britain. We air
fighting', sir, for liberty and our constitution.
The Peculiar Institution has been forced upon
us by our ancestors. We shall consider it when
we have established our freedom from the
North. Abolition we abhor, because we love
our niggers too well to give them the liberty
they would convert into licence. No, sir, the
South at this moment is the proud champion
of constitutional right, and the defender of
morality and religion.'

He delivered this harangue with a slowness
which greatly added to the effect.

Stephen Cobbledick was affected almost to
tears. ' He ought,' he exclaimed, ' to have
been a bishop ! '

So I ought,' said Captain Ramsay, ' if
everybody had what was best for him. I should
like to be a bishop — in England.'

Stephen then began to narrate his own experiences.
The Commodore of the Confederate
Navy sat in the attitude of Hastening, which was
polite, because the Pilot was prolix. After a
quarter of an hour or so of patient pretence, he
pulled up the narrator short.

Say,' he began, ' what do you mean to do
next?'

.' Nothing,' replied Stephen.

'What? Stay in this forsaken hole?
Sit here and rot like an old hulk in a harbour
? '

Ay. Sit here is the word, Cap'en. Time's
come when I'm bound to lay up. I've got
religion. I've got a dozen cottages ; I collect
the rents of a Saturday ; I'm sixty-five years of
age : there's no pilot' to do ; and as for black
jobs, why I doubt whether that trade will ever
again be worth what it used to be. Lord !

sometimes, when the minister is a booming'
away in the chapel, I sit and think of the
droves of 'em, bought for a song, as one may
say, sometimes took for nothing, drivers and
all, hurried over the Atlantic in a clipper that
could show her heels to any British frigate
afloat, and put up at Jew Orleans or Savannah

for ' Here he stopped and sighed. 'It's

comforting' to think of those times. It brings
out the flavour of the hymns. You should get
religion, Cap'en.'

Some day, maybe, Stephen. 'Spoke there
was piloting to do ? '

Ay, ay ? ' The old fellow sat upright and
listened intently.

"Spoke I was to say to myself, " I've got
a job that wants a light hand, a quick eye, and
a knowledge of the coast ? " '

What coast ? ' asked Stephen.

The coast of North Carolina, and the port
of Wilmington.'

He means blockade-running' ! ' cried Stephen
with enthusiasm. Where there's danger,
there's Cap'en Ramsay ! Where there's money
to be made, there's the gallant Cap'en ! Where
there's fighting' and running' away, and a shooting'
of six-shooters, there he is in the middle of it,
whether it's filibusterin', or slain', or the South
Sea trade, or running' the blockade ! What a
man ! What a Nero ! '

'You've guessed the job, old shipmate.
Some men would ha' let me beat about the
bush for an hour. But you've got a head upon
your shoulders, Stephen, screwed on tight, right
end up, and eyes in that head as can see
straight . You've guessed it ! '

Go on. Cap ; go on.' This sagacious
flattery increased the good old man's desire to

hear more. Blockade-running was next to
piracy ; therefore dear to his heart. For he
was one of those perverse brethren who ever
love the thing that is illegal, because it is
illegal.

I've been blockade-running since that
little game began, and I haven't been caught
yet. And I don't mean to be, though they've
put on the coast some new and fast cruisers.
For I've got, at Liverpool, loading for me, a
craft, Stephen, as would make your eyes water.
Yes, I reckon you would weep for joy that you
had lived to see such a craft.'

'Ah!'

Such lines ; such gracefulness ; such lightness
; such speed.'

'Oh!'

You shall see her, Stephen. Whether you
fall in with my proposal or not, you shall see

her and judge for yourself. Now, listen. In
my last trip we did well ; got in and out without
a brush or a shot. Some of the boys
aboard were pretty rough — that's a fact — and
just before we sighted Nassau there was a little
difficulty between the pilot and the chief officer.
The chief officer didn't matter, because his sort,
though he was a plucky one, air plentiful, and
Nassau swarms with young English chaps mad
for a run ; but when the pilot had to send in
his checks too, and we heaved both overboard
at once, it was a real loss, and rough upon us,
as was generally felt. Eor pilots air like angels
they air sparse.'

Young men,' said Stephen, ' will be young
men. I've drawer a bowie myself before now,
and let daylight into the other chap. But for
both to go at . once I That seems a most extravagant
waste.'

VOL III. c

s^

So, being at Liverpool, I remembered you,
Stephen. I said : " This is a chance which
does not often happen. If Stephen Cobbledick
gets it, he is a made man." '

I'm too old,' said Stephen.

Nonsense. You're as j^oung as you feel.
Your hand is firm, and your eye is straight ;
and what's more, you know every inch of the
coast.'

I do. No man better.'

Why, then, we're half agreed already.
And now, old pal, you shall see what a thing
it is I am going' to give you a share of.' He
pulled some papers and the stump of a pencil
out of his pocket. ' First, you shall have, for
the double trip, seven — hundred — and — fifty
pounds — nigh upon four thousand dollars.'

What ? ' Stephen jumped out of his chair.
How much ? '

Seven — hundred — and — fifty pounds sterling.
Half paid down on the day you go
aboard ; the other half when we get back to
Nassau. Stop a minute, I haven't done yet.
Every man is allowed space for his own ventures.
You shall have room for a dozen cases
if you like. More than that, I've bought them
for you, and they are shipped ready for you. I
give them to you.'

If I could ! ' cried Stephen.

Why not ? Wliat's to prevent ? '

There's that gell o' mine ; my niece.
Hanged if I don't think they kep' her alive a
purpose to worry an' interfere.'

Leave her behind.'

I might do that.'

A dozen cases, all your own. They're
full of the things that sell in Eichmond and the
other places. There's women's stays, kid gloves.

tooth-brushes, Cockle's pills, lucifer matches
man ! whatever you take Avill sell, less it's
raw cotton.'

Ay.'

This good uncle was meditating a scheme
for the happiness of his niece.

As for danger, there's none. Not that
you are the man to show a white feather.
There's plenty at Liverpool could do it, but I
want you. " Steve Cobbledick," I said, " would
enjoy the business. Steve Cobbledick, as I've
known these twenty years and more, since I
was little bigger than a boy." '

You were only next door to a boy,' said
Stephen, 'when you came aboard as third mate.
'Twas at Havannah. You were then, you
said, the son of an English gentleman, and
you'd run away. You shipped in the name
of Peregrine Pickle, which afterwards I saw

in a printed book. That was the first' — he
looked round him with admiration — ' of his
names and his descriptions. Never any man
had so many parents. And wicked ? How a
lad so young could pick up so much wickedness,
the Lord knows. Yet there he was.
And drink? Like a mermaid. And swear?
Don't name it. And fight? Like Great
Alexander ; for the walloping of a nig, to get
the work out of him, I don't suppose there was
ever a lad, Spaniard, Mexican, or Yankee,
could come within a mile of him. And the
sweetest temper with it ; not proud, not puffed
up with vain conceits ; easy and affable withall
alike. And at a dignity ball, the cock of
the walk, though Mexican yellow noses, which
are well known to be more jealous than a
alligator, were waiting' outside with knives
sharpened on the door-step to have his blood.'

Then you will go with me? ' said the hero of
this praise, unmoved. ' You will be my pilot ?
I'm part owner of the ship and cargo, as well
as skipper.'

When do you want to sail ? '

In a fortnight.'

'Give me three days. I think I can go,
Cap'en. It's only that cussed gell. She's lost
me a thousand pounds already, and I want to
get that back. I think the job is as good as
done. Three days, my noble Cap'en.'

In the evening Stephen produced an
electrical effect in the smoking-room of the
Wellington Arms by the introduction of his
friend Capta Ramsay, who was, he added,
Commodore m the Confederate Navy.

Now Cap'en Ramsay was, as has been explained,
a familiar name with every man who
was privileged to hear the conversation of

Mr. Stephen Cobbledick. For whenever
he had to tell of a deed of peculiar
atrocity, an act of more than common
treachery, a deed which made the flesh to
creep and the blood to boil, a transaction
more nefarious than is usually considered
possible to humanity, he fathered it with
every tribute of praise and admiration upon
Cap'en Ramsay. And this heroic Viking
actually stood before the peaceful folk of Bos-castle
in the flesh. A small, lithe, quiet-looking
maD, with quick bright eyes, who sat
quietly beside Stephen, and for a while said
nothing.

The sexton, the blacksmith, and the shipwright
stared mutely at the stranger, who presently
began to talk and to smoke cigars.

Yet he is a tiger, Jack,* whispered the
Poet, in answer to nothing.

Jack opened the conversation by asking if
the Commodore had left the States recently,
and what he thought were the present prospects
of the South.

Sir,' replied that officer, ' the present ]prospect
is certainty. The North is in her last
throes ; they've got through all their Irish and
Germans ; they can't raise recruits nor money ;
they have been — but they won't own up —
already licked into a cocked hat ; their
generals air like whipped curs with their tails
between their legs ; their papers air clamouring
for peace ; and the South will be asked by the
North, before very long, to be good enough to
take Maryland and Washington, and go about
her own business. Wal, we do not wish to
bear malice : we will let them alone, provided
they let us alone. But go we must, and go
we shall. That is so, gentlemen.'

Of course,' said Jack, ' you speak as a partisan.
We hear other accounts from the North.'

You hear, sir, whatever les the meanest
press in the world chooses to tell you. What
I tell you, sir, is fact.'

Undoubtedly a very strong adherent to the
Secession Cause. Salem a long way behind,
clean forgotten. Pilot Cobbledick looked on
in admiration.

Presently the Commodore passed from Confederate
matters, which, considering the way
in which the end has falsified his predictions,
together with those of a great many far-seems
English editors, would be stale in the repetition,
and, backed up by his old comrade in
arms, launched forth upon the sea of general
experience and personal reminiscences. Like
Stephen, he had been everywhere.

Stephen, for his part, was guarded. He

said nothing, except to murmur applause, or
to put a leading question.

What do you think of him ? ' asked Jack,
when the evening was over.

What I said before, my boy ; a tiger,'
replied the Poet. ' He looks it.'

Avis's reflections were exactly the reverse
of the Poet's. She thought that if the man
was a tiger, as according to the statements
made by Stephen he most certainly was, he
looked like a lamb. His voice, to her, was
so gentle from the moment he saw her; his
manner so mild, so caressing ; his very
attitudes so modest and unassuming, that she
could not believe, from his appearance, the
stories told about him. He a pirate ? He a
tiger? No; the imagination of Stephen must
have invented all.

CHAPTEE y.

THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE.

The way — which the wise man found marvellous
in his eyes — when there are three
together, and one of them is a maid, is that
one of the other two must go away by himself.
The Poet therefore went away. He adored
Avis after the poetical manner. It is very well
known how Petrarch found consolation. In like
manner, this poet sat on a rock ; thought of this
girl's eyes and her wondrous face ; made her immortal
— at least, those of his friends who reviewed
him said so — in undying verse ; and

presently, with tranquillity of mind, married
another woman. You never find a poet, mind
you, going distraught with love.

As for the other two, they went about
without him, happy with each other : they
wandered afield or along the rough Cornish
lanes, with cobbled walls on either side ; they
gathered the wild roses ; they sailed in the
boat ; they climbed the steep sides of Tintagel.
They were yet in the sweet misty time which
comes before the spoken love ; it is then that
each to each puts forth invisible arms ; ghostly
embraces follow, which are but half felt ; the
very air seems rosy with the glow of sunrise ;
it is a time of imperfect joy, of sweet im-certainty,
hopeful fear, tender doubt, and ever-growing
faith. A woman, perfect of her kind,
once told me that marriage, against which she
had nothing to say, was not so happy as the

time of plighted troth ; and this, again, not so
sweet as that uncertain time of undecided
wooing, of admiration, and of attraction .

This time must have an end. That is most
sure. June de Eambouillet marries M. de
Montpelier at last, and Penelope is rewarded in
the end. But it is pleasant while it lasts ; and,
in the opinion of some, the time which follows
is more pleasant still.

It was a new and divine joy for Jack to
read, day after day, the soul of this innocent,
fresh, and beautiful gull, whose heart turned
unto tidings good and beautiful, as the hemlock
turns to the east. A girl's thoughts are mostly,
when she finds expression, clad in the words
of others ; she is not good at finding words for
herself, she stammers when she tries ; it is a
shameful thing, in a way, for her to tell, in
words all of her own, and directly, the things

she feels rather than thinks. Therefore every
girl is a mystery and an enigma. The better
she is, the higher her aspirations, the more
mysterious is she to the lover who would fain
understand her deepest thought, her most
secret hope and wish. Mostly, however, the
talk of lovers seems, to the outer world,
commonplace.

Since Captain Ramsay came,' said Avis to
Jack, two days after the arrival of that worthy,
I hear of nothing but blockade-running. My
uncle wants to go. He has got out charts and
maps, and spreads them on my table ; he pores
over them, with his thumb on the places which
he is interested in. And he has been throwing
out hints — you know his hints are broad ones
about being able to go if I were not in his
way.'

Perhaps,' said Jack gravely, as if he believed

what he was saying, ' Stephen thinks he
is getting old, and would like to make better

provision for you, in case You see. Avis,

you are a girl, and have not been brought up to
fight your way in the world, which is a place
where, unless you are provided with cushions
and hassocks stuffed with bank-notes, you find
the sitting pretty hard.'

'I do not think that Stephen cares much
about providing for me,' said Avis gently. She
was not a girl who readily thought evil or
ascribed motives. But it was ridiculous to
imagine Stephen Cobbledick as anxious to work
for the sake of herself. ' I hope you have got
easy cushions for yourself, Jack.'

Mine are easy enough for me,' he replied

gruffly. ' The question is Avis, will you

marry a poor man ? '

'Jack!' For, at the word 'marry,' all the

possibilities of the situation rushed upon her
mind.

I am getting on, but an artist's life is
uncertain. Still, if you love me as I love you.
Avis Darling, will you take me?'

She knew, she found out when he spoke of
love, that she already loved him ; she felt that
life would be intolerable without him, but she
was ashamed ; she could not, so surprised,
accept him.

Oh,' she said, the tears starting to her eyes,
you ask me to marry you. Jack, out of you:
kindness ; just as you forced sour way to me,
because you pitied me. You cannot love me.'

My dear,' he said, taking her hand, ' I
have always loved you. I loved you, I think,
from the very first, when you sat in the boat
so sad and silent. Take me, my dear, and let
your uncle go blockade-running, or blockhead-breaking,

or anything he pleases, with his
amiable plate and murderer, Captain Ramsay.
Avis, once more, can you love me ? Will you
send me away empty, after all our talks and
walks and happy times, Avis ? You called me
your brother once ; I will not be your brother anymore.
I must be your lover. Avis, or nothing.'

She shyly put out her hand.

'I cannot give up my friend,' she said,
smiling through her tears ; ' and if he means
what he says, and his handmaid has found
favour in his sight, and he will take her for
his sweetheart, who loves him '

The noblest man in the world to marry the
noblest woman ! This is a dream which has
always presented itself to me in the form of a
nightmare. One can imagine the loneliness,
the terrible isolation of a household so perfect

VOL. III. D

as to be a standing and perpetual reproach to
all the world ; one may feel how husband and
wife, after many months of keeping up an
exhibition of the noblest virtues to each other
as well as to all the world, would at last fly
apart with execrations, and descend to a lower
level and — separate. I have, besides, never
met any whom I could call either the noblest
man or the noblest woman. I have always
found in the former certain failings due to
vanity, jealousy, love of adulation, or even a
passion for port; and in the other I have
sometimes noted a tendency to positiveness,
smallness, and inability to recognise in the
world anything but what she sees. I am sure
that Avis was neither the noblest nor the best
of women. To begin with, she was not one of
the best educated, had few accomplishments,
knew nothing of society at all, was imperfectly

instructed in the fashions, and had little to
recommend her except her beauty and — an
old-fashioned quality, but uncommon in these
days — her virtue and goodness. But, for an
average pair of imperfect mortals, with a good
average share of virtues, and a general leaning
to what is good rather than to what is evil, and
a power of unselfishness, and a belief in each
other as well as in goodness as an abstract
quality, I declare that Jack and Avis promised
to be as well mated as Adam and Eve, who, as
we know, were imperfect.

Poet,' said Jack, later on, with a strange
light in his eyes and a little shaking in his
voice, ' I have asked Avis to marry me. She
is good enough to take me.'

I congratulate you,' replied the man of
song. ' My belief is that you have done the

best thing you possibly could for yourself.
Now that you are engaged, take her away as
fast as ever you can ; the sooner the better.'

'We shall be married,' said Jack — he
repeated the Avoid, as if it gave him gratification
— ' some time in the autumn. I've got to
find a house and furnish it.'

Don't wait for the autumn. Take her
away out of this, as soon as you can.'

What do you mean ? '

I mean that the atmosphere is dangerous.'

If you will explain '

Well, then, what I mean is that I have
eyes in my head, even although I wear spectacles
; that I have been using them ; that I
have been watching the piratical scoundrel who
calls himself Commodore Ramsay — no more
an officer of the Confederate States than of the
British Navy. He is a tiger and a man-eater.'

^ ' Go on — go on.'

And I think he has cast eyes of affection
on — on your fiancee.'

Jack clenched his fists and swore a great
oath.

They are unholy eyes, Jack ; take her
away at once.'

He cannot run away with her inter my
very eyes,' said Jack presently. ' If he
dares to say one word to her, by Heaven
Here he choked.

In these days it is extremely difficult for an
Englishman to threaten an enemy. He cannot
make daylight through him with a revolver, as a
Texan might or a gentleman of Colorado. He
cannot call him out, with a choice of pistols or
swords. He cannot even promise to punch his
head, because it is undignified. He can do
nothing. The law is to do everything. Yet,

even in the most law-abiding country in the
world, there is always that possible return to
the habits of the pre-historic man, who carried
a stick, sharpened its point in the fire, and
carved his flint axes mainly for the purpose of
enjoying himself upon his enemy should he get
the chance.

One thing Jack could do — which he did,
and with surprising results. He would see old
Cobbledick and tell him what he was going todo.
Accordingly, he sought the worthy Pilot,
and, without thinking it necessary to ask
the permission of Avis's guardian, which is
a formality observed by most suitors, he
informed him that he was about to marry
her.

Since,' he said, ' she is good enough to
think me worthy of being a husband, we shall
be married as quickly as possible. So you will

be free of your charge, and happy again. You
will be able to live as you like, never open the
windows, never clean the place, spread your dinner
on the floor, and get as drunk as you please.'

This, to be sure, was exactly what Stephen
most wanted ; but he was not going to let the
girl go without getting what he could for himself.
And when Jack used the word ' worthy '
in his humility, Stephen thought of the other
meaning attached to the word 'worth.'
Therefore, he replied :

Easy a bit, young gentleman ; soft and
easy is the word. Now, before we go a bit
further into this business, we must have the
marriage settlements laid down and agreed
upon.'

The marriage settlements ? '

Just so, Mr. Davenant ' — the old man
looked unspeakably cunning — ' just so, sir ; the

marriage settlements. Of course you don't
expect that I am going' to let Avis go with
nothing.'

Jack was rather surprised at this. Still,
as a guardian, Stephen was perhaps justified
in expecting something to be settled on Avis.

'I am not a rich man,' he said; 'and
I cannot settle money upon my wife which I
have not got. But I will insure my life for her
benefit, for any reasonable amount. That ought
to satisfy you.'

Insure your life for her benefit ! ' Stephen
was astonished at the young man's stupidity.
Well, I don't mind ; that's just as you like.
I was talking of marriage settlements, not
insuring' of lives for her benefit. Who's a-talkin'
of her benefit ? '

And I was saying that I will secure her
from want by means of an insurance in place

of a marriage settlement. That is quite a usual
tiling to do, believe me.'

Lord ! Lord ! ' cried Stephen. ' Wliy can't
a man speak up plain and direct? When I
said marriage settlement, I meant marriage
settlement ! If you want me to go and beat
about — this tack and that tack — like a lawyer,
say so ; if not, answer me plain and straight.
How much am I to have ! '

You to have ? You ? '

Me, Mr. Davenant. Do you suppose that
I've paid for that gell's education, as fine as if
she'd been a duchess, sixty pounds — I mean
ninety pounds a year, money out of pocket for
eighteen years, for nothing. No, sir ; I calculate
not.'

He added the last words for the sake of
emphasis, and with due American intonation.

Good Heaven ! ' cried Jack.

I think if you tot up that sum, Mr. Covenant,
you will find it come to nigh upon one
thousand and eight hundred pound. Then
there's the interest, which would be — ah, I
essay a hundred pound more. That makes,
altogether, pretty near two thousand pound.
Now, the man who marries that gell has got to
make a marriage settlement upon me of all that
money as I have laid out upon her to make her
what she is. She can play the planner, I am
told ; she can sing, when she isn't sulky, like
a angel ; she can patter French, they tell mein
a way as would astonish you ; she can dress
up to make her husband proud ; she can talk
pretty, when she isn't in a temper ; and she can
go along, holding' of her petticoats in her hand,
like a lady. That's what she is, a real lady to
look at ; besides belonging' to a most respectable
family. It was for this that I laid out the

money. " Do not grudge it, Stephen," I says to
myself ; " it is a-castin' upon the waters, it will
be brought back onto you, like a runaway
nig." And I make no charge for the love, nor
for the affection, nor for the grief — which might
settle on the chest, and be the death of a manor
turn to lumbago — at losing' of her ; and as
for '

Stop ! ' cried Jack, ' you infernal old humbug
and impostor

Mr. Davenant ! ' Alarmed at this response,
Stephen began to wish he had put his figures a
little lower.

I know what you have done. How you
went away and forgot all about the child ; how
the man who held your money went on paying
for the girl and placed her in a respectable
school; how you welcomed her back with
reproaches and grumbling. Why, she owes

you nothing, not even thanks. Now listen, and
then shut up. I shall give you not one farthing
; do you hear ? '

Not one farthing.' ' Do you mean, Mr.
Davenant, that you will not pay me back even
the money I spent on her ? '

'Not one farthing. That is my answer.
You will do what you please ; but beware of
any harsh word or act to Avis.'

Jack withdrew, leaving Stephen in a state
of such disgust and disappointment as he had
never before experienced. For the hope of
getting back his money had grown in his mind
during the progress of Jack's brief courtship,
until he almost saw it within his grasp. It was
because he felt so certain that he had allowed
himself to multiply the amount by about
three. It may be owned that if Stephen had
been acquainted with the nature of geometrical

progression, and its relation to compound
interest, his claims v^ould certainly have been
far higher than they were. But to get nothing,
absolutely nothing at all! Was that possible?
Was it, this good man asked, just and Christian
so to act ? And how, if not by means of Jack,
was this casting of the bread upon the waters
to be returned to him ?

As for Avis's marriage, that was the very
thing he wanted. Nothing could possibly suit
him better. She would be off his hands, and
out of his house ; he need not trouble about
her when he was away. But the cruel disappointment,
and when he had made quite
certain that Mr. Davenant was a real gentleman,
who would be only too pleased to pay
for his fancy.

The conversation took place in the porch,
while Avis herself was sitting on the cliff

thinking over the wonderful happiness which
had befallen her. So disturbed in mind washer
uncle, by Jack's gentlemanlike and mean
response to his proposal, that he was fain to
have a tumbler of rum and water at once, and
to load another, pipe. The grog despatched,
he sat gloomily in his arm-chair, growling
menaces, interjections, and expressions of discontent,
as one who has believed too much inhumanity,
and now, like David, is inclined to
say, in his haste, unkind things about all conditions
of men.

While in this mood, he was joined by
Captain Ramsay, who, without speaking, took
a chair and tilted it against the wall so that he
could sit back comfortably. As usual, he was
provided with an immense cigar, which he
smoked continuously.

After a while the Commodore spoke.

Well, mate, got an answer ready r* ^

I'll go,' said Stephen.

'What about the gal?'

She may go — where she darn please,'
replied the Pilot. * She may go to the devil.
I wish I'd never seen her. I wish I'd never
spent a farthing upon her. Gratitude ? Nota
bit ; whistle for it. She may marry who
she likes. I don't care who she marries ; she
may '

Dry up, man,' said Captain Ramsay.
There's more to be said. Let us understand
one another. You will come with me .^ '

There's my hand on it,' said Stephen.
'When I came home with my little pile I
said I'd have nothing more to do with niggers.
Besides, I've gut religion. And I never did
love the blacks ; not to feel kind o' hearty towards
their shiny skins ; not even when I was

slipping' of 'em across the pond for the Cuban
market. Some skippers loved 'em like their
own brothers and confided 'em like their own
sons. Put their hearts, they did, into the 
tails. I never did.'

As for your religion,' said the Commodore,
and as for your virtue — there.' He made a
gesture which implied that he believed Stephen's
late-born virtue to be, like other flowers of autumn,
a pale and scentless weed. ' Well, that's
settled. Half the money shall be paid to you
before we ship, the other half when we get
back to Nassau ; the cases of notions I promised
you shall be yours. Did I ever treat an
old shipmate unfair, Steve ? '

Never, Cap.'

'Very well, then. If we're caught — but
that's unlikely — we shall have a taste of a Northern
prison ; if not, we'll have another merry

run, and another at the back of that. And
long may the war last, and happy may we
be!'

Stephen sprang to his feet and waved his
hat with a cheer.

Now, Steve ' — the Captain was more than
affable, he was affectionate to-day — ' there's
another thing. That gal of yom-s is as fine a
gal as one would wish to see. I don't remember,
nowhere, any gal as come nigh her for good
looks and a straight back ; and I conclude that
she hasn't got any call to make that fine figure
of hers look finer by stuffing' and things.'

No call whatsoever,' said her uncle ; ' she is
a Cobbledick, which accounts for her figure —
where she takes after me — as well as her face.
But if you come to gratitude '

Now, shipmate ' — the Commodore was
still lying back in the chair, with his feet upon

VOL. III. E

the back of another chair, and he spoke without
taking the trouble to remove the cigar from
his lips — ' I've took a fancy to that gal o' your,
and I tell you what I'll do for her — I will
marry her.'

You, Cap'en ? Marry my gell ? ' Here,
indeed, was condescension ! The greatest man
then having in the world, the most perfect hero,
the man who had set at defiance more laws
than any other man, proposed to marry into
Stephen's family ! He forgot that he had only
an hour before received Jack's announcement
without opposition ; he was dazzled by the brilliancy
of the prospect before him. The simple
honour of the proposal took away his breath.
So surprised and delighted was he that he even
forgot his projected marriage settlements, and
never once thought of even suggesting the subject
to his revered chief. Probably he knew



beforehand that the demand was not likely to
be well received. Gentlemen like Captain
Ramsay, with a wide experience of humanity,
do not as a rule receive statements which accompany
claims with a leaning in the direction of
credulity.

Look at me, Steve, ' said the Commodore.


Yes, Cap ; I am a-lookin' my level best,'
Stephen replied, gazing hard.

I am forty years of age ; I am hard as
nails ; I feel as young as a ship just out of dock ;
there are dollars in the locker and more coming
in as long as this providential and religious war
goes on. And that gell has fetched me as
I never thought to be fetched again ; she is
the kind of woman a man would not get tired
of Neat-handed, quick, as proud as Lucifer,
and as beautiful as a picture. I'm willing'

E 2

UBKARIf

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

to marry that gell; we'll take her over to
Nassau and marry her there, if you like ; or
we'll have the marriage here, if you like ; or
anywhere.'

Have you spoke the gell ? ' For Stephen
recollected suddenly that Jack had ' spoke '
the girl, and he felt that there might be
breakers ahead.

No ; you can tell her what she's got todo,'
said the Captain. ' When she knows, it
will be time for me to come along with soft
sawder.'

Then Stephen remembered another thing.
When I saw Liberty Wicks last,' he said,
and it was at Norfolk port, two years ago, he
told me that you were married. He'd seen
you somewheres North with your wife. Said
she was a sweet and beautiful young thing —
black hair and eyes — answered to the name of

Olive. You can't marry two wives, Cap ; not
even you can't do that, 'less you keep 'em to
different sides of the sea.'

The Captain's face darkened. Stephen knew
the expression ; it meant mischief for someone.

Liberty Wicks,' he said softly, ' was quite
right ; I was married. But now I'm free.'

Here his choler rose, and he swore vehemently
against some unknown person of the
opposite sex, whom Stephen supposed to be his
late wife.

Did she die. Cap ? Did you — now — chuck
her overboard ? '

He made this abominable suggestion as if
it were a most probable and even praiseworthy
thing to have been done.

No ; I wish I had. I found what seemed
a more artful plan. I took her to the state of
Indiana, and I di-forced her.'

Oh, you di-forced lier. And how did she
take that. Did she take it quiet ? '

No ; like will cats. She followed me
around ; last thing, she came over to Liverpool,
and found me out. There she is now.'

Ah,' Stephen sighed ; ' women never know
what's good for them. When we act for the
best, according' to our lights, they screeches for
the worst. You was too kind to her, Cap'en, I
doubt.'

The words which fell from his chief's lips
proved that if he had ever been too kind, he
was now repentant, and would do so no more.

It might be awkward, oughtn't it,' asked
Stephen, ' if that young woman was to turn up
at Nassau just when you'd got the hammocks
slung comfortable, and the cabbages planted in
the back garden, and the scarlet-runners climbing
pretty over the wall .^ '

The Captain remarked curtly that if a scene
of rural felicity, such as that described by the
Pilot, was to be so interrupted, chucking overboard
or something equivalent, short, direct,
and efficacious, would certainly follow.

Then,' said Stephen, ' here comes Avis,
and if you'll leave her to me, Cap, I'll speak to
her now, at once. She is a good girl, and her
feelings jumps with her uncle's and runs along
the same lines. A gay and a gallant sailor I've
always promised her ; but such a honour as this
was beyond her hopes and her prayers. For
which may we be truly thanked ! '

CHAPTEE VI.

NOTHING BUT A COMMON PICK-ME-UP.

Life had become suddenly delightful to Avis.
Wonderful it is to note the difference made by
a little sunshine in the heart. Deliverance had
come to her in the shape considered by maidens
the most desirable, namely, a lover. What
were past anxieties now ? No more worth
considering than the earache she might have
had when a child. She felt kindly disposed,
and even affectionate, towards her uncle — the
more so, of course, because she was going to
leave him. Odd, that parting should produce
much the same effect on the mind towards the
people you love and those you do not. Therefore,

when her uncle invited her to converse
with him for a few moments, she blushed a rosy
red, and her eyes Ht up, and her Hps parted
with the sweetest smile ever seen, for she
thought that Jack must have been with her
uncle. So he had, but the pride and splendour
of the second offer had, for the moment, completely
driven the first out of the old man's
head.

That is right, my dear,' Stephen began
kindly ; ' sit down and be comfortable.
Because I've got a thing to tell you that'll make
you jest jump clean out of your shoes for joy ;
never had a girl such a fine chance.'

What is it ? ' she asked, thinking, little
hypocrite, that she knew very well what it
was.

I've always said to myself, Avis,' he began
with solemnity, having just thought of a lie

quite new and appropriate to the occasion,
when I was considering' out in Carolina about
my little maid here in Cornwall, that the time
would come when a husband would have to be
found for her ; and I was glad that she was
been' taught to play the planner, because I was
wishful that she should have a husband out of
the common. Therefore you were brought upto
full blow-outs of duff, lie in your bunk as
long as you please, never ordered before the
mast, run about as you like, and all.'

That is quite true,' said Avis humbly. ' I
fear I have not been grateful enough.'

This is not the time,' said Stephen with
pride, ' to talk about gratitude ; I've found a
husband for you.'

Then he has spoken to you,' Avis said with
brightening eye. ' He said he should tell you
as soon as he could.'

The Captain, thought Stephen, forgetting
Jack for the moment, must have had a word
or two first. To deny it showed a lack of
candour ; still, it made his own task easier.

He certainly has spoken,' Stephen replied,
else how should I be a tellin' of it to you ?
So he spoke to you first, did he.^ Well, he
certainly always was a masterful man, with a
way of getting' over 'em most surprising.'

Why,' asked Avis, surprised, and not quite
understanding what was meant, ' how do you
know that ? '

How do I know that ? ' This in great
contempt. ' Have I got eyes ? Have I got
ears? Can I remember? Well now, Avis,
tell me just exactly what he said.'

I can't,' she replied : ' I can never tell anyone
what he said. But I can never forget what
he said.'

I don't want the soft sawder,' said her
uncle, leaning back in his chair. 'Tell me
now' — he looked very cunning — 'did he ask
you anything about the money ? '

No ; what money ? '

My money, stupid ! Did he ask how
much I had, and where it was stowed, and
if it was easy to get at, and could you find
your way to the place where it was kept?
No ? Well, that shows the story about the
little pile at Nassau may be true.' It might
also be taken to show how deep is the trust
reposed in each other by gentlemen of the
Pilot's school of honour. ' Did he say anything
about going away ? '

We were to go to London,' he said.

London, eh ? Ah ! he told me Nassau.
But that doesn't matter ; and perhaps he forgot
you was a sailor's gell, not to be frightened

with a little blue water. London, did lie say ?

Well, of all the artfully Did he promise

you anything ? '

Only — only that he would make me happy
always '

I know — I know ; they always say that.
Did he promise to give up his gambling ? '

Gambling ? Why, Jack does not gamble.'

" Jack," too,' the Pilot repeated with
admiration. ' What a man ! He'll be Timothy
to one, and Jack to another, and Julius Caesar
to a third. JSTot gamble, my dear? Why
there isn't — not even in Mexico nor Eooshia —
a man who will begin earlier nor leave off
later. Gamble? While a red cent is left
behind. As for betting, he'll bet on anything ;
if he was making a party up to go out and be
hanged, he'd lay his money on a bet to kick
longer than any of 'em. Not a gambler ?

Well, my dear, gambling', in a way, is a nice
quiet amusement ; it keeps a man out of mischief
; he can't be shooting' around, that's certain,
nor drinking' cock tails in a saloon, when
he's quiet and comfortable over a pack of cards
or a pair of dice. Into woman of sense need be
jealous of her husband so long as he's usefully
occupied that way with his friends. But, if I
was you. Avis '■ — here Mr. Cobbledick bent his
head and whispered — ' If I was you, and going
to marry him, I'd begin by getting all the
money — every dollar — in my own hands first.
Have that handed over before the parson
brings aboard the wedding' tackle. Let him
gamble with the next stroke o' good luck if he
likes.'

I cannot understand it,' she said. ' Oh !
I am sure you are mistaken.'

I am never mistaken How should I

be mistaken in such a simple matter ? As for
drink, I suppose it's no good skin' him to
make promises. They always ]promise, and
they never keep their word.'

But Jack does not drink.'

'Doesn't he?' The Pilot laughed.
That's what he has been telling you, I suppose.
Not drink ? I've seen him drink a
three-decker full o' Bourbon, and then ask for
more. No,' he continued reflectively, ' T think
about the drink you'd better let him alone.
I'm train' to advise you for the best. Avis, my
gell, because you are but a young thing, and
you know nothing of the world, though you've
been brought up in virtue and the maxims of
your uncle. I think you'd best let the whisky
alone. Only, I should say, when he is on the
biu-st, and pretty certain to come home at
night rain' around and dangerous in a peace-fill

house, I would contrive to let him have
the cabin all to himself, even if you had to
sleep on the bare boards.'

Good heavens ! ' cried Avis ; ' what does
this mean ? '

As for jealousy, now, you must remember
he's not a common man. They run after him
wherever he goes. Wherefore you keep your
eyes shut and your tongue quiet, whatever
you may see or hear. And then, my dear,
you'll have a peaceful and a loving' life, with
such a husband as all the world might envy.
But let him be. Else — well —-their.'

Avis shook her head in sheer bewilderment.


'I never thought,' the Pilot continued,
that so great a honour would be done you.
To me you owe it all. Some honest sailor lad,
I thought, skipper maybe of a coaster, or

officer in charge of a gentleman's yacht ; but
such a MAN ' — he put the word into capitals —
such an out-and-out, straight up and down
man as you're going to have. never occurred tome.
Why, girl, if you was going to marry a
duke, I couldn't be better pleased. Dukes
haven't been in command of clipper-ships,
dukes haven't been chased night and day fora
fortnight, dukes haven't been chased day and
night by British cruisers, and yet landed their
cargo safe, and never a man or woman lost all
the way from the Gold Coast to Cuba ; dukes
can't run a blockade. Why, he's been put in
the papers, he has ; they know all about him in
New York and Liverpool ; they point him out
when he lands, and when he drops into a saloon
they crowd around to stand him drinks.'

Avis clasped her hands to her head. Was
this a dream ?

VOL. III. p

Pray,' she said, ' will you tell me of whom
you are speaking ? '

Why, of Cap'en Ramsay, to be sure ; who
else should I be speaking of? '

I am speaking of Mr. Davenant. It is he,
not Captain Ramsay, who has asked me to marry
him. Has he not spoken to you about it ? '

I haven't set eyes on him, ' said the mendacious
one. ' This is a pretty thing to be told,
this is ; with Cap'en Ramsay — actually Cap'en
Ramsay — violin' out his hand ! '

He said he would speak to you at once,'
replied Avis.

If he had a-come to me, I should ha'
turned him out of the house. Who's Mr.
Davenant ? '

I have told him I would marry him.'

There was no mistake about the determination
with which the girl spoke.

Mr. Cobbledick replied in the manner customary
to the British sailor. Then the girl
repeated that she had given ]vir. Davenant her
word. Then he tried persuasion.

But you won't, Avis, you won't,' he said
in a voice which seemed calm, but had in it
that little tremor which sometimes betokens
a coming storm. ' You won't, my gell, will
ye?'

Oh ! uncle,' she replied, ' I have promised
him. And, besides, he is the only man I could
ever love.'

I don't know nothing about love,' said
Stephen. ' Look here, lass ; my old shipmate.
Captain Ramsay, as gallant a sailor as floats,
has asked me to let him marry my niece. Now,
I haven't got two nieces, but only one ; consequently,
if I don't give you to him, there's
nobody to give. Therefore, as my word is

passed, you must marry him. Wliat's your
word compared to mine ? '

But I cannot,' said the girL

'But you must, and you shall,' said lier
uncle, ' or I'll know the reason why. So
don't let us have no more words about it.
This is a very pretty state of things, when a
gell thinks she's going to marry who she
pleases.'

The girl did not burst into tears, nor did
she faint, nor did she turn deathly pale, nor did
her hands tremble, as they use in novels. Not
at all ; she only repeated, firmly standing before
her uncle :

I cannot, and I will not.'

Then,' said Mr. Cobbledick, ' I'll lock you
in your room till you do.'

No, you will not,' she said ; ' because if you
are rough and violent, I shall call out of the

window to the first who passes to fetch Mr.
Davenant.'

The enraged guardian swore that a dozen
Mr. Covenants should not prevent him from
doing what he liked with his own. Was she
not his niece ? Did she not owe him
obedience ? Had he not brought her up
with his own hands almost ! Wliat sort of
a return was this for all he had done for lier ?
Where was gratitude ? Where filial piety ?
Where the reverence due to parents and
guardians? As for Mr. Davenant, he should
learn the strength of a British sailor's arm,
with a club at the end of it. He should remember
the name of Cobbledick all his life ;
he should be sent back to his own place with
broken neck, broken ribs, broken arms, and
broken leo-s. Did Avis think he would let a
whipper-snapper, a counter-jumper, a measly

fine gentleman, a painted peacock, with no
money even, siicli as Mr. .Davenant, stand
between himself or Avis, and a man who was
a man ?

Avis let him run on without interruption.
Then she repeated that she had given her
word, and she would keep it.

By your own showing,' she said, ' you
would have me marry a man who is a gambler
and a drunkard, who breaks laws and lives a
violent life. Instead of him I have taken a
gentleman, who is, I am sure, a good and
true man. And he says that he loves me.'
The girl's eyes softened. Then at the sight
of this old man in undignified and foolish rage
they hardened adam. ' Have you not often
complained of the expense I have been to
you? Have you not told me to look about
for work to do ? Have you not threatened to

make me a barmaid? Have you ever shown
me the slightest affection, that I should consult
your Wishes ? '

That's the way with 'em.' Stephen sat
down, ready to weep over the ingratitude of
womankind. ' First you stint and spare for
'em, then you give 'em all they wants, pamper
'em, dress 'em up fine, and they turn upon
you. Gratitude? Not a ounce. Respect?
Devil a bit. Do what is best for 'em, he
awake and think how to make 'em happy, and
this is the end of it. Best way after all ' — he
shook his head as if this conviction was forced
upon him — ' to wallop 'em till they follow to
heel obedient, like them black Australian gins,
the only women in the world truly and religiously
reared.'

You will be reasonable,' Avis went on,
disregarding this attack upon lier sex. ' You

will reflect that I am not bound to consider
your wishes at all, as you are chiefly anxious
to first rid of me ; and that I have seen a
great deal of Mr. Davenant, while I know
nothing of Captain Ramsay except what you
have told me about him, which is quite enough
to make me refuse outright to marry him '

I know him,' interrupted Stephen with
rising wrath. 'Isn't that enough? Now I
will have no more talking. Will you marry
the Cap'en ? '

No, I will not.'

Then pack — put up your things, and pack.
Go, I say. Leave the house. Pack.'

Avis hesitated a moment.

Go to your lover ; let him take care of you.'

This was bringing tidings to a crisis, indeed.

The plain speech of which the honest
sailor prided himself had never been so plain

before. Avis had seen him grump}^, greedy,
lying, and drunk ; she knew that her uncle
based his conduct of life on maxims dished
in certain circles, and that he admired things
which many moralists condemn. She had
never before, however, seen in him the ungovernable
rage which now possessed him.
He stood, shaking both fists in her face ; he
spluttered and swore, and then could find no
words but more curses to express his meaning.
His face was purple with wrath.

It was, perhaps, fortunate for Avis — because
things looked much as if the Pilot would
begin to act upon his newly-discovered principle
for the training of girls, and wallop her
there and then — that the discussion was here
interrupted by the arrival on the scene of
Captain Ramsay himself.

Be off, I say. Out of the house with you.'

More spluttering. Then he saw, through
the tears of his righteous indignation, the very
man who was the innocent cause of it alL

Cap'en', he cried, hoarse with passion,
look at this here. Say, did ever man see the
like ! I've brought up this gell, since she was
a baby, in the laps and legs of luxury ; never
asked her to do nothing for me but once — that
was to-day — and she won't do it.'

What was it he wanted you to do, if I
may ask ? ' said the Commodore gravely.

He asked me to marry you,' said Avis.

And will you not ? ' He spoke softly and
solemnly, as if he had thought out the matter
with gravity and deliberation. ' Can you not ?
I am, it is true, older than you, and I may seem
an unfit companion for a girl so young and
so pretty. But I am not too old, child ; I amas
steady as ever, and as strong.'

'Always as strong,' murmured Stephen.
Nothing makes no difference with him. Not
years, nor Bourbon whisky, nor Jamaica rum,
nor six-shooters in a difficulty, nor English
cruisers, nor Yankee blockade. Here's a Max
for you.'

Can you not regard me with kindness.
Avis ? ' the hero went on.

I am engaged to another man,' she replied
simply.

His manner was beautiful ; it was at once
respectful to himself and to the young lady ;
his voice was gentle, and his eyes were soft ;
he looked almost good.

I am very unfortunate,' he said ; ' we
sailors spend our lives apart from the refinement
of women ; we are apt to get rough and coarse
I know that ; and when I saw you first, Miss
Avis, you looked so sweet and good that I said

to myself, '' Here is a girl who would lead a
man to heaven, even against his will." And you
are really engaged ? '

'I cannot break it,' she said; ' I would not,
if I could.'

No need then to say what I hoped to say ;
that all my dollars and my estates are yours if
you will take me.' Stephen began to wonder
what estates were these. ' There are gardens
and palaces, flowers, fruits, horses and carriages,
and a faithful servant to command — myself.'

He smiled sadly as he spoke.

Avis shook her head.

It is impossible,' she said.

Then Stephen broke out again.

Come,' he cried, ' don't let us waste time ;
get out, and let me see your face no more.
Come, Cap'en, don't take on; there's lots of
better girls than her. Let her go. I give you

five minutes.' He braced himself up as if fora
tremendous effort. ' And now you have
drove me to it, I've more to tell you '

Easy, Stephen,' said the Captain.

Lucky for her,' the old man growled,
that you came in. But she shall hear it. I
thought to die with the secret. Nobody
shouldn't know nothing about it, only me.
Fine airs you've gave yourself all along.
Pride that was — pride in being a Cobbledick.
That's what made her stick out her chin and
hold up her petticoats, wasn't it ? Gar And all
for nought ; for now I'll tell you, madam, that
you're no more a Cobbledick than the Cap'en
here — not a touch of the Cobbledick about you,
as might be known by you' conduces. For,
whereas a true-born Cobbledick ever loves a
sailor, and would never marry, could she see
her way out of it, any but such, here we see

you, to the shame and disgrace of Boscastle
port — which is proud of the Cobbledicks, little
though it be — refusing a Nero, and takin' up
with a mere landholder and counter-skipper.'

If I am not of your family,' asked the girl,
as soon as she could get in a word, ' who
ami?'

You are nothing but a Common Pick-meus.'
Stephen pronounced these words with
peculiar emphasis, so as to bring out the full
measure of the contempt involved. ' A Common
Pick-me-up, you were.'

'What is that?'

You was found (by me) on a raft in the
Bay of Bengal ; picked up (by me) off of that
raft. You was in the arms of a dead Indian
ayah. There was three sailors on that raft who
was also dead. You was dropped up in four
silk endangers when we carried you off to the

ship, a baby of a year old or thereabouts, and
gave you to a egress to muse. You a Cobble-dick
? With an ayah. Dropped in endangers.
On a raft. In the middle of the starved sailors.
Nursed by a negress. A Common-Pick-me-up ! '

The Pilot spoke as if the recovery of babies
in this manner was so common as to entail disgrace
upon all so found.

Did you find nothing more about me ? '

'No. The men searched the pockets of
the dead sailors for their money. Then they
chucked them overboard and broke up the
raft, because such things is dangerous. You're
nobody's daughter, you are.'

At all events,' said Avis quietly, for even
a worm will turn, ' it is some kind of relief to
know that I am not yours, nor the daughter of
anybody connected with you.'

As for your names,' he went on, ' I gave

you the name of Avis because it was my
mother's, and Cobbledick because it was my
own. Give me them names back. Avis * —
here he made a gesture as of one who takes
a thing from another and dashes it on the
ground — 'Avis, now you've got no Christian
name to your back. Cobbledick ' — ^liere he
made a similar gesture — ' Cobbledick, now
you've got no surname to your back ; and
now, my Lady No Name, you may pack. You
and your Mr. Davenant.'

The Captain stepped forward.

Pardon me, Miss Avis, are you engaged to
Mr. Davenant, the young gentleman at the
hotel ? I am sorry indeed that my unfortunate
aspiration ' — he smiled sadly — ' should have led
to these disagreeable consequences. Had I
been aware of your engagement, T should
have been the last '

Oh ! yes, yes,' said Avis ; ' but I am
nearly driven mad by this man's talk and
violence. Let me go.'

Yes, let her go ; a Common Pick-me-up ! '

Mr. Cobbledick waved his arms and shook
his head, with that well-known gesture of contempt,
chiefly practised by ladies of the lower
rank, which consists in tightly pressing your
mouth and closing your eyes, while you shake
your head.

Stay, Stephen.' The Captain pushed him
gently back into his chair. ' We must not
manage things in this way. If Miss Avis cannot
see her way — being already promised to
a happier man — she must not be abused or
ill-treated. Though, no doubt, you mean it for
the best.'

Any way,' said Stephen, ' she knows the
truth now. And she can go.'

VOL. III. G

No, Stephen, she cannot go ' — Captain
Ramsay stood between them like the guardian
angel, or the representative genius, of benevolence
— ' things must not be managed in that
way. Miss Avis will remember that, niece or
not, she has enjoyed your protection for eighteen
years. You, my old comrade ' — it was remarkable
how the gallant Commodore seemed to
drop the American accent altogether — 'you
will remember how she has become a credit to
your liberality, and stands before you a perfect
as well as a beautiful lady. And, for such a
lady, give me England.'

I have heard you say, Cap'en, that New
York or Baltimore beats all creation.'

When I was there, old friend. But, when
one is in England, one is bound to confess that
English beauty bears the palm. Come now,
Stephen, you were disappointed. You hoped

that Avis would take the offer of an old friend
and comrade of your own. Well, she can't.
Perhaps if she had not been engaged, there
would have been a chance. But we are too
late. Very good, then. I withdraw, with an
apology. Since you cannot think of me. Avis,
let me only say that I shall never marry, or
think of another woman again.'

Oh, Lord ! ' cried Stephen.

Because your image will never be obliterated
from my heart.' This was very noble and
grand. It seemed to do good to all alike. ' I
had hoped,' the Commodore went on, ' to have
settled down, after this run, to that beautiful
life led by the Southern planters, cheered by
the affection of an English wife and the devotion
of my faithful blacks.'

'With a rattan and a cow-hide,' Stephen
interposed, by way of illustrating the depth

G 2

of negro affection, and its cheaply-rooted

nature.

Since that is not to be, I must give up the

thought of it. Meantime, my dear young lady,
this has been a painful scene for all concerned.
I am sure you will agree with me that it is best
forgotten. And if our friend here, whose heart
is cast in the truest mould of friendship, has
forgotten, in his zeal for me, what is due to a
delicately brought up woman, you will, I am
sure, forgive him.' Stephen stared and gasped.
What could be the meaning of this ? ' You
have a perfect right,' continued the Captain,
to marry whom you please. It will be better,
however, for you to have your guardian's
consent ; and if Mr. Davenant, as I doubt not
he will, proves to be a moral sort of man, of
sound principles, no opposition will* be made,
and all shall be as you wish.'

Lord ! ' murmured Stephen, not knowing
what to make of this. Never had he seen the
Captain so silky, so porte, so considerate.

My dear,' the Captain went on, taking
A vis's hand in his, and pressing it in paternal
fashion, ' I am sure we shall all part friends.
Stephen, you used hard words to your ward.'

I did,' said Stephen, perceiving that the
admission was expected of him.

Tell her you are sorry.'

I am sorry,' said Stephen, obedient to
command.

And that you did not mean them.'

Never meant 'em,' he repeated.

Is it true,' asked Avis, ' about the raft? '

That,' said Stephen, ' is Gospel of St.
Matthew truth. Dropped up you were in
four red silk endangers. Latitude about
twenty south, and, as for longitude, why, it

might have been anywheres north-east of
Ceylon. Pity we where in such a hurry, because
else we should have searched for papers
and letters. Well, I'm sorry I told you, that's
a fact.'

And all the stories about my mother being
a Knobling '

Go on, let me have it,' said Stephen.

And her dying at Jamaica ; and my
father and the shark ; and the cousin who was
transported '

All lies, my gell ; lies and base deceptions,
invented to put you off your guard, and not to
suspect them endangers.'

What am I to call myself, then ? '

Well,' said Stephen, ' since things are

smoothed over, I don't greatly mind if you

go on been' Avis Cobbledick. No one needn't

know ; so you can go on a sticking' out your

chin with the same pride in your family as you
always have a stuck it out.'

The face of her guardian was restored to
its usual expression of joviality mingled with
cunning ; the Captain, seated in a chair, was
nursing his chin in his hand, thoughtfully and
sadly.

I will go now, I think,' she said. ' Mr.
Cobbledick, I thank you for your care of me.
As I am not your niece at all, I will — I will
ask Jack if we cannot somehow pay something
of that heavy debt which I owe you. Captain
Ramsay, I am deeply grateful for your forbearance.'


She held out her hand. He stooped and
kissed it.

Indeed,' he said, ' I have done nothing. I
hope, however, that I may win your trust and,
perhaps, your friendship.'

As Avis walked slowly away lie tried, butin
vain, to reconcile the picture drawn by Mr.
Cobbledick of this hero, the drunkard and
gambler, with the man himself, so mild, so
gentle, and so beautifully spoken.

Cap'en,' whispered Stephen hoarsely,
what the blazes does this mean ? '

It means,' replied Captain Ramsay, ' that
there are more ways than one for a man to
get Avhat he wants. If it suits me to sin?
small and pretty — hymn-books is the word.'

Stephen shook his head ; this was beyond
him.

About this raft business, Steve ? '

All true, Cap. Every word true.'

You are such an almighty liar, as a
general rule '

Ask anybody in this port of Boscastle,
where I was born, whether I had e'er a

brother or a sister. A gell can't be a man's
niece when that man is a only child. Likewise
a orphan.'

She might be your daughter.'

I've not got no daughters. Picked her
off of a raft, I did — just as T told her — dropped
in four endangers, with five-and-twenty dead
niggers around. In the China seas.'

Then, what in thunder made you bring
up the child ? '

'I put it this way, Cap'en. I said to
myself: " Here's a child of respectable people,
'cos she's got a nurse all to herself; and the
endangers was the very best. They'll think
she's drowned. Wait a bit. When she's four
years old, or risen' five, a age when children
are pretty, I'll advertise for her parents, and
I will take the reward." '

This, the Captain assured him, was a prudent

and far-seeing design. But wliy had lie
not carried it out ?

Because,' Stephen explained, ' I forgot the
child. When I was away to North Carolina,
in the piloting line, I forgot her altogether ;
and there she was eaten' her head off, and my
money melting' away without my knowledge.
Such wickedness as no one never dreamed of,
with the works not far off; which was
meant by heaven, and built by religious
people, for Pick-me-ups, and such as are
widowers and in affliction, and dependent on
their uncles.'

This seemed like a faint reminiscence of
the Litany, but the allusion was lost on
Captain Ramsay, who had not yet ' found
religion.'

Then why did you call her your niece when
you came home .^ '

I couldn't let on about the raft, bless you.
Why, she might ha' chained the reward herself.'

The reward was a fixed idea with him, just
as the marriage settlement had become, only
the former was the growth of years.

As it is,' he murmured, ' I've done wronging
tellin' her. But the temptation was great
to take down her pride. There, perhaps she
won't think of it, and I can advertise and get
the reward all the same.'

Steve,' said the Captain, clapping him on
the shoulder, ' you've got a head after all. The
reward is not unlikely to come off. But we
must move carefully.'

'We?'

'Yes, we. I shall be entitled to all the
reward if there is any. But I'm not going to
play it low on an old shipmate, and you shall
have a fourth of whatever comes.'

What on birth ha' you got to do with it,
Cap'en?'

Only this ; that I am going to be the

lady's husband, and as such, you see, Steve

Ah ! you shouldn't let out little secrets. That
was always your great fault.'

CHAPTEE VII.

THE CLEVERNESS OF THE COMMODORE.

If that is what you mean,' said Stephen
blankly, ' hang me if I know how you are
going' to do it. First, you tells the girl you
are very sorry and you wish you hadn't spoke.
Next, you sends your love to her spark.
After tellin' her, straight, that you don't want
her no more, and you're sorry you spoke, you

tell me Hang me if I know what you

mean.'

I did not think you would. Listen now,
while I give the sailing orders. You get them
in your head tight, and you go on obeying
them orders and no others, and then you
shall see.'

He then proceeded in brief but intelligible
terms to dictate those orders. The Pilot
nodded his head as they fell one by one from
his superior officer's lips. They were easy to
learn and to execute, but harder to understand.
As his captain proceeded, however,
the good old man's face lit up with surprise,
admiration, and delight. For a simpler plan
of diabolical villainy was never before unfolded.
It was almost too simple. Stephen
slapped his leg as the plan unfolded itself, till
the echoes were awakened among the rocks
and resounded from cliff to cliff like a volley
of musketry. These gestures he naturally
accompanied With a paean of congratulation
and joy, consisting entirely of those interjections
which are not found in grammars, yet
are generally sought after by persons who aim
at straightforward clearness rather than elegance
of language.

I always said it ! ' he cried, when the
orders had been fully laid down. ' I always
said it ! ' He looked at the captain with the
most profound admiration. ' Never a man in
all the world his equal for devilment and craft !
Who'd ha' thought of that, now ? '

Not you, Steve, certainly. Is this better
than turning the gal out o' doors, and driving
her into the arms of her chap ? I guess,
Steve, you don't quite know my sort of stuff
yet.'

Better ! — ah ! ' Stephen drew a long
breath. ' And now, considering' the high
honour to which Avis is going' to be raised,
I'm only sorry I told her anything at all about
the raft. She'll only be fretting', when it's allover,
that she isn't a Cobbledick after all, just
to give her a position more equal to her future
rank.'

You think the scheme worth trying,
then ? '

It will reel off, Cap'en, like a heaven' of
the log. No violence ; no quarrelling' ; no
crying' and forcing' ; and the end of the story
most beautiful. I always did like a story to
end well. So they lived happy ever afterwards,
and had ten sweet children, nine of
'em twins.'

The Pilot spent the rest of his day in a
kind of exaltation ; he felt light of heart ; his
soul was merry within him. And when Jack
Davenant, whom Avis had without delay informed
of this new revelation respecting the
raft, came for more information, he was received
with a hilarity and joyousness which
made him suspect strong waters. For once
he was wrong. Stephen was perfectly sober
and unfeignedly glad and happy.

You are always welcome, Mr. Davenant,'
he exclaimed. ' Come in and sit down. Never
mind the marriage settlements. The Cobble-ticks,
sir (Avis's mother having been a Knob-ling,
also a most respectable family), can afford
to be generous.'

How about the raft story, then ? '
Oh ! yes.' He was not in the least disconcerted.
'The raft, Mr. Davenant, is the
truth. But I've always been accustomed to
consider that dear gell as my niece, so that
the family, as it were, growed. I shall be
sorry to lose the Nothings, too, for they're a
good stock to know and to talk about.'
Then she is not your niece at all ? '
Not at all, which brings my generous
conduct out in a more beautiful light.'

Well, I'm glad of that anyhow. Now
tell me the story of the raft over again.'

VOL, III. II

'We picked up the raft in the Gulf of
Mexico about two days' run to the west of
Cuba, whither we were bound.' Jack remarked
that this statement contradicted the
previous one as to the ]position of the raft.
No one was aboard that raft except the dead
ayah and the child.' Here again another
alteration. ' We took the child aboard without
waiting to search for proofs of who she
might be, and we sailed away.' Another, buta
trifling variation in the story.

Ah ! what was your cargo ? Could it not
wait while you had the common curiosity to
find out, if possible, who the child might
be?'

My cargoes, in those days, young gentleman,
was the kind that spile a good deal by
keeping', particularly if there's any part of it
gone off a bit, so to say, Alien it comes aboard.

Some o' mine, that trip, had already begun to
spile

Oranges, fruit, lemons ? '

No, sir, not fruit. A kind of cargo it
was which certain piratical cruisers pretending'
to be British were fond of scooping' up for
themselves. Lord ! the losses I've seen in that
kind of cargo ; a whole shipload I've seen
tossed overboard before now to save the
skipper and his ship. And the sharks as busy
as snapping-turtles round that ship.'

'Do you mean ' Jack stopped, because
he was afraid, in a sense, to say the
word.

I mean niggers. Three hundred niggers
I had aboard that ship, spin' fast for want
of breathing' room, fresh air, fresh water, and
fresh provisions. Three hundred and sixty-five,
as many as the days in the year, I landed

on the hospitable shore of Cuba. But the
number that spiled on the way you would
hardly believe, sir. Well, the little maid was
very soon aboard, and a comfortable negress
had her in a jiffy, and there we were.*

I wonder if this man can tell the truth
said Jack.

Where she came from, who she was, I
don't know no more than you. As for her
name, I give it to her, like I give her everything
she owns, with a noble education and
no expense. Whereas, for marriage settlements
'

Your nobility is well known and acknowledged,
Mr. Cobbledick. Also your command
of temper when Avis does not act as you
would wish.'

She's been complaining', has she ? Well,
Mr. Davenant, there's no call for you to find

fault. Wait till you're married and found her
out. As for that, too — ' He remembered the
sailing orders, and stopped himself after one
broad grin, which indeed he could not repress.
As for that, I own I did quietly whisper, as
it were, when she told me about your offer,
that my wishes lay other ways and I'd rather
see her take up with a sailor. I pointed out
her booty to her kind, and clear, and plain.
If she won't do that booty, I can't help it,
can I ? '

But you point out duty with too many —
well, too strongly.'

Sailors must be swore to ; what's good
afloat is good ashore. No sailors in the world
so smart as our'n. The reason why is that
they're properly swore to both young and old.
That done Avis no harm. As for you, Mr.
Davenant, why, if she will have you, and

you're still for your fancy, we must make the
best of a bad bargain.'

Jack laughed.

'Not such a very bad bargain, I hope,'
he said. 'Well, Mr. Cobbledick, I shall do
my best to make Avis as happy as she deserves.'


I did my best, too,' grumbled her guardian.
' And Avhat's come of it ? She won't
even take the man I want her to marry. If I'd
asked her for any big thing nov, it would
have been different — I'm too old to expect
much gratitude ; but for such a trifle as that —
just to tell her other young man that she can't
keep company with him no longer because
a better feller has put into port — their! it's
enough to make a British sailor never do a
honourable and generous thing no more.
Better, almost, have left her on the raft.'

Jack laughed again.

'Why, surely you can't blame a girl for
taking the man of her own heart ? '

'Cells must do as they're told. They've
got no business to have no heart.'

Well, she is not your niece, by your
own showing, so I suppose she can do as she
likes. Now I want to marry her as soon as
I possibly can. Meantime you will, I suppose,
allow her to remain here ; of course I will pay
for her board.'

Here the Pilot began a series of winks,
nods, and pantomimic gestures indicative of
caution ; he looked out of the window and
closed it carefully ; he opened the door, and
looked about to see if there were any listeners.
Finally, he sat down again, and whispered
hoarsely :

You'll have to take her soon, young

gentleman. The sooner the better. The
Commodore, who's not a man to lose his time,

has come here to What do you think

he's here for ? '

I don't know.'

To ship me as one of his officers. Nothing
less. For he's got a ship and we're off in a
fortnight. Says the Cap'en ; " Give me old
Steve. He's sixty, but he's tough. Give me
Steve at any price." '

Where are you going ? ' Jack knew very
well, but it seemed polite to ask.

Where we air a-going is a secret. Likewise
the ship and all. It's a state secret, and
they would stop her in port if they guessed
that a Secesh officer was her captain.'

Is she another Alabama, then ? *

Maybe ; maybe.' Stephen wagged his
head mysteriously. ' Never mind that. Keep

the secret, young man, or I'm hanged if you
shall get the girl after all. The question for
you is : Can you take her just as she is, ina
fortnight's time ? '

I can take her to-day, if you like.'

Very good. Next question. When you've
got her, I suppose you are able to keep
her?'

I am a painter. I hope to be able to
keep her.'

A painter ! ' Stephen took him for something
superior in the house-painting line, and
spoke with the greatest contempt. ' A painter !
To think that gell has throned away a sailor,
and such a sailor as the Commodore, for a
painter.'

Yet even a painter may make money,'
said the unfortunate artist.

Well, well. And where does your trade

lie ? Where is your shop ? Air you a journeyman
or air you a master ? '

I work in London, where my shop is, and,
as I am paid by the job, I suppose I am only a
journeyman.'

Here's a downfall ! ' Stephen spread his
hands in dismay. ' Yesterday the gell was
a Cobbledick, her mother was a Knobling,
and she might ha' married Captain Ramsay,
himself. To-day she is a Common Pick-meus,
With never a name to her back, and
she's going' to marry a journeyman painter,
paid by the job. Ah ! pride, pride, which
Cometh before a squall.'

A fortnight,' Jack reflected. ' To-day is
Monday. If I go to town tomorrow, I can
manage something. We can go into lodgings
for a while. I could get back on Saturday, and
we might be married on Monday. That will

do. You may give away the bride, if you
like;

As there's no marriage settlements,' said
Stephen, shaking his head, and thinking that
he could not sell her as he had proposed,
I repose I must give her away. But she
ought to fetch a thousand pounds at least.
Make it five hundred, Mr. Davenant, and
pay up before you start,' here he could not
repress another smile, which broadened to a
grin, ' and we will call it square.'

'Old Stephen, dear Avis,' said Jack, presently
recounting his interview, ' is not, I
suppose, your uncle, though I confess to
doubts about the raft story. Wien a man
cannot give the details twice in the same
afternoon without varying them in every particular,
I should say that the story would not
be taken as evidence.'

I must be someone's daughter, Jack.'

You probably came straight down from
heaven, my darling.'

I always set down on paper as few of the
raptures of lovers as is consistent with conveying
a clear impression that there were raptures.
It will be seen from this specimen
what nonsense Jack was capable of talking,
and how very much he was in love.

First,' said Avis, ' I used to be ashamed
of having no relations except an unknown
uncle in America. Next, I began to think ita
distinction. The other girls had fathers and
mothers; one's father was a doctor, and another
a farmer, and another a lawyer, and soon
; they had received their stations in the
nursery. Mine was all to come. Perhaps, I
thought, it might never come. I was to bea
princess ; the long-lost heiress of a great

estate ; I was to be a heroine of romance.
They were all silly about me, and I suppose
I was silly about myself. Then there did
come as it seemed the telling of the riddle.
It was a lame ending, and I was a poor weak
creature to make myself unhappy over my fate.
Yet it seemed dreadful to be told to go and
work: to be a lady's-maid, or a barmaid.
And, though he had been generous to me, I
could not feel that Stephen was quite what
one would look for in a guardian and a father's
brother.'

'The Knobling connection was certainly
one to be forgotten,' said Jack. 'Poor Avis!
her mother's brother — a most distinguished
man — was transported for twenty years for
forging the port admiral's signature. Mr.
Cobbledick has got great powers, my dear.'

But now, although it is a relief — yes.

Jack, a great relief to know that this unpleasant
old man is not my uncle, remember
that I have no name. Cobbledick is
not pretty, but one gets used to it.'

I thought it very pretty till this afternoon,'
said Jack ; ' now I know what an
ugly name it is. You shall change it, my
darling, for Davenant this day week.'

Oh ! Jack, not so soon ; give me time.'

Not a day longer, my dear. I feel as
if I had been too long without you, years too
long ; we ought to have been together ever
since you were born.'

Then they planned their future lives. Other
married couples have troubles ; this pair resolved
upon having none ; their path stretched
before them bathed in sunshine, here and there
shaded by rows of the most beautiful trees ; all
the road was strewn with flowers ; there

seemed no end of sunny days and warmth
and happiness and love. It is also a part of
Solomon's wondrous way of man and a maid
that this dream of the perfect life should
come once and for ever be remembered.
The clouds hide the sun, and the pathway
grows painful as the years run on. Well
if the love remain, because the dream of
youth has become at the end to be the
recollection of a life.

Be sure that Avis told her lover of the surprising
and extraordinary behaviour of Captain
Kamsay, who had shown a chivalrous courtesy
worthy of the chivalrous South. She also told,
and it was ascribed to the vivid imagination of
the old man, how Stephen had painted this
true-bred gentleman in the blackest colours.
Jack, for his part, made severe animadversions
on the blindness of people who practise the

trade of poet. ' He called him a tiger,' said
Jack indignantly.

That evening he sought an opportunity of
speaking to Captain Gainsay in the usual place
of resort.

J have to thank you sir,' he said, ' for your
great courtesy and forbearance in the matter of
a certain young lady.'

'Say no more, Mr. Davenant,' said the
Captain. 'A man must be a mean skunk to
force himself on a young lady when she's
already promised. I beg your pardon, sir, most
sincerely, for intruding to the extent I did.
Had I known earlier, I should not have done so.
Shake hands, sir, and take a whisky cocktail
made in Baltimore style. I've taught them
how to do it.'

Friendly relations thus established. Captain
Ramsay, still speaking in a slow gentle way,

and with thought, as if he was carefully looking
for the right word and no other, to express his
opinion, went on to assure Jack that he
lamented very profoundly his late arrival on
the field : that he was one of those who believe
in the goodness of woman and the perfectibility
of human nature by the shining example of
that goodness ; that he was certain from observation
and experience of good women, among
whom, he said, his lot when ashore had been
chiefly cast, that Avis was as good as she was
beautiful. These and many other beautiful
and comforting things he said. And then,
when the heart of Jack was really warming to
him, as to a man who had seen many men and
their manners, and yet preserved a certain
virginal purity of thought which made him
blush for himself, the Captain called for another
cocktail.

VOL. III. I

It was irritating to observe the scowl with
which the Poet, who was present, sat on his
side of the settle and listened to this conversation.


From sentiments, the Captain passed to the
narration of deeds. These had no bearing, it
is true, on the ennobling nature of love, but
they brought out his character in vivid light asa
practiser of a code which, though not English,
yet seemed in some respects justifiable.

And really,' Jack subsequently confessed,
it was not till afterwards that I found out that
he had been simply confessing himself a murderer.'


In the Southern States,' he said, ' men
become brothers. If you will be brothers with
me, Mr. Davenant, I guess it may be good,
some day, for one of us. For when two men
air brothers, they air bound to fight for each

other, to spring a bowie or a six-shooter for
each other at a moment's notice ; not to desert
each other. I had a brother once down in
Texas. Now, he was murdered. Wal, gentlemen,
every time I land in Galveston, which
happens once in two years, or thereabouts, I go
for those murderers with a rifle, a knife, and a
peur of revolvers. I do not say that I land one
at every visit, for there were ten ; but now, as
near as I can count, there are only three, and
one is steered and gone up country, where I
doubt I shall never find him. The other two
air fighting' the battles of the Lord in Dixie's
Land : wherefore, for the present, they know
that they air safe. Once the war is over and
the Yank (as he will be) clawed up so that
his own mother won't know him again, I shall
make for those murderers again, even if they
haven't got a leg nor an arm left. Because I

I 2

am bound to remember my brother. And so,
Mr. Davenant, if you please, we will be
brothers. I envy you your wife, that's a fact.
And I shall go in mourning for being too late
for that beautiful young thing all the days of
my life. But you've won her. Wherefore,
here is my hand, fair and honest, and brothers
we shall be.'

Who could resist such an appeal to the
deeper feelings of the heart ? Not Jack, who
mutely held out his hand and grasped the
hand of the American. As he did so
he thought he heard the Poet murmuring
softly :

He is a tiger — a man-eater ! '

Steve Cobbledick tells me,' the Captain
went on, ' that you are going to London tomorrow
? '

Yes, for a few days only. I have,' said

Jack, with an expressive blush, ' a few preparations
to make.'

Nat 'rally. And you come back —-when ? '

On Saturday. To be married on Monday.'

Just then a telegram was brought to the

Captain. He opened it, read it, threw the

paper into the fire, and stroked his chin

thoughtfully.

You come back on Saturday. Good. Do
not be later, because we, Steve Cobbledick and
I, have very important business to look after
about then. It would be a pity if you were to
come after we were gone.'

Yes,' said Jack ; ' I should like to see
you off.'

'A great pity it would be,' said Captain
Ramsay. ' Ah ! Mr. Davenant, if you were
not going to be married, what a time you
might have with us ! What a time ! '

Are you not satisfied with one Alabama ? '

Into ; nor with a hundred, provided we
drive the Yanks off the seas ; and provided,
if there be a row, that England pays. You
would enjoy yourself very much with us, Mr.
Davenant, I assure you, particularly ' — he
added this with a frank, winning smile — ' if
you knew who was going to be aboard with
us. You'll remember the words, won't you,
now ? I say you'd be uncommon happy with
us, particularly if you knew, beforehand, who
was going to be a passenger aboard.'

Jack laughed. ' I will remember,' he said.

A tiger,' murmured the Poet, irreconcilable.


In the morning, with fond farewells. Jack
took leave of his fiancee.

'It is only for a week,' he said, while
she clung to him and wept. ' Only for a

week, my Avis. I go to make my darling a
nest.'

'I cannot bear to let you go, Jack.
Oh ! it is all like a dream to me. I came
here in a dream of hope. It changed to a
dream of gloom and despair ; then came another
dream — of you, my lover ; and I have
lost my name and the people whom I thought
to have found. Stow you are going away.
How do I know that I shall not tomorrow
awake and find that you, too, are a dream ? '

He took off his ring, a simple seal, his
watch and his chain. ' Keep them,' he said,
for me. Wear the watch and chain. Hang
the ring upon the chain, and when you look
at them, think I am no ghost or phantom
of a troubled brain, because no ghost who ever
walked was able to carry a watch and chain.'

Yet,' she said — ' yet, I cannot bear to let

you go. A week ; a whole week. And what
may happen, meantime ? '

What shoukl happen, dearest ? You are
surrounded by friends. The Poet stays hereto
keep watch over you. Captain Ramsay will
suffer no wrong or harm to be done you
Courage, dear.'

I am foolish,' she said. ' Yet it is so hard
to let you go, even for a week. I am not afraid
of Stephen, nor of anything that I can tell you.
Yet, Jack, I am afraid.'

He kissed her again and again ; he assured
her that there was nothing in the world to fear ;
he promised to write every day ; he pictured
his speedy return — why, if he came back on
Saturday, it would only be for a five days'
absence; he made her blush by bidding her
think of the next Monday — Saint Monday — day
ever to be blessed and held most holy — when

he should stand beside her at the alar. And
so, at last, because time must be obeyed, he
caught her in his arms and kissed a last farewell.
Alas ! that kiss was the last of Jack that
the girl would have to remember for many a
weary day.

It was on Tuesday, then, that Jack Davenant
left Boscastle, driving to Launceston to
catch the train. He beo-cred the Poet, before
he went away, to keep Avis under his special
charge while he was away : to amuse her,
guard her, and see that no harm happened to
her ; a charge which the Poet accepted with
great zeal and friendliness. There was then
nothing to fear : Captain Ramsay was entirely
to be trusted — a little rough in his expressions,
but a man of greatly noble mind ; Stephen,
who certainly had been violent before, would

not venture to break out again : everything was
settled and comfortable. Yet, in spite of assurances,
repeated 'again and again to himself,
he departed for London unaccountably anxious.
Perhaps Avis's terrors infected him. He felt
the sudden chill which comes before a storm.
The power of prophecy, for some wonderful
reason, means the power of predicting the
approach of unpleasantness. Cassandra, Jeremiah,
and Mr. Grey utter their prophecies, but
they are never of cheerful nature. Salon is
to be made desolate ; Troy is to be destroyed ;
Tyre is to be a rock for the spreading of nets ;
England is to be levelled with Holland, and soon.
Never anything to make us contemplate
the future with satisfaction. Not only Ahab
and his grandsons, but also all mankind, have
found the prophets profoundly melancholy.
Why have there been no joyous foretellers,

jovial seers, cheerful praises of man's heart
by painting a future in which there shall be
no injustice, no hard times, and peace, prosperity,
and contentment for all alike? There
must be some good times coming. Sad as the
history of man has been, there has certainly
been a considerable improvement in cheerfulness,
which we hope may continue. And when
I go into the prophetic line, it will be to proclaim,
in the immediate future, the most delightful
time imaginable, to prepare for which
we shall hang or imprison all kings, commanders
of armies, inventors of arms, troublers
of the peace, promoters of discontent, professional
agitators, and disagreeable people. The
present days, indeed, have become so eminently
uncomfortable that it is almost time to begin
making this announcement.

The Poet mounted guard with zeal. He

was suspicious of the old man, whose sudden
change of front was inexplicable ; he was
suspicious of the gentleness assumed by the
American ; such suavity was unnatural in a
person of his calling and his self-confessed
antecedents. Yet what harm could they do ?

It seemed on the first day of Jack's absence
as if Captain Ramsay, in his zeal for his
brother,' was also mounting guard for the
protection of the girl against unknown dangers.
For he followed her about, and left the Poet
few opportunities of talking to her alone. Now
he so thoroughly disliked the American that
he could not bear even his presence. On the
second day, however, he got her to walk with
him on the cliffs, and of course they talked of
Jack all the time.

Stephen,' she said, ' seems to have forgotten
his disappointment. I suppose it is

because Captain Ramsay has behaved with so
much consideration. I hope, at least, that you
have repented of your bad opinion of him ? '

ISTot at all. I have a worse opinion of
him than ever.'

'But that is surely prejudice. Eemember
how generous he has been.'

I know. That is, I know what you mean.
What I cannot understand is — why he puts on
this new air of virtue ; I don't understand.'

But you may be wrong.'

Yes,' said the Poet. ' I thought when I
saw him first that he looked and talked like a
tiger. All the same, he may be a lamb.'

To-day is Wednesday,' Avis went on, ' and
Jack will be with us again on Saturday. I had
a letter to-day. It is the second letter, only
the second letter that I have ever had in all
my life. The first was a dreadful letter from

my — from Stephen, telling me to leave school
and go to him. But the second — oh ! how do
men learn to say such beautiful things ? '
Because they feel them, perhaps.'
Let us sit down,' said Avis, sighing, ' and
you shall tell me all about Jack, and what he
was like when he was a boy. I am sure you
will have nothing but what is good to tell
me.'

This was on the Wednesday morning. The
reason why Avis was left to the Poet by
Captain Ramsay was that he was having a
serious conversation with Stephen. The Maryland,
he told him, had already left Liverpool ;
she would arrive off Boscastle Port about noon
the next day. Therefore it behoved Stephen
to make such arrangements as might be necessary
for immediate departure. Ramsay gave
him, in fulfilment of the agreement, the sum of

three hundred and seventy-five pounds in Bank
of England notes, half his pay as pilot from
Nassau to Wilmington and back, with a written
agreement for the other half on the completion
of the round trip ; and then they laid their
heads together and whispered, though no one
was within earshot, for a good half hour. When
two men whisper together it is generally safe
to consider that they mean mischief to some
person or persons. When these two men are
old slavers, filibusters, blockade-runners, and
the like, it is quite safe to consider that they
mean mischief.

Then, I think,' said the Captain at last,
that we have made all square and right.
There can't be any difficulty. The weather
looks as if it will be ^w^. Mate, this little job
shall be pulled off in a way to do us credit.
As for me, I shall give all the credit to you.

Stephen, I shall say, devised the plan. Stephen
carried it through. Stephen did it all.'

The old man grinned with pleasure and
pride. Then he thought of some disagreeable
side of the business, and he became serious and
even troubled.

She'll take on awful, she will,' he said.

Let her take on. That won't matter.'

She's a plucky one, too. Cap'en, I don't
half like it.'

Steve, old man, you don't feel like going
back upon your word, do you ? Don't say that.'

Stephen Cobbledick took courage.

My word is passed,' he replied stoutly,
and shall be kep. A sailor mustn't go back
upon his word. Though, when you come to
turn it over in your mind, so as to look at it all
round, it does seem kind of unnat'ral for a man
to kidnap his own niece.'

If she's you' own niece, how about the
raft ? '

Why, that's true. Seems, then, that she
isn't my niece at all '

'And that we air old shipmates and

pals '

And that you're going' to behave honourable,
and treat her kind '

And marry her in the first port, and
settle down afterwards where's there no
chance of nasty enquiries '

And keep her out of the way of that
other one — Olive ? '

Ay ! She shall never hear of Olive at
all'

'And to pro — vide the gell with all she
wants '

And stick on to her faithful and true '

Why,' answered Stephen, ' I'm coin' the

VOL. III. K

best I can, and everybody will own it, for the
gell ; and I'll do it with a thankful heart

Spoke like a man ! * cried the Captain.
Spoke like what I expected from old Steve I '

Stephen had business that afternoon which
took him to Camelford. His business was to
arrange for the collection of his rents and the
safety of his money while he was away. As
for his kit, which was not extensive, he carried
it in a waterproof bag and stowed it in the
locker of his boat. A busy and eventful day
it was for him. In fact it was more full of
fate than he at all anticipated.

While he was thus occupied Captain
Ramsay spent his time with Avis.

I come to tell you,' he began, ' that I
have received a telegram.' He handed it
to her.

The Maryland went out of dock this

morning. She will lie-to off Boscastle Port
about noon tomorrow. If the weather is
bad she will put in at Falmouth.'

The weather,' he said, ' promises fine. It
is a pity that she does not go to Falmouth, or
you might have run down with Stephen and
me and gone aboard her.'

I- have never seen a ship,' Avis said.
Except the coasters which put in here.'

Poor child ! ' said the Captain, with feeling.
' She has never seen a ship ! '

And Stephen, does he sail with you tomorrow
? '

No ; he joins us later on ; we are going
for a trial cruise first.' The lies dropped out
of this mariner's mouth as easily as out of
Stephen's. ' He comes aboard later on ; three
weeks or a month.'

I hope, Captain Kamsay,' said Avis,
K 2

that you are not going to run into any
terrible danger.'

You feel as if you would be sorry if I was
knocked on the head with a Yankee cutlass

'I should be very sorry, for, indeed.
Captain Ramsay, I cannot tell you how grateful
I am to you for your consideration.'

If I had known,' he said, ' that your
affections were already bestowed, I should
not have presumed to step in. As for Stephen's
bad temper, that was all the fault of my
confounded bungling. In the States a man
speaks first to the gal, or she sometimes to
him ; which is, I guess, whether it's he first or
she first, the right and natural way. I thought,
being a stranger here, that a man was bound
to go to a gal's parents and guardian first, and,
if they didn't seem to yearn for him, hitch off
and try with another batch of parents.'

'If 1 knew how to thank you ' Avis

began.

Then,' he replied, with a gush of good
feeling, ' do not thank me at all. As to that
story about the raft '

Do you really think it is true ? You
know how Stephen exaggerates.'

I know A beautiful liar he is. But I
think the raft story is true. Pity it was so long
ago. I wonder if there was any name or
mark on your clothes, or those silk handkerchiefs
with which you were wrapped up ? '

T do not know, indeed. I know only
what my — what Stephen told me.'

If there was any thing, and that thing
was kept, I suppose it would be in the house
and in Stephen's own room ? '

I suppose so,' said Avis.

It would be kind of romantic, wouldn't

it,' he asked, ' if we were to find your parents
after all? There must be somewhere in the
world, some folk who had a little baby lost
aboard a ship coming from India eighteen
years ago or so.'

I think,' said Avis, ' that I do not want to
find any more relations. The first discovery
was not encouraging. I am content to remain
what Stephen feelingly called me, a Common
Pick-me-up. Besides, I shall have Jack.'

Notwithstanding, the Captain took an opportunity
of examining Stephen again upon
the point. But there was nothing to go upon.
The bananas were gone, expended in service,
and there was nothing else, not even the
bit of coral which the lost heiress always keeps
treasured up, tied by a ribbon round her neck,
and hidden in her bosom, where it must
scratch horribly and be about as comfortable asa

hair-shirt. Also, when Stephen was required
to relate the whole story afresh, he
told it with an entirely new set of circumstances,
and placed the raft a thousand miles
or so south of the Cape, nearly in the regions
of perpetual ice. Charged with this variation,
he admitted that he had been careless as to
details, but swore stoutly that the child had
been veritably picked up at sea, the last
survivor.

With Avis, however, the Captain changed
the conversation and began to narrate his adventures
and perils by sea and land, especially
those which brought into strong light his own
generosity and many other noble gifts. And
presently he told the girl of a certain enchanted
castle, grange, or palace, which he had
built for the solace of his soul in sunny
Florida.

I guess that when this war is over, which
will be before many months, I shall return to
that sweet location and stay there till the time
comes for sending in the checks. There's
forests of palms and tree ferns, eighty feet
high, round the bouse ; there's miles of orange
trees ; the pigs and the niggers are fed on
nothing else but oranges ; the alligators come
ashore after them ; they sit under the trees,
and get their manners and their hides softened
by eating that taller civiliser. It never freezes
there and never blows ; it is never too hot ;
there's banks of flowers, most all of them magnolias,
with creepers climbing everywhere ;
there's pretty parrots and little humming
birds ; there's plenty of niggers ; you can hein
a silk hammock under the verandah, with
one nigger told off for the fan, another to
swing you, another to peel the oranges, another

to bring cooling drinks, another to roll your
cigarette, and another to light them, Avis,
it's a life that you poor people living' in a
blessed island where there's mostly rain, and
when it doesn't rain, it blows east wind,
wouldn't understand at first. You'd say
Lemma be. Gimme more iced cocktail. I
don't want no better heaven ; this is a small
bit of the happy land chopped off and put
down in the Gulf of Mexico, just to let an unbelieving'
world know what they may expect
if they play the game right through honourable.
Some day, perhaps,' he continued, ' you
will cross over the water and see my little
plantation. You and your husband, I mean.'

With such discussion the crafty Captain
strengthened and increased the oriel's confidence
in him, so that she thought she had a
friend indeed in this rough yet gentle-spoken

sailor. And while the Poet watched with a
disquiet which he could not explain, the captain
and Avis sat all the afternoon together.
When he left her he held out his hand.

'We shall say good-bye tomorrow,' he
said. ' This is for you to say that you trust
me now.'

Why,' said Avis, laughing, ' of course I
trust you. And so does Jack.'

The other fellow doesn't,' said the Captain,
'but never mind him. As for Jack, he
ought to have been a sailor.'

Avis laughed again. ' All good men cannot
be sailors.'

Jack ought to have been one,' he repeated.
' Ours is the trade for truth and
honour ; also for fair and open play.'

Now about eleven o'clock in the forenoon
of Thursday, the Poet was sitting on the rocks

facing the sea. Avis was for the moment
forgotten ; his note-book was in one hand and
a pencil in the other. He was quite happy,
because after many days' wresting he was
finding freedom of expression. He had just
made up his mind as to the metre fittest for
his subject, which dealt with a seaside maiden
and her lover, and was suggested, in fact, by
Avis herself He had already planned the
story. It had a tragic conclusion, for he was
young ; when one gets on in life, one has seen
so many tragedies, so many disappointments,
so many crushed hopes, so many early deaths,
that one feels it to be really sinful to add
another drop to this ocean of tears. Poetry,
like fiction, should be glad. But the Poet's
story was a sad one : the seaside maiden was
to be torn away from her lover by wicked
pirates ; he was to wander from land to land

in search of her. He was to find her at last,
but only to find her dying. The situation was
so affecting that he was already beginning to
shed tears over it.

Now while he pondered and made notes,
he became aware of a steamer standing in,
apparently, for Boscastle, whither no steamers
ever came. She hove to, however, a few
hundred yards from the rocks, the sea being
nearly calm and the day being fair, and
presently her whistle sounded sharp and clear.
It was a signal.

She was so close that everything on board
was easy to be made out. A small craft, but
long and narrow, like a cigar, she lay low as
if she was well loaded, her hull showing only
about nine feet above the water ; she was
painted a dull grey colour ; she carried no
other rigging than a pair of pole masts without

any yards ; she was probably a boat of
about five hundred tons burden. She looked
from the height, where the Poet was sitting,
like a toy steamer, too fragile and delicate to
stand the great waves of the rolling forties.

Then a very singular thing happened. Just
below the Poet's feet was the mouth of the
little harbour ; there came out, sailing slowly
in the light breeze, Stephen Cobbledick's boat.
He himself sat midships, handy for the sail;
Avis held the rudder-lines; beside her sat
Captain Ramsay. It was obvious that the
steamer was in some way connected with the
American ; then the Poet saw that the sailors
on board the steamer were running about, and
presently a tackle was lowered. It must be
Captain Ramsay 's ship. Then he was going
away ; that was a good thing ; Avis and
Stephen were taking him off; that was a

friendly thing to do. The little boat ran
alongside the steamer ; Stephen hauled in sail,
while the Captain made the painter fast to the
ladder. Then he assisted Avis to climb the
steep and narrow ladder, and sprang up himself.
Arrived on deck, the girl walked forrard,
looking about her with curiosity and interest.
She was invited to see the ship, that was plain.
What on earth, then, did old Stephen mean?
Here, indeed, his behaviour became inexplicable.
For, with so much deliberation as
to show premeditation and intention, he carefully
cast loose the painter, stepped out upon
the ladder, and climbed up ; as for the boat,
she drifted slowly astern. Then the steamer,
without more delay, suddenly and swiftly
forged ahead; the boat was in a moment faraway.
The Poet saw, as the ship glided over
the smooth water. Avis rushing to the side and

the captain clutching at her arm. He sprang
to his feet and shouted and waved his arms.
Avis saw him, ' and he saw her struggling,
while Ramsay and Stephen held her back, as
if she would spring overboard in a mad
attempt to escape. Then he saw her free
herself from her captors and sink, despairing,
on the deck. But the ship went on her
course; the figures became more difficult to
see ; soon there was but a black hull ; then
but a line of smoke ; then that vanished ; all
was out of sight.

Avis was gone ! She was enticed on board
the ship by the crafty American and the villain
Stephen : it was no accident ; she was treacherously
and foully deceived ; the thing was
deliberately done : he had seen with his own
eyes the old pilot untie the painter and set his
boat adrift ; she was in the power of as black

a villain as ever walked. ' I always said
cried the poet, ' that he was a tiger ! '

In the worst misfortune it Is always a consolation
to know that you have been right in
your prognostications. In fact, some of your
friends have always prophesied it. I have said
above that no man is a prophet of joy, so that
on the rare occasions when joyful things do
come, the happiness they cause is never diminished
by the voice of one who says he
always told you so.

I knew,' repeated the prophet, ' that he
was a man-eater, a tiger ! '

He hastened down the rocks and told the
sailors and people about the port what he
had seen. They could not help ; they knew
nothing ; that Stephen should go aboard with
his friend was natural ; that he should cast his
boat adrift was incredible. It must have been
an accident. They manned a boat and put

off, expecting to meet the steamer coming
back. The Poet went with them ; outside,
they picked up* the little yacht, a direct ; but
the steamer did not return, and presently they
came back wondering. And in the ' Wellington
Arms ' that night, when the little club met
and realised the vacancy caused by Stephen's
absence, they began slowly to perceive that a
great crime had been committed.

All that night — the nights in June are
light — the Poet wandered about the rocks on
the chance that Avis might yet somehow be
brought back. He had betrayed his charge,
he said to himself. He ought never to have
left her while that man was in the place. He

ought And what would Jack say — poor

Jack, who had lost his bride .^ With what
face would the Poet meet him and greet him
with the dreadful news ?

VOL. III. L

CHAPTEE Vm.

THE Week OF THE MARYLAND.

I HAVE now to tell a story of the most wicked
treachery and deceit that was ever practised
upon any girl. There never, surely, could
have been a greater villain than Captain
Kamsay, or a more ready accomplice than
Stephen Cobbledick.

They lulled me, between them, into so
great a confidence, that I believed the man
Kamsay to be my firm and most trustworthy
friend. He said Jack and he were sworn
brothers ; that to be brothers among the
people with whom lie lead mostly lived meant

to stand by and defend each other, to make
each ready to die, if necessary, for the other.
With such an affection did he pretend to regard
Jack ; such mutual vows, he said, had they interchanged.
He was full of protestations about
honour, loyalty — playing a fair and open game.
All this time the plot was laid, and the plan
resolved upon, although it was not until the
last moment, and then only by a pretence at a
sudden thought, that I was enticed on board
his ship.

It was on the Thursday — Jack having been
gone two days — and early in the forenoon,
that the man Ramsay came, walking slowly,
to the cottage where I was writing a letter to
Jack. He had stuck one of his big cigars
between his lips, and in his hand, I remember,
was a wild rose, which gave him somehow
the look of a man of peace. But he had put

l2

off his black clothes, and wore a smart seaman-like
dress, with a gold band round his peaked
cap.

'The craft is off the mouth of the port.
Miss Avis,' he said sadly and gently. ' I hope
you will run down and give me a farewell
wave of your handkerchief from the point,
when I am on board. Where is Stephen ? '

Here I am, Cap'en,' said the old man,
coming out of the kitchen. Now there was
nothing, not the least sign, to show that he,
too, was on the point of sailing. He was
dressed as usual. He had made, so far as I
could see, no preparations. To be sure, I was
not suspecting any. ' Is the gig sent ashore ? ^

No, Stephen. You shall take me off yourself
in your own boat.'

I thought that friendly of him.

I will, Cap'en ; I will,' replied Stephen

cheerily. ' It's the last thing I can do before
I pine next month.'

He said those words, I suppose, to put me
off any suspicion. But, indeed, I had none.

'Then, Miss Avis' — the Captain held out
his hand — ' I will say farewell here. You will
promise to stand on the point and see the last
of me ? '

Why should she go to the point at all ? '
Stephen suggested. ' Why can't she come off
in the boat as usual?'

Why not ? ' asked the Captain, his kind
thoughtful face lighting up with a smile. ' A
happy thought, old friend! Will you do me
so much honour as to steer me on board my
own ship ? '

I was pleased to be of a little service, and
we all walked away to the quay, where the
boat was lying ready for the trip.

When we reached the ship, Captain Earn-say
asked me if, as I was there, I would like
just to run up the companion and see what an
ocean steamer was like.

Let us make the painter fast first,' he
said.

He gave me his hand up the steps, Stephen
remaining behind.

I began to look about me curiously, when
suddenly I heard the engines begin to work,
and felt the screw revolve. The ship was
moving.

Oh, Captain,' I said, laughing, ' you must
stop her quick, for me to get out.'

Ay, ay,' he replied, but said no more, and
still the screw went on.

Captain ! ' I cried. Then I ran to the
side. There was our boat drifting away far
astern, and beside me stood Stephen himself.

a waterproof bag in his hand, looking so
guiltily ashamed that I guessed at once the
truth. The boat had been sent adrift on
purpose. I was a prisoner on board the
ship.

If Stephen looked ashamed, not so the
Captain. He drew himself straight, with a
glitter in his eye, and a smile upon his lips.
It was a cruel glitter, and a hard smile.

The man's face had changed ; the thoughtfully
sad expression was gone.

This little plan, Miss Avis,' he said
quietly, ' was arranged between me and Stephen.
We were anxious that it should come
off without any hitch, which was the reason
why you were not in the secret. You are our
passenger.'

Oh ! villain ! ' It was not to the Captain,
but to Stephen, that I spoke.

He made no reply. He Imng his head,
and looked at the Captain, as if for help. He
spoke up, roughly and readily.

You did it for the best, Steve. No kind
o' use to be steered because the girl's riled.
She's naturally riled ; anybody would be, first
go off. What you've got to think is, that you
done it for the best. Why, at this very moment,
come to listen, you'll hear your conscience
singing' hymns in your bosom with
grateful joy.'

All sot your own good. Avis,' said
Stephen, with an effort.

That is so. Meantime, Miss Avis, if you
feel like letting on, why, let yourself rip ; we
don't mind.'

Not a bit,' said Stephen hoarsely. ' I
never leered a woman let on out at sea
before.'

I suppose I was still silent, for presently
the Captain went on :

I told you that I was in love with you.
I am a man, and not a maid; so that when I set
my fancy on a thing, that thing I must have.
I set my fancy on you, and no other. I am
powerful in love with you. I am so much in
love that, rather lose you, I'd sink this craft
with all her cargo, and the crew, and you too.
I would, by '

He strengthened the assurance with so
great an oath, that it ought alone to have sunk
the ship by the violence of its wickedness.

Let's have no sinking' of crafts,' said Stephen
uneasily. ' Avis will come ^-ound bhne-
by. Give her rope.'

As for your lover,' the Captain went on,
he counts for nothing. You'll forget him ina
week. Make up your mind to forget him

at once, for you've got to marry me. That's
settled. I stand no sulks from any gell.
They've got to look cheerful, and to do what
they're told to do. Then things go well, and
they find me a good sort.'

He spoke as if he had a dozen wives.

Now, I know not what I answered, because,
indeed, my mind was confused. I think
I prayed them of their mercy to set me ashore.
I think I recalled to the Captain's memory the
many things he had said in truth and honour :
that I threatened them and set them at defiance.
All I remember quite clearly is that
Stephen stood stupidly staring as if afraid and
ashamed, that the Captain quietly stood before
me, making no answer to speak of, and that
when I appealed to the man at the helm, he
kept one eye on the wheel and the other on
the compass, and made no response whatever.

I wonder how far this immobility would extend.
I believe, however, that if they had thrown me
overboard he would have taken no notice,
either by word or gesture. He was a Norfolk
man (the American Norfolk) — a long-boned
weedy man — who afterwards was of great
service to me. His face was as red as
exposure to the weather could make it, and
his expression meant duty. His name was
Liberty Wicks.

When I was worn out with appealing to
consciences as hard as the nether millstone, I
fell to tears and weeping. There was not one
among all the crew who could be moved by
the tears of a woman. Yet they all knew
what their Captain had done.

There is not,' said the Captain, ' one single
man aboard this ship who will help you.
Therefore you may spare your cries. And

now, if you please, as there's the ship to navigate
and the work to be done, perhaps you'll let
me show you your cabin.'

Don't frighten her, Cap'en,' said Stephen,
looking uneasy again. ' Tell her what you've
promised : else you may find another pilot.'

Your cabin is your own,' Captain Ramsay
explained. ' It is your private room. No one
will disturb you there except your steward. I
am sorry there is no stewardess. When you
please, come on deck. There we shall all be
your servants, and I am sure,' he added, with a
return to the old manner, ' that we shall, in a
day or two, see you happier on board the
Maryland than you could ever have been in
any other land.'

He led the way, and I followed without a
word. Stephen came after, still crestfallen,
though, by the wagging of his head and the

clearing of his throat, it was apparent that he
was making up his mind to listen to those
hymns which, according to the Captain, his
conscience was singing. The efforts made by a
man who is thoroughly ashamed of himself to
recover self-respect and seem at ease, are very
sad to witness.

The steamer had a pretty little saloon aft,
with a sleeping cabin on either side.

'These,' said Captain Ramsay, still in the
same conciliatory but determined manner, ' are
your quarters. I give you up the Captain's
cabin. Here you will be quite private and undisturbed.
You need have no fears. If anyone
aboard this ship were to offer an insult to
my future wife, that man's remains should be
thrown overboard shortly afterwards. Therefore,
be under no apprehension ; you shall mess
by yourself.'

I sat down without a word. Oh ! Jack !
Jack ! Who would tell you ?

The Captain means kind,' said Stephen
hoarsely. ' Come, Avis, be comfortable. A
run across the herein' pond, and a husband on
the other side of it. Such a husband, too !
Why, it's honour and glory, not crying' and
takin' on ! '

Let her be,' said the Captain. ' She is
riled. Give her time. Just now, Miss Avis,
you think it is mean. Why, all's fair in love.
And after a few days, when you've picked up a
bit, we shall be friends again. I am only sorry
there's never a stewardess on board.'

Here one of the cabin doors opened, and a
woman stepped out.

There is a stewardess. Captain Ramsay.'

At sight of her the Captain stepped back
with an oath.

Olive ! By all the powers ! '

Oh I Lord ! ' cried Stephen, starting.
Here's his wife ! '

What do you — how did j^ou,' stammered
the Captain. It was not pretty to look upon
his face, on which was expressed a vehement
desire to break the sixth commandment.

She was a tall and handsome woman, of
five-and-twenty or so, with a profusion of black
hair, and black eyes. She was plainly dressed ;
on her finger I noticed a wedding-ring.

'I am a stowaway,' she said. 'You did
not expect me here. Yet I told you at Liverpool
that I would never leave you. And I
never will ! '

She never will,' murmured Stephen, in a
kind of admiring stupor. * She looks as if she
never would.'

I will murder you ! Do you hear .^ ' The

Captain snatched at this waistcoat, as if to draw
the revolver which he generally carried there.
I will murder yon ! You shall be thrown
overboard ! I say, I will kill you ! '

Do not be afraid, child,' she said to me,
apparently paying no attention to his angry
gestures. ' He will not murder me. He would,
if he dared, but even the sailors of this ship,
rough as they are, would not screen him if he
did. And he does not desire to be hanged.'

She was quite quiet ; her face was very
pale ; her lips were set. I learned, afterwards,
to love her. But at first I was afraid of her.

This,' said Stephen, ' is the very deuce an'
all. What's to be done now ? '

Who are you ? ' I asked. ' Oh ! tell me if
you, too, are in a plot with these wretched

men !

I am the wife of the man who calls himself

Captain Ramsay,' she replied. 'There stands
my husband

It's a he ! ' shouted the Captain, 
his words in manner common among men
of his kind. ' It's a lie ! She has been divorced
by the law of the country. I have no
wife.'

I wear your wedding-ring still.' She
showed it on her finger. ' I refuse your divorce.
I will not acknowledge the law which
allows a man to put away a wife without a
reason. I am still your wife. I shall follow
you wherever you go. I came across the
Atlantic, to Liverpool* after you. I came onboard
this ship after you. I shall make the
voyage with you.'

The Captain laughed.

You shall,' he said. ' Hang me if you
shall leave the slip till I let you. You shall

VOL. III. M

follow me — whether you like it or not — to
Dixie's Land.'

Even there,' she said, though she shivered,
^ I will venture. I know what is in your
wicked brain. Yet I am not afraid. I am
here to protect this innocent girl. As for you,'
she turned to the unfortunate pilot, ' I have
heard of you. You are still, old man, as j'ou
always have been, the stupid tool of this man.
At his bidding, and for no use or help to yourself,
you are ready to throw away your immortal
soul. Go out of our sight ! Go, I say ! '

Stephen straightened his back with an
effort, and cleared his throat. He looked at
me, who was now clinging to Olive, and then
at his chief, who stood biting his hp, with an
angry flush upon his cheek, and a look that
meant revenge if he could get it.

Come, Cap,' said Stephen, ' we can do no

good here. Come on deck.' He led the way,
and mounted the companion with alacrity.
Phew ! ' he whistled on deck. ' Trouble a
brewing' now. What shall we do next ? '

If I could ' the Captain began, but

stopped short.

You can't. Captain,' said Stephen. ' The
men would see it ; Avis would see it. Put it
out of your thoughts. Now mind. When I
said I'd help bring the gell aboard, I never
bargained for Olive as well. What about
Nassau ? '

Now,' said Ohve, kindly, when we were
alone, 'tell me who you are, and what has
happened.'

Oh ! he has stolen me ! He asked me to
come on board ; he pretended to be my
friend ; and he has stolen me. And Jack is
coming back on Saturday to marry me ! ''

M 2

My poor child ! ' — her tears fell with
mine — ' this is terrible, indeed. But, courage.
I am here. We are on his ship, and cannot
choose but go with him. Yet — yet — I do
not think he will dare to harm either of us.
My dear, he is afraid of me.'

Are you indeed this wife ? '

It is my unhappy lot,' she replied, ' to
be the wife of the worst man, I believe, in
all the world. Yet needs must that I follow
him, whatever be the end.'

I waited to hear more.

I was married to him,' she went on, ' six
years ago. He tired of me in a month. Then
he deserted me, and sent me letters from places
where he never went, or else he sent no letters
at all. I found him out. Again he deserted
me, and again I found him out. He took me
to the State of Indiana, where lie cot something

that he called a divorce. I know not
on what pretence, and do not care. He left
me there without money and without friends.
But I found both, and followed him again,
tracing him from port to port, for such ashe
seldom go inland. Then I learned that he
had gone to Liverpool, and I followed him,
and found him again. It was the old story.
He began by cursing, and ended by lying.
He was going to London ; he would send me
money. He would let things go on as if he
had not got his divorce. I did not believe him.
And presently I discovered that he was at the
docks every day, loading a vessel which he was
to command. I guessed pretty well where the
cargo of that ship was destined for. There
are dangers in that voyage which no woman
should face, and dangers for me that you cannot
think of. Yet it seemed as if I had no

choice but to go. I learned when the ship
would sail, and I came aboard and hid
myself. I ought to leave him to his tate,' she
went on, sitting with clasped hands. ' I have
been beaten by him like a disobedient dog ; I
have been cursed and abused ; I have been
robbed and starved ; I have been neglected
and deserted. But I cannot abandon him. I
am driven to follow him wherever he may

lead. It may be I shall yet But I do not

know. His conscience is dead within him : he
is no longer a man. From the first week I
knew him to be gambler, drunkard, and manslayer
; a defier of God's law ; one of those
who work evil with greediness ; yet I cannot
choose but go after him, even if my choice
land me again on the shore of North Carolina.'
And why do you fear to go there .^ '
Child, you do not know the Southern

States.' She laughed bitterly. ' They are the
home, in your English papers and your New
York correspondents, of the chivalry and
nobility of America. They are also the home
of the slave. There are black slaves, brown
slaves, olive-coloured slaves, and white slaves.
I was a Avhite slave. I am one of those unfortunates
for whom they are fighting. 1 am a
darker — a Nigger.'

'You?'

Yes ; I. You would not think, to look
at me, perhaps, that 1 have been a slave. Yet
it is true. The young ladies with whom I
was brought up had not whiter skin than
mine. Yet my great-great-grandmother was a
black woman. So I was a slave. You are
not an American, and so you do not shrink
back with loathing. I was a slave, and one
day, being then seventeen years of age, and unwilling

to be the mother of more slaves, 1
started on a long journey by the Underground
Eailway, and got safe to Canada.'

Is it possible ? ' cried Avis, forgetting fora
moment her own troubles.

'Yes; it is true. I went to Montreal,
where I hoped to find employment and friends.
There I met Captain Valentine Angel-as he
then called himself — who was so good as to
tall in love with me, and I with him. We
were married. And now you know my
story.'

And if you go back again to North
Carolina ? '

In the old days, if a runaway slave was
caught, they flogged him. Now, when the
Northern soldiers are gathering round them,
and their cause is hopeless ; now, when they
tremble lest fresh stories of cruelties to blacks

should be invented or found out, I think they
would hardly dare to flog a white woman. Yet
one knows not. The feeling is very strong,
and the women are cruel — more cruel than
the men.'

But they will not know you. They cannot
And you out. They will have ceased to
search for you.'

My dear, there are depths of Wickedness
possible which you cannot suspect. My husband
knows my story, because I could hide
nothing from him. I have seen, in his eyes,
what he thinks of doing. But courage, my
child ; there are many accidents. We shall
put in at Nassau for coal. There we may find
a chance ; or we may be captured ; or we
may run away when we get to Wilmington.
Woman's wit against man's, my dear. They
can plan their clumsy plots, but they cannot

always carry them through. And he is afraid
of me. That, is always in our favom\'

We then began to consider how we could
best protect ourselves on the voyage. Ohve
advised that we should go on deck as much as
possible, so that all the sailors should know
that we were aboard, and grow accustomed to
see us ; that we should never for a moment
leave each other ; that we should share the
same cabin ; that we should refuse to listen to,
or speak with, either the Captain or his accomplice.


Lastly, my dear,' said Olive, ' among wild
beasts it is well to have other means of defence
than a woman's shrieks. I have — for the protection
of us both — this.'

She produced a revolver.

A pretty toy,' she said, ' but it is loaded,

and it shall be used, if need be, for the defence
of you as well as myself.'

Thus began this miserable voyage, wherein
my heart was torn by anxieties and fears.
What would be the end ?

Presently we went on deck. The land was
nearly out of sight ; we were on the broad
Atlantic. The ship rolled in the long swell ;
the day was bright ; the breeze fresh. Beside
the helm stood the Captain, who scowled, but
said not a word.

The crew were lying about the deck,
except one or two on watch in the bowes. As
the ship carried neither yards nor sails, there
was little or nothing to do, and they mostly sat
sleeping or telling yarns all the voyage. Olive
led me forrard. Stephen, although the pilot,
and therefore a person of great importance,
was among the common sailors, sitting in the

Sin, his pipe in this mouth, with two or three
listeners, foremost among the spinners of yarns.
He sat there — whether of free choice, or because
he wished to avoid me — all the voyage.
Nor did he once speak to me ; on the contrary,
if he saw us amidships, he dived below,
and if he was aft, when we came up from the
saloon, he went forrard. I think he was
ashamed and anxious, for he had not reckoned
on the appearance of Olive. She, for her part,
knew some of the men, and addressed them byname.
She had sailed with them before the
war, when her husband was in some more
legitimate trade. She called them by their
names, one after the other. They were such
names as sailors give each other, such as
Liberty Wicks, who was quartermaster ; Soldier
Jack, so called because lie was reported to
have been a deserter from an English regiment

ill Canada ; Old Nipper, the meaning of whose
name I do not know ; Long Tom, a lanky thin
man of six feet six, with a stoop in his shoulders,
caused by stooping continually 'tween
decks ; Pegleg Smith, who went halt ; and the
Doctor, as they called the cook. They grinned,
made a leg, and touched their foreheads ; they
knew that Olive was the Captain's wife ; they
knew that lie was a stowaway, and had come
after her husband ; they knew that I had been
entrapped aboard. That was what Olive
wanted.

For, my dear,' she said, ' suppose my husband
was to catch me by the heels some dark
night and tip me overboard, which he would
very much like to do, these men would miss
]ne, and by degrees the thing would become
known.'

That would not restore you to life.'

'No, my clear; but it might make things
safer for you.'

The Captain seemed to have no objection to
our talking with the sailors. It was not his
plan to show us the least unkindness on the
voyage : we were to be perfectly free. We
found them a rough, reckless set of men, of the
kind who would follow a leader anywhere, provided
he gave them plenty to eat, drink, and
smoke. Such must have been the men who
went about with the pirate captains, and
hoisted the black flag : they loved plunder, and
were not afraid of battle. Such must have
been the buccaneers who would have no peace
on the Spanish Main ; such were the followers
of Pizarro and of Cortes. They were also
traders. Every man had his private-venture
on board — his case of ' notions ' — out of which
he would make a hundred per cent, profit.

They believed in the luck of their captain, and
in his daring. Most of them knew Stephen of
old, and trusted in his skill. They laughed at
the risk of Yankee steel, Yankee steamers, and
Yankee shot ; they boasted of the runs they had
had in a vessel not so fast as the Maryland,
which could show a clean pair of heels to any
cruiser Uncle Jonathan could set afloat Ina
few days they would be under the fort at
Wilmington, their cargo landed and sold, their
private ventures converted into dollars, and
their craft taking in cotton for the homeward
run.

These honest fellows concerned themselves
not at all about the causes and the merits of
the war : that was a merry time which made
them rich : that cause was righteous in which
they could earn fifty pounds a man for the
double trip, and frolic ashore like Nelson's bulldogs

after they were paid their prize-money.
So far from wishing that the war would
speedily end, they devoutly hoped that it would
go on, and with the view of forwarding this
object, they would encourage, if they had any
voice in the matter, every Southerner who could
carry a rifle or lie behind a gabion to go to the
front. They were more patriotic even than the
Confederates themselves ; they were more sanguine
of success even than the English sympathisers
; and though most of them, including
the Captain, were Northerners by birth, they
vied with each other in protesting hatred undying
to the Yankees and their cause.

One thing,' said Olive, ' my husband might
have done. He dare not do it, though, because
he would lose the respect of all Americans. He
might tell them that he has married a coloured
girl. You would witness, then, for yourself.

something of the loathing which the presence of
the negro blood rouses among Americans.'

I have mentioned the bo's'n and quartermaster,
Liberty Wicks, who was often at the
wheel. Now, one day, soon after the voyage
began, a very singular thing happened.

The Captain was on the bridge, Stephen was
forrard, no one was aft except Olive and myself
and the quartermaster, who, as usual, was
making his two eyes do double duty. We were
sitting in silence, when we became aware of a
hoarse whisper.

There's friends aboard.' It was Liberty
Wicks. ' Friends. Don't fear nothing. Wait
till you get to North Carmina. Don't look at
me. Don't answer.'

After this we where comforted, on every
possible opportunity, with the assurance that
there were friends aboard.

VOL. III. 2s"

Then, day after day, the ship held her
course, and we two women remained unmolested,
walking on deck, or sitting in the little saloon,
unnoticed. We talked little, having too much
to think about. The Captain raised his cap tous
in the morning, but he avoided the eyes of
his wife. Stephen, as I have said, skulked and
remained forrard. We were supplied with what
we wanted, as if we had been in a hotel. Always
we had the same bright and beautiful
sunshine, with fresh breezes ; always the long
rolling waves and billows, the broad streak of
white foam which lay like a roadway where the
ship had been.

When I think of that voyage, it seems to me
like a bad and dreadful dream — that kind of
dream in which one is wafted gently onward
by some unknown agency towards a horrible,
dreadful, unknown end ; the dream out of which

one awakens with shuddering, and a fearful
sense of its reality. The days which followed
slowly seemed all alike from hour to hour :
that, too, was dream-like : there was no occupation,
which was dream-ike ; the sight of the
sight spare man, with the smooth cheeks and
the glittering eyes, was like a dream : the mysterious
protection of this woman, resolute and
brave, who said she had been a slave, but whose
skin Alas white like my own, was dream-like.
What had become of the old quiet time ? Was
there any Boscastle ? Was there any Jack at
all, or was he, too, a part and parcel of this
dreadful dream ?

We sailed into warmer latitudes. It was
pleasant to sit on deck at daybreak and
watch the red sun rise fiery from the waves ;
or at evening, when he sank out of sight
before our bows, so that we seemed as if we

N 2

were steering straight into some land of enchantment,
where clouds and land and sea
alike were bathed in gorgeous colours and
lapped in perpetual warmth ; at noontide,
when it was too hot to sit on deck, we layton
the sofas of the saloon, silent, or in whispers
asking each other what would be the end.
We had no books ; we had no paper, pens, or
ink ; we had no dresses to make or mend, nor
anything to make or mend with ; there was
nothing to do except to sit and wait. The
silence grew awful ; we ceased to feel the
regular beat of the screw ; it became noiseless,
like a pulse which is neither heard nor felt ;
the Captain gave no orders ; the very crew
became silent ; the roll of the ship was like the
throbbing of her engines, monotonous and
unnoticed.

So that, in the silence, our senses seemed

to quicken, and one night, sitting in the saloon
after nightfall, we heard voices above us on
the deck.

One of the speakers was Stephen.

It's a bad business, Cap'en,' he said.
^ Look at it any way, no way I like it. What
are we to do next ? '

I don't know, Steve ; that is a fact.
Your girl and me won't run easy in harness
so long as the other one is about ; they must
be separated before we can do anything else.'

Olive caught my hand. We listened for
more.

Land 'em both at Nassau, and be shut of
the whole job,' counselled Stephen. ' No good
ever come of a voyage with a passel o' women
aboard. Might as well have a bishop, or
Jonas himself.'

I might put Ohve ashore,' said the Captain

; ' and we could carry the other on to
Wihnhigton. Ohve would scream a bit, but
then, she'd have to go. As for Nassau, we are
not gong to New Providence at all. Don't
you think, Stephen, after it's cost me all the
money to ship my crew, half paid down and
all, that they're a-going' to have the chance of
getting' ashore and stain' there. Why, once
ashore, it might be a fortnight before I could
get them all back again. No ; the coal's lying
on Stony Cay, where we'll take it on board
and so off again. We might land her on the
cay, to be sure, but there's no rations and no
water.'

You can't land the woman there, Cap'en.
The men wouldn't stand it.'

I can't, because I've got a white-livered
lot aboard who'd make a fuss. I could if I
had the crew with me that I had twenty years

ago when we made that famous run. You
hadn't gone soft, then.'

I was younger then,' said Stephen.
When a man gets twenty years older, he
thinks twice before he chucks his niggers overboard
or lands people on desert islands. Not
that I ever approved of them ways.'

You looked on a powerful lot while such
things were being carried on, at any rate. No,
I think the first plan I thought of will be the
best

What is the first plan ? '

'Never mind, Stephen. Perhaps the plan
is a rough way, of which you would not
approve.'

Courage, Avis,' whispered Olive ; ' courage,
child ; we are not separated yet ; there is
always hope. Even a shot between wind and
water, and a sinking of the ship with all her

wicked crew, would be better than such a fate
as the man intends for you. But that fate will
not be yours. Some Avoient, my dear, are
prophetesses ; I think I am one ; and I see,
but I know not how, a happy ending out of
this for you — but not for me.'

There is an islet among the Bahamas lying
just at the entrance of Providence Channel,
some sixty miles north-east of Nassau. The
small maps do not notice so insignificant a
rock, but on the charts it is called Stony Cay.
It is, in fact, nothing but a rock, on which
nothing lives in ordinary times ; but it was
used in those days by blockade-runners as a
small station where they could take in coal
without the risk of losing men by desertion,
and with little fear of observation. It is as
barren as Ascension, and as stony as Aden ;
nothing grows upon it, and the only water is

that which in the cold season Hes in pools
among the rocks. Two or three men were
there in charge of the stores, and, as a warning
to American cruisers, the Union Jack was
kept il3n[ng from a mast. Thither we steered,
and here the men made their final preparations.


The coaling, with these preparations, occupied
three days ; for they began by taking onboard
as much coal as they could carry, and
then set to work to telescope the funnel : that
is, to lay it flat upon the deck, so that instead of
the long tail of smoke which shows a steamer
so far off, the smoke should be discharged over
the surface of the water where it would not be
seen ; their coal, too, was anthracite, which
burns with little smoke ; then they overhauled
Avhat little rigging they had, and fitted a lookout
at the mast-head ; they lowered the boats

level with the gunwales, and the chief engineer
reported on his engines.

All this time it seemed as if no watch were
set upon the two prisoners ; the crew came and
went about their business ; the Captain stood
about and looked on ; Stephen Cobbledick sat
forrard doing nothing, as becomes a pilot ; the
boats kept coming and going all day long,
heavy barges full of coal ; nothing seemed
easier than to get ashore. But what then ?
The island had no inhabitants ; there were no
signs of water ; there was no chance of any
ship putting in there except for the same purpose
as the Maryland. What could we do if
we were to land ?

Patience, Avis,' said Olive. ' Three days
more will bring us to the end of this chapter.'

The steward told us, what we pretty well
knew before, that they were going to run the

blockade into Wilmington, on the coast of
North Carolina ; that the place was about seven
hundred miles distance from the Bahamas,
and that the real danger was about to begin.
Hitherto there had been none, except the
chance of bad weather, for the Maryland,
built for nothing but speed, and just heavy
enough to stand the waves of an ordinary stiff
breeze, would infallibly have gone down in a
gale.

'The danger may mean deliverance, my
dear,' Olive said for my consolation. ' The
cruisers may take us. In that case, you are
safe ; you have only to seek out the British
Consul, and tell him who you are, and why
you were on board the ship. As for me '

As for you, Olive ? ' I asked.

'I must follow my husband,' she replied.
If we are taken, he will go to a lew York

prison ; and I must go, too, to look after
him;

When the sun went down on the third
day, the engines got up steam ; by midnight
the Maryland was out of the narrow waters
and rolling among the great waves of the Gulf
Stream. The night was exactly the kind of
night which blockade-runners, buccaneers, privateers,
and pirates always most delight in ;
a dark night with a new moon ; cloudy, too.
The steamer carried no lights. By the wheel
stood the Captain, and old Stephen ready to
take his place as pilot. As for us, we were
too anxious to stay below, and were on deck
looking and waiting.

At this time, when the war had been
carried on for a couple of years, and there
seemed little hope of a speedy conclusion, the
spirit of the North was fairly roused. While

the volunteers were pouring into the camp by
thousands, they were sending new and fast
cruisers to the Southern shores as quickly as
they could be built. Every day increased the
risk of a successful run ; every day, however,
the value of the cargo was increased.

Stephen,' we heard the Captain say, ' I
have got a note from Nassau. The Yanks
expect me ; they don't know I've arrived and
started ; but there's a notion among the
cruisers that I'm to be met with somewhere
about this time. I know what their ships
are, and where they're stationed. Twenty-five
steamers are 13'ing off Wilmington this night as
close as they can lie — out of the range of Fort
Fisher. Half-a-dozen more are cruising about
these waters. I make no count of them.
Now, Stephen, the only thing to decide is

whether it's best to dash through the hne or
to creep along the coast.'

The coast,' said Stephen, ' is a awkward
coast. There's nothing to steer by ; there's
sands, and there's never a light.'

We can show a light from the inshore
side. They will answer it ; they are on the
look-out all night.'

I would rather,' said Stephen, ' make a
dash for it. Once inside their line, they will
find it hard to stop us.'

Can you find the mouth of the river in the
night ? '

I can find the mouth of that river blindfold
; never fear that ; what I think of is the
shifting sands along the coast, if we have to
creep in.'

Pray Heaven ! ' whispered Olive, ' that
one of those half dozen cruisers catch us.'

We passed a sleepless night. Half-a-dozen
times, at least, the engines were stopped on an
alarm being given from the watch in the foretop,
and we expected to hear a cannon-shot
crash into the vessel, or an order, at least, to
lay to.

Presently the engines would go on, and
the ship proceed on her way, though perhaps
on another course. We showed no light ;
our coal gave out little smoke, and that little,
as I have said, was discharged from the stern,
the funnel lying flat along the deck.

At daybreak we rose and went on deck
again. None of the men seemed to have gone
below. Stephen and the Captain stood together
by the wheel ; all hands were on the
watch, though as yet it was too dark to see
far ; and the men, if they spoke at all, spoke in
whispers. As the sun rose behind us, we

found ourselves alone upon the ocean, not a
sail was in sight.

No cruiser yet,' I whispered to Olive.
Shall we reach Wilmington to-night ? '

A steamer,' cried the man in the look-out,
off the starboard bow ! '

I could see nothing ; the broad face of the

ocean glowed in the bright sunshine.

'He sees,' said Olive, 'a faint wreath of
smoke.'

I suppose we altered our course, because
we saw no more of that steamer. We ran
till noon without further adventure ; then another,
and another, and another alarm were
given in quick succession, and the wheel went
round and the vessel changed her course.
There was no waiting to make out the distant
ship ; every stranger was a supposed enemy.

Before loncf we, too, whose interest it was

that the ship should be taken, shared in the
general excitement, and stood on deck watching
the horizon, which lay clear and well
defined, with neither mist nor fog to hide it.

No bells were rung that day. At noon the
chief officer made his observations and reported
to the Captain, who mechanically ordered him
to ' make it so,' but he made it in silence.
There were no meals served; any man who
felt hungry went into the cook's galley and got
something ; the cook himself was in the bows ;
the steward, who brought us some tea, hurried
back to be on the watch with the rest. Now
and then one, tired, lay down on deck in
the sun and fell asleep for an hour or two.
Darkness fell ; but the ship pushed on, all
hands as before remaining on deck all night.
We remained on deck till midnight, when we
reluctantly went below.

VOL. III.

I almost hope,' said Olive, ' that we shall
get through them.'

In the morning, which was cloudy with a
little fog, though there Alas a steady breeze
from the north-west, we made our first escape.
It was just before daybreak ; we, who could
not sleep, were on deck again. All night
there had been frequent alarms, but happily
(or unhappily) we passed the danger. This
time, however, things looked as if our run had
come to an end.

The mist had thickened ; the day was
slowly breaking ; we held our course but at
half speed; suddenly there seemed to spring
out of the water a cruiser three times our size,
under steam and sail. We were almost under
her bows ; they shouted • to us ; their men
sprang into the rigging to furl the sails ; we saw
them hastily run out the guns.

Avis ! ' cried Olive, ' you are saved ! '

Not yet. Captain Ramsay gave an order in
his quiet voice, the wheel flew round, and the
next moment we were astern of the vessel, at
full speed steaming in the teeth of the wind.
With such way as was on the cruiser, she was
out of sight in the mist almost before we had
time to look. There was a great popping of
guns, and one cannon shot, but no damage
done ; and when the mist presently cleared,
and the sun rose, we could indeed see her
smoke away on the north horizon, but we were
invisible to her.

That night we were to run the blockade.

The blockading fleet was chiefly concentrated
round the port of Wilmington. There
were, as the Captain said, twenty-five vessels
lying or cruising, in a sort of semicircle, ten
miles round the mouth of the river, on one



bank of which was Fort Fisher. It was prudent
to keep outside the range of that fortress's
guns. And without the circle were some half-dozen
fast-steaming cruisers always on the lookout.
That evening the Captain called the men
aft.

My lads he said, ' I had intended to make
a dash for it, as I have often done before. You
are not the men to be afraid of a shot or two ;
but this unfortunate falling in with one of their

ships makes it seem best to try creeping along

shore, for the alarm will be given. Therefore,

every man to his post, and not a word spoken ;

and, with good luck, we will be inside Fort

Fisher before daybreak.'

The men retired. Then night fell, and we

could hear the beating of our hearts.

Stephen now took the wheel himself, and the

Captain became a sort of chief officer. At the

helm, proud of his skill and new employment,
Stephen looked something like that beautiful
old man whom I had found sleeping. The
cunning, sensual look was gone from him ; he
stood steady as a lion, yet eager and keen, with
every sense awake. Presently he ordered half-speed
; then we sounded ; then we forged
ahead a bit ; sounded again ; then before us I
saw, low and black in the night, the coast of
America.

Stephen kept her on her way slowly .and
cautiously ; the screw never ceased, but we
crept slowly along, hugging the shore as near
as he dared.

A few more yards nearer, pilot ? ' asked the
Captain.

'No, sir. I aren't do it. We are as
near What's that ? See now.'

A long, grating sound as the bottom just

touched the sand. The ship cleared the shallow,
and continued her slow, silent crawling
along the shore.

How long was that night ! How slowly the
hours crept on ; how patiently the men watched
and worked.

I suppose it must have been about two
o'clock in the morning, or rather later, the ship
still cautiously hugging the dark hue of coast,
that the end came.

We were moving so slowly that the motion
of the screw could hardly be felt ; the night
was very still and dark ; the sea a dead calm.
We were as close to the shore as the pilot could
possibly take her ; the men in the bows were
sounding perpetually, and sending the depth
aft in whispers. We had shown a light on the
inshore side ; this was answered by two lights, so
faint as to be invisible farther out ; they were

the lights to guide the pilot into the harbour.
Success was already in the Captain's hand ;
a few minutes more and the last few yards
of the long voyage would be run in safety.

Then there was a snapping as of wood in
the bows, a cry of alarm ; and the next momenta
rocket shot high in the air. On our starboard,
not a hundred yards from us, was lying
one of the cruisers, and the rocket had gone
up from a rowing barge, sent out to signalise a
chance blockade-runner, which boat we had
nearly run down.

It would have been better for Captain Ramsay
had we run her down altogether.

Put on all steam,' shouted the Captain, as
the rocket was answered by a gun, and then
another. ' Let them blaze away. Now, then.
Five minutes' run, lads, and we'll be out of
danger. Steady, pilot, steady ! '

Steady it is, sir,' answered Stephen, as
another cannon shot struck the water close to
our stern, sending the spray flying.

If there is to be fighting,' said Olive, ' we
had better be below, where, at least, we shall
be a little safer.'

We went below ; but we could not escape
the horrible banging of the cannon, which
seemed to be firing all around us, nor the rattling
of the rifles. They fired at random, because
they could not see us.

The men lay on the deck, thinking to get
shelter from the bullets if any should come
their way ; but the Captain stood by the Pilot.

Plenty of water, Pilot ? ' he asked.

Deep water, sir. Only keep her head
straight. As for them lubbers with their guns,
Tj^liy ' Here he stopped, and fell heavily

to the deck with a groan. The wheel flew
round ; the little steamer swung round with it ;
and before the Captain could put up the helm,
she ran bows on heavily into a sandbank and
stopped.

We are ashore,' said Ohve quietly. ' I
think, my dear, that we are saved.'

On deck we heard a great trampling. The
crew ran aft and jumped to ease her oiS* ; the
engines were reversed, but the ship was hard
and fast.

No one took any notice of the unfortunate
pilot, the only man struck by the shot. He lay
motionless.

Cap'en,' said the quartermaster and
bo's'n. Liberty Wicks by name, of whom I
have already spoken, ' this is a bad job.'

Captain Ramsay replied by a volley of
oaths.

They're putting off a boat from the Yankee,
sir. Shall we lower boats ? '

The Captain made no reply.

A New York prison or a run in the
Southern States, it is, Cap'en/

Still his captain made no reply.

Then the chief officer came up.

There is no time to lose, sir. The men
are lowering the boats. Shall we put in the
women first ? '

The Captain, still silent, went down the
companion, followed by the first officer and the
boatswain.

Olive had lit our lamp by this time.

Courage, Avis,' she whispered. ' Now is
the moment of your deliverance ! '

Come,' he said roughly. ' The ship is
aground. Avis, and you other, come on deck
and get into the boats.'

No said Olive, ' we shall remain here.'

I tell you, come ! '

Olive stood before me.

She shall not come ! '

Stand aside ! ' He added words of loathing
and hatred which I will not write down.
'Stand aside, or by the Lord I will murder
you.'

She shall not go with you. Oh, villain !
she shall not go with you ! '

Cap'en, there's no time,' growled the
quarter-master.

The Captain drew his revolver ; the chief
officer knocked up his hand.

No murder, Captain Ramsay,' he said,
unless you murder me and the bo's'n too.'

The Yanks are on us ! ' cried the man.
They seized the Captain, one by each arm,
and dragged him up the companion. We

heard a trampling on deck, a shouting, a pistol
shot, and a sound of oars in the water.

They are chasing the blockade-runners,'
said Olive. ' They will be back presently to
scuttle the ship and destroy the cargo. Let us
go on deck.'

It was too dark to see much. We heard
in the distance the regular fall of the oars ; we
saw a flash from time to time. Then there
was silence for awhile, and then we heard
the oars again.

The cruiser's men are coming back,' said
Olive.

In ten minutes they came alongside, and
we saw them climbing on deck. There were
twenty of them, armed with cutlasses and
pistols, headed by a young Federal officer.

He was greatly surprised to find two ladies
on board. But he was civil, asked us who we

were, and what we were doing on board a
blockade-runner.

Olive told him that I was an English lady
who had been brought away against her will,
that her own business was my protection.

We have no business in the South,' she
said, ' and we have no papers.'

What can I do with you ? ' he asked, evidently
not believing the statement. ' If I take
you aboard, we shall not know whether to
treat you as prisoners or not. If I land you,
you would be worse off than before. What is
the name of this ship ? '

'The Maryland, of Liverpool,' said Olive.
This is her first run.'

And her captain ? '

Captain Ramsay.'

The officer whistled.

I wish I had known,' he said. ' Well,

ladies, the best thing I can do, as you have
come all the way to the coast of North Carolina,
is to put you ashore on it. No doubt
that is what you want ; and I wish you joy of
Dixie's Land.'

'We would rather,' said Olive, *that you
took us to New York, even as prisoners.'

He shook his head and laughed.

Here a deep moan interrupted us, and we
became aware for the first time that poor old
Stephen was lying wounded at the helm, where
he had fallen.

Water,' he groaned.

I fetched him water. Olive raised his head.

Which of them is this ? ' asked the
Federal.

He is the pilot,' I replied, thinking no
harm in telling the truth.

The pilot, is he ? Well, if he recovers,

he will find out what the inside of a prison is ;
because you see, ladies, a pilot must know the
shore, and a pilot must therefore be a Eeb.'

He felt Stephen's pulse.

It is very low. I doubt he is dying.'

I gave him the water, and he opened his
eyes.

'Is that you. Avis? Keep clear of the
Captain,' he whispered slowly ; ' he's well-nigh
desperate.'

Tell me,' I said, ' was that story true about
the raft?'

You was,' he said, ' a Pick-me-up, off a
raft in Torres's Straits, dropped in endangers ;
and your mother was a Knobling. Your father,
he was admiral to the Sultan of Zanzibar.'
Here he fainted again.

Come,' cried the officer, ' we have no
time. Bo's'n.'

Sir;

Put these ladies into the boat and land them
as quickly as you can. Have you anything
you wish to take with you ? '

Nothing,' said Olive:

Then ' He raised his cap, and we

followed the boatswain.

We were closer to the shore than I
thought. In ten minutes the sailors stood upto
help us to land. Then they put off again.

The voyage was over : the ship was ashore ;
the cargo was lost ; the blockade-runners were
disappointed ; and we were standing, friendless
and helpless, on the shores of the New World.

CHAPTEE IX.

ALL THE WAY BY THE UNDERGROUND.

*0h, Olive!' I cried, 'what shall we do
now ? '

I know the country,' she replied ; ' that
is a great thing to begin with. They were
trying to run the blockade from Long Bay to
Smith's Island ; we are therefore, I suppose, not
far from the mouth of Cape Fear Eiver. Wilmington
is twenty miles to the north, and more.
He must go to Wilmington first. What will he
do afterwards? No one saw us landed,' she
said, after consideration ; ' he will think we are
taken prisoners by the Federals. He will make
for New York in hopes of finding you there.'

VOL. III. p

Then, if he goes to New York,' I said, ' we
need have no fear for ourselves.'

Nay, my dear,' she replied. ' Consider, weare
in a country torn by civil war ; we have no
means of showing that we are not spies : I myself
may be arrested as a fugitive slave ; we
have five hundred miles and more to go before
we reach a place where I may be free from that
danger ; we have no moneys ; we have no friends ;
what will become of you if I am carried off to
the State gaol ? '

To that I had nothing in reply. What,
indeed, would become of me — what would
become of her if she were arrested?

She read my thought.

My dear,' she said, ' do not be anxious
about me. I have no dread of the prison for
myself. At the most it will be a short captivity,
because sooner or later — and I think very soon

the South must collapse. Then abolition will
set us all free. No fear now of any compromise.
At first, indeed, when it seemed as if they were
fighting for a point of law in which the South
had the best of it, I trembled lest a peace might
be patched up, and the cause of the slave
abandoned ; now, things have gone too far.
The negroes must be emancipated, and with
them all the poor mulattoes, octoroons, and
whites who have the taint of negro blood, the
most wretched victims of this most wicked
system. Come,' she continued, after a pause,
we must not infer on the shore. Follow
me ; I think I can take you to a place wherefor
a day or two if necessary, we shall contrive
a hiding-place.'

It was time to decide on something, because
figures were to be seen running backwards and
forwards on the sands ; a bright light shot up

from the ill-fated Maryland, and boats were
seen putting off from shore.

'The Federals have set fire to the ship
said Olive ; ' those boats are put off by the
negroes, anxious to secure something from the
wreck. The light of the fire will be useful
to us.'

She hesitated a little.

Close by,' she said, ' but whether to the
right or to the left, is a little village called
Smithfield ; five or six miles west of Smithfield
is the village of Charlotte; due north of us
lies the Great Green Swamp. There I am sure
to find a place where no one will look for us, and
where we can rest, though the accommodation
will be rather rough for you. Are you tired ? '

I must be tired indeed,' I said, ' if I could
not find strength to escape from that man.'

It was still dark night. The flames of the

burning ship mounted high and shed a hired
Hight, which was of some use to us, if not much .
Ohve led the way, which was over sand hills
and across sandy ground, fatiguing to walk
over. After half an hour's walking we came to
ground which was wet and marshy.

This,' said Ohve, ' is the beginning of the
swamp. Great swamps lie all along the coast ;
they were designed by Providence, I believe,
for the hiding-places of runaways. Some years
ago, when I made up my mind there was
nothing before me but disgrace and wretchedness
unless I ran away, I betook myself to this
swamp. Here I lived among friendly blacks,
imtil a way was opened for me to escape. I
want to go back to my old friends and escape,
with you, once more by the old route — the
Underground Eailway.'

She went on to inform me that stations had

been established by Northern sympathisers,
where runaways were received, entertained, and
forwarded on their way with money and provisions.
Those who acted the part of hosts
did so at the risk of death ; because, whatever
mercy might be shown them by the law, none
would be shown by the mob. She did not
suppose, she said, that these stations were
altogether broken up by the outbreak of civil
war ; rather, because the abolitionists had
always many friends in the South, they would
be multiplied and hedged round by greater
precautions.

If we had money,' she said, ' I would
travel openly by way of Columbia, in South
Carolina, to Tennessee and Kentucky. The
Hue and Cry would scarcely reach so far.
Besides, we might disguise ourselves as boys if
it were necessary. But without money what

can we do but incur suspicion ? Therefore,
for a second time, I will try the Underground.*
We walked slowly along, I, for one, being-faint
from hunger. The path — if it was a
path — was soft and yielding, yet Olive went on
in full assurance. We had left the shore and
the burning ship far behind us. Presently the
day broke, and I found we were in a kind of
forest, the like of which I had never seen.
The soil was sometimes of silvery sand, in which
grew tall pine-trees ; a never-ending expanse
of pine trees ; sometimes a green swamp, in
which cypresses, with great trunks and roots
sticking up like boulders, took their place.
Among them were also the sycamore and the
beech, with trees whose names I did not know.
There was also a beautiful underwood of trailing
vines and creepers, which climbed to the

very tops of the trees and hung down in network.

When the sun rose there rose with him
flocks of great buzzards, sailing slowly over the
tree-tops, and the air became musical with the
notes of smaller birds. But no road or path,
no cultivation, no huts, no rising smoke, no sign
of human habitation.

Before the war.' said Olive, ' there would
have been danger from turpentine factories
scattered about on the edge of the swamp.
Now their owners have gone to the front and
the factories are stopped. So much the better
for us.'

Oh, Olive,' I cried, feeling as if flight were
useless and it were better to drop down and let
what might-be come, ' is there much farther to
walk?'

Not much before we make our first halt,'
she replied ; ' but I know not what to expect
for food.'

I suppose a mile or so is not much ; to a
strong girl it means twenty minutes' walk ; tome
it seemed as if we should never come to
an end.

I am looking,' said Ove, ' for. Daddy
Galoon's hut. It is six years and more since
last I came here ; but the woods were blazed,
and I have followed their guidance. And I
think, Avis, I think that Here it is.'

Within a little clump of pines standing on
a knoll was a hut, at the door of which sat an
old negro. He was dressed in nothing, apparently,
but a pair of cotton trousers and a
cotton shirt. He was old and bowed, yet his
eye was bright and keen. He rose slowly, as
Olive pushed her way between the trunks, and
stared at her curiously, but not as if he were
frightened.

Don't you remember me, Daddy ? ' she asked.

I guess,' lie replied, ' I think for quali,
you'd Missed Olive, from Squire Easily's over
dal way yonder. What you'd coin' back
again? Wan' anuder journey by dat underground'
? Ho ! '

I am back again, Daddy, because I
couldn't help it. First, give this young lady
some breakfast.'

He peered into my face and took hold of
my hand.

Dis yoiuig lady not a taller gal ; guess
she is from de Nor.'

No, Daddy ; she is from England. She
has enemies, and she has no money ; she will
travel with me.'

He gave me some simple food — cold
boiled pork, with meal and honey — which I
devoured greedily ; and then, overcome with
fatigue, I lay down in a corner, the old

man covering me with a blanket, and fell fast
asleep.

It was evening when I awoke. Olive was
sitting beside me, patient, watching, just as she had
sat beside me on board the Maryland. Nothing
changed her face ; it was always sad ; always the
face of one who lias suffered ; always the face of
one who expects more suffering, always patient.

We made our supper as we had made our
breakfast, off pork and meal and honey. Then
Olive told me something of her plans.

This old negro, who, by some accident, or
for something he had done, had long since
received his freedom, came to Green Swamp
thirty years before, and settled in the hut
which he built there. How he lived it was
difficult to say ; he grew nothing ; he had
neither jigs nor cattle nor fowls ; he did,
apparently, no Avork ; yet he had money, and

bought things at the nearest village where there
was a store. In fact, the old man occupied a
terminus station on the great many branched
Underground Eailway. All the slaves in North
Carolina knew that ; but, at a time when to be
found guilty of such a crime was enough to
make the neighbourhood rise and burn the
man alive, when any reward would have been
offered for conviction, not a negro or a mulatto
in the State ever gave information. If a ' boy '
wanted to run away, he would go naturally
and without being told to Daddy Galoon's,
who would pass him on to the next station.

The station of Green Swamp was safe too,
because the place was intersected by so many
streams that the hounds used in hunting
fugitives were easily put off* the scent. Therefore,
for twenty years old Daddy had been
passing them along. No one. knew of his

existence, except his own people : no one
knew of his hut except those to whom the
secret blazing of the trees had been confided.

It is much easier than it was,' said Olive.
All the men who used to live by hunting us
are gone to the war ; their packs of hounds
are destroyed ; the mean whites who loafed
around, too proud to work, and only too happy
to join in a nigger hunt, have all been drafted to
the armies in the field ; people are too busy to
look much after us ; I do not think we shall
have much trouble, unless my — the Captain —
has had me already proclaimed. The chief
fear is that, as we cannot account for ourselves,
we may be taken for spies. If only we had
some money ! '

She then told me that Daddy had gone to
Wilmington to ascertain if anything lead been
done.

He came back next day with news which
made my blood boil.

Captain Ramsay had learned that we hed
been put ashore ; some ' beach combers,' some
of the men who prowled about to pick up
what they could from the wreck of a blockade-runner,
had seen us landed by the Federal boat.
His first idea was to go in search of us, but he
was ignorant of the country ; he next proposed
to organise a hunting party in the ancient
fashion, with hounds ; this fell through because
he could get no one to join him ; the old pastime
of the nigger chase was forgotten in those days
of fiercer excitement ; besides, there were too
many English and others in Wilmington just
then, for it was a time when all parties in the
South were anxious to stand well with England,
and not get bad reports spread about the
cruelty of the Institution. Finally, he advertised

us. And the old man brought us a copy
of his infamous placard ;

One Thousand Dollars Edward. — Runaways
The girl Olive, the property of Squire
Easily, Cumberland County. Mulatto, will
pass for white. Black hair, black eyes, twenty-five
years of age. Also the girl Avis, eighteen
years of age, mulatto, brown hair, and blue
eyes. Tries to pass for an Englishwoman.
Property of Jefferson Ramsay, master mariner.

Were last seen together on the shore near

Smith ville. Will endeavour to escape to the
North. The above reward will be given to

any who will bring these girls together to the

advertiser, Captain Ramsay aforesaid.'

Would anyone believe that a man could be
so villainous ? One of these women, his wife,
put away by some idle form of law, and the

other the girl to whom he had offered love,
and the protection of a husband. He would
hunt down both by slave dealers ; he would
hand over one to the tender mercies of her
former master, and the other — what would he
do with the other?

'We need not ask that question, Avis,'
said Olive, ' because you shall not fall into his
hands.'

What shall we do, Daddy ? ' she asked
the old negro.

Missy bes' stay here day or two. Nobody
wine come here. Dey won* hunt in de
swamp. By'm-by, forget about it ; den missy
start right away,'

This seemed good advice, and we resolved
to adopt it.

After three weary days in the hut, it was
determined that we should make a start. I

was rested, and felt strong again in the bracing
sharp air of this strange new country. We
had twelve miles to make that day, with Daddy
as our guide, through the wild untrodden
forest land.

This stage was easily done. We halted
for dinner at noon in one of the clumps of
cypress of wliicli I have spoken, and reached
midnight quarters — another hut, provided
with little except two or three blankets and a
cache of preserved soup, which he dug up
from where he had put it, and of which we
made our dinner.

The next day's stage was the same. All
this time the country did not change. Always
the swamp and the sand ; always the pines
and the cypresses ; always overhead the buzzards
; and only sometimes, to vary the monotony,
a flock of wild turkeys or a herd of deer.

VOL. III. Q

On the third clay we were to leave the
swamp and take to the roads and villages,
when our danger would begin.

'Olive I said, 'if they take us prisoners,
what will they do next ? '

They would be obliged, I suppose, to take
us to Wilmington in order to get the reward.'

Would they — would they be cruel ? '

Well, my dear,' she replied calmly, ' slave-catches
are not the most kindly of men.
But I doubt their daring to inflict any cruelty
upon us.'

I conjured up a dreadful vision of manacles,
chains, and men brandishing heavy whips,
which remained With me until our escape was
accomplished. I was, I confess, horribly
frightened. The name of slave to an English
girl has something truly terrible in it ; that I
shoidd be actually advertised for as a runaway

slave was a thing most appalling to me.
Olive, to whom it had happened before, naturally
took things more quietly.

The house which was to receive us on the
third day was on the confines of a little town.
It belonged to a Baptist minister, who, a
Northerner by birth, had long since journeyed
South with the sole object of helping runaways
to escape. It was courageous and noble of
him ; how he reconciled it with his conscience
as a Christian to carry on the deception of
being a violent partisan of the South and
admirer of the Institution, I do not know.
Daddy Galoon timed the march this day so as
to bring us to the house after dark. It was a
wooden house, like all the rest, standing within
a small fence. The old man removed a bar
and we stepped over. He led the way to a
back door, at which he gave four knocks,

q2

which evidently belonged to the secrets of his
trade. The door was instantly opened, and a
lady invited us to step in.

We found ourselves in a room which
'Seemed to serve as kitchen and dining-room.

Daddy stood in the doorway. He came
no farther with his pilgrims. Here he took off
his hat, and said solemnly, ' De Lord dress do
runaways ! ' Then he shut the door and disappeared,
to return to his solitary hut in the
Green Swamp and wait for more.

Good Heaven, girls ! ' cried the lady ;
who are you ? '

I now became aware, though horribly tired
and oppressed with a dreadful anxiety about
my boots, the soles of which were dropping off,
that we were addressed by a most delightful
old lady, comely, motherly, and kind. To be
sure, it was uncommon in her experience to be

asked shelter by two white girls, the elder of
whom was only five-and-twenty, and the
younger had not one single feature of the
ordinary mulatto appearance.

Olive, as usual, told the story. She told it
calmly, effectively, in a few words ; and so
clearly that it carried with it the internal
evidence of truth Oui* protector Alas indignant.
She had never, she said, heard so
dreadful a case. Negroes and mulattoes in
hundreds had used her house — note that the
house would have been burned over their heads
had one of the fugitives for hope of reward or
fear of punishment informed upon them — they
were running away from the lash, from separation,
from slavery ; but never before had she
heard of a man trying to drive his wife back
into slavery, and putting an English girl into
the Hue and Cry as an escaped servant, so that

lie might force her into a form of marriage.


Long before she had conducted her indignant
invective against onr persecutor I was
sound asleep.

We rested here for two days, and were
provided by our kind hostess — her husband
having gone North in charge of a runaway
mulatto family — with changes of dress, of
which we were greatly in want. Eemember
that I was ' shipped ' with nothing but what
I stood in ; while my companion, who could
help me a little, had only what she could bring
on board in a bag when she became a stow-away.
And we were landed with nothing at
all, and had marched forty miles and moreover
bog and rough country, and had slept
three nights in log huts. We were, however,
in the hands of a true Samaritan, if ever there

was one. She gave us a complete new outfit,
and provided us with money, which we promised
to repay, in case any difficulty should
arise in which the almighty dollar might
exhibit to advantage.

She was of opinion that the advertisement
of us in the Wilmington papers would be
copied by others, so that we could not rely
upon being out of danger until we were finally
out of the Southern States. Virginia, she said,
was the most dangerous country for us, and
she counselled us to travel by night if we could,
or at all events in the evening, by short stages,
and by a route laid down by her, on which

we should meet with plenty of friends and
sympathisers, because it was the regular way

of her 'Eailway.' She also gave us minute

directions as to our next resting-place, where

we should be entertained and treated in

like manner by her friends and fellow-conspirators.


Thus rested and set up, we continued on
the third day our long and anxious journey.

Our conductor was a young negro, who informed
me, thinking that I was, in spite of
blue eyes and fair hair, one of his own people,
that he was really free, and had volunteered
this dangerous Underground Eailway business,
pretending to be the minister's slave-boy.

He chose cross roads, the badness of which
I could not have thought possible, to our first
stage. This, like the preceding, was the first,
or last, house in a little village or township,
and here we were entertained in like manner,
and next day went on. The indignation of
our hosts, excited everywhere as we told our
story, encouraged them to take every possible
j)recautionwith us. Yet once we were in great

danger, and escaped only by an accident which
I dare not call otherwise than providential.

The roads in North Carolina were then,
whatever they are now, everywhere bad.
Roads, indeed, many of them do not deserve
to be called ; they a^:e mere openings through
the forest of the long-leaved pine, or, as they
call them, the ' piny woods.' There are frequent
forks, so that it is more easy to lose
one's way than to keep it. There are brooks
to cross, and fallen trunks to get over. Every
now and then we came to a clearing, where
maize had been planted, and a small log cottage
built. In all of them we saw children,
and Restless, despondent white women, mostly
with pipes in their mouths. All these houses
were exactly alike ; the furniture was rough
and rude ; they were dirty ; they looked
what they were, the houses of ignorant vagabonds,

too proud to work in the fields, too
lazy for any industry, too stupid for any improvement.


It is the curse,' said Olive, ' which slavery
brings with it. The land is accursed for the
sins of its owners. Nothing prospers. There
are no roads ; there are no farms ; there are
no manufactures, because labour is considered
the duty of the blacks.'

There were no white men, because they
were — unless they were too old — one and all
away with the armies of the South. But the
women of the cabins asked us no questions,
and seemed indifferent whether their cause
was winning or losing. They had no papers,
no books. I believe most of them could not
write. What a dreadful life must theirs be ;
shut up in the silent woods, with no knowledge
of the world beyond, no thought of how life

can be made beautiful ! ' It is the curse of
slavery,' said Olive.

I do not remember the names of the places
we stopped at ; they all seemed to me exactly
alike. The roads were alike ; the country
seemed the same day after day. Nor do I
remember how many days we had travelled
but it could not have been many — when we
fell into our teat cano-er.

It arose from our guide losing his way on
the road. Somehow or other we took the
wrong fork, and presently, instead. of arriving atone
of the little places where we were to stay,
we drove straight into the very town we
wished most to avoid, Fayetteville, which is
not only the principal place in North Carolina
next to Raleigh, but is also connected by a
railway with Wilmington. It was, indeed,
a most dangerous place.

Olive instructed our guide to say that we
were two ladies on our way to Eichmond, and
that he was our boy. We then drove to the
hotel, and entered boldly. It was then just
after dark. It was easy to stay in our room
that evening, and a couple of dimes induced
one of the servants to bring some supper tous.
But the morning would bring its dangers.


We stayed in our room till breakfast-time,
when, not being able to make any excuse, we
descended slowly to the saloon. There the
tables were crowded with guests, who all
appeared too much occupied in the business
of eating to pay any attention to us. Only
one of the company — a sallow, evil-looking
man — seemed to me to look at us more curiously
than I liked. In fact, his gaze became
so earnest that I became faint with terror, and

was glad indeed when we could rise and leave
the table.

The boy was waiting for us with the trap
in which he had driven us from the last
station. We brought down our luggage, paid
our bill, and were ready to depart, when the
man who had caused me so much terror
stepped up to me and touched me on the
shoulder with his forefinger.

Guess,' he said roughly, ' that you've
got to lev a word with me before you go.'

Olive ! ' I cried, catching her by the arm ;
oh ! Ohve ! '

It was the worst thing I could have said.
He laughed aloud.

All right,' he said. ' Gentlemen, these
are two runaway taller gals, advertised for in
the " Wilmington Herald". A thousand dollars
reward.'

I stood trembling. For a moment Olive
lost her head. She made as if she would tear
me away and fly. Only for a moment.

Gentlemen,' she said, instantly recovering
herself, ' bear witness, all of you, that I am the
wife of an American citizen, and this young
lady is an Englishwoman.'

There was a movement among the little
crowd which gathered round us and murmurs.


The man replied by reading the advertisement,
pointing out as he read the exactness of
the description.

Olive whispered me.

I claim,' I cried, ' the protection of the
British Consul ! '

There was no British Consul in the place.

Is there no one here,' I asked, ' dio will
defend two helpless women against a villain T

Ef you air runaways,' said one man in the

crowd ; ' ef you air taller ' And at that

fatal word all sympathies were dried up.

It seemed there was no help but we must

go.

'Na — ow,' said our captor, 'guess you'd

better go quiet, or there's handcuffs and other

things.'

Just then, however, a rescuer appeared,
a veritable St. George, a Perseus, though in the
lank shape and forbidding features of Liberty
Wicks, bo's'n and quartermaster of the Maryland.
It seemed to me a forlorn hope, but
Olive cried to him by name, and he turned,
and, seeing us, burst through the crowds

Darn my scuppers ! What's this ? Beg
your pardon, ladies,' taking off" his hat ; but
what's this little difficulty? '

'Bo's'n,' said Olive, quietly and with dignity,

' when I sailed with you from New York
to Havannah, four years ago, what was my
name ? Perhaps you will tell these gentlemen.'


You was Mistress Angel, the Captain's
wife.'

You hear, gentlemen. The captain's
wife. The wife of Captain Angel, of the ship
Providence, in the Havannah trade. Is it
likely that Captain Angel's wife should bea
runaway? Now, will you tell these gentlemen,
bo's'n, where you took on board this
young lady ? '

Off the port o' Boscastle, on the coast of
Cornwall, in England,' he replied. 'Brought
aboard, she was, by the captain and the pilot.'

Now, gentlemen,' said Olive, ' are you
satisfied? Or shall I ask my friend here to
protect us against a man, probably a mean

Yankee ' — she threw infinite contempt into
those words — ' who would pretend that we are
runaway slaves.'

Liberty Wicks stepped to the front, and
stood before us.

Ef,' he said resolutely, ' any man here lays
hands on these two ladies, he lays hands on
me.' He drew a revolver from his breast, and
looked round, with his finger on the trigger.
I allow,' he said, ' two minutes for that
unfortunate cuss to order his coffin.'

He had so resolute an air, and looked
so terrible, this lanky man with the hard features
and the weather-beaten cheeks, that they
all drew back.

He then called our boy.

Where, boy, was you going' to take these
ladies? ' he asked.

They was wine,' said the boy, readily,

VOL. III. R

by the nearest way to Raleigh, on their way
to Richmond, in Virgin, where they was to
stay with their friends.'

That looks like running' away, that does,'
said Liberty, looking round with triumph.
Going' to Richmond. Going' to head-quarters.
Now, stand aside, lubbers all, and let the ladies
pass. B}' your leave, ma'am,' he touched his
hat again, ' I will go part of the way with you.
Lord love us ! Here's a sweet English rosebud
for you.' He addressed the crowd, but
he meant me. ' A sweet and pretty blushing'
young thing, and you play it that mean on
her as to call her a cussed taller gell. Yah !
I'm ashamed o' North Carolina. That's a
fact.'

We were in the carriage now. He hitched
himself on to the footboard, and we drove
away as rapidly as our boy dared, the honest

bo's'n hurling derision behind him m language
which our would-be-captor no doubt understood.
To me it was a foreign tongue. When
we were outside the town, and again in the
^ ' piny woods,' he changed his tone.

Boy,' he said, ' steer quick out of this
road. Take the first fork ; never mind where
it takes you to. I know that slave-hunting
coon. He came down here a purj)us on the
hunt for the reward. Them mean whites 'ud
live on rewards if they could. Thought you'd
make for the nearest town, and be landed like
a salmon in a net. And he won't give in
'thou another run foret. I see that in his
taller eye. He's gone to git a warrant, an'
he'll make tracks after us as fast as he can lay
fut to perth. Therefore cross country is the
word, unless we are all to go to the State gaol
together, where you, brother Snowball, will

K 2

taste the Confederate cat, and I shall grow fat
on the Confederate bacon.'

The boy grinned, and turned the trap
off the main road into one of the little forest
tracks.

Ladies,' he went on, ' I know all about it,
and you kin trust me, for though I was born
down to Norfolk, my father was a honest
Yank, and as for slavery, why, I just hate
ut ; there, I hate ut. As for you, mari,' he
addressed himself to Olive, 'it may be true
what that murdering' villain said, and it may
not be true. All I know for certain is that
you shipped aboard with us twice ; want you
was the Cap'en's wife, and the second time,
when the skipper had changed his name, you
was a stowaway. And as for you, young lady,
you was kidnapped. Now we're comfortable
and understand each other ; and so, ladies, ef

you'll tell me your plans, you may trust
me.'

It was risky, but we were completely at
his mercy, and besides, we remembered his
whispers on board the ship.

Olive told him all. She confessed that she
had been formerly a slave in this same State,
though in appearance as white as any European
; that she had escaped by the underground
Eailway ; that she had told Captain
Jefferson Ramsay, alias Valentine Angel, everything
before their marriage ; that we now
designed to effect our escape by the same
way in which she had before succeeded ; and
that it was only by the accident of losing our
way that we found ourselves at Fayetteville at
all.

He approved our design, and told us, which
was a teat comfort for us, that Tennessee was

most likely, by this time, in the hands of the
North, so that once over the Allegheny Mountains
we were safe.

He then went on to speak of the Captain.

At first,' he said, ' he was mad at losing
his ship, his cargo, and — the young lady.' Then
he begged Olive's pardon.

You need not,' she said. ' I know my
husband as well as you.'

There is nothing,' he told us, ' nothing on
this perth that he would not do to gain his
ends. Robbery, murder, shooting' and slaughtering,'
consphin' and plotting,' misrepresenting'
and lying,' bullying' and threatening : ' all this
comes in the day's work. As for revenge, it is
the Cap'en's nature to remember the bad deeds
and forget the good. I'm his old shipment.
Well, what then? As fur what I've done in
takin' you out o' the hands o' the 'Maladies,

if he had the aboard kiiifin' would be too
good for me. Reckon ef we meet, there'll bea
hole made in the man who draws the slowest.
Bad job fm* that man, it'll be. Shipments we
mustn't never be no more. Pity, too, for the
Cap'en's got a lucky hand, and '
is sweet and lovely biz for them as likes
large profits. Wal, mad at first he was, and
went around like — like a eel in a ash-pit ;
nobody, not even the chief officer, didn't venture
go a-nigh him fur a spell. Then he heard
that you ladies was seen put ashore ; and then
he put out them advertisements. I've snowed
the Cap'en for nigh twenty year, and sailed
with him on many a cruise, and seen a deal o'
wild and bloody work, but I never see nor
learn a more desperate wickedness than to
call his own wife and the young lady whom
he'd kidnapped runaway taller tells. 'Tears

most as if I should be feared of sailing' in the
same craft with such a man. Talk o' Jonas !
What he did wasn't nowhere near it ! '

So we changed the route which had been
laid down for us by our kind friends of that
secret institution which had befriended so many
poor creatures, and drove across the strange
forest covered country by the cross tracks
which we chose by compass, not knowing
whither they would lead us, so only that we
should not come out upon any town. Towns,
indeed, in North Carolina, were scarce.

It was a wonderful journey, the recollection
of which lives always in my mind, and will
never leave me. There was the sense of being
hunted, which made me wake up in the dead
of night, and clutch at Olive's wrist and cry
aloud for help ; there was the silent deserted
forest ; the cottages where the poor creatures

lived whose husbands were with the rebel
armies, and whose children ran about as wild
and as untaught as their mothers. There was the
midday camp for dinner, and sometimes the
night camp, when in the warm summer nights it
was no great harm to sleep in the open. There
were the bad corduroy roads, over which our
hickory-built carriage, tough and yielding as
steel, bumped and jumped us from the seat.
There were the places where we had to get
out and ford a stream ; there were days when
we could get no food, and days when we fared
sumptuously. Our negro boy was always good-natured,
laughing, happy, and careless ; he had
no fear or any anxiety. Our protector was
always grim of aspect, yet kind of speech ;
rough in his manner, yet a very Don Quixote
for chivalry towards women. To walk beside
him was to feel that one had a protector indeed

as true and faithful as even my poor Jack would
have been.

At last we came to the Allegheny Mountains.
If I had not seen those hills, I should have
thought the whole of America was one vast
plain covered with pine forests ; having seen
them, when I think of places beautiful, my
thoughts go back to the Allegheny Mountains.

Once on the other side we were soon in
Tennessee.

To our great joy, the Federals held Nashville
; and here, the very day we got there, we
saw a great and splendid thing.

It was in the evening ; a mighty crowd,
almost entirely composed of negroes and
coloured people, were gathered together in a
square before a great building, which was, I
suppose, the town-hall or government house.
Presently there came forth to them a man of

insignificant presence, like Paul, and, like him,
the bearer of good tidings.

'In the name of this great Republic,' he
said in a solemn voice, ' I proclaim you free.'

Olive burst out crying and sobbing. It was
the beginning of the end. Slavery was
doomed.

The man was Andrew Johnson. Two
years later, when the murder of Abraham
Lincoln put him in the president's place, and
papers derided the self-made man, I thought of
the great deed he had done in Tennessee, and
how he had, on his own responsibility, given
liberty to the thousands who, before his act,
were like the cattle of the field, to be bought
and sold.

We made no stay at Nashville, though there

was nothing to fear, but took train, no longer
in hiding or afraid, for the North ; for we

longed to be once more on British soil, out of
the dreadful war, out of the never-ending controversy,
out of the tears of women, out of the
anxiety of men, out of the sights which showed
us how terrible is war, and how strong of
purpose were the men who would never lay
down the sword till the cause was won.

When, at last, we crossed the bridge at
Niagara, we had been six weeks upon our
journey from the moment when we started from
the flat and sandy shore to plunge into the
depths of the Great Green Swamp.

Often, at night, I dream of that time. In
my dream I am stumbling, tired, footsore, and
hungry, over the sand among the piny woods,
or across the yielding grass of the quicksands ;
beside me walks, patient, uncomplaining, always
with a smile for me and a word of hope —
always with the hopeless sadness for herself,

poor Olive. It seems as if to the forest and
the pines there shall never be any end. Or I
am among the green slopes and wooded heights
of the Allegheny Mountains. The air, here,
is bright and clear ; one feels stronger upon the
hill-sides ; we walk with elastic tread ; with us
is the tall, ungainly sailor, who hitches up one
shoulder first, and then the other, who screws
up his right eye tight, who chews tobacco as he
goes ; who talks with such a drawl ; who
inspires us with so much trust that I, for one,
could laugh and sing. Or I am standing at the
outer edge of that great throng of blacks, while
the man of insignificant presence proclaims the
freedom of the slaves, and Olive's tears are a
hymn of thanks and praise.

CHAPTER THE LAST.

THE WHIRLPOOL OF NIAGARA.

At last we were on British soil. Truly
there had been no danger to us since Andrew
Johnson's proclamation at Nashville ; but, as I
have said, the country was wild with war excitement,
and one longed to be away from the
dreadful anxieties depicted on every face.

The train landed us at last on the American
side of the Falls ; we crossed over and found on
the English side a small hotel, where we
thought of resting for a few days before we
began to consider our plans. Olive, especially,
wanted rest ; sit. was pale and anxious ; she had
lost hope ; she felt, she said, the approach of

some fresh calamity ; she knew that her husband,
wherever he was, would bring her new sorrow
and himself new disgrace. That dreadful punishment
in which the dead were tied to the
living was hers ; for she was joined with a man
dead to all goodness.

Here our protector left us, with thanks
which were heartfelt, if any ever were. He
had saved us from a most dreadful danger ; he
had literally torn us from the hands of our
enemies ; he had carried us across a rough and
dangerous country, a country in which he who
helped a runaway would have had a short shrift
and a long rope ; he had brought us to a place
of safety. In addition, rude and rough sailor
as he was, he had never intruded himself upon
us, maintained the most perfect respect towards
us ; had paid all our expenses for us ; and now,
with a courtesy and consideration beyond all

praise, he advanced us a sum of money to
provide for our passage to England.

I have repaid that money long ago ; but
the faithful, loyal service I can never repay.
And though I know not where my protector
may be, I pray for him daily.

He left us, then, to make his way to Liverpool
first, and, if that failed, to Nassau, in order
to find another berth in a blockade-runner,
nothing daunted by the ill-success of the last.
He attributed the disaster, indeed, just as poor
old Stephen did, to the presence of women
aboard the ship. Some sailors, except on
passenger ships where their admission is necessary,
believe in the superstition that my sex
brings misfortune to a ship. He promised
faithfully to keep out of Captain Ramsay's way ;
and so we parted, and I have never seen him
since.

The place, on the English side, was full of
Southern ladies ; they did not come to gaze
upon the Falls, but to watch and wait. Alas
for them ! Their words were full of boast and
promise ; but the colour was fading from their
cheeks and the light from their eyes in the days
when day after day passed and the armies of
the South made no headway. Their brothers
were with those armies ; their sisters were
starving in the lonely homesteads ; their slaves
were scattered, their fields untilled ; and they
believed — oh! how those poor creatures believed
! — in the justice of a cause most unjust,
and prayed — as only believers and faithful
women can pray — for the success of arms which
should never have been taken up.

I had written, every day since we left
Nashville, letters to my dear Jack, telling him
what we were doing and how we fared.

VOL. III. s

These letters I sent to London, but lie did not

get them till long afterwards, for a very good

reason, as you shall hear. For, when the Poet

told him what had happened, with tears in his

eyes, taking shame and blame to himself, who

was not to blame at all, but rather the reverse,

as having clearly discerned the character of the

villain Ramsay from the beginning, Jack, with

no more delay than was necessary to turn

everything he possessed into money — it was not

much, poor fellow ! — took train for Liverpool.

He would cross over to America and search the

States through till he found me. With him

came his friend, the Poet. They landed at

New York ; here they heard of the wreck and

burning of the Maryland off Cape Fear, the news

of which was received with great joy, because

her captain's name was well known as that of a

most successful runner ; and this was a new and

very fast steamer. They read in the papers
further, how two ladies had been taken prisoners
but set ashore, because it was no use carrying
Southern women to a Northern gaol. Then Jack
breathed with relief, for he knew who one of
the ladies was, and he hoped that I was among
people who would protect me from the man
Ramsay. The Americans make short work of
men who insult women. Presently they heard,
having by this time discovered where to learn
news from the South — and, indeed, partly from
the newspapers, partly from private letters, and
partly from the information of spies, nothing
was done in North Carolina, Virginia, or any
other of the Confederate States, that was not
immediately known in New York — the horrible
news that the villain Ramsay had taken
advantage of the Southern prejudices in the
matter of colon' to get a Hue and Cry sent

through the country after us. The man who
told Jack this was one of the sailors of the
Maryland, who knew, as all the crew knew,
that Olive was the Captain's wife, and had
followed her husband on board as a stowaway.
Horrible ! his own wife, though he had tried to
put her away on a lying pretext, the woman
whom he had sworn to love and protect, he had

declared to be a runaway slave. As for me

Jack ground his teeth, but he could find no
words fitting for his wrath and indignation.
There are acts whose guilt is greater than any
tongue can express ; such was this act of the
man who had betrayed me to cross the ocean
on his ship, But then, to their joy and comfort,
they heard how we had escaped, and were reported
to be coming along by slow stages, and
the help of the Underground Eailway. If all
went well, we might be expected in New York

or Philadelphia in a fortnight or three weeks at
latest.

As you know, our route was changed,
and we came on with the help of another protector.


When we did not appear, and they learned
that we had been carried away after the danger
at Fayetteville by a sailor, their anxiety
was very great. It was impossible to guess
with any certainty whither the man had
carried us, or whether he would be loyal ;
or whether, after all, he was not (having been
a sailor under Captain Ramsay) a mere
creature and servant of this, anxious, perhaps,
to show his zeal to his chief by bringing back
the runaways for no reward at all. Granted
that he would be true to us, whither in so
troubled a time would he take us ? Not
through Virginia ; perhaps South by way of

South Carolina, and so to New Orleans, though
that was a long and perilous journey ; perhaps
even through the worst and most dangerous
part of the country, where we should be least
expected to venture.

Then, because news of us, not being of
public interest, came slowly, they went north
to Toronto, on the chance of hearing more
about us there from the people interested in
runaways. But no one there had heard anything
of our story. Then they went back to
New York, and from there to Philadelphia,
where they learned the latest news from Wilmington.
The latest news was to the effect
that Captain Ramsay was still at Wilmington
waiting for his two ' runaways ;' but they had
not been heard of, and it was thought that
they had succeeded in making their escape \
anyway, the country was much too disturbed

to allow of the old-fashioned hot chase. Captain
Kamsay had learned the part played by
his bo's'n in our escape, and went about
stating his intentions (which were closely
copied from the old modes of torture) with
regard to that knight-errant.

Then, because publicity would now be a
great thing for us. Jack wrote an account of
the story so far as he knew it — be sure he
made the most of Kamsay 's marriage, and his
treatment of his wife, though he knew nothing
of the Indiana divorce — and sent it to one of
the New York papers, which immediately published
it. All the other papers copied it with
comments. This, then, was the kind of thing
which was possible in the South ! A man
marries a runaway mulatto, brings her back
to North Carolina, and advertises her as a
fugitive slave, while he advertises for an

English girl, whom he has kidnapped, on the
same pretext. Did ever an indignant world
hear the like ? Was there ever an institution
like that called by its supporters the Peculiar
and the Domestic ? When the story had gone
the round of the Northern journals, some
treating it as a hoax, it was actually copied
by a Eichmond paper, in order to show the
kind of rubbish with which Yankee abolitionists
entertained their readers. The facts were, of
course, indignantly denied ; not only were
they denied, but people with common sense
were asked if it were even possible that they
could be true. A Southerner, they said, could
never, to begin with, marry a mulatto runaway
; if he did, it was incredible that he
should bring her back to her master — the
lowest of humanity would revolt at such a
wickedness ; and then we were asked to

believe that a man, whose name was mentioned,
and who was at the very time among
his friends at Wilmington, had still further
kidnapped an English girl, and was trying to
get her back when she had escaped, under
the pretence that she, too, was a slave. Why,
the story was monstrous !

Everybody at Wilmington knew the truth,
because you cannot silence men's mouths, and
the crew talked ; yet so vigorously did Captain
Ramsay adhere to his own statement, and so
calmly resolute were his announced intentions
of letting daylight into any dio ventured to
make assertions to the contrary, that public
opinion only showed itself in a general desire
to avoid his presence. This method, adopted
at first by the more peaceful of the citizens,
was gradually followed by the very rowdiest
among the sailors and wild creatures who

haunted the Wilmington saloons. If the Captain
showed at a bar, there would be silence ;
presently the visitors at that bar dropped away
one after the other, having immediate and important
business elsewhere. This was galling
to Captain Ramsay ; he could not shoot a
whole townful of men for the crime of having
business elsewhere when he entered a
saloon ; and as nobody offered him any
pretext, there was no shooting to be done.
Presently, as Jack heard, there were murmurs
abroad, the citizens met and talked things
over, the Hue and Cry was torn down from
the walls, and the name of Lynch was freely
mentioned. At this juncture. Captain Ramsay
disappeared.

I know that he will run the inland blockade,'
said Olive, talking over things at Niagara.
^ He will cross the lines and make for New

York. Then lie will come North. I shall
wait for him here.'

Will you forgive him ? ' I asked.

Forgive ? Oh, my dear, it is not a question
of forgiveness. What have I not forgiven?
What have I not endured ? I must be with
him to save him from worse things if I may.
And What is it, child ? *

For below us, walking in the road, on the
shady side, were no other than Jack and the
Poet, and I was running and crying to fly into
the arms of my lover. How he greeted me —
with what words of affection and rejoicing — I
cannot set down. When he let me go for a
moment, I shook hands with the Poet, who
hung his head guiltily.

It was all my fault. Miss Avis,' he said ;
'I ought to have, followed you day and night.

I knew he was a man-eater. I saw that from
the very beginning.'

He would come with me. Avis,' said Jack.
He has never left me day or night. See what
it is to have a faithful Poet ! '

He spoke in his old light, airy way, but
his voice shook, and the tears stood in his eyes
as he held m}^ hands in his.

You have suffered much. Avis. My poor
girl : I would I could have suffered for you.'

I think you have suffered for me too,
Jack.'

And then I told him of Olive, who had
left us together, and of what she had done,
and of Liberty Wicks, the quartermaster.
Nothing would do now for Jack but we must
be married at once, to prevent any further
chance, he said, of the man Ramsay, or Angel,
or whatever he called himself, running away

with me. Why, indeed, he said, should we
wait? Such protection and guardianship as
had been grudgingly afforded me by Stephen
Cobbledick was now withdrawn, because the
old man was killed (so far as we then knew).
I had no friends to consult, and we loved each
other. That consideration, indeed, was all
that we wanted. Could I refuse my boy what
he so ardently desired — the right to call me his
own? We went, therefore, two days afterwards
to the little Episcopal Chapel of Clifton-ville,
where we were married, the Poet giving
me away. He gave me also, I remember, the
most beautiful bracelet to be got at Niagara —
it had been the property of a poor Southern
lady, who sold it to pay her hotel bill — and a
collection of feather fans bought at the little
shops beside the Falls. And when we came to
England, he gave me his book of poetry, which

I shall always read with pleasure, though I
prefer Tennyson and Longfellow, out of gratitude
to my Jack's best friend.

One morning, a week after our marriage,
Olive came and told me, with tears, how she
had just heard from some quarter whence she
got secret information, that a warrant had
been issued against Valentine Angel, alias
Jefferson Ramsay, alias a great many other
names, including his first. Peregrine Pickle,
for piracy on the high seas. It was one of
those great and gallant deeds remembered and
lauded by Stephen Cobbledick, committed
some years before. They had other charges
against him, but this would be taken first.
The little matter of kidnapping a whole crew
of free blacks at Boston and selling them at
New Orleans would also be brought up again.

Meantime, there was reason to believe that he
was making for British territory ; that he
would cross the frontier at Niagara ; and,
unless he were captured before, would betaken
on the bridge.

Ove spent that day on the other side,
watching and waiting, if haply she might give
her husband warning.

The next day and the next she sat or
walked. All night, too, she had no sleep ; she
never left her watch ; he might come at any
moment.

On the fourth day he came.

He was in some kind of disguise, but she
knew him. It was already growing dark ; he
walked in the shadows of the great square
hotels, away from the lights in the shop windows.
She touched his arm. He turned, and
recognised her with an oath.

Do not cross the bridge to-night ! ' she
said. ' They are on the watch for you everywhere
; he in hiding ; you will be arrested.'

He pushed her roughly from him with
another oath, walked quickly to the toll-gate,
paid his toll, and hurried over the bridge.
What sign had been sent across I do not
know, nor how they knew their man ; but ashe
neared the English side, three men stepped
from the gate-house.

They were armed to the teeth with rifles
and pistols, for they were going to catch a
wild beast.

Stand,' cried one ; ' we arrest you,
Angel, alias Ramsay, for piracy on the high
seas.'

He looked back ; armed men were at
the other end of the bridge. He drew his
revolver, fired twice and missed, and, with

a bound, leaped to the railings of the
bridge, and dived headlong into the river, a
hundred and fifty feet below.

Here the stream is narrow, and the deep
water, between perpendicular rocks, rushes
black, vehement, terrible even on the sunniest
days, as if anxious to get away from the
horror of the awful leap it has taken over
the Fall behind. He would be a good
swimmer who would keep his head above the
water in such a stream ; he would be a strong
swimmer who could think of holding his own
even with the current, in such a rush and
roar of headlong waves until he could come
to a place where the cliffs sink down and a
landing-place might be found. Ramsay disappeared
in the stream. A moment afterwards
his head appeared upon the surface ; he
had not, then, been killed by the leap ; he

VOL. III. T

was alive and lie was swimming. Crack ! crack !
crack ! Three rifles were fired. His head disappeared
again and was no more seen. Olive's
husband had met his fate.

Three miles or so below the Falls there is
a place which visitors are always taken to
see. The force of the water has hollowed out
a round basin in the rocks, and a bank has
been formed at the bottom of earth and
crumbled rock, where grow the wild vine, the
maple, and the hemlock of the Canadian woods,
with a thousand flowers, bushes, and climbing
things which make this place a dream of
loveliness. You may clamber round this bank,
among this growth, and watch at your feet
the great round whirlpool, which the river
forms. The season changes ; men come and
'go ; but the boiling, roaring water never

ceases to rush round and round as if mad to
devour something, and for ever in a fierce
insatiable hunger and rage. Strange things
sometimes come down from the Falls and
are carried round upon its surface until, by
some accident, they drift out of the whirling
circle, and are either carried away down
stream or thrown up on this bank ; no
stranger or more awful thing ever came into
this whirlpool, and was carried round and
round, than that which was seen the day
after Captain Ramsay's desperate leap. It
was the body of a man. The waters hurried
him ceaselessly round the sweeping circle ; in
his hand he held a revolver ; hand and
pistol were above the water, the rest of the
body, black in the gloomy pool, only visible
when the current bore it near the bank. And
by the water's edge sat a woman with pale
T 2

face and sunken eyes and clasped hands.
She was waiting for the river to give up its
dead.

For three days that awful hand, its fingers
closed timon the pistol, was hurried round ;
in the night of the third day the body of Captain
Ramsay floated ashore, and was laid by
the river itself, as if moved to pity at so
much patience and so much grief, at the very
feet of his widow.

They buried him in the churchyard at
Chftonville. At his head Olive placed a
marble cross, with his initials and the date of
his death, and beneath she wrote the words,
Thy mercy, Jesu ! '

When all was over we took her away.

She came with us as far as Quebec,
where we were to embark for England.
Here she parted from us.

My life,' she said, ' has gone from me ;
there is but one thing left to do — to pray for a
dead man ; there is only one Church which
permits me so to pray. I shall enter a
convent and pray for him night and day.'

She kissed and wept over me ; she prayed
for my happiness ; she thanked God that
she had been of service to me ; and then the
doors of the convent closed upon her, and
Olive became, too, as one dead.

I am glad to be able to add that Stephen
was not killed ; they carried him aboard the
cruiser, where, for a spell, he had a pretty
bad time ; then he pulled round and presently
found himself in a New York gaol, where he
lay cooling his heels and reflecting for a good
space, because, as I have said, they were
hard on pilots. In the fulness of time, however,
he returned to Boscastle, where, his

rents having been collected for him in his
absence, he settled down again to the comfortable
old life.

He accounted for his departure by swearing
that the notorious pirate, Captain Ramsay, had
kidnapped him together with his niece ; that
in the rescue of that dear girl, at the end
of their run — he could not avoid narrating
the brilliant way in which he almost navigated
. the ship right into Wilmington on
the darkest night ever known — he had
received wounds innumerable, which he did
not regret. Sometimes his friends would
pull him up to ask how, seeing he had no
brothers or sisters, the young lady could be
called his niece. Then he reverted to the
story of the raft, into which my husband
and I never inquired further. The locality
and the minor details always varied according

to the geographical fancy of the moment ;
but he adhered to the leading situations of
the story.

I picked her up, gentlemen, lying',
with a hundred and fifty three poor fellows
sailors — all starved to death upon a raft.
She was dropped in four endangers. It was
in latitude twenty-two and a half, where it's
pretty hot, off the coast of Chili. Wherefore I
took her aboard, fed her myself night and
morning' with a spoon and bottle, and giv' her
for her benefit the name of Cobbledick. Also,
to make her feel properly proud of her family
I said her mother was a Knobling. This made
her grow up haughty. I sought for her, gentlemen
; I thought for her ; I fought for her.
I crossed the sea with her. I rescued her
from the pirate, and I chucked him over
the bridge into Niagara Rapids. Yet she

remembered, in the long run, that she
was but a Common Pick-me-up, after all,
and married, in spite of her family connections,
a journeyman painter who hadn't the
money to pay for his Marriage Settlements.'

THE END.

London : Printed BY

3POTT1SWOODK AND CO., New-STREET SQUARE

ASD PARLIAMENT STREET

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

illllillliliiliill

3 0112 041403582

^^^mi

hF

^M\

:n.

"^,d^-

■HsV ^^^^

^^'■.'J'

■^^'a-

1^6 #-

i^^.^-
