EX-LIBRIS
F. E.DlNSHAW

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

V.1

U

^

Each in Three Volumes.

KIT : a Memory. By James Pain.

VAL STRANGE. By David Christie Murray.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon.

GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.

DUST. By Julian Hawthorne.

WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.

OF HIGH DEGREE. By Charles Gibbon.

CHATTO 8: WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

ETC.

BY

WALTER BESANT

AUTHOR OF 'all SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN* ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



\ A li rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OF

.v^- THE First VOLUME.

■s

IHE CAPTAINS' ROOM.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

The Message of the Mute 3

CHAPTER II.

The Pride of Rotherhtthe 46

CHAPTER III.

The Sailor Lad from oyer the Sea . . . . 67

CHAPTER IV.

Overdue and Posted . . . . ■ .109

CHAPTER Y.

The Patience of Penelope . . . . . 123

CHAPTER VI.

the Message from the Sea 143

CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

Captain Borlinder among the Cannibals . , . 171

CHAPTER VIII.

The Quest of Captain Wattles . . , . . l^OI

CHAPTER IX.

The Great Good Luck of Captain Holstius . . . 227

'LET NOTHING YOU Dismay:

CHAPTER I.
All the People Standing 271

VOL. I. B

THE MESSAGE OF THE MUTE.

Perhaps the most eventful day in the story of
which I have to tell, was that on which the veil
of doubt and misery which had hung before the
eyes of Lai Rydquist for three long years was
partly lifted. It was so eventful, that I venture
to relate what happened on that day first of all,
even though it tells half the story at the very
beginning. That we need not care much to consider,
because, although it is the story of a great
calamity long dreaded and happily averted, it is a
story of sorrow borne bravely, of faith, loyalty,
and courage. A story such as one loves to tell,
because, in the world of fiction, at least, virtue
should always triumph, and true hearts be rewarded.
Wherefore, if there be any who love' to
read of the mockeries of fate, the wasting of good
women's love, the success of craft and treachery,
instances of which are not wanting in the world,
let them go elsewhere, or make a Christmas tale
for themselves ; and their joy bells, if they like it,

B 2

shall be the funeral kneller and their noels a dirge
beside the gave of ruined and despairing innocence,
and for their feast they may have the bread
and water of affliction.

The name of the girl of whom we are to
speak was Alicia Eydquist, called by all her friends
Lai ; the place of her birth and home was a certain
little-known suburb of London, called Others
She was not at all an aristocratic person,
being nothing but the daughter of a Swedish
sea-captain and an English wife. Her father was
dead, and, after his death, the widow kept a
captains' boarding-house, which of late, for reasons
which will presently appear, had greatly
risen in repute.

The day which opens my story, the day big
with fate, the day from which everything that
follows in Lai's life, whether that be short or long,
will be dated, was the fourteenth of October, in
the grievous year of rain and ruin, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-nine. And though
the summer was that year clean forgotten, so that
there was no summer at all, but only the rain and
cold of a continual and ungracious April, yet
there were vouchsafed a few gracious days of
consolation in the autumn, whereof this was one,
in which the sun was as bright and warm as if he
had been doing his duty like a British sailor all
the summer long, and was proud of it, and meant

to go on giving joy to mankind until fog and
gloom time, cloud and snow time, black frost and
white frost time, short days and long nights time,
should put a stop to his benevolent intentions.

At eleven o'clock in the forenoon, both the
door and the window belonging to the kitchen of
the last house of the row called ' Seven Houses '
were standing open for the air and the sunshine.

As to the window, which had a warm south
aspect, it looked upon a churchyard. A grapevine
grew upon the side of the house, and some
of its branches trailed across the upper panes,
making a green drapery which was pleasant to
look upon, though none of its leaves this year
were able to grow to their usual generous amplitude,
by reason of the ungenerous season. The
churchyard itself was planted with planes, lime-trees,
and elms, whose foliage, for the like reason,
was not yellow, as is generally the case with such
trees in mid-October, but was still green and
sweet to look upon. The burying-ground was
not venerable for antiquity, because it was less
than a hundred years old, church and all ; but
yet it was pleasing and grateful — a churchyard
which filled the mind with thoughts of rest and
sleep, with pleasant dreams. Now, the new
cemeteries must mostly be avoided, because one
who considers them falls presently into grievous
melancholy, which, unless diverted, produces insanity,

suicide, or emigration. They lend a new
and a horrid pang to death.

It is difficult to explain why this churchyard,
more than others, is a pleasant spot : partly, perhaps,
on account of the bright and cheerful look
of the place in which it stands ; then, there are
not many graves in it, and these are mostly
covered or honoured by grey tombstones, partly
moss-grown. On this day the sunshine fell upon
them gently, with intervals of shifting shade,
through the branches ; and though the place
around was beset with noises, yet, as these were
always the same, and never ceased except at
night, they were not regarded by those who lived
there, and so the churchyard seemed full of peace
and quiet. The dead men Who lie there are of
that blameless race who venture themselves upon
the unquiet ocean. The dead women are the
wives of the men, their anxieties now over and
done. When such men are gone, they are, for
the most part, spoken of with good will, because
they have never harmed any others but themselves,
and have been kind-hearted to the Aveak.
And so, from all these causes together, from the
trees and the sunshine, and the memory of the
dead sailors, it is a churchyard which suggested
]peaceful thoughts.

At all events it did not sadden the children
when they came out from the school, built in one

corner of it, nor did its presence ever disturb or
sadden the mind of the girl who was making a
pudding in the kitchen. There were sparrows in
the branches, and in one tree sat a blackbird, now
and then, late as it was, delivering himself of one
note, just to remind himself of the past, and to
keep his voice in practice against next spring.

The girl was fair to look upon, and, while she
made her pudding, with sleeves turned back and
flecks of white flour upon her white arms, and a
white apron tied round her waist, stretching from
chin to feet like a child's pinafore or a long bib,
she sang snatches of songs, yet finished none of
them ; and when you come to look closer into her
face you saw that her cheeks were thai and her
eyes sorrowful, and that her lips trembled from
time to time. Yet she was not thinking out her
sad thoughts to their full capabilities of bitterness,
as some Avoient are wont to do — as, in fact, her
own mother had done for close upon twenty years,
and was still doing, having a like cause for plaint
and lamentation ; only the sad thoughts came and
went across her mind, as birds fly across a garden,
while she continued deftly and swiftly to carry on
her work.

At tins house, which was none other than the
well-known Captains' boarding-house, sometimes
called ' Eydquist's, of Eotherhithe,' the puddings
and pastry were her special and daily charge.

The making of puddings is the poetry of simple
cookery. One is born, not made, for puddings.
To make a pudding worthy of the name requires
not only that special gift of nature, a light and
cool hand, but also a clear intelligence and the
power of concentrated attention, a gift in itself, as
many lament when the sermon is over and they
remember none of it. If the thoughts wander,
even for a minute, the work is ruined. The instinctive
feeling of right proportion in the matter
of flour, lemon-peel, currants, sugar, allspice, eggs,
butter, bread crumbs : the natural eye for colour,
form, and symmetry, which are required before
one can ever begin even to think of becoming a
maker of puddings, are all lost and thrown away,
unless the attention is fixed resolutely upon the
progress of the work. Now, there was one pudding,
a certain kind of plum-dufF, made by these
hands, the recollection of which was wont to fill
the hearts of those Captains who were privileged
to eat of it with tender yearnings whenever they
thought upon it, whether far away on southern
seas, or on the broad Pacific, or in the shallow
Baltic ; and it nerved their hearts when battling
with the gales, while yet a thousands knots at least
lay between their plunging bows and the Commercial
Docks, to think that they were homeward
bound, and that Lai would greet them with that
pudding.

As the girl rolled lier dough upon the white
board and looked thoughtfully upon the little
heaps of ingredients, she sang, as I have said,
scraps of songs ; but this was just as a man at
work, as a carpenter at his bench or a cobbler
over his boot, will whistle scraps of tunes, not
because his mind is touched with the beauty of
the melody, but because this little action relieves
the tension of the brain for a moment, without
diverting the attention or disturbing the current
of thought. She was dressed — behind the big
apron — in a cotton print, made up by her own
hands, which were as clever with the needle as
with the rolling-pin. It was a dress made of
a sympathetic stuff — there are many such tissues
in every draper's shop — which, on being cut out,
sewn up, and converted into a feminine garment,
immediately proceeds, of its own accord, to
interpret and illustrate the character of its owner ;
so that for a shrew it becomes draggle-tailed, and
for a lady careless of her figure, or conscious that
it is no longer any use pretending to have a
figure, it rolls itself up in unlovely folds, or
becomes a miracle of flatness ; and for a lady of
prim temperament it arranges itself into stiff
vertical lines ; and for an old lady, if she is a nice
old lady, it wrinkles itself into ten thousand lines,
which cross and recross each other like the lines
upon her dear old face, and all to bring her more

respect and greater consideration ; but for a girl
whose fioTire is tall and well-formed, this accommodating
material becomes as clinging as the ivy,
and its lines are every one of them an exact copy
of Hogarth's line of beauty, due allowance being,
made for the radius of curvature.

I do not think I can give a better or clearer
account of this maiden's dress, even if I were to
say how much-and-eleven-pence- three-farthings it
was a yard and where it was bought. As for that,
however, I am certain it came from Bjornsen's
shop, where English is spoken, and where they
have got in the window, not to be sold at any
price, the greatest curiosity in the whole world
(except the Golden Butterfly from Sacramento),
namely, a beautiful model of a steamer, with
everything complete — rigging, ropes, sails, funnel,
and gear — the whole in a glass bottle. And if a
man can tell how that steamer got into that
bottle, which is a common glass bottle with a
narrow neck, he is wiser than any of the scientific
gentlemen who have tackled the problems of
Stonehenge, the Pyramids, the Yucatan inscriptions,
or the Etruscan language.

That is what she had on. As for herself, she
was a tall girl ; her figure was slight and graceful,
yet she was strong ; her waist measured just
exactly the same number of inches as that of her
grandmother Eve, whom she greatly resembled in

beauty. Eve, as we cannot but believe, was the
most lovely of women ever known, even including
Rachel, Esther, Helen of Troy, Ayesha, and fair
Bertha-with-the-big-feet. The colour of her hair
depended a good deal upon the weather : when it
was cloudy it was dark brown ; when the sunlight
fell upon it her hair was golden. There was quite
enough of it to tie about her waist for a girdle, if
she was so minded ; and she was so little of a fine
lady, that she would rather have had it brown in all
weathers, and was half ashamed of its golden tint.

It soothes the heart to speak of a beautiful
woman ; the contemplation of one respectfully is,
in itself, to all rightly constituted masculine minds,
a splendid moral lesson.

Here,' says the moralist to himself, ' is the
greatest prize that the earth has to offer to the
sons of Adam. One must make oneself worthy
of such a prize : no one should possess a goddess
who is not himself godlike.'

Having drawn his moral, the philosopher
leaves off gazing, and returns, with a sigh, to his
work. If you look too long, the moral is apt to
evaporate and vanish away.

The door of the kitchen opened upon the
garden, which was not broad, being only a few
feet broader than the width of the house, but was
long. It was planted with all manner of herbs,
such as thyme, which is good for stuffing of veal ;

mint, for seasoning' of that delicious compound,
and as sauce for the roasted Jamb ; borage, which
profligates and topers employ for claret-cup,
though what it was here used for I know not ;
parsley, good for garnish, which may also be
chopped up small and fried ; cucumber, chiefly
known at the West End in connection with salmon,
but not disdained in the latitude of Eotherhithe
for breakfast, dinner, tea, or supper, in combination
with vinegar or anything else, for cucumber
readily adapts itself to all palates save those seton
edge with irksomeness. Then there were
vegetables, such as onions, which make a noble
return for the small space they occupy, and are
universally admitted to be* the most delightful of
all roots that grow ; lettuces, crisp and green : the
long lettuce and the round lettuce all the summer ;
the scarlet-runner, which runneth in brave apparel,
and eats short in the autumn, ^dvwsi well with leon
of mutton ; and, at the end of the strip of ground,
a small forest of Jerusalem artichoke, fit for the
garden of the Queen. As for flowers, they were
nearly over for the year, but there were trailing
nasturtiums, long sprigs of faint mignonette, and
one great bully hollyhock ; there were also, in
boxes, painted green, creeping-jenny, bachelors
thrift, ragged-robbin, stocks, and candy-tuft,
but all over for the season. There was a
cherry-tree trained against the wall, and beside ita

peach ; there were also a Siberian crab, a
medlar, and a mulberry-tree. A few raspberry
canes were standing for show, because among
them all there had not been that year enough
fruit to fill a plate. The garden was separated
from the churchyard by wooden failings, painted
green ; this made it look larger than if there had
been a wall. It was, in fact, a garden in which
not one inch of ground was wasted ; the paths
were only six inches wide, and wherever a plant
could be coaxed to grow, there it stood in its
allotted space. The wall fruit was so carefully
trained that there was not a stalk or shoot out
of place; the flower borders were so carefully
trimmed that there was not a weed or a dead
flower ; while as for grass, snails, slugs, bindweed,
dandelion, broken flower-pot, brickbat, and other
such things, which do too frequently disfigure the
gardens of the more careless, it is delightful to
record that there was not in this little slice of
Eden so much as the appearance or suspicion of
such a thing. The reason why it was so neat and
so well watched was that it was the delight and
paradise of the Captains, who, by their united
efforts, made it as neat, snug, and orderly as one
of their own cabins. There were live creatures
in the garden, too. On half-a-dozen crossbows,
painted green, were just so many parrots. They
were all trained parrots, who could talk and did

talk, not altogether as is the use of parrots, who
too often give way to the selfishness of the old
Adam, but one at a time, and deliberately, as if
they were instructing mankind in some new and
great truth, or delighting them with some fresh
and striking poetical ejaculation. One would
cough slowly, and then dash his buttons. If
ladies were not in hearing he would remember
other expressions savouring of fo'k'sle rather than
of quarter-deck. Another would box the compass
as if for an exercise in the art of navigation.
Another seldom spoke except when his mistress
came and stroked his feathers with her soft and
dainty finger. The bird was growing old now,
and his feathers were dropping out, and what
this bird said you shall presently hear.

Next there was a great kangaroo hound, something:
under six feet hic^h when he walked. Now
he was lying asleep. Beside him was a little
Maltese dog, white and curly ; and in a corner — the
warmest corner — there was an old and toothless
bulldog. Other things there were — some in boxes,
some in partial confinement, or by a string tied to
one leg, some running about — such as tortoises,
hedgehogs, Persian cats, Angola cats, lemurs,
ferrets, Madagascar cats. But they were not all
in the garden, some of them, including a mongoose
and a flying-fox, having their abode on the roof,
where they were tended faithfully by Captain

Zachariasenen. In the kitchen, also, which was
warm, there resided a chameleon.

Now, all these things — the parrots, the dogs,
the cats, the lemurs, and the rest of them — were
gifts and presents brought across the seas by
amorous captains to be laid at the shrine of one
Venus — of course I know that there never can be
more than one Venus at a time to any well-regulated
male mind — whom all wooed and none
could win. There were many other gifts, but
these were within doors, safely bestowed. It may
also be remarked that Venus never refuses to
accept offerings which are laid upon her altar with
becoming reverence. Thus there were the fragile
coral fingers, named after the goddess, from the
Philippine Islands ; there were chests of the rich
and fragrant tea which China grows for Russia.
You cannot buy it at all here, and in Hong-Kong
only as a favour, and at unheard-of prices. There
were cups and saucers from Japan ; fans of the
coco de mer from the Seychelles ; carved ivory
boxes and sandal wood boxes from China and
India ; weapons of strange aspect from Malay
islands ; idols from Ceylon ; praying tackle
brought down to Calcutta by some wandering
Thibetan ; with fans, glasses, mats, carpets,
pictures, chairs, desks, tables, and even beds, from
lands outre mer, insomuch that the house looked
like a great museum or curiosity-shop. And

everything, if you please, brought across the sea
and presented by the original importers to the
beautiful Alicia Kydquist, commonly called Lai
by those who were her friends, and Miss Lai by
those who wished to be, but were not, and had
to remain outside, so to speak, and all going, inconsequence,
green with envy.

On this morning there were also in the garden
two men. One of them was a very old man — so
old that there was nothing left of him but was
puckered and creased, and his face was like one
of those too faithful maps which want to give
every detail of the country, even the smallest.
This was Captain Zachariasenen, a Dane by birth,
but since the age of eight on an English ship, so
that he had clean forgotten his native language.
He had been for very many years in the timber
trade between the ports of Bergen and London.
He was now, in the protracted evening of his days,
enjoying an annuity purchased out of his savings.
He resided constantly in the house, and was the
dean, or oldest member among the boarders. He
said himself sometimes that he was eighty-five, and
sometimes he said he was ninety, but old age is
apt to boast. One would not baulk him of a
single year, and certainly he was very, very old.

This morning, he sat on a green box half-way
down the garden — all the boxes, cages, railings,
shutters, and doors of the house were painted a

bright navy-green — with a hammer and nails in
his hand, and sometimes he drove in a nail, but
slowly and with consideration, as if noise and
haste would confuse that nail's head, and make
it go loose, like a screw. Between each tap he
gazed around and smiled with pleased benevolence.
The younger man, who was about thirty
years of age, was weeding. That is, he said so.
He had a spud with which to conduct that operation,
but there were no weeds. He also had a
pair of scissors, with which he cut off dead leaves.
This was Captain Holstius, also of the mercantile
marine, and a Norwegian. He was a smartly-dressed
sailor — wore a blue cloth jacket, with
trousers of the same ; a red silk handkerchief was
round his waist ; his cap had a gold band round
it, and a heavy steel chain guarded his watch.
His face was kind to look upon. One noticed,
especially, a greyish bloom upon a ruddy cheek.
It was an oval face, such as you may see in 
Flamborough, or on Holy Island, with blue
eyes ; and he had a gentle voice. One wonders
whether the Normans, who so astonished the
world a thousand years ago, were soft of speech,
mill of eye, kind of heart, like their descendants.
Were Bohemond, Robert the Devil, great Canute,
like unto this gentle Captain Holstius? And if
so, why were they so greatly feared ? And if
not, how is it that their sons have so greatly
VOL. I. c

cliangecl? They were sailors — the men of old.
But sailors acquire an expression of unworthiness
not found among us Who have to battle with
worldly and crafty men. They are not tempted
to meet craft with craft, and treachery with
deceit. They do not cheat ; they are not tempted
to cheat. Therefore, although the Vikings were
ferocious and bloodthirsty pirates, thinking it buta
small thing to land and spit a dozen Saxons or
so, burn their homesteads, and carry away their
pigs, yet, no doubt, in the domestic circle, they
were mild and gentle, easily ruled by their wives,
and obedient even to taking charge of the baby,
which was the reason why they were called, in
the pronunciation of the day, the hardy Norsemen.


A remarkable thing about that garden was
that if you looked to the north, over the garden
walls of the Seven Houses, you obtained, through
a kind of narrow lane, a glimpse of a narrow
breadth of water, with houses on either side to
make a frame. It was like a little strip of some
panorama which never stops, because up and down
the water there moved perpetually steamers, sailing-ships,
barges, boats, and craft of all kinds. Then,
if you turned completely round, and looked south,
you saw, beyond the trees in the churchyard, a
great assemblage of yard-arms, masts, ropes,
hanging sails, and rigging. And from this quarter

there was heard continually the noise of labour
that ceased not — the labour of hammers, saws,
and hatchets ; the labour of lifting heavy burdens,
with the encouraging ' Yo-ho ' ; the labour of men
w]io load ships and unload them ; the labour of
those who repair ships ; the ringing of bells which
call to labour ; the agitation which is caused in
the air when men are gathered together to work.
Yet the place, as has been already stated, was
peaceful. The calm of the garden was equalled
by the repose of the open place on which the
windows of the house looked, and by the peace of
the churchyard. The noise was without ; it
affected no one's nerves ; it was continuous, and,
therefore, was not felt any more than the ticking
of a watch or the beating of the pulse.

The old man presently laid down his hammer,
and spoke, saying, softly :

Nor — wee — gee.'

'Ay, ay. Captain Zachariasenen,' replied the
other, pronouncing the name With a foreign
accent, and speaking a pure English, something
like a Welshman's English. They both whispered,
because the kitchen door was open, and Lai mio-ht
hear. But they were too far down the garden for
her to overhear their talk.

Any luck this spell, lad ? '

The old man spoke in' a meaning way, with a
piping voice, and he winked both his eyes hard,

c 2

as if he was trying to stretch the wrinkles out of
his face.

Captain Holstius replied, evasively, that he had
not sought for luck, and, therefore, had no reason
to complain of unsuccess.

1 mean, lad,' whispered the old man, ' have
you spoke the barque which once we called the
Saucy Lai ? And if not ' — because here the young
man shook his head, while his rosy cheek showed
a deeper red — ' if not, why not ? '

'Because,' said Captain Holstius, speaking
slowly — 'because I spoke her six months ago,
and she told me '

Here he sighed heavily.

What did she tell you, my lad ? Did she
say that she wanted to be carried off and married,
whether she liked it or not ? '

No, she did not.'

That was my way, when I was young. I
always carried 'em off. I married 'em first and
axed 'em afterwards. Sixty year ago, that was.
Ay, nigh upon seventy, which makes it the more
comfortable a thing for a man in his old age to
remember.'

Lai tells me that she will wait five years-more
before she gives him up, and even then she
will marry no one, but put on mourning, and go
in widow's weeds — being not even a wife.'

Five years ! ' said Captain Zachariasenen. ' 'Tis

a long time for a woman to wait for a man. Five
years will take the bloom off of her pretty cheeks,
and the plumpness off of her lines, which is now
in the height of their curliness. Five years to
wait ! Why, there won't be a smile left on her
rosy lips. Whereas, if you'd the heart of a
loblolly boy, Cap'en Holstius, you'd ha run her
round to the church long ago, spoke to the clerk,
whistled for the parson, while she was still occupied
with the pudding and had her thoughts faraway,
and — well, there, in five years' time she'd
be plain' with a four-year-old, or maybe twins,
as happy as if there hadn't never been no Cap'en
Armiger at all.'

Five years,' Captain Holstius echoed, ' is a
long time to wait. But any man would wait
longer than that for Lai, even if he did not get
her, after all.'

'Five years! It will be eight, counting
the three she has already waited for her dead
sweetheart. No woman, in the old days, was
ever expected to cry more than one. Not in my
day. No woman ever waited for me, nor dropped
one tear, for more than one twelvemonth, sixty
years ago, when I was dr ' Here he recollected
that he could never have been drowned, sofar
back as his memory served. That experience
had been denied him. He stopped short.

She thinks of him,' Captain Holstius went on,

seating himself on another box, face to face with
the old man, * all day : lie dreams of him all
night : there is no moment that he is not in her
thought — I know because I have watched her ;
she does not speak of him : even if she sings at
her work, her heart is always sad."

Poor Eex Admirer ! Poor Eex Armis-er ! '
This was the voice of the old parrot, who lifted
his beak, repeated his cry. and then subsided.

Captain Holstius's eyes grew soft and humid.
for he was a tender-hearted Norwegian. and he
pitied as well as loved the girl.

Poor Eex Armiger I ' he echoed ; ' his parrot
remembers him."

• She is wrong," said the old man, • very wrong.
I always tell her so. Fretting has been known to
make the pastry heavy : tears spoil gravy." He
stated this great truth as if it was a well-known
maxim, taken from the Book of Proverbs.

• That was the third time that I spoke to her :
the third time that she gave me the same reply.
Shall I tease her more ? Xo. Captain Zachariasenen,
I have had my answer, and I know my duty."

• It's hard, my lad. for a sailor to bear. Why,
you may be dead in two years, let alone live.
Most likely you will. You look as if you will.
What with rocks at sea and sharks on land, most
sailors, even skippers, by thirty years of age, is
uummore. And though some ' — here he tried to

recollect the words of Scripture, and only succeeded
in part — ' by good seamanship escape, and
live to seventy and eighty, or even, as in my case,
by a automatic course and fair winds, come to
eighty-five and three months last Sunday, yet in
their latter days there is but little headway, the
craft lying always in the doldrums, and the rations,
too, often short. Five years is long for Lai to
wait in suspense, poor girl ! Take and go and
find another girl, therefore,' the old man advised.


Xo ' — the Norwegian shook his head sadly —
there is only one woman in all the world forme.'


Why, there, there,' the old Captain cried,
what are young fellows coming to ? To cry after
one woman ! I've given you my advice, my lad,
which is good advice ; likely to be beneficial to
the boarders, especially them which are permanent,
because the sooner the trouble is over,
the better it'll be for meals. I did hear there
was a bad ^^g., yesterday. To think of Eydquist's
coming to bad eggs ! But if a gal will go on
fretting after young fellows that is long since food
for crabs, what are we to expect but bad eggs ?
Marry her, my lad, or sheer off, and marry someone
else. Perhaps, when you are out of the way,
never to come back again, she will take on with
some other chap.'

Captain Holstius shook this head again.

If Lai, after three years of waiting, says she
cannot get him out of her heart — why, why there
will be nothing to do, no help, because she knows
best what is in her heart, and I would not that
she married me out of pity.'

'Come to pity!' said Captain Zachariasenen,
she can't marry you all out of pity. There's
Cap'en Borlinder and Cap en Wattles, good mariners
both, also after her. Should you like her to
marry them out of pity ? '

I need not think of marriage at all,' said the
Norwegian. ' I think of Lai's happiness. If it
Avill be happier for lier to marry me, or Captain
Borlinder, or Captain Wattles, or any other man,
I hope that she will marry that man ; and if she
will be happier in remembering her dead lover, I
hope that she will remain without a husband.
All should be as she may most desire.'

Then the girl herself suddenly appeared in the
doorway, shading her eyes from the sunshine, a
pretty picture, with the flour still upon her arms,
and her white bib still tied round her.

It is time for your morning beer. Captain
Zachariasenen,' she said. ' Will you have it in the
kitchen, or shall I bring it to you in the garden ? '

I will take my beer, Lai,' replied the old
man, getting up from the box, ' by the kitchen
fire.'

He slowly rose and walked, being much bent
and bowed by the weight of his years, to the
kitchen door.

Captain Holstius followed him.

There was a wooden armchair beside the fire,
which was bright and large, for the accommodation
of a great piece of veal already mig
before it. The old man sat down in it, and took
the glass of ale, cool, sparkling, and foaming,
from Lai's hand.

Thoughtful child,' he said, holding it up to
the light, ' she forgets nothing — except what she
ought most to forget.'

You are pale to-day, Lai,' said the Norwegian,
gently. ' Will you come with me upon
the river this afternoon ? '

She shook her head sadly.

Have you forgotten what day this is, of all
days in the year ? ' she asked.

Captain Holstius made no reply.

This day, three years ago, I got his last
letter. It was four months since he sailed away.
Ah me ! I stood upon the steps of Lavender Dock
and saw his ship slowly coming down the river.
Can I ever forget it ? Then I jumped into the boat
and pulled out mid-stream, and he saw me and
waved his handkerchief. And that was the last I
saw of Kex. This day, three years and four months
ago, and at this very time, in the forenoon.'

The old man, who had drained his glass and
was feeling just a little evanescent headiness,
began to prattle in his armchair, not having
listened to their talk.

'I am eighty-five and three months, last
Sunday ; and this is beautiful beer, Lai, my dear.
'Twill be hard upon a man to leave such a tap.
With the Happens' room ; and you, my Lai.'

Don't think of such things, Captain Zacharias,'
cried Lai, wiping away the tear which had
risen in sympathy for her own sorrows, not for
his.

'Tis best not,' he replied, cheerfully. ' Veal,
I see. East veal ! Be large-handed with the
seasoning', Lai. And beans? Ah! and apple-dumplings.
The credit of Eydquist's must be
kept up. Eemember that, Lai. Wherefore,
awake, my soul, and with the sun. Things
there are that should be forgotten. I am eighty-five
and a quarter last Sunday, like Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob — even Jerusalem was eighty-five
once, when he was little more than a boy,
and never a grey hair — and, like the patriarchs
at their best and oldest, I have gotten wisdom.
Then, listen. Do I, being of this great age,
remember the gals that I have loved, and the
gals who have loved me ? No. Yet are they all
gone like that young man of your, gone away
and past like gales across the sea. They are

gone, and I am hearty shall never see them
nummore ; yet I sit down regular to meals, and
still play a steady knife and fork. And what I
say is this : " Lai, my dear, wipe them pretty eyes
with your best silk pockethandkercher, put on
your best frock, and go to church in it for to be
married." '

'Thank you. Captain Zachariasenen,' said the
girl, not pertly, but with a quiet dignity.

Do not,' the old man went on — his eyes
kept dropping, and his words rambled a little — -
'do not listen to Mck Borlinder. He sings a
good song, and he shakes a good leg. Yet he
is a rover. I was once myself a rover.'

She made no reply. He yawned slowly and
went on :

He thinks, he does, as no woman can resist
him. I used to have the same persuasion, and I
found it sustaining in a friendly port.'

I do not suppose,' said Lai, softly, ' that I
shall listen to Captain Borlinder.'

'Next,' the old man continued, ' there is
Cap'en Wattles. Don't listen to Wattles, my
dear. It is not that he is a Yankee, because a
Cap'en is a Cap'en, no matter what his country,
and I was, myself, once a Dane, when a boy, nigh
upon eighty years ago, and drank corn brandy,
very likely, though I have forgotten that time,
and cannot now away with it. Wattles is a

smart seaman ; but Wattles, my dear, wouldn't
make you happy. You want a cheerful lad, but
no drinker and toper like Borlinder ; nor so quiet
and grave as Wattles, which isn't natural, afloat
nor ashore, and means the devil.'

Here he yawned again and his eyes closed.

Very good, sir,' said Lai.

Yes, my dear — yes — and this is a very —
comfortable — chair.'

His head fell back. The old man was asleep.

Then Captain Holstius drew a chair to the
kitchen door, and sat down, saying nothing, not
looking at Lai, yet with the air of one who was
watching over and protecting her.

And Lai sat beside the row of "freshly-made
dumplings, and rested her head upon her hands,
and gazed out into the churchyard.

Presently her eyes filled with tears, and one of
them in each eye overflowed and rolled down her
cheeks. And the same phenomenon might have
been witnessed directly afterwards in the eyes of
the sympathetic Norweegee.

It was very quiet, except, of course, for the
screaming of the steam-engines on the river, and
the hammering, yo-hoeing, and bell ringing of the
Commercial Docks ; and these, which never
ceased, were never regarded. Therefore, the
calm was as the calm of a Sabbath in some
Galilean village, and broken only in the kitchen

by the ticking of the roasting-jack, and an occasional
remark made, in a low tone, by a parrot.

Captain Holstein said nothing. He stayed
there because he felt, in his considerate way, that
his presence soothed and, in some sort, comforted
the ejirl. It cost him little to sit there doings
at all.

Of all men that get their bread by labour it
is the sailor alone who can be perfectly happy
doing nothing for long hours together. He does
not even want to whittle a stick.

As for us restless landsmen, we must be continually
talking, reading, walking, fishing, shooting,
rowing, smoking tobacco, or in some other
way wearing out brain and muscle.

The sailor, for his part, sits down and lets
time run on, unaided. He is accustomed to the
roll of his ship and the gentle swish of the waves
through which she sails. At sea he sits so for
hours, while the breeze blows steady and the
sails want no alteration.

So passed half an hour.

While they were thus sitting in silence, Lai
suddenly lifted her head, and held up her finger,
saying, softly,

Hush ! I hear a step.'

The duller ears of her companion heard
nothing but the usual sounds, which included the
trampling of many feet afar off.

What step ? ' he asked.

Her cheeks were gone suddenly quite white
and a strange look was in her eyes.

Not his,' she said. ' Oh, not the step of my
Eex ; but I know it well for all that. The step
of one who Ah ! listen ! '

Then, indeed, Captain Horatius became aware
of a light hesitating step. It halted at the open
door (which always stood open for the convenience
of the Captains), and entered the narrow hall. It
was a light step, for it was the step of a barefooted
man.

Then the kitchen door was opened softly, and
Lai sprang forward, crying, madly :

Where is he ? Where is he ? Oh, he is not
dead ! '

At the sound of the girl's cry the whole sleepy
place sprang into life ; the dogs woke up and ran
about, barking with an immense show of alertness,
exactly as if the enemy was in force without the
walls ; the Persian cat, which ought to have known
better, made one leap to the palings, on which she
stood with arched back and upright tail, looking
unutterable rage ; and the parrots all screamed
together.

When the noise subsided, the new comer stood
in the doorway. Lai was holding both his hands,
crying and sobbing.

Outside, the old parrot repeated :

Poor Eex Armiger ! Poor Eex Armiger I '

Captain Zachariasenen, roused from his morning
nap, was looking about him, wondering what had
happened.

Captain Holstius stood waiting to see what
was going to happen.

The man, who was short in stature, not more
than five feet three, wore a rough cloth sailor's
cap, and was barefoot. He was dressed in a jacket,
below which he wore a kind of petticoat, called,
I believe, by his countrymen, who ought to
know their own language, a ' strong ' His skin
was a copper colour ; his eyes dark brown ; his
face was square, With high cheek-bones ; his
eyes Avere soft, full, and black ; his mouth was
large with thick lips ; his nose was short and
small, with flat nostrils ; his hair was black and
coarse — all these characteristics stamped him as a
Malay.

Captain Zachariasenen rubbed his eyes.

Ghosts ashore ! ' he murmured. ' Ghost of
Deaf-and-Dumb Dick ! '

Who is Dick ? ' answered Captain Holstius.

'Captain Armiger's steward — same as was
drowned aboard the Philippine three years ago
along with his master and all hands. Never,
nevermore heard of, and he's come back.'

The Malay man shook his head slowly. He
kept on shaking it, to show them that he quite

understood what was meant, although he heard
no word.

Where is he ? Oh, where is he ? ' cried the
girl again.

Then the dumb man looked in her face and
smiled. He smiled and nodded, and smiled again.

Like a Chinaman in an image,' said Captain
Zachariasenen. ' He can't be a ghost at the stroke
of noon. That's not Christian ways nor Malay
manners '

But the smile, to Lai, was like the first cool
draught of water to the thirsty tongue of a wanderer
in the desert. Could he have smiled were
Eex lying in his grave ?

A Malay who is deaf and dumb is, I suppose,
as ignorant of his native language as of English ;
but there is an atmosphere of Malayan abroad in
his native village out of which this poor fellow
picked a language of his own. That is to say, he
was such a master of gesture as in this cold land
of self-restraint would be impossible.

He nodded and smiled again. Then he
laughed aloud, meaning his most cheerful note ;
but the laughter of those who can neither hear
nor speak is a gruesome thing.

Then Lai, with shaking fingers, took from her
bosom a locket, which she opened and showed
the man. It contained, of course, the portrait of
her lover.

He took it, recognised it, caught her by one
hand, and then, smiling still, pointed with eyes
that looked afar towards the east.

Lies buried in the Indian Ocean,' murmured
the old man ; ' I always said it.'

Lai heard him not. She fell upon the man's
neck and embraced and kissed him.

'He is not dead,' she cried. ' You hear, Captain
Holstius ? Oh, my friend, Eex is not dead.
I knew he could not be dead — I have felt that he
was alive all this weary time. Oh, faithful Dick ! '
She patted the man's cheek and head as if he was
a child. ' Oh, good and faithful Dick ! what shall
we give him as the reward for the glad tidings ?
We can give him nothing — nothing — only our
gratitude and our love.'

And dinner, may be,' said Captain Zachariasenen.
No, not the veal, my dear ; ' for the girl, in her
hurry to do something for this messenger of good
tidings, made as if she would sacrifice the joint.
'First, because underdone veal is unwholesome
even for deaf and dumb Malays ; second, roast
veal is not for the likes of him, but for Happens.
That knuckle of cold pork now '

Lai brought him food quickly, and he ate,
being clearly hungry.

Does he understand English ? ' asked Captain
Holstius.

'He is deaf and dumb ; he understands nothing.'

VOL. I. D

When he had broken bread, Dick stood again,
and touched the girl's arm, which was equivalent
to saying, ' Listen, all of you ! '

The man stood before them in the middle of
the room with the open kitchen door behind him,
and the sunlight shining upon him through the
kitchen window. And then he besfan to act,
after the fashion of that Eoman mime, who was
able to convey a whole story with by-play, underplot,
comic talk, epigrams, tears, and joyful surprises,
without one word of speech. The gestures
of this Malay were, as I have said, a language
by themselves. Some of them, however, like
hieroglyphics before the Rosetta Stone, wanted
a key.

The man's face was exceedingly mobile and
full of quickness. He kept his eyes upon the girl,
regarding the two men not at all.

And this, in substance, was what he did. It
was not all, because there were hundreds of little
things, every one of which had its meaning in his
own mind, but which were unintelligible, save by
Lai, who followed him with feverish eagerness
and attention. Words are feeble things at their
best, and cannot describe these swift changes of
face and attitude.

First, he retreated to the door, then leaped
with a bound into the room. Arrived there he
looked about him a little, folded his arms, and

began to walk backwards and forwards, over a
length of six feet.

Come aboard, sir,' said Captain Zachariasenen,
greatly interested and interpreting for the benefit
of all. ' This is good mimicking, this is,'

Then he began to jerk his hand over his
shoulder each time he stopped. And he stood
half-way between the extremities of his six-foot
walk and lifted his head as one who watches the
sky. At the same time Lai remarked how by
some trick of the facial muscles, he had changed
his own face. His features became regular, his
eyes intent and thoughtful, and in his attitude he
was no longer himself, but — in appearance — Eex
Armiger.

They're clever at mimicking and conjuring,'
said Captain Zachariasenen ; ' I've seen them long
ago, in Calcutta, when I was in '

Hush ! ' cried Lai imperatively. ' Do not
speak ! Do not interrupt.'

The Malay changed his face and attitude, and
was no more Eex Armiger, but himself; then he
held out his two hands, side by side, horizontally,
and moved them gently from left to right and
right to left, with an easy wave-like motion, and
at the same time he swung himself slowly backwards
and forwards. It seemed to the girl to
imitate the motion of a ship with a steady breeze
in smooth water.

D 2

Go on,' she cried ; ' 1 understand what you
mean.'

The man heard nothing, but he saw that she
followed him, and he smiled and nodded his head.

He became once more Eex Armiger. He
walked with folded arms, he looked about him as
one who commands and who has the responsibility
of the ship upon his mind.

Presently he lay down upon the floor, stretched
out his legs straight, and with his head upon his
hands went to sleep.

Even the skipper's bunk is but a narrow one
observed Captain Zachariasenen, to show that he
was following the story, and proposed to be the
principal interpreter.

The dumb actor's slumber lasted but a few
moments. Then he sprang to his feet and began
to stagger about. He stamped, he groaned, he
put his hand to his head, he ran backwards and
forwards ; he presented the appearance of a man
startled by some accident ; he waved his arms,
gesticulated wildly, put his hands to his mouth as
one who shouts.

Then he became a man who fought, who was
dragged, who threatened, who was struck, tramping
all the while with his feet so as to produce the
impression of a crowd.

Then he sat down and appeared to be waiting,
and he rocked to and fro continually.

Next he went through a series of pantomimic
exercises which were extremely perplexing, for
he strove with his hands as one who strives with
a rope, and he made as one who is going handover
hand, now up, now down a rope ; and he ran
to and fro, but within narrow limits, and presently
he sat down again, and nodded his head and
made signs as if he were communicating with a
companion.

Dinner-time,' said Captain Zachariasenen, ' or,
may be, supper.'

After awhile, still sitting, he made as if he
held something in his hand which he agitated with
a regular motion.

Rocking the baby,' said Captain Zachariasenen,
now feeling his way surely.

Lai, gazing intently, paid no heed to this interruption.


Then he waved a handkerchief.

Aha ! ' cried Captain Zachariasenen ; ' I always
did that myself.'

Then he lay down and rested his head again
upon his arm ; but Lai noticed that now he curled
up his legs, and the tears came into her eyes, because
she saw that he, personating her Eex, seemed
for a moment to despair.

But he sat up again, and renewed that movement,
as if with a stick, which had made the old
skipper think of babies.

Then he stopped again, and let both arms
drop to his side, still sitting.

Tired,' said Captain Zachariasenen. ' Pipe
smoke time.'

The Malay did not, however, make any show
of smoking a pipe. He sat a long time without
moving, arms and head hanging.

Then he started, as if he recollected something
suddenly, and taking paper from his pocket,
began to write. Then he went through the motion
of drinking, rolled up the paper very small,
and did something with it difficult to understand.


Sends her a letter,' said the Patriarch, nodding
his head sagaciously. ' I always Avrote them
one letter after I'd gone away, so's to let 'em
down easy.'

This done, the Malay seated himself again,
and remained sitting some time. At intervals he
lay down, his head upon his hands as before, and
his legs curled.

The last time he did this he lay for a longtime
— fully five minutes — clearly intending to
convey the idea of a considerable duration of
time.

When he sat up, he rubbed his eyes and
looked about him. He made motions of surprise
and joy, and, as before, communicated something
to a companion. Then he seemed to grasp something,

and began again the same regular movement,
but with feverish haste, and painfully, as if
exhausted.

Baby again ! ' said the wise man. ' Meum
thing to bring the baby with him.'

Then the Malay stopped suddenly, sprang to
his feet, and made as if he jumped from one
place to another.

Instantly he began again to rush about, shake
and be shaken by shoulders, arms, and hands, to
stagger, to wave his hands, finally to run along
with his hands straight down his sides.

'Now I'm sorry to see this,' said Captain
Zachariasenen mournfully. ' What's he done ? Has
that baby brought him into trouble ? Character
gone for life, no doubt.'

Lai gazed with burning eyes.

Then the Malay stood still, and made signs as
if he were speaking, but still with his arms
straight to his sides. While he spoke, one arm
was freed, and then the other. He stretched
them Out as if for relief. After this, he sat down,
and ate and drank eagerly.

Skilly and cold water,' said Captain Zacharias.
' Poor young man ! '

Then he walked about, going through a variety
of motions, but all of a cheerful and active character.
Then he suddenly dropped the personation
of Eex Armiger, and became himself again.

Once more he went through that very remarkable
performance of stamping, fighting, and dragging.


Then he suddenly stopped and smiled at Lai.
The pantomime was finished.

The three spectators looked at each other inquiringly,
but Lai's face was full of joy.

I read this mummy eking,' said Captain Zacharias,
' very clearly, and if, my dear, without
prejudice to the dumplings, which I perceive to
be already finished, and if I may have a pipe,
which is, I know, against the rules in the kitchen
but so is a mouthing mimicking Malay — I
think I can reel you off the whole story, just ashe
meant to tell it, as easy as I could read a ship's
signals. Not that every man could do it, mind
you ; but being, as one may say, at my oldest and
best '

Lai nodded. Her eyes were so bright, her
cheeks so rosy, that you would have thought her
another woman.

Go, fetch him his pipe. Captain Holstius,' she
said. Then, seized by a sudden impulse, she
caught him by both hands. ' It could never have

been,' she said, ' even — even — if You will

rejoice with me? '

If it is as you think,' he said, ' I both rejoice
and thank the Father humbly.'

Fortified with his pipe, the old man spoke

slowly, in full enjoyment of his amazing and
patriarchal wisdom.

Before Cap'en Armiger left Calcutta,' he
began, ' he did a thing which many sailors do,
and when I was a young man, now between
seventy and eighty years ago, which is a longtime
to look back upon, they always did. Pecker
up, Lai, my beauty. You saw how the mum-bicker
rolled his eyes, smacked his lips, and
clucked his tongue. Not having my experience,
probably you didn't quite understand what he was
wishful for to convey. That meant love, Lai, my
dear. Those were the signs of courting, common
among sailors. Your sweetheart fell in love with
you in the Port of London, and presently afterwards
with another pretty woman in the Port of
Calcutta, which is generally the way with poor
Tom Bowing. She was a snufi-and-butter, because
at Calcutta they are as plenty as blackberries
; and when young, snufF-and-butter is not
to be despised, having bright eyes ; and there was
another thing about her which I guess you missed,
if you got so far as a right understanding of the
beginning. She was a widow. How do I know
she was a widow ? This way. The mimicking
Malay, whose antics can only be truly read, like
the signs of the weather, by the wisdom of eighty
and odd, put his two hands together. You both
saw that — second husband that meant. Then he

waved his hands up and down. If I rightly
make out that signal it's a sii2^nal of distress. She
led the poor lad, after he married her, a devil of
a life. Temper, my girl, goes with ,
though when they're young I can't say but
there's handsome ones among them. A devil of
a life it was while the stormy winds did blow,
and naturally Cap'en Armiger began to cast about
for to cut adrift.'

Go on, Captain Zachariasenen,' said Lai, who
only laughed at this charge of infidelity.

The Malay looked on gravely, understanding
no word, but nodding his head as if it was all
right.

He marries this artful widow then, and, indue
course, he has a baby. You might ha' seen,
if you'd got my eyes, which can't be looked for
at your age, that the mimicking mouther kept
rocking that baby. Very well, then ; time passes
on, he has a row with the mother ; she, as you
may have seen, shies the furniture at his head,
which he dodges, being too much of a man and a
sailor to heave the tables back. Twice she shies
the furniture. Then he ups and off to sea, taking
which I confess I cannot understand, for no
sailor to my knowledge ever did such a thing
before — actually taking — the — baby — with him ! '
The sagacious old man stopped, and smoked a few
moments in meditation. ' As to the next course

in this voyage,' he said, ' I am a little in doubt.
For whether there was a mutiny on board, or
whether his last wife followed him and carried on
shameful before the crew, whereby the authority
of the skipper was despised and his dignity
lowered, I cannot tell. Then came chucking
overboard, and whether it was Cap'en Armiger
chucking his Avise and baby, or whether he chucked
the crew, or whether the crew chucked him, is-not
apparent, because the mimicked mixed up
Jonah and the crew, and no man, not even
Solomon himself, in his cedar-palace, could tell
from his actions which was crew and which was
Jonah. However, the end is easy to understand.
The Cap'en, in fact, was run in when he got to
shore — you all saw him jump ashore — for this
chucking overboard, likely. He made a fight for
it, but what is one man against fifty. So they
took him off, with his arms tied to his sides, being
a determined young fellow, and he was tried for
bigamy, or chucking overboard, or some such
lawful and statutable crime. And he was then
sentenced to penal servitude for twenty years or
it may be less. At Brisbane, Queensland, it was,
perhaps,' or Sydney, New South Wales, or Singapore,
or perhaps Hong-Kong, I can't say which,
because the mimicked at this point grew confused.
But it must be one of these places where
there's a prison. There he is still, comfortably

working it out. Wherefore, Lai, my clear, you
may go about and boast that you always knew he
was alive, because right you are and proud you
may be. At the same time, you may now give
up all thoughts of that young chap, and turn
your attentions, my dear, to ' — here he pointed
with his pipe — ' to the Norweegee.'

Captain Holstius, who had shaken his head a
great deal during the Seer's interpretation, shook
his head again, deprecatingly.

Thank you, Captain Zachariasenen,' said Lai,
laughing. What a thing joy is ! She laughed,
who had not laughed lor three years. The
dimples came back to her cheek, the light to her
eyes. ' Thank you. Your story is a very likely
one, and does your wisdom great credit. Shall I
read you my interpretation of this acting ? '

The Captain nodded.

Eex set sail from Calcutta with a fair wind,
leaving no wife behind, and taking with him no
baby. How long he was at sea I know not ;
then there came a sudden storm, or perhaps the
striking on a rock, or some disaster. Then he is
in an open boat alone with Dick here, though
what became of the crew I do not know ; then
he writes me a letter, but I do not understand
what he did with it when he had written it ; then
they sit together expectant of death ; they row
aimlessly ft^om time to time ; they have no provisions

; they suffer greatly ; they see land, and they
row as hard as they can ; they are seized by savages
and threatened, and he is there still among
them. He is there, my Eex, he is there, waiting
for us to rescue him. And God has sent us this
poor dumb fellow to tell us of his safety.'

The old man shook his head.

'Poor thing ! ' he said compassionately.
'Better enquire at every British port, where
there's a prison, in the East, after an English
officer working out his time, and ask what he
done, and why he done it ? '

Let be, let be,' said Captain Holstius. * Lai
is always right. Captain Armiger is among the
savages, somewhere. We will bring him back.
Lai, courage, my dear ; we will bring him back
to you alive and well ! '

CHAPTER II.

THE PRIDE OF KOTIIERIIITHE.

The terrace or row calleth Seven Houses is situated,
as I have stated above, in a riverside township,
which, although within sight of London
Bridf]^e, is now as much forgotten and little known
as any of the dead cities on the Sunder-Zee or
the Gulf of Lyons. In all respects it is as quiet,
as primitive, and as little visited, except by those •
who come and go in the matter of daily business.
The natives of Eotherhithe are by their
natural position, aided by the artificial help of
science, entirely secluded and cut off from the
outer world. They knov/ almost as little of
London as a Highlander or a Cornish fisherman.
And as they know not its pleasures, they are not
tempted to seek them ; as their occupations keep
them for the most part close to their own homes,
they seldom wander afield ; and as they are a
people contented and complete in themselves,
dwelling as securely and with as much satisfaction
as the men of Lash, they do not desire the society

of strangers. Therefore great London, with its
noises and mighty business, its press and hurry, is
a place which they care not often to encounter ;
and as for the excitement and amusements of the
West, they know them not. Few there are in
Eotherhithe who have been farther west than
London Bridge, fewer still who know the country
and the people who dwell west of Temple Bar.

It is a place protected and defended, so to
speak, by a narrow pass, or entrance, uninviting
and unpromising, bounded by river on one side
and docks on the other. This Thermopylae passed,
one finds oneself in a strange and curious street
with water on the left and water on the ris^ht,
and ships everywhere in sight.

It possesses no railway, no cabstand, no
omnibus runs thither ; there is no tram. The
nearest station is for one end, Thames Tunnel,
and for the other, Deptford. All the local
arrangements for getting from one place to the
other seem based on the good old principle
that nobody wants to get from one place to the
other; one would not be astonished to meet a
string of pack-horses laden with the produce of
the town, so quiet, so still, so far removed from
London, so old-world in its aspect is the High
Street of Eotherhithe.

If, however, they are little interested in the
great city near which they live, they know a

great deal about foreign countries and strange
climates ; if they have no politics, they read and
talk much about the prospects of trade across the
sea ; they do not take in ' Telegraph,' ' Standard,'
or ' Daily News,' but they read from end to end
that admirable paper the ' Shipping and Mercantile
Gazette.' For all their prospects and all
their interests are bound up in the mercantile
marine. No one lives here who is not interested
in the Commercial Docks, or the ships which use
them, or the boats, or in the repairs of ships, orin
the supply of ships, or in the manners, customs,
and requirements of skippers, mates, and mercantile
sailors of all countries. Their greatest
man is the Superintendent of the Docks, and after
him, in point of importance, are the dock-masters
and their assistants.

Eotherhithe consists, for the most part, of one
long street, which runs along the narrow strip of
ground left between the river and the docks when
they were built. The part of the river thus overlooked
is Limehouse Eeach ; the street begins at
the new Thames Tunnel Station, which is close
beside the old Eotherhithe Parish Church, and it
ends where Deptford begins. There are many
beautiful, and many wonderful, and many curious
streets in London ' and her daughters ; ' but this
is, perhaps, the most curious. It is, to begin
with, a street which seems to have been laid

down so as to get as much as possible out of the
way of the ships which press upon it to north and
south. Ships stick their bows almost across the
road, the figure-heads staring impertinently into
first-floor windows. If you pass a small court
or wynd, of which there are many, with little
green-shuttered houses, you see ships at the end
of it, with sails hanging loosely from the yard-arms.


On the left hand you pass a row of dry docks.
They are all exactly alike ; they are built to
accommodate one vessel, but rarely more ; if you
look in, no one questions your right of entrance ;
and if you see one you have seen them all.

Look, for instance, into this dry dock.
Within her is a two-masted sailing vessel ; most
likely she hails from Norway or from Canada,
and is engaged in the timber trade. Her planks
show signs of age, and she is shored up by great
round timbers like bits of a mast. Her repairs
are probably being executed by one man, who is
seated on a hanging board leisurely brandishing
a paint-brush. Two more men are seated on the
wharf, looking on with intelligent curiosity. One
man — perhaps the owner of the ship, or some
other person in authority — stands at the far end
of the dock and surveys the craft with interest,
but no appearance of hurry, because the timber
trade, in all its branches, is a leisurely business.

VOL. I. E

No one is on board the ship except a dog, who
sits on the quarter-deck sound asleep, with his
nose in his paws.

The wharf is littered all about with round
shores, old masts, and logs of ship timber ; it is
never tidied up, chips and shavings lie about rotting
in the rain, the remains of old repairs long
since done and paid for, upon ships long since
gone to the bottom ; there is a furnace for boiling
pitch, and barrels for the reception of that useful
article ; there is a winch with rusty chains ; there
is a crane, but the wheels are rusty. The litter
and leisure of the place are picturesque. One
wonders who is its proprietor ; probably some old
gentleman with a Ramillies wig, laced ruffles,
gold buckles on his shoes, silk stockings, a
flowered satin waistcoat down to his knees, sober
brown coat, and a gold-headed stick.

At the entrance to the dock there is a little
house with green shutters, a pretence of green
railings which enclose three feet of ground, and
green boxes furnished with creeping-jenny and
mignonette. But this cannot be the residence of
the master.

Beyond the dock, kept out by great gates
which seem not to have been opened for generations,
so rusty are the wheels and so green are
their planks with weed and water-moss, run the
waters of the Thames. There go before us the

steamers, the great ocean steamers, coming out of
the St. Katherine's, London, and West India
Docks ; there go the sailing ships, dropping easily
down with the tide, or slowly making way with a
favourable breeze up to the Pool ; there creep the
lighters and barges, heavily laden, with tall mast
and piled-up cargo, the delight of painters ; there
toil continually the noisy steam-tug and the river
packet steamer ; there play before us unceasingly
the life, the movement, the bustle of the Port of
London.

But all this movement, this bustle, seems tous,
standing in the quiet dock, like a play, a procession
of painted ships upon a painted river, with
a background of Limehouse church and town
all most beautifully represented ; for the contrast
is so strange.

Here we are back in the last century ; this
old ship, whose battered sides the one man is
tinkering, is a hundred years old ; the Swedish
skipper, who stands and looks at her all day long,
in no hurry to get her finished and ready for sea,
flourished before the French Revolution ; the
same leisurely dock, the same leisurely carpenter,
the same leisurely spectators, the same green
palings, the same little lodge with its green door
and green flower-box, were all here a hundred
years ago and more ; and we, who look about us,
find ourselves presently fumbling about our heads

e2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

to see whether, haply, we wear tye-wigs and
three-cornered hats.

On the doors of this dock we observe an
announcement warning marine-store dealers not
to enter. What have they done — the marine-store
dealers ?

A little farther on there is another dry dock.
We look in. The same ship, apparently; the
same leisurely contemplation of the ship by the
same man ; the same dog ; the same contrast
between the press and hurry of the river and the
leisure of the dock ; the same warning to marine -
dealers. Again we ask, what have they done —
the marine-store dealers?

Some of the docks have got suggestive and
appropriate names. The ' Lavender ' leads the
poet to think of the tender care bestowed upon
ships laid up in that dock (the name is not an
advertisement, but a truthful and modest statement)
; the 'Pageant ' is magnificent; the 'Globe'
suggests geographical possibilities which cannot
but fire the imagination of Eotherhithe boys ; and
what could be more comfortable for a heart of
oak than ' Acorn ' Wharf ?

One observes presently a strange sweet fragrance
in the air, which, at first, is unaccountable.
The smell means timber. For behind the street
lie the great timber docks. Here is timber stacked
in piles ; here are ships unloading timber ; here

is timber lying in the water. It is timber from
Canada and from Norway ; timber from Honduras
; timber from Singapore ; timber from
every country where there are trees to cut and
hands to cut them.

It is amid these stocks of timber, among these
ships, among these docks, that the houses and
gardens of Eotherhithe he embowered.

Some of the houses were built in the time of
great George Tertius. One recognises the paucity
of windows, the fiat facade, the carved, painted,
and varnished woodwork over the doors. More,
however, belong to his illustrious grandfather's
period, or even earlier, and some, which want
painting badly, are built of wood and have red-tiled
roofs.

Wherever they can they stick up wooden palings
painted green. They plant scarlet-runners wherever
they can find so much as a spare yard of
earth. They are fond of convolvulus, mignonette,
and candy-tuft in boxes. They all hammer on
their walls tin plates, which show to those who
can understand that the house is insured in the
Beacon.' And some of the houses — namely,
the oldest and smallest — have their floors below
the level of the street.

There is one great house — only one — in
Eotherhithe. It was built somewhere in the last
century, before the Commercial Docks were

excavated. It was then the home of a rich merchant
having among the dry docks — probably he
was the proprietor of Lavender and Acorn Docks.
There is a courtyard before it ; the door, wide a
porch, stands at the top of broad stairs ; there is
ornamental stone-work half-way up the front of
the house ; and there is a gate of hammered iron,
as fine as any in South Kensington.

The shops have strange names over the doors.
They are chiefly kept by Norwegians, Dutchmen,
Swedes, and Danes, with a sprinkling of Others
natives. The things exhibited for sale look
foreign. Yet we observe with satisfaction that
the public-houses are kept by Englishmen, and
that the Scandinavian taste in liquor is catholic.
They can drink — these Northmen — and do, anything
which ' bites.'

Quite at the end of this long street you come
to a kind of open place, in which stands the terrace
called • Seven Houses.' They occupy the
east side. On the west is, first, a timber-yard,
open to the river ; next a row of houses, white,
neat, and clean ; beyond the terrace is the church,
with its churchyard and schools. Then there is
another short street, with shops, the fashionable
shopping-place of Eotherhithe. And here the
town, properly so called, ends, for beyond is the
entrance to the Commercial Docks, and all around
spread great sheets of water, in which lie the

timber-ships from Norway, Sweden, Canada,
Archangel, Stettin, Memel, Antic, St. Petersburgh,
Savannah, and the East.

Hither, too, come ships from New Zealand,
bringing grain and wool, and here put in ships,
but in smaller number, bound for almost every
port upon the globe.

And what with the green trees in the churchyard,
the clean houses, the bright open space, the
ships in the dock, and the glimpses of the river,
one might fancy oneself not in London at all, but
across the North Sea and in Amsterdam.

It was in Eotherhithe that Lai Eydquist was
born, and in Eotherhithe she was educated. Nor
for eighteen years and more did the girl ever go
outside her native place, but continued as ignorant
of the great city near her as if it did not exist.
On the other hand, from the conversation of those
around her, she became perfectly familiar with
the greater part of the globe ; namely, its oceans,
seas, ports, harbours, gulfs, bays, currents, tides,
prevalent winds, and occasional storms. Most
people are brought up to know nothing but the
land : it is shameful favouritism to devote geography
books exclusively to the land upon this
round globe ; Lai knew nothing about the land,
but a good deal about the water. Such other
knowledge as she had acquired pertained to ships,
harbours, cargoes, Custom dues, harbour dues.

bills of lading, insurance, wet and dry docks, and
the current price of timber, grain, rice, and so
forth. A very varied and curious collection of
facts lay stored in her brain ; but as for the
accomplishments and acquirements of ordinary
English girls, she knew none of them.

Her christian-name was Alicia. When she
was but a toddler, the sailor folk with whom she
played, and who gave her dolls, called her Lai.
As she grew up, these honest people remained her
friends, and therefore her name remained. Girls
grow up, by Nature's provision, gradually, so that
there never comes a time when a pet name ceases
of its own accord. Therefore, to the Captains,
who used the boarding-house, being all personal
friends, — none but friends, in fact, were admitted
to the privileges of that little family hotel — she
continued to be Lai.

The boarding-house was carried on by Mrs.
Eydquist, Lai's mother, who had been a notable
woman in her day. The older inhabitants of
Eotherhithe testified to that effect. But her misfortunes
greatly affected and changed her for the
worse. One need only touch upon the drowning
of her father, which happened many years before,
and was regarded by the burgesses of Eotherhithe
as a special mercy bestowed upon his family, so
wasteful was he and fond of drink when ashore.
He was chief officer of an East Indiamen which

went down with all hands in a cyclone, as was
generally believed, somewhere north of the Andaman
Islands, outward bound. He had spent all
his pay in ardent drinks, and there was nothing
left for his daughter. But she married a stout
fellow, a Swede by nation, and Eydquist by name,
who sailed to and fro between the ports of Borne
and London, Captain and part owner of a
brig in the timber trade. Alas ! that brig dropped
down stream one morning as usual, having the
captain on board, and leaving the captain's wife
ashore with the baby, and she was never afterwards
heard of. Also there was some trouble
about the insurance, and so the captain's widow
got nothing for her husband's share in the ship.

Mrs. Eydquist, then a young woman and
comely still, who might have married again, took
to crying, and continued to cry, which was bad
for the boarding-house which her husband's friends
started for her. In most cases time cures the
deadliest wounds, but in this poor lady's case the
years went on and she continued to bewail her
misfortunes, sitting, always with a tea-pot before
her, upon a sofa as hard as a bed of penitence,
and plenty of pocket-handkerchiefs in her lap.

There could not have been a happier child, a
brighter, merrier child, a more sunshiny child, a
more affectionate child, a more contented child
than Lai, during her childhood, but for two things.

Her mother was always crying, and the house
went on anyhow. When she grew to understand
things a little, she ventured to point out to her
mother that men who go to sea do often get
drowned, and among the changes and chances of
this mortal life, this accident must be seriously
considered by the woman who marries a sailor.
But no use. She remonstrated again, but with
small effect, that the house was not kept with the
neatness desired by captains ; that it was in all
respects ill-found ; that the quality of the provisions
was far from what it ought to be, and that
meals were not punctual. The aggravation of
these things, and the knowledge that they were
received with muttered grumbling by the good
fellows who put up with them chiefly for her own
sake, sank deep into her heart, and shortened —
not her life, but her schooling.

When she was fourteen, being as tall and
shapely as many a girl of eighteen, she would goto
school no more. She announced her intention
of staying at home ; she took over the basket of
keys — that emblem of authority — from her
mother's keeping into her own ; she began to
order things ; she became the mistress of the
house, while the widow contentedly sat in the
front parlour and wept, or else, which made her
deservedly popular among the captains, prophesied,
to anyone who would listen, shipwreck.

death, and ruin, like Cassandra, Nostradamus, and
Old Mother Skipton, to these friends.

Immediately upon this assumption of authority
the house began to look clean, the windows
bright, the bedrooms neat ; immediately the
enemies of the house, who were the butcher, the
baker, the bacon-man, the buttermilk, and every
other man who had shot expensive rubbish into
the place, began, to use the dignified language of
the historian, to ' roll back sullenly across the
frontier.' Immediately meals became punctual ;
immediately rules began to be laid down and
enforced. Captains must henceforth only smoke
in the evening ; captains must pay up every
Saturday ; captains must not bring friends to
drink away the rosy hours with them ; captains
must moderate their language — words beginning
with a D were to be overhauled, so to speak,
before use ; captains must complain to Lai if they
wanted anything, not go about grumbling with
each other in a mean and a mutinous spirit. These
rules were not written, but announced by Lai
herself in peremptory tones, so that those who
heard knew that there was no choice but to
obey.

She was the best and kindest of managers ;
she made such a boarding-house for her captains
as was never dreamed of by any of them. Such
dinners, such beer, spirits of such purity and.

strength, tobacco of the finest ; no trouble, no
disturbance, the wheels always running smoothly.
Captains' bills made out to a penny, with no
surcharge or extortion. And, withal, the girl
was thoughtful for each man, mindful of what he
liked the best, and with a mother's eye to
buttons.

It was indeed a boarding-house fit for the
gods. So startling were the ' effects ' in cleanliness
that honest Dutchmen rubbed their eyes, and
seeing the ships all round them, thought of the
Boompjes of Rotterdam ; not a plank in the
house but was like a tablecloth for cleanliness.

Then, as to punctuality : at the stroke of eight,
breakfast on the table, and Lai, neat as a bandbox,
pouring out tea and coffee, made as they
should be ; while toast, dry and buttered, muffins,
chops and steaks, ham and eggs, bacon, and fish
just out of the frying-pan, were on the table.

On the stroke of one, the dinner, devised,
planned, and personally conducted by Lai, herself,
more diligently than any cook of modern or
ancient history, was borne from the kitchen to the
Captains' room.

The nautical appetite is large, both on shore
and afloat ; but on shore it is critical as well.
The skipper aboard his ship may contentedly eat
his way through barrels of salt junk, yet ashore
he craves variety, and is as particular about his

vegetables as a hippopotamus who has studied the
art of dining.

And this is the reason, not generally understood,
why the market-gardens in the neighbourhood
of Deptford are so extensive, and why every
available square inch of Eotherhithe grows a
cabbage or a scarlet-runner.

There were no complaints here, however,
about vegetables.

Tea was served at five, for those who wanted any.

Supper appeared at eight ; and after supper,
grog and pipes. Yet, as at dinner the supply of
beer was generous yet not wasteful, so at night,
every captain knew that if he wanted more than
his ration, or double ration, he must get up and
slink out of the house like a truant school-boy, to
seek it at the nearest public-house.

The mercantile skipper in every nation is much
the same. He is a responsible person, somewhat
grave ; ashore he does not condescend to high
jinks, and leaves sprees to the youngsters. Yet
among his fellows in such a house as Eydquist's,
he is not above a song or even a cheerful hornpipe.
He is generally a married man with a large family
of whom he is fond and proud. He reads little,
but has generally some book to talk of ; and he
is brimful of stories, mostly, it must be owned, of
a professional and pointless kind, and some old.

old Joe Millers, which he brings out with an air
as if they were new and sparkling from the mint
of fancy.

These men were the girl's friends, all the
friends she had. They were fond of her and
kind to her. When, as often happened, she found
herself in the Captains' room in the evening and
sat on the arm of Captain Zachariasenen's chair, the
stories went on with the songs and the laughing,
just as if she was not present, for they were an
innocent-minded race, and whether they hailed
from Russia, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Holland,
or America, they were chivalrous and respected
innocence.

The house accommodated no more than half-a-dozen,
but it was always full, and the captains
were of the better sort. Captain Hansen from
Christiania dropped in after his ship was in dock ;
if the house was full he went back to his ship ; if
he could have a room he stayed there. The same
with Captain Bennington of Quebec, Captain
Briggs of Edinburgh, Captain Eosenlund of
Hamburg, Captain Risen of Copenhagen,
Captain Vidovich of Archangel, Captain Ling of
Stockholm, and Captain Tilly of New Brunswick,
and a dozen more. , -

They rallied round Eydquist's ; they thought
it a proud thing to beale to put up there ; and
they swore by Lai.

Then who but Lai overhauled the linen, gave
out some to be mended and some to be condemned,
and rigged them out for the next voyage ? And
as for confidences, the girl was not fifteen years
old before she knew all the secrets of all the men
who went there, with their love stories, their
disappointments, their money matters, their hopes,
and their ambitions. And she was already
capable, at that early age, of giving sensible
advice, especially in matters of the heart. Those
who followed that advice subsequently rejoiced :
those who did not, repented.

When she was seventeen, they all began, with
one consent, to fall in love with her. She remarked
nothing unusual for awhile, having her mind
greatly occupied in considering the price of
vegetables, which during that year remained like
run agates for scarceness. Presently, however, the
altered carriage of the boarders was impossible to
be otherwise than remarkable.

Love, we know, shows itself by many external
symptoms. Some went careless of attire ; some
went in great bravery with waistcoats and neckties
difficult to describe and impossible to match ;
some laughed, some heaved sighs, some sang
songs ; one or two made verses ; those who were
getting grey tried to look as, if they were five-and-twenty,
and made as if they still could shake a
rollicking leg ; those who where already turned of

sixty persuaded themselves that a master mariner's
heart is always young, and that no time of life
is too far advanced for him to be a desirable
husband.

Lai laughed and went on making the puddings ;
she knew very well what they wanted, but she
felt no fancy, yet, for any of them.

When, which speedily happened, one after
the other came to lay themselves, their ships, and
their fortunes at her feet, she sent them all away,
not with scorn or unkindness, but with a cheerful
laugh, bidding them go seek prettier, richer, and
better girls to marry ; because, for her own part,
she had got her work to do, and had no time to
think about such things, and if she had ever so
much time she most certainly would not marry
that particular suitor.

They went away, and for a while looked
gloomy and ashamed, fearing that the girl would
tell of them. But she did not, and they presently
recovered, and when their time came and their
ships were ready, they dropped down the river
with a show of cheerfulness, and so away to
distant lands, round that headland known as the
Isle of Dogs, with no bitterness in their hearts,
but only a little disappointment, and the most
friendly feelings towards the girl who said them
nay.

When these were gone, the house, which was

never empty, received another batch of Captains,
old and young. Presently similar symptoms
were developed with them ; all were ardent, all
confident. They had been away a year or two.
They found the little Lai, whom they left
a handy maiden, a mere well-grown girl of
fourteen or so, developed into a tall and beautiful
young woman. Upon her shoulders, invisible to
all, sat Love, discharging arrows right and left
into the hearts of the most inflammable of men.
This batch — excepting two, who had wives in other
ports, and openly lamented the fact — behaved in
the same surprising manner as their predecessors.
They were presently treated with the same dismissal,
but with less courtesy, because to the girl
this behaviour was becoming monotonous, and it
sometimes seemed as if the whole of mankind had
taken leave of their senses. They retired in their
turn, and when their ships were laden, they, too,
sailed away a little discomfited, but not revengeful
or bearing malice. Then came a third batch, and
so on. But of sea-captains there is an end : Lai's
friends one after the other, came, disappeared after
a while, and then came back again. Those who
used the house at Eotherhithe where like comets
rather than planets, because they had no fixed
periods, but returned at intervals which could only
be approximately guessed. When, however, the
cycle was fulfilled, and there was no more to fall

VOL. I, F

in love with her (strangers, as has been stated,
not being admitted), there was a lull, and the rejected,
when they came back again and found the
girl yet heart free, rejoiced, because every man
immediately became confident that sooner or
later Lai's fancy would fall upon him ; and every
man cherished in his own mind the most delightful
anticipations of a magnificent wedding feast,
with the joy of Eotherhithe for the bride, and
himself for bridegroom.

CHAPTEE III.

THE SAILOR LAD FROM OVER THE SEA.

A woman's fate comes to her, like most good or
bad things, unexpectedly. l!^othing is sure, says
the French proverb, but the unforeseen. Nothing
could have been more unexpected, for instance,
than that the falling overboard of a Malay steward
from an Indian liner should have led to the
sorrow and the happiness of Lai Eydquist. That
this was so you will presently read, and the fact
suggests a fine peg for meditation on causes and
effects. Had it not been for that event, this story,
which it is a great joy to write, would never have
been written, and mankind would have been
losers to so great an extent ; whereas, that temporary
immersion in the cold waters of the river
in Limehouse Eeach produced so many things one
after the other that they have now left Lai in the
possession of the most necessary ingredient of
happiness quintessential. We all know what
that is, and in so simple a matter a lifting of the
eye is as good as a printer's sheet of words.

F 2

And could one, had it not been so, have had
the heart to write this tale ? Why, instead of a
Christmas story, it would have been a mere
winter's tale, a Middle-of-March story, a searching,
biting, east-wind story, fit only to be cut up
and gummed upon doors and windows to keep
out the cold.

When the dinner was off her mind, served,
commended, and eaten, and when her mother
was deposited for the day upon the sofa, with teapot
and the kettle ready, the pocket-handkerchiefs
for weeping, the book which she never read
in, and, perhaps, one of the younger Captains who
had not yet heard the story of her misfortunes
more than a dozen times or so ; or with some of
her friends among the widows and matrons of
Eotherhithe, with whom she would exchange
prophecies of disasters, general and particular ;
Lai would hasten to enjoy herself after her free
and independent fashion. One of the Captains
had given her a little dingy, and taught her how
to row it, and her pleasure was to paddle about
the river in Limehouse Eeach, dodging the
steamers, and watching the craft as they went up
and down.

This is a pursuit full of peril, because steamers
in ballast sometimes come down the river at a
reckless speed, their pilots being drunk, cutting
down whatever falls in their way ; yet to a girl

who is handy with her sculls, and has a quick eye,
the danger is part of the delight. On the Thames
in Limehouse Eeach one may be easily run over
and one's boat cut in two. There then follows a
bad time for a few moments, while the victim of
the collision is getting drowned or saved ; still, if
one thinks of danger, half the fun of the world is
gone. Lai thought of the change, the amusement,
the excitement : on the Thames there is continual
life, movement, and activity ; on the Thames,
there may be found by girls, sometimes worried
by perpetual housekeeping, rest and soothing.
As for Lai, the daily press of work was practically
finished with the dinner, because the 'service'
might be trusted with the rest. And after dinner,
on the river she breathed fresh air. Here was
not only mental rest, but also exercise for her
young muscles ; here was all the amusement and
variety she ever desired ; here she could even let
her imagination wander abroad, to the pinnacles
and spires of the city of which she knew so little
even by hearsay, or to the foreign lands of which
she heard so much. Above all, she was alone.
This is so rare, so unattainable a thing to most
girls, even to those who do not make puddings for
sea-captains, that one quite understands how Lai
valued the privilege. Her life was all before her.
Like other maidens she loved to sit by herself and
take a Pisgah-like view of her future. It might

lie among the steeples and streets — she had never
heard of any West End splendours — of London ;
it might be in those far-off lands where some of
her Captains had wives ; say, in New Brunswick,
or beside the beauty of the Great St. Lawrence,
or even in Calcutta, or in Antic, or in Norway ;
or it might lie always in simple and secluded
Eotherhithe, among the timber piles of the Commercial
Docks. Not a girl given to self communing,
tearing her religion up by the roots to
see how it was getting on, or the doubts which
nowadays seem to assail most fiercely those who
have the least power or knowledge to help them
to a solution, a quiet, simple, cheerful, hopeful
girl, with a smile for everyone and a laugh for all
her friends, yet a girl so hard-worked and so full
of responsibilities that there were days when she
had what the French ladies call an attack of
nerves, and must fain get away from all and float
at rest, thinking of other things than the wickedness
of butchers, upon the bosom of the great
river.

Sometimes, if the weather was too rough for
her little boat, she would paddle along the bank till
she came teethe mouth of the Commercial Docks,
and there would row about among the timber
ships, watching the men at work, and the great
planks being shot from the portholes in the stern
of the vessels, or the workmen piling the timbers,

or the foreign sailors idling about upon the
wharves. But mostly she loved the river.

JS'ow it came to pass, one Saturday afternoon
late in the month of May, and the year eighteen
hundred and seventy-six, that Lai happened to be
out in her boat upon the river. It was a delightful
afternoon, quite an old-fashioned May day,
without a breath of east wind, a sky covered with
light flying clouds, so that the sunshine dropped
about in changing breadths, now here and now
there, throwing a bright patch upon the water,
gilding a steeple, flashing from a window, making
even a stumpy little tug glorious for a moment.
She sang to herself as she sat in her boat, not a
loud song like a Siren or a Lurlei person, but a
gentle happy melody — I think it was some hymn
and she sat with her face to the bows, keeping
the boat's head well to the waves raised by the
swell of the passing ships. She was quite safe
herself, being near the shore and between two
heavily-laden lighters, waiting for tide to go upstream
; the river was rising, and was covered withall
kinds of craft.

Presently she became aware of a vast great
ship, one of the big Indian liners, slowly rounding
the Isle of Dogs. A great ship always attracted
her imagination ; it is a thing so vast, so easily
moved, and so life-like. As the tall hull drew
nearer, her eyes were fixed upon it, and she

paddled a little beyond her protecting lighters, so
as to get a better view of the vessel as she passed.
The ship moved up stream slowly here,
because the river was so full. First Lai saw from
her place the lofty bows, straight cut like a razor,
rounding the Isle of Dogs and steadily growing
nearer. Then her pilot put her a point more to
starboard, and Lai saw the long and lofty side of
her, her portholes open wide, high out of the
water. Honor the bulwarks were branched a line
of faces, mostly pale with Indian summers, but not
all ; they were the faces of the passengers who
leaned over and watched the crowded river and
talked together. Lai wondered whether they
were glad to come home again, and what they
were telling each other, and she hoped they would
think their country improved since they saw it
last ; and then ventured in mute wish to congratulate
their mothers, daughters, and sisters, wives,
sweethearts, and all female cousins, relatives, and
friends, that the ship had not gone to Davy's
Locker on her homeward voyage, with so many
brave fellows on board. The ship belonged to
the great Indian Peninsular Line, and was called
the '' Aryan." She was so great a ship, and she
moved so slowly, that Lai had time for a great
many observations as she passed her. Also when
her little boat was about midships, still kept
bows-on to meet the coming-waves, one of the

passengers, a young fellow, took off his hat to
her with a loud ' Hurrah ! ' He meant a respectful
.salutation to the first pretty girl they had met in
the good old country, which is full of the prettiest
girls in the world. Lai wondered what it felt
like, this coming home. All her life long she
Jiad been among men who went out of port and
presently put into port again ; one or two, in her
own experience, never came back, having met
with the fate reserved for many sailors ; but that
was not a home-coming like that of these exiles
from India. There would be joy in their homes,
no doubt, but what would the poor fellows themselves
feel after these years of separation ? The
feminine mind, everybody knows very well,
reserves nearly all its sympathies for the sufferings
of the men ; while it is an honourable trait in the
male character, that it is roused to fury by the
sufferings of women.

Just before the ship passed her, the great
wave which rolled upwards from her keel came
curling six feet high, like the Bore of the Severn
and the Parrots, towards Lai's little boat. The
lighters reeled and rolled, she seized her sculls and
held her bows straight, steady to meet the swell,
so that the little vessel gallantly rode over the
wave ; and this passed swiftly on trying to swamp
everything in its way, and presently capsized a
boat with two promising and ambitious young

thieves, who had gone down the river gaily,
hoping to pick up plunder by the way. They got
no plunder on that occasion, but a wet skin and
a very near escape from the habitual criminal life
for which they were preparing themselves. In
this they are now, in fact, actively engaged ; insomuch
that one has been in prison during three of
the hive years since that event, and the other two
and a half years. When they are out they enjoy
themselves very much and drink bad gin. Then
the wave caught a Greenwich steamboat and
knocked the land-lubber passengers off their legs;
and then it filled and sunk a barge full of hay.
The hay went down the river with, the next tide
and littered the shore of Greenwich, where people
who went down to dine gazed upon it from the
windows of the Ship. There was also a sister ora
brother wave on the north bank, proceeding
from the starboard bow, but I do not know what
mischief that wave succeeded in accomplishing.

While Lai was considering the ways of this
swell, and looking to see what a pother, with
a rolling and a rocking and a staggering to and
fro it caused, she heard a sudden splash, and
right in front of her she was aware of a man in
the water. Immediately afterwards another man
leaped gallantly from the ship after the first man,
and a moment afterwards came up to the surface
holding him*

Then, without waiting to think, because at
such moments the reasoning faculty only brings
people to grief and discredit, Lai shot her boat
ahead to help, for certainly the two appeared to
want immediate assistance, and that so badly, that
if it came not at once, they would very soon want
it no longer. Their arms were interlocked, they
beat, or one of them beat, the water helplessly ;
their heads kept disappearing and coming up
again. On the ship there was a crowd of faces,
terror-stricken. The girl caught one hand as her
boat came to the spot. The hand belonged to
one of the two men, that was clear, but whether
the first or the second she could not tell ; in fact,
only that one hand and a little piece of coat cuff
were at the moment visible above water, and probably
the next moment there would have been
nothing at all. The fingers clutched hers like a
vice. Lai threw herself down in the boat to prevent
being drawn over, and caught the wrist with
her other hand.

Then the group, so to speak, emerged again
from the water, and the hand the girl had seized
caught the gunwale of the boat, and the eyes in
the head which belonged to the hand opened, and
the mouth in the head gasped something inarticulate.
As for the man's other hand and the whole
of the rest of him, that was locked tight in the
embrace of the first man who had fallen overboard.

It is, anybody knows, the general custom
and the base ingratitude of persons who are
drowning, to try and drown their rescuers.

Now us ashore quickly,' cried the one who
clung to the gunwale ; ' I can hold on for a spell.
He won't let go, even to be helped into the boat.'

The ship was brought to now, and there was
a vast crowd of passengers, and the officers shouting
and gesticulating.

They saw the action of the girl in the boat,
and then they saw her seize the sculls and pull
vigorously to shore. • As for Lai, all she saw was a
pale and dripping face, lingers which clutched the
gunwale and nearly pulled it under, and an indiscriminate
something in the water.

Oh, can you hold on ? ' she cried. 'It is
but a moment — twenty strokes — see, we are close
to the steps.'

Quick ! ' he reached ; ' it is a heavy weight.
Eow as hard as you can, please.'

Presently, when the captain of the ship saw
the boat landed at the steps, and was sure of the
safety of the two men, he made a sign to the pilot,
and the ship went on her way, for time is precious.

Lucky escape,' he said. ' Armiger will come
over presently, none the worse for a ducking.'

But the passengers with one accord raised a
mighty cheer as the boat touched the shore, and
the men on the lighters cheered lustily, and even

the two young capsized thieves, who were wet and
dripping, cheered. And there were some who
said the case must be forwarded to the Royal
Humane Society ; and some who talked about
Grace Daring, and made comparisons ; and some
who said it was their sacred duty to write to the
papers, and tell the story of this wonderful presence
of mind. But they did not, because shortly
afterwards they reached the docks, and there was
kissing of relations, packing of wraps, counting
of boxes, and afterwards so much to see and talk
about, and so many things to. tell, that the rescue
of the second officer in the Thames became only
an incident in the history of the voyage, and the
voyage itself only an incident in the history of
their sojourn abroad.

The distance to be rowed was more, indeed,
than twenty strokes, but not much more. Still,
there are times when twenty strokes of the oar
take more time, to the imagination, than many hours
of ordinary work. Lai rowed with beating heart ;
in two minutes the boat lay alongside the steps.

When her passenger's feet touched the stones
he let go, and, being a strong young fellow, and
none the worse for his cold bath, he carried his
burden, an apparently inanimate body, up the
stairs to the top. Here he laid him while he ran
down again to help his preserver.

These are my steps,' she said ; ' my boat is

always moored here. Thank you, but if you
don't give her the whole length of her painter
she will be hung up by the bows when the tide
runs out.'

She jumped out and ran lightly up the stone
steps. At the top the man who had given them
all this trouble sat up, looking about him with
wondering eyes. Then Lai saw that he was of
some foreign country, partly by his dress and
partly from his face. The other, who did indeed
present a rueful appearance in his dripping clothes,
was, she perceived, an officer of the steamer.
Then Lai began to laugh.

It is all very well to laugh,' he said, grimly,
and shaking himself like Tommy Trout, medals
of the Humane Society, after rescuing that Tom,
but here's half my kit ruined. And, I say,
you've saved my life and I haven't even thanked
you. But I do not know how to thank you.'

It was all by chance,' replied Lai, ' and I am
very glad.'

And what are we to do next ? ' he asked.

He made a sign to the other man, who sprang
to his feet, shivered, and nodded.

I am very glad you saved his life, at any
rate,' the young man went on ; 'he is the steward
of the officers' mess, and he cannot thank you
himself, because he is deaf and dumb ; we call
him Dick.'

Come, both of you,' said the gh^l, recovering
her wits, which were a little scattered by this
singular event. ' Come, both, and dry your clothes.'

She led the way, and they all three set off
running — a remarkable procession of one dry
girl and two wet men, which drew all eyes upon
them, and a small following of boys, in the
direction of the Captains' house.

I thought we should have dracr^ed the gunwale
under water,' gasped the young fellow.

So did I,' said Lai, simply. ' Can you swim ? '

No,' he replied.

'Yet you jumped overboard to rescue your
steward. What a splendid thing to do.'

'I forgot I couldn't swim till I was in the
water. Never mind. I mean to learn.'

The young fellow was a tall, slight-built lad of
twenty one or twenty-two. Lai pushed him into
a bedroom, and pointed to a bundle of clothes.
It was not her fault that they belonged to Captain
Jansen, who was five feet nothing high, and about
the same round the waist. So that when the lad
was dressed in them he felt a certain amount of
embarrassment, as anyone might who was sent
forth into an unknown house with trousers no
longer than his knees, and of breadth phenomenal.

Where can I hide,' he said to himself, ' till
the things are dry ? '

He found a room set with a long table and a

good many chairs. This was the Captains' room,
where they took their meals by day and smoked
pipes at night. Just then no one was in it. He
wanted to find the girl who had saved his life and
rescued him ; so, after a look round, he went on
his cruise of discovery.

Next, he opened another door. It was Lais
housekeeping room, in which sat an old, old man
in an armchair, sound asleep. This was Captain
Zachariasenen.

He shut the door quietly and opened another.
This was the front parlour, and in it sat Mrs.
Eydquist alone, also fast asleep ; but the opening
of the door awakened her, and she sat up and
put on her spectacles.

Come in. Captain,' she said, thinking it was
one of her friends, but uncertain which of them
looked so young and wore clothes of such an
amplitude. ' Come in. Captain. It is a long time
since we have had a talk.'

'Thank you, ma'am,' he replied. 'It is my
first visit here. We always, you know, put into
East India Docks.'

Ah ! ' She shook her head. ' Very wrong
very wrong ! Many have been robbed at
Shadwell. But come in, and I will tell you some
of my troubles. Do take a chair.'

She drew out a handkerchief, and wiped a
rising tear.

'Dear me, what a delightful thing to see a

young fellow like you — not drowned yet ! '

I might have been,' he replied, ' but for '

Ah, and you may be yet.' This seemed a

very cheerful person. ' Many no older than

yourself are lying at the bottom of the sea this

minute.'

That is very true,' he said, ' but '

'Oh, I know what you would say. And

Captain Zachariasenen eighty-six years of age if a

day.'

The young man began to feel as if he had got

into an enchanted palace.

When Lai found him there, he was sitting
bolt upright, while Mrs. Eydquist was discoursing
at large on perils and disasters at sea.

You yourself,' she was saying, ' look like one
who will go early and find your end '

Gracious, mother ! ' cried Lai, in her quick,
sharp way, 'how can you say such things?
Time enough when he does go to find it out.

Besides Your clothes are quite dry now,

and — oh ! oh ! oh ! '

Then she laughed again, seeing the delightful
incongruity of trousers, sleeves, arms, and legs, so
that he retired in confusion.

When he came to put on his own things, he
discovered that the girl of the boat — this girl so

VOL. I. G

remarkably pliancy with her sculls — had actually
taken the opportunity to restore a button to the
back of his neck. The loss of this button had
troubled him for two voyages and a half. So
delicate and unusual an attention naturally went
straight to his heart, which was already softened by
the consideration of the girl's bravery and beauty.

He thought she looked prettier than ever,
with her large eyes and the sweet innocence of
her face, when he came down again in his
uniform.

Your steward is dry, too,' she said, ' and
warming himself before the kitchen fire. Will
you have some tea with the Captains ? It is
their tea-time.'

I would rather have some tea with you,' he
replied, ' if I might.'

Would you? Then of course you shall.'

She spoke as if it were a mere nothing, a
trifle of no value at all, this invitation to take tea
with her.

She took him into her own room, where the
young man had seen the old fellow asleep, and
presently brewed him a cup of tea, the like of
which, he thought, he had never tasted, and set
before him a plate of hot toast.

That is better for you,' she said, as wisely
as any doctor, ' than hot brandy and water.'

At last he rose, after drinking as much tea ashe

could anal staying as long as he dared. The ship
would be in dock by this time. He must get across.

May I come over, when I can get away, to
see you again ? ' he asked, bashfully.

She replied, without any bashfulness at all
and with straightforward friendliness, that she
would be very glad to see him whenever he
could call upon her, and that the best time would
be in the afternoon, or, as the evenings were now
long, in the evening ; but not in the morning,
when she was busy with all sorts of things, and
especially in superintending the Captains' dinner.

I will come,' he said, and this time he
blushed. ' What is your name ? '

I am Lai Eydquist,' she replied, as if everybody
ought to know her. But that was not at
all what she meant.

Lai ! What a pretty name. It suits '

And here he stopped and blushed again.

And what is your name ? '

Eex Armiger,' he said. ' And I am second
officer on board the " Aryan," of the Indian Peninsular
line, homeward bound from Calcutta.'

This was the beginning of Lai's love-story.
A young fellow, gallant and handsome, pulled
dripping out of the river — a sailor, too — how
could Lai fall in love with anybody but a sailor ?

Every love-story has its dawn, its first faint
glimmering, which grows into a glorious rose of

G 2

day. There are generally, as we know, clouds
about the east at the dawn of day. Clubmen
about Pall Mall frequently remark
this in the month of June on leaving the
whist-table ; policemen have told me the same
thing ; milkmen, in spring and autumn, report
the phenomenon ; old-fashioned poets observed
it. There can be no real doubt or question about
it. After the dawn and the morning comes the
noon, when the story becomes uninteresting to
outsiders, yet is a very delightful story to the
actors themselves. There are different kinds of
clouds, and you already know pretty well what
was the cloud which for a long time made poor
Lai's story a sad one.

When, however, the first streaks of dawn
appeared the sky was cloudless. You must not
suppose that this young lady beheld the man and
straightway fell in love with him. JSTot at all.
Love is a plant which takes time to grow. In
her case it kept on growing long after Eex had
left her ; long, indeed, after everybody said he
was dead. But it cannot be denied that she
thought about him.

The Captains congratulated her on having
pulled the young fellow out of the river. Captain
Zachariasenen, with a gallantry beyond his
years, even went so far as to wish he had himself
been the subject of the immersion and the rescue.

He also related several stories of his own daring,
fifty, sixty, or seventy years before, in various
parts of the ocean. All this was pleasing.

Lai laughed at the compliments and sang the
more about the house, nor did it disturb her in
the least when her mother lifted up her voice in
prophecy.

My dear,' she said, ' mark my words. If
ever I saw shipwreck and drowning — I mean
quite young drowning — on any man's face, it is
marked on the face of that young man. The
heedless and the giddy may laugh ; but we know
better, my dear — we who have gone through it.'

When a ship comes home and has but three
weeks in which to discharge her cargo and take
in her new lading, the officers have by no means
an easy time. It is not holiday with them, but
quite the reverse ; and it was not often that Rex
could get even an evening free. In fact, the
whole of his wooing was accomplished in five
visits to Rotherhithe.

On his first visit he was disappointed. Lai
was on the river in her boat, and so he sat with
her mother and waited. Mrs. Rydquist took the
opportunity, which might never occur again, of
solemnly warning him against falling in love with
her daughter. This, she said, was a very possible
thing to happen, especially for a sailor, because
her girl was well set-up, not to say handsome.

Therefore, it was her duty to warn him, as she
had akeady warned a good many, including
Captain Skantlebury, afterwards cast away in
Torres Straits, that it was an unlucky thing to
marry into a family whose husbands and male
relations generally found a grave at the bottom of
the sea. Further, it was well known among
sailors that if you rescued a person from drowning,
that person would, at some time or other,
repay your offices by injuring your earthly
prospects. So that there were two excellent
reasons wdiy Eex should avoid the Rock of Love.

They Avere doubtless valid ; but they were
not strong enough to repress in the young man a
look of joy and admiration when the girl came
home fresh and bright as an ocean nymph. He
took supper with her, and between them the two
managed to repress the gloom even of the
prophetess who sat with them, as cheerful as
Cassandra at a Trojan supper. Did ever anyone
consider how much that good old man King
Priam had to put up with ?

Another time was on a Sunday evening.
They went to church together and sang out of
the same hymn-book. Captain Zachariasenen was
in the pew also, and he went to sleep three times —
viz., during the first lesson, the second lesson, and
the sermon, without counting the prayers, during
which he probably dropped off as well. After

the service, as the evening was fine and the air
warm, they sat awhile in the churchyard, and the
young fellow, seated on a tombstone, unconscious
of the moral he was illustrating, had a very good
time indeed talking with Lai. When they were
tired of the churchyard they walked away to the
bridge over the entrance to the docks, and leaned
over the rail talking still. Lai was quite used to
the confidences of her friends, but somehow this
one's confidences were different. He sought no
advice, he confessed no love-affair ; he did not
begin to look at her as if he was struck silly, and
then ask her to marry him — which so many of
the Captains had done ; he asked her about herself,
and seemed eager to know all she would tell
him, as if there was anything about herself that
so gallant a sailor would care to know, with such
stupid particulars about her daily life, and how
she never left Eotherhithe at all, and had seen no
other place.

What a strange life ! ' he said, after many
questions. ' What a dull life ! Are you not
tired of it ? '

No,' she answered. ' Why should I be ?
Do they not bring a constant change into the
house, my Captains? I knoAv all their adventures,
and I could tell you, oh ! such stories.
You should hear Captain Zachariasenen when he
basins to recollect.'

Ay, ay, we can all spin yarns. But never to
leave this place ! ' He paused, with a sigh.

I am happy,' said Lai. ' Tell me about
yourself

It was her turn now, and she began to question
him until he told all he had to tell ; but I
suppose he kept back something, as one is told to
leave something on the dish, for good manners.
But if he did not tell all, it was because he was
modest, not because he had thugs to hide of
which he was ashamed.

He was, he said, the son of a Lincolnshire
clergyman, and he was destined to the Church ;
solemnly set apart, he was, by his parents and
consecrated in early infancy. This made his
subsequent conduct the more disgraceful, although,
as he pleaded, his own consent was not
asked nor his inclinations consulted. The road
to the Church is grievously beset by wearisome
boulders, pits, ditches, briars, and it may befallen
trunks, which some get over without the
least difficulty, whereas to others they are
grievous hindrances. These things are an allegory,
and I mean books. Now unlucky Eex, a
masterly youth in all games, schoolboy feats,
fights, freaks, and fanteegs, regarded a book,
from his earliest infancy, unless it was a romance
of the sea or story of adventure, with a dislike
and suspicion amounting almost to mania. In

his recital to Lai, he avoided mention of the
many flogging he received, the battles he fought,
and the insubordination of which he was guilty,
and the countless lessons which he had not
learned. He simply said that he ran away from
school and got to Liverpool, where, after swopping
clothes with a real sailor boy, he got onboard
a Canadian brig as loblolly boy, and was
kicked and cuffed all the way to Quebec and all
the way back again. The skipper cuffed him,
the mate cuffed him, the cook cuffed him, the
crew cuffed him ; he got rough treatment and
bad grub. His faculties were stimulated, no
doubt, and a good foundation laid for smartness
in after life as a sailor. Also, his frame was
hardened by the fresh breeze of the Windy
Fifties. On his return, he wrote to his father, to
say that he was about to return to school. He
did return ; was the hero of the school for two
months, and then again ran away and tried the
sea once more, from Glasgow to New York in a
cargo steamer. Finally, his father had to renounce
his ambitious schemes, in spite of the
early consecration and setting apart, and got him
entered as a middy in the service of a great line
of steamers. Now, at the age of twenty-two, he
was second officer.

Such was the modesty of the young man that
he omitted to state many remarkable facts in his

own life, though these redounded greatly to his
credit ; nor was it till afterwards that Lai discovered
how good a character he bore for steady
seamanship and pluck, how well he stood for promotion.
Also, he did not tell her that he was the
softest-hearted fellow in the world, though his
knuckles were so hard ; that he was the easiest
man in the world to lead, although the hardest to
drive ; that on board he was always ready, when
off duty, to actes nursemaid, protector, and playfellow
for any number of children ; that he was
also at such times as good as a son or a brother to
all ladies on board ; that on shore he was ever
ready to give away all his money to the first who
asked for it ; that he thought no evil of his neighbour
; that he considered all women as angels, but
Lai as an archangel ; and that he was modest,
thinking himself a person of the very smallest
importance on account of these difficulties over
books, and a shameful apostate in the matter of
the falling off from the early dedication.

When a young woman begins to take a real
interest in the adventures of a young man, and,
like Desdemona, to ask questions, she generally
lays a solid foundation for much more than mere
interest. Dido, though she was no longer in her
premiere jeunesse, is a case in point, as well as
Desdemona. And every married person recollects
the flattering interest taken in each other by fiance

2i\\^ fiancee during the early days, the sweet sunshiny
days, of their engagement.

That Sunday night, after the talk in the churchyard,
they went back to the house, and Eex had
supper with the Captains, winning golden opinions
by his great and well-sustained powers over cold
beef and pickles. After this they smoked ropes
and told yarns, and Lai sat among them by the
side of Eex, which was a joy to him, though she
was sitting on the arm of Captain Zachariasenen's
wooden chair, and not his own.

On another occasion during that happy and
never-to-be-forgotten three weeks, Eex carried the
girl across the river and showed her his own ship
lying in the East India Docks, which, she was fain
to confess, are finer than the Commercial Docks.
He took her all over the great and splendid
vessel, showed her the saloon with its velvet
couches, hanging lamps, gilt ornaments, and long
tables in the officers' quarters ; and midships, and
the sailors' forrard ; took her down to the engine-room
by a steep ladder of polished iron bars,
showed her the bridge, the steering tackle, and
the captain's cabin, in which he lowered his voice
from reverence as one does in a church. When
she had seen everything, he invited her to return
to the saloon, where she found a noble repast
spread, and the chief officer, the third mate, the
Purser, and the Doctor waiting to be introduced

to her. They paid her so much attention and
deference ; they said so many kind things about
her courage and presence of mind ; they waited
on her so jealously ; they were so kind to her,
that the girl was ashamed. She was so very
ignorant, you see, of the power of beauty. Then
a bottle of champagne, a drink which Lai had
heard of but never seen, was produced, and they
all drank to her health, bowing and smiling, first
to her and then to Eex, who blushed and hung
his head. Then it appeared that every man had
something which he ardently desired her to accept,
and when Lai came away Eex had his arms full
of pretty Lilian things, smelling of sandal-wood,
presents to her from his brother-officers. This,
she thought, was very kind of them, especially as
they had never seen her before. And then Dick,
the officers' steward, the deaf and dumb Malay
whom she had helped to pull out of the water,
came and kissed her hand humbly, in token of
gratitude. A beautiful and wonderful day. Yet
what did the Doctor mean when they came away ?
For while the Purser stood at one end of the
gangway, and the chief officer at the other, and
the third mate in the middle, all to see her safe
across, the Doctor, left behind on board, slapped
Eex loudly upon the shoulder and laughed, saying
:—

Gad ! Eex, you're a lucky fellow ! '

How was he lucky ? she asked him in-the
boat, and said she should be glad to hear of good
luck for him. But he only blushed and made no
reply.

One of the things which she brought home
after this visit was a certain grey parrot. He had
no particular value as a parrot. There were
many more valuable parrots already about the
house, alive or stuffed. But this bird had accomplishments,
and among other things, he knew
his master's name, and should cry, to everybody's
admiration : ' Poor Eex Armiger ! Poor Eex
Armiger ! '

When Lai graciously accepted this gift, the
young man took it as a favourable sign. She had
already, he knew, sent away a dozen Captains at
least, and he was only second mate. Yet still,
when a girl takes such a present she means — she
surely means to make some difference.

Then there was one day more — the last day
but one before the ship sailed — the last opportunity
that Eex could find before they sailed. He
had leave, for a whole day ; the lading was completed,
the passengers were sending on their
boxes and trunks ; the Purser and the stewards
were taking in provisions — mountains of provisions,
with bleating sheep, milch cows, cocks and hens
for the voyage.

All was bustle and stir at the Docks, but there

was no work for the second officer. He presented
himself at Seven Houses at ten o'clock in the
morning, without any previous notice, and proposed,
if you please, nothing short of a whole day
out. A whole day, mind you, from that moment
until ten o'clock at night. Never was proposal
more revolutionary.

All day long ? ' she cried, her great eyes full
of surprise and joy.

All day,' he said, ' if you will trust yourself
with me. Where shall we go ? '

Where ? ' she repeated.

I suppose that now and then some echoes
reach Eotherhithe of the outer world and its
amusements. Presumably there are natives who
have seen the Crystal Palace and other places ; here
and there might be found one or two who have seen
a theatre. Most of them, however, know nothing
of any place of amusement whatever. It is a city
without any shows. Punch and Judy go not near
it ; Cheap Jack passes it by ; the wandering feet
of circus horses never pass that way ; gipsies' tents
have never been seen there ; the boys of Others
do not know even the travelling caravan
with the fire-eater. To conjurers, men with entertainments,
and lecturers it is an untrodden field.
When Lai came, in a paper, upon the account of
festive doings she passed them over, and turned to
the condition of the markets in South Africa or

Quebec as being a subject more likely to interest
the Captains. Out of England there were plenty
of things to interest her. She kncAV something
about the whole round world, or, at least, its
harbours ; but of London she was ignorant.

Where ? ' she asked, gasping.

There's the Crystal Palace and Epping
Forest ; there's the National Gallery and Highgate
Hill ; there's the top of St. Paul's and the
Aquarium ; there's Kew Gardens and the Tower ;
there's South Kensington and Windsor Castle ' —
Eex bracketed the places according to some
obscure arrangement in his own mind — ' lots of
places. The only thing is where ? '

I have seen none of them,' she replied. ' Will
you choose for me ? '

Oh ! ' he groaned. ' Here is a house full of
great hulking skippers, and she works herself to
death for them, and not one among them all
has ever had the grace to take her to go and see
something ! '

Don't call them names,' she replied, gently ;
our people never go anywhere, except to Poplar
and Limehouse. One of them went one evening
to Woolwich Gardens, but he did not like it. He
said the manners of the people were forward, and
he was cheated out of half a crown.'

Then, Lai,' he jumped up and made a great
show of preparing for immediate departure with

his cap ; ' then, Lai, let us waste no more time in
talking, but be off at once.'

Oh, I can't ! '

Her face fell, and the tears came into her eyes
as she suddenly recollected a reason why she
could not go.

Why can't you ? '

Because — oh, because of the pudding. I can
trust her with the potatoes, and she will boil the
greens to a turn. But the pudding I always make,
and no one else can make it but me.'

The lady referred to was not her mother, but
the assistant — the ' service.'

Can't they go without pudding for once ? '

Lai shook her head.

'They always expect pudding, and they are
very particular about the currants. You can't
think what a quantity of currants they want in
their pudding.'

Do you always give them plum-dufF, then ? '

'Except when they have roly-poly or apple
dumplings. Sometimes it is baked plum-dufF,
sometimes it is boiled, sometimes with sauce,
and sometimes with brandy. But I think they
would never forgive me if there was no pudding.'

Eex nodded his head, put on his cap — this
conversation took place in the kitchen — and
marched resolutely straight into the Captains'
room, where three of them were at that moment

sitting ill conversation. One was Captain Zacharias.


Gentlemen he said, politely saluting ; ' Lai
wants a whole holiday. But she says she can't
take it unless you will kindly go without your
pudding to-day.'

They looked at each other. No one for a
time spoke. The gravity of the proposal was such
that no one liked to take the responsibility of
accepting it. A dinner at Eydquist's without
pudding was a thing hitherto unheard of.

Why asked Captain Zachariasenen, severely —
why, if you please, Mr. Armiger, does Lai want
a holiday to-day ? And why cannot she be content
with a half-holiday ? Do I ever take a whole
day?'

'Because she wants to go somewhere with
me,' replied Eex, stoutly ; ' and if she doesn't go
to-day she won't go at all, because we sail the
day after tomorrow.'

Under these circumstances, gentlemen,' said
Captain Zachariasenen, softening, and feeling that he
had said enough for the assertion of private rights,
seeing that Lai is, for the most part, an obliging
girl, and does her duty with a willing spirit, I
think — you are agreed with me, gentlemen ? '

The other two nodded their heads, but with
some sadness.

Then, sir,' said Captain Zachariasenen, as if he

VOL. I. H

were addressing his chief officer at high noon,
make it so.'

Now said Eex, as they passed Eotherhithe
parish church and drew near unto Thames Tunnel
Station, ' I've made up my mind where to take
you to. As for the British Museum, it's sticks
and stones, and South Kensington is painted pots ;
the National Gallery is saints and sign-boards ;
the Crystal Palace is buns, and boards, and ginger-beer,
with an organ ; the Monument of London is
no better than the crossness. Where we will go,
Lai — where we will go for our day out — is to
Hampton Court, and we will have such a day as
you shall remember.'

There had been, as yet, no word of love ; but
he called her Lai, and she called him Eex, which
is an excellent beginning.

They did have that day ; they did go to
Hampton Court. First they drove in a hansom —
Lai thought nothing could be more delightful than
this method of conveyance — to Waterloo Station,
where they were so lucky as to catch a train
going to start in three-quarters of an hour, and
by that they went to Hampton Court.

It was in the early days of the month of
June, which in England has two moods. One is
the dejected, make-yourself-as-miserable-as-you-
can mood, when the rain falls dripping all the

day, and the leaves, which have hardly yet fully
formed on the trees, begin to get rotten before
their time, and think of falling off. That mood of
June is not delightful. The other, which is far
preferable, is that in which the month comes with
a gracious smile, bearing in her hands lilac, roses,
laburnum, her face all glorious with sunshine,
soft airs, and warmth. Then the young year
springs swiftly into vigorous manhood, with fragrance
and sweet perfumes, and the country
hedges are splendid with their wealth of a thousand
wild flowers, and the birds sing above their
nests. Men grow young men again, lapped and
wrapped in early summer ; the blood of the oldest
is warmed ; their fancies run riot ; they begin to
babble of holidays, to talk of walks in country
]places, of rest on hill-sides, of wanderings, rod in
hand, beside the streams, of shady woods, and the
wavelets of a tranquil sea ; they feel once more
one must feel it every year again or die — the
old simple love for earth, fair mother earth,
generous earth, mother, nurse, and fosterer — as
well as grave ; they enjoy the sunshine. Sad
autumn is as yet far off, and seems much farther;
they are not yet near unto the days when they
shall say, one to the other :

Lo ! the evil days are come when we may
say, " I have no pleasure in them." '

The train sped forth from the crowded houses,
H 2

and presently passed into the fields and woods of
Surrey. Eex and Lai were alone in a second-class
carriage, and she looked out of the window
while he looked at her. And so to Hampton,
where the Mole joins the silver Thames, and the
palace stands beside the river bank.

I have always thought that to possess Hampton
Court is a rare and precious privilege which
Londoners cannot regard with sufficient gratitude,
for, with the exception of Fontainebleau, which is
too big, there is nothing like it — except, perhaps,
in Holland — anywhere. It is delightful to wander
in the cool cloisters, about the bare chambers
hung with pictures, and in the great empty hall,
where the Queen might dine every day if she
chose, her crown upon her head, with braying of
trumpets, scraping of fiddles, and pomp of scarlet
retainers. But she does not please. Then one
may walk over elastic turf, round beds of flowers,
or down long avenues of shady trees, which make
one think of William the Third ; or one may look
over a wooden garden gate into what was the
garden in the times before Cardinal Wolsey found
out this old country grange and made it into a
palace. Young people — especially young people
in love — may also seek the windings of the maze.

This boy Eex, with the girl who seemed to
him the most delightful creature ever formed by a
benevolent Providence, enjoyed all these delights.

the girl lost in what seemed to her a dream of
wonder. Why had she never seen any of these
beautiful places ? For the first time in her life,
Kotherhithe, and the docks and ships, became
small to her. She had never before known the
splendour of stately halls, pictures, or great
gardens. She felt humiliated by her strangeness,
and to this day, though now she has seen a great
many splendid places, she regards Hampton Court
as the most wonderful and the most romantic of
all buildings ever erected, and I do not think she is
far wrong.

One thing only puzzled her. She had read,
somewhere, of the elevating influences of art.
This is a great gallery of art. Yet somehow she
did not feel elevated at all. Especially did a
collection of portraits of women — all with drooping
eyes and false smiles and strange looks, the
meaning of which she knew not — make her long
to hurry out of the room and into the fair gardens,
on whose lawns she could forget these pictures.
How could they elevate or improve the people.?
Art, you see, only elevates those who understand
a little of the technique, and ordinary people goto
the picture-galleries for the story told by each
picture. This is the reason why the contemplation
of a vast number of pictures has hitherto
failed to improve our culture or to elevate our
standards. But these two, like most visitors, took

all for granted, and it must be owned that there
are many excellent stories, especially those of the
old sea-fight pictures, in the Hampton Court
galleries.

Then they had dinner together in a room
whose windows looked right down the long avenue
of Bushes, where the chestnuts were in all their
glory ; and after dinner Eex took her on the
river. It was the same river as that of Eotherhithe.
But who would have thought that twenty miles
would make so great a change .^ No ships, no
steamers, no docks, no noise, no shouting, no
hammering. And what a difference in the boats !
They drifted slowly down with the silent current.
The warm sun of the summer afternoon lay
lovingly on the meadows. It was not a Saturday.
No one was on the river but themselves. The
very swans sat sleepily on the water ; there was a
gentle swish and slow murmur of the current
along the reeds and grasses of the bank ; crimson
and golden leaves hung over the river ; the
flowers of the lilies were lying open on the
water.

Lai held the ropes and Eex the sculls ; but he
let them lie idle and looked at the fair face before
him, while she gazed dreamily about, thinking
how she should remember, and by what things,
this wonderful day, this beautiful river, this palace,
and this gentle rowing in the light skiff. As she

looked, the smile faded out of her face and her
eyes filled with tears.

'Why, Lai?' he asked.

She made no reply for a minute or two, thinking
what reason she might truthfully allege for her
tears, which lead risen unbidden at the touch of
some secret chord.

I do not know,' she said. ' Except that
everything is so new and strange, and I am quite
happy, and it is all so beautiful.'

Eex reflected on the superior nature of
women who can shed tears as a sign of happiness.

I am so happy,' he said, ' that I should like
to dance and sing, except that I am afraid of
capsizing the craft, when to Davy's locker we
should go for want of your dingy, Lai.'

But they could not stay on the river all the
evenings The sun bef2;an to descend : clouds
came up from the south-west ; the wind freshened ;
a mist arose, and the river became sad and
mysterious.

Then Eex turned the bows and rowed back.

The girl shuddered as she stepped upon the
shore.

I shall never forget it,' she said ; ' never.
And now it is all over.'

Will you remember, with this day, your
companion of the day .^ ' asked Eex.

Yes she replied, with the frank and truthful

gaze wliicli went straight to the young man's
heart ; ' I shall never forget the day or my companion.'


They went back to the palace, and while the
shadows grew deeper, walked in the old-fashioned
garden of King William, beneath its arch of
branches, old now and knotty and gnarled.

Eex was to sail in two days' time. He would
have no other chance. Yet he feared to break
the charm.

We must go,' he said. ' Yes, it is all over.'
He heaved a mighty sigh. ' What a day we have
had. And now it is gone, it is growing dark,
and we must go. And this is the last time I
shall see you, Lai.'

Yes,' she murmured, ' the last time.'

Years afterwards she remembered those words
and the thought of ill omens and what they may
mean.

The last time,' she repeated.

I suppose you know, Lai, that I love you ? '
said Eex, quite simply. ' You must know that.
But, of course, everybody loves you.'

Oh ! ' she laid her hand upon his arm.
Are you sure, quite sure, that you love me ?
You might be mistaken, Eex.'

'Sure, Lai?'

Can you really love me ? '

My darling, have not other men told you

the same thing ? Have you not listened and sent
them away? Do not send me away, too, Lai.'

'They said they Oh, it was nonsense.

They could not really have loved me, because I
did not love them at all.'

And — and — me ? ' asked Eex, with fine disregard
of grammar.

Oh, no, Eex. I do not want to send you

away — not if you really love me ; and, Eex,

Eex, you have kissed me enough.'

They could not go away quite then ; they
stayed there till they were found by the custodian
of the vine, who ignominiously led them to
the palace-gates and dismissed them with severity.
Then Eex must needs have supper, in order to
keep his sweetheart with him a little longer.
And it was not till the ten o'clock train that they
returned to town : Lai quiet and a little tearful,
her hand in her lover's ; Eex full of hope and
faith and charity, and as happy as if he were,
indeed, ' rex orbis toties,' the king of the whole
world.

At half-past eleven he brought her home It
was very late for Eotherhithe ; the Captains were
mostly in bed by ten, and all the lights out, but
to-night Mrs. Eydquist sat waiting for her
daughter.

Mrs. Eydquist,' said the young man, beaming
like a sun-god between the pair of candles over

wliicli the good lady sat reading, 'she has promised
to be my wife — Lai is going to marry me.
The day after tomorrow we drop down the
river, but I shall be home again soon — home
again. Come Lai, my darling, my sweet, my
queen,' he took her in his arms and kissed
her again — this shameless young sailor — ' and
as soon as I get my ship — why — why —

why ' he kissed her once more, and yet once

more.

I wish you, young man,' said Lai's mother, in
funereal tones, ' a better fate than has befallen all
the men who fell in love with us. I have already
given you my most solemn warning. You rush
upon your fate, but I wash my hands of it. My
mother's lost husband, and my husband, lie dead
at the bottom of the sea. Also two of my first
cousins' husbands, and a second cousin's once-removed
husband. We are an unlucky family ;
but, perhaps, my daughter's husband may be
more fortunate.'

Oh, mother,' cried poor Lai, ' don't make us
down-hearted ! '

'I said, my dear,' she replied, folding her
hands with a kind of resignation to the inevitable,
I said that I hope he may be more fortunate.
I cannot say more ; if I could say more I would
say it. If I think he may not be more fortunate,
I will not say it ; nor will I give you pain, Mr.

Armiger, by prophesying that you will add to
our list.'

Never mind,' said Eex ; ' we sailors are
mostly as safe at sea as the land lubbers on shore,
only people won't think so. Heart up, Lai !
Heart up, my sweet ! Come outside and say
good-bye.'

Look ! ' said Mrs. Eydquist, pointing cheerfully
to the candlestick, when her daughter returned
with tears in her eyes and Eex's last kiss
burning on her lips ; ' there is a winding-sheet, my
dear, in the candle. To-night a coffin popped
out of the kitchen-fire. I took it up in hopes it
might have been a purse. No, my dear, a coffin.
Captain Zachariasenen crossed knives at dinner today.
I have had shudders all the evening, which
is as sure a sign of graves as any I know. Before
you came home the furniture cracked three times.
No doubt, my dear, these warnings are for me,
who am a poor, weak creature, and ready and
willing and hopeful, I am sure, to be called
away ; or for Captain Zachariasenen, who is, to be
sure, a great age, and should expect his call
every day instead of going on with his talk and
his rum and his pipe as if he was forgotten ; or
for any one of the Captains, afloat or ashore ;
these signs, my dear, may be meant for anybody,
and I would not be so presumptuous in a house
full of sailors as to name the man for whom they

have come ; but, if I read signs right, then they
mean that young man. And oh ! my poor
girl ' she clasped her hands as if now, indeed,
there could be no hope.

What is it, mother ? '

My dear, it is a Friday, of all the days in
the week ! '

She rose, took a candle, and went to bed, with
her handkerchief to her eyes.

CHAPTER lY.

OVERDUE AND POSTED.

This day of days, this queen of all days, too
swiftly sped over the first and last of the young
sailor's wooing. Lai's sweetheart was lost to her
almost as soon as he was found. But he left her
so happy in spite of her mother's gloomy forebodings,
that she wondered — not knowing that all
the past years had been nothing but a long preparation
for the time of love — how could she ever
have been happy before ? And she was only
eighteen, and her lover as handsome as Apollo,
and as well-mannered. • Next morning at about
twelve o'clock she jumped into her boat and
rowed out upon the river to see the ' Aryan '
start upon her voyage. The tide was on the turn
and the river full when the great steamer came
out of dock and slowly made her way upon the
crowded water a miracle of human skill, a great
and wonderful living thing, which, though even a
clumsy lighter might sink and destroy it, yet
could live through the wildest storm ever known

in the Sea of Cyclones, through which she was to
sail As the ' Aryan ' passed the little boat Lai
saw her lover. He had sprung upon the bulwark
and was waving his hat in farewell. Oh, gallant
Eex, so brave and so loving ! To think that this
glorious creature, this god-like man, this young
prince among sailors, should fall in love with her !
And then the doctor, and the purser, and the
chief officers, and even the captain, came to the
side and took off their caps to her, and some of
the passengers, informed by the doctor who she
was, and how brave she was, waved their hands
and cheered.

Then the ship forged, ahead, and in a few
minutes Eex jumped down with a final kiss of his
fingers. The screw turned more quickly ; the
ship forged ahead. Lai lay to in mid-stream,
careless what might run into her, gazing after her
with straining eyes. When she had rounded the
point and was lost to view, the girl, for the first
time in her life since she was a child, burst into
tears and sobbing.

It was but a shower. Lai belonged to a
sailor family. Was she to weep and go in sadness
because her lover was away doing his duty upon
the blue water ? Not so. She shook her head,
dried her eyes, and rowed homewards, grave yet

cheerful.

« Is his ship gone ? ' asked her mother.

Well, he is a line lad to look at, Lai, and if he is
as true as he is strong and well-favoured, I could
wish you nothing better. Let us forget the signs
and warnings, my dear ' — this was kindly meant,
but had an unpleasant and gruesome sound — ' and
let us hope that he will come back again. Indeed,
I do not see any reason why he should .not
come back more than once.'

Everything went on, then, as if nothing had
happened. What a strange thing it is that people
can go on as if nothing had happened, after the
most tremendous events ! Life so chanced for
her, yet Captain Zachariasenen taking up the thread
of her discourse just as before, and the same
interest expected to be shown in the timber
trade ! Yet what a very different thing is interest
in timber trade compared with interest in a man !
Then she discovered with some surprise that her
old admiration of captains as a class had been a
good deal modified during the last three weeks.
There were-persons in the world, it was now
quite certain, of culture superior even to that of a
skipper in the Canadian trade. And she clearly
discovered, for the first time, that a whole life
devoted to making captains comfortable, providing
them with pudding, looking after their linen,
and hearing their confidences, might, without the
gracious influences of love, become a very arid
and barren kind of life. Perhaps, also, the recollection

of that holiday at Hampton Court helped
to modify her views on the subject of Eotherhithe
and its people. The place was only, after all, a
small part of a great city ; the people were
humble. One may discover as much certainly
about one's own people without becoming ashamed
of them. It is only when one reaches a grade
higher in the social scale that folk become
ashamed of themselves. An assured position in
the world, as the chimney-sweep remarked, gives
one confidence. Lai plainly saw that her sweetheart
was of gentler birth and better breeding
than she had been accustomed to. She therefore
resolved to do her best never to make him on
that. account repent this choice, and there was an
abundance of fie sympathy — the assumption or
pretence of which is the foundation of good 
this girl's character.

It was an intelligent parrot which Eex had
given her, and at this juncture proved a remarkably
sympathetic creature, for at the sight of his
mistress he would shake his head, plume his
wings, and presently, as if necessary to console
her, would cry :

Poor Eex Armiger ! Poor Eex Armiger ! '

But she was never dull, nor did she betray to

anyone, least of all to her old friend Captain

Zachariasenen, that her manner of regarding things

had in the least degree changed, while the secret

joy that was in her heart showed itself in a thousand
merry ways, with songs and laughter, and
little jokes with her captains, so that they marvelled
that the existence of a sweetheart at sea
should produce so beneficial an effect upon maidens.
Perhaps, too, in some mysterious way, her happiness
affected the puddings. I say not this at
random, because certainly the fame of Eydquist's
as a house where comforts, elsewhere unknown,
and at Limehouse and Poplar quite unsuspected,
could be found, spread far and wide, even to
Deptford on the east, and Stephen on the north,
und the house midst have been full over and over
again, but they would take in no strangers, being
in this respect as exclusive as Boodle's.

This attitude of cheerfulness was greatly commended
by Captain Zachariasenen. ' Some girls,'
he said, ' would have let their thoughts run upon
their lover instead of their duty, whereby houses
are brought to ruin and captains seek comfort
elsewhere. Once the sweetheart is gone, he ought
never more to be thought upon till he comes
home again, save in bed or in church, while there
is an egg to be boiled or an onion to be peeled.'

The first letter which Eex sent her was the
first that Lai had ever received in all her life.
And such a letter ! It came from the Suez Canal ;
the next came from Aden ; the next from Point
de Galle ; the next from Calcutta. So far all was

VOL. I. I

well. Be sure that Lai read them over and over
again, every one, and carried them about in her
bosom, and knew them all word for word, and
was, after the way of a good and honest girl,
touched to the very heart that a man should love
her so very, very much, and should think so
highly of her, and should talk as if she was all
goodness — a thing which no woman can understand.
It makes silly girls despise men, and good
girls respect and fear them.

The next letter was much more important
than the first four, which were, in truth, mere
rhapsodies of passion, although on that very
account more interesting than letters which combine
matter-of-fact business with love, for, on
arriving at Calcutta, Eex found a proposal waiting
for his acceptance. This offer came from the
Directors of the Company, and showed in what
good esteem he was held, being nothing less than
the command of one of their smaller steamers,
engaged in what is called the country trade.

It Avill separate us for three years at least,'
he wrote, ' and perhaps for five, but I cannot
afford to refuse the chance. Perhaps, if I did, I
might never get another offer, and everybody is
congratulating me, and thinking me extremely
fortunate to get a ship so early. So, though it
keeps me from the girl of my heart, I have
accepted, and I sail at once. My ship is named

the " Philippine." She is a thousand-ton boat,
and classed 100 Al, newly built. She is not like the
Aryan," fitted with splendid mirrors and gold and
paint and a great saloon, behig built chiefly for
cargo. The crew are all Lascars, and I am the only
Englishman aboard except the mate and the
chief engineer. We are under orders to take
in rice from Hong-Kong ; bound for Brisbane,
first of all ; if that answers we shall continue in
the country grain trade ; if not, we shall, I
suppose, go seeking, when I shall hav.' a commission
on the cargo. As for pay, I am to have
twenty pounds a month, with rations and allowances,
and liberty to trade — so many tons every
voyage — if I like. These are good terms, and at
the end of every year there should be something
put by in the locker. Poor Lai ! Oh, my dear
sweet eyes ! Oh, my dear brown hair ! Oh, my
dear sweet lips ! I shall not kiss them for three
years more. What are three years ? Soon gone,
my pretty. Think of that, and heart up ! As
soon as I can I will try for a Port-of-London ship.
Then we will be married and have a house at
Gravesend, where you shall see me come upstream,
homeward bound.' With much more to
the same effect.

Three years — or it might be five ! Lai put
down the letter, and tried to make out what it
would mean to her. She would be in three years,

when Eex came home, one and twenty, and he
would be five and twenty. Five and twenty seems
sto eighteen what forty seems to thirty, fifty to
forty, and sixty to fifty. One has a feeling that
the ascent of life must then be quite accomplished,
and the descent fairly begun ; the leaves on the
trees by the wayside must be ever so little
browned and dusty, if not yellow ; the heart
must be full of experience, the head must be full
of wisdom, the crown of glory, if any is to be
worn at all, already on the brows. The ascent of
life is like the climbing of some steep hill, because
the summit seems continually to recede, and so
long as one is young in heart it is never reached.
Eex five and twenty ! Three years to wait !

It is, indeed, a long time for the young to
look forward to. Such a quantity of things get
accomplished in three years ! Why, in three
years a lad gets through his whole undergraduate
course, and makes a spoon or spoils a horn.
Three years makes up one hundred and fifty-six
weeks, with the same number of Sundays, in
every one of which a girl may sit in the quiet
church and wonder on what wild seas or in what
peaceful haven her lover may be floating. Three
years are four summers in the course of three
years, with as many other seasons ; in three years
there is time for many a hope to spring up,
flourish for a while, and die ; for friendship to

turn into hate ; for strength to decay ; and for
youth to grow old. The experience of the long
succession of human generations has developed
this sad thing among mankind that we cannot
look forward with joy to the coming years, and in
everything unknown which will happen to us we
expect a thing of evil. Three years ! Yet it
must be borne, as the lady said to the school-boy
concerning the fat beef, ' It is helped, and must be
finished.'

When Mrs. Eydquist heard the news she first
held up her hands, and spread them slowly outwards,
shaking and wagging her head — a most
dreadful sign, worse than any of those with which
Panurge discomfited Thaumast. Then she sighed
heavily. Then she said aloud : ' Oh ! dear, dear,
dear ! So soon ! I had begun to hope that the
bad luck would not show yet ! Dear, dear !
Yet what could be expected after such certain
signs ? '

Why,' said Captain Zachariasenen, ' as for signs,
they may mean anything or anybody, and as for
fixing them on Cap'en Armiger, no reason that I
can see. Don't be downed, Lai. The narrow
seas are as safe as the Mediterranean. In my
time there were the pirates, who are now shot,
hanged, and drowned, every man Jack. ]^o more
stink pots in crawling boats pretending to be
friendly traders. You might row your dingy

about the islands as safe as Limes Eeacli.
Lord ! I'd rather go cruising with your sweetheart
in them waters than take a twopenny omnibus
along the Old Kent Road. Your signs, ma'am,'
he said to Mrs. Eydquist, politely, ' must be read
other ways. There's Cap'en Biddiman ; perhaps
they're meant for him.'

Then came another letter from Singapore.
Eex was pleased with the slip and his crew. All
was going well.

After six weeks there came another letter.
It was from Hong-Kong. The ' Philippine ' had
taken on board her cargo of rice and was to sail
next day.

Eex wrote in his usual confident, happy vein
flit of love, of hope, and happiness.

After that — no more letters at all. Silence.

Lai went on in cheerfulness for a long time.
Eex could not write from Brisbane. He would
write when the ship got back to Hong-Kong.

The weeks went on, but still there was silence.
It was whispered in the Captains' room that the
Philippine ' was long overdue at Moreton Bay.
Then the whispers became questions whether
there was any news of her : then one went across
to the office of the company, and brought back
the dreadful news that the owners had given
her up ; and they began to hide away the ' Shipping
and Mercantile Gazette.' Then everybody

became extremely kind to Lai, studying little
surprises for her, and assuming' an appearance of
light-heartiness so as to deceive the poor girl.
She went about with cheerful face, albeit with
sinking heart. Ships are often overdue ; letters
get lost on the way. For a while she still carolled
and sang about her work, though at times her
song would suddenly stop like the song of a bullfinch,
who remembers something, and must needs
stay his singing while he thinks about it.

Then there came a time when the poor child
stopped singing altogether, and would look with
anxious eyes from one captain to the other, seeking
comfort. But no one had any comfort to
give her.

Captain Zachariasenen told her at last. He was
an old man ; he had seen so many shipwrecks
that they thought he would tell her best ; also it
was considered his duty, as the father or the
oldest inhabitant of Eydquist's, to undertake this
task ; and as a wise and discreet person he would
tell the story, as it should be told, in few words,
and so get it over without beatings on and off.
He accepted the duty, and discharged himself of
it as soon as he could. He told her the story, in
fact, the next morning in the kitchen.

He said, quietly :

Lai, my dear, the '' Philippine " has gone to
the bottom, and — and don't take on, my pretty.

But Cap'en Armiger lie is gone, too ; With all
hands he went down.'

How do you know ? ' she asked. The news
was sudden, but she felt it coming ; that is, she
had felt some of it — not all.

The insurances have been all paid up ; the
ship is posted at Lloyd's. My dear, I went to
the underwriter's a month ago and more, and
axed about her. Axed what they would underwrite
her for, and they said a hundred per cent. ;
and then they wouldn't do it. Not an atom of
hope — gone she is, and that young fellow aboard
her. Well, my dear, that's done with. Shall
I leave you here alone to get through a spell o'
crying ? '

The ship,' said Lai, with dry eyes, ' may be at
the bottom of the sea, and the insurances may be
paid for her. But Eex is not drowned.'

That was what she said: 'Eex is not
drowned.'

Her mother brought out her cherished crape
she was a woman whom this nasty, wrinkling,
black stuff comforted in a way — and offered to
divide it with her daughter.

Lai refused ; she bought herself gay ribbons
and she decked herself with them. She tried, in
order to show the strength of her faith, to sing
about the house.

Eex,' she said, stoutly, ' is not drowned.'

This was the most unexpected way of receiving
the news. The captains looked for a burst of
tears and lamentation, after which things would
brighten up, and some other fellow might have a.
chance. No tears at all ! No chance for anybody
else !

Ribbons ! ' moaned Mrs. Eydquist. ' Oh,
Captain Zachariasenen, my daughter wears ribbons-blue
ribbons and red ribbons — while her sweetheart,
lying at the bottom of the sea, cries aloud,
poor lad, for a single yard of crape ! '

'T would be more natural,' said Captain
Zachariasenen, ' to cry and atone with it. But gals,,
ma'am, are not what gals was in my young days,
when so many were there as was taken off by*
wars, privateers, storms, and the. hand of the
Lord, that there was no time to cry over them,
not for more than a month or so. And as for
flying in the face of Providence, and saying that a.
drowned man is not drowned — a man whose ship's
insurances have been paid, and his ship actually
posted at Lloyd's — why it's beyond anything.'

'Eex is not dead,' said the girl, to herself,,
again and again. ' He is not dead. I should
know if he were dead. He would, somehow or
other, come and tell me. He is sitting somewhere
— I know not where it is — waiting for
deliverance, and thinking — oh, my Eex ! my
Eex ! — thinking about the girl he loves.'

This was what she said. Her words were
brave, yet it is hard to keep one's faith up to so high
a level as these words demanded. For no one else
thought there was, or could be, any chance. For
nearly three years she struggled to keep alive this
poor ray of hope, based upon nothing at all ; and
for all that time no news came from the far East
about her lover's ship, nor did anyone know
where she was cast away or how.

Sometimes this faith ivoukl break down, and
she would ask in tears and With sobbing what so
many women bereft of their lovers have asked in
vain — an answer to her prayers. Ah ! helpless
ones, if her prayers Avere mockeries and her lover
were dead in very truth I

CHAPTEE Y.

THE PATIENCE OF PENELOPE.

The longer Ulysses stayed away from the rocky
Ithaca the more numerous became the suitors for
the hand of the lovely Penelope, who possessed
the art, revived much later by Ninon de I'Enclos,
of remaining beautiful although she grew old.
That was because Penelope wickedly encouraged
her lovers — to their destruction — and held out
false hopes connected with a simple bit of embroidery.
Wliy the foolish fellows, whose wits
should have been sharpened by the vehemence of
their passion, did not discover the trick, is not
apparent. Perhaps, however, the climate of
Ithaca was bracing and the wine good, so that
they winked one upon the other, and pretended
not to see, or whispered : ' He will never come,
let us wait.'

The contrary proved the case with the lass of
Eotherhithe. When, after two years or so, some
of her old suitors ventured with as much delicacy
as in them lay to reopen the subject of courtship,

they were met with a reception so unmistakable,
that they immediately retired, baffled, and in confusion
; some among them — those of coarser mind
to scoff and sneer at a constancy so unusual.
Others — those of greater sympathies — to reflect
with all humility on the great superiority of the
feminine nature over their own, since it permitted
a fidelity which they could not contemplate as
possible for themselves, and were fain to admire,
while they regretted it.

Gradually it became evident to most of them
that the case was hopeless, and those captains
who had once looked confidently to make Lai
their own, returned to their former habits of
friendly communications, and asked her advice
and opinion in the matter of honourable proposals
for the hands of other young ladies.

Three suitors still remained, and, each in this
own way, refused to be sent away.

The first of these was Captain Holstius, whose
acquaintance we have already made. He was, of
course, in the Norway trade.

Perhaps it is not altogether fair to call Captain
Holstius a suitor. He was a lover, but he had
ceased to hope for anything except permission to goon
in a friendly way, doing such offices as lay in
his power, to please and help the girl whom he
regarded — being a simple sort of fellow of a
religious turn — as Dante retarded Beatrice. She

was to him a mere angel of beauty and goodness ;
in happier times she had been that rare and
wonderful creature, a merry, laughing, happy
angel, always occupied in good works, such as
making plum-duff for poor humanity ; now, unhappily,
an angel who endured suspense and the
agony of long waiting for news which would never
come.

For the good Norwegian, like all the rest,
believed that Eex was dead long ago. Captain
Holstius was not a man accustomed to put his
thoughts into words ; nor did he, like a good
many people, feel for thoughts through a multitude
of phrases and thousands of words. But had he
been able to set forth in plain language the things
he intended and meant, he would certainly have
said something to this effect. I think he would
have said it more simply, and therefore with the
greater force.

If I could make her forget him : if I could
substitute my own image entirely for the image of
that dead man, so that she should be happy, just
as she used to be when I first saw her, and if all
could be as if he had never known her. I should
think myself in heaven itself; or, if by taking
another man to husband, and not me at all, she
would recover her happiness,! should be contented,
for I love her so much that all I ask is for her to
be happy.'

It is a form of disinterested love wliicli is so
rare that at this moment I cannot remember any-other
single instance of it. Most people, when
they love a girl, vehemently desire to keep her
for themselves. Yet in the case of Captain
Holstius, as for marrying her, that seemed a thing
so remote from the region of probability, that he
never now, whatever he had done formerly,
allowed his thoughts to rest upon it, and contented
himself with thinking Avhat he could do for the
^xirl ; how he could soften the bitterness of her
misfortune ; how he could in small ways relieve
the burden of her life, and make her a little
happier.

Lai accepted all he gave, all his devotion and
care. Little by little, because she saw Captain
Holstius often, it became a pleasure to her to have
him in the house. He became a sort of brother
to her, who had never had that often unsatisfactory
relative a brother, or, at all events, a true and unselfish
friend, much better than the majority of
brothers, who gave her everything and asked
nothing for himself. She liked to be with him.
They walked together about the wharves of the
Commercial Docks in the quiet evenings ; they
rowed out together on the river in the little dingy,
she sitting in the stern gazing upon the waters in
silent thought, while the Norwegian dipped the
sculls gently, looking with an ever-increasing

sorrow in the face wliicli had once been so full of
sunshine, and now grew daily more overcast with
cloud. They spoke little at such times to each
other, or at any time ; but it seemed to her that
she thought best, most hopefully, about Eex
when she was with Captain Holstius. He was
always a silent man, thinking that when he had a
thing to say there would be no difficulty in saying
it, and that if anyone had a thing to say unto him
they could say it without any stimulus of talk from
himself. Further, in the case of this poor Lai,
what earthly good would it do to interrupt the girl
in her meditations over a dead lover, by his idle
chatter ?

When they got home again she would thank
him gently and return to her household duties,
refreshed in spirit by this companionship in
silence.

It is a maxim not sufficiently understood that
the most refreshing thing in the world, when one
is tired and sorry, disappointed or vexed, is to sit,
walk, or remain for awhile silent with a silent
friend whom you can trust not to chatter, or ask
questions, or tease with idle observations. Pythagoras
taught the same great truth, but obscurely
and by an allegory. He enjoined silence among
all his disciples for a term of years. This meant
a companionship of silence, so as to forget the old
friction and worry of the world.

The Norway ships come and go at quickly-recurring
periods. Therefore Captain Holstius
was much at the Commercial Docks, and had
greater chances, if he had been the man to take
:advantage of them, than any of the other men.
He was also favoured with the good opinion and
the advocacy of Captain Zachariasenen, who lost no
opportunity of recommending Lai to consider her
ways and at the same time the ways of the ISTor-
weegee. His admonition, we have seen, produced
no effect. Nor did Holstius ask for his mediation
any longer, being satisfied that he had got from
the girl all the friendship which she had to offer.

The other two suitors, who would not be
denied, but returned continually, were of coarser
mould. They belonged to the very extensive
class of men who, because they desire a thing
vehemently, think themselves ill-used if they do
not get it, fly into rages, accuse Providence, curse
the hour of their birth, and go distraught. Sometimes,
as in the case of the young Frenchman
whose story is treated by Robert Browning, they
throw themselves into the Seine, and so an end,
because the joys of this world are denied to the
poor. At other times they go about glaring with
envious and malignant eyes. At all times they
are the enemies of honest Christian folk.

One of these men was Captain Nicholas Blinder,
whose ship sailed to and fro from Calais to

the Port of London, carrying casks of sherry for ./^^,-j^
the thirsty British aristocracy. It is not a highly , — ^
paid service, and culture of the best kind is not J^^^^^
often found among the captains in that trade, j ^^ f.
Yet Mck Borlinder was a happy man, because his r .^ /,^
standard was of a kind easily attainable. Like his
friends of the same service, he loved beer, rum,
and tobacco ; like them he loved these things inlarge
quantities ; like them he delighted to sit and
tell yarns. He could also sing a good song in a
coarse baritone ; he could dance a hornpipe —
only among brother captains, of course — as well
as any fo'k'sle hand ; and he had the reputation
of being a smart sailor. This reputation, however,
belonged to all.

It was an uc lucky day for Lai when this man
was allowed a right of entry to Eydquist's. For
he immediately fell in love with her and resolved
to make her his own — Mrs. Borlinder — which
would have been fine promotion for her.

He was a red-faced, jolly-looking man of five
and thirty, or thereabouts. He had a bluff and
hearty way ashore ; aboard ship he was handy
with a marling spike, a rope's-end, a fist, a kick,
or a round, stimulating oath, or anything else
strong and rough and good for knocking down
the mutinous or quickening the indolent. Behind
his hearty manner there lay — one can hardly say
concealed — a nature of the most profound selfish-vol.

I. K

ness ; aucl it might have been remarked, had any
of the captains been students of human nature,
which is not a possible study, save on a very
limited scale, for sailors, that among them all
Nick Borlinder was about the only one who had
no friends.

He came and went. When he appeared no
one rejoiced ; while he stayed he sang and laughed
and told yarns ; when he went away nobody
cared.

Now, a skipper can go on very well as a
bachelor up to the age of thirty-five or even forty.
He is supported by the dignity and authority of
his position ; he is sustained by a sense of his
responsibilities ; perhaps, also, he still looks forward
to another hing in ]sport, for youthful follies
are cherished and linger long in the breasts of
sailors, and are sometimes dear even to the gravity
of the captain. When a man reaches somewhere
about thirty-five years of age, however, there
generally comes to him a sense of loneliness. It
seems hard that there should be no one glad to
see him when he puts into port ; visions arise of
a cottage with green palings and scarlet-runners,
and, in most cases, that man is doomed when
those visions arise.

Captain Boring jr was thirty-one or so when
he first saw Lai. She was in her housekeepers
room making up account?, and he brought her a

letter from a ' Eydqiiist's man,' introducing him
and requesting for him admission. She read the
letter, asked him what his ship was, and where
she traded, and showed him a room in her girlish,
business-like manner. This was in the year
eighteen hundred and seventy-six, shortly before
she met Eex Armiger.

Captain Borlinder instantly, in her own room,
at the very first interview, fell in love with her,
and, like many men of his class, concluded that
she was equally ready to fall in love with him.'

All the next voyage out he thought about her.
His experience of women was small, and of such
a woman as Lai Eydquist, such a dainty maiden,
he had no experience at all, because he had never
known any such, or even distantly resembling
her. The talk of such a girl, who could be
friendly and laugh with a roomful of captains, and
yet not one of them would dare so much as to
chuck her under the chin — a delicate attention he
had always heretofore allowed himself to consider
proper — was a thing he had never before experienced.
Then her figure, her face, her quickness,
her cleverness — all these things excited his
admiration and his envy. Should he allow such
a treasure to be won by another man ?

Then he thought of her business capacity and
that snug and comfortable business at Eydquist's.
What a retreat, what a charming retreat for \\\\\\-

self, after his twenty years of bickering about the
sea ! He pictured himself a partner in that
business — sleeping partner, smoking partner,
drinking partner, the partner told off to narrate
the yarns and shove the bottle round. What a
place for a bluff, hearty, genuine old salt ! How
richly had he deserved it !

He resolved, during that voyage, upon making
Lai Eydquist his own as soon as he returned.
They met with nasty weather in the Bay, and a
night or two on deck, which he had alway previously
regarded as part of his profession and all
in the day's work, became a peg for discontent ashe
thought of the snug lying he might have
beside — not in — the churchyard in the Seven
Houses.

The more he thought of the think; the more
clearly he saw, in his own maid, its manifest
advantages. And then, because the seclusion of
the cabin and the solitude of the captain's position
afford unrivalled opportunities for reflection, he
began to build up a castle of Spain, and pictured
to himself how he would reign as king-consort of
Eydquist's.

The old woman,' he said, ' shall be the first
to go. No useless hands allowed aboard that
craft. Her room shall be mine, where I will
receive my own friends and count the money. As
for old Zachariasenen, he may go too, if he likes

We shall get more by a succession of captains
than by feeding him ail the year round. And as
for the feeding, it's too good for the money ; they
don't want such good grub. And the charges are
too low ; and the drinks ridiculous for cheapness.
And as for Lai, she'd make any house go, with her
pretty ways.'

About this point a certain anxiety crossed his
mind, because the girl herself rather frightened
him. In what terms should he convey his intentions
? And how would she receive them ?

When he got back to London he hastened to
propose to Lai. He adopted the plain and
hearty manner, with a gallant nautical attitude,
indicating candour and loyalty. This manner he
had studied and made his own. It was not unlike
the British tar of the stage, except that the good
old ' Shiver my timbers ! ' with the hitch up of the
trousers, went out before Nick Borhnder's time.
Now it must be remembered that this was very
shortly after young Armiger's departure.

What you want, my hearty,' said Captain
Borhnder, ' is a jolly husband, that's what you
want ; and the best husband you can have is a
sailor.'

Lai was accustomed to propositions of this
kind, though not always conveyed in language
so downright, having already refused four and
twenty captains, and laughed at half a dozen

more, who lamented their previous marriages for
her sake, and would have even seen themselves
widowers with resignation.

Wliy a sailor, Captain Borlinder ? '

Because a sailor is not always running after
your heels like a tame cat and a puppy-dog. He
goes to sea, and is out of sight ; he leaves you
the house to yourself; and when he comes
home again he is always in a good temper. A
sailor ashore is easy, contented, and happy-unlucky.'


It certainly would be something,' said Lai,
always to have a good-tempered husband.'

A sailor for me, says you,' continued the
Captain, Alarming to his work. 'That's right;
and if a sailor, quartermaster is better than able
seaman ; mate is better than quartermaster.
Wherefore, skipper is better than mate ; and if
skipper, why not Nick Borlinder .^ Eh ! Why
not Nick Borlinder .^ '

And he stuck his thumbs in his waistcoat-pockets,
and looked irresistible tenderness, so that
he was greatly shocked when Lai laughed in his
face, and informed him that she could not
possibly become Mrs. Borlinder.

He went away in great indignation, and
presently hearing about Pier Armiger and his
successful courtship, first declared that he would
break the neck of that young man as soon as he

could get a chance, and then found fault with
his own eyes because he had not struck at once
and proposed when the idea first came into his
head. Lost! and all for want of a little pluck.
Lost ! because the moment his back was turned,
this young jackanapes, no better than a second
mate in. a steamer, cut in, saw his chance, and
snapped her up.

For two voyages he reflected on the nature of
women. He said to himself that out of sight, out
of mind, and she would very likely forget all
about the boy. He therefore resolved on trying
the effect of bribery, and came offering rare
gifts, consisting principally of an octave of
sherry.

Lai accepted it graciously, and set it up in
the Captains' room, where everybody fell to lapping
it up until it was all gone.

Then Lai refused the donor a second time.
So the sherry was clean thrown away and wasted.
Much better had made it rum for his own
consumption.

We know what happened next, and none
rejoiced more cordially than Captain Borlinder
over his rival's death.

When a reasonable time, as he thought, had
elapsed, he renewed his offer with effusion, and
was indignantly, even scornfully, refused. He
concluded that he had another rival, probably

some fellow with more money, and lie looked
about him and made more guarded enquiries. He
could find no one likely to be a rival except
Captain Holstius, who appeared to be a poor
religious creature, not worth the jealousy of a
lusty English sailor ; and later on, he discovered
that a certain American captain called Barnabas
B. Wattles, who came and went, having no ship
of his own, and yet always full of business, was
certainly a rival.

Captain Wattles puzzled him, because, so far
as he could see, Lai was no kinder to him than to
himself. Always there was present to his mind
that vision of himself the landlord or proprietor of
Kydquist's, counting out the money in the front
parlour over a pipe and a cool glass of rum-and-water,
while Lai looked after the dinners and made
out the bills.

'Bills! 'he thought. 'Yes; they should be
bills with a profit in them, too, when he was proprietor
! '

Age possessed his soul as the time went on
and he got no nearer the attainment of his object.
He could not converse with the girl, partly because
she avoided him, and partly because he had
nothing to say. Worst of all, she told him when
he ventured once more to remark that a jolly
sailor — namely, Nick Borlinder — would restore her
to happiness, that if he ever dare to propose such

a thing again he would no longer be admitted to
Eydquist's, but might stay aboard his own ship in
the London Docks, or lind a house at Poplar.
Fear of being sent to Poplar kept him quiet.

There remained the third suitor, Captain
Barnabas B. Wattles.

When he made the acquaintance of Lai, a
skipper without a ship, it was in the year eighteen
hundred and seventy seven. He was an American
by birth, hailing, in fact, from the town of Portsmouth,
New Hampshire, and he was always full
of business, the nature of which no man knew
He was quite unlike the jovial Nick Borlinder, and
indeed, resembled the typical British tar in no
respect whatever. For he was a slight, spare man,
with sharp features and hairless cheek. He was
not, certainly, admitted to the privileges of
Eydquist's, but he visited when his business
brought him to London, and sat of an evening in
the Captains' room drinking with anyone who
would offer gratuitous grog ; at other times he
was fond of saying that he was a temperance man,
and went away without grog rather than jay for
it himself.

He first came when Lai was waiting for that
letter from Eex which never came. He learned
the whole story ; and either did not immediately
fall in love, like the more inflammable Borlinder,
being a man of prudence and forethought, else he

refrained from speech, even from the good words
of courtship. But be came often ; by speaking
gently, and without mention of love and marriage,
he established friendly relations with Lai ; he
even ventured to speak of her loss, and, with
honeyed sympathy, told the tales of like disasters,
which always ended fatally to American sailors.
When she declared that Eex could not be
drowned, he only shook his head with pity. And,
in speaking of those early deaths at sea which
had come under his own observation, he assumed
as a matter of course, that the bereaved woman
mourned for no more than a certain term, after
which time she took unto herself another sweetheart,
and enjoyed perfect happiness ever afterwards.
He thought that in this way he would
familiarise her mind with the idea of giving up her
grief.

When she reflected,' he would conclude his
narrative, ' that crying' would not bring back any
man to life again, she gave over crying' and looked
about for consolation. She found it. Miss Lai, in
the usual quarter. As for myself, my own name is
Barnabas, which means, as perhaps you have
never heard,. the Son of Consolation.'

With such words did he essay to sap the
fidelity of the mourner, but in vain, for though
there were times when poor Lai would doubt,
despite the fervent ardour of her faith, whether

Eex might cot be really dead and gone, there was
no time at all when lie ever wavered for a
moment in constancy to his memory. Though
neither Borlinder or Barnabas Wattles could understand
the thing, it was impossible for Lai ever to
think of a second lover.

He would talk of other things, but always
came back to the subject of consolation.

Thus one evening he began to look about him,
being then in her own room.

This,' he said, ' is a prosperous concern
which you are running, Miss Lai. I guess it
pays?'

Yes ; Lai said that it paid its expenses, and
more.

And you've made your little pile already out
of it?'

Yes, said Lai, carelessly, there was money
saved.

His eyes twinkled at the thought of handling
her savings, for Captain Wattles was by no means
rich. He forgot, however, that the money belonged
to her mother.

Now,' he went on, with an insinuating smile,
do you never think the time will come when
you will tire of running this ho — tel ? '

Lai said she was too busy to think of what
might happen, and that, as regards the future, she
said, sadly, she would rather not think about

it at all, the past was already too much for her to
think about.

Yes,' he said, ' that time will come. It has
not come yet, Miss Lai, and, therefore, I do not
say, as I am ready to say, Take me and let
me console you. My name is Barnabas, which
means, as perhaps you do not know, the Son of
Consolation.'

It would be no use at all,' said Lai ; ' and if
Ave are to remain friends, Captain Wattles, you
will never speak of this again.'

I will not,' he replied, ' until the right
moment. Then, with your little savings and
mine, we will go back to the States. I know
what we will do when we get there. There's an
old ship-building yard at Portsmouth which
only wants a few thousand dollars put into it. We
will put our dollars into that yard, and Ave Avill
build ships.'

You had better give up thinking of such
nonsense,' said Lai.

Thought is free. Miss Lai. The time Avill
come. Is it in nature to go on crying all your
life for a man as dead as Abraham Lincoln ? The
time will come.'

Enough said. Captain Wattles,' Lai said. It
was in her own room, and she was busy with her
accounts. ' You can go now, and you need not
come back any more unless you have something

else to say. I thought you were a sensible man. ^^1;
Most American captains I know are as sensible as ;,
Englishmen and Norwegians.'

Captain Wattles rose slowly.

Wal,' he said, ' you say so now. I expected
you would. But the time will come. I'm not
afraid of the other men. As for Cap'en Borlinder,
he is not lit company for a sweet young thing
like sou. He would beat his wife, after a while,
that man would. He drinks cobblers all day,
and swaps lies with any riff-raff who will stand ina
bar and listen to him. You will not lower
yourself to Cap'en Borlinder. As for the Kor-
weegee, he is but a poor soft shell ; you might as
well marry a gell. I shan't ask you yet, so don't
be afraid. When your old friends drop away oneby
one, and you feel a bit lonesome with no one
to talk to, and these bills always on your mind,
and the house over your head like a cage and a
prison, I shall look in again, and you will hold
out your pretty hand, and you will sweetly say :
^' Cap'en Wattles, you air a sailor and a temperance
nmn ; you subscribe to a missionary society
and have once been teacher in a Sunday-school ;
you have traded Bibles with natives for coral and
ivory and gold-dust ; you air smart ; you air
likewise a kind-hearted man, who will give his
wife her head in everything, with Paris bonnets
and New York frocks ; your name is Barnabas

the Son of Consolation." . . . Don't run away,
Miss Lai. I've said all I wanted to say, and now
I am going. Business takes me to Liverpool
to-night, and on Thursday I sail again for
Baltimore.'

CHAPTER VI.

THE MESSAGE FROM THE SEA.

It was, then, in October, eighteen hundred and
seventy-nine, that Dick, the Malay, made his
appearance and told his tale. Having told it he
remained in the house, attaching himself as by
right to Lai, whose steward he became as he had
been steward to Eex.

The thing produced, naturally, a profound-sensation
in the Captains' room, whither Dick was
invited to repeat his performance, not once, but
several times.

It was observed that, though substantially the
same, the action always differed in the addition or
the withdrawal of certain small details, the interpretation
of which was obscure. One or two
facts remained certain, and were agreed upon by
all : an open boat, a long waiting, a rescue, either
by being picked up or by finding land, and then
one or two fights, but why, and with whom, was
a matter of speculation.

Captain Zachariasenen remained obstinate to his

theory. There was a widow, there was a marriage,
there was a baby, there were conjugal rows,
and finally a prison in which Eex Armiger still
remained. How to fit the pantomime into these
wonderful details was a matter of difficulty which
he was always endeavouring to overcome by
the help of the more obscure gestures in the
mimicking.

The general cheerfulness of the house was
naturally much elevated by this event. It was,
indeed, felt not only that hope had returned, but
also that honour was conferred upon Eydquist's
by so mysterious and exciting a revelation.

This distinction became more generally recognised
when the Secretary and one of the Directors
of the Indian Peninsular Line came over to seethe
Malay, hoping to get some light thrown upon
the loss of their ship.

Captain Zachariasenen took the chair for the
performance, so to speak, and expounded the
principal parts, taking credit for such mimicking
as no other house could offer.

The Director learned nothing definite from
the pantomime, but came away profoundly impressed
with the belief that their officer. Captain
Armiger, was having.

The Malay, now domesticated at Seven Houses,
was frequently invited of an evening to the
Captains' room, where he went through his

performance — Captain Zachariasenen always in the
chair — for every new comer, and was a continual
subject of discussion. Also there were great
studying of charts, and napping out of routes,
with calculations as to days and probable number
of knots. And those who had been in Chinese
and Polynesian waters were called ujDon to narrate
their experiences.

The route of a steamer from Hono;-Konor to
Moreton Bay is well known, and easily followed.
Unfortunately, the Malay's pantomime left it
doubtful of what nature was the disaster. It
might have been a piratical attack, though that
was very unlikely, or a fire on board, or the
striking on a reef.

Her course,' said Captain Holstius, laying it
down with Lai for the fiftieth time, ' would be —
so — Esse. from Hong-Kong, north of Luton
here ; then due S E. between the Pelews and
Carolines, through dampier Straits, having New
Guinea to the starboard. Look at these seas,
Lai. Who knows what may have happened ?
And how can we search for him over three thousand
miles of sea, among so many islands ? '

Hbw, indeed ? And yet the idea was growing
up strong in both their minds that a search ot
some kind must be made.

And then came help, that sort of help which
our pious ancestors called Providential. What

VOL. I. L

can we call it ? Blind chance ? That seems
rather a long drop from-benevolent Providence,
but it seems to suit a good many people nowadays
almost as well — more's the pity.

Two months after the Malay's appearance,
while winter was upon us and Christmas not far
off, when the churchyard trees were stripped of
leaf, and the vine about the window was trimmed,
the garden swept up for the season, and the
parrots brought indoors, and Eydquist's made
snug* for bad weather, another person called at
the house, bringing with him a message of another
kind. It was no other than the Doctor of the
Aryan,' Eex's old ship. He bore something
round, wrapped in tissue paper. He carried it
with great care, as if it was something very
precious.

The time was evening, and Lai was in her
room making up accounts. In the Captains' room
was a full assemblage, numbering Captain Zacharias,
Captain Borlinder, who purposed to spend
his Christmas at Eydquist's and to consume much
grog. Captain Holstius, Captain Barnabas B.
Wattles, whose business had again brought him
to London, and two or three captains who have
nothing to do with this history except to fill up
the group in the room where presently an important
Function was to be held.

At present they were unsuspicious of what

was coming, and they sat in solemn circle, the
Patriarch at the head of the table, getting through
the evenings, all too quickly, in the usual way.

This was picked up,' the Doctor said, still
holding his treasure in his hands as if it was a
baby, ' in the Bay of Bengal, by a country ship
sailing from Calcutta to Moulmein ; it must have
drifted with the currents and the wind, two thousand
miles and more. How it contrived never to
get driven ashore or broken against some boat, or
wreck, or rock, or washed up some creek among
the thousands of islands by which it floated, is a
truly wonderful thing.'

Oh, what is it ? ' she cried.

He took off the handkerchief and showed a
common wide-mouthed bottle, such as chemists
use for effervescing things.

It contains,' he said, solemnly, ' poor Eex
Armiger's last letter to you. The skipper who
picked it up pulled out the cork and read it. He
brought it to our office at Calcutta, where, though
it was written to you, wee were obliged to read it,
because it told how the " Philippine " was castaway
; for the same reason our officers read it.'

His last letter ? '

Yes ; his last letter. It is dated three years
ago. We cannot hope — no, it is impossible to
hope — that he is still alive. We should have
heard long ago if he had been picked up.'

L 2

'We have heard,' said LaL She went in
search of the Malay, with whom she presently
returned. ' We have heard. Doctor. Here is
Eex's steward, who came to us two months ago.'

Good heavens ! it is the dumb Malay steward,
who was with him in the boat.'

Yes. Now look, and tell me what you read.'

She made a sign to Dick, who went through,
for the Doctor's instruction, the now familiar
pantomime.

What do you think, Doctor ? '

Think ? There is only one thing to think.
Miss Eydquist. He has escaped. He is alive, somewhere,
or was when Dick last saw him, though how
this fellow got away from him, and where he is '

Now give me his letter.'

It was tied round with a green ribbon — a
slender roll of paper, looking as if sea-water had
discoloured it.

The Doctor took it out of the bottle and gave
it her.

I will read Eex's letter,' she said, quietly,
alone. Will you wait a little for me. Doctor? '

She came back in a quarter of an hour. Her
eyes were heavy with tears, but she was calm and
assured.

I thank God, Doctor,' she said ; ' I thank
God most humbly for preserving this precious
bottle and this letter of my dear Eex — my poor

Eex — and I thank you, too, and your brother-officers,
whom he loved, and who were always
good to hin, for bringing it home to me. For
now I know where he is, and where to look for
him, and now I understand it all.'

If he is living we will find him,' said the
Doctor. ' Be sure that we will find him.'

We will find him,' she echoed. ' Yes, we
will find him. Now, Doctor, consider. You remember
how they got into the boat? '

Yes — off the wreck. The letter tells us that.'

Dick told us that two months ago, but we
would not altogether understand it. How long
were they in the boat ? '

Why, no one knows.'

Yes, Dick knows, and he has told us. Consider.
They were left, when this bottle was sent
forth like the raven out of the ark, with no food.
They sat in the boat, waiting for death. But they
did not die. They drifted — you saw that they
made no attempt to row — for '\ while; they grew
hungry and thirsty ; they passed two or three
days with nothing to eat. It could not have been
more, because they were not so far exhausted but
that, when land appeared in sight, they still had
strength to row.'

Go on,' cried the Doctor. ' You are cleverer
than all of us.'

It is because I love him,' she replied, ' and

because I have thought day and night where he
can be. You know the latitude and longitude of
the wreck ; you must allow for currents and wind ;
you know how many days elapsed between the
wreck and the writing of the letter. Now let us
look at the chart and work it all out.'

She brought the chart to the table, and pointed
with her finger.

They were wrecked,' she said, ' there. Now
allow five days for drifting. Where would they
land? Eemember he says that the wind was
S.W.'

'Why,' said the Doctor, 'they may have
landed on one of the most westerly of the Caroline
Islands, unless the current carried them to the
Pelews. There are islands enough in those seas'?

Yes,' she replied ; ' it is here that we shall
look for him. Now come with me to the Captains'
room.'

She walked in, head erect and paper in hand,
followed by the Doctor, and stood at Captain
Zachariasenen's right — her usual place when she
visited the captains in the evening.

You, who are my friends,' said Lal,bearing in
one hand the chart and in the other the precious
letter, ' will rejoice with me, for I have had a
letter from Eex.'

When was it wrote and where from ? ' asked
Captain Zachariasenen.

'It is nearly three years old. It lias been
tossing on the sea, driven hither and thither, and
preserved by kind Heaven to show that Eex is
living still, and where he is.'

Captain Wattles Whistled gently. It sounded
like an involuntary note of incredulity.

Lai spread the chart before Captain Zacharias.


You can follow the voyage,' she said, ' while
I read you this letter. It is on the back of one
from me. It is written with a lead pencil, very
small, because he had a great deal to say and not
much space to say it in — my Eex ! '

Her voice broke down for a moment, but she
steadied herself and went on reading the message
from the sea.

" Anyone who picks this up," it begins, " will
oblige me by sending it to Miss Rydquist, Seven
Houses, Eotherhithe, because it tells her of the
shipwreck and perhaps the death " — But you
know, all of you,' Lai interposed, ' that he survived
and got to land, else how was Dick able to get to
England ? — " of her sweetheart, the undersigned
Eex Armiger, Captain of the steamer ' Philippine,'
now lying a wreck on a reef in latitude 5-30 N.
and longitude 133 '25, as near as I could calculate."


" My dearest Al, — I write this in the
captain's gig, where I am floating about in or

about the above-named latitude and longitude,
after the most unfortunate voyage that ever
started with good promise. First, I send you my
last words, dear love, solemnly, because a man ina
boat on the open seas, with no provisions and
no sail, cannot look for anything but death from
starvation, if not by drowning. God help you, my
dear, and bless you, and make you forget me soon,
and find a better husband than I should ever
have made. You will take another man " '

Hear, hear ! ' said Captain Borlinder, softly.

Hush ! ' said Captain Wattles, reproachfully.
Captain Armiger was a good man and a
prophet.'

"You will take another man'" Lai repeated.
Never ! ' she cried, after the repetition, looking
from one to the other, ' Never ! Not if he were
dead, instead of being alive, as he is, and wondering
why we do not come to rescue him.'

The boy had his points,' said Captain Zacharias,
' and a good husband he would have made.
Just such as I was sixty years ago, or thereabouts.
Get on to the shipwreck, Lai, my dear.'

" It was on December the First that we set
sail from Calcutta. The crew were all Lascars,
except Dick, my Malay steward, the chief officer,
who was an Englishman, and the engineer. We
made a good passage under canvas, with auxiliary
screw, to Singapore, and from thence, in ballast,

except for a few bales of goods, to Hong-Kong.
Here we took in our cargo of rice, and started, all
well, on January the Fourteenth, eighteen hundred
and seventy-seven. The mate was a good sailor
as ever stepped on a bridge, and the ship well
found, new, and good in all respects.

" We had fair weather across the China Sea
and in the straits north of Luton until we came to
the open seas. Here a gale, which blew us off our
course to N.E., but not far, and still in clear and
open sailing, with never a reef or an island on the
chart. We kept steam up, running in the teeth
of the wind, all sails furled. .When the wind
moderated, veering from S.E. to S.W. (within a
point or two), we made the Pelew Islands to the
starboard bow, and came well in the track of the
Sydney steamers. If you look at the chart you
will find that here the sea is open and clear ; nota
shoal nor an island laid down for a good thousand
miles. Wherefore, I make no doubt that
after enquiry I should have my certificate
returned to me, in spite of having lost so good a
ship. : : ^ ; ' ^^

" On Sunday, at noon, the wind having
moderated, we found we had made two hundred
and twenty-seven knots in four and twenty hours.

We were, as I made it, in latitude 5'30 N. and
longitude 133-25, as near as I could calculate.
At sunset, which was at six twenty-five, we must

have made some sixty miles more to the S.W., so
that you can lay clown the spot on the map. The
wind was fresh, and the sea a little choppy, but
nothing of any consequence in open water. At
eight I turned in, going watch and watch about
with the mate, and at five minutes past eight, I
suppose I was fast asleep.

" It was, I think, a little after six bells, that
I was awakened by the ship striking. I ran on
deck at once. We were on a reef, and by the
grating and the grinding of her bottom I guessed
that it was all over. I'm sorry to say that in the
shock the mate seems to have been knocked overboard
and drowned, because I saw him no more.
The ship rolled, from side to side, grinding and
tearing her bottom upon the reef. The men ran
backwards and forwards crying to each other.
There was no discipline with them, nor could I get
them to obey orders. The engineer went below
and reported water gaining fast. He and I did
our best to keep the crew in hand,* but it was no
use. They lowered the boats and pushed off
leaving behind only the engineer, and Dick the
steward; and myself. They were in too great a
hurry to put provisions on board, so that I greatly
fear they must have perished, unless they have
been picked up by some steamer.

" All that night we stayed on deck, we
three, expecting every moment that she would

break lier back. The cargo of grain was loose
now, and rolled with the ship like water. Her
bows were high upon the rocks, and I believe we
were only saved because she was lodged upon the
reef as far aft as the eiioine-room. In the darkness
the engineer must have slipped his hold and
fallen overboard, I don't know how. Then there
was only Dick and me.

" In the morning, at daybreak, the look-out
was pretty bad. The reef is a shoal, with nothing
but a fringe of white water round it to mark
where it lies. It is now, I reckon, about seventeen
feet below the surface of the water, but I take it
to be a rising reef, so that every year will make
it less, and I hope it will be set down at once on
the chart. My mate was gone and my engineer,
the boats and their crews were out of-sight, or,
may be, capsized, hot a sail upon the sea. But
there was the captain's gig.

" When we got afloat, my purpose was to
keep alongside the poor wreck until we had got
enough victuals to last a week or two, and some
running tackle whereby we could hoist some sort
of a sail. But, my dear, we hadn't time, because
no sooner had we lowered the boat and put in a
few tins, with a bottle half full of brandy and a
keg of water, than she parted amidships, and we
had no more than time to jump into the boat and
shove off.

" There we were, then, with no oars, no mast,
no sail, no rudder even, and provisions for two or
three days.

" We have now been fioatinc^ a week. We
drifted first of all in a nor-westerly direction, so
near as I could make out, so long as the poor
wreck remained in sight. Since then I know not
what our course has been. There is a strong
current here, I suspect, from the short time we
took to lose sight of her, and there has been a
good breeze blowing from the S.W. for three
days.

'' We have now got to the end of our provisions
; the last drop of water has been drunk ;
the last biscuit eaten. Poor Dick sits opposite tome
all day and all night, he cannot speak, but he
refused his share of the last ration for my sake.'

Here Lai broke down again, and Captain
Zachariasenen said something strong, which showed
that his admiration for a generous action was
greater than his religious restraint.

" We spend the day in looking for a sail ; at
night we take watch about. There remains only
a little brandy in the heel of the bottle. We
husband that for a last resource. We have
fashioned a couple of rough oars out of two
planks of the boat.

" I have kept this a day longer. No sail insight.
We have had two or three drops of brandy

each. They are the last. Now I must commit
this letter to the sea in the bottle. Oh, my dear
Lai, my pretty, tender darling ! I shall never,
never see you any more. Long before you get
this letter I shall be drifting about in this boat a
dead man. I pray Heaven to bless you " '

Here Lai stopped and burst into tears.

Head no more,' said Captain Holstius, ' the
rest concerns yourself alone.'

Lai kissed her letter, folded it tenderly, and
laid it in her bosom.

The rest only concerns me,' she repeated,
and was silent awhile.

Captain Zachariasenen, meantime, was at work
upon the chart.

I read this story somewhat different,' he said.
You can't always follow a mimicked in his
antics, and I now perceive that Iw^as wrong about
the baby. The widow I stick to. Nothing could
be plainer than the widow, though, of course, it
was not to be expected that he'd make a clean
breast of it in that letter, which otherwise does
him credit. Lai, my dear, you are right. If
Dick is alive, then his master is alive. Question
is, where would he get to, and where is he
now ? '

They were all silent, waiting the conclusion of
the Patriarch before any other ventured to speak.
He Was bending over the chart, his right thumb

as the position of the reef, and this fore-finger
acting as a compass.

'I calculate from the position of the reef,
which is here, and the run of the currents, and
the direction of the wind, that they drifted
towards the most westerly of the Caroline Islands.'

It hardly required patriarchal wisdom to surmise
this fact, seeing that these islands are the
nearest places north-west of the reef.

And next ? ' asked Lai.

Next, my pretty, they were taken off of that
island, but I do not know by whom, and were
shipped away to some prison, but I don't know
where, and there Cap'en Armiger is still lying,
though what for, as there was seemingly no baby
and no chucking overboard, we mortals, who are
but purblind, cannot say.'

Then Captain Holstius spoke again.

I think we might have in the Malay and go
through the play acting again. May be, with this
letter before us, we may get more light.'

The Doctor now showed Dick the bottle.
He seized it, grinned a recognition, and, on a
sign from the girl, began the story again at that
point.

First, leaning over the imaginary side of the
boat, he laid it gently on the floor.

Thereby,' said Captain Zachariasenen, solemnly,
committing the letter to the watery deep, to be

carried here and driven there while the stormy
winds do blow, do blow. Amen ! '

Then Dick became pensive. He sat huddled
up, with his elbows on his knees and his head in
his hands, looking straight before him. For the
time, as always in this performance, of which he
never tired, he was Eex himself; the same poise
of the head, the same look of the eyes ; he had
put off the Malayan type, and sat there, before
them all, pure Caucasian.

Creditable, my lad,' said Captain Zachariasenen.
I think you can, all of you, understand so far,
without my telling.'

They certainly could.

Then the Malay sprang to his feet and pointed
to some object in the distance.

Sail ho ! ' cried Captain Borlinder.

Then he sat down again and began the regular
motion of his arm, which the Patriarch had mistaken
for rocking the baby.

This,' said the Venerable, ' is plain and easy.
Land it is, not a sail — why.^ Because, if the
latter, they would wave their pocket-handkerchiefs
; if the former, they would hist sail or out
sculls. If the mimicked had been as plain and
easy to understand the first time, we shouldn't
have gone astray and sailed on that wrong tack
about the baby.'

With the help of the letter the pantomime

became perfectly intelligible. The whole scene
stood out plainly before the eyes of all. They
were no longer in the Captains' room at Seven
Houses, Eotherhithe ; they were somewhere faraway,
east of Stew Guinea, watching two men ina
little boat on a sea where there was no sail nor*
any smoke from passing steamers. Low down on
the horizon was a thin streak, which a landsman
would have taken for a cloud. The two men
with straining faces were rowing with feverish
eagerness, encouraging each other, and ceasing
not, though the paddles nearly fell from their
hands With fatigue.

Oh ! Eex, Eex ! ' cried Lai, carried away by
the acting. ' Best awhile ; oh, rest ! '

But still they paddled on.

Then came the scene of the struggle and the
binding of the arms, and the march up country.
Next the release and the quiet going up and down ;
and then the second struggle, with another capture,
and a second binding of arms.

See, Lai,' said Captain Holstius, pointing
triumphantly to the actor ; ' who is bound this
time ? '

Why, there could be no doubt whatever. It
was not Eex, but the Malay.

This is the worst o' mimicking now,' said
the Patriarch, as if pantomime was a recognised
instrument in the teaching and illustration of

history. ' You're never quite sure. We've had
to give up the baby with the chucking overboard.
I was sorry for that, because it was so plain and
easy to read. And now it seems as if it was the
poor devil himself that got took off to gaol.
Was his hair cut short, do you remember, Lai,
when he came here two months ago ? I can't
quite give up the prison, neither, so beautiful as
it reeled itself out first time we did the mum-picking.
You're a stranger, sir,' he addressed
the Doctor, 'and you knew Cap'en Armiger.
What do you think ? For my own part — well,
let's hear you, sir.'

There cannot be a doubt,' said the Doctor,
that the man personated Armiger, and no other,
until the last scene, and that there he became
himself intentionally. He exaggerated himself.
He walked differently ; he carried his head differently.
There was a fight of some kind, and
the Malay, not Armiger at all, was taken prisoner.'

What is your opinion. Captain Borhnder ? '
asked Lai, anxious to know what each man
thought.

My opinion,' said Captain Borlinder, with
emphasis, ' is this. They got ashore ; no one can
doubt that. Very well, then. Where .^ Not
many degrees of longitude from the place where
they were wrecked. Who were the people they
fell among ? The natives. That's what I read so

VOL. I. M

far. Now we go on to the fight at the end. A
better fight I never saw on the stage, not even at
the Pavilion Theatre, though but one man in it.
As for Captain Armiger, he was knocked on the
head. That is to me quite certain. Knocked on
the head with a stick, or stuck with a knife, according
to the remission and customs of them
natives, among whom I never sailed, and therefore
do not know their ways. It's a melancholy
comfort, at all events, to know the manner of his
end. Next to looking forward to a decent burial,
people when they are going to be knocked on the
head die more comfortable if they know that
other people will hear how they came to be
knocked on the head — whether a club, or a boathook,
or a bo'sn's cutlass.'

I think, sir,' said the Doctor, ' that you are
perfectly wrong. There is nothing whatever to
show that Armiger was killed.'

But then he did not know that Captain Blinder
spoke according to the desire of his own
heart.

Then Lai turned to the only man who had not
yet spoken :

And what is your opinion. Captain Wattles?'

I think,' replied Barnabas the Consoler, ^ that
Cap'en Armiger landed on some island, and
worried through the first scrimmage. I know
them lands, and I know that their ways to

strangers may be rough. If you get through the
first hearty welcome, which means chios and
knives and spears mostly, there's no reason why
you shouldn't settle down among 'em. There's
many an English and American sailor living there
contented and happy. Perhaps Cap'en Armiger is
one of them.'

Not contented,' said Lai, ' nor yet happy.'

Captain Wattles Event on :

On the other hand, there's fights among
themselves and drunken bouts, and many a brave
fellow knocked on the head thereby.'

Do you speak from you own knowledge ? '
asked the Doctor.

I was once,' he replied, unblushingly, ' a missionary
in the Kusaie station. Yes, we disseminated
amongst us the seeds of civilisation and
religion among those poor cannibals. I also
traded in shirts and trousers, after they had been
taught how to put them on. They are a
treacherous race ; they treasure up the recollection
of wrongs and take revenge ; they are insensible to
kindness and handy with their arrows. I fear
that Cap'en Armiger has long since been killed
and eaten. They probably spared the Malay on
account of his brown skin, as likely to disagree.'

Then Captain Holstius rose and spoke.

Friends all,' he said, ' and especially Captain
Borlinder and Captain Wattles, here is a message

come straight from Captain Armiger himself,
though now nigh upon three years old. And it
comes close upon the heels of that other message
brought us by this poor fellow who gave it as he
knew best, though a difficult message to read in
parts. Now we know, partly from Dick and
partly from the letter, what happened and how
it happened, and we are pretty certain that they
must have landed, as Captain Zachariasenen has told
us, in one of the islands lying to the nor-west of
the spot where she struck.' Here he paused.
Captain Borlinder blew great clouds of tobacco
and looked straight before him. Captain Wattles
listened with impatience. Then the Norwegian
went on : 'I think, friends all, that here we have
our duty plain before us. Here are three men in
this room, Captain Borlinder, Captain Wattles, and
myself, who have been in love with Lai, who is
Captain Armiger 's sweetheart, and therefore has
no right to listen to us so long as there is any
hope that he is alive. If no hope, why, I do not
say myself that she has no right '

No right. Captain Holstius,' said Lai ; ' no
right to listen to any other man, whatever
happens.'

Very well, then. But for us who love her
in a respectful way, and desire nothing but her
happiness, there is only one duty, and that
is '

Here Captain Wattles sprang to his feet.

To go in search of him. That is what I was
going to propose. Miss Eydquist, I promise to go
in search of Cap'en Armiger. If he is alive I will
bring him home to you. If he is dead, I will
bring you news of how and when he died. I ask
no reward. I leave that to you. But I will bring
you news.'

This was honestly and even nobly spoken.
But the effect of the speech was a little marred by
the allusion to reward. What reward had Lai to
offer, except one? and she had just declared that
to be impossible.

Then Captain Borlinder rose, ponderously, and
slapped his chest.

Nick Borhnder, Lai, is at your service.
Yours truly to command. He hasn't been a
missionary, nor a dealer in reach-meadows shirts,
like some skippers, having walked the deck slice
a boy. And he doesn't know the Caroline
Islands. But he can navigate a ship, or he can
take a passage aboard a ship. Where there's
missionaries there's ships. He will get aboard one
of them ships, and he will visit those cannibals and
find out the truth. Lai, if Cap'en Armiger is
alive, he shall be rescued by Nick Borlinder, and
shall come home with me arm-in-arm to the
Pride of Eotherhithe. If he isn't alive, why —
then '

He sat down again, nodding this head.

Lai turned to Captain Holstius.

Yes,' he said ; ' I thought this brave Englishman
and this brave American would see their
duty plain before them. I will go in search of
him, too, Lai. I know not yet how; but I shall
find a way.'

Gentlemen,' said Lai, ' I have nothing to give
you except my gratitude. Nothing at all. Oh !
who in the world has ever had kinder and nobler
friends than I .^ '

She held out her two hands. Captain Wattles
seized the right and kissed it with effusion, murmuring
something about Barnabas, the Son of Consolation.
Captain Borlinder followed his example
with the left, though he had never before regarded
a woman's hand as a proper object for a manly kiss.
He took the opportunity to whisper that, in all her
troubles, Nick Borlinder was the man to trust.

Now,' said Captain Holstius, ' there is no
time to be lost ; we all have things to arrange,
and money to raise. Shall we all go together, or
shall we go separate ? '

Separate,' said the Son of Consolation.

Separate,' cried Borlinder, firmly. ' If the
job is to be done, let me do the job single-handed.'


Very well said Captain Holstius ; ' then low
shall we go ? '

We will go,' said Captain Wattles, ' in order.
First one, and then another, to give every man a
fair chance and no favour. And to get that fair
chance we will draw straws. Longest straw first,
shortest last.'

He retired and returned with three straws in
his hand.

'Now, Borlinder,' he said, 'you shall draw
first.'

Borlinder took a straw, but with hesitation.

The Doctor, who was rather short-sighted,
thought he detected a little sleight-offhand on the
part of Captain Wattles at this moment. But he
said nothing. Captain Holstius then drew.
Again the Doctor thought he observed what
seemed to be tampering with the oracle of the
straw.

On the display of the straws it was found that
the longest straw was Captain Borlinder's ; the
shortest, that of Captain Holstius. The order of
search was therefore, first, Captain Borlinder. He
heaved a great breath, struck his hands together,
and smote his chest with great violence and heartiness.
You would have thought he had drawn a
great prize instead of the right to go first on an
extremely expensive voyage of search. The next
was to be Captain Wattles. The third and last,
Captain Holstius.

Captain Zachariasenen called for glasses round

to drink health and success to the gallant fellows
going out on this brave and honourable
quest.

Outside the house, presently, two of the
gallant seekers stood in discourse.

You don't think, Wattles,' asked Borlinder,
that he's really alive ? '

I can't say,' replied the ex-missionary. ' I
shouldn't like, myself, to be wrecked on one of
those islands. You see, there's been a little labour
traffic in those parts, and the ungrateful people,
who don't know what's good for them, are afraid
of being kid — I mean recruited. And they bear
malice. But I suppose he's one of the sort that
don't easily get killed. I shall be going Sydney-way
about my own business next year, or thereabouts,
I expect, so it's all in my day's work to
make enquiries. As for you '

As to me, now, brother ? ' Captain Borhnder
spoke in his most insinuating way. ' As to me
now ? Come, let's have a drink.'

As to you,' said the Consoler, after a drink at
his friend's expense, ' I'm sorry for you, because
you've got to go at once, and you've got no
experience. Among cannibals, a man of your
flesh is like a prize ox at Christmas.'

Captain Borlinder turned pale.

Yes — that is so. They would put you in ^
shallow pit, with a few onions and some pepper.

cover all up snug with stones, and make a fire on
top till you were done to a turn ! '

Captain Borlinder shuddered.

You are going first, you are, like a brave-briton.
I will tell you a little story. There wa
once a man who promised to go over Niagara in au
india-rubber machine of his own invention. A
beautiful machine it was, shut up tight, with air-holes
so as the man inside could breathe free and
open when so disposed.'

Well ? '

Wal, sir, he was cert'n'y bound to go. But
after looking at the Falls a bit, he concluded to
send a cat over first.'

Well ? '

Yes, Cap'en Borlinder, the cat went over and
that man is still waiting below the Horseshoe Fall
for the cither to turn up again.'

Captain Borlinder looked after his friend with
pale cheeks and apprehensive heart. What did
it mean — this parable of the cat and Niagara ?

Now, after the glass round was drank, and
the three men gone, the Doctor found his way
round the table and looked under it on the floor,
and there found two short bits of straw lying oa
the carpet. He picked them up and considered.
Wliat did he do it for ? ' he asked. ' Longest
first. They were, I suppose all the same lengthy

SO that the man with the red face should go first.
Easy then, to nip bits off the straw and make the
Norway man take the shortest. What did he doit
for ? ' And the knowledge of this fact made
him uneasy, because it looked as if the search
for Armiger would not be altogether fair.

CHAPTEE Iii.

CAPTAIN Blinder AMONG THE Cannibals.

When Captain Borlinder sought the privacy of his
own chamber that evening, he gave way to meditations
of a very unpleasant and exasperating
nature. Was ever a man more forced into a hole
than himself ? Was ever proposition more ridiculous
? Why, if, as Holstius truly said, they were
all after the same girl, what the dickens was the
good of going out of the country, all the way to
the Eastern Seas, at enormous expense, to say
nothing of the danger, in order to find and bring
home the man who would cut them all out and
carry the girl away ? He would rather fight for
the girl ; he should like, he thought, to fight for
the girl. That slow and easy Norweegee would
pretty soon knock under, though the little Yankee
would be more difficult to tackle. But actually
to go and look for the man ! Why, since he was
happily disposed of, and if not dead, then missing
for three years, what madness to disturb
so comfortable and providential an arrangement !

As for such disinterestedness as to desire the
happiness of any woman in the world as the
first consideration, that was a thing too high
for Nick Borhnder's understanding, a dark saying,
a flight into unattainable heights, which appeared
to him pure unmitigated nonsense. Shoukl
his own happiness, should any man's happiness,
be wrecked to save that of any woman, or man
either, on the whole earth ? What is the happiness
of another to a man who cannot himself be
happy ?

Who, thought honest Nicholas, without putting
the thought into words, is the most important
person, the central person, of the whole universe ;
the person about whom the stars do revolve, for
whom the sun shines and the rain falls, for whose
protection governments exist, for whom all people
who on earth do dwell continually toil, so that
this person may receive good things without cessation
? Who is it, but — moi meme ? Was, then,
Captain Border to labour and be spent for the
promotion of another's happiness ? Was he to
give up his ship in order to find a man who
would destroy his own best chance of good
fortune ? The thing appeared more preposterous
every moment !

Who, in fact,' he asked, giving full vent to
his feelings, ' but a Norweegee could be such an
enormous, such an incredible ass ? '

Then he remembered again the Yankee's
apologue.

Sniggerin' beast,' he said ; * I hate him ! I
wish he'd fall overboard of a dark night and
blown' great guns. What did he mean? I'm
to be the cat to go over among the cannibals,
ami?'

Then a beautiful and comforting thought
crossed his mind.

I know now,' he said, ' what I ought to
have replied. I should have said there was a
man cleverer than that man. For he promised
to go over the Falls in a bathing-machine, or a
sewing-machine, or a reaping-machine, or something,
and he went away and presently he came
back and said he'd done it.'

This happy repartee pleased him so much that
he repeated it twice, and then sat down and
thought it over with intentness.

Why,' he said, to himself, reasoning as a
Christian of the highest principle, ' man was told
to stand out of the reach of temptation, and if I
were to meet that man I might be tempted to
knock him on the head. If it wasn't for Holstius
and Wattles I would knock him on the head.
But to kill a fellow for other fellows to reap the
advantage of it, it doesn't seem quite worth
while. Still, there's the temptation, and I
oughtn't to go nigh of it. As for searching for

him, again. Where am I to look for him ? Am
I to land on every island and pass the word for
Cap'en Armiger? Naked black savages don't
know about Cap'en Armiger. Ate him up, no
doubt, long ago. Am I to put up a signal at
every port for Cap'en Armiger ? Do these
ignorant natives know a signal when they see
one? Very well, then. This Norweegee is all
the bigger fool.'

As for the allegory of the cat, again. He was
himself the cat. Pleasant thing for a man of his
position to be compared to the cat which led the
way over the Falls and was smashed and never
returned again ! Work that thing out as much
as you please, and it always comes to this, that
he, Nick Borlinder, was to go out first, get
devoured by the cannibals, and never get back
again.

Then the Yankee, himself out of the way,
would try another way.

I shan't go at all,' he murmured. ' Yah !
for cheating and dishonesty give me a Yankee !
I shall pretend to have been there ! '

As for finding him,' he went on, with his
meditations, ' it's a thousand to one that you
don't light on the island where he put foot
ashore ; and if you do find him, a million to one
at least that he's dead — and all the journey, with
the expense of it, for nothing.

To say nothing of risk and danger. Shipwreck
: I suppose that goes for nothing. Fever :
I suppose we needn't reckon that. Oh, no, certainly
not. Sunstroke ; that never kills in
tropical climates, does it ? Oh, no ; don't reckon
that. Natives : they are a mild and dovelike
race, ain't they ? Everybody knows that ! Don't
reckon natives.'

It was, after all, very well to propose a
pretended voyage, but what would the Yankee
do? And what did he really mean about the
cat and the india-rubber ball ?

This doubt puzzled him not a little. The
plan he proposed to himself was simple — beautiful
in its simplicity. But he could not help
feeling that his American cousin had some other
and some deeper plan, by means of which he
would himself be circumvented and anticipated.

Nothing more disturbs the crafty and subtle
serpent, or more fills him with virtuous
indignation, than the suspicion that his brother
serpent is more crafty and more subtle than
himself.

Everybody knows how the two burglars,
friends in private but strangers in profession, met
one night in the same house, proposing independent
research.

His plan involved no expense, no danger, no
possible privations. It was nothing more nor

less than to wait awhile, and then to present
himself with the report of a pretended voyage.

At first he thought he would so far give in to
the outward seeming of things as to get a substitute
to take command of his ship for a certain
space, spending that time on shore in some
secluded spot. This plan, however, involved a
considerable amount of expense, with the necessity
of much explanation to his employers. It
therefore seemed to him best to go on just the
same — to take his ship from the London Docks
to Cadiz as usual, and back again, to give Others
a wide berth, and then, after a certain
decent interval, to present himself at Seven
Houses with a narrative.

Seven weeks to Hong-Kong, seven weeks
back, eight weeks for the search — say six months
in all.

Having roughly drawn out his plan of action,
and considered in broad outlines the leading
features of the narrative, Captain Borlinder purchased
a few sheets of paper, on which to set
down the account of his voyage, which he intended
should be a masterly performance. He
then, without waiting for the Christmas festivities,
though nigh at hand — and no such pudding anywhere
as at Eydquist's — presented himself at
Eotherhithe to take farewell before he started
on his long and dangerous journey.

This haste to redeem his promise could not fail,
he thought, of producing a favourable impression.

He carried a red pocket-handkerchief, as if
that contained all the luggage required for a
hardy mariner even with such a journey before
him. He had tied a string, with a jack-knife at
the end of it, round his waist, like a common
sailor. He had a profoundly shiny hat, and his
face was set to an expression of as deep sympathy
as he could command.

I know,' he said, in his lowest tones, ' that to
look for Cap'en Armiger in the Eastern Seas will
very likely be a mighty tough job ; but I've
passed my word to tackle that job, and when
Nick Borlinder's word is passed to do a thing,
that thing has got to be done, or the reason why
is asked, pretty quick. Same as if I was in command
of my own ship. For, sei to myself,
before ever the Norweegee up and spoke, or the
Yankee pretended to have meant it — but I am
slow to speak, though amazing quick to think —
I ses, " What we three men have got to do in
this business is to look after Lai's happiness."
That I ses after you read that most affecting
letter, before the talk begun, and speaking in a
whisper, as a man might say, down his baccy-pipe.
" Nothing else contains us now. It is that
which we have to look after. The way to look
after it is to make quite sure that Cap'en

VOL. I. N

Arranged is gone, and the way he went, and
where his remains remain ; or else, if he is not
gone, but he still alive-and-kicks, wherever that
may be, then to bring him home." '

Thank you, Captain Borlinder,' said Lai,
thinking that the Patriarch's dislike to this good
and disinterested man was founded on prejudice ;
and, indeed, the meaning was quite plain, though
the language was a little mixed.

There's a many islands in the Eastern Seas,'
continued Nicholas the Brave. ' I've been looking
at them in the charts. There's thousands of
islands — say ten thousand, little and big. Say
every one of those islands has to be searched. If
we give a month to each island all round,
counting little and big, that will make close upon
nine hundred years. If it's only a fortnight,
four hundred years. What's four hundred years
to a determined man? I shall search among
them islands, if it's four hundred or nine hundred
years, till I find him.'

But this will cost a great deal. Captain
Borlinder, I am afraid.'

Never mind about the cost,' he replied,
grandly. ' If it was ten times as much I'd never
grudge it. ' We will say good-bye now. ' Perhaps
I shall come home, with news, in a year, or even
less. Perhaps it may be forty years before I
come home again. Perhaps I shall bring him

home ill a few months, well and hearty ; perhaps
in about fifty years, with never a tooth to his
head. But never you fear. Pluck up. Say to
yourself : " Nick Borlinder, as never puts his hand
to nothing but he carries that thing through, has
got this job in hand." Perhaps I may come with
news that you don't want. But thee — we will
not talk of that. If I never come home at all,
but get, maybe, devoured by sharks, cannibals,
and alligators, besides being struck with sunstroke,
fever, rheumatics, and other illnesses, and
knocked on the head with clubs, and shot with
poisoned arrows, so that there's an end, then,
Lai, you will perhaps begin to think kind of a
man who loved you so dear, that he went all
that way alone to look for Cap'en Armiger, also
with the Lord. For women never know the
value of a man until he's gone.'

This said, he shook hands, wagging his head
mournfully, but smiting his chest as if to repress
the gloomy forebodings of his soul, and the manly
sobs that choked further utterance.

Captain Holstius also went away, and Captain
Wattles, who made no further allusion to the
letter or the pledge he had made, also returned to
Liverpool,' whither, he said, business called him.

Then Lai was left alone with the letter of
Eex to read and read again, and she never
doubted that Captain Borlinder, true to his word,

X 2

was on his way to the far East, to beghi the search
for her lost lover.

One man, however, doubted very much, but ina
vague way. It was the Patriarch.

'Lai, my pretty,' he said, 'I mistrust two of

them three chaps — the Yankee first, and Nick

Borlinder next. As to Cap'en Wattles, he's told

me over and over again that he wants to get back

to the Pacific. It isn't hunting for Cap'en Armiger

will take him back there. And as for Cap'en

Borhnder, it's my opinion, my dear, that he means

to make a voyage there and a voyage back,

whereby to clear the cobwebs from his brain and

the wrinkles from his eyes, and to gain experience.

What then? Will either of them bring him

back ? Do they want him back ? Think, my

dear. No ; they want him dead. The more

dead he is the better they will be pleased. And

if I was Cap'en Armiger, my pretty, and I was to

see either of them brave master mariners sailing

up a creek with no one else in sight, I would sit

snug, or I would prepare for a fight. My dear,

they may talk, but they don't want him back !

The only man who means honest is the .

As for him, he loves the very ground

you tread upon, and I think he'd rather be your

father than your husband, which, to be sure, was

never a sailor's way when I was young ; and that,

my dear, is seventy, and soon will be eighty, years

ago: which proves the Fifth Commandment and
shoals how much I honoured my father and my
mother — all the more because I never saw neither
of them since ten years old.'

Captain Borlinder, dropping down the river on
his next voyage, passed the Commercial Docks
with a light and jocund heart. He was about to
earn the gratitude of the girl he loved at a cheap
rate — namely, at the cost of remaining out of her
sight on the next occasion of his return to the
Port of London. His love was not of that ardent
and absorbing kind which prevents a man from
feeling happy unless he is in the presence of the
object of his affections. Quite the contrary.
Captain Borlinder was happier away from the
young lady, because conversation with her was
carried on under considerable constraint. Once
safely married, that constraint, he felt, would be
removed, and expressions, now carefully guarded,
might be again freely used. If a married man's
house is not his own quarter-deck, what is it ?
thought the Captain, who, despite the culture of
many centuries and the religion of his ancestors,
retained the ideas of marital authority common
among primitive men. He is now married, however,
though not to Lai, and has learned to think
quite otherwise.

The weather was favourable across the Bay,

and with all sail set, a rolling sea, and a fresh
breeze, the Captain stood aft and began to consider
the shaping of his narrative.

He was a good hand at a yarn. But then to
write a yarn is, if you please, much more difficult
than to spin one. The pen is a slow, tedious
instrument. We want, in fact, something more'
rapid with which to interpret our thoughts.
While we are painfully setting down one thing,
the next, equally important, escapes us and is
forgotten.

Captain Borlinder felt this, and therefore, very
wisely, resolved upon not writing anything until
he had thoroughly mastered the whole story and
told it to himself half a dozen times over. Thus
great novelists, I believe, get the whole of their
situations clearly in their mind, with the grouping
of the characters, before writing a word. And it
would be an admirable plan if certain lady
novelists would also follow the Captain's method,
and write nothing before they are almost word-perfect
with their story.

His crew were amazed at the behaviour of
their skipper, both outward and homeward bound.
For he paced the quarter-deck all day long, gazing
at sky and sea. ^Jle struck strange attitudes ; he
shook his head ; he swore at myself sometimes ;
he left the navigation of the ship to the mate ; he
seemed to be perpetually repeating words.

These things were strange. He was not
drunk. He even seemed to drink less than usual ;
and, if he had got a touch of * horrors,' as sometimes
happens to sailors after a spell ashore, they
were manifested in a most unusual manner.

On the voyage to Cadiz and back the Captain
restricted himself to mental composition. We all
know how difficult it is to describe a place which
you have never seen. One would like to see a
competitive young man's description, say of
Eotherhithe, which nobody but myself has ever
visited. That difficulty is, of course, lessened
when your readers are equally ignorant, but
immensely increased by the consideration that
perhaps they know the place-now,
certainly Lai had not seen any of the
islands of Micronesia, or Polynesia. The contemplation
of the chart whereon the countless islands
of the Pacific lie dotted among the coral-reefs, the
shoals, and atolls of that great sea, only filled her
mind with vague thoughts of palm-trees, soft
winds, and brown natives. In those seas sailed
the ships she had heard of, the whalers, the
schooners trading; from island to island. On those
dots of dry land lived men, of Avhom she had
heard, who had grown grey in these latitudes, who
cared no more to return to england, who had.
learned native ways and native customs. Though
Lai had never travelled, she knew a great deal

more thn.n Captain Borlincler, and it might be
embarrassing for him to be asked questions arising
out of her superior knowledge.

Again, there was Captain Zachariasenen. i^To-
body knew where that old man had not been in
his long life of sixty years' sailing upon the sea.
In his garrulous way, he laid claim to a knowledge
of every port under the sun. Now, supposing he
had actually visited the place fixed on by himself
for the scene of Captain Armiger's exile and
death. This, too, would be embarrassing.

It is true that Nick Borlinder was not one of
those who place truth among the highest duties of
mankind, but rather considered the search for
enjoyment, in all its branches, as a duty immensely
superior and, indeed, a duty to be ranked foremost
among those imposed on suffering humanity.
Yet the worst of lying is that you have got to be
consistent in order to be believed. Random
lying helps no man. It is a mere amusement, a
display of cleverness, intellectual fireworks, the
indulgence of imagination. The story, therefore,
must be constructed in accordance, somehow,
with possible facts.

The romancer had provided himself, not only
with a few sheets of paper, but with a map, andover
this he pored continually, seeking a likely
spot for the scene of his Fabulous History. But
it was not till his second return voyage that he

found himself so far advanced with the story as to
begin committing it to writing.

It is interesting to record further that the
Captain on returning to London sought a bookseller's
shop, and enquired after any work which
treated of the Eastern Seas. He obtained a
second-hand copy of an old book — I think by
Captain Mundi — and then learned that the island
of New Guinea, which he easily found on the
map, was entirely unknown, and had hardly ever
been visited. He therefore resolved to make
New Guinea the scene of Eex Armiger's landing.
At all events, Captain Zachariasenen would be unable
to put him to shame in the matter of New Guinea.

He made three voyages to and from Cadiz,
bringing home a vast quantity of sherry, Portugal
plums, raisins, oranges, and other things, and
taking out I know not what, except that what he
took out was not worth so much as what he
brought home. And as this appears to be the
case with every ship which leaves a British port,
we must be working our way gaily through the
national savings, and shall all very shortly take
refuge in the national workhouse, so that the
dreams of the Socialist will be realised, and all
shall be on the same level. This is a very delightful
prospect to contemplate, and the position of
tluno^s reflects the highest credit on both sides of
the House.

It was on October 14, 1879, that Dick,
the Malay, came back and told his tale. It was
in December following that the Doctor of the
'Aryan' brought the message from the sea. On
January 2, Captain Borlinder took his farewell,
and salted forth on that desperate quest to the
Eastern Seas, the description of which was written
between Cadiz and London.

Neo news came to Eotherhithe all the winter.
The ' Aryan ' returned, and the Doctor came to say
that the Company were making enquiries among
the ships trading with the islands for news of a
white man cast away upon one of them. No
news had yet been received.

It was on June 8, 1880, that Captain Borlinder
returned from the East.

He bore in his hand the same red silk pocket-handkerchief
with which he had started, he wore
the same blue clothes, in the same state of preservation,
because they were his best ; the same
shiny hat.

He presented himself in the kitchen because
it was in the forenoon, and Lai was engaged in
her usual occupation — namely, the daily pudding.
The Patriarch, as usual, sat in the armchair sound
asleep.

She dropped her work and turned pale, seeing
that he was alone.

Alone ! ' she cried.

Alone,' he answered, in the deepest and
most sepulchral notes which his voice contained.
Alone,' he repeated. ' I have been a long
voyage, and have come back — alone. But not
empty-handed. No; I have brought you news.
Yes ; bad news, I grieve to say.'

She sat down and folded her hands, prepared
for the worst.

Go on,' she said ; ' tell me what you have to
tell.'

At this juncture Captain Zachariasenen awoke
and rubbed his eyes.

Ho ! ho ! ' he said ; ' here's one of them come
back. Well, I thought he would be the first.
What cheer, mate ? '

Bad,' replied the traveller.

Where's Cap'en Armiger ? '

Captain Borlinder pointed upwards, following
the direction of his finger with one eye, as if that
eye of faith could readily discern Eex among the
angels.

I thought he'd say that ; I told you so, Lai,
my dear. Keep your pluck up, and go tell Cap'en
Holstius and Cap'en Wattles. They must hear
the news too.'

They here ? '

Captain Borlinder changed colour. He had
not thought of this possibility.

In this very house, both of them,' replied the

Patriarch. ' Cap'en Wattles he's been backwards
and forwards between Liverpool and New York
and London all the time, with his business, and
Cap'en Holstius, he's just brought to port as fine
a cargo of white deal as you ever see. Yes,
they're both about '

At this point they entered and shook
hands.

And now,' continued the old man, ' let us
be comfortable. Keep your pecker up, Lai, my
dear, and give me a pipe. So I told you what he
would say, Lai. What a thing it is to have the
wisdom of fourscore ! Stow, my hearty, pay it
out.'

I have set down on paper,' Captain Borhnder
began, ' a Narrative — ahem ! — a Narrative of my
adventures since I started to find Cap'en Armiger.
If you please, I will read my Narrative.'

He lugged his precious manuscript out of his
pocket, unrolled it, coughed solemnly, and began
to read it.

Stop,' interrupted the Patriarch ; ' did you
try Moreton Bay ? '

No, I did not.'

Captain Zachariasenen shook his head mournfully.


Go on, my lad, go on,' he sighed ; ' I doubt
it's no good.'

'Now, Venerable, keep your oar out,' said

Captain Borliiider, impatiently. 'You and your
Moreton Bay ! Lemma go on.'

He looked round him half ashamed of reading
his own literary effort, spread the manuscript upon
his knees, flattening it out, and smoothing down
the dogs' ears. Then he began. He was, unfortunately,
unacquainted with the rules of punctuation,
so that his reading was hardly up to the
Third Standard, the point at which, I believe,
most school children stop. But the matter was
clear and precise, so that the manner mattered
little.

'I set sail,' he said, 'on January 3 from
Southampton aboard the P. and 0. steamer
"Batavia," bound for Singapore, a second-class
passenger.

We navigated the Bay of Biscay, the weather
being fine and the sea smooth. We had light
showers and a breeze off Malta. We passed
through the Canal and down the Need Sea — the
weather being warm for the time of year, but
cloudy, with much rain — to Aden. From Aden
we sailed in a furious gale of wind to Point de
Galle, and from Galle with a fair breeze and a
smooth sea to Singapore, where we brought up
all standing six wrecks after leaving Southampton.

'At Singapore I began to look about me,
making enquiries, but asking no questions for
fear of arousing suspicion.'

What suspicion ? ' asked Captain Zachariasenen.
The reader hesitated. Then he read the
passage over again.

For fear of arousing suspicion.'
It was a phrase he had encountered somewhere
or other in a somewhat limited course of
reading, and he set it down, thinking that it
sounded rather welL
'What suspicion?'

If you don't keep your oar out,' he answered,
we shall never get along.'

What suspicion ? ' repeated Captain Zacharias.
' Suspicion that you wanted to make
away with the lad when you found him ? '
'If you was five and forty years younger, my
Patriarch,' returned the traveller, 'I'd let you
know what suspicion. Now, Lai, if you'll believe
me, my suspicion was that some one else beside
me might tackle this job, and so spile it. I
wanted it finished off workmanlike. So I cast
about. Hold your old jaw, will you ? '

He murmured something more in his throat
which rumbled and echoed about the room like
suppressed thunder.

first, I went around the public-houses and
hung about the bars.' Captain Zachariasenen grunted.
But nothing could I learn. Then I sat upon the
wharf and went about the shipping. Mighty civil,
well-spoken skippers they were, as a rule, bat

they could tell me nothing, though some of them
knew the "Philippine," and one or two remembered
Cap'en Armiger. It will be a comfort to yon,
Lai, to reflect that they all spoke well of him as a
good sailor, who could carry his drink like a man
Here Captain Zachariasenen again grunted. ' So I
saw what I had all along suspected, that I should
have to go upon the search myself. First, therefore,
I picked up such information as a man can
come by as to the currents and the winds. This
done, I laid down the supposed course of the
boat, with such winds and such currents, on the
chart. Now, you must know that Cap'en Armiger
made a great mistake. So far from the current
being N.E., and the wind S.W., the current sets
in strong S.W. And the prevalent wind, less ita
monsoon or a cyclone, is S.W. too. What the
devil are you grunting at now ? ' This is to
Captain Zachariasenen, who was making this sign
again.

Go on, my lad. Go on heaven'. Sooner we
get to the bottom of the page the better.'

• Very well, then. Grunt and I beg

your pardon, Lai. He's enough to make a bishop
swear. Where was I ? Oh ! a cyclone, in S.W.
too. What did I do then .^ Laid down on the
map the place where that boat would likely make
the land, and then I cast about to get a ship which
would land me on that very identical spot. Sure

enough there was a boat in harbour just about to
saiL'

What trade might she have been in ? ' asked
the Patriarch.

Coal trade,' he replied, promptly. ' I took a
passage, bargained to be disembarked and called
for aixain in three weeks' time, and we set saiL
Beautiful sailing it is in those seas, and one of
these winter evenings, Lai, when you and me have
got nothing to do, I will tell you such yarns of
they islands as will make you long for to go there
yourself. Our course was south of Borneo, and
so into the narrow seas, through the Macassar
Straits, north of Celebes and Gilolo, and so along
the north-west of New Guinea, where I'd made up
my mind to find Cap'en Armiger. If you've got
a chart anywhere about, any of you, you might
follow.'

Never mind the chart, my lad,' said Captain
Zachariasenen ; ' go on.'

Nobody, before me and Cap'en Armiger, had
ever landed on that desolate coast. They set me
ashore with six foot or so of baccy, a pipe, a box
of lucifers, a bottle of rum, a gun, and a small
fishing-net. That, I thought, would be enough to
carry me along for a spell, while I made my
enquiries.

I found the natives black but friendly. They
appeared not to be cannibals. They greatly

admired my appearance and manners. They invited
me to stay among them with the gun and be their
king. And, although I was obliged to refuse,
they were civil, and answered all my questions to
the best of their capacities, which are naturally
limited.'

Another grunt.

After a bit I discovered that I had not been
mistaken in my conclusions. Three years before,
or thereabouts — because you cannot expect naked
savages to be as accurate as us truth-telling Christians
— a white man and a Malay had been washed
ashore in an open boat.

Directly I heard that I pricked up my ears.
There might have been two different white men
come ashore in an open boat, but not two pairs of
white man and Malay man. That seemed impossible.
So I up and enquired at once where
they were.

They told me that at landing there was a
fight, but that they were taken up-country after
the fishy with their arms bound to their sides.'
Here Captain Borlinder stopped. ' You remember.
Venerable,' he said, 'how you interpreted that
scrimmage shown by the dumb man .^ You were
quite right.'

The Venerable grunted again.

Of course,' the discoverer resumed, ' I made
haste to find out which way they were taken, and

VOL. I.

it was not long before I started following their
track, led by a native boy who knew the country
well, having been born and brought up there.'

Where were the rest of the natives born and
brought up ? ' asked Captain Zachariasenen. ' Goon,
brother. Feel it out.'

The first day ' Captain Borlinder turned

suddenly pale, as if a weak point had been discovered
in his armour, and went on reading
rapidly. ' The first day we made five-and-twenty
miles, as near as I could reckon, going in a beeline
across country, over hills and valleys where
lions, bears, tigers, hyaenas, leopards, elephants,
and hippopotamusses roamed free, seeking whom
they may devour ; cross rivers where crocodiles
sat with open jaws snapping at the people as
they passed by.'

It is hot, I suppose, in these latitudes ? ' said
Captain Zachariasenen.

Hottish,' replied the traveller. ' I was given
to understand that it was their summer. Hottish,
walking. Made a man relish his rum and water.
And I found a pint of cold water with a jack-towel
refreshing on a Saturday night. The next
day we made thirty knots of sandy desert, where
there were camels and ostriches, and never a drop
of water to make a cup of tea with. The third
day we crossed a mountain, twenty-five thousand
feet hah, on the sides of which were bears,

wolves, and pemmican. From the summit we
obtained a splendid view right across the China
Seas, and with my glass I could easily make out
Hono^-Kons^.

On the fourth day, after doing thirty miles
good, and living for a week on the bark of trees
and wild roots, we passed through a thick forest
inhabited solely by monkeys and snakes, after
which we emerged upon a town, the like of which
I had never expected to find in the heart of New
Guinea. It appeared to consist of a million and
a half of people, as near as I could learn. They
go dressed in white cotton knee-breeches and
turbans ; they smoke cigarettes and drink Jamaica
rum ; their manners are pleasant and their ways
hospitable.

As soon as they saw that a white man had
arrived, they flocked round me and began to ask
questions. These I satisfied to the best of my
power and requested to be taken to the king.
They led me, or rather carried me, shouting along
the streets, to the Eoyal Palace, which is a trifle
bigger than the Crystal Palace, and all made of
solid gold.

The king is a young man, who wears this
crown both day and night. He is always surrounded
by his guards, and has to be approached
on bended knees.

After the usual compliments, lie invited me
to tell him what I came for.

I replied that I was sent by the most beautiful
girl in Eotherhithe — at this he seemed pleased,
and said he wished she had come herself — in
order to discover what had become of her sweetheart,
named Eex Armiger, wrecked upon his
majesty's coast in the year 1876.

I confess that I felt sorry, when I had put
the question, but then I had come all the way on
purpose to put it. For the king and all his courtiers
immediately burst into tears.

I then learned the whole story.

Cap'en Armiger had, in fact, landed on this
shore, as I expected and calculated. He had been
separated from his steward Dick in a scrimmage
on the coast, and had been brought inland to be
presented as a captive to the king. At the court
he made himself at once a great favourite, being
a good shot, which pleased his majesty, and a
good dancer, which pleased the ladies. He lived
three years with them in great favour with everybody,
and at the end, though this you will hardly
credit, engaged to be married to the king's sister,
being by that time in despair of ever getting
away.

Unfortunately, only the week before I arrived,
he was killed and devoured by a lion, and the
princess was gone off her royal chump.

I am truly sorry to be the bearer of such
bad news, Lab You will own that I done my
best.

The rest of my log, how I got away, and
how I came here adam, would not interest you
now. You will, perhaps, like to hear them yarns
in the long winter evenings when we have got
nothing else to do.

As for poor Cap'en Armiger, I brought away
with me one relic of him — the last cap he ever
wore. The king sent it to you by my hands. He
said a great many civil things about my courage
in coming all that way to find my friend, and I
had to promise to go back again. However, that
is nothing. Here, then, is Cap'en Armiger's cap
the cap of the Company.'

He untied the handkerchief and took out a
cap with a gold band and a couple of anchors in
silver embroidery upon the front. It was a
uniform cap, that of the Indian Peninsular Company.


Lai received it, and turned it over in her hand,
but with some doubt, stimulated by Captain Zacharias's
grunts.

The old man reached out his hand for the
cap, examined it carefully, tried it on his own
head, and grunted again.

What are you grunting for now ? ' asked
Captain Borhnder in great uneasiness.

Gentlemen,' said Captain Zachariasenen to the
other two, ' tell me what you think ? '

Captain Holstein made answer, like the country
gentleman who read Tulliver's Travels, that he
did not believe a word of it. And why? Because
no one who had read accounts of those latitudes
could reconcile Captain Borlinder's Narrative with
the tales of other travellers.

Captain Wattles shook his head.

Coarse work,' he said. 'Very common, and
coarse work.'

Upon this Captain Borlinder lost his temper,
and behaved like an officer of his rank when in a
rage upon his own quarter-deck.

'You shouldn't ha' thought, brother,' said
the old man, holding out the cap and examining
it with contempt, ' that a man of fourscore and
odd could be taken in by such a clumsy jemmy as
your. I'd ha' spun a better yarn myself, by
chalks. Two things shall set you right. First,
my lad, this cap, which, I suppose, you boughton
your way in Houndsditch, is the cap of a boy
of thirteen, a midshipmen. Now, Cap'en Armiger,
like me, had a big head. We may toss the cap
into the fire, Lai, my pretty, because it isn't your
sweetheart's chip, and never was.' He did toss it
into the lire, where it was immediately consumed,
all except the gold lace which twisted into all
shapes. ' Look at him ! ' he added. >- Sails in

gaily with a boy's cap in one hand and a yard and
half of lies, made up Lord knows where, in the
other. Another thing.' Captain Borlinder at
this juncture, because he had, in fact, bought that
cap in Houndsditch, presented every appearance
of discomfiture. ' When he landed amoncr the
blacks, all alone, what language did he talk with
them ? English ? He knoAvs no other. What
do you say, Cap'en Wattles ? '

Coarse work. Coarse and clumsy work.'

Captain Borlinder replied in general terra,
and endeavouring to bluster it out, that this was
hard for a man to bear, this was, after going
through all he had gone through.

But here Captain Wattles gave him the cows
de grace.

I can tell all of you where that precious
Narrative was written. For I made it my business
to enquire at the London Docks. He has
been all the time aboard his own ship, and he
has made three voyages to Cadiz and back since
January. If you doubt, go and ask his people.'

This was an unexpected one. Captain Blinder
reeled.

Then Lai rose in her wrath.

^ Go ! ' she cried. ' You are not fit to be
inter the same roof with honest people. Go,
impudent liar ! Oh, that men can be so wicked !
He has kept my Ilex for six long months more in

his captivity. Go! let us never see your face
again.'

She clenched her hands and pointed to the
door with as threatening a gesture as Medea
might have employed.

Captain Borlinder hastened to obey. He
crammed the Narrative in his pocket, and his shiny
hat upon his head, and walked forth, saying never
a word. And although he has never since set
foot upon the southern shores of the Port of
London, I think he still sometimes feels over
again the humiliation of that moment.

And now,' said Captain Wattles, ' it is my
turn. We have lost more than six months, it is
true. I have settled all my business, and I have
got command of a ship which trades among the
islands, a Sydney schooner. I meant to tell you
this to-day, not expecting to find this — this lying
lubber here. Why, there ain't a lad of ten in the
States that wouldn't put together a better story
than that. Coarse and clumsy work.'

CHAPTEE Viii.

THE QUEST OF CAPTAIN WATTLES.

The next turn, therefore, fell to Captain Wattles.
He, for his part, took leave in a quiet and busi-
ness-like manner, making no protestations.

I shall be,' he said, ' off and on about the
Carolines, where we expect to find him. He is
not in the regular track of the traders, else you
would have heard from him. He is on none of
the islands touched for pearl and biche de mer —
that we may be quite certain of; therefore, I
shall try at those places which are seldom visited.
If I find him, good ; if not, I will let you know.
I don't pretend to waste my time in looking for a
man and nothing else ; I am going to trade on
my own account, and look about me the while.
News runs from island to island in an astonishing
way, and we shall likely hear about him. That's
all I have to say, Miss Lai, and here's my hand
upon it. Barnabas, the Son of Consolation, will
act up to his name.' So he, too, disappeared.

Then, for a while, the house resumed its

usual aspect, and things went on as before. A
letter came in due course from Captain Wattles.
He had arrived at Sydney and was preparing for
departure. Then no more letters.

The time passed slowly. Captain Holstius
was away with his ship. The life and light
seemed to have gone from the girl. Only the
old man was left to cheer her continually, and
Dick to raise her courage.

I shall live, *Al, my dear,' he said, to see
Cap'en Armiger come home again. I have no
doubt of that ; and, pretty, I've been thinking
about the mimicked and the end of his story.
Somehow, I doubt whether it wasn't him, and not
the Cap'en, they took off to prison. I wish I
could trust that Yankee chap ; he's Averse than
the other. Stow if the ISTorweegee could

As for Barnabas, there was something in Ins
cold and quiet way which impressed those who
made his acquaintance. Such men, when they
are on the right side, make good generals ; when
they are on the wrong, they provide the picturesque
element of history. Thus in the sixteenth
century he would have been invaluable asa
buccaneer, being full of courage and as cool asa
melon ; also, under favourable conditions, he
might have developed a fine religious fanaticism,
under the influence of which he would have

hated a Spaniard and a Papist more than even
Sir Water Raleigh hated him. In the seventeenth
centmy he would have found scope as a pirate,
with Madagascar, the West-indian and Floridan
Keys, the harbours of Eastern Africa, and nearly
all the ports of South America for refuge ; and
the navies of the world, with the rich galleons of
Spain, and the East-indiamen of England for his
booty ; and all the rogues and murderers afloat,
actual or possible, longing to become part of his
crew. In the eighteenth century the trade of
pirate fell into disrepute, by reason of the singularly
disagreeable end which happened to many
of its followers. Happily, that of privateer took
its place. In the present century, men like Barnabas
B. Wattles have i^one filibusterino- • have
carried black cargoes from the West Coast across
the Atlantic ; and have gone blockade-running to
Charleston and Galveston. All these exciting
pursuits have come to an end ; and there would
seem, at first sight, little for a sailor to find ready
for a willing hand to do, except perfectly legal
pursuits.

There is not much. Still, there is always
something. A man may carry Chinese coolies to
Trinidad, Peru, or Cuba. Under what pretences
he inveighs them aboard, what promises he makes
them, and how much he gets for each, no one,
outside the trade, which is a limited company,

knows or can discover. You might sooner hope
to learn the secrets of the Eoyal Arch. Again,
you may ship coolies for Ee union. They are
British subjects, but they are taken on board at
Pondicherry, which is a French settlement. And
the like mystery surrounds each transaction
in Hindoo flesh. Lastly, there is a delightful
pastime still carried on in Polynesia, known as the
Labour Traffic. Opinions differ as to the beneficial
results of a few years of cooliedom in Queensland.
For whereas some authorities say that the
Polynesian learns the blessings of second-hand
reach-meadows, with a smattering of Christianity,
with which to astonish his relatives, the Browns,
on his return ; others declare that the extra fragments
are discarded as soon as he lands, the
rudiments of the Christian faith forgotten, and
only the taste for rum remains. I know not
which is right, because in order to decide the
point, one ought to live along with native Polynesians,
or with Australian colonists, in order to
hear both sides of the question, and no controversialist
has as yet done that. One thing, however,
is quite certain, that the coolies embark for
various reasons, among which no one has as yet
pretended to find a desire to toil on the Queensland
cotton and sugar estates. Toil of any kind
is, indeed, the last thing which these children of
the Equatorial Pacific desire. Best is what they

love, or, if any exercise, then a languid swim
in tepid waters, a dance in the evening, and
the joyous cup. Now to ship these innocents
and to bring them to the market where they
may be hired is a profitable, albeit a dangerous,
pursuit.

It is never a fault of the American adventurer
that he too carefully considers the danger. Where
there are dollars to be picked up there is generally
danger. The round earth may be mapped
out in different belts of fertility, so far as dollars
are concerned. Where they most abound and
may most readily be gathered there is such a
crowd, with so much fighting and struggling, or
there are so many penis from climate, crocodiles,
settlers, snakes, natives, and sharks, that it is only
the brave man who ventures thither, and only the
strong man who comes home in safety, bringing
with him the treasures he has fought for. Barnabas
B. Wattles was brave and strong, and he
knew the islands of old, where he had sojourned,
though certainly not, as wee have once heard him
state, as a missionary. He now saw his way to a
neat stroke of business combined with love. He
would prove, not clumsily, as did his rival, but
prove beyond a doubt, the death of Eex Armiger.
Then he would return, carry off the girl with the
money, which he supposed belonged to her, forgetting
the existence of Mrs. Eydquist, and get

back to America, where lie knew of a certain
dry dock, to possess which was the dream of this
soul. It may be also stated that he firmly believed
that the man was dead, and to find Eex
Armiger alive was the last thing which he expected.


Yet this, as you will see, was exactly what he
did find.

He took command of his trading schooner,
loaded her with the things which Polynesians
love, such as gaudy cottons, powder, tobacco,
rum, and strong perfumes, and set sail.

It is not my purpose to follow the voyage of
the ' Fair Maria ' across the Pacific Ocean, nor to
tell of the various adventures which befell her
captain, and tie trade he did. Wherever he
touched he made enquiries, but he could hear
nothing of a youncf white man cast ashore in an
open boat. No one knew or had heard of any
such jetsam.

At last he began to think his search would
lead to nothing, and that all trace of the man was
lost. This he regretted, because lie was unfeignedly
anxious to send home or bring home
proofs of his death ; so anxious that he had grown
perfectly certain that Eex was dead.

It came to pass, however, after many days
that he sighted an island, an outlying member of
a group at which he knew that traders never

touch, because it was too small a place and layout
of the usual track.

It is very Avell known that a large number of
the Caroline Islands are composed of certain coral
formations trailed atolls. These consist of a round
ring of rock just appearing above the surface,
enclosing a shallow lagoon, whose diameter varies
from a few yards to a hundred miles, in which lie
islands, some of them large islands with hills,
streams, and splendid woods of cocoa-palm, breadfruit,
durian, and panting ; whose islanders lead,
or would lead if they knew how, delightful lives
in fishing in their smooth waters, eating the fruits
which Heaven sends, and doing no kind of work.
Others there are, small atolls with small lag-sons,
whose islets are mere rocks on which grow nothing
but the universal panting, the screw palm,
which serves the people for everything. Such
was this. It was too insignificant even to have a
name ; it was distant about two hundred miles
from the group of which it might be supposed to
be a member ; it was simply laid down on the
chart as a 'shoal,' and had, perhaps, never been
visited by any ship since its first discovery.

Moved by some impulse, perhaps, a mere
curiosity as to the capabilities of trade and the
possibility of pearls. Captain Wattles steered towards
this low-lying land.

When his boat lay upon the shallow waters

within the reef he found a group of the inhabitants
of the principal islet gathered upon the
beach. They were of the brown Polynesian race,
and were apparently preparing for a hostile reception.


Among them stood, passive, a man almost as
brown as themselves, but with fair hair and blue
eyes. He was a white man ; he was a young
white man ; he was evidently no common beachcomber
; and Captain Wattles immediately recognised,
without any doubt, the man of whom he
was in search. He was dressed in rags ; the
sleeves were torn from his jacket and his bare
arms were tattooed ; his trousers had lost most of
their legs ; he wore some kind of sandals made of
the panting leaf ; his beard was long, his hair
was hanging in an unkempt mass ; his head was
protected from the sun by an ingenious arrangement
of another leaf of the same tree. It could
be no other than Eex Armiger.

A strange feeling, akin to pity, seized on
Captain Wattles. He repressed it, as unworthy
of himself. But he did at first feel pity for
him.

The white man stood among the natives afraid
to excite their suspicion by running before them
to meet the boat : yet his eagerness was visible in
his attitude, in the trembling of his lips, in the
way in which he looked upon the boat.

He carried a short lance in his hand like all
the rest.

Captain Wattles rowed within hailing distance
of the shore. Then he stood up.

White man, ahoy ! '

The white man said something to his companions,
and stepped forward, but in a leisurely
manner, as if he was not at all anxious to speak
the boat.

He came to the water's edge and sat down.

I am an Englishman,' he said, speaking
slowly, because he was speaking a language he
had not used for three years. ' I am an Englishman.
My name is Armiger. I was the captain of
the Indian Peninsular ship '' Philippine," wrecked
on a shoal three years or so ago. I have been
living since among these people.'

Do you know their lingo ? '

Yes.'

Then tell them I am harmless and I want to
row nearer land.'

Eex turned to the men and addressed them in
their own language.

They all sat down and waited.

You may come nearer,' he said ; ' but make
no movement that may alarm them, and do not
attempt to land. They are suspicious since two
years ago a ship came down from the Ladrone

VOL. I. p

Islands and kidnapped twenty of them, including
a Malay, cast away with me.'

Here then was the interpretation of Dick's
second pantomimic fight. He did not escape, he
was kidnapped. How he got away from the
Ladrone Islands, how he found his way to
England, remains a matter hitherto undiscovered.

Captain Wattles .brought up his boat within a
few yards of the beach, but in deep water, holding
his men in readiness to give way.

Sitting in the stern he was able to talk freely
with Eex, who stood at the very edge of the
water waiting for an opportunity to leap onboard.


So,' said Captain Wattles, ' you are Cap'en
Armiger, are you ? '

Eex was astonished at the salutation.

Why ? Do you know me? '

'You see I know your name, stranger. I
confess I am sorry to find you. I thought you
were dead. I hardly calculated that I'd find you,
though I certainly did promise to keep one eye
open for you.'

Wliat promise ? ' asked Eex.

I promised We'll come to that directly.

Now, what are those black devils dancing about
for?'

The natives had jumped to their feet, and were
now shaking clubs and spears in a threatening way.

They want my assurance,' Eex said, * that
you are not a black-border.'

'Honest trading schooner,' replied Captain
Wattles. 'Tell them they may come aboard and
see for themselves. What have they got to sell ? '

What should we have on this little island ?
We live on kabobo. Do you want to buy any ?
What is your name ? '

Barnabas B. Wattles, cap en of the " Fair
Maria," lying yonder. Guess you'd like to be
aboard her. Well, business first. Let's trade
something. Got no turtle ? '

'No.'

No hoche de mer ? No copra P '

We have nothing.'

^ Very well, then,' said Captain Wattles. ' After
business, pleasure. Mate, I guess you are tired of
this gem of the sea — eh ? '

So tired,' replied Eex Armiger, ' that if you
had not turned up I believe I should have made a
raft out of the panting leaves and tried my luck.'

Then I'm devilish glad we came,' said Captain
Wattles. ' The more so as I have a little bargain
to propose before you come aboard my craft.'

Any bargain that's fair.'

I guess this is quite fair and honourable,' the
Captain went on. ' You have been a beachcomber
upon this island for nigh upon three years.
Three years is a long time. The gell you were in

p 2

love with has likely got tired of waiting. Your
name is wrote off the books ; your ship is long
since posted ; your friends have put on mourning

for you '

' What's the good of so much talk? ' interrupted
Eex. ' I want to be taken off this island. Wliat's
your bargain ? '

Fair and easy, lad. Let me have my talk
out.' Captain Wattles looked at him with a
curious expression. ' Why, you are as good as
dead already.'

What do you mean ? '

I mean this. There's one or two men who
would like you to be dead. I'm one of those.
What's more, I ain't going', for my part, to be the
means of restoring you to life. No, sir. I don't
exactly wish you dead, and yet I don't want to
see you alive in England '

This was said with great decision.

Eex listened with amazement.

What harm have I ever done to you, man ? '
he cried. ' You wish me dead ? '

There's no use keeping secrets between us two,*
continued the strange trader. ' Look here, three
years ago, before you got command of the
Philippine," you were in love with a certain
young lady who lives at Eotherhithe.'

Go on. For God's sake, go on.'

That sweet young thing, sir, whom it's a

privilege to know and a pride to fall in love with,
peaked and pined more than a bit, thinking' about
you and wondering' where you were.'

Poor Lai ! dear Lai ! '

'Yes, she was real faithful and kindhearted,
that gell. Her friends, and especially her mother,
who takes a kind of pleasure in reckoning up the
dead men she knows located at the bottom of the
briny, gave you up. But she never gave you up.
No, never.'

'Poor Lai! dear Lai!'

The tears stood in the castaway's eyes as he
at and listened. Behind him the men of the
island stood like wild beasts on the alert, waiting
for the moment of flight or attack. And also like
wild beasts, they were never certain whether to
fly or to light.

No one like that gell, sir, no one,' continued
Captain Wattles ; ' which is all the more reason
why other fellows want to cut in.*

Eex beq^an to understand.

Among other fellows is myself, Barnabas B.
Wattles. Very good. Now you see why I would
rather hear that you were dead than alive, and
why I'm darned disappointed to meet you here.
However, you are on about as desolate a place as
I know of, that's one comfort.'

The fact brought no comfort to Eex, but quite
the reverse.

Mate, I want to tell you the whole story fair
and above board. I will tell you no lies. Therefore,
you may trust what I say. And first let
me know how you came here, and all about it.'

Kex told his story. It was all as Lai had
divined from Dick's action. They sighted the
island, being then half dead with hunger, and with
difficulty managed to paddle themselves ashore.
They were seized by the natives, and a consultation
was held whether they should be killed. They
were spared.

Life on that island is necessarily simple. The
people live entirely on kabobo, which is a sort of
rough bread made of the panting nut. They
have no choice, because there is nothing else to
live upon. It is the only tree that grows upon
this lonely land. Kabobo is said to be wholesome,
but it is monotonous.

Eex explained briefly that he had learned to
talk with them, and won by slow degrees their
confidence ; that he had taught them a few simple
things, and he was regarded by them with some
sort of affection ; that, after a year's residence on
the island, a ship came in sight, but did not anchor.
That a boat put off, manned by an armed crew,
who, when the people came down to meet them,
half disposed to be friendly, attacked them, killed
some, and carried off others, among whom was
the Malay. This made them extremely suspicious.

Since that event nothing had happened ; nothing
but the slow surge of the wave upon the reef and
the sigh of the wind in the panting trees.

Now that you have come,' Eex concluded,.
you who know — her,' he added cheerfully,
though his heart was heavy in thinking of the
bargain, ' you will take me off this island — for her
sake.'

For her sake .^ ' echoed Captain Wattles.
Man alive ! It is for her sake that I won't do no
such silly thing. JSTo, sir. You understand that
she thinks you're alive. Very good then. Been'
a faithful gell, she keeps her word with you.
Once she knows you are dead, why, there will bea
chance for another chap. And who so likely as
the man ^ who came all the way out here to
discover that interesting' fact ? See, pard ? '

Good God ! ' cried Eex. ' Do you mean
that you will leave me here and say I am dead .^ '

That is exactly what 1 am coming to, Cap'en
Armiger. I take it, sir, that you air a sensible
man, and I have been told that you know better
than most which way that head of yours is screwed
on. You can understand what it is to be in love
with that most beautiful creature. What you've
got to do is to buy your freedom.'

How am I to buy my freedom ? '

I've thought of this meeting, sir .' — this was
a happy invention of the moment — ' and I considered

within myself what would be best. The
easiest way out of it, the way most men would
choose, would be to get up a little shindy with
those brown devils there and to take that opportunity
of dropping a bead into your vitals. That
way, I confess, did seem to me, at first sight, the
best. By why kill a man when you needn't ? I
know it's foolish, but I should like to go back to
that young creature without thinking that she'd
disapprove if she knew.'

Eex sprang to his feet. The man who lay
there in the stern of the boat, six feet from the
shore, his head upon his hands, calmly explaining
why he did not murder him, was going back to
England to marry Lai — his Lai. To marry her !
He threw up his arms and was speechless with
rage and horror.

Behind him the savages stood grouped, waiting
for any sign from him to fly or rush upon the
strangers with their spears.

The day was perfectly calm, the sea was
motionless in the land-locked water, and, in the
calm and peace of the hot noonday, the words
fell upon his brain like words one hears in a
ghastly dream of the night.

Yes,' the man went on, ' I want to do what
is right, and this is my proposal, Cap'en Armiger.
I know you can be trusted, because I've made
enquiries. Some Englishmen can lie like Eoo-

sans, but some can't. You, I am told, are one
of that sort who can't. Promise me to drop your
own name, not to go back to England for twenty-years
at least, never to let out that you are Eex
Armiger, to stay in these seas, and I'll take you
aboard my schooner and land you at Levuka or
Honolulu, or wherever you please. Come, you
may even go to Australia if you like. As for
names, I'll lend you mine. You shall have the
name of my brother, Jacob B. Wattles, now in
Abraham's bosom. He won't mind, and if he
does, it don't matter. As for work, there's plenty
to get and plenty to do among these islands.
There's the labour traffic ; there's pearl-fishing ;
there's trading. You may live among them,
marry among them, turn beach-comber for life ;
you may get to Fiji and run a plantation.
Cap'en Armiger, if I were you, I would rather
not go back.

As for this place, now, I don't suppose a
man grows to get a yearning for kabobo for a
permanence, and on this darned one-horse island
there doesn't seem much choice outside the panting
tree. Likewise, those young gentlemen
with their toothpick are not quite the company
you were brought up to, I reckon. Whereas,
except for the missionaries, who spoil everything,
I don't suppose there's better company to be got
anywhere in this world than you'll-find in this

ocean when I land you on an island worth the
name. At Honolulu, for instance, there's cobblers

and champagne, and Wal, I'd rather

live there, or in one or two other islands that I
know, than anywhere in Europe or the States.
And so would you, come to look at things
rio;htlv.'

Eex still kept silence, pacing on the narrow
beach.

As for being dead, you've been dead for
three years, so that can't be any objection. Why,
man, I give you life; I resurrect you. Think* of
that !

As for being altered, you are so changed
that your own mother would not know you again.
No fear of any old friends recognising you. And,
so far as a few dollars go to start with, say the
word and you shall have them, with a new rig-out.'


Still Eex made no reply.

There is my offer, plain and open. I'm
sorry for you, Cap'en Armiger, I really am,
because she's out an' out the best set-up gell that
walks. But two men can't both have her. And
I mean to be the man that does — not you. And
all is fair in love.'

And if I refuse your offer ? '
Then, Cap'en Armiger, you stay just where
you now happen to be. And a most uncomfortable

location. Now, sir, make no error. Since
the day that you landed on this island, have you
seen mary a sail on the sea? No. Ships don't
come here. Even the Germans at Yap know-that
it's no manner of good coming here. You are
out of the reach of hurricanes, so you can't
expect so much as a wreck. You are hundreds
of miles from any land ; you have got no tools to
make a raft, and no provisions to put aboard her
if you could make one ; you are altogether lonely,
and hopeless, and destitute. Eobinson Crusoe
hadn't a more miserable a look-out. As for that
young lady, you have no chance, not the least
mite of a chance, sir, of seeing her ever again.
You have lost her. Why, then, give her another
chance, and let me say you are dead. Cap'en,
you can write — that's another of my conditions —
a last dying will and testament on a bit o' paper,
which I will send her. Come, be reasonable.'

Eex stood still, staring blankly before him.
On the one hand, liberty and life — for to stay
upon the island was death ; on the other, perhaps
a hopeless prison.

Yet — Lai Eydquist ! If she mourned him as
one dead, would it hurt to let her mourn until
she forgot him .^ He shuddered as he thought of
her marrying the cold-blooded villain before him.
Perhaps she would never marry anyone, but goon
in sadness all her days.

I am happy to say that the third course open
to him — to give his parole and then to break it
did not occur to him as possible.

He decided according to the nobler way.

Go without me he said. And then, without
a word of reproach or further entreaty, he left
the beach and walked away, and was lost among
the palm-trees standing thickly upon the thin and
sandy soil.

Captain Wattles gazed after him in admiration.


There goes,' he said, ' one of the real old
sort. Bully for the British bulldog yet ! '

The group of savages stood still, looking on
and wondering. They suspected many things :
that their white prisoner would run away with
the boat ; that the crew might fire upon them or
try to kidnap them. They also hoped a few
things, such as that the white captain would give
them things, fine beads, fine coloured stuffs, or
rum to get drunk with. Yet nothing happened.
Then Captain Wattles, seeing that Eex Armiger
had disappeared, bethought him of something.
And he began to make signs to the black fellows
and to show them from the stern of his boat
things wonderful and greatly to be desired, and
at the same time he gave certain directions to his
crew.

Thereupon the savages, moved with the envy

and desire of those things, did with one accord
advance a few yards nearer.

Captain Wattles spread out more things,
holding them up in the sun for their admiration,
and making signs of invitation.

They then divided into two groups, of whom
one retreated and the other advanced.

Captain Wattles next displayed a couple of
most beautiful knives, the blades of which, when
he opened them, flashed in the sun in a most
surprising manner. And he pointed to two of
the islanders, young and stalwart fellows, and
invited them by gestures to come into the water
and take these knives.

The crew meantime remained perfectly motionless,
hands on oars. Only those experienced
in rowing might have observed that their oars
were well forward ready for the stroke.

The advanced group again separated into two
more groups, of which one consisting of a dozen
of the younger men, including the two invited,
advanced still nearer, until they were close to the
water's edge, and the others retreated further
back. All of them, both those behind and those
in front, remained watchful and suspicious, like a
herd of deer.

Presently the two singled out plunged into the
water and swam out to the boat. At first they
swam round it, while Captain Wattles continued

to smile pleasantly at them and to exhibit the
knives. Also the crew dipped their oars without
the least noise, and with a half stroke, short and
sharp, not moving their bodies, got a little way
upon the boat. The swimmers, with their eyes
upon the knives, did not seem to notice this
manoeuvre. Nor did they suspect though the
oars were dipped again and the boat fairly
moving.

For just then they made up their minds that
Captain Wattles was a kind and benevolent
person, and-they swam close to the stern of the
vessel and held up their hands for the knives.

It is very well known that the Polynesian
natives have long and thick black hair, which
they tie up in a knot at the top of their
heads.

What, then, was the surprise of these two
poor fellows to find their top-knots grasped, oneby
Captain Wattles, and the other by this interpreter,
and their own heads held hinder water
till they were half drowned, while the crew gave
way and the boat shot out to sea.

There was a wild yell of the natives on shore,
and a rush to the water. But the boat was too
far out for missiles to reach or shouts to terrify.

Now,' said Captain Wattles, when the half-drowned
fellows were hauled up the ship's side,

we didn't exactly want this kind o' cargo, and I
had hoped to have stuck to legitimate trade.
Wal! this will make it very awkward for the
next ship which touches here, and I don't think it
will add to Captain Armiger's popularity. After
all,' he added, ' I doubt I was a fool not to finish
this job and have done with it. Who knows
but some blundering ship may find out the place
by mistake and pick him up ? '

When the ' Fair Maria ' returned to Sydney,
some months later, the very first thing Captain
Wattles did was .to put into the post a bulky
letter.

Like Captain Borlinder he had written a
Narrative. Unlike that worthy's story, this had
all the outward appearance of vraisemblance. I
would fain enrich this history with it, at length,
but forbear. Yet it was a production of remarkable
merit, combining so much that was true with
so much that was false.

As a basis we may recall the history, briefly
touched upon, of the kidnapping by the ship from
the Ladrone.

This story put Captain Wattles upon the track
of as good a tale of adventure, ending with the
death of Eex Armiger, as was ever told. Some
day, perhaps, with changed names, it may see the
light as a tale for boys.

The local colouring was excellent, and the

writer's knowledge of the natives made every
detail absolutely correct. It ended by an appeal,
earnest, religious, to Lai's duties as a Christian.
No woman, said Captain Barnabas, was allowed
to mourn beyond a term ; nor was any woman (by
the Levitical law) allowed to consider herself as
belonging to one man, should that man die.
Wherefore, he taught her, it was her bounden
duty to accept the past as a thing to be put away
and done with.

We forget,' he concluded, ' the sorrows of
childhood ; the hopes and disappointments of
early youth are remembered no more by healthy
minds. So let it be with the memory of the
brave and good man who loved you, doubtless
faithfully as you loved him. Do not hide it, or
stifle it. Let it die away into a recollection of
sadness endured with resignation. I would to
Heaven that it had been my lot to touch upon
this island, where he lived so long, before the
fatal event which carried him off. I would that
it had been my privilege to bring him home with
me to your arms. I cannot do this now. But
when I return to England, and call at Seven
Houses, may it be my happiness to administer
that consolation which becomes one who bears"
my christian-name.'

This was very sweet and beautiful. Licked,
Captain Wattles had a poetical spirit, and would

doubtless have written most sweet verses had he
turned his attention to that trade.

After the letter was posted, he was sitting in a
verandah, his feet up, reading the latest San Francisco
paper. Suddenly he dropped it, and turned
white with some sudden shock.

His friends thought he would faint, and made
haste with a nobler which he drank. Then he
sat up in his chair and said solemnly :

I have lost the sweetest gell in all the world,
through the earnest folly ! Don't let any man
ask me what it was. I had the game in my own
hands, and I threw it away. Mates! I shan't
never — no, never — be able to hold my head up
again. A nobler ? Ten cobblers ! '

The letter reached England in due course, and,
for reasons which will immediately appear, was
opened by Captain Zachariasenen. He read it aloud
right through twice. Then he put it down, and
the skin of his face wrinkled itself in a thousand
additional crow's-feet, and a ray of profound
wisdom beamed from his sagacious eyes, and he
said slowly :

'Mrs. Eydquist, ma'am, I said at first go off
that I didn't trust that Yankee any more than the
Borlinder lubber. Blame me if they ain't both in
the same tale. You and me, ma'am, will live
to see ! '

VOL. I. Q.

I hope we may, Captain Zachariasenen ; I hope
we may. Last night I lay awake three hours, and
I heard voices. We have yet to learn what these
voices mean. Winding-sheets in candles I never
knew to fail, but voices are uncertain.'

CHAPTER IX.

THE GREAT GOOD LUCK OF CAPTAIN" Hostis.

The clumsy cheat of Captain Borlinder brought
home to Lai the sad truth that nobody, except
herself and perhaps Captain Holstius, believed
Rex could still be living. Even the Doctor of the
Aryan,' who called every time the ship came
home, frankly told her that he could not think it
possible for him to be anywhere near the track of
ships without being heard of. The Company had
sent to every port touched by Pacific traders, and
to every missionary station, asking that enquiry
should be made, but nothing had been heard.
All the world had given him up. There came a
time when anxiety became intolerable, with results
to nerve and brain which might have been expected
had Lai's friends possessed any acquaintance
with the diseases of the imagination.

'I must do something,' she said one day to
Captain Holstius, who remonstrated with her for
doing too much. ' I must be working ; I cannot
sit still. All day I think of Rex — all night I see

Q 2-

Eex — waiting on the shore of some far-off land,
looking at me with reproachful ej^es, which ask
why I do not send someone to take him away.
In my dreams I try to make him understand —
alas! he will not hear me, and only shakes his
head when I tell him that one man is looking for
him now, and another will follow after.'

Captain Holstius, slowly coming to the conclusion
that the girl was falling into a low condition,
began to cast about, in his thoughtful way, for a
remedy. He took a voyage to Norway to think
about it.

Very much to Lai's astonishment, he reappeared
a month later, without his ship. He
told her, looking a little ashamed of himself, that
he had come by steamer, and that he had made a
little plan which, with her permission, he would
unfold to her.

I drew the shortest straw he said ; ' otherwise
I should have gone long ago. Now, without
waiting for Captain Wattles, who may be an
honest man or he may not be '

Not be,' echoed the Patriarch.

I mean to go at once.'

Lai clasped her hands.

But there is another thing,' he went on.
Lai, my dear, it isn't good for you to sit here
waiting ; it isn't good for you to be looking upon
that image all day long as well as all night.'

It never leaves me now,' she cried, the tears
in her eyes. ' Why, I see him now, as I see him
always while you ' are talking — while we are all
sitting here.'

Indeed, to the girl's eyes, the figure stood out
clear and distinct.

See ! ' she said, ' a low beach with palm-trees,
such as you read to me about last year. He
is on the sands, gazing out to sea. His eyes meet
mine. Oh, Eex — Eex! how can I help you?
What can I do for you F ' •

Captain Holstius shuddered. It seemed as if
he, too, saw this vision.

Captain Zachariasenen said that mimicking
was apt to spread in a family like measles.

Then,' Lai dear,' said Captain Holstius, ' hear
my plan. I have sold my share in the ship. I
got a good price for it — three hundred pounds.
I am ready to start tomorrow. But I fear that
when I am gone you will sit here and grieve
worse because I shall not be here to comfort you.
It is the waiting that is bad. So ' — 'he hesitated
here, but his blue eyes met Lai's with an honest
and loyal look — ' so, my dear, you must trust
yourself to me, and we will go together and look
for him.'

Go with you .^ '

Yes ; go with me. With my three hundred
pounds we can get put from port to port, or pay

the captain of a trader to sail among the Carbines
with us on board. I daresay it will be rough,
but ship captains of all kinds are men to be
trusted, you know, and I shall be nth you. You
will call me your brother, and I shall call you my
sister, if you like.'

To go with him ! Actually to sail away across
the sea in quest of her lover ! To feel that the
distance between them was daily growing less !
This seemed at first sight an impossible thing,
more unreal* than the vision of poor Eex.

To be sure such a plan would not be settled ina
day. It was necessary to get permission from
Mrs. Eydquist, whose imagination would not at
first rise to the Platonic height of a supposed
brotherhood.

She began by saying that it was an insult to
the memory of her husband, and that a daughter
of hers should go off in broad daylight was not
what she had expected or hoped. She also said
that if Lai was like other girls she would long
since have gone into decent crape and shown
resignation to the will of Heaven. That fair warning
with unmistakable signs had been given her ;
that, after all, she was no worse off than her
mother ; with more to the same effect. Finally,
if Lai chose to go away on a wild goose chase,
she would not, for her part, throw any obstacle in
the way, but she supposed that her daughter

intended to marry Captain Holstius whether she
picked up Eex or not.

He ought, my dear,' said Captain Zachariasenen,
meaning the Norweegee, ' to have been a naval
chaplain, such is his goodness of heart. And as
gentle as a lamb, and of such are the kingdom of
heaven. You may trust yourself to him as it
were unto a bishop's apron. And if 'twill do you
any good, my pretty, to sail the salt seas o'er in
search of him, who may be for aught we know,
but we hope he isn't, lying snug at the bottom,
why take and up and go. As for the Captains,
I'll keep 'em in order, and with authority to give
a month's warning, I'll sit in the kitchen every
morning and keep 'em at it. Your mother can
go on going' on just the same with her teapot and
her clean handkerchiefs.'

This was very good of the old man, and in the
end he showed himself equal to the task, so that
Kydquist's fell off but little in reputation while
Lai was away.

As for what people might say, it was very
well known in. Eotherhithe who and of what sort
was Lai Eydquist, and why she was going away.
If unkind things were spoken, those who spoke
them might go to regions of ill repute, said the
Captains in discussion.

How the good fellows passed round the hat to
buy Lai a kit complete ; how Captain Zachariasenen

discovered that lie had a whole bag full of golden
sovereigns which he did not want, and would
never want ; how it was unanimously resolved
that Dick must go with them ; how the officers of
the ' Aryan ' for their share provided the passage-money
to San Francisco and back for this poor
fellow ; how the Director of the Company, who
had come with the Secretary to see the ' ,'
heard of it, and sneaked to Eotherhithe
unknown to anybody with a purse full of banknotes
and a word of good wishes for the girl ;
how everybody grew amazingly kind and thoughtful,
not allowing Lai to be put upon or worried,
so that servants did what they ought to do without
being looked after, and meals went on being
served at proper times, and the Captains left off
bringing things that wanted buttons ; how Mrs.
Eydquist for the first time in her life received
supernatural signs of encouragement ; and how
they went on board at last, accompanied by all
the Captains — these things belong to the great
volumes of the things unwritten.

All was done at last, and they were in the
Channel steaming against a head wind and a
chopping sea. They were second-class passengers,
of course ; money must not be wasted. But what
mattered rough accommodation .^

All the way across to New York on the * Rolling
Forties ' they had head winds and rough seas.

Yet what mattered bad weather ? It began with
a gale from the south-west in the Irish Sea which
bucket the ship about all the way from the
Mersey to Queenstown. The sailors stamped
about the deck aU night, and there was a never-ending
yo-hoeing with the dashing and splashing
of the waves over the deck. The engines groaned
aloud at the work they were called upon to do ;
the ship rolled and pitched without ceasing ; the
passengers were mostly groaning in their cabins,
and those who could get out could get no fresh
air except on the companion, for it was impossible
to go on deck ; everything was cold, wet, and
uncomfortable. Yet there was one glad heart onboard
who minded nothing of the weather. It
was the heart of the girl who was going in quest
of her lover ; so that every moment brought them
nearer to him, what mattered for rough weather ?
Besides, Lai was not sea-sick, nor was her companion,
as by profession forbidden that weakness.
When they left Queenstown the gale, which
had been south-west, became north-west, which
was rather worse for them, because it was colder.
And this gale was kept up for their benefit the
whole way across, so that they had no easy
moment, nor did the ship once cease her plunging
through angry waters, nor did the sun shine upon
them at all, nor did the fiddles leave the tables,
nor were the decks dry for a moment. Yet what

mattered wind and rain and foul weather ? For
every moment brought the girl nearer to her lost
lover.

When Lai stood on the rolling deck, clinging
to the arm of Captain Holstius, and looked across
the grey waters leaden and dull beneath the
cloudy sky, it was with a joy in her heart which
lent them sunshine.

I see Eex no longer in my dreams,' she said ;
what does that man ? '

It means, Lai,' replied Captain Holstius, who
believed profoundly that the vision was sent
direct by Providence, ' that he is satisfied, because
he knows that you are coming.'

Some of the passengers perceiving that here
was an extremely pretty girl, accompanied by a
brother — brothers are not generally loth to transfer
their sisters to the care of those who can appreciate
them more highly — endeavoured to make
acquaintance, but in vain. It was not in order to
talk with young fellows that Lai was crossing the
«)cean.

Then, the voyage having passed through like
a dream, they landed at !New York, and another
dream began in the long journey across the continent
among people whose ways and speech were
strange.

This is a journey made over land, and there
was no more endurance other than that of patience.

\

But it is a long and tedious journey which even
the ordinary traveller finds weary, while to Lai,
longing to begin the voyage of search, it was well-nigh
intolerable. Some of the passengers began
to remark this beautiful girl with eyes that looked
always westward as the train ploughed on its
westward way. She spoke little with her companion,
who was not her husband and did not
seem to be her brother. But from time to time
he unrolled a chart for her, and they followed a
route upon the ocean, talking in undertones.
Then these passengers became curious, and one or
two of them, ladies, broke through the American
reserve towards strangers and spoke to the English
girl, and discovered that she was a girl with a
story of surpassing interest. She made friends
with these ladies, and after a while she told them
her story, and how the man with whom she
travelled was not her brother at all, and not even
her cousin, but her very true and faithful friend,
her lover, more loyal than Amadis de Gaul, who
had sold all that he had and brought the money
to her that she mio^ht w herself to seek her sweetheart.
And then she told what reason she had to
believe that Eex was living, and pointed to the
Malay who had brought the message from the
sea, and was as faithful to her as any bull-dog.

They pressed her hands and kissed her ; they
wished her God-speed upon her errand, and they

wondered what hero this lover of hers could be,
since, for his sake, she could accept without offer
of reward the service, the work, the very fortune
of so good and unselfish a man.

He was no hero, in truth, poor Eex ! nor was
he, I think, so good a man as Captain Holstius ;
but he was her sweetheart, and she had given
him her word.

Yet, although she talked, although the journey
was shortened by the sympathy of these kind
friends, it was like the voyage, a strange and
unreal dream'; it was a dream to be standing in
the sunshine of California ; a dream to look upon
the broad Pacific ; a dream that her brother stood
beside her with thoughtful eyes and parted lips,
looking across the ocean on which their quest
was to be made.

Yes, Lai,' he murmured, pointing where westward
lie the lands we call Far East, ' yonder, over
the water, are the Coral Islands. They are scattered
across the sea for thousands of miles, and
on one of them sits Captain Armiger. Doubt not,
my dear, that we shall find him.'

Now it came to pass that the thing for which
a certain English girl, accompanied by a Norwegian
sea-captain, had come to San Francisco
became noised abroad in the city, and even got
into the papers, and interviews called upon Captain
Holstius begging for particulars, which he

supplied, saying nought of his own sacrifices, nor
of the money, and how it was obtained.

The story, dressed up in newspaper fashion,
made a very pretty column of news. It was
copied, with fresh dressing up, into the New York
papers, and accounts of it, with many additional
details, all highly dramatic, Avere transmitted by
the various New York correspondents — all of
whom are eminent novelists — to the London
papers. The story was copied from them by all
the country and colonial papers, whence it came
that the story of Lai's voyage, and the reason of
it became known, in garbled form, all over the
English-speaking world. But, as a great quantity
of most interesting and exciting things, including
the Irish discussion, have happened during this
year, public interest in the voyage was not sustained,
and it was presently forgotten, and nobody
enquired into the sequel.

This, indeed, is the fate of most interesting
stories as told by the papers. An excellent opening
leads to nothing.

But the report of her doings was of great
service to Lai in San Francisco. In this wise.
Among those who came to see the beautiful
English girl in search of her sweetheart was a
lady with whom she had travelled from New
York, and to whom she had told her story. This
lady brought lier husband. He was a rich man

just then, although he had recently spent a winter
and spring in Europe. A financial operation,
which was to have been a Bonanza boom, has
since then smashed him up ; but he is beginning
again in excellent heart, none the worse for the
check, and is so generous a man that he deserves
to make another pile. He is, besides, so full of
courage, resource, quickness, and ingenuity that
he is quite certain to make it. Also, he is so
extravagant that he will most assuredly lose it
again.

'Miss Eydquist,' Re said, 'my wife has told
me your story. Believe me, young lady, you
have everybody's profound sympathy, and I am
here, not out of curiosity, because I am nota
press man, but to tell you that perhaps I
can be of some help to you if you will let
me.'

My dear,' said his wife, interrupting, ' we do
not know yet whether you will let us help you,
and we are rather afraid of offering. May we
ask whether — whether you are sure you are rich
enough for what may turn out a long and expensive
voyage?'

Indeed,' said Lai, ' I do not know. Captain
Holstius sold his share in a ship, and that brought
in a good deal of money, and other friends helped
us, and I think we have about '^vq hundred
pounds left.'

That is a good sum to begin with,' said the
American. 'Now, young lady, is your — your
brother what is reckoned a smart sailor?'

Oh yes.' Lai was quite sure about this.
Everybody in the Commercial Docks always said
he was one of the best seamen afloat.'

So I should think. Now then. A week or
two ago — so that it seems providential — I had to
take over a trading schooner as she stands, cargo
and all. She's in the bay, and you can look at
her. But — she has no skipper

Now,' said his wife, ' }*sdu see how we might
help you, my dear. My husband does not care
where his ship is taken to, nor where she trades.
If it had not been for this accident of your arrival,
he would have sold her. If Captain Holstius
pleases, he can take the command, and sail wherever
he pleases.'

This was a piece of most astonishing good
fortune, because it made them perfectly independent.
And, on the other hand, it was not quite
like accepting a benefit and giving nothing in
return, because there was the trading which might
be done.

In the end, there was little profit from this
source, as will be seen.

Therefore they accepted the offer with grateful
hearts.

A few days later they were sailing across the

blue waters in a ship well manned, well found,
and seaworthy. With them* was a mate who was
able to interpret.

Then began the time which will for ever seem
to Lai the longest and yet the shortest in her life,
for every morning she sighed and said, ' Would
that the evening were here ! ' and every evening
she longed for the next morning. The days were
tedious and the nights were long. Now that they
are all over, and a memory of the past, she
recalls them, one by one, each with its little tiny
incident to mark and separate it from the rest,
and remembers all, with every hour, saying, ' This
was the fortieth day before we found him,' and
Thirty days after this day we came to the island
of my Eex.'

The voyage, after two or three days of breeze,
was across a smooth sea, with a fair wind. Lai
remembers the hot sun, the awning rigged up aft
for her, the pleasant seat that Captain Holstius
arranged for her, where she lay listening to the
plash of the water against the ship's side, rolling
easily with the long waves of the Pacific, watching
the white sails filled out, while the morning
passed slowly on, marked by the striking of the
bells.

It seemed, day after day, as her eye lay upon
the broad stretch of waters, that they were quite
alone in the world ; all the rest was a dream ; the

creation meant nothing but a boundless ocean, and
a single ship sailing s-lowly across it.

In the evening, after sunset, the stars came
out — stars she had never seen before. They are
no brighter, these stars of the equator, than those
of the North. They are not so bright ; but, seen
in the cloudless sky from the deck of the ship,
they seemed brighter, clearer, nearer. Under
their light, in the silence of the night, the girl's
heart was lifted, while her companion stood beside
her and spoke, out of his own fulness, noble
thoughts about great deeds. She felt humbled,
yet not lowered. She had never known this man
before ; she never suspected, while he sat grave
and silent among the other Captains, how his
brain was like a well undefiled, a spring of sweet
water, charged with thoughts that only come to
the best among us, and then only in times of
meditation and solitude.

Thinking of those nights, she would now, but
for the sake of Eex, fain be once more leaning
over the taffrail, listening to the slow aid measured
words of this gentle Norweegee.

As for Dick, he knew perfectly what they left
England for, and why they came aboard this
ship. At night, when they got into warm latitudes,
he lay coiled up on deck, forrard ; all day
long he stood in the bows, and gazed out to sea,
looking for the land where they were, cast ashore.

VOL. I. R

It matters little about the details of the
voyage. The first land they made was Oahu, one
of the Sandwich Islands. They put in at Honolulu
and took in fresh provisions. Then they
sailed again across a lonely stretch of ocean,
where there are no islands, where they hailed no
vessel, and where the ocean soundings are deepest.

Then they came into seas studded with groups
of islands most beautiful to look upon. But they
stayed not at any, and still Dick stood in the
bows and kept his watch. Sometimes his face
would light up as he saw, far away, low down in
the horizon, a bank of land, which might have
been a cloud. He would point to it, gaze
patiently till he could make it out, and then, as it
disappointed, would turn away and take no more
interest in it.

If you look at a map you will perceive that
there lies, north of New Guinea, a broad open
sea, some two thousand miles long, and five or
six hundred in breadth. The sea is shut in by a
group of islands, great and small, on the south,
and another group, all small, on the north. There
are thousands of these islands. No one ever goes
to them except missionaries, ships in the hoche de
mer trade, and ' blackbirds.' On some of them
are found beach-combers, men who make their
wiry, no one knows how, from isle to isle, who are
white by birth, but Polynesian in habits and

customs, as ignorant as Pagans, as destitute of
morals and culture as the savages among whom
they livie. They have long since imparted their
own vices to the people, and, as a matter of
course, learned the native vices. They are the
men who have relapsed into barbarism. Allover
the world there are found such men ; they
live among the lands where civilised men have
been, but where they do not live. On some of
these islands are missionary stations with missionary
ships.

It was among these islands that they expected
to find their castaway, or at least to hear something
of him. And first Captain Holstius put his
helm up for Kusaie, where there is a station of
the American mission.

Kusaie, besides being a missionary station,
occupies a central situation among the Carolines ;
if you look at the map you will see that it is
comparatively easy of access for the surrounding
islands. Unfortunately, however, communication
between is limited. In the harbour there lay the
missionary schooner, and a brig trading in hoche
de meer. She had returned from a cruise amonsr
the western islands. However, she had heard
nothing of any such white man living among the
natives. Nor could the missionaries help. They
knew of none who answered at all to the description
of Eex. But there were many places where

R 2

they were not permitted to land, the people being
suspicions and jealous ; and there were other
places where traders had set the people against
them so, that they were sullen and would give no
information. There was a white man, more than
one white man, living among the islands in the
great atoll of Hogoleu. There was a white man
who had lived for thirty years on Lugunor, and
had a grown-up family of dusky sons and
daughters. There were one or two more, but
they were all old sailors, deserters at first, who
had run away from their ships, and settled down
to a life of ignoble ease under the warm tropical
sun, doing nothing among the people who were
contented to do nothing but to breathe the air
and live their years and then die.

One of them, an old beach-comber of Kusaie,
who knew as much as any man can know of this
great archipelago, gave them advice. He said that
it was very unlikely a castaway would be killed even
by jealous or revengeful islanders. No doubt he
was living with the natives, but the difficulty
might be to get him away ; that the temper of
the people had been greatly altered for the worse
'by the piratical kidnapping of English, Civilian,
and Spanish ships ; and he warned them, wherever
they landed, to go with the utmost show of confidence,
and to conceal their arms, which they must,
however, carry.

From Kusaie they sailed to Ponape, where the
American missionaries have another station. Here
they stayed a day or two on shore, and were
hospitably entertained by the good people of the
station, their wives making much of Lai, and
presenting her with all manner of strange fruit
and flowers. Here the girl, for the first time,
partly comprehended what beautiful places lie
about this world of ours, and how one can never
rightly comprehend the fulness of this earth
which declared everywhere the glory of its
Maker. There are old mysterious buildings at
Ponape, the builders of which belong to a race
long since extinct, their meaning as long since
forgotten as the people who designed them. They
stand among the woods, like the deserted cities
and temples of Central America, a riddle insoluble.
As Lai stood beside those mysterious
buildings with an old missionary, he told her how,
thousands of years before, there was a race of
people among these islands who built great
temples to their unknown gods, carved idols, and
hewed the rock into massive shapes, and who
then passed away into silence and oblivion,
leaving a mystery behind them, whose secret no
one will ever discover. Lai thouf>-ht the man who
told her this, the man who had spent contentedly
fifty years in the endeavour to teach the savages,
who now dwelt here, more marvellous and more

to be admired than these mysterious remains, but
then she was no arch^ologist.

Then with more good wishes, again they put
out to sea.

They were now in the very heart of the
Caroline Archipelago. Nearly every day brought
them in sight of some island. Dick, the Malay,
in the bows, would spring to his feet and gaze
intently while the land slowly grew before them
and assumed definite proportions. Then he would
sit down again as if disappointed, and shake his
head, taking no more interest in the place. But,
indeed, they could not possibly have reached the
island they sought. That must be much farther
to the west, somewhere near the Pelew Islands.

' See, Lai,' said Captain Holstius for the
hundredth time over the chart, ' if Eex was right
as to the current and the wind, he may have
landed at any one of the Uliea Islands, or on the
Swedes, or perhaps the Philip Islands, but I cannot
think that he drifted farther east. If he was
wrong about the currents, which is not likely, he
may be on one of the Pelews, or on one of the
islands south of Yap. If he had landed on Yap
itself, he would have been sent home in one of the
Hamburg ships, long ago. Let us try them all.'

For many weeks they sailed upon those smooth
and sunny waters, sending ashore at every islet,
and learning nothing. Lapped m the soft airs of

the Pacific, the ship sailed slowly, making from
one island to another. Lai lay idly on the deck,
saying to herself, as each land came in sight,
Haply we may find him here.' But they did not
find him, and so they sailed away, to make a fresh
attempt.

Does it help to name the places where they
touched? You may find them on the map.

They examined every islet of the little groups.
They ventured within the great lagoon of Hogoleu,
a hundred miles across, where an archipelago of
islets lies in the shallow land-locked sea, clothed
with forest. The people came off to visit them,
paddling in canoes of sandal-wood ; there were
two or three ships put in for pearls and biche de
mer. Then they touched at the Enderby Islands,
theorist Islands, the Swede Islands, and the
Uliea Islands.

Perhaps,' said Captain Holstius, as they
sighted every one, ' he may have drifted here.'

But he had not.

To these far-off islands few ships ever come.
Yet from time to time there appears the white sail
of a trader or a missionary schooner, or the smoke
of an English war-vessel. The people are mostly
gentle and obliging, when they recognise that the
ship does not come to carry them off as coolies.
But to all enquiries there was but one answer —
that they had no white man among them, unless

it was some poor beach-comber living among them
and one of themselves. They knew nothing of
any boat. Worse than all, Dick shook his head
at every place, and showed no interest in the
enquiries they prosecuted.

A voyage in these seas is not without danger.
They are shallow seas, where new reefs, new coral
islands, and new shoals are continually being
formed, so that where a hundred years ago was
safe sailing, there are now rocks above the surface,
and even islands. There are earthquakes too, and
volcanic eruptions. There are islands where
plantations and villages have been swallowed up
in a moment, and their places taken by boiling
lather ; in the seas lurk great sharks, and by
the shores are poisonous fish. The people are
not everywhere gentle and trustful ; they have
learned the vices of Europe and the treacheries of
white men. They have been known to surround
a becalmed ship and massacre all on board. Yet
Captain Holstius went among them undaunted
and without fear. They did not offer him any
injury, letting him come and go unmolested.
Trust begets trust.

So they sailed from end to end of this great
archipelago and heard no news of Eex.

Then their hearts began to fail them.

But always in the bows sat Dick, searching the
distant horizon, and in his face there was the look

of one who knows that he is near the price which
he would find.

And one day, after many days' sailing — I think
they had been out of San Francisco seventy-five
days, they observed a strange thing.

Dick began to grow restless. He borrowed
the captain's glasses and looked through them,
though his own eyes were almost as good. He
rambled up and down the deck continually, scanning
the horizon.

See,' cried Lai, ' he knows the air of this
place ; he has been here before. Is there no land
in sight ? '

None.' He gave her the glass. ' I see the
line of sea and the blue sky. There is no land insight.'


Yet what was the meaning of that restlessness ?
By some sense unknown to those who have the
usual five, the man who could neither hear or
speak knew very well that he was near the place
they had come so far to find.

Captain Holstius showed his companion their
position upon the chart.

We are upon the open sea,' he said. ' Here
are the Uliea Isles two hundred miles and more
from anywhere. A little more and we shall be
outside the shallow seas, and in the deep water
aij^ain. Lai, we have searched so far in vain. He
is not in the Carolines, then where can he be ?

Nothing is between us and the Pelews excepting
this little shoal.

The charts are not always perfect. The little
shoal, since the chart was laid down, had become
an atoll, with its reef and its lagoon.

It was early morning, not long after sunrise.

While they were looking upon the chart,
which they knew by heart, the Malay burst into
the cabin and seized Lai by the hand. He dragged
her upon the deck, his eyes flashing, his lips
parted, and pointed with both hands to the horizon.
Then he nodded his head and sat down on
deck once more, imitating the action of one who
paddles.

Lai saw nothing.

The captain followed with his glasses.

Land ahead,' he said slowly, ' off the starboard
bow.'

He gave her the glasses. She looked, made
out the land, and then offered the glass to Dick,
who shook his head, pointed, and nodded again. -^

We have found the place,' cried Lai ; ' I know
it is — I feel it is — Oh, Eex, Eex, if we should find
you there ! '

As the ship drew nearer, the excitement of
the Malay increased. It became certain now that
he had recognised the place, of which nothing
could be seen except a low line of rock with white
water breaking over it.

The day was nearly calm, a breath of air
gently floating the vessel forward ; presently the
rock became clearly defined ; a low reef, of a
horseshoe shape, surrounded, save for a narrow
entrance, a large lagoon of perfectly smooth water ;
within the lagoon were visible two, or perhaps
three islands, low, and apparently with little other
vegetation than the universal panting, that beneficent
palm of the rocks which wants nothing buta
little coral sand to grow in, and provides the
islanders with food, clothing, roofs for their huts,
and sails for their canoes.

As soon as Dick saw the entrance to the lagoon
he ran to the boats and made signs that they should
lower and row to the land.

Let him have his way,' said the captain ; ' he
shall be our leader now. Let us not be too confident,
Lai, my dear but I verily believe that
we have found the place, and, perhaps, the man.'

They lowered the boat. The first to jump
into her was the Malay, who seated himself in
the bows and seized an oar. Then he made signs
to his mistress that she should come too.

They lowered her, and she sat in the stern.
Then the captain got in, and they pushed off.

What do you say, Lai ? ' asked Holstius,
looking at her anxiously.

I am praying,' she replied, with tears in her
eyes. ' And I am thinking, brother,' she laid her

hand in his, ' how good a man you are, and what
reward we can give you, and what Eex will say
to you.'

I need no reward,' he said, ' but to know
and to feel that you are happy. You will tell
Eex, my dear, that I have been your brother
since he was lost. Nothing more, Lai, never anything
else. That has been enoui2^h.'

She burst into tears.

Oh ! what shall I tell him about you ? what
shall I not tell him ? Shall I in very truth be
able to tell him anything — to speak to him again ?
Kiss me, before all these men, that they may know
how much I love my brother, and how grateful I
am, and how I pray that God will reward you out
of His infinite love.'

She laid her hand on his while he stooped his
head and kissed her forehead.

Enough of me,' he said ; ' think now of Eex.'

By this time they were in the mouth of the
lagoon. The boat passed over a bar of coral, some
eight feetdeep, and then the water grew deeper. In
this beautiful and remote spot Lai was to find her
lover. All the while the Malay looked first to the
islands and then back at his mistress, his face
wreathed ^vith smiles, and his eyes flashing with
excitement.

The sea in this lagoon was perfectly, wonderfully
transparent. The flowers of the seaweeds,

the fish, the great sea ships — the becomes de mer —
collected by so many trading vessels ; the sharks
moving lazily about the shallow water were as
easily visible as if they were on land. This
small land-locked sea was, apparently, about
three miles in diameter, bounded on all sides by
the ring of narrow rocks, and entered by one
narrow mouth. The islets, wliichhad been visible
from the ship, were four in number. The largest
one, of irregular shape, appeared to be about a
mile and a half long, and perhaps a mile broad ;
it was a low island, thinly set with the panting,
the screw palm, which will grow when nothing
else can find moisture in the sandy soil ; there
were no signs of habitation visible. The other
three islands, separated from the larger one, and
from each other, by narrow straits, were quite
small, the largest not more than two or three
acres in extent.

The place was perfectly quiet ; no sign of life
was seen or heard.

Dick pointed to the large island, which ran
out a low bend of cape towards the entrance of
the lagoon. His face was terribly in earnest, he
laughed no longer ; he kept looking from the
island to his mistress and back again. As they
drew nearer, he held up his finger to command
silence.

The men took short strokes, dipping their

oars silently, so that nothing was heard but the
grating of the oars in the rowlocks.

On rounding the cape they found a narrow
level beach of sand stretching back about a
hundred feet. This was the same place where,
five months before, Captain Wattles held his
conference with the prisoner.

Easy ! ' cried the captain.

The boat with her weigh on slowly moved on
towards the shore. There seemed on the placid
bosom of the lagoon to be no current and no tide,
nor any motion of the waters. For no fringe of
hanging seaweed lay upon the rocks, nor was
there any belt of the flotsam which lies round the
vexed shores where waves beat and winds roar.
Strange, there was not even the gentle murmur
of the washing wavelet, which is never still elsewhere
on the calmest day.

All held their breaths and listened. The air
was so still that Lai heard the breathing of the
boat's crew ; the boat slowly moved on towards
the shore. The Malay in the bows had shipped
his oar and now sat like a wild creature waiting
for the moment to spring.

Hush ! ' It was Lai who held up her
finger.

There was a sound of distant voices. The
place was not, then, uninhabited.

The boat neared the shore. When it was but

two feet or so from the shelving bank, the Malay
leaped out of the bows, alighting on hands and
knees, and ran, waving his arms, towards the
wood.

It was now three months since the offer of
freedom was brought to Eex and refused on conditions
so hard. So far the prediction of Captain
Wattles was fulfilled ; no sail had crossed the sea
within sight of the lonely island, no ship had
touched there. It was likely, indeed, that the
castaway would live and die there abandoned and
forgotten. Eex kept the probability before his
mind ; he remembered Eobinson Crusoe's famous
list of things for which he might be grateful ; he
was well ; the place was healthy ; there was food
in sufficiency though rough ; and he was-not
alone, though perhaps that fact was not altogether
a subject for gratitude.

The sun was yet in the forenoon, and Eex,
inventor-general of the island, while perfecting a
method of improving the fishing by means of nets
made of the panting fibre, was startled by the
rush of twenty or thirty of the people, seizing
clubs and spears, and shouting to each other.

The rush and the shout could mean but one
thing — a ship in sight.

He sprang to his feet, hesitated, and then
went with them.

He saw, at first, nothing but a boat close toland,

and a figure running swiftly across the
sandy beach.

What they saw, from the boat, was a group of
very ferocious natives, yelling to one another and
brandishing weapons, intent, no doubt, to slay
and destroy every mother's son. They were
darker of hue than most Polynesians ; they were
tattooed all over ; their noses and ears were
pierced and stuck with bits of tortoiseshell for
ornament ; their abundant and raven-black hair
was twisted in knots on the top of their heads.

And among them stood one with a long
brown beard ; he wore a hat made out of a palm-leaf
; his feet were bare ; his clothes were shreds
and rais ; his bare arms were tattooed like the
islanders' arms ; his hair was long and matted ;
this cheeks, his hands, arms, and feet where
bronzed ; he might have passed for a native but
for his face and hair.

It was exactly what Captain Wattles had seen,
but that the men were fiercer.

When they saw from the boat the white man,
they grasped each other's hands.

Courage, Lai,' said Captain Holstius. ' Courage
and caution.'

When Eex, among the natives, saw and recognised
Dick, his faithful servant, running to greet
him and kissing his hand ; when he saw the
people suddenly stop their shouts, and gather

curiously about their old friend, who had been
kidnapped long before with their own brother, he
stared about him as if in a dream.

Then Dick seized his master's hand and
pointed.

A ship was standing off the mouth of the
lagoon ; a boat was on the beach ; and in the

boat But just then Captain Holstius leaped

ashore, and a girl after him. And then — then —
the girl followed the Malay and ran towards him
with arms outstretched, crying :

Eex ! Eex ! '

This must be a dream. Yet no dream would
throw upon his breast the girl of whom he
thought day and night, his love, his promised wife.

Eex ! Eex ! Do you not know me ? Have
you forgotten ? '

For a while, indeed, he could not speak. The
thing stunned him.

In a single moment he remembered all the
past; the long despair of the weary time, especially
of the last three months ; the dreadful
prospect before him ; the thought of the long
years creeping slowly on, unmarked even by
spring or autumn ; the loneliness of his life ; the
gradual sinking deeper and deeper, unto the level
of the poor fellows around him ; living or dead
no one would know about him ; perhaps the girl
he loved being deceived into marrying the liar

VOL. I. s

and villain who had sat in the boat and offered
him conditions of freedom — he remembered all
these things. He remembered, too, how of late
he had thought that there might come a time
when it would be well to end everything by a
plunge in the transparent waters of the lagoon.
Two minutes of struggle and all would be over.
Death seemed a long and conscious sleep. To
sleep unconscious and without a waking, is
nothing. To sleep conscious of repose, knowing
that there will be no more trouble, is the imaginary
haven of the suicide.

Then he roused himself and clasped her to his
heart, crying :

My darling ! You have come to find me ! '

But how to get away ?

First, he took the ribbons from Lai's hat and
from her neck, and presented them to the chief,
saying a few words of friendship and greeting.

The finery pleased the man, and he tied it
round his neck, saying that it was good. The
Malay he knew, and Eex he knew, but this phenomenon
in bright-coloured ribbons he did not
understand. Could she, too, mean kidnapping ?

Meantime the boat was lying close to the
beach, and beside the bow stood Captain Holstius,
motionless, waiting.

Lnl,' said Eex. ' Go quietly back to the

boat and get in. Take Dick and make him get
into the boat with you. I will follow. Do
nothing hurriedly. Show no signs of fear.'

She obeyed; the people made no attempt to
oppose her return ; Captain Holstius helped her
into the boat. Unfortunately Dick did not obey.
He stood on the beach waiting.

Then Eex began, still talking to the people,
to walk slowly towards the ]boat. He was promising
to bring them presents from the ship ; he
begged them to stay where they were, and not to
crowd round the boat ; he bade them remember
the bad man who stole two of their brothers, and
he promised them to find out where they were
and bring them back. They listened, nodded,
and answered that what he said was good.

When he neared the boat they stood irresolute,
grasping the idea that they were going to
lose the white man who had been among them so
long.

I believe that he would have got off quietly,
but for the zeal of Dick, who could not restrain
his impatience, but sprang forward and caught
his old master in his strong arms, and tried to
carry him into the boat.

Then the islanders yelled and made for the
beach all together.

No one but Lai could tell, afterwards, exactly
what happened at this moments

2

It was this. Two of the islanders, who were
in advance of the rest, arrived at the beach just
as Dick had dragged his master into the boat.
Captain Holstius had pushed her off and was
standing by the bows, up to his knees in water,
on the point of leaping in. In a moment more
they would have been in deep water.

The black fellows, seeing that they were too
late, stayed their feet, and poised their spears,
aiming them, in the blind rage of the moment, at
the man they had received amongst themselves
and treated hospitably — at Eex. But as the
weapons left their hands, Captain Holstius sprang
into the boat, and standing upright, with outstretched
arms, received in his own breast the
two spears which would have pierced the heart of
Eex. The action, though so swift as to take buta
moment, was as deliberate as if it had been
determined upon all along.

Then all was over. Eex was safely seated in
the stern beside his sweetheart ; Dick was crouching
at his feet ; the boat was in deep water ; the
men were rowing their hardest ; the savages were
yelling on the beach ; and at Lai's feet lay, pale
and bleeding, the man who had saved the life of
her lover at the price of his own.

She laid his pale face in her lap ; she took his
cold hands in her own ; she kissed his cold forehead,
while from his breast there flowed the red

blood of his life, given, like his labour and his
substance, to her.

He was not yet quite dead, and presently he
opened his eyes — those soft blue eyes which had
so often rested upon her as if they were guarding
and sheltering her in tenderness and pity. They
were full of love now, and even of joy, for Lai
had got back her lover.

We have found him, Lai,' he murmured —
we have found him. You will be happy again
now — you have got your heart's desire.'

What could she say? How could she
reply ?

Do not cry, Lai dear. What matters for me
if — only — you — are happy ? '

They were his last words.

Presently he pressed her fingers ; his head,
upon her lap, fell over on one side ; his breath
ceased.

So Captain Holstius, alone among the three,
redeemed his pledge. If Lai was happy, what
more had he to pray for upon this earth ; What
mattered, as he said, for him ?

At sundown that evening, when the ship was
under weigh again and the reef of the lonely unknown
atoll low on the horizon, they buried the
Captain in the deep, while Eex read the Service
of the Dead.

The blood of Captain Holstius must be laid to
the charge of his rival ; the blood of all the white
men murdered on Polynesian shores must be laid
to the charge of those who have visited the island
in order to kidnap the people, and those who have
gone among them only to teach them some of the
civilisation out of which they have extracted nothings
but its vices.

As regards this little islet, the people know, in
some vague way, that they have had living among
them a man dio was superior to themselves, who
taught them things, and showed them certain
small arts, by which he improved their mode of
life ; if ever, which we hope may not be their
fate, they fall in with the beach-combers of Fiji,
Samoa, or Hawaii, they will easily perceive that
Eex Armiger was not one of them. They w^iil
remember that he was a person of such great
importance that two chiefs came to see him ; one
of them carried off two of their people, the other,
with whom was a great princess, carried off their
prisoner himself.

In a few years' time the story wall become a
myth. Some of the missionaries are great hands
at collecting folk-lore. They will land here and
will presently enquire among the people-for
legends and traditions of the past. They will
hear how, long, long ago (many years ago), they
had living among them a white person, whose

proper sphere — by birth — was the broad heaven ;
how he stayed with them a long time (many
moons) ; how one after the other white persons
came to see him, both bad and good ; for some
kidnapped their people and took them away to be
eaten alive ; how at last a goddess, all in crimson,
blue, and gold, came with a male deity and took
away their guest, who had, meantime, taught them
how to make clothes, roofs, and bread, out of the
beneficent panting ; how the companion was
killed in an unlucky scrimmage ; and how they
look forward for their return — some day.

The missionaries will write down this story
and send it home ; wise men will get hold of it,
and discuss its meaning. They will be divided
into two classes ; those who see in it a legend of
the sun-god, the princess being nothing but the
moon, and her companion the morning star ; the
other class will see in the story a corruption of
the history of Moses. Others, more learned, will
compare this legend with others exactly like it in
almost all lands. It is, for instance, the same as
the tale of Guinevere returning for Arthur, and
will quote examples from Afghanistan, Alaska,
Tierra del Fuego, Borneo, the valleys of the
Lebanon, Scotia, Central America, and the Faroe
Isles.

Five weeks later Lai Alas married at San

Francisco. The merchant who lent her the
schooner gave her a country house for her honeymoon.


She ought,' said Eex, ' to have married the
man who gave her himself, all his fortune, and
his very life. I am ashamed that so good a man
has been sacrificed for my sake.'

No, sir,' said the Californian ; ' not for your
sake at all, but for hers. We may remember
some words about laying down your life for your
friends. Perhaps it is worth the sacrifice of a life
to have done so good and great a thing. If there
were many more such men in the world, we
might shortly expect to see the gates of Eden
open again.'

Unfortunately,' said Eex, ' there are more
like Captain Wattles.'

Yes, sir ; I am sorry he is an American.
But you can boast your Borlinder, dio is, I believe,
an Englishman.'

The account of Lai's return and the death of
Captain Holstius duly appeared in the San Francisco
papers. It was accompanied by strictures
of some severity upon the conduct of Captain
Barnabas B. Wattles, dio was compared to the
skunk of his native country.

It was this account, with these strictures,
which the Son of Consolation found in the paper
after posting his packet of lies.

Further, a Sydney paper asked if the Captain
Barnabas B. Wattles, of the ' Fair Maria,' was
the same Captain Wattles who behaved in the
wonderful manner described in the Californian
papers.

He wrote to say he was not.

From further information received, it presently
appeared to everybody that he was that
person.

He has now lost his ship, and I know not
where he is nor what occupation he is at present
following.

It remains only to suggest, rather than to
describe, the joyful return to Seven Houses. We
may not linger to relate how Mrs. Eydquist, who
still found comfort in wearing additional crape to
her widow's weeds for Eex, now kept it on for
Captain Holstius, calling everybody's attention to
the wonderful accuracy of her predictions : how
Captain Zachariasenen first sang a Nunc dimittis,
loudly proclaiming his willingness to go since
Lai was happy again ; and then explained, lest
he might be taken at his word, that perhaps it
would be well to remain in order to experience
the fulness of wisdom which comes with ninety
years. He also takes great credit to himself for
the able reading he had given of the muni-picking.


The morning after their arrival, Eex, looking

for his wife, found her in the kitchen, making
the pudding with her old bib on, and her white
arms flecked with Hour, just as he remembered
her three years before. Beside her, the Patriarch
slept in the wooden chair.

It is all exactly the same,' he said ; ' yet with
what a difference ? And I have had three years
of the kabobo. Lai, you are going to begin again
the old housekeeping ? '

She shook her head and laughed, Then the
tears came into her eyes.

The Captains like this pudding,' she said.
Let me please them once more, Eex, while I
stand here looking through the window, at the
trees in the churchyard and through the open
door into the garden, and when I listen to the
noise of the docks and the river, and for the
white sails beyond the church, and watch the
dear old mean asleep there beside the fire, I cannot
believe but that I shall hear another step, and
turn round and see beside me, with his grave
smile and tender eyes. Captain Holstius, standing
as he used to stand in the doorway, watching me
without a word.'

Eex kissed her. He could hear this talk
without jealousy or pain. Yet it will always
seem to him somehow, as if his wife has missed a
better husband than himself, a feeling which maybe
useful in keeping down pride, vain conceit,

and over masterfulness ; vices which mar the conjugal
happiness of many.

He could never have been my husband,' the
young wife went on in her happiness, thinking
she spoke the whole truth ; ' not even if I had
never known you. But I loved him, Eex.'

ALL THE PEOPLE STANDING.

When the sun rose over northern England on a
certain Sunday early in May — year of grace 1764
it was exactly four o'clock in the morning. As
regards the coast of Northumberland, he sprang
with a leap out of a perfectly smooth sea into a
perfectly cloudless sky, and if there were, as
generally happens, certain fogs, mists, clouds, and
vapours lying about the moors and fells among the
Cheviotss, they were too far from the town of
Wark worth for its people to see them. The long
cold spring was over at last ; the wallflower on the
castle wall was in blossom ; the pale primroses
had not yet all gone ; the lilac was preparing to
throw out its blossoms ; the cuckoo was abroad ;
the swallows were returning wttli tumultuous
rush, as if they had had quite enough of the
sunny south, and longed again for the battlements
of the castle and the banks of Coquet ; the woods
were full of song ; the nests were full of young

birds, chirping together, partly because they were
always hungry, partly because they were rejoicing
in the sunshine, and all the living creatures in
wood and field and river were hurrying, flying,
creeping, crawling, swimming, running, with
intent to eat each other out of house and home.

The eye of the sun fell upon empty streets
and closed houses — not even a poacher, much less
a thief or burglar, visible in the whole of Northumberland
; and if there might be here and
there a gipsies' tent, the virtuous toes of the
occupants peeped out from beneath the canvas,
with never a thought of snaring hares or stealing
poultry. Even in Newcastle, which, if you come
to think of it, is pretty well for wickedness, the
night-watchmen slept in their boxes, lanterns long
since extinguished, and the wretches who had no
beds, no money, and slender hopes for the next
day's food, slept on the bunks and stalls about the
market. Nothing stirred except the hands of the
church clocks ; and these moved steadily ; the
quarters and the hour were struck. But for the
clocks, the towns might have been so many cities
of the dead, each house a tomb, each bed a silent
grave. The Northumbrian folk began to get up —
a little later than usual because it was Sunday —
first in the villages and farmhouses, next in the
small towns ; last and latest, in Newcastle, which
was ever a lie-abed city.

Wark worth is quite a small town, and a great
way from Newcastle. Therefore the people began
to get up and dress about five. There were
several reasons which justified them in being so
early. Even on Sunday morning pigs and poultry
have to be fed, cows to be milked, and horses to
be groomed. Then there is the delightful feeling,
peculiar to Sunday morning, that the earlier you
get up, the longer you may lean with your
shoulder against the door-post. Some men, on
Sundays and holy-days, like to lie at full-length
upon the grass, and gaze into the depths of the
sky, till thirst impels them to rise and seek solace
of beer. Some love to turn them in their beds asa
door turneth upon its hinges ; some delight to
sit upon a rail ; but the true Northumbrian loveth
to stand with his shoulder hitched against a doorpost.
The attitude is one which brings repose to
brain and body.

There is only one street in Warkworth. Atone
end of it is the church, and at the other end
is the castle. The street runs uphill from church
to castle. In the year 1764, the castle was more
ruinous than it showed in later years, because the
keep itself stood roofless, its stairs broken, and its
floors fallen in — a great shell, echoing thunderous
with all the winds. As for the walls,
the ruined gateways, the foundations of the chapel,
the yawning vaults, and the gutted towers, they

VOL. I. T

have always been the same since the destruction
of the place. The wallflowers and long grasses
grew ii]3on the broken battlements ; blackberries
and elder-bushes occupied the moat ; the boys
climbed upto perilous places by fragments of broken
steps ; the swallows flew about the lofty keep ; the
green vvoods hung upon the slopes above the
river, and the winding Coquet rolled around the
hill on which the castle stood — a solitary and
deserted place. Yet in the evening there was one
corner in which the light of a fire could always be
seen. It came from a chamber beside the great
gateway — that which looks upon the meadows to
the south. Here lived the Fugleman. He had
fitted a small window in the wall, constructed a
door, built up the broken stones, and constituted
himself, without asking leave of my Lord of
Northumberland, sole tenant of Wark worth
Castle.

I think there has always been about the same
number of people and houses in Warkworth. If
you reflect for a moment you will perceive that
this must be so, partly because there is no room
for any more on the river-washed peninsula upon
which the town is built, and partly because while
the same trades are practised for the same portion
of country there must be the same number of
craftsmen, and no more. You may expect, for
instance, in every town, a shop where you can buy

all the tidings which you must have yet cannot
make for yourself, such as sugar, treacle, tape,
cotton stuffs, flannel, needles, and thread. In
country towns the number of things which can be
made at home — and well made too — is more than
dwellers where there are shops for every tliino-
would understand. In Warkworth, for example,
there is a blacksmith — a man of substance,
because everybody Avants him and would pay him
well ; there is a carpenter and wheelwright, also a
man to be respected, not only for his honourable
craft, but also for the fields and meadows which
he has bought ; a tailor — but he is a starveling,
because most people in Northumberland repair, if
they do not make, at home ; a cobbler, who has
two apprentices and keeps both at work, because
nobody but a cobbler can get inside a boot, to
make or mend it ; and a barber, who also has two
apprentices. There is no baker, because all the
bread is baked at home, which is one, among
many reasons, wdiy country life in this eighteenth
century is so delightful ; there is no brewer,
because everybody, down to the cottager, brews
his own beer — the old stingo, the humming
October, and the small beer for the maids and
children. Yet, for the sake of companionship,
conversation, song, and the arrangement of
matches, there must be an ale-house, with a settle
round three sides of the room and another out

2

side ; and for the quality there must be an inn.
There need be no place for the buying and selling
of butter, eggs, milk, or cream, because people
who have no cows are fain to go without these
luxuries, or else to beg and borrow. There need
be no butcher, because the farmers kill and send
word to the gentry when beef or mutton may be
had. There is no apothecary, because every
woman in the parish knows what are the best
simples for any complaint and where to find them.
There is no bookseller, because nobody at Walworth
ever wanted to read at all, and very few
know how ; one excepts the Vicar — who may read
the Fathers in Greek and Latin — and his Worship
Mr. Cuthbert Carnaby, Justice of the Peace, who
reads ' The Gentleman's Magazine,' to which he
once contributed a description of Warkworth.
There is, in fact, a singular contempt for literature
in the town, and it is, I believe, a remarkable
Northumbrian characteristic. There are no undertakers,
because in this county people have grown
out of the habit of dying, so that except in Newcastle,
where people fight and kill each other, the
trade can only be carried on at a loss ; and there
are no lawyers, because the townsfolk of Walworth
desire to have nothing to do with law, and
are only concerned with one of the many laws by
which good order is maintained in this realm of
England — that, namely, which forbids the landing

of Geneva and brandy on the banks of the Coquet
without vexatious and tedious ceremonies, including
payment of hard money. If you, who live in
great towns, consider the trades, crafts, and mysteries
by which men get a living in these latter
days, you will presently understand that most of
them are unnecessary for the simple life.

When the first comers had looked up the
street and down the street, straight through and
across each other, and examined the sky and inspected
the horizon, and obtained all possible information
about the weather, they gave each other
the good-morning, and asked for opinions on the
subject of hay. Then one by one they went back
to their houses — which are of stone, having very
small windows nth bull's-eye glass in leaden
casements, and red-tiled roofs — and presently
came out bearing with them their breakfast, such
as two or three kned- cakes, or a chunk of three
weeks' old bread, or a sUce of bread-and-dripping,
or bread and fat pork, or a pewter platter of
bread and beef even, with a great pewter mug of
small ale. They consumed their breakfast side
by side in good fellowship, standing on the cobble-stones
or leaning against the door-posts, taking
time over it : first a mouthful and then a drink,
then a period of reflection, then a remark, and then
another mouthful. They mostly had the Northumbrian
face, which I am told is the Norwegian

face — an-oval shape, with soft hie eyes ; with
the face goeth a gentle voice and a slow manner
of speech. They are a folk born by nature with
so deep a love of life that they desire nothing
better than to 'stretch out and prolong the present.
Time, who is an inexorable tyrant, will not allow
so much as a single moment to be stretched. Yet,
by dint of slow motion, slow speech, a steady
clinging to old customs, never doing to-day anything
different from what you did yesterday and
the day before, always talking the same talk at
the same times, so that every duty of each season
has its formula, wearing the same clothes, eating
the same food, sitting in the same place, and
avoiding all temptation to change, it is quite
astonishing how the semblance of sameness maybe
given to time so that the whole of life shall
seem, at the end of it, nothing but one delightful
moment stretched out and prolonged for threescore
years and ten.

After breakfast, for two hours by the clock
they fell to stroking of stubbly chins and to
wondering when the barber would be ready.
This could not be until stroke of nine at least,
because he had to comb, dress, and powder first
the Vicar's wig for Sunday. Heaven forbid that
the Church should be put off with anything short
of a wig newly combed and newly curled ! And
next the wig of his Worship Cuthbert Carnaby,

Esquire, Justice of the Peace and second cousin
to this lordship the Earl of Northumberland, newly
succeeded to the title. When this was done the
barber addressed himself to the chins and cheeks
of the townsfolk, and this with such dexterity
and despatch that before the church-bell began
he lead them all despatched and turned off. And
then their countenances were glorious, and shone
in the sun like unto the face of a mirror, and felt
as smooth to the enamoured finger as the chin
and cheek of a maid. Thus does Art improve
and correct Nature. The savage who heareth
beard knoAVS not this delight.

It was a day on which something out of the
common was to happen ; a day on which expectation
was on tiptoe ; and when at ten o'clock
the first stroke of the chm^ch-bell began, all the
boys with one and the same design turned their
steps — slowly at first, and as if the business did
not greatly matter, yet should be seen into —
towards the church-yard. They were all in
Sunday best ; their hair smooth, their hands
white, their shoes brushed, and their stockings
clean ; they moved as if drawn by invisible ropes ;
as if they could not choose but go ; and whereas
on ordinary Sundays not a lad among them all
entered the church till the very hist toll of the
bell, on this day they made straight for the porch
at the first, and this, although they knew that if

they once set foot within it, they must pass straight
on without hungering, into the church, and so take
their seats, and have half an hour longer to wait
in silence and good-behaviour, w^tli liability to
discipline. For a rod is ever ready in church as
well as at home, for the back of him who shows
himself void of understanding. The Fugleman,
who wielded that rod, was strong of arm ; and no
boy could call himself fortunate, or boast that he
had escaped the scourge of folly till the service
was fairly done.

As regards the girls, who were still in the
houses, at the first stroke of the bell they, too,
hastened to put the finishing touch, with a ribbon
and a white handkerchief, to the Sunday frock.
And then, a good half an hour before the time,
which was truly wonderful, they, like the boys,
hastened to the church. At the first stroke of
the bell the men, too, proceeded to equip them
with the Sunday church-going clothes, which
were very nearly the same in all weathers, to wit,
every man wore his wide horseman's coat, his
long waistcoat with sleeves, his thick woollen
stockings, and his shoes, with steel buckles or
without, according to their station. Thus attired
they turned their faces all to the same point of
the compass, and heavily, yet with resolution and
set purpose, rolled down the hill into the churchyard.


Out in the fields, and in the fair meadows,
and down the riverside, and along the quiet
country paths, and among the woods which hang
above the winding of the Coquet, the sound of
the bell quickened the steps of those who were
leisurely making their way to church, so that
every man put best foot forrard, with a ' Hurry
up, lad ! Lose not this morning's sight ! Be intime
! Quick, laggard ! ' and so forth, each to the
other ; those who were on horseback broke into
a trot, and laughed at those who were afoot ; the
old women cried, alas ! for their age, by reason of
which limbs are stiff and folks can go no faster
than they may, and so they might be too late for
the best part of the show ; the old men cursed the
rheumatism which stiffened their knees, and bent
their hips, and took the spring out of feet which
would fain be elastic still, wherefore they must
perhaps lose the first or opening scene. And the
boys and girls who were with them took hands,
and instead of walking with the respectful slow
step which should mark the Sabbath, broke away
from the elders, and raced, with a whoop and a
holly, across the grass, a scandal to the mild-eyed
kine, who love the day to be hallowed and kept
holy.

At Morwick Mill, Mistress Barbara Humble
would not go to church, though her brother did.
Nor would she let any other of the household go,

neither her man nor her maid, nor the stranger,
if any, that was within her gates ; but at half-past
ten of the clock she called them together, and
read aloud the Penitential Psalms and the Commination
Service.

The show, meantime, had begun. At the
first stroke of the bell there walked forth from
the vestry-room a little procession of two. First
came a tall spare man of sixty or so, bearing before
him a pike. He was himself as straight and
erect as the pike he carried ; he wore his best
suit, very magnificent, for it was his old uniform
kept for Sundays and holidays : that of a sergeant
in the Fourteenth, or Berkshire, Eegiment of Foot,
namely, a black three-cornered hat, a scarlet coat,
faced with yellow and with yellow culls, scarlet
waistcoat and breeches, white gaiters and white
cravat. On the hat was in silver the White Horse
of his regiment, and the motto ' Nee asper terrent.'
He walked slowly down the aisle with the
precision of a machine, and his face was remarkable,
because he was on duty, for having no expression
whatever. You cannot draw a face, orin
any way present the effigy of a human face
which shall say nothing ; that is beyond the power
of the rudest or the most skilled artist ; but some
men have acquired this power over their own
faces — diplomatists or soldiers they are by trade.
This man ^\ >- a soldier. He was so good a soldier

that he had been promoted, first to be corporal,
then to be sergeant, and lastly to be Fugleman,
whose place was in the front before the whole regiment,
and whose duty it was to lead the exercises
at the word of command with his pike. In
his age and retirement he acted as the executive
officer in all matters connected with the ecclesiastical
and civic functions of the town, whether to
lead the responses, to conduct a baptism, a funeral,
or a wedding, to set a man in the stocks and to
stand over him, to cane a boy for laughing in
church, to put a vagrant in pillory and stand beside
him ; to tie up an offender to the cart tail
and give him five dozen ; or, as in the present
case, to wrap a lad in a white sheet, and remain
with him while he did public penance for his fault.
He was constable, clerk, and guardian of the peace.
The boy who followed him was a tall and
lusty youth, past sixteen, who might very well
have passed for eighteen ; a boy with rosy cheeks,
blue eyes, and brown hair ; but his eyes were
downcast, his cheek was flushed with slime because
he was clad from head to foot in a long
white sheet, and he was placed so clothed, for the
space of half an hour, while the bells rang for
service, in the church porch, and then to stand up
before all the congregation to ask pardon of the
people, and to repeat the Lord's Prayer aloud in
token of repentance.

The porch of Warkworth Church is large and
square, fifteen feet across, with a stone bench on
either side. The boy was stationed within the
porch on the eastern side, and close to the church-door,
so that all those who passed in must needs
behold him. At his left hand stood the Fugleman,
pike grounded and head erect, looking
straight before him, and saying nothing except at
the beginning, when discipline for a moment gave
way to friendship, and he murmured : ' Heart
up, Master Kalph ! Wliat odds is a white
sheet ? '

Then he became rigid, and neither spake
nor moved. As for the penitent, he tried to
imitate the rigidity of his companion, but
with poor success, for his mouth trembled, and
his eyes sank, and his colour came and went
as the people, all of whom he knew, passed him
with reproachful or pitying gaze. The church
and the porch and the churchyard were all
eyes ; he was himself a gigantic monument of
shame.

When the boys walked — as slowly as they
possibly could — through the porch, they grinned
and nudged each other. But for the stern aspect
of the Fugleman they would have laughed aloud
and danced with joy. They had, however, to
move on and take their places in the church, and
those were few indeed who were so privileged as

to command a view through the open doors of the
porch and its occupants.

When the men of the village ranged themselves
as in a small amphitheatre round the porch,
the younger ones, in a hoarse whisper said each to
his neighbour : ' Oho ! ha ! yah ! ' After which
they remained gazing with mouth agape.

The three interjections are capable of many
meanings, and may indicate a great variety of
feeling. Here was a lad found out and convicted
on the clearest evidence and confession : he had
made fools of the whole town ; here he was
before all, undergoing the sentence pronounced
upon him by his Worship, Mr. Carnaby ; and a
sentence so seldom pronounced as to make it an
occasion for wonder ; and the offender was not a
gipsy or a vagrom man, or one of themselves, but
young Ralph Embleton of Morwick Mill ; and the
offence was not robbing, or pilfering, or cheating,
or smuggling, or beating and striking, but quite
an unusual and even a romantic kind of offence,
for which there was no name even ; and an
offence not falling within any law. Therefore
their faces were fixed in an immovable gaze, and
their mouths remained wide-open — some twenty
or thirty mouths in all — like unto fly-traps.

When the girls, for their part, walked through
the porch they looked at the offender with eyes
of pity, and one or two shed tears, because it

seemed dreadful that this tall and handsome lad
should be compelled to stand up before all in
guise so shameful. Yet he lind caused many to
tremble in their beds. But the elder women
stopped as they passed and wagged their heads
with frowns, and said : ' Oh, dear, dear ! . . .
Alack and alas ! . . . . Tut, tut I . . . . Fye for
shame ! . . . . This is the end of wickedness.
Ah, linnets ! . . . . Oh ! oh !

Look you now Heigh, laddie ! did a body

ever hear the like ? ' and so forth, with grateful
rustle of skirts, and so virtuously into the church.
A noble example, indeed, for their own boys.
Better one such illustration of the ]punishment
which overtakes offenders than fifty patterns of
the peace and tranquillity in which the good man
begins and ends his days. Yet we humans are so
foolish and perverse that we sometimes find vice
attractive and the ways of virtue monotonous,
and give no heed even to the most dreadful
examples.

Towards the close of the rins^ino^ there entered
the church, walking majestically through the lane
formed by the rustics, Mr. Cuthbert Carnaby,
Justice of the Peace, With Madam his good lady.
He was attired in a full wig and a purple coat
with laced ruffles, laced cravat, a flowered silk
waistcoat, and gold buckles in his shoes ; in his
hand he carried a heavy gold-headed stick, and

under this arm lie bore this laced hat ; his ample
cheeks were red, and red was his double chin.
Though his bearing was full of authority, his eyes
were kind, and when he saw the boy standing in
the porch he felt inclined to remit the remainder
of the punishment.

So, Ralph,' he said, stopping to admonish
him, ' thy father was a worthy man ; he hath not
lived to see this. But courage, boy, and do the
like no more. Shame attends folly. Thou art
young ; let this be a lesson. After punishment
and repentance cometh forgiveness ; so cheer up,
my lad.'

Ralph,' said his wife, with a smile in her
eyes and a frown on her brow, ' I could find it in
my heart to flog thee soundly, but thou art
punished enough. Ghosts indeed ! and not a
maid would go past the castle after dark for fear
of this boy ! Let us hear no more about
ghosts.'

She shook her finger — they both shook their
fingers — she adjusted her hoop, and entered the
church. The boy's heart felt lighter ; Mr. Car-nay
and Madam would forgive him. His Worship
went on, bearing before him his gold-headed
stick, and walked up the aisle to his pew, a large
room within the chancel, provided with chairs
and cushions, curtains to keep off the draught,
and a fireplace for winter.

After Mr. Carnaby there walked into the porch
a man dressed in good broadcloth with white
stockings, and shoes with silver buckles. And
his coat had silver buttons, which marked him fora
man of substance. His cheeks were full and
his face fiery, as if he was one who, although
young, lived well, and his eyes were small and
too close together, which made him look like a
pig. It was Mathew Humble, Ralph's cousin and
guardian.

At sight of him the boy's face flushed and his
lips parted ; but he restrained himself and said
nothing, while the Fugleman gave him an admonitory
nudge with his elbow. "^

The man looked at Ealpli from top to toe, as
if examining into the arrangements, and anxious
to see that all was properly and scientifically carried
out.

Ta-tanta ! ' he said with an air of dissatisfaction.
' What is this ? Call you this penance ?
Where is the candle? Did his Worship say
nothing about the candle ? '

Nothing,' replied the Fugleman with shortness.


He ought to have carried a candle. Dear

me ! this is irregular. This spoils all. But

Ah ! — bareheaded ' — he stood as far back as the
breadth of the porch would allow, so as to get the
full effect and to observe the picture from the

best point of view — ^ in a long white sheet ! Ah !
bareheaded and in a long white sheet ! Oh,
what a disgraceful day ! These are things, Fugleman,
which end in the gallows. For an Templeton,
too ! If the old man can see it what will he
think of the boy to whom he left the mill ? And
to beg pardon ' — he smacked his lips with satisfaction
— ' to beg pardon of the people ! Ah, and
to repeat the Lord's Prayer in the church — the
Lord's Prayer — in the church aloud ! the Lord's
Prayer — in the church — aloud — before all the
people ! Ah ! Dear me — dear me ! '

He wagged his head, as if he could not tear
himself away from the spectacle of so much
degradation. Then he added with a smile of
perfect satisfaction a detail which he had forgotten
:

Standing, too ! The Lord's Prayer — in the
church — aloud — before all the people — standing !
This is a pretty beginning, Fugleman, for sixteen
years.'

If the Lord's Prayer in itself were something
to be ashamed of he could not have spoken with
greater contempt. The boy, however, looking,
straight up into the roof of the porch, made no
answer nor seemed to hear.

The speaker held up both hands, shook his
head, sighed, and slowly withdrew into the
church.

VOL. I. u

Then there came clown the street an old hide
in a white cap, a white apron, a shawl, and black
mittens, an old lady with a face lined all over,
with kind soft eyes and white hair, but her face
was troubled. Beside her walked a girl of twelve
or thereabouts, dressed in white frock and straw
hat trimmed with white ribbon, and white cotton
mittens, and she was crying and sobbing.

Thou may est stand up in the church,' said
the old lady, ' when he repeats the Lord's Prayer,
but not beside him in the porch.'

But I helped him,' she cried. ' Oh, I am as
bad as he ! I am worse, because I laughed at
him and encouraged him.'

But thou hast not been sentenced,' said the
old lady. ' It is thy punishment, child — and a
heavy one — to feel that Ralph bears thy shame
and his own too.'

I was on one side of the hedge when Dame
Ridley dropped her basket,' the child went on,
crying more bitterly. ' I was on one side and he
was on the other. Oh ! oh ! oh ! She said there
were two ghosts — I was one.'

When they reached the porch the girl, at
sight of the boy in the sheet, ran and threw her
arms about his neck and kissed him, and cried
loud enough for all within to hear :

Oh, Ralph, Ralph, it is wicked of them ! '

These words were heard all over the church.

and Mathew Humble sprang to his feet, as if
demanding that the speaker should be carried off
to instant execution for contempt of court. All
eyes were turned upon his Worship's pew, and I
know not what would have happened, because his
periwig was seen to be agitated and the gold head
of his stick appeared above the pew ; but luckily
just then the bells clashed all together, frightening
the swallows about the tower so that they flew
straight to the castle and stayed there, and the
Vicar come out of the vestry and sat down in the
reading-desk, and, as was his custom, surveyed
his church and congregation for a few minutes
before the service began.

It is an old church of Norma n work in parts
patched up and rebuilt from time to time by the
Perches, but there are no monuments of them.
The Vicar's eyes fell upon a plain whitewashed
building, provided with rows of ancient and worm-eaten
benches, worn black by many generations
of worshippers. The choir and the music sat at
the west end. In front of the chancel was a
square space in which was set a long stool. While
the Vicar waited the Fugleman marched up the
aisle, followed by the boy in the sheet, and both
sat on this stool of repentance. Then the Vicar
rose — he was a benignant old man, with white hair
and began to read in a full and musical voice how
sinners may repent and fid forgiveness. But the

V 2

people thought he meant his words to apply this
morning especially and only to the boy in the
sheet. This made them feel surprisingly virtuous
and inclined to sing praises with a glad heart. So,
too, with the lessons, one of which dealt with the
fate of a wicked king. All the people looked at
the boy in the sheet, and felt that, under another
name, it was his own story told beforehand, prophetically
; and when they stood up to sing in
thanksgiving, their gratitude took the form of
being glad that they were not upon the stool.
When the Psalms were read the people paid
unusual attention, letting the boy have the benefit
of all the penitential utterances, but taking the
joyous verses to themselves. And the Litany they
regarded as composed, as well as read, exclusively
for this convicted sinner. Among the elder ladies-there
was hope that the offended ghosts might —
some at least — be present in the church and see
this humiliation, which would not fail to dispose
their ghastliness to a benevolent attitude, and
even influence the weather.

It seemed to the boy as if that service never
would end. To the congregation it seemed, on
account of this unusual episode, as if there never
(lad been a service so short and so exciting.

When the Commandments had been recited,
Ralph almost expected to hear an additional one,
Thou shalt not pretend to be a ghost,' and be

called on to pray, all by himself, for an inclination
of the heart to keep that injunction. But the
Vicar threw away the opportunity and ended as
usual with the tenth commandment.

He gave out the psalm, and retired to put on
his black gown. The music — consisting of a
violin, a violoncello, and a clarion — struck up the
tune, and the choir, among whom Ralph ought to
have been, hemmed and cleared their voices. The
Northumbrians, as is well known, have good voices
and good ears. The tune was ' Warwick,' and the
psalm was that which began :

Lord, in the morning thou shalt hear
My voice ascend to thee.

The boy trembled because the words seemed
to refer to the part he was about to play. His
own voice would, immediately, be ascending high,
but all by itself. He saw the face of his cousin,
Mathew Humble, fixed upon him with ill-concealed
and malignant joy. Why did Mathew hate him
with such a bitter hatred P Also he saw the face
of the girl who had been his partner ; her eyes
were full of tears ; and at sight of her grief his
own eyes became humid.

He did not take any part at all in the hymn.

When it was finished, the Vicar stood in his
pulpit waiting ; his Worship stood up in his pew,
his face tm ned towards the culprit ; in his hand

his great gold-lieadecl cane. All the people stared
at the culprit with curious eyes, as boys stare atone
of their companions when he is about to be
flogged. Just then the girl left her seat and
stepped deliberately up the aisle, and stood beside
the boy in the sheet. And the congregation
murmured wonder.

The Fugleman touched the boy's shoulder and
brought his pike to 'mention.

Say after me,' he said aloud. Then to the
congregation he added : ' And all the people
standing.'

I confess my fault,' he began.

'I confess my fault,' repeated boy and girl
together.

And am heartily sorry, and do beg forgiveness.'


And then the Lord's Prayer.

The boy spoke out the words clearly and
boldly, and with his was heard the girl's voice as
well, but both were nearly drowned by the loud
voice of the Fugleman.

It was over then. All sat down ; the girl
beside Ralph on the stool of repentance, and the
sermon began.

The sermon which the Vicar read had nothing
to do with the penance just performed ; it was a
learned discourse, which would be afterwards
published, showing the Divine origin of the hierarchy

; it was stuffed full of references to the
Fathers, and conviction was conveyed to hearers'
hearts (in case the arguments were difficult to
follow) by quotations of Greek in the original.
His Worship fell fast asleep ; all the men in the
church followed his example ; the boys pinched
and kicked-each other, safe from the Fugleman
for once : the women and the girls alone kept
their eyes open, because they had on their best
things, and with fine clothes go good manners, and
the feminine sex loveth above all things to feel
well dressed and therefore compelled to be well
behaved. Even the Fugleman allowed his eyelids
to drop, but never relinquished his pike ; and the
girl, holding Ralph fast by the hand, wondered
if they would ever, as long as they lived, these
two, recover from the dreadful disgrace of that
morning.

When the Vicar had drubbed the pulpit to the
very end of his manuscript, and the service was
over, the three stood up again and remained
standing till the people were all gone.

Come, lass,' said the Fugleman when the
church was empty, ' we can all go now. Off with
that rag. Master Ralph.'

He unbent ; his face assumed a human expression
; he laid down the pike.

What odds, I say, is a white sheet ? Why,
think 'twas a show for the lads which they haven't

had for many a year. And May nigh gone
already, and never a man in the stocks yet, and
the pillory rotting for want of custom, and never
a thief flogged, nor a bear-baiting. If it 'wasn't
for the cocks of a Sunday afternoon and the
wrestling, there would have been nothing for the
poor fellows but your ghosts to keep 'em out of
mischief. And, lad,' he pointed in the direction of
the mill, ' your cousin means more mischief. It
was him that laid the information before his
Worship.'

Oh ! ' said Ralph, clenching his fists.

Aye, him it was, and his Worship thought it
mean, but he was bound to take notice, for why
says his Worship, '^ he can't let this boy frighten
all the maids out of their silly senses. Yet, for his

own cousin and his guardian " tliat^s what his

Worship said.'

Oh ! ' Again Ralph clenched his fists.

Should I, an old soldier, preach mutiny ?
Never. But seeing that your cousin is no rightful
officer of your, nor yet commissioned to carry
pike in your company, why I, for one '

What, Fugleman ? '

I, for one, if I was a well grown boy, nigh
upon seventeen, the next time he gave orders for
another six dozen, or even three dozen, I would
ask him if he was strong enough to tie up a
mutineer.'

The boy nodded this head.

Cous thos he be,' continued the Fugleman,
captain or lieutenant is he not.'

The boy had by this time divested himself of
his sheet, and stood dressed in a long brown coat
and plainly-cut waistcoat ; he, too, wore silver
buckles to his shoes, like his cousin, but not silver
buttons ; his hair was tied with a black ribbon,
and his hat was plain, without lace or ornament.

When his adviser had finished, he walked
slowly down the empty church, hand-in-hand with
the girl.

In the porch lie stopped, threw his arm round
her neck, and kissed her twice.

No one but you, Drusy,' he said, ' would
have done it. I'll never forget it, never, as long
as I live. Go home to Granny, ray dear, and have
your dinner.'

And will you go home, too, Ralph ? '

Yes, I am going home. I've got to have a
talk with Mathew Humble.'

Left alone in the church, the Fugleman sat
down irreverently on the steps of the pulpit, and
laughed aloud.

Mathew Humble,' he said, ' is going to be
astonished.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

SpoUiswoode A Co., Printers, Xew-s(reel ,Square, London.



mm

EX-LIBRIS
F. E.DlNSHAW

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

"V

vl

l^



Each in Three Volumes.

KIT : a Memory. By James Pain.

VAL STRANGE. By David Christie Murray.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon.

GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.

DUST. By Julian Hawthorne.

WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W Robinson.

OF HIGH DEGREE. By Charles Gibbon.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

ETC.

BY

WALTER BESANT

AUTHOR OF 'all SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

'LF.T NOTHING YOU DISMAY' (continued).
CHAPTER II.

PAGE

The Astonishment of Mathew Humble . . . . 3

CHAPTER IH.
How Ralph sought Fortune 25

CHAPTER IV.

Drusilla's Story 53

CHAPTER V.
A Second Whittington 77

CHAPTER VI.

The Letter at Last 101

CHAPTER VII.

Mathew's Friendly Offer 127

PAGE

Is IT True? . 145

CHAPTER IX.
The Wisdom of the Strong Man 167

CHAPTER X.

Sailor Nan's Ride 187

CHAPTER XT.
The Sale of the Cottage 205

CHAPTER XII.
God Rest you Merry, Gentlemen ' 229

THEY WERE MARRIED

Part L— MON" Desire.

CHAPTER I.
A New-Years Dawn 243

CHAPTER II.

The Squire 268

CHAPTER III.
In the Bachelors' Pavilion 283

CHAPTER IV.
The Hunting of the Gourami . 299

(continued).

VOL. II.

THE Astonishment OF Rather HUMBLE.

By this time the people had dispersed quadrivious
that is to say, north, south, east, and west ; and
were making their way homewards, their appetites
for dinner keener than usual. Penance, considered
as a Sunday show, hath no fellow ; it is even
superior to the stocks, which is a week-day show.
You may not pelt a man in a white sheet with
rotten eggs, it is true ; but the same objection
applies to the stocks. Of course, it cannot compare
with a good pillory, which is rare, especially
when eggs are plentiful and rotten apples lying
under every tree ; or with a really heartfelt
whipping of a vagabond or gipsy at the cart tail,
which is, unfortunately, rarer still. Among simple
people there is a feeling that the greater the pain
endured by the subject, the greater is the pleasure
of the onlooker. Just in the same way did the
Eoman ladies discuss amonc^ themselves before the
play whether it was more desirable to see Hercules
represented by the young Herr Hermann newly

B -2

arrived from the Thine — burning to death in a
shirt of pitch ; or Schola — done to the life by
that gallant captive, Owen ap Vice, from Britain
thrusting his bare arm into a clear fire and
keeping it there till the hand was burnt off; or
Actaeon — played with spirit by Joseph Ben Eleazar,
the swift-footed Syrian — pursued and torn to
pieces by the hounds of Dean.

Ralph walked quickly past some of these

groups, who fell back to right and left, and looked

at him curiously. On ordinary Sundays he would

have a pleasant word with all, a kiss for the

children, and a challenge for the boys. To-day

he passed them without a word, with head erect,

eyes flashing, and clenched fist. He was not

thinking; of salutations ; he was thinking what he

should do : how he should begin his mutiny :

what would be the issue of the fight. Whatever

the result, there would be joy in bringing, if only

for once, hand, fist, or stick into contact with the

face or figure of his cousin. It was lie, was it,

who informed against him to his Worship? It

was no other than his cousin who had compassed

this most disagreeable of mornings. And now,

doubtless, he waited, with a great cane, his arrival

at home, in order to administer another of those

corrections ' of which he was so fond . Hitherto,

Ralph had submitted quietly; but he had been

growing ; he was within a month of seventeen ;

was it to be endured that he should be beaten and
Hogged like a child of ten, because his cousin
hated him?

The girls, as he strode past them regardless,
looked at him with great pity, because they knew
everybody knew — what awaited him. And
Mathew Humble such a hard man ! Poor lad !
Yet those who mock spirits and fairies never fail
to have cause for repentance in the long run ; and
punishment had fallen swiftly upon Kalph. Perhaps,
after this, he would respect the things which
belong to the other world.

Heavens ! one might as well sit among the
ruins of Dunstanburgh after dark and pretend to
be the Seeker ; or within the chapel of Milton at
midnight and pretend to be Lady Derwentwater's
troubled spirit ; and then hope to escape scot-free.
Yet, poor lad ! and Mathew so hard a man !

What Ralph said to himself — justifying rebellion,
because he was a conscientious lad — was
this : ' His Worship said that the penance would
be enough ; who was Mathew, then, to override
the decision of the court .^ ' Also, he was past
the age of flogging, being now able to hold his
own against most — whether at quarterstafF, single-stick,
or wrestling — young men older than himself;
lastly, since Mathew had played this trick, he
wanted revenge. But Mathew was his guardian ;
very well, then let him learn But here he

broke down, because lie could not, for the
moment, think of any lesson which his own
rebellion would be likely to teach his cousin.

When Ealpli left the fields and turned into the
lane leading down to the river, he began to look
about among the trees and underwood as if searching
for something. Presently he espied a long
pliant alder-branch in its second year of growth
which seemed promising. He cut it to a length
of about three feet, trimmed off leaves and twigs,
and balanced it critically with a tentative flourish'
or two in the air.

As thick as my thumb,' he said, ' and as
heavy as his cane. Blow for blow, cousin
Mathew. This will curl round his shoulders and
leave its marks upon his legs.'

Morwick Mill stands upon the Ever Coquet,
about two miles from Warkworth. You can
easily get to it by following the banks of the river,
which is perhaps the best way, though sometimes
you must off shoes and stockings, and wade across
knee-deep to the other side.

The mill consists of a square house upon the
edge of the river, with a great wheel on one side ;
and almost all the water of the river is here diverted
so as to form a sufficient power for the mill-wheel.
At the back of the mill, which is also a
substantial dwelling-house, is a great careless
garden, with piastres and linnets for cattle, and

vegetables, and fruit-trees ; and at the side are
two or three cottages, where live the people
employed at the mill. All the fields which lie
sloping up from the river-side belong, as well, to
the owner of the mill. The owner at this
moment was no other than the scapegrace Ralph ;
and his cousin, Mathew Humble, was his guardian,
who had nothing at all in the world of his own
but a little farm of thirty acres. The thought of
this great inheritance, compared with his own
meagre holding, ' filled the good guardian's heart
with bitterness, and his arm, when it came to correction,
with a superhuman strength. He would be
guardian for four years more ; then he would have
to give a strict account of his guardianship ; and
the burden of this obligation, though he had only
held the post for two years, filled him with such
wrath and anxiety that he was fain, when he did
think upon it, which was often, to pull the cork
out of a certain stone jar and allay his anxieties
with a dram of strong waters. He was very
anxious, because already the accounts were confused
; the stone jar was always handy ; therefore,
he had become swollen about the neck and coarse
of nose, which Alas a full and prominent feature,
and flabby, as well as fiery, about the cheeks. In
these times of much drinking many men become
pendulous of cheek and ruddy of nose at forty or
so, but few at six-and-twenty. Mathew was not,

at this time, much more than six-ands twenty ; say
ten years older than Ralph.

The kitchen, dining-room, and sitting-room of
Morwick Mill was a large low room, with one
long window. At the sides of the room, and
between the great joists, were hanging sides of
bacon and hams, besides pewter-pots and pewter-dishes,
brightly polished wooden platters, china
cups, brass vessels, whips, bridles, a loaded
blunderbuss, cudgels, strings of onions, dried herbs
of every kind, and all the thousand things wanted
for the conduct of a household. At one end was
a noble fire of logs burning in an ample chimney,
and before the fire a great piece of beef roasting,
and now, to outward scrutiny and the sense of
smell, ready to be dished. A middle-aged woman,
full, comely, and good-natured of aspect, was
engaged in preparation for that critical operation.
This was Prudence, who had lived at the mill all
her life.

She looked up as Ralph appeared in the doorway,
and shook her head, but more in pity than
in reproach. And she looked sideways, by way
of friendly warning, in the direction of the table,
at which sat another woman of different appearance.
She was, perhaps, five or six and thirty,
with thin features and sour expression, not improved
by a cast in her eye. This was Barbara,
sister of Mathew Humble, and now acting in

the capacity of mistress of Monica Mill, for her
brother was not married. She had open before her
the Bible, and she had fomid a most beautiful collection
of texts appropriate to the case of Fools in the
Book of Proverbs. The table was laid for dinner,
with pewter plates and black-handled knives
and steel forks. The beer had been drawn, and
stood in a great brown jug, foaming with a venerably
silver head. Ralph observed without astonishment
that the plate set for him contained a
piece of dry bread, ostentatiously displayed. It
was to be his dinner.

This pleasing maiden, Barbara, who regarded
the boy with an affection almost as great as her
brother's, that is to say, with a malignity quite
uncommon, first pointed with her lean and skinny
forefinger to the page before her, and read aloud,
shaking her head reproachfully :

"ras a man who casteth firebrands, arrows,
and death, so is the man that deceived his neighbour,
and saith. Am I not in sport P " '

Solomon must surely have had Ralph in his
mind.

Then she pointed with the same finger to a
door opposite, and said, a smile of satisfaction
stealing over her countenance :

Go to your guardian. Go to receive the
wages of sin.'

Those,' said Ralph, with a little laugh, feeling

confidence in his alder-branch, ' are not a flogging,
on this occasion, bnt a fight.'

Before she heard his words, or had begun to
ask herself what they might mean, because she
was so full of satisfaction with her texts, lie had
flung his hat upon a chair, and gone to the next
room. If Barbara had been observant, she might
have remarked, besides these extraordinary words,
a certain brightness of the eyes and setting of
the mouth which betokened the spirit of resistance.


The inner room was one occupied and used by
Mathew alone. It contained all the papers,
account-books, and documents connected with
the property and business of the mill. Here, too,
was the stone jar already referred to. The decks
had been, so to speak, cleared for action, that is
to say, the table was thrust into the corner, and
upon it lay the sacred instrument with which
Mathew loved to correct his ward. This promoter
of virtue, or dispenser of consequences, was
a strong and supple cane, than which few instruments
are more highly gifted with the power of
inflicting torture. Ralph knew it well, and had
experienced on many occasions the fill force of
this wholesome quality. He saw it lying ready
for use, and he reflected cheerfully that the alder-branch,
partly up his left sleeve and partly in his
coat-pocket, would be more supple, equally heavy,

and perhaps more efficacious regarded simply asa
pain producer. •

When the boy appeared, Mathew rose and
removed his wig and coat, because the work
before him was likely to make him warm. He
then assumed the rod, and ordered Ralph to take
off his coat and waistcoat.

This day,' he said, ' you have disgraced your
family. I design that you shall have such a flogging
as you will not readily forget.' He then
remembered that he would be more free for
action without his waistcoat. A man can throw
more heart into his work. ' Such a flogging,' he
repeated as he removed it, ' as you will remember
all your life.'

Well, cousin,' said Ralph, ' Mr. Carnaby said
that the penance was the punishment. I have
done the penance.'

Silence, sir 1 Do you dare-to argue with
your guardian .^ ' He now began to roll up his
shirt-sleeves so as to have his arms quite bare,
which is an additional advantage when one wants
to put out all one's strength. ' I shall flog the
flesh off your bones, you young villain ! '

But he paused, and for a moment his jaws
stuck, and he was speechless, for his cousin,
instead of meekly placing himself in position to
receive the stupendous flogging intended for him.

was facing him, resolution in his eyes, and a
weapon in his hands.

Flogging for flogging, Cousin Mathew,' said
Ralph ; ' flesh for flesh. Strip my bones, I strip
yours.'

Mathew now observed for the first time — it
was a most unfortunate moment for making the
discovery — that Ralph was a good two inches
taller than himself, that his arm was as stout, and
that his weapon was of a thickness, length, and
pliability which might make the stoutest quail ;
also he remarked that his shoulders where surprisingly
broad, and his legs of length and size
quite out of the common. And it even occurred
to him that he might have to endure hardness.


Flesh for flesh,' said Ralph, poising the alder-branch.


Villain ! Would you break the Fifth Commandment
? '

Ralph shook his weapon, making it sing
merrily and even thirstily through the air, but
made no reply.

Lay down the switch.'

Ralph raised it above his head as one who is
preparing to strike.

Down on your knees, viper, and beg for
pardon.'

Flesh for flesh, Mathew,' said Ralph.

'You will have it then, young devil. I will
kill you ! '

Mathew rushed upon his cousin, raining blows
as thick as hail upon him. For the moment his
weight told and the boy was beaten back. Swish.
Viper ! ' Swish — swish — 'twas a terrible cane.
I will teach you to rebel.' Swisli — swish — 'twas
a cane of a suppleness beyond nature. ' I will
give you a. lesson.' Swish — swish. ' I will break
every bone in your body.' Swish — the end of
the cane found out every soft place — there were
not many — upon Ralph's body.

But then the tables were turned, for the boy, recovering
from the first confusion, leaped suddenly
aside, and with a dexterous movement of the left
foot caused his cousin to stumble and fall heavily.
He struggled, struck, kicked, and lashed out — but
he did not get up again. A very important
element in the fight was strangely overlooked by
Mathew before he began to attack. It was this,
that Whereas he was himself out of condition, the
boy was in splendid fettle, sound of wind as well
as limb. So furious was Mathew's first assault
that, brief as was its duration, no sooner was he
tripped up than he perceived that his wind was
gone, and though he could kick and struggle, yet
if he half got up he was quickly knocked down
again. And while he kicked and struggled, this
young viper, this monster of ingratitude, was

administering such a punishment as even he,
Mathew, had never contemplated for Ralph.

' Have YOU had enough ? ' cried the boy at
last, out of breath.

I will murder you, I will Oh, Lord ! '

For the punishment began again.

Stripping of flesh,' said Ralph. ' This you
will remember, cousin, all your life.'

The alder-branch was like a flail in the lad's
strong arm. The rapidity, the precision, the
delicate perception of tender places, took away
the sufferer's breath. There was no sound place
left in the whole of Mathew's body.

Have you had enough? ' cried Ralph.

I will flay you alive for this — I will. Oh,
oh ! I have had enough.'

Then,' said Ralph, with one final effort, the
effect of which would be, by itself, felt for a week
and more, ' get up.'

Mathew rose, groaning.

We have had the last of punishments,' said
the boy. ' I will fight you any day you please,
but I will take no more punishments from you.'
He threw down his stick, and put on his coat and
waistcoat, with some tenderness, however, for the
first part of the battle had left its marks.

Now outside, the two women were listening,
one with complacency, and the other with pity.

And the first was ready with the Bible still open
at the Book of Proverbs, which contains quite an
armoury of texts good to hurl at a young transgressor.
The second, with one ear turned to the
door of Mathew's room, went on dishing the beef,
which she presently placed upon the table.

There was unusual delay in the sound which
generally followed Ralph's visits to that room.
No doubt Mathew was commencing with a short
Commination Service. Presently, however, there
was a great trampling of feet, with the swish,
swish of the cane — Mathew's first charge.

Lord ha' mercy ! ' cried Prudence.

" The rod and reproof give wisdom," ' read
her mistress from the Book.

Then they heard a heavy fall, followed by a
heavier, faster, more determined swishing, hissing,
and whistling of the instrument, till the au' was
resonant with its music, and it was as if all the
boys in Northumberland were being caned at once.
' Lord ha' mercy ! ' repeated Prudence. ' He'll
murder the boy.'

" A reproof," ' read the other from her place,
\ " entered more into a wise man than a hundred
stripes into a fool." '

There was a pause, and then a sound of voices,
and then another terrific hailstorm of blows.

Both women looked aghast. Was the punishment
never to end ?

Then Prudence rushed to the door.

Mistress,' she cried, ' you may look on while
the boy is cut to pieces — I can't and won't.'

She opened the door. Heavens ! what a sight
was that which met her astonished eyes. The
boy, cut and bruised about the face, was standing
in the middle of the room, smiling. The man
was on his hands and knees, slowly rising ; his
shirt was torn off his back : his shoulders were
cut to pieces ; he was covered with weals and
bruises ; his face, scarred and seamed with Ralph's
cruel alder-branch, was dreadful to look upon.
He seemed to see nothing; he groaned as he
lifted himself up ; he staggered where he stood.

Presently }]e put on his coat with many groans
and muttered curses, and Prudence observed that
all the while he regarded tht; lad with looks of
the most extreme terror and rage. Presently she
bean to understand the situation.

Are you hurt, Master Ralph ? ' she asked.

No ; but Mathew is,' said Ralph.

Mathew,' cried his sister, as the victim of the
rebellion staggered into the room, ' what is this? '

He sank into his armchair with a long deep
groan, and made no repl^^

'Why, what in the world. Master Ealph.?'
asked the servant.

But the lad had gone. He went upstairs to
his OAvn room ; made up a little bundle of things

which he wrapped in a handkerchief, picked out
the thickest and heaviest of his cudgels, and then
returned to the kitchen.

Give me my dinner,' he said.

Barbara had brought out her brother's wig
and put it on now, but he still sat silent and
motionless. He was in such an agony of pain allover,
and his nervous system had sustained so
terrible a shock that he could not speak.

Give me my dinner,' Ralph repeated.

Barbara pointed to the crust of bread. She
was appalled by this mutiny, but she preserved
some presence of mind, and she remembered the
bread. Then she sat down again before the Bible
and began to read, like a clergyman while the
plate goes round.

" It is as sport to the Fool to do mischief." '

Prudence, the beef being already served, laid
a knife and fork for each.

" A Fool's moitth," ' Barbara said, as if she
Alas quoting Solomon, ' " calleth for roasted beef
and a stalled ox. Bread and water until submission
and" repentance." '

The young mutineer made no verbal reply.
But he dragged the dish before his own plate,
and began to carve for himself, largely and
generously.

Mathew ! ' cried Barbara, springing to her
feet.

VOL. II. ^

Let be — let be,' said Mathew ; ' let the
young devil aLone. I will be even with him
somehow. Let be.'

Not the old way, cousin,' replied Ralph with
a nod. He then helped himself to about a pint
or so of the good old October, and began, his
.appetite sharpened by exercise, to make the beef
disappear in large quantities. Mathew looked on,
saying nothing. The silence terrified his sister.
What did it mean ? And she perceived, for the
first time, that their ward had ceased to be a boy
and must henceforth be treated as a man. It
was a fearful thought. She shut her Bible and
sat back with folded hands, waiting the issue.

In course of time even a hungry boy of seventeen
has had enough. Ralph lifted his head at
last, took another prolonged pull at the beer, and
told Barbara, politely, that he had enjoyed a; good
dinner.

Then he turned to his cousin and addressed
him with a certain solemnity.

Cousin,' he said, ' you have always hated me,
because my uncle left the mill to me instead of
to yourself. Yet you knew from the beginning
that his desist was for me to have it. I have
done you no wrong. You have never lost any
opportunity of abusing me before my face and
behind my back. You became, unhappily for me,
my guardian. You have never neglected any

chance of flogging and beating me, if you could
find a cause. As regards the ghost business, I
was wrong. I deserved punishment, but was it
the province of a cousin and a guardian to go and
lay information before the Justice of the Peace ?
I shall be seventeen come next month. In four
years this mill and the farm will be my own.
But if I remain with you here I can expect
nothing but hatred and ill-treatment as far as you
dare. You have given me ploughboy's work
without a ploughboy's wage, and often without a
ploughboy's food. As for flogging, that is finished,
because I think you have no more stomach for
another fight.'

Matliew made no reply whatever, but sat with
his head upon his hands, breathing heavily.

I am tired of ill-treatment,' Ralph went on,
and I shall go away.'

Whither, boy ? ' asked Barbara.

I know not yet. I go to seek my fortune.'


Go, if you mil,' said Lathe ; ' go, in the
devil's name ; go, whither sou are bound to go :
long before four years are over you will be hanging
in chains.'

Ralph laughed and took up his bundle.

'Farewell, Prudence,' he said ; ' thou wast
ever kind to me.'

The woman threw her arms about his neck
c 2

and kissed him with tears, and prayed that the
Lord might bless him. And, as he walked forth
from the house, the voice of Barbara followed
him, saying :

" A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass,
and a rod for the Fool's back." '

The Fugleman was sitting in the sun before
his door in the castle, smoking a pipe and inclined
to be drowsy, when Ralph appeared with his startling
news.

As regards the flogging, the old soldier made
light of it. Nothing can be done in the army
without the cat. Had not he himself once. received
three hundred all by a mistake, because
they were meant for another man, who escaped.
Did he, therefore, bear malice against his commanding
officers No. But the villainy of Mathew,
first to lay information and then to make an
excuse for a flogging just for pleasure, and to
gratify his own selfish desire to be continually
flogging, why, that justified the mutiny. As for
the details of the fight, he blamed severely the
inexperience in strategy shown by first knocking
down the enemy. * He should have expected
better things of Ralph, whose true policy would
have been to harass and annoy his adversary by
feints, dodges, and unexpected skirmishes. This
would not only have fatigued him, but, considering

his shortness of breath, would have worn him
out so that he would in the end have fallen an
easy prey, and been cudgelled without resistance
till there was not a sound place left. Besides, it
would have made the fight more interesting, considered
as a work of art.

However, doubtless the next time — but then
he remembered that the boy was going away.

To seek my fortune, JFugleman,' Ralph said
gaily. ' Look after Drusy for me, while I am
away.'

Aye — aye,' the Fugleman replied ; ' she shall
come to no harm. And as for money. Master
Ralph ? '

I've got a guinea,' he replied, ^ which my
uncle gave me three years ago.'

'A guinea won't go far. Stay, Master Ralph.
He went into his room and came back with a
stocking in his hand. ' Here's all I've got, boy.
It is twenty guineas. Take it all. I shall do
very well. Lord ! what with the rabbits and the
pheasants '

Nay,' said Ralph, ' I will not take your
savings neither.'

But, presently, being pressed, he consented to
take ten guineas on the understanding that when
he came back (his fortune made) the Fugleman
was to receive twenty. And then they parted
with a mighty hand-shake.

Half-way down the street Ealpli passed Sailor
Ista, who was sitting on a great stone beside her
door, smoking her short black pipe.

Whither bound, my lad ? ' she asked.

I am bound to London,' he replied. ' I am
off to seek my fortune

Come here, I will read thy fortune.'

Like most old women. Nan could read a lad's
fortune in the lines of his hand, or by the cards,
or by the peeling of an apple.

A good cruise,' she said, ' wtili fair wind aft
and good weather for the most part. But storms
belike on leaving port. There's a villain, and
fighting, and foreign parts, and gold, and a good
wife. Go thy ways, lad. Art no poor puss-faced
swab to fear fair fighting. Go thy ways. Take
and give. Trust not too many. And stand by
all old shipments. Go thy ways.'

He laughed and left her. Yet he was cheered
by her kindly prophecy.

He crossed the old bridge and presently found
himself outside the green palings of Dame Hethe-
linton's house. The girl who had joined him in
church was in the garden. He whistled and she
came running.

I am come to say good-bye, Drusy,' he said ;
I am running away.'

Oh, Ralph, whither ? And you have a cruel
blow upon your face.'

I have fought Matliew,' he said, ' and I
have beaten him. This scar upon my face is
nothing compared with the scars over his. I
believe he is one large bruise. But I can no
longer endure his ill-treatment and Barbara's
continual reproaches. Therefore I am resolved
to remain no longer, but shall go to London,
there to seek my fortune as thy father did,
Drusy.'

They talked for half an hour, she trying to
persuade him to stay, and he resolved to go.
Then he went with her into the house, where he
must needs tell all the story to Dame Hetlier-
ington, who scolded him, and bade him get
home again and make submission, but he would
not.

Then Drusilla remembered that her father
would gladly aid any lad from Northumberland,
and sat down, and Avrote a letter very quickly,
being dexterous with her pen, and gave it to
Ralph to carry.

You will find him,' she said, ' at the sign of
the Leg and Star in Cheapside. Forget not
that address. Stay, I will write it outside the
letter. Give it him with my respect and obedience.
Oh, Ralph, shall you be long before
you have found your fortune and are back
to us ? '

Nay,' said Ralph, ' I know not what maybe

my fertile. I go to find it, like many a lad
of old;

Then, after many fond farewells, Ealpli kissed
her and trudged away manfully, while Drusy
leaned her head over the garden-gate and wept
and sobbed, and could not be consoled.

CHAPTEE III.

HOW RALPH SOUGHT FORTUNE.

A YOUNG man's walk from Warkworth all the way
to London cannot fail to be full of interest and
adventure. There is, however, no space here to
tell of the many adventures which befell this lad
upon his journey. As for bad roads, lie might
have expected them, except that he was young
and ignorant and expected nothing, so that each
moment brought him some surprise, and each day
taught him some new experience. As for the
people to be met upon the roads, probably, had
he known what to expect, he would have stopped
short aud sought fortune at Newcastle, Durham,
or York, rather than have pressed on to London.
But he was brave and full of hope. As to the
roadside inns and the bedroom companions, he
was astonished afterwards that he managed to
get through all without having his weasand cut
for the sake of his scanty stock of guineas, so
desperate were some of the villains whom he

encountered. Nevertheless, even among the most
desperate of rogues, there is hesitation about
murder, and even about robbing lads and persons
of tender years.

He stowed away his money within his waistcoat,
keeping in his pocket nothing but two or
three shillings for the daily wants ; yet it seemed
as if every man that he met had sinister designs
upon him. If it was a solitary gipsy lying on the
grass by the wayside, he rose to meet the boy ashe
went by, and looked highway robbery with
resolution, yet refrained when he met equal resolution
in the eyes of the wayfarer, and a stout
stick in strong hands, and broad shoulders. If it
was a pair of soldiers on the way to join their
regiment, they stopped him, being two brave and
gallant dare-devil heroes, and recommended the

turning out of pockets, or else They swore

terribly, these brave fellows, but a back-hander
risfht and left with the cudgel, and then a limit
pair of heels, relieved the wayfarer of this danger,
and left the heroes swearing more terribly than
before, and lamenting the waste of good front
teeth.

When he got near Durham he fell upon a
party of pitman out of work, and therefore parading
the road, which is the manner of pitman, one
knows not what for except for mischief. These
gentlemen of the underground, who have neither

religion nor education, and are, in fact, more
savage and heartless than North American savages,
began to set upon the boy out of pure sport, as it
they felt that somebody must be damaged in order
to keep up their own spirits. They handled him
roughly, not for the sake of robbing him, but
because he was young and unprotected, just as on
Sundays they throw at cocks ; and it would have
gone badly with him but for one among them who
seemed to be a leader, and with many frightful
imprecations bade his fellows let the boy alone.
So they went on their godless way, and he went
his, not much the worse for a roll in the dust.

As for the mounted highwaymen, they passed
him or met him, riding in splendour, and scorned
to fly at such small game as a country boy walking;
alone' the road Substantial farmers riding
home from market and tradesmen with money
in their pockets were their prey. But Ecilph met
them in the evenings at the country inns, where
they hardly pretended to disguise their profession,
and bragged and swaggered among the admiring
rustics over their punch, as if there were no such
things as gallows and rope.

Worse than the highwayman was the common
foot-pad, the cowardly and sneaking villain who
would rob a little child of a sixpence — aye, and
murder it afterwards to prevent discovery, and
feel no remorse. When these ]road vagabonds

accosted the boy it was with intent to rob him,
even of the coat upon his back ; whereupon he
either fought or else ran away. He fought so
bravely with so stout a heart and so handy a
cudgel, and he ran so fast, that he came to no
harm ; more than that, he left behind him on the
road half-a-score desperadoes at least, who bore
upon their gloomy countenances for life the marks
of his cudgel, and swore to have his blood whenever
they might meet with him again.

The road was not, however, a long field of
battle for the lad, like his Progress to Christian
the Pilgrim, nor did he meet with Apollyon anywhere.
There were waggoners to talk with,
friendly hawkers, whom the people call muggers,
and saws, or tinkers, who are too often robbers
and pilferers ; also farmers, their wives and
daughters, cattle-drovers, carriers, honest sailors,
who would scorn to rob upon the highway, on
their way to join ship, and pleasant little country
towns every eight or ten miles, where one could
rest and talk, and drink a tankard of cool small
beer. Then, as it was early summer, when there
are fairs going on in many places, the roads in some
parts were full of the caravans and the show
people, whom Ralph found not only a curious and
interesting folk, but also friendly, and inclined to
conversation with a stranger who was not a rival ;
who was ready to oiler a tankard ; who admired

Avithout stint or envy the precious tidings they had
to show, and who watched with delight unbounded
and belief profound, the curious tricks,
arts, artifices, and accomplishments by which they
secured a precarious Livelihood. In this way Ralph
was so fortunate as to make personal acquaintance
with, the Pig-faced Lady, the Two-headed Calf,
theseus Potatoes of Amphibious Beef (stuffed, buta
most prodigious monster), and the Italian who
played the pipe with his hands, the cymbals with
his elbow, the triangle with his knees, and the bells
with his head, while he made a most ingenious
set of fantoccini dance with his right foot. All
this the wonderful Italian would do, and lie was
not proud. Then there was the accomplished
Posture Master, who had no joints at all in any of
his limbs, but only flexible hinges turning every
way, and could put arms, legs, head, fingers, and
toes in any position he pleased. He had a
monkey who had been taught to imitate him, but
with stiffness. Ralph also was presented to an
Albino or Nyctalope, a most illustrious lady, with
hair a silvery white, and skin of incomparable
clearness, but uncertain of temper ; there were
the wrestlers, boxers, and quarterstafF players,
honest fellows and staunch drinkers, who went
round from fair to fair to display their skill, fight
with each other like Eoman gladiators, and pickup
the prizes; there were the conjurers and

magicians, who palmed things wherever they
pleased as if 'they were helped by a devil or two ;
the seventh son, who read the future for all
comers, and whose boast was that he was never
Wrong; the bear-leaders and badger-waiters; the
flyer through the air, who made nothing of descending
from a steeple-top on a rope with, fireworks
on his hands and feet ; the dancers on the
tight or slack rope ; the thrower of somersaults ;
the itinerant cock-fighter, who would fight his
cock against all comers for a guinea a side ; the
horse-dealer ; the quack doctor, and his Merry-andrew
; the pedlar with his pack ; the cheap
book-seller, and the ballad-crier, with many more
of the great tribe of wanderers. Ralph walked
with them along the road, and heard their stories.
He also learned some of the strange language in
which they talk to each other when minded not
to be understood by the bystanders.

When they came to their destination, and setup
their canvas booths, he stayed too, and enjoyed
the fun of the fair. At seventeen there is plenty
of time to make your fortune, and why grudge a
few days spent in watching the humours of a
country fair ? To be sure it cost some money, but
he had still a good many of his guineas left, and
no one could think a shilling or two ill-spent if
one could see Pizarro acted in the most entering
manner, or hear the most charming

singer in the whole world, dainty with ribbons,
and a saucy straw list, sing, ' 'Twas sC Pretty Little
Heart,' or ' Ben Bowsprit,' or ' Iste, You've no
Call to Me.' Besides, there were the sports.
Ralph played the cudgels one day and got a
broken head, and won a 'plain hat, worth sixteen
shillings,' but no one would give him more than
four shillings and twopence for it ; also he tried a
fall, but was thrown by one mightier than himself
in the Cumberland back-stroke ; and he bowled
for a cheese but did not win ; and he longed to
run in a sack but thought it beneath the dignity
of a full-grown man. Also, there were lotteries :
you could put in and draw everywhere all day
long ; there were prizes of sixpence, and prizes often
pounds : he put in; sometimes he won, but
oftener he lost, which is generally the way with
sportsmen and those who wait upon the Goddess
of Chance. At this Capua, or Paradise of Pleasures,
which was then, and is still, called Graham,
Ralph had well-nigh taken a step which would
have made his story much less interesting to us,
though perhaps fuller of incident. For he made
acquaintance — being a youth of innocent heart,
and apt to believe in the honesty and virtue of
everybody — with the company of players. Now
it happened, first, that the troop were sadly in
want of a young actor, if only to play upto
the manager's daughter ; and secondly, that

this young lady, who was as beautiful as the day
and as vivacious as Mrs. Bracegirdle (she afterwards
became a most famous London actress, and
married an aged earl), cast eyes of favour on the
handsome lad, longed very much for him to play
Romeo to her Juliet, or Othello to her Desdemona,
or any other part in which the beauty of a handsome
woman is set off by the beauty of a handsome
fellow, a thing which very few actresses can
understand : they think, which is a great mistake,
that it is better for them to be the only well-favoured
creature on the stage. Wherefore
the manager took Ralph aside privately, and
offered him refreshment, either ale, or gumbo, or
Barbadoes water, with tobacco if he close, and
had serious conversation with hint, providing all
his victuals and those as abundant as the treasury
would allow, and a salary — say five shillings a
week, to begin in a few months, as soon as he had
learned to act, and to teach him the rudiments ;
and the honour and glory of playing principal
parts ; and his own daughter to play up to ;
and a possible prospect of appearing at Drury Lane.
It was a tempting offer ; the stage — even the
stage in a barn — seemed splendid to the lad ; the
voice and manner of the manager were seductive ;
more seductive still was the voice of his daughter.
When she lifted her great eyes and met his he
trembled and could not say her nay ; when she

laid lier pretty hand upon his, and begged him to
stay with them and be her Romeo, what could lie
reply ? Yet he remembered in time that he was
on his way to seek his fortune ; that the troop
were obviously out at elbows, all horribly poor,
and apparently badly fed ; that to fall in love with
an actress was not the beginning he had contemplated
; and that Drusy, for her part, would
certainly not consider a strolling actor's life as the
most honourable in the world. He took a resolution
: he would think no more upon those
limpid eyes ; he hardened his heart ; he would fly.
He did fly ; but not before the young actress,
who was already beyond his own age, and ought
to have known better, had laid her arms round
his neck and kissed farewell, with many tears, to
her first love who would not love her in return.
But her father was not displeased, and said, speaking
more from a business point of view than out
of paternal tenderness, that she would act the
better for the little disappointment, and that it
does them good, when they are young, to feel
something of what they are always pretending.
Said it put backbone into their attitudes and real
tears in their eyes. Nothing on the stage so
difficult as real tears, except a blush, which cannot
be had for love or money.

Thus it happened that it was four or ^\'q
weeks before Ralph got to London.

VOL. II. D

He arrived by way of Highgate. He reached
the top of Highgate Hill at four in the afternoon.
Here he sat down to rest, and to look upon the
city he had come so far to see. There had been
rain, but the clouds had blown over, leaving a
blue sky, and a bright sun, and a clear air. He
saw in the distance the towers and steeples of
London ; his long journey was clone ; the fortune
he came to seek was — where was it? All the
long way from Warkworth it seemed to him that
when he reached London he would immediately
find that thing known as fortune in some visible
and tangible form, waiting to be seized by his
strong young hands. Yet now that he saw before
him the City of the Golden Pavement it seemed
as if, perhaps — it was a chilling thought — he
might not know or recognise, or be able to seize
this fortune when he actually saw it. What is it
like —Good Fortune ? In other words, he began
for the first time to experience the coldness of
doubt which sometimes falls upon the stoutest of
us. His cheek was by this time burned a deeper
brown ; his hands where dyed and tanned by the
June sun ; his coat and waistcoat were stained
with travel and with rain ; his shoes were worn
through the soles ; in his pocket jingled the last
two of his eleven guineas. When they where gone,
he reflected with dismay, what would have to be
done? But it was not a time to sit and think.

Every fortune must have its beginning ; every
young adventurer must make a start ; every Dick
Whittington must enter the City of London. He
rose, seized this bundle, and set off down the hill,
singing to keep up his spirits, with as much
alacrity as if he were only just starting on his
way from Wark worth, and as if his heart was still
warmed by the recollection of his cousin's bruises.
The way from Highgate to London lies along
a pleasant road between tall hedges. On either
side are fields and woods, and here and there a
gentleman's seat or the country box of a successful
citizen. Presently the boy reached Highborn,
where the road bends south, and he passed Islington,
with its old church and its narrow shady
lanes thick with trees. On his right he saw a
great crowd in a garden, and there was music.
This was Sadler's Wells. Soon after this he
arrived at Clerkenwell Green, and so by a maze
of streets, not knowing whither he went, to
Smithfield, where he found himself in the midst
of the crowd which fills all the streets of the city
from dawn till night. Such a crowd, men so
rough, he had never seen before. They seemed
to take pleasure in jostling and hustling each other
as they went along. It gave occasion for profane
oaths, strange threats, the exhibition of courage,
and the provocation of fear. If they carried loads
they went straight ahead, caring nothing who was

ill the way. Some were fighting, some were
swearing, some were walking leisurely, some were
hastening along as if there was not a moment to
be lost. There were open shops along one side ;
on another side was a great building, but what it
was Ralph knew not. The broad open space was
covered with pens and hurdles for cattle, and at
the corners were booths and carts from which all
kinds of things were sold. A man in a long black
gown, with a tall hat and a venerable white beard,
stood upon a platform in one place, a clown beside
him, holding something in his hand and
bawling lustily. When he was silent the clown
turned somersaults. Ralph drew nearer and
listened. He was selling a magic balsam which
cured wounds as well as diseases. ' Only yesterday,
gentlemen,' the quack was saying, ' at four
in the afternoon, a young nobleman was brought
to me run through the body. He bought the
balsam, gentlemen, and is already recovered,
though weak from loss of blood.' ' Buy ! buy !
buy ! ' shouted the clown. The people looked on,
laughed, and went their way. Yet some stayed
and bought a box of the precious ointment. Then
there was a woman selling gin from a firkin or
small cask on a cart. Her customers sat upon a
stool and drank this dreadful stuff, which, as the
ingenious Hogarth has shown, makes their cheeks
pale and their eyes dull. And there was a stall

in wliicli well-dressed city ladies sat eating sweetmeats,
march pane, and China oranges, while
outside stood a cow, and a woman beside her
crying, ' A can of milk, ladies ! A can of red
cow's milk ! ' The boy looked about here a while,
and passed on, wondering what great holiday was
going. He knew not where he was. but that he
was in London town. He was to find the sign of
the ' Leg and Star ' in Cheapside. Perhaps he
would see it as he walked along. If not, he would
ask. Meantime the novelty of the crowd and the
noise of the streets pleased him, and he walked
slowly with the rest. He would wait until there
passed some gentleman of grave appearance of
whom he could ask the way. But he was in no
hurry. He went on, and although he knew not
where he was, he walked through Giltspur Street,
past Cock Lane (where afterwards appeared the
ghost). On his left he saw Newgate, and so
through Great Old Bailey to Lydgate Hill, where,
indeed, for the magnificence of the people and the
splendour of the shops he was indeed astonished.
There were few of the rude jostling people here.
Most were gentlemen in powdered wigs, ruffles,
and gold-headed canes, being the better class of
citizens taking the air in the evening before supper,
or ladies in hoops and silks, with gold chains, fans,
and gloves, walking with their husbands or their
lovers, very beautiful to behold. The slips, not

yet shut for the day, had all sorts of signs swinging
from the wall. There were the ' Frying Pan
and Drum,' the ' Hog in Armour,' the ' Bible and
Swan,' the ' Whale and Crow,' the ' Shovel and
Boot,' the "^ Razor and Strop,' the ' Axe and Bottle,'
the ' Spanish Galleon,' the ' Catherine Wheel,' and
a hundred others. But he saw not the sign of
the ' Les and Star.'

It was growing late. The boy was hungry
and tired. He looked in at a coffee-house, but
the company within, the crowds of fine gentlemen
— some drinking coffee, wine, and brandy,
and some smoking pipes — and the gaily-dressed
young women who stood behind the counter,
frightened him. He did not dare go in and call
for a cup of coffee ; besides, he had never tasted
coffee. Then he passed a barber's shop, and
thought he might ask of the barber, because at
Warkworth the barber was everybody's friend,
and perhaps this city barter might take after so
good an example. He looked in at the open
door, but quickly retreated. For within the shop
were two or three gentlemen in the hands of the
apprentices ; and one, whose bald head was
wrapped in a handkerchief, was singing some
song which began, ' Happy is the child whose
father has gone to the devil,' while the barber
himself, with an apron on and a white nightcap,'
sat in a chair playing an accompaniment on a

kind of guitar. So Kalpli went on his way,
wondering what next he should see in London,
and where this fortune of his might be found.
Presently there came slowly along the street a
venerable gentleman in an ample wig and a full
black gown. He seemed to have a benevolent
countenance. Ealpli stopped him, and, pulling
off his hat, ventured to ask this reverend divine
if he would condescend to tell him the shortest
way to the sign of the ' Leg and Star ' in Cheapside.


Stay, young man,' said the clergyman ; ' I
am somewhat hard of hearing.'

He pulled out and adjusted very slowly an
ear-trumpet, into which Ralph bellowed his question.
His reverence then removed the instrument,
replaced it in his pocket, and shook his
finger at the boy.

So young,' he said, ' yet already corrupted !
Boy, bethink thee that Newgate is but in the
next street.'

With these words he went on his way, and
left the lad greatly perplexed and humbled, and
wondering what it was that he was supposed to
have said.

It was, in short, seven of the clock when he
found himself at the place whither he was bound.
He had been wandering for an hour and a half,
looking about him, and at last ventured to ask

the way of a servant-girl, who seemed astonished
that he should not know so simple a thing as the
most expeditious road to Cheapside, seeing that
it was only the other side of Paul's. But she told
him, and he presently found himself in the broad
and wealthy street called Cheapside.

The ' Leg and Star ' was on the south side,
between Bread Street and Bow Church. It was
a glover's shop, and because it was growing late,
the boxes of gloves were now taken from the
window, and the apprentices were putting all
away. Ralph stopped and looked at the sign,
then at the letter — which was not a little crumpled
and travel stained — and again at the sign. Yes,
it must be the house, the sign of the ' Leg and
Star,' in Cheapside.

At the door of the shop stood a tall and portly
man, between fifty and sixty years of age, with
large red cheeks and double chin. He was dressed
in plain broadcloth and tye-wig, but he wore
ruffles and neckcloth of fine white linen laced,
as became a substantial citizen. Ralph knew it
could be none other than Mr. Hetherington, wherefore
he took off his hat and bowed low.

What is thy business, young man ? ' asked the
master glover.

'Sir, I bear a letter from your honour's
daughter, now staying at Warkworth, in Northumberland.'


My daughter ! Then, prithee, boy, who are
you ? '

My name is Ralph Embleton, and '

Thou art the son, then, of my old friend,
Jack Embleton? Come in, lad, come in.' He
seized the boy by the arm and dragged him into
the house and across the shop to the sitting-room
at the back. ' Wife ! wife ! ' he cried. ' Here is
a messenger from Drusy with a letter. Give me
the letter, boy. And this is young Ralph Templeton,
son of my old friend and gossip, Jack Templeton,
with whom I have had many a fight in the
old days. Poor Jack ! poor Jack ! Well, we
live. Let us be thankful. Make the boy welcome
; give him supper. Make him a bed somewhere.
What art thou doing in this great place,
lad? So the letter — aye ! the letter.'

He read the superscription, and slowly opened
it and began to read :

Dear and Hon'd Parents — The fairer of this
is Ease, who has run away from cruel treatment,
and wants to make his fortune in London. He
will tell you that I am well, and that I pray for
your lethe, and that you will be kind to Ease. —
Your loving and dutiful deter,

Drusilla.'

So,' went on the merchant, ' cruel treatment.
Who hath cruelly ill treated thee, boy ? '

I have run away, sir,' he said, 'from my

cousin, Mathew Humble, because he seeks every
opportunity to do me a mischief. And, since he
is my guardian, there is no remedy but to endure
or to run away.'

Ah ! Mathew Humble, who bought my
farm. Sam Embleton married his father's sister.
Did your Uncle Sam leave Morwick Mill to
Mathew ? '

No, sir ; he left it to me.'

And Mathew is your guardian ? Yet the
mill is your own, and you have run away from
your own property? Morwick Mill is a pretty
estate. It likes me not. Yet you would fain
seek your fortune in London. That is well.
Fortune, my lad, is only to be made by men of
resolute hearts, like me.' He expanded as he
spoke, and seemed to grow two feet higher and
broad in proportion. ' And strong arms, like
mine ' — he hammered his chest as if it had been
an anvil — ' and keen eyes, like mine. Weak men
fail and get trampled on in London. Cowardly
men get set on one side, while the strong and the
brave march on. I shall be, without doubt, next
year, a Common Councilman. Strong men, clever
men, brave men, boy, march, I say, from honour
to greater honour. I shall become Alderman in
two or three years, if Providence so disposes.
There is no limit to the exalted ambitions of the
London citizen. You would climb like me. You

would be, some day, my Lord Mayor. It is well.
It does you credit. It is a noble ambition.'

Meantime a maid had been spreading the
table with supper, and, to say the truth, the eyes
of the boy were turned upon the cold meats with
so visible a longing, that the merchant could not
choose but observe his hunger. So he bade him
sit and eat. Now, while Ralph devoured his
supper, being at the moment one of the hungriest
lads in all England, the honest glover went on
talking in grand, if not boastful language, about
himself and his great doings. Yet, inexperienced
as he was, Ralph could not but wonder, because,
although the merchant was certainly past fifty
years of age, the great things were all in the
future. He would become one of the richest
merchants in London ; he would be Lord Mayor ;
he would make his daughter a great heiress ; he
designed that she should marry a lord at least.
At this announcement Ealpli blushed and his
heart sank. One of the reasons, said the merchant,
why he kept her still in Northumberland
was that he did not wish her to return home until
they were removed to a certain great house which
he had in his mind, but had not yet purchased.
She should ao in silk and satin ; he would clive
such great entertainments that even the king
should hear of them ; London was ever the city
for noble feasting. And so he talked, until the

lad's brain reeled for thinking of all these
splendours, and he grew sad in thinking how far
off Drusilla would be as, one by one, all these
grandeurs became achieved.

Another thing he observed : that while the
husband talked in his confident and braggart
way, the wife, who was a thin woman, sat silent
and sometimes sighed. Why did she sigh ? Did
she want to live on in obscurity ? Had she no
ambition ?

Then the merchant filled and lit a pipe of
tobacco, and proceeded to tell Ralph how he
would have to begin upon this ambitious career
in search of fortune. First, he would have to bean
apprentice. ' I was myself,' said Mr. Wethers
' an apprentice, though who would think
it now ? ' As an apprentice, he would sweep and
clean out the shop, open it in the morning, and
shut it at night, wait upon the customers all day,
run errands, obey dutifully his master, learn the
business, watch his master's interests, behave with
respect to his betters, show zeal in the despatch of
work, get no holidays or playtime, never see the
green fields except on Good Fridays, take for
meals what might be given him, which would
certainly not be slices off the sirloin, and sleep
under the counter at night. In short, the shop
would be his work-room, his parlour, his eating-room,
and his bed-room.

The boy listened to his instructions with dismay.
Was this the road to fortune ? Was he to
become a slave for some years? But — after?
His apprenticeship finished, it appeared that he
might, if he could find money, open a shop, and
become a master. But most young men, he
learned, found it necessary to remain in the employment
of their masters for some years, and in
some cases for the whole term of their natural
lives.

Ho did not consider that he had already such
a fortune as would, if laid out with judgment,
enable him to open a shop or to buy a partnership.
He forgot at the time that he was the owner of
Morwick Mill. It seemed to him, being so young
and inexperienced, that he had run away from his
inheritance, and abandoned it to Mathew. He,
too, might therefore have to remain in a master's
employment. This was line fortune, truly, to bea
servant all your days. And the boy began
already even to regret his Cousin Mathew's blows
and Barbara's cruel tongue.

His pipe finished, the merchant remembered
that at eight his club would meet, and therefore
left the lad with his wife.

Boy,' she leaned over the table and whispered
eagerly as soon as her husband was gone, ' have
you come up to London without money to become
a merchant ? '

Indeed, madam,' he replied, ' I know not
what I may become.'

Then fly,' she said ; ' go home again. Follow
the plough, become a tinker, a tailor, a cobbler —
anything that is honest. Trade is uncertain.
For one who succeeds a dozen are broke ; you
know not, any moment, but that you also may
break. Your fortune hangs upon a hundred
chances. Alas ! if one of these fail, there is the
Fleet, or may be Newgate, or Marshalsea, or
Whiteness Street, or the King's Bench, or the
Clink — there are plenty of places for the bestowal
of poor debtors — for yourself, and for your wife
and innocent children ruin and starvation.'

Yet,' said Ralph, ' Mr. Hetherington is not
anxious.'

He leaves anxiety,' she replied bitterly, ' to
his wife.'

Then she became silent, and spoke no more to
the boy, but sat with her lips working as one who
conversed with herself. And from time to time
she sighed as if her heart was breaking.

In the morning the merchant was up betimes,
and began again upon the glories of the city.

'Art still of the same mind?' he asked.
Wilt thou be like Whittington and Gresham, and
me, also one of those who climb the tree ? '

Then Ralph confessed with a blush — which
mattered nothing, so deep was the ruddy brown

upon his cheek — that he found city honours dearly
bought at the price of so much labour and confinement.


Then,' said his adviser in less friendly tones,
what will you do ? '

Ralph asked if there Alas nothing that a young
man may do besides work at a trade or sit in a
shop.

Why, truly, yes,' Mr. Hetherington replied
with severity ; ' he may become a highwayman,
and rob upon the road, taking their money from
honest tradesmen and poor farmers — a o-allant
life indeed, and so he will presently hano- in
chains, or be anatomise and set up in Surgeons'
Hall. There is the end of your fresh air for
you.'

But, with respect, sir,' Ralph persisted, '' I
mean in an honest way.'

If he is rich enough he may be a scholar of
Cambridge, and so take orders, or he may become
a physician, or a lawyer, or a schoolmaster, or a
surgeon, and go to sea in His Majesty's ships and
lead a dog's life, or a soldier and go a iicrht-

Let me be a soldier,' cried the boy.

'Why, why? But you must first get His
Majesty's commission, and to get this • you must
beg for letters to my Lord This and my Lord
That, and dangle about great houses, praying for

their influence, and bribe the lacqueys, and then
perhaps never get your commission after all.'

This was discouraging.

Rolling stones, lad,' said the great merchant,
gather no moss. Better stand quiet behind the
counter, sweep out the shop, serve customers, and
keep accounts, and perhaps some day be partner
and grow rich.'

But Ralph hung his head.

Then how can I help thee, foolish boy ?
Yet, because I knew thy father, and for Drusy's
sake Stay, would you go to India ? '

To India ! Little, indeed, of the great doings
in India reached the town of Warkworth. Yet
Ralph had heard the Vicar talking with Mr.
Carnaby of Colonel Clive and the famous battle of
Plassy. To India ! His eye flashed.

'Yes, sir ; I would willingly go to India.'

My worthy friend, Mr. Nathaniel Silvertop,
is in the service of the Company. Come, let us
seek his counsel.'

They walked, the boy being much astonished
at the crowd, the noise, and the never-ceasing
business of the streets, down Cheapside, through
the Poultry, past the new Mansion House and the
Eoyal Exchange, into Cornwall, where stands the
Honourable East India Company's house, a plain
solid building, adorned with pillars of the Doric
order. Mr. Hetherington led the way into a

great hall, where was already assembled a crowd
of men who had favours to ask of the directors,
and finding a servant he sent his name to Mr.
Silver top.

Presently, for nothing was done in undignified
haste in this house, Mr. Silvertop himself — a
gentleman of three score, and of grave appearance
— descended the stairs. To him Mr. Wethers
unfolded his business.

Here, he said, was a young fellow from
Northumberland, heir to a small and pretty
estate, but encumbered for three or four years
to come with a guardian, whose affection he
appeared to have unfortunately lost, so that it
would be well for both to remain apart ; but he
was a young gentleman of roving tastes, who
would fain see a little of the world, and — but
this he whispered — a brave and bold fellow.

Mr. Silvertop regarded the lad attentively.

Our writers,' he said solemnly, ' go out on
small salaries. They seldom rise above four
hundred or five hundred pounds a year at the
most. Yet — mark this, young gentleman — so great
are their chances in India that they sometimes
come home at forty, or even less, with a hundred
aye, two hundred thousand pounds. Think
upon that, boy ! So great a thing it is to serve
this Honourable Company.'

The boy's eyes showed no emotion. A dull

VOL. II. E

dog, indeed, he seemed to Mr. Silverfcop, not to
tremble at the mere mention of so vast a
sum.

Leave him here, my good friend,' said Mr.
Silvertop. ' I have business, but I will return
and speak with him again. He can walk in the
hall and wait.'

Mr. Hetherington went his way, and Ralph
waited.

After an hour or so, he saw Mr. Silvertop
coming down the stairs again. He was escorting,
or leading to the door, or in some way behaving
in respectful and deferential fashion to a tall and
splendid gentleman, brave in scarlet, wearing a
sash and a sword and a gold-laced hat. At
the foot of the stairs, Mr. Silvertop bowed low to
this gentleman, who joined a little group of
gentlemen, some of them also in scarlet. He
seemed to be the chief among them, for they all
behaved to him with the greatest respect. Then
Mr. Silvertop looked about in the crowd, and
spying Ralph, beckoned him to draw near and
speak with him.

So,' said Mr. Silvertop, ' you are the lad.
Yes, I remember.' Ralph thought it strange
that he should not remember, seeing that it was
but an hour or so since Mr. Silvertop had spoken
last with him. ' You are recommended by my
friend ]Mr. Hetherington. Well, I know not — weare

pestered with applications for our writerships.
Every runaway ' — Ralph blushed — ' every out-at -
elbows younger son ' — the great gentleman in
scarlet, who was close at hand, here turned his
head and looked at the lad with a little interest —
every poor curate's brat who can read and
cypher wants to be sent to India.'

You cannot, sir,' said the gentleman in scarlet,
' send too many Englishmen to India. I
would that the whole country was ruled by
Englishmen — yet not by quill-drivers.'

He added the last words in a lower voice, yet
Ralph heard them,

Mr. Silvertop bowed low, and turned again to
the boy.

A mastership,' he continued, ' is the greatest
gift that can be bestowed upon a deserving lad.
Eemember that, and if — but I cannot promise.
I would oblige my friend if I could — but I will
not undertake anything. With my influence —
yet I do not say for certain ; a writershij^ is a
greater matter than you seem to think — I might
bring thy case before the directors. Is thy handwriting
fair, and thy knowledge of figures absolute
? '

Ralph blushed, because his handwriting was
short of the clerkly standard.

I thank you, sir,' he said, ' but I love not
writing. I would rather carry a sword than a pen.'

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

Ta-tanta,' replied Mr. Silvertop, whose influence
lay wholly in the mercantile department of
the company. ' We waste our time. A sword ! I
know naught of swords. Go thy ways, boy — go
thy ways. Is London City, think you, a place for
the carriage of swords ? Go, take the king's
shilling, and join a marching regiment. I warrant
you enough of swords and bayonets.'

Ralph bowed and turned away sadly. The
gentleman in scarlet, who had apparently been
listening to the conversation, followed him to the
doors with thoughtful eyes.

'A lad who would rather handle a sword
than a pen,' he said. ' Are there many such lads
left in this city of trade and greed ? '

They looked, at the ' Leg and Star,' that day,
for the return of the young Northumbrian intime
for dinner. But he came not ; nor did he
come at night ; nor did he ever come. No one
knew whither he had gone or what had become
of him, and much Mr. Hetherington feared that
in this wicked town he had been enticed by some
designing wretch to his destruction.

CHAPTEE IV.
drusilla's story.

I WAS born in Cheapside, almost beneath the
bells of Bow, on October 5, in the year of grace
1753, being the fifth and youngest child of
Solomon Hetherington and Prudence his wife.
My father was a citizen and glover, a member of
the Honourable Company of Glovers, his ambition
being always to be elected, before becoming
Lord Mayor, Master of his Company.
These ambitions are laudable in a city merchant,
yet, alas ! they are not always attained, and in
my unhappy father's case they were very far from
being reached, as you shall presently hear.

There is, I am told, some quality in the
London air which cause the city, in spite of
much that is foolish as regards cleanliness, to bea
healthy place, and favourable to children. So
that, for my own part, though I was brought up
in the very centre and heart of the city, with no
green fields to run in, nor any gardens save those

belonging to the Drapers' Company, I, as well as
my brothers and sisters, was a healthy and weltering
child up to the age of eight, when I, withall
my brothers and sisters, was afflicted with that
scourge of mankind, small-pox. This dreadful
disease, to the unspeakable grief of my parents,
killed their four eldest children, and spared none
but myself, the ' youngest, and a girl. To lose
three strong and promising boys, the hope of the
house, as well as a girl of fourteen, already beginning
to be useful, was a most dreadful thing, and
I wonder that my mother, who passionately loved
her boys, ever recovered cheerfulness. Indeed,
until her dying day she kept the annual recurrence
of tills day, which robbed her of her
children — for they all died on the same day—
in prayer and fasting and tears. Yet I was left,
and, by further blessing of Heaven, I recovered
so far that, although I was weakly and ailing fora
long time, I was not marked by a single spot or
any of those ugly pits, which sometimes ruin
many a woman's beauty and thereby rob her of
that choicest blessing, the love of a husband. So
different, however, was I from the stout and
hearty girl before the small-pox, that my parents
were advised that the best chance to save my life
this being for the time their chief and even
their only hope — was to send me into the country,
there to live in fresh pure air, running in the sun,

and fed on oatmeal porridge, good milk, fat
bacon, and new-laid eggs.

Then my father bethought him of his own
mother who lived far away indeed from London,
namely at Warkworth, in Northumberland. And
he proposed to my mother that they should take
this long journey, carrying me with them, and
leave me for a while in charge of my grandmother
; which being done, and my health showing
signs of amendment, they were constrained to
go back to their own business, leaving me in good
hands, yet with sorrowful hearts, because they
were going home without me. And for six or
seven years I saw them no more.

No girl, to be sure, had kinder treatment or
more indulgent governess than myself. My
grandmother. Dame Hetherington — though not a
lady by birth, but only a farmer's daughter —
lived in the house which stands outside the town,
beyond the bridge, among the trees. You may
know it by its garden and green railings. It is a
small house, yet large enough for the uses and
wants of an old lady and a single serving-maid.
She was then about seventy years of age, but
this is considered young in Northumberland, and
I have seen many ladies from London and the
south country, or even out of Scotland, who at
fifty were not so active. She lived upon an
annuity, forty pounds a year, which her son

bought for lier when he sold his father's farm of
thirty acres ; it was bought by Mathew Humble.
As for the cottage, it was also my father's, and
the Dame lived in it, rent free.

It was the Dame, my grandmother, who
taught me all household things, such as to spin,
to sew, to darn, to hem, to knit, to embroider, to
bake and brew, to make puddings, cakes, jellies,
and conserves, to compound skilfully cowslip,
ginger, and gooseberry wane ; to clean, sweep,
dust, and keep in order my ow^i and all the other
rooms in the house. It was the Vicar's wife who
undertook — there being no school in the town,
save a humble Dame's school — to teach me reading,
writing, capering, together with my Catechism
and the Great Scheme of Christian Redemption,
of which, being the daughter of pious
parents, I already possessed the rudiments. There
were not many books to read in the house, because
my grandmother did not read ; but there
were the Bible, the Apocrypha, the Pilgrim's
Progress, a book of Hymns and Pious Songs, and
a bundle of the cheap books which tell of Valentine
and Arson, Dick Whittington, the last Appearance
of the Devil, and the latest Examples of
Divine Wrath against fools and profligates.

But because the Dame, my grandmother, was
a wise woman, and reflected that I was sent away
from London in order to recover my health and

grow strong, I was allowed and encouraged to
run about in the open air as much as possible, so
that, as this part of England is quite safe, and
there are here few gipsies (who mostly stay on
the other side of Cheviot) nor any robbers on the
road — nor, indeed, any road at all to signify — I
very soon grew to know the whole country within
the reach of a hearty girl's feet.

There is plenty to see, though this part of
Northumberland is flat, while the rest is wild and
mountainous. Firstly, there are the ruins of the
old castle, about which it is always pleasant for a
child to run and climb, or for a grown person to
meditate on the vanity of earthly things, seeing
that this pile of ruins was once a great and
stately castle, and this green sward was once
hidden beneath the feet of fierce soldiers, who
now are dust and ashes in the grave-yard. From
the castle one looks down upon the Coquet, which
would ever continue in my eyes the sweetest of
rivers, even were I to see the far-famed Tiber, or
the silver Thames, or the great Ganges, or the
mysterious Nile, or even the sacred Jordan. It
winds round the foot of the hill on which the
castle is built. There is one spot upon its banks
where I have often stood to watch the castle rising
proudly — albeit, in ruins — above the hill, and
wholly reflected in the tranquil waters below. It
was my delight to scramble down the banks and

to wander fearless glorify the windings of the tortuous
stream, watchiiicr the brightness of its
waters, now deep, now broad, now silent, now
bubbling with the fish leaping up and disappearing,
and the woods hanging on the rising bank.
If you sat quite quiet, moving not so much as a
finger, you might, if you were lucky, presently
see a great otter swimming along in the shadow
of the bank, and you would certainly see a water-rat
sitting in the sun. But if you move ^-o much
as an eyelid the rat drops into the water like a
stone. Or if you crossed the river, which you
can very easily do in some parts by taking off
your shoes and stockings and wading, you could
go visit the Hermitage. There is the little chapel
in which the hapless solitary prayed, and the
figure which he rudely sculptured, and even the
stone bed on which he lay and the steps of the
altar worn by his knees. But children think
little of these things, and to me it was only a
place where one could rest in cool shade when
the sun was hot, or seek shelter from the cold
blast of the winter wind.

Higher up the river was Morwick Mill, where
Ralph Embleton lived with his uncle.

Or, again, if instead of crossing the bridge and
going up to the castle, you walked across the
fields which lay at the back of the garden — wild
and barren fields covered with tufts of coarse

grass — you came, after half a mile or so of rough
walking, to the sea-shore, fringed with low sand-hills.
It was an endless joy to run over these
hills and explore their tiny valleys and peaks of
twenty feet high at least. Or one could wander
on the sands, looking at the waves, an occupation
which never tires, or watching sea-gulls sailing
with loner white wines in the breeze, cr the little
birds on the sands. If you walked down instead
of up the river, you came, after three miles,
to its mouth and the little town of Amble, where
every man is a fisherman.

Beyond the town, half a mile out to sea, lies
the little island of Coquet. Ralph once rowed
me across the narrow channel, and we explored
the desert island and thought of Robinson Crusoe,
which he had read and told me. But this was before
the time when we took to pretending at ghosts.

In those days, which seem to have been so
happy, and I dare say were, Ralph was free, and
could come and go as pleased him best, save that
he went every morning to the Vicar, who taught
him Latin and Greek, and sometimes remembered
but in kindly moderation — the advice of Solomon.
The reason of this freedom was that his
uncle, with whom he lived, loved the lad greatly,
and intended great things for him, even designing
that he should become a great scholar and go to
Cambridge. For once there was a member of

his family who took to learning and rose from
being a poor scholar in that University, which
has ever been a kindly nurse or foster-mother of
poor scholars, to be a Doctor of Divinity and a
Bishop. But my Ralph was never to be a Bishop,
nor even a Doctor of Divinity. And a sad change
was to happen at the mill.

Everybody was our friend in those days, from
Mr. Cuthbert Carnaby, Justice of the Peace, and
the Vicar, down to Sailor Nan and her lodger,
Dan Gedge, the Strong Man. Everybody had a
kind word for Ralph, and nobody told me then
how wicked it was to run about with a boy of
such unnatural depravity. This, as you will see,
was to come. He was a tall boy for his years,
and he was six years older than myself, which
proves how good-pictured he must have been, for
few boys of fifteen or sixteen care for the companionship
of a girl of nine or ten. As for his
face, it has always been the dearest face in the
world to me, and always will be, so that I know
not whether other people would call it a handsome"
face. His eyes where eager, as if — which
was the case — he always wanted to be up and
doing. They were blue eyes, because he was a
Northumberland lad, yet not soft and dreamy
eyes, as is too often the case with the people of
the north. His face was oval and his features
regular. He carried his head thrown back, and

walked erect with both hands ready, as if there
was generally a fight to be expected, and it was
well to be prepared. To be sure, Ralph was one
of those who love a fight and do not sulk if they
are beaten, but bide a bit and then on again.

On Sunday afternoons, who so ready as he at
quarterstaff' or wrestling, or any of the manly
sports? As regards the cock-fighting, bull-baiting,
and dog-fighting, with which our common
people so love to inflame their passions and to
destroy their sensibility, Ralph would none of it,
because he loved dogs, and, indeed, all animals.
But at an otter-lint he was always tu the front.
He was not fond of books and school-learning,
yet he loved to read of foreign lands and of adventures.
The Vicar lent him such books, and
he told me, long before I thought that he too
would become such an one himself, of Pizarro,
Cortes, Raleigh, and Francis Drake (not to speak
of Eobinson Crusoe and Captain Glover), and of
what great things they did and what fine places
they visited. A brave boy always, whose heart
leaped up when he heard of brave things.

All the town, I have said, were our friends.
But of course we had some who were more with
us than others. For instance, what should we
have been without the Fugleman ? To those who
do not know him he was the chief terror of the
town, being so stern and lean in appearance, so

stiff and upright, and, besides, officially connected
with such things as stocks, whipping-post, pound,
and pillory : names of rebuke. To Ralph and tome
he was a trusted and thoughtful friend, almost
a playfellow. His room at the gateway of the
castle, to which he had fitted a door and a window
of glass in a wooden frame, was full of things
curious and delightful. He had ears's strung in
long festoons round the walls, and could tell us
where to look for the nests in spring ; he had a
ferret in a box ; he had fishing-rods and nets ;
he had traps for wild fowl, and for rabbits ; he
had a fowling-piece, and he could tell us stories
Avithout end of his campaigns. Why, this brave
fellow, who was for thirty years and more in the
Fourteenth Berkshire Eegiment, could tell us of
the great review held on Salisbury Plain by his
majesty King George the First, of pious memory.
He could tell us of the famous Siege of Gibraltar,
when the regiment was commanded by Colonel
Clayton, and of the Battle of Dettingen, where
that gallant officer was killed ; of Culloden and
the Young Pretender. A brave regiment always
and strong in Protestant faith, though much given
to drink, and only kept in paths of virtue by strict
discipline and daily flogging.

Had it not been for the Fugleman — and Sailor
Nan, of whom more anon — I for one should never
have learned about foreign places at all, any more

than the rest of us in Wark worth. Xow, indeed,
having heard him talk about them so often, I
seem to know the phlegmatic Dutch and the slow
German, and the Frenchmen with their love of
glory, and the Spaniards with their Papistical
superstitions, and the cruel ways of the Moors,
because the Fourteenth were once at Tangier.

Ralph, of course, knew much more than I,
because he was more curious, being a boy, and
asked many more questions, being always, as I
have said already, thirsty for information concerning
other people, ^o one else in Waxwork had
been abroad, not even Mr. Carnaby, though
gentlemen of good birth, like himself, sometimes
made the grand tour in their youth, accompanied
by tutors. Yet Mr. Carnaby said that they often
learned more wickedness than good, and would
have been better at home. Ko one else talked
about foreigners or knew anything of them, finding
sufficient subject for conversation in the
weather and the events of the day in town and
country side. I do not except Sailor Nan, although
she had sailed over many seas, because a
person who only goes to sea remains always, it
seems to me, in one spot.

Northumberland is enough, indeed, for the
Northumbrians. To begin with, there is no part
of England where there is so much left to be told
by the old women, who are ever the collectors

and treasurers of things gone by and old stories.
Why, men are as wasteful of their recollections as
of their money, and were it not for the women,
the past would perish. It seems to me as if the
Dame could never come to an end with the tales
she told me, the songs she sang me (in a pretty
voice still, though a little cracked with age), the
proverbs she had for every occasion, and the
adventures of many people with ghosts and fairies,
There was the story of the Loathly Worm of
Flamborough, to begin with, and the terrible tale
of Sir Guy the Seeker. I have stood amid the
ruins of Dunstanburgh and wondered where might
be the door through which he entered when he
found the beautiful lady. Then there was the
story of the farmer who found King Arthur and
all his knights in an enchanted sleep, under Sewing
Shields Castle. He saw waiting for the first comer
a sword and a horn. He drew the sword, indeed,
but was too terrified to blow the horn.

Oh, woe betide that evil day

On which the witless wight was born,

Who drew the sword, the garter cut,
But never blew the bugle-horn.

There was the story of the simple man of
Ravenswood who died, and was dead for twenty-four
hours, during which he was permitted to see
both Heaven and Hell, and was sent back to earth
to tell the Bishop that he must prepare for death.

There was the story of the other simple countryman
who had a dream of treasure. In his dream
he saw the place where the treasure lay. It was
in a triangular space made by three great stones
beneath the ground. That simple man was so foolish
as to tell his dream. Again the dream came to
him. This time he got up early in the morning
and went out, spade in hand, to dig. Alas I he
was too late. Someone else had been there before
him, guided by the first dream, and all that was
left was the triangular space made by the three
great stones. There was the other treasure-story
connected with the name of Nelly the Knocker.
Nelly the Knocker was the ghost of an old woman.
She came every evening at dusk, and she stationed
herself before a great stone standing by the roadside
near a farm. Here she knocked with a
hammer. Everybody had seen her — no one was
afraid of her ; the rustics were so used to her that
they passed her without a shudder, though, of
course, no one ventured quite close to her; her
tapping was heard a long way off. One day two
men thought they would dig under the stone, to
see if anything was there. They dug, and they
found a great pot full of gold coins. So that
Nelly the Knocker was justified of her knocking.
But she came no more. There was still another
story of treasure : how it lay buried under a
great stone, and how those who would dig for it

VOL. II. F

were frightened away by a figure in white which
seemed to fly from under it, no one having courage
to remain after the appearance of that figure.
There were, lastly, the stories of the fairies who
were brought into the country by the Crusaders,
never having been heard of before. I have since
wondered how they were brought : whether in
boxes, or in cages, or in what other way. Those
of Northumberland have yellow hair ; they live
in chambers under green hills ; they have a great
day of meeting every year — namely, on the eve of
Eoodsmass, called by some Hallowed. The
chief mischief they do — it is, to be sure, a very
great mischief — is to steal the babies (wherefore
at reaping-time it is most dangerous to leave their
little children under the hedges) and to substitute
changelings.

My dear,' said the Dame, gravely, ' I have
known such a changeling. His name was Little
Hobbie o' the Castleton ; he was a dwarf, and
wrathful by disposition, insomuch that he would
draw his gully upon any of the boys who
offended him. But his legs were short, whereby
he was prevented from the wickedness of murder,
or at least striking and wounding.'

There was also the Brown Man of the Moors,
but one feared him not at Warkworth, where
there are no moors. And there was the fearful
Ghost of Black Seddon, known as Silky, because

she always appeared dressed in silk ; a stately
dame, the sight of whom terrified the stoutest.

These are only a few of the tales with which
my childish head was filled, and though I know
that scoffers may laugh, in an age which affects
with incredible boldness to disbelieve even the
most sacred things, we of the country know very
well that these things are too well authenticated
not to be true. As regards Silky, for instance, the
man was still living and could be spoken with
when I was a girl, who, being then a youth of
tender years, proposed to personate the figure in
white which sometimes stood or sat by the bridge
on the road to Edlingham from Fenwick. He
put on a sheet and sat upon the bridge, expecting
to frighten passengers. Lo ! beside him he saw,
suddenly, the real ghost, saying never a word.
And at sight of her he fell backwards over the
bridge into the water and broke his leg, so that
he went halt to his dying day. This ought to
have been a warning both to Ralph and myself:
but, alas ! it was not.

Sailor Nan, who lived in a cottage up the
street between the church and the castle, had seen
many ghosts, but hers were sea-ghosts, because,
though she had sailed in a great many seas, she
had never been ashore — I do not count an hour's
run among grog-shops going ashore — in foreign
parts, except at Portobello, when that place wasp

2

taken in the year 1739, when she was with
Admiral Bedford, being also captain of the foretop,
and at the time about thirty-six years of age ;
here, by reason of a wound, her sex was discovered,
so that they disrated her and sent her
home. Her memory being good and her recollections
being copious, her house was much frequented
by young people who loved to hear how
she boarded the ' Santa Isabella ' when aboard the
Dorsetshire,' under Admiral Laval, or how she
was present at the famous cutting out of the
pirate, with the hangings at the yard-arm of
the pirate captain and all his crew, and how
the ghost of the carpenter (unjustly hanged)
haunted the main deck. She was at this time —
I mean at the time when Ralph did penance —
about sixty years of age. She wore a sailor's
three-cornered hat, cocked, a thick woollen
wrapper round her neck, and petticoats almost as
short as a sailor's. She v\rore also thick worsted
stockings and men's shoes, so that it was difficult
to understand that she was a woman and not a
man. Her voice could be either rough and coarse
like a sailor's, or thin Hke a woman's, as she
pleased ; round her waist she tied a cord, which
had^a knife at the end of it. She smoked tobacco
continually, and drank as much rum as ever she
could get. She lived chiefly by selling tansy
cakes. After she was dismissed from the navy

she married twice. Her first husband was hanged
for selling a stolen pig at Morpeth Fair, and her
second hanged himself — some said on account of
his wife's cudgel. ' Sinners,' she would say,
it's a fine thing to dee your own fair death.'
Her conversation was full of strange sea oaths,
and she was still as strong as most men are at
thirty, with thick brawny arms and sturdy feet, a
woman who feared no man. Besides her tansy
cakes she told fortunes to those who would give
her silver, and she grew in her garden, and sold,
marsh and marigold. A tough, hardened old
woman, her face beaten and battered by all kinds
of weather, who sat outside her door on a big
stone all day long, winter and summer, rain, snow,
frost, hail, east wind, south wind, sunshine, cloud,
or clear, smoking a black pipe of tobacco, and
carrying in her hand a stick with which she
threatened the children Avhen they ran after her,
crying, ' Sailor Iran, Sailor Nan ; half a woman,
half a man ! ' But I do not think that she ever
harmed any of them. People came to see her
from all the country-side, partly to talk with her,
because she was so full of stones, and partly to
look at a woman who had actually carried a
cutlass, handled pike and marlinspike, been captain
of the foretop, brandished a petty officer's
rope's-end, manned a boat, fought ashore side by
side mali the redcoats, and vacantly boarded an

enemy. In the end she lived to be a hundred
and eight, but she never altered or looked any
older, or lost her faculties, or drank less rum, or
smoked less tobacco.

When Ealpli was nearly fifteen a great and
terrible misfortune befell him. His uncle, Mr.
Samuel Embleton, though not an old man, died
suddenly. After he was buried it was found that
he had left by will Morwick Mill and the farm,
his household furniture, his books, which were not
many, and all the money he had in the world, to
Ralph as his sole heir. This inheritance proved
at first the cause of great unhappiness to the boy.
For, unfortunately, the will named Mathew
Humble as the guardian and executor, to whom
the testator devised his best wig and his best coat
with his second-best bed and a gold-headed stick.
Now it angered Mathew to think that he, being also
nephew and sisters son of Samuel Embleton, of
Morwick Mill, was left no part or portion of this
goodly heritage. It would seem that knowing
his uncle's design to send Ralph to Cambridge,
and his hope that he would become a credit to
the family and a pillar of the Church, he had
hoped and even grown to believe firmly and to
expect it as a right, that the mill at least, if not
the farm, or a portion of it, would be left to him.
It was, therefore, a bitter blow for him to find
that he was left nothing at all except what he

could make or save as guardian of the heir and
administrator of the estate, with free quarters at
the mill, for six years. Surely for a man of probity
and common-sense that would have been considered
a great deal.

He came, with his sister, who was as much
disappointed as himself, in a spirit of rancour,
malice, and envy. He regarded the innocent boy
as a supplanter. The first thing he did was to
inform him that he should have no skulking or
idleness. He therefore put a stop to the Latin
and Greek lessons from the Vicar, and employed
the boy about the work of the place, giving him
the hardest and the most disagreeable tasks on the
farm. For freedom was substituted servitude ; for
liberty, restraint ; for affection and kindness, harsh
language and continual flogging ; while Barbara
with her tongue, that ill-governed weapon of
women, made him feel, for the first time in his
life, how idle, how useless, how greedy a creature
he was. The boy bore with all, as meekly as was
his duty, for quite two years. But he often came
to me, or to the Fugleman, with fists clench al,
declaring that he would endure this ill-usage no
longer, and asking in wonder whit he had done to
deserve it. And at such times he would swear to
leave the mill and run away and seek his fortune
anywhere — somewhere in the world. It was
always in his mind, from the first, when Mathew

began his ill-treatment, that he would run away
a ad seek his fortune. In this design he was
strengthened by the example of my father, who
left the village when a boy of fourteen to seek his
fortune, and found — you shall hear presently what
he found. I dissuaded him, as much as I could,
because it was dreadful for me to think of being
left without him, or of his running about the
country helpless and friendless. The Fugleman,
who knew the world and had travelled far,
pointed out to him very sensibly that he would
have to endure this hardness for a very short time
longer, that he was already sixteen and as tall
as most men, and could not for very shame
be flocrffed much more ; while, as for Barbara's
tongue, he declared that a brave man ought not
to value what a woman said — let her tongue run as
free as the serjeants drill of recruits — no more
than the price of a rope's end : and, again, that in
^VQ years' time, as soon as Kalph was twenty one,
he would have the right to turn his cousin out
of the mill, which would then become his own
property, and a very pretty property too, where
an old friend would expect to find a pipe and a
glass of Hollands or rum. And he promised himself
to assist at the ducking in the river which he
supposed that Ralph would give his cousin when
that happy day should arrive, as well as at the
great feast and rejoicing which he supposed would

follow. The result of these exhortations, to which
were added those of my grandmother, was that he
remained at home, and when Mathew Humble
cruelly belaboured him, he showed no anger or
desire for revenge, and when Barbara smote him
with harsh words and found texts out of the
Bible to taunt him with, he made no reply. Nor
did he rebel even though they treated him as if he
were a common plough-boy and farm drudge,
instead of the heir to all.

I confess, and have long felt sincerely, the
wickedness of the thing which at length brought
open disgrace upon poor Ralph and drove him away
from us. Yet, deserving of blame and punishments
as our actions were, I cannot but think that the
conduct of Mathew in bringing the chief culprit —
he knew nothing of my share or of the Fugleman's
before his Worship, Mr. Justice Carnaby, was
actuated more by malice than by an honest desire
to bring criminals to punishment. Besides, he
had for some months before this been spreading
abroad wicked rumours about Ralph, saying,
among other false and malicious things, that the
boy was idle, gluttonous, lying, and even thieving,
insomuch that the Vicar, who knew the contrary,
and that the boy was as good a lad as ever
walked, though fond of merriment and a little
headstrong, openly rebuked him for malice and
evil thinking, saying plainly that these things were

not SO, and that, if they were so, Mathew was
much to blame in blabbing them about the
country, rather than trying to correct the lad's
faults, and doing his best to hide them from the
general knowledge. Yet there are some who
always believe what is spoken to one's dispraise,
and sour looks and unfriendly faces were bestowed
upon the boy, while my grandmother was warned
not to allow me to run wild with a lad of so
notorious a bad character. This is all that I
meant when I said just now that at first all were
our friends.

When Ralph was gone I took little joy in
anything until I got my first letter from him,
which was not for a very long time afterwards.

Now, one day, as I was walking sorrowfully
home, having sat all the afternoon with the Fugleman,
I saw Sailor Nan beckoning to me from her
stone outside the door.

Child,' she said, ' where's your sweetheart
? '

'Alack,' I replied, 'I know not. Sailor
Nan.'

Young maids,' she went on, * must not puke
and pine because they hear nothing for awhile of
the lads they love. Be of good cheer. Why, I
read him his fortune myself in his own left hand.
Did my fortunes ever turn out wrong ? As good
a tale of luck and fair weather as I ever read.

Come, child, give me thy hand ; led me read your
lines too.'

It is strange how in the lines of one's hand are
depicted beforehand all the circumstances of life,
easy to be read by those who are wise. Yet have
I been told that it is not enough to learn the
rules unless you have the gift.

He will come back,' she repeated, after long
looking into the hand. 'Now, your own hand.
Here is a long line of life — yet not as long as my
own. Here is the line of marriage — a good line ;
a happy marriage ; a fortunate girl — yet there
^vill be trouble. Is it an old man? I cannot
rightly read. Something is in the way. Trouble,
and even grievous trouble. But all to come right
in the end.'

Is my fortune,' I asked, ' connected with the
fortune of Ralph ? '

She laughed her rough, hoarse sea-laugh.

If it is an old man, or if it is a young man,
say him nay. Bide your old love. If he press
or if he threaten, say him nay. Bide your old
sweetheart.

There was an old man came over the lea,
Height ! but I won't have 'hin ;

Came over the lea,

A courting' to me,
Wi' his old gray beard just newly shaven.'

She crooned out the words in a cracked and

rusty voice, and pushed my hand away roughly.
Then she replaced her pipe in her mouth and went
on smoking the tobacco which was her chief food
and her chief solace, and took no further heed
of me.

CHAPTER V.

A SECOND WHITTINGTON.

It becomes not a young girl to pronounce judgment
openly (whatever she may think) upon the conduct
of her elders, or to show resentment, whatever
they may think fit to do ; so that when Mathew
Humble came to see my grandmother on certain
small affairs which passed between them — concerning
the sale of a pig, or I know not what — it
was my duty, though my heart was aflame, to sit,
hands in lap, quiet and mum, when I would
rather. Heaven knows, have been boxing his ears
and raihncr him in such lanc^uai^e as I could
command, for I certainly could never forget,
while this man, with the fat red cheeks and pig's
eyes, was drinking my grandmother's best cowslip
wine, as if he had been the most virtuous of men,
that it was through him — though this my grandmother
knew not, for I never told her — that
Ralph had been betrayed to his Worship, and so
been brought to public shame ; that it was this

man who had beaten the boy without a cause, and
that it was his sister who daily sought out hard
words and cruel texts, as well as coarse crusts,
with which to torture my Ralph. I remembered, as
well, that it was this man who had been soundly
cudgelled and flogged by the boy he had abused
so shamefully.

'You have heard nothing, I dare say, Mr.
Mathew,' asked the Dame, for it was now two
months after the poor lad's flight, ' of our young
runaway, whom we in this house greatly lament
and wish him well ? '

'Nothing as yet,' replied Mathew. Then he
drank off the rest of his glass, and went on with
much satisfaction : ' I fear ' — yet he looked as if
he hoped — 'that we shall hear nothing until we hear
the worst, as provided by the righteous laws of this
country. What, madam, can be expected of one
so dead and hardened unto conscience as to offer
violence and to turn upon his guardian, and take
him while off his guard and unawares with bludgeons
and cudgels ? '

The whole town had heard by this time and
knew very well how Ralph, before his flight,
refused to be flogged, and fought his guardian and
vanquished him, insomuch that grievous weals
were raised and bruises sad to tell of. It was
Mathew's version that he was taken by surprise.
Otherwise, he said, it was nothings but Heaven's

mercy prevented him from grievously wounding
and hurting the boy, who ran away for fear and
dared not come back. Opinion was divided : for
some called shame on Mathew for flogging so tall
and strong a lad — almost a man — and others
declared that stripes, and those abundant and
well laid on, alone could meet the deserts of one
guilty of bringing ghostly visitors into discredit,
because, should such practices continue, no ghost,
even one who came to tell of buried treasure,
would be sure of his — or her — reception, and
might be scoffed at as. an impostor, instead of
being received with terror and the fearful knocking
together of knees.

But mostly the general opinion was in favour
of the boy and his flight; the folk rejoiced that
Mathew had met his match ; and our ignorance
of Ralph's fate made the people remember once
more his many good qualities, his merry friendly
ness, his honest face, and his blithe brown eyes, /^qjl^^ *
in spite of the ghost pretences and the' stories ^^'^^
spread abroad by his cousins. ^^i^^Xc^'^

That,' said my grandmother, in answer to
Mathew, ' was wrong, indeed. I had hoped that
the lad would have returned, made submission,
received punishment, and been pardoned. lie , •
was ever a boy of good disposition, and his uncle //

loved him, Mathew — a thing which did, without r
doubt, prepossess you in his favour.'

Mathew slowly put down his empty glass, and
held up both hands to show astonishment.

Good disposition ? This, madam, springs
from your own goodness of heart. Who in Walworth
doth not know that the boy was already,
so to speak, a man grown, so far as wickedness is
concerned ? He of a good disposition ? Alas,
madam, your heart is truly too full of kindness !
For the sake of Missy here — who grows a tall
lass — I am glad that he is gone, because he would
have taught her some of his own wickedness.
Alas ! ' here he spread his hands, ' the things that
I could tell you if I would. But one must spare
one's cousin. Greediness, laziness, profligacy,
luxury. Ha ! but I speak not of these matters,
because lie was my cousin. For his own sake,
and because at his age an evil-disposed boy cannot
but feel the want of those paternal corrections
Y^^hich I never spared, I grieve that he is no
longer with us.'

Nevertheless, Mr. Mathew,' said my grandmother,
smiling, ' I cannot believe, even though
you assure us, that Ralph was so wicked as all
this, and I hope, for the credit of your family,
that you will diligently spread abroad a better
opinion. No one is hardened at sixteen.'

Except Ralph,' said Mathew, shaking his
head.

And I for one shall continue to hope the

best. He will return to us, Mr. Matliew, before
long, penitent, and desirous of pleasing this guardian,
and you will then be able to correct your
judgment.'

I do not think he will ever return,' said his
cousin. 'As for being penitent, he must first
take the punishment which awaits him. As for
desiring to please ' He stopped short, doubtless
remembering that alder-branch.

If he does not return,' my grandmother continued,
' till after he becomes of age, it will be
your great happiness to hand over his property,
well husbanded and with careful stewardship.'
Here Mathew shut both his eyes and shook his
head, but I know not why. ' You ' will feel the
pleasure of doing good to one who undutifully
offered you violence. He will be the opposite to
the man in the parable, for he will have left his
talent tied up in a napkin, and he will return and
find it multiplied.'

Such as Ralph,' said Mathew, grimly, ' do not
repent, nor desire to please, nor return. He began
with penance — public penance — think upon that
and saying the Lord's Prayer aloud. He will
be advanced next — which is the regular course of
such as him — to pillory. After penance, pillory.
It is the regular thing. After pillory, stocks;
after stocks, whipping-post or cart tail ; after cart-tail,
burning in the hand. Lastly, he will be

VOL. II. G

promoted to the gallows.' He positively rubbed
his hands together, and laughed at this delightful
prospect. Why did he wish his cousin hanged, I
wonder, unless that he would then get the mill ?

I trust not,' said the Dame. ' Meantime, you
will guard his property.'

His property ! ' his face grew quite black.
His property ! Why, if he comes back there will
be something said about that as well. Ha ! His
property ! Ha ! '

But, surely, Mr. Mathew,his uncle bequeathed
Morwick Mill to Ralph ? '

That, madam, has been the belief of the world.

Nevertheless But I say nothing. This is not

the time for serious talk.'

When he was gone, my grandmother, who
seldom discussed such high matters with me, said :

Drusilla, I like it not. Doth Mathew Humble
desire the death of his cousins It would seem
so. Pillory, stocks, whipping-post, gallows ? All
for our Ralph? Why this passeth understanding!
And wherefore this talk of the world's belief? I
like it not, child.'

'But you do not think, grandmother, that
Ralph will '

I think, child, that Ralph is a good lad, but
headstrong, perhaps, and impatient of control.
Wherever he is I will warrant him honest. Such
boys get on, as your father got on. Some day, I

make no doubt that he will return. But as for
Mathew Humble, I like not his manner of speech.'

The same day she put on her bonnet and best
shawl and went to the house of Mr. Cuthbert
Carnaby, from which I gathered — my little wits
jumping as fast as bigger ones — that she went to
lay the case before his Worship, which perhaps
was the reason why, when Mr. Carnaby next met
Mathew (it was after church on Sunday), he informed
him that it should be his own business to
watch that the mill and farm were properly
managed in the interests of the heir, and that a
strict account would be required when Ralph
returned and came of age. Whereat Mathew
became confused, and stammered words incoherent
about proving who was the rightful heir. Yet,
for the moment, nothing more was said upon that
subject.

The summer and the autumn passed, but no
sign or letter came from Ralph. The people in
the town ceased, after the manner of mankind, to
think of the boy. He was gone and forgotten,
yet there where two or three of us who spoke and
thought of him continually. First there was the
Fugleman, who found his life dull without the boy
to talk with. He promised to make a collection
of birds' eggs in the spring as a present for him
when he should return. Then there was the old
woman. Sailor Nan, who kept his memory green.

G 2

Lastly, there were tiny grandmother and myself.
We knew not, however, where he was, or anything
about him, nor could we guess what he was
doing, or whither he had gone.

Twice in the year — namely, at Christmas or the
New Year, and at Midsummer — I had letters from
my parents, to which I duly replied. It was in
May when Ralph ran away, so that they had three
letters from me that year. When my Christmas
letters arrived there was mention of our boy, but
so strange a tale that we could not understand
what to believe or what the thing might mean.

The letter told us that Ralph reached London
safely in four or five weeks after leaving us, having
walked all the way, save for such trifling lifts and
helps as might be had for nothing on the road ; he
found out my father's shop ; he gave him the letter ;
he slept in the house, and was hospitably entertained.
In the morning he was taken by my
father to the East India Company's great house in
Cornwall, and left there by him to talk with a
gentleman about the obtaining of a post in their
service ; that, the conversation finished, being dismissed
by the gentleman with whom he had taken
counsel, Ralph left the office. Then he disappeared,
and was seen no more. Nor to the inquiries made
was there any answer given or any news of him
ascertained. ' So wicked is this unhappy town,'
wrote my mother, ' that men are capable of

murdering even an innocent lad from the country
for the sake of the silver buckles, or the very coat
upon his "back. Yet there are other ways in which
he may have been drawn away. He loved not
the thought of city life ; he may have taken the
recruiting sergeant's shilling, or he may have
been pressed for a sailor and sent to sea ; or,
which Heaven forbid, he may have been decoyed
into bad company, and now be in the company of
rogues. Whatever the cause, he hath disappeared
and made no sign. Yet he seemed a good and
honest lad.'

So perplexed were we with the strange and
unintelligible intelligence that, after turning it
about in talk for a week, it was resolved that
we would consult Mr. Carnaby in the matter. It
would perhaps have been better if we had kept
the thing to ourselves. For this gentleman, though
he kindly considered the case, could do nothing
to remove the dreadful doubt under which we
lay, except that he recommended us to patience
and resignation, virtues of which. Heaven knows !
we women who stay at home must needs continually
practise. We should, I say, have done better
had we held our tongues, because Mr. Carnaby
told the barber, who told the townsfolk one by
one, and then it was whispered about that Ralph
had joined the gipsies, according to some ; or
been pressed and sent to sea, according to others ;

or had enlisted, according to others ; with wild
stories told in addition, born of imagination, idle
or malignant, as th-at he had joined a company of
common rogues and robbers ; or — but I scorn to
repeat these things. Everybody, however, at this
juncture, remembered the wicked things said of
the boy by his cousin. As for Mathew himself,
overjoyed at the welcome news, which he received
open-mouthed, so to speak, he went about calling
all his acquaintance to witness that he had long
since prophesied ruin and disaster to the boy,
which, indeed, to the fullest extent, a lad so depraved
as to horsewhip his own guardian richly
deserved. As for coming back, he said, that was
not likely, and indeed impossible, because he
was already knocked on the head — Mathew was
quite convinced of this — in some midnight brawl,
or at least fallen so low that he would never dare
to return among respectable people. These things
we could not believe, yet they sank into our
hearts and made us uneasy. For where could the
boy be, and why did he not send us one letter, at
least, to tell us what he had done, and how he
had fared ?

Child,' said my grandmother, ' it is certain
that Mathew does not wish his cousin to return.
He bears malice in his heart against the boy, and
he remembers that should he never come back
the mill will be his own.' Already he began to

give himself the airs of the master, and to talk
of selling a field here and a field there, and of
improving the property, as if all was his.

'He will come back,' said the Fugleman.
Brave hearts and lusty legs do not get killed.
Maybe, he hath enlisted. Then he may have gone
a soldiering to America, or somewhere in the
world, and no doubt will get promotion — aye,
corporal first, sergeant next, and perhaps be made
Fugleman. Or, maybe, as your lady mother says,
he hath been pressed, and is now at sea, so that
he cannot write. But, wherever he is, be sure he
is doing well. Wherefore, heart up ! '

Well, to shorten the story, we got no news at
all, and could never discover for many years
what had become of the boy. When four years
had passed by without a word or line from him,
Mathew grew horribly afraid because Ralph's
one-and-twentieth birthday drew near, and he
thought the time was come when the heir would
appear and claim his own. What preparations
he made to receive him I know not. Perhaps a
blunderbuss and a cup of poison. But the day
passed, and there was no sign of Ralph. Then,
indeed, Mathew became quite certain that he
would no more be disturbed and that the mill
was his own.

As for myself, I sat at home chiefly with my
grandmother, who was now beginning to grow

old, yet brisk and notable still. There was a
great deal to be done, and the days passed swiftly
to industrious hands ; yet not one so busy and
not one so swift but I could find time to think
and to pray for Ralph. As for diversions, for
those who want them, there are plenty. Do not
think that in our little north-country town we
have any cause to envy the pleasures of town.
Why, to begin with, there arc the mummers at
Christmas ; .all through the dark evenings the
lads gamble at candle creel for the stable lanterns;
on New Year's Eve we sit up all night long and
keep the fire burning — it is dreadful bad luck to
borrow fire on a New Year's morning ; in the
summer there comes the fair ; on Sunday afternoons,
for the young men there is wrestling, with
quarter-staff and cock-fighting. At harvest-time
there is the March of the Kern baby —

The master's corn is ripe and shorn,
We bless the day that he was born ;
Shouting a kern — a kern — aha !

with the feast afterwards and the cushion dance,
at which the old song of ' Prinkham Prankham '
is always sung, and the girls are kissed, a proceeding
which seems never to fail in causing the
liveliest satisfaction to the men, though why they
should wish to kiss young persons for whom they
do not feel any affection, and perhaps, even any
respect, passes my poor comprehension. I have

seen, on these occasions, a gentleman kiss a dairymaid,
and dissemble so well that one might say
he liked it. Besides these amusements, the men
had the excitement of the smuggling, whereof you
will hear more presently.

To look back upon, in spite of these amusements,
it was a long and dreary time of waiting.
Yet still the Fugleman kept up my heart, and
Sailor Nan swore, as if she was still captain of
the foretop, that he would come home safe. I
was young, happily, and youth is the time for
hope. And about the end of the sixth year I
had cause to think about other things, because
my own misfortunes began.

I had long observed in the letters of my dear
parents a certain difference, which constantly
caused doubt and questioning ; for my mother
exhorted me continually in every letter to the
practice of frugality, thrift, simple living, and the
acquisition of housewifely knowledge, and, in
short, all those virtues which especially adorn the
condition of poverty. She also never failed to
bid me reflect upon the uncertainty of human
affairs and the instability of fortune ; and every
letter furnished examples of rich men becoming
poor, and great ladies reduced to beg their bread.
My grandmother bade me lay these things to
heart, and I perceived that she was disturbed, and
she would have written to my father to ask if

tidings were going ill, but for two reasons. The
first was that she could neither read nor write,
those arts not having been taught her in her
childhood ; and I testify that she was none the
worse for want of them, but her natural shrewdness
even increased, because she had to depend
upon herself, and could not still be running to a
book for guidance. The second reason was that
the letters of my father, both to her and to myself,
were full of glorious anticipation and confidence.
Yes ; while my mother wrote in sadness,
he wrote in triumph ; when she bade me learn to
scour pots, he commanded me to study the
fashions ; when she prophesied disaster, he proclaimed
good fortune. Thus, he ordered that I
Alas to be taught whatever could be learned in so
remote a town as Warkworth, and that especial
care was to be taken in my carriage and demeanour,
begging my grandmother to observe the
deportment of Mistress Carnaby, and to bid me
copy her as an example ; for, he said, a city
heiress not uncommonly married with a gentleman
of good family, though impoverished fortunes ;
that some city heiresses had of late married
noblemen ; that as he had no son, nor any other
child but myself, I would inherit the whole of
his vast fortune (I thought how I could give it all
to Ralph), and, therefore, I. must study how to
maintain myself in the position which I should

shortly occupy ; that he was already of the
Common Council, and looked before long to be
made Alderman, after which it was but a step to
Sheriff first and Lord Mayor afterwards ; that he
intended to build or buy a great house worthy of
his wealth ; and that he did not wish me to
return home until such time as this house was in
readiness, because, as one might truly say, his
present dwelling in Cheapside, though convenient
for his business and the place where his fortune
was made, was but a poor place, quite unworthy
of an heiress, and he wished that I should be
seen nowhere until he had prepared a fitting
place for my reception ; that, in point of beauty,
he hoped and doubted not that I should be able
to set off and adorn the jewels and fine dresses
which he designed presently to give me ; and
that he desired me especially to pay very particular
attention not to seem quite rustical and
country-bred, and to remember that the common
speech of Northumberland would raise a laugh
in London. With much more to the same effect.
I say not that my father wrote all this in a
single letter, but in several, so that all these things
became implanted in my mind, and both my
grandmother and myself were, in spite of my
mother's letters, firmly persuaded that we were
already very rich and considerable people, and
that my father was a merchant of the greatest

renown — already a Common Councilman, and
shortly to be Alderman, Sheriff, and Lord Mayor
in the city of London. This belief was also
held by our neighbours and friends, and it gave
my grandmother, who was, besides, a lady of
dignified manners, more consideration than she
would otherwise have obtained, with the title of
Madam, which was surely due to the mother of so
great and successful a man.

Now the truth was this : my father was the
most sanguine of men, and the most ready to
deceive himself He lived continually (if I may
presume to say so without breaking the fifth commandment)
in a fool's paradise. When he was a
boy nothing would do for him but he must go to
London, refusing to till the acres which would
afterwards be his own, because he was ambitious,
and ardently desired to be another Whittington.
See the dangers of the common chap books, in
which he had read the story of this great Lord
Mayor! He so far resembled Whittington that
he went up to London (by waggon from Newcastle)
with little in his pocket, except a letter of
recommendation from the then Vicar of Walworth
to his brother, at the time a glover in
Cheapside. How he became apprentice — like
Whittington — to this glover, how he fell in love
like Whittington — with his master's daughter,
how he married her — like Whittington — and

inherited the business, stock, capital, goodwill,
and all, may here only be thus briefly told ; but
by the death of his master he became actual and
sole owner of a London shop, whereupon my
poor father's brain being always full of visions,
he was inflamed with the confidence that now,
indeed, he had nothing to look for but the making
of an immense fortune. Worse than this, he
thought that the fortune would come of its own
accord. How a man living in the city of London
could make so prodigious a mistake I know not.
Therefore he left the whole care of the business
to his wife and his apprentices, and for his own
part spent the day m coffee-houses or on 'Change,
or wherever merchants and traders meet together.
This made him full of great talk, and he presently
proceeded to imagine that he himself was concerned
in the great ventures and enterprises of
which he heard so much ; or, perhaps, because he
could not actually have thought himself a merchant
adventurer, he believed that before loner he
also should be embarking cargoes to the East and
West Indies, running under convoy of frigates
safe through the enemy's privateers. It was out
of the profits of these imaginary cargoes that he
was to obtain that vast wealth of which he continually
thought and talked until, in the end, he
believed that he possessed it. Meantime his poor
wife, my mother, left in charge of the shop, and

with her household cares as well, found, to her
dismay, that the respectable business which her
father had made was quickly falling from them,
as their old friends died, one by one, or retired
from trade, and no new ones coming in their
places ; for, as I have been credibly informed, the
business of a tradesman or merchant in London
is so precarious and uncertain, that, unless it be
constantly watched, pushed, nursed, encouraged,
coaxed, fed, and flattered, it presently withers
aw ay and perishes.

For want of the master's presence, for lack of
pushing and encouragement, the yearly returns
of the shop grew less and less. No one knew
this except my mother. It was useless to tell
my father. If she begged his attention to the
fact, he only said that business was, in the nature
of things, fluctuating ; that a bad year would be
succeeded by a good year ; that large profits had
recently been made by traders to Calicut and
Surinam, where he had designs of employing his
own capital, and that ventures to Canton had of
late proved extremely successful. Alas, poor
man! he had no capital left, for now all was gone
capital, credit, and custom. Yet he still continued
to believe that his shop, the shop which
came to him with his wife, was bringing him,
every year, a great and steady return, and that
he was amassing a fortune. ,

One day — it was a Saturday evening in May
in the year seventeen hundred and seventy,
six years after [the flight of Ralph Embleton,
when T was in my seventeenth year, and almost
grown to my full height, I saw coming slowly
along the narrow road which leads from the highway
to Warkworth a country cart, and in it two
persons, the driver walking at the horse's head.
I stood at the garden-gate watching this cart
idly, and the setting sun behind it, without so
much as wondering who these persons might be,
until presently it came slowly down the road,
which here slopes gently to the river and the
bridge, and pulled up in front of our. gate. When
the cart stopped a lady got quickly down and
seized my hands.

You are m^y Drusilla ? ' she asked, and without
waiting for a reply, because she was my
mother and knew I could be no other than her
own daughter, she fell upon my neck in a passion
of weeping and sobbing, saying that she knew
I was her daughter dear, and that she was my
most unhappy ruined mother. It was my father
who' descended after her. He advanced with
dignified step and the carriage of one in authority.
I observed that his linen and the lace of his
ruffles were of the very finest, and his coat,
though dusty, of the finest broadcloth. He
seemed not to perceive my mother's tears ; he

kissed me and gave me his blessing. He bade
the carter, with majestic air, lead the ' coach ' —
he called the country cart a coach — and take
great care of the horse, which he said was worth
forty guineas if a penny ; but the horse was a
ten-year-old cart-horse, worth at most four
guineas, as I knew very well, because I knew
the carrier.

Amazed at this extraordinary behaviour, I
led my parents to my grandmother, and then we
presently learned the truth. My father, if you
please, was ruined ; he was a bankrupt ; his
schemes of greatness had come to nothing ; his
vast fortune lay in his imagination only ; he had
lost his wife's money and his own. He had returned
to his native county, his old friends having
clubbed together and made a little purse for him,
and this creditors having consented to accept
what they could get and to give him a quittance
in full, because he was known to be a man of
integrity ; otherwise he might have been lodged
in gaol, where many an unfortunate, yet honest,
man lieth in misery.

The disaster was more than my father's brain
could bear. Nothing more dreadful can happen
to a merchant and one in trade than to become
a bankrupt. To lose his money is bad, but many
a man loses his all, yet does not become bankrupt,
and so saves his credit. A merchant's credit

is for him what his honour is to a soldier, his
piety to a divine, her virtue to a woman, his skill
to a craftsman. My father, I say, could not bear
it. First, as soon as he fairly understood what
had happened, he fell into a lethargy, sitting in a
chair all day in silence, and desiring nothing but
to be left alone. After a while the lethargy
changed into a restlessness, and he must needs be
up and doing something — it mattered not what.
Then the restlessness disappeared and he became
again his old self, as cheerful, as sanguine, as confident,
with no other change than a more settled
dignity of bearing, caused by the belief, the complete
delusion, that now his fortune was indeed
made ; that he possessed boundless wealth, and
that he was going to leave London and to retire
into the Country, as many great merchants used
to do, in order to enjoy it.

He was perfectly reasonable on all other
points ; he could talk on politics or on religion,
on London matters, on the affairs of Warkworth,
or on the interests of the farmers ; but always on
the assumption of his own wealth. The l)road
fields everywhere he believed to be his own. If
he came with me, as he often did, when I milked
the cow, fed the pigs and the chickens, made the
bread, brewed the beer, or turned the churn, he
laughed at what he was pleased to call the condescension
of his heiress in doing this menial

VOL. II. H

work, and called me his pretty shepherdess. And
sometimes he entertained me with stories of how
his fortune was made. Chiefly I found his imagination
ran upon Canton, with trade in tea and
silk.

It is very well known,' he would say, ' that
those who venture in the Greek seas and the Levant
run very heavy risks ; they are more dangerous,
my dear child, than many places much farther
away. I considered the Levant trade carefully,
before embarking my money in foreign ventures.
I was always prudent, perhaps too prudent. Yet
the end hath justified me. Eh, Drusilla, hath not
the end justified me? Why, I have known a man
on 'Change worth this day a plum — a round plum,
child — and tomorrow not half that sum, by
reason of losses in the treacherous Levant. But,
alas ! there are perils in every sea. Tempests
and hurricanes arise ; there are hidden rocks ;
there are fires at sea ; ships are becalmed — all
these things we call the Hand of God ; there are
also pirates everywhere ; they lurk in the Mahometan
ports of Morocco, Algiers, Tripoli, and Tunis;
they hide in the fever-smitten harbours of Madagascar
— but men born to be hanged laugh at
fever ; they abound in the West Ladies and in the
Narrow Seas. We are always at war with some
great power, and therefore we have privateers to
dread ; these, my dear, are more desperate and

blood-thirsty villains even than your murderous
pirates. And there is danger from mutiny aboard,
whereby friends of my own — substantial men,
mark you, on 'Change — have lost many a noble
ship and precious cargo. We on 'Change think
nothing of these chances ; we are on the mountains
one day and m the depths the next. Yet,
like the good old country to which we belong, we
weather the storm, and in the end grow rich.
Each ? Drusilla, my child, we grow enormously
rich. The Earl of Northumberland himself, withall
his acres, is not so rich as your father.'

My mother spoke of him, when he was not
present, with a bitterness which grieved me sore.
But I knew not the trouble she had had, and the
long anticipation of this trouble. It appeared, indeed,
as if a sound, though modest, business, with
the certainty of a competence, had been thrown
away and wasted for want of a little — only a little
forethought and care. My father, at the best, was
only a simple glover with a small shop and two
apprentices. What could a poor lad from Northumberland
expect more ? All that a woman
can do my mother had done. But in trade a
woman can do but little. She can serve, but she
cannot go about and make trade — she cannot persuade
Merchant Adventurers to load their ships
with her wares. Yet, even with the memory of
her wrongs, and her ruined hopes, she was always

H 2

gentle and forbearing in the presence of her
afflicted husband, careful to keep him happy in his
delusion, and tender with him, so that he should
never feel the mischief he had done.

As for our means, I dared not ask. But
presently 1 learned that all we had was the annuity
of forty pounds a year, which would terminate
with my grandmother's death, the cottage in
which we lived, and a slender stock of money, I
knew not how much, in my mother's hands.

Alas ! this was the end of my splendid hopes
of my father's triumphant letters ! I was indeed
an heiress !

CHAPTEE VI.

THE setter AT LAST.

OxE must accept without murmuring the ordinances
of Providence. Murmuring avails nothing,
and cannot restore things lost. The Hand which
gives also takes away. The loss of that fortune,
which I knew only by hearsay, and expected
without eagerness, affected me but little in comparison
with the burden of two more to keep
upon our forty pounds a year. I saw clearly
that I must for henceforth rise early and work
late, and no more eat any bread of idleness. We
had a servant, but we now sent her away, my
mother and I doing all the house work. In addition,
I fed the poultry and milked the cow.

The good old Pugleman came every day as
soon as he heard of our misfortunes and understood
that I could no more go to the castle of an
afternoon, and became of very great service indeed,
for he kept the garden for us. and talked
with my father, who, to be sure, was best out of
the house, where he was only in our way. He

also — wliicli was kind of him — took the management
of the pigs. And I must also confess my
great obligations to Mrs. Carnaby, who, understanding
the straits into which we were fallen,
was so good as to send me and persuade other
ladies of this part of the county to send me fine
work to do, by means of which I earned a little
money, which went into the common purse and
was useful. My mother wept to think that I
must rise at five, and, after doing the house-work
and the out-door work, making butter and sending
it away to be sold with eggs and cream-cheese
and other little things — it was not much we got,
but something — to be compelled to sit down in
the afternoon to my needle, and work till nine at
night. But I was a tall strong girl ; work did
me no harm. I should have been happy but
that I saw my grandmother grow daily weaker.
She sickened and began to fail when she saw her
son, of whom she was so proud, return a beggar
to his native county, and when she heard his poor
deluded talk. A grievous sight it was to see the
poor old lady, once so strong and active, sit feeble
in her chair by the fireside, while her sad eyes
followed her son as he proudly walked to and fro
in the room and told the tale of his investments
and his wealth. Sometimes I noted how my
mother looked wistfully upon this spectacle of age
and decay, and saw how her mouth worked and

her lips moved, and knew well that she was saying
to herself, ' When she dies, what next ? '
And then I was fain to go away into the garden,
where they could not hear me, and cry over
troubles of the present and fears of the future
which seemed hard to be borne.

Don't cry, ]\£ss Drusy ' — yet the good old
Fugleman looked as if he, too, would willingly
shed a tear — ' don't cry ; think to yourself that
when the boy comes home all will go well again.
Merry as a wedding-bell shall we be then.'

Ah, when — when ? '

We had two visitors who came often. One of
them was his Worship Mr. Cuthbert Araby. He
came, he said, in order to profit by the experience
and conversation of my father.

I know, child,' he said, ' and greatly commiserate,
the disorder of his brain, yet I cannot
but marvel at the extent of his knowledge, the
justice of his remarks, and the weight of his
opinion. It is indeed a marvel to me that one so
richly endowed by Providence with understanding
should have so conspicuously failed in the business
of his life, which was to grow rich.'

I take pleasure in quoting the testimony of
so eminent an authority to the great qualities
possessed by my unfortunate father, and it did
one good to see them walking in the garden, my
father bearing himself with the deference due to

a gentleman of good old family, yet expecting
equal deference to himself as a man of great
success and wealth, and both arguing on the
politics and the conduct of affairs with as much
gravity as two plenipotentiaries or ambassadors
extraordinary.

Strange it was, indeed, to think that one was
mad who could converse so rationally, with such
j must estimate of things, with so true a knowledge of
their proportion, so vast a fund of information as to
the state of trade all over the world, the value of
gold, the balance of profit, the growth of industries ;
yea, and even the power and prospects of foreign
states, with their wants and their dangers. Or
that one could be mad who could set forth with
such lucidity the foundation of our Christian
faith, and the arguments for the doctrines taught
in our churches. He was not only sane, but he
was a man worth listening to on all subjects —
save one. For he was fully possessed with the
idea that he was as wealthy as he had ever
desired to be. His poor brain was turned, indeed,
on this point, and after a while I thought little
of it, because we became accustomed to it, and
because it seemed a harmless craze. Yet it was
not harmless, as you will hear. Indeed, even an
innocent babe in arms may be made the instrument
of mischief in the hands of a wicked man.

Our second visitor was Mathew Humble. He

came first, he said, to pay this respects to my
father. Then he began to come with great regularity.
But I perceived soon, for I was no longer
a child, but already a woman, that he had quite
another object in view, for he cast his eyes upon
me in such a way as no woman can mistake.
Even to look upon those eyes of his made me
turn sick with loathing. Why, if this man had
been another Apollo for beauty I would not have
regarded him ; and so far was he from an Apollo
that a fat and loathsome Satin: more nearly resembled
him.

He was already three or four and thirty,
which I, being seventeen, regarded as a very
great age indeed ; and most Northumbrian folk
are certainly married and the fathers of children
already tall before that time.

He was a man who made no friends, and
lived alone with his sister Barbara. No girl at
all, so far as I know, could boast of having
received any attention from him ; he was supposed
to care for nothing except money and
strong drink. Every evening lie sat by himself in
the room which overlooks the river, with account-books
before him, and drank usquebaugh. But
he loved brandy as well, or Hollands, or rum, or
indeed anything which was strong. And being
naturally short of stature he was grown fat and
gross, with red hanging cheeks, which made his

small eyes look smaller and more pig-like, a
double chin, and a nose which already told a tale
of deep potations, so red and swollen was it.
What girl of seventeen could regard with favour
even if there were no image of a brave and
comely boy already impressed upon her heart —
such a man as this, a mere tosspot and a drinker ?
And, worst of all, a secret and solitary drinker —
a gloomy drinker. T;^ V\ . ^ ^ T ' \

It was strange thales, about the tim when
Ralph's disappearance was first heard of, rumours
ran about the town that perhaps the mill would
turn out, after all, to be the property of Mathew
Humble ; that these rumours were revived at the
approach of Ralph's twenty first birthday ; and
that again, when Mathew first began his approaches
to me, the rumour was again circulated.
By the help of the Fugleman I traced these
rumours to the barber ; and, still with his help —
because every man must be shaved, and, while
being shaved, must talk — I traced these to none
other than Mathew himself. He had, then, some
object to gain ; I knew not what at the time.
Later on I discovered that his design was to make
it appear — should Ralph ever return — that I had
taken him for a husband when I thought he was
the actual master and owner of all ; for I believe
he allowed himself no doubt as to the result of
his offers. Doth it not seem as if the uglier, the

older, the less attractive a man is, whether in
person or in mind, the more certain he becomes
of conquering a woman's heart ?

The rumour on this occasion was more certain
and distinct than before. It was now stated
that Mr. Embleton was discovered to have made
a later will, which had been proved, and was
ready to be produced, if necessary ; that in this
will the testator, after deploring the badness of
heart manifested by his nephew Ralph, devised
the whole of his property to his nephew Mathew.
The barber, for his part, had no doubt of the
truth of this report ; but those who asked Mathew
whether it was true, received mysterious answers,
as that time would show ; that in this world no
one should be certain of anything ; that many is
the slip between cup and hp ; that should an
occasion arise the truth of the story would be
tested ; such oracles as incline the hearers to
believe all that has been said — and more. Barbara,
his sister, for her own part, showed great
willingness to answer any questions which might
be put to her. But she knew little ; her brother,
she said, was a close man, who sat much alone
and spoke little.

And then the Fugleman told me a very
strange story indeed, and one which seemed to
bode no good to any of us. By this time I so
regarded Mathew that I could not believe he

would do or design aught but evil. This was
wrong, but he was most certainly a man of very-evil
disposition.

His own private business, the Fugleman told
me — this was nothing in the world, as I very
well knew, but the snaring of rabbits, hares, partridges,
and other game on the banks of the river
led him sometimes past Morwick Mill, in the
evening or late at nicest. There was a room in
the mill — the same room in which Mathew was
vanquished and beaten — the window of which
looked out upon the river, which is here a broad
and shallow brook. The bank rises steep on the
other side, and is clothed with thick hanging
woods in which no one ever walked except the
Fugleman, and he, for those purposes I have just
mentioned, always alone and after sundown.
J^ow his e3^es were like unto the eyes of a hawk ;
they knew not distance ; they could see, quite far
off, little things as well as great things ; and the
Fugleman saw, night after night, that Mathew
Humble was sitting locked up in his room, engaged
in writing or copying something. I believe
that if the Fugleman had known how to read, he
would have read the writings even across the
river. Unhappily, he had never learned that art.
Mathew was making a copy, the Fugleman said,
of some other document. But what that document
was he could not tell. It was something on

large sheets of paper, and in big handwriting. He
wrote very slowly, comparing word for word with
the papers which he seemed copying. Once
when there was a noise as of someone at the door,
he huddled all the papers together, and bundled
them away in a corner quickly and with an
affrighted air. He was therefore doinjx something
which means something wicked. What
could it be ?

Little he thinks,' said the Fugleman, ' that
Master Ralph is sure to come home and confound
his knavish tricks, and trip up his heels for him.
Ah, I think I see him now, in lace ruffles and
good broadcloth, walking up the street with a fine
City Madam on his arm

I should have been very well contented with
the lace ruffles and good broadcloth — indeed, I
asked for nothing better — but I wanted no fine
City Madam at the mill.

Later on I learned what this thing was which
he took so long to copy, and which gave him so
much anxiety. But it was like a fire-ship driven
back by the wind among the vessels of those who
sent it forth.

One morning when I was busy in the kitchen
with household work, and my mother was engaged
upon the family sewing, Mathew came and begged
to have some conversation with her. He said
that, first of all, he was fully acquainted with her

circumstances, and the unhappy outlook before
her, when my grandmother should die and leave
us all without any income at all ; that, being of
a compassionate heart, he was strongly minded to
help them ; and that the best way, as well as he
could judge, would be to make her daughter
Drusilla his wife. This done, he would then see
that their later years would be attended with comfort
and the relief of all anxiety.

At first my mother did not reply. She had
no reason to love Mathew, whose unkindness to
his ward was well known to her. Again, she had
still some remains of family pride left — you do
not destroy a Avoman's pride by taking away her
money. She thought, being the daughter of a
well-to-do London citizen, that her child should
look higher than a man who had nothing in the
world of his own but thirty acres of land, although
he lived at the mill and pretended to be its
owner. And she very truly thought that the man
was not in person likely to attract so young a girl
as myself. But she spoke him fair. She told
him that I was young as yet, too young to know
my own mind, and that perhaps lie had better
wait. He replied that he was not young, for his
own part, and that he would not wait. Then she
told him that she should not, certainly, force the
inclinations of her daughter, but that she would
speak to me about him.

She opened the subject to me in the evening.
Into sooner did I understand that Mathew had
spoken for me than I threw myself upon my
knees to my mother, and implored her with many
tears and protestations not to urge me to accept
his suit. I declared with vehemence, that if there
were no other man in the world, I could not
accept Mathew Humble. I reminded her of his
behaviour towards Ralph. I assured her that I
believed him to be one who sat drinking by himself,
and a plotter of evil, a man with a hardened
heart and a dead conscience.

Well, my mother shed tears with me, and said
that I should not be married against my will ;
that Mathew was not a good man, and that she
would bid him, not uncourteous, go look elsewhere.
This she did, thanking him for the
honour he had proposed.

For some reason, perhaps because he did not
really wish to marry me, perhaps because he had
not thoroughly laid out the scheme of marrying
me to revenge himself upon Ralph, Mathew gave
me a respite for the time, though I went in great
terror lest he might pester my mother or myself.
Perhaps, which I think more likely, he trusted to
the influence of poverty and privation, and was
contented to wait till these should make me submissive
to his will.

However that may be, he said nothing more

concerning love, and continued his visits to my
father, in whose conversation he took so great a
pleasure. Oh, villain !

Things were in this posture, I being in the
greatest anxiety and fear that something terrible
was going before long to happen to us, when a
most joyful and unexpected event happened.

It was in the month of May, seven years
since Ralph's flight — like the followers of Mohammed,
I reckoned the years from the Flight —
that this event happened.

The event was this, that the Fugleman had a
letter sent to him — the first letter he ever
received in his life.

I saw the post-boy riding down the road early
in the afternoon ; he passed by the house of Mr.
Carnaby, where he sometimes stopped, past our
cottage, where he never stopped because there was
nobody who wrote letters to us, and over the
bridge, his horse's hoofs clattering under the old
gateway. I thought he was going to the vicarage,
but he left that on his right and rode straight up
the street, blowing his horn as he went. I wondered,
but had no time to waste in wonder, who
was going to get a letter in that part of the town.
The letter, in fact, was for no other than the
Fugleman.

Half an hour later the Fugleman, who had
been at work in the garden all the morning,

same down the town again, and asked me — with
respect to her ladyship, my mother — if I would
give him ^nq, minutes' talk. With him was sailor
Nan, because the thing was altogether so strange
that he could not avoid telling her about it, and
she came with him, curious as a woman, though
bold and brave as becomes an old salt.

'Tis a strange thing,' said the Fugleman,
turning the unopened letter over and over in his
hand ; ' 'tis a strange thing ; here is a letter which
tells me I know not what — comes from I know
not where. I have paid 3<§. %d. for it. A great
sum. I doubt I was a fool. It may mean
money, and it may mean loss.'

Burn it, and ha' done,' said Sailor Nan. ' 'Tis
from some land shark. Burn the letter.'

I am sixty, or mayhap seventy years of age.
Sixty, I must a-be. Yes ; sure and certain, sixty.
Yet never a letter in all my days before.'

Now, which is very singular, not the least
suspicion in our minds as to the waiter of the
letter.

Is it,' I asked, ' from a cousin or a brother .^ '

Cousin? ' he repeated, with the shadow of a
smile across his stiff lips. ' Why, I never had a
father or a mother, to say nothing of a brother ora
cousin. When I first remember anything, I was
running in the streets with other boys. We stole
our breakfast, we stole our dinner, and we stole

VOL. II. I

our supper. Where are they all now, those little
rogues and pickpockets, my companions ? Hanged,
I doubt not. What but hanging can have come
to them ? But as for me, by the blessing of the
Lord, I was enlisted in the 14th Line, and after a
few hundreds taken mostly by three dozen doses,
which now are neither here nor there, and are
the making of a lad, I was flogged into a good
soldier, and so rose as was due to merit. A
hearty three dozen, now and then, laid on with a
will in the cool of the morning, works miracles.
Not such a regiment in the service as the 14th.
And why ? Because the colonel knew his duty
and did it without fear or favour, and the men
were properly trounced. Good comrades all, and
brave boys. And where are they ? Dead, I take
it ; beggars, some ; fallen in action, some ; broke,
some ; in comfortable berths, like me, some. If
all were living, who would there be to send me a
letter, seeing there wasn't a man in all the regiment
who could write P '

Strange that not one of us even then guessed
the truth.

It was a great letter, thick and carefully sealed,
addressed to ' Fugleman Furlong, At his room in
the Castle of Warkworth, Northumberland,
England.' It came from foreign ]parts, and the
paper was not only stained, but lead a curious
fragrance.

I broke the seal and tore open the covering
of the letter. Within was another packet. Oh,
Heavens ! It was addressed to ' Drnsilla Hethcr-
ington, care of the Fngleman, to be forwarded
without delay. Haste — post haste ! '

And then I knew without waiting to open the
letter that it would be from none other than
Ralph. It must be from Ralph. After all these
years, we were to hear once more from Ralph.
I stood pale and trembling, nor could I for some
moments even speak. At last I said :

Fugleman — Nan — this letter is addressed tome.
It is, I verily believe, from Ralph Embleton.
Wait a little, while I read it.'

Head it — read it ! ' cried the old man.

Could I — ah ! merciful Heaven — could I ever
forget the rapture, the satisfied yearning, the blissful
content, the gratitude, with which I read
that sweet and precious letter ? They waited
patiently ; even the rude and coarse old woman
refrained from speech while I read page after
page. They said nothing though they saw the
tears falKng down my face, because they knew
that they were tears of happiness.

After seven long years, my Ralph was talking
to me as he used to talk. I knew his voice, I
recognised his old imperious way, I saw that he
had not changed. As if he would ever change !

r 2

When I had finished and dried my tears, they
begged me to read his letter to them.

My dear, dear Girl ' — I told them that I
could not, indeed, read all, but that I would read
them what I could ; and this was the beautiful
beginning, in order that I should know at the
outset, so thoughtful he was, and for fear of my
being anxious on the point, that he loved me still,
and had never forgotten me. 'My dear, dear
Girl, — It is now six years since I bade you farewell
at your garden-gate and started upon my
journey to London. Your father has doubtless
told you how I presented myself and with what
kindness he received me. I am very sure that
you have not forgotten me, and I hope that you
will rejoice to hear of my good fortune ' — Hope,
indeed ! Could he not be sure ? — ' I have no
doubt also that he hath informed you of the
strange good fortune which befell me after he left
me at the East India Company's House, of which
I told him by letter and special messenger, to
whom I gave, to ensure speed and safe delivery,
one shilling.' (But it would appear that this
wicked messenger broke his word, and took the
shilling, but did nothing for it — a common thief,
who deserved to be hanged, like many another no
more wicked than himself. Oh ! what punishment
too crreat for this breach of trust, small as it

seemed ! See, now, what a world of trouble was
caused by that little theft.) ' It was truly by
special Providence that, while Mr. Silvertop
talked with me, the great Captain who won the
Battle of Plassy should have been standing near
and should have overheard what passed. When
I was bidden go my ways for a foolish boy (because
I did not wish to be a writer) and waste his
time no longer, I was much cast down, for now I
began to fear that I must, like the most of mankind,
take what was assigned to me by Providence
rather than what I would like. And I could
plainly see that there remained only one choice
for me ; namely, I must return to the hated rule
of my cousin who would keep me as a plough-boy
as long as he could, or I must betake me to the
task of sweeping out and serving a shop. And
yet, what shop ? But who would employ me ?
Therefore, I hung iris head and stood irresolute
without the Company's house. Now, presently,
the gentleman whom I had seen within came forthwith
another officer, brave in scarlet. He saw me
standing sadly beside the posts, and inspired by
that noble generosity which has always distinguished
this great man, he clapped his hand upon
my shoulder.

" So," he said, "you are the lad who loves a
sword better than a pen ? "

" If it please your honour," I replied.

" A sword means peril to life and limb," he
said sternly ; "he who goes a fighting in India
must expect hard fare, rough sleeping, rude
knocks. He must ever be on the watch against
treachery. He must meet duplicity with equal
cunning. He must obey blindly ; he must never
ask why ; if he is sent to die like a rat in a hole,
he must go without murmur or question. What !
sou think — do you ? — that to carry a sword is to
flaunt a scarlet coat before the ladies of St.
James's ? "

" Nay, sir, with respect. I have read the
lives of soldiers. I would willingly take the
danger for the sake of the honour. But alas !
I must stay at home and sweep a shop."

" What is thy birth, boy ? "

I told him that, and satisfied him on other
points, including the reason of my flight, in
which I trust that I was no more than truthful.
Then he said :

" 1 am Lord Clive," and paused as if to
know whether I had heard of him.

'You may be sure I was astonished, but I
quickly doffed my hat and made him. my best
country bred bow.

" My lord," I said, " wee have heard, even in
Northumberland, of Plassy."

" Good ! I went to India as a writer — a
miserable quill driving writer. Think of that.

What one man has done another may do. Now,
boy, I sail this day for India. There will be
more fighting, a great deal more fighting. If
you please you shall go as a cadet with me. But
there is no time to hesitate : I sail this day.
Choose between the shop-sweeping and the
musket. You will fight in the ranks at first, but
if you behave well the sword will come after.
Choose — peace and money-scraping at home like
these smug-faced fat citizens," he swept his hand
with lordly contempt, " or fighting and poverty,
and perhaps death abroad. Choose."

" I humbly thank your lordship," I said, " I
will follow you if you will condescend to take
me."

Then he bade me go straight to Limehouse
Pool, where I should find the ship at anchor. I
was to take a note to the purser who would give
me an outfit.

Thus, my dear Drusilla, did I find my fortune
and sail to foreign parts under as brave
and great a captain as this country Avill ever
see.

Our voyage lasted eleven months. There
were three hundred raw recruits on board, mostly
kidnapped or inveigled under false pretences by
crimps and the scoundrels of Tapping. When
they were first paraded, they were as beggarly-looking
a lot as you would wish to see, ragged,

dirty, mutinous, and foul-mouthed. Yet in a
couple of months, by daily drill, by good food
and sea air, by moderate rations of rum, by
sound flogging, by the continual discipline of the
boatswain's rope's-end and the sergeant's rattan,
the regimental supple-jack, and the ship's cat-o'-nine-tails,
they became as promising soldiers as
one would wish. As for me, I stood with them
in the drill and did my best. Of course I could
not expect his lordship to notice so humble a
cadet as myself, but one evening, when we were
near the end of our voyage, he sent for me and
gave me a glass of wine, and kindly bade me be
patient and of good cheer, because, he. said,,
young gentlemen of merit and courage would be
sure to find opportunities for distinction.'

Ralph then went on to describe the life of a
soldier in India, and to tell me — but this I leave
out for fear of being tedious — how he received
his commission and how he got promotion. ]t is
sufficient to say that at the time he wrote, after
six years of service, he held the commission of a
captain. Nor was that all. He had been able to
render such signal service to a certain Rajah, that
this prince, who was not ungrateful, and hoped,,
besides, for more such services, took him one day
into his treasure-house and bade him help himself
to all if he pleased.

'My dear,' he continued, 'I knew not that

the world contained so much treasure. Yet tins
Rajah is but a petty prince, and his weak is
as nothing compared with that of many others.
There were diamonds in bags, uncut, whose
worth I know not, and diamonds in rings, sword-handles,
and women's gauds ; there were rubies
emeralds, sapphires, turquoises, opals, and all
kinds of precious stones strung rudely on common
string as if they were but pebbles. There
were also gold and silver vessels of all kinds, and
there were casks full of gold coins. As I took
out a handful I saw that many of them were
ancient, with Greek characters, perhaps left in
this country by that great soldier Alexander.
When I had surveyed these wonders I thanked
him, and said that I should not presume to takes
much as a single gold coin from his treasure,
but that if it should please his Highness to offer
me a present, I should accept it with gratitude,
provided it was not too costly. He laughed at
these words, and when we came away I was sa
loaded with gold that I fancied myself already a.
rich man.

Since this event it hath pleased Lord Clive to
issue an order which prohibits officers from accepting
henceforth any presents at all from the
native princes. I cannot but feel grateful that
the order was not issued before my own good
fortune. Doubtless his Excellency hath good

reasons for this order, which places the military
service at a disadvantage compared with the
writers, who have great opportunities of making
fortunes ; and I cannot but think that it is a
more noble thing to win a fortune at the point of
the sword, than by such arts as are daily practised
by the writers and civil servants of the
Company. There are many Englishmen, and
many Frenchmen as well — but we are driving
them out of the country — who have become rich
in the military service of the Indian princes ; yet
I shall not exchange my present masters so long
as the merchants — who think nothing of glory
or of this country, yet a great deal of their
dividends — perceive that it is for their safety,
as well as for their credit, to extend their power ;
and I have a reasonable hope that the good
fortune which hath hitherto attended me may
continue, so that I may return to my native
country, if only in my old age, amply provided.
As regards the climate, I have as yet experienced
no great inconvenience from the heat. The natives
have learned to fear an Englishman rather
than to love him, which is, methinks, the thing
wee should most desire when we have to rule over
people as ignorant of the Christian virtues, although
not barbarous, like the naked blacks, buta
most, ingenious, dexterous, and skilful people,
and of subtle intellect, yet slothful of body, lovers

of rest, deceivers, regardless of truth, for ever
scheming plots and contriving subtleties, and
more cruel to prisoners than the Spanish Inquisition.
The best amongst them are followers of
Mahomet, who make faithful servants and good
soldiers. It is a country where the ambition
and jealousy of princes are continually causing
fresh wars to be undertaken, and where a European
may lead a life of adventure to his heart's
content.'

I was reading, as I have said, this letter aloud
in presence' of my two faithful friends. Now
when I spoke of the drill on board, and the
sergeant's rattan, and the regimental supple-jack,
the Fugleman drew himself upright and shouldered
the garden-spade, because there was no pike at
hand ; and when I read of the bo's'n's rope's-end
and the ship's cat-o'-nine-tails. Sailor Nan cocked
her hat and stood with feet apart and hands upon
her hips, and began, but in a whisper, to murmur
strange sea oaths ; and when I read the account
of the fight in which Ralph's courage saved this
grateful Eajali — it was a most dreadful battle, in
which hundreds of brave follows and treacherous
Hindoo were killed, so that to read it made one's
heart cease to beat — the Fugleman, carried beyond
himself, executed capers with the spade
which signified little to my ignorant eyes, but
which were, I believe, the movements with which

the trained soldier attacks with the bayonet, and
the old sailor with a mop-stick cut down her
thousands, mighty curses rolling softly from her
lips like distant thunder.

If the beginnings of the letter was delightful,
judge how beautiful was the end :

I have now, my dear, told you all that concerns
myself. I suppose j^ou have long since left
"VVarkvvorth and gone to live with your parents,
to whom I beg to convey my respects and best
wishes. If, among your rich friends and the
gaieties of the fashion ' — the ^ gaieties ! ' — ' you
have found lovers (as, to be sure, you must) and
a husband, or one idiom you have distinguished
with your favour and regard, you will remember
that I shall ever be to you as a brother ; for, lover
or brother, I can never cease to love '

A good lad ! ' said the Fugleman.

As ever trod the deck ! ' said the sailor. ' Goon.
Miss Drusy.'

And I am sure that you have grown up as
tall and as beautiful as an angel.'

She has,' said the Fugleman.

Taller, ye lubber,' said the sailor, ' and more
beautiful an angel than ever I clapped eyes on,
nor never a Peg nor a Poll at Sheerness or Dept-ford
or the Common Hard to show a candle alongside
her. What's even a frigate in full sail compared
with a lovely woman P '

This enthusiasm for the loveliness of lier own
sex (unusual among old Avoient), I put down to
her naval experiences and familiarity with sailor
talk, and went on quickly ; because, if Ralph loved
to flatter me, I ought not to let these poor people
follow his example. An angel ! But men are so.
They cannot give enough ; they lavish their praises,
as they lavish the very fruits of their labours, upon
the women they love. We women measure our
gifts — except to our boys. I pass over, therefore,
the fond words of a lover about blue eyes and
curling hair, and Nymphs in cool grots, and soft
smiles and other imaginary gifts and graces, all
of which my listeners applauded, nodding their
heads. Oh ! he could say what he pleased, he
could imagine all the perfections, so that he continued
to tell me, as he did in this letter, how he
thought upon me daily, and loved me always
more and more.

As for the address of this letter,' he said, ' I
knoAV not where in London or elsewhere your
father may now reside ; therefore I forward it to
the care of the Fugleman, with request that he
will send it to you at the earliest opportunity,
and by a safe hand. Will you, in return, inform
him of my continued esteem and friendship .? '

" Esteem and friendship ! " ' repeated the
Fugleman. 'This from a Captain! Was ever
such a boy ? '

And if you find an opportunity, tell Sailor
Nan that half her fortune has come true.'

She replied that at her time of life it was odd
if she couldn't tell the fortune of a boy, and as
for the present cruise, it was bound to be a fairweather
voyage.

Finally, my brave lover begged me to write
to him and tell him all that had happened since
his departure, and subscribed himself, with much
love, Ralph Embleton.

When we had read the letter twice, which
took us all the afternoon, and cost me three hours'
sewing, we took counsel together. First they
were both for telling it about the town, and
having a bonfire, with the ringing of the church
bells in a triple bob major, but I was of opinion
that it would be best to keep our own counsel for
awhile. Therefore I bound them both to secresy
and silence. I would let Mathew alone, and
watch him. He should not know anything, not
even that Ralph was alive and prosperous ; and
had I kept this resolution, because my two friends
were loyal and secret as the grave, it would have
been better in the end for all of us, and much
better for, Mathew. But, as the wise man said,
Death and life are in the power of the tongue.'

CHAPTER VII.

MATHEW'S Friendly OFFER.

TfflS letter made me, from one of the most unhappy
of girls, the most joyous. The immediate
prospect of poverty — for the Dame declined daily
the hard work which began at daylight and
ended at bed-time, the certain knowledge that
Mathew was not satisfied with a simple refusal —
these things, which had before filled my mind
with terror, now appeared like the imaginary
spectres of the night, which cease to alarm when
the day has dawned. To me it was more than
the dawn of day ; it was the uprising of a glorious
sun of love and hope. Ralph loved me ; Ralph
was well, prosperous, and in high esteem ; Ralph
was already wealthy; Ralph would come home,
and all things would be well, whatever might
happen at the moment. Yet this I could not tell
to any. Mathew was not to know ; my poor old
grandmother was too old now, and too failing of
mind and body, to care for earthly things; my
father had clean forgotten the boy ; my mother

Avouch not greatly care to know ; nor would it
soothe her anxieties to feel that we had a protector
separated from us by the rolling seas and
by a voyage of ten months or more. What good
would be his far-off treasures to us, she would
have asked, when what we want is beef for the
pot and bread for the board ? As for my father's
madness, it increased every day, so that now our
cottage was a palace indeed, every meal was a
banquet, and the small beer of my brewing was
champagne, port, Malaga, or Imperial Tokay.
But Mathew was too much with him, and it made
me uneasy to observe how he complimented my
father on his wisdom, his resolution, and his
wonderful success.

In all respects, madam,' he said to my mother,
I find your husband most sensible and full of
sound judgment. I have taken his counsel, of
late, in many private matters of importance.'

Then the Lord help you ! ' said my mother,
sharply.

What if he does exaggerate his private fortune?'
Mathew went on. 'It is a failing with
many persons concerned in trade.'

'If you mean this in kindness, sir,' said my
mother, 'I thank you humbly for your good
opinion of my poor distraught husband. If
you mean it in mockery, you are a most cruel
man.'

'Indeed, madam,' he replied, bowing, 'pray
believe that I mean it in kindness.'

He had no kindness at all in his nature. He
designed these words to cover his iniquitous purpose.


So he continued to come and go, and to walk
with my father in the garden, and whatever wild
things my father said he would accept gravely as
if they were indeed words of wisdom. No one,
except myself, suspected him of sinister designs,
and my father disclosed to him the whole prodigious
extent of his madness, so that I could
have cried with shame and humiliation, Mathew
knowing well, as all the Avorld knew by this time,
that we were little better than the poorest in the
parish.

The world, sir,' the poor gentleman would
say, with a lofty air, ' has yet to learn how great
a benefactor a simple London citizen may be.
There have been many benefactors. I acknowledge
their greatness. But wait, sir, until my
will is opened and read. To you, friend Mathew,
I have bequeathed a poor ten thousand pounds —
no more.'

Oh, sir ! ' He bowed and spread his hands.
This is indeed goodness.'

'It is the duty of a rich citizen to discover
merit and to reward it — the plain duty. I am a
London citizen, and am perhaps more proud of

VOL. II. K

this position than becomes a Christian. The bulk
of my fortune I have left to my daughter, whom
I design in marriage for some great nobleman.
But I have not forgotten the poor of my native
parish, Mathew — no, no ; and you will find, when
my will is read, that schools, a hospital, marriage-portions
for the girls, and apprentice-money for
the boys, will attest my remembrance of this
place.'

Sir,' said Mathew, with a grin of contempt,
you will be a benefactor indeed.'

Now, before I answered Ralph's letter, which
I kept for more than a month in my bosom, reading
it every day when I could snatch a moment,
Mathew came to me, and after a little preamble,
of which I am going to tell you, re-opened the
distasteful subject of his courtship. I was in the
garden, gathering herbs for a mint-julep, when I
saw him standing at the garden-gate. He looked
so jocund, he smiled so pleasantly, and he wore
so self-satisfied an air, that I was quite certain
some evil thing had happened.

Drusilla,' he said, ' I have heard certain intelligence.
You may depend upon its truth,
which is confirmed in every particular. I think
that you should be the first to hear it, sad though
it be, yet what I could not but expect.'

I suppose,' I said with a laugh, because I
knew that he was about to invent some wicked

falsehood, ' I suppose you have got something lo
tell me about Ralph, whom your cruel conduct
drove out into the world ? '

Nay,' he replied, looking darkly, yet with a
smile, ' you may say what you please ; you cannot
offend me. I have just come from Hawick,
where I sold four fat beasts. At the inn I fell in
with a strolling player, and talked with him over
a glass about his wandering life. Presently I
asked him whether he had seen, anywhere upon
his travels, especially in places where actors like
himself, with profligates and thieves resort, such a
lad as Ralph. It is wonderful to relate that he
remembered seeing the boy at a place called
Graham. It was about six or seven years ago.
The reprobate lad was making love — actually
making love — to a young actress. When my
informant came across the hearty again, Ralph had
left them.'

At first I concluded that this was sheer fabrication,
but afterwards gleaned that it was to a
certain extent true ; that is, that Ralph had made
the acquaintance of the actress and her family on
his way to London ; but there was no love-making.
How could there be, Avhen he was
already in love with me ? And what follows was
pure and clumsy invention.

He wandered about with them playing and
acting,' Mathew went on, ' for four or five years.

Then he deserted them, or was turned out in
disgrace — it matters not which — and, I am
ashamed to say ' — but he looked delighted —
took to the road, where he is now known everywhere
as Black Ralph, or Bloody Ralph.'

Are you quite sure of what you say ? '

As sure as I am that he will be hanged as
soon as he is caught.'

I know not by what means Mathew persuaded
himself, if indeed he did persuade himself,
that Black Ralph, who was a notorious highwayman
about this time, and practised his wicked
calling upon the York Road, was Ralph Embleton.
Yet he made so certain of it that he told — under
strict promise of secresy — the barber, who told
everybody, also under promise of secresy, and it
was noised abroad that the distinction of giving
birth to the most bloodthirsty villain in England
belonged to Warkworth, and many people advised
Mathew to go armed, and to provide his
house with a loaded blunderbuss, a bull-dog, and
a few man-traps, because his cousin would probably
visit him with intent to murder as well
as rob.

I suppose,' Mathew went on to me, ' that
you will now give up thinking of that young
vagabond. A pretty girl like you should throw
your thoughts higher. Why, though your father's
a beggar, as one may say '

He is not a beggar, so long as my grandmother
lives.'

'Perhaps that will not be much longer,' he
replied with an ugly grin. ' Now, Drusilla, listen
to me. You know that I've set my fancy upon
you. I've been waiting just till you grew up,
and then for — for one or two little things to ripen
which have now ripened and turned out pretty
well. Now that everything is ready, there is no
reason to wait any longer. Ralph being a highwayman
and certain to be hanged '

Then, Mathew,' I replied, ' I will wait until he
is hanged, and then you can talk to me again if you
like. Now, go away, and leave me to my work.'

He went away for that time, and next morning
his sister Barbara came. She was at first
mysterious about sudden changes of fortune, unexpected
reverses, and the judgments of angered
Heaven. These things I did not then consider as
pertaining to myself, because I knew not how I
had especially angered Heaven, more, that is, than
thoughtless youth may do at any time, and yet
obtain forgiveness by daily prayer. She also
added a certain exhortation to kiss the rod, which
I pass over. Then she launched into praises of
her brother. He was most industrious, she said ;
up early and to work before daybreak ; he was
full of religion, which surprised me very much to
hear ; ha was thrifty and had already saved a

large sum of money — this, I found afterwards,
was false ; he could provide a comfortable home,
and happy, indeed, she added, would be the
woman on whom his choice should fall. Added
to this that he was no longer young and scatterbrained,
but arrived at the sober age of three or
four and thirty ; and that Mathew's wife would
have the advantage of her own society, help,
example, and admonition.

I told her that Mathew had got his answer,
and that I thought it hard that a woman could
not be supposed to know her own mind in so
important a matter.

What is your answer, then? ' she asked.

I will talk to Mathew on the subject again,'
I replied, ' dien Ralph is hanged, since this is a
thing which both you and he desire so vehemently.'


Two days afterwards Mathew himself met meas
I was on my way to the castle. He begged
me to give him another hearing, and, as I could
not refuse so simple a thing, I led him by the path
below the castle to the bank of the river, where
he could talk at his ease and unheard.

First it was the same story. Would I forget
the young villain and marry him P He was so
much in love with me, that he would not say as
some men — not so rich, mind you, as himself —
would say, that I might go hang myself in my

garters for aught lie cared. He would forgive
my disrespect and impudence ; he would forget
the past altogether ; people should see that he
was of a truly noble and forgiving disposition ; he
would give me another chance, so great was his
generosity. Very well, then, would I marry
him ?

I replied very gravely, that he had already
received his answer. When Ralph was hammed,
and not before, I would listen to him. Then I
asked ]him seriously why he thought so meanly of
me as to try this trumped-up story about play-actors
and highwaymen upon me, and reminded
him of what a truly wicked disposition he must
be, thus to glory and delight in the supposed
wickedness of his cousin, whose guardian he had
been, and whose lands he now occupied.

He grew angry at this plain-speaking, and
began to swear, as is the wont of such men. If
kindness would not move me, he said, something
else should be tried. I thought I was free and
independent of him, did I? I should see what
power was in his hands, and what mischief he
could do me. I was young and imprudent. It
chafed me to hear that he, and such a man as he,
could do me harm — as if the meanest wretch dio
ever lived cannot do harm — and I told him what
I ought to have kept a secret, that so long as
Ralph lived, I should not want a protector ; and

that so far from his being a highwayman, I knew
certainly that he was a prosperous gentleman,
akeady held in great honour, and respected
by all.

He was so staggered by this intelligence that
I thought he was going to have some kind of fit.
Consider how much it meant to him : he would
certainly have to give up the mill, and to render
a strict account of all his doings ; he would be
reduced to the station of a poor small farmer ; he
would be robbed of his revenge ; and he would
be convicted as a slanderer and calumnious
person, if that mattered aught.

First he blustered and threatened. I dared,
did I, to reproach him : very good, I should see
what things he could do ; I should laugh the
other side of my mouth. Did I refuse his offer?
Very well then. I should find out what his displeasure
meant. And, perhaps, before long, I
should be sorry for the insult I had offered him,
and the proposal I had refused. He then flung
away, becoming at this point speechless, and
indeed he looked so angry that I was afraid he
would have thrown me into the stream.

I went home, and said nothing to anybody
about the business ; but I was troubled in my
mind, and greatly afraid that the man would do
some dreadful mischief if he could.

Well, he came again a third time to me. It

was three days later. If I was disquieted, I could
see that he was more so. His red cheeks were
become pale, and his eyes were red. He was
quiet in his manner, and held out his hand.

Drusilla,' he said, ' I was wrong the other
day. You won't marry me? Very well then.
Never mind ; someone else will if I want. What
matters one woman more than another, if you
come to think about it ? What hurt me most
wasn't your refusal, which I don't care for not
one brass farthing, but your saying that 1
wanted Ealpli to go bad. That was cruel to
such a cousin and guardian as I was to that
boy.'

Well, Mathew,' I said, ' if I was wrong, I
pray you to forgive me.'

I should like to know, on the contrary, that
he was becoming a credit to his family. I say,'
he added, ' I should like to know it, if you can
assure me of the fact.'

Then you may depend upon the truth of my
statement, Mathew,' I said. ' He is already a
credit to your family.'

How joyful a thing this is ! ' He folded his
hands and raised his eyes hypocritically to heaven.
It shows that the many corrections I gave him
produced their effect. I was a throwing of the
bread upon the waters. After many days, as one
may say, it hath come back to me.'

He spoke with a sweetness which did not
deceive me.

And this prosperity, Drusilla. Who told
you of it ? '

Til at I must not say.'

Where, in Avhat price, is the boy ? '

That I shall not tell you.'

How is he employed, then ? '

I must say nothing, Mathew. Do not ask
me. It is very certain that Ralph is alive, and
that he is prospering. I shall answer no more
questions.'

I will ask other people, then.'

It is of no use,' I said hurriedly. ' There is
no one knows except me.' This was not true,
but at the moment I was thinking of my mother,
who certainly did not know.

No one knows except you ? ' he repeated.
That is strange indeed.'

It is very strange.'

And how long,' he went on, ' is the mystery
to be kept up ? '

As long,' I replied, ' as your cousin pleases.'

Then his sweetness left him, and he fell again
into a madness of wrath. He went away, however,
when he found that I would tell him
nothing.

All this time I had not written my answer to
Ralph's sweet letter. The reason was that I

feared mv words would prove so poor and weak
compared with his noble language ; and I was
afraid besides that what I might say would
offend or disappoint him. What maiden but
would have been ashamed? Yet this business
with Mathew made me resolve to lose no time,
and I began seriously to consider what I should
say in reply to the long letter which I carried in
my bosom and read daily. In order to be undisturbed,
I carried paper and pen to the Fugleman's
room at the castle, and wrote my letter in the
afternoons, whenever I could snatch an hour from
my work. What was I to say in answer to the
many tender protestations of Ralph ? And how
was I to speak of Mathew ?

Tell him,' said the Fugleman, ' that Mathew
is a villain. Last Tuesday week there was a run
to Coldstream — lace and brandy — Mathew stood
in and found the ponies. Yet he is a villain.'

And what about yourself? ' I asked.

As for me,' he said, ' I always said that once
the boy got his foot on the lowest rung, it would
not be long before he was on the top .of the
ladder. Half-ways up and more he is, I reckon
by now. So that I am not surprised to hear of
his good fortune, and only wish I was young
enough to be his Fu^fleman. Tell him that first
of all. But Mathew is a villain. Next you may
say that I'm well and hearty, and likely to continue

in the way of grace, such being my constitution
and my habits. Mathew, his cousin, is a
desperate villain. Tell him that. You may tell
him next, that if he still regarded eggs, I have
got such a collection for him as can't be matched.
As for Mathew, he is a rogue and a villain. Fish,
tell him, are plentiful this year, and otters there
be in plenty. Yesterday I trapped a badger, and
I know of a marten opposite the Hermitage. The
birds are wild, but I had good sport with his
Worship last winter, and hope to do something
by myself when the nights draw out. Say next,
that I send him my faithful respects and humble
good wishes ; and Mathew is a villain. And as
for your own pretty self, you sit down and tell
him that there isn't a straighter maid, nor one
more beautiful, on the banks of Coquet ; while,
as for eyes and shape and rosy lips '

Indeed,' I cried, ' I shall tell him no such
nonsense. No, I will not tell him such nonsense.'

Why, he loves thee, sweetheart. Say it,
child, to please him, so lonely he is, and so faraway
from us. 1 wish he had thy picture just
now, with the pretty blushes on the cheeks and
all. A girl ought to be proud for such as him to
fall in love with her.'

'Is he truly in love with me?' I said, with
tears coming into my eyes, because now that the
words were spoken, I knew very well how much

I longed for that very thing. ' Why, he says he
wishes me happiness with my husband. As if I
could take any husband but Ralph.'

There — there,' he cried, ' tell him that. Tell
him that, and it will make him happy and bring
him home.'

You think such a little thing as that would
bring him home ? '

There's one thing,' said the old man, ' which
women can never understand, and that's the
strength and power of love. There was a man
in Lord Falkland's regiment — but I cannot tell
thee all the story. There was a young gentleman
in the Fourteenth, when wee were stationed
at Gibraltar, in love with a Spanish lady — but of
that another time. What did the soldier care
that he got three hundred the next day ? And
as for the young gentleman, he would have done
the same — and always said so — if another dozen
of duels was to come after it, and him to be
pinked in every one. Cheerfully he would have
done the same for such another charmer. Ah !
he would, and more ; but women never understand.'


With these mysterious words did he encourage
me as to the force and vehemence among men, of
the passion called love.

If Ralph was only home again, we should
have a protector. I thought of this and hesitated

no longer. Yet it was an maidenly thing
which i did, and to this day I am uncertain as to
whether I was justified by all the circumstances.
It was, besides, a dangerous thing to do, because
I am convinced that nothing more effectually
turns aside the fancy of a man for a woman —
which is a delicate and tender plant, even at its
strongest — than the thought that she is lacking in
the modesty and reserve which are the choicest
virtues of a maiden. Yet I ran that danger,
though I imperilled the most precious thing to mein
all the world, the heart of my Ralph. But
there is a time to speak, as well as a time to keep
silence. What I said was this : —

Dear Ealpii, — I have now received your
letter, and I thank you for it with all my heart.
My father hath lost all in London, and is now
returned to his native place ; we are, therefore,
poor indeed, and have nothing to live upon
except the annuity which he long ago bought for
my grandmother, who fails daily ; when she dies
we shall have nothing. Also, my father is
afflicted with a strange belief that he is rich.
This makes us unhappy. Ma the w hath spread
abroad a report that the mill is his, and not yours
at all, by reason of a second will, which nobody
has seen except himself. I fear that you will have
trouble with your cousin. The Fugleman is welland

hearty, and bids me tell yon ' Here I

set forth as many of the messages as I could
remember. ' As regards myself, he bade me say
many things, out of his kind heart, ibr he loves
me ; but I must not write them down. My dear
Ralph, do not say again that you want me to
have a husband I shall never marry any husband,
nor love any man, except yourself, if sou still
continue to love me. Indeed, there is no moment
of the day — if you will not think me maidenly
to confess this thing — when you are out of my
thoughts, and I pray night and morning for your
safety and speedy return. Mathew has asked me
to marry him, and is angered because I refused.
He has spread abroad reports that you are now a
highwayman. Will you come back to us, dear
Ralph ? I am in great sadness, and I am afraid
that Mathew means some mischief. Yet I would
not mar your fortune by calling you away from
the work you have in hand. Mathew threatens
me with revenge, and Barbara, his sister, bids me
read passages in the Holy Scriptures which
threaten woe to sinners. I am afraid what they
may do, though I cannot think that they can do
us any evil. It makes me unhappy to think that
any can believe here that you have become a
highwayman. Yet I keep your letter secret, and
no one knows where you are. The Fugleman
says that a villain must have rope enough to hang

himself. All, Ralph, if you could come back tous.
But the quiet country would be tedious to
you after your splendours and the pleasure of an
active life. But Whether you come home or
whether you stay, you must always believe that I
am your loving ' Deusilla.

Pes. — I forgot to beg that you may not take
it ill that I have written these words. Por,
indeed, you may be married, or at least in love,
with one more worthy than myself. And if that
is so, I wish both her and you many years of
happiness and love, and shall only ask her to let
me love you still as my brother. How can
Mathew presume to court a girl who has known
Ralph .^ '

CHAPTER Viri.

IS IT TRUE ?

Now was Mathew pulled asunder with a grievous
doubt and anxiety. For not only might his enemy,
as he considered him, appear at any moment to
demand a strict account, but he knew very well
that if he pushed on his suit or attempted any
devilry with us, I might send for Ralph and ask
his protection. Yet could my story be true ? How
could I know, and I alone, of his welfare and the
place of his dwelling ? Was it possible, he thought,
that such a secret, if there was any secret, should
be entrusted to the keeping of a mere girl ? If
the boy was really doing well, why did he not
return on his twenty-first birthday and claim his
inheritance ? So that the more he thought about
it, the more he tried to persuade himself that the
thing was false. And yet he was afraid ; I could
see that he was continually haunted by the fear of
what might happen. He sought me often and
begged for information concerning his cousin.
Next, he tried my father, but his memory as

VOL. II. L

regards the lad was quite gone ; and ray mother,
but she took no interest in the subject, and said
she knew nothing about the boy for her part.

Yet,' said Mathew, ' your daughter pretends
to know where he is and what he is doing.'

Then,' replied my mother sharply, ' Lord
help the man ! go and ask my daughter.'

But she will not tell me.'

Then how can I ? Hark ye. Master Mathew,
you come here too often. My daughter hath
given you her answer. She bears no love to you ;
she will have none of you. Go, then, and leave
us alone. We are poor enough, God knows, but
not so poor as to thrust husbands on our girl
against her will. Leave us to ourselves, goodman,
and find another wife.'

My dear and sacred letter arrived in May. It
was in July that I sent off my answer. I might
look for a reply in sixteen, eighteen, or twenty
months — some time in the winter of the next year,
seventeen hundred and seventy-three. It seems a
loner time to an anxious heart when one has to
wait three weeks for an answer to a letter sent to
London. What, then, must be the patience of
those who have to wait nearly two years ? Had
I reflected further on the perils of my lover's life,
the daily risks of battle, wild creatures, treacherous
foes, and deadly fevers, I must have been a
miserable wretch indeed during those months of

waiting. Yet I was sustained by hope, which
belongs to the time of youth, and looked for
nothing but such a reply from Ralph as would, I
thought, remove every care from my mind.

What a fond and foolish girl was I to think
that a mere love-letter — which was all I looked
for — would be able to give us our daily bread !

After this, Mathew remained quiet again for
three or four months. That is to say, he came no
more to the house. And so we went on in our
thrifty way — I engaged with my needle for such
ladies as would employ me, my mother watching
my father, and my grandmother sitting in her
armchair beside the lire, for the most part silent.
Indeed, we were all silent except my poor deluded
father, who now added a new craze, for he
announced one morning very proudly that he had
received a despatch from the King himself, by
which he learned that his Majesty had been
graciously pleased to confer upon him the honour
of knighthood, a distinction which in the present
day seems reserved for eminent citizens of London
rather than for soldiers, as of old. He was
now, therefore. Sir Solomon, and his wife was my
lady. He also terrified us greatly by saying that
the new dignity would oblige him to assume
greater state and a more sumptuous manner of
living. Our banquets were sumptuous, truly, and
worthy of a knight and his lady. However, in

L 2

the matter of diet and lodging he was easily
satisfied, having been accustomed to plain fare and
so entirely carried away by his strange craze as to
be persuaded in his own mind that a herring was
a turbot ; mutton-broth, turtle-soup ; and a piece
of roast mutton a haunch of venison. But now it
was impossible to disguise from our neighbours
what, indeed, they had long known, that my
father was incurably mad. He expected when he
took the air of an afternoon to be saluted with the
respect due to Sir Solomon, and hats off from
everybody, and was pleased with obeisance which
were meant in pity, if not in ridicule. And in his
presence my mother must be addressed as my
lady and spoken of as her ladyship, which made
her hang her head at first and look foolish until
she became accustomed to the vanity of the thing
and found that it pleased him. For it is a strange
thing that if you humour a crazy person in his
craze, although you strengthen and confirm him in
his belief, you make him happy and satisfied with
himself, whereas, if you argue or contest it, or if
you pass it over in contempt, you are apt to make
him uncomfortable and uneasy without convincing
him at all of his error.

So great, and reasonably great, was my suspicion
of Mathew, that I was certain he would do
something to revenge himself upon me, or to get
me in his power. Yet I knew not — I could not

guess — what lie would do, or iu what way he
could injure me, as if the machinations of wicked
meu can ever be suspected and guarded against ;
as if the head of him who is desperately wicked
may not conceive, yea, and execute, things which
an innocent girl would believe incredible. The
first alarm was caused by a visit from Barbara,
who came to see my mother and myself, together
or separately. She said she was a messenger from
her brother, who, whatever I might say or think,
was the most forgiving and the most long-suffering
of men ; that he was perfectly prepared, if I would
make submission, ask pardon for the injurious
things I had said, and reveal what I knew of
Ralph, viz. : where he was living, what he was
doing, and what were his intentions ; to pass overall,
and to take me once more into favour.

Good Lord ! ' said my mother. " Does the
man think he is the Great Bashaw .^ Favour, indeed ! '
Beggars,' said Barbara, ' must not be choosers.'
At these words my mother flamed up, and
asked Mistress Barbara many questions relating to
her birth, parentage, wealth, religious professions,
personal beauty, and so forth, leaving her no time
to answer any. This is, With respect to the
memory of a kind parent, a manner of speech
common among women — even well-bred City
Madams when they are angry. Finally, lie said
that there had been quite enough said about

Matliew's proposals, and that he was to understand
again, and once for all, that they were distasteful
; upon which Barbara coughed, and said
that she had delivered her message, that she had
no desire, for her own part, for the alliance, which
would certainly be as distasteful to herself as it was
to Mrs. Hetherington, and more so, for her brother
had a right to look for fortune, which would be
of much more use to him than a baby-face ; that
she was surprised, being a messenger of peace, and
sent by a man of substantial estate, as all the
world knew, to be thus treated by folk who were
expected shortly to come upon the parish, and the
daughter to be glad of honest service and a crust.
But enough said.

Hoity-toity ! ' cried my mother. ' This is
brave talking, indeed, from plain millers and simple
farmers. Is the world going upside down ? '

Barbara went away, but returned again a little
before Christmas. Mathew, she repeated, was of
so Christian a disposition that he was still waiting
for submission and to know where the boy was to
be found. She also held up her skinny finger in
warning, and when I laughed and refused either
to make submission or tell where Ralph was
living, she bade me tremble and read the first
chapter of the book of the Prophet Joel, applying
verses four to twelve to my own case, especially
the last clause, which on investigation proved to

be a prophecy that joy should wither away from
the sons of men. I laughed again, but I confess
that I was disquieted. What consequences ? I
was soon to discover that the woman used no
idle threat, though I believe that she did not
herself know anything of the abominable plot
which Mathew was contriving for our destruction.


This, I say, was just before Christmas. We
passed the season of festivity in comfort, thanks
to a gift from Mr. Carnaby of a noble sirloin and
some bottles of good wine for my father ; but on
Twelfth Night my grandmother, who had become
very feeble of late, suddenly showed signs of impending
change. This was a truly dreadful thing
for us, not only for the loss of a good and affectionate
parent, which those who have faith ought
not to lament, but because at her death we should
lose even the small income which we had, and
there would be nothing but the house. It was
with despairing looks that my mother and I sat by
her bedside all that night. In.the morning she died,
having been speechless for some hours ; but, as
happens often with the dying, she rallied just
before the end, and recovered for a moment the
power of speech.

Child,' she whispered to me with her last
breath, 'thou hast been a good child. The Lord
will reward thee. Be of good hope, and never

doubt that the boy Avill return to be thy protector
and thy guide.'

After her funeral I asked my mother if she
lead any money at all. She told me that on leaving
London some of their old friends made up
between them a purse of a hundred guineas in
memory of old times, but after payment of their
small debts and the cost of the journey from
London, she had the sum of fifty-five guineas put
by for unforeseen wants — that we must live on
tins money as long as it lasted, after which she
supposed we must starve.

Fifty-five guineas ! Why, it would last us a
year and a quarter at least with prudence. Fifty-five
guineas ! It was a little fortune to us. It
would keep us until I got a letter from Ralph.
Whereupon I told my mother to be of good
cheer and to wait patiently and hope for the best.
She sighed, being never a woman of sanguine
disposition, and ignorant of those secret springs
of happiness within me which made me think
lightly of present posterity.

And now you shall hear a plot of diabolical
wickedness, which for the time was successful.
We all know that for a season sinners are sometimes
permitted to compass their own designs, but
for their surer undoing in the end.

Two days after the burial of the Dame, at a
time when Ave might be supposed to be overwhelmed

by the calamity of being left destitute,
Mathew came to the cottage. He looked ill at
ease, and this eyes met mine shifty, but he spoke
out with boldness, while he produced a leather
pocket-book and turned over certain papers
within it.

I have come, madam,' he said, addressing
my mother, but looking at me, ' to inform you or
your husband — it matters not which — that I can
no longer wait for the interest or the principal of
my money, and that you must be prepared to pay,
or take the consequences.'

What interest ? What money ? ' asked my
mother.

'Why,' he affected great surprise, 'is it possible
that you are going to deny the debt?'

What means the man \ ' my mother said
impatiently.

Nay,' said Mathew, smiling, but looking like
a hangdog villain the while, 'this passes patience.
I mean, madam, my loan to your husband.'

'What loan?' she repeated; 'and when?'

'Why,' said Mathew, 'if you pretend not to
know, I am not obliged to tell you ; but since

Well, I will tell you. I mean this, madam :

the sum of two hundred pounds advanced by
me to your husband, for which, and for security,
he hath assigned me a mortgage on this
house.'

My mother was quite wise enough to know
what was meant by a mortgage. She asked, but
with pale face, where was his mortgage.

Ma the w unrolled a paper and laid it on the
table. My mother read it through hurriedly.
Then she sank back in her chair and covered her
face with her hands, saying :

It is true, my child. Here is thy father's
signature. This is the last blow.'

Mathew rolled up the paper again and put it
in his pocket.

'Can you, madam', he asked, 'pay me my
money?'

'Go ask of the poor demented creature to
whom you lent it,' she replied.

'Then,' said Mathew, 'if the money be not
forthcoming, I must sell the house. Yet there is
a way '

What way ? ' I asked.

You know the way. You have only to tell
me where the boy is, and to marry me.'

I shook my head.

'And you, sir,' cried my mother, 'you who
lend money to poor madmen for the ruin of their
house, you — a villain if ever there vas one — you
think that I would give my daughter to such as
you?'

Very well, madam, very well,' said Mathew,
unmoved. ' Very likely the cottage will sell for
as much as the mortgage. Perhaps, if not, your

husband may carry his extravagances to a gaol,
as provided by a righteous law.'

Here he lied, because, I believe, my father
could be called upon for nothing more than the
house which was his security.

My mother pointed to the door, and Mathew
went away, leaving us bewildered indeed. Two
hundred pounds ! Now, indeed, we were ruined.
But what had he done with the money ?

'Mother,' I cried, 'it is a black and base conspiracy.
My father has never, since he came
from London, possessed a single sixpence. Think
of it. If he had a penny we should have known it.
Try to remember if ever you saw the least sign
of his having money.'

No, there was none. He wrote no letters and
received none ; he bought nothing. His clothes,
which were now old and worn, were the same
as those he wore when he returned home. On
the other hand, because he was of a generous
heart, he was for ever giving away what he called
money in large sums by means of drafts upon
London bankers, which he would sign and press
upon the recipient with kind words. For instance,
on my birthday he always gave me an order fora
hundred pounds on a piece of paper, signed
by his own hand, ' Sol. Hetherington,' bidding me,
because I was a good girl, go buy myself some
finery and falls. At Christmas, the New Year,
Easter, Eoodsmass, fair-time, and other times of

rejoicing, he would fill his pockets with these
valuable gifts, and sally forth — first to the Vicar,
with an offering for the poor, saying that it was
little merit to give out of abundance, that the
Lord loveth a cheerful giver, that the poor we
have always with us, that a rich man must remember
the fate of Dives, and that, for his part,
he would that the Church had all charities in her
own hand, so that schismatics, profligates, and
persons without religion should starve, with other
pithy and seasonable remarks. Having received
the Vicar's thanks, and a glass of usquebaugh to
keep out the raw air of the morning, he would
proceed up the village street, the boys and girls
touching their caps and making curtsies to him,
while the barber and blacksmith would offer the
compliments of the season, with a hope that her
ladyship was well. Then he would pass the
cottage of Sailor Nan, and would call her out
and press into her hand a folded paper, saying
it was for Christmas cheer ; that she must rejoice,
with a dish of good roast beef and plum-porridge,
and a great coal fire, and bidding her God speed,
would go on his charitable way, while some
laughed and some looked grave, and tears would
fall from the eyes of the women to think that one
so good and generous should also be so poor.

Alas ! my father was one of those who could
never become rich.

Even while we spoke of this, we heard outside
the voice of my father, as if to confirm our
words :

It ill becomes men of substance, Mr. Carnage,
to allow poorer parishioners to bear the
burden of such things. I will myself repair the
roof of the church at my own charges. Nay,
sir, permit me to take no refusal in this matter.
If it stand me in a thousand pounds I will do it
Why, it is a lending unto the Lord ; it is a good
work

It happened that in some way I had more
influence over my father than anyone. That is
to say, he would unfold his mind — such as it was,
poor man ! — to me with greater freedom than to
my mother, who could never make any show of
interest or belief in his magnificent designs and
charitable schemes. I therefore tried to learn
from him, if I could, the truth of this business.
After listening to a long story of his intentions
as regards the church and the endowment of the
living of Wark worth, I turned the conversation
upon Mathew Humble, and asked my father if he
had of late seen and spoken with him. He said
that Mathew now avoided rather than sought his
company, for which he knew no reason, except
that when you have obliged a man, it frequently
happens that he keeps out of your way — a thing,
he said, of common experience in the City, where

young men, incautious men, and unlucky men
often obtain assistance in the prolongation of bills
and in loans.

Since I have been of such great "service,' he
said, ' to Mathew Humble, he seems to think that
he must not come so often as he did. A worthy
man, however, and, perhaps, he is moved by the
shame of taking assistance.'

Very likely, sir,' I said, wondering what
thing, short of the pillory, with the Fugleman
and his pike beside it, would move Mathew to
shame. ' It is strange that men should thus
court the appearance of ingratitude. Did you
ever, sir, borrow money, sums of money, of
Mathew Humble ? '

Lend, you mean, Drusilla,' he replied, turnings
red with sudden ano^er.

'No, sir, I said borrow. Pray pardon me, sir,
I had no intention to offend.'

'But you live offended, child.' He puffed
his cheeks, and became scarlet with sudden passion.
' You have offended, I say. Not offended ?
Do you know what you have said ? Have words
meaning for you? Should I, Solomon Wethers
Knight, known and venerated for my
wealth, from Tower Hill to Temple Bar, and
from London Bridge to Westminster, stoop to borrow
— to borrow, I say, paltry sums — for he
could lend none but paltry sums — of a petty

farmer ? Not mean to offend ! Zounds ! the girl is
mad.'

Pray, sir, forgive me. I am so ignorant that
I knew not '

To be sure, my dear, to be sure.' He became
as quickly appeased as he had been easily offended.
She does not know the difference between lending
and borrowing. How should she ? '

And have you lent Mathew much, sir ? '

As for lending, I have, it is true, placed in
his hands, from time to time, sums of money for
which I have no security and have demanded no
interest. But let that pass, I am so rich that I
can afford to lose. Let it pass. And whether he
pays them back or not, I do not greatly care.'

'You gave this money to him,' I said, 'by
drafts upon your bankers, I suppose ? '

Why, certainly. You do not suppose that
we London merchants, however rich we are, carry
our money about with us. That would indeed bea
return to barbarous times.'

Then there was the paper that you signed in
the presence of an attesting attorney and of Barbara.
What was that, father ? '

He laughed and made as if he were annoyed,
though he appeared pleased.

Tut, tut,' he said. ' A trifle — a mere j trifle ;
let an old man have his little whims sometimes,
Drusilla.'

But what was it, sir ? ' I persisted.

Mathew would have me call it a mortgage
my father went on. ' A mortgage, indeed 1 Because
he wished his sister not to know. It was —
ho, ho ! — a deed of gift, child. That is all. It
was when I assigned certain lands to him. A deed
of gift. We called it a mortgage, but I could not
prevent showing Barbara by laughing — ha, ha ! —
that it was something very different. In addition
to the money, I have bestowed upon him a field
or so for the improvement of his farm. The gain
to him is great ; the loss is small to me. A mortgage,
we agreed to call it. Ha ! ha ! Duly
signed and witnessed. Your father, Drusilla, is
not one to do things irregularly. Duly signed
and witnessed.'

This conversation made it quite clear to me
that Ma the w had contrived an abominable plot
for our ruin. For the supposed deed of gift which
my father whined to sign, he substituted a real
deed of mortgage, in which my father was to acknowledge
that he had received two hundred
pounds, for which he assigned his house for
security, and without, as afterwards appeared, any
clause as to time allowed after notice should be
given of foreclosing. How far the lawyer was
concerned in this conspiracy I know not. Perhaps
he was innocent. Indeed, I am now inclined
to believe that he was innocent of any complicity.

How far Barbara — perhaps she, too, was ignorant
of this wickedness.

All that night I lay awake turning the thing
over in my mind. I planned a thousand mad
schemes : I would break into Mathew's room and
steal the papers. I would go round the town and
proclaim his wickedness ; I would inveigle him
into surrendering the papers by a false promise of
marriage ; I would seek the protection of Mr.
Carnaby. All these things I considered, but none
of them approved themselves on consideration,
because a forger and a cheat will always be
ready, if he escapes punishment for the first
offence, to repeat his wickedness. Lastly, I resolved
upon seeking Mathew at the mill, where I
could talk to him at greater freedom.

I went there in the afternoon about two of the
clock. When I lifted the latch I saw Barbara
sitting on the settle near the window working.
Before her, as usual, lay an open bible. Strange !
that one who was so hard and severe could draw
no comfortable things from a book which should
be full of comfort.

She shook her long lean forefinger at me.

I have known,' she said, ' for a long time the
ruin that hangs over your house. I saw your
father sign the mortgage. He laughed and called
it a deed of gift, I remember. Ah ! good money
after bad. But my brother, who was foolish

VOL. 11. M

enough to lend the money, was not so fooHsh as
to let it go without security. A deed of gift ! He
is cunning, your father, and would deceive me if
he could, I doubt not.' She turned over the
leaves and found something that seemed to suit
the occasion and my demerits. ' '• He hath made
thy vine bare." My brother is full of compassion.
He hath made it clean bare." Thy punishment
hath begun.'

I wish to see your brother alone.'

Do you come in peace or in enmity ? If in
peace, you must first make submission, and confess
your deceits as regards the boy, who is surely
dead. Nothing else will satisfy him. You can
begin with me. Where is the boy ? '

What I have to say is with your brother, not
with you.'

Go, then ; but remember, when you are
married, look not to be mistress here. I shall
continue to be tie mistress as I have always been.
If you come in enmity, then you have me to battle
with and not my brother alone. Two hundred
pounds is not a sum to be given away for naught.
Men are soft where a Avoman is concerned ;
Mathew may be a fool for your sake ; you may
look to wheedle him out of his papers. Ah, but
you shall not. He may be a fool, but I am behind.
I am not soft ; your eyes will not make a
fool of me. Mistress Drusilla.'

She then bade me go within, where I should
find her brother.

It was a cloudy afternoon, and, so early in the
season, already growing dusk ; Mathew was seated
before the fire, and on the table a stone jar containing
Hollands which he had already begun to
drink.

'Pretty Drusilla!' he cried, astonished. 'Have
you brought the money ? '

No,' I said. ' I come to learn if you are in
earnest or in jest.'

'In jest?' Then he swore a loud oath.
See you, my lass ; if that money is not paid next
week, your house will be sold. Make your account
of that. But if you comply with my conditions,
the papers shall be torn up.'

Then I am come to tell you, Mathew, that
although I shall not comply with your conditions,
the cottage will not be sold.'

Why not ? '

Because, first of all, that mortgage is false.
I know now Avhat you did. You caused my father
to sign one paper believing it to be another. That
is a fraud, and a hanging matter, Master Mathew.'

He laughed, but uneasily, and he turned pale.
Also, which is hardly worth the noting, he swore
a great oath.

It's a lie ! ' he cried. ' Prove it ! '

I can prove it, dien the time comes. Meantime,

reflect on what I have said. It is a wicked
and detestable plot. Reflect upon this and
tremble.'

He laughed again, but uneasily.

There is another reason,' I said, ' why you
will not sell the cottage. It is this. You are
afraid that Ralph may come home and demand an
account. Well, I can tell you this : that he will
not come home just yet. But, if you do this thing,
as sure as I am alive, Mathew, I will write to him
and tell him all. I shall tell him how you have
persecuted me to marry you, not because you want
me for your wife, and though you have had your
answer a dozen times over, but because you want
to plague and spite your cousin. I will tell him,
next, how you have spread false reports about
another will, and how sou have whispered that he
is turned highwayman. And lastly, I will tell
him how you have practised upon the kind heart
of a poor demented man, and made him sign his
name in testimony of your own foul plot and falsehood.
I will not spare you. I will tell him all.
I will beg him to return post haste, and to bring
ivith him officers of justice. Then, indeed, you
may look for no mercy, nor for anything short of
the assizes and Newcastle Gaol.'

I spoke so resolutely, though, perhaps, thorough
ignorance, I spoke foolishly, that I moved him
and he trembled.

Yet he blustered. He said that all women are
liars, as is very well known ; that the boy was
long since dead and buried ; else why did he not
return to claim the property ? That, as for my
story, he did not value it one farthing ; while, as
regards my accusation, he would laugh. In fact,
he did laugh, but not mirthfully.

Come, Drusilla,' he said ; ' your father is welcome
to the money, for aught I care. I do not
desire to sell the cottage. Sit down and be
friendly. Tell me all about the boy ; and look,
my lass ' — his eyes were cunning indeed — ' look
you. Write to the boy ; tell him, if you will,
about the money. Tell him that I am willing not
to press it if he will give reasonable assurance or
security of his own in exchange. Let him, for
instance, give me a mortgage on the mill, and let
him, since he is so prosperous, pay the interest
himself

This was a trap into which I nearly fell. But
I saw in time that he designed to find out in this
way what he had to fear.

'I have told you,' I said, 'what I shall do.'

Ah ! your story, I doubt, is but made up by
woman's wit. Drusilla, you are a cunning baggage.
Come, now, give over ; stay here and be
my wife ; thou shalt be mistress in everything.
As for Barbara, I am tired of her sour looks. She
scolds all day. She may pack ; she makes the

meals uncomfortable ; lie may vanish ; she stints
the beer. We will keep house without her.
She finds fault from morning to night. She is

a '

You called me, Mathew ? ' Barbara suddenly
opened the door and stood before us. Her
eyes followed me as I went away with malignity
difficult to describe, and Mathew, sinking back
into his chair, feebly reached out his hand for the
jar of Hollands.

CHAPTEE IX.

THE WISDOM OF THE STRONG MAN.

When I went home I told my mother that for
the present, at least, we need not fear anything
from Mathew Of this I was quite certain. My
assurance that I would appeal to his cousin, the
doubt where 'the boy' might be — there was no
reason, for instance, why he should not be at
Newcastle, or at Eothbury, or at Hexham, or at
Carlisle — to say nothing of my charge of fraud,
went home to his guilty conscience. These things
were sure, I thought, to deter a man not naturally
courageous, although his conscience might be
hardened, from tempting the vengeance of his
injured cousin.

So far was I right, that for the whole of the
spring and summer we had no further molestation
from him, but continued in our quiet course,
spending as little money as we could, yet looking
forward to the time, now growing very near,
when there would be no more left to spend. As
for myself, I may truly declare that my faith was

strong — I mean not the faith of a Christian, such
as I ought to have held — but faith in my lover,
so far away. He would send me an answer. The
answer, whatever it might be, would surely set all
right.

Mathew not only ceased to persecute us, but
he ceased to desire the conversation and company
of my father. He came no more even to church,
as if conscious of his wickedness, and ashamed to
face honest people. He was rarely seen even in
the town, and he left me quite alone ; so that I
began to think that repentance had perhaps seized
upon his soul. Alas ! Repentance knocks in vain
at the heart of such as Mathew.

Though, however, we saw him not, I heard,
through my faithful Fugleman, certain intelligence
about him. Thus, he drank harder ; he neglected
his business ; he quarrelled daily with his sister,
who reproached him for his drunken ways, and
the neglect of his worldly affairs ; also, she continually
urged him to recover the two hundred
pounds owed to him, as she thought, by my
father. She hungered and thirsted after this
money, which, it seemed, she did not know that
her brother possessed. Why had he concealed
from her, she asked him with anger, that he had
so much as two hundred pounds, when he would
not give her even money to buy things wanted
for the house? Let him get the money back.

Was he mad to let interest and all go ? She let
him have no peace ; she longed to have this
money ; perhaps she longed for our ruin as well.
Then she constantly threw in her brother's teeth
the fact that if the boy was not dead and should
return, if, in fact, my story was true, he would
find the books and accounts in such confusion as
might lead to their ruin. She wanted to know
what truth there was in the reports, once so industriously
spread, about a second will. In fact,
she led the wretched man a dog's life, having a
tongue sharper than a sword and more dreadful
than a fiery serpent. But, as concerning the
things she said of Ralph, I could have desired
nothing better, because it kept alive in Mathew's
breast the wholesome fear of his cousin's return.
So long as that lasted, we were safe. We should
have continued in safety, because that fear did not
die away, but rather increased day by day, save
for the instigation, as I cannot but believe, of the
Evil One, and the concoction of a design even
more wicked than that of the mortgage. I suppose
the plot was conceived in the spring or
summer, but it was not until the late autumn that
it was attempted. The way of it was as follows
(I do no harm, I trust, by speaking openly of a
traffic which, as everybody knows, is conducted
almost openly all over the northern counties of
England and the southern counties of Scotland).

I have mentioned one Daniel, or Dan, Gedge,
always called the Strong Man, because he was
like Hercules, the fabled Greek, for bodily
strength, who lodged with Sailor Nan. He professed
to make a living out of his strong arms
and legs. He went to fairs, and was seen on
market-days in all the towns of Northumberland,
Durham, and Carlisle performing great feats for
wagers, or for money laid down. He would tie
heavy weights to his nose and bear them so suspended
round the market ; he would lift and
carry a pony or a cow ; he would crush — but
this was nothing to him — pewter pots with his
hands, break iron bars and great pokers over this
left arm — as many as they might bring to him ;
he would twist gold and silver pieces of money,
if gentlemen gave them to him, with his fingers ;
harry a dozen men upon his shoulders and in his
arms ; run round a table on his thumbs ; pull a
cart against a yoke of oxen, and perform many
-other surprising feats, the memory of which still
survives though the poor man is dead, having
been surprised by a snow-storm when in liquor,
^o that he sat down and fell asleep in the drift,
his mighty thews availing him naught, never to
wake again. By these performances he made
great gain, which he spent, for the most part, on
the spot where he was paid, and in drink, having
ii thirsty spirit, and, besides, being ready when he

had the means to oblige other thirsty souls who
had not. He was a man standing over six feet,
with legs and arms of surprising stoutness, a
square red face, and a kindly eye. Despite his
strength he was peaceful, and the softest-hearted
of mankind. Now, though he pretended to live
by the exhibition of his strength, which I believe
was the reason why the Vicar called him Milo, it
was very well known everywhere that he had
another and a more important source of profit.
This was in the running of 'stuff' across the
Border, a business which demands, as everybody
knows, much caution, with knowledge of the
country and powers of endurance. The 'stuff'
consists generally of brandy, lace, silk, and
Geneva. Salt is also smuggled across, but a
better profit is made out of the former articles,
which are less in bulk and more easily concealed.
There are many reasons why Warkworth should
be a convenient spot for the illicit trade. First,
it lies two miles up the river, and has many safe
hiding-places, so that a cargo once landed at the
mouth of the Coquet may be safely and speedily
carried up the river, and bestowed where it is
judged safe ; for all along the steep banks there
are spots clearly designed by Nature for the convenient
storage of valuable packages. Not to
speak of the thick hanging woods beside the
banks, where enough Geneva and Hollands maybe

stored to supply London for a year, there is
the Hermitage, whose double chamber I have
myself seen packed full of silk in bales waiting
for an opportunity, while in the Castle itself
there are vaults, dungeons, passages, and secret
chambers, known only to the Fugleman. Here,
little suspected by my Lord of 'Northumberland,
enough brandy might be stored to supply the
county (which is a thirsty one) for a dozen years.
The Border is not, to be sure, so near as it is
higher up the coast, but, on the other hand, the
look-out and watch kept by the dangers cannot
be by any means so vigilant and close as where
the county narrows to the north ; while more
than half the run takes place over the wild moors
and pathless slopes of the Cheviotss, a place in
which the Excise people find it difficult indeed to
discover or to stop a run made by men who
know the country. They have a service of ponies
for the work, little, hardy, sure-footed creatures,
who carry the bankers, kegs, and bales slung
across their backs, and can be trusted to make
the whole thirty-five miles from Warkworth to
the Border in a single night ; that is, in seven or
eight hours, the drivers walking or riding beside
them.

Most of the farmers and craftsmen of Walworth
take a share in these risks and profits ; one
or two of them — of whom Mathew was one —

often accompany and lead the expedition. Everybody
knows beforehand when a run is arranged ;
many in the town know the very night when it
will take place, the road chosen, and the value of
the stuff. There is so much sympathy with this
work, on both sides of the Border, and so many
partners in the venture, that information is never
given to the Excise, and hiding-places are found
everywhere, with the help and connivance of the
most innocent-looking plough-boy and the most
demure country lass.

Xow one morning — it was in November, when
the days have already become short, and the
nights are long and dark — Dan Gedge got up
from his sleeping-bench or cupboard in the wall,
about eight or a little after, calling lustily for
small beer, of which he drank a quart or so as a
stay to his stomach before breakfast. Then he
dressed and came forth to the door with the mug
in his hand.

Sailor Nan was already seated on her stone,
pipe in mouth, and three-cornered hat on her
head. She had taken her breakfast, and now sat,
regardless of the raw cold air — for all the winds
that blow were the same to her — looking up and
down the street, in which nothing as yet was
moving, though the blacksmith's apprentice across
the road had lit the fire, and the cheerful breath
of the bellows made one feel warm.

Fugleman and me,' said Dan, yawning,
Fugleman and me, we was rowing up and down
from Amble most all night.'

What is the run ? ' asked Jean, who needed
no other explanation ; ' and who's in it ? '

Mathew Humble is in it for one,' said Dan.
Going with it himself, he is, this journey. Ho !
ho ! Folks will talk of this run when they come
to hear of it. The Fugleman thinks he knows.
But he don't ; no, he don't know. He's not to be
trusted. I'm the only one who knows. Aye, a
rare run it will be, too — out of the common this
run will be. Folks will lift up their heads when
they hear of this night's work.'

What is it, Dan ? Lace belike ? '

He shook his stupid head and laughed.

How could Mathew have been such a fool as
to trust him ?

Belike there's lace in it, and silk in it, and
brandy in it. There's always them things. But
there's more, Nan — there's more.'

What more, Dan ? '

Fugleman, he'll laugh when he hears the
news. He's helping in the job, and he don't know
nothing about it ; only Mathew and me knows
what that job is. Mathew and me — and one
other.'

Who is the other, Dan ? And what is the
job?'

He shook his head and buried it for safety in
the pewter pot.

Mathew Humble,' he said, ' is a masterful man.'

'What is the job ? ' asked Nan, feeling curiosity
slowly awaken.

It is a job,' replied Dan, ' which can't be told
unto women.'

Why, ye lubber,' she sprang to her feet and
shook her fist in the Strong Man's face, so that
he started back ; ' lubber and land-lubber, you
dare to call me a woman — Captain of the Foretop.
Now, let me hear what this job is that 1

am not to be told. Out with it, or .' I omit

the garnish of her discourse, which consisted of
sea-oaths.

'Mathew Humble did say ' the Strong

Man began. But strong men are always like
babies in the hands of a woman.

'Vast there, Dan,' said Nan ; ' d'ye think I
value your job nor want to know what it is — a
rope's end ? But that you should refuse to tell it
to me, your shipment — that's what galls. And
after yester-forenoon's salmagundi ! '

This accusation of ingratitude cut poor Dan to
the quick. In the matter of sea-pie, lobscouse,
and salmagundi (which is a mess of salt beef,
onions, potatoes, pepper, oil and vinegar, the
whole fried to make a toothsome compound)
Sailor Nan was more than a mother to him.

Twenty years afloat,' continued Nan, in deep
disgust ; ' from boy to Captain of the Foretop, and
from Cape Horn to the Narrow Seas and Copenhagen,
and to be told by a land-swab, who never
so much as smelt blue water, that I'm a woman ! '

0' course,' said Dan feebly, ' I didn't really
mean it.'

'Didn't mean it ! Why — there I What is it,
then ? Is it piracy, or murder ? '

He shook his head.

'Look ye, Nan. It won't signify, not a
button, telling you. I said to myself at the
beginning, " Nan won't spoil sport ; " and it's only
a girl.'

Only a girl ! Nan pricked up her ears. ' As
if I cared about girls,' she said carelessly.

Only a girl. It's Miss Drusy — that's all.
You see she's been longing to run away with
Mathew, and marry him, for months. Longing
she has, having took a fancy for Mathew, which
is a strange thing, come to think of it, and she so

young. But women are . Ay, ay, Nan, I

know. You see I always thought she was saving
up for Ralph Embleton. But Mathew, he says
that's nonsense. Well — she all this time longing
to marry him, and her mother won't hear it — no
chance till now. So it's fixed for to-night. What
a run ! Lace, and brandy, and Geneva, and a
girl.'

OH — well ; I don't care. Go on, Dan, if
you like.'

He then proceeded to explain that Mathew
had arranged for a pony to be saddled in readiness
; that the signal agreed upon between the
girl and Mathew was a message from the castle
carried by a certain boy named Cuddy, pretending
to come from the Fugleman, who was to be
kept out of the way, employed at the Hermitage,
where the stuff was bestowed ; the boy was to
say that the Fugleman was ill. On receiving this
message the girl would make an excuse to run upto
the castle, where she would mount the pony, and
so ride off with Mathew and be married over the
Border. To keep up appearances, he went on —
this soft-headed giant — sit had been arranged that
the young woman was to scream and straggle at
the first, and that Dan should lift her into the
saddle, and, if necessary, hold her on. Once
across the Border they would be married without
so much as a jump over the broomstick.

Nan slowly rose.

I'll get you some more beer, Dan,' she said.

She went indoors, and poured about three-fourths
of a pint of gin into a tankard which she
filled up with strong ale, and brought it out to
her lodger with tender care.

Drink that, Dan,' she said ; ' it's good old
stingo — none of your small beer. Drink it up ;

VOL. II. N

then you can put on your coat and go about your
work.'

He drank it ofi' at a gulp, with every outward
sign of satisfaction. Then he suddenly reeled
and caught at the doorpost.

Go and put on your coat, Dan,' she said,
looking at him with a little anxiety.

He disappeared. Nan heard one — two —
heavy falls, and nodded her head. Then she
followed into the room and found the Strong Man
lying upon the floor, on his back with his mouth
open and his eyes shut. She dragged a blanket
over him, and went out again to sit on her stone
with as much patience as a spider in October.
She sat there all the morning as quiet as if she
was on watch. About half-past two in the afternoon
there came slowly down the street no other
than Mathew Humble himself.

Where is Daniel ? ' he asked.

Nan pointed to the door.

'He's within, fast asleep. He came home
late last night. I dare say he'll sleep on now, if
you let him alone, till evening.'

' Have you — has he — talked with you this
morning ? ' Mathew's eyes were restless, and
his cheek twitched, a sign of prolonged anxiety or
much drink.

Nay ; what should he say to me, seeing that
he came home in the middle of the night as

drunk as a pig ? Let him bide, Master Mathew.
What do you want him for? Is there a
run ? '

He nodded.

She held out her hand. ' I'll drink luck to
the venture,' she said, taking the shilling which
he gave her for luck. ' Thank you ; this is sure
to bring you luck. You'll say sd tomorrow
morning. Eemember that you crossed old Nan's
palm with a shilling. A lucky run ! Such a run
as you never had before. A run that will surprise
the people.'

Ha ! ha ! ' said Mathew, pleased with the
prophecy. ' It shall surprise them.'

'And how do you get on with Miss Drusy,
now ? So she said nay. She will and she won't
ay, ay — I know their tricks. Yes, a fine girl,
and spoiling, as one may say, for a husband.
Take care, Master Mathew. Better men than
you have lost by shillyshally.'

Why, what would you have me do, Nan ? '

'Do? A man o' mettle shouldn't ask.
Capture the prize ; pipe all hands and alongside ;
then off with her ; show a clean pair of heels ;
clap all sails.'

I believe, Nan,' Mathew said, ' that you area
witch.'

I believe,' she replied, ' that after your run
you'll be sure I am. Go in and wake Dan.'

N 2

The fellow, roused rudely, sat up and rubbed
his heavy eyes.

You can't be drunk still, man,' said Mathew
seeing it's half-past two in the afternoon.'

My head,' said Dan, banging it with his
great fist, ' is like the church bell before the
service — goeth ding-dong. And my tongue, it is

as dry as a bone. Last night — last night

Where the devil was I last night ? '

Get up, fool, and put on your coat and come
out. We have work to do.'

The fellow made no reply. He was stupidly
wondering why his head was so heavy and his
legs like lead.

Come,' Mathew repeated, ' there is no time
to lose. Up, man.'

They left the house and walked up the street.

When they were gone, Nan took the pipe out
of her mouth, and considered the position of
things with a cheerful smile.

'As for Mathew,' she said with a grin, 'he
will get salt eel for his supper. Salt eel — nothing
short.'

She doubted for awhile whether to impart
the plot to the Fugleman. But she remembered
that though he was no older than herself he
would take the thing differently, and a fight
between him and Dan, not to speak of Mathew
as well, could have only one termination. Had

she been twenty years younger, she would not have
hesitated to engage the man herself, as she had
led many a gallant boarding-party against any
odds. But her fighting days were over.

What she at last resolved upon marked her
as at once the bravest and the most sensible of
women. But her resolution took time for the
working out. She sat on her stone seat and
smoked her pipe as usual. When any boys
passed her door she shook her stick at them, and
used her strange sea phrases, just as if nothing'
was on her mind.

It grows dark in the short November
days soon after four, which is the hour when
folks who can afford the luxury of candles light
them, sweep the hearth, and prepare the dish of
cheerful tea. There was no tea for us that year,
but small ale of our own brewing or butter-milk.
And my mother sat in great sadness for the most
part, not knowing what would be the end, yet
fearful of the worst, and being of feeble faith.
Certainly, there was little to give her cause for
hope.

It was at half-past six or seven that I heard
footsteps outside, and presently a knock at the
door. I saw, to my amazement, no other than
old Nan. It was a cold and rainy evening, but
she had on nothing more than her usual jacket
and hat. A hard and touirh old woman.

Child,' lie said earnestly, ' do you think
that I would lead thee wrong, or tell thee a lie ? '

'Why, no, Stan.'

Then, mark me, go not forth to-nights

Why should I go forth ? It is past six
o'clock, and already dark.'

If messengers should come Look ! who

is that ? '

She slipped behind the door as a boy came
running to the door. I recognised him for a lad,
half-gipsy, who was well known to all runners
and often took part in driving the ponies. A
bare-headed boy with thick coarse hair and bright
black eyes, who was afterwards sentenced to be
hanged, but reprieved, I know not for what
reason, and I forget now what he had done to-bring
upon him this sentence.

The Fugleman says,' he began at once,
seemingly in breathless haste, ' that he has fallen
down and is like to have broken his back. He
wants to see you at once.'

'Oh,' I cried, ' what dreadful thing is this ?
Tell him I'll come at once. Eun, boy, run. I
will but put on a hat and '

The boy turned and ran clattering up the road
and across the bridge.

Then Nan came out from behind the door.

It's true, then. The kidnapping villains !.
It's true. But I never had a doubt. Go indoors,

liiuney. Stay at home. As for the Fugleman,
I'll warrant his back to be sound as my
own. Wait, wait, I say, till you see Mathew's
face tomorrow ! A villa, indeed ! '

But, Nan, what do you mean ? My dear
old Fugleman a villain ! What has he to do
with Mathew ? '

No, child, not he. There's only one villain
in Warkwortli, though many fools. The villain
is Mathew Humble. The biggest fool is Dan
Gedge. He is such a fool that he ought to be
keel-hauled or flogged through the Fleet, at least.
Stay at home. This is a plot. The Fugleman is
in the Hermitage at work among the stuff. Thereto

be a run to-night. And they think Avast

a bit, brother. Aye, aye, they shall have what
they want. There's a hock of salt pork and a
pease-pudding for supper. I looked forward to
that hock. Never mind it. The villain — he to
run this rig upon a girl ! But old Nan knows a
mast from a manger yet, and values not his
anger a rope's end.' Here she became incoherent,
and one heard only an occasional phrase, such as
' from the sprit-sail yard to the mizen top-sail
halyards ' ; 'a mealy-mouthed swab ' ; a ' freshwater
wishy-washy fair-weather sailor ' ; ' thinks
to get athwart my hawse,' and so forth. To all
of which I listened in blank wonder. Thus having
in this nautical manner collected her thoughts

strange it is that a sailor can never mature his
plans or resolve upon a plan of action without
the use of strong words — she begged me to lend
her my cardinal, which was provided with a thick
and warm ]good, of which we women of Northumberland
stand in need for winter days and" cold
spring winds. She said that she should keep her
own cloth jacket, because the work she should do
that night was cold work, but she borrowed a
woollen wrapper which she tied over her head
and round her neck, leaving her three-cornered
sailor's hat in my keeping. Lastly, she borrowed
and put on a pair of warm leather gloves, remarking
that all would be found out if once they saw
or felt her hand. This, to be sure, was a great
deal larger than is commonly found among women.
When all these arrangements were complete, she
put on the cardinal and pulled the hood over her
head. ' Now,' she asked, ' who am I ? '

Of course, having my clothes upon her, and
being about the same height, with her face hidden
beneath the hood, she seemed to be no other than
myself Then with a last reference to swabs,
lubbers, and land pirates, she once more bade me
keep within doors all night if I valued my life
and my honour, and trudged away, telling me
nothing but that a piratical craft should that night
be laid on beam-ends, that her own decks were

cleared, lier guns double-allotted, the surgeon in
the cock-pit; and the chaplain with him, and, in
short, that she was ready for action.

I saw no more of her that night, which I
spent in great anxiety, wondering what this thing
might mean. But in the morning, fearing some
mischief, I walked up the street to the castle.
The Fugleman was in his room ; he had sent me,
he said, no message at all ; nor had he fallen ;
nor had he broken his back. The boy Cuddy,
it appeared, had been helping him, and running
about backwards and forwards all day. When
the ponies were loaded he had returned to the
Hermitage to set all snug and tidy. When he
came back to the castle they were gone. But no
breaking of backs and no sending of the boy.
This was strange indeed.

Then, Fugleman,' I said, ' Mathew Humble
sent a lying message, meaning mischief.'

What he designed I understood in two or
three days. But for the time I could only think
that he wished to open again the question of his
suit. Yet, why had Nan borrowed my cardinal
and my gloves ?

On the way back I looked into Nan's cottage.
The door was open, but there was no one in the
house.

I went home, little thinking what a narrow

escape was mine. Had I known — but had I
known, I should have been divided between
gratitude to Heaven, and admiration of brave old
Nan, and detestation of the greatest villain in
England.

CHAPTER X.

SAILOR sans RIDE.

The night was cold and raw, with a north-east
Avind, which brought occasional showers of sleet.
There was no moon. The street, as the old
woraan walked up to the castle, was quite deserted,
all the women and girls being seated at
home about bright coal-fires, knitting, sewing, and
spinning, while all the men were at the ale-house,
telling stories or listening to them, an occupation
of which the male sex is never wearied, especially
when beer or gumbo, with tobacco, accompanies-the
stories.

Nan climbed up the castle hill, and passing
through the ruined gate, began to pick her way
slowly among the stones and heaps of rubbish
lying about in the castle-yard. The light of the
fire in the Fugleman's chamber was her guide,
and she knew very well that just beside the door
of that room would be lurking Strong Dan, with
intent to seize her by the waist and carry her off.
Perhaps he designed to carry her in his arms ali

the way to the Border. This thought pleased her
very much. Dan was quite able to do it, and the
distance is only thirty-five miles or so. It pleased
her to think of such a ride in the Strong Man's
arms, and how tired he would be at the end.

Accordingly, when she drew near the door
she went very slowly, and was not in the least
surprised when, as she stood in the fire-hight, the
man stepped from some hiding-place at hand,
caught her by the waist, and tossed her lightly
over his shoulder, making no more account of her
weight than if she had been a mere bag; of meal.

Now, mistress,' he said, ' struggle and kick
as much as you like. It don't hurt me.'

She cheerfully acceded to this request, and
began so vigorous a drumming upon his ribs that
had they not been tougher than the hoops of the
stoutest cask, they must have been broken everyone.
As it was, he was surprised, and perhaps
bruised a little, but not hurt. He had not
thought that a young girl like myself had such
power in her heels.

Go on,' he said ; ' you're a strong 'ud, and I
like you the better for it. Kick away, but don't
try screaming, because if you do I shall have to
tie your pretty head in a bag. Master Mathew's
orders, not my wish. Besides, what's the use of
pretending, when there's nobody here but you
and me, bless your pr-betty eyes ! I know all

about it, and here's a honour for you to be carried
off, nothing less, by your own man. Why, there
isn't another woman in Warkworth that he'd take
so much trouble for. Think upon that! Now
then, miss, another kick, or a dozen, if you like.
Ah, you can kick, you can. You're a wife worth
having. A happy man he'll be. Lord, it would
take the breath out o' most that last kick would.
Why, I'll swear there's not a woman in all Northumberland
with such a kick as yours. Keep it up.'

Thus talking, while she drummed with her
heels, he slowly carried her through the dark
gateway, picking his feet among the stones.

Outside the castle, beyond the great gate,
another man was waiting for them, wrapped in a
great cloak. It was Mathew Humble. He had
been drinking, and his speech was thick.

Now,' he said, seizing the prisoner by the
arm, ' you are in my power. Escape is impossible.
If you cry out — but I am your master
now, and for the rest of your life I mean to be.
You have got to be an obedient wife. Do you
hear? I've had enough of your contempts and
your sneers. You'll write to the boy, will you,
mistress ? Ha ! Fine opportunities you will
have on the way to Scotland to-night. Ho !
The boy will be pleased when he hears of this
night's job, won't he ? '

Come, mistress,' said Dan, setting her down

gently, ' here's the place and here's the ponies,
and if you like, just for the look of the thing and
out of kindness, as a body may say, to rax me a
cuff or a clout, why — don't think I mind it. Oh,
Lord ! '

It was a kind and thoughtful invitation, and
it was followed by so vigorous, direct, and well-planted
a blow that he reeled.

Lord ! ' he cried again, ' I believe she's
knocked half my teeth down my throat. Who

the devil would ha' thought a slip of a girl

Why, even Nan herself '

He asked for no more clouts, but kept at a
respectful distance.

There were half-a-dozen ponies, all loaded in
readiness for the road. Mathew, Dan, and the
boy they called Cuddy were to conduct the expedition,
the two latter on foot, the first on pony-back.
There was also a pony with a saddle,
designed, I suppose, for me.

Now, Drusilla,' said Mathew, ' get up ; there
is a long journey before us and no time to spare.
Eemember — silence, whether we meet friend or

stranger. Silence, I say, or ' He shook a

pistol in her face.

She drew the hood more closely down, and
pretended to shrink in alarm. Then, without anymore
resistance, she climbed into the saddle, and
took the reins from Mathew's hands.

That's a good beginning,' he said. ' Maybe
you have come to your senses and know what is
best for yourself. And hark ye, my lass, if you
behave pretty, we'll send Barbara to the devil.
If you don't, you shall have a mistress at the mill
as well as a master. Think upon that, now.'

Then the procession started. First Cuddy;
then the ponies, two by two, who followed the
boy as the sheep follow their shepherd ; lastly,
Mathew, upon his pony ; Nan upon hers ; and on
the other side of her Dan Gedge, still wondering
at the unexpected strength displayed in those
kicks and that clout.

In addition to the advantages already spoken
of possessed by Warkworth for the convenience of
a run, should be mentioned the happy circumstance
that it lies close to the wild lands, the
waste moors and hills which occupy so large a
part of Northumberland. These moors are
crossed by bridle-paths, it is true, but they are
mere tracks, not to be distinguished from sleeps
except by the people who use them, and
those are few indeed. If you lose the track, even
in broad daylight, you run the risk of deep
quagmires, besides that of wandering about with
nothing to guide the inexperienced eye, and
perhaps perishing miserably among the wild and
awful hills. As for the boy Cuddy, he possessed
a gift which is sometimes granted even to blind

men, of always knowing where he was and of
keeping in the right path. It is with some an
instinct. He was invaluable on these winter
runs, because, however dark the night, whether
the moors were covered with thick fog or impenetrable
blackness, or even if they were three
feet deep in snow, he never failed to find his way
direct to the point whither they desired to go.
In general, however, the wildest road, though the
shortest, was avoided, and the ponies were driven
through the country which lies north, or northeast
of the Cheviotss. But on this occasion, so
great was Mathew's desire to ensure the safety of
a run in which his ponies carried something more
precious even than lace or rum, that he resolved
upon trying the more difficult way across Chill
Moor, south of Cheviot. Even on a summer day
the way across this moor is difficult to find. On
a winter's night it would seem impossible. Yet
Cuddy declared that he could find it blindfold.
They were to cross the Border by way of Wind-gate
Fell and to carry their stuff to the little
village of Yetholm on the Scottish side.

If you draw a straight line on a county map
almost due west from Warkworth, you will find
that it passes near very few villages indeed all the
way to the Scottish Border. The ground begins
to rise a mile or so west of the town, and though
up to the edge of the moors the country is mostly

cultivated, the only villages passed the whole
way for thirty miles, are Edlingham, Whittington,
and Alnham, and it is very easy for safety's sake
to avoid these. First, then, they rode slowly and
in silence for six or seven miles as straight across
the country as hedges and gates would allow.
Presently striking the bed of the Hamlet Burn,
they followed it up, rough as the way was, as far
as the Black Tarn, which lies among the hills
east of Edlingham. Here they turned to the
right, keeping still upon the high ridge, and
crossed Fenwick Moor, whence they presently
descended till they found themselves in the little
valley down which the river Aln flows at this
point. Here the going was as bad as could bethe
ponies feeling their feet at every step, and the
progress slow. Yet they never stopped for an
instant, nor did the boy hesitate. Mathew kept
silence, riding with hanging head, full of gloomy
thoughts.

It was past midnight, and they had been in
the saddle five hours and more, when they reached
the place, close to the village of Alnham, where
they were to leave the guidance of the winding
burn and trust themselves to the knowledge of
the boy upon the pathless moors. Here, under
the shelter of a linnet, Mathew called a halt.
Dan produced a lantern and a tinder-box, and
presently got a light. Then he found some pro-vol.
II.

visions in one of the packs, and they ate and
drank.

You are so far from your friends now,' said
Mathew to his prisoner, ' that you cain talk and
scream and do just exactly what you please,
except run away. Now you guess what I am
going to do. Once over the Scottish Border you
will be my wife by Scottish law, if I call you wife.
So that now, you know, you had better make up
your mind and be cheerful.'

She made no reply.

Well, then, have you got nothing to say ? '

She had nothing.

Sulk, then,' he said roughly. 'Fall a sulking
till you are tired. You may think, if you
please, what your young devil of a sweetheart
will say when he finds the nest empty ! Alive
and prospering, is he ? '

He proceeded to express his earnest hope that
the boy would shortly be beyond the reach of
hope. This done, he informed Nan that the
worst part of her journey had yet to be accomplished,
and that she had better take some meat
and drink, unless she wished to fall off her saddle
with fatigue, in which case Dan would have to
carry her. She accepted without speaking, and,
under cover of her hood, made an excellent
supper, being, in fact, already pretty well exhausted
with fatigue and hunger. When she had

finished, Matliew offered her a bottle which
contained brandy. He was amazed to find when
she returned it to him that she had taken at one
draught about half-a-pint of the spirit, so that he
looked to see her reel and fall ofi" the pony. That
she did not do so he attributed to the effect of
the cold night air and the long ride, being unsuspicious
how strong and seasoned a head was
hidden beneath that hood.

Supper finished, Mathew examined the boy
concerning the road. He would tell nothing at
all about it, yet he said he knew where to find it,
and how to follow it, and, in short, undertook to
guide the party without danger by as short a way
as could be found across the moor. He was
certain that he could do this, but he would not
explain how he knew the way nor in what direction
it wound among the hills. In fact, how was
a boy to describe a road who knew not north
from south, or east from west, nor had any but
the most simple English at his command in which
to speak of valley or hill, ascent or descent ?

The moor over which they crossed that dark
night in as perfect safety as if a broad highway
had been laid down for them, and was lit with oil
lanterns like some of the streets of London, is the
wildest, I suppose, in all England. I have heard
of that great moor which covers half Devonshire,
though I have never been in the south country.



I have read about that other great and wild
moorland which lies round the Peak in Derbyshire.
I have ridden over the broad heath which
stretches from Hexham to Tweeddale, a place as
wild as the people who live upon its borders, yet
have I never seen, nor can I conceive, of any
place or country so wild, so desolate, and so forsaken,
save by hawks, vipers, and other evil
things, as the land which lies by Cheviot, Hedge-hope,
and Windage Fell.

The boy, as before, led the way, walking
without hesitation, though the night was so dark.
What he sav to indicate the road no one can tell.
Nan, for her own part, could see nothing at all
before her for the pitchy darkness of the night
and the continual pattering of the rain.

Here is the very head of the Cheviotss, the
middle of the moors and fells, across which so
many parties of plunderers, cattle-lifters, and
smugglers have made their way. There is not a
valley among these wild hills which has not witnessed
many a gallant fight. There is not a hillside
Which has not run with streams of blood.
There is not a mountain among them all which
has not its ghosts of slain men. The heath and
ling have been trampled under the feet of thousands
of soldiers, for in the old days there was no
peace upon the border, and every man was a
soldier all his life. But, since the invasion of the



Young Pretender, there has been no fighting on
the border. Smugglers have taken the place of
the cattle-lifters, and peaceful ponies laden with
forbidden goods go across the moor in place of
horses ridden by men in iron. For those who
love to be awed by the wildness of Nature, a
place admirable and wonderful, but full of terror
at all times to the heart of sensibility. I do not
say, however, that the moors were terrible to any
of those who crossed them on this cold and dark
night, save for the darkness and the rain, and the
fear that at any moment they might all go head
first into a quag. The boy, to begin with, was
quite insensible to any impressions which can be
produced by natural objects ; rocks, precipices,
wild stretches of land, dark woods — all were alike
to him. As for Dan, I suppose he never thought
of anything at all. Mathew was too full of the
gloomy forebodings which always precede the
punishment of wickedness, .to regard the things
around him, and Nan, as insensible as the boy,
was wishing only that the journey was over, because
she was horribly cold and getting tired.

The boy led them, by that wonderful instinct,
up the slope of the hill to a high level, where the
wind was keener and the rain colder. He kept
as nearly as possible to the same level, leading
them round the middle heights upon the slopes of
the great Fells and above the dales. The direct

distance is not more than eight miles, but by
reason of the winding of the way I suppose they
must have doubled that distance. It was one
o'clock when they left Alnham behind them, and
it was already five before they came down 'the
hill on the north side of Wind-Gate.

Master,' said the boy at last, pointing at
something invisible, ' yonder's Yetholm, and you
are in Scotland.'

Mathew started and sat upright in the saddle,
throwing back his cloak. He was in Scotland.
Why, then, his work was done. He laughed and
laid his hand upon his prisoner's arm.

My wife ! ' he cried. ' Bear witness, Dan ;
my wife, I say.'

'Aye, aye, master. Give ye joy, miss.
Master, another dram to drink the teddy's health.'

Mathew gave him his bottle. Dan took a
deep draught, and then wiping the mouth of the
vessel, handed it to tie lady.

Take a drop,' he said, ' it'll warm your blood
after that long ride.'

Then followed so prolonged a draught of the
brandy, that Dan too, as Mathew had done ^N<d
hours ago, looked to see the girl, unaccustomed
to strong drink, fall from her saddle. But she
did not. And honest Dan marvelled, remembering,
besides, the vigour of her heels and the
unexpected reality of that clout. A wife so

gifted with manly strength of heel and hand, who
could also drink so fair, seemed to this simple
fellow a thing to be envied indeed.

As regards the run, let me say at once, so as
to have done with it, that it was quite successful,
and proved a profitable venture to all concerned,
though Mathew, for his part, never showed any
joy when the work of the night was spoken of.
It was a bold thing to venture across the moors
on so dark a night ; no one in office looked for
such a venture in the little village of Yetholm ;
and the stuff, taken in the farmers' carts to Kelso,
was all sold off at once, therefore Mathew might
have been proud of his exploit. But he was not.
And when the old woman, accompanied by the
boy, came home two days later and brought the
news of what had happened, the success of the
venture lost all its interest in the presence of the
wonderful tale they had to tell.

They rode into Yetholm a good while before
daybreak, and the people of the inn — little more
than a little village ale-house — were still in their
beds. It was now raining again, with a cold wind,
while they waited for the house to be roused and
the fire to be laid. Nan began now, indeed,
though she had borne bravely the rough journey
of the night, to feel the keen morning air and
the fatigue of the loner ride. Her limbs were
numbed, and when, at last, the door was opened

and the fire lit, Dan had to hft her ofF the pony
and to carry her in. They placed her in a chair
before the lire, where she sat huddled up in her
cardinal and hood, refusing to take them off.

When all was safely bestowed, Mathew
thought him of his bride, and came into the
parlour, now bright with a cheerful fire and a
candle. He threw off' hat and cloak with a sisrh

D

of relief.

Come,' he said, ' let us be friends, Drusilla,
since we are married. Yes, child, married. You
would have me no other way. Let us have no-more
sulking.'

She answered nothing.

Well, it matters not.' Here the landlord and
his wife, with Dan and a servant wench, came in
together. ' Something to eat,' Mathew ordered.
Anything that you have. My wife is tired with
her ride over the moors.'

Over the moors .^ ' This was the landlady.
You haven't, surely, brought a teddy over the
moors on sic a night as this ? '

Indeed, but I have,' he replied. ' ComCy
madam.' He seized her by the arm and dragged
her off' the chair — oh, the gentle wooer ! — so that
she stood before him. ' Bear witness, all of you,*
he said, taking her gloved hand. ' This is my
wife, my lawful wife, by Scottish law.'

Now whether such is the Scottish law I know

not at all, but in Northumberland it was always
believed that, across the Border, such a form of
words, before witnesses, constituted the whole of
marriage required by law, although, by way of
adding some grace of ceremony, the pair sometimes
jumped over a broomstick, or wrote their
names in a book, or gave a blacksmith a guinea.

My lawful wife,' Mathew repeated.

The bride, who had been standi ns^ with bent
shoulders and bowed head, straightened herself
and stood upright. Then the witnesses observed
a very curious and remarkable thing. The face
of the bridegroom, which should surely on such
an occasion show a lively sense of happiness ^
expressed first astonishment, then uneasiness, and
fi nay terror.

The cause of these successive emotions was
simple. When Mathew had repeated his form of
words he would have dropped his bride's hand
but she now held his, first with a gentle pressure,
next with a determination, and finally with a vice-like
tenacity which amazed and filled him with
strange fears.

Presently, still holding his hand, she spoke :

I acknowledge Mathew Humble as my true
and lawful husband ! '

The voice was hoarse and rough. Mathew,
with his left hand, tore ofi* the hood. Before him
stood, her mouth opening gradually to make

room for the hoarse laugh which followed, no
other than Sailor Ista herself, in her short petticoats
and her cloth jacket, with a woollen wrapper
tied about her head.

'My husband!' she repeated; 'my loving
husband ! Would ye believe it ' — she addressed
the company generally — ' he's so fond o' me that
he couldn't wait to have the banns put up, but
must needs carry me off? Saw ye ever such a
braw lover ? '

They were all astounded ; and when she
laughed, still holding the astonished bridegroom
by the hand, some of them trembled, because
they knew not whether she was man or woman,
her voice was so rough, her hair was so short, her
jacket was so sailor-like.

Ah, linnets ! ' she laughed again hoarsely,
because the air had touched her throat. ' The
bonny, bonny bride and the happy groom ! Kiss
your wife, my husband dear.'

She threw herself upon his neck, and began
to kiss his lips.

You ? You ? ' He tore away his hand from
her grasp, tried to push her from him with
violence, but she clung fast to him, and retreated
step by step to the corner of the room. 'You? '

Yes, it's me, dearie — it's me. Did ye ever
hear the like ? To fall in love with an old woman
of seventy, like me, and to run away with her ! I

never looked to get another husband. There's
a spirit for you ! There's a bold spirit ! Mathew
dear, when shall we go back ? Oh, the wedding-feast
that we will have ! Well, we women love
a lad of mettle. Is there a boy in Warkworth,
except my man here, who would carry his wife
all the way across the moors when he might have
had me asked in church ? '

Dan, one of those who are naturally slow to
understand things unless they fall out exactly as
is expected, had by this time succeeded in comprehending
the whole. He had, he now perceived,
carried off the wrong woman, which fully
accounted for the vigour of the kicks, the amazing
strength of the clout, and the capacity for strong
drink.

Nan ! ' he cried. ' It's our JN'an ! '

It is, ye lubber,' she replied ; ' and no one
else.'

He then began to laugh too. He laughed so
loud and so loner beings a man who seldom sees a
joke, and then cannot make enough of it, that the
landlord, the landlady, and the servant-girl caught
the infection, and they all laughed too. Mathew
raged and swore. This made Dan laugh the
louder and the longer. Mathew ceased to swear ;
he threw himself into a chair, with his bauds in
his pockets, and sat, cheeks red and eyes Hashing,
until the storm of mirth subsided. Then his

dciiiity and delicate bride banged her great list
upon the table.

No sheering off now,' she cried. ' You're my
man, and a merry and a happy life you shall lead.
Mates and jolly sailors all, this is my third husband.
The first, he was hanged ; the second, he hanged
himself ; better luck to the third. What a wife
he's got ! — what a wife ! Now then, rum for this
honourable company, and a fiddle for the wedding ;
and more rum and tobacco, and more rum. Stir
about, I say.' She produced a bo's'n's whistle,
and blew a long shrill call. ' Stir about, or I'll
rope's-end the whole crew. Eum, I say; more
rum for this honourable company ! '

With these words she sprang into the middle
of the room, and began to dance a hornpipe with
the most surprising skill and agility.

CHAPTER XI.

THE SALE OF THE COTTAGE.

When the old woman came home with the boy,
the story which she had to tell surpassed all her
yarns of salt-sea experience. She told her tale
nightly, in exchange for glasses of strong drink.
And even Cuddy, the boy, was in request, and sold
his information for mugs of beer. The men
laughed at Mathew's discomfiture. To most men,
indeed, the punishment of wickedness is always an
occasion for mirth rather than for solemn reflection.
They laugh at suffering, especially when it is unexpected
; and if their dearest friend experiences
a misfortune when he most expects a stroke of
luck, they laugh. When a vagabond is flogged at
the cart-tail ; when a shrew is ducked ; when a
miserable starving wretch is clapped into stocks or
pillory, they laugh. That is the way of men. But
I have observed that they do not laugh at their
own afflictions. Everybody, therefore, including
Vicar and his Worship, laughed at Mathew's
discomfiture. They went so far as to say that

Mr. Carnaby told the story to my Lord of Northumberland,
who was entertaining my Lord
Bishop of Durham, and that both prelate and peer
laughed until the valets had to unloose their
cravats. Yet I cannot see why one should laugh
because a young man is mated to tin old wife, expecting
to have carried off a young one. To me,
it seems as if we should first condemn the crime
of abduction, and next, bow to the rod.

After the first laughter, which was like an explosion,
or a great thunder-storm, one of those
during which the rain-water rattles and slates fall
off the roof : a universal burst of laughter when
all the men ran together laughing their loudest,
holding each other up, loosing neck ties, pumping
on the apoplectic, and encouraging each other to
fresh hilarity by pointing to Nan the bride : the
question naturally arose if anything should be
done to mark their sense of the attempted crime
by those in authority. A most grievous and intolerable
thing it was, indeed, that a young woman
should be violently kidnapped and carried away
like a sailor by a press-gang ; forced to ride thirty
miles and more on a winter's night, across the cold
and rainy Fells ; married willy nilly in the morning
without church or parson ; and this when she had
not once, but many times, refused so much as to
listen to proposals of marriage from the man. All
were agreed that this was a thing not to be permitted.

Yet, what could be done ? To run away
with a girl of her own free will and accord, and
when she would marry the man but for wickedness
of guardians, is a different thing ; many a maiden
has fled across the Border with her lover, amidst
the sympathy of her friends. But in this case it
was like the carrying. away of the Sabine women,
and no words could be found by the moralist too
strong to condemn the act.

While everybody talked about it, that is to
say, for a whole week, there was so much indignation
that if Mathew had appeared it would have
gone hard with him among the men, to say nothing
of the women, who would think of no punishment
too bad for him. The townsfolk talked of ducking
in the river, of pillory and stocks, and I confess
that the thought of Mathew in the pillory was
not disagreeable to me. Yet, considering the way
of the world, perhaps, if he had been young,
handsome, and of pleasant speech, he might have
been forgiven the attempted abduction, on the plea
of love inordinate. One man, we know, may steal
a horse — but then he must be comely and generous
— while another, if he is churlish and harsh, is
clapped into gaol for looking over a hedge. While,
however, they talked, Mathew kept away, nor did
he return for three or four weeks, leaving his
private affairs neglected ; and no one knew where
he was in hiding;.

We had, however, a visit from Barbara, She
came, she said, not out of any love to me or my
mother, who had used words so injurious as regards
herself, but to express her abhorrence of the crime
which lier unhappy brother had attempted, and
her thankfulness that this madness of his was defeated.
She said that she knew nothing whatever
of him; where he was or what he was doing; but
she hoped that when he returned he would be ina
better frame of mind, and feel the remorse
which ought to follow such an action. As for the
pretended marriage with the old woman, she said
that was a thing not to be considered seriously.
My mother received her excuses coldly, and she
presently went away, after another attempt to discover
whether I knew anything fresh about ' the
boy.' She desired to know, she said, not out of
curiosity, because she was not a curious person, as
everybody knew, but because she feared that I
might, by representing the late affair in its worst
light, bring about a hostile feeling and even a
conflict between her brother and the boy, which
could not fail of being disastrous to the latter.
My mother reassured her on this point, because,
she said. Ma the w was already well acquainted
with Ralph's cane, and, having shown so much
bravery in the late affair, which took two men to
carry off one woman, would now most certainly
have the courage to turn a submissive back to the

chastiser when lie should appear. Barbara thereupon
went away. Though I loved her not. I could
not but feel pity for a woman who had done and
suffered so much on behalf of this thankless brother.
She was grown much older to look at
during the last year or two ; her face was pinched,
and wrinkles had multiplied round her eyes with
her constant cares. This is an age when gentlemen
of exalted rank think it no sin to be put to
bed helpless after a debauch of wine or punch ; I
hope that more sober customs may shortly prevail ;
else, one knows not what will become of us all.
Yet, though drunkenness is in fashion, I think
nothing can be more miserable for a woman than
to sit, as Barbara sat daily, knowing that the only
man in the world she cares for is slowly getting
drunk by himself in another room, which is what
Mathew did.- As to the idle talk about the other
will and the rightful heir, I know not what she
believed in her heart, or how far she joined in the
wicked designs of her brother, which were about
to be frustrated.

Then Mr. Carnaby, accompanied by his lady
and by the Vicar, came in person to express his
horror of the crime, and his satisfaction that it was
providentially prevented.

We have discussed,' said his Worship, ' the
action which we should take in the matter. At
present all we have to go upon is the evidence of

VOL. II. p

Iran, who is, she says, Mathew's wife, so that if
such be veritably the case she cannot give evidence
in the matter at all, and that of the boy Cuddy, an
ignorant, half wild lad, who knows not the nature
of an oath. Abduction is a great crime ; but then
Mathew, whatever were his intentions, my child,
did actually only run away with an old woman,
sand she makes no complaint, but rather rejoices,
^vhile he is rendered ridiculous. To kidnap a
young girl is a hanging matter; but then, my dear,
you were not kidnapped. In short, we feel that
to bring Mathew to justice would be difficult and
perhaps impossible.'

To be sure, one would not wish to hang any
man for the worst of crimes, and we had no desire
to bring Mathew before any court of law or justice,
being quite contented that the offender should feel
certain of sharp and speedy justice if he made
another such attempt.

Can we not see him, at least,' asked my
mother, ' placed in pillory ? '

'I would place him in pillory,' his Worship
went on, ' if the old woman who now calls herself
his wife — Heaven knows with what right — would
lodge a complaint. But she will not. He deserves
pillory at the least. And as for rotten eggs,
I would myself bring even a basket of new-laid
eggs, so that he should want for nothing. And I
would condescend to throw them. But she will

not complain. She even laughs and boasts that
she has gotten a young husband. And then, which
is a difficult point in this doubtful case ' — this Worship
blushed and looked confused, while the Vicar
hemmed and Mistress Carnaby coughed — ' he was
running a venture across the Border, and no one
knows — I say that no one can tell — who may be
compromised in this affair as to what he took
across or what he brought back, for though
Mathew hath great faults, there is no one more
skilled — more skilled, I say.'

No one,' said the Vicar, which completed the
sentence for his Worship.

Wherefore, my dear girl,' continued his Worship,
' I propose, waiting until the man returns,
when I will reprimand him with such severity as
will serve to deter him — and any others of a like
mind With himself — from a renewal of his wickedness.'


Mathew did come' back, three weeks later ; but,
although his Worship sent the Fugleman, carrying
his pike, to the mill with a command that
Mathew should instantly repair to him for admonition,
and although the Vicar also repaired to Mr.
Carnaby's house in his best gown in order to receive
the offender, and to give greater authority to the
discipline, Mathew came not. He positively and
discourteously refused to obey.

There, it would seem, was a direct breaking

of the law, or, at least, contempt for authority,
upon which imprisonment, I dare say, might have
followed. But whether from leniency, or on
account of that difficulty connected with the late
venture, his Worship refrained from severity, and
ordered instead that Mathew, for violence and
contumacy, should do penance in the church.
Here, indeed, was righteous retribution ! He
would stand, I thought, in the very place where
he had caused Ralph to stand nine years before ;
he would be made to rise up before all the people,
and, in a loud voice, to ask their pardon, and to
recite the Lord's prayer. I hope I am not a
vindictive woman, yet I confess that I rejoiced on
learning from the Fugleman that this punishment
had been meted out to the evil-doer. We both
rejoiced, and Ave congratulated each other, because
we thought that Ralph would also rejoice.
Little did we know of that great and lofty mind,
when we foolishly imagined that he would ever
rejoice over the fall of his enemy.

There was great excitement in the town when
it became publicly known by means of the barber
who had it direct from his Worship, that this
godly discipline was to be enforced on the person
of Mathew Humble — a substantial man, a statesman,
a miller, a man supposed (but erroneously)
to be wealthy, and a man already thirty-four
years of age or thereabouts. Why, for a schoolboy,

or a lad of sixteen, or a plain rustic to stand
up in this white sheet was joy enough, but for
such a slow of such a man, this, if you please,
was rapture indeed for the simple people. I
confess that I for one looked forward with pleasure
to the spectacle.

Alas ! dio would believe that man could be
found so daring? Mathew refused contumaciously
to perform the penance ! This was a
great blow and heavy disappointment to all of
us ; and we looked to see the Vicar excommunicate
him. But he did not, saying that disobedience
to the Church brought of itself excommunication
without need of any form of words. Let
Mathew look to his own soul. And as there
seemed no means of enforcing the punishment
if the offender refused to undergo it, there was
nothing more to be said.

The behaviour of Nan at this time was
worthy of admiration. On Mathew's return, but
not until then, she walked to the mill and informed
Barbara that, as her brother's wife, she
was herself the mistress, but that, being accustomed
to her own cottage, she should not for the present
molest her in her occupation.

Then she sought her husband.

It was really terrible to mai^k how the ravages
of drink and disappointment together had
made havoc with the appearance of this unfortunate

man. Unfortunate, I call him, though
his punishment was but the just reward of his
iniquities. The failure of his plot ; the consciousness
of the ridicule which overwhelmed him ; his
shame and discomfiture ; the thought of the old
woman whom he had called his wife ; the messages
which he had received from his Worship and
the Vicar — his disobedience being connected in
some way with partnership in the recent venture;
a dreadful vague looking forward to the future
and the constant terror lest Ralph should return,
filled his mind with agitation, and gave him no
peace night or day. He neglected the work of
mill and farm ; he would take no meals save by
himself, and he drank continually.

He looked up from his half-drunken torpor
when Nan came in.

I expected you before,' he said. ' What are
you going to do ? '

She poured out a dram and tossed it off.

I came to see my bonny husband,' she said,
before I am a widow once more. Eh, man, it's
an unlucky wife ye have gotten.'

Wife ! ' he repeated ; ' wife ! Yes, I supposed
you would pretend '

Hark ye, brother,' cried Nan, bringing down
her cudgel on the table with an emphasis which
reminded Mathew uneasily of the second husband's
lot ; ' hark ye ! Sail on another tack, or

you'll have a broadside that'll rake you fore an
aft from stem to stern. Wife I am ; husband you
are ; wherefore all that is yours is mine.' She
hitched a rope into the handle of the stone jar
containing the brandy and jerked it over her
shoulder. ' The mill is mine, so long as it is
yours, which won't be long, shipment. Last night
I read your fortune, my lad. By all I can discover,
you and me shall part company before
long. But whether you will hang yourself, like
my second man, or be hanged, like my first ; or
whether you will be knocked o' the head — which
is too good for such as you ; or whether you will
die by reason of takin' too much rum aboard,
which is fatal to many an honest Jack ; or
whether you will die by hand of doctors, whereby
the land lubbers do perish by multitudes — I
know not. Short will be our company ; so, as
long as we sail together, let us share and share
alike, and be merry and drink about. Money —
now, I want money.'

He refused absolutely to let her have any
money. Without any more words, this terrible
woman prepared for action. That is to say, she
took off her rough sailor's jacket, rolled up her
sleeves, and seized the cudgel with a gesture and
look so menacing; that Mathew hauled down his
colours.

How much do you want ? ' he asked. ^ '

Short will be the voyage,' she said. ' Give
me ten guineas. Yes, I will take ten guineas to
begin with. But don't think it's pay-day. I'm

not paid off', nor shall be so long as Pity

'tis that I can't read those cards plainer. Well,
my dearie, I'm going. If I think I should like
the mill better than my own cottage, I'll come
and stay here. You shall see, off* and on, plenty
of your wife. Ho ! ho ! The bonny bride ! and
the happy groom ! '

She left him for that time. But she went
often, during the brief space which remained of
Mathew's reign at the mill. Each time she came
she demanded money, and rum or usquebaugh ;
each time she threatened to live with her husband
; each time she terrified Barbara with the
prospect of staying there. And the man sat
still in his room, brooding over the past, and
thinking, not of repentance, but of more wickedness.


One day, he rode away without telling his
sister whither he was going or what he designed.
He did not return that night, but two days later
he rode into the town, accompanied by a grave
and elderly gentleman, and after leaving the
horses at the inn, he walked to our cottage. I
saw them at the garden-gate, and my heart felt
like lead, because I saw very clearly what was
going to happen.

In fine, I felt certain that the money would
be demanded and our house sold. Mathew,
goaded by his sister, who clamoured without
ceasing for the money supposed to have been lent
to us, and unable any longer to endure his suspense
and anxiety regarding their cousin, resolved
to bring matters to an issue. Fortunate indeed
was it for us he had delayed so long.

They came in, therefore, and the grave old
gentleman opened the business. He said that he
was an attorney from Morpeth ; that the mortgage,
of which mention had already been made
to Mistress Hetherington, had been drawn up by
him at the request of Mr. Mathew Humble ; that
he had witnessed the signature of my father, and
that the business, in short, was regularly conducted
in accordance with the custom and the
requirements of the law.

I asked him if he had seen the money paid to
my father. He replied that he had uQt, but that
it was unnecessary. I informed him thereupon
that the money never had been paid at all, but
that my father, a demented person, as was very
well known, yet not so dangerous or so mad that
he must be locked up, was persuaded by Mathew
that he was signing an imaginary deed of gift
conveying lands which existed only in his own
mind, because he had no land.

The lawyer made no reply to this at all.

Now, mistress,' said Matliew roughly, ' is the
time to show the proofs you talked about

My proofs, sir,' I addressed the lawyer, ' are
first, that my father believes himself prodigiously
rich, and would scorn to borrow money of such
as Mathew Humble ; next, that he perfectly
well remembers signing this document, which
he thought a deed of gift ; thirdly, that we
know positively that he has had no money at all
in his possession ; fourthly, that he denies with
indignation having borrowed money ; fifthly, that
Mathew, like everybody else, knew of his delusions,
and would certainly never have lent the
money ; sixthly, that two hundred pounds is a
vast sum, and could not have been received and
spent without our knowledge. Lastly, that
Mathew was known to be a base and wicked
wretch who even tried to kidnap and carry off a
girl whom he wished to marry.'

Every one of these proofs,' said my mother,
'is by itself enough for any reasonable person.'

The lawyer replied very earnestly that he had
nothing to do with proving the debt ; that he
came to carry out the instructions of his client,
and to give us a week's notice — which was an act
of mercy, because no clause of notice had been
inserted in the mortgage ; that the house would
be sold unless the money lent was paid ; that it
was not his duty nor his business to advise us,

but his own client ; that the law of England
provides a remedy for everything by the help of
attorneys, and that, by the blessing of Heaven,
attorneys abound, and may be obtained in any
town. Finally, he exceeded his duty by his
client in counselling us to put our affairs in the
hands of some skilled and properly qualified
adviser.

This said, he bowed low and went away, followed
by Mathew.

But Mathew returned half an hour later and
found me alone.

You told me,' he said, ' six months ago and
more, that should I attempt any harm to you and
yours, you would write to the boy. I waited.
If your story was true, you would have written
to him at once, out of fear. But your story was
not true. Ah, women are all liars. I ought to
have known that. Barbara says so, and she
ought to know.' ^ .

Go on, Mathew,' I said.

I waited. If your story had been true, the
boy would have hastened home. Well, I thought
I would give you another chance. I would carry
you ofi'. That would make him wince, if he was
living. Yet he has not come.'

Did one ever hear the like? Bring his
own terrors to an end, or to an issue, he would
have made me his unwilling: and wretched wife.

Now I've found you out. Wliy didn't I
think of it before ? I asked the post-boy. Never
a letter, he truly swears, has been delivered to
you — never a one. So it is all a lie from the beginning.
Very good then. Marry me, or sold up
you shall be, and into the cold streets shall you go.'

I bade him begone, and he went, terrified,
perhaps, at the fury with which I spoke. Of
this I forbear to say more.

When we sought the advice of Mr. Carnaby,
we found that he entertained an opinion about
law and justice which seemed to differ from that
of the Morpeth lawyer.

Your proofs,' he said, ' though to me they
are clear and sufficient to show that Mathew is a
surprising rogue, would go for nothing before a
court. And I doubt much whether any attorney
would be found to undertake, without guarantee
of costs, so great a business as a civil action.
Justice, my child, in this country, as well as all
other countries, may hardly be obtained by any
but the rich, and only by them at the cost of
vexatious delays, cheats, impositions, evasions,
and the outlay of great sums upon a rascally
attorney. Beware of the craft. Let the man do
his worst, you still have friends, my dear.'

So spoke this kind and benevolent man. I
am sure that his deeds would have proved as
good as this words had they been called for.

We told no one in the town, otherwise I am
sure there would have been a great storm of
indignation against Mathew, and perhaps we did
wrong to keep the thing a secret. But my
mother was a Londoner, and did not like to have
her affairs made j more than could be helped the
subject of scandal and village gossip.

It was now already the middle of December ;
we should therefore be turned out into the street
in winter. As for our slender stock of money
that was reduced to a few guineas. Yet was I
not greatly cast down, because, whatever else
might happen, the time was come when I might
expect an answer. In eighteen months, or even
less, a ship might sail to India and return to port.

Ralph's letter would set all right. I know
not, now, what I expected ; I lived in a kind of
Fool's Paradise. Ralph was my hope, my anchor.
I looked not for money but for protection ; he
would be a shield. When the Fugleman came to
the cottage we would fall to congratulating ourselves
upon the flight of time which brought my
letter the nearer. He even made notches on a
long pole for the days which might yet remain.
Yet, oh, what a slender reed was this on which I
leaned ! For my letter to him might have miscarried.
Who is to ensure the safety of a letter
for so many thousand miles ? Or his reply might
be lost on board the ship A letter is a small

thing and easily lost. Or he might be up the
country with some native prince ; or he might be
fighting ; or he might be too much occupied to
write. A slender reed of hope indeed. Yet I
had faith. Call it not a Fool's Paradise ; 'twas
the Paradise of Love.

Then came the day, the last day, when the
money must be paid or we lose our house. That
day I can never forget. It was the twenty-third
of December. The mummers, I know,
were getting ready for the next evening. In the
night we were awakened by the waits singing
before our house :

God rest you merry, gentlemen,
Let nothing you dismay

and I, who ought to have taken the words for an
exhortation to hft my heart to Heaven, lifted it
only as high as — my lover. To be sure, he was
always a good deal nearer Heaven than his unworthy
sweetheart.

In the night there was snow, and when the
sun rose the garden was beautiful, and the leafless
trees had every little twig painted white ; a clear
bright day, such as seldom comes to this county
of rain and wind in the month of December. If
one has to be thrust into the street, one would
wish for a day of sunshine. Is it not a monstrous
thing that this injustice should be possible? Will
there ever come a time when justice and equity

will be administered, like fresh air and spring
water, for nothing ?

So certain was Matliew of this prey that he
sent the crier round at nine in the morning to
announce the sale for noon. And directly after
eleven he came himself with the attorney ; and a
man to conduct the auction or sale of the house.
We put together, in order to carry with us, our
wearing apparel. Mathew was for preventing us
from taking anything — even, I believe, the
clothes we stood in — out of the house. Even
the Family Bible must stay, and the very account-books
; but he was rebuked by his lawyer, who
informed him that the mortgage included only
the tenement or buiklins^, but not its contents.
We should keep our beds, then. But where to
bestow them ? Whither to go ? My heart began
to sink. I could have sat down and cried, had
that been of any avail, and if my mother had not
set a better example and kept so brave a face.

The daughter of a substantial London
merchant, my dear,' she said, ' must not show
signs of distress before such cattle ' — she meant
the attorney and his honest client. ' Get your
things together, and wee will see where we can
find a shelter. My poor old man shall not feel
the pinch of cold and hunger, though we work
our fingers to the bone.' Her lip trembled as she
spoke.

Meantime my father was giving a hearty
welcome to the astonished attorney, whom he
considered as a visitor.

In this poor house, sir,' he said with a lofty
air, ' though we have the conveniences which
wealth can bestow, we have not the splendour.
I trust, sir, that you may give me the pleasure of
a visit at my town house, where, I believe, her
ladyship will show you rooms worthy of any
nobleman's house, not to speak of a plain City
Knight, like your humble servant.'

The attorney regarded him with wonder, but
answered not. I believe he understood by this
one speech how impossible it was that this poor
man could have borrowed his client's money.

At stroke of noon the sale was to commence.
But as yet there were no buyers. No one was
there to bid except Mathew himself, who was
impatient to begin.

It wanted five minutes of noon when Mr.
Carnaby appeared, bearing his gold-headed stick,
and preceded by the Fugleman with his pike, to
show that the visit was official. He was followed
by a dozen or so of the townsmen, now aware
that something out of the common was about to
happen.

ego on with the sale,' cried Mathew impatiently
; ' it is twelve o'clock.'

Stop ! ' said his Worship. ' Sir,' he addressed

the lawyer, 'you will first satisfy me by what
right you enter a private house, and next by
what authority you are selling it,'

The attorney replied with submission and
outward slow of respect that he was within his
powers, in proof of which he exhibited papers
the nature of which I know not, concluding with
a hope that his honour was satisfied.

Why, sir,' said Mr. Carnaby,' ' so far as you
are concerned, I may be. I am also satisfied
that this business is the conspiracy of a villain
against the peace and happiness of an innocent
girl.'

With respect, sir,' said the lawyer, ' the
words conspiracy and villain are libellous.'

I name no names,' but he looked at Mathew,
who shifted his feet and endeavoured to seem
unconscious. ' I name no names,' he repeated,
shaking his forefinger in Mathew's face, ' yet
villain is the man dio would ruin a helpless
family because a virtuous woman refuses to marry
him. Villain, I say ! ' •

He banged the floor with his great stick, so
that everybody in the room trembled.

I do not think, sir,' said Mathew, ' that your
office entitles you to offer impediment to a just
and lawful sale.'

Prate not to me. Master Kidnapper.'

If,' continued Mathew, ' Mr. Hetherington

VOL. II. Q

disputes my claim, here is my lawyer, who will
receive his notice of action. Eor myself, I want
my own and nothing more. Give me justice.'

I would to Heaven, sir, I could,' said his
Worship. ' Go on with your iniquitous sale.'

It appeared at first as if no one would bid at
all for the cottage, though by this time the room
was full. Then Mathew offered fifty pounds.
Mr. Carnaby bid fifty-five pounds. Mathew advanced
five pounds. Mr. Carnaby bid sixty-five
pounds.

Mr. Carnaby was not rich ; yet he had formed
the benevolent design of buying the house, so
that we might not be turned out, even if the rent
would be uncertain. Mathew wanted not only
the amount of the (pretended) mortgage, but also
the pleasure of turning us out. Ah ! where was
Ralph now ? Where was ' the boy ' to whom I
was going to write for protection if he dared to
move ?

One hundred and ninety ! ' said Mathew.

One hundred and ' ninety-five ! ' said his
Worship.

Two hundred ! ' said Matthew.

Mr. Carnaby hesitated. He doubted whether
the cottage of six rooms and the two acres of
ground in which it stood were worth more. The
hammer went up. He thought of us and our
helpless situation.

Two liiinclrecl and five I ' lie said.
Two hundred and ten ! ' said Matliew.
Again Mr. Carnaby hesitated ; again he saw
the hammer in the air ; again he advanced.

Two hundred and ninety-five ! ' said his
Worship, mopping his face.

Three hundred ! ' said Mathew.

Any advance upon three hundred ? ' asked
the auctioneer.

Mr. Carnaby shook his head.

Villains all,' he said, ' I can afford no more.
I cannot afford so much. Poor Drusilla ! Thou
must ^o after all.'

Going; ! g;oin<2: ! ' cried the man, looking

COD ' O

round.

Five Hundred ! '

Mathew sprang to his feet with a cry as of
sudden pain, for he knew the voice. More than
that, in the doorway he saw the man.

He reeled and would have fallen but that
someone held him ; his cheeks were white, his
eyes were staring. The blow he had so long
dreaded had fallen at last. His enemy wis upon
him.

The figure in the doorway was that of a
gentleman, tall and stately, still in the bloom and
vigour of early manhood, gallantly dressed in
scarlet with gold-laced hat, laced ruffles, diamond

Q 2

buckles, and his sword in a crimson sash. Alas \
for Mathew. The girl had told no lie.

The Fugleman, being on duty, contemplated
things without emotion, even so surprising a
thing as the return of the wanderer. But he
saluted his superior officer, and then, grounding
his pike, looked straight before him.

This was the answer — this was the reply to
my letter. Every woman in love is a prophet.
I knew, being in love, that my sweetheart would
make all well ; I knew not how ; he would bring
peace and protection with him, for those I loved
as well as for myself.

Great and marvellous are the ways of Providence.
I knew not, nor could I so much as
hope that the answer would be such as it was —
nothing short of my lover's return, to go abroad
no more.

CHAPTER XII.

GOD Rest YOU MERRY, GENTLEMEN.'

What remains to be told ?

Ealpli was home again. What more could I
have prayed for?

While these things went on we were sitting in
the kitchen. In my mother's eyes I seemed to
read a reproach which was not there, I believe,
but in my own heart. I had prophesied smooth
things, and promised help from some mysterious
quarter which had not come.

There are five guineas left,' said my mother.
When these are gone, what shall we do ? '

I tried to comfort her, but, alas ! I could find
no words. Oh, how helpless are women, since
they cannot even earn bread enough to live upon.
When the bread-winner can work no longer,
hapless is our lot. What were we to do when
these five guineas were gone? For, if I could
find work to keep my fingers going from morn
till night, I could not make enough to keep
even myself, without counting my father and my

mother. What should we do when this money
was gone ? We must hive upon charity, or we
must go upon the parish. At the moment of
greatest need my faith failed me. I thought no
more of the letter I was to receive ; I ceased to
hope ; my Paradise disappeared. I was nothing
in the world but a helpless woman, a beggar, the
daughter of poor, old, broken-down people, whose
father was little better than a helpless lunatic.

We heard from the parlour, where they were
holding the auction, a murmur of voices, some
high and some low. Suddenly there was a
change ; from a murmur of words there arose a
roar of words — a tumult of words. Strange and
wonderful! I should have recognised the voice
which most I loved. But I took little heed. The
misery of the moment was very great.

So ' — now, indeed, I heard the voice of his
Worship, which was a full, deep, and sonorous
voice — ' so may all traitors and villains be confounded
! Kidnapper, where are now thy wiles ? '

I heard afterwards how Mathew would have
slunk away, but they told him (it was not true)
that his wife was without brandishing her cudgel.
So he stayed, while his attorney, ignorant of what
all this meant, congratulated his client upon the
sale of the cottage. Five hundred pounds, he
said, would not only suffice to pay his own bill
of costs, which now, with expenses of travelling

and loss of time, amounted to a considerable sum,
but would also repay Mathew's mortgage of two
hundred pounds in full, and still leave a small
sum for the unfortunate gentleman they had sold
up. Mathew made no reply. He looked fearfully
into his cousin's face ; it was stern and cold.
There was no hope to be gleaned from that face,
but the certainty of scrutiny and condemnation.
What had he done to merit leniency ? Conscience
or remorse — told him that he had tried to
kidnap this cousin's sweetheart ; to drag her down
to destitution ; while, as regards his own trust
and guardianship, none knew better than himself
the state in which his accounts would be
found.

The words of Mr. Carnaby reached every ear.
But yet I heard them not, as I sat looking before
me in mere despair. For I knew not what to
hope for, what to advise, or what to do.

Then the door was thrown open, and there
was a trampling of feet which I regarded not at
all, or as only part of this misery. The feet, I
supposed, belonged to the man who was coming
to turn us out. I buried my face in my hands
and burst into violent weeping.

Is this some fresh misfortune ? ' It was my
mother who sprang to her feet and spoke. ' Are
you come, sir, to say that we owe another two
hundred pounds? What would you have with

US on such a day? We have nothing for you,
sir, nothing at all, whoever you are ; we are
stripped naked.'

Madam,' this was his Worship's voice, ' you
know not who this gentleman is. Look not for
more misfortunes, but for joy and happiness.'

Joy and happiness! What joy? What happiness
? I began to prick up my ears, but without
much hope and with no faith.

My lord ' — this time it was my father, who
saw before him a splendid stranger, and concluded
in his madness that it was some great
nobleman come to visit him. ' My lord, I thank
you for the honour of this visit. My lady will
call the men and maids. I fear you are fatigued
with travel. You shall take, my lord, a single
bowl of turtle soup, as a snack, or stay-stomach,
the finest ever made even for the Lord Mayor,
with a glass or two of Imperial Tokay, the rarest
in any cellar, before your dinner. Not a word,
my lord, not a word, till you are refreshed ; nota
word, 1 insist.'

'At these utterances I raised my head, but
before I had time to look around me, a hand was
laid upon my shoulder, while a voice whispered
in my ear, ' Drusy ! '

Oh, we foolish women ! For dien the thing
we most long for is vouchsafed, instead of prayers

and praise upon bended knee, we fall to crying
and to laughing, both together.

Why, when I recovered a little, they were all
concerning themselves about me, when they ought
to have been doing honour to Ralph. The Fugleman
had a glass of cold water in his hand ; my
mother was bathing my palms ; Sailor Nan was
burning a feather ; my sweetheart was holding my
head ; and my father was assuring his Worship
that nothing less than the King's own physician
should attend his daughter, unless she presently
recovered. He also whispered with much gravity
that he had long since designed his Drusilla for
his lordship, just arrived, who, though of reduced
fortunes, was a nobleman of excellent qualities,
and would make her happy.

We heard, later, that Ralph brought with him
an attorney from Newcastle, a gentleman very
learned in the law, and the terror of all the
rogues on the banks of the Tyne. With this
gentleman and a clerk, beside his own servants,
he rode first to the mill.

He found Barbara engaged in her usual work
of knitting, with the Bible before her open at
some chapter of prophetic woe. No change in
her, except that she looked thinner, and the
crow's-feet lay about her eyes. She recognised
him, but showed no emotion.

You are come horne again,' she said. ' I

have expected this. Mathew said the girl lied,
but he was afraid, and I knew she did not. Girls
do not lie about such things. You come at a fine
time, when your sweetheart is begging her bread.'

'What?' asked Ralph.

I said she was begging her bread. She
said you were prosperous. If fine clothes mean
aught you may be. Lord grant they were
honestly come by.'

'I will now, Colonel Embleton,' said the
attorney, ' place my clerk in possession and seal
everything.'

Where is Mathew ? ' asked Ralph.

He is in the town. You will find him selling
their cottage — Drusilla's cottage. By this time
your dainty girl will be in the road, bag and
baggage.'

What P '

'Pride is humbled. The girl has begun to
repent of her stubbornness. Of course so fine a
gentleman as you would scorn a beggar wench.'

With such words did this foolish and spiteful
woman inflame the heart of a man whom she
should have conciliated with words of welcome.

He left her and rode into the town with such
speed as the snow, now two feet deep, would
allow.

An hour later, Mathew, pale and trembling,
rushed breathless into the mill.

Has he been here ? '

Barbara nodded.

Mathew went hastily to his room. Here he
found the attorney with his clerk.

These are my papers,' he cried, now in desperation.
' Everything is mine. The house is
mine, the mill is mine, the farm is mine.'

Gently, gently said the lawyer. ' Let us
hear.'

Mathew played his last card.

A second will was found,' he said ; 'it is in
the desk.'

We will wait,' said the lawyer, ' until the return
of Colonel Embleton.'

When Ralph came back, accompanied by Mr.
Carnaby, he found Mathew waiting for him.

Now,' said the lawyer, ' let us see this second
will.'

He opened the desk and drew forth the paper
which Mathew pointed out. When he had unfolded
and looked at it for a moment, he looked
curiously at Mathew.

This,' he said, ' is your second will ? '

It is,' Mathew replied. ' Found five years
ago, and '

Quite enough,' said the lawyer. ' Friend,' he
had by this time compared the signature with that
of the first will, ' I make no charge, I only inform
you as a fact, that this document is valueless, as

bearing neither date nor witnesses, and if it did, it
would still be valueless, because the signature is a
forgery, plain and palpable. It will hang someone
if it is put forward.'

Mathew dropped his hands by his side. This
was the fruit of his labours. He had forged the
will ; he had made it of no use by neglecting the
witnesses ; he had forged it so clumsily that he
was at once detected.

Any well-wisher of yours, sir,' said the lawyer,
•^ would recommend you to put that paper; in the
fire.'

Mathew did so without a word.

Sir,' said the lawyer, ' you have saved your
neck. Have you any more to say about the
will?'

He had no more to say. The plots and designs
of nine years came to this lame and impotent
conclusion.

Then, Mr. Humble,' the attorney continued,
^ I have nothing more to say than this : Colonel
Embleton expects an accurate statement of
accounts and payment to him of all sums due to
him without delay.'

Mathew made no reply ; he was defeated.
He left the room, and presently, one of them looking
through the open door, saw him leave the
house with his sister.

Ralph spoke not one single word to him, good

In the morning Sailor Nan came to draw her
pay. She heard that her husband had deserted
her. She lamented the fact, because she had
intended to be kept in pork, rum, and tobacco so
long as he was alive. But she was easily consoled
with a jorum of steaming punch.

Thus vanished from amongst us one who had
wrought so much evil, for which I hope that we
have long since entirely forgiven him (but he was
a desperate villain), and we never knew what
became of him.

It was ten years later that Barbara came back
alone.

We found her in the porch one summer evening.
She was worn and thin, and dressed ia
dreadful rags.

Oh,' I cried, moved to pity by her misery,
come in and eat, and let me find some better
clothes for you.'

She refused, but she took a cup of milk.

I want to see the boy,' she replied in her old
manner of speech.

When Ralph came home she said what she
had to say.

Mathew ought to have had the mill. If it
had been his, he would not have taken to drink

and evil courses. You were an interloper, and we
both hated the sight of you. When you went
away, I used to pray that you might never come
back. The waiting for you and the fear of you
made him wicked. That is all I have to say.'

Where is Mathew ? '

Dead. Ask me no more about him. He is
dead.'

Kalph led her, unresisting, into the house.

Wife,' he said to me, ' you have heard Barbara's
confession. I, too, have had hard thoughts
about her. Let us forgive, as we hope for forgiveness.'


She stayed with us that night — an unwilling
and ungracious guest — and the next day Ralph
placed her in a cottage, and gave her an allowance
of money, which she took without thanks.
Perhaps her heart grew less bitter as years fell
upon her ; but I know not, for she died and made

On that year Christmas Day fell on a Thursday.
Now, Ralph, who, though a grave man and
the colonel of his regiment, showed more than the
customary impatience of lovers, would be content
with nothing short of being married on the very
next day after his return. It is almost incredible
that he should have had the forethought to bring
with him a special license, so tha'we were not

obliged to have the banns read out. Could. I refuse
him anything ? Therefore, on the Wednesday
morning, the very next day after he came
back, we were married in presence of all the
town, I believe, man, woman, and child, while the
bells rang out, and our joyful hearts were warm,
despite the cold without. I was so poor in worldly
goods that I must have gone to the sacred ceremony
with nothing better than my plain stuff frock, but
for the benevolence of good Mrs. Carnaby, who lent
me a most beautiful brocaded silk gown, which,
with all kinds of foreign gauds, such as necklaces,
bracelets, and jewels for the hair, which my lover
nay, my bridegroom — bestowed upon me, made
me so fine that his Worship was so good as to say
that never a more beautiful bride had been married,
or would hereafter be married, in Wark worth
Church.

Thus do fine feathers make fine birds. When
the next bride is married in brocaded silk, with a
hoop, her hair done by the barber, and her homely
person decorated with jewels, people will be found
to say the same thing. Yet, since my husband,
who is the only" person I must consider, was so
good as to find his wife beautiful, should I not
rejoice and be thankful for this strange power of
one's outward figure — women cannot understand
it — which bewitches men and robs them of their
natural sense until they become used to it.

After the wedding we Aveiit home to the mill,
where my husband spread a great feast. In the
evening came the mummers with Sailor Nan, who
drank freely of punch, and wished us joy in language
more nautical than polite. His Worship slept at
the mill because he was overcome with the abundance
and strength of the punch. Even the Fugleman,
for the first time in man's memory, had to be
carried to bed, preserving his stiffness of back even
in the sleep of intoxication. And the next day we
had another royal feast, to which all were invited
who had known my dear husband in his youth.
But to me it was a continual feast to be in the
presence of my dear, to have my hand in his and
to rejoice in the warmth of his steadfast eyes.

We are all, I hope, Christian folk, wherefore
no one will be surprised to hear that on the morning
of the day after the marriage, which was
Christmas Day, after the singing of the hymn,
When shepherds watch their flocks by night,' my
husband, giving me his hand, led me forth before
all the people, and in their presence thanked God
solemnly for his safe return, and for other blessings
(I knew full well what these meant). Then the
Fuo-leman leading, his pike held at salute, he recited
the Lord's Prayer. Thus in seemly and solemn
fashion was the long sorrow of nine years turned
into a joy which will endure, I doubt not, beyond
this earthly pilgrimage.

TOL. 11.

CHAPTEE I.
A new-year's dawn.

New Year's Day, in Palmiste Island, is very
nearly the longest in the whole year ; it is also
about the hottest, if one may say as much without
giving offence to other days. It is on this
account that the sun on this day, having so much
work to do, gets up as early as six o'clock in the
morning, an hour before his July time, after
announcing his intention by sending up preliminary
fireworks in red and crimson. When the
cocks see these rockets in the east they leave off
crowing and go to roost. If you ask naturalists
why the cocks crow ail night in Palmiste, they
generally say that it is because the island lies
south of the Equator. Those who are not satisfied
with this explanation are further told that it
is by the laws of development and the natural
growth of ideas that the Gallic mind has been

B 2

brought to prefer coolness for times of crowing.
The reasons of things offered by science are, we
know, beautifully satisfying, and always make us
feel as if we could almost create a world for ourselves
if we only had a good big lump of clay
and a box of stored electricity and a bucket of
water and a pint of compressed air. When the
cocks have left* off, the white man's dogs, and the
Malabar dogs and the Pariah dogs immediately
take up the tuneful tale, so that silence shall
never be a reproach to the island. The journey
performed by the chariot of his Majesty the Sun
on that day, a most fatiguing one to his horses, involves
a tremendous climb at the start and a
breathless descent at the finish ; and is, in fact,
nothing: less than a vertical semi-circular arc in
the heavens. The nature of the curve may be
illustrated for unscientific persons by any young
lady who will kindly raise her arms above the
head, and join the tips of her fingers. At stroke
of noon, on that day every man Jack and
mother's son in the place becomes another Peter
Scheming, inasmuch as he has no shadow. Strangers,
at such a time, creep round houses and
great buildings and precipices looking for the
usual shade. They go to the north side, the
south, the east, and the west, and find none.
Then they think their wits must be gone for good,
and sit them down to cry. The woolly-pated

sons of Africa, for their part, rejoice in perpendicular
rays ; they have tal^en the roof off their
straw hats the better to enjoy them ; they sit in
the open, courting their genial warmth ; they acknowledge
with a grateful sigh that, after all,
there is a little heat sometimes to be o't in a
generally cold and cheerless world. It is not till
after seven in the evening that the sun has finished
the journey and is ready to plunge red-hot into
the cool waves. For five minutes or so after his
header there is a tremendous seething and roaring
of the maddened water ; it is, of course, too far
off to hear the noise, but anyone can see the
smoke of it, which is red and fiery, cooling down
to sapphire and then becoming grey, after which
the stars come out, and it is night.

In this English land of mist and fog we never
see the phenomenon of sunrise at all ; for either it
is hidden behind cloud, or it rises too early, or it
is too cold for us to get up and look at it. There
must be, indeed, many men, quite elderly men,
among us who have never seen the sun rise at all.
Now, in Palmiste most of the people behold this
most wonderful of natural phenomena every day.
Perhaps the man on the Signal-mountain has the
Jest view, because from his elevated position he
can see the leaping of the sun from the sea, and
the long furrows of light upon the startled ocean,
and the sudden renewal of the unnumbered smiles.

and the rolling of the mists about the valleys.
But, as the man on the Signal-mountain is too
often a mere creature of duty, and must always
subordinate sentiment to the watching for ships, it
is probable that more joy is got out of the sunrise
by the people below, dio can give their whole
attention to the exhibition provided by Nature.

Certainly, there is plenty to be seen down
below. There was a pair, for instance, standing
in the verandah of the house belonging to the
estate of Mon Desir, who seemed, on this New-year's
dawn, to find a great deal of enjoyment in
the hour and the scene before them, though there
was nothing that they had not seen before, times
out of mind. But then they had one great
advantage over the man on the Signal-mountain,
that he is one and they were two — Hie et
Haec : Ille cum Ilia — which makes a very great
difference ; indeed. And they had other advantages.
For, when the sun first appeared to them
over the brow of the hill between themselves and
the sea he shone on this particular morning
straight down an avenue of palms ; he painted
every leaf of every tree so that it glowed like red
gold ; as for the trunks, the tall green trunks, he
painted them in a great variety of colour, such as
carmine and golden red, and dark green inclined
to go off into purple, and a most lovely, creamy,
rich, soft brown, which did the eyes good to see.

all the more because it only lasted a few moments.
The two who looked caught then breath
and gasped, so beautiful was the scene. To make
it the more complete, because a suggestion of life
always improves a picture, there suddenly appeared
at the end of the avenue an Indian woman :
she was dressed rather better than most coolies'
wives, and, being a Madrassee and not a common
Bombay person, she wore a long skirt or petty •
coat down to her heels, with a red jacket, and
bangles up to her elbows, and, over head,
shoulders, and all, a veil of coarse gauze. This
is the kind of thing that the rising sun likes : it is
good material for a sun to operate upon at his
first joyous outset : so he seized upon that woman
and turned her into a bride, standing rapt,
motionless, waiting for the groom, clothed and
veiled, mystic, wonderful, in white lace, and he
caused colours inexpressible in words to play
about the dress beneath the veil. Only for a
moment. Then they raised their heads, this pair
of early risers, and saw how, upon the peak of
the highest mountain in the island, there lay
another bridal veil, but of cloud, and how the
sunshine struck it and it flew back as if the bridegroom
was come and would gaze upon the face of
his bride. And there were smaller things to
note, for the lawn at their feet, not quite like an
English lawn, because nothing in all the world

is SO good as a good English thing at its best, buta
wei-kept and tolerably smooth lawn, ghti red
as if it was strewn with a million diamonds and
was worth the whole of the Cape, with Potosi and
Golconda thrown in ; beside the lawn the glorious
Flamboyant hung out its flaming blossoms
to greet the sun, and the Bougainvilliers proudly
showed its purple flowers, and the banana trees
and acacias with their perfumed flowers, and the
Elephant creepers, and wonderful things with
leaves of crimson and gold and long botanical
names, which in England would have had pet and
pretty names, welcomed the sun and proclaimed
that they had all grown each one twelve inclines at
least during the night in order to honour the
dawn of Stew Year's Day.

The house was long and of one story, built
with a deep verandah all round it, that on one
side forming a kind of general sitting-room, open
all day long to all airs that blow, affording almost
a quadrangular draught ; grass curtains
now pulled up, protected it from the afternoon
sun and the white glare of the moon ; it Alas laid
with grass mats, and there were long cane chairs,
in it, and small tables with work and books upon
them. Evidently a place used for the daily life.
Three or four doors opened upon it ; that on the
left hand belonged to the private room, or study,.

or office of Mr. Kemyss, Seigneur of Mon Desir ;
that on the right led into the boudoir or schoolroom,
or retreat of Yirginie when she fell disposed
to be alone ; the door in the middle led
into the salon, a large room, with a piano, and a
few, not many, engravings, and more cane chairs,,
with books and magazines — a place not in the
least like an English drawing-room, yet filled with
the atmosphere of home and refinement — the
haunt and home of ladies. Such a house m
Palmiste is constructed entirely, so to speak, with
a view to the salon and the salle a manger They
are the two principal rooms — the only rooms. To
the right and left of them on the same floor are
the bedrooms ; at the corners and in unexpected
]i laces, built out as the family grows, are other
smaller bedrooms belonging to the children or
the girls. The verandah at the sides is provided
with jalousies, so that it may serve for a dressing-room,
bath-room, or nursery. The bedrooms-are
simply furnished each with a pretty little
French bedstead in green and gold, protected by
a mosquito-curtain and an armoire. There is-nothing
else, because nobody in Palmiste is expected
to use the bedroom for any other purpose
than sleep. The salle a manger, papered with
one of those French designs — a man on horseback,
a girl with a guitar, anything — which repeats
the same scene a thousand times, is meant

for a feeding or banqueting room, and nothing
else. Therefore it contains nothing at all but a
table, a sideboard, and chairs. At the back is
the kitchen, and one can only say of a Palmiste
kitchen that, although many a good dinner is
turned out from it, the stranger would do well
not to pry into its mysteries, nor to ask of the
Indian cook how he does it. Behind the kitchen
is a long garden, planted with all kinds of vegetables,
European or tropical, according to the
season of the year : at the end of the kitchen-garden
there is a double row of banana trees,
their leaves blown into ragged ribbons and broken
ends, each with its pendent cluster of green fruit
and purple bud. And behind the bananas there
are the cases — the cottages for the servants and
their wives ; and here there is quite a colony of
little brown babies sprawling about in the sun,
with no more clothes than Adam before the Fall,
and bright-eyed boys, miracles of intelligence,
and. already eager to learn the various and multiform
tricks, lies, treacheries, and make-believes,
by .which a crafty Oriental may make his way
from small things unto great.

On the right of the great house stands a
smaller one, called the Pavilion. The son of the
house sleeps here, and all bachelor guests, of
whom at the season of the bonne anne there
are always three times as many as there are beds

to put them in, so that they toss up for the beds,
and those who lose make out as they best can
upon mattresses stretched upon the floor. Therefore,
the New Year is by this arrangement turned
into \\. most beautiful and festive time for the
mosquitoes.

The Pavilion has also its own verandah, but
much smaller and narrower, and without any
curtains or mats. Yet there are plenty of chairs
in it ; chairs with prolonged arms, in which the
occupant may put up his feet ; basket-work chairs,
with a ledge which may be pulled out for the
feet ; low chairs in which one's feet need no
support ; rocking-chairs ; and a lovely grass hammock,
in which, with a Coringhee cigar, and
something with ice in it, and perhaps a book requiring
no effort to understand it, and dealing
with pleasant subjects, one may while away the
hottest afternoon, swinging slowly. There is not
much paint left about the old Pavilion, it is true ;
the floor of the verandah, which is of concrete, is
cracked ; the jalousies of the bedroom windows
are out of repair ; but the roof is still weatherproof,
and the beds are comfortable, and there are
these chairs to sit upon, and the verandah faces
the east, so that in the afternoon, when man most
inclines to rest and meditation, the sun may be
avoided.

To the right of the Pavilion, again, was the

sugcir-liouse, a great place, with the mysteries of
which we have nothing to ck3, except that the
whirr of the machinery and the wheels, and the
lord, well-satisfied breathing of its untiring steam-engine
sounded pleasantly on mornings when the
crop had commenced. On this day, however —
New Year's Day — the day of the bonne anne's no
man, not even a Malabar, on a sugar estate can
be expected to work. Outside the sugar-house
lay piles of the white bagasse^ the refuse of the
canes which have been crushed, with their sweet
and rather sickly smell ; and here, too, was the
great barn-like stable for the mules, with the
doors always left wide open, because these sagacious
animals know very well which is the best
place for them, and are far too wise to go straying
from a comfortable shelter where they are
well fed and well looked after. Why, as they
very well know, mules who have strayed have
been known to get lost in the ravines, and to
tumble over waterfalls, and be eaten by big eels,
or to be captured by Maroons, and made to lead
a deuce of a life carrying out their villanies in the
forest. Who would be the accomplice of brigands
and poachers ? Beyond the mule stable a road
leads to the Indian Camp, a village where the
coolies of the estate live with their wives, their
babies, their brass pots, their dogs, their goats and
little kids, their cocks and hens and chickens, and

their pigs. It is quite a large and populous village,
in which the dreams of the Socialist are
realised ; for all the houses are exactly alike, and
the people are all on the same social depression,
and the way of living is the same for all, and
there is a beautiful, monotonous level. There are
such villages and communities in England ; but
they are rare. One such I remember in the
Forest of Dean, which seems to resemble an
Indian camp on a sugar estate ; but even there
they have a church and two or three chapels, and
there are differences of rank and position. The
camp is a noisy place, too ; for the babies never
cease crying, and the children quarrel continually,
and the dogs for ever bark, and the women accuse
each other for ever in shrill and ear-piercing
voices. What do they accuse each other of?
Matter of cakes, my masters, and ghee, and
gungee, and cocoa-nut oil, and nose-rings and
silver bangles. What farther, one knoweth nor.
Every day, after a whole morning spent in invective,
retort, accusation and defence, they sally
forth, and bring the case before the Sahib, the
Seigneur and Lord of the estate, who hears the
evidence, and makes an award, and admonishes
them to keep the peace. They accept the
award as final, but yet they do not keep the
peace.

And on all sides of the house there stretch

the broad fields of the estate, planted with the
sugar-cane ; narrow paths cross them, and sometimes
there is a rough-and-ready tramway. All
day long the coolies work among them, cleaning
and weeding, heedless of the hot sun, because
they are anointed, and beautifully shine, with
cocoa-nut oil, so that every man's back is a mirror
for his friends. Beyond the cane-fields, on all
sides but one, is the forest ; for there are yet
miles of forest left ; and beyond and among the
wild woods stand the everlasting hills.

Now, when the first glimmerings of the dawn
were welcomed by the silence of the cocks and
the barking of the dogs, there began in the mule
stable an uncertain agitation, as of expectancy,
and, each, in his stall, the mules began to open
eyes, to kick out in dreams, to whinny, to fidget,
to shake a tail, to paw the ground, and to look
around. At exactly the moment, and no other,
when the sun first touched the topmost leaves and
the single spiral shoot of every palm-tree in the
Avenue,. the oldest and most sagacious mule left
his stall, and led the way out of the stable into
the bagasse yard, followed by all his friends and
lively companions. Then there ensued such a
turning over on backs, kicking of legs, rolling
about on the soft stuff, champing of the sugary
canes, and letting out of heels at each other in
pure gamesomeness, that you would have said the

mules knew it Alas New Year's Day, and had
begun at very sunrise to enjoy the holiday. This
was not so, however, for mules are a philosophical,
albeit a light-hearted race, and know that life is
made up of twelve hours' labour and twelve
hours' repose. Therefore they do what they canto
get through the first half as easily as may be,
and go in for unmitigated enjoyment of the
second.

After the mules had spread themselves out on
the bagasse, and the Indians' dogs were all
barking in the camp, and the Indian women all
scolding, there was no longer any pretence possible
for lying in bed. So that the Chinaman
who kept the only shop on the estate rolled off
his counter, and opened his door, and let down
his shutter, and allowed the escape of the night's
accumulated fragrance. A village shop in this
our native land presents a rich field for research
in the science of smells, particularly on a warm
summer morning, when it has just been opened.
But what is it compared to a Chinaman's shop in
Palmiste? Bacon and cheese form our own
staple. One cannot deny that these are good,
separately or in combination, for the production
of a rich and grateful perfume. But the Chinaman,
in a much smaller space, has the fragrant
and united product of snook, which was once live
cod-fish half-cured pork, rotten bananas, sardine-boxes

lying open for a week, a keg of arrack,
cheese, gungee, his own opium-pipe, cocoa-nut oil,
blacking, and cigars, all combining together to
produce a stench of extraordinary strength.
When the doors and windows were open it fell
out, a solid though invisible lump of concrete
smell, irregularly shaped, which rolled, slowly at
first, but afterwards more rapidly, down the hill.
On the way it encountered a brood of tender
yellow ducklings, who were going along — poor
clears — thinking of nothing at all but worms and
warm mud. These pretty innocents, when the
rolling mass fell upon them, all tumbled over on
their backs, opened their beaks, and quacked their
last. Then the ball rolled over the side of the
road down a steep slope, upon which it met and
poisoned a promising family of young andrews,
and so over the edge of the ravine, getting broken
into a thousand fragments, and doing no more
harm to anybody.

Not far from the Chinaman's stood a little
cottage, built of packing-cases and roofed with
their tin lining, in which there lived an old, old
negress, well advanced in the nineties. She was
a witch by profession : she revealed the future,
either by cards, or by inspection of the palm, or
by interpretation of dreams, or by the reading oF
omens ; she charmed away sprains, warts, bruises,
and internal injuries by the simple application of

her own hand ; she cursed people's enemies for
them, and made crafty gri-gri, which revengeful
persons smarting under a sense of wrong bought
and placed under the beds of those who had
wrought them that injury, so that these wicked
folk presently fell into waste and consumption and
slow dying — a joy to behold. She cured all
diseases by herbs which she gathered in the forest
and under the rocks of the ravine; and it was
whispered that if you wanted such a thug as a
safe but elegant preparation of poison, which
would kill without leaving a trace behind, this
good old lady would make it up for you from
plants which she would find in every hedge. She,
too, awoke with the dogs and the mules, and perceived
that here was another day whose joyful
course awaited her running. She found her
joints rather stiff at first uprising, a thing which
surprised her, because she had not been brought
up in her childhood to expect it, and she sat for
an hour or two in the warmest and sunniest place,
with her grizzled old wool exposed to the rays,
and so gradually recovered the use of her limbs
and got warm, and felt young again, and set to
work upon the finishing of a most beautiful grim
with a cat's skull in it and two dogs' paws
and a shark's tooth — a gri-gri which was intended
to cause internal pains and burnings not to be
allayed, and thirst insatiable, and sleepless rolling

VOL. II. s

about at night, and mental distress, loss of appetite,
delirium, convulsions, death and a long black
box. And all for five dollars. She is a most
useful and admirable creature, and it is sad to
think that when she goes — she is not gone yet —
she will leave no successor. There used, in the
old days, to be plenty of such old women, but
emancipation was a cruel blow to them : the new
contentment and ease of the negroes discouraged
the profession ; there is no longer any demand, to
weak of, for gri-gri and vegetable poisons ; the
coolies know for themselves where to find stramonium
and what it will do in skilful hands : the old
slaves are dead, and their sons are not revengeful
on account of their fathers' wrongs, and when this
old woman goes there will be no one left to carry
on her forgotten craft. The reflection should
make the old witch sad ; but she does not reflect :
she thinks she is still in comparative youth ; she
takes no heed of time, and she believes she will
hive for ever.

The two standing on the verandah were a
young man of two-and-twenty or so and a girl of
seventeen. They were always up first, and they
always met here and had their morning talk at
sunrise, while the girl poured out the early tea
and sent it round to the bedrooms. The Indian
boy, who had made the tea and brought it from
the kitchen, stood on the steps rubbing his sleep'

eyes ; and lying huddled up, also on the verandah
steps, was old Suzette, the black nurse, in a
wonderful blue cotton frock and red cotton
turban and bare feet. Her grandsons, Napoleon
de Turenne and Eolian Auvergne de Turenne,
were at the Grand College ; and her youngest son,
their father, who had gone into the brokery line
and had been greatly successful, drove about, a
splendid personage, in his own carriage. But
Suzette remained a nurse ; and she was too conscientious
a nurse to allow her foster-daughter to
get up before her or to remain talking with
Monsieur Tom without her presence.

Chokra,' said the girl to the Indian boy,
this great cup for the barra Sahib, and this little
one for the mem Sahib.'

She spoke, only with these two or three
Hindustani words, in the Creole patois, which has
been adopted by the Indian and Chinese coolies,
and by the Malays, Singhalese, Portuguese, Mala-grassy,
Somaulis, and all the races who are represented,
in this island of a thousand tongues, as the
common medium. But, like many who have
been brought up on a sugar estate, she was a
polyglot young lady : her father was English and
her-mother French. She spoke her father's
language perfectly well, with a tendency to make
a soft guttural out of the ' r,' which was not unpleasant
; and she spoke with perfect fluency hers

2

mother's language ; but she would have been as
much lost as any Canadian among the half-uttered
syllables and nods and winks which stand
for French in fashionable Paris ; for, in truth, the
French of Palmiste may be pure, but it is a little
old-fashioned. And she could talk Hindustani of
a kind, not the Hindustani of the schools, to be
sure, but the tongue of the people, free and unencumbered
by grammar and syntax, and understand
of all alike, by the gentle Tamulman, or
by him who talks the soft Canarese or the
sonorous Pali. She could not talk Chinese, because
nobody can, and even the Chinamen out of
their native country laugh at their own language ;
nor any of the Madagascar dialects, because the
Malagassy are a polite people, and do not expect
it ; nor Malay, because the Malay is quick to
learn for himself any language that may be going
about ; nor any of those African tongues which
may yet linger in the memories of the blacks, because
there is nothing the East African negro
more readily forgets than his own tongue, especially
when there is such a beautiful language as
Creole lying ready for his use, and because nobody
ever learns any African language who can
help it.

The men,' said the girl, ' are late this morning.
I suppose, too, they sat up last night, and drank
too much brandy and soda. Did you sit up, Tom ? '

She spoke as if too much brandy and soda
was an accident which might happen to anybody ;
and, indeed, in this thirsty island there do happen
a surprising number of these accidents every year.
So that it is a pity steps are not taken to prevent
them.

The young man replied that, for his own part,
he went to bed when his father left them, which
was at half-past ten ; but that some of them sat
late, and there certainly were a great many
bottles of soda lying on the verandah ; and that
they were all fast asleep when he got up, which
was before daylight.

He had in his hand a pine-apple, which he
had just cut in the garden, and was eating it with
a fork. This, if you please, is the true way to eat
a pine ; and the best time to eat it is in the
morning, when it has been freshly cut.

Will you have a mango, Yirginie ? ' he asked.
They are ready to be gathered.'

Send some to the Pavilion,' she replied.

Ayapana tea,' he said, ' would be more to
the purpose. Suzette may go round presently
and find out if anybody wants it. If I meet old
Pierre, I will ask him to take some cocos tendres to
the Pavilion. Don't forget the leeches, Virginie.'

Ayapana tea is a grateful drink, made by
pouring boiling water upon a certain herb so
called ; its properties are many : it restores tone

to the afflicted after a severe night ; it cools
coppers ; it drives away headache ; it restores
the power of coherent speech ; it revives the
sluggish brain ; in fact, it was planted, in the first
instance, by the man who made the earliest vineyard,
and he placed a root of it between every
vine. As for the coco tendre Tom meant the
unripe cocoa-nut, which is gathered for the purpose
of providing a cool and refreshing morning
draught. In cases which do not require the
severity of Ayapana tea, the coco tendre is efficacy
pious, and it brings with it a coolness which
mounts to the brain and runs along the veins and
gives elasticity to the limbs. And as for mangoes,
they are good for all conditions of men ; the
temperate, such as Tom, and the eternally thirsty,
such as Sandy McMcAndrew ; they are the sweetest
gift of nature to the dweller in the tropics ; they
refresh and revive after a hot and sleepless night ;
they bring back hope, faith, and courage ; they
reconcile one to life even when the rainy season
has begun, and the floods of heaven are descending,
and a soft and steamy heat lies upon the
earth, and a vapour rises like that of a universal
washing day, and the mildew grows and spreads
visibly on the boots, and the covers drop off the
books, and the very cigars go out of curl. These
two were too young to know much about shattered
nerves, and revivers, and pick-me-ups. But

they had heard of such things. Therefore Virginia
received the allusion to Ayapana tea with
sympathy, and understood what was proposed to
be effected by means of the coco tendre.

She was seventeen, which is Creole for twenty.
And, because she was a Creole, she was of slight
and graceful figure ; for the same reason she
carried herself well and was gracieiise — one would
like to add a few more of those delightful adjectives
which French poets and novelists have at
their command. She was dressed in a simple
white frock, with a crimson ribbon round her
neck.

Nature, who is always — the dear old lady I
thinking how she can spare something more to
set off and adorn a pretty girl, had given her a
wealth of lovely light curling hair, as soft as silk,
which lay all about her face and clung to her
pretty cheeks like tendrils of a vine, as if it loved
to be exactly in that place and wanted no other ;
her eyes were blue and soft, with long lashes ; her
cheek was not ruddy like an English maiden's,
but touched with just the tenderest bloom of
colour; for, although she had never left the
tropical island, she lived among the mountains —
Mon Desir was a thousand feet above the sea, so
that the air was sharp. Besides, Virginie rambled
and climbed up the slopes of the hills and down
the steep sides of the precipitous ravine, and was

as sure-footed as a chamois and as steady as an
Alpine guide. This it was which lent her cheek
its rose. Altogether, a lovely and dainty maiden ;
a girl on whom eyes were already bent full of
admiration and hope ; but not yet spoiled, though
she had been out ever since the last Queen's
birthday ball. Her face and her gestures were
full of vivacity, because her mother was a Frenchwoman
; her eyes were full of truth and loyalty
because her father was an English gentleman ; at
every turn of her head, at every quick movement
of her hand, one was reminded of her descent,
because this was French and that was English,
and this she caught from her mother and that she
inherited from her father.

As for the young man called Tom, he was
dressed as only Colonial dare to dress. That is
to say, he wore a flannel shirt without any collar
and all rags, and a pair of flannel trousers, patched
and darned in various places, yet almost as ragged
as the shirt ; round his waist was tied a belt made
of long red silk ; he had on a short coat or jacket
of common blue cotton, something like that
affected by the British butcher : ' it is strong,
durable, and light, therefore it is greatly in
fashion among the people of Palmiste, although it
does wear white at the seams : for head-covering
he wore an old helmet well battered and bruised.
This was his morning dress, the things in which

he rode about the fields, looking after weeds and
all the evils which assail the sugar-cane. He was
his father's manager, and he took this journey
every morning, starting at daybreak and returning
about ten. He was a well set up youth,
not so broad in the shoulder as many Englishmen,
with brown hair cropped close, and a small
beard and moustache ; not a face betokening great
intellect, nor had his shoulders the studious stoop ;
flor was " he shortsighted ; nor did he concern
himself at all about literature or art, or the
popular scientific chatter, or the current topics of
the day. In fact, very few young men had read
fewer books than Tom Kemyss. Yet he was nota
fool : he studied machinery so as to understand
the engines and works of his mill ; he studied
agricultural chemistry for practical purposes ; he
was handy in the carpenter's shop ; he was good
at all kinds of sports, was cunning of fence, a good
shot, and as plucky a lad as ever stepped. And
though he had never left his native island, and
was seldom absent from his father's estate, he
was not at all a rustical person, not a mere
hohereau^ nor a boor. Quite the contrary : his
manners and carriage were as good as if he had
been brought up in a London square and at Eton
and Oxford. And he had been trained by his
father in the old-fashioned ideas — which they say,
those who know, are rapidly dying out — as to the

courtesy, respect, honour and service due to
women.

When he had finished his pine-apple he strode
away, and Yirginie heard him whistling to his
dogs, and then there was a mighty trampling of
hoofs, because the daily struggle then began
between Tom and his horse. The generous steed,
being of high mind and proud of his descent,
resolved every morning that this should be the
last of obedience, and so attempted to bring about
a revolution. When the attempt was quelled he
galloped away obedient again.

Virginie poured out another cup of tea more
carefully than the rest, placed it on a tray, and
carried it away with her own hands. It was her
mother's tea, and the girl had done this small
service ever since she could carry anything.

When she was gone the chokra was left alone.
At least, he thought he was alone. Unluckily,
he forgot Suzette, and acted as any solitary boy
might be expected to act.

He looked about him for a moment. The
sugar-basin was filled sith the delightful crystal
sugar, as sweet as sugar candy, and as sparkling
as so many diamonds. It was made in the mill
of Mon Desir, and is the best sugar in the world,
a great deal better than the white lumps of which
we are so proud. The boy knew this fact, and it
made his fingers to curl and his brown eyes to glow.

He had. never learned the Church Catechism,
this poor child ; otherwise, no doubt

Bring ! Sprang ! Crick ! Crack ! Four, if you
please : two on each ear, so that the report was
heard a mile off, and every chokra on the estate
jumped clean out of his jacket — because he had
no shoes to jump out of — in terror and sympathy.

Hein ! Ha ! Thou wilt steal, then, good-for-nothing?
Take that — and that — little pig of
Malabar ! '

The boy fled to the kitchen, where he was
received with the jeers of those who had not been
recently detected.

And the old woman sat down on the steps
again, in the sun, and laughed with her eyes, her
lips, her teeth, her head, her hands, her portly
person, and her feet. She brimmed over and she
shook with laughter.

CHAPTEE II.

THE SQUIRE.

Among the many questions which may be put by
fools for the discomfiture of those who pretend to
be wise, is the question how it is that men can be
found to put their money into a sugar estate.

For the dangers and risks are great ; the work
is hard; the climate is generally trying; and
the ultimate results are wrapped in a delightful
cloud of uncertainty. As for the capital
requiem-ed at the outset, that is so great that it
would maintain a whole family in England. On
the mere interest of it they might take a house at
Kensington, and give dinner parties, and go every
year to the seaside. As for the thing to be
grown — the cane — it is surrounded on all sides
by innumerable enemies, like everything else
which is carefully planted, tended, covered up,
and rendered effeminate. Sometimes it is an
insect, which comes from no one knows where,
and has no other object in life than just to bore
holes right through the cane, and so to destroy it ;

or it is a worm that appears suddenly in the
ground, and refuses to eat anything except root
of sugar-cane, and no one knows where he comes
from either ; or it is a kind of rot ; or it is a
wasting away and a drying up of the sweet j vices ;
or it is some other of the many thousand diseases
which affect vegetable life. Sometimes, also, it is
a troop of monkeys, who get into the fields by
night, and tear up the canes for very wanton
mischief. Above all, there are the hurricanes,
which lay the canes prostrate, tear them up by
the roots, and wash them out of the ground ; and
they may come any year or every year. So that,
unless fortune is more than commonly kind, the
end of every planter who has not so large a capital
that he can stand up against two three, or even
four bad years in succession is the same — monotonously
the same. That end is, in fact, smash ;
and his estate is sold. And then, because hope
goes on springing in that elastic and everlasting
way of which we know, there is never wanting a
purchaser with a little money to throw away, and
the old game begins again, with chinking of
glasses and the sparkle of champagne, and the
best wishes of friends, and the confidence of the
young beginner.

That, however, is only the fate of the small
capitalist. If you have got plenty of money to
begin with, and want to multiply it by ten, and

can afford to wait, and like tropical life and exile,
with the things which some weak-kneed brethren
call discomforts, such as hot days, and vertical
suns, and mosquitoes, and prickly heat, and
insipid beef and tasteless mutton, you can do
nothing better than take a sugar estate and
manage it yourself. . Some day people in England
will find out how profitable a thing it is, so long
as you need not borrow money to go on with.
Then there will be companies started. Owners
will sell to promoters for four times the value of
the estate : that will be good for the owners, who
will come to Paris, or London, or Monte Carlo,
and have a fling so long as the money lasts : the
promoters will sell the estates to the shareholders
for ten times their value : this will be good for
the promoters, who will make money by one
swindle, to lose it in the next : then the companies
will issue shares, publish prospectuses, and
exhibit their sugar in grocers' shops ; and they
will appoint managers of local experience. These
managers will be so experienced that they will
sell the sugar, receive the money for the coolies,
put everything in their own pockets, and bolt,
working their way round by New Caledonia and
Tahiti to San Francisco, and from there to New
Orleans, enjoying the roses and rapture of gambling
saloons, bars, and billiard rooms. The
company will then ' bust up,' and the estate will

I

be sold for half its real value to a local person,
with no money but what he borrows from the
bank, and all will go on as before, and, if we are
all happy, let us not sit down to ask what odds.

The proprietor of Mon Desir, Captain Kemyss,
commonly called the Squire by his English friends,
became a planter through falling in love. It was
in this way.

About five-and-twenty years ago, when people
in Palmiste were beginning to think that they
might try to forget the calamity of their great and
terrible cholera year and to leave off telling each
other horrible stories, there arrived in the island
an extremely sprightly regiment, the officers in
which were nearly all young, rich, and disposed
to make things cheerful for themselves and all
their friends, so far as lies in the power of the
English officer. They manifested this disposition
from the day of landing; they received callers
with effusion ; they called upon everybody,
bought horses, dog-carts, buggies, pony-traps,
American traps, drove about the country, accepted
invitations to all the planters' houses,
turned up uninvited to the Sunday morning
breakfasts, held magnificent guest nights, allowed
their band to play as often as they were asked,
and gave balls the like of which had never before
been heard of. Also, they offered prizes and cups
at the races, and rode to win them ; and they had

an eleven, and for the first year or so they played
the national game with vigour : they v^^ere always
pleased to see everybody in barracks at all hours
and at all meals ; brandy and soda was continually
being produced : they exhibited and kept up, to
the admiration of philosophers, a real Charles
Lever-like air of solid, substantial enjoyment of
life, as if there were no headaches, as if youth
would always last, as if there was nothing in the
world to care for beyond sport — in moderation ;
cricket, billiards, and racquets — always in moderation
; parade and drill — in strict moderation ;
gambling — in tolerable moderation ; feasting,
drinking, and love-making without stint or stay,
moderation, or any restraints beyond those imposed
by physical consideration, such as the
dimensions of the waist or the absence of the
opposite sex. The colonel looked young, being
about forty-eight, but he was tough — besides, the
resources of science were called in to maintain
the dark glossiness of his hair and moustache ; the
majors also looked young, being about six-and-thirty
; the captains were in the early thirties and
the late twenties ; the subs, were all under five-ands
twenty. It was a thirsty, toss-pot regiment ;
a rattling, rollicking, story-telling, song-singing,
card-playing, racing, biUiard-playiug, betting,
gambling, drinking, sit-plate regiment ; a handsome,
flirting, dancing, mean-nothing, detrimental



regiment; a regiment, in short, which turned the
heads of all the girls with flattery and compliments
and dances, and all the things that south
most loves. In this regiment there were a couple
of young men — that is, comparatively young, for
they had both already got their company — who
were close friends, and not, like their companions,
wholly given over to sport and amusement ; they
had, in fact, the unusual good sense to perceive
that life cannot be all champagne and skittles.
Wherefore they sometimes went to bed early, did
not take soda and brandy as a pick-me-up before
breakfast, observed a liberal moderation in strong
drink during the day, and did not look upon all
pretty girls as made solely for the amusement of
the man with the scarlet jacket. In fact, they
were the small minority which among every madcap
crew are always found to spoil sport by
squatted temperance. In any other company
they would have been considered as rather dashing
young fellows ; in this, the comparative soberness
of their manners and morals was felt to be a
standing reproach to their brother-officers. It is
a safe rule that one must not be more virtuous
than one's fellows. Therefore the regiment heard
with great relief and thankfulness that not only
were these two engaged to be married to girls of
the island, but that they where going to sell out
at once.

VOL. II. T

They became, in fact, engaged to two cousins,
girls of French descent, who had been brought
up together and were to each other as two sisters.
They were alike in appearance, in tastes, and in
accomplishments ; they resembled each other in
agreeing to be very much in love each with her
own English wooer ; they were both young, both
beautiful, and both amiable. They differed, however,
in one small point, felt by both young ladies
to be of no. importance whatever ; namely, that
one was rich and the other poor. Captain
Ferrier, the grandson of a peer, who married the
rich girl, was himself already tolerably well provided
; Captain Kemyss, the son of a bishop, who
had only a moderate patrimony, married the one
who was poor. Now, if he had stayed in the
Army, or had gone home and lived quietly upon
his modest income, he would have got along very
well. But when he found that Ferrier intended
to remain in Palmiste and cultivate his wife's
sugar estate ; when he learned, further, that his
own wife would like nothing in the world so well
as to remain all her days in the place where she
was born ; when he considered the fertility and
goodness of the land ; when the pleasures of a
planter's life were pointed out to him, with the
chances of a great fortune, he yielded to temptation
and bought an estate. Observe" the difference
at the outset between the two friends.

Captain Ferrier married a girl who was the only
child of a planter with the largest and most
fertile estate in the island ; with his own money
and with the money already made ont of the
estate he would be enabled, whatever happened,
to ride out the storm. Therefore, with ordinary
care, his prosperity was assured. Captain Kemyss,
on the other hand, invested the whole of his own
very moderate fortune in purchasing an estate.
To complete the purchase he had, like most of his
brother-planters, to borrow of the bank a third of
the purchase-money at nine per cent. He therefore
became, for life, a man encumbered with a
hopeless debt. One son was born to him, Tom
by name, now his manager, partner, and overseer.
■ His friend Ferrier had several children, but
all died except one, a girl — Virginie. When
Ferrier died himself, during the great fever year
of 1867, Captain Kemyss became the guardian of
the child and the executor of the mil. Madame
Ferrier and her daughter came to live with
him, and they formed, Creole fashion, one household.


There are some men to whom the backwoods
or colonial life, far from friends, seems to strengthen
and deepen their old ideas about the most
desirable manner of life. Captain Kemyss — the
Squire ' — carried on in the quiet Palmiste bungalow
the kind of life to which he had been himself

T 2

brought up. He was on his tropical estate an
English country gentleman ; he educated his son
in his own ideas ; it was through him that Tom
showed no rusticity, and Virginie no Creole
insularity. He was now a man of sixty ; tall,
grey-headed, with a grey moustache ; he had a'
military bearing still ; he was a member of the
Legislative Council, and was, therefore, the
Honourable Captain Kemyss, and in the whole
colony there was no one who bore so good a
name, or was held in such great honour, or was
more regarded for integrity and trustworthiness
in all his doings as he.

His life would have been perfectly happy, but
for a certain grim spectre, which • would not be
confined in a cupboard, but kept marching about
with him wherever he went ; stood behind him
at dinner ; sat on his bed at night, and never left
him. It was the lean and gaunt ghost of bankruptcy.
He first raised this ghost by much calculation
and sad foreboding in the hurricane year
of 1868 ; two or three good years laid it in the
Need Sea ; then bad years followed, and up it
sprang again, vivacious and sprightly as ,
and more horrible to look at. After
that it was never laid again, but came every year
nearer to him, looked larger, and shook a more
threatening; finger. Some men are so thick-skinned
that, although they see the danger afar

off, and know that they will shipwreck upon it,
yet they go about their business in perfect happiness,
regardless of the certain future. The Squire,
who was as courageous as most men, trembled
and shook with shame and terror when he thought
of the word bankruptcy. The year 1880 was,
for the estate of Mon Desir a bad year ; the yield
was poor ; it seemed as if the soil was, perhaps,
giving out ; prices were not high ; the crop was
short ; the bank was beginning an ominous note
of warning. Still, if 1881 was good ; if there
were no hurricanes and prices improved, the
estate would pull through somehow, as it had
pulled through so many years before, by being
able to meet the interest of the debt ; if not, if
anything at all of the many things which might
happen went against him, then, then — the blow
could no longer be staved off — he must go to the
wall. The prospect, to a man turned sixty, of
seeing the whole of his life's work destroyed and
brought to nought, was a very terrible thing to
consider.

There was one way out of the difficulty ; one
certain way ; yet it was a way which he would
not suffer himself to dwell upon. How if Tom
were to marry Virginie ? For then there could
be no more troubles about money. The two
estates — hers, large and prosperous ; his, small
and struggling — adjoined. They could be worked

with the same mill and machinery. Tom could
manage both. No one knew better than himself,
the trusty executor and guardian of the child,
how, year after year, good and bad together, her
estate brought in a clear income of eight thousand
pounds at least ; and how this money had been
accumulating and piling up during Yirginie's
minority, until it was now, for a land of small
capitalists, an enormous fortune. But to consider
the girl, almost his own daughter, as the means
of rescuing himself from difficulties was a dreadful
thing to him.

Meantime, there were two persons who were
as desirous of seeing this result as Captain Kemyss,
with the advantage over him, that they did not
conceal their wishes.

Sybille,' Madame Kemyss would whisper
when she saw the young people together.

Lucie,' Madame Ferrier would reply, pressing
her friend's hand, silently.

The cousins who were so much alike in youth
had grown alike again in middle life. This is a
trying time with most women : they have lost the
later beauty of womanhood, and have not yet put
on that of age. These two ladies, however, were
still beautiful, in the soft and graceful Creole way ;
only they looked older than they were, which,
perhaps, helped them. They were past forty ;
and they looked, somehow, though their hair was

neither thin nor grey, nor were their faces crows-footed,
as if they were past fifty.

In France,' one would say to the other, ' we
should have settled it ourselves by this time.'

In England,' the other would reply, • the
boy would have settled it with the girl before
this time.'

Tom is a good boy, Sybille. Perhaps he
fears your possible displeasure.'

He is a very good boy, Lucie. That is why
I wish he would tell Virginie that he would like
her to be his wife.'

The only reason why Tom did not tell her
this most undoubted truth was that he was a
Creole. Now all Creoles are perfectly happy
with the present condition of things, provided
that ensures a sufficiency of curry and claret and
a roof. It is a land of sweet contentment. Tom
was profoundly in love ; but then he had been
in love with Virginie ever since she was born ;
there was nothing new in that. It was impossible
for him to think of life without her. On the
other hand, things were so pleasant as they were,
that it never occurred to him to desire a change.
They tell a story in Palmiste of two Creoles who
once lived there : they were devotedly attached
to each other ; they went on year after year
enjoying a protracted spring time of love ; their
parents died ; they still continued their gentle

courtship ; the years passed on ; they became
grey and bald ; still they met day by day, and
had their little lovers' quarrels and the fond
renewing of love, quite in the Horatian style ;
when one was seventy and the other sixty-eight —
though, to be sure, they still felt like twenty and
eighteen — a friend suggested that it might be
almost time to complete the long engagement by
a wedding. They considered for a few months ;
they thought the suggestion reasonable ; they
were married ; but they had so long been lovers
that they could not bear to give up their old
habits, and they presently separated with mutual
consent, went back each to his own house, and
carried on ' as before.

As regards Yirginie herself, she was young ;
she had never considered or thought of the question
at all. She was undoubtedly very fond of
Tom ; it seemed as if life without Tom would be
impossible. But, as yet she was innocent of any
thought of love, just as she was wholly and
entirely ignorant of the world, of humanity, of
evil, wrong-doing, treachery, and deception. To
be sure, the coolies were always in trouble, always
suffering or inflicting wrong ; always deceiving,
cheating, thieving, and quarrelling. Only, what
coolies do, regarded as part of humanity's statistics,
is only interesting to those who are able to
take a broad and catholic view of mankind, therefore

not interesting to those who live among them.
In other words, the white residents in Palmiste
disclaim the brotherhood of the coloured man.
It is difficult to understand the ignorance of such
a girl so brought up. She had not only never
left the island, but had never slept off the estate,
except once, when she went to a Government
House ball, and once when she went to a garrison
ball, six months before this time. She had been
educated by her mother and Madame Kemyss ;
her guardian took a share in the teaching, too ;
the only friend of her own age was Tom ; he washer
companion and confidant. She knew nothing
of society, except as she saw it at home when
people came to stay. There was no art whatever
within her reach, except music, which her mother
taught her ; there was no church even within reach,
and the Sunday was only marked by the reading of
part of the English prayer-book ; there was no
talk of literature, because her guardian had but
few books, and she had read them over and over
again ; there were no politics. As regards European
events, they are treated on these estates
with about as much concern as if they were the
events recorded in Gibbon. There were wars
and defeats, and many thousands slain ; treaties
made became treaties broken ; the victor was
flushed with conquest, and the enemy rolled
sullenly over the frontier. Historians never

alter their sweet flowing style, because the events
of history are always the same. To the dwellers
in this far-off land the events of the present are
no more real than the events of the past ; to
Virginie, as she heard them summed up when
each mail came in, they were shadows and unmeaning
things. The realities of life were the
morning and evening rambles, the flowers, the
water-falls, the hills, the fruits, and Tom.

CHAPTER III.

IX THE Bachelors' Pavilion.

In the pavilion the lazy bachelors began, one
after the other, to stir, sit up, curse the mosquitoes,
and finally to get up and come forth,
clothed, for the most part, in ragged flannels and
rough tweeds which had known service and were
stained and torn. There was great diversity as
regards hats ; for some had broad Panama hats,
with brims like the spreading amplitude of a
family umbrella ; and some had the ordinary
round hat of the period, generously endowed
with flowing puggrey ; and some had solar helmets
; and one, which was the Padre, wore the ecclesiastical
broad-brimmed felt which we all know
and love so much. He also wore the long flapping
coat which, with the broad felt hat, makes
our ecclesiastics almost as graceful to look upon
as their brothers of Spain. One only among
them appeared as if he was dressed for a battue
in an English preserve, perfectly turned out in
garments which made one or two of the younger

men ashamed of their rags. This was the Honourable
Guy Talbot Ferrier, Yirginie's second
cousin, only son and heir of Lord Ferrier, and a
captain in the line regiment now on garrison
duty at Palmiste.

Most of the party knew each other as only
colonial can know each other — that is with a
perfect knowledge of all the strong points weak
points, good qualities, bad qualities, virtues and
vices which distinguish their brethren. Not the
least use for any of them. to pretend to sail under
false colours, or to put on side of any kind. Of
course they did it, but it was no use doing it.
Among them was Sandy McMcAndrew, of the great
Scotch firm of Mull, McMcAndrew, and Company.
The only fault of Sandy, regarded as a
man and a companion, was that he generally fell
asleep during dinner. In other respects he was
perfect. Then, there was Davy McLoughhn, his
partner, remarkable for the fact that his legs after
dinner had a tendency to tie themselves into knots,
which is an embarrassing thing .to witness until
you get used to it. There was also the Pink
Boy, who was only nineteen, and had but just
arrived, and as yet had not had time to display
his many admirable qualities. But he was good
at laughing ; and he was as handsome, as Apollo ;
and he blushed, which, I believe, that god 'never
did. His tweeds were almost as good as those of

Captain Ferrier, but they Avere in different style,
because the Boy was not a noble sportsman at
all but an accountant in a bank. And there was
the Assistant Colonial Secretary, a person of very
great importance in* the official world ; in private,
a great retailer of good things, with a prodigious
memory ; so that, once started, he would go on
with stories new and old for a livelong day, and
very often did. He knew every man, woman, and
child in the colony, and had an excellent story to
tell about each ; a cheerful, even a jovial companion;
and he was of the persuasion which
allows a curly crisp brown beard to remain upon
the chin as a complement to the curly crisp brown
hair.

There was also Major Morgan, who came with
Captain Ferrier. He was a soldier by profession ;
but his principal occupation was the playing of
cards, which was the reason why he was so frequently
the companion of the younger man. Though he
was entirely addicted at cards, and found in the
changes and chances of the pips the only joy iu
life, and though he played to win, he was not a
gambler. It will never be said of the Major that
he was in difficulties by reason of his losses at
cards ; rather, it may be safely prophesied of
him, that in the immediate future, when he has
retired from the service, he will begin a long and
tranquil career as a morning, afternoon, and evening

whist player at his dub. But at present he
is still young enough to play any game that offers,
whether ecarte, loo, lansquenet, baccarat, bezique,
cribbage, whist, poker, euchre, all-fours, monty,
piquet, sechs-und-sechzig, or nap. A cheerful
man, who generally won, and therefore regarded
the world as a place where justice is accorded to
merit.

The Professor — his name was Percival — who
had been a resident in the island for four or five
years, was always to be found at Mon Desir at
the bonne anne. Perhaps, when he arrived, he
had entertained hopes of introducing energy and
activity of mind and body into the lazy colony.
All such hopes, if any existed, were now gone;
he dreamed no more of fostering a love for
culture, being quite persuaded that things would
go on their old way whatever he said or did.
This is, after all, a philosophic line to take ; even
in quite temperate zones it requires an amazing
amount of talk, persuasion, entreaty, tears, expostulation,
kicks, shoves, cuffs, boxes on the ear,
admonitions of stick, to move the people a small
six inches ; in tropical countries it wants ten
times the energy to produce a far more miserable
result, and fever is the almost certain consequence.
Therefore, the Professor sat down,
and said that uncultured man was probably as
happy as he of the aesthetic crowd ; and that, for

his own part, he should cultivate his garden —
which words, like those of Candide, were an allegory.
He found himself much happier when he had
ceased to make himself unhappy about the downward
tendencies, swinishness, and grovelling of
the islanders. He was cheerful again ; he recovered
his spirits ; began again to tell stories,
and regarded life as an optimist. In person he
was shorter than most ; he made up for that by
being * broader than most ; he wore a big brown
beard and spectacles ; he had a catholic taste for
wine of all kinds, if only it was good, and was
almost a Frenchman in his admiration of all pretty
women.

There was one other guest whom one should
notice among all the rest. It was the Padre. .

He was young, quite young, and enthusiastic.
When he left Oxford to be. ordained a Bishop's
Chaplain for Palmiste, he thought he was coming
to a place which was crying aloud for the guidance
of the Church, He dreamed of an obedient
and docile flock, patiently awaiting instruction.
He would instruct them ; he would guide them —
to be sure, he had only, with great difficulty,
secured a humble third in Moderations — he would
lead them. And to ecclesiastics of the Keble
College kind he would add, by degrees, aesthetic,
athletics, art, and culture. There was not as yet,
in the whole island, one single piece of blue china,

nor a peacock's feather, nor a picture of the
latest school, nor a ballade of the prig-poets, nor
any old silver, or lace, nor ritual, nor vestments,
or incense — all were downright sturdy independent
Protestants, Scotch Presbyterians, and so
forth. So that a deep depression fell upon the
young man's soul. He was so young, too, that he
could not bear to see things going on without
j joining in them ; and so sensitive that he felt the
ridicule of his own long skirts ; and so sharp that
he saw how his profession was more respected
than beloved, and that his presence was too often
a bene. Then he was too sincere not to be
grieved by the hastiness of his companions,
their random talk, their 'wild words,' their readiness
to play cards, and their eagerness to laugh
at a good story. He tried to tell a few good stories
himself, but perceived with pain that he did not
succeed in making his hearers laugh. A tall, thin
young man, with the narrow, high forehead and
straight features often found in enthusiastic young
clergymen ; one of the kind who affect great
thirst for knowledge with the air of having
known it all beforehand ; who have an exasperating
way of saying ' Yes, yes, yes,' to whatever is
said ; and a man perfectly sincere, perfectly
virtuous, honourable, and religious, whose life is
bound to be a failure because he understanding
not his fellow-man.

As they came out upon the verandah of the
Pavilion, one by one, they began to disperse.
The Assistant Colonial Secretary observing the
remarkable neatness of the Padre's dress, the
length of his skirts and the glossiness of his
trousers, proposed to take him for a pleasant walk
among the hills ; they set off together. Those
who saw them start reported an ominous twinkle
in the Secretary's eyes, and a courtesy in his
demeanour, not always remarkable in his treatment
of the cloth. When they returned, about
nine o'clock, the Padre's long coat in ribbons, and
his glossy trousers held together by pins and bits
of string, they remembered that twinkle, though
the Secretary now takes blame to himself, and
says that he ought to have taken thought of the
Chinese raspberries and other thorny underwood
on that hillside. He may be very sorry, but his
impersonation of the Padre in a thorny thicket
caught by the skirts is funny, and has been known
to make even the Bishop laugh. As for the
Professor, he went into the garden and cut a pineapple,
and found a shady place to eat it in. Then
he returned to the Pavilion and threw himself
into the hammock, there to read a French novel,
which the Pink Boy thought was a learned
treatise, and therefore would not interrupt. Sandy
McMcAndrew took a gun and went to take pot shots
at the bo's'n birds in the ravine. His partner,

VOL. IT. u

with an eye to business, borrowed an umbrella
and went to inspect the canes. And the Pink
Boy, left alone because no one invited him to
join their party, ventured timidly to the verandah
of the house in hopes of finding Miss Ferrier
alone and ^ettino- a talk. She Alas not there ;
but the squire was, and they went out for a
walk together, which was not quite the same
thing.

The Honourable Guy Talbot Ferrier, born, as
Debrett tells everybody, in the year 1853, was
therefore on New Year's Day, 1881, in his twenty-eighth
year. He was, at first sight, a singularly
handsome young man, whose features were regular,
figure tall and upright, and eyes of a soft
dark blue. His voice was musical and full, and
his hands were small. He would have formed,
in fact, an excellent model for a sculptor, and, by
simply changing his expression — nothing more —
a most beautiful and poetical portrait might have
been made of him. It was, however, just his
expression which spoiled him. He had got,
somehow, the wrong one, and so an incongruous
and uncomfortable effect was produced. There
are a great many young men like him in this
respect. Nature intended them for one expression,
and they have gone astray, and so got
another which does not fit. Later on in life it
does not matter; because the manner of life

which gives the expression also changes the
features. Now, in the case of this young gentleman,
the nobility of purpose, the resolution of
virtue, the courage of principle which should
have appeared naturally on his face were not
there.

Virtuous resolution and high moral principle
are not always necessary qualifications for making
a young man popular. There were many men
much beloved in Terrier's regiment who were not
implacably virtuous ; yet Ferrier himself was a man
with no friends ; he was perfectly well bred ; he
was not generally insolent, he was not boisterous,
or loud, or contemptuous, or superior, or any of the
things which generally make men unpopular.
Yet he was not liked. Many reasons might be
assigned to explain this fact : one will be quite
sufficient — the young man not only thought of no
one but himself, but did not pretend, as many
quite selfish men do, to think about anybody.
He was thoroughly held and possessed by the love
of self. He had but one god — the soul within
him which continually craved for something new,
something which it could devour, something which
would keep it in excitement. Xow the man who
desires not before all other things, but to the
exclusion of all other things his own personal
gratification, is always in the long run, if it comes
in his way, mainly attracted by gambling. There

TJ 2

is a fierce excitement in it ; there is the rapid
acquisition of money — the possession of which
means venal pleasure of all kinds ; there is the
trampling on other people in order to get it;
there are the alternations of fear and hope ; no one
else is benefited by your success ; no one else
desires it ; every man is wholly for himself; there
is but one prize, and all desire it ; to make one
man happy, the rest must be disappointed. Therefore,
though there are many pursuits in which the
egoist may gratify his favourite passion, there is
none so entirely absorbing and so satisfying as
gambling.

A man at eight-and-twenty ought, even in
colonial garrison life, to have some other pursuits.
Ferrier found none which gave him any pleasure.
He played continually : he would have played
all day ; he was ready to play all night. The
pleasing result, so far, was a quagmire of debts
and obligations out of which the way would have
been dubious even to a rich man. Now the
house of Ferrier had never been rich. Lord
Ferrier was not rich as a country gentleman ; asa
peer he was certainly poor. And at all times
there was present to his heir the vision of those
debts and the anxiety how they were to be paid.

This morning he awoke rasp in his temper,
as often happens when men sit up till two in the
morning to pkiy ecarte and drink too much ^oda-

and-brandy. And, he remembered that the
Major lead taken another I U from him when
they parted. And, in addition, he found that his
groom had let down his horse and cut his knees.
It was small satisfaction, yet some relief, to kick
and cuff the fellow ; and when this was done
there was still the recollection of that I U.

A bad night, Ferrier,' said the Major, looking
at the little slip of paper in his pocket-book.
This makes thirteen hundred and fifty-five, I
think.'

Ferrier received the hint in silence.

If I were you, my boy,' continued the Major,
I would drop play for a while, just to let luck
come round a bit.'

Luck ! ' the loser groaned. ' There never
was such luck as mine.'

I don't think, Ferrier, that I ought to play
with you ; it isn't fair. I keep my head ; you
lose yours. I'm an old hand, and you are a
young one. I play for the game ; you play for
the stakes.'

Hang it, man ! You can't mean that you
don't play to win ? '

Of course I play to win. Every man does.
But I think of the game, and you think only of
the points. See ? '

Ferrier threw himself into one of the long
chairs and relapsed into a gloomy silence. The

Iste Year had begun badly, indeed, for him. It
was going to finish — but this, as yet, he knew not
worse. The Major strolled out with an umbrella,
and-then there were left on the verandah
only the Professor and Ferrier. Presently the
Professor dropped his French novel, and, lazily
swinging in the hammock, contemplated the
moody young gentleman with wonder and pity.

'It seems to me,' he said to himself after a
while, ' that here is a young man whose conscience
is pegging away at him like the eagle at the man
on the rock. I wonder what he has done. To
think that Yirginie should have a cousin with such
a face.'

Indeed, at the moment the face was suffused
with such a glow of vindictive wrath, self-reproach,
and hatred, that it was quite horrible and
terrifying to look upon.

I wonder who it is, and what he has done :
though, perhaps, it is a person of the other sex,'
said the Professor. ' But it may be, perchance,
that the Honourable Guy is possessed of a devil
or two.'

Towards nine o'clock, the sun being high and
the heat of the day fairly begun, the men began
to come back, and when the Secretary appeared
leading the discomfited Padre, with his beautiful
skirts cut into ribbons like a banana-leaf after a
hurricane, and his black trousers rent in a hundred

places, there arose a shout of admiration and joy
quite beautiful to hear. And then they all went
to bathe.

Tom, who was the last to return, having been
the round of the whole estate and made notes of
shortcomings, led the way. He knew the pool
where water was coolest ; it was half a mile off,
where the ravine was the deepest and the narrowest.
And he knew the shortest way to it, which
was straight down a perpendicular rock about
ninety feet deep ; but, as he went down there
every morning, it never occurred to him that anybody
should think of breaking his neck there,
and he was greatly surprised when half-way
down to see above him the Padre clinging to the
rock like a spread-eagle, unable to move up or
down. Presently, the united efforts of the party
got him up, and the Professor undertook to lead
him to the pool by a safer and more circuitous
route.

Oh ! the pools and lashers, and waterfalls and
brawling mountain-streams of Palmiste ! Oh ! to
sit under a little cascade of four or five feet high,
to let the cold water flow over the hot and weary
limbs, is a joy which we who shiver in cold latitudes
cannot understand or even conceive. It
belongs almost to the keen and passionate joys ;
it is one which never palls, of which one is never
satiated, the desire for which recurs every morning.

' But,' said the Professor, ' I prefer the
long way round.'

The bath and the walk home, and the dressing
which followed, brought them well on to
eleven, which, as everybody knows, is the breakfast
hour of the Palmiste planter. Eleven o'clock
in the forenoon is, in fact, the proper time, the
natural time, for eating. We foolish folk of England
have abolished breakfast and substituted
luncheon, a meal which spoils the day, depraves
the appetite, and ruins the dinner. Nature intended
mankind to eat twice in the day, and
each time after the fatigue of labour. At eleven
if one gets up at five or thereabouts, the day's work
is well-nigh done. After six hours in the saddle
among the canes, for instance, which Tom had,
one gets home with a hunger almost unintelligible
in these climes ; a hunger which to a London
alderman would make life indeed worth having.
With what a cordial will that breakfast was attacked
by the guests ; how claret flowed without
stint or stay down thirsty throats ; how, after
the simple bourgeois plenty of houillahaisse^ fish
fried, fish boiled, chicken and salad, cutlets, grilled
turkey, and devilled bones, a stately prawn curry
added nobility to the repast ; how coffee was followed
by a chasse ; how Tom distinguished himself
beyond and above this peers ; how the Pink
Boy contemplated the thing with rapturous wonder

; and how the Padre thoiio-ht with something
like shame of the plain English rasher and the
cup of tea, — these are things which may be
briefly indicated, not dwelt upon. Envy is a
hateful passion, and one must always consider the
weaker brethren.

After breakfast there was a rest. Most of
them went back to the Pavilion for cigars. The
Padre, fatigued with the morning's scramble, and
perhaps just touched with the unaccustomed wine,
fell fast asleep. Only Captain Ferrier remained
with the ladies. He had shaken off his moody
fit, and was now, having taken a great deal of
claret, thoroughly set up and revived. Virginie
had a great many questions to ask, and the two
ladies sat and listened in their soft and dreamy
manner. They talked about England ; and the
child wanted to know all about her cousins and
the noble head of the house ; what the castle
was like ; what they all did when they were at
home in it ; what the place was like, and what the
people. Her cousin tried to describe them all.
But what can a girl understand who knows no
winter, no fog, no snow, no east winds, no green
enclosures, no English villages, and no old English
churches standing amid the graves of all the
generations, girt with the old trees ?

Meantime Tom, who knew not the meaning of
fatigue, though he had been six hours in the

saddle, and had eaten a more enormous breakfast
tliaii any of the rest, was busied with what appeared
to be a net. At sight of that net the
Professor arose, and softly retired to hide himself
in the tool-house with his novel. Tom unrolled
his net, examined the meshes, mended one or two
places, then rolled it up again. This took half an
hour or so. Then he called a boy, and gave it
him with a few directions. Then he rubbed his
hands, and announced, with a cheerful smile, that
everything was ready, and they could start as
soon as they pleased.

CHAPTEE IV.

THE HUNTING OF THE GOURAMI.

Let us first,' said the Secretary, the only one
who had been taking any part in the preparations,
wake up the Padre. He, too, must go with us.^

He was awakened with some difficulty, and at
first exhibited temper, and refused to join the
expedition. However, he was young, and not to
go might seem like showing a white feather unworthy
of an Oxford athlete. Besides, the sport
was the gentle and harmless one of angling.
Therefore the poor innocent, though with misgiving,
put on his broad felt hat and once more
adjusted his white muslin puggrey and was ready.

When the Professor had been led forth by the
ear from his hiding-place and had been told that
he, too, must go, and that resistance would be unavailing,
the party was complete, the only man
left behind being Ferrier, who had no taste for
sport of any kind outside an English preserve.
He suggested that the Major should stay behind
with him and while away the heat of the day

with a little ecarte, or vingt-un for two — a very
pleasing method of losing money. But the Major
refused, and went off with the rest.

First marched Tom, important, because he
was the leader or captain of the chasse aux
gouramis. Next came the Indian boys, carrying
the gear; then followed, with a rueful countenance,
the captive Professor, grimly remembering
fatigues on a certain occasion a year ago, and
devoutly wishing that the sport was over ; after
him the Padre, the long skirts of his only clerical
coat left him flapping about his legs, and his
white puggrey streaming behind the broad black
hat ; and then the Assistant Colonial Secretary,
with a sweet smile upon him as he contemplated
that broad hat and those flapping skirts, and
thought of what awaited the owner of those garments.
It was the hottest time in the year ; in
the shade the thermometer would be about ninety ;
in the sun, anything you please. Yet there was a
gentle breeze or stir in the air from the south,
whence cometh the breath of the Antarctic,
warmed upon its way, yet cool still, and fresh,
when it floats across the hot and tropical twenties.

In the ravine,' said the Professor, in order to
encourage the Padre, ' there will be no breeze at
all ; the rocks catch the heat and hold it till
strangers come ; then they give it out, and the
stranger is as grateful as you will be presently.

It will be like the hot room in the Turkish bath
that room, I mean, where, if you want breakfast,
you take the materials in raw and hold them
in your hand till they are cooked. Last year we
brought some tiffin with us — eggs, you know, and
bread, and some slices of ham ; we put them on
a stone just for a few minutes while we went into
a pool after the gouramis. When we came back
the eggs were hard boiled, the bread was toast,
and the rashers of bacon were done to a turn.'

I wish,' said the Padre, ' that I had left my
waistcoat at home.'

If you had been well advised,' said the Professor,
whose only fault was a want of reverence
for sacred things, ' you would have come on this
expedition in your surplice, and nothing else.'

Presently they came to the break-neck way
down the cliff, down which they all scrambled
except these two, and they went ignominiously
round by a longer and safer way. ' What boots
it,' asked the Professor, ' to save ten minutes if
you break your neck ? '

When they joined the party, the Padre observed,
with surprise, that they were all undressing.
Further, that the Professor, with a sigh,
also began to shed his garments, and that he himself
was expected to do the same thing. He
realised the meaning of the irreverent suggestion
about his surplice when he received a little

maillot of coloured cotton, such as Frenchmen
use to swim in. And lie began almost to wish
that he had not joined the expedition. In a few
minutes the whole party were arrayed in this
primitive dress, in which and their helmets and
hats, and nothing else, they began walking along
the hot boulders, under and among which the
stream was brawling on her way.

The streams of Palmiste are all alike : they
rise in the hills and they run into the sea, through
ravines beneficently provided by Nature for the
purpose. If there were no ravines they would
have to tumble, in break-neck fashion, over precipices.
As it is, they gracefully roll, run, leap,
babble, roar, prattle, fall, hasten, or linger on
their way, through most beautiful valleys, sometimes
deep, sometimes shallow ; sometimes broad,
sometimes narrow ; sometimes with perpendicular
faces of rock, and sometimes with sloping sides,
clothed with hanmngj wood. Sometimes the bottom
of the ravine consists of great rounded
boulders, and one has to get along by jumping
from one to the other. At first, this is fatiguing,
until you get into the swing of it. Sometimes
there is a broad flat bottom, covered over and
piled with boulders ; sometimes the ravine closes
quite in, and the stream runs noisily between the
rocky walls of a narrow way ; sometimes the
water dashes over the stones, forming hundreds

of tiny cascades ; sometimes it glides under them,
and is invisible for half a mile or so, though the
dense growth on either hand speaks of the water
below ; sometimes it widens out and forms lashers,
pools, or basins ; and sometimes it leaps over a
cliff and becomes a waterfall, dazzling, feathery,
like diamond spray. And everywhere, except on
the face of the rock, trees : such trees as one may
dream of; palms of every kind — the date palm,
the cocoa, the raphia, the travellers' tree, the aloe
with its long mast, the fragrant acacia, the tamarind,
and a hundred others, whose names one
knows not. In the shade under the trees and
hidden behind the rocks are ferns, such as one
may not hope to see in any other country, and on
the branches of the trees are orchids for those
who have eyes to see and knowledge to understand.


The ravine on that hot January day was very
silent, winding in and out, growing deeper as it
approached the sea. A few bo's'n birds called to
each other flying across from rock to rock ; you
could hear, perhaps, the chatter of monkeys in
the trees. But there was no other sound. The
place is so far away from the steps of man that a
visitor who should chance to slip and fall might
lie there until he died, and long after, without
being found. For many miles of its course no
one ever goes there, except at rare intervals when

Tom brings his friends to fish for gourami, or
when he strolls clown in the afternoon with a gun
on the chance of a shot. The coolies, an incurious
folk, have no occasion to go there ; the
negroes are afraid of ghosts ; and, of course, no
one except an Englishman would venture into
those hot and stifling depths at high noon of the
New Year, with the sun straight over head glaring
into all kinds of nooks and crannies where,
save at such seasons of vertical advantage, ray of
sun can never enter. The men were barefooted,
and presently the Padre began to understand the
Professor's allegory of the hard-boiled eggs. He
was very hot in spite of his scanty apparel ; he
dished himself, with shame, what certain people at
home, who thought greatly of his missionary zeal,
would say if they saw him now ; he was tired
with the early morning walk ; his feet were
blistering ; his legs ached with the perpetual leaping
or from stone to stone ; his shins were bruised
with frequent falls.

Said the Professor softly,

Last year a man came here who was unaccustomed
to walking on red-hot stones. We
-carried him up again after a while, but he has
never recovered the use of his feet, and now goes
on crutches.'

Then he was silent, and the Padre began to
think there midst be some truth in it.

But their leader called a halt, and everybody,
while the preparations were being made, sat down
with their feet in the water.

They were arrived at a most beautiful pool,
about forty feet long and twenty broad. Great
trees hung over the water, and splendid lines,
with stems as thick as the trunk of a stood-sized
English oak, spread out long arms, octopus fashion,
to throttle and destroy the trees which they embraced.
They began— those who understood the
method — by lowering the net carefully into the
Vater at the upper end. When all was ready the
Professor, with a groan, took up his position in
the middle, while Tom placed himself at one end
and the Secretary at the other. These three were
places of honour assigned to those who were most
at ease in the water, and presently they were all
swimming slowly down the pool, joined by the
others. It was a sweet and a beautiful sic^ht to
see the spectacles of the Professor glittering
under his helmet, as he went through the task
without enthusiasm, yet conscientiously ; and the
broad hat of his Eeverence shading an anxious
face, because he was not happy about his feet,
and because the proceedings seemed to lack the
dignity proper to the cloth ; and the red face of
the Major and the delight of the Pink Boy in the
coolness of the water. Presently Tom handed

VOL. II. X

over his end of the net to the McMcAndrew and disappeared.
After remaining under the water for
about five-and-twenty minutes or so, during which
time he was adjusting the net at the bottom, he
came up again. At this point the Professor,
catching sight of the Padre's nose just out of the
water, under the shade of his beautiful broad hat,
began to laugh silently, and communicated a
shivering to the net, so that Tom thought it was
one of the eels, in length from ten to forty feet,
for which the rivers of Palmiste are so famous,
and went down again to investigate.

By slow degrees and with great care the net
was hauled along the whole pool and pulled in at
the end. Then Tom's responsibilities began again.
Por he now had to dive down and bring up the
fish, taking only as many as they wanted and
picking out the big ones, throwing the young iisli
back again into the pool. Meantime, those who
were not actively employed sat on the edge of
the pool with their feet in the water and Awaited.
It was a good haul; but Tom said that they
must have one more cast of the net, and that the
next likely pool was not more than a quarter of a
mile down the stream. He set off, leading the
way, as before. The rest followed meekly, with
the exception of the Professor, who beckoned the
Padre and made a gesture of silence.

When the procession had disappeared beyond

the next bend of the rocks, he rose and asked his
Eeverence if he wished to play that game anymore.


I — I — certainly think that we have had
enough.'

Then come back with me. We will put on
our clothes and we will go cameron-fishing instead.'


Have we not had enough fishing? for one
day ? ' The Padre thought of those awful stones
and of his blistered feet, and remembered the
cool verandah.

The Professor hastened to explain.

We shall not take off our clothes for cameron-fishing
; nor shall we jump about on red-hot
boulders ; and we shan't walk at all. It is a lazy
sport. We shall sit under the shadiest place we
can find, higher up, where there is a little air,
I will teach you how to fish. I never catch
any myself, but I know the way other people
catch them ; and perhaps you will be more
lucky.'

All this seems a dreadful waste of time, does
it not ? ' asked the man fresh from Oxford.

You have only been a month in Palmiste,'
said the Professor. ' After a little, you will discover
that you cant waste time here. There's no
such thing as wasting time, unless, indeed, you

X 2

throw it away on reading. Out here we are
irresponsible. Life goes by, I suppose, because
there is a cemetery; but you don't feel as if it
was ever going to end. There is no use trying todo
any work. Nobody will ever be improved ;
nobody wants to be improved. It is warm and
sunny — what more can a man want ? '

' If I thought that,' said the Padre, ' I would
go straight back to England and find Work.
Why, it was because I thought I should find my
Work here that I came.'

The Professor smiled. ' That is the language
of the schools. I know it.'

Would you have me,' asked the young clergyman
hotly, 'would you have me take this post
in order to sit down in shady places and catch —
what do you call them ? '

Wise men sit down and meditate,' said the
Professor. ' Talk to the Squire ; he never reads
much, yet he is as wise as Solomon. Restless
men buzz about, and shove, and push, and call it
work. Do you know the story in Rabelais about
the work of Diogenes ? '

I do not read Rabelais,' said his Eeverence,

coldly.

Poor man ! Never mind. There was a
civil chaplain here until lately who was a miracle
of laziness. Yet he always went on talking about
his Work, with a capital W, you know, just as

you do. It is very good to begin with, and the
habit remains.'

I hope the habit will remain.*

It will. It Avill. But the thing will vanish.
I am going home myself before long, because I
am one of the restless men, and want to work.
It is very foolish of me, and I am sure I ought
rather to stay. Never mind. Let us go catch
the Cameron. Then we will find our way home
and sit on the verandah till it is time to dress for
dinner, and eat leeches and talk to Yirginie. I
have known her ever since I came here, which is
now four years ago ; and I am in love with her,
as you will be before long — very likely you are
already — you need not blush, because it does you
credit — and I am deuced sorry she has got that
fellow for a cousin.'

'Why?' asked the Padre.

'Why? Because — because I do not like
him.'

They had their cameron fishing. The Professor
led the way to a quiet little stream above
the ravine, where there was shade. Here he
cut a long thin branch of a willow like tree and
tied to the end of it a running noose, made of the
thin and strong tendril of the liane. ' Now,' he
said, ' you do likewise. Go and sit on that stone,
there, and I will sit there. All you have to do is
to keep quiet. When you see a cameron marching

along, pit-a-pat, suspecting nothing, hook your
noose over his tail. Then nip him up, and he is
caught. It is quite easy to do it, though I have
never been able, with all my efforts, to catch a
single one.'

What is a cameron like, when you do see
him?'

He is about six inches long, and he is black,
and he looks like a crayfish, or big prawn.
He is good enough to boil a beautiful red, and
he lends himself to curry, or you can eat him
boiled. He isn't proud. Now, go and catch
him.'

The Professor was short-sighted, consequently
he never saw any cameron at all. But he sat
very patiently, with his noose in the water and
the cameron playing about the harmless trap in
dozens ; and he meditated.

She will be a great heiress' — this was the
staple of his reflections — 'that cousin of hers
will be a Lord, very likely he will want to marry
her ; and she ought to marry Tom, because she
loves him ; next to Tom, and if I could makeup
my mind to murder Tom, she ought to marry
me, because I love her. And her money would
set the Captain's estate on its legs again. Poor
old man ! Half a hurricane this year and down

he goes ! Hallo ! Padre, old

man, wake up. It's half-past five, and instead of

catching cameron you've gone to sleep again.
I haven't caught any myself, but I've had some
splendid misses. Let us go and talk to Vir-since.'


END OF THE SECOND Volume.

I.OXDON' : PRINTED DY

iirOTTISWOODE ASU CO., New-street S'-L'AUE

AND PAUI-IAMKNT STREET

:S/<

/y. V,

^/// V- /

f^.

^^/-

EX-LIBRIS
F. E.DlNSHAW

•?fW^

OF THE

U N I VLR.SITY

Of ILLINOIS

B46ca

n-

\\

%\

ETC.

VOL. III.

Each in Three Volumes.

KIT : a Memory, By James Pain.

VAL STRANGE. By David Christie Murray.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon.

GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.

DUST. By Julian Hawthorne.

WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.

OF HIGH DEGREE. By Charles Gibbon.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

ETC.

BY

WALTER BESANT

AUTHOR OF ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY


[A// ri(::hts reseri'ed'\

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEVV-STkEET SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

•

CONTENTS

OF

THE Third VOLUME.

THEY WERE MARRIED.

Part I.— MON Desire continued).

CHAPTER V.

PAGE

How THE Mail came in 3

CHAPTER VI.
How THE Mail went out .29

Part II.— IN THE SEASON.

CHAPTER I.
A Rose of June 39

CHAPTER II.
Elsie's Friend QQ

CHAPTER III.
An Actress at Home 80

CHAPTER IV.
The only Way out of it 94

CHAPTER V.

PAGE

The Engagement 109

CHAPTER VI.
Husband and Wife 121

CHAPTER VII.
Love's Young Dream 137

CHAPTER VIII.
Her Simple Duty 148

CHAPTER IX.

Shall I tell Her ? 162

CHAPTER X.
Wife and Fiancee . . 172

CHAPTER XL
Broken off 186

CHAPTER XII.
Poor Tom ! 190

CHAPTER XIII.
Farewell 207

CHAPTER XIV.
An Auspicious Day 221

THE HUMBLING OF THE MEMBLLNGS . 231

J

THE MURDER OF NICK Vender . . 289 '

(continued).

VOL. III.

HOW THE MAIL CAME IN.

This New-year's Day was considered by the Mon
Desir party as in no way differing from any other
New Year's Day. As usual, there was open house
so far as the resources of the establishment
allowed : so many beds, so many sofas, so many
mattresses, so many guests. They came; they
feasted, talked, sang, and rejoiced ; there was
abundance of talk, with the popping of corks
innumerable ; there was the prettiest girl in the
whole island to court, compliment, and tease.
When the brief holiday was over they all went
away again to their respective work. That is
what happened every New-year's Day. All
things in Palmiste go on as if they were to
last for ever, or to recur for ever on the usual day.
And certainly no one could have suspected that a
time so festive, gay, and irresponsible would
bring with it the cause of a revolution — nothing
short of a revolution — for the lives of half the
people in the party.

When the Professor, after the fruitless hunt
for Cameron, sought the verandah of the house,
he perceived, being with his spectacles nearly as
good as other people without, that something had
happened or was about to happen.

First of all, the English mail was in, and
there was present the Captain of the mail himself,
who had just come out, and was sitting in great
contentment in one of the easiest of the chairs.
The Squire, whose face was troubled, was holding
a letter in one hand and the Home News in the
other. First he read the letter through, then he
read a page or two of the newspaper, then he
turned to the letter again, and then he went back
to the paper : evidently he was thinking more
of the letter than of the printed page. The two
elder ladies sat with tears in their eyes, holding
each a hand of Virginie, who stood before them,
pale and troubled, as if she was going to be
offered up in sacrifice. What could be the matter?
Captain Ferrier stood apart, with a small packet
of open letters in his hand, occupied with his own
thoughts, and they seemed as gloomy as those
which had distorted his features in the early
morning.

Something was certainly going to happen. Asa
rule, the excitement of the mail lasts from the
first appearance of the signals on the Signal-hill
until the issue of the slip into which the news of

the whole month is condensed by the Editor of
the Commercial Gazette. This summary, which
is all that anyone wants to see, varies in length
from four inches to six inches and a half. Think
of getting your news for a whole month condensed
into six inches of letterpress ! All the
great people in the world, the Bismarck, and the
Gladstone, and the Gambettas ; all the ministers,
statesmen, generals. Parliament men, eloquent
speakers, persuasive preachers, convincing writers,
mischievous demagogues, restless agitators, 
men, poets, prigs, dramatists, historians,
novelists, actors, artists. Big Eag, Little
Tag, and Bobtail — all over the habitable globe
toil and moil with the utmost diligence for four
weeks in every human tongue, and the result of
the whole can be boiled down into a six-inch
slip ! And even that does not prove that the
world has been advanced by one sixth of the
length of that slip. The monthly spectacle of a
whole world feverishly busy, and doing nothing,
is of itself, without considering the climate,
sufficient to account for the philosophic calm and
resolute inaction of the Palmiste natives. ' Why
all this care?' they soothing comes of it.
Only sometimes knocking of heads together ;
tumults, broken bones, revolutions, and wars,
with loss of property and triumph of the wrong
side. Sit down, neighbours, and let us tell each

Other pleasant stories, and make merry while we
may, until the night falls, when we are fain to goto
sleep.'

The perusal of the slip finished, the excitement
instantly dies away. Everybody reads the
same papers, the Overland Mail, the Home News,,
and the Illustrated London News ; some go sofar
as to read the Saturday Review and Punchy
or the Spectator. But they are few ; therefore,
since no one can boast of any information but
that which is open to his neighbours, there is no
inducement to talk politics ; and since no more
information can come for a whole month, there is
no inducement to speculate.

The captain of the mail-steamer arrived, then,
about four of the clock, bringing with him the
monthly packet of letters and papers for the
whole party.

I heard,' he said, 'who was out here, and I
waited for the post to be opened, and so brought
all their letters, as well as yours. Captain Kemyss.
And how goes it with you and yours, and how is
the pretty maid ? '

He had been on the line a good many years,
and Yirginie was still for him his pretty maid,
and he was a privileged guest at Mon Desir, to
come and go as often as he pleased and was able.

Then he sat down and rested while the letters
were read.

There were two for Captain Kemyss — his
correspondence with the mother-country, after so
many years of exile, had dropped by degrees, and
was now almost reduced to nothing ; one for
Madame Ferrier — a very unusual circumstance ;
one for Yirginie, who had never had a letter from
England before ; five or six for Captain Ferrier ;
two for the Professor ; half a dozen for the
Padre ; a pile for the others ; and a vast quantity
of newspapers, Punches monthly magazines, books
and pamphlets for everybody.

The first of the two letters which Captain
Kemyss opened was from a certain cousin of his,
a country gentleman of the Midland counties, and
was respecting Tom. ' My advice,' said the
writer, ' is to keep the boy where he is. Let
him stick to the thing that he knows. As for
sugar-planting being precarious, it has kept you
for thirty years, and I dare say it will keep him.
England is not a good country just now, especially
for men like me, who have a dozen farms on
their hands ; ' and so on — and so on — a letter
which does not concern us.

Captain Kemyss laid it down with a sigh.
He had hoped that perhaps some chance might
have been found for Tom when the crash, so long
imminent, should come at last. Then he took up
the other letter, which was in a writing strange
to him. When, now a dozen years and more

agone, his guardianship of Virginie began, there
was a second guardian, also one of Captain
Ferrier's brother-officers, who had sold out, and
was then living at Southey. It was understood
that he was to hold an honorary office,
and that the child would continue, to live with
her mother at Mon Desir, while Captain Kemyss
managed her estate. So honorary was the office
that the acting guardian had almost forgotten the
existence of his coadjutor, and had not even
learned that he was dead.

The letter was from his widow, and was as.
follows : —

Dear Sir, —

'As the widow of your old friend and brother-officer,
one who was associated with you in the
office of guardian to Miss Ferrier, I trust I need
no introduction or excuse for addressing you.' —
So Jack is dead, is he,' said the reader, stopping
to look at the signature. 'Poor Jack! I had
almost forgotten him.' — ' Circumstances have not
allowed me, until lately, to offer any hospitality
to my ward, if I may call her so. I am now,
however, I rejoice to say, at last in a position to
discharge one at least of the duties accepted forme
by my late husband.' — ' He married — I heard
that he married — I forget who she was,' said the
Squire, stopping again at this point to recall
things, 'somebody of good family, I know — and

she had expectations. Let me see. They were
hard up when I heard last — lived in a cottage at
Southey ; that must have been twelve years ago.
Then Jack died I suppose, and she's come into
the money at last. I suppose that is what she
means.' He went on with the letter —

I believe that our dear Yirginie — or Lucie —
forgive me if the name has escaped my memory
must now be seventeen years of age. I hear
from the Colonel, of the 180th, just returned
from your lovely island, that she is perfectly
charming and perfectly beautiful. I have also
learned, to my great satisfaction, that you have so-well
nursed her estate that she is now a considerable
heiress. Now, my dear sir, do you not
think it would be a great pity that this young
lady, while she is still young, with her affections
free, should not come to England and make
acquaintance with her own people ? I have the
honour of knowing Miss Terrier. I was talking
on this subject to her on the last occasion of
meeting her. I am happy to inform you that she
expressed herself in the kindest manner concerning
her unknown cousin, and will, 1 am sure, show
her all the attention when she comes home that
she can desire or expect. As for me, I do not
disguise the fact that I should like to have a young
and beautiful girl staying with me, partly because
it is pleasant to have young and pretty faces-about

one, and partly because they make a house
attractive and bring people about one. Others
may hunt for lions ; it is my principle, ray dear
Captain Kemyss, that men care more for lionesses.
When I get my fair Creole in my drawing-room
I shall not let her go in a hurry.

As regards matrimonial prospects, you may
entirely trust me. I will stop the first sign of
a flirtation in the very bud, unless the man is
thoroughly what you have a right to expect.
There are not so many men of the right kind in
this town, especially since the terrible blight that
has fallen upon landowners ; yet there may be
some. Of course, I know there are many dangers
which beset a girl of fortune or expectations.
London is always abounding in penniless adventurers,,
literary men, subalterns, younger sons, and
even curates, who are longing to marry an heiress
and hang up their hats and sit down idle for
life. But they shall not get near our Virginie.
I will surround her, my dear Captain. I will belike
a hollow square with fixed bayonets, until
the right man approaches, and then I will be a
benevolent Fairy. Of course, with a girl of good
almost of noble — birth, who has none but good
relatives — I think I have heard that her mother
belongs to the House of Desires auvergne
who has also a great and productive sugar
estate — with, the Colonel said, a hundred and

twenty thousand pounds, but perhaps that is too
good to be true — should look very high indeed.
There is nothing to which she may not aspire to,
though if we dream of a coronet we should be
sober ; our thoughts ought not to run higher than
an earl or a viscount. However, I will do my
best. Character, of course, as well as position,
should be carefully inquired into.

I have written honestly to you, because if
you were really a private friend of my late husband
you must be a man of the world. I frankly
think that my offer is a good one, and that in the
interests of the girl you ought not to refuse it. If
her mother lives, my invitation will extend to her ;
but, on the whole, I sincerely think it will be better
that the child should come alone, and acquire, by
living entirely among English people, the ideas, the
air, and the tone of English society.

I hope to have a favourable answer by return
mail. I am ready to receive my charge tomorrow,
if she can come. If a chaperon can be found,
the arrival of my ward in person would be the
most favourable reply possible.

I remain, dear Captain Kemyss,
Yours, very sincerely,

'Laura Hallowed.'

The squire read this frank and plain-spoken
letter through twice. The tone of it struck his

ears, long unfamiliar with the world of fashion,
discordantly. His ward was to go to London,
and stand in the matrimonial market with other
girls, saying, ' Behold me ! I am rich, beautiful,
young, of gentle birth. I will take a coronet in
exchange for myself.' Yet the letter was honest;
also, the invitation was one which ought not to
be lightly refused. It was right that the girl
should go to England ; it was part of her education.
She ought, as Mrs. Hallowes suggested, to
make the acquaintance of her own people ; she
ought to go while yet young, with her affections
free. And at this point, he said, with a sigh,
Poor Tom ! ' and read the letter again. Evidently
the letter of a woman of society — of the
Avorld ; and probably a woman who would make
social capital out of her rich young heiress. Yet,
what harm would that do Virginie ?

At this point he folded the letter and raised
his eyes. A singular pantomime was going on.

First, his own wife took a letter from Madame
Eerrier's hands, and read it. Then both ladies
and Virginie gazed upon each other in a kind of
stupor. Then Madame Eerrier held out her arms,
and the girl fell into her maternal embrace.

• Child,' murmured the mother, ' can I let
thee go ? So soon ? So soon ? '

'Sybille?' said her friend, speaking the language
of her youth, ' we must let her go. It is

for the child's own good ; we are two simple
Creole ladies, who have never left the island and
never shall. But Virginie has English cousins ;
she must visit her father's country, she should
learn to love his home. Virginie, child of my
heart, what mayest thou ? '

What can I say ? ' she replied. ' Oh ! what
can I say ? '

'It was thy father's wish, my dear,' her
mother went on. ' He spoke continually of
taking thee to England when thou wast grandee'

It is I,' said her guardian, ' who should have
thought of it. My dear, the time has passed so
swiftly that I forgot you were grown up, I
ought to have remembered that it was due to you
that you should go home for a while — for a while '
he repeated. ' We must let you go.' He took
her hands and bent over her with his kindly
smile. ' We cannot bear to part with you, my
dear ; but, if your mother consents, we must let
you go. May I see those letters ? '

One of them was from Mrs. Hallowes to
Madame Ferrier, conveying to her the same invitation
as she had made to Captain Kemyss, butin
different terms. For she said nothing about
society or matrimonial projects and ambitions ; but
dwelt upon the advantage to the young lady of
seeing England, and spoke of her own as a quiet
home among a circle of quiet friends ; and she

also dwelt upon the advantages to be derived in
the way of music, art, and so forth.

She must be, indeed,' thought the Squire, ' a
woman of the world.'

The other letter was from Virginie's second
cousin, Maude, daughter of Lord Ferrier and sister
of the man on the verandah, who was scowling
over his letters. It was a very short letter, but
kindly : —

Dear cousin,' she wrote, ' I learn from Mrs.
Hallowes, the widow of one of your guardians,
that she has invited you to pay a visit to England
next year. I sincerely hope that your mother
may let you come, even if she does not herself
accompany you. Eemember that you have
cousins who would like to make your acquaintance.


Your father was at school with mine, his
first cousin. I have heard a great deal about
you and your beautiful country home already
from my brother, and I assure you that I look
forward to making your acquaintance with a very
great deal of pleasure. We spend most of our
time at The Towers, but generally have two
months in London. Wherever we are, when you
are able to leave Mrs. Hallowes, come and stay
with us, as soon as you can.

Your affectionate cousin, Maude.'

These were the three letters which fell like so
many bombs into the peaceful verandah on that
sunny afternoon. And this it was which, when
the Professor arrived, was making his host read
the Home News with eyes which read indeed but
saw not, and turned again to the letter.

A Coronet,' he murmured ; ' but why not ?
Poor Tom ! Yet, would it have been right —
would it have been honest — to take advantage
of her innocence and ignorance before she knows
the world? Let her go. And Tom must take
his chance. A poor chance, indeed ! Rank
against rusticity. Fashion against fidelity ; the
lover of the town against the sweetheart of the
country.'

Yirginie's cousin, meanwhile, had opened two
letters. One of them was from his sister. He
read it hurriedly, and crammed it into his pocket
as if it made him angry. What it said was
this : —

Dearest Guy, — I hear from two or three
people who know, or ought to know, that our
Creole cousin is rich, young, and beautiful. Also
that she has manners which would fit her for any
station. And that she is coming home to stay
with a woman who wants her, I believe, as a help
to get on in society. The woman, however, is

very well, and will take the girl to good houses.
I have taken notice of her for your sake — mind,
for your sake — and because such a woman may,
in certain cases, be very useful to you. Now,
Ouy, be reasonable. You tell me that you are in
desperate straits. It is now six years, or thereabouts,
since these desperate straits began. I do
not reproach you; but I remind you that you
have had, not only your own allowance, but all
my money, and all that I could persuade my
father to add. He does not know of these straits ;
if he did he would ask you how they are caused.
/ do know, Grey. Again, I do not reproach you.
I will even go on trying to help you, though I
know that every ten-pound note we get for you
will only go the same way as its predecessor. Now,
consider carefully. When you were at home last
summer I caught an heiress and got her here on
purpose for you 'to meet her. You remember
her. She was not, I own, in the least degree
beautiful, nor was she clever at all ; and I did not
expect that you would fall in love with her ; but
she was rich and she was amiable, and she was
ready to fall in love with you. And men in desperate
straits cannot always marry anybody they
please. But you would not have her, although
you were in such straits. Now, here is this other
girl. Come home immediately, on urgent private
affairs. Come home, if you can, in the same

steamer with her ; make fierce love to her all the
way home. When she goes to Mrs. Hallowes',
let it be with your engaged ring on her ^wgQT.
When you get her money you can pay ofi* your
creditors, even if you only begin a fresh course
of madness. There, Guy ; that is all I can do
for you at present. I have only to add that the
times are bad for everybody who has got land,
and therefore for us. And it is not the least use
expecting any further assistance from your father,
or from your affectionate sister, Maude.'

Then,' murmured the young man, ' how the
devil is Morgan's I U to be taken up ? '

The other letter was written in a less clerkly
hand, and there were occasional mis-spellings in
it. And it was this letter which made the young
man scowl.

I told you, Guy,' it began, without any
polite or conventional endearments of speech ; ' I
told you that I would let you know from time to
time what I am doing and how I am doing. Very
well, then. I am doing very well. And so is the
boy. He is not like you, I am glad to say, as
yet ; in face he takes after me and his grandfather,
the scene-shifter, who was once a very handsome
man ; and I hope he will never become like you
in any single respect. And, as I am not quite a
lady myself, though more so than when you
knew me, I have got a girl who is a lady to act

VOL. III. c

as his governess and companion. By the time
the child grows up and can compare, I shall, I
dare say, have become more like a lady, because
I do not want him ever to be ashamed of his
mother. An actress I am, and shall remain.
Ten pounds a week, my gallant Captain, your
wife draws. She's got her marriage hues safe ;
but nobody knows that she's the Honourable Mrs.
Ferrier. Biz is first-rate. We have got a piece
good for six hundred nights, and the ghost walks
regular. Portraits of your wife are sold whereever
she goes — character-portraits, looking in the
glass, tying a handkerchief round her head, in a
riding habit — all sorts — and lie gets letters, offers
of marriage, bouquets, and applause, and everything
which * the heart of an actress can desire.
So that she is quite happy. And the boy is so
beautiful that she does not so very much repent
having fallen in your way. And, as for his rights,
why, whatever you do, you can't gamble them
away. I do not want ever to see you again, nor
to hear from you. The Army List will tell me
where you are. which is all I want to know.
And, on the least attempt at interference with my
boy, we go to The Towers — accompanied by our
own people, the respectable * scene-shifter — and
we see my lord, and we introduce the daughter-in-law
and the grandchild. It is a good situation,
and I think I should play it rather well. I

remain, your wife, not at all affectionate, Violet
Lovelace — it is a swell name, and I found it in the
Court Guide — but it is not so good as my own
real name, which is, as you very well know, Emily
Eerrier.'

When Captain Ferrier had got through the
whole of this epistle, which did not take long, he
fell into a study, in which everything became a
nocturne, an arrangement in black. He was
roused by the arrival of the Professor, against
whom, for some unknown reason, he had conceived
a violent and irrational hatred. He glared
at him for a moment, and then strode hastily
away. First he walked along the avenue of
palms, and when he got to the end of it he swore
aloud ; then, by way of distraction, he went to
the stable to look at his horse, and swore again,
and if his syne had been in the place it would
have been bad for that poor Indian. But he was
not. The man was at the moment with the old
witch of Ensor bargaining for a charm which
should slowly poison a horse, so that no one
would suspect what was the matter with him, and
an honest groom should not get into trouble.
The terms of the transaction were amicably
arranged, and the charm, which was to take the
form of a little something to pour among the oats,
was promised, on condition that this estimable
person should pay for it beforehand — because he

c2

could write — in forged passes, by means of which
the old woman afterwards made much money
and helped many of her friends to deceive the
police.

We may here observe that, among the many
things which once done cannot be recalled,
perhaps the most fatal is such a thing as Guy
Terrier did when he was just twenty one years of
age, being then a young gentleman of very headstrong
disposition, and fully determined upon
having all he wanted, at any cost. He had
always from childhood acted upon this principle,
and it made him so popular at school, that when
he left the boys proposed to have fireworks. In
the Army he continued to act on the same settled
principle, being now quite certain that he deserved
to have all he wanted ; and he was so much
beloved, therefore, that when it became known,
directly after the arrival of this mail, that Ferrier
was going home on urgent private affairs — presumably
the raising of money to pay his debts
of honour — his brother-officers so far sympathised
with him as to give thanks unanimously that he
was going to enjoy a holiday. It was upon this
principle, also, being at the moment consumed
and inflamed with passion, that, at the age of
twenty-one, he entered secretly into the bonds
of holy wedlock with a certain 'young person'
named Emily Hicks. She was quite young, extremely

pretty, quick, and clever, well able to
take care of herself, almost uneducated, the
daughter of a scene-shifter or carpenter and
'general service' theatrical man, and she was just
commencing a dramatic career, which now promises
to be distinctly successful, when this thing
happened to her.

The interruption to her professional pursuits
lasted rather more than a year. She then returned
to Daddy Perigal, and informed him that for the
future she should never again speak to her husband,
nor take money from him, nor in any way
sown him ; that she should go back to the stage in
her first-assumed name ; but, for the sake of the
child, whom she brought with her, whose rights
must be watched, she would assume her legal
name when the boy should be grown up. She
therefore returned to the stage under her old
acting name, and began to work just as hard as if
she were still really Emily Hicks, with her future
before her, instead of the Hon. Mrs. Ferrier, a
woman married and done for.

As for her husband, he went his own way, and
contrived, as a rule, to forget her existence, except
when he was reminded of it by such a letter as he
had just read, or by his sister's well-meant attempts
to find him an heiress. Between himself and an
heiress there always stood this woman and her boy.
At first, lie suffered from great apprehensions that

she would communicate with his own people. As
she did not, he gradually recovered confidence in
her word. He could not marry ; that was true ;
but then he did not want to marry. The goddess
of Chance was the only bride he cared to worship
; some day, most certainly, if Emily lived
and the boy lived, there would be a row. Meanwhile,
so long as she let him alone, he troubled
himself little about her. When his thoughts were
turned upon her by such letters as he had just
received he realised how bitterly he hated the
woman.

We are going to have a sad change, Professor,'
said Captain Kemyss. ' Virginie is to leave
us and to go to England.'

Virginie will go away ? ' This was, indeed,
a change.

Yes : she had another guardian besides
myself, though I had almost forgotten it : she is
invited, and wee think we ought to let her go : we
hope it will not be for long. But who knows .^
who knows ? '

There were letters, too, for the Professor.
Among them one which seemed to cause him
much agitation.

Come home at once,' it said, among other
things. ' The longer you stay away, the more
difficult will it be for you to get what you want.
Come, and you shall join the ranks of the penniless

adventurers and make a spoon or spoil a
horn.'

When they met at dinner, a certain sadness
weighed upon their minds. The dinner was silent ;
for now they all knew what was going to happen,
and that the party would be broken up, never,
perhaps, all to meet again. Yirginie was going to
England — the child who had grown up among
them. Why, McLoughlin, Mc Andrew, and the
Secretary had seen her every Stews Year's Day, and
plenty of days between, for seventeen years ; they
had watched her pass from infancy to childhood ;
she grew slowly, before their eyes, from a girl,
imperfect, bony, angular, to a woman, perfect,
rounded, marvellous. She was the joy of the
house — the great and chief attraction of Mon
Desir. There Alas no one like her in the island.
And now she was to go. What — what would the
place be without her ?

In Palmiste one is accustomed to seeing people
come and go. The officers of the garrison,
naturally, are constantly changing ; the Governor
changes every six years or so ; the chiefs of the
Civil Service are always changing : and partners
and clerks of mercantile houses are perpetually
coming out and going home again, to say nothing
of those who succumb to the extraordinary hastiness
of the place, and go prematurely to their long
home. Therefore, no one was surprised to learn

that Captain Ferrier was called home on urgent
private affairs.

With the Professor it was different ; he was
liked by many ; he had been in the Colony four
or ^VQ years, and was regarded, though wrongly,
as a permanent resident. He was an eminently
cheerful soul ; he played a fair hand at whist ; he
had at times a mordant tongue, and was good at
the repression of those who, in Palmiste or elsewhere,
endeavour to assert themselves over much ;
and he had a great fund of information and
anecdote, by means of which he could enliven the
dinner tables of the plain, honest Scotch folk who
mostly make up the civil society of Palmiste. It
was rumoured that he wrote — no one knew what ;
men who had lived with him knew that he
possessed, hidden away in drawers, a quantity of
MSS. ; that he had been known to extract one,
now and then, and to read it for the benefit of his
friends ; so that, when the news fell upon them
that he, too, was going, it was felt that his intention
was to go home in order to publish those
MSS. or write more.

The dinner languished. The talk was forced.
The Pink Boy told about the gourami-fishing ; the
Padre recounted some of his sufferings on the
boulders ; and the Professor narrated his fruitless
chasse of the cameron ; but the Squire was dejected,
the two elder ladies sad, Virginie anxious

and restless, and Tom downcast. After dinner,
the Squire filled this glass and gave his usual New-year's
toast.

Gentlemen,' he said, ' I drink to all friends at
home. Captain Terrier, I drink the health of his
Lordship. Major, Professor, McMcAndrew ' — he
bowed to each in turn in his kindly and courtly
way — ' to you and to yours, here and at home, I
wish a happy Kew Year.

It will be a strange New Year to us,' he went
on, ' without our child. Virginie will go, I suppose,
by this next mail ; we send her to the keeping
of good hands ; we trust — that is, we hope —
that we shall have her back among us in a year
or two, when she has shaken off the rustic ways
of Palmiste and learned the talk of Mayfair. But
we are not afraid. Onr Virginie will not forget
her old friends ; and for hostage, we keep Madame
Terrier with us.'

Virginie, who sat on her guardian's left, seized
his hand and kissed it with tears.

'As for you. Professor,' went on the old
planter, 'it's a disgraceful thing that you can't
stay with us. You've got enough to live upon —
what does a bookman want more .^ You know the
foolishness of fighting ; here is a haven of rest ;
and you must needs go back to wrangle wrangle
among the literary men of London. For shame,
sir ; for shame ! Haven't we been kind to you ? '

From all voices, except the two officers, there
came a chorus.

Haven't we been kind enough to you, Professor
? '

Heh, mon ! ' This was the expostulation of
Sandy McMcAndrew. He felt at the moment that
after the many hundreds of sherry-and-bitters,
cups of cold tea, brandy-and-sodas, and vermouths
taken by the Professor in the room over his office,
it was ungrateful in him to go. There needed no
words.

Come with me, Virginie,' said Tom, when he
could get speech of her. She went out with him
into the night, looking like a white ghost upon the
dark lawn.

I want to say something to you, dear,' said
Tom, ' before you go. May I say it to-night ? '

Yes, Tom. Say what you please and all you
please.'

It is this, Virginie. You are going to leave
us. That is quite right. You have rich friends
in England whom you ought to see. I always
thought that you would go some day. And you
are rich yourself My dear, we have been so
much together, all day long together for all these
years, that we are almost like brother and sister,
are we not ? '

Go on, Tom,' she said, with a quick perception,

almost a pang at lier heart, that they were
not brother and sister.

I am not clever at books,' he continued. ' The
Professor is, but I am not. And I don't know how
to talk about things, like your cousin. I am only
a Creole, a son of the soil, a sugar-planter. But,
Virginie, I want you to believe one thing.'

I will believe anything, Tom, that you tell
me to believe.'

It is a very simple thing. It is only that I
love you '

But I know you do, Tom.'

And that I shall always love you, whatever
you do. I mean — because, of course, whatever
you do will be right and good, and the best thing
that ever any girl did — that even if I hear that
you have accepted some man in England, some
clever man or some great man, I shall go on loving
you all the same. I am what I am, Virginie ; but,
whatever happens, good or bad, you will remember,
will you not — oh ! my dear — that here, at
Mon Desir, there is one man who loves you
always.'

Oh ! Tom,' she said, bursting into tears.
Why must I go to England at all ? Yes ; you all
love me ; you are all too good to me. And I wish
it was over, and I was back again, and all was
going on just the same as before.'

This can never be. One of the most cruel

things that Time, who is always dragging and
tearing something from us, does is that he will
never let pleasant ways remain or renew themselves.
He is always destroying. He tramps on,
always a lusty youth, whose companion, as in
Watts's picture, is pale Death, and beneath his feet
as they go the flowers are trampled down and
their grace and perfume lost. There may be —
there should be always to the end — other flowers
before us, but they are not the same.

And at Mon Desir this is the last of the old
Kew-Year Days when Virginie, the sweet and
innocent child, would be there to meet and greet
them with lier smile and her pretty soft caressing
ways.

She must go, Tom,' said his father that night,
^ with her affections free.'

Yes, sir,' he replied ; ' I have told her tonight
that I shall always love her ; I thought I
ought to tell her that before she goes. But she
will go with her affections quite free, as you say.'

Humph ! ' That was all Captain Kemyss
said. What he thought was — What will Mrs.
Hallowes say if Yirginie tells her ?

CHAPTER VI.

HOW THE MAIL WENT OUT.

Next morning the party broke up in sadness, and
in the early morning they drove or rode away.

The earliest to go was the Professor. He
appeared on the verandah with the morning tea.
Tom was there in his morning rags, and Virgin ie
in her white frock, always fresh and sweet as a lily.
All three were depressed, but the saddest of all
was the Professor.

It is my last visit to Mon Desir,' he sighed.
In a few days I shall have left the island, never
to see it again.'

If I thought,' said Virginie, ' that I should
never see it again, I would not leave it.'

My most pleasant memories,' the Professor
went on, lugubriously, ' will be those of the days
spent here — and of you,' he added.

They ought to be,' said Tom, thinking of
Virginie, rather than of Mon Desir, though he was
narrow-minded enough to think that no place in
the world could be more beautiful — which is,

indeed, true. Then lie got up and went off for his
morning ride of inspection. Weeds grow, and
coolies are lazy, and Girders go to sleep, even
though lovely Creoles make all hearts sad by going
a^vay.

You are ambitious,' Virginie said. ' We have
always said that you would not make this colony
your home. What is an ambitious man to do here ?
I wonder, though, whether you will be any
happier in England than you might be here, if you
chose to remain.'

I dare say not,' he said, with a kind of groan,
After all, we must not be for ever looking out for
happiness. There is no place in the world where
one can haze along so happily as here — nor is the
claret so good anywhere, I think. But one must
work, and after a time one wants to do the work
one likes best,'

'Everybody is always going away,' said
Virginie. ' It is sad for the people \vho live here.
Directly wee get fond of anyone he resigns or gets
transferred, and so wee lose him. And now I am
going too. At all events, we shall go in the same
ship.'

Yes ; I shall not have to say farewell until
we get to England. Besides, it is a kind of satisfaction
to feel that if I am going you are going
too. One cannot think with any comfort of Mon
Desir without you. It would be too wretched to

come here and find no Virginie. To be sure, there
are the ladies, and the Squire, and Tom. But, '
after all, they are not the principal characters in
the piece. They come on the stage, you know, to
be grouped round the central figure — you.'

Thank you, Professor,' she said, smiling. ' You
have always been kind to me.'

I have always been in love with you,' he
replied, with a frankness which did not displease
her. She was accustomed to be loved, and regarded
the Professor's assurance in much the same
light as if it came from her guardian. ' Not that
I presume upon that fact. It is a beautiful thing
for a man like me to be in love with a girl like
you. I am proud of it, and, I assure you. grateful
to Providence for the magnificent privilege of
being in love with such a girl as you.'

Oh ! Professor.' This incomprehensible statement
confused her.

I mean exactly what I say, though you do
not understand what I mean. So long, however,
as you know that I am your faithful servant, that
is enough.'

What have I done,' she asked, ' that you and
Tom should both say and think such kind things
about me ? '

The Professor shook his head.

You cannot yet understand,' he replied, ' your
own power. But you will before long. I do not

know what Tom has said, but I hope that he put
his case clearly, and that you will not forget anything
of what he said. Because, Virginie, sometimes
words, when they are first heard, seem to
mean little. But, when they are remembered,
they get in course of time to acquire their full
meaning. Perhaps Tom's words were like these.'

She was very young and she was very innocent.
Tom's words had not been understood by her in
the sense he intended — that is, not in their fullest
sense ; not in the sense which we who read them
give to them. In other words, this child had no
thought whatever of love-making, courtship, and
such things.

'I remember perfectly what Tom said,' she
replied, considering a little.

Don't tell me,' he interrupted hastily. ' If
you remember them, it is enough. You are going
into a strange world ; you will get new ideas, and
see new people, and learn to think differently in
many ways ; and you will be far from your old
friends. Wherefore, remember Tom always ; and
if you want counsel think of me, and let me help
if I can.'

And then the Squire appeared, and the Professor
presently took his leave.

Six days later, the mail steamer, lying in the
harbour with her steam up, ready for her start,
presented, at five o'clock in the afternoon, an

animated and lively appearance. The departure
of every mail is attended with plenty of bustle and.
crowds of visitors ; but on this occasion, when, in
addition to certain French families, the departures
of Virginie Ferrier, her cousin, and the Professor
were all to take place together, it seemed as if the
whole island were going with them, so crowded
Avere deck, and companion ladders, and saloon.'
On deck there were gathered little groups of
sympathetic friends. French ladies were pressing
their infallible nostrums against sea-sickness ; there
were a hundred words of last parting, of recommendation,
and of warning to be given ; there was
the musical ripple of women's talk ; there were
the strident voices of Southern Frenchmen. Marseillais
especially, and the soft, blurred syllables
of Parisians, or those who, by clipping of syllables,
would fain pass for Parisians ; and there surged up
from the saloon the loud laughter of the British
officers who had come on board to rejoice with
their brother over his departure ; and the merchants
and civilians who had come to mourn over
the farewell of the Professor. Sorrow and joy
alike demanded the alleviation or encouragement
of brandy-and-soda. Continuous were the popping
of corks : loud was the shouting for the
steward ; higher and still higher grew the pile of
empty soda-water bottles.

On deck a little court surrounded Virginie.

VOL. III. D

Among them were the Pink Boy and the Padre,
both desperately in love, though their case was
hopeless indeed. His Eeverence, for his part,
dreamed of a sympathetic helpmeet, who would
admire his sermons, encourage his ambitions, and
help him to show the colony an example of the
active Church life. It did not occur to him that
a girl brought up as Virginie had been might become
many things ; but ecclesiastics was impossible
for her. The Pink Boy thought how delightful
a thing it would be to have Virginie with him
in those hot rooms of his over the Bank, in pleasing
contiguity to the guano depots, and the port, and
the bawling crowd, always engaged in lading and
unfading. And, for his part, he did not understand
how such a girl could not marry such a boy
as himself. They went on dreaming, however :
now, for reasons which will presently appear, they
will dream in this way no more. The girl was
flushed with the excitement and the emotion of
leave-taking. She was in charge of a French lady,
who was going all the way to London. All the
farewells had been said but one. There only
remained, of the home circle, her guardian : her
cheek was flushed, and her eyes were bright and
tear-stained. She had no heart for the compliments
and pretty things which one after the other
came to say to her.

At last there came the time of departure.

A beautiful gradation marks the ceremony of
leave-taking on board the mail. First, the comparative
strangers ; next, the friends ; then the
intimate friends ; last, the members of the household.


Thus, when the officers and the merchants, and
those of the French people who knew her, had
offered their hands and wished Yirginie ban voyage
and all, even the Padre and the Pmk Boy, were
over the side of the ship and in their boats, there
remained the hardest parting of all — that with her
fond and faithful guardian.

He kissed her forehead, cheeks, and hips.

My dear,' he said, taking her in his arms, ' it
is best for you. It is what your father would have
Ravished. Why should we repine ? Yet, it will be
sad, indeed, without you.'

So they parted. Captain Kemyss was the last
to leave the ship before the bell rang ; the whistle
shrieked, the screw turned, and the great ship
began once more to drive its long white furrow on
the main. But the old man's eyes were dim, and
for a while he could not see anything.

When they cleared, he became aware that
Virginie was standing aft, beside the steersman ;
and behind her were the Professor and her cousin,
and she was waving her handkerchief and crying.
At sight of her tears, the Pink Boy's eyes filled,
and he choked, and then he said a wicked word

D 2

to oue of the boatmen, which gave him relief.
And the Padre, who felt a similar inclination tO'
choke, obtained relief by rebuking the Pink Boy
for that wicked word. So they came ashore, and
for many days the light of the sun was dim to
them, and curry, even prawn curry, had no
flavour.

It was then six o'clock, and it wanted nearly
an hour to sunset.

As for Tom, the reasons why he was not onboard
were perfectly well known to everyone, and
there was a general feeling that they did him
credit. If people are in love, and are soft-hearted
and cannot trust themselves to say good-bye in
public, then people had better stay ashore, which
Tom did. But he had his little plan in his own
mind, and this is what he did.

Prom Mon Desir to the Signal-mountain is a
good twelve miles by road. But a man with
strong nerves and steady head can find a much
shorter path by way of the mountains, which lie
in an amphitheatre round the town.

They are rather awful hills to climb about,
being provided, more plentifully than falls to the
lot of most hills, with bare faces of rock and
precipices and real saddle-backs, along which the
rare visitor, who would get along the top, has to
drac himself with a less hanging over each side ;
but Tom knew the way well, and had too often

achieved the feat to think about the danger.
Therefore, as he intended to see the last of the
girl he loved, he climbed along this break-neck
ridge, and made his way to the Signal-mountain.

There is always a man on watch up there ; he
is provided with a telescope two yards long or so ;
he has a little hut half buried in the rock, and a
mast provided with cross-trees and ropes for
signalling the approach of ships ; he is up at
break of day and remains on watch till sunset.
And when hurricanes come he is generally blown
far away out to sea, hut, telescope, mast, and all.

Tom stood beside the hut with the telescope
in his hand, and watched the departure of the
steamer. First he saw the crowds on board
break up and disappear over the sides, till there
were only the passengers and the crew left on
deck ; then he saw his father, who was the last to
leave ; and then he saw Virginie standing at the
helm waving her handkerchief. At first he could
see her face, and he knew that she was weeping.
The screw went round. The ship passed out of
the quiet harbour waters and began to roll in the
waves of the Indian Ocean. Yirginie stood there
still, after the point was cleared, when she could
no longer see her friends, watching the receding
shores of the island she had never left before.
What thoughts, what memories, were in the girl's
mind ! Her lover remained motionless, glass in

hand, while the ship grew less, and the figure on
deck grew smaller, till the white dress, the last he
saw of Yirginie, vanished altogether. Then he
watched the ship itself till the sun went down and
the night fell, and ship, and sea, and all dropped
out of sight. Then, with heavy heart, he slowly
descended the hill. He had seen the last of
Virginie. How and when would he see her

PART IL—IN THE SEASON.

CHAPTER I.

A Ease OF Jane.

On a certain morning in the sweetest month of
all the twelve which either adorned, or disgraced,
last year, the bright and sunny month of June,
when east winds were over and thunderstorms
not yet begun, the Eow was thronged with those
who rode, and the walks with those who did not
ride but sat on chairs, or strolled up and down
and talked, if they knew anybody, and looked at
the crowd, and pretended to know everybody, and
to belong to quite the inner circle, and deceived
nobody, and came to see, and to be a part of
those who were seen. On such a morning Frenchmen
in London cease to complain of the endless
hrouillard, and to compare Hyde Park with the
Bois ; Colonial leave off boasting of their climate
it really is too bad, the way in which Australians,
for instance, throw their beautiful climate in our

teeth ; and good Americans hesitate whether, when
they die, they will not ask to go to London rather
than to Paris ; and financiers thank Heaven that
such skies should belong to the city where the
money is. As for the leaves on the trees, the
golden-rain, and the lilac, the rhododendrons, and
the flowers and the grass, everybody knows that
they are placed in the Park like the flowers on a
dinner-table, the better to set off the guests. They
do not belong to nature at all, any more than the
cascade at St. Cloud. They are provided by
Forum and Mason, or some other firm, for a
splendid banquet of sunshine and fair weather, to
which all are invited alike, but to which none
should come who are morose, envious, disappointed,
and ill-natured. For these there is
Regent's Park, with the daisies and the dandelions
of Dame Nature.

Among those who rode was Virginie. With
her were her cousins, Guy and Maude Ferrier.
Six months of the strong cold English air had
taken something from the delicate bloom which
lay upon the cheek of the fair Creole beneath her
own palms, and had given her a little of the hardy
and robust look of her English sisters. Just now,
flushed with the exercise and the excitement, the
warm air, the soft sunshine and the animated
scene about her, the girl had lost for the moment
all her Creole languor, and was in very truth become

an English girl in appearance. Whether she
lost or gained by the difference I do not know.
Certainly, of all the young and beautiful women
in tuft Park that morning there was none, English
or otherwise, more beautiful than this fair
Creole, a fact observed by many of those philosophers
who love to lean over the railings and
meditate in the midst of youth, beauty, wealth,
flowers, gay and careless talk, on the happiness
lying ready to hand for virtuous people in the
best of all possible worlds. Especially, if virtuous
people find their own happiness in witnessing the
joy of others. Captain Ferrier was master of
several accomplishments, besides the art of card-playing
and gambling ; among other things, he
could ride well, and looked his best on horseback.
Beside him rode his sister, also an accomplished
horsewoman. Mounted, she looked handsome,
being tall and of graceful figure. When she dismounted
you perceived, first, that she was no
longer very young, being, in fact, four years
older than her brother, and he was twenty-eight ;
next, she was thin, and her pale face, with its
large and lustrous eyes, wore an anxious look, as
if she was continually suffering for the sins of
others — which, indeed, was her hapless case.
This expression of face is more often found in
women than in men, because the manly mind does
net set its hopes too much on the achievements of

other men ; and when you see it you may be very
sure that husbands, sons, or brothers have ' turned
out bad.' For the moment, however, she, too, felt
happy, because it seemed at last as if a thing on
which she had set all her hopes was really likely
to take place.

Make love to her on board.'

That was Maude's injunction to her brother
when she wrote to him in Palmiste Island. Captain
Ferrier would, perhaps, have obeyed, but for
one circumstance : he found on board a young
fellow who was as fond of cards as himself; and
he preferred playing ecarte or piquet in the
smoking-cabin, forrard, to dangling after his cousin
on the after-deck. Besides, he could not present
himself, except as a sort of rival — good Heavens !
a rival — to that fellow, Percival. Now Percival,
who certainly was not the son of a peer, but had
started quite as a second-class passenger in life,
and was by no means desirous of passing himself
off as anything better, was for some unknown
reason peculiarly hateful to this young man ; the
more so, because Yirginie in his society seemed
always more happy than in his own. But, indeed,
it is absurd to account for the hatreds and jealousies
of selfish men, because they are terribly
vain, and brood, and take imaginary offence, and
magnify their own importance, and do not see the

proportions of things ; so that they become very
thorough haters indeed. If their Ives were spared
long enough, they would end by hating all the
world. The disposition of those long-lived Patriarchs
Mahaleel and that of his more distinguished
great-grandson, are not stated : but if they were
as selfish as Guy Ferrier, one perceives clearly
how for the last two or three hundred years of
their lives they would have regarded the whole of
mankind with an unrelenting hatred. It has been
suggested, or dreamed, or told after revelation by
some philosophers of the more profound kind,
that when this kind of men die they are presently
transported to a remarkable island, where
there are many beautiful and toothsome things,
but not enough to go round. In the general
game of grab which is always going on, and on
account of its disappointing results, they are said
to develop quite astonishing hatreds.

Guy Ferrier learned at school to despise the
whole of mankind except a few who need do nothing,
but are born to enjoy ; most of the boys in
his own set who held those views went out into
the world and shook off this narrow view ; he
went out into the world and retained it. He despised,
for instance, the honest Scotch merchants
because they bought, to sell again, cargoes of
sugar ; and he despised the Professor because he
held a post by which he earned his having. He

despised him so heartily, and found it so intolerable
to be addressed by him on terms of equality,
that he began to hate and despise his cousin for
liking him. And his mind was so warped by prejudice,
and so narrow, that he found it difficult
afterwards to shake off the dislike. He therefore
avoided the quarter-deck as much as possible, and
spent his time chiefly with his venturous friend,
from whom, in the course of his voyage, he won
so large a sum that he could afford to send the
Major a cheque for five hundred on account. But
it is not every day that a man who is a player, but
not a fine player, picks up another who is also a
player and a more reckless player than himself.

He had one chance. He sat opposite to Virginia
at breakfast, luncheon, and dinner, being
naturally placed near the Captain, while the obscure
Professor had to content himself with a seat
at the chief officer's side. It was impossible for
any young man to sit opposite to the girl everyday
for three hours or so — because in this line of
steamers meals are considered the chief business
of the day, and must not be hurried — without
perceiving that she was an extremely attractive
young lady. Yet his mind was not open to the
sweet influences of love. A lover ought to be
light-li carted, and he was heavy-hearted ; a lover
ought to look on the world cheerfully ; Captain
Terrier regarded it gloomily, as a place where

luck is generally against the player, and where
people are wickedly impatient to be paid. So
that the innocence and ignorance of the girl, her
curiosity about the great world she was going to
visit, her vague hopes and little fears, which to
most men were charming, irritated him. If Maude
wanted him to marry her, he thought sulkily, she
might arrange the thing herself — at all events, any
kind of marked attention before all these people
was out of the question. He paid her no attention
at all ; he made no attempt to appear interesting
or clever, or profound or remarkable in
any way, as is frequently done by men who open
the old-fashioned siege in the old-fashioned way
and try to begin by inspiring respect. Virginie
thought her cousin a rather morose young man,
who never laughed, and smiled only when politeness
required the effort. He was, in fact, a morose
young man. It is one of the pleasing results
of a life devoted to the pursuit of ' pleasure,' that
it makes a man, quite prematurely, incapable of
mirth, merriment, or joy of heart. It is very
odd, but it is so. Sometimes one thinks that
those black brethren of Ceylon who never laugh
must be one and all engaged in the pursuit of
pleasure.

When the voyage was over, and Guy Ferrier
met his sister, he was fain to confess that he had
made no progress whatever.

She shook her head sadly.

Things, Guy,' she said, ' can no longer be
trifled with. There is absolutely no more money
for you.'

There must be some,' he replied. ' I must
get a couple of thousand at least before long.'

How long can you wait, Guy ? '

I do not know. Perhaps three months ; perhaps
four or five. I must have money, Maude.'

Can you not borrow more ? You have raised
money before on your reversionary interests — can
you raise no more ? '

No, not a penny more. They are mortgaged
to the hilt.'

She sighed heavily.

My poor father ! If he only knew ! ' Then
she thought of Avhat her brother had done, the
futility of helping him ; the vain sacrifices she
herself had made filled her with wrath which for
the moment overcame her affection. ' Oh ! Guy
Guy — what a shameful — what a wicked thing
it is ! All gone the same way, and no use to
help, no use to advise.'

If you have nothing but reproaches, Maude,
I will go. I did think that from you I should
meet with a little sympathy. But women are all
alike.'

Yes,' she said, bitterly, ' we are all alike : we
sit at home and hope and pray, and the Prodigal

goes on, and takes everything and throws it away.
We are all alike, Guy : we sit and suffer, and can
do nothings.'

He made no reply, because there was nothing
to say. This thin and anxious woman of thirty
had given him everything. He had taken all her
own money and all she could get from her father ;
he had taken her jewels and sold them ; he had
taken her youth and beauty ; he had promised,
he had made countless promises, but he broke
them all. It would have been better for Lier — far
better — if at the very first mess she had left her
brother to flounder out as best he might. Now
she had done so much, she was bound to goon
; she must stand by him and suffer to the
end.

She had sunk into a chair, and sat with clasped
hands, and eyes which had no tears in them. She
could not cry for the indignation and bitterness
in her heart.

'And my father knows nothing,' lie said.
He knows nothing. And some day he must be
told, because I can help you no longer.'

If he must know, he must, I suppose,' her
brother replied, carelessly.

There is your cousin, Guy : can you not even
think of her ? '

I have thought about her, Maude. In fact,
I think about her every day. Isn't it an infernal

shame that a girl like that should have a hundred
thousand pounds, and I should be hard up for a
trifle of two thousand ? '

Is that all you think about ? '

Enough too ; I should say.'

'What's she like?'

I believe you would call her pretty. She's a
fair girl ; and her manners are good — at least I
dare say they are. She doesn't do anything dreadful.
But you had better call upon her. She
thinks a great deal about the relationship, and
you may be civil to her.'

And won't you think about her, Guy, in the
way I want P Think how it would set you up to
marry her. You could buy back all your mortgages.
You could start quite fair again. There
would be no more debts and worries.'

I tell you I do think about her.'

Then why — oh ! Guy — why .^ '

Because I do not want to marry any woman.
Is that sufficient reason for you ? '

I shall do what I can for you, Guy. When
your difficulties are so great that you can bear
them no longer, you will, perhaps, take the step
which will relieve you. It is the only step, remember.
Meantime, I will do my best to prepare
the way for you.'

He made no reply, but left her with moody
and morose face.

These schemes, these difficulties, were concealed
from the head of the house, Lord Ferrier,
who, although he found his son difficult to get on
with, and taking small interest in the things which
interested himself, was yet perfectly satisfied as
regards his manner of life. Let the young man
do what he pleased up to a certain time : he had,
himself, followed the traditions of the House in
serving under the colours for a term, before becoming
a simple country gentleman. Let this son
do the same thing. As for himself, he loved the
simple life of his country house. He was a farmer t
and a landlord before everything else. Things
were tight with him, because many of his farms
were unlet ; but things would improve. There
was no money, because it had all been laid out in
unproductive improvements ; and, at the best,
Lord Ferrier was poor for a peer. A stately, tall
man of sixty odd years, with a Presence, who had
gone beautifully grey, which is much better than
going bald. He was taller than his son ; his head
was larger ; his figure was broader ; his appearance
more solid ; and his eyes were better. The
eyes are the first of human features to catch the
expression which grows out of the life which men
lead ; then it goes to the mouth and lips ; and,
finally, it is stamped as a seal upon the forehead.
The stamp upon the old Lord's forehead was what
may be expected in that of a man who preserved

VOL. III. E

those old-fashioned ideas about honour, duty, region,
loyalty, patriotism, property, rank, contentment,
thrift, modesty, which formerly stood
the old country in good stead, and seem now-doomed
to decay and disappearance ; a man who
was proud of his name and descent, was kind of
heart and considerate towards all men ; who was
courtly in manner and sincere of speech ; a man
who hated Radicals, Republicans, Communists,
Socialists, Nihilists, Consists, Atheists, and persons
of 'advanced' views generally, as he hated
the Devil. As for his estates, he was a tenant
for life ; he held them on trust ; it was his duty
to hand them on to his successor improved and
enlarged. And, as every gentleman ought to have
a hobby, it was Lord Ferrier's hobby that he
could paint. He had painted steadily for forty
years ; and during the whole of the time, according
to his friends, his painting had grown steadily
worse. Yet every year he sent a picture to the
Royal Academy, which was promptly rejected ;
and every year he made dozens of studies, landscapes,
heads, cattle-pieces, and river-scenes —
working as hard at his hobby as any professional
man at the calling which gave him daily bread.

Maude called upon her cousin, and was gracious
to her and to her guardian. The beauty
and the grace of the girl, so soft, so delicate, so
ethereal, surprised her. Was her brother a stone

•

that he should have been blind to this miracle of
loveliness ? Her manner was a little shy, because
she was so inexperienced and so ignorant, but it
was the manner of a lady. She invited her, with
Mrs. Hallowes, to dinner alone, so that it would
be a dinner enamelled she said.

To this first entertainment she did not invite
her brother — for reasons. Lord Terrier would
interest the girl more. And, in fact, Virginie was
greatly moved by the kind and affectionate reception
which the venerated head of the house
accorded her. He told her how he had been at
school with her father, his first cousin, and what a
good fellow he had always been, and how she resembled
him in face, though her father was never
well — never half so charming; and he paid
her so many compliments and showed her so
much kindness that Virginie fell in love with him
at once. The compliments and kindness of old
men always please girls ; if they are girls of the
world they are pleased because men of such wide
experience should show such admirable discrimination
; if they are girls new to the world they are
pleased because they are not afraid. The worst
of young men's flattery is that one never knows
what they may say next, and that they may at
any moment go on to a proposal.

Maude began at once, so as to lose no time, to
acquire that influence over her cousin's mind which

K 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

• . . .

would assist her in her designs. She must woo
Yirginie for her brother. She must make this
girl in love with herself, with Lord Ferrier, with
the house, with everything belonging to them,
before she would try to make her fall in love with
Guy. She called nearly every day ; she sent
frequent invitations ; she drove with her ; she
made her father buy a horse for her, and then she
rode with her ; she managed so that if Virginie
went anywhere, or saw anything, it should seem
as if by her advice or help. She gave her wise
counsel in matters of dress. She instructed her
in the things which girls must know, or seem to
know ; and she took her in hand in the matters of
art and music, of which Virginie was profoundly
ignorant. In all Palmiste there is not such a thing
as a picture ; while as to music, they know little
or nothing beyond the elementary tune. And always
she pleased the girl, who was easily pleased,
by a show of affection, sympathy, and interest, as
if she had always longed to know her, and had
studied carefully how she could be of use to her.
At the same time, lest Mrs. Hallo owes should be
jealous, she treated her as if she was an old and
valued friend, instead of a mere acquaintance.

Then Yirginie, thus assisted, began to go into
society.

From her point of view it was bewildering.
All the people seemed to know everybody, and to

be able to talk about everything. For herself, she
knew nothing, and she knew nobody. She was
not able, at first, to talk about anything. After a
little, she began to understand something. Maude
taught her the way in which pictures, and music,
and books are talked about. But the things of
real interest, the family histories, the personal
gossip, she could not master. She was also greatly
astonished, at first, because no one took the
smallest interest in the events and politics of
Palmiste Island. In her eyes, this place was the
most important, in everybody's eyes, of all the
British dominions, next to England itself. Small
as it was, only a tiny speck in the ocean, it grew
such a quantity of sugar, and had so romantic a
history, that Australia, New Zealand, Canada,
seemed of comparatively small importance. And
she could not possibly understand how anybody
could fail to be interested in its politics, its fertility,
its beauty, or the differences in the social position
of the inhabitants. Most astonishing thing of all,
she actually once met a coloured man, a native of
the island, at a dance, and the English girls were
dancing with him ! Happily, the man had not
the presumption to ask her for a dance. Then
she met a man who had been a Governor there,
and nobody called him ' Your Excellency,' or
paid him the slightest reverence or respect ; and
men talked slightingly of Colonial Bishops ; and

gentlemen who were honourable members of the
Legislative Council were held as nought. These
things were strange to her at first. Maude was
worse than anybody. She refused to pretend any
interest in Palmiste ; she would talk of nothing
but England, and, which Virginie liked, especially
of the honour and glory of the Terrier House.
But daily she felt more and more how small a
thing was her own sugar estate and simple bungalow
compared with the splendid estates and noble
houses of the people to whom she now belonged.

Why should you trouble your head about the
place .^ ' Maude said. ' You Avill marry and settle
in England, and your mother will then, I hope,
come home and live with you. You have no
other friends there, have you .^ '

Oh ! yes. I have many friends. There is
my guardian, Captain Kemyss, to begin with ; and
Madame, and Tom.'

Tom ! Who is Tom ? '

Tom is Captain Kemyss's son, you know.
He always told me he loved me.'

That seems great presumption ; but perhaps
he only meant it in a brotherly sense.'

Of course,' said Virginie. ' Tom was always
a brother to me.'

Poor Tom !

And then,' she continued, ' there was the
Professor.'

What was he ? '

He is ill England now. He isn't a Professor
any more; and his name is Percival. He always
said he loved me, too.'

They showed their good taste, my dear Virginie,'
said Maude, laughing. 'But I think it
was a great impudence to tell you of it. Perhaps
they merely wanted to make you understand that
they really had good taste. No doubt, however,
they have already consoled themselves.'

When the first strangeness had gone off, when
Virginie had become an established and constant
visitor at the house, when her father became, by
his own admiration of the girl, an unwitting accomplice
in her schemes, Maude began, but cautiously,
to talk about her brother. He seldom went
into general society, she explained, because he
was too fastidious for general society ; the dreadful
want of taste in conversation, dress, and manners
irritated him ; he did not, certainly, belong
to the dancing set ; it was not to be expected of
him that he would go to balls for the sake of the
supper, as many men do in this abominable town.
Guy was, as no doubt Virginie had already discovered,
a man of the roost refined and fastidious
taste ; he was not a great talker, but his opinions
were convictions ; he never tried to show his own
superiority, but when he was called upon, Maude
said, the true ring of intellect was heard in his

every utterance ; what he said was always right ;
what he did was always noble. Maude drew the
picture of the brother she ought to have had ; the-splendid
result of generations of careful training ;
the perfect knight ; the statesman of the future ;
the prop and support of the Conservative cause-heavens
! if men only understood how women
love them to be great and strong! They know
that we want them to be beautiful, and they do-their
best, all out of the kindness of their hearts,
to meet our views. But we, selfish creatures that
we are, waste and idle our lives away and do nothing,
so that our sisters and wives are fain to be
ashamed of us, and to apologise for us instead of
being proud and happy because we are so brave
and so industrious. Lay it to heart, my brothers
One thing astonished Maude ; yet she seemed
to understand it. Guy had never fallen in love
with any woman. This was not because his nature
was cold, for, she said, he was a man of the
deepest and warmest feeling, but it arose from his
refined taste and the dread which he naturally felt
lest he should find something in his wife, when it
was too late, to trouble and irritate him. ' Think,
my dear Virginie,' she said, clasping her hands,
if such a man, with nerves so highly strung,
should have to live all his days with a person
whose very appearance might irritate him hourly.
My dear child, if he could only find a true wife

somewhere ; if he Goiild only find a woman of
your tender heart and sweet temper and sympathetic
susceptibilities. But there,' she sighed,
'men never see what is lying before their very
feet;

Sometimes I think,' she said, warming to her
subject, ' that Guy is like a knight of romance.
There was never any frivolity about him ; he could
never endure what some young men call fun.
Heaven protect us from the funny man ! He
uBver wanted to laugh at foolish jokes and stories.
My dear, did you ever see a whole theatre full of
people laughing because a man has tumbled down
and hurt himself? He never wanted to talk,
even as a boy, to show his wisdom. You have
observed, probably, his silent moods. It is by
meditation that wisdom comes. When he is in a
silent mood he loves to hear grave music. I was
glad when he came in last night and sat down
in a corner, not wanting to talk, that you were
playing that sonata. Your playing, dear childlike
your voice, soothes him. My own voice
is too loud for him, and my playing is too — what
shall I says — too brilliant. I play as I was
taught, and I suppose I think too much about
execution.

Guy was saying the other day ' — this was
during another of Maude's confidential conversations
— ' that beautiful women are made for beautiful

rooms. Our own rooms, he said, never look
properly furnished unless Virginie is in them.
Was it not pretty of him, my dear ? '

These and a thousand such sayings could not
fail to produce an effect upon a girl so utterly
inexperienced as Virginie. Mrs. Hallo owes, who
knew perfectly well what they meant, and who
perfectly appreciated the value of her ward, fell in
with the plot, because she honestly thought the
match a highly advantageous one for the girl.
She wrote to that effect indeed to Captain Kemyss.
I hear nothing very much,' she said, ' against
Captain Ferrier's reputation, except that he is a
man of very few friends. His chief fault, in my
eyes, is that if he intends to become Virginie's
lover, he shows very little ardour. Indeed, he
has not even begun to make love. But his sister
assures me that his affections are very strongly
engaged, and that he only hesitates because he
thinks that the young lady should at least have
time to look round her. This seems honourable,
though not what one would expect of a young
man, when so beautiful an heiress is in the case.
Indeed, I should prefer a little anxiety lest so
great a prize should be carried off by someone
else. As regards our dear girl, she looks upon
Maude as her greatest friend ; she considers
Maude's brother to be all that a fond sister has
painted him. And though I do not suppose that

she is at all what we used to call " in love," I do
think that she waits but the word. Alien that is
spoken, there will be no other man in the world
for her but Captain Terrier.

You must not think that she foro-sets her
Palmiste friends ; on the contrary, she is always
thinking of you all — and for you, and especially
of her brother Tom. But she writes to you so
often that I need not assure you any farther upon
this point.'

So she will marry her cousin after all,' said
Captain Kemyss, laying down the letter with a
sigh. 'I do not like him; but I may be wrong.
After all, it is satisfactory to think that she will be
Lady Ferrier. Her father would have liked it.
And as for Tom — her 'brother" Tom — as Mrs.
Hallowes calls him — clever woman, that ! — he
must put up with his disappointment. AVhat else
could he expects Perhaps, if things go wrong, he
may remain as Virginie's manager. I would rather
he had been her husband.'

So things were planned for Virginie. She was
to marry her cousin. She had been brought over
from Palmiste for that purpose ; she had become
engaged to him out there, people said : she had
been romantically promised to him in infancy,
others said. Nobody knew who started these
reports, or what foundation of fact they possessed;
but everybody believed them, and Maude herself,

when sloe was asked if they were true, did not
contradict the statement.

But what a shame, what an extraordinary shame,
that so beautiful a girl should have been engaged
even before she came out. The soft sweet languor
of her manner was roused to animation only when
she danced ; her limpid eyes ; the delicacy of her
complexion ; her graceful figure ; her gentle kindliness
to all alike, from peer to Treasury clerk,
endeared her to English youth, and made Mrs.
Hallowes, who ' ran ' this heavenly creature, a
Power for the time in the Social world. With an
heiress one can always get into good houses ; with
such an heiress there is no telling to what heights
Mrs. Hallowes might have raised herself, but for
the events which interrupted her upward flight j List
when she was beginning to feel herself at her
strongest and best. These events were connected
intimately with the ride of this particular morning
in June.

As these three rode in the Eow, there were
many who recognised them, and pointed them out
to each other. Among these were some — gentlemen
dressed with, perhaps, more regard to colour
and picturesqueness of effect than is common in
society — who seemed to know the Captain professionally,
and informed each other that things
were looking up with certain pieces of signed

paper ; for the Hobble Captain Ferrier was going
to marry a girl ; no doubt the fair-haired girl
riding alongside him, who had got, it was said,
nothing short of a hundred, yes, a hundred
thousand at her back. Then they passed by and
others followed, and a good many of the men
who rode that morning seemed to interest these
gentlemen with big cigars and showy garments and
diamond rings.

Now where the crowd was thickest, opposite
Hyde Park-gate, where the chairs were ranged ina
double row and were all filled, there stood a lady,
still young, being not more than five or six-and-twenty,
accompanied by an old gentleman, and
surrounded by a small court of gentlemen. Other
ladies as they passed turned their heads and looked
at her with curiosity — that is a polite way of saying
that they stared their very rudest and hardest at
her. She was well dressed — extraordinarily well
dressed — and was a most striking and handsome
woman, with regular, strongly marked features, a
strong mouth and chin, and rather a loud voice.
Outside the little circle of her friends stood, or
strolled, all looking at her, a noble army of
martyrs — young men — who longed to make lier
acquaintance, but could not because they had no
one who would introduce them. For this lady
was no other than Violet Lovelace, the new light
of the London . stage, as clever and sparkling as

any who had ever offered their beauty and their
wit for the admiration of the public. And this
little circle round her consisted of those who could
boast of an acquaintance with her, in right of
which they became her courtiers. And the old
gentleman — he was manifestly old, though his
wig was black and curly, because his lips trembled
and his eyes were crows footed — was Paul Perigal,
for many years attached to the Princess's Theatre.
He was, in fact, in his seventy-fifth year, and he
dressed carefully after the fashion of his thirty-fifth
summer, which was when her gracious
Majesty was still a youthful bride, and when the
mode as regards collars, neckties, and hats differed
in some important details from the present. Violet
Lovelace retained her old friend and tutor in her
house as her companion : he kept the house going,
paid the bills, was her faithful steward, saw that
the ' boy ' was looked after when his mother was
at rehearsal, and went with her wherever she
went. Now as Violet was invited a good deal to
supper and breakfast, and liked to accept as many
invitations as possible, being a kind-hearted person,
glad to bestow a little happiness wherever she
could, the old man was more than her companion
and friend — he was her chaperon ; and nobody
lived who could truthfully boast that Violet Lovelace
had accepted an invitation alone.

While they were all talking, the lady half

turned her head and looked at the riders. Th^^n
she stopped laughing suddenly.

What is it, Violet ? ' asked one of her friends
everybody called her by her Christian name.
You look as if you had seen a ghost.'

I have, my Lord,' she replied. ' I have seen
a ghost whom I hoped never to see again ; and I
feel as if buckets of cold water were being poured
down my back. So I think I weill go home.
Come, Daddy ! '

'The ghost I saw, Daddy,' she explained,
when they were outside the Park, ' was the ghost
of my husband. He did not see me. The sight
of him made me long to — to say something I
should not. A lady must not be violent, must
she ? '

Paul shook his head doubtfully.

Violence,' he said, ' sometimes means fire.
You ought to rise to the occasion. Give me a
woman who can feel a situation and rip out the
words as if she meant them. But such a woman
is hard to find nowadays. When I was a young
man '

I do feel the situation. Daddy. I assure you,
I feel it very strongly. And I should like very
much to rip out the words. But, somehow, I
don't think the audience would have been pleased.
We must always consider the stalls, you know.
In your young days you only played for the pit.

Let US go home. The sunshine has turned into
cloud for us, and the warm air is cold.'

The " Return of the Husband," ' murmured
Paul. ' Adapted from the French of " Le Mari
Repent." Principal parts by Miss Violet Lovelace

and Mr. . I remember he said his name was

Richard Johnson ; but he looked like Mr. Plantagenet
Howard.'

Never mind his name, Daddy. That was his
sister riding with him — the sallow-faced woman,
with black hair and big eyes and a thin figure.
She looked at me as she passed with the curious
contempt which makes us actresses love the real
lady so much. Bless her ! I know all about her.
My husband takes all her money from her to pay
his debts. Tender, thoughtful brother he is!
Daddy,' — she clasped the old man's arm with both
her hands, though they were in the open, in gay
and handsome Piccadilly, which has a thousand
eyes — 'Daddy, if I thought the boy was going to
turn out like his fathers I would — no — I would
ask you to take him away and kill him.'

He won't,' said Paul. ' With such a training
as I have given him, and such an example as mine,
he can't.'

Who was the girl with him, I wonder ? Not
that I care. She seemed pretty.'

If he repents, and comes home and asks forgiveness,
I suppose you will take him on again.'

Never, never ! And he knows it. Marriage
is always a lottery. Some men belong to the good
lottery ; most to the bad lottery. My husband.
Daddy, is one of the very last and worst ; he is,
indeed, a most disgraceful lottery. But even he
won't try on the repentant dodge. Don't talk
about him any more, and let us buy something
to take home to the boy.'

VOL. TIT.

CHAPTEE II.
Elsie's friend.

I THINK, Elsie,' said Mr. Percival, formerly called
the Professor, ' that this is a chapter which will
fire the imagination, and make the blood boil and
the pulses quicken. Don't you find your generous
young heart leaping up ? '

He was reading from a manuscript, and a girl
was sitting at the open window listening. The
place was a first-floor in one of those streets of
profound respectability — from the lodging-house
point of view — about Bloomsbury. A box of
mignonette was in the window, which assisted the
imagination and helped the listener to follow the
reader far away among woods and meadows,
streams and hills. The girl was quite young, not
more than eighteen or nineteen ; she was listening
critically, and she shook her head to express a kind
of doubt. It was a head of a pretty shape, set ofi'
by the last fashion of wearing the hair, which
reveals the shape of a head, and is therefore fatal
to many a girl who might otherwise be counted

beautiful. Her face belonged to a not uncommon
type, whose beauty depends chiefly on expression ;
it is a good, safe kind of beauty, because when it
once takes hold of a man, it grows upon him, and
fastens upon him, until he cares for no other kind
of face in the world.

Mr. Percival, no longer the Professor, for he
had resigned, and was now engaged on making
that spoon or spoiling that horn, lived in the house
as lodger. He had lived there before he went
abroad, so that he returned to it as an old friend.
Elsie, the daughter of the house, was a school-c^irl
when he went away, and a grown-up girl when he
came back. There was only one other lodger, and
he was an old gentleman who gave no trouble ;
and on the proceeds and profits derived from her
two lodgers, Elsie's mother, who was a widow,
paid her rent and taxes and supplemented the
family income. All day long, until half-past seven,
Elsie was the governess of a child of five or six ;
in the evening, resuming an old custom of her
childhood, she became the companion and confidante
of Mr. Percival, a pleasant, conversational,
good-natured sort of man, who liked companionship,
especially of the youthful female kind. Sometimes
she went for walks with him in the quiet
squares ; or she sat-with him, or she read with
him, or even she went to the theatre Vvdth him, ina
manner which would have been compromising

to the last degree in some circles ; but in Elsie's,
which can hardly be called a circle, and yet was
not a square — perhaps a crescent, an oblong — it
didn't matter. She had no friends who would
inquire what were Mr. Percival's intentions, and,
indeed, at present he had none, because Elsie
seemed to him still the child he remembered when
he was last in London, and because he was without
an income and was feeling his way along the thorny
path of literature, dreaming and devising great
things, and meanwhile thinking himself lucky when
he had a book tossed to him for review, or got an
article accepted, or hit upon an idea which could
be afterwards worked up. As for falling in love
with Elsie, that, if you please, no more entered into
his mind than into hers. He was ten years older
than herself, which at eighteen seems a frightful
difference. She knew, besides, that he was already
in love with a young lady as beautiful as a queen,
whom he could never marry by reason of one
Tom, who somehow stood in the way. This young
lady was in England, having come across the seas
in his company, but he did not go to see her,
because, Elsie thought, he felt that it would bea
pity for him to get more entangled in this hopeless
labyrinth of love. Besides, a literary man
wants to keep his brain clear, and in that novel he
was Writing, from which he read to her sometimes
in the evening, there was a man so madly in love

with a young lady whom both hero and novelist
thought was perfect, yet who seemed to Elsie a
whimsical woman, that merely to portray his
emotions it was necessary for the mind of the
writer to be quite free from any troubles of its
own ; the largest and fullest sympathy was required
for love of this passionate kind. When the work
was completed it would be time to visit Virginie,
whose Christian name Elsie had heard many hundreds
of times.

She shook her head, criticising the chapter.

I suppose it is a powerful scene,' she said ;
but, you know, they wouldn't really go on like
that. Nobody possibly could.'

What would they do, then ? '

Oh ! I don't know. They would feel angry
and disappointed with each other. Then they
would go away and break things off, I suppose.'

It is clear to me, my child, that you. have not
the faintest conception of the passion of love.
How should you ? ' he sighed. ' For my own part,
I have experience. I portray, with a change of
name, my own feelings towards Virginie.'

Oh ! ' She laughed the lauofh of the Doubter.
Your passion, indeed ! But you have grown
desperate, and you — why you go on as happily as
if you had no passion.'

The sting is concealed,' he said. ' It is like
the hair shirt. Many a lusty knight of old was

found after death to have worn a hair shirt unknown
to his friends.'

Yes,' she said, sharply. ' They put on flannel
first, I suppose. Why can't you draw things as
they are and people as they talk ? That is what
I like to read about.'

'Profound student of human nature ! Seem ember
that it is the province of Art not so much to
present Nature faithfully as to present things as
they should happen — but don't. Nature is flat.
Situations are wasted. In real life, my child, events
do not happen dramatically ; nor are the right
things said at the right moment ; nor are there
surprises — though, to be sure, il n'y a rien sur que
Vimprevu. Real life, Elsie, is apt to be dull '

Horribly dull,' said the philosopher of eighteen.
' Frightfully dull, sometimes.'

Yes, and flat, and unhappy ; being made
unhappy chiefly by little things, not big calamities.
Temper, I believe, and want of sympathy,
and want of change, and want of society, makeup
most of the domestic unhappiness which
no he novelist has had the courage to tackle.
It is woman's work, not man's, to write about
the little pin-pricking of the home life. Did
you ever have prickly heat, Elsie? Of course you
have not. Then you can't understand — but I can
what many of our beautiful English homes are
like. Real life ? No ; I do not think I shall

tackle the subject of real life. Romance is what
I shall freeze to.'

Want of change seems to me the worst thing
of all,' said Elsie. ' Look at my poor father. He
was born in London, he lived in London, and he
never went out of London, because h^ never could
afford it. Hampstead he called the country. It was
his only idea of country, poor dear. It was mine, too,
till you first came and we began to go about together.'

Yes,' said the great writer, as yet unknown ;
Sve have made pilgrimages on Sundays, haven't
wee? We know the pit of the theatre, do we not?
We have ventured on the river at Hampton,
happy Hampton ! we two together. Courage,
Elsie, life must not be monotonous for you.' '

Then life ought to be honest,' said the girl
passionately. ' Why, I am a common cheat and
impostor.'

Nay, nay,' said her adviser. ' If Miss Violet
Lovelace is pleased with your manner and work,
surely that is enough.'

She advertised for a perfect lady for her boy,
I answered the advertisement. She was very
good to me, and said at the beginning such kind
things about my manners, you know, that I did
not dare to undeceive her. " My dear," she said,
'' I want a perfect lady, because my boy will bea
gentleman. You may go on calling me Miss
Violet Lovelace if you like, because that is my

stage name ; but I am a married woman, and
my husband is a Wretch, although he is a
gentleman of good family. I am separated from
him. As for myself, I am not quite a lady — off
the stage ; but I am getting on, and when the
boy grows np and can make comparisons, he shall
not be ashamed of' his mother. Of course, I have
few opportunities of knowing real ladies in private
life. So now you see what I want, and if you
will try, and will be good and patient with the boy,
I shall always be more grateful to you than words
can tell." That was what she said ; and I deceived
her, and said I would try.'

The word lady, Elsie,' said Mr. Percival, putting
aside' his manuscript, ' covers an area about equal
in extent to that claimed for the word gentleman.'

If I had told her that my father was nothing
but a humble clerk in a small house of business,
and that my mother took in lodgers, would she
have received me as her governess ? You know
she wouldn't.'

'The question is, rather, if she knew these
facts now would she consider you unfit for the post?
Because you see, my child, she seems to like you.'

I am sure she likes me. Nobody could be
more affectionate to me, or kinder, which makes
the deception worse.'

Very good then, and you like the boy.'

Who could help liking the dear child ? '

In that case, Elsie, trouble not your little
head about .possibilities. For there are many.
Enjoy the good fortune that comes in your way.
Sunshine is scarce. Kind persons are scarce.
If Miss Violet Lovelace asks you any questions
about yourself, tell her what you please. Meanwhile,
be as useful as you can to the boy. Now,
my child, I am going to put away the Novel. I
say, though,' he added, lovingly regarding his
manuscript, 'the last is really a most tremendous
chapter. I wonder how Thackeray would have
treated it. But, poor man, he never could have
conceived a situation so dramatic and so terrible ;
and I am going to have a quiet pipe. You need
not go unless you like. In fact, I would rather
you stayed.'

She did stay. Nothing could have been a
greater reversal of the manners and customs of
the perfect lady, whom Elsie was supposed to
present for the ensample of the boy, than for a
girl of eighteen to be sitting night after night
with a young man of eight-and-twenty — alone, if
you please. Yet Elsie liked it. And the young
man liked it. And Elsie's mother thought no harm
of it, and if she did she was welcome to walk
upstairs and put her head in and speak her mind.

Miss Violet,' said Elsie, ' came home to-day
at half-past twelve in a very low way. First, she
sat down and sighed as if her heart was breaking.

Then she wished she had never been born. After
that she kissed the boy, and said that if it was
not for him she could wish that she was dead.
When they served our dinner, which is her breakfast,
you know, because she has to sit up half the
night sometimes and gets up late, she would not
eat anything.'

Got a cold P ' asked Percival.

Oh ! no. She never catches cold, though
the theatre is full of draughts. She got up
presently and went away to her own room. Then
Mr. Perigal, who had been sighing with her, like
a pump, whispered to me that she had seen her
husband in the Park.'

This grows mysterious. Is her husband
generally invisible ? '

Mr. Perigal told me all about her marriage.
She married a gentleman who was in love with her
because she was so beautiful and so clever. Mr.
Perigal was at the wedding, with her father, who
is a stage carpenter at Drury Lane. Mr. Perigal
believes that he was married under a false name.
Anyhow, she won't say who or what the man is.
But he must be a very bad man, because she left
him and came back to Mr. Perigal, and said that
nothing: would ever induce her to otq back to her
husband, or to take any kind of help from him.
And to-day she saw him riding in the Park, and
it gave her a turn.'

All ! Things micjht be made of this,' said the
aspiring novelist.

Fortunately,' Elsie went on, 'it seems that he
did not see her.'

The Park would be a fine stage for a recognition
scene. " It is — it is " — amid the tears of a
sympathetic crowd — " it is my long-lost husband !
Behold that scar, inflicted, in' our happy, happy
days, by your own hand, and with the kitchen
poker ! At last you find me " '

You forget,' said the young lady without an
imagination, ' that he must know where she is and
all about her, because her photograph is in all the
windows.'

'To be sure. I forgot that. It must be a
pleasing thing for a separated married man to be
reminded of his bonds by every shop-window.
I should walk in the Park — which, it seems, the
gentleman was actually doing — so as to get out
of the way of the photographs. I suppose Mr.
Perigal does not know the cause of the separation ? '

No. She has never told anybody. No one
knows her name, or anything about the marriage
at all. Her husband, whoever he is, has never
sent her any money or help ; and at first, before
she made a success, I think she was very poor at
times. It seems cruel, when she is so beautiful,
and so clever, and so much admired, and might
marry well if she were free.'

Yes, it seems cruel. Still, she has the boy

Yes. The boy is to be sent to a public
school, she says, because his father was there.
And he is to go to Oxford afterwards, if he wishes.
And then he is to go into the Army. So that we
suppose his father was in the Army, too. As for
the stage, it is not to be mentioned in his presence.
And yet the child is a born actor, like his mother.
But you don't care for this talk. Miss Violet
Lovelace is nothing to you.'

On the contrary. Miss Violet Lovelace is a
good deal to everybody who goes to the theatre,
if it is only to the pit. You and I have often
admired her extremely.'

You would laugh to see the love-letters and
the bouquets she gets. Sometimes she shows
them to me ; sometimes she tosses them to Mr.
Perigal, who puts them in the fire ; aud sometimes
she gets angry with them, and tears them up
in a rage. Now your pipe is finished, and perhaps
you would like me to go. But if you like to
have another, we can talk about Miss Virginie.'

Woman is a wheeler. You know I should
like to have another pipe, and you know I like to
talk about Virginie.'

She lives, does she not, in an enchanted
island?'

Yes ; enchanted when she is on it. Formerly
it was one of the Fortunate Islands. The

shades of heroes used to haunt its woods and
sit beside its waterfalls. I saw Ulysses there
myself, once ; but dien I drew nearer, intending
to have a talk over a few little things, he changed
into an aged nigger with snow-white wool. But
there is no doubt that the island was enchanted
while yiriiinie lived there. Nov that she has
come to England the spell, I dare say, is removed.
It cannot be anything more than a commonplace
bit of an island, with ups and downs — which they
call hills and ravines — and trees and rivers, and
it smells all over of guano. I wonder anyone
can go on living there. But no doubt they are
all packing up to go away as fast as they can.'

And what sort of a Palace did she have ? '

'The Palace was built entirely of jasper,
malachite, white marble, and other precious
materials, set With sapphires and pearls. It was
crowded with works of art, especially in sculpture,
and it was hung with rich tapestries and silken
curtains ; beautiful flowers stood about, and there
were perfumed fountains, and always the sound
of dropping music, and wonderful maidens, with
lustrous eyes and long floating hair, dressed in
amber silk of Greek fashion, to attend the
Princess.'

How delightful ! She was the Queen of the
whole island, of course.'

Why, of course she was. Nothing else was

possible. She ruled all hearts, and was, indeed, a
most gracious monarch, the fountain of honour,
and the dispenser of joy.'

• And you were in love with her.'

That was not unusual ; in fact, we were all
in love with her. But Tom came first. I only
came second.'

'That horrid Tom!'

Yes ; I often regret that I never pushed
Tom over the edge of the ravine. It might have
been done so very easily, and the consequences tome
would have been so delightful. Indeed, I
was only restrained from doing so by the consideration
that perhaps Virginie might have been
annoyed, and one would not vex that divine
creature even by a crumpled rose-leaf, to say
nothing of a crumpled Tom.'

'I see. Did she like being loved by everybody
? Did it make her vain ? '

Vain ? Are you aware that you are speaking
of Virginie ? Do you know that she is without
any fault at all ? My dear Elsie, you must not
ask questions which betray ignorance so profound.'


The girl laughed —

Oh ! it is delicious. And all about a

woman ! '

Why — who should it be about, if not a
woman .^ '

To think that men can talk such extravagant
nonsense, and, I suppose, believe it about any
girls ! '

She is a goddess,' said Percival. ' Now, if
there were no goddesses we should have to invent
some. Do you see ? Which things are an
allegory.'

No, I do not see. Cannot you be content
with your Virginie as she is ? '

" As she is," ' he replied ; 'there is no "z5."
You are to me — what I think you are. You are
to yourself — what you think you are. To your
mother you are someone else. Virginie is to mea
goddess. What she is to other men doesn't
matter.'

I like it,' said Elsie reflecting ; ' only it must
make a girl ashamed of herself to be called a
goddess, when she knows very well that she is
just like other people, and, I suppose, the best of
girls sometimes feel that they ought to be better.
Good-night, Mr. Percival. Go to bed and dream
of your Enchanted Palace.'

'Now, there is a girl,' said Percival, slowly,
as he prepared for going to bed ' who might
make a man, in time, believe that there may be,
after all, different kinds and degrees in goddess-ships.
May be ? There are — yet — oh ! Virginie ! '

CHAPTEE Til.

AN ACTRESS AT HOME.

Nobody wanted a Miss or a Mistress to place
before that illustrious name of Violet Lovelace ;
other people crave for titles ; the more naked his
name the better pleased is the actor ; he knows,
you see, the difference between real and sham
distinction. The young lady arrived at the
highest honours of her profession by a single leap.
When she began, when GuyFerrier discovered her,
she was only intrusted with those parts which
require little speaking, but a good deal of statius
about on the stas^e. In one sense, therefore, she
was, from the beginning, one of the brightest
ornaments of the British Theatre, and, as one of
a group, she helped to form many most delightful
pictures.

At the outset, she was quite an ignorant
young lady, without very much ambition, and
only half conscious of her good looks. If you
are born in the neighbourhood of Drury Lane ;
if your papa is a ' carpenter,' using the word in

its theatrical sense ; if all your friends belong,
somehow or other, to the ' House.' so that the
children go on with the Pantomime as soon as
they can wear a costume, and the grown-up ones
are supers, unless they are ticket-takers, carpenters,
door-keepers, dressers, and the rest of it ;
if the pavement of Russell-court, Duke's-court,
and Vinegar-yard is your dancing-school ; if your
mother is a dresser at the theatre, and your
cousins are ballet-girls, and your brothers also drop
naturally into the service, you are also pretty
certain to fall in with the stream, and regard the
theatre in some form or other as offering you the
only means of getting your daily bread.

It was Mr. Paul Perigal — ' old ' Paul Perigal ;
his earliest recollections of the stage are connected
with the visit of the allied Sovereigns —
who first found out Emily Hicks. Purely in the
interest of the drama he kept an eye upon beauty
or promise among the humbler children of
Thespis. Emily lived close to the theatre. She
went on at Christmas till she grew too big to goon
any longer. Her mother proposed that she
should follow her own line, which is safe, if not
lucrative, and become a dresser. But Paul
Perigal ordered otherwise. ' Hicks,' he said to
the carpenter, ' you've got a girl who may be a
flyer. I've observed her, Hicks. She will be,
unless my experience deceives me, a beautiful

VOL. III. G

woman. Your own experience of the stage,
Hicks, will warrant you in agreeing with me that
beauty is half the battle, because a girl can
always be taught to stand and turn her eyes about
and smile, even if she can't open her mouth to
speak. But your girl is as sharp as a needle and
as cheeky as a boy. Send her to me. Hicks, and I
will do what I can for her.'

Emily Hicks was not slow to recognise the
fact that it is ten times more jolly to be dressed
and to stand on the stage for the admiration of the
world than to be hidden away behind for the
purpose of dressing others. She also knew that
she was frightfully ignorant of manners as well
as of learning. And when she saw — which was
every night — the stage ladies with their magnificent
stage manners, she wondered whether she,
too, would ever have to walk with that air, to
sweep back the skirts with gestures so splendid,
to wear such frocks as if they belonged naturally
to her. Now, in the eyes of such observers as
Miss Emily Hicks, it is most true that ' manners
maketh the woman.'

Paul Perigal took great pains with her. She
was such a sharp, intelligent pupil that he began
to conceive the greatest hopes of her. She had
a voice of the kind which is good for a song on
occasion, though not enough to make her a
singer. He had the voice trained ; then he had

her taught to dance — perhaps she would become
a burlesque actress ; then he taught her to walk
and to carry herself; then he taught her to read
aloud, to speak without the use of Drury-lane
colloquialisms ; then he persuaded her father tolet
her live with him entirely, with the view of
separating her from those young friends whose
acquaintance in after life might not be desirable.
And when all was done, and the sharp-faced,
cheeky child of Duke's Court had become in two
or three years transformed into an extremely
beautiful girl of seventeen, thus trained and
drilled, the worthy old actor began to instruct
her in the real craft and mystery of the dramatic
art.

From such small beginnings sprang the greatness
of Violet Lovelace.

She was on the stage in that small way already
described for a few months only. Then she left
it to marry a man who was madly in love with
her : a young man, a handsome man, a man in
the army, a man like a hero of romance for dark
eyes and dark hair, a man — oh ! — who was going
some day to have a title. The last fact was her
own secret, never revealed to her father or to
Paul Perigal.

Paul heard of the intended marriage with a
groan of disappointment. He hoped for so much
from this girl, who was so clever. Now she was

G 2

going to marry a swell, and his labour of four
years would be lost. Never, never again could
he hope to find a pupil so promising. His professional
reputation was staked upon her success.
He allowed her, he told everybody, to go on in
small parts only in order to give her confidence ;
but wait — wait a bit — she would make the finest
Lady Teazle ever seen on the stage ; as Rosamond
she would make an epoch ; as Juliet she would
be incomparable. He boasted about her at Cockle's
: ' A gem of the first water, gentlemen ; the
very first water. I shall be content, for my own
part, with the immortality which will be my lot,
not as an actor, though, perhaps, memories may
survive — I say nothing, but a certain Mercuric of
the year 1836 is quoted still — thank you, gentlemen
— but I shall not be remembered so much as
an actor, but as the happy finder, developer, and
instructor of this light in Histrionic Art.' And
now this gem was lost, wrested from him, and to
be lost to the drama. Pity ! pity ! a thousand
pities !

What, however, Paul Perigal did not foresee,
and could not possibly foresee, was the return of
the deserter (who looked pale and worn, but
resolute), which took place within a year of her
marriage, and her announcement that she was
ready to take up her old work, and to devote
herself with it. She further informed her tutor

that no questions were to be asked about her
husband, who was a Wretch worthy of the
greater condemnation. Then she asked Paul
what he thought of the baby, who was wonderful
for six weeks old ; and then she said that she was
ready to begin at once.

I don't wish to put impertinent questions,
my dear,' said Paul, tearfully, because the divided
emotions of joy at her return to Art, and of
sympathy with her wrecked married life, brought
those signs of sympathy to his good old eyes.
But I should like to ask one, if I might.'

Can't tell, Daddy,' she replied, in something
of her old defiant way. But she looked as if, at
touch or word, she, too, might ' go off.' ' Can't
tell till I hear it.'

Only this, my dear,' he said. ' I did my
best to make you a lady.'

You did — bless your dear old heart ! '

'But, you know, my experience extended to
ladies on the stage, and — and — in point of fact —
not those who have played leading parts. I don't
think, for instance, that I ever saw a Juliet of the
Lane at her own house. And as for Society
ladies— ladies in the front — of course I never
knew any. Oh ! I know it's getting different with
the young fellows now. But I'm old, and I
understand my position, which is more on the
level of the Nurse or Lady Capulet than with

Juliet. So that, you see, I've been at times fearful
lest, when you went into marble halls and
gilded saloons, people might have wondered who
you were. Because your manners might not
perhaps, be quite the same as theirs. Don't
think me rude, my dear.'

Don't be afraid, Daddy. I never had any
opportunity of showing any manners. Because I
have never seen a lady, or a gentleman either
since I went away. Amy Hobart, bless you
was. nothing to it. And I believe if my lord and
master had been able to make that little trap in
the staircase without being found out he would
have done it, and I should have gone into it —
flop : and there would have been an end of one.
Of course I only waited till the boy was born to
come away. And, of course, he didn't want the
boy at all. I've been locked up since the wedding
because he's ashamed of his Avise, and he
wishes she was dead.

'Never mind asking any more questions,.
Daddy. I mean to live, not to die ; and the boy
shall live too. And now that is settled let me get
to work. No more standing with one knee bent
and a sweet smile — like that — if you please. I
must have a country engagement for leading
parts ; and then I must come to town. Go to
Cockle's, and tell them I've come back. You
may gas as much as you like about talent and

beauty and such. I'll have my photograph taken
again — you don't think I'm going off, do you ? —
and with your help, you dear old Daddy, we'll
pull 'em in and make some money.'

She went into a country troupe and travelled
for three years and more, patient, working hard,
studying every morning with Paul, and never
neglecting the boy.

Then she came to town and made her first
appearance in a new comedy, which would certainly
have been a failure but for her acting and
her extraordinary beauty. The unforced merriment,
the pathos, the ease of the new actress
startled and arrested the people. It was a great
success, and Violet's fortune was made.

The first thing she did was to advertise for a
real lady to take daily care of her boy, now five
years old and no longer a baby.

Elsie was the real lady. Violet chose her
from a good many applicants on account of her
quiet manner and trustworthy face.

Some of them were dressed better,' she
explained, ' and some of them pretended to know
adore, and some of them wanted to teach the boy
on a system. Most of them looked as if they
would probably beat and pinch the boy when I
was out of sight. In that case I should have had
to beat them, which they would not like, and
there would have been rows. But this girl I am

sure won't beat him. I told her I wanted a lady,
and she blushed very prettily — Daddy, if only one
could blush on the stage ! — because, I suppose,
nobody had ever doubted that she was a lady ;
not a stalls lady, or a private-box lady, but an
upper-circle-at-four-shillings-reserved lady, who
comes to the theatre by Underground, and is not
ashamed to cry and laugh ; father something
respectable, I suppose, with a shop somewhere —
what does it matter ? She said that she would do
her best for the child if I would let her take him ;
and she spoke so prettily — don't you think I might
find a part for this style of thing ? Look, Daddy'
here she drooped her eyes a little, made her face
a little longer, just smoothed her hair, folded her
hands and lowered her voice, and became immediately
Elsie. ' That kind of thing. I believe it
would take, if the people got to understand it at
once. But I want an author — oh ! I want an
author badly.'

But about the governess ? '

Oh ! yes — well — you know she is quite
young, and I am four-and-twenty, and I feel ever
so old,' Violet was given to mix up things so
that it is not always easy to follow her line of
thought. What she meant; however, was that
she was old enough to read character and to enact
the part of a patron. ' So I just kissed her and.
told her to come every day, and that I was going

to be a real lady sometime — in fact, that I am
always understanding the part ; but that at present
I was a great stage lady, and so on, and soon.
And here we are, and here she is. Daddy —
and I feel that so respectable a young lady confers
dignity upon the house. You are not to bring
any more people from Cockle's here, if you
please ; the place will have to be as demure as
the Founding Hospital, and if you and I do
sometimes have a little supper wither few noble
patrons of the drama, we must have it out of the
house in future.'

Very well, Violet,' said Paul. ' Do you
think the young lady, at odd moments, would like
a little instruction in the '

You dear old man ! ' She threw her arms
round his neck and gave him a stage kiss, which
everybody knows is done without impressing the
lips upon the cheek or brow at all. But she
disarranged his wig. ' I believe you would like
the whole world to go on the stage.'

All the world's '

Don't, Paul. And let Elsie alone — she is to
be my governess, not my rival. I should like,'
said the actress, proudly, ' to see the woman who
will be my rival, in a year or two. And now,
Daddy, one more trial of that scene. Come !
But I must find an author.'

It was this assumption of the 'real lady ' which

preyed upon poor Elsie's mind. Not that it
entered Violet's busy head to ask who or what
her father was. She was profoundly ignorant
of the world outside the stage. Whether she
was told that Elsie was the daughter of a Bishop
or of a City clerk, she would not have suspected
any difference. One sometimes gets glimpses of
this ignorance of humanity's cherished social
differences. Everything depends on rank, even
in the most Radical and Republican countries ;
and rank is a thing of so much delicacy, so many
shades, that only one born in the middle of it all
can truly understand it — can at once feel the true
awe for those above him, and the true contempt
for those below. This is an advantage possessed
by the middle-class man, which has never before
been set forth. Violet, you see, was born too
low down. In her early days, everybody with a
black coat seemed to her a swell, and everybody
in kid gloves seemed a lady. This kind of ignorance
sticks in a surprising manner, so that you
may detect the high-born aristocrat, however he
may dissemble, by his not understanding why the
solicitor and the general practitioner do not
always stand upon the same level, and why the
ladies of both decline to call upon the eminent
draper's wife.

After a separation of five years the sight of
her husband was to Violet the revival of old

bitterness that she had thought forgotten and
clean passed away for ever. But you cannot so
put things away and lock them up. Nothing is
ever really forgotten so that you are quite safe
that it will never come back to you. The sight
of the man's face brought back to her recollection
her foolish belief in him, her trust in his loyalty,
her dreadful disappointment in him, the cruel things
he had said, his selfishness, his shame of her, so
that he kept her a prisoner and would neither let
her go anywhere nor bring any of his friends to
see her. JSTo one should know, he told her, that
lie had been such a fool. No one should even
guess that he had a wife. When she left him it
was with a letter telling him where she was going
and what she was going to do. They were to be
henceforth as if they had never met; but, for
the sake of the boy, she would preserve her
marriage lines.

Daddy,' she asked, ' could that man take away
the boy .P'

I don't think he could.'

If he were to try,' she said, with a gutter in
her eye, ' I would stab him. Did you see him,
yesterday ; how he looked in the face of the girl
he was riding with ? That way he used to look
at me. Sorrow, and trouble, for any woman who
falls in the way of such a man.'

There are laws about married people,' Paul

went on ; ' but I don't know exactly what they
are, because I never, somehow, thought about
marrying till it was too late. Much better, for an
old man like me, to have a young daughter thana
young wife about him. No wife could be so
pretty, and bright, and clever, as you — and always
in good temper '

Not always. Daddy ; not when she meets her
Wretch of a husband.'

If I had a wife she would only be disturbing
my ease. Well, my dear, I don't know what the
laws are. But I believe that whatever you earn,
he can take, unless there's been some sort of a
legal separation. All that you have is his, you
see ; and I suppose that all he has is yours, too.'

I don't think,' said Violet, laughing rather
grimly, ' that he is likely to go to the treasury on
Saturday morning ; and he won't want the furniture.
Besides, that is yours.'

We will say so to keep it from him. But it
was bought with your money.'

In fact, Violet had displaced all the dingy old
sticks and refurnished the house with bright new
things of the most modern fashion ; so that the
place, though Bloomsbury is not one of the most
cheerful and sunny parts of London, was pleasant
to look upon.

It is the boy, Daddy, that I am thinking of.
Always the boy. I am sure he hates the boy ;

he would do the boy a mischief if he could.
Because, you see, the boy is his heir.'

If he hates the boy, he can leave his money
to someone else.'

It isn't only money, Daddy. It is land, and
. . and other things that he can't leave.'

He shall only harm the boy said Paul,
fiercely, ' by passing over my mangled corpse.'

Thank you, Daddy, dear. I know your
fidelity, and I will bring you home a property
sabre, one of the sort with a curly blade, you
know. But that won't be the way. Oh ! Daddy,
I am going to have trouble. He will come to
see me.'

Courage, Violet. He can do nothing.'

And I can do a great deal. Because he is
afraid of me. Patience — patience — Daddy mine.'

CHAPTER IV.

THE ONLY WAY OUT OF IT.

On that night Virginie dined with her cousins.
No one was at the dinner except Mrs. Hallowes
and Guy, who was for once in a good temper,
and actually did something towards promoting
the cheerfulness of the evening. For this small
mercy Maude was grateful. The reason why he
was in a good temper was that he had only that
very morning hit upon an idea which seemed to
him not only the most excellent way out of his
perplexities, but also the only way out. Because
he was now perfectly assured that unless he
married an heiress there was nothing more that
he could do to avert the crash. And because
that idea seemed good in his own ideas, he saw a
hundred reasons why it would seem good in the
eyes of the other person chiefly concerned with it.

The idea was the following : —

On arriving in London he realised, principally
through the photograph shops, the truth of his
wife's statement that she, the woman whom he

regarded with so lively a detestation, had become,
almost at one step, one of the most popular
actresses of the day. For her face greeted him
with smiling eyes from every bookseller's shop,
from every photographer's, and from every stationer's.
Violet Lovelace was before him everywhere.
He could buy her picture showing full
face, three-quarter fiice, side face ; he could buy
her looking into a glass, tying a hood round her
head, gazing heavenwards, in riding habit, in her
favourite character, seated, standing, kneeling.
After the first shock he cared very little about it,
and ceased to be irritated by the sight of a woman
he would fain have forgotten. She had succeeded.
Very well ; let her succeed, so long as
she kept her secret. It was not until that very
morning that he began to think how this very
success, instead of being a danger to him, might
actually be of the greatest use. It wanted only
a little — a little . . . well . a little absence
of scruple ; and if he found, for his own part,
that he could contribute, so to speak, this absence
of scruple, why was it to be supposed that she,
on the other side, who had as much to gain,
would show herself troubled with qualms of
conscience ? For the plan which he had formed
in his own mind was nothing but this — why not
agree with the actress to break off suddenly, and
say no more about the bond which tied them

together ? All they had to do was to go on as
if nothing had ever happened at all. Such
simplicity in the idea ! Such a swift and sudden
cutting of a Gordian Knot !

He considered the subject dispassionately, ashe
thought. That is to say, he lay back in his
chair, and followed in imagination the various
advantages of the plan.

She was still young ; she was — well, perhaps,
she still thought herself beautiful ; how could he
have ever been charmed by the beauty of which
men raved ? She was clever, they said ; certainly
in the old times her tongue was free and her
temper sharp ; she had always a little court of
admirers about her ; half the men in London where
languishing for her ; a great crowd gathered round
the stage door every night to see her drive away ;
Princes went to her theatre and applauded ; the
men at his club talked about her ; she was inaccessible
; she was guarded by old Paul Perigal, whom
she called Daddy ; she lived a quiet and blameless
life. Why, such a woman, said Guy, has excellent
chances : she may marry anybody — really, anybody
; she has only to be careful of her reputation.
Would it not be best — say as a calm, cold
matter of business — to asfree together that this
business, a most awful nuisance to both of them,
should be terminated? It wanted nothing but
common consent, and silence afterwards.

Best ? Why, it was the only thing to be done
the only possible thing. To go on as they were
all their lives : thus to be tied and yet to be
kept apart : could anything be more foolish ? If
it was a good thing for himself it was surely a far
better thing for her : so good a thing was it for
her that he hesitated whether he should do the
woman so kind a turn. Certainly, he thought,
taking the mental attitude such a man always
assumes, she had behaved infernally badly to himself,
and deserved nothing at his hands. Yet, considering
how greatly his own interests were concerned
in the matter, he would go and see her,
and make her, by word of mouth, a definite offer
of release. How happy she would be to have her
freedom ! How cleverly she had played her cards
so that, with Daddy always at her side, her reputation
was blameless ! Yes ; he would let her marry
when and where she pleased. Benevolent young
man ! Most unselfish of young men ! And then,
when she was out of the way, he could marry his
cousin — and her dot. At the mere thought of
that pile of money his fancy lightly turned to green
meadows, green pastures, green lawns, as large as
tables, with shepherds sitting around, and the click
of coin and the voice of him who held the bank,
and the fierce joy of him who won and the
breathless expectations of him who waited the
event.

VOL. III. H

Lord Ferrier sat with Mrs. Hallowes on his
right : she told him stories and amused him ; and
with Virginie on his left. It pleased him, though
he hardly knew why, to know that this beautiful
creature regarded him with so much respect : he
liked her to ask him questions, to venture timidly
on showing a return of the affection which he
bestowed upon her; he referred things to her,
asked her opinions, proposed plans for her, and
gave her presents. He courted her, as Maude
courted her, but unconsciously, for his son. It
was for his sake, not for his own, that Virginie
would accept the offer of her cousin.

Nothing would have been more pleasant than
this little dinner en famille. To Virginie its chief
charm was the beauty and fitness of its setting.
Mrs. Hallowes had everything, without doubt, as
it ought to be. Her furniture was of the most
modern fashion ; her decorations of the most
approved type ; the house was spacious and new ;
but her rooms lacked something. You cannot
make old things ; you cannot add the charm which
lies in old furniture, old pictures, old bric-k-brac,
all belonging to each other. Mrs. Hallowes had
large rooms, and spacious ; and these were small.
The things in her house were good, but they were
new. Here the plate was old, the furniture was
old, the pictures were old ; there was an old-fashioned
air about the whole, far more pleasing

than anything of the newest fashion. And at his
end of the table sat the chief, old himself, yet in
the most beautiful and picturesque time of man's
life — the time of autumn, the age of stateliness
and dignity, not of decrepitude. Maude herself,
with her thin, pale cheeks and lustrous eyes, her
dress of black velvet, with a diamond cross, looked
in her place as doing duty for the Chatellaine. A
quiet, easy dinner, in which everyone felt that ina
home dinner conversation need not be forced.
Maude saw her brother looking at the girl she
wanted him to marry with eyes that seemed full
of admiration. At last, she thought, even his cold
heart was moved. He was moved — a little — as
much as his anxieties allowed him to be moved —
as much as any woman could then have moved
him. The prospect of release removed a load of
those anxieties. The thought that his sister expected
him to propose to the girl immediately, and
the satisfaction of considering that he might really
be free and able to take that step, made him regard
her more curiously. Yes, she was certainly a very
pretty girl, and of a type not common in these
realms. As Maude watched him she thought, but
only for a moment — because it was but a wild
hope, a hopeless hope — that perhaps his affections
might be fixed, and the attractions of the green
table be forgotten. But she was too sensible to
dwell upon this unhappiness. She knew, from

n 2

long and patient study of her brother, that his
case was really as hopeless as the case of an
habitual drunkard. He would have his vicissitudes.
With money to spare, he might run on for years ;
but, in the long run, the end was certain. All
that could be lost would be lost. Yet, with this
absolute certainty of knowledge, she would not
hesitate for a moment to sacrifice the innocent and
truthful girl who believed all she was told, and
suspected no motive. If the evil time must come,
let it be put off as long as possible ; perhaps it
might not come till he who would feel it most
would know it and feel it more.

' Guy,' said Lord Ferrier, when they were
alone, ' your cousin is a very charming girl.'

Yes, sir, she is very charming.'

And very beautiful.'

She is very beautiful.'

Is she . . . has she any entanglement ? '

I believe, sir, she has none.'

Lord Ferrier looked about him, and stroked his
chin reflectively.

Then, Guy,' he said, ' we will go upstairs.'

The three ladies were sitting together. Mrs.
Hallowes presently rose and began talking to Lord
Ferrier. Maude went to the piano and began to
play something. Guy sat down beside Virginie.
Perhaps it was the soft atmosphere of the room ;
perhaps the wine he had been drinking ; perhaps

the sense of freedom gained by his newly-conceived
idea ; perhaps the words of his father — which
made his heart feel an unwonted glow as he looked
upon the girl whose fortune would make all things
right for him.

You are looking, Mrs. Hallowes,' said his
Lordship, ' at one of my pictures ' — it represented
a girl in a field ; and Mrs. Hallowes was wondering,
before she burst into admiration, whether it
was meant for a gipsy, or perhaps an Indian
woman, or a Nymph, or a brown fairy. 'My
daughter when at the age of fifteen. Thank you,
yes ; it is admitted to be a speaking likeness. Yet
the Academy refused it. You see,' he added, with
a smile, ' they will not allow a man who has a title
to paint. We must not touch things professional.'

Is it possible .^ ' cried Mrs. Hallowes, who
knew almost as much about Art as poor Virginie.
Is it possible ? The most delicately-painted , the
most striking likeness.'

Virginie was sitting in an easy chair, beside a
lamp covered with a soft, warm shade, whose
colour was reflected on her cheek ; other lamps
with soft shades were standing about the room, so
that it glowed with a soft subdued light : she held
a fan in her hand : her eyes were soft and dreamy :
she was listening to the soft and dreamy music.

Maude went on playing, and watched with keen
and anxious eyes. So far all was well : her brother,

for the first time in her experience, seemed attracted
: she played more softly — more dreamily :
in the old, old days, when he was a lad fresh from
Eton, and still open to sweet influences, this
dreamy music would make him sit listening as long
as she chose to play. The thoughts of a boy are
long, long thoughts ; and now he was a man, with
hardened heart, and the old innocence was gone :
but yet the music touched him.

Yet not as it had done formerly, when it roused
his mind for a moment to noble ambitions. Now
it fell upon his soul as some potent drug mounts
to the brain, and makes a man see things which
exist not and believe things impossible to be real.
His freedom was already achieved—somehow : he
was actually free — in imagination. The ' other
one ' had actually accepted her discharge — in his
imagination.

He was able to do — under these happy circumstances
— what his sister wanted him to do. He
would make her happy : he would make his cousin
happy : he would make his father happy. Everybody
should be happy, till the money was all gone.
He put the thing to himself in this lively benevolent
way, as if it was a duty closely connected with
the fifth commandment.

Virginie,' he whispered.

She blushed. It was the first time that her
cousin had addressed her by her Christian name.

Yirginie,' he repeated, gently. I have said
that he had a low, ricci voice.

Maude heard. She saw her brother's bending
head and her cousin's blushing cheeks ; and she
went on playing more softly, more dreamily, as
if her very soul were wrapped and lapped in the
melody.

May I see you alone ? ' he asked. ' Virginie,
my happiness is at stake.'

His own happiness, of course. After all, you
can't ask a girl to marry you on the ground that it
will make her happy. Less selfish men than Guy
approach this delicate subject in the same manner.

My happiness is at stake,' he repeated, feeling
quite sure that the magnitude of the interests
involved would not fail of moving any woman's
heart.

She made no reply. Maude, watching, saw
how her colour came and went.

Then Lord Ferrier stepped to her, and interrupted
the conversation.

Will you sing to me, my dear ? ' he said.
Will you sing me one of your little French
songs ? '

If that will give you any pleasure, my Lord.'

All that you do, fair cousin, gives me
pleasure. You are born under a happy star, to
give nothing but pleasure to all who love you, my
dear.'

She smiled, and sang her song. Guy stood by
her. When she finished, he whispered again, ' Let
me see you alone. let me call upon you tomorrow.
You will see me alone ? '

I will try,' she said, blushing.

Mrs. Hallo owes had other engagements for the
evening ; but when they came away, Virginie
requested to be set down at home. She had a
headache ; she wanted to be alone.

My dear,' said her guardian, ' Captain Ferrier
asked me to-night to allow him to see you tomorrow
alone. I told him that I could not
possibly make any objection. But your decision
is in your own hands, Virginie. Shall I say anything
for it — or against it ? '

Oh ! no — no ! ' she replied ; ' only . it
seems so sudden . . . and what will Captain
Kemyss say ? and my mother .^ and Tom ? '

If Tom is a good brother,' said Mrs. Hallowed
he will be rejoiced. Captain Kemyss is a sensible
man. Of course he will be rejoiced. And as for
your mother, why, my dear, can it be possible that
she would not rejoice at your marriage with the
heir, who will some day be the head of the House-the
future Lord Ferrier? Ask your heart, my
dear, and leave the rest to me.'

I ask my heart in vain,' said the girl, half
laughing, half sighing ; ' for I get no reply.'

You do not dislike him ? '

Oh ! no — no. How can I dislike a man so
good and noble as Guy ? '

Mrs. Hallowes said nothing for a while. She
was, in fact, lost in natural admiration of Maude's
great cleverness, because she had, for her own
part, looked in vain for the least sign of this great
nobility; Maude had filled this young person's
mind with a romantic and impossible conception
of her brother's character. Nevertheless, if the
end was good, what matter for the means ? Besides,
is there any romance which lasts beyond the fourth
week of the honeymoon ?

If you do not dislike him, my dear child, the
way is already paved for love. But, indeed, I
would not seek to persuade you. Ask, I say
again, your own heart.'

All night long, Yirginie lay tossing, disquiet,
anxious. If she dropped asleep, dreadful dreams
came to her. She was back at Mon Desir. Tom
looked at her with reproachful eyes ; the Professor
held up hands at her and turned away in despair,
reminding her that he had always loved her, and
expected to be considered, after Tom; even Captain
Kemyss, when he saw her coming slowly up the
avenue of palms, dropped his face in his hands, as
if he were ashamed of her.

But why P For surely a great thing for her,
and a thing which her father would have Eked ;

and Captain Ferrier was the best of men, although
of such sensitive and highly strung nature ; and
perhaps it would please Lord Ferrier ; and Maude
would like it ; and Mrs. Hallowes would like it.
And yet — and yet — some fear, some regret, some
disappointment in her mind. And when she rose
on the morning which was to be that of her
betrothal it was with red eyes and a heavy heart.

'Guy,' Maude whispered before they parted.
What did you say to Virginie to-night ? '

'I could not say much with all of you in the
room. What I am to say tomorrow will please
you, Maude.'

1 hope it will please her.'

I suppose it will. Why shouldn't it ? Most
girls like to marry an eldest son. Besides .
Oh ! of course it will please her.'

And then . . . Guy . . . Guy . . . .
Eemember, a wife is not a sister.' The tears came
into her eyes. . . . ' If you make her unhappy —
as you have made me unhappy — I shall never
forget that, if I had told her the truth, she would
rather die than marry you. Yet, if not for you,
for my father's sake I would do it again, whatever
the consequences. I would rather that Virginie
were unhappy than that his last years should be
disgraced.'

'Thank you, Maude. You are a kind and

loving sister. You always contrive to say such
pleasant things when a man has gone out of his
way to please you.'

I say the truth to you, now and then, because
I cannot help it, I suppose. Good-night, Guy !
You have got all my little fortune ; you have got
all the money you can raise on your reversionary
interests ; you are loaded and crushed with debts ;
you have gambled everything away. There is this
one chance left you — a sweet and true-hearted
girl, who will love you for yourself if you show
her a grain of sympathy, and who wil bring you
a fortune that will set you up for life, unless you
throw that away as well. But I know — oh ! I
know — what will be the end of it. It is all I can
do for you, Guy ; your last chance — your last
chance. And God forgive you if . . . .' Her
voice broke, and she left him.

Guy looked after her angrily.

What the devil,' he said, ' has come to Maude
to-nights As for Yirginie '

Then he thought of the money-bags, and that
sweet vision of green cloth floated before his eyes,
and he smiled. What mattered Maude's anger or
Virginie's happiness, compared with the glorious
fight with chance lying almost within his grasp ?
He went to his club, and drank a .
Then he remembered the interview which
he must have, some time, with his wife. His

conscience was pretty well dead within him ; but
yet he did seem to remember that there was an
ugly word in three syllables which stood for a
certain unlawful thing, only possible to be committed
by men already once married. But, then I
pah ! — absurd I Violet would be only too glad
to accept her release.

CHAPTEE y.

THE ENGAGEMENT.

In the morning Captain Ferrier made a mistake
which is common, indeed, but always fatal — that
is to say, he put the cart before the horse. In
other words, he reckoned his chickens before they
were hatched. To be more precise, because he
wanted a thing to happen he supposed that it was
going to happen, even though rivers would have
to run up hills and rain to fall out of cloudless
skies. To be intelligible to the meanest comprehension,
he neglected to follow an old precept,
designed for such as himself, which teaches that it
is well to be off with the old love before you are
on with the new. Bluebeard owed the greatest
successes of his romantic career to remembering
this proverb, which Captain Ferrier forgot. To
come to facts, he called upon Virginie before he
called upon Violet. Now, it was most essential for
the successful conduct of his case that the latter
should fall in with his views and be a consenting

party to that ugly word of six letters and three
syllables.

Virginie received him with a conscious blush,
because, of course, she knew well what he came
to say. She was still actively engaged in following
Mrs. Hallowes's advice — namely, in asking her
own heart. Nothing is more difficult to do, when
you come to try it. For, first, how are you to put
your questions ? What questions are you to put ?
And suppose you get no answer — what are you todo
next ? This was exactly poor Virginie's case.
She wanted to find out how she should like to
marry her cousin, and she could not get the least
glimpse or foreshadowing of what would happen,
or how things might be, either towards happiness
or repentance in the future. Nor could she understand
herself as Guy Terrier's daily companion.
If she had been older, more experienced, a reader
of novels or of poetry, she would have understood
perfectly well that there was no fluttering of her
heart at the prospect before her, and that she cared
nothing at all about the man, but only respected
an ideal. Also she wo aid have understood that
what Mrs. Hallowes and ladies like unto her mean
by the phrase of asking one's heart is to be interpreted
in the sense of ' consider the establishment
and the position.' But this she did not understand,
and it would have been incredible to her that her
cousin, this soul of honour and fine feeling, could

esteem her fortune as of the least importance in
asking her to be his wife. She was as yet little
more than a child in experience, though eighteen
years of age : she knew nothing more of society
than she had learned from four months with Mrs.
Hallowes, and even that lady knew nothing about
the personal character of Captain Terrier. To be
sure, the personal character of the heir to a peerage
must be very, very bad to form an obstacle to
marriage ; yet there are some vices, of which the
inveterate vice of gambling is one, which cannot
be overlooked even by women of the world.
English girls teach each other and learn from
books and the talk of their elders the true meaning,
the proportion, the value of things, especially of
money and rank, concerning which no ' class of
persons ' can be said to feel more strongly or to
distinguish more correctly. But who was to teach
this young colonial that nothing is what it seems to
be, and that we build our social structure on make-believe
and assumption?

In one of the queer, wild desregles romances
of the last century, when the French, like the
Russians of the present day, were busy tearing
every social institution up by the roots to see
whether it would not grow equally well with the
roots up and the head down, there was a certain
ingenious Abbe, who wrote the history of a young
lady brought up m a single room, and introduced

to the outside world after she arrived at years of.
womanhood. Naturally, she took a new, original,
and quite unconventional view of the things which
she saw. Yirginie was in something of the same
condition as the young lady brought up in the
box. She believed what she was told, and what
she saw. Therefore, when Maude told her how
great and good and generous a man was her only
brother, she naturally accepted the assurance, and
wondered where so admirable a man would find
a wife worthy of him. That she herself would be
asked to occupy that position was, indeed, most
amazing. And now he stood before her ; he bent
over her ; he whispered in his low, full voice,
which really sounded as if he was full of feeling.

Virginie ! you know why I am here. Will
you bid me hope ? '

She made no reply, because she did not know
what to say.

It is for my own happiness.' These were
the words he had used last night ; and it did
seem to Yirginie, even at that moment, as if, at
such a moment, there was more to be considered
than her suitor's happiness.

Still she made no reply.

My sister, Maude, will be pleased, I know.
My father will be pleased, I am sure. Yirginie,
give me your hand.'

He took it. He held it. Then he stooped

and kissed her forehead. She had said nothing ;
not one word ; but she was engaged.

Her lover dropped her hand and walked to
the window, with a sigh. Why did he sighs
He stayed there for a few minutes without
saying anything. Then he came back, and sat
beside her.

He spoke slowly, and said little, and that
little was strange. It was an arrangement, he
repeated, in cold and measured words, that
would be 'satisfactory to all concerned. It was
necessary for him to marry ; it was pleasant to
marry his cousin ; they would have an early day
fixed ; his father would, perhaps, be the best person
to write to Captain Kemyss, and she should waite
to her mother, and perhaps she would tell Mrs.
Hallo owes, and so they could all go on just the
same as before. ' Of course,' he said, ' I shall
be delighted to do anything for you that I possibly
can. You will, I know, command me. But about
balls and evening-parties '

Oh ! I do not want you to go anywhere
unless you like.'

Thank you. I am not fond of these social
things. You greatly relieve me. It is very good
of you.' He spoke with an approach to feeling,
I always think that a pair of people who are
going to be married look absurd going about
together. So glad that you agree with me.'

VOL. III. I

Then he rose, and said that he believed there
was no more to be said, and he kissed her again
on the forehead and went away.

Poor Virginie had no experience in love-making,
and had read few novels ; but she had
looked for the display of more feeling. Still, a
man of Guy's refinement was not to be expected
to make boisterous love, like a common rustic
and an ungoverned person. Perhaps, however,
he would say more when he recovered from the
emotion under which he had been labouring —
that sigh ! — and when she herself recovered from
her fright.

Then Mrs. Hallowes came into the room and
asked her, with a smile, if she had seen Captain
Terrier, and then kissed her, and told her that
she was a girl greatly to be envied, and that her
own fortune, added to her lover's position, ought
to enable her to take any place — any place she
pleased — in Society. ' And then, my dear,' she
said, ' you will remember me, and ask me to your
very best parties.'

The happy lover went straight to his sister.
He was feeling, in fact, pretty low about the
thing he had done. Still, there was no cause for
anxiety : not the least. The other person would
be rejoiced to meet him half way. But he rather
began to wish that he had paid the less pleasant
visit first.

I've clone it, Maude,' he said, in deep and
sepulchral tones.

Done it ! You mean that you have actually
'

Yes. I'm engaged to the Creole girl. That's
what I mean.'

'Oh! Guy. I am so happy and thankful.
But why are you looking gloomy over it ? '

Because I feel gloomy.'

I suppose I am a fool ; but I confess I cannot
sympathise with you, my brother.'

No. I did not suppose you would.'

It can't be money at such a moment.'

It isn't money. It's worse than money,

perhaps. Oh! Maude '. Here he stopped.

'No. Now I'm engaged,' lie added, more lightly,
I shall go round and tell them all to wait.'

There is no one — is there ' — Maude asked
suspiciously, ' that you would rather marry ? You
are not in love, somewhere else, are you. Gay ? '

In love ! Women are always thinking of
love. No ; there is no one else I would rather
marry. Come, Maude, never mind. Be pleased
because you've got what you wanted, and I shall
have the money — with the wife. Pity I can't
borrow it of her, and let her marry someone
else.'

Do you happen to know — but, of course,
you could not ask her — how it is settled ? '

r 2

'I don't know. I suppose I shall get the
spending of it, somehow, whichever way it is
settled.'

I asked Mrs. Hallo owes once, but she does
not know. Nor does she know how much it is.
There is a charge on the estate for the mother for
life ; that is all she knows. Well, Guy' — she
heaved a great sigh — ' you will have it, whatever
the amount is ; but I hope, I sincerely hope, that
it is all tied up and settled upon her, so that she
cannot even sell out.'

No one loses who can hold on,' said Guy,
gravely. ' The devil of it is having to leave off
just when your luck is on the turn. Don't be
afraid, Maude. I shall do very well. Will you
tell my father, or shall I.^'

Do you tell him, Guy. He will be greatly
pleased, I am sure. Go now and tell him ; and,
for Heaven's sake, my dear boy, try not to look
as if you were going to be hanged.'

I wonder,' said Maude to herself. 'I wonder
what it is — Vv4io it is. He says there is nobody
he would rather marry. At one time I was afraid
he might have got himself entangled. But it can't
be that. Why has he always set his face against
marriage ? And shall — oh ! shall I — get my
jewels back ?'

No ; she will never get her jewels back,
because now she has found out why Guy's

engagement oppressed him with so profound a
gloom.

Lord Ferrier was, indeed, greatly pleased.
Nothing that his son had done pleased him so
much. Indeed, the contemplation of his successor's
career so far gave him little cause for
gratification, although he knew nothing of the
quagmire of debts, liabilities, money raised on
reversionary interests and post obits in which Guy
was plunged.

I congratulate you,' he said, ' on your good
taste and good judgment. Yirginie is a most
charming girl. I shall go this afternoon to tell
her so, and to thank her for giving you her
hand. Her fortune is considerable, and, properly
husbanded, may help to win back some
of our lost acres. You must regard it as a
trust for that purpose, Guy. Think of your successors.'


I will, sir,' said Guy, with conviction.

I suppose that there is no need to hurry the
wedding. We must first get the consent of her
mother and her guardian. Captain Kemyss. It is
now June. It will take two months or so to get
their reply, which we may understand will be
favourable. Let us hold the wedding in September,
if that will do for everybody ; and,
considering that Virginie is already a daughter
of the house, I think, Guy, that we should celebrate

the event at The Towers. But all shall be
as she wishes ; all as she wishes.'

The old man began to make plans for the
happiness of the young pair. They should live
at The Towers, if they pleased ; he wanted nothing
but bachelor's quarters there : they could
have the town house where they pleased, and
so on.

And, Guy, now that you are engaged, I think
you should send in your papers. You have had
nearly ten years' soldiering, which is five more
than my allowance. A country gentleman owes
duties to his country ; and, if I were you, I
would take up politics. Your wife, with her
wonderful beauty and her manner, which is
charming, is fitted to become a leader of society.
She might even become to the Conservative cause
what Lady Palmerston was to the Liberals. She
should be of the greatest help to you, if you care
for a political career. And why not, Guy ? Why
not? Surely there never was a time when there
was a better opening for a man of ability. Think
it over.'

I will, sir,' said Guy. ' I will think it over.'

He went away, and his father fell to building
castles in the air, based on the many virtues of
his promised daughter-in-law. Then Maude came,
and they talked together about it, and how
wonderfully things had turned out as they wished,

and what a remarkable Providence it was that a
bride and a fortune should be found for Guy in
so forgotten and obscure a place as Palmiste
Island.

Let the fortune be tied up,' said Maude,
anxiously, ' so that Guy cannot touch any of it,
or dispose of it.'

By all means,' her father replied. ' Yet I
like a wife to show some trust in her husband.
All these arrangements should be left to her
guardian. We will go and see Mrs. Hallowes
this afternoon, Maude. Of course, you will be
gracious to her. I have observed that you have
always been kind to her. Perhaps with a view
Maude, is every woman a match-maker? We
will go this afternoon, and we will bring gifts.
I shall give her one of my pictures — the Joan of
Arc, I think, or the Mary Queen of Scots. And
we will find something pretty among the old
gimcracks : something belonging to your great-grandmother,
who was also her own. That she
will value much better than if we bought her
some new trinket in Bond Street. Come, Maude,
let us go and turn over some of the pretty
things.'

Thus was Yire^inie enopag^ed : thus was she
welcomed as a daughter by the old Lord and a
sister by Maude. They all dined with Mrs.

Hallowes that evening. Guy was still silent and
preoccupied, thinking over his great and singular
happiness, no doubt. Virginie looked in vain for
any words of the deeper heart, because none
came at all. And even Mrs. Hallowes thought,
though she said nothing, that a little attention
was due from the young ran to his fiancee ;
and that Captain Ferrier seemed certainly the
coldest lover she had ever heard of But Lord
Ferrier saw nothing of this : he was the lover :
he made Virginie sit beside him and held her
hand in his, and stroked her hair, and whispered
how happy she would make him in becoming
his^'daughter, and what a lucky man was his son.

CHAPTER VI.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

The interview with Violet must be held sooner or
later, because, from the very nature of the things
to be said, they could not possibly be written.
One may have no conscience — many men certainly
have no conscience ; but few men are destitute
of common sense, and there is generally some
caution in wickedness. Again, to put down in
black and white — which may be read by anybody
— an offer to your wife that she may, if she
please, go and marry some one else, provided you
are allowed the same liberty, would be, besides a
very imprudent thing, a thing which might go
straight to the head, and lead to repentance
before the deed. This kind of repentance is
regrettable, because it sometimes ends in preventing
the crime altogether. Yet one wonders why
it has not been preached up more. Again, if you
go and make such an offer in words, you maybe
able to dress it up in flowers and figures of
fancy, so that by persuasive art its great wickedness

maybe concealed, and its general advantages
alone remain in sight. Now the general advantages
of a clean slate are obvious to all.

Guy knew Ms wife's address, because it was
the old one. He knew that she still lived with
Paul Perigal, as she had done in former days.
He called at the house the next morning at
twelve. Miss Lovelace was not returned from
the theatre ; he would wait for her. No ; he
would not give his card. Miss Lovelace would see
him when she came home.

He walked upstairs with the air of a man
who knew his way about the house, and went into
the drawing-room.

A young lady — rather a pretty girl — rose ashe
came in.

Pardon me,' 'said Guy, astonished ; ' I am
waiting to see Miss Lovelace.'

The girl gathered up some work.

I will tell her,' she said. ' Perhaps she will
not be home for half an hour. But Mr. Perigal
will be back immediately.'

I do not want to see Mr. Perigal at all,' said
Guy, rudely. ' May I ask, if you please, who
you are ? '

I am the boy's governess and companion ' —
it was, in fact, Elsie ; ' and at present he is
asleep.'

And then she knew, by the change in her

visitor's face and the sudden look of resemblance,
to whom she was talking.

I will go,' she said, hastily ; and fairly ran
out of the room.

'A governess!' He had forgotten the boy.
Already a governess. Yes ; he must be in his
sixth year. By gad! And Violet has got on.'
He looked about him. The room was hung with
bright curtains ; there were flowers in the window ;
it was papered and painted in the new style ;
on the walls were pictures, some of them good ;
there were choice cups and all kinds of pretty
things in cabinets. ' She lias got on. In the
old days there was a ragged carpet here, and it
was the girl's school-room, where she learned to
act ; and a table with marks of beer, and pipes
on the mantelshelf; and an old man in a shabby
coat.'

I think— oh ! Mr. Perigal, don't go upstairs.
I think' — cried Elsie, below, in great agitation — .
'it is her husband come back again. A tall man
with dark eyes. When I said I was the governess,
he scowled. Shall I go upstairs and watch beside
the boy ? Shall I call a policeman .^ '

I will beard him,' said the actor, solemnly.

When the door opened and the old man
appeared, Guy perceived that he was transformed
as well — that is, his coat was no longer shabby.
Violet's success meant new coats and new boots

for her old friend — it would also, let us add,
have meant honourable retirement to her father,
the carpenter, and her mother, the dresser ; but
they would have died out of harness — and new
furniture for the house, and newness and brightness
generally, with a good deal of champagne,
which Paul regarded, just as the young man of
the present day, as the drink of the gods. The
old man also had a beautiful new wig, curly, well
combed, and as black as when he was freshly
entering upon the thirties. Also his eyebrows
were beautifully pencilled, so that if he could
have hidden the crow's-feet and shaken a more
jaunty leg he might have passed for forty.

Oh ! ' said Paul, recognising him. ' You are
the man, are you? You are — the — man.' He
spoke with a hissing breath between every word,
which is one way, and very effective too, of
expressing contempt.

What the devil ' began Guy.

You are my Violet's husband ; and a pretty
husband too. You desert her a year after you
married her ; you send her back without a penny
in her pocket for her baby and herself; you leave
her for five years ; and when she makes her mark
and begins to command her price you come back
to stand in with her. That is the kind of man,
sir, you are.'

It was remarkable about Paul Perigal that.

even when in deepest earnest, he used old watchword
of the stage. Sometimes they were so
very old that they had long since lost their force.

Good Lord ! ' said Guy, taken completely
aback at this unexpected charge. He expected
to be accused of cruelty, and of neglect, and
desertion ; but it did not occur to him that his
visit would be construed into an attempt to live
upon his wife's salary. Yet the suggestion gave
him a hint, which he was not slow to act upon.
They were afraid that he would claim a husband's
rights over her money, were they ? Good.

We are no longer, however,' Paul Perigal
went on, ' without defenders. We have friends.
It is no more a question of one old man — nobody
but myself — standing between the serpent and
his victim-che-yild.' He really was quite desperately
in earnest ; but he had personated virtuous
indignation so often on the stage that in real
emotion he naturally fell back upon the language
of melodrama. ' We have but to raise our
hands, and all London would rise in defence of its
favourite, the fair and accomplished Violet — my
pupil — your innocent victim — Mr. — Mr. — 
! '

You are an old fool ! ' said Guy.

What Paul would have said in reply, one
knows not. While he was gathering himself
together for the effort of retort, Violet herself

biirrit into the room. She heard downstairs that
a gentleman was waiting for her, and she divined
who her visitor might be.

How dare you come to this house ? ' she
asked, with resolution in her eye.

I see,' said Guy, slowly. He was sitting in
her easiest and most comfortable chair, and did
not go through the formality of rising for purposes
of greeting or courtesy. ' I see that success
has not changed your temper.'

Daddy,' said Violet, quietly, ' leave us alone.
No, I am not in the least afraid of the man, I
assure you.' She shut the door after him, and
then, standing beside the table, looked her
husband in the face, not defiantly, but as one
who has the command of the situation.

I want to talk to you, quietly, and without
heroics. If you please to listen '

Go on,' said Violet, ' The very sight of
you fires my blood — but go on — go on — let me
hear you.'

What I have to say shall be brief. When
we parted it was on the understanding that we
should never at any time trouble one another
again.'

It was. Then why do you come here ? '

You told me to go my way, and you would
go' yours.'

I did. I have gone my way. It has been

a hard and toilsome way : but I have won what I
wanted.'

Very good, I shall not seek to disturb you
in the possession of anything that you may have
won if you agree to my proposition. I have gone
my way, too. But I have not been so fortunate
as you. I have lost what I hoped to win.'

Oh ! ' She meant to imply that she cared
nothing at all whether he won or lost.

I am now,' he continued, ' a perfectly ruined
man. There is nothing left. I have raised
money on my reversionary interests till they are
mortgaged to the hilt ; I have debts which must
be paid — somehow — debts of honour. There is
one way by which I can pay those debts.'

What do your debts concern me ? '

They might concern you very seriously. Of
course you know that, as your husband, I have
the right to draw all your pay.'

Violet turned pale. That was what Paul had
told her.

Draw my pay ? But we are separated.'

That makes no difference unless we are
separated under a bond and agreement, which is
not the case. However, the question may not
arise. I only mentioned it to show that my
creditors might, if they pleased '

Go on.'

There is, I said, one way out of the difficulty.

It is nothing for you to consent to — in
fact, you will be the greatest gainer by it —
which is why I expect you to agree — and yet it
is everything for me. Tell me, is there the least
chance of any present or future reconciliation
between us ? '

'Never — never — never.' Her resolute lips
were set firm. She meant it. The wounds inflicted
on her by this man were still fresh in her
memory. She would never forget them.

Quite so. And what I expected — and
hoped. Yes ; hoped, by Jove,' he said, in the
hard and cruel tones which had formerly maddened
her.

'We regard each other,' he went on, 'with
profound aversion. We do not wish ever to
meet again, not even to hear from each other.
Is not that the case ? '

It is.'

Then, Violet,' he said, springing to his feet,
'make the separation complete. We were
married in secret. We will be divorced in secret.
I give you your liberty. Go ; marry — if you
please — and anyone you please. I am sorry to
have stood in your light so long. You are bound
no longer — we are divorced.'

He spoke rapidly, gesticulating with his hands.

You agree ? ' he asked.

She was carried away by his impetuous

words ; she was on the point of accepting the
release offered her, when, fortunately, the old
distrust of all he did or said came back to her,
and she hesitated.

You make me free,' she said, ' on condition
of my making you free in return. Is that so? '

Certainly. It is not a gift which I offer
you. I have no gifts for you. The time of
making gifts is past and gone long ago. This is a
bargain.'

It is a bargain,' she repeated. ' If I accept
it '

If you accept it,' he interposed, ' you will be
free to make any match you please among your
numerous admirers. No one will know anything
of the past ; nobody need know. I was married
as plain Eichard Johnson, you in your owen name
of Emily Hicks. The only witnesses were your
own father and the old actor. They can be
squared, I suppose. Who would identify Eichard
Johnson with me ? Who would find Emily Hicks
in Violet Lovelace ? '

I should be free to marry again. But
suppose I do not want to marry again .^ '

Hang it ! you will some day.'

'And you — if I accept — will also marry

adam.

Yes ; I shall marry a woman with money.'
Do you love her .^ '

VOL. III. K

What has that got to do with the thing ?
She has money ; I want money.'

Yes she was trying to put' the matter quite
clearly before herself. ' And if I do not accept ? '

Then — many things will happen to you —
and to me — and you will discover that the bond
of husband and wife may lead to disagreeable
surprises. Come, Violet, do not be revengeful,
even if I seem at first to have the best of the
bargain. In the long run '

And when he grows up — when the boy asks
me who was his father — what am I to say ? '

'Eichard Johnson, Gentleman, Deceased. Poor
Dick! Wipe your eyes. Call him Johnson.
Show the boy your marriage lines. Speak
tenderly of his father.'

And the boy's rights ? '

What rights .? '

Your heir's rights — what of them ? No ;
when the boy is of age he shall know the truth.'

Guy pondered. When the boy came of age.
That would be in sixteen years' time. Sixteen
years. The curate who had married them had
long since forgotten the obscure couple who stood
before him one cold day in November. The
witnesses, Paul Perigal and Hicks, the carpenter,
would most certainly be dead in sixteen years.
Who was to identify him with Eichard Johnson ?
Who could prove that the Billiard Johnson, the

undoubted husband of Violet, was himself — Guy
Ferrier ? And as for letters from him, there was
not one — he remembered with infinite satisfaction
not one, because he had never written her a
single letter.

I agree,' he said, softly and persuasively, ' to
acknowledging the boy as my heir when he is of
age. Till then, you can keep him out of the
way. Now, Violet, once more consider my proposal.
Let me go free ; let me marry without
creating any scandal ; go and marry yourself, if
you like. If you do this, you will have the boy
to yourself ; you can bring him up anyhow you •
please. When he is of age,* but not before, tell
him that he is to be the next Lord Ferrier.
Bring him to me, and you will be heartily glad
that '

'What kind of things will happen to me?' she
asked.

First of all, there will be an almighty smash.
Then, everybody will know that the beautiful
Violet Lovelace is the wife of the man who has
smashed, and his creditors will include her money
in the estate.'

And the Boy — oh ! the Boy,' she cried.

A man is always allowed to have the custody
of his boy at the age of seven. The boy is now,
I suppose, about five. I shall most certainly, if
you do not accept my terms, take away the boy

kas

soon as he is seven years old. Understand me
quite clearly. I am not at all the man to be
moved by your crying and tears. The boy shall
be mine as soon as he is seven years of age.'

The mother's cheek grew pale.

There is no act of cruelty or wickedness
she said, ' that you would not commit. But have
my boy you shall not, so long as there is a house
in England where I may hide him. What next
will happen ? '

'The boy will be the heir to a title, and
nothing else.'

He is that, already. For I suppose you will
spend all the money there is.'

Violet had never played in any piece where
there had been mention of entail. She therefore
knew nothing about the laws of real property.
People have different opportunities and privileges
of acquiring knowledge. An actress learns the
secrets of the outside world by the parts she
plays.

Guy was about to explain to her that it might
be necessary to cut off the entail by consent of
the tenant in possession, his father, and himself,
but, as he saw that she knew nothing of the
subject, he forbore.

I will acknowledge him. I daresay we shall
find a way out of the row about my second
marriage, if there is to be any row. Is not this

a fair offer ? If you do not accept it, you will
have to fight for your money and for your boy ;
because I will lay my hands on both.'

I must consider,' said Violet, presently. ' I
do not know what traps you may be laying. I
must consider. I will send you a reply.'

Nonsense,' he said, roughly. ' What is the
use of considering ? The thing is perfectly plain.
Nothing could be simpler. If you were to
consider for a twelvemonth, it could not be
plainer.'

'No. I will not decide without consideration.
I will send you a reply. Now, if you
please, go.'

If you hate me, as I believe you do, Violet ;
if you desire never to see or hear from me again,
you will accept.'

I do, from my very soul, desire never to see
you again. 1 am a most unhappy woman because
I ever fell in your way. Yet I weill not accept
your offer without further consideration. Listen !
Do you hear that voice ? '

It was the boy. He had awakened from
his morning nap, and Elsie was bringing him,
laughing and prattling, downstairs, to have his
dinner.

That is your son's voice. Would you like to
see him ? '

No.' This evidence o^ the child's existence

startled and alarmed him. ' No. I do not wish
to see the boy.'

I am glad I heard him, for he has made me
very certain I can accept nothing at your hands
without consideration. He reminds me, too —
could I have forgotten it ?- — that your offer to me
is a mockery. How should I marry, having to
tell that boy his secret? How should I commit
this dreadful crime that you propose and dare to
look upon the boy and to tell him that secret ?
How could I bring upon the innocent child shame
for his mother ? That shame, at least, he shall
never feel. I am an actress ; that I cannot help.
Why, if I could help it, I would not, because it
is my pride and joy. I do not think the boy
will ever be ashamed of his mother's profession.
If he is to be ashamed, it shall be of his father.
So — I refuse your proposal.'

Violet, you are a fool ; you do not know
what you are doing — you do not consider.
Seem ember . . . . I do not use idle threats '

'Do what you like — what you can. I refuse
your offer. Offer ? It is no offer ; it is not in
your power to give me back my freedom. What
a fool I was not to see that from the first I No
one can. Nothing but death can cut that miserable
tie. There is my answer. And now, if you
please, go ! '

One moment, Violet. Yqu can, if you

please, set up your back and refuse your consent ;
but you had better not. Now I modify my offer.
You will do as you like. I care nothing at all
whether you marry or whether you do not. All
I say is, let me do what I please Avithout molestation
or fear of interference. Yes ; yes I know
what you are going to say. Who is there who
will tell you that the man you married six years
ago has married again .^ Don't interfere with me,
and then I will not interfere with you. If you
stand between me and my proposed marriage,
then — Miss Violet Lovelace, or Mrs. Terrier, or
whatever you call yourself — remember that you
have a desperate man to deal with.'

And yet I will not promise anything. No —
I will consider, before all, the rights of the boy.
But I will think it over. If it were not for him,
I would let you commit this crime without a
word. Because of my boy, because I am a
mother, I think not only of him but of the other
poor creature whom you are going to delude and
lead into misery. Oh ! Guy, if you could see
yourself as those who know you see you ! If
you could see the miserable, contemptible figure
you cut, when, no doubt, you think you are a
gallant gentleman ! Go — you are but a sneak
and a coward.'

He made no reply ; but he went away. Ashe
opened the street-door he heard the voice of

the boy again shouting and laughing. But this
did not soften his heart

He walked westward, among the squares of
Bloomsbury, thinking what he would do. He
might break his engagement with Virginie and let
the smash come, and await the consequences.
He might go on with it, and let Violet do what
she pleased. That was the best thing to. do.
Probably she would do nothing. She would be
too much afraid of his wrath to do anything.
He could take the boy ; he could spend her
money; he could make himself infernally disagreeable.
Yes ; he would go on. She would
submit. And as soon as these two witnesses to
his marriage were dead he would snap his fingers
at Violet and bid her do her worst.

CHAPTEE VII.
love's young dream.

When the engagement was fairly and happily
accomplished, Maude sat down and breathed
more freely. If her brother was in debt and
difficulties, her father knew nothing, and, for the
present, need knoAv nothing. Perhaps a turn
might be taken for the better. Perhaps Guy
might be influenced by a wife.

I shall expect you,' she told him, ' to-pay
Virginie the attention she deserves. You must
pretend to be in love with her, if you are not.
Meantime leave her to me. I have already led
her to believe you are a second King Arthur —
Heaven forgive me ! I must manage, somehow,
so that the drop from imagination to reality may
prove less than . . . than you have given me
reason to expect.'

Do you think,' he replied, sulkily, ' that I
shall cuff and kick her ? Come, Maude, don't be
gloomy. You egged me on. I didn't want to
marry the girl. You ought to be happy about it.'

So I should be, Guy, if I could think that
any happiness will come to any of us out of it.
And it is my doing, whatever comes. Well,' she
sighed, ' do not get into any fresh difficulties
until your wedding day. And — oh ! Guy ; can
you — can you keep away from the tables for a
little while — only till the autumn ? '

He laughed, but not cheerfully. Because lie
meant that he was not going even to try to keep
away from the tables. It was not in order to
abstain from the one thing he loved that he was
going to run this frightful risk of marriage. Not
at all. Quite the contrary. But, then, women
are never reasonable.

When one reads how the most worshipful the
Lord Mayor, and with him a following of amiable
people, lift up their voices against the wickedness
of the French in allowing Monaco to continue, one
is reminded of a certain text about a mote and a
beam, inasmuch as for every franc which is daily
lost and won in that wicked peninsula ten thousand
are daily lost and won in the hells of this most
virtuous city of West London. Yet my Lord
Mayor maketh no sign. If, indeed, hypocrisy be
chiefly known in the condemnation of sins to
which we are secretly addicted, or to which we
feel no attraction, then, indeed, we are a nation of
the most gigantic hypocrites — Patagonia hypocrites.
We hold indignation meetings about the

opium trade — and our people are being ruined,
body and brain, by bad drinks worse than any
opium ; we hold up our hands at the buying and
selHng of slaves; yet we allow women to work
twelve hours a day for four shillings a week ; and
by this under payment of women's labour, our long
hours of shops, and in a hundred other ways, we
keep our white slaves, and grow rich upon their
labour. All these things make one loner for a
Prophet, because, if I understand the Prophetic
character aright, his most important function — a
very uncomfortable one — was to make people see
clearly their own wickedness, and the evil things
lying under their very noses. No doubt Ahab,
before Elijah came, was often indignant when he
thought of the abominable wickedness of his
Syrian neighbour, Benhadad.

As my Lord Mayor and his friends have not
yet spoken on the subject, there exist, for the convenience
of young men like Captain Ferrier, half
a dozen clubs, where the noble game of baccarat,
not to speak of ecarte, piquet, napoleon, pitch and
toss, loo, lansquenet, and many other ingenious
devices for the exchange of money — the humbling
of the mighty for good, and the exalting of the
poor for a season — may be enjoyed. They are
chiefly maintained by and for the gilded youth
and the youth who are believed to be gilded.
These young men of the modern time take their

fling in a manner not unworthy of their ancestors,
save that for punch they substitute champagne ;
and for beer, champagne ; and for port, champagne
; and that they do not laugh much, and are
generally rather low in their spirits, and therefore
need the stimulus of champagne at breakfast and
at luncheon, and at dinner, and at the chiming of
the midnight bells, and at early matins. They
fling ' in many directions ; but for the present
one has only to do with their favourite pastime of
the midnight baccarat.

Guy's engagement at first brought him luck.
Everybody knows how luck follows luck, just as
misfortunes crowd thick upon each other. His
tradesmen, whose name was legion, suddenly
changed their front, and showed an amount of
confidence which was exhilarating, and made him
feel like buying everything ; the men who held
his promissory notes ceased to look anxious ; the
gentleman who had advanced him money on his
reversionary interests began to consider prayerfully
the subject of the marriage settlements ; and,
in addition, he had a steady flow of luck nearly
every night. So that he really began to consider
the girl who was the cause of all this as a most
praiseworthy person, deserving of admiration.

He had to be seen with her a good deal in
those early days, though, happily, his father took
his place, and was never bored with Virginie's

society, as he Alas himself; and was not wishing
constantly to be back again tempting Fortune, ashe
did. It is not every engaged man who has a
father willing to take so much arduous work off
one's hands. Then Maude was useful, and, between
the two, Guy really found that a daily call, or
perhaps a dinner at Mrs. Hallowes's house, was
quite as much as need be expected of a man.

Love-making, under these conditions, fell very,
very far short of what poor Virginie expected.
There was nothing in it, after all. She was
engaged ; her lover came most days to see her,
and stayed a quarter of an hour, and seemed
anxious to get away again : if nobody was in the
room he sometimes kissed her forehead coldly ;
he communicated nothing about himself, his pursuits,
his reading, his ambition ; nor was he in the
least curious about her own — a humiliating thing
for a girl not to be thought worth a little curiosity.

It must be her task, Virginie thought, to make
him believe her capable of his confidence. That
Avould, doubtless, come in time. Meanwhile, a
little expression of feeling, a little ardour, a little
warmth of manner seemed wanting even to this
inexperienced girl. In what a different voice had
Tom — her ' brother ' Tom — as Mrs. Hallowes
called him — told her that he loved her ! Even the
Professor, who owned that he must come after
Tom, spoke of his affection for her with warmer

voice and greater show of passion. But men are,
doubtless, different : this man of reserve kept his
deeper feelings in his own heart. Yirginie would
get at them in time.

My dear,' said Maude, smiling, though she
looked anxious, when the girl confided these
thoughts to her, ' do not make an idol or a god of
your husband. You know, in a sister's eyes, it is
difficult for a brother to do wrong. But a wife is
not a sister. You, who will be with him constantly
Virginie's heart sank at the prospect, though
she knew not why — ' will find faults in him of
which I know nothing. You will have to excuse
them.'

Guy,' she said, passionately, ' have you no
Heart?'

What is the matter now, Maude ? '

It is your neglect of that poor girl. What
do you look for? A more beautiful woman?
There are no more beautiful women.'

'What am I to do, then?'

Pretend that you are in love with her. I
have no patience ! Oh ! But for one thing —
but for my father's sake — I would break it off
even now.'

Don't do that, Maude. Come, I will go and
buy her something. It can't be paid for till after
the wedding ; so it does not signify.'

Oh ! Guy ' — his absolute inability to see what

was wanted made her laugh — ' one hopes you may
make *a better husband than lover.'

For some reason, he scowled and became
moody ; and that something was not bought. He
remembered, in fact, that he was already a husband,
and not successful in that profession ; also
that he had as yet received no letter of submission
from Violet — a thing which he confidently looked
for. This made him feel ill-used.

Then Maude took Virginie with her to see The
Towers, their country house. It was a splendid
old place, worth seeing, if only for its age, for the •
memories of the many generations who had lived
there, and for the accumulations of treasures
forming part of the family history ; a picturesque
old place, many-gabled, built of warm red brick,
standing among its gardens and trees ; a stately
and proud old place, fit home for an old English
family.

This,' she said, taking her visitor to the rooms,
will all, some day, be yours, as it was your great-grandmother's.
I hope you like this prospect, fair
Chatellaine.'

Oh ! ' Virginie gasped, ' Maude, it is wonderful
? '

It is, indeed, truly wonderful to go over an
old house belonging to an old family who have
kept themselves and their things together. The
family portraits, the books, the arms and armour,

the furniture, the plate, the china, the very staircases
and landings, the windows, the gables, the
roof of the house, are all things that cannot be
bought.

I have never felt before,' Virginie whispered,
what it meant to possess ancestors. Here one
feels what it may mean. All these things speak
to us ; they belong to us, but we belong to them.
In this old place one seems to hear, day and night,
the voices of the dead. They are calling to us to
keep up the honour of the House.'

Yes,' said Maude, ' I feel the same thing every
time I come here. It is the place of our ancestors.
We are among them all. It cannot be but that
their spirits haunt the place which we all of us
have loved so well. From generation to generation,
from father to son, we have been English
gentlefolk ; not great statesmen or great generals ;
but we have taken our share and done our work.
Not one but has kept the scutcheon spotless ; not

one who has disgraced ' . Here she stopped,

and her eyes filled with tears, because she thought
of one who had already gone so far as to bring
sorrow and shame upon them, for whose sake she
had done her best to bring sorrow and shame
upon the girl with her.

Yirginie took her hand, thinking that Maude's
tears were due to her respect and love for her
ancestors.

'It is a great thing, Maude,' lie said, ' to
belong to this House ; it is a very solemn thing to
marry the heir. Forgive me if I seem to think
too little of it.'

No, dear ; I was not thinking of that. See !
here is a portrait of Guy as a child. Its companion
picture is of a former Guy, Lord Terrier,
taken at the same age, in the time of Charles the
First. Do you see the wonderful likeness in the
boys? Yet there are two hundred years between
them, and one is dust and ashes. There is another
of the same Lord Ferrier, taken later on, after the
Restoration.'

That whole day they spent among the portraits
and the family pictures. Maude knew all their
histories, and Yirginie, for the first time, learned
the Romance of a great House whose history has
been preserved. It makes one weep to think how
our middle-class people neglect their genealogies,
so that they know nothing of their own people,
and have no pride, and learn no lessons from the
past. Cannot something be done, my friends ?
Can we not write the annals of our own generation,
each for his own family, so that whatever the
fate of our children and grandchildren, they, too,
may feel that they have ancestors wJio lived, and
loved, and hoped, and made a little success,
perhaps, and died and were forgotten, as they, too,
in their turn, shall die ?

VOL. HI. L

Oil ! ' cried the Creole girl, ' my father told
me so little of all these things.'

'He did not know,' said Maude. 'No one
knows except myself My father knows something ;
Guy, nothing. The women of the House keep up
its memories, not the men. That matters nothing,
if they are true to their name and its ambitions.'

Then they hunted among the old books in the
library, and examined the tapestry, the collections,
the engravings, and the heaps of things belonging
to their ancestors still preserved in this strange
and wonderful museum. Virginie returned to
town strengthened as to her engagement. Her
lover might be cold, but he was the heir ; it was
a great thing to marry the future Master of the
Towers.

Guy showed no interest in her visit, and seemed
to care little for the old place of which his father
and sister were so proud. ' Could,' asked Virginie,
could he be one of those who are deaf to the
voice of the dead ? '

Alas ! He was deaf to every voice ; he heard
nothing, he saw nothing ; if all his ancestors had
appeared to him — ghostly phantoms pointing long
fingers of warning, showing him the future that
lay before him — he would have closed his eyes
and gone' on his way heedless. Other men, given
to vices more repulsive, can listen to the voice of
conscience or the calls of honour and duty.

Drunkards get hot coppers and see triangles and
rats and dogs, and repent and bang their heads
with their fists and call themselves hard names.
Wrathful men, who break the third commandment
and the furniture, are ashamed when the fit is
over. Envious men, backbiters, downcriers, have
moments of sorrow when they feel mean. Even
house agents sometimes regret that they must
always play the game so low. The gambler alone
never thinks, or heeds, or feels any emotion for his
fellow-creatures. He is concentrated in himself;
he is self-contained ; he feels no interest, has no
anxiety, takes no part or share in anything save
only the chances of the cards. The voices of the
dead ! If the voices of the living can do nothing
for such men what can we expect of the dead ?

L 2

CHAPTEE VIII.

HER SIMPLE DUTY.

Three days — four days — a fortnight passed over
during which Violet sent no message of submission
at all, and her husband felt more ill-used and more
indignant.

She was thinking : the longer she thought over
the matter the more difficult it was to act. She
had, to be sure, refused his proposal with contempt
; but she exaggerated her own helplessness ;
she was ignorant and did not know what safeguards
may be gained by claiming protection of
the law. She was in the false position of a wife
not owned by her husband's friends. She did not
think of putting herself in a lawyer's hands, still
less did she contemplate the possibility of taking
the child to his grandfather, and asking his protection,
for she was firmly convinced that in any
contest with her husband, all his relations would
combine to bring the weight of their united
influence against her. The wicked nobleman
theory is not yet quite exploded. Indeed, there

are plenty of agitators who still try to lash their
auditors into a rage by depicting the vices of the
bloated Lords.

She was afraid. She mio^ht let her husband

o

do what he proposed to do — that is, marry again,
just as if she did not exist ; or she might forbid
the marriage. In the former cases he would be
rewarded by an open acknowledgment of 'her
son's true position after sixteen years ; but how
was she to prove after sixteen years that ' Eichard
Johnson ' was Guy Ferrier ? And if she could
not prove that, her boy's rights would have been
wilfully and wastefully thrown away. In the
latter case, if she refused her consent, who would
protect her and the boy from her husband's interference
?

After a fortnight of anxious consideration she
took Paul Perigal into her counsels and told him
for the first time the whole story, and her husband's
true name and the latest proposition he had
made.

You wait,' he said, ' for sixteen years. So
much interval between the acts. The boy has
grown a man. You take him — yourself closely
veiled— to the lordly castle of his ancestors ; you
say to him, " Boy, this is yours ! " If his father is
living, you bring his son to him. He will be laid
up with gout — they always are at five-and-lbrty.
You will say, " My Lord, I restore to you — your

son and heir. I am your wife ! " Then " who,"
cries her Ladyship, clutching her hair with Avild
gesture and despairing eyes, " who am I? " It seems
a strong part to play, Violet.'

And dio's to prove it. Daddy ? '

I can prove it, Violet. You forget that you
have me — always.'

You can't tell an old man of eighty that in all
human probability he will be dead in sixteen years.

If we were to try any other plan. Daddy ? '

He reflected.

There used to be a situation in . . . what
was the name of it? They played it at the
Delphi . . . The Bridal Party interrupted
. . the appearance of the real wife — " I forbid
the ceremony " — Shrieks of the Bride — Impotent
Ecige of the Villain.'

Violet shook her head.

I've always got to remind you. Daddy, that
we play now for the half-guinea stalls, not for the
pit and gallery.'

There was no use in consulting the old man.
His views were too narrowly professional. Violet
returned to her silent musings, and found no help
there.

What is the matter, Violet .^ ' asked Elsie, who
had observed with concern the most unusual phenomenon
of a failure in her employer's usually
robust appetite.

'Elsie, I am truly miserable.'

I Have seen it,' said Elsie, ' for a week and
more. Can I help you ? '

No, child, you cannot ; unless you find me a
man to advise with. I want an honest man and
a wise man.'

I think I know the very man ; that is, if you
would consult with a friend of mine. He is a
gentleman — a University scholar ; and he is going
to be a great writer. He lives with us.' Here she
remembered her dreadful deception, and she
blushed a rosy red and went on, speaking fast : —
And oh ! Violet, I must confess to you. When
you said you wanted a real lady I ought not to
have come, because my father was only a small
clerk and my mother lets lodgings, and if it had
not been for Mr. Percival I should never have been
educated at all. Now, please, send me away,
because I have deceived you.'

My dear child,' said Violet, ' what a fuss about
nothing at all ! Send you away ! Why, what
would the boy do without you ? And did you
suppose I thought your father was a Viscount ?
Goodness me ! he was a Crutch and Toothpick
swell compared with mine, who is nothing in the
world but a carpenter at Drury Lane — poor old
dear ! And what was your father. Daddy ? ' For
Paul was standini::^ beside them.

Hum ! ' he replied. ' My father — now with

the angels . . . was . in fact — lie was . . .
but

\yiien Fortune means to men most good,
She looks upon them with, a threatening eye.'

You see, Elsie,' said Violet. ' So, there,
nothing more need be said. And about this Mr.
Percival, I can't ask a stranger here and begin —
Once there was a girl. Would he call upon me if
you ask him ^ Most men would like the chance,'
she added, with a laugh.

He admires you very greatly,' said Elsie.
We often go together *to the pit to see you. He
isn't ricci, you know.'

Together ? Why — Elsie — you, of all people
in the world ! '

Oh ! no . no . no,' she cried,
blushing. ' It isn't that — of all things. Oh !
pray don't think it is that. Why, Mr. Percival
has known me for years. He used to lodge with
us long ao'o. And he must be e^ettin^ on for
thirty years of age now.'

What a great age. But yet . . . Well,
Elsie, about this friend of yours. It seems a foolish
thing to have no one to ask for advice — to have to
ask a stranger. But yet . . . You are sure he
is a wise man.'

Oh ! he is very wise.'

And would he come ? '

He would if I were to ask him, I think.'

I don't see what I can do. I must ask somebody.
. Well, Elsie, ask him, please. If he will
be so good as to interest himself in a stranger's
.affairs I will see him if he will come to me. Tell
him that I am in trouble, and want the advice of a
sensible man with discretion. To think that of all
the men I know there is not one to whom I can
go and ask for a little real advice. Never be an
actress, child ; because it is all show and make-believe,
and people get to think you have no
thoughts, no feelings, no hopes, and no anxieties
of your own. You must always look and talk as
if there was nothing but laughing in the world.'

Elsie opened upon the subject that very evening,
but with little effect ; because Mr. Percival
was agitated about quite another matter, and could
think and talk of nothing else. Yet he promised
to see Miss Violet Lovelace. The business Elsie
said was connected with her husband, who had
come back, and, she supposed, wanted money.

It will end,' he said, ' in her going to a solicitor,
and getting a deed of separation in order to protect
her and her child. Well ; I will go with you,
Elsie, but t do not suppose I can do much. I am
not a lawyer nor a solicitor, nor do I know how to
apply the screw to gentlemen who wish, to live
upon the labours of their wives. Three dozen at
a cart-tail one might recommend, but the absurd
law of the land does not allow it.'

What had happened that day was this —
Percival received a confidential letter from
Palmiste — from the Pink Boy, in fact. As the
accountant of the bank, where the strictest confidence
should be observed, he ought not to have
written the letter. But he was young, and anxiety
for his friends may be pleaded as an excuse.

It is all over, I fear,' he wrote, ' with Mon
Desir. The poor old Captain has got a most awful
bad crop ; the estate won't pay working expenses
this year, and I know that we can't advance anymore
money upon it. What he will do I cannot
tell, but he will most certainly, unless he can
raise any more money, have to become bankrupt.
Then the estate will be sold. It seems hard after
all these years. Can you go and tell Miss Ferrier ?
Her mother and Madame Kemyss do not know, I
should think, anything about it. And even the
Squire himself knows very little. She might be
able to raise some money. She will be of age ina
year or two ; meanwhile the money is wanted at
once. It is hard that her thousands should belying
idle, so to speak, without being useful to the
man who has been so good a trustee for her. Go
and see her at once, and tell her eight thousand
or so would pull the old man through this year,
and next year one may hope for a better crop. It
is very unlucky that the little touch of a cyclone
which passed over us in March seems to have

picked out Mon Desir, above all others, for
damage. Tom looks rather haggard over something,
but even he doesn't know the whole danger.
Perhaps he is haggard about Virginie. I'm a good
deal worn myself — you wouldn't know me again
and the Padre isn't the same man since she went
away. I suppose I mustn't send my love, and
perhaps if I did you would not be the man to take
it. Don't be mean, and try to cut oat Tom. But
we hear that she is always with her great cousins.
If she should go and marry that beast of a
man '

Thus far the Pink Boy.

Percival lost no time at all in taking the letter
to Yirginie. He went that very morning.

Why,' she asked, ' do you never come to seeme?'


Because it isn't safe. In this country we know
our level ; I belong to Grub Street ; you to Mayfair.
Because you are a young lady of fashion,
and I am only, an obscure person whose fortune for
the moment is out at elbows.'

But we are old friends,' said Virginie. ' You
ought to have come here long ago. Sit down and
let us talk.'

Then Percival unfolded his tale.

Oh ! ' cried Yirginie. ' It is dreadful. Something
must be done. What can be done ? Can't
he use my money ? '

You can ask some lawyer here to lend you
money, wliicli you must pay to the bank to his
account. I can think of no other way. And I
am so ignorant of money matters that I do not
even know how to advise you ; but then any
lawyer will know.'

I will ask Guy,' said Virginie.

Your cousin, Captain Ferrier ? Yes ; he
would know.'

I did not tell you, Mr. Percival,' she said,
blushing, ' I am engaged to be married to my
cousin.'

Poor Tom I ' The intelligence fell upon him
so suddenly that he was fain to put his thoughts
into words.

She bent her head, and did not reply for a
moment. Then she said, softly,

Tom was always my brother.'

Percival rose.

You will, then,' he said coldly, ' consult
Captain Ferrier how best to save this good man —
your guardian — and your father's friend — from
ruin. I knew that I had only to lay the matter
before you. Thank you for your attention.'

He touched her fingers, and left her.

Why had her old friend the Professor treated
her in such a manner ? What had she done ?
Alas ! she understood, too well. Poor Tom !

As Percival left the house, he met the accepted

lover, and saluted him, but without the usual smile
of recognition. Guy was in a vile temper that
morning ; he wanted an answer from Violet, and
he was afraid to call upon her again ; he was
afraid that she might find out his engagement,
which was already in the papers ; he would have
kept away from his fiancee altogether but for
Maude, who made him go.

His temper got the better of him Avhen he saw
a man — one of the many men — whom he hated,
actually leaving the house.

You, sir,' he cried. ' You — what is your
name ? '

My name is Percival, as you know very well,
Captain Ferrier.'

'What are you doing in this house ? '
' You had better,' said the other, ' ask Miss
Farrier.'

I forbid you the house,' said Guy. ' I weill
not allow you to call upon Miss Ferrier.'

Have you anything more to say ? ' For
Virginie's sake Percival kept his temper down.
Yet it was hard not to ' go ' for that ill-conditioned
brute. Poor Virginie !

No, sir. I have nothing more to say. You
have my commands.'

Then, Captain Ferrier, as I am not in your
Company, let me tell you that I do not take commands
from you. Good morning.'

Guy found his cousin in tears. He took no
notice of her agitation, being still in a towering
rage.

Yirginie,' he said, ' that man is never to come
to the house again. You must never speak to him
if you meet him ; you are not to know him. Do
you hear ? '

'What man?'

The man who has just been here. Percival
is his confounded name.'

My old friend .? Why not ? '

Because I wish it.'

'I have just heard very bad news,^ she said,
passing over this thing, though she wondered
greatly. Then she told her news.

Going to be bankrupt, is he ? ' asked Guy.
That seems a pity, But it isn't your fault.'

He shall not be bankrupt,' said Yirginie,
firmly, ' if I can help it. Bankrupt ! when I have
all those thousands, doing no one good. Why, if
it cost me all my fortune, he should not be
bankrupt.'

He laughed in contempt.

Give up your whole fortune ? Oh ! come,
Yirginie, don't be ridiculous. Your money is not
to be made ducks and drakes of in that fashion.
These people must help themselves out of the
mess.'

But I mush save my dear old guardian, Guy,

I must. Do you not understand ? He was my
father's closest friend ; this wife is my mother's
cousin ; he has been everything to me. Cannot
you see that I must go to their help ? '

No, I can't. Your fortune belongs to yourself
— and to your husband.'

I have no husband — yet.' She looked dangerous
; but Guy's temper made him careless of what
he said. Of course he meant that her fortune was
already promised to himself

I shall not allow you to fool your money
away,' he went on, in his blundering, stupid, selfish
way.

Her colour mounted to her cheek. Was this
a way for a girl to be addressed by a lover .^

I do not understand you, this morning, Guy.
First you forbid me to keep up the acquaintance
of a gentleman for whom I have the greatest
regard ; next, you refuse to recognise my dearest

obligations. As for asking your permission

but you had better leave me.'

It was his cursed temper, he said to Maude,
afterwards. What business had the girl to talk of
giving away her fortune — his money ?

He obeyed ; but, still being wrathful, he fired
a parting shot.

I am sorry,' he said, ' that you object to
common sense. Perhaps, tomorrow, Virginie,
you will have recovered your reason.'

He came away, leaving her bewildered. Was
this her gallant and chivalrous lover? Was it
possible for a man of such exalted principle and
noble feeling to disapprove of the help she wanted
to give her oldest and truest friends ? Could she
have been deceived ?

It was the first part of this business which Mr.
Percival was still turning over in his mind.

Poor Tom ! Poor Virginie !

That was the burden of his song. The coming
failure was nothing compared with this loss and
throwing away and waste of love. Even the
break up of Mon Desir estate was but a small
thing compared with the marriage of this sweet
and precious girl with a man so churlish, so morose,
and so selfish.

Elsie,' he said, ' prate to me no more of Violet
Lovelace. I have, had to do with worse troubles
than hers.'

Not troubles of your own ? ' The girl was
quick to think for him.

No, not my own. T told you that the spell
was removed from the Enchanted Island when
Virginie came away.'

^' Yes.'

The palace of jasper and malachite and white
marble became a simple bungalow, with elephant
creeper and honeysuckle climbing round it, and a

compound planted with roses and mignonette and
pretty things about it. Now the bungalow itself
is to be destroyed and its occupants turned out.'

Oh ! '

One of them is an old man. And it will
probably kill him. One is a young man, and his
chances are ruined.'

Oh ! your poor friends.'

And Virginie ' He paused.

Virs^inie ? '
• ' A dreadful dragon has got hold of Virginie.
He will first devour and destroy all that she
possesses, and after that he will rend her to pieces.
Poor Tom ! '

Oh ! is it true ? '

'It wouldn't help me much, now, if I had
dropped Tom over the ravine. Yet I wish I had,
because it would have saved him this dreadful
blow. Going suddenly over the ravine would
have hurt less and killed him sooner. I believe it
is quite a pleasant way to get rid of life, if it is done
unexpectedly. But in these cases, Elsie, everything
depends upon the skill of the operator. A
clumsy practitioner, now, might make the operation
really a painful one. Poor Tom ! I really
wish I had.'

VOL. III. M

CHAPTEE IX.

SHALL I TELL HER?

It is very good of you to come, Mr. Percival,'
said Violet, when he presented himself. ' Elsie
told you what I want.'

She said you want a wise man, Miss Lovelace
; which made it the more remarkable for you
to consult me.'

Elsie says you are wise ; and perhaps, though
you may not be wise in your own affairs ' — she
said this without meaning any reflection on the
undoubted shabbiness of the hat — ' you may be in
other people's. If you will listen to me — if you
have the time.'

At present, Miss Lovelace, I have all the time
there is, or nearly all. I will listen like one end
of a telephone, if I can be of any use to so charming
an actress.'

Elsie said you were a good fellow,' said
Violet. ' Let us be friends, Mr. Percival. You
must call me Violet. It isn't my real name, so it

doesn't matter. Besides, lots of men call me Violet
who never want to help me at all.'

Very well, Violet — you do me very great
honour —-and if I can be of the least service '

Think it is for Elsie's sake,' she interposed,
anxious to check the first shadow of a flirtation.
And then give your attention to an unfortunate
married person, whose husband ought to be put in
the pillory, and kept there till there wasn't a rotten
egg or a bad potato left.'

For Elsie's sake, then,' he replied, laughing.

Then the actress told her story, anonymously.

May I call your husband names ? ' asked
Percival.

'If you please.'

He wants you to stand by and see yourself and
your child insulted, while he ignores your existence
and marries again : he wants you to be the accomplice
in a crime in which you lose all and he gains
everything ; he wants you to accept his bare
promise to acknowledge the boy as soon as he is
of age — when the witnesses who could prove his
identity with your husband will perhaps be dead ;
and he threatens to follow, rob, and annoy you,

to take the boy — to Good God ! I cannot

call him names. There are no names in the
English language which I can find strong enough.
But I know a little Hindustani, and I will swear at
him for a few moments in that tongue.' He did

SO, which relieved his mind. ' But your course is
quite clear. Put yourself into the hands of a
lawyer, and have a separation properly drawn up.
Is the man — I do not ask out of any impertinent
curiosity — but is he a gentleman F '

Certainly he is.'

I don't mean — does he wear black cloth
instead of corduroy. But is he a man of any
position ? '

He is the heir to a Peerage.'

In that case you are quite safe. There maybe
one or two bad hats among eldest sons ; but
there is not one, I am sure — there cannot be one
who would dare to take his wife's salary and
deprive her of her son.'

Not if he were ruined ? '

Not then ; because, you see, the heir to a
Peerage must — she must — pay some regard to
honour. He may drink and gamble : he may do
all kinds of bad things ; but such a thing as your
husband threatens you with he dares not do. No :
if he were ten times ruined he could not do it.'

Violet breathed.

This is a very bad man,' she said. ' I think
he is the most selfish of all men that ever lived :
and the basest. Boys take after their mothers,
they say : else I should have no joy in my son for
fear he should take after his father.'

Get your deed of separation drawn up. You

have, doubtless, valid reasons for desiring the
separation ; he would not wish for publicity ; — you
may rest in perfect safety.'

But if I refuse my consent, all his family would
back him up.'

Oh ! no. What are you thinking of ? Do
you believe it possible that the family of any
English gentleman would back up their son in
such abominable wickedness as this ? '

Violet had been thinking of the Wicked Duke
and the Virtuous Milliner of song and story and
melodrama ; and now began to suspect that
perhaps these picturesque characters might be
theatrical, and belong to a melodrama.

I will tell you all, Mr. Percival, because I am
at my wit's end and would do anything — even bean
accomplice in bigamy — rather than let my boy's
rights be lost. His father is the only son of a
Lord : he is about eight-and-twenty ; he is completely
ruined by gaming ; he has mortgaged his
reverses — no, his reversions '

His reversionary interests '

For as much as they will bring ; and he is in
despair. And he has got hold of a girl with
money. If he marries her all will be well, he
says. If not, all will be ill. The girl's name I
do not know. His name is the Honourable Guy

Talbot Ferrier-and I am his Gracious,

Mr. Percival, what is the matter ? '

He sprang from his chair and began dancing
round the room, because the wrath which seized
him at that moment was too much to be endured.

The villain ! . . . the double-dyed villain !
the scoundrel ! I knew he was capable
of anything from the very first . he looks
it . . . there is rogue and traitor and liar and
common cheat stamped upon his face. Oh ! . . .
oh! . oh!'

Violet looked at him in amazement which
partook of amusement. Because she had never
before had an opportunity of seeing genuine
wrath freely manifested. It is, if you
think of it, one of the rarest of things. Afterwards
she ' rendered ' this portion of the scene to
Paul very faithfully, and they made a note of it
for future use.

Do you know him, then, Mr. Percival ? '

He stopped in his wild career, in which he had
broken two chair legs.

Yes, I do know him,' he replied fiercely.
What is more — I know the girl whom he wants to
marry. But we shall stop that. Thank Heaven,
we shall stop that ! '

Stop it by all means,' said Violet ; ' but don't
forget my boy's interests.'

We will not. She is the sweetest girl, the
kindest-hearted, prettiest, most noble, most perfect,
most lovely of women.'

But I thought you were in love with Elsie,
Mr. Percival. That was why I asked you to help
me ; and now it seems as if you were in love
with . no . no . lie can't be my
rival, because ' . . . Here she stopped abruptly.

Elsie ! Elsie ! oh ! yes — Elsie. I am in love,
first of all, with Virginie. Elsie is a good little
thing ;. but — Virginie ! '

Good little things may have hearts of their
own, Mr. Percival. Eemember that.'

As Beatrice was to Dante, as Laura was to
Petrarch, so is Virginie to those who love her.'
He Alas so deeply moved with indignation that
he said these words in perfect earnestness and
solemnity.

'What's the use of loving a woman if you
can't marry her .^ ' asked Violet.

Percival made no reply. The explanation and
apology of a man's loves to a perfect stranger was
a descent from melodrama to farce. There should
always be a funny man in every piece, but Percival
had no wish to j^lay the part.

How shall we act ? ' he asked. ' We must
think of her as well as of yourself.'

If you will tell me the girl's name, and where
she lives, I will write, or go to see her, and tell
her the truth at once. Do you think she is fond
of him ? '

I do not know. Yes ; the sooner the better

not a day should be lost. I cannot think he
would dare to marry her without some promise of
silence from you. I wondered when I saw him
first, last New Year's Day, what the man had done
to make him so morose and black of visage.'

He had married me,' said Violet, ' and he
couldn't get rid of me.'

That ought not to make a man morose,' replied
Percival, gallantly.

Violet laughed,

If I had married you I think I should have
gone dancing and singing,' he said ; yet, with a
little hesitation and half a blush, because, perhaps,
she would not like this turn of the conversation.
But she did.

I don't mind compliments a bit,' she said.
Lord ! Everybody pays me compliments. I get
them, with bouquets, sent to the stage door ; and
letters ; and in poetry and in prose ; and from all
sorts of men — prince to potboy. Men are all
alike ; they fall in love with a woman made up
for the stage with vaseline and rouge and powder ;
and they think she is a goddess ; and they think
they may " hope," as they call it. But don't get
serious, or I must tell Elsie. So you think you
would not have been so morose if you had been
my husband. I don't think you would, and I wish
to Heaven that you were my husband, or any
other honest man, instead of the poor creature I

have got. Well, . . .' she sighed heavily, ' let
us have patience, and spoil his little plot.'

You may do one of two things — you may tell
his father or you may tell Virginie. One of these
two things you must do. If you choose the first
you can never again be threatened in this way.
If the second, she will learn the truth in the most
direct way.'

I cannot tell Lord Ferrier,' said Violet. ' I
promised him — my husband — that I would not
obtrude myself upon any of his family. Nothing
but the interests of the boy would make me break

that promise. Let me go to Miss . What is

her name ? '

Miss Ferrier — she is his second cousin. Perhaps
that would be best. But go at once — today.'


He sat down and wrote a letter.

Dear Virginie, —

I have made a discovery of the highest
importance to you. The lady who bears this note
will tell you what it is. You may entirely defend
upon the truth of what she says. I grieve to bethe
sender — not the cause — of such a tale as she
has to tell you.

Yours always and sincerely,

Philip Percival.'

There ! ' he said. ' The letter is plain and

straightforward . You will tell her kindly, will
you not ? '

I will tell her as kindly as I can,' said Violet.
There cannot be much kindness in telling a girl
that the man she — loves — perhaps — I loved him
once, or thought I did — sis such as my husband.'

But you will not — oh ! no— I am sure you •
feel for her. It is not her fault '

'I will be very kind and gentle,' said Violet,
softening. Then she laughed, and said, / Shall I
rehearse the scene to you? I can be the injured
wife — see ' — her face became pale, her eyes fixed,
her arms dropped to her side, her form rigid — she
was a woman in the first despair of a deadly
blow. ' Or the raging woman whose lover has
been snatched from her. So.' She threw herself
back, and became a figure full of life, passion, and
wrath, her left arm raised high above her head,
her right hand quivering at her bosom. She was
Medea. ' Or I will take it crying. See.' She
sank upon her knees with a low wail, forced from
her by her misery, and buried her despairing head
in her hands. ' Or shall I triumph over her
sorrow ? '

You are a wonderful actress. You can represent
any passion, and any person. Represent
for me, now, the real Violet Lovelace, the woman
who has a heart '

No.' . She took the letter and read it. ' That

part is reserved for Miss Ferrier — if there is a
woman with a heart at alL But I don't know —
sometimes nothing is real but the boy — and Daddy.
And the best part of him, poor old man ! is his
wig. You can trust me, Mr. Percival. I will be
as kind as I can. You know that I have never
been taught the gentle ways and soft words that
ladies learn — I mean some ladies — not all. Because
I have seen them fighting to get out after the performance,
and struggling for good places at a sale
and a picture show ; and really I think that we
behave much better on the stage.'

CHAPTEE X.

WIFE AND FIANC:gE.

ViRGiNiE had been engaged exactly a fortnight.
It is not a long time, but an ardent lover may doa
great deal in fourteen days to make himself
known to his sweetheart, and to learn her thoughts
and her way of looking upon things. The one
thing which Guy did to reveal himself was to
forbid her to receive the visits of one old friend,
and to fly into a rage when she spoke of .saving
another old friend from ruin. What did this
mean ? She was astonished and perplexed. Perhaps
when Guy came again he would explain how
she had misled him. Certainly he would not, he
could not, object to her trying to help her guardian.
She met Maude in the evening, but said nothing
about her trouble. No doubt Guy would come in
the morning and explain, and all would be well.

He did not come ; he had, in fact, though he
knew it not, seen Virginie for the last time ; he
stayed in his own rooms, morose and savage.
Why did Violet make no sign? What did she

mean ? And if the other girl was going to give
away her money — his money — it might just as well
be broken off at once. Better, in fact, let the
smash come.

Virginie waited for him all the morning. Ashe
did not come, she thought of writing to him.
Hitherto, no letters had passed between them;
none of the little notes meaning nothing, except
always, ' Je traite — je traite,' which are so
common among some lovers. Not one note, not
one word of endearment — truly a frigid lover and
a disappointing engagement. On the other hand,
plenty of notes from Lord Ferrier, who was much
more in love with her than his son, and was, in
fact, the only one of the four concerned who was
entirely happy over the engagement. She could
not write. He must either come and make rough
things smooth, in person, or he must write ; she
could not.

Early in the afternoon she received a letter,
and was informed that the lady who brought it
was waiting to see Miss Ferrier. It was Percival's
letter. What misfortune could it be ? She thought
of her guardian, and assumed that it was connected
with him. Had the blow really fallen, and so
suddenly ? But no mail could have come in since
yesterday, when her own letters reached her, and
spoke about nothing unusual.

It was a young lady, apparently about five-ands

twenty, dressed in some plain dark costume.
She wore rather a thick veil, for the time of
year.

Oh ! ' cried Virginie, ' you have come from
Mr. Percival to tell me something. What has
happened ? Is it my guardian ? '

'No, Miss Terrier ; it is not your guardian.'

Will you, please, tell me what it is .^ '

Violet looked at her for a few moments in
silence. She was certainly a very pretty girl, and
not the least in her own style.

Yes,' she said ; ' I will tell you. But it is
rather a long story.'

Tell me first whom it concerns.'

It concerns — yourself.'

Some misfortune has happened to myself !
What can that be ? '

1 did not say misfortune. What I am going
to tell you will avert the worst misfortune which
could happen to any woman.'

You are mysterious. May I ask your name? '

I am called, on the stage, Violet Lovelace.
I am an actress by profession. You may have
seen me at the theatre.'

'Yes, indeed I have,' said Virginie. 'I have
seen you several times. But what story can you
have that concerns myself? '

I have a very sad story and one which
concerns you very closely. Tell me, first — do not,

pray do not, tliiuk me impertinent — do 3'ou love
Guy Ferrier ? '

I am eng^asjed to him.'

'• Yet . . . still ; . . do you love him ? '

I cannot answer that question. I ought not
to answer it. I do not know how to answer it.'

You do not know. I am glad of it. Because
you would have answered it easily — if . . . You
are his cousin, are you not ? '
' Yes ; I am his cousin.'

I will ask you no more questions, Miss Ferrier.
I will tell you my story.'

Violet is a very clever woman. If she had not
been an actress she might have been a great
dramatist or a great novelist. She told her owen
story in the most effective way possible. She did
not begin with ' There was once a girl.' She said.
I was a poor girl, a street child, a gutter child,
who played in a court and danced to a barrel
organ.'

She struck at once the note of poverty, ignorance,
belief in the promises of a gentleman. She
told how, after years of training, she came out in
small parts at a London house ; how a gentleman
was introduced to her. ' Very few gentlemen
were introduced to me then, because I was a very
insignificant little person in those days. This one
was young — not more than one or two and twenty
he was one of those young men who must

always have what they desire, without waiting for
it, and at whatever cost ; and he fell in love with
me ; he fell so much in love that he must needs
marry me at once. I was so silly that I thought
it a splendid thing to marry a gentleman, and we
were married, in a church and before witnesses.
He was a handsome man, and, of course, I thought
he would be as good as he was handsome ; and I
was a pretty girl, and he thought he would always
love me as much he did then.' So far it was a
tale of love ; a tale of the Prince and the Beggar
Girl.

Then her note changed. The second act began
with a small lodging, a husband who repented of
his act a week after he had done it, and was
already weary of his wife ; and then a baby ; and
cruel words, with neglect, desertion, and reproaches.
And that act closed with the flight of the mother
and her child.

Virginie sat listening in wonder. Such a tale,
so told, she had never heard or looked to hear.
Why, in the gestures, the voice, the look of the
actress she saw scene after scene of the sad story
as if it was being played by all the actors in it,
before her eyes. More than this, out of the words
and the voice she constructed the despicable hero
of the piece, and she shuddered because she was
made, in spite of herself, to think of Guy. As
the actress stood when she put hard and cruel

words into her husband's mouth, as she held lier
head, so he stood, so he held his head. But she
put the thought behind her. And was it not his
very voice that spoke those words?

Then came the Third Act. But as Virginie
listened her heart grew cold, because it seemed to
her as if she heard the very footsteps of Guy,
drawing nearer and nearer, as if she heard his
voice, heard his words. The air was heavy with
the presence of her lover.

Who . . . who . is the man ? ' she
cried.

Before her stood nothing but the thin fissure of
a woman ; but beside the woman, there seemed to
be the ghost of her own lover — no more noble,
no more the perfect knight, but downcast, with
hanging head, uttering shameful words, a craven,
a coward, and a liar.

Who is the man ? ' she cried, passionately.

Violet went on with her drama, heedless of the.
question.

Then Virginie saw how this ghost, this wretched
creature, maddened with debts, sent to the woman
he had married, and proposed that they should
both go on for the future as if there had been no
marriage : how she refused the offer, because the
boy should never be ashamed of his mother : how
then he asked her — but she refused again — to
make no sign if he acted as though he were not

VOL. III. X

already married, because by marrying a certain
girl with a large fortune he could put his difficulties
straight, and in sixteen years' time, but not
till then, when the boy was of age, he would
acknowledge him to be his lawful heir.

She stopped : her story was told.

Then she took Yirginie by both hands, and
said, while natural tears of pity rose to her eyes,

Poor child ! I hope you do not love him ;
because this man, this villain, my husband, is none
other than Guy Ferrier.'

I knew it, from the beginning,' said Virginie,
quickly. ' I saw it must be he. I knew his voice,
and his gestures. Let me think a little. I do not
know what to say, or what to think.'

Certainly,' thought Violet, ' this is not the
way in which a lovesick maid would receive the
news. She does not love him.'

I must ask him,' said Yirginie, presently, ' if
your story is true. But Mr. Percival says that
what you say is true '

Then they were silent again.

Shall I show you his son ? ' asked Violet.
The boy is not like his father.'

Oh ! No . no . no. I want to see
nothing and no one belonging to him.'

Virginie went to the open window. Outside
there were the carriages and the people, and there
was the clear bright sunshine of the sweet June

I

day. But she took no note of these things. Presently
she returned to the table by which Violet
was sitting.

'I know why you asked me if I love him.
Tell me — you — do you love him ? '

No.'

Did you ever love him ? '

I do not know. I was young and foolish.
No gentleman had ever spoken of love to me
before. I thought I did. Heaven knows, I might
have loved him had he chosen. Now I cannot
even pity him.'

Do you think I might have loved him. too —
in time ? '

I do not know.'

To live with him for fifteen years. To be
his wife for all that time ; then — suddenly — to
learn the dreadful truth. Oh ! Guy . . . Guy
. . how can men be so wicked H '

This was the part of the wrong which struck
her imagination ; the fifteen years of honour and
happiness, with the man whom she had learned
to love, followed by the rude discovery of his
frightful treachery and her own position.

You look good,' said Virginie, piteously.
Can you tell me what I should do — I mean — do
first? For, of course, I nest never see him again.
I never could. But there are other people. Lord
Terrier loves me, and will be made unhappy ;

Maude, his sister, loves me ; Mrs. Hallo owes will
want to know why I have broken the engagement
; my guardian will want to know. What
am T to say to all of them .^ '

'I do not know what ladies do, or how they
should act. If I were you, I would say nothing.
Say that Guy has broken the engagement. Refer
them to him for reasons.'

But — you, will you not, go to Lord Ferrier
yourself and tell him? '

'JSTo. I promised him long ago, when he
cursed the day that he married me, that I would
not be the one to tell the story to his father. I
have kept that promise, and I will keep it still,
unless I have to break it — for the sake of the
boy.'

Shall I leave you ? ' Violet asked presently ;
I think I can do nothing more for you. Can you
forgive me ? '

Forgive you ? ' said Virginie. ' Why, but for
you, I might have married him.'

This was a strange speech from a girl who had
just been torn from her lover. But it might betaken
in more senses than one.

Violet went away.

Left alone, Virginie went over the whole story
ai^ain, trying to understand it thoroughly. It was,
alas ! too easy to understand. In place of the

perfect gentleman, the Knight without Reproach,
the pure Sir Galahad, there stood a Thing with
contorted features, hideous, deceitful, a wild beast.
Poor Maude ! Poor Lord Terrier ! Who was to
tell them ?

She sat down quickly, and wrote a note.

I have received a visit from Violet Lovelace,
the actress. She has told me a story about you
and your marriage with her. If that story is true,
do not answer this letter. If it is not true, come
and see me. Virginie.'

She sent this letter by a special messenger. If
Captain Terrier was in his chambers he was to
wait for an answer. If he was not, the man then
was to go to his club and there wait for an answer.
He was not to return until he had put the letter
into Captain Ferrier's own hands. And, meantime,
she was at home to no one.

It was nearly seven o'clock when the man
returned.

He had given the letter. Captain Ferrier read
it, tore it up into a great many fragments, and
said, ' Tell Miss Ferrier that there is no answer at
all'

It was all true, then.

Where is your ring, my dear ? ' asked Mrs.
Hallowes. ' It is bad luck not to wear an engaged
ring.'

My engagement is broken off,' said Virginie.

'Your engagement broken off? My dearest
child, what is the meaning of this ? '

Captain Ferrier has broken it off, dear Mrs.
Hallowes. Will you ask him — not me — the reason
why ? I have sent him back his presents, and
there is an end.'

An end ? Yirginie, are you dreaming ? Yesterday
he was with you half the morning — was
the encroachment broken then? '

No ; not then, it has been broken to-day.
You will ask him why, not me.'

Good Heavens ! ' said Mrs. Hallowes.

We are going out to-night,' said Yirginie.
I do not feel very much inclined for dancing, but
we will go. And you will tell everybody, please,
that the engagement is broken off. I wish particularly
that this should be known at once.'

But — my dear '

It is quite true,' Yirginie repeated. ' It is
broken off so hopelessly that it can never . . .
never . . . never be renewed. It is not a
quarrel, nor a misunderstanding. It is an impossible
thing for me to marry him.'

Have you told Maude ? '

I have written both to her and to Lord Ferrier,
telling them that the enorao-ement is broken. For
their sake, I am very, very sorry. For my
own '

For your own, dear ? '

For my own, I can never, be sufficiently
grateful and happy.'

Mrs. Hallowes said no more. It was clearly
no mere lovers' quarrel. Besides, Captain Ferrier
was not in love with Virginie, as she had the
sharpness to have perceived very clearly from the
beginning. The man wanted her fortune, and she
had learned something of his character. He had
no friends, although he knew many men ; and he
was a gambler. Could Virginie have learned that
he was a gambler ? That would hardly explain
her statement that he himself had broken off the
engagement. Could she have found out entanglements
of another kind ? But since he, and not
she, had broken the engagement, that could
scarcely be.

She was fairly puzzled.

Their little dinner that evening, usually so full
of cheerfulness, was silent and dull. Presently
they went to some party, where Virginie danced
more than was usual with her. Mrs. Hallowes,
obedient to instructions, whispered the news,
which was carried round ; so that by the next
morning there was not a single person interested in
the career of the Honourable Guy Ferrier who
did not know that his brilliant match was broken
off. Virginie's letters to Lord Ferrier and to
Maude were nearly alike. To the former she
said.

Dear Lord^Ferriei; — Because you wished it,
and because you have been so kind to me — kinder
than I could ever have looked for or hoped — I am
very sorry that Guy has broken off our engagement.
He will, perhaps, tell you why, — Your
grateful and affectionate cousin,

VlRGINIE.'

And to Maude she wrote : —

My dear Maude, — Guy has broken the engagement.
He will, if he pleases, tell you why ;
but do not ask me. For your sake and your
father's sake I am very sorry that it was ever
entered upon. I will write to my guardian by
the next mail. Meantime, please understand that
it is impossible for us to renew the promise. I
mean impossible in the literal sense of the word.
It is not matter of sentiment at all. Impossible.
Thank you most sincerely for your kindness and
your friendship. — Yours affectionately,

VlRGINIE.'

They received these letters sitting together
after dinner. Lord Terrier had been talking of
Virginie — of the pleasant times they would have
when she would be with them for good ; making
plans for their residence altogether ; Guy settling
down to a country gentleman. He talked constantly
of Virginie ; he longed for her to be

married, so as to be at his side every day. While
they were thus discoursing these letters came.

Lord Ferrier dropped the note in consternation.


What does it mean, Maude ? What does it
mean ? '

It is some new folly of Guy's — some madness
; I do not know what it means.' She sprang
to her feet in a kind of despair. ' Oh ! Guy . . .
Guy ! Then all is useless.'

What does it mean, Maude ? '

I do not know, sir. Patience a little. We
shall know — too soon — whenever the news reaches
us ; and too much, whatever the reason may be.'

CHAPTEE XI.

BROKEN OFF.

ViRGiNiE would see Maude ; but she refused to give
any explanations.

But, my dear, it is inexplicable. One day
you are lovers, and the next you are strangers —
and no reasons.'

There is a very good reason indeed,' said
Virginie. ' But yet I cannot tell it you.'

You say that Guy broke it off. Why ? It
was his ' — she was going to say ' his interest ' but
she refrained — ' it was his dearest wish '

Virginie smiled. ' No,' she said, ' it was never
his wish at all. Do not think that any longer.
He may have told you so ; but it was not true.
He never wished to marry me : he never loved
me. For that matter, he hardly took the trouble
to pretend.'

Oh ! Virginie, is it, after all, only a lovers'
quarrel ? ' It seemed, for the moment, as if she
might be only piqued or out of temper.

No : it is far worse than that. It is as I told

you, an impossible thing for me ever to see him
again. Ask him yourself.'

Maude Event to her brother's chambers. He
was out : he had left no message : she went to his
club, he had not been there at all : then she went
home and wrote to him.

Yirginie will tell me nothing. What have
you done, Guy ? What have you said .^ '

He answered by letter and briefly.

Since Yirginie will tell you nothing, I do not
see why I should : the thing is broken off ; it can
never be taken up again. I suppose there will bea
smash in a day or two. Perhaps you had better
tell my father everything.'

Lord Ferrier found no pleasure that day in his
studio, though the day was fine and the light
good. He was painting a picture for Yirginie ;
he was going to throw into it his very best work ;
it was to be a picture which even jealous Eoyal
Academicians should not dare to refuse. Yet, if
it could not be given to her, what was the use of
going on with it ? He, too, sought his son, but to
no purpose, because Captain Ferrier was neither at
his chambers nor his club. Then Lord Ferrier
took luncheon at his own club, sat uneasily in the
library over the magazines for an hour or two,
reading, but remembering nothing. Then he
thought he would try and see Yirginie, and ask
her about it himself.

'Yirginie,' he said, sadly, taking her hand,
tell me what it means. Am I not, in very truth,
to call you daughter ? *

No,' she replied, ' I cannot become your
daughter. But you must ask Guy to tell you the
reason. He knows that it is impossible I should
marry him ; he has known it all along. Oh !
why — why — did he ever try to persuade himself
it is incredible ! '

If you cannot tell me, my dear child,' said
Lord Ferrier, 'I will not insist. It only remains
for me to say how truly and deeply grieved I am
at this blow.'

Oh ! you have always been so kind to me, so
very kind ' — for the first time the girl began to
cry about her broken engagement — ' but I feel as
if I were doing some dreadful ingratitude. Believe
me, it is not my fault ; indeed, indeed, it is not.'

I am sure it is not. The fault is wholly
Guy's. Yet I lose a daughter; and it is very
hard.'

He took her in his arms and kissed her. Then
he left her, and went home and sat in his study,
wondering by what sad fate the fruits and flowers
which had promised to grace his old age were
turning to dust and ashes. The older a man gets
the greater need for him to have always something
before him, something full of light, and
sunshine, and warmth. Virginie was to be the

source of light, and joy, and warmth to the old
man. Now she was to go. This was a dreadful
thing to think of. He looked very old and bowed
when Maude stole into the room, and sat before
him, her cheek upon her hand, and sorrow and
shame written on her face.

'You bring no comfort, Maude,' said her
father. ' Poor child ! It is hard for you as well
as for me.'

'No, sir; no comfort, but — more trouble.'

Go on, my dear. Let me face the trouble —
all the trouble that is in store for us. What fresh
trouble ? '

It is no new trouble to me, sir. The knowledge
of it has been my constant companion for
long years. I have done my best to keep it from
you ; but now it can be kept no longer.'

What is it, Maude ? What is this burden that
I am not to share ? '

It is concerned with Guy. My dear father '
she threw herself at his feet in tears of pity
and of shame — ' do you know the manner of man
that your son is ? '

What is he, Maude ? '

He says I am to tell you all ; well — I will
take him at his word. I will hide nothing from
you. He is a hopeless gambler ; he lias lost year
after year all the money he could get from you,
all he could get from me ; he has paid none of his

tradesmen during all these years ; he has raised
all the money that could be raised by . by
. . the ways in which such money is raised.
Do you understand all that I mean ? '

I believe I understand it all, Maude. What
more?' His hand, which he laid upon her
head, trembled, though his voice was firm.

He has come to the end of everything. Unless
he can raise within a few days some fifteen thousand
pounds for immediate wants, including debts
of honour, he will be made a bankrupt — and
worse.'

He wants fifteen thousand pounds for immediate
necessities.' Lord Ferrier repeated the words
slowly. ' How much more will he want ? What
is the amount that he must raise ? '

I do not know.'

Is there anything more to learn, Maude ? '

No ; I have told you all. Except the amount
of his debts.'

Is this the reason why Virginie will not marry
him ? '

I suppose so. I know no other reason. I
am e;lad that the engagement is broken. It was
my doing. I pressed Guy to clear himself by this
rich marriage. I thought that we might save you
from knowing anything. Yet I have had no
happy moment since, for thinking of the wretched
fate I had prepared for that poor girl.'

'Thank you, Maude.' Her father spoke
quietly, as if unmoved, as if it was a thing demanding
attention, but not disaster.

Leave me now. I must think over what I
ought to do.'

He sat thinking all the summer afternoon. He
was never, himself, an ambitious man, but the
Terriers, from father to son, continually looked
for the advent of that Terrier who was sjoincj to
lead his country to victory and triumph. He
thought sadly of the hopes he had formed about
his only son, the bright and beautiful boy who
was going to be the greatest Ferrier of the line.
These hopes had long since been dim, but they
had never been altogether quenched ; there was
no reason why his son should not leave the Army
and enter upon a political career, though as yet he
had shown no ambition. He had no tastes : this
was a thing which his father had long lamented,
but never understood till now. For when the
passion for play seizes upon a man it leaves no
room for tastes of any kind. You cannot possibly
serve God and Mammon. And of all men in the
world the player spends most time and most
thought over Mammon. He openly worships him.
Now, even a buyer and seller of stocks has his
Sundays.

As he pondered what would be best to doa
thought grew gradually in his brain, slowly

taking shape, like a spectre, that there was only
one thing left to do. If all the money was raised
that could be raised — of course this meant — on
the reversionary interests ; if there was no other
way — there was still the last resource ; he could,
with his son's consent, bar the entail and sell
everything — even The Towers. And so an end
of all!

He took some action ; he wrote to his son,
saying coldly that he had learned from Maude
some of his difficulties. He ordered him to go at
once to the family lawyers and draw up a complete
statement of all his liabilities of every kind :
and he added that until this were done, and some
order taken with his affairs, Guy need not present
himself.

That night Guy made his last appearance at
the Green Grass Club, where he generally found
the Baccarat he loved so well.

Serious play generally begins about eleven,
though there is a little irregular practice — a little
duelling, at ecarte — before then. It is about
midnight that the members drop in fi'om their
various haunts, and take their places one after the
other. Some of them were little more than mere
boys, though their conversation was ' grown-up,'
and their knowledge of life — that is, some form
of life-was precocious. Guy was one of the

older men ; he was so very old that he did not
talk then' slang. This is, indeed, a kind of tongue,
like the purest Parisian of society, which changes
every season. Besides, what to the young fellows
fired with champagne, and inexperienced in arithmetic,
was pure fun and merriment, was to Ferrier
and some like him sober and serious business.
What were only counters and ponies and monkeys
to the lads, mere abstract sums of money, which
they might lose or win without any difference, as
they fondly thought, to themselves, were to the
older men the means of satisfying ravenous
creditors, meeting bills, and taking up promissory
notes.* The lads laughed and chattered about
Eegie and Freddy and Nelly and Connie and,
generally. Jack and Jill ; and told stories, and
drank more champagne, and smoked cigarettes,
and told more stories, and drank still more
champagne ; while the other hands kept cool, and
watched the chances.

Guy was at first in bad luck. Before midnight
he lost three hundred pounds. Then he began to
win again, and won all back, and a hundred and
fifty more. This was three o'clock. He thought
he had won enough, and would go home.

Now, there is an institution at the Green Grass
Club — a very useful little institution to young men
who desire to be swiftly and suddenly stripped.
It consists of a buffet, where one can find light

VOL. ill. o

refreshments, with champagne, or brandy sands
Guy was a little exhausted with the excitement
of the game. He drank the greater part of
a whole bottle.

Then one of the boys began talking to him.

Let us go back,' said this youth. ' It's my
day out ; and I've lost a thou. But you're in luck,
old chappie ; you are not going to desert your
luck.'

He went back ; it was as if a rope dragged
him to the table ; he sat down and went on with
the play.

They left off at seven. The sun had been up
for four hours ; the morning was bright and hot ;
there were lots of people already in the streets.
And Guy had lost fifteen hundred pounds.

He walked home to his chambers in a kind of
dream.

There were letters on the table — from Maude,
she had told her father all ; from his father — he
knew all, and ordered him to make out his list ;
from certain gentlemen of the money-lending and
bill-discounting business, their language was forcible
rather than kind ; from tradesmen ; from ' friends,'
who held his I.O.U.s. The smash had come.
Well ; it had been coming a long time. It had
been deferred by his engagement ; but already
everybody knew that it was off.

As it has come,' said Guy, 'I shall go to bed.

Curious ; I wonder what will happen What

is this?'

It was only a little packet — with a ring and a
bracelet — trifles which he had given Virginie.

He laughed as he put them into his pocket.

'Marrying would have been a deadly bore,'
he said. 'I wonder how she took it. Nasty
thing facing Violet, if she let herself rip. But
perhaps she put her case quietly. One never
knows what they will do. Pity, too, for some
reasons, that it didn't come off.'

He had had his last fling in that paradise of
flinging youth, London. Paris has its points.
New York has its corners. But for red-hot continued
flinging there is, perhaps, no capital in the
world like London. Now, as the first rule among
the joyous companies is that he who flings must
pay, it may be very well understood that Guy
Ferrier was seen no more at his club or among any
of his former associates. Nor do they at this
moment know what has become of him !

li

CHAPTER XII.

POOR TOM !

The Smash was quite as complete as any that has
ever been enjoyed by Prodigal Son. The thing is
generally very much dreaded before it comes ; yet
it has its enjoyable points while it lasts. Nobody
is so important during the conduct of his case as the
bankrupt. It is afterwards, when the eyes of the
world are no longer upon him, that the flatness sets
in. Guy Ferrier felt, on the whole, happier when
the crisis had arrived, though he could no longer
go to his clubs, and though he had to spend a part
of each day with lawyers, making out a list of
liabilities which showed a really sublime contempt
for the rules of addition, multiplication, and
compound interest. Yet no man can afford to
disregard science, and the end of such as do is
certain.

It was, indeed, a noble list, regarded only as
what a young man with a small allowance and
expectations of a moderate kind can achieve in ten
years. The contemplation of it raised a kind of

rapture in the minds of those who read it. One
felt proud of one's country, since it can produce
such heroes in prodigality ; and one marvelled at
the man who could calmly see the Avhole of these
thousands thrown headlong into the sea, getting
nothing for them at all except the usual wage of
the spendthrift, now about to be paid to him.

There is one way. and only one way, in which
such a hist in such a case can be met and discharged.
It is a complicated way, and involves
all kinds of other things ; but in its broad
principle it is simple. The way is for the heir and
the tenant in possession to unite in barring the
entail. When this is done, the family acres maybe
sold and the debts paid. It is a cruel way,
because it destroys the House. The only way in
which a family is kept together, and kept in the
front place won by their ancestors, is by their
lands and by their title. The latter cannot be sold,
but the former can, and a penniless Lord may
hide his head, and let the title die. The longer
the line, the older the house, the more cruel a
thing it is ; • for a man whose ambitions lay not in
his own achievements but in those of the future,
the thing was most dreadful.

Lord Ferrier accepted the position. His house
was ruined. They could never again lift up their
heads ; his son was hopeless ; they must save his
honour somehow, if that could be done, and then

find some quiet corner where, with his daughter,
he could, sad and sorrowful, wait the end of his
days.

Go, Maude,' he said ; ' go to take your last look
at The Towers. I have no heart to go. When
the papers are signed we shall be homeless. Perhaps
we may somehow save enough from the
wreck to live upon in some humble way.'

He knew, now, that his daughter's fortune was
gone long before — thrown by his son as a sop to
his creditors. They had no longer any secrets.

Perhaps, Maude,' he said, with a smile ;
'perhaps people may believe that I can paint,
after all. We may sell the pictures.'

He uttered no reproaches, and made no complaints.
Everything that he loved the most had
come to ruin and wreck ; he was going to lose all
that he least looked to lose ; through no fault of
his. A hard and cruel case; somehow made
worse by the knowledge that the man who had
done the mischief was dead to repentance, and
grieved only for himself.

Once, Maude asked him if he would see Guy.
He made no reply, but he shuddered.

As for Guy, he made no sign of wishing to see
anybody. He vanished. He was no more seen ;
he could not go to his club until his debts of
honour were paid ; he did not appear in any of
his usual haunts. But he had some sense of

honour left. He wrote to all and told them —
what they knew already — that he was in a mess,
and that his affairs were in his lawyer's hands.
With that they were fain to be content. But
many men, men of small means and vaulting-ambition,
who liked to play with those who could
lose without caring much, and who looked for a
prompt settlement of such claims, swore loudly
and felt badly about Captain Ferrier.

I think that in those days he went o' nights to
a certain obscure corner which exists in Soho. A
good many curious and interesting things go on in
that quartier. One hears stories from time to
time ; but it is difficult to get such an introduction
to those houses as will allay suspicion, and gentlemen
of the press would probably find themselves
a hindrance rather than otherwise to the programme
of the evening. At the house which Guy
found out, a few Russians, Frenchmen, and other
foreigners, chiefly of low degree, meet nightly and
dally in a small Away with the Goddess of Chance.
Captain Terrier was not particular about his company,
so that he could get the excitement which is
to some souls as necessary as ardent drink to others.
He was happy if he came away the winner of a
sovereign ; he cursed his luck if he lost fi\Q
shilling's ; he came the earliest and left the latest.
He had given up his chambers, and lived at a small
hotel, whose address was known only to his

lawyers, and I think that he was happier in those
days, living in this hole-and-corner way, punting for
sixpences, than when he was plunging for hundreds
and looking forward to the crisis. There was no
champagne, but there was brandy-ands water.

In those days Percival plucked up heart of
grace and called often upon Virginie ; and they
took counsel together. It was well on in July ;
the season was nearly over. Mrs. Hallowes, who
went in sadness, having lost the most important
persons on her visiting-list, was talking of the seaside.
But Virginie had other thoughts in her
head. She had not yet written to her mother and
her guardian about the breaking of the engagement,
which lasted but a short fortnight. She
was thinking of another and a more excellent way
of telling them.

It was concerning the more excellent way that
Percival advised her. His arguments were forcible ;
and he spoke with plainness, and to no unwilling
ears.

'Why stay here?' he asked her. 'Everything
in London will remind you of — of — things
you would gladly forget. You have endured a
most cruel outrage at the hands of your own
people. London will never be a happy place for
you again.'

No : never,' she replied. ' I can never think

of London again except with pain. And I shall
always remember Lord Ferrier's kindness

Go out yourself,' he went on. ' The mail
starts in a fortnight. Carry yourself the news of
your freedom.'

She clasped her hands and her eyes sparkled.

Then there is Tom,' the tempter added softly.

She blushed, but replied not.

You do not know ' — he pleaded the name of
the absent Tom as warmly as if it were his own —
you cannot understand the perfect love with
which he looks upon you. As for me and the rest
of us, of course you know already that we love
you j must as much ; but Tom of course comes
first.'

Oh ! Mr. Percival,' said Virginie, with a rosy
blush upon her cheek and a sweet smile in her
eyes, ' you must not say such things to me.' Yet
in Palmiste, such things had been said to her without
meeting any objections.

You will let me say such things, Virginie,
because I am an old admirer, and you know that
I do not presume any farther — while Tom is in the
way, for Tom is different : he has watched you
grow up beside him : his love is a part of his being :
without you he is imperfect : you have been hi
companion from the time you could run about :
you lisped his name almost the first of any : you
have felt his affection about you and around you

from the beginning. Virginie, is it possible that
you could forget him ? '

I have never forgotten him,' she said. * How
could I ever forget him ? '

Yet you promised yourself to another.'

Yes,' she said, humbly. ' But still I had not
forgotten him. Can you not understand that he
was always my brother ? '

No, I cannot. Because, you see, he never
was. People may call themselves brothers and
sisters as much as they please, but they cannot
create that relationship by any amount of calling.
And if you loved him still, how could you '

I never loved my cousin at all,' said Virginie.
Do not think worse of me than I deserve. I
respected the man whose character Maude described
; and they were very kind to me ; and
Lord Ferrier loved me ; and it was what my
father would have liked.'

Then, now that you are free, now that you
can do so, remember the only man who has the;
right to ask you for your hand.'

You forget,' she said, gently, ' that things
are not as they were. He has lost his faith in

me. If he entertained those feelings — once

they must have been destroyed by myself.

What respect can he have left for a girl who engaged
herself — as I did — to such a man .^ I cannot
explain to him as I have explained to you.'

He will know that you were deceived ; he
will say to himself that you '

Yes, he will make excuses for me ; but can
he ever think again — as he did before ? '

You would not ask that question if you knew
and could understand what a man's love is. \'^ir-
genie, it isn't a question of whether he thinks a
little better or a little worse of you. All that is
nothing. He loves you. Whatever you did, he
would love you still. If you were to lose your
beauty, he would love you still. If you were to
go away and desert him for a hundred and fifty
years, he would love you just as much when you
came back. It isn't your beauty, or your grace,
or your virtue, or your sweetness that he loves ;
it is yourself.'

Has he told you all this ? '

'No : he never talked about you.'

How, then, do you know it ? '

Because, Virginie, I know the man ; and because
I judge him by myself. For I love you in
just about the same way myself. You are my
ideal woman, as you are his.'

The tears came into her eyes.

What,' she asked, ' can a woman say ordo
that is worthy of this gift of love? You,
who judge him by yourself, plead for him.
Heaven knows it wants little pleading. You
are so generous and so loyal to him that I

cannot but do your will. It shall be as you
desire.'

'Elsie,' lie said in the evening — they were
taking a stroll in the cool and leafy lanes of
Battersea Park ; it was nearly nine o'clock, and
the sweet breath of summer was in the air.
Elsie, I have had an agitated day.'

Has your novel gone wrong, then ? '

No ; there are one or two things even more
important than the novel, though that Avill prove
an Epoch-maker. What I was engaged upon was
more important. You know, of course, Elsie, that
I have always been in love with Virginie.'

Yes, you have told me so a thousand times.'

'Have I really? So often? Yet it is a delighted
subject to talk about — nothing more so.
Being in love, then, and fully acquainted with the
various phases of that interesting passion, I judge
of Tom's feelings by my own.'

Yes ; that seems natural — if Tom does feel
like you.'

Of course he does. Now, consider the case.
The young lady has suffered a great wrong ; but
things might have been much worse, because she
might have been in love with the man who did
the wrong. That, I am happy to say, is not the
case. Not at all. She never really cared a straw
about him ; she has been insulted and outraged

by the abominable wickedness of the creature,
but her deeper feelings are untouched. Nowhere
is Tom's chance. Therefore I went there
this morning to plead his cause.'

Why not yoiu- own, since you love her so
much ? '

You are a foolish child, Elsie. I told you
that Tom must come first. And, after a great
deal of beating about the bush, because one never
quite knows in what light the thing is regarded
by the person one is trying to persuade, I succeeded.'


'Yes, Elsie,' he continued triumphantly, ' Virginia
will marry Tom. That is the news I have
to tell you.'

'And you?'

Why, I go on just the same. It has been a
great happiness to me to love this sweet and
beautiful woman. She will always remain to me
the crown of womanhood. Perhaps I should be
almost afraid of marrying her. Perhaps it is
better to worship at a distance.'

Perhaps,' said Elsie, a little jealously, ' you
might find out that she is not altogether the goddess
you think.'

And what a dreadful thing that would be to
discover ! ' said Percival. ' Now, if I marry a
girl whom I know not to be a goddess, that
would be better, wouldn't it ? '

I should think so said Elsie, blushing — she
hardly knew why. But nobody was there to see
it, so it didn't matter.

'Yes ; much better. If, for instance, you and
I were to marry.'

Oh ! Mr. Percival.'

'If you would not be jealous, and think that
because I have loved Virginie I cannot find any
love for you — but I thought you ought to know
the whole truth.'

Oh ! Mr. Percival. What will Violet say ? '

'You are a very dear and good Httle Elsie.
We will go into that partnership, then. I've got
no money ; you've got no money. We will club
our resources. And perhaps we needn't move
our quarters. And now, my child, as there is nobody
in this lane but ourselves, put up your lips
and let me kiss you, and tell me that you won't be
jealous. Petrarch always made them say that.'

CHAPTER XIII.

FAREWELL.

I AM come,' said Maude, ' to ask you to forgive
me, Virginie, before you go.'

She looked pale and worn ; her thin cheek was
thinner ; her eyes more lustrous and more sorrowful.
Sad stories in plenty have been written on
the wreck of women's lives made by lover and by
husband, but few of them which have been ruined
by brother or by father ; yet are these the more
common. Maude Ferrier gave her brother everything
: her thoughts, her work, her money, yet
the end was — this.

I am come to ask your forgiveness,' she
repeated.

'Indeed,' said .Virginie, 'I have nothing to
forgive. You have always been most kind and
good to me.'

My goodness and kindness, Virginie, were
assumed, for my brother's sake. I wanted him
to marry you for the sake of your money. I
wrote to him in Palmiste, urging him to pay court

to you. I knew that lie was in difficulties, and
a gambler ; I knew well that he would only
be relieved for a time, and that he would throw
away your fortune as he has thrown away his
own. You were to be sacrificed to his selfish
greed and prodigality, as well as I myself. It
was a cruel and a wicked thing to plot.'

But you told me '

All I told you was false. I said Guy was an
honourable and a noble gentleman, as the Chief
of our House has always been. It was false. He
is cold and selfish, cruel and treacherous. This I
knew. I was preparing you for the most cruel
of disappointments. I deliberately laid my plans
for you to become the wife of a reckless gamester.
But, remember, my father knew nothing of it.
Think ill of me, because I deserve it ; but not of
him, because he is the soul of honour. I have
told him, now. When you found him out what
where your thoughts of me ? '

But, Maude, I have not found him out .
This is the first I have heard of his money difficulties
or his gaming.'

Why, then, was the engagement broken off.
Is.there worse to come ? '

There is worse to come, but I cannot tell you
what it is.'

To save him even for a year or two ; to
keep my father from knowing the reputation and

character of this son — I think I woiikl have sacrificed
anyone. Yet — Virginie — I am glad that
you are saved ; and again I say — forgive me.'

'I forgive you, Maude. Whatever you did,
was for your brother. I know already that he is
not — the noble character I thought him. But
what do you mean by ruin .^ '

His liabilities are enormous ; it is truly
wonderful that he should have been trusted so
greatly ; to meet them my father has consented to
the only course left open ; he will cut off the entail
and sell The Towers, and the estates, and the
town house and all ; and so there will be an end
of us.'

'Sell The Towers? Sell the estates? Is it
possible ? '

It is more than possible. The papers are
ready, and will be signed tomorrow morning.'

Oh ! Maude, it must not be. Cannot some
of my fortune '

Yours, Virginie ? Ask yourself if we could
take your money — when we have wronged you so
cruelly.'

Virginie was silent. No : her own money
could not be taken. %

To-morrow morning my father will see his
son, but only for the signing of the papers, and
then . . . then . oh ! me . . . there will be

VOL. III. r

no more pride for us, except in the past, and
only poverty and shame for the future.'

Maude ! '

They wept together, and parted.

Now when, an hour later, Percival heard of
this intention he fell into a great dubiety. For,
first of all, he had no right to interfere ; but,
secondly, he had been taken into confidence by a
person greatly interested in this barring of entail ;
and, thirdly, he thought that if the truth were
n:iade known to Lord Terrier, he might reconsider
a decision which would make his grandson a
pauper. Finally, he decided on advising Violet
to take the boy and go herself to her father-in-law.


I promised,' said the actress, ' that I would
keep his secret — and I have done so. Nobody
knows — except that poor child with, the pretty
face. But for the sake of the boy I would break
that promise, or any other that I have ever made.'

It is for his sake that I advise you to break
it. You ought never to have made such a promise
at ah.'

What do you say, Daddy ? '
« ' It looks well,' he said, . . . ' a lawyer's
office — table with parchments '

It won't be parchment,' Percival objected.
It will be paper.'

Permit me, Mr. Percival, to know my

business. On the stage, wills and agreements and
so forth must be on parchment — large, rustling
parchment. I will proceed . . .'

He indicated by a sweep of his hand that the
scene was set. ' At the table the lawyer, holding
a pen — a large goose-quill — the introduction of
steel pens has ruined the old goose-quill business
utterly destroyed it. Ah ! what business have
I seen in the good old farces got out of a simple
quill pen ! At the end of the table the prodigal,
arms folded, brows knit — a prodigal at bay — most
effective figure I assure you. Enter the father,
bowed with years and grief, supported by his
lovely daughter, who gazes reproachfully upon
her brother.

" Will your Lordship sign ? "

" Give me," he says, feebly, " give me the
pen. Thus . . . thus . I sign away — forever
— the honour of the House."

He dips the pen into the ink ; he raises his
hand. The door flies open — "Do not sign, my
Lord ! " Tableau ! Very good indeed, Violet,
my dear. It makes up for the loss of that other
beautiful situation which you threw away. After
all, it would not have* taken place for sixteen
years, and one does not know where I may be jn
sixteen years. Starring in the provinces, very
likely.'

It did seem a very likely thing indeed, coni'
2

ordering that he was already over eighty ; but
then Art knows nought of age.

I think you ought to go, indeed,' said
PercivaL ' If you will allow me, I will go with
you, unless Mr. Perigal would like to go.'

I would rather go alone,' said Violet. ' And
the boy shall go too.'

The papers were to be signed at noon. Guy
was instructed to be in the study at that time ; he
was also informed that his father refused to speak
to him, that he was to go away on the conclusion
of the inquiry, and that he would be afterwards
informed what provision, if any, would be made
for him. The last clause was uncomfortable, because
men who are the heirs to great names are
not accustomed to consider even the possibility of
a failure in the corn and wine, the butter and the
oil, and the honey, which go to the daily bread.
If any ! ' — but, of course, it could be only a
figure of speech.

It was a little after eleven when Violet asked
to see Lord Ferrier. She refused to send in her
name, but said that she came on business of the
utmost importance, and wished to see his Lordship
immediately. She was taken to the study,
where she waited, and wondered how her communication
would be received.

Presently Lord Ferrier appeared. Not quite
the man Violet expected — she somehow thought

he would be a fierce, baronial kind of person, with
the air of one who insists on all his rights ; a
French Seigneur of the good old time — though
.she knew little about Seigneurs ; a melodramatic
Lord, with large, white, fierce eyebrows. On the
contrary, he seemed quite a mild and gentle old
man, who bowed politely, and apologised for
keeping her waiting, and asked what her business
with him might be, and added that he was himself
much engaged at the moment, and would
be obliged if she would come to the point at
once.

Your business, my Lord,' said Violet, ' is
connected with your son ? '

It is.'

You are about to sion an agreement which
will enable you to sell your property — all your
property — for the purpose of paying off your
son's debts.'

I am ; though I do not know how you have
learned this.'

Never mind that. I am thinking, my Lord,
how I had best put into words the things that I
have to tell you. I am here in hope of inducing
you to reconsider that decision.'

Lord Ferrier rose.

Madam,' he said, ' I cannot discuss this decision,
or any other private concerns of mine, with a

stranger.

Yet, you will listen to me, directly you know
who I am. It is only since yesterday that I have
understood the meaning of your lordship's intention.
'Otherwise I should have been here long
ago.'

I am at a loss to know '

You shall know directly. I have been told
that your Lordship is a . . . a . . . what they
call . I am told . a tenant for life of the
property which you hold.'

That is so, certainly.'

And that your son, when he succeeds, is also
a tenant for life.'

Yes.'

So that if you agree between you to sell it
you will be selling the property of your grandchildren.'


If you. put it in that way — yes. But I have
no grandchildren.'

Violet had been holding the little boy by the
hand ; his back was turned to the window, so that
his face was in shade. She now turned him round
and pushed him gently forward.

Does your Lordship,' she asked, ' see any
likeness in that boy to any of your own family ? '

It had been Violet's boast when she wrote to
her husband that the boy was not like him.
That was only true in part. The boy was exactly
like what his father had been at his age.

It is Guy himself! ' cried Lord Ferrier. ' The
boy is like Guy at six. What does this mean ? '

Your Lordship has one grandchild. That is
what it means. I am your son's wife.'

Is it possible V

You do not, naturally, accept my statement.
Wait. Your son will be here himself in a short
time. Let him be witness. I was married to
him six years ago, and separated from him five
years ago. It was an unlucky day for me when
I met your son,'

Is it possible ? '

His eyes were fixed on the child.

I am an actress. I play under the name of
Violet Lovelace.'

Is it possible ? '

He kept repeating these words.

My Lord, have no doubt that I shall prove
what I say. Will you make the future Lord
Ferrier a pauper ? '

The future Lord Ferrier. Yes . . . yes . . .
The future Lord Ferrier. Then the house will
have another chance. But, if the child is not a
pauper, his father will be dishonoured.'

Violet laughed.

Is he not dishonoured already ? Has he not
engaged himself to a young lady, hoping that I
should keck) silence ? Did he not come to me and
threaten, if I did not keep silence, to take away

the boy and rob me of my salary ? What constitutes
dishonour among gentlemen, if these things
do not ? I say nothing of the cruel treatment
and bitter words that drove me from him as soon
as my baby was born. I say nothing of being
left to earn my bread as best I might, and keep
the child as well. It all forms part of the man.
If this is not dishonour, Heaven knows what it is.'

Let me look at you,' he said.

She raised her veil, and looked up in his face.

The eyes,' he said, ' are honest eyes. You
have a good face.'

She blushed. She had not blushed for years ;
but now she blushed like an innocent, ignorant
school-girl.

My Lord,' she said, earnestly, ' my child has
no cause to be ashamed of his mother, unless he
is ashamed that she is an actress.'

It is well said,' he replied, gravely.

Then he rang the bell, and desired that Miss
Ferrier should be asked to come to him.

Maude,' he said, simply, ' this young lady
informs me that she is — your brother's wife — and
that this is his son. If this be true — as I nave
very little doubt '

At least, sir, let us first prove it to be true.'

Let us prove it to be true,' echoed Violet.
She was gentle and soft with the man ; but with
this woman who looked at her with cold distrust

lie became herself cold and distrustful. She
drew the child upon her lap. ' I shall prove that
you. Miss Ferrier, are my sister-in-law.'

Will you, then, take your proofs to the
proper persons, our lawyers ? ' asked Maude.

i!^o ; I will not. I will wait here till my
husband comes, he will prove himself the truth of
my statement. Your Lordship will understand
that I am here for no other purpose than to defend
my son's rights. Your nephew' — she addressed
herself to Maude with some asperity of
manner — ' may become an actor. I believe none
of his predecessors have ever followed this profession.'


Maude sighed. She did not doubt the story.
A foolish marriage was only one more episode in
the history of her brother, and a most natural
episode.

They sat in silence for a few minutes. Then
Lord Ferrier spoke.

If it be as you say,' he said, slowly, * I will
respect the boy's rights at the expense of his
father.'

Violet made no reply. Then there was silence
again.

The clock struck twelve. And at the moment,
true to the time appointed, the lawyer bearing
the paper arrived; with him, Guy himself

He started at the sight of Violet.

Ycm here ? ' he cried. ' You have broken
your promise.'

Who is this lady, sir ? ' asked Lord Ferrier.

He looked from one to the other. He remembered
the witnesses to the marriage ; further
concealment was hopeless ; besides, it was useless.

She is my wife,' he said, ' and this, I suppose,
is the boy.'

It is the boy,' said Violet. ' I have the other
proofs, but . is your Lordship satisfied ? '

I am satisfied,' Lord Ferrier replied.

First, then, you will sign this paper ' — Violet
addressed her husband, not Lord Ferrier. * You
acknowledge that you married me under the assumed
name of Eichard Johnson. That is all.
But I wish you to sign it in the presence of your
father and your sister.'

If that is all,' said Guy, carelessly, ' let us
sisfn.'

He read the paper, signed it, and returned it
to her, with a bow. ' I suppose,' he said, ' that
we part again. Quite so. You have not kept
your promise ; but do not fear ; I shall not interfere
with you.'

Give me, if you please,' said Lord Ferrier to
the lawyer, ' the agreement which I was to sign.
I have decided, sir,' he said to his son, ' not to
execute this deed. I will not join you in barring
the entail. The estates shall be kept — for your

son. I think I have no more to say to yon.
Stay. You will learn in a few clays what I can
do for you. An allowance of some kind shall be
made to you, on the condition that you leave
England and do not return in my lifetime. As
regards your creditors, I shall see what sum I can
set aside every year, so long as I live, for their
use. Go ; let me forget that ever I had a son.'

The young man turned and left the room
without a word.

Guy ! ' cried Maude, catching his hand, but
he shook it off with an angry gesture. He had
not even a single kind word of farewell for the
woman who had given him all she had. She
sank into her chair, and buried her face in her
hands.

^ My dear,' said Lord Eerrier, taking Violet's
hand and raising it to his lips, 'you are my
daughter-in-law. In this house you will be always
welcome.'

Thank you, my Lord. My secret shall still
be kept. I will not take your name to the
theatre, and I will go on working for myself. As
for the boy, when he is older you shall decide
about him. Boy, kiss your grandfather.'

She held up the child to be kissed.

I will go, now. Do not cry for your brother,'
she said to Maude. ' He is not worth a tear. I
haven't cried about him for more than five years.'

But Maude made no sign, and Violet walked
away, leading the boy with her.

So Guy passed away, and will be seen no
more. Nor can one say what will be his end.
Where cards and dice and roulette-tables are to
be found he will make his home. That is quite
certain. It is also certain that he will descend,
slowly or rapidly, deeper and deeper, until the
outward semblance of a gentleman is lost. As
one thinks of him and his future, one remembers
stories of Mexican hells and New Orleans gambling
saloons, and of shots fired across a table, and
a dead body thrown into the street. Or one remembers
ghastly things that one has heard : how
men have fallen among thieves and swindlers, and
cast in their lot with them, and become leaders
among them, owing to the rare possession of a
well-bred manner. Or one thinks of the despair
that falls upon a man when his last sou is lost,
and the cold river is close by.

Soon or late, the end of such men is certain.

CHAPTER Xii.

AN AUSPICIOUS DAY.

The cold season in Palmiste Island somewhat resembles
the summer in the Straits of Belleisle.
That is to say, while the latter begins on August
the 31st and ends on September the 1st, the
former is said to begin on June the 30th and to
end on July the 1st. It should be called the
not-so-hot-as-usual ' season. In the very height
or depth — of the season was Virginie married.

Her return to the island was announced by no
letters : she arrived alone and unexpected. There
were few passengers by the mail, and hardly anyone
came on board when the quarantine boat had
done its duty. Therefore Virginie, leaving her
boxes and things to be forwarded by the trusty
purser, landed by herself, and by herself drove to
Mon Desir.

It was in the afternoon, about five of the
clock, that she arrived at the dear old Avenue of
Palms. All the way out she had been living over
again the tumult and humiliation of the last weeks

ill England. When lie landed in the oldfamihar
]place her London season vanished, and became
like a dream of the past. The sunshine lay upon
the everlasting hills, the fresh breeze of the
afternoon fanned her cheek, the ragged old banana-trees
waved a welcome to her with their torn and
disreputable rags of leaves. On the wharves the
dusky coolies shouted as they ran backwards and
forwards with their odorous sacks of guano ; the
merchants and the brokers sat beneath the trees
upon the Place ; the drivers slept upon their
boxes ; the mules kicked and bit each other ; once
more she heard the old Creole patois ; once more
she felt herself a Creole, and, as the carriage took
her beyond the town, the tears came to her eyes.
What was England to her but a name and a
glory ? What was her pride of family worth anymore
to her ? What had been the vague wonders
in her mind before she saw the birthplace of her
father ? How was she changed ? How little it
all meant now. What were London drawing-rooms
— what was the talk of London society —
what were the false friendships and pretences of
English life — what were the nights in crowded ballrooms
— to the sweet, pure air of the Palmiste
table land ; the rustle and the light, the colour
and the shadow of the waving canes, the wooded
hill side, the bare, hot rocks ; the breadth of sunshine,
the deep ravines, the waterfalls, and mountain

streams ; even the ugly wooden huts with
their tin roofs, of the Chinamen — in her native
land ?

When the carriage reached the avenue, she
stopped it, and, telling the man to follow very
slowly, she went on before with parted lips and
eager eyes, thinking of how she should find them
all

Oh ! Look. In the verandah there sat, as
they always had sat, side by side, her mother
with Madame Kemyss. They were not reading
what real good comes by reading, when you
think of it ? Nor were they talking — you do not
do any good at all, in general, by talking. Nor
were they working — why should they work, when
they had people to work for them ? On a table
between them lay a book or two, and some work,
just to look at. They were sitting there as they
sat every afternoon, quite still, silent, and happy,
enjoying the sunshine as it sloped across the lawn
and lay golden on the distant hills, feeling the joy
of the cloudless sky, and the breath of the fragrant
air, and the scent of the roses on the lawn.
Why talk ? Why argue .^ Why waste breath in
trying to prove the unknowable, when these
things can be enjoyed? Needless work, fuss,
prattle, chatter, fierce argument, and strenuous
logic are for temperate zones. To these ladies
there was nothing wanting in their lives but the

return of their Virginie. And she was close at
hand, though they knew it not, looking at them
through the branches of an acacia. The Squire
was there, too. But one is ashamed to say that he
was asleep. He had been of late so much troubled
and afflicted about the estate and the hesitation of
the Banks that he often fell asleep of an afternoon.
Now he lay back in his long clair and slumbered
peacefully.

In a corner of the verandah sat old Suzette, in
her cotton frock and red turban, coiled up. In
her hands was a piece of work ; but she, too, was
half asleep.

A sleepy, peaceful place. As Virginie looked,
she thought of the danger hanging over them, and
how this peace might be interrupted, this rest disturbed,
and these dear old people sent adrift to
find such shelter as they might. To be sure,
where her mother lived, there would be Madame
Kemyss — there, too, the Squire. But — Tom !

And she blushed, because, during all the
voyage, Tom had never once been out of her
thoughts. What would he say? What would
he say ?

Now, at this juncture, Tom himself came
sauntering slowly down the avenue. He was dull
because the house was dull, and its silence almost
intolerable to him. And in these days he was always
dejected, and found no joy in anything nor



any brightness in the sunshine. And, behold!

before him stood none other than Virginia !

He took her in his arms, and, without a word

of question or explanation — perhaps he read her

eyes — he kissed her a thousand times, regardless

of the driver who sat on his box and grinned

approvingly.

Oh ! Tom,' she cried, ' do you love me still ? '
Did he love her ? Did the sun shine .^ Was

the sky blue ? Were the flowers growing under

their feet ? Did he love her still .^

*****

And there were present at the wedding his
Excellency the Governor and her Ladyship, his
illustrious consort ; also the Eight Reverend the
Lord Bishop of Palmiste, with the young Padre,
his Examining Chaplain — it took the pair of them
to read the service — and the Bishops, and the
Bishoprics and the Colonial Secretary, and the
Auditor-General and the Treasurer, and. all the
Heads of Departments — with their wives and
daughters ; also all the members of the Legislative
Council, with their wives and their sons and
their daughters, and their grandchildren ; and
the General in command of the Forces, and the
Colonel and all the officers of the Eegiment in
garrison ; and the Assistant Colonial Secretary —
he who had taken the Padre for a morning walk
and other assistants in Departments ; and all the

VOL. III. Q

French and English merchants, and as many of
the planters as were white — yon mustn't mix
colours in a tropical climate any more than in
esthetic zones ; and among them the McMcAndrew
and the McLoughlin. As for the Pink Boy, he
was there, too. His friend the Squire was saved
from ruin. His letter had been acted upon ; and,
after all, this was the sad and fatal result. Yet
he bore up, and acted as best man, looking very
pink and young and handsome.

They were married, naturally, at the English
Cathedral, which was much fuller than was ever
before known in the memory of man, except on
St. John's Day, when the Masons go there to
solemn service, and hear a sermon full of dark
allusion to Masonic rites, and feel reassured about
that Greater Excommunication hurled at them by
my Lord the Bishop of the Older Branch, whose
Palace stands not a hundred yards away. The
organ pealed continuously, and the choir boys
sang an anthem, and the service was presently
under weigh, and the Pink Boy and all the
bridesmaids were in tears.

After the service there was the most generous
and noble banquet ever spread, with culinary
effects romantically tropical, artistically suggestive
of sugar planting, poetically, allegorically beautiful.
His Plight Eeverence proposed the bride :
his Excellency proposed Captain Kemyss : the

Assistant Colonial Secretary, himself a bachelor,
proposed the bridesmaids, and the Pink Boy in
reply wandered off to the bride and confessed his
passion : and the Mc Andrew went to sleep in the
middle of the feast : and the McLoughlin at
the close had to be supported by a friend on
either side.

They spent their honeymoon in a little 
hidden in the heart of the woods, where
they wandered every day hand in hand. Sometimes
they sat beside a sparkling stream, upon
some fallen trunk, and watched the flickering of
the leaves in the sunlight, or the herds of deer
browsing, in a lonely glade, in silent happiness.
Sometimes they gathered orchids and ferns.
Sometimes Virginie would read to Tom, who
never read anything for himself. Sometimes she
told him of th-e great world she had seen for a
little and left for ever. Once she told him the
true story of her engagement, and honest Tom was
fain to own that the wickedness of man may be
very astonishing. He meant white man — because
he knew the coloured varieties pretty well, and
had gauged their moral possibilities. Sometimes
they came upon little clearings inhabited by
settlements of old maroons who had long since
forgotten their rancour against the white man, and
among whom there was now none living, unless

Q 2

some very old Patriarch, who remembered the
slash and the labour. Then the fair white lady
sat among them, and talked to the simple people.
A sweet and simple honeymoon ; the prelude
to a sweet and simple life. Perhaps Virginie will
be happier with her garden and her flowers, her
woods and hills, her sunshine and peace, than
if she were the Lady of The Towers, even though
her husband were the Bayard that Maude represented
him to be.

Another wedding ; it was so obscure that I do
not know on what day it was held ; but it was
about the same as Virginie's. That of Mr. Percival
and Elsie. Nobody was present except
Daddy Perigal and Violet and the boy. They
have, as they proposed, clubbed their resources.
Elsie is to go on governesses, while her husband
shapes that spoon. It will never, I think, be a
very remarkable spoon ; but there will be some
neatness and freshness in the design, some taste,
with conscientiousness in the execution ; and the
whole of the man's heart will be thrown into his
work, so that, perhaps, there may presently
happen to be found a few simple people who will
look upon the spoon with a little admiration and
a little sympathy.

HUMBLING OF THE Mumbling

It is now forty years since Josiah Mumbling,
clock and watchmaker, retired from Gracechurch
Street and the little shop, where he had done
extremely well, to his native village in Essex.
He was the son of a small farmer and the descendant
of sturdy yeomen ; the instincts of old family
were strong in him ; when, therefore, being a
good way past sixty he thought the time had
come to sell the business and retire, he was
encouraged by the fact that the Hall of his native
village was for sale, with the park and grounds.
He bought them ; took his family into the country
with him, and settled down, for the fifteen years
of life which remained to him, not as a country
gentleman exactly, for the good man had no idea
of going into society, but as a mixture of retired
tradesman and farmer. He farmed his own land,
though he lost money by it : he found life dull
after the stir of the city, and he continually
yearned after the manufacture of watches and
clocks, in which he was no mere seller of other
men's work, but himself an ingenious and accomplished

workman, who lead duly served this seven
years' apprenticeship, and was besides a mechanician
by native genius.

During the latter years of his life the old man
spent most of his time locked up in his own room.
It was a very large room on the first floor, having
two windows facing the south and four looking
west ; beside it was a small dressing-room which
he occupied as a bedroom ; and no one at all was
ever allowed to enter the large room, which was
always locked ; but his grandson knew that it
contained a bench, a lathe, and all the tools
requisite for mechanical work. Sometimes he
worked there till late at night, sometimes he
would not come out even for dinner. There wa
something uncanny about the old fellow working
by himself continually, nobody knew at what.
He might have made watches, but he brought
none out ; he might have turned things with his
lathe, but none were ever shown ; he might have
been prosecuting some grand research in the
zoological mystery, but he said nothing about it.

He kept on working till the day of his death.
It happened, one Saturday evening, that his unmarried
daughter and his daughter-in-law were
in the drawing-room when the old man unexpectedly
walked in. He stood before the fire
and looked at them, turning from one to the
other with a strange smile. It was so seldom

that lie came out of his own room that the two
ladies were perplexed and a little frightened.

My work,' he said, with another weird and
uncanny smile, ' is finished.'

The words were hardly spoken when he
suddenly reeled, caught at a chair, and fell
heavily to the ground in a fit.

In the morning he became conscious assail,
and presently began to understand that he was
dying, and that he had better give any directions
he had to give at once. They sent for his grandson
who was at Cambridge, and it was to him, his
heir, that the old man gave the one injunction
that he seemed to care about. ' Let no one,' he
said, shaking his long and lean forefinger in the
most solemn manner, 'let no one presume to
enter my room. Let it remain locked, or if
any desire to enter ' — here he laughed and his
hearers shuddered — ' let him enter alone and
after dark. I shall be there,' he added, while
they shuddered again, ' on the watch — a day and
night watchman — a watch that always goes — a
repeating watch, a keyless watch, with the newest
improvements, an everlasting watch ' — here his
mind wandered a little — ' Watches neatly repaired.
Established forty years. Clocks kept
going.' And then he laughed again and breathed
his last. It was dreadful to see an old man die
with a laugh upon his lips.

They buried him in the churchyard under a
magnificent marble tomb, among a great number
of Membliugs, including his only son. And it
was, as stated above, his grandson who succeeded,
being then only one-and-twenty years of age.

His successor shortly afterwards married, and
in course of time had a family, like most people,
of sons and daughters. The young people knew
very little about the watchmaker's shop, but they
knew that the churchyard was full of Josiah
Memblings, and very easily they grew to believe
in a legendary history about the family greatness.
They were the ancient holders of the estate, the
lords of the manor ; they were found on the spot
by the Norman Conqueror ; they experienced
many adventures in the various civil wars ; there
came a time when their fortunes were quite
fallen ; even the Hall passed for a while out of
their hands ; then came the second founder, who
amassed wealth in the City and bought back the
old house. And they really did not know — the
innocent girls who built up this legend — what a
collection of fibs they were putting together.

For fifteen years and more the old man's last
wishes were faithfully and piously obeyed. No
one entered the old man's room at all ; the key
was in his grandson's possession ; it became a
matter of common belief that the old man haunted
the room. The maids at dusk, and after dark.

would hurry past the door ; in full daylight they
would stop and listen, trembling, if by chance
they might hear the sound of a dead man's footfall
; and the young members of the family were
brought up to feel doubly grateful to an ancestor
who had not only restored the fortunes of the
house, but had endowed it with a haunted room.

One day, however, when Laura, the eldest
daughter, was in her father's study looking for
something else, she found hanging up in a cupboard
the key of the haunted room. It was a
bright sunny morning ; there could be no fear of
ghosts on such a day ; she looked at the key ;
she remembered the solemn injunction, which of
course everybody knew, but the sight of the key
filled her with strange and irresistible curiosity
and a longing such as she had never before
known : she took it down with a trembling hand ;
she crept like a thief out of the study and up the
broad stair to the door ; she put the key in the
lock and turned it. It was a little rusty, but the
bolt flew back and she opened the door. Strange,
how hard she had to press that door with her
shoulder before it opened ; she went in and
looked round curiously, yet but for a single
moment ; a grating noise behind her caused her
to .turn quickly ; to her horror the door was
closing of its own accord, and a great bar was
slowly rising behind it. She shrieked and fled ;

there was just time; the door closed as she
rushed through, there was a noise as of a Cling
bar, and Laura fainted away. When she recovered
the maids were running up the stairs and
about the house, wanting to know who had been
ringin^]^ bells and who was making such a strange
noise in the house.

When Laura told her story, her father put on
the semblance of great wrath, but secretly he
rejoiced because here was proof positive of the
ha anting. No family of yesterday ever got a
ghost. Li fact, it is only the members of an old
family who can be got even to believe in ghosts
at all. It is a curious thing that in poor and
new neighbourhoods, like the East End of
London, there seems no place for a ghost. Now,
for a thick population of ghosts, give me Northumberland.


The next day, Laura said that she had felt a
cold breath upon her cheek.

The day after, she said that a heavy sigh had
fallen upon her ear as she fled.

The day after that, she said that the sigh was
a faint whisper of the words ' My dear child.'

It was enough. The ghost was established.
Henceforth unpleasant things might be said of
money' made in trade, but the old family tradition
would not be attacked. There was the evidence
of the supernatural bar, there was the door closed

by an invisible hand, there was the voice, there
was the ringing of bells, there were the strange
noises heard by the maids while Laura was lying
supine and unconscious. No ancient Scottish
House ever had such a ghost. The Squire, however,
put away the key in his strong box, among
his valuables. The door, he said, should never
again be opened in his lifetime. But Laura used
to stand outside like a Peri, listening for another
message from the other world, and it became
recognised in the family that she was her great-grandfather's
f favourite. This gave her a kind of
rank. Respect was due to one thus singled outby
an ancestor who had been such a benefactor
as to become not only the restorer of fallen fortunes
(which is in itself romantic), but also the
family ghost. All the Membliugs walked more
upright than before ; they stuck out their chins,
so to speak ; they believed in their Coat of Arms;
what was better, other people believed in it as
well.

They entertained people at the Hall, and
when they offered them quarters for the night
spoke with reserve of the haunted room ; they
laughed, but with affection and reverence, not
with scorn, at their ghost ; the girls bade their
friends, when they left them after a hair-brushing,
have no fear, because their ancestor worked very
quietly and disturbed no one outside his own

room, though, they added, as might be plainly
heard by anyone who listened at the door after
dark, he was always at work. It was, in fact,
one of Laura's fictions that she could hear the
lathe at work, and the Squire, who good-hum
surely received the avowed incredulity of
his friends, always finished the conversation by
saying that the key of the room was in his strong
box, where he intended it to remain.

Things might have gone on in this quiet and
peaceful manner until now but for a misfortune,
the nature and extent of which will become
presently apparent. All misfortunes, said the
Sage (who married his cook), proceed from love.

Yet, who would have thought that the Humbling
of the Memblings would have followed upon
so simple and natural a thing as the engagement
of young Dalmahoy to Laura? Certainly not
she herself, nor her father, nor her sisters and
brothers, because Dalmahoy was in every respect
a most eligible parti, being not only young,
tolerably well off, and handsome, a good waltzer,
a good rider, a good shot, a good actor, and one
of those gallant headlong lovers .before whom
feminine courage breaks down, but he was also —
a point naturally insisted upon by the Memblings
a man of undeniably good family. There was
no trace or taint of trade in the long line of
Dalmahoy s. •

When Jack Dalmalioy came to Menibliiig
Hall — the girls almost believed that the place had
never possessed any other name, So that they
could, if they pleased, call themselves the Mem-beings
of Enabling — one of the first things they
did, after .showing him their gardens, stables, and
other interesting parts of the establishment, was
to tell him of the family ghost. He naturally
laughed, and spoke with disrespect of the spectre.
Laura rebuked him, letting it be understood quite
plainly that she was to be taken with her ghost
or not at all. Who would offend his mistress by
objecting to such a trifle P ' I would gladly,'
said Jack, ' have the ghost in my room every
night if that would give you any pleasure. Invite
him, Laura, to visit me.'

Laura gravely shook her head. This was not
the proper spirit in which to speak of an ancestor
who walked. He might even be listening; at that
very moment. Indeed, the opportune cracking
of a piece of furniture gave some colour of probability
to the supposition.

After dinner, when the ladies had gone. Jack
asked the Squire to allow him to pass the night in
the haunted room. His request was refused,
gently but firmly.

I am not,' said the chief of the Memblings, ' a
particularly superstitious man, but the fact that
there is undoubtedly something supernatural in

the room, and the equally undoubted fact that the
appearances and manifestations are connected
with my grandfather, make me respect his desire
to remain after death unmolested in what was, in
his lifetime, his favourite room.'

Laura was angry when she heard of this proposal.
Did Jack, she asked, consider her great-grandfather
in the licht of a common ill-bred
ghost, one of those unthinking and vulgar ghosts
who break the crockery, throw the furniture
about, rattle chains, and are disagreeable in the
house ? ' For my part,' she said, ' I look upon
the tenancy of this room by my dead ancestor asa
singular proof of the affection in which he
continues to regard us. His spirit remains with
us,' she added, clasping her hands and turning
her soft eyes, which were as limpid as a pair of
opals, up to the heaven, ' because he loves us
still. He is our guardian angel, he watches over
the house. We are under his special protection,
and if we were to lose him, through any act of
irreverence or intrusion, farewell the luck of
Mumbling Hall ! '

Jack desisted, though loth to relinquish his
interview with the ghost. Indeed, when one
thinks how seldom one gets the chance of a talk
ftice to face with a ghost, it is not surprising that
Jack was sorrowful when it vanished. I have
never myself had such a talk, and with the

exceptions of a friend who saw the ghost of Joe
Morgan, another who was privileged to amuse
Lady Kitty, and a third who received Lady Bab,
I think I know no one who has actually talked
with them. And, without going quite so far as a
certain learned counsel of my acquaintance, who
ardently desires a half-hour's friendly interview
with the devil, I must say that there are many
ghosts for whom one would suffer a great deal of
inconvenience and time. Doctor Johnson, Emanuel
Swedenborg, Cagliostro, Doctor Dee, Cotton
Rather, George Psalmanazar, the late Count of
Albany, Robespierre, and Cornelius Agrippa, all
occur to one in a breath as most interesting ghosts,
if they would only come and talk in a friendly
way and without frightening one. Two or three
days afterwards Jack tried another line. As he
could not be allowed to sit up all night and
converse with the old watchmaker, he begged
permission just to see the room. He would not
go in, only open the door and look round. ' It is
not, Laura,' he said, ' as if one wanted to go
against your ancestor's express rule, simply to pay
a kind of — mark of respect — you know — morning
call — just to look at the place, not even to go
into the room.'

I believe that one of the reasons why the
Squire refused permission to spend the night in
the room was that he was afraid of revelations.

VOL. III. R

You see, lie knew more than his children, he
entertained well-founded doubts as to the greatness
of the House, he knew all about the shop,
and it did occur to him that a conversation
between his grandfather and his son-in-law might
be awkward. Fancy a poor relation turning up
when you have been comfortably established fora
generation and a half, to remind your friends
that the family crest was only forty years old or
so, that the family history was fudge, and that the
shop, the good, old, honest, despised shop, was the
foundation, and not the restoration at all, of the
House ; and fancy a Mumbling asked to turn a
guest into a room where he might, and very likely
would, be informed by the purchaser of Mumbling
Hall how his money was made. ' We have,' the
Squire might have reasoned, ' a highly respectable
family ghost. But there are reasons why that
ghost should be kept in the family, and if it have
disclosures to make or garrulous reminiscences to
prattle upon, let these things be conveyed to the
ear of a member of the family only. Or, as the
ghost shows no inclination to leave his own room,
let there be no disclosures at all. There is at least
no occasion to invite revelations about the shop.'
The least ghostly time in the whole day, I
take it, is the afternoon. No one expects even a
medium to have any luck in the afternoon.
Seances are always conducted after dark ; old-fashioned

wizards used to conjure up spirits at
midnight ; if devils, spectres, lutins hobgoblins
lasted till the morning, they were gone at all
events by dawn. The ' garish light of day ' is
painful to supernatural eyes ; they wink when it
begins ; they wink horribly if they have to
endure it many minutes ; long, long before noon
they are away and in hiding. Who Avould have
thought, then, that old Mumbling would have
played the tricks he did, actually in the afternoon ?
You shall hear.

It was an afternoon in January — sin the first
weeks of the year. Snow was spread upon the
fields, though it had melted on the roads ; there
was a gentle mist rising from the earth, through
which the sun was shining feebly, a blurred circle
of pale glory without warmth. But the sun was
already sinking, and the pale winter twilight was
going to begin, the mist and the white snow
making it lighter than usual and yet ghostly, if
one can use the word of a four-o'clock appearance
an afternoon-meantime manifestation. The licht
was strange.

Jack Dalmahoy and Laura, after luncheon, sat
together, talking of the little nothings which please
young lovers. Presently the conversation flagged.
Then, some young and sprightly devil, seeing the
chance of doing a little mischief by firing Jack's
imagination, which had at the moment nothing to

R 2

work upon (being tired of pretending imaginary
perfections in his Laura), whispered in his ear
that it would be something to pay a visit to the
haunted room. ' The very thing ! ' cried Jack
with alacrity.

What is the very thing, Jack ? ' asked Laura,
looking up with surprise.

My dear girl,' he said, ' let us go this afternoon
; go, beg the key, we will pay a visit to the
haunted room ! '

Laura hesitated.

You know, dear girl,' said her lover, ' that
you are yourself as curious to visit the room as I
myself.'

I have seen it,' she replied, ' and I heard *

'Yes, Laura.' Jack had heard the story before.
' I perfectly remember. But we shall only
open the door and look in. Go, dear, and ask
your father for the key.'

The Squire gave his consent with some reluctance.
He even returned with his daughter,
bearing the key with as much respect as if it
were the key of a city's gates, such as that which
the citizens of a mediaeval town used to bring out
when they had eaten up their last rat.

Here is the key,' he said* solemnly ; ' if you
merely open the door and look in, no harm will
be done, I should think. As the sun is setting,
you might even, if you please, go in. The injunction

was that no one was to go in except
after dark, and alone. But Laura may be considered
an exception.'

Jack said that if he went in Laura should go
with him, and that, as regards respect, he would
look on the room as the family vault. Laura
said he meant, she presumed, the church, not the
vault.

First he oiled the key, which was rusty ; then,
accompanied by Laura, he turned it in the lock,
and with some difficulty, because, he said, it was
like some fellow pushing on the other side. He
succeeded in opening it.

Could the ' fellow,' Laura thought, with a
shudder, be her revered ancestor ?

When the door was open Jack forgot his
promise, and stepped inside, looking about him
curiously.

It was a long, low room, lighted by three
narrow windows looking west, and reaching from
floor to ceiling. It was most curiously furnished.
For beside one window there was a table furnished
exactly like one of those used by working watchmakers,
with glasses in bone frames such as they
stick in their eye when they look at a watch, and,
observing a piece of dust, which they blow away
and thereby release the machinery, declare that
the watch requires cleaning, which will be .
By such subtleties was the fortune of

the Memblings commenced. Lamps, jets for gas,
low stools, trays containing portions — dissected
bones — of watches, small brushes and dusters,
themselves covered with dust, now covered this
table. Before the next window stood a lathe
with tools, ' chunks,' and wheels Before the next
was another table, larger than the first, and covered
with books, papers, mathematical instruments and
drawings. ' My great-grandfather,' said Laura,
thinking of the mythical and almost disbelieved
shop of which even the younger members of the
family were somehow conscious, ' was in his day
a great mechanician.'

What did he hang the walls with peacocks'
feathers for ? ' asked Jack.

It was a strange thing : one side of the room
was given over to a watchmaker's table, a lathe,
and books on mechanics ; the other side was
decorated with everything bizarre, as if the old
man had resolved on gratifying his own taste
without consulting the taste of the age. A
Persian carpet lay on the floor ; there was a
broad sofa on which he had often slept, covered
with costly skins, a chair, also covered with skins,
stood facing it ; common tobacco pipes and a
common tobacco jar stood upon the plain mantelshelf,
on which were such trifles as pots of glue
and paste, glasses which suggested the ' rummer '
of a country public-house, a spirit-case open, a

note-book, and an umbrella. The fireplace itself
was a beautiful specimen of costly brass-work and
tiles, there were carved cabinets very precious,
filled with china, though the old man died before
the great china revival was born, and there were
pictures worth crying over, so delightful were
they. The whole of that side of the room was
covered with peacocks' feathers attached one over
the other to the wall. The ceiling of the room
was of polished oak, dark and deep, relieved with
a little gold. The effect of the pale wintry light
falling upon their splendours was very strange.
Laura clasped her lover by the arm and gasped.
Then she looked round and shrieked.

Six years before this, when she stood within
the room, she had seen the door closing slowly,
and of its own accord, before her. Now as she
turned she saw that the same thing was happen -
ing again, but that it was too late ; for with a
heavy, grating noise the door shut closely, while,
also of its own accord, there slowly fell behind ita
heavy wooden bar.

As the bar fell there was a sound as of a deep
sigh. Then all was silent.

The pair, thus strangely made prisoners,
looked at each other With pale faces. Even the
man, as brave a fellow as may be, saw with a
terror which froze this blood this great bar lifted
without visible hands, and falling slowly as if

guided into its place. He rushed to the door and
tried to lift it. Its free end was lying in a strong
clamp closed by some spring. He could not lift
it out, nor could he by any strength tear it away
and open the door.

Another shriek from Laura called him to her
side.

Fingers she cried, ' fingers at my throat !
Jack, save me, save me ! '

Jack took her in his arms and soothed her.
Nothing,' he said, ' can hurt us. Whatever it is,
nothing shall hurt you till it first — oh. Lord !'

He stopped, because a breath of ice-cold air
blew violently into his face, and again the solemn
sigh was heard. Laura sank upon the floor, in a
terror the like of which she had never imagined
or suspected. Jack lifted her gently and laid her
upon. the chair beside the fireplace.

What next ? Laura held Jack by the hand,
imploring him not to leave her — not to leave her
alone. He stood beside her, his heart beating,
his brain afire with wonder and terror. What
next ?

A third time they heard the sigh as of one in
deep trouble and perhaps anger : again soft
fingers touched Laura's throat, and again cold airs
vexed their cheeks. Meantime it was growing
darker : the sun was quite gone down ; the short
winter twilight was deepening into gloom, and

the snow-fields through the windows stretched,
white and cold.

Then there began a ringing of bells and a
beating of drums. Jack held Laura more tightly
and whispered to her to be of good cheer ; nothing,
he declared with a positiveness which he
did not feel, should or could hurt her while he
was there.

The bells seemed all round them, as if they
were being rung in their ears ; they were soft and
melodious bells, not harsh and strident, and the
drums, like the bells, were soft ; their rolling was
as that of muffled kettle-drums, and when they
stopped for a moment the heavy sigh was heard,
as if lamenting the necessity for making all this
noise. The bells rang and the drums beat for an
hour and a half, as it seemed to the terror-stricken
couple, prisoners in the room, who were fain to
listen. In truth, they rang and beat for about
five minutes, and then they stopped suddenly,
and that dreadful, unseen person began to sigh
again, heavily. Also Laura shrieked, because
the fingers began to play again at her throat.

Of all forms of supernatural visitations, that
of fingers at the throat has always seemed to me
the least desirable. The apparition of a sheeted
ghost, with or without chains, the squeezing of
hands left inadvertently outside the sheets, the
cold breathing upon the sleeping brow, the groaning

behind wainscot walls, the dragging of chains,
the sighing or sobbing by the bedside, the shying
about of crockery, the shrieking in the garden,
the upheaval of heavy furniture, the creaking on
the stairs, the lurking in unsuspected places, the
unreasonable claim to property in a place after
you have become a ghost — all these things are
effective, though perhaps overdone. New ghost
machinery has to be invented if the popular imagination
is to be fired, and I take it that the miserable
falling off in ghosts during the last fifty
years must be attributed mainly to the weariness
of the imagination, which refuses any longer to bestirred
by old-fashioned modes of spiritual manifestations.
Even rapping has had its day, and
one sees no hope for ghosts in the future, unless
they are prepared to bring trustworthy information
as to the rules and regulations croire-mer.
Then, indeed, there would be so great a run upon
ghosts that the good old times would come back
again, and many a musty family ghost, long since
laughed at, scorned, and forgotten, would return,
to bloom and blossom asrain amon a curious and
credulous posterity.

But to have one's throat felt, touched, and
fingered by ghostly fingers ! That is, if you
please, a thing which in no way attracts the
curiosity or stimulates the imagination. Quite
the contrary ; it simply terrifies.

Laura shrieked and would have fainted, had
she thought it Avould be of the least use. But
she was too much terrified for fainting. In real
moments of crisis, in supreme moments, as the
prigs say, one is too much in earnest to faint.
One may faint comfortably when a tooth is
pulled out, and feel all the better for it afterwards,
but when a more serious operation is performed
no one thinks about fainting, and takes
chloroform instead.

N — n — nothing,' said Jack, with less heart in
his tone than he could have wished, ' c — can hurt
you while I am here.'

Yet there were fingers at her throat, and just
then Laura would have sacrificed all the honour
and glory of the family ghost could she have
found herself safe outside that dreadful door with
the bar let down to keep them in. Or, suppose
her Ancestor had appeared, hungering, ravening
for a life, I believe she would have given up her
lover in the same spirit of duty as prompted
Agamemnon to sacrifice Iphigenia, so as to get
out of the mess with as much ease and safety as
possible. But all that they had heard and seen
where mere trifles, bagatelles, skittles, apple tart,
compared to what they were about to see.

Suddenly the bells which had been ringing a
melodious peal, and the kettle-drums which had
been beating a muffled harmony, clashed and

clanged in a horrific discord, at the hearing of
which Laura moaned and groaned, while Jack,
clutching her hand as if for his own safety, murmured
mechanically, ' N — n — n — nothing c — c —
c — an h — h — h — hur — ' and here his jaws stuck
and he said no more.

For at the clang and clash of the bells the
curtains fell before the windows, and they were
in darkness absolute.

It seemed next as if the end of the room was
taken away, and another room opened to their
eyes.

There was nothing at all in this room, but it
was lighted by a large window at the end, and a
long narrow window at the side. The glimmer
from the snow without gave sufficient light for
the intruding pair to see the things which presented
themselves.

The bells stopped, the drums stopped. Then
there began a wailing plaintive music, a tune
never heard on earth, which seemed, like the
bells and the drums, to be played around them,
above them, below them. And while this weird
and ghostly tune was slowly played, there appeared
suddenly, not, said Laura afterwards, as if
they sprang from the ground or dropped from
the skies, but suddenly, as if they came from
nowhere, three skeletons. In the dim light one
could discern their shadowy forms, the lean

fingers with which they pointed, the long bony
legs with which they danced — they actually
danced ! — the hollow, eyeless sockets and grinning
teeth of the skulls. As they came, so they disappeared,
as suddenly, as silently.

But the music, the supernatural, weird, and
ghostly music, went on, and then — ah ! then —
the final manifestation appeared. For, as if he
had stepped from the wall, Laura saw her great-grandfather
— the Actual Family Ghost itself—
walk slowly, and as if with difficulty, across the
room, and as he neared the opposite wall, he
turned, faced his great-granddaughter, and with
his white locks and white beard faintly visible, he
seemed to hold up a warning forefinger and disappeared
.

Then the music ceased ; the room of the
ghost and skeletons disappeared ; the curtains
which had fallen before the windows were drawn
back, and there was silence.

Jack ! ' said Laura.

G — g — g — good heavens ! ' cried Jack.

Are we living, Jack ? '

G — g — g — ghosts ! ' said Jack.

Do you think it is over. Jack .^ ' asked
Laura.

List — n — n — nothing ' began Jack, when

Laura, looking round, saw to her delight that
there was a gleam of artificial light in the doorway,

which showed that the door was open. She
rushed to the place ; the great bar was gone ; the
door was ajar ; Laura yelled for help, rushed
through, and fell headlong in the passage. The
cause of her fall, I am ashamed to say, was no
other than Jack himself, who rushed after her.
Both fell down, like Jack and Jill, and lay sprawling
together.

That evening Laura did not appear at dinner ;
her mother sent for the doctor, and she was
ordered to bed. Somebody sat up all night with
her, and in the morning she was delirious : the
system, said the doctor, had sustained a severe
shock.

As for Jack, he ordered his things to be got
ready at once, and drove straight back to Colchester,
leaving word that he was ordered back
on regimental duty. But when he got there he
was fain to drink so much soda-and-brandy that
he too, like Laura, was put to bed.

Thus, for two or three days, the story of the
dreadful apparition at Mumbling Hall never got
about.

When Laura got better she told the story,
sitting up in bed, to her sisters : she was a girl of
a fine imagination and an eye to dramatic situation,
therefore the story lost nothing in the telling
; the sighs, the sobs, the cold breath, the
fingers at the throat, the skeletons, the bells, and

the weird music, with the dread vision of her
great-grandfather at the end, were all duly narrated.
The sisters told their father. The Squire
enjoined secresy, but left a corner open in the
case of trusted friends ; everyone had a trusted
friend. Therefore, before Jack returned, he was
assailed on all sides by questions about the ghost
of Mumbling Hall, and had to explain, although
with fear of making himself ridiculous, that it was
a real, unmistakable ghost — a devil of a ghost,
accompanied by every kind of row and appearance
calculated to shake a fellow's nerves and
make him feel uncomfortable. Jack was not a
man of lively imagination, but the things he had
seen were so extraordinary that he had only to
tell them exactly as he had seen them. And it
would be wonderful, had we the time, to relate
the two forms which the story took when related
by Laura the imaginative, and by Jack the
matter-of-fact.

Think, however, of the pride of the Mumbling
at this proof incontrovertible of their family
ghost. Where was there, anywhere in England,
a house with such a ghost, so complete in all its
parts, so provided with machinery, material gear,
and supernatural assistants ? Was it not a great
honour to them that their ghost did not appear
unattended, but was provided with a body-guard,
or spirit-ward, of three dancing skeletons ? Was

there any other ghost at whose bidding bells
would ring and drums would beat ? It was like
a royal progress. Josiah Mumbling's spirit was
welcomed, as he himself would have wished, like
a Lord Mayor on Lord Mayor's day. Did ever
man hear tell of any other ghost who could command,
so to speak, a private orchestra of his own,
to jDlay music at his coming !

The mere telling of the story became a fearful
joy to Laura and to the faithful Jack. It was
a dreadful experience to have undergone ; but,
like a shipwreck on a desert island, once worried
through, it became a grand and splendid distinction.
Laura's sisters envied her : Laura's
brothers envied her. The Squire was proud of
her ; the story brought the greatest credit to the
family : Laura night have adopted the motto of
Queen Elizabeth, Dux semina facti.

She became an extremely interesting person,
and began to cultivate the sadness which belongs,
somehow, to all persons privileged to hold communication
with the outer world. She sat in
shadowy corners, or in the dim firelight without
a lamp, in the long and dark room called the
library, where she told her story with clasped
hands, while the light of the fire reddened her
pale cheek and showed up the luminous depths of
her large soft eyes ; her audience gathered round
her catching breathlessly at her words, and looking

over their shoulders on the chance of seeing
the spectre behind them. But he never came.
My great-grandfather,' said Laura, ' will never,
I am persuaded, leave the room in which he has
chosen to dwell. Let us have no fear. Indeed,'
she added, smiling sadly, ' why should we fear ?
He who restored the fortunes of the House, and
is good enough to watch over it after his passing
away, can hardly be feared. He may hear, no
doubt he does hear, all that is said and done in
the Hall, therefore let us always speak of him
with the Eeverence and Awe which he deserves.'


They came from all parts of the country to
hear the story. Laura was obliged to be at home
every afternoon. Jack was not allowed to leave
her chair, in order to be ready to corroborate
any statement. He shone as the lesser light, not
being permitted to tell the story himself because
he was not a good raconteur and because a certain
sterility of imagination forbade those developments
of facts which are necessary in a perfect
ghost story. But he could put in a word by way
of proof, and was immensely useful as the Witness.
A ghost, like a miracle, requires the testimony
of two or more credible persons.

I shall never,' said Laura, ' never again bear
to hear the least frivolous or scoffing allusion
to the appearance of Spirits. The subject will

VOL. III. s

always be associated in my mind with a Manifestation
which was truly Awful.'

'Awfully Awful,' said Jack, behind her
chair.

'I cannot understand, now, how I lived
through it. Indeed, I must have died with
terror, had it not been for the invincible fortitude
of Jack, who, I will say in his presence, behaved
with perfect courage and reverence throughout.
What reassured me first, and convinced me that
no harm was intended, was the celestial music
which preceded the most awe-inspiring sight, the
last scene of all.'

What was it like, the music ? ' whispered a
young lady.

Like a waltz tune,' said Jack.

Not the least like a waltz tune,' said Laura.
You might as well call a recitative from Handel
a waltz tune : better, in fact, because Handel's
music is the work of a man, whereas this — oh !
this that we heard — whose work was it ? ' She
lifted hands and eyes, and remained silent in
ecstatic contemplation of the ceiling. ' My dear,'
she continued after an interval, during which the
gentlemen thought they were in church and looked
into their hats, ' it is impossible to describe that
music. It fell upon the soul like some utterance
of Power: we were awed, not terrified by
it '

'It was something like a musical box,' said
Jack.

It was nothing of the sort, sir,' Laura interrupted.
' The sound was like no earthly music.
It was tuneful, but no human voice could reproduce
the tune : the harmonies were too subtle
and too profound for human art ; the instruments
may have been in form like our own, but of a
sweetness, of a force, which I could never, never
hope to convey to your imagination.'

Made a devil of a row,' Jack whispered, in
corroboration, to a man beside him.

Was there any singing ? ' asked another lady.
Oh ! if they had sung a hymn — what an addition
to our choir it would have been ! '

I heard no words,' Laura sighed. ' That is,
I could distinguish none. But it seemed to meas
if, far off — oh! fer, far away — there was a
choir of voices upraised in harmony.'

One fellow groaning ' Jack began, but

was instantly checked as Laura went on

The music preceded the Dance of Death ' —
Laura stopped and trembled — ' nothing more
terrible could be conceived. As the skeletons
danced, pointing their long bony fingers at us,
they seemed to warn us of the flight of time.
Their aspect was not forbidding, nor were their
gestures angry.'

s 2

Grinned at us said Jack, ' like the

very

Could,' interrupted Laura, hastily, ' could
such a pageant, such a spiritual apparition, have
suggested the " Danse Macabre " to Holbein and
the mediaeval painters ? '

Like a hornpipe,' said Jack. ' Never saw
such a lively lot : double-shuffle, heel-and-toe,
walk-round, all complete.'

How long did the dance continue ? ' asked a
visitor, shuddering.

We took no count of time,' replied Laura.
I do not suppose that, as the clocks went, we
were in the room for ten minutes ; yet what we
saw must have taken about a day and a half, at
least. How long, Jack, do you think the bells
were ringing ? '

Jack shook his head, and said he thought they
were never going to stop.

'Then,' continued Laura, * there were the
sighing and the sobbing, the cold winds, the
beating of the drums, the playing of the music
before the Terrible Dance. Hour after hour
passed away : we were ravished out of ourselves :
we were lost in wonder and awe : we felt no
hunger : our pulses stopped, and the beating of
our hearts ! We were without any fear, were we
not. Jack ? '

Quite,' replied Jack. ' I was never more
composed in my life.'

But there was more, was there not .^ ' asked
another visitor. 'We heard that you saw the
spirit of your Ancestor himself.'

Laura sank her voice to a whisper.

'You. heard aright,' she said solemnly. ' The
manifestations ended with no less an appearance
than that of my revered Ancestor himself, the
Restorer of the House — even the Second Founder.'
She spoke as if Julius C^sar himself or even King
Alfred had been the first of the Memblino-s.

How — how did he appear ? ' gasped her
audience.

He was dressed in a long dressing-gown, such
as he usually wore in his lifetime.'

And yet,' murmured a triumphant spiritualist,
one of the audience, ' they say that ghosts
have no clothes. Absurd ! Matter, as has been
proved over and again, can always be represented
visibly by spirits. Pray go on. Miss Mumbling.
I have never during all my investigations met with
a more interesting experience than this of yours.
It will confound every sceptic'

Dressed in his long gown,' Laura resumed,
he moved slowly, almost painfully, across the
room. He appeared suffering from the debility
of extreme old age '

Quite SO — quite so ! ' the spiritualist rubbed
his hands. ' I have always maintained that they
appear as they left the world, no older and no
younger. Pray go on.'

As he moved he turned his face towards us
and smiled. You saw him smile, Jack, as plainly
as I did?'

Well,' said Jack, with hesitation, ' he certainly
wagged his head, and I saw his beard wobble,
but I can't honestly say that I saw him smile.'

'He would not smile for a stranger,' said
the spiritualist.

The most benignant countenance : the
sweetest smile : the kindest look in his eyes ;
with long silvery locks and a white beard. Ashe
disappeared, he raised his hand as if to bestow
his benediction upon us. You saw that. Jack ?

Oh, yes ! he lifted his hand.'

I think, but I am not sure, that I heard him
murmur a blessing as he disappeared.'

Did he, now,' — asked the scientific explorer
of Shorthand — ' did he sink into the ground, or
did he ascend into the air ? '

He disappeared,' said Laura. ' He seemed
to touch the wall and to vanish.'

He came out of one wall,' said Jack, ' and
went into the other wall.'

'And did you,' asked the spiritualist, 'hear
the Blessing ? '

'No, I did not,' replied Jack.

The Blessing,' explained the scientific specialist,
'was for the House alone. You heard
nothing, then ? '

Why,' Jack said, considering, ' he shuffled
a bit with his feet as if his slippers were uneasy.'


And so it went on, day after day, Laura
receiving the visitors and telling the story over
and over again. Jack was neither imaginative,
nor was he properly impressed. He had seen
tidings and heard things ; that was undeniable.
But he drew no conclusions. He was thus a foil
to Laura, and by his very downright matter-of-fact
doggedness he corroborated her statements.
The story, little by little, improved : the heavenly
music was, in a few days, provided with a heavenly
choir; the bells were a peal ; the dance of death
was a procession of skeletons, who danced as
they crossed the room, in number about a hundred
and fifty ; the Benediction of the Ancestor was
pronounced in a solemn whisper which could not
reach the grosser ear of Jack, but was perfectly
audible to Laura. The fair narrator herself became
daily more penetrated with the greatness
and grandeur of her position : she also, to Jack's
disgust, became more spiritualised, tried to live
on nothing, grew certainly pale and thin, and
ceased to take the same interest as of old in the

little tenderness which her lover was willing to
lavish upon her.

It was agreed, by the advice of the spirituals,
that the history should be written down — soberly,
he said, and With due attention to dates, times,
and the corroborative testimony of Jack — and
printed, for the good of the world and the solace
of mankind. Laura spent, therefore, a fortnight
in the production of what was called a * Plain
Statement.' Her intimate friends observed that
the written narrative did' not quite correspond
with her former statements, and Jack owned that
he had not heard the choir singing hymns, nor
seen the Blessing with both hands. But these
things mattered little in the face of so tremendous
and undoubted a series of apparitions.

The Squire gave his consent to have the story
printed — but, he said, for private circulation only-let
the knowledge of the Ghost be whispered
abroad : that could not, he supposed, be avoided :
but the actual facts concerned only the immediate
friends of the House, and not the general
public, whose curiosity he, for one, was not disposed
to gratify by relating private events, and
the experiences, however singular, of his daughter.
The ' Narrative ' or ' Plain Statement ' was accordingly
printed on the finest and readiest of toned
paper, with a portrait of the Ancestor. The date
of his death was not stated, but from the mediaeval

appearance of the face and the cut of the
beard, m which the inner improved on the
original oil painting (that of Josiah Mumbling asa
Common Councilman), the venerable Ancestor
might have belonged to the thirteenth or fourteenth
century. All this greatly added to the
glory of the family, and tended to confirm their
position as belonging to the County. With what
face could any one sneer at people as new comers
whose ancestors remained in their old rooms,
and appeared to give benedictions to the female
branches of their posterity ? Could the Towards,
the Courteney, the Montmorency, the Lusignans,
expect more ?

The ' Narrative ' off her hands, Laura began
to descend slowly from the higher spiritual levels
and to talk of ordinary things in her ordinary
manner, so that Jack Dalmahoy plucked up
courage and renewed his courtship at the point
where the ancestral spirit had broken it off. He
was by this time growing weary of the worship
or cult of the old ghost, and it bored him to be
perpetually recalling the dancing skeletons and
the shadowy figure with the long white hair.
Then, it was annoying for a plain man to be constantly
invited to remember a heavenly chorus, a
benediction, a warning look, or a sweet and
gracious smile. Therefore he was anxious to get
his courtship over and to carry away his bride.

When he mentioned the desirability of naming the
day, Laura declared at first that nothing should
ever persuade her to leave a house possessed of so
many and such rare blessings. Jack argued that
if a girl gets engaged she means to have her own
house. Laura replied that she had not, on entering
into the engagement, foreseen that she should
receive the benediction of her Ancestor. Jack
responded that the benediction did not tell her
that she was not to get married, ' unless,' he
added, with unusual bitterness, ' you are going to
marry your great-grandfather yourself ? Don't

believe ' He stopped short here, thinking it

would be well not to say anything about the
heavenly choir or the gracious smile till after his
marriage.

Laura reflected, sweetly holding her hands
clasped and her head a little on one side in the
attitude of reflection. The thought crossed her
mind that it would be a pity to give up such a
good-natured, good-looking, and well-to-do lover
for the sake of a ghost whom, perhaps, she would
never see again. And presently she murmured
softly, ' Jack, do you think my Ancestor would
come with us to our new home and abide with
us?'

Oh, Lord ! ' cried Jack in a voice of such
genuine consternation that Laura forgot her
affectation and burst into a hearty laugh, after

which Jack found no difficulty in getting her to
talk about a day.

They Avere to be married after Lent, that was
agreed upon, and after an infinite amount of discussion
it was further covenanted that the day
should be the last day of April. This gave them
a clear five weeks for preparation, and Jack was
ordered back to his garrison work to be out of
the way until he should be wanted to take his
part in the approaching ceremony.

The excitement of the time that followed kept
Laura's thoughts a good deal from her ghost,
whose home was not further intruded upon. By
some curious current of feeling, assisted, no
doubt, by Laura's appropriation of the family
ghost to herself, it was generally considered that
the ghost might feel offended at the departure of
the one member of the family to whom he had
condescended to reveal himself, one lady going sofar
as to prophesy disaster. And when it came,
in way and manner as shall be presently set forth,
she only said it was what she expected and always
said would happen, and that if Laura had not
been bent upon going away, no doubt evil spirits
would not have been allowed to work their wicked
will, and all this shame would not have fallen
upon the family.

Among the members of the Dalmahoy family
was a first cousin of Jack's, a young fellow of an

inquiring mind, who was reading at Cambridge
for mathematical honores. He was invited to be
best man to his cousin on the joyful occasion, and
joined the wedding party .at Mumbling Hall two
or three days before the auspicious morning.
The house was quite full, and the usual excitement
of looking at the wedding presents, flirting
with the bridesmaids, dancing, and the rest of it,
passed the time more agreeably for Mr. George
Dalmahoy than if he had been dining in the
college hall and spending his evenings in an undergraduate's
room. Of course almost the first
thing which he heard of was the ghost, and this
immediately fired his imagination.

He read the 'Narrative.' Then he cross-examined
Jack, and elicited from him that the
superstructure, so to speak — the heavenly choir
and the rest of it — was an addition made by
Laura herself after the event ; that is to say,
Jack neither saw nor heard any of it. On the
other hand, there could be no manner of doubt
that the ' Narrative ' was substantially true, and
that very strange things had happened.

Mr. George Dalmahoy determined that he too
would, if possible, witness these things. Why
should not the ghost appear to him as well as to
his cousin ? As for the Benediction, he dismissed
it with contempt. Jack had seen an old man's
figure, bent, with streaming white han, ' shuffling,'

as he put it, across the floor. That was by itself
quite remarkable enough. ' No need,' said George,
of any benedictions ; enough to be able to show
himself, lucky old ghost ! ' He considered himself
an expert in the art of investigating stories of
ghosts. He was, to begin with, entirely incredulous,
and, in the second place, he knew that it is
nonsense to deny phenomena. Ears, for instance,
are certainly heard, ears are boxed in the dark,
noses pulled, heads banged. He had once inflicted
unspeakable mortification on a medium by
beginning the raps himself before she was ready,
and spelling out dreadful messages which she did
not understand ; and on another occasion, when a
spirit had been good enough to ' incarnate ' herself,
this untrustworthy person lit a match and
disclosed no other than the medium herself
dancing about wrapped in a newspaper. He had
also written an article on the subject for a college
magazine, and had a shelf full of books treating
of spiritualism. He was thus fully prepared for
an encounter with the Ancestor of the Memblings,
and ardently longed to begin.

He first approached the subject with Laura,
asking her, reverently, if one could be allowed to
visit the haunted chamber after dark. She replied
with emotion that no one with her consent
should be allowed to open the door of that room
at all. She considered that to disturb its occupant

was pardonable only when done by inadvertence
and ignorance, as happened to herself and
Jack. As for a stranger presuming to do so,
that, she said, would most likely draw upon his
head the most fatal consequences. She could
only compare the daring of such a deed with the
audacity of the ancient king, who drew the
lightning down from heaven and was killed by
it as a punishment.

Thus rebuffed, George Dalmahoy went to
head-quarters and sought the Squire in his
library. Mr. Mumbling was an easy man, a
little touchy about his ancient birth, but now in
excellent spirits and on the best of terms with
everybody, in consequence of the highly creditable
match his daughter was making. Naturally
he was disposed to receive all the bridegroom's
people with great civility.

It was after luncheon, and a glass or two of
burgundy had disposed the Squire to benevolence
towards all mankind. He was seated before the
fire, his legs crossed, his hands folded, prepared
for the sleep which sometimes overtakes middle-aged
gentlemen after a comfortable midday meal.
To him George stole softly, and taking a chair
by the fire, turned the conversation adroitly on
ancient families. Then he began to talk about
the peculiarities of families, their ways, their distinctive
marks, their little characteristic possessions,

how a stutter distinguishes the sons of one
house, and a distinctive birth-mark the sons of
another ; how in one house no eldest son ever
succeeds, and in another ill luck pursues all the
daughters ; how a Banshee belongs to one family,
a White Lady to another, and a little child to a
third. ' As to your own house,' said George,
'we have all heard of your ancient ghost.'
George put it as if the ghost had been established
many centuries.

The Squire laughed pleasantly.
Yes, we have our ghost, and I assure you,
Mr. Dalmahoy, that we are rather proud of the
distinction, as one may call it.'

'A distinction truly! Particularly so well
authenticated a ghost as it is. You keep the
chamber locked, I believe ? '

Yes. You see, we would not have the maids
frightened, nor would we — perhaps you think us
superstitious — disturb the occupant.'

Quite so — quite so,' said George. ' However,
ghosts only walk at night, and as there is no
possible fear of disturbing the occupant by daylight,
I wish you would lend me the key ; I
should like just to look round the room, if you
have no objection.'

Well, you see,' replied the Squire, ' the fact
is, we have rather a strong objection. The last
words of the — the spirit — were that no one was

to dare enter the room unless alone and after
dark

I respect your feeling,' said George ; ' yet I
think it would be most injudicious to invade the
privacy of the room — after dark. Everything
that we know, my dear sir' — here he assumed
the character of a believer — ' everything that we
have learned respecting apparitions, the manners
and customs, the preferences, so to speak, of the
outer world, shows us that its inhabitants, when
they reside among us, are in some way prevented
from feeling our intrusion or even our presence
in the daytime. They may be sleeping ; they
may be ' — here he dropped his voice and paused
• elsewhere. Their power to be seen and heard
is cjiven them for use after dark alone.'

That seems very true,' said the Squire ; ' it
was after dark that Laura '

So that, in asking you to hand me the key
o^" the room,' his visitor went on, ' I am really
doing nothing more than seeking to gratify a
curiosity— call it idle, or say it springs from
reverence — a desire, in fact, only to see the
theatre of these curious and unique manifestations.'


The Squire, moved by these words and by
the benevolence of burgundy, and recognising the
spirit in which they^were uttered, went to his safe
and produced the key, adjuring his guest, at the

same time, should he see anything, to leave the
room immediately.

With a cheerful mien George Dalmahoy proceeded
to the haunted chamber.

He experienced the same difficulty in opening
the room which had been felt by his cousin. The
key turned pretty easily, but the door stuck. And
when he pushed it open there was heard a
grating noise which did not seem natural to the
nature of a door.

We have seen what manner of room was the
haunted chamber. But when it was last visited
it was in the pale twilight of a January day.
Now, at the end of April, the sun was shining
brightly through the windows, and the room was
cheerful. Certainly not at all the sort of time fora
ghost to walk. Spectres shun sunshine, as the
copy-books might say. George looked about him
with a little disappointment. A curiously furnished
room : that was all.

His disappointment did not last long : a
creaking sound behind made him turn round. A
large bar was slowly descending across the door.
The progress was slow, but it finished by dropping
into its place : the door was closed. George
tried to lift the bar. It was immovable.

Good ! ' he said. ' This is how Jack began.
Can it be that the Ancestor is going to take an
afternoon dander round the room ? '

VOL. III. T

Apparently he was, because the closing of the
door was followed by the ringing of bells, beating
of drums, sighs, a breath of cold air which had
so terrified his cousin.

While he was listening and watching — in
some disquietude, it must be owned — he felt
something delicate and light touching his cheek ;
he turned quickly. Nothing.

Bells,' he said, ' there certainly are, and
drums ; and there is a noise which Tom said was
sobbing ; it seems to me like — Hallo ! '

Again the gentle touch upon his cheek ; this
time he put up his hand as one catches at a
troublesome fly, and caught — one of the peacock's
feathers. He then observed that several of them
were slowly lifting themselves up and down.

This,' said George Dalmahoy, ' is more
curious than the bells.'

Mounting on a chair he examined the place
where the feather was attached to the wall. To
his great surprise he found that it was fitted into
a small brass tube, and that the tube itself was
moving slowly up and down, carrying the feather
with it.

Very odd,' said George. ' It was not a
ghostly finger at my throat but a feather : and
the feather is not lifted by a ghostly hand, but
by a brass tube. And what the devil lifts the
brass tube ? I suppose,' he added after a pause.

that the same thing lifts the brass tube which
rings the bells and beats the drums. Is it the
Ancestor ? Would he come if I called him
names ? '

It seemed as if the Ancestor must have heard
these irreverent remarks, because at that moment
the wall at the end of the room seemed suddenly
to disappear ; the bells ceased, and music of some
kind was heard.

'All this,' said George, feeling more than a
little afraid, ' is most wonderful, and just as Jack
reeled it all out. To be sure, I could not make
out how he could have invented it. What next ?
Oh, Lord ! '

For at that moment the skeletons appeared
and began to dance.

The young man's knees knocked together fora
moment and his cheek turned pale. Then he
rallied his courage and ' made for ' the skeletons.

They were capering with the most grotesque
and extraordinary agility, legs and arms moving
all at once, skulls shaking and nodding ; even
the backbone twisting, or at least seeming to
twist. George presently seized one of the arms.

Gad,' hp cried, ' it's real bones — with wire
in the joints — real ribs— and ' — here he laughed
aloud — ' they are all three hanging by strings ! '

He contemplated this phenomenon with curiosity,
but no terror.

Then the lower panels of the wall beside him
opened, and there came out the figure of a
man.

Aha ! ' said George, ' here is the Ancestor !
How are you, old boy ? '

The figure was dressed in a long dressing-gown,
and had on silk stockings and old-fashioned
knee-breeches. The knees were bent and the
figure stooping, and as it moved slowly and by
jerks, it seemed to be on the point of falling to
pieces. George stopped in front of it, and began
calmly to feel and punch it.

You're stuffed with sawdust,' he said contemptuously,
' and you are dropping to bits, and
the moths have got into your poor old sleeve ;
and the white wool is falling off your poor old
pate, and your mask is hanging by a thread.
You an Ancestor ? You ridiculous old mug ! '

The miserable ghost made no reply, but continued
its journey across the room. When he
reached the opposite wall the panels opened to
admit him, and he disappeared.

This is the Ancestor ! ' said George, in great
enjoyment. 'Shut up, you with your dancing,
you poor old skeletons ! Nobody cares about
you. This is the' benevolent Ancestor ! This is
his Benediction ! This is his sweet and winning
smile ! Ho ! ho ! ho ! '

Just then the music ceased : the skeletons disappeared

— that is to say, they flew up into the
ceiling : there was a sigh as if somebody was
tired and glad that the job was over : George
observed that what he had taken for a disappearance
of part of the wall was really only the folding
back of the middle of a wooden partition wall
cutting off one end c^f the room. He also observed
that the bar of the door was lifting as
slowly as it had fallen.

All was over, therefore.

He had seen the family ghost : it was a big
doll, dropping slowly to pieces with age, damp,
and the ravages of moths ; he had seen the
fearful procession or Dance of Death, ' the gibber-inch
skeletons succeeding one another in swift
succession, each playing its antics as it passed,
and beckoning to us with lean and bony fingers.'
(Extract from the ' Narrative')

Well, there were three musty skeletons let
down from a trap in the ceiling by strings or
wires, the lifting and dropping of which produced
their contortions and dancings. He had heard
the ' celestial orchestra, faint, though complete in
all its parts, playing music not to be described,
yet ever to be remembered, accompanied by a
choir of faint sweet voices, singing what seemed
a hymn of praise.' (Extract from 'Narrative')
Yes, he had heard it. ' By Gad,' he said, ' it was
a musical-box, and it played an old-fashioned

slow trois-temps I As for choir and heavenly
voices — fudge ! '

He had heard the bells and the drums. Yes %
there were bells and drums ; who could have
rung the bells and beaten the drums ?

The bar was up : he could go : the show was
over.

Yet, what did it mean ?

George went to one of the windows and
looked out, thinking. Beside him stood a table,
of which we know. He took up one or two of
the things : they were instruments used in making
and mending a watch. The table was an old,
rough, black bench, which, in fact, had been the
old man's bench during all the years of his working
life. ' I remember,' said George, ' one of
them made his money in trade : he was a watchmaker.'
Then he saw before the next window a
lathe with all the appliances, and a carpenter's
bench fitted up with tools. Half-made things,
rounded blocks, pulleys, small light chains, lay
about the bench. ' Old man was a carpenter and
turner too, I suppose,' said George. Then he
went to the next table. This was covered with
books and papers. 'Old man read mechanics,*
said George. He took up one of the sheets
covered with drawings. Then he took up another.
Then he looked round him and nodded. Then
he laughed. Then he looked at his watch. Then

lie went to the carpenter's bench, took out some
tools, and proceeded to work.

It was a quarter of an hour before he finished,
and already past ^\'q^ o'clock. He rubbed his
hands with the greatest satisfaction. ' This,' he
said, ' is the best day's work I have ever done.'

Then he opened the door and stepped out.

Holy Moses ! ' he cried, surprised into an
exclamation which cannot be justified, and yet
must be considered pardonable when one has to
tell what he saw.

Now it came to pass that, just as the bells
began to ring in the haunted chamber, Laura
herself, accompanied by one of the bridesmaids,
passed by the door. What was her terror and
astonishment to hear the dread sound, only heard
by herself, begin again ! ' He calls me ! ' she
cried, grasping her friend by the arm. ' He calls
me ; I must go ! '

She rushed to the door, but could not open it.

Can it be,' she gasped, ' that there is someone
in the room ? Is it Jack .^ Oh, Katie, run,
run to my father — he is in the library — tell him
to bring the key. . . . Ah ! it is in the lock — tell
him to come — to come quickly ! '

On being awakened, Mr. Mumbling acknowledged
that he had lent the key to George
Dalmahoy, and followed the bridesmaid to the
door. By this time the greater part of the guests

were assembled on the spot, grouped round
Laura, who stood gazing at the door, her hand
clasping the faithful Jack's. The bells were certainly
ringing and the drums beating : presently
the sound of music was heard.

Hush ! ' said Laura. ' It is the heavenly
music ; I hear the voices of those who sing.'

She sank on her knees ; the other girls
followed her example : kneeling in a semicircle,
reverential, but careful that their dresses lay in
becoming folds. An ignorant spectator might
have thought that they were rehearsing the ceremony
of the next day. Behind the kneeling
girls stood some of the elder ladies and one or
two gentlemen. As for Jack, he stood, Laura
still holding his hand, visibly disconcerted. He
had a round hat, having just come from a walk,
and when Laura implored him to kneel too, he
compromised by putting his head in his hat.

They continued to kneel during the whole
time of the noises ; when they had ceased, they
heard a tapping and a hammering. So they went
on kneeling, though all were getting anxious to
see wdiat would come of it. And it was into
this group that George Dalmahoy plunged when
he opened the door and uttered that rude and
irreverent interjection.

Laura shrieked ; they all sprang to their feet,
and shrieked together like a chorus on the stage.

George looked in bewilderment. Then he
laughed ; he laughed long and loud.

He is mad,' said Laura, suddenly.

George laughed louder still.

Jack, this is dreadful,' said Laura.

The others stared in a sort of amazement ;
what could the man be lauorhino^ at ? It was like
a comic song of which only the singer sees the
point. They all looked so bewildered, and Laura
so awestruck and terrified, that George speedily
ceased laughing. Licked, the belief in the ghost
was now so deep in everybody's heart that they
had finally made up their minds that the rash
young man, like one who inadvertently looked
upon Artemis in the forest, had been slain by the
angry Ancestor, or else, like him who chanced to
meet great Pan, had been stricken by some
madness. And lo ! he was before them laughing
like an idiot.

Ladies and gentlemen,' said the young man,
I have an important announcement to make.
The ghost walks by day as well as by night. If
you will follow me into the room, you shall see
him for yourself. He is a most obliging ghost,
and will do no harm to anybody.'

He laid his hand upon the handle of the door
as he spoke.

They looked at each other.

'Oh,' cried Laura, 'this is dreadful ! Jack,

stop him ! Mr. Dalmalioy, do not call others
after you to the undoing ! Oh ! What shall we
do ? what shall we do ? '

For now George pushed open the door and
the wedding guests crowded after, Jack and Laura
following with the rest. Last of all came the
Squire, and upon his face there was a look of
anxiety. He had a sense of impending evil.

Spirit of my Ancestor ! ' cried Laura, sinking
upon her knees, ' forgive them ! Forgive us all !
Let not this intrusion lead thee to revoke thy
Benediction.'

Strange to say, this appeal produced no effect
upon the young madman, who only laughed
scornfully.

You shall see him directly,' he said : ' you
can then ask him yourself

At this moment the door shut noisily.

Look at the bar,' said George ; ' that is the
first business ; now we are shut in.'

They all looked at each other, after observing
the descent of the bar.

The whole secret lies in the bar,' he went on.
'Now look at this wall; you will see the peacock's
feathers jumping up and down ; if anybody
is within reach, they will feel the light touch of
ghostly fingers on their cheeks. Very fine business
this, for a spectre in a country house.'

Li fact, this happened as he had foretold.

Ghostly fingers, Jack,' said George to the joint
author of the ' Narrative.' ' Next, bells and drums.'

They began ; George pushed aside two panels
and showed a bell ringing in each, and a small
kettle-drum being beaten in each. The drumsticks
were attached to the frame of the drum by
hinges, and were worked by some unknown
machinery.

Very fair business that,' said George. ' These
are your church bells. Jack, ringing a regular
peal. Two little hand bells, ladies and gentlemen.
Next, the sighing and sobbing, with the cold
breath.'

He opened another panel and disclosed a
great pair of bellows pointed directly to the
group of spectators. It began to heave up and
down slowly with a noise like a hollow groaning,
and the cold air was distinctly felt. ' The sigh of
the grave and the breath of the tomb,' said
George, again quoting from the 'Narrative.'
You will next, ladies and gentlemen, observe —
ah ! there it is ' — for then the partition fell back
' now the skeletons.' Here they appeared, and
they really seemed to dance as if they had no
heart left for the work, and were quite ashamed
of themselves. ' Three of them — go and feel
them, anybody — simple bones, hanging from
the ceiling, out of which they fell, by strings.
This is the grand procession where every

eh, Jack ? ' He did not continue the extract
from the ' Narrative,' because Laura was staring
straight before her, an angry light in her eyes,
and a flush upon her cheek.

Next,' he went on, ' we have the Ancestor
himself.' In fact, at that moment, the poor okl
doddering figure came out ; he looked so palpably
a stuffed doll in the machine, his face was so
evidently a mask, his hair was so certainly white
wool, his knees were so groggy with loss of sawdust,
and his whole appearance was so inexpressibly
moth-eaten, shabby, and woe-begone, that it
was impossible to resist laughing at him. Everybody
laughed, including the Squire, though he
felt sadly that the laugh was going to turn against
himself. There were two exceptions : Laura did
not laugh, she looked on in icy wrath and shame;
and Jack did not laugh, because he felt that if he
laughed at that moment, Laura would most certainly
never forgive him. Therefore he preserved
great solemnity.

This time it was not George Dalmahoy, but
one of the bridesmaids who whispered so that
all could hear, quoting from the ' Narrative ' :
the sweet and gracious smile with which he
turned his face towards us, and, uplifting his
venerable hands, bestowed his benediction.' She
was a pretty girl, who was said to have had
designs upon Jack Dalmahoy, and has since

married his cousin George. But for some reason
or other Laura does not Hke her.

The poor old Ancestor disappeared in the
opposite panel. 'He goes backwards and forwards,'
said George ; ' if we do this thing again,
he will come out and cross over to the other side.
The performance is about to conclude, and, ladies
and gentlemen, I am sure that, in retiring from
this caravan, you will confess that you have never
before witnessed on so grand a scale so ingeniously
constructed a piece of clockwork.'

Laura, as soon as the door was opened, passed
out the first, followed by Jack, whom, however,
she pushed away roughly ; then she went to her
own room and no one saw her again that day, for,
when the second dinner-bell was rung, she sent
down a message that she had a headache.

The Squire, too, with abashed countenance,
sought solitude for a time. But at dinner he appeared
jocund, in high spirits, even forced spirits,
and after dinner proposed the health of Mr.
George Dalmahoy, who, he said, had rid the
house of a very unpleasant occupant — its ghost,
and they were all extremely grateful to him.
All the members of the family murmured their
profound gratitude, and a certain bridesmaid,
already mentioned, laughed a little laugh which
everybody understood to be the equivalent of the
immortal ' Fudge ! '

And then George proposed another performance,
but the Squire gently remarked that even of
mechanical ghosts one might have enough. The
irrepressible young man therefore spent the
evening, until they began to dance, in explaining
how he had discovered the secrets of the machinery,
the spring wound by the door, the
lubricating oil, and all the rest of the apparatus.
All this greatly pleased the family because it
brought vividly home to them the mechanical
genius of their great-grandfather, and destroyed
their ghost and the ancestral glory of the House.
It also pleased one of the bridesmaids — the one
already alluded to.

The next day's wedding was rather a dull
affair. Somehow, the romance of the thing was
gone. Ghost, indeed ! The impudence of jpar-
venus in assuming a ghost when there are already
many really old families with no ghost at all, or
at best the mere memory and shadow of a ghost.
And the honeymoon would have been altogether
a time of rebuke, but that Jack put his foot down
and would hear no more nonsense about the
ghost.

I

A TALE OF NIAGARA.

I WAS playing euchre — cut throat euchre — one
night last September, in a certain house at Niagara
Falls, with two young ladies, when this story was
narrated to us ; but when we had heard it, we
played no more.

Cut-throat euchre, if one may be allowed a
word of preface, cannot, probably, have its full
flavour brought out, and so justify its sponsors,
without the melo-dramatic accompaniments of a
miner's shanty, a cask for a table, a rock-oil lamp
swinging from a beam in the low roof, a whisky
bottle for refreshment, and for players, two hawks
and a pigeon, or even three hawks. Played in a
drawing-room, for love, to the merry music of
girls' laughter, it is a burlesque rowdy hiding a
jovial face behind a ferocious mask, a mere
play-acting creature of innocency disguised as a
Bandit.

While we played, we talked of the one subject
which most interests visitors at Niagara, the
rapacity and knavery of the hackney, the drivers
of the hired buggies who infest the cliffs about

VOL. III. u

the Falls, make every walk a battle, and poison
the springs of awe and admiration.

They are, indeed, incomparable in their way.
They are hackney in excess ; prigs among drivers,
because they overdo their extortions : they exalt
their calling : they are superhumanly devoid of
conscience. Donkey boys at Cairo may be importunate
; the cocher of Paris may be sulky ; the
cabby of London may be extortionate ; the New
York driver may be fond of hurling the luggage
at your head as if you were an Aunt Sally, and
of charming" fifteen dollars for a two-shilhncf drive;
but the Niagara hack combines in himself the
evil qualities of all his brethren ; alone among
men and drivers, he hath no bowels ; he would
take the last dollar of the orphan, and rob the
widow of her mite, on the pretence of ' a dollar
and a he's all the way : ' he is a brigand by profession
; he is a blot upon the most glorious spot
in all the earth ; it is he who mixes up with the
memory of grandeur undreamed of and splendour
inconceivable the incongruities of a bad dream.

He is, I believe, secretly drilled in a species of
chariot charge which I have never seen practised
anywhere except at the Falls. Thus it is : When
the stranger emerges from the hotel, the hackman
waits until his victim is well in the middle of the
road, and then, with all his band, two score
strong, he charges him from all quarters simultaneously.

Thus the visitor suddenly finds himself
the centre of a radiating wheel of horses,
buggies, and hackney, and, amid the uproar of a
shouting like that of the Homeric way of war, he
succumbs generally with a yell of terror, to inevitable
fate. There is a cloud of dust, a brief
struggle, and in half a minute you will catch
your last glimpse of the captive — all that is left
of him — hurried off in a buggy to see the whirlpool.


Presently, to us discussing these and kindred
topics, there was added a son of the house. A
long-limbed pleasant-faced boy of seventeen, with
an accent more than a little touched by the
infectious nasality of Yankee land, and an affectation
of Yankee slang. And he joined in the
conversation, which presently assumed the character
of a monologue. The future of that youth
I consider assured. Such fluency, such richness
of digressive power, such ready return to the
main topic after episodes which might have led
astray altogether a less practised hand, can only
meet with a proper sphere of action in an
auctioneer's pulpit. Auctioneers, as readers of
Middlemarch ' know, talk wild, but they make
money.

Did you ever,' he began, ' hear the story of
the murder of Nick Vedder ? Well now, that's
a true story for sure. And it's all about those

u 2

very hackney you've been talking of. My ! ain't
they just the worst kind ? And all alike, all
enough to ruin the morals of an archangel. Nota
pin to choose between the lot, only some bigger
and some cunning. Jess Connolly is the biggest,
and perhaps Seth Messiter is the contingent. And
I suppose that Dick the guide, who's the politest,
has done the most murders. Not that the murdering
is anything like what it was, and they do
say, now, that a stranger can walk along the cliff
of an evening and sometimes get back without
being chucked over the edge and then robbed, as
used to happen regular. But I don't think I'd
try, if I was a stranger. It might be safe ; but
for certain, there's a good many bodies do turnup
every year in the pool, and not one ever yet
found with dollars in his pocket. Now how did
those pockets get cleared out ? Ask the gang.
And if I was you, mister, and I wanted to see the
silver spray in the moonlight and that, I'd go
with a friend or two, unless Dick was drunk that
night. In that case, perhaps you'd be safe, and
perhaps you wouldn't. But the real merry time
was ^NQ years ago when the new judge hadn't
come here, and before they murdered Nick
Redder. Then they had it all their own way,
robbing around all day and highway plundering
at night. Just a chance who they caught. There
was eld Mr. Scalding, for instance, left this very

house at nine o'clock with fifty dollars, and only
he had the good luck to hide 'em away in the
heels of his boots, lied have lost every individual
dollar. It was a dark night, with snow falling
soft, so that you couldn't hear footsteps, and all
of a sudden the old gentleman, going along soft
and easy, and only wishing he was warm in bed,
felt a hand, somebody else's hand, which didn't
belong to inn, in his coat collar. Naturally he
stopped short and began to think fast.

Then a sheet was thrown over his head, and
then a voice told him to hand over what he'd got.
Of course he concluded at once to say nothing
about his boots, and all he'd got outside of them
was a quarter-dollar and a five-cent piece. They
pulled his pockets inside out, and they cursed
considerable, and then they let him go. He
didn't need twice to be told to go straight on and
never look behind him ; and when he took out
those dollars from the heel of his boot, like a
brand from the burning, it was, as he always used
to say, with a thankful heart.

As for the day jobs, they used to work in
partnership. The most eminent firm was probably
that of Jess Connolly and Abb Thomas. Abb is
dead now, poor fellow ! — died of yellow fever in
New Orleans, and his wife went all the way thereto
see if he really was gone. Seemed to her as
if Abb never could die ; besides, she wanted to

marry another man, and she knew how Abb
would carry round if he came home after she'd
done it. He was six foot high, and the handsomest
coloured man in all America, as he always
said himself. On sunny days he used to wax his
moustache, and twist it to a point six inches each
side, like the Emperor Napoleon. When it rained,
he would comb it straight over his mouth and
chin, so as to look like a blackened poet. And
he had such a way with him that he never missed
his fare. Nobody rightly knows what that way
was : some say he threatened to murder the
stranger if he didn't get in and be driven off
Avithout more words ; some say he bundled him
in, head and heels, before he knew where he was ;
but I think he just persuaded him with soft words
to the door of his buggy, and then finished him
with a gentle shove. Abb always got the pick of
the flock, too ; the loneliest of the English travellers
— that kind of young feller who comes by
himself straight out from Oxford, with a field-glass
and knickerbockers, and goes home on the
brao«" after he's been pretty well skinned alive in
Niagara and the States ; the tenderest and un-protectress
of the women ; the shakes of the
old men ; that was the kind you would always
find in Abb Thomas's buggy. And he generally
took 'em that quiet and lonely road which leads
to the whirlpool. Why did he take them there ?

Because, about half-way back, who would meet
hmi but Jess Connolly ? Jess was the biggest of
the gang, and he had a fist like a frying-pan.
He's in choked now for a year, because he made
a mistake, thinking the old times were come back
again, and tried to bounce an Englishman out of
fifty dollars. But the Englishman had a revolver,
and he pointed it at Jess's head. '' Drive right
away to Mr. Hill," he said — Mr. Hill's the judge —
^' or I'll shoot." But before this misfortune, in
the old days, Jess would meet Abb Thomas on
the road, and the buggy would stop. Then Abb
would turn. round : " Place where the fare always
pays," he would say. " This is my partner."

'' Twenty dollars," says Jess, holding out his
hand.

" You said a dollar and a half'' says the passenger
to Abbe

Lord forgive you ! " says Abb.

When they'd taken the twenty dollars, they
would turn the victim out upon the road, and
drive away together. He was sure to be off the
next day most likely, and then botJi of the men
were back upon the bank. Another of the gang
was Tom Hudson. He's in choked too, like Jess
Connolly, and for seven years, for trying to
murder Laurence, the gaoler. He was taken up
for something of no great count —-forgery, I
think — and at the same time Seth Messiter was

brought in for a trifle — clearing out a Yankee s
pockets. They were both clapped in the same
cell. Tom was mad, because he didn't expect to
get off; so he proposed to Seth that they should
bounce the gaoler, take the keys, and run. Seth
agreed, and when Laurence came in with their
evening grub, Tom let him have it once on the
head with the wooden bench. Down dropped
Laurence, but, as bad luck would have it, he had
the sense, before he fell, to chuck the key
through the window-bars. Tom was real ugly
when he saw the keys fly through the bars, and
made at Laurence like a devil. " Let's kill
him ! " cries Tom. Now what do you think Seth
Messiter did ? I said he was the contingent of
the hull lot. He remembered that he was in fora
little thing, and Tom was in for a big thing, and
he saw that Laurence wasn't hurt, not to say considerable.
So he set his two legs astride of the
gaoler, and when he saw him open his eyes, he
struck an attitude like a bold pirate. " Who
strikes Laurence, strikes me ! " he said, with
flashing' eyes and a thump on his breast. There I
It was beautiful.

At the trial, Tom's forgery case broke down,
because his brother, who drove on the American
side, had hocussed the principal witness. Then
they put him up for trying to murder Laurence,,
the gaoler. When the evidence came to the

heroic conduct of Seth Messiter, there wasn't a
dry eye in court. Tom got seven years, and the
Yankee who was there to prosecute Seth was
ashamed to come forward. Said that he felt as
if putting forward his fifty-dollar claim on such
a credit to Canada was like prosecuting George
Washington, when he was President, for cutting
down that pear tree. So he Walked over the
bridge, and he went home. I think he says now
that he'd much rather be robbed by a common
man next time, and the commoner the better.
Doesn't like heroism and thieving to get mixed.

Gracious ! It's one out and the other inmost
times. Often the best friends don't get the
chance of an evening together for years, and
when they do, there's always the chance of interruption.
Same as one night when Abb Thomas
and Dick the guide were in the bar .of Prospect
House together, and word came that Dick was
wanted.

" Poor Dick ! " says Abb, " we shan't see
3'ou for another year." And they didn't meet
again till the day before Nick Redder was murdered.


Last year, however, there was a case with a
Yankee, who was just a little too sharp, and the
men got off. Dan Moriarty it was. He saw a
stranger in a store coat and a stove-pipe hat
standing by the bridge on the Canadian side,

gazing with rapture at the Horseshoe Fall.
Moriarty. drove up his buggy, so as the stranger
was bound to step into that or else to walk over
the cliff. Every hackman has his little ways all
to himself, and that was Dan Moriarty 's. Granting'
that Abb Thomas could lift his passenger in and
carry him off, whether he liked it or not, there
was no one but Dan who could give him a fair
choice between suicide and his buggy.

But the stranger never moved, and even
Dan didn't dare, in broad daylight, to shove him
over.

'Presently he extended both his arms in a
circular sweep and sung out, just as if he'd sat
upon a wasp's nest.

"• Oh ! " he says ; " this is too much."

'what's too much?" asks Dan; "not chef
a dollar to Table Rock and back."

" No, AS^V," says the stranger, " The prospect
is what is too much. It's sublime, Sir. It brings
the tears to the stranger's eyes."

" You bet," said Dan. " Step in and have a
drive. Tote yer round for two and a quarter."

" No," said the stranger, meditatively. " Seems
as if I'd rather liquor."

They went together to the nearest bar, and
Dan Moriarty paid.

It was getting' on for evening and the sun
was low. The stranger returned to the Falls and

sat down on the edge of the cliff with the stump
of a cigar and his pocket-handkerchief. Dan
Moriarty sat beside him, and they wept together.
When the sun went down, Dan suggested that
they should have another drink. So they went
off to a crib that Dan knew off, where they found
two more of the gang. Here they took drinks
around, and Dan proposed a game of euchre.
The stranger was through with his weeping, but
he hadn't offered to pay for any of the whisky,
and he wouldn't play for stakes. All the same,
he drank whatever was offered him, and looked
as if he could 2^0 on drinking; for a lonc^ time. So
when Dan put his hand under the table and
pulled out a bottle half emptied, that unsuspicious
stranger set it to his lips and didn't take it away
till his back teeth were under Whisky. Then
Dan and his friends looked at each other and
smiled cheerful, because the next minute the
stranger rolled off his stool like a log. For they'd
roped that whisky.

Next morning the stranger awoke. He was
lying on the edge of the cliff; he was very cold,
and he had hot coppers ; and the worst was that
his pockets were empty.

'It was easy to identify the three men, and
they were all had up before Mr. Hill. Then the
stranger told his tale. He narrated how his
guileless nature was worked up to drinking' point

by the poetry of the situation and the sympathy
of Dan. And then he said how he'd got ^^500 in
his pockets and had lost all the little pile by the
hands of that treacherous villain.

This looked black for Dan. But he whispered
his counsel for a few minutes, and the
cross-examination began.

" Where did you carry that pile of notes ? "

" In my purse," says he.

" Show the Court your purse."

He pulled out a purse about big enough to
hold a single dime. All the prisoners laughed,
and the Court called order.

*' Where did you make your money ? "

" Working at Buffalo for two months, at two
dollars a day."

" That makes $120. Where did you get the
rest ? "

Well, you see this greedy Yank, he'd been
drugged and robbed, and he thought he'd go in
for a big claim at once. He'd learned how that
dodge pays from the Alabama commission. The
subsequent were that Dan got off', and the Court
told the witness he was a liar.

But the most wonderful escape the gang ever
had was in the murder of Nick Vedder, that I've
been coming to gradually.

It was fiYQ years ago. Mck was a young
fellow of twenty-one or so, clerk to a dry goods

store in Cliftonville. He was a good-looking
chap, and on Sunday afternoons dressed himself
up like a Buffalo swell, wore an around pot with
a feather in it, and had a little moustache growing
up like a pumpkin in a frame. When he came
out o' church you could see by his eyes that he
knew all the girls were in love with him, and
was only anxious to save one heart from being
broken by letting' on in good time that her love
was returned. He parted his hair beautifully
right down the middle, so as you might walk
straight up if you liked, and finished at the parting
with two sweet little curls over his marble
brow, so as you could hang on if you slipped.

'It was one Sunday evening in February,
while the ice was hanging about the Falls, and
there had been toboggining all afternoon down
by the ferry. Nick was there, and after it he
went to church, just to cheer up the tells, and
after church he started to go home. It was a
black night, and somehow, through seeing the
last of the sweet things go out, Nick was behind
all the rest. But he thought nothing of that, and
just walked along the planks Whistling to himself,
till he felt all of a sudden the grip of two arms
round his neck and two hands on his lips.

Nick liked philandering better than fighting,
and when he felt that two pair of foreign arms
about him, he just stood still where he was, and

concluded to let things slide. What inspired
Nick with prayerful gratitude was that he hadn't
any money in his pocket, not a single dollar, note,
nor the chink of one quarter against another. Dry
goods store clerks don't have much money as a
rule.

They carried him without a word down the
cross-road which leads from Clifton Church to
the Drummondville road, and presently they
came to a house, and they took him in.

Just then Nick Redder fainted. Perhaps it
was the heat of the stove, and perhaps it was the
swear, but anyhow he went off, and when he
came to himself he was lying on his back upon
the floor. They'd set a chair across his legs, and
one citizen was sitting in it, a pistol in his hand,
ready cocked, pointed straight at Nick Redder's
face. He felt, without being told, that if that
pistol went off, he'd lose considerable of his
beauty for the balance of his days ; so he hoped
it wouldn't. But that wasn't all. At his right
side there sat another gentleman, with a razor in
his hand, and this he was playfully drawn' across
Nick Vedder's throat ; and at his left there was a
third citizen, who held a pair of scissors open,
like compasses, across his cheeks.

" Nick Redder," said the one in the chair,
and he knew it was Chris Damage, " Nick Redder,
what the devil do you mean by it ? "

" Mean by it, Sir ? " asks Nick, as meek ashe
knew.

" We see a gentleman going along, on a
dark night, easy and quiet over the planks ; we
stop that gentleman, and he turns out to be Nick
Vedder, clerk in a dry goods store, without a
cent. And we've wasted our time. An example
must be made, Nick Vedder."

Then Nick saw that his time was come unless
he made an eflbrt, so, because he didn't dare to
move, on account of the scissors and the razor, tD
say nothing of the pistol, he prayed on his back,
that they would have pity on a poor dry goods
store clerk, who had always, from his humble
station, envied the glorious freedom of the hack-men.
He had, he said, watched them when the
helpless tourist crossed the Suspension Bridge or
emerged from the Clifton Hotel. He drew a
poetic picture of that tourist, confident as the
GalHc cock at starting, and returning like that
bird plucked and trussed ready for roasting.
Warming with his subject, because Nick was a
real clever fellow once put to it, he compared, to
the advantage of each in turn, the bold privateering
of Abb Thomas, by whom the tourist, surrounded
on all sides, was fairly captured and
driven whither he did not wish to go ; the suicidal
alternative of Dan Moriarty, which presented
death or the buggy to the terrified stranger ; the

craft of Mr. Seth Messiter, and the admirable
politeness of that other excellent citizen, Dick
the guide. I think he would have gone on all
night, but Abb Thomas told him they didn't want
any more chin music, and that his time was up.

'Nick was mighty frightened. When' they
tied a napkin round his neck he began to cry ;
when they sharpened the razor he began to say
his prayers ; and when Tom Hudson advanced
with the weapon in his hand he began to skreek.
But he needn't have been so seared, because,
after all, they weren't going to cut his throat.
They only made the beautiful centre-parting in
his hair a little wider, and shaved him an inch
broad from his forehead to his poll. Then Mck
Vedder looked like a clown.

It was Abb Thomas — he was always rough
in his play — who said Nick was a pretty boy, and
would look well in earrings if he only had his
ears pierced. So he took the scissors and did the
job for him. After that they let Nick go, and
when he got home he felt real ugly — more ugly
he felt, and smaller too, in the morning. His
mother, when he showed up at breakfast, carried
on so shameful, that he was forced to go straight
to Mr. Hill and lodge his complaint.

They soon caught the men, and though they
said it was only a joke, Mr. Hill bound them overall
but one, against whom there was no evidence,

to appear the following week. No one in the
town knew whether it was burglary, or highway
robbery, or plain assault. If it was highway
robbery, the town was likely to be deprived of
its most prominent citizens for a good long spell.

The next Sunday night, the night before the
remand, Nick did not go to church : he couldn't,
because his hair hadn't grown over the bald place
yet. His mother, who was a Primitive Methodist,
and strict, did. When she was out of the house
and the bells had done ringing, these four citizens,
out on bail, dropped in in a friendly way, and
paid an evening call on poor Nick. They didn't
ask him if he'd like a walk that cold night, but
they took it for granted ; clapped a gag in his
mouth, wrapped him up in his warm great-coat,
tied a comforter round his neck, and took him
along of themselves. " Because," said Abb Thomas,
if you so much as wink, to show that you are
not going of your own free will, when anyone
passes, we'll split your skull."

Nick went very quiet, but he was more
frightened this journey than the last. They
walked up the road from Clifton, along the rapids,
where it's dark all the year round, moon or no
moon, with the woods one side and the roaring-river,
three hundred feet below, on the other, and
they crossed over the suspension bridge, nobody
saying a word. Then they turned to the right,

VOL. III. X

past Prospect Park till they readied Goat Island
Bridge, and they crossed over the bridge to that
lonely and picturesque location.

It's a very different thing being on Goat
Island in the daytime, when you can see as well
as hear the rapids above you and the falls beneath,
and you know where you're standing, to being
there on a cold, dark. Sabbath night in winter, in
the company of four virtuous hackney, uncertain
how long you're going to be with them, the icy
spray blowing into your eyes, the leafless branches
dropping their icicles on your head, your feet
crunching deep in the falling snow, and all the
time the cataract and rapids about you, roaring
like all the wild creatures of all the Zoological
Gardens in the wide, wide world.

'Nick Redder was very sorry just then that he
wasn't in church ; although his head was shaved
for an inch all up his precious scalp ; better to be
laughed at by the girls, than be dragged along to
be murdered by the hackney. I guess his heart
was about down to the heels of his boots as he
went along.

It's a quarter of a mile, I repose, across Goat
Island, unless you make it longer by taking in
Luna Isle, and this would have been a waste of
time for Nick's enemies, because they were bound
straight for Terrapin Tower. You know Terrapin
Tower, mister. They've taken the tower down

long ago, to prevent its tumbling down, but the
shaky wooden footway to it is there still, and
then you can walk clear out to where it stood
right over the side of the fall, so that a man
standing at the edge of that ramshackle pier has
got his foot within a few inches of the great flood
which rolls over the edge below him. It is a
skeary place on a sunshiny day in summer.
Think what it would be on a moonless night in
February, with the black waters rolling and
roaring beneath ; above, the clear sky, and on
the rocks around the snow and ice making with
their whiteness a little light, just to show how
horrible it would be to go over.

Three of the men dragged poor Nick to the
end of the planks. Then they lifted him up —
Nick by this time was long past the power of
praying, or even asking for mercy — and held him
right out over the fall.

" Nick Redder," said Abb Thomas, as solemn
ass a judge, " Air you proposing' to give evidence
against us tomorrow ? "

There was no answer, because Nick was too
paralysed with terror to say anything.

" One," said Abb. '' If I say three before an
answer comes — over you go. And the Lord have
mercy on what's left of you, when you get to the
bottom."

There was no answer.

" Two ! "

Next day all the men, leaving their buggies
outside, appeared in the court at ten o'clock
looking cheerful. But when the case was called
there was no Nick Vedder.

The charge was dismissed, but the judge
cautioned the prisoners. He said he had no
doubt that there was an evasion of justice somehow,
and that a serious outrage had been condoned.
Let it be a lesson to them, for it was the
last time — and so on.

'Later on, old Mrs. Vedder came into court
screaming' and cry in' that her son must be murdered,
that he hadn't come home all night, and
that he was certainly made away with by the
blood-thirsty gang of Abb Thomas and his friends.
But there was no proof.

'That was Monday. Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday passed, and Nick never came home.
Everybody thought that he really must have
been made away with. A reward was offered
for him. People began to look more shy of the
men on the bank than ever. Abb Thomas was
hooted by the women. Chris Dal mage had a
quarrel with his own wife, who threatened to
live no longer with a murdering' cut-throat. And
even old Mis' Fuller, who ought to have known
better, through her English high connections, put

on all her six frocks at once, went down to the
bank and joined in the general scream. It was
an anxious time. And it was more anxious still,
when, on Friday morning, it was spread abroad
that a body was in the whirlpool.

We all made for the whirlpool. Some
walked, some drove : but we all got there. In
the pool, going' round and round, was a body, and
no mistake. It went round and round the whole
day, while we stood on the bank under the cliff
and tried to make out if it was Nick Vedder.
But the features were smashed beyond recognition.


So many people crowded down that all the
buggies were hired, and it was noticed afterwards,
as a most remarkable thing, that the visitors that
day were actually enabled to see the Falls without
being robbed. No hackney on the bank, no
photographers, and no dealers in Indian curiosities.
The tourists thought it was Sunday, or a
keeping of Dominion Day at the wrong time.

In the night the body left the whirlpool, and
was found on the bank in the morning, caught by
the trees. They brought it up, and held the inquest.


Although the face and features were quite
smashed and broken, there were two things by
which they identified the remains, Old Mrs.
Vedder swore to a slipper which was on the foot

as belonging to her son ; and Dick the guide, who
had reason of his own for wanting to see Abb
Thomas in trouble, swore to a tattoo mark on the
arm. Said he did it himself one Sabbath afternoon
when Nick Vedder and him was alone. And
a coloured girl swore that she saw Mck Vedder
on Sunday evening with four men, Abb Thomas
being one, and going over the suspension bridge.

The verdict was " wilful murder " against the
four who had been bound over to appear for the
first charge. They were immediately arrested
and locked up. They took the matter quite
cheerfully, and were, as the " Drummondville
Gazette " said, apparently quite regardless of their
awful position.

Time was required to get up the case for the
prosecution, and it was a fortnight afterwards
when the real trial came on. It was a solemn
sight to see the judge, the counsel, the jury, and
the citizens, all got together to hang four hack
drivers. Everybody was there, and among them
old Mis' Fuller, in the front row, nodding her
head at all friends, and every now and then
wiping her eyes when she thought of poor dear
Nick.

First the prosecutor opened the case. A
man had disappeared ; for no reason whatever
he vanished from his home : when last seen he
was in company with four men ; these men stood

before the court in the dock : with them he
crossed over the bridge to Goat Island : the
gate-keeper, it would be proved, could not remember
whether he came back with them : they
had an interest in getting him out of the way : a
body was found in the whirlpool below the Falls :
in height it corresponded to the deceased, Nicholas
Vedder : on the foot was a slipper to which
the murdered man's mother would swear : on
the arm was a tattoo mark which a well-known
citizen of Clifton remembered to have himself
punctured on the arm of this unfortunate young
man so foully made away with.

He kept piling' it up about foul play and the
murdered man till the folk were ready to lynch
the lot iP the prisoners had been free. Then he
called the evidence. First the coloured girl gave
hers. The counsel for the prisoners said he had
no questions to ask. Then Mrs. Vedder swore to
the slipper, and was quite ready to swear to the
foot which had been in it.

The counsel for the prisoners, to everybody's
astonishment, said he had no questions at all to
ask her. Was the man going to fool away the
case ?

'Dick the guide swore to the tattoo mark.
When asked if he remembered the date of the
tattooing, he burst into tears and said it was when
Nick and he were boys together. That i was

curious, because Dick was forty and Nick was
twenty.

But the counsel for the defence said he had
no questions to ask of him neither. And then
we began to feel as if the rope was round all four
necks.

When his turn to speak came, however, he
rose to his feet, and said that he only had one
witness to call. He would call — and here he
hesitated, and looked scornful at his brothers in
the law : he would call — and here he looked with
a smile in the faces of the citizens : he would call
and here he looked full in the eyes of the jury,
as if he was going to let them have a facer : he
would call — Nick Redder himself: and as he
spoke the words, the door opened, and in came
Nick. His hair was growing again very nicely.
But he looked meek and small. There's no denying
that the Court was a good deal taken aback :
dignity shook out of it, somehow. Mis' Fuller
cave a fearful shriek because she thought it was
a ghost, and went off into hysterics. It took
a few minutes to get rid of her. The people
jumped to their feet and began to shout. The
jury looked as if they'd been done out of something
good. And as for the prisoners, they just
stepped over the dock into the court and sat
down. Abb Thomas the first, without being
invited to.

We got a little quiet after a while, and the
case went on.

'First the counsel told the Court the story
about Nick's disappearance. It was this: Chris
Damage, the only one of the five who wasn't
bound over, after they'd frightened Nick at Terrapin
Tower, till he was as meek as any two-year-old,
kept him on the other side, locked up with a
friend or two to take care of him. After the
inquest, what with the general excitement, and
the impulse to the hack trade, because folk came
from Hamilton and Toronto and London to seethe
place where Nick Vedder's body was found,
and what with the pleasure of seeing his friends
all locked up together, a thing which no hackman
could resist, Chris could not bring himself
to produce his prisoner till the day of the
trial.

'The counsel only asked two questions.

" Is that your slipper ? "

" No," said Nick. " I never had a slipper
in my life, and if I had my foot isn't as big as a
boat. And who'd go out in slippers in such
weather as this ? "

His mother, who'd been clinging to him and
wiping her eyes, let go of his hand, and looked
as if she'd like to box his ears there and then.

'' Oh ! you ungrateful boy," she cried.

'' Then," said the counsel, " show the Court

VOL. ITT. Y

your left arm. Turn up the sleeve ; where is the
tattoo ? "

'there is no tattoo," said Nick. "Why
should I be tattooed ? "

Dick the guide stepped out of court. He said
it was a curious and disappointing world — and
who would have guessed that the boy would
round on him in such an ungrateful manner as
that after all he'd said and sworn to for his sake ?
And catch him ever taking any interest in a
murder again. And that night there was some of
them at the Falls had a real high time : perhaps
as high a time as ever was had. But Dick the
guide wasn't invited.'

THE END.

LONDON : Printed BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND Parliament Street
