LI E) RAR.Y

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

8Z3

Return this book on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.
University of Illinois Library

:&^

^o

b<>

-^■^^

m

^

L161— O-1096

BY

WALTER BESANT AND JAMES RICE.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3^. dd. each ; post 8vo. illus.
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2.s. 6d. each.

Ready-money Mortify.

WITH HARP AND CROWN.

THIS SON OF VULCAN.

MY LITTLE GIRL.

THE CASE OF MR. Craft.

THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY.

BY CELIA'S ARBOUR.

THE MONKS OF Helena.

'TWAS IN TRAFALGAR'S BAY.

THE SEAMY SIDE.

THE TEN YEARS' TENANT.

THE CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

NOVELS BY WALTER BESANT.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, y. 6d. each ; post 8vo. illus.
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN: an
Impossible Story. With Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

THE CAPTAINS' ROOM, &c. With Frontispiece
by E. J. Wheeler.

ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR. With 6 Illustrations
by H. Furnish.

DOROTHY FORSTER. With Frontispiece by
Charles Green.

UNCLE JACK, and other Stories.

London : CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

BY

WALTER BESANT

AUTHOR OF 'all SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN*
'DOROTHY FORSTER' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



\,The right 0/ translation is reserved

-.POTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

PREFACE.

I HAVE learned with pain that the Eev. Freeman
Wills, Vicar of St. Agatha's, Shoreditch,
has suffered some annoyance by being taken
for the Vicar of St, Agatha's, Hoxton, whose
church is mentioned in these pages. I deliberately
chose the title of St. Agatha because
there is no church with that name in Hoxton.
Unfortunately I forgot to look through the list
of churches in Shoreditch, of which Hoxton is
supposed to be a part. I can only say that
Mr. Freeman Wills is not the curate of St.
Agatha's mentioned once or twice in these
pages, nor was his the church which I had in
my mind.

W. B.

U.\iTED University Club:
October, 1880.

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.
PROLOGUE.

PART PAGE

I. POLLY-WHICH-IS-MARLA 1

II. THE STROKE OF FATE 25

BOOK L

CHAPTER

I. AT NINE o'clock 39

II. WHICH IS MY SISTER 61

III. JACK Confers 82

IV. THE HAVEN OF REST 100

V. THE LAW OF ELEVENPENCE Happens . .127

VI. AN UNLUCKY DAY 152

VII. AFTER MELENDA 168

CHAPTER Prob

VIII. ALICIA . 181

IX. SAM . . 190

X. THE GREAT RENUNCIATION 213

BOOK 11.

I. ' I AM YOUR SISTER ' 235

II. THE CITY OF Holden 263

III. ON CURLS AND DIMPLES . . . .285

IV. Lofty's ROMANCE 300

Prologue.
Part I.

POLLY WHICH-LS-MARLA.

Sit clown, Hester, and let us talk. It is
seventeen years since you saw me last.'

It isn't the time I grudge, my lady,
Hester replied, plunging her bare arms into
the soap-suds ; ' it isn't the time, but the
things are promised, and a laundress's word
is her work. If she breaks her word, it's
leave the things and change the washing.
And a lovely drying day.'

She spoke with two pins between her lips.
People of her walk in life, unless they happen
to be Chinamen, always while they are standing
at the wash-tub carry two pins in the
corner of the mouth — they are not even safety

VOL. I. ^ B

pins ; and the practice gives them for the
time a curious thickness of speech.

Let me talk and work at the same time,
my lady, though it is such a long, long time
since last I set eyes upon you ; ' and a beautiful
little creature you were, to besure. Lor'
a me ! '

She was a woman of five or six-and-thirty
: country-bred, as you could very easily
tell by the rosy hue of her cheek and by its
amplitude, by her figure, full and comely,
and by her breadth of shoulder. The London
air — it is the fog in it, perhaps, or the smoke
in it — produces in the second and all succeeding
generations, a diminishing effect : it narrows
and slopes the shoulders ; it contracts the
figure, it shortens the stature, and it makes
the features small ; in fact, it makes the
London girl small all over, yet it doth not
leave her without charms of her own, as is
daily testified by many. This woman was a
big woman, looking still as if she was fresh
from field and country lane ; her forehead
was lined, her mouth was drawn — but this
might be due to the presence of the two
pins ; her eyes were limpid and full and in

colour brown, something like the eyes of a
hare when she is not frightened. They were
set and framed in a network of lines and
crows'rfeet, and when she was alone they had
a trick of hardening. This may have been
caused by trouble, or perhaps it was only the
natural result of the weeks arithmetical exercise
peculiar to her profession, and worthy
of a Babbage, in which the good woman had
to enumerate, divide out, add up and make
to come right, all the socks, handkerchiefs,
shirts, collars, and cuffs entrusted to her
care. As for her features, they were plain
and even rugged. A working woman may
very naturally acquire, by the age of six-and-thirty,
from her life of struggle and work,
a very considerable amount of hardness. But
with Hester the ruggedness seemed part of
the original mould, as if Nature had left the
face in the rough without the final stroke of
the chisel. I do not think that Hester tad
ever been beautiful ; but by reason of her
hair, which was still plentiful, and of a warm
red colour, and her limpid eyes, she may have
been in her youth pleasing to look upon. It
seems a fond thing to speculate upon the

B 2

possible beauty of a washerwoman in the
vanished days when she was young. But it
has a certain interest for us, because she had
children with whom we have to do, and it is a
melancholy reflection that so little interest
is generally taken in the past beauty of a
woman, whether she be a washerwoman or a
duchess.

As for her expression, it was grave and
even sad at times : and when she was hanging
out the clothes, or when she was ironing, or
whenever there were no pins in her mouth,
her lips had a habit of silently nionologuising,
moving in the manner of one who speaks with
great rapidity, but with no audible utterance.
What she said in these soliloquies one knows
not ; perhaps she was rehearsing the weekly
returns, as, ' Six per o' socks, six ; ten handkerchiefs,
ten ; seven shirts, seven,' . . . and
so on ; accuracy in a washerwoman being as
desirable as despatch in a dentist. Or in that
silent and mysterious way she may have been
recalling scenes in her past history. If so,
they were not pleasing scenes. Mrs. Monument's
face, to those few who can read the
history of a life in a face, showed unmistakable

signs of trouble ; any one who knew the
history of that trouble could Without difficulty
point to individual lines, wrinkles, and crows
directly caused at various stages of it ;
to most of those who were ignorant of this
history, and perhaps too much occupied by
their own misfortunes to think much about
other people's, the lines about the mouth, the
wrinkles in the forehead, the set eyes, and the
hardened mouth conveyed no more meaning
than an inscription in cuneiform. It is, in
fact, only the novelist, and he only for
purposes of his art, who studies the human
face when it is past the time of beauty, and
strives to read, with the help of what he
knows, the emotions and sorrows which have
left, their mark upon it. It is too often, however,
like reading a Greek classic with the
help of an English crib, which has lost the
charm of language.

Seventeen years ago, Hester,' said Lady
Mildred, 'I was taken to see your wadding
at the village church, and I thought you the
most beautiful and the most enviable creature
I had ever beheld, in your white dress and
your curls.'

Hester played with the soap-suds and
smiled. Then she frowned at her own foolishness,
and then she smiled again. Since Lady
Mildred was so good as to say she had once
looked like a beautiful woman, it was not
for her to contradict her ; henceforth the
memory of her wedding-day would possess
another and a brighter association. But
Hester, who was truthful by nature, had never
been accustomed to think of herself as beautiful.
Plain girls sometimes make their own
consolations for themselves — notably, the comfortable
assurance that as many plain girls get
lovers as pretty girls — but they are never
under any illusions as to their own looks.
Hester, however, permitted her mind to dwell
for a moment on the memory of her ruddy
and rosy cheeks and white dress, and on the
fashions of the year 1848, and the people in
the church, and she smiled again.

As for the day, it was the brightest and
warmest day in June ever known, and as for
the year, it was in 1866. The house was one
of a small row of little five-roomed cottages,
irregular, picturesque, with red-tiled roofs and
red brick chimneys ; they have now all been

pulled down, not because the landlord was one
of those who despise old things and love to tear
down and destroy, like a First Lord of the
Admiralty with the old ships, but because if
they had not been pulled down thej^ would
have fallen down. Wherefore now, a terrace
of little houses with bow-windows, built of grey
bricks, all exactly alike and with slate roofs,
stands in their place, and those who remember
the former cottages fall to weeping when they
pass that way. The houses stood in a strange
and mysterious place, on the actual and visible
marge of London, looking out upon the low
green levels with which Hackney Marsh surrounds
the river Lea and prohibits the further
march of brick. White mists lie over the Marsh
in winter afternoons and autumn evenings.
and make it ghostly to look upon ; but it is
a keen and healthy air which sweeps across
the plain, a good drying air for linen, and
a bracing air for children with strong lungs
and sound throats. Each of the cottages stood
behind a long narrow strip of garden, which
was by some laid out and planted With onions,
cabbages, peas, potatoes, and beans, but in
more than one case was left fallow, so to

speak, dotted here and there with patches of
turf, and decorated with bare masts or poles
instead of trees, connected by ropes, with
han^ins^ linen instead of Avavinc^ fohae^e and
blossom. It Alas, in fact, a convenient spot
for washerwomen, and Mrs. Monument ' did,'
single-handed, or with only occasional help,
for two or three of the first families in Homer-ton
and Hackney, sister suburbs, which melt
imperceptibly into one another, and seem to
differ in no other respect than that of magnitude.
The fruits of her labour hung, every fine day
and all the year round, upon the lines in the
garden, and floated in the breeze, bulbous,
spherical, wafted this way and that, with the
undulations and the graces of a corpulent fairy,
across the flower-beds where no flowers ever
grew.

Beyond the garden the eye roamed free
and unchecked across the Marsh, a bare flat
expanse of green turf, cut into irregular shapes
by the elevated roads which cross it, deserted
in the morning, but in summer evenings
and on Sundays covered with the lusty youth
of Hackney Wick ; beyond the Marsh is the
Cut, up and down which go majestically the

barges of the river Lea : then more marsh,
and then the Lea itself, narrowed by reason
of the Cut, with high banks of mud and still
tortuous, as if resolved to keep its character
to the very end. There are two bridges over
it — one a narrow footway of wood, rustic,
ancient, not without beauty ; the other new
and broad for carts and cyclists as Avell as
for those who go afoot. The Marsh is not,
it must be confessed, one of the most romantically
beautiful spots upon the earth ; but it
lies open to all the winds of heaven ; those
who walk across its causeways may perhaps
still get ague as they used to do in the brave
old days, but at least they are outside the
houses, which is a very precious thing to
dwellers in Hackney and its sisters. Li the
eyes of Mrs. Monument the Marsh was chiefly
delightful because all the winds which blew
across it came to her drying ground fresh and
free from smut. Can Hyde Park boast as much ?
The cottage contained a kitchen or laundry,
with a red brick floor, looking upon the garden.
Here were the wash-tubs, and a boiler, and
patterns, and a board to stand upon. Behind it
was a sitting-room, or living room, and above

were two bedrooms. Naturally the steam of
the tubs filled the whole house and ascended
continually unto the heavens like the smoke of
Vesta's sacred fire — none of the Monument
children except Polly can ever pass the steam
of a wash-tub without being instantly transported
back to Hackney Marsh and filled with
the sense of a universal washing-day, as if
the rivers and lakes of the whole world had
been turned into hot and steaming soap-suds.
Outside the door was a rustic porch grown over
with jessamine, and within the porch at the
open door stood a young lady. In the year
1866 she was four-and-twenty years of age, and
in the eyes of her generation she passed for an
extremely beautiful woman ; her portrait maybe
found by the curious adorning any Book of
Beauty belonging to that time. She wore a
huge crinoline, she carried her hair in a big net,
and, after the fashion of her time, she made herself
look as short of face and of limb, as dumpy of
figure, as nature would allow. When one thinks
of that time, and of the truly sinful Avast and
throwing away of feminine loveliness and grace
which went on daily and from year to year,
it is not pity that one feels so much as blank

wonder that women could be such fools as to
disfigure and transform themselves.

As regards Lady Mildred Eldridge, one
would have felt a very lucian pity, because, in
addition to her hideous crinoline, she wore
widow's weeds, with a vast quantity of that
dolorous crape which every husband who truly
loves his wife ought to forbid in his will.

And to think, my lady,' said Hester, ' of
your remembering me after all these years ! '

I remember, Hester, how sorry I was
when you left the nursery to get married. It
was the first grief of my life.'

The woman's face darkened.

To get married ! ' she echoed bitterly. ' Oh !
what fools girls are ! Just to get married ! To
leave a pleasant home full of kind ladies who'd
never throw them over, and run into the arms
of the first chap who comes along with a smile
and promise ! If it wasn't for the blessed
children, I sometimes wish I had thrown
myself into the cold river the morning of my
wedding. Perhaps it would have been better
for them too.' She wrung a handful of linen as
if she wished it had been her husband's neck.

Hester! ' The young widow was frightened

at her old nurse's vehemence. ' Hester ! Tell
me something about it. And why have you
taken your maiden name again ? '

'I changed my name to get out of my
husband's way ; but it was no use.'

Out of his way ? '

Yes, my lady. But never mind about my
troubles. And you with your own to bear, and
a widow's cap and all at your age, poor dear ! '

I have been married too,' Lady Mildred
replied calmly, ' and I have lost my husband.
But about yours, Hester ? '

He is dead,' the woman replied, with an
obvious effort, as if it pained her so much as to
speak of him. ' He is dead, and I pray that
my children may never hear tell of him ! '

I am sorry. Poor Hester ! '

'There are some troubles.' She left the
wash-tub and sat down, wrapping lier apron
about her bare arms. ' There are some troubles,
my lady, that women needn't be ashamed of
such as men are born to as the sparks ally
upwards — and there's some troubles that we
can't think of, though we must, at times — let
alone speak of. Troubles that spoil the lives of
innocent children.'

There are, indeed, Hester. If these were
yours, I am sorry for you.'

'We came up to London,' Mrs. Monument
went on, ' to get work. That's what he called |
it. Oh, fine work he got ! He was a locksmith,
and it's a trade which finds out a man's
cleverness and leads him into temptations.
Whatever his work was, there was always
plenty of money, and I was happy. Oh, who
could have told beforehand what was c^oim? to
happen ! Then my Joe was born.' i

What did happen, Hester ? '

Nothing, my lady,' she replied evasively ;
only that I went to live by myself with the
baby, and took my maiden name, and hoped
never to see him again.'

And then ? '

Oh, he found me out. But he is

buried.' There was just a slight pause, as if
she was not quite certain whether he was
actually buried or only dead, and still awaiting
that rite, like one of the melancholy ghosts on
the shores of Styx ; though if they knew what
was waiting for them on the other side they
would perhaps send up word to their relations
not to bury their bodies.

Everybody has remarked the fondness
which all well-regulated women entertain for a
good round solid aphorism. It never loses its
freshness for them. Therefore it was natural
for Lady Mildred to remark solemnly : ' Where
there is no escape from evil save by death, it
is better that one should die.'

'Provided it's the right one,' said Hester.
Because, if I'd been took, what in the world
would ha' become of the blessed children .^ '

Where are your children, Hester .^ How
many of them have you ? '

Polly-wdiich-is-Marla,' replied Hester, as if
the four words made but one name, ' is playing
among the linen — bless her ! — where she can't
come to no more harm than a slap in the cheek
from a wet arm or a flapping skirt.' She went
out into the sunshine and shaded her eyes with
her hand, and called, ' Polly ! Polly ! Come to
mother ! '

Then there came running out from among
the hanging clothes a little girl of two years.
She Alas an extraordinarily beautiful child,
though her frock was ragged and dirty, and
the cap tied round her head had seen long
service. Her short brown curls lay over her

forehead and pressed out the cap ; her deep,
mysterious eyes gazed shyly at the visitor ; her
parted lips made the sweetest rosebud of a
mouth. Two years old ! This is the age when
the infant passes into the child ; she is still
irresponsible, without morals, and void of any
principles whatever; she still possesses the
infantine wonder ; life is still full of novelty
for her ; none of the gilding has been rubbed
off; she is always making new experiments,
and continually breaking out in new directions ;
she talks a most charming language ; she utters
the most unexpected sentiments ; and she does
the most delightful things. She is a flirt, a
jilt, a coquette; she is as unreasonable as the
wind ; she is as uncertain as the weather ; she
is a doll, a treasure, a toy, an idol, and a little
goddess. Of such there are tens of thousands
in this land of ours, and I wonder hoar many
of us have the grace to thank God for them !

Why, Hester ' — Lady Mildred was startled
at this miracle of beauty — ' your child is an
angel ; she is a fairy. Are all your children
like this one ? '

Three of them are,' said Hester. ' They
take after their father, who was as handsome,

though undersized, as he was clever. Cleverness
it was which ruined him, and his good
looks did him no more good than to make him
wicked and false.'

What is her name, Hester ? '

The name, b}^ rights, is Maria, but we call
her Polly, because the other is an outlandish
name.'

Why did you call her Maria ? '

It was her father's doing. He would have
it, and as I'd my choice with Joe and Sam, I
had to give way, though I blushed for shame
when I told the clergyman at the font.'

Maria ! It is an odd name.'

My man, you see, my lady, was fond of
his book, and perhaps he found the name in
one of the books he was always reading. But
there — it doesn't matter now ; and I always
call her Polly, Which is handier and more
natural.'

Yes — it is handier. Do you know, Hester '
Lady Mildred had the child in her arms —
it is strange ! Do you know that the child is
strangely like my own little girl ? '

Why, good gracious ! ' Hester threw up
her arms in astonishment at her own forgetfulness.

' To think that I never even asked your
ladyship if you had any of your own ! But
of course you have. There's the mother in
your look, plain to see. Lord ! the hunger ina
childless woman's eyes ! '

I have only one — a little girl — about this
child's age.'

None but a woman with children of her
own,' Hester continued, ' knows how to carry
a baby right. Now, to see your ladyship with
that little one ! '

• Where are your other children ? I should
like to see them all.'

I've got four more ' — Hester forgot her
work and the beautiful drying day in her
maternal pride — ' four more. First there's Joe.
He's sixteen now, and tall for his age. Apprenticed
to his father's trade, and handsome, though
not clever, as his father was, which gives me
hopes for him. It's the stupid lads that turnout
the steadiest and do the best. After Joe
comes Sam, and he's seven, bless his heart !
For sturdiness and appetite there isn't his equal.'

Mne years between the first and second .^ '

Nine years, my lady. Because my husband
he deserted me, I told you — I came away

VOL. I. c

with little Joe. But he found me out after all
those years, and came back to me. And then
came Sam. After Sam came Claude.'

Was that name your choosing, Hester ? '

Lord ! no, my lady. I should never have
thought of such a fine name for my boy. It
was his fathers choice. He named the boy
after some one in his books — Claude something,
who, my husband said, was one of the
greatest men who ever lived. But he only
seemed to me a rogue and a robber.'

It could not be Claude Duval ? ' said Lady
Mildred at hazard.

I think that was the name ; but I don't
rightly remember. When I took the baby to
church I could only remember the first name,
so he is Claude, and nothing else. He is six
now and a beautiful boy — more like his father
than me, and as like as two peas to Polly .
After him comes Melenda, who is
fiYQ — another heathenish name. But it's his
choice, not mine. She's like Sam, not Claude.
Just after Polly was born my husband left
me again — thank goodness for it.'

'Do not let us talk about him, Hester,'
said Lady Mildred. ' It only vexes you.'

Just then the children came home from
school. First came Sam, a sturdy, red-haired
child with bright eyes, and a face painfully
like his mother's — chiselled hastily and with
just a few strokes, rough but effective ; the
result being a broad forehead, strong chin,
large mouth, and rosy cheeks. After him
walked Claude — a pretty boy of six, who had
very much the air of a gentleman in disguise,
though his clothes were tolerably ragged.
Last there came a little red-haired girl of five,
exactly like her brother Sam. They emerged
from the white curtains of drying linen and
stood ranged in line before the porch,

'Here they are, my lady,' said their mother,
proudly reviewing her family. ' This is
Melenda, who's as good as gold already, and
can be trusted with Polly. This is Sam. Hold
up your head, Sam. It would do your ladyship
good to hear that boy read. And this is
Maude. He's like his brother Joe and his
sister Polly. They all favour their father — in
outward looks only, I hope and pray.'

Lady Mildred remarked how lie kept recurring
to her husband, whose memory she so

c2

much detested. It was as if he was always in
her mind.

Hester,' she said, ' do you alone provide
for all these children ? Is there nobody to
help you ? '

Nobody,' she replied. ' It's terrible hardwork,
to be sure ; and sometimes I wake in
the night and think I must break down. And
then we shall all have to go to the Union — you
can see it from the back of the house — and me
and them will be parted.'

Five mouths to be fed ! It must take
a great deal of washing to find food for so
many.'

Yes, my lady. But there, I don't mind
hard work. There's worse trouble than that
for me to be afraid of — worse than hunger
even for the little ones — that I dread day and
night.'

Hester,' said Lady Mildred, who still had
the youngest in her arms, ' let me help you.
Let me take one of the children off your hands.
Lend me this little one.'

Lend you my Polly ! '

Lend her to me, Hester. You can trust
her to me. I am not a stranger to you. Let
me take the child.'

The mother snatched the little girl out of
her visitor's arms.

Part with my flesh and blood ! ' she cried
jealously. ' Give you my Polly ! '

If you think it would be for her good.'

The woman hugged the child and pressed
it closer to her heart, and shook her head.
But the tears came into her eyes.

There is something on your mind, Hester,' \
Lady Mildred persisted. ' No ; do not think
that I want to know what it is. There is something
you remember and something you dread.
When you speak of your dead husband you
look about you as if you feared he might be
standing at your garden gate. Poor Hester !
You must have had an unhappy life.'

An unhappy life — yes.'

He is dead and past our blame of it,' said
Lady Mildred. ' Yet something survives. The

memory '

The memory of it,' Hester repeated — ' the
shame of it, for me and for the children.'

'If you let me have the child, I will bring
her up in ignorance. She shall have no knowledge
of the memory.'

'Do you want to make her my young
lady's maid ? '

No. She 'shall be brought up with my
daughter — her companion ; she shall be educated
with her. I will provide for her. As
for separation from you' — Lady Mildred remembered
that if she was to bring up the
child as a young lady, Sam and Melenda and
Claude might not, in the course of time, be
quite desirable companions — ' as for separation,
you shall know always how she is going on ;
when she grows up you shall see her again if
you wish it ; she shall be told about her parentage
nothing more than you please to tell her.
Think ! You will part from the child, but it
will be for her happiness, and one less to work
for.'

Oh, my Polly ! ' cried the mother. ' As if
I could think it a trouble to work for your
dear little mouth ! '

'Think of it, Hester. Take a week, a
month, to consider.'

To Lady Mildred's astonishment, Hester
decided on the spot.

'You shall have her, my lady. Oh, to
save them from what I dread day and night, I
would part with them all. Take her — take
her. To save her I would consent never to

meet lier again till we meet in heaven. Yet —
oh, let me keep her just one night — my pretty
darling ! — to hold her in my arms one night
longer.'

Oh, Hester ! ' said Lady Mildred, moved
to tears. ' I will be like a mother to her. She
shall never be unhappy if I can help it. And
as for you and yours, whatever happens, you
will have a friend in me and mine.'

Oh, I know — I know. But promise me
one thing, my lady. Let the child never learn,
Whatever happens, unless I tell her — only my
boy Joe knows — that my name is only my
maiden name ; else she'll want to know her
father's name. If when she grows up she asks
about her mother, tell her that her mother was
an honest woman. If she asks about her
father, say that he is dead and buried long ago.
There are five of them. One of them knows
the secret already, but he keeps it close ; perhaps
the three left With me will find it out,
but not Polly — not little Polly-which-is-Marla.
God knows I'd never part with her — never —
except for that one thing, so long as I'd a
linger left to work with.'

She shall be happy,' said Lady Mildred,

if I can make lier happy. And you shall see
]her again. Somehow you shall see her. You
sluiU not altogether lose hero



III this way little Polly-which-is-Marla disappeared
from Hackney Marsh, and became
Valentine or Violet, I know not which — adopted
daughter of Lady Mildred Eldridge, and therefore
granddaughter of the Earl of Cashmere,
Knight of the Garter, and daughter of the late
Sir Lancelot Eldridge, Bart., M.P., F.S.A.
This was certainly very great promotion, and,
if one may say so of a young lady of this tender
age, as yet wholly undeserved.

Have I done well. Bertha ? ' asked Lady
Mildred, over the two cribs in which, side by
side, the two children were sleeping. Lady
Mildred was a woman with many ideas, and
Miss Bertha Colquhoun was the friend of her
girlhood to whom she communicated them.

They are curiously alike,' said Bertha ;
one might almost take them for twin sisters.
As for your doing a wise thing, my dear
Mildred, Time, the only infallible prophet, will
disclose when the hour comes. I shall not
give my decision till I hear his opinion. As

for your doing an interesting thing, that is undoubted.
Tell me, by the way, which is little
Trin? I haven't seen her since she was in
loner clothes ; and which is the little washerwoman
of Hackney Marsh ? '

Why, nobody knows except myself and
my solicitor. I was obliged to tell him, I
have changed nurses, and managed so carefully
that nobody can so much as guess. The child
with the light blue ribbon round its neck is
Valentine ; the other is Violet. For both of
them and for all the world Beatrice is lost, as
well as Polly, until October 15, 1885, when
Beatrice will come of age.'

Oh ! ' said Bertha, disappointed at not
being taken into the secret ; ' then I must wait
like all the world, I suppose. But oh, my
dear ! Poor little Polly-which-is-Marla ! Poor
child, when she learns the truth ! '

Part II.

THE STROKE OF FATE.

For eight years longer those strong arms
worked without rest or pause over the washtub.

Time, who possesses au apparently double
movement, like a planet, and goes round and
about among us while we go straight on, frequently
remarked the unchangeable character
of this good woman's life, for whom none of
his seasons produced either joy or pain, except
so far as they brought good or bad drying
days. The lines were always up except in
rainy weather, and they were always laden,
for eight years, during which Mrs. Monument
never flagged and never felt weary. In eight
years Joe passed from a prentice to a workman
; at the age of nineteen, like most of his
fellows, he took a wife, herself seventeen ; by
the age of twenty-four he had five children.
In eight years Sam advanced from seven to
fifteen and became a pupil teacher, being resolved
to achieve the position of Board Schoolmaster.
Claude was thirteen, Melenda was
eleven, and Polly, of idiom from time to time
the mother heard the best accounts, was with
her sister Valentine, or Violet, ten years of
age.

Si ow, after eight years, Fate suddenly interposed,
acting in that decisive manner by which
she has always commanded so much respect, and

even fear. It is, in fact, the Oriental style, in
which there is no hearing of a case, or pleading,
or argument, or jury, or evidence, or court of
appeal, or anything at all but the Caliph, the
successor to the Prophet — may his soul have
peace ! — who knows everything, and orders
everything, and lo ! it is done, whether it be the
lopping of a head, or the extermination of a
family, or the elevation of a beggar in rags
to a purple robe and a seat on a white ass
and the post of grand vizier. In this case,
as usual, the decree of Fate was final and irresistible.
Mrs. Monument began to go blind.
First, she became conscious of a curious dimness
of vision, whereby the outlines of things were
blurred ; next she found that this dimness grcAV
upon her ; and finally, after the most dreadful
apprehensions for the future, she sat down and
folded her hands, and made Sam write a letter to
Lady Mildred. She had now gone so blind
that she could no longer see anything but ' men
like trees walking ' ; she would very soon cease
to see them at all ; then she would get to the
end of her money ; then, what would happen
to the children ?

When Lady Mildred came, in response

to this letter, she was received, so to speak, by
a boy who sat in the porch reading. As for
the garden, it looked forlorn without the linen :
the posts were there, and the lines, but there
was no linen, though a most beautiful drying
breeze vas blowing over the Marsh from the
north-east, and there was a warm sun in the
sky. Stranger still, there was no smell or
steam of soap-suds in the house, and the
stricken worker sat in the inner room, hands
crossed, in the patient expectant attitude of the
blind.

The boy rose and pulled off his hat. Lady
Mildred by this time had quite forgotten the
child who, at five years of age, had the air
and appearance of the descendant of fifty
dukes. His face, however, had altered little ;
it was now a sharp and rather thin face,
marked with a strange refinement and delicacy
of outline. We do not generally associate such
a face with a laundry. We are wrong, of
course ; because in every city, court, and on
every village green, and wherever luunans do
congregate, there will always be found some child
or children with the face of refinement and
sweetness, not in the least like the rough and

plain faces round them. A scientific person, I
believe, would call them ' sports,' playfully implying
that Nature must have her little distractions,
and cannot abide for ever to be
trammelled With law and rule. Perhaps, however,
the scientific person would be wrong, and
there may be nothing in man which is not
hereditary, down to the cut of a nostril, the
outline of a cheek, or the curve of a lip. If
Claude's ancestors in the male line were known,
for instance, we might trace every feature the
boy possessed to some grandfather or great-grandmother.
As for his mother's family, it is
very well known indeed, and it is a most
ancient and a highly honourable house, seeing
that every man in it, from father to son, has,
from time immemorial, worn the smock-frock or
leather jerkin, driven the plough, fed the pigs,
sowed and reaped, and sowed again, and has
presently shut his eyes and been laid under
a little mound of grass in the acre of the Lord.
And as for distinction, why the sons of this
House fought at Senlac, where they got defeated,
after unheard-of bravery, and at Cressy
and Agincourt and Bosworth Field, and at
Blenheim, and at Waterloo and Alma. Claude

lias every reason to be proud of this ancestors
by his mother's side. But he did not get his
face from any of them, because their faces,
though scrupulously honest and sometimes
clean, were never either refined or delicate.

Please, ma'am, my name is Claude,' said
the boy, conscious that his name was much
finer than Sam's ; and indeed it is a very
beautiful name, and many a city knight has to
put up with one much inferior.

Claude — yes — I remember you now.'
Lady Mildred remembered the story of his
baptism. Was he really named after Claude
Duval ? ' Let me look at you, boy ! You are
like your sister — Polly. Does your mother tell
you about Polly Avhich-is-Marla ? '

Oh, yes. A fine lady came and took Polly
away. Some day we are to see her again,
when she comes home for good. She won't be
proud, mother says.'

Then Lady Mildred left him and went to
see her old nurse. She observed, however, that
the boy sat down again and buried his face in
his book. ' You poor soul ! ' she said. ' Tell
me all about yourself, and why didn't you send
for me before ? And what does the doctor say ? '

Presently, after the first outpourings concerning
the darkened eyes — ' And now,' said
Lady Mildred, ' about your children. Is Joe
doing well ? And has he turned out quite as
stupid as you hoped ? '

Joe's a good workman, and he's in good
work at Tottenham with a plumber and house
decorator. He would marry at nineteen, like
all the rest of them, and now there's five innocent
babies, and she two years younger than himself.
But he's a good son always, though he can't
help no one but himself.'

And Sam ? '

He's a pupil-teacher, and gets on wonderful.
There never was a boy like Sam forgetting
on. He's made up his mind to rise in
the world, and rise he will. Says he shall be
master of a Board School before he's satisfied.
Think of that for my Sam ! '

Good boy ! And then comes Claude — the
little fellow outside in the porch.'

The mother shook her head.

I don't know what will come to the boy,
nor what trade he weill take to. For he thinks
about nothing but books and reading. Sam
reads, too ; but then Sam only reads what he

wants, and what will be useful to him. Claude
reads everything. Oh, dear, dear ! his father
was just the same. Always for ever with a
book in his hand.'

Boys Who read,' said Lady Mildred, ' often
come to great honour. And what about
Melenda ? '

She's at school yet. But she gives me a
deal of trouble, my lady. I want to get her
into good service, in a lady's house. But she
won't go. She says all the girls at school are
going to be free and independent, and earn
their own living by themselves, and so will she.
What do they know about it? Give me a
good dinner every day, I tell her. That's the
first thing. But the girls nowadays are all
for freedom, even if they starve with it. There,
my lady, that's enough about the children.
Tell me how my Polly grows, and if she's a
good girl, and pretty behaved.'

It certainly was a very good thing for the
Monument family that it found a friend in
Lady Mildred at this juncture, when, if it had
not been for her, the subsequent history of the
family would have belonged to the simple
annals of the workhouse. As it was, the

sympathy of Lady Mildred proved of a very
practical kind. First it procured for Mrs.
Monument a cottage in an almshouse in the
Tottenham Eoad, where she was near her
eldest son Joe, and substantial help besides, so
that she would be looked after and ' done ' for ;
and, as for Sam, it provided for that boy —
though he never knew the fact — the means of
continuing his course of study, and enabled him
first to become a monitor with ^^o, shillings a
week and next a pupil-teacher with sixteen shillings
a week, and then to iso to a training college,
and finally to get a place as assistant teacher
on ninety pounds a year with a five-pound rise.
And as for Melenda, it kept her at school and
found her in food and clothes until she refused
to stay any more. And as for Claude, I
suppose the boy's pretty delicate face and
intelligent eyes had something to do with Lady
Mildred's kindness to the boy ; but she always
said it was because she found him a natural
lover of learning and devourer of books. At
all events, she called him one day and held a
very serious conversation with him.

First she asked him what he would like to
be.

VOL. I. D

I should like,' the boy replied, reddening,
to go into a bookseller's shop. There's one
in the Victoria Park Eoad, full of old books,
where they want a boy.'

You would not be allowed to read the
books. You would only sweep out the shop,
put up the shutters, and run on errands.'

The boy's face fell. To sit among books
seemed to him the height of happiness. But
to sit among books and not be allowed to read
them, that would be a fate worse than that of
Tantalus.

You should desire to get on, Claude. The
love of reading may help you if you have the
other qualities for success. Have you thought
of anything else ? '

No ; he had no other ambitions.

Now listen. Boys who read and are industrious
sometimes get on very welL I fear it
may be too late for you to do much, but you
can try if you are brave.'

What was he to try ? Claude looked at
her with great eyes of wonder. ' I will give
you a good education. I Avill take you away
from this place and have you taught as much
as you can learn. You shall be educated upto

your capacity, whatever that may be.'
Claude felt himself, as to capacity, like unto
the Great Tun of Heidelberg. His colour
came and went ; his heart beat and he choked.
What Alas this great happiness that Alas coming
to him ? ' When I learn that you have gone
far enough, Ave Avill consider Avhat you can do
for your living. And remember ' — she lifted
an admonitory finger —-never pretend to be
Avhat you are not. You are the son of a
working man and a Avorking Avoman, though
you Avill Aver good broadcloth and go to
school with boys Who may pretend to look
doAvn upon you.' Claude Wondered what she
meant. 'As for your mother, you Avill go to
see her whenever you can, and you Avill not
neglect your brothers and your sister. Your
future Avill depend entirely upon your industry
and upon your ability. I think you Avill shoal
ability, at least. If you do, remember that
every avenue to success is open to you. That
you Avill not understand at first. Say it to
yourself until you do understand it. Say it
Avhen you read of any great man. Never
forget it. Though you are a poor lad, you
may hope for everything and dare everything.

D 2

But you must not be afraid to work and to
wait ; you must not be afraid of fighting or of
speaking out. Above all things, work. Do
you understand, Claude ? '

The boy's heart glowed within him. But
he could not answer. His tongue refused to
move. He was frightened as well as dazzled
at the prospect before him.

Will you do your best, Claude ? ' Lady
Mildred asked in a kinder voice.

Oh ! yes, yes,' said Claude, bursting into
tears.

Your best, my boy. Your hardest and
your best. You will either see me or hear
from me often. I shall always know exactly
what you are doing and how you are getting
on. Oh ! child, you are too young, yet, and
too ignorant, to know what a magnificent
chance you are going to have, I pray that you
may not throw it away. If you do, the mind
into which you fall will be Malebolge itself
compared with the mud out of which you have
been taken.'

The boy understood little of these words
except the great fact that he was going to learn
unheard-of things ; that he was no longer to

wander on the Hackney Marli, dreaming, but
he was to work, something as his brother Sam
was working, but with other aims, and, as he
vaguely understood, with wider aims. He was
to work, to fight, to wait, and to hope. In
course of time success would be his. I do not
know what were his ideas of success. A boy
cannot frame or map out for himself a career ;
but he can feel that something is to be tried for
and something won, and he can imagine for
himself some of the glorious sensations of
victory. Besides, the boy who accustoms
himself to think of the world as something to
be conquered, and of himself as a soldier of
the future, has already won half the battle.
For him there will be no false modesty. When
the time comes, he will step into the front rank
as one whose place is there, and that by divine
right itself.

CHAPTEE I.

AT NINE o'CLOCIv.

There are many delightful and desirable rooms
ill London ; the Pilgrim who is in Society is
continually halting on his way to rest and
refresh in these Houses Beautiful. But there
can be no more pleasant place than that room
in Lady Mildred's town house Avhicli the girls
had made their own. It was on the ground
floor ; two windows looked through the foliage
of lime, laburnum, and lilac, upon the Park,
though with the road between ; it had at one
end a glass door opening upon a conservatory ;
it was always filled with the fragrance of
flowers ; and here the girls kept their own things
their very own — which they prized the most.
Valentine had here her favourite piano, with
her songs and music ; the walls were hung with

Violet's pictures, and there were portfolios filled
with her sketches ; there were cabinets full of
treasures collected in their wanderings — things
pretty, things ugly, things quaint, things
precious, thugs worthless — memories of Egypt,
Greece, Italy, and France and Germany —
wherever the English girl is allowed to wander.
It is not yet, but very soon it will become, the
fashion for her to visit the States and Canada,
the isles of the Pacific, Australia, India, and
far Cathay. Therefore the young ladies had
nothing from these countries.

About seven o'clock on an evening early in
July of the year 1885 the two girls were sitting
together in this room, as was not uncommon
with them. But it was their Avon to be quiet,
calm, and restful, as behoves young ladies who
believe that life is always to be a long-continued
and monotonous happiness in the midst of pretty
things and soft cushions. On this occasion,
however, they were greatly agitated. One
of them, Valentine, was standing ; the other,
Violet, was sitting at the table. In her hand
she held a pencil, and she was rapidly drawing
figures on a sheet of paper.

They were about the same age, and that a

youthful age ; they were dressed exactly alike
they always dressed exactly alike — and for
the evening. If a masculine pen may be
permitted to indicate the outlines of their
dress, leaving details to be filled up by the
imagination of experience, they wore a dainty
confection of pale blue silk called, I think,
sarah, which fell in long folds from the waist,
and was caught up at one side showing a lace
petticoat, which is a pretty old fashion come
back again. The throat was a little open but
not much, with folds of lace about it, and there
was an arrangement of ribbons and loops about
the waist. They were dressed well, in fact, yet
with the appearance of simplicity. Their hair
was of the light brown hue Which is so much
beloved by the English youth. Violet's was
full of curls and curves and twists, which caught
the light and scattered it about as a little waterfall
in a mountain brook breaks and scatters
the sunshine. Valentine's hair was slightly
darker in shade, not curly, but with a wave in it,
and in her hair the sunshine lay and rested. They
dressed their hair in the same fashion, and that
not a common fashion; for it was parted at the
side instead of in the middle — or as hairdressers,

ignorant of Euclid, say, in the centre ; it is
a pretty fashion if there is a pretty face for
the hair to encircle, otherwise the commoner
methods are preferable. Their eyes were blue
in colour, but not quite the same shade of blue ;
for Valentine's were certainly darker than
Violet's, and like the hair, they absorbed the
light which Violet's received and reflected : in
other words, they were deeper and graver eyes.
I would not for a moment suggest that they
Avere more beautiful ; that is matter for the
jealousy of a lover, and nowhere are comparisons
more odious than those concerning
beauty. Argument on such a subject is purely
vexatious and. barren, and wastes the time
which should be spent in thankful hymns for
the precious gift of loveliness. Always those
eyes are the most beautiful which belong to the
woman one loves at any moment ; and, until
he meets his fate, a well-regulated young man
should always be in love with somebody. The
girl' faces were of the oval type, but, which is
a most important distinction, of the shorter
oval. The longer oval, in fact, is apt to degenerate
into narrowness, with perhaps the
expression of a bird of prey ; while the shorter

form allows of strength to the chin and breadth
to the forehead and amplitude to the cheek.
Venus should have an ample cheek as well as a
smiling mouth and kindly, gracious eyes. There
may be less capacity for philosophy, but there
is more for mathematics, music, and the liner
feelings in the shorter than in the longer oval.
A prolonged residence at Newnham would be
necessary in order to carry on this delightful
investigation to its legitimate end. And one
need not here discuss questions on which even
novelists, who are the only true philosophers of
modern times, and ought to be the only statesmen,
might disagree ; besides, these girls were
neither philosophers nor mathematicians. They
were only girls who had been carefully educated
at home, and knew a great many accomplishments
and arts, had curiously pretty
customs and pleasing manners, and practised,
without knowing it, the most charming graces.
But they knew no political economy, and they
were not brought up to consider themselves
bound to consider or to solve any social questions
at all.

The girls were about the same height —
that is to say, they were fairly tall ; their

carriage and bearing were alike ; they looked
like sisters, and were taken by strangers for
twin sisters. There were, however, certain
marked differences between them not immediately
apparent which the stranger presently
observed. Thus, Valentine was somewhat
larger in person than Violet ; and as to their
voices, Valentine's was rich and full, Violet's
was low and sweet. And as to their tastes,
Valentine was a musician and a singer, while
her sister painted with no mean skill, and drew,
if not quite so well as Mr. Du Maurier, yet well
enough to delight her friends and to please
herself. Yet, which is a very curious thing and
only to be accounted for by the fact that everybody
knew they were not really sisters, it was
universally agreed by all their friends that no
one could possibly mistake them for sisters.
One of them — there never was any concealment
of this fact — was the only child of the late Sir
Lancelot Eldridge, Baronet and Member for the
county, Who would probably have got into the
Cabinet had his party returned to power in time.
But they did not, and he was cut off at sixty-five',
which is, for a statesman, early manhood,
almost the first flush of spring promise. He

left a quite young widow, Lady Mildred,
daughter of the Earl of Cashmere, to take
care of his infant daughter. The other girl —
there was never any concealment of this fact
either — was nothing in the world but the
daughter of a mechanical person of the baser
sort, a mere working man. She had been
adopted by Lady Mildred, no one knew why,
and was brought up with her own child. Her
true name, though this was not generally known,
was Maria, and she had been formerly known
in her own rank of life as Polly, for short. One
of them, therefore, was a very considerable
heiress, and most desirable in point of family
connections ; the other had nothing at all, and
her connections were presumably most undesirable.


'No one will maintain,' said the World,
that the daughter of a workings man and the
daughter of a gentleman can ever stand upon
the same level. Education can refine, but it
cannot change base metal into gold.'

Yes. Unfortunately there was a complication.
No one, not even the girls themselves,
knew which of the two was the heiress and
which the simple working-man's daughter.

This,' said the World, ' is wicked. Lady-mildred
will not speak and no one knows, and
there are hundreds of men only Availing to
know which is which. Is it redit to honore
natural distinctions ? Not to know ; and it
ought to be such a simple thing ; and yet it
is not possible to tell, and it disturbs all one's
ideas. Why the Ell ridges have always been
remarkable for the beauty of their girls. But
these girls are both beautiful. And of course
one ought to read old descent in a face.
But here both the faces might show condescend.
What man would dare to face so
terrible an uncertainty ? Why he might be
marrying into the most dreadful family
possible. Was it right, could it be right,
of Lady Mildred to take a girl out of the
gutter and pretend that she is a lady ?

There was once a nymph of surpassing
loveliness who offered every one of her suitors
a double acrostic, with an alternative : either
they guessed it quite correctly without the
aid of any dictionary, or if they failed in anyone
of the lights — it was a frightfully hard
acrostic, Which wanted both dictionary and
encyclopaedia and a complete acquaintance with

the whole field of classical literature — that
suitor was instantly decapitated, and so made
way for another. If, on the other hand, he
succeeded, this murderous young person bestowed
upon him her blood-stained hand. In
point of fact, though history passes it over,
only one young man ever offered himself.
He was the Prize Acrostic Guesser — the champion.
They gave him the thing, in neat
hendecasyllabics, and while he was reading
it they proceeded to erect the scaffold.
But in the confusion and excitement which
always attends a coming execution he meanly
ran away. In the end this princess died
unmarried. There was also another young
lady, strong and staying as to wind and limb,
who offered to run races with her suitors, on
the same terms of death or victory. But
Love's Nemesis came upon her too, for no
one ever proposed to run Avitli her on those
terms, and she presently grew middle-aged
and fat, and lamented the days of her beauty
and her arrogance, and said that running races
was unladylike and ought to have been discouraged
long since, and it was wrong of
her parents to encourage her. But it was

too late, and now she leadeth apes by a chain.
Lady Mildred presented herself and her two
girls before society when they were twenty
years of age, with a conundrum bearing much
the same consequences.

She said, in fact, to the whole of the
English youth, ' Young gentlemen, here are
two charming girls. They are natural, fresh,
and innocent. I have kept them in the
country for twenty years, so that they are healthy
both in body and in mind. They are as
pretty as most girls ; they are accomplished :
they are frank and they are good-natured ; they
are amiable, they are even clever. One is my
daughter and the other is not ; one is an
heiress and the other is not. Fall in love,
therefore, if you dare. Offer your hands if
you dare. You may win a fortune or draw
a blank. You may be grandson-inlaw to
a earl and son-in-law to a baronet, or you may
find yourself surrounded by a troop of cousins
with paper caps, aprons, bags of tools, sewing-machines,
and with manners which generally
accompany those emblems of toil. Is love
worth such a risk ? '

Apparently it is not in this cold and

calculating age. The girls had gone through
their first season, and not one man as yet
had ventured. This did not disturb them
in the least, for they were ignorant of Lady
Mildred's conundrum, and their thoughts were
not bent on matrimony.

There was not wanting plenty of curiosity.
There are always inquisitive persons whose
imaginations are fired with every mystery,
and can never rest until they know all about
it. Some of these tried questioning Lady
Mildred, and were coldly snubbed ; some even
tried the girls, who froze directly the subject
was mentioned. But they learned experience,
and presently grew wary and recognised
the regulation smile of sympathy and the
little laugh of apology with which the mystery
was always approached. Some examined the
various extant portraits of Sir Lancelot — that
at eight sears of age, that at twenty, that at
forty, and that at sixty — and then furtively
compared them with the two girls and sucked
thereout no profit to themselves, but only more
uncertainty ; and others gazed upon Lady
Mildred and watched her gestures, her carriage,
her little distinctive mannerisms, if lie haply

VOL. I. E

had any, and then watched the girls, looking
for some little trait in one of them — a turn
of the head, a momentary emotion of the face,
which mis^ht reveal the secret. There were
hundreds of these indications. Unfortunately
they were as remarkable in one of the girls
as in the other. A mother, again, is generally
found to show more tenderness towards her
own child than to another, but Lady Mildred
was tenderness itself towards both the girls ;
not the least difference could be observed in
her manner towards either. Then there is
the voice ; but here specialists — that is to say,
those who remembered Sir Lancelot — differed,
because there were some who recognised in
Valentine and some in Violet the tones of the
late baronet's voice exactly reproduced.

And now the world was waiting. In three
months Lady Mildred's daughter would be
of age ; perhaps the other one as well ;
but nobody cared about that. It would
be impossible then to conceal the thing any
longer. The heiress must receive her inheritance
; the truth would be known ; the parentage
of the workman's daughter stand revealed ;
and the young men could come forward.

Val,' said oue of the girls impatiently, ' I
really do believe that the evening of this day
will never come.'

It is much longer than the very longest
day of all the year, Violet ; my dear, a longer
day was never created,' Valentine replied.
He belongs to both of lis, absolutely and
impartially, does he not ? '

That is agreed,' Violet replied gravely.
He is our brother — brother to both of us.'

If we are to be proud of him,' Valentine
went on, ' Ave are to be proud together. He is
our own property — the property of both. If
we are to be ashamed of him, we will be
ashamed together.'

Ashamed of him,' Violet repeated. ' I
suppose he will be like this.' She had sketched
a workman with a bag of tools in his hand, and a
paper cap and an apron — a good-looking young
workman. * This is the best chance for us, Val
dear. But yet I don't see even in this case that
we can be reasonably proud of him, can we ? '

Well,' said Valentine, examining, the
sketch, ' you have made him look respectable.
Labour has its dignity. Can't we be proud of
an intelligent working man ? '

2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

Or lie may be like this.' She took up
another sketch showing the conventional ^If
and 'Army out for a holiday, arm in arm, roaring
and shouting — they are really very rare,
these two, though they certainly can be found.
Or like this ' ; she showed a young fellow
leaning in drunken pose against a lamp-post ;

Or ' here she showed a dreadful, smug

young man with fat cheeks and curly whiskers,
a frock coat and baggy trousers, and a smile —
one of those young men who read scientific
books, live on temperance principles, and are
virtuous — all with ostentation.

'Don't, Violet,' said her sister. ' Oh, I am
sure we shall not be ashamed of him. Mamma
would not have asked him to come here if he
were like this — or this. But possibly he is a
working man — what else can he be ? We are
only the daughter of one ! '

Perhaps,' said Yiolet, ' he may know
which of us is his sister by some likeness to his
father or his mother or himself.'

Or perhaps he may remember us. We
were only two when we were taken from our —
other mother ; and lie is three or four years
older ; he may remember his little sister.'

No : not after twenty years. But there
may be a something — a family squint — but our
eyes are straight ; some people have hereditary
teeth which stick out — but ours don't ; or thick
lips — but ours are not thick ; or great ears
which stick up — but yours are small and lie
fiat, and so do mine. Oh ! there must be something,
if it is only a disposition to drink.'

And then there would be no secret to tellus
on the fifteenth of October. If there is anything,
Yi, let us keep it to ourselves.'

I know what I should like to say.' Violet
sprang to her feet. ' I should like to say :
Brother — this is Miss Beatrice Eldridge — I am
your sister. My name is Polly — .'
For they had heard so much of the
family history.

'Aud,' said Valentine, 'should tell him
that you are quite mistaken, because I have
always been convinced in my own mind that I
am Polly.'

There are moments,' said Violet reflectively,
' when I feel unheard-of possible
depths.'

And there are times,' said Valentine, ' when
I feel inconceivable baseness.'

'Of course, the lower classes do feel
depths.'

Of course, my unworthy thoughts are my
inheritance.'

Then both of us,' said Violet, ' must call
him brother.'

And lie must call us both sister.'

'The two together only make one sister.
Then I suppose we must let him call us by our
Christian name. Fancy a carpenter in an
apron addressing you as Valentine ! Oh ! I
shall box his ears.'

Violet ' — Valentine dropped her voice
and blushed at the thought of the thing.
'Brothers — kiss their sisters. It will be dreadful
if '

'Xo,' said Violet, firmly. ' Certainly not.
No carpenter shall ever kiss me.'

'Sooner or later we shall learn the truth.
Till then,' said Valentine, ' the question must
not even be raised. Besides, if one hasn't seen
one's brother for twenty years, one cannot very
well be expected to — oh ! Violet, everybody
knows the story of the beggar who became a
princess, but nobody knows the story of the
princess who became a beggar, and put on rags

and wandered about with poor people. Do
you think lie was ever happy, dear ? '

No,' said Violet, shuddering, ' she was
always miserable, and she died young, and of a
broken heart.'

I don't know. Perhaps she was a great joy
to the poor people, and was able to do all kinds
of things for them. I think I could put on the
rags, Violet dear.'

You never shall. You in rags ! ' Violet
shuddered again. ' But they might be picturesque.
You shall put them on, Val dear, and
sit to me in them, and I will paint you so, and
send the picture, if they will have it, to the
Grosvenor.'

Bertha, stay here this evening. I want you
to assist at a Family Function which is to take
place at nine o'clock.'

This was in another room — Lady Mildred's
drawing-room — and there were present Lady
Mildred herself and Miss Bertha Colquhoun,her
old friend. Twenty years lead passed over
their heads. The former had never married
again — the latter had never married at all ; as
regards the ravages of time. Lady Mildred was

no longer young, but she was still comely, and
Bertha was of like age, but less comely, because
widows wear better than spinsters. It would
be unkind to say more.

What is it, Mildred ? '

I am going, this evening, at length, to
make the girls acquainted with their '

'At last! Oh, Mildred — and you have
asked me to learn the truth with them. It is
kind of you.'

Acquainted with — their brother.'

Oh ! But — pardon me, Mildred — is that
necessary ? Their brother must be, I suppose,
quite a common man. Is it well to pain the
poor girls with such kinds of associations ? I
thought they — she — had been quite separated
from the family.'

You shall answer the questions for yourself
at nine o'clock. Bertha. Meantime, remember
that it wants little more than three months
to the time when my child must learn the truth,
because she will attain her twenty-first birthday.'


But why not wait to tell them ? '
I ' Both girls know the story of Polly, but today
they heard for the first time that there is a

brother, and that they are to meet him this
evening.'

Poor girls ! '

They are now preparing themselves, I
believe, for the reception of a working man.'

Poor dear girls ! '

And they are encouraging each other to
receive him kindly. Before the truth is known
to them, you see, they will have time to become
fully acquainted with the whole of the other
family.'

Poor Polly ! Oh ! Mildred, how could
you ! '

Why do you pity Polly ? She is as well
bred as Beatrice : she is as beautiful. I shall
not unmake the gentle breeding, though I take
away the gentle birth.'

Still — poor Polly ! Will she take her own
name ? '

I do not see the necessity. She may
just as well remain Valentine — or Violet
Eldridge.'

I suppose the brother will come here
straight from the public house, pipe and all ? '

'Perhaps.'

No doubt he will. Poor girls ! It is dreadful

for them. After all these years of culture
of course, for one it will be only a little excitement
which will pass in three or four
months, and she Avill be able to reflect that she
knew all along that she was Beatrice. But as
for the other — I repeat, Mildred, poor Polly !
However, you have forgotten one thing.'

What is that ? '

Why in introducing their brother you will
betray the secret, because the girls will find out
the truth — everybody will find it out — from his
likeness to one of them. So I shall be the
first to learn the secret after all.'

The four ladies dined together, but it was
a silent banquet. The girls, for their part, said
nothing at all, but looked at each other and at
the clock. At half-past eight they adjourned
to the drawing-room. The brother was to be
introduced at nine. The girls, as the clock
drevv^ nearer to the hour, clasped each other by
the hand, while Lady Mildred and Bertha fell
into silence or only exchanged a word at intervals.
And oh ! how slowly moved the
minutes !

At nine in the evenings of early July it is

not dark, but only a little overshadowed, and
there is quite light enough to discern faces,
which is all that is necessary for conversation.
You may talk in the dark, but, as Charles Lamb
once remarked, it is inconvenient having to feel
your companion's face for the responsive smile.
As the clock struck the hour the door was
thrown open.

Mr. Claude Monument ! '

The girls caught at each other and gasped.
Lady Mildred rose. Li the door stood a young
man who looked about him with troubled
eyes.

Good Heavens ! ' Bertha murmured, but
I think everybody heard her. ' The creature
is a gentleman ! '

Yes. He had on the outward garb of a
gentleman, and he carried himself with the
outward bearing of a gentleman. It was a
rude thing for Bertha to say, but her mind was
full of working men and pipes and aprons and
the smell of beer, and she was surprised into
rudeness, and she hoped that nobody would
notice it. j^ow, there certainly was never yet
in any history or in any country a carpenter ora
smith or a working man of any kind who ever

had a dress coat to put on unless it was to go
out as a waiter in the evening. Could the young
man be a waiter ?

'My children,' said Lady Mildred, taking
the young man by the arm, ' here is your
brother ; Claude, this is your sister, Valentine
and Violet.'

Good Heavens ! ' cried Bertha for the
second time, as she pressed forward and peered
curiously into his face. ' Why, the man is just
like both of them I '

CHAPTEE II.

WHICH IS UY SISTER ?

Lady Mildred touched Bertha on the arm, and
they left the three together.

Which of you,' asked Claude, looking
from one to the other, ' which of you is my
sister ? '

The skirts held each a hand and Q-azed into
his face with wondering eyes, which met eyes
of equal wonder. Neither of them answered,
but all those wondering eyes softened and
became humid. Is it a small thing, think you,
for two girls to be unexpectedly presented with
a grown-up brother ? And that brother so
desirable in outward looks ? Is it a small
thing for a young man, especially a young man
who has been lifted from the lower to the higher
levels, to be presented with a sister who has
been similarly transplanted, and to outward
seeming has proved equal to the change ? To

be sure lie liacl already a sister, but she was
Melenda, and two brothers, but one was Joe
and one was Sam.

Claude saw before him two girls, beautiful
exceedingly and strangely alike each other ;
Nature, as we have already heard, having been
so good as to lend a most generous assistance
to Lady Mildred. He thought of Melenda.
Good Heavens ! if one of these was his own
sister and the other Lady Mildred's daughter —
and the features of both in the soft summer
twilight had the same delicacy, their eyes the
same purity, their lips the same sweetness — how
could one of these girls be his own sister, and
the sister of Melenda? The girls, for their
part, saw a young man with straight and regular
features, broad forehead, resolute lips, and
steady, serious eyes — a young man, somewhat
slight in figure, but well shaped and of grave
expression — and they were overwhelmed. This
was their brother, like one of themselves they
thought, the child of a London working man.
By what arts had he been transformed into a
gentleman ?

Which of you,' he repeated, ' is my
sister ? '

We do not know, Claude,' said Violet,
thinking guiltily of her sketches.

He turned to the other girl.

We do not know,' Valentine repeated.

You do not know ? Lady Mildred told
me yesterday that she would give me a sister.'

We do not know,' said Violet, for the third
time ; ' we thought that perhaps you would
recognise your sister, or might know her by
some likeness to — your father, for instance.'

I do not remember my father. He has
been dead a great many years. I have forgotten
my sister entirely, and I Alas never told
that Lady Mildred had taken her.'

Claude,' said Valentine, ' we must both be
your sisters.'

I will tell you,' said Violet, ' Polly's history
brought down to this very day. Listen. She
was found by Lady Mildred nineteen years ago,
and was taken from her playground, which was
also the drying yard, for her mother was a
washerwoman. I never see linen hanging out
to dry without thinking of that day. She Alas
playing hide-and-seek all by herself among the
wet sheets, no doubt catching a dreadful cold,
when she was found and carried away . She

was a pretty child, and curiously like little
Beatrice. Well, she was educated with
Beatrice, and no difference at all was made
between them, and they were called Valentine
and Violet, but they knew all along that
one was Beatrice and the other was Polly.
They had the same masters, they learned
the same things, and had the same friends.
And now we are grown up and have come out,
and people when they don't know the story —
but they are very few — think us sisters, and
say there is no doubt about our descent from
the illustrious house of Eldridge. It would befor
some girls awkward to explain, but we are
used to it, and now point out without any confusion
that one of us is Beatrice Eldridge and
the other is Polly — what is the name Claude ?
I did not quite catch your name, which we have
never been told.'

Monument.'

Monument.' Violet considered the name
for a moment. ' Monument. It might have
been worse. Monument. Fancy being a
Monument ! Little Trin has grown into tall
Beatrice — wee are both exactly the same height.
Little Polly has also grown into big Polly,

which is short for Maria, her real name — we
know that part of the family history too.*
Claude thought that he could perceive the least
possible vein of bitterness under this bright
talk, but then he was naturally sensitive about
his reception. 'Don't forget, Claude,' she
added, ' that we think quite as much about
Beatrice as about Polly. Do we not, Val ? '

Quite as much,' replied Valentine, gravely ;
we must not be ashamed of Beatrice because
she has not the same picturesqueness of birth
as her sister. Please, Claude, get into the
habit of remembering that Violet is really
Beatrice, and that I am your very own sister.
I am sure of it. Why, I actually remember
playing about among the clothes. I think —
but I am not quite sure — that I remember
the cold I caught.'

She is quite wrong, Claude,' Violet interposed.
' When I shut my eyes I can really
see the wet sheets, and if you want any
further proof you will very soon find yourself
looking to Valentine for everything winch
requires the instinctive impulse of generosity.'

Oh ! Violet ! '

VOL. I. F

Is it possible ? You do not know ? ' he
repeated.

'We do not know,' they assured him
together, and for the fourth time.

Then what are we to do ? '

The girls looked at each other and shook
their heads. What were they to do ? The
situation was embarrassing, but it was what they
expected.

We had made up our minds before you
came what we were going to do. You will
have to treat us as if we were both your sisters,
until you find out which of us it is, and after
that we will consider the position again. But,'
said Violet, clasping her hands, ' oh ! the joy
and comfort of having a brother so ]promising
as you! My dearest Val, think how very,
very few motherless girls like you and me ever
get such a chance as a fullgrown brother given
to them, and a brother too — who — looks,' she
spoke quite slowly and with a sigh of relief
between each word, ' who — looks — as— if —
we — should — actually — be proud of him.'

Claude blushed, but it was growing too late
to see that lingering note of youth.

You might have come home from a desert

•iD'

island, Claude, after you had been wrecked and
been given up for lost for nineteen years. But
then there would have been a sweetheart waiting
for you — they always have a sweet oh !

but perhaps there is— — '

'!N"o,' said Claude, laughing, 'there is
not;

I am verj^ glad, because we shall have you
all to ourselves. You might have been brought
to us when you were a schoolboy, and then
you would have tortured and plagued us. You
might have been kept back for another ten
years, and then we should have been old women.
Oh ! it is much better as it is. You will try to
like us, won't you ? '

Will you try to like me .^ ' Claude replied,
and not expect too much of me .^ '

You will tell us presently ' — it was always
Violet who continued to talk. She was a little
flushed, and her eyes were brighter than usual.
You will tell us presently,' she said, ' how is it
that you have become a — a gentleman.' Then,
as if fearing that she might have given pain,
she lidded, ' Because sons of working men do
not often look and speak like you.'

I will tell you presently,' he replied.

F 2

Did you think I slioiikl come straight from a
workshop ? '

This is what Violet drew,' said Valentine,
showing him the sketches ; ' we pictured the very
worst you see.'

I see said Claude, laughing. ' But the
sketches are delightful. May I take them ?
Thank you. Well, then, let us sit down, and I
will tell you all about it.'

So they sat down, and he, like eneas, began
his moving tale, and they, like two twin Dido,
listened. When he mentioned the trade of his
father and the calling of this mother, Violet
begged him earnestly not to speak of those
things if they were painful to him. He declared,
however, and it seemed strange to her, that it
was not in the least painful to him to feel that
his mother had been a washerwoman. To
think of one's own mother earning her bread
at a wash-tub !

Claude carried on his narration into his
schooldays, where he fought his way to the
front and won scholarships and prizes.

I know now,' he said, ' why Lady Mildred
came to see me and why she fired me with
ambition. Once lie took me to the theatre,

and between the acts asked me if I would rather
be one of the actors on the stage or the author
of the piece or one of the gentlemen in the
stalls, because if I wished I could become anyone
of them. And once she took me into the
Park in her carriage and showed me the o-reat
people, and asked me if I wished to be one of
them, because I could if I wished. And again
she took me to a court of justice, and asked
me if I would like to be the counsel pleading
in the case, or the judge who heard it, because
it depended wholly on myself. And then to a
church where there was a bishop preaching,
and she asked me if I would like to be a
bishop. Always as if the highest was within
my reach if I chose. So that I never felt as if
the accident of obscure birth was going to bean
obstacle in my way. And indeed it has
not been any hindrance, so far.'

That was like her,' said Valentine, ' to fill
you with noble ambitions.'

And besides, my mother was no longer a
laundress, and I came, no doubt through Lady
Mildred's promptings, to think of lier courage
and steadfast love and the whole life that she
gave freely to her children.'

Yes, Claude,' said Violet meekly.
It was through Lady Mildred that I
learned to love the hard work which was to be
my ladder. I owe everything — everything —
to her. And now I owe a sister.' He offered,
with a little shyness, a hand to each.
And what are you now, Claude ? '
I am a barrister of the Inner Temple,
newly called, and as yet without a brief or a
client ; but they will come.'
He is a barrister, Val — oh ! '
And I am a Fellow of Trinity.'
'Oh! Violet, he is actually a Fellow of
Trinity ! ' They clasped hands of admiration
and of joy. Could they have hoped or dreamed
of such a thing ?

Now you know all. I am something of a
scholar and a good deal of a student. And I
have enormous ambitions, of which I will tell
you another time if I may.'

Tell us everything,' said Valentine ; ' do
not have any half confidences with us. Tell us
all about yourself It is something only to
know what a man's ambitions are. Remember
we have some right to your confidences. Weare
your sisters, Claude.'

You shall have all my confidences. But
do not expect too much of me. Do not be
disappointed in me. As far as I have gone, it
is certainly true that no one could have done
much more than I have done. I am Fabric
Filius, son of a smithy so entered in the college
books. The University is open to all \\\q Avorld,
but of course everybody understands that if the
son of a working man enters, he should justify
his admission.'

You have already justified yours, then,'
said Valentine. ' Oh ! Claude, we are proud of
you.'

'But how am I to justify my admission?'
asked Violet. ' Because I am also Fabric Filia
that is good Latin — the daughter of the
smith ? Don't shake your head at me, Valentine
dear, or I will call you Beatrice at once and
for good. You see, Claude, Val and I have
double the number of ancestors. For instance,
we have four grandfathers instead of two.
Two of them used to wear straw round their
legs and smock frocks, and they said all day,
Gee — Who ! a ! " The dear old men ! And
as for the other two, one tied a beautiful blue
garter round his leg, and lead a gold collar to

hang round his neck, and on grand occasions
he put a gold coronet on his head ; and the
other was a baronet, and lived in a great house,
and voted solidly with the Conservatives. This
wealth of grandfathers naturally makes us
proud. But you have no share in two of them,
poor boy ! '

Claude laughed.

I have tried to persuade myself,' he said,
that it makes no difference at all what a man's
birth may have been. But of course I don't
quite believe it. I am always measuring my
own stature with that of my friends, and asking
myself if I stand on their level as regards —
what constitutes a gentleman. If I do not,
forgive me and help me.'

But you do,' said Valentine ; ' of course
you do.'

Any man may make himself a scholar
and a Fellow of Trinity, and even a great
barrister, but I am not certain whether any
man may make himself a gentleman. Do you
think that after any kind of intellectual success,
even the highest, a man may ever be able to
say to himself, '' I am a gentleman at last ; I

have the instincts as well as the training of a
gentleman " ? '

'You have them already,' said Valentine,
confidently ; ' one can see them in your face.'

The family name is Monument,' said Violet
quietly.

Quite so,' Claude replied ; ' and the name
is associated with memories. Did not Lady
Mildred tell you anything about your family ? '

Nothing except my father was a smith and
that my own name is Maria or Polly.'

Now tell us,' said Valentine, ' about the
family. Have we any other relations besides
yourself, Claude ? '

My dear,' said Violet, ' should we enquire
further than is necessary There must be
cousins by hundreds. But go on, Claude.'

First there is my mother.'

Oh ! ' both cried out. Then their other
mother was living.

She is blind, and has ceased to work for
many years. She is now in an almshouse.'

Claude, you cannot suffer her to stay
there.'

She is happier there. Lady Mildred

made me promise to let her stay. Do not be
ashamed of the ahnshoiise/

Poor mother ! ' said Valentine ; ' blind, and
in an almshouse.'

One would much rather have heard,' said
Violet, ' that she was the widow of a retired
officer and living nicely in a villa at Southey.
But if she is happy — go on, Claude. Is our
father living — in another almshouse ? '

'No; he is dead,' said Claude gravely.
We ought to be proud of my father. He was
clever in his trade ; he was sober and industrious
; he was honest and respected : what
more can one ask of one's father ? Joe
remembers him well. It is from Joe that I
have heard about my father. He was but a
working man, but I am proud of him.'

'We will be proud of him too,' said
Valentine, though as yet she saw little room
for pride in a father who only possessed the
very simple virtues of honesty, industry, and
skill. You perceive that she was deplorably
ignorant of the world, where we are constantly
brought to a standstill and provoked into wrath
just by the lack of these very simple qualities.

Did Polly,' Violet continued, ' have any

other brothers and sisters ? She hopes on the
whole that she did not, because it is impossible
they could all be so nice as yon, Claude.'

She had two other brothers and one sister.
First there is Joe.'

My brother Joe. It sounds oddly at first.
Joe — Joseph — Joe. I think Joseph — no, Joe
is better. We will call him Joe, Val. He
is no doubt a working man.'

He is the eldest and is a locksmith, as his
father was before him. He is now six-and-thirty
years of age, though he looks older.'

Is he — does he — go about with that red
handkerchief round his throat that we were
talking of?'

'Joe is a smith' — Claude evaded the
question — ' and he works for a builder and
decorator. Of course he looks like what he is
a working man.'

Things are being brought home to us,
Val,' said Violet. ' Go on, Claude.'

He is a good-natured man and he has ten
children.'

Ten children ? They arc our nephews
and nieces. The world,' said Violet, ' is
growing wider.'

He married, like most working men, at
nineteen. There is one good point about Joe
he is careful of his mother, whom he never
forgets.'

'And after Joe?'

Then there is Sam, ten years younger.
He is the master of a Board School, and is
unmarried. He is clever, and has read and
has ideas. In fact he has too many ideas, and
he holds them perhaps too strongly.'

Do you see much of your brothers,
Claude?'

No, very little. They think I have no
part or lot with them any longer, and Sam
resents my trying to turn myself into a gentleman.
Perhaps it was absurd to try. He is
unfortunately prejudiced against all the people
who wear good clothes and have white
hands.'

Is Sam like you to look at ? '

No, not in the least. Sam has red hair
and is short. He is remarkable to look at,
however, because he is always in earnest, and
he looks strong.'

I think I shall like Sam,' said Valentine,
thoughtfully. 'He seems more interesting

than Joe. Every man ought to be brave and
strong.'

Sam is very interesting,' said Claude.
'Especially when he is in a rage.'

Are there any more ? '

There is only Melenda. She is a seamstress,
and she lives with two or three girls
who do the same kind of work. She is free
and independent, she will receive no advice
and will endure no restraint, and she regards
me with contempt because I am not a workman.
At present I do not exactly know
where she is living, because she has ordered
me never to see her again. But I can find her
out.'

You must hind her out,' said Valentine.

In the matter of cousins now,' said Violet,
with resignation.

I dare say there are hundreds of cousins,
but I do not know of any. The working people
of London do not, as a rule, keep up cousinship.
A family dropped down into this great city
very easily gets scattered and dispersed.'

Perhaps it is as well,' said Violet. ' Claude,
do not despise me. We knew something of all
thy before, of course, but oily in general terms,

and thus have become romantic. The plain
facts are overwhelming at first. I feel shivery.
It is most delightful to have a brother who
is a gentleman and has distinguished himself.
But '

• Our other family,' said Valentine, ' seemed
always so far away. And now they have
suddenly become so near.'

Then there was silence while a man might
count twenty.

They are not really nearer to you than
they were before,' said Claude. ' You have
not been taken to see them. You need not
seek them out.'

Claude ! ' said Valentine, reproachfully.

'You tell us we have another mother
living, and you say Ave need not go to see her,'
said Violet.

Our own mother — the only one we know,'
Valentine went on, ' has brought you to us.
She means by your means to make us known
to all our unknown relations. Claude, five or
six years ago she wrote us a letter — it was
addressed to us both, but it was meant for
Polly. " Close beside us," she said, " unknown
to us, are those who toil their lives away while

we live at ease : they waste and expend
themselves in drudgery while we cultivate both
minds and soul. Do not forget that one of
you belongs to them in a sense which the other
does not. If, hereafter, you go among them,
remember the old ties, and be full of love and
compassion for them, for they are your brothers
and sisters. Your brother's sin is your disgrace :
your sister's shame is yours." Violet, you
remember that letter ? '

'As if I could ever forget it,' she replied,
gravely.

'You see, Claude,' Valentine explained,
the feeling that we are not really sisters has
made us more than sisters. One of us is a girl
oh ! so humble and so poor — and the other
is so ricci and so well born. And by this
knowledge we are drawn together more closely
than if wee had been children of the same
parents. Always and all day long, we have
Polly with us — Polly-which-is-Marla.'

Always with us,' said Violet.

She goes with us wherever we go ; wee
look in each other's eyes and see, reflected
there, her image : the shade of Polly is always
with us ; she has grown up with us ; she has

been always like us in face and height ; but
when we try to picture her as she would have
been if she had been left among her friends —
then Claude, Violet, and I cannot agree.'

I know very well what she would have
been,' said Violet. ' I have seen her in the
street. She would have a great lump of hair
upon her forehead, and she would wear a
grey ulster or a red crossover ; she would
laugh very loud and she would walk three
abreast '

Oh, no,' said Valentine, ' Polly would be
dressed like other work girls, I suppose, but
she would be a gentle creature fill of sweet
and generous thoughts.'

Who would have put them in her mind ? '
asked Violet. ' Do sweet thoughts grow in
girls' working rooms? Claude, what do you
think ? Could Polly be in the least like
Valentine ? '

It was nearly twelve when Claude left
them. They had been sitting without lights
at the open window looking across upon the
Park. The room was ftdl of moonlight strong
enough to suppress the lamp before the house
as the electric light puts out the yellow light

of gas ; their hearts glowed with them ; the
eyes of the girls were soft with sympathy and
newly born love ; the young man's pulse beat
faster and his cheek burned, as he took their
hands.

Claude,' said Valentine, ' tell us — always
everything.'

He will,' said Violet. ' He trusts us already.
Oh, Claude, you have made us so happy.'

When he was gone, the two girls fell into
each other's arms.

Val,' said one. ' He is my very own —
my brother to myself. But you may love him
too.'

'Oh, Violet,' said the other. 'That poor
blind woman in the almshouse, who worked
so hard. She is, I am sure, she is my mother.'

VOL. I.

CHAPTER III.

JACK Confers.

Some among us — not all — have been young.
They will remember how, in one or two
supreme moments, they have been carried out
of themselves, with a joy which can never be
felt in its fulness after five-and-twenty — the
intoxicating, dazzling joy in the prospect of
life-long happiness.

It falls upon one, perhaps, when love has
been whispered and returned : perhaps, when
the first success has been achieved : more often
when some kindly Prophet has foretold to
trembling youth the success which his heart
desireth. That Prophet shall be regarded ever
after with love and gratitude, and a respect
unspeakable for his gifts of discernment.
Why are there so few of them ? There ought
to be a school of these prophets, their sole
duty to prophesy, for every deserving youth,

good fortune, distinction, contentment, joy, and
wealth, with an eternity of happiness hereafter
in the Elysian Fields. Everybody feels
capable of deserving, and of perpetually enjoying
all these rewards and more.

There never was, in the whole history of
mankind, such an occasion for rejoicing as that
presented to Claude. It was the greatest thing
that had ever happened to him : greater than
the first scholarship : greater than his place in
the Tripos ; greater than his fellowship : greater
than his ambition.

Consider"; it is a youthful instinct to impart
confidence and to expect sympathy : boys,
students, undergraduates, young men of every
sort, in obedience to this instinct, confide
greatly in each other. After examinations
passed, degrees obtained, and the college
walls exchanged for the wide world, which
always turns out to be a coldish kind of place,
young men grow less sympathetic with each
other and more reticent about themselves ;
they exercise selection in their confidences ;
they even abstain altogether from talking about
their personal ambitions, just as, about the
same time, they cease to speak of poetry,

G 2

religion, and other things which I suppose they
consider too sacred for common speech. Every
man makes in his heart an Adytum of the
Temple which grows more full as he grows
older. Only the priest is by law allowed to
enter into this holy of holies, but he generally
takes with him a companion, who is always
of the other sex — his sister, sweetheart, or wife.
The sympathy of sisters, indeed, is always
ready to be had for the asking, and perhaps,
on that account, like everything else easily
attained is less valued than it should be.
Many young men, however, prefer the sympathy
of other people's sisters, and this also is,
to do these young ladies justice, ready as a rule
when properly asked for.

Alone among; his fellows, Claude had no
home circle which could understand him and
could follow his career with interest. Everyday
since that on which he first left them
seemed to separate him more and more from
his own people. He had long since left off
telling them, because they could not understand
it, what he was doing. His mother
knew nothing about Cambridge, and had never

heard of Trinity, though the fame of every
individual fellow of that College, as all the
resident fellows know very well, is trumpeted
abroad, with mighty blast, from Pole to Pole,
and fills the round world with wonder and
admiration ; he knew few people ; it was two
years since he had taken his degree, and his
old school and college friends were already
scattered : among all the millions of women,
old and young, which inhabit London and
England, there was not one whom he could
call either friend or mistress ; not one to whom
he could open his heart.

He was used to this isolation : it was a necessary
part of his position ; at school, when other
boys got prizes, their mothers and sisters and
all their people were present to congratulate
them ; when he went up to receive his prizes
there was not a single person in the room
whose eyes softened and whose heart glowed at
the sight of his triumph. When he was head
boy and carried off no end of prizes, the other
boys cheered and some of the spectators
remarked audibly upon his singular beauty —
for it was a comely lad — and he went home

to bis boarding-louse with a cartload of books
and an adding heart because of his loneliness.
Even Joe, brother Joe, the plumber's man, in
his working-dress, would have been something.
At Trinity he won an entrance scholarship and
afterwards a University scholarship and a City
Company's scholarship, and with these helps
paid his own college expenses easily, and there
was no one to say, ' Well done ! ' — not even
Lady Mildred, who contented herself with an
expression of satisfaction, and when he concluded
his student course with a fellowship,
reminded him, in the days of his first pride, and
just as if anybody who chose could be a Fellow
of Trinity, that this was nothing more than the
first step. Young men, she added, may show
promise by taking University distinctions, but
they are by themselves of little importance.
Claude must take care not to think that anything
real had been achieved. Not one single
person in the world to whom he could open
his heart.

And now he had a sister — two sisters — one
rolled out into two — both as beautiful as the
day and as sweet as the roses in June, and they
were proud of him. I'or the first time in his

life he realised how well he had already done,
since he could make two such girls proud of
him ; and he wondered how he could possibly
have done it, alone, and without a single word
of congratulation and encouragement on the
lonely hard road he had travelled.

He stalked along the crowded pavement
seeing no one, his head full of these thoughts,
his chin in the air. A hand was laid on his
shoulder.

Claude pulled himself together and took
the other hand which was held out.

You in London, Jack ? '

Yes. I am in London. I have been here
for two or three weeks. Come to my chambers
they are close by — and let us talk.'

Claude was not inclined to talk about anything
except perhaps about Valentine and
Violet, but he followed his friend.

Where have you been for the last two
years ? '

I have been travelling — studying — sketching.
One must travel, you know.'

The chambers were furnished after the
modern fashion : there were cabinets with
china : there were water colours : there was

glass : there were skins and rugs ; they were
clearly rooms belonging to a man of taste.

The name of Jack goes with almost any
kind of character. It suits a soldier or a
statesman : a poet or a mechanician : a prince
or a pauper : a hero or a humbug. It requires
only one quality — that its possessor must be accepted
on his own terms by his contemporaries :
not that he must necessarily be popular, but he
must be believed in. When Jack Conyers, in
his first term, announced himself as one of the
coming men, the lads about him accepted him
on trust. He was the coming man — his manners
rather than his words or his acts proved
it. He had, to justify these pretensions, a good
name and a good presence to begin with ; he
did nothing actively to encourage or to justify
the belief, except perhaps that he understood
the power of Silence ; he did not chatter, as
many young men do, but when he spoke, it
was slowly and quietly, as if what he had to
say was worth hearing ; nor was he like so
many young men carried away by any enthusiasms
of the hour, and he was always critical.
Also, he did not laugh much, though he understood
and practised the fine and subtle art of

smiling, an art in which women generally excel
; but Jack Conyers excelled all women. It
was not exactly known who and what where his
people, but it was understood that he was of
good family ; he had the appearance and manner
of one who has money ; he did not court
intimacies ; he dressed well, and he seemed to
know London. Reading for the Senate House
was, he said, narrowing to the mind which
desires culture more than scholarship ; therefore,
he took an ordinary degree ; he had a
piano in his rooms, and played and sang a little ;
he also painted and sketched a good deal, and
it was supposed that his career, of which he
spoke continually, though vaguely, was to be
connected in some way with Art.

In appearance he was of the middle height
and thin. He wore {i ]once-nez : his features
were regular and delicate ; his eyes where good,
though rather hard, as if always on guard ; his
mouth was well formed, but the hips were too
full, and his forehead Alas high and narrow.
Not an effeminate-looking man, but evidently
one who desired to appear refined and studied
attitude as well as dress, and his surroundings
as well as his manners. If he had been asked

what lie most desired to convey in his appearance
lie would have confessed — if he did
confess — that he wished to look like a young
man Who is going to succeed. Claude was
one of the men of this own standing who
believed in him. Some there were, I regret to
say, who scoffed at the name of Conyers.

The room was lit by a shaded lamp. Upon
the mantel-shelf there stood three small portraits
side by side. They were oil sketches,
and represented three girls' faces, all evidently
painted by the same hand.

You are looking at those heads,' said Jack
Conyers. ' They are portraits — such as they
are — of three women ' — he sighed — ' three
women — poor things ! — who were so good as
to complete my education.'

'How did they do that?'

By letting me fall in love with them. A
man, I have discovered, cannot be a finished
artist without a full personal experience of
passion. How can he express what he has
never felt ? Yet, for an artist. Love should bea
memory rather than a living thing, and therefore
each experience should be short. This
was a French girl, vivacious, full of espieglerie ;

this was an Italian, the mere creature of passion ;
this a Eoumanian. Woman, as mistress or as
wife, in the boudoir or the salon, should form
part of every Career.'

Pelham or the great Doorway could have
said no more. Claude, however, asked no
more questions about the portraits, though
doubtless there was a whole chapter belonging
to each.

And wdiat are you going to do .^ '

I have taken a studio and I am going to
begin my Work.'

It seemed rather a drop for the vagueness
of coming greatness to take the concrete and
even common form of a studio.

As for my success '

Of course you wall succeed,' said Claude.

I do not knows The common success —
the adulation of the crowd — does not attract
me. I shall never stoop to paint half a dozen
pictures in a year. Perhaps one in four or five,
or even ten years. The picture which I have
in my mind has been growing for at least five
years, during which I have filled my soul with
it. The subject has been part of myself.
Claude ' he raised this finger impressively ;

it will be, I am assured, a great picture ; there
will be in it, at least, the whole soul of the
artist.'

Claude murmured indistinctly something to
the effect that a picture with a soul in it would
be indeed worthy of his friend's reputation.

Hitherto the picture, as it exists in my
mind, has been incomplete for want of one face.
But I have found it at last. I discovered it ina
People's concert where I was made to sing by
Lady Aldeburgh — a concert somewhere near a
place they call Shoreditch ; after the concert I
talked to the girl who owns the face, which is
as yet sadly incomplete ; she is ignorant but
apparently open to emotions. I shall get that
girl. I shall take her away from her belongings
and cultivate her face. Everything shall
be sacrificed to the cultivation of the slice. She
wants to be will fed and kept in soft silk and
made dainty with fancy dresses and idleness
and pretty things, and then that face will grow
and develop like a rosebud. At present, I
admit, it is imperfect, but it is a possibility, and
it will make my picture. The eyes are there,
already, and they are full of possible poetry and
passion.'

He spoke with something nearly approaching
enthusiasm.

Can't you paint her without wanting to
take ]her from her people ? '

'No, I want her taken away altogether
from the place where she lives. She must be
placed wholly under artistic influence — she
must be mine — my model — the slave of Art.'

Wouldn't it be better, perhaps, for the
girl's reputation for her to stay where she
is?'

Philistine ! I want her in the interests of
Art. She is needed. One can't stop to think
about the reputation of a girl in comparison
with '

Don't, Jack. My own relations, you know,
are somewhere about those levels, and they
have reputations which they seem to value
even more than the interests of Art.'

Jack hastened to change the subject.
When you touch on the reputation of a man's
possible sisters you tread on dangerous ground.

I saw you coming out of Lady Mildred
Eldridge's, but you walked so fast that I could
not overtake you for ever so long. She is a
friend of yours ? '

Yes, my best friend.'

'I met them ia Florence last winter. I
was able to be of some little service to them —
one of the girls sketches cleverly. They are
both, in fact, pleasing.'

Thank you,' said Claude, with a conscious
blush ; ' one of them is my sister.'

What ? ' Jack Conyers started in his chair
and dropped his cigarette. ' What ? One of
them your sister P ' He knew, like all the
world, the history of the two girls in general
terms, how one was an heiress and the other
the daughter of a working-man. ' One of them
your sister ? My dear fellow, they are both —
allow me to say it — both most beautiful and
accomplished young ladies. You are a lucky
man, and I congratulate you. Which of themis

It?'

I do not know which. My sister was
adopted by Lady Mildred nineteen years ago,
and the secret has been kept ever since.'

But you will find out. This is not the
kind of thing which is kept hidden. There must
be some points of resemblance ; your father, for
instance— — '

He is dead, and my mother is blind.'

At all events you are sure to find out before
long.'

I dare say I shall, or else I shall be told.'

It is rather like the end of a Latin
comedy.'

Yet it is only the beginning of an English
comedy. You know my history, Conyers.
Everybody does. When men meet me for the
first time they whisper to each other, " Son of a
working man, you know." I do not hear the
words, but I read them in their eyes. That
is nothing. But I have been rather a lonely
man '

Naturally,' said Conyers, trying to look
as if he entirely sympathised with him,
naturally.' But he was thinking which of
the two girls more nearly resembled his
friend.

And I can hardly try to make you
understand what a tremendous thing it is to
have a sister at last — a sister who takes an
interest and — and — even a pride in one.'

Well,' said Jack, ' for my own part I never
wanted any brothers and sisters. They divide
the money and they give all kinds of trouble.
But from your point of view]]no doubt you are

right. It must be a bore not to have any belongings.'


Claude laughed and prepared to go.

I have belongings, to be sure, but not
of the kind Which you would understand.'

That is very conceivable, and I am very
sorry for you. I find any other class than our
own impossible to talk with and uninteresting
to study. Well, I am very glad we met tonight,
my dear boy. Come often — come as
often as you can, and tell me when you have
found your sister. Let me share your secret.
Valentine or Violet — I knew that they were
assumed names. Tell me when sou have found
out which of them it is.'

Certainly I will. Good-night.'

Jack Conyers, left alone, prepared for himself
and drank a lemon squash. Then he sat
down and meditated with a mixture of gloom
and hope in his countenance. When a young
man leaves the University at t two-and-twenty , resolved
upon distinction and yet uncertain which
path to choose — when he wanders about for
two years purposeless — when he returns determined
upon a career in Art, as painters arrogantly
call their profession, as if a novelist or a

poet is not also an artist — when, further,
he remembers that Art is not always lucrative
that one may have to wait long before
making a name, and that meanwhile no money
is coming in — when, lastly, there will arise at
midnight spectres of doubt which point the
finger and say, ' Yah ! you will never succeed,
even by a trick ' — when, at the same time, one
has conceived a way, a trick, by which to take
the town by storm and has actually found the
face with which to do it — there is room for the
play of a good deal of mixed emotion.

Presently he saw a letter lying on his table.
He took it up and looked at the handwriting and
tore it open.

My dear Jack ' — he read it quickly as if
to get through it and have done with it — ' you
have been back three weeks and you have not
been to see me. Very well. Sooner or later
I suppose you will come. I can wait, my dear
boy. I know very well why you said you
loved me, and I know all about your money
matters. Go on. Within six months you will
hang up your hat in my hall and be happy
ever after. I shall have the money, but
you shall have full liberty and a handsome

VOL. I. H

allowance. I am not in the least jealous,
because I am always certain of the person
whom alone you love — go look at him in the
glass. When you have found out that you cannot
get on without me, you will repent of your
negligence and come. When we settle down
we will give dinners, and you shall play at
being a distinguished man and I at being the
appreciative and devoted wife, and we shall
suit each other very well. I saw your sisters
the other day. If I were you I would sometimes
call upon them. Good-night, my Jack.
Your affectionate Alicia.'

Jack read this letter through. Then he
burned it, because every word was true, and
truth is best hidden in a well or behind the bars
of the fireplace.

If I could find out somehow, through
Claude, which of them it is,' he thought, ' and
if I could do this without his knowing, I should
have such a chance as might make me free of
Alicia yet. She always had the most disgustingly
coarse way of putting things, and she's
getting coarser every day.'

Jack's Cambridge bed-maker, who loves reminiscences
almost as much as an old statesman,

maintains that Mr. Conyers, tliougli a
liberal gentleman, and one who kept a deal of
company, was of the sort which thinks of nobody
but themselves. Bed-makers have great
experience of young men, and their opinions
should be received with whisht.

h2

CHAPTER IV.

THE HAVEN OF REST.

I SHOULD like to sing a song of Almshouses
• — not so much of those izreat havens of rest
with their spacious courts and old chapels and
broad gardens which are scattered about this
realm of England, as of the London almshouses.
They vary from the poor little half-dozen
cottages in a row — like Lady Game's, which
are so small that the residents are elected by
competitive measurement, character not being
so much an object as smallness of stature —-to
the new and stately palaces such as those at
Wood Green, or the old and dignified college
such as that beyond Greenwich Hospital, or
that of Mordent, beside Blockhead ; and in
wealth, from a little endowment of four shillings
a week and a two-roomed cottage for four okl
women, to an annuity of forty pounds a year,

with lodgings, coals, and light for as many old
men. There are quiet and peaceful almshouses
even though they stand beside noisy thoroughfares.
Could anything be sweeter and more
peaceful than Amy's's Houses, lying lost and
forgotten behind Old Street ? or than Beeman's
at the back of the Kirkland Eoad, or the
Trinity Almshouses in the midst of Whitechapel?
And there are others which seem as if all the
noise of the street must perpetually beat about
the ears of the unhappy residents. There are
some with a chapel and a chaplain and some
with a chapel but no chaplain. There is a
school attached to some, as at the Tilbury
Hospice in the Stamford Hill Eoad ; there is
a garden with some, as at Trinity Hospital,
Greenwich ; and a fair court with others, as at
Emmanuel, Westminster. In some the alms-folk
look cheerful and happy, their anxieties
being ended ; in others they are gloomy and
grumpy, as if all their troubles were to come ;
in some the people are always walking about,
talking with their friends, chirruping with each
other, and basking in the sun ; while in others
there is never anybody to be seen, and the old
people are all hiding in their beds. In a song

of Almshouses, all these things and many more
could be explained.

On a certain Saturday afternoon last July,
a day when the sun was hot, the sky clear,
and the breeze cool ; when all the old men of
all the almshouses between Shcreditch on the
South and Tottenham on the North were out
in the sun, and all the old ladies were out in
the shade — for behold ! this is the way of the
world : the old men seek the sun because it is
the source of heat, which is strength, and
women seek the shade, where they can watch
the sunshine and admire heat and strength —
there sat in the chapel at Lilly's, which was
open, one of the alms women. She occupied
the square pew, where there are cushions.
She was not old, being no more than sixty or
so, which is young for a colleger at Lilly's, but
she looked old because her hair was so very
white and she sat so very still. Her eyes were
closed, so that you might have thought her
asleep. But she was not asleep — she was
blind.

Close beside her, on one of the benches of
the four long pews, her feet up, her back against
the wall, sat a young girl of fifteen or so, reading

a story book. She was a pretty girl, with
delicate features of the London type, very
capable of a quick repartee and not unaccustomed
to a rough joke. The two sat in perfect
silence because the old lady had been taking
her afternoon nap and still felt restful, and the
girl was absorbed in the book.

Lilly's is a venerable but not a splendid
foundation. The name of its founder, Josiah
Lilly, citizen and pewterer, is commemorated
on a stone tablet let into the pediment above
the great door in the middle. It consists of a
sinoie row of cottages in dull led brick, each
containing two rooms, one above and one below,
with a kitchen or washhouse behind. In most
of the windows, which are old-fashioned, With
diamond panes set in lead, there is a geranium,
and in some there is a neat white blind half
down, as the respectable classes of London love
to have it. If any that runs will lift his eyes
to read, he may observe, all round London,
wherever the neat little cottage prevails, that
the blinds are always half down. It is the
first assertion of respectability, the first step towards
gentility. The negro, with a skin like
a crocodile for hardness, buys him a mosquito

curtain when he tends to soar ; the London
housewife, when she first develops ambitions,
hangs out the blind half mast down, as a kind
of flag, and wdiy one knoweth not. Nobody is
more respectable than an old kinswoman, so
that the white blind thus adjusted is not uncommon.
In front of the cottages is a narrow
stone pavement, which makes a convenient
walk on fine mornings, and there is a good-sized
oblong patch of ground laid out as a vegetable
garden, with potatoes and cabbages. It is
separated from the road by a low brick wall
having a Wicket-gate in the middle. There
are ^xo, cottages on either side of a great door
under the pediment, which opens into quite the
smallest chapel in this realm of England. It
has a window with a semicircular head, a door
nearly of its own width, a reading desk and
railed communion table, a square pew painted
white with cushions and hassocks, and four long
pews, also painted white and without cushions,
and all of the kind which exasperates ecclesiastics,
who would, if they could, take them away
and substitute open benches, and so destroy the
character of the little chapel. Nobody, outside
Lilly's, knows whether there is a chaplain on

the Foundation, or if service is ever held in it,
or if it is only maintained as a place of meditation
and repose.

The old blind woman was Mrs. Monument.
How she got into the almshouses is not known,
but Lady Mildred may be suspected of a
helping hand. As a general rule it is
almost as hard for a poor woman to get into an
almshouse as for a rich man to get into the
kingdom of heaven. Not for want of qualified
persons, for of such there is never any lack,
but by reason of the pushing, fighting, and
shoving over every vacancy. However she
was in, and had been in for thirteen years, enjoying
a time of perfect rest and quiet, though
she was only separated from the noisy world
by a low brick wall, and from absolute indigence
by her cottage, her ten shillings a week, and
such additions as were made by Lady Mildred,
as, for instance, the attendance of her granddaughter,
the girl who sat reading in the long
pew and found waiting on her grandmother a
much easier \vay of life than any enjoyed by
her friends. It was indeed a time of great
peace which had come to this poor woman ; of
physical repose; of content and restfulness,

which had settled upon her heart like the sunshine
which poured this afternoon into the open
door of the little temple, broadening as the sun
sloped westward. She wanted nothing ; her
boys had turned out steady, and her daughters
were respectable. To thank the Lord for the
respectability of one's daughters seldom occurs
to the class where this quality is assumed ; but
there are other circles where it is hoped for but
not always found. She sat in the chapel because
it was cool there, and, though only a few
feet from the door where the hurrying footsteps
and the roll of vehicles and the jingling of the
tram, there clung about the place, as about
every place of worship, however small and
mean, a sense of peace and safety, like the Glory
of the Lord about His House.

I know not how long she had been sitting
there, but most likely since her dinner — an
event which at Lilly's is of much less importance
than it is at the Mansion House. That
function was usually celebrated at one o'clock,
and now it was four. She had taken her nap
and was quite awake, as one could tell by the
movement of her fingers. The blind sit long
and patiently ; they are not great talkers, but

they think continually. Conceited persons who
read many books secretly believe that nobody
can think who does not read. As if the book of
experience ever passed through the printing
press ! As if every old woman has not got
enough out of her own life to occupy her
thoughts for another hundred and fifty years !
Why ! this old woman had been young and
therefore comely ; she had been a bride and a
mother ; she had known grievous trouble, with
the helpless shame of a bad husband ; she had
worked single-handed to support her children ;
they were grown up now and doing well ; she
had no anxiety about them or about her own
daily bread ; she was growing old but without
pain ; her world was in darkness ; her life was
ended save for the things which might happen
to the children and for whatever pains and
bodily disease might presently fall upon herself.
To feel and to understand that nothing remains
in life ; that everything has been enjoyed or
endured ; that the work is all done ; that there
will be no more wages, no more promotion, no
more hopes, no more rewards, no more failures ;
that there remains only the short downward
slope which may be perhaps taken with a run

and a leap — this alone must be a very serious
and awful thing, though it is the common lot,
and therefore, one fain would think, cannot be
bad for man. Yet one would pray for a little
breathing time, a short space between work and
the End, in which, the tools laid down, one
may fold the hands, recover and gather together
scattered and long-forgotten thoughts, and
meditate upon things beyond. Therefore I
have always regarded with peculiar envy and
admiration these to whom it is granted to spend
their latter years in an almshouse. One cannot,
I am sure, meditate profitably in the crowd of
a workhouse.

Except that Mrs. Monument's once brown
hair was now white, and her once white hands
were now brown, she was unchanged since she left
off her work. Her face was ruddy still — a clean,
honest face with the history of the past written
in deep lines and puckered crow's feet. She wore
a gown of brown stuff, with a white cap and
a white apron. And she sat quite composed
and still, wrapped in her meditations or her
memories. The girl with her feet up in the
long pew was as still as herself, and if one was
so accustomed to the road as not to hear its

noise, the chapel was as silent as a West Indian
Forest. There was a foolish bee who came
buzzing about the chapel in search of flowers,
and finding none, got angry, and so forgot how
he came in. Presently he saw the sunshine
pouring in through the open door and flew out,
and the place was quiet again. Next Mrs.
Monument perceived that two of her fellow
lodgers were walking along the flags in front of
the cottages — she knew the footsteps and concluded
that certain rheumatic pains were better ;
and then she heard something which caused
her to start and sit upright, and brought a glow
to her cheek and brightness to her lips.

Ehoder ! ' she cried, ' that's my boy's step.
It's your uncle Claude. Get up, girl, and
bring him here.'

Then she waited in joyful expectation.
There were other footsteps, whose she knew
not. But she rose and left the pew and stood
in the doorway.

Mother,' said Claude, kissing her.

'My son,' she replied, lightly passing her
hand over his face, ' I did not expect you today.
Who is with you ? I heard girls' steps.
Are you keeping company at last, Claude ? '

They are — two young ladies, mother,
come to see you.'

Two young ladies ! Well, ask them to
the house. Ehoda, you go before and put out
the chairs.'

Claude led his mother to her cottage at the
end of the row. There were three chairs in
the sitting-room. The old lady took one — the
arm-chair by the fire-place — and the two girls
the others. Ehoda stood beside her grandmother
gazing curiously at the visitors.

Mother,' said Claude, ' you remember
your little Polly ? '

Eemember my dear Polly ? Why, Claude,
as if I could forget her ! '

'We have not talked much about her
lately, have we ? '

Have you seen her, Claude ? ' She caught
his arm. 'Oh! have you seen hers Lady
Mildred told me you were not to see her
till the time came. Tell me — what is she
like?'

I have seen her, mother. She is grown
a tall and beautiful girl. She has the manners
and the education of a lady. You will never
regret that you gave her up.'

It was to save lier from a terrible danger,
my clear. I said to myself, " Surely if one
of these can be spared, I ought to spare her."
So I let her go.'

And this danger — is it over ? ' Claude
thought she meant possible loss of work,
poverty, out-door relief, or the Union, which
he remembered as among the bogies of his
childhood.

You are all grown up now. If what
I feared were to happen — but it never can —
it would not be quite so bad for you now.
Sam is a great man, and you're doing something
for yourself, and Melenda's in steady
work — oh! yes, you could not be tempted.'

Since the danger is over, then, mother' —
Claude took her hand again — ' would you
like to see your Polly again ? '

She clutched his hand. ' Claude,' she said,
you have brought her. But I promised Lady
Mildred '

Lady Mildred sends her.'

Oh ! ' She started up and cried aloud,
holding out her arms, ' My child, come to your
mother. Quick ! quick ! '

Both the his sprang to their feet. Claude
motioned them to wait.

'Yes, mother,' he said. 'Patience — patience
for a moment. You do not know that Polly
has been brought up with Lady Mildred's own
daughter Beatrice. They are not known apart.
]Neo one, but Lady Mildred herself, knows
which is Miss Eldridge and which is Polly.
It is her intention that no one shall know yet.
I have brought them both to you. They are
called Valentine and Yiolet, but which of the
two is your daughter I cannot tell you.'

She understood not one word of what
Claude was saying, but stood with her outstretched
arms feeling in the dark for her
child. 'Give me my Polly,' she cried hoarsely.

Claude led Valentine to her. ' Mother,'
he said, ' this is Valentine.'

The blind woman passed her hand quickly
over Valentine's face, throat, and figure. Then
she threw her arms about her and kissed hera
hundred times, crying and weeping over
her. ' Oh ! my dear, my dear,' she said,
your face is like Claude's. I knew you would
take after him and Joe. Tell me your name.
Let me hear your voice.'

I am Valentine,' said the girl.

Claude's face, but not his voice. Yet I
know the voice. As for Valentine — Valentine
what do I know about Valentine ? Kiss
your mother, Polly. Your real name, my
dear, is Maria, but oh ! I have never thought
of you as anything but Polly. Oh ! what a
tall girl you've grown ! Claude's face and
Claude's head, and oh ! Polly — '
— she huo-g-ed and kissed her airain —
to think that for all these years I never had
you once in my arms ! Oh ! my dear, I've
been thirsting for you.'

But mother,' said Claude, ' do not be too
sure. You have not seen Violet yet. Violet
is perhaps '

Violet ? Oh I I suppose she is my lady's
own daughter, the beautiful Miss Eldridge,
that my Polly was so like.'

Mother, you must see the other as well.'
Claude laid her hands upon Violet's shoulder.

I am Violet,' said the girl. But while
Valentine frankly met the hungry mother's
embrace, and gave back kiss for kiss, Violet
stood shrinking and trembling with pale face.

The blind woman started. Then she laid

VOL. I, I

her hands upon the girl's face as she had done
to Valentine, but slowly and critically.

It is Claude's face too,' she said. ' But
whose voice was that ? Speak again, you other,
that I took for my girl.'

I am Valentine,' said the other.

What is it, Claude ? ' asked the poor
bewildered woman. ' They both have your
face, and one of their voices, though they are
different, reminds me of your father's, whom
they never saw. Tell me what it means. Oh !
what does it mean ? Which is my Polly .^ '

It means, mother, what I told you — one
of these young ladies is Miss Eldridge and one
is Folly. But I do not know which.'

Will you not kiss me too ? ' asked Violet.

The old woman kissed her, but with the
coldness induced by doubt. ' I don't know,'
she said, ' I cannot tell which of you is my
Polly. And as for Miss Beatrice '

'Oh,' said Valentine, ' never mind Beatrice.
Only tell us what we can do for you, and if you
are happy.'

Mrs. Monument sat down before she made
reply. They became aware that she was stiffening.
The light of love went out of her face ;

she remembered that one of the two was Lady
Mildred's daughter ; what if she had poured
those first kisses upon Miss Beatrice ? And
how could she sustain enthusiasm for half a
daughter? She was chilled and bewildered.

Presently, however, she answered in measured
terms. She thanked Miss Beatrice for
coming to see her, which she took very kindly,
and begged to send her duty to her ladyship.
As for herself, she was as happy as a woman in
her position has a right to expect. Like many
country bred women, Mrs. Monument held the
opinion that poor people have no right to expect
happiness except in small bits and irregular
rations. Many people in their hearts believe
that this remarkable doctrine, with the duties
of contentment, resignation to injustice, satisfaction
with things as they are, and unquestioning
respect for everyone who wears a black
coat, is laid down in the Bible and Prayer
Book. Mrs. Monument went on to say that
during the last winter, which had been mild,
and the spring, which was short though severe,
she had escaped rheumatism to a surprising extent,
though there were days when her hands
felt like dropping ; that she was daily and

1 2

faithfully attended by her granddaughter Ehoda ;
that she was pleased to find her boy Claude still
kept on by her ladyship — she imagined that he
was a kind of page or assistant butler in the
establishment, though for some mysterious
reason permitted to prolong his schooling indefinitely
— and at this remark Claude looked at
the girls and smiled without showing the least
confusion. She concluded by saying that when
the time came for lier Polly to know herself,
she hoped the knowledge would lead her to
a lowly and grateful spirit, such as became one
in her station ; and here both girls blushed,
because they understood for the first time that
the child of the lowly and the humble, however
she be brought up, is born to a ' station.'

My dear mother,' said Claude, ' we are all
grateful. Polly will be as grateful as you can
desire when she learns the truth. Meantime
we are all of us filled with a proper spirit
of lowly humbleness. Valentine and Violet
are both as meek as nuns ; I am grateful ;
you are grateful ; and as for Beatrice, if she is
not grateful too, she ought to be ashamed of
herself

She ought,' said the girls together.

Fie, Claude ! to speak of Lady Mildred's

daughter in such a manner. And she a lady ! '

The girls felt hot and ashamed. Was Claude

to speak of Beatrice as a stable-boy speaks of

his mistress ? But Claude only smiled again.

And she a lady ! ' he echoed, gravely ; ' I
had forgotten that.'

Claude, my dear,' his mother went on, ' if
you are in good work, thank Lady Mildred for
her help. But don't speak of Miss Beatrice —
who is, I suppose, one of those two — those two
young persons — as if she was a girl of the same
rank as yourself.'

I will not, mother,' said Claude, seriously,

As for Polly '

Yes, dear.' It was Valentine who spoke,
because Violet shrank back as if she were
about to receive a blow. ' Yes — mother —
when the time comes I hope that I shall know
how to conduct myself properly and as becomes
my station.'

They all looked at each other. The situation
seemed rather strained. ' And so you
worked for twenty years,' said Valentine, taking
the good woman's hand, ' for twenty years to
support your children.'

Of course I did, Miss — is it Miss Beatrice
or is it Polly ? Why shouldn't I ? There's no
hardship and no shame in having to work if you
can get Avork to do and wages for your work.'

It is time for your tea, mother,' said Claude.
The kettle was siuG^inc^ on the hob. for there
was a hire, although it was the hottest month
in the year, and the tea-things were laid. Then,
while the two girls looked on in silence, CLaude
made the tea and cut the bread and butter,
and Ehoda poured it out, and they broke
bread together.

But the girls were silent and the old lady
stiff and starched.

Come, mother,' said Claude, ' one of the
girls is Polly, you know.'

One of the young ladies is Miss Beatrice,
Claude,' said his mother, ' and very good it is
of her, and like my lady, her mother, to come
and see her mother's old servant. I only wish
I could see her pretty face.'

Neither of the girls answered.

Why, they both have pretty faces, mother ;
and as for Beatrice, she is so like Polly that
you would never tell the difference. And as
for Polly, she is so like Beatrice that you

would never guess that she wasn't a lady
born.'

It's play-action', Claude,' said the old
woman, severely. 'If I can't have my own
gal to myself, it's worse than nothing. What
is it to me to be told that she's dressed like her
mistress and quite the lady ? How can she bea
lady when her mother was once an under-nurse,
and then stood over the washtub on
Hackney Marsh, and her father was a workingman
? Don't tell me, Claude. As for her not
knowing and you not knowing, that's nonsense.
You might as well tell me that you've grownup
a gentleman.'

I did not go so far as to say that, mother,'
said the Fellow of Trinity.

No ; you've got too much sense, my son.
And as for Polly, if she'll quit play-action' and
behave reasonable, I shall be ^rlad to see her
any time that her mistress will spare her for an
afternoon.'

Oh ! Yal,' said Violet.

My dear,' said Valentine, kissing the poor
old lady's forehead, ' we do not know. Indeed
we do not know — no one knows except Lady
Mildred. We will both come if you will let

US, but we cannot come separately because we
do not know

She shook her head. ' I do not know
which of you it is, the first or the second, but
you've got between you your father's voice if
it's Polly, and yet it's her ladyship's voice if it's
Miss Beatrice. And I can't tell which is which,
for the voices have got mixed.'

Then another figure appeared in the doorway.
It was a working-man — there could be
no mistake about that fact. He carried a bag
of tools in one hand ; on his arm he slung his
jacket because it was hot, and he preferred to
work in his shirt sleeves ; and he really had
that loose red handkerchief which the girls
expected to lind about their brother's neck.
There was also a pipe in his mouth. Quite
the working-man. And perhaps in order to
make it perfectly clear that he was not playacting,
whatever his sisters might be, his hands
were grimed with dirt and oil. He looked in,
saw the assembled company, and was astonished.
Then he took his pipe out of his mouth, being
a working-man of some politeness.

Well, mother,' he said. Then he kissed
his daughter. ' Well, Ehoder, my girl.' Then

he greeted Claude with a handshake. ' Admiral,
how are you ? '

This is Joe,' Claude explained by way of
introduction. ' Joe lives in Tottenham a little
up the road. On Saturdays and Sundays he
never fails to come here.'

Joe's a good boy,' said the old lady ; ' he
was always a good boy to me — a good son and
a good father of nine.'

Joe sat on the table, which was the only
place left to sit upon, and received these praises
unabashed. The girls observed that he was a
man of handsome features, and that if his chin
was shaven, as it doubtless would be on the
Sunday morning, his hair trimmed, his face
washed, and his neck put into a white collar,
he would be curiously like Claude, only twelve
years older, or perhaps more, for sixteen years
of married life with nine children ages a man,
and he might have passed for five-and-forty.
As for his occupation, he was the right-hand
man of an eminent house-painter, decorator,
and plumber of Tottenham — one of those useful
citizens who lay our pipes for us, and Jay' them
wrong ; who adjust our taps and clean our
cisterns, work mischief with our kitchen

ranges, and never leave a house when they
are permitted to enter it until there is nota
screw or a sink or a tap or a pipe that is
not tinkered and ruined. Theirs is a trade so
lucrative that it is rapidly rising to the dignity
of a profession, and before long it will probably
rival the Bar in attracting the brightest and
keenest of the English intellect and the flower
of the Universities. Joe might not be clever
after the cleverness of this father, but he
understood his business, and knew how to
make money for his employer if not for
himself. And steady with it too, except now
and again on Saturday evenings. But we
have all of us some weakness, failing, or defect,
a moral squint or a halting leg.

Joe,' said Claude, ' I have brought your
sister Polly — you remember little Polly — to
see her mother.'

Oh ! ' said Joe, unmoved ; ' you have
brought her, have you. ? '

It is a long time since you saw her —
nineteen years — and she has grown up and is a
young lady now

So it seems,' said Joe ; ' who'd ha' thought

it?' But he seemed to take little interest in
the subject.

She has been brought up entirely with
Miss Eldriclge, and we do not know them
apart. Polly is one of these young ladies, but
we do not know which.'

Joe looked from one to the other. Then
he smiled. Then he passed his hand over his
mouth, and the smile vent into his eyes, which
twinkled.

Oh ! * he said, ' you don't know which of
these two young ladies is Polly and which is the
other. Oh ! ah ! And don't no one know ? '

No one but Lady Mildred.'

Oh ! ' Here Joe chuckled but choked.
No one don't know That's a rum thing,
ain't it, Claude ? ' Claude was looking at his
brother, but he was thinking of the two girls
and the strange awkwardness of the situation.
Ehoder, my gal, come here. Stand between
them two young ladies for a minute. So !
That'll do.' He chuckled again and choked
again. ' No one don't know. That's a rum
thing, ain't it ? Well, if no one don't know, I
don't know, do I ? '

'Have you no welcome for your sister,
Joe ? ' asked Claude.

'• Tell me which she is and I'll give her a
kiss ' — Violet shuddered — ' but I can't kiss 'em
both, can I? Even Sam wouldn't have a
working-man go so far as that, let alone the
missus, when she come to hear of it. Sto,
Claude, if one of 'em's my sister, she's dressed
altogether too fine for me and my Kinder and
the kids. Not but what they're a pair of
beauties. We working-men can't afford to
have sisters in satin like ladies. As for the
Colonel here ' — he laid a friendly hand upon
Claude's shoulder — ' he's a toff, but we're used
to him. I don't quite know how he makes
his money, but he says it's honestly come
by '

Oh ! ' said Violet, ' this is shameful.
Claude's money is nobly earned.' She could
endure a good deal on her own account, but
was Claude to be insulted ?

Joe is quite right,' said Claude.

When working-men's sisters go dressed in
kid gloves and silk ribbons, it's natural for
people to ask how they came by the money,
and not always easy to answer. So, you see, I

can't say as I am pleased to see Polly. As for
Claude's work-^ '

Claude's work,' said Violet, interrupting,
'is of a kind which you cannot be expected
even to understand.'

Go on,' he replied, grinning ; ' I like a
girl with a cheek.' He got up and replaced
the pipe in his mouth, but it had gone out.
Good-bye, mother. I'll be round in the
morning.' He nodded to Claude. ' Good-bye,

Brigadier. As for you two young ladies '

He looked from one to the other, and then he
turned to his daughter Ehoda. Again he
smiled, and the smile broadened and his eyes
began to dance — if the eyes of a working-man
at six-and-thirty can be said to dance — and he
laughed aloud. ' Ho ! ho ! ' he said ; 'and no
one knows ! ' He swung out of the little room
laughing still. He laughed across the court,
and they heard him laughing as he went up
the road. Now for a man to g:o alone the
Queen's Highway laughing as he goes by himself
is a strange and rather a gruesome thing.

What is he laughing for ? ' asked Violet.

'Laughter,' said Claude, 'is produced in
many ways, but especially by the unexpected.

The situation is new to him, and therefore, I
suppose, ludicrous.'

Joe's been a good son always,' said his
mother, ' though not clever like Sam. Oh !
Claude, if you'd only followed in Sam's footsteps.
You might have been a Board Schoolmaster
by now, like him.'

It can't be helped, mother. But it seems
a pity, doesn't it ? We had better go now, I
think, and I'll bring Polly to see you again as
soon as we are quite sure which is Polly ; and
then you won't be afraid of mistaking Miss
Eklridge for her, will you ? '

It was trying to them all except to Ehoda,
when the old lady rose and folded her hands
across her apron, and said slowly, because she
was saying the things which are right to say,
and good manners must not be hurried : ' I
wish you humbly good-bye, Miss Beatrice, and
I send my humble respects to her ladyship. I
hope my Polly will continue to give satisfaction,
and I shall be glad to see her when you leave
off play-action', as of course it's your fun and you
will have it. She can come in the afternoon and
get back by nine. Or Khoder'll go home, ands
he can sleep here if her ladyship can spare her.

CHAPTEE y.

THE LAW OF ELEVENPENCE Halfpenny.

The girls came away from Lilly's almshouses a
good deal cast down. They had only succeeded
in causing pain to the old lady and
bringing shame upon themselves. Therefore
they hung their heads.

After our mother,' said Valentine presently,
recovering a little, ' it is our duty to call upon
our sister. Can we go to-day ? '

I think you had better not,' said Claude.
*For my own part a visit to Melenda never
fails to make me profoundly wretched. I
think you had better reserve that visit till
another day.'

Does she live near here, Claude ? '

She lives about two miles down the road at
a place called Hoxton. We will go on Monday.
Courage ! '

'We have plenty of courage,' said Violet,

deceiving herself more than her brother. ' But
somehow I am afraid we have not quite
grasped the situation. Do you think my
sister — Melenda — will receive us with a welcome
? '

']S"o, I should think not.' Claude replied
with decision. ' To the best of my knowledge
Melenda is always in a rage. You know that
she is horribly, shamefully poor.'

I think, Claude,' said Valentine, ' that we
had better take your advice and go on Monday.'


It was in a tenement house, and in Ivy Lane,
Hoxton, that Melenda worked all day and slept
at night. All the houses in Ivy Lane, or
nearly all — because one is a public-house and
one or two are shops — are tenement houses.
They are mean and squalid houses. The doors
and door-posts are black for want of scrubbing ;
the oldest inhabitant cannot remember when
they were painted last ; the windows are like
the windows in Chancery Lane for griminess ;
in most of the houses the banisters and some
of the steps of the narrow stairs have been
broken away for firewood ; the plaster of the

ceiling has long since cracked and fallen ; the
street is slovenly and uncared for. But girls
who can afford no more than five shillings a
week for a roof and four walls sometimes have
to fare worse than in Ivy Lane. They might,
for instance, live in one of the courts which run
out of Ivy Lane.

Melenda's room was the first-floor front.
It Alas furnished with a broad wooden bed, one
of those wdaich are built for three at least, and
have often to hold six ; two wooden chairs
and a round table; there was also a chest
of drawers, and there was an open cupboard,
the lower part of which formed a box for
coals. On the hob stood the kettle, in the
cupboard were a few plates and cups, and in
one corner reposed a frying-pan and a saucepan.


Two grey ulsters and two hats where hanging
on nails driven into the door. This was all
the furniture, and it would seem difficult to
furnish a room for three girls with more
simplicity.

There were three occupants of the room, all
young, and all at work. One of them sat on
the bed, the other two had the chairs beside

VOL. I. K

the table. The girl on the bed was a thin
delicate-looking creature, about twenty-three or
twenty-four years of age ; she stooped in the
shoulders and had a narrow chest ; her face
was pale and v/orn, ^vith lines about the mouth ;
her eyes were lustrous, and looked larger than
they were in reality because her cheeks were so
thin. They had the patient expression which
conies to those who suffer continually. Her
brown hair was thin, and was brushed simply
back over her temples, and gathered into a
knot ; she was dressed in an old, a very old,
grey stuff frock, and her shoes were long since
worn into holes everywhere, sole and heel and
toes. But that mattered little, because she
never left the house. She sat on the bed
because there was something wrong with her
backbone — a twist of some kind — so that she
was neither so strong nor so tall as other girls,
and had to lie down and take rest whenever
lie ' felt her back,' which sometimes happened
all day and all night long.

This was Lotlv. She lived here, though
she ought to have been kept warm, well fed,
and in idleness in some asylum, or home, or
hospital, partly because she knew of no such

home ; partly out of the deep friendship and
affection which she entertained for Melenda ;
and partly because Melenda would never have
suffered her to go so long as she could, by
working day and night, provide for her.

As for Melenda, Claude's sister, she sat at the
table. She was now a girl of three-and-twenty ;
she still preserved the red locks of her childhood.
Need hair has its artistic value, and I
dare say Melenda's would have looked picturesque
had it been respectfully treated. But
what can you expect of flaming-red hair if you
treat it in London girl fashion — that is, if you
cut the front part of it short, and comb a
great hunch over the forehead, making a red
pillow, and then roll the rest of it up in a knot
behind? Such a mode might be taken as a
text for the preacher and an illustration of the
tyranny of fashion, which does nothing for its
votaries except to make them ridiculous, and to
destroy any points of beauty that they may
possess. The airy, fairy, curly, dainty, delicate
arrangement over some young ladies' brows no
doubt su£y2[ested to the London o-irl the hunch of
hair ; but the ' fringe ' was never intended to
darken and to disfigure the face ; nor was the

K 2

fringe meant to be a pillow of hair ; nor was it
meant for thick red hair with no more curl in
it than there is in a cow's tail. If Melendahad
been better advised she would have brushed her
hair back and disclosed to view a broad, square,
and very white forehead which everyone would
have respected. And then her eyes, which
were as sharp and keen as a pair of electric
lights, would have been set in a lighter frame.
She was not pretty at all, though, like most
red-haired girls, her complexion was good ; her
face was square ; her nose was short and
straight ; her lips were firmly set ; her chin
strong. In stature she was shorter than the average
: her shoulders were broad and her hands
large ; she looked a strong girl. But she was
thin : her cheeks were hollow, and her figure
wanted the filling out which comes of food and
enough of it. Polly's sister looked always
hungry : she also looked capable, strong-willed,
and resolute, and she looked as if she
could exhibit temper if she chose : lastly, she
(looked as if she often chose.

The third girl, Lizzie, was of a type which
is not unusual in London and almost peculiar
to the great city. It has many variations and

breaks out into eccentricities of all kinds, but,
speaking generally, Lizzie belonged to that
class of London girls who are all eyes. They
have, it is true, other features as well, but
their eyes strike one first and most, because
they are so large, so round, so deep, so full of
all imaginable and possible thoughts, intentions,
and desires. Their mouths are also noticeable,
because they are small, rosebud mouths, generally
with parted lips, as if the soul of the
maiden within were waiting to receive the
sweet and holy gifts and graces for which her
eyes show her yearning. It is impossible to
see such a girl without longing immediately to
take her away and place her where she maybe
in perpetual commune with things lofty and
spiritual. Lizzie had her fringe too, but her
hair was brown, not red : it was curly and not
straight ; and as she had some glimmering of
taste, and did not drag a great sold lump of
hair over her forehead, but had a few short
curls in its place, the effect was not unpleasing.
In figure she was tall but slii^lit, and she was
too thin, though she did not look quite so
hungry as Melenda. Her head was small and
her features possessed a good deal of delicacy.

Men, who are more catholic in such matters
than ladies, and can discern beauty even where
the elbows stick out visibly through the sleeves,
would say that here were the elements or
makings of a really beautiful girl, if only she
could get a fair show.

By one o'clock in the day they had already
worked for six hours, because they began at
seven. Six hours of almost continuous sewing
seems a good day's work ; one would not care
to sit even over the most delicate embroidery
for more than six hours a day : and this was
not delicate work at all, but coarse work on
coarse and heavy stuff — the stuff of which the
commonest shirts are made — those intended to
rasp the skin of the unfortunate native, who
would so much prefer to sit in buff, brown or
black, and suffer the sun to gently bake him
all over. Six hours of steady sewing : no
student can read with effect for more than six
hours a day : no man can write for more than
six hours if he care to write well : few men can
dig for more or can carry burdens for more
without a good spell of rest. These girls,
however, were so strong and so industrious
that they were going to work for seven hours

longer, that is till daylight should cease ; if it
had been winter they would have worked long-after
daylight ceased. This is a really good
day's work — if you think of it — from seven in
the morning till nearly nine at night ; this is to
work with a will : to work heartily : to expend
oneself without stint : to acquiesce in the curse
of Adam. It is a day's work which io one
but a railway director or an omnibus company
dares to exact of men ; if a factory Avere to require
such a day there would be a strike, with
letters to the papers, even if the men's wages
were a shilling an hour. A truly wonderful
day's work, only to be understood when one
realises the constant presence, felt but not seen,
of a Fury with serpents in her hair and an
uplifted lash of scorpions in her hands, sometimes
called Necessity nd sometimes known as
Hunger.

The girls generally worked in silence, but
to-day there had been a little outbreak on the
part of Lizzie, with revolutionary sentiments.
She was promptly suppressed ])y Melenda, who
followed up her victory With a few remarks
which clinched the submission but left sulkiness
and a smouldering fire of rebellion.

When the clock struck one — somebody's
clock in some neighbouring street — Melenda
looked up and broke the silence.

Lofty,' she said imperiously, ' lie down
this minute.'

Lofty obeyed without a word. She had
been sitting up too long, and now she lay back
with closed eyes, and her short breathing showed
that she was suffering.

The other girl tossed her work impatiently
on the table.

One o'clock,' she said. ' It ought to be
dinner-time soon. What have we got for
dinner ? ' She laughed derisively. ' And what
shall we have tomorrow ? And the next day
and the day after .^ '

'Don't, Liz,' said Melenda softly. 'Don't,
just now. It makes her back worse. Let her
go to sleep.'

'Lm not asleep,' said Lofty, opening her
eyes. ' Don't mind me, Liz.' She stretched
out her hand and caught Lizzie by the wrist.
Patience, my dear.'

Patience ! oh ! '

It's only since the concert that it's come

on,' said Melenda, looking at her companion asa
physician looks upon a patient.

Why shouldn't it be since the concert,
then ? ' asked Lizzie.

What have gentlemen got to do interfering
with work-girls ? ' asked Melenda in reply.

Lizzie laughed defiantly.

Why shouldn't he speak to me ? Speaking's
no harm. Why shouldn't he tell me the
truth? That's no harm. Nobody else tells
the truth. The clergyman don't, he says, for
fear we shouldn't work any longer ; and the
district visitors don't, for fear we should strike.
And the work is cool, he says, and the wages
dreadful ; and so they are.'

I've told you that already,' said Melenda.
Sam says so too.'

And there's many better ways of living.
Some girls go to theatres if they're pretty
enough. And some go and get painted in pictures.
He says I'm pretty enough for that, and he
knows gentlemen who'd like to paint my eyes.'

Liz, he's receiving you,' said Melenda.
Paint your eyes, indeed ! He takes you for a
fool.'

'And he says that it's no good stopping
here. He says it's a God-forgotten life. He
says we shall never get better money and never
any easier work. Think of that, Lofty. We
shall get old and die, he says, and never any
pretty things to put on and always not enough

to eat, and ' Here she stopped, being out

of breath.

It can't be always,' said Lofty, ' because
there must be an end some day.'

Oh ! That end ! ' Lizzie laughed scornfully,
because the undertaker and the natural
end of man's or woman's life seems so far away
to a young girl of seventeen.

It won't be always,' said Melenda, ' because
Sam says we are going to have no more rich
people very soon. We shall divide everything,
and after that we shall always have enough,
because the people will keep their own when
they have got it, and there will be no more
masters.'

You're a silly, Melenda,' said Lizzie, ' to
believe such nonsense. Besides, if it were true,
what would the girls get? The men would
only keep it all to themselves and spend it at
the public-houses.'

Did the gentleman tell you that too ? '
Never mind what else he told me.'
Liz.' said Lofty, ' you haven't seen him
again, have you ? Oh ! promise you won't
talk to him any more. Oh ! this is what
comes of giving Concerts for the People. Liz !
Liz ! '

But Lizzie tossed her head, snatched her
hat, and ran away, and Lottie sighed and lay
back again.

Who was the gentleman, Melenda ? ' she
asked. ' Don't let her go on talking to gentlemen.
Has she seen him again ? Do you know
his name ? '

I do not know. We went to the concert.
There was a young lady in a black silk frock,
and she sang ; and there was another in a pink
frock, and she sang ; and there was some one
else who recited ; and one man playing on the
piano, and another on the violin. I've told you
all that before. When we came away I missed
Liz in the crowd, and vrhen she came home she
was all trembling like, and cried when you
were asleep, and wished she was dead and
buried, and told me she'd been for a walk with
a gentleman, who'd been talking to her about

her work and her wages, and made her discontented.'


Lottie sighed, but made no reply.

'If we could strike like the men,' said
Melenda. ' It's the only thing, Sam says.
Why, if we could strike, the fine ladies wouldn't
get their things so cheap ; and they know it,
and that's why they go about giving concerts
to us and pretending to be our friends, just to
keep us from throwing the work in their faces
and striking. Sam says so.'

Oh, Melenda ! But the ladies don't know.
If they knew '

They do know.' Melenda stamped her
foot. She was in one of lier rages. ' They've
been told a thousand times. And they don't
care — they don't care — so long as they buy
their things cheap. Well, we've got our freedom,
Lofty ; and we ain't obliged to go to their
concerts, are we ? And if a gentleman speaks
to me. Til let him know.'

Lofty made no reply, but closed her eyes
again. She had, in fact, nothing to say that
could help or even console. She had never
considered the subject of supply and demand,
or else no doubt she might have administered

solace out of those golden rules which keep
wages low, hours long, and work scarce.
In the old days Lofty knew a great quantity
of texts which she might have found comforting,
but she had now forgotten them
all. Besides, no amount of texts would have
brought consolation to Melenda's bosom, because
that young lady was as free and emancipated
from the trammels of religion as the
most advanced woman in the whole school.
It was, in fact, part of her independence not
to attend any form of divine service, not from
any animosity towards the Christian faith, but
simply because all forms of worship make
demands upon a girl's freedom.

There was some cold tea standing on the
chest of drawers, with a loaf of bread, and
some yellow substance flattered by the name
of butter. Melenda cut two thick slices and
poured out some tea. ' Lucky we had a bit
of meat for Sunday,' she said. ' Take your
dinner now, Lofty, dear.'

I am better now,' said Lofty, after their
feast. ' If I rest for half an hour I shall be
able to work again. Where's Liz gone ? '

'You go to sleep,' said Melenda. 'As for

Liz, she'll come in presently, when she's
ramped round a bit.'

Lofty obeyed and closed her eyes.
Then Melenda resumed her work. In a
few minutes she saw that Lofty was asleep.
She might have been dead, so motionless she
lay and so waxen-pale were her cheeks. In
sleep the closed eyes lost their worn look,
and the lines of the forehead were smoothed
out, and the face dropped back, so to speak,
into the mould in which it was cast. Melenda
carefully drew the counterpane — it was old
and rao'cred, alas ! and wanted washing — over
her friend's arms and chest, and laid her ulster
over her feet with tender hand and softened
eyes, and then sat down again and began to
stitch with a kind of fierceness. It pleased her
that she could work twice as fast as the other
two, and that while her friend was resting she
was doing the share of both.

Meantime, in St. John's Eoad, close by,
there walked together side by side a gentleman
and a work-girl.

'You will think of it, won't you?' he asked.
It is a cruel thing for a pretty girl like you
to be slaving so hard. Pretty girls were not

meant to do hard work, you know. You ought
to be beautifully dressed, and standing on the
stage, and all the men in the house clapping
because you would look so beautiful.'

'I can't never leave Lofty and Melenda,'
the girl replied.

Meet me ag-ain this evening. I will be
by the church at nine. Will you promise? '

I don't care,' she said. ' Yes, I will then.
But it's no use. I won't never leave Melenda
and Lofty.'

There are many openings and a splendid
variety of choice for a girl who insists on
her independence and, therefore, refuses to
go behind counters or bars, or into offices, or
some other people's houses. She may become
a dressmaker, a milliner, or a seamstress, she
may make shirts, cuffs, collars, or button-holes :
she may enter any of the various branches
of the great Sewing Mystery: she may go
into a Factory — there are quantities of Factories
to choose from — but whatever she does and
wherever she goes she may quite confidently
reckon on short pay and long hours : in all
probability she will be bulged by the foreman

and snubbed, scolded, and ragged by the
foreman : her independence will be the
privilege of sleeping in a room shared with
two or three other girls, together with that
of keeping any hours she pleases, and she
may be certain beforehand that her poverty
and her helplessness will be exploites to the
utmost by her employer as much as if she
was an omnibus driver : that her whole life
will be spent in bad lodgings, on slender
commons, with friends of the poorest and
work of the hardest : she may rely upon getting
no help from anybody, certainly none from
lier brothers, who, poor fellows ! have to pay
for their clubs, their drinks, and their amusements,
and cannot do what they would wish
for their sisters : none from the political
economist to - whom an ill-paid work-girl
illustrates in a most satisfactory manner the
beneficent Law of Supply and Demand, ordained
by the Creator in the Day when He created
Man and Woman for the advantage of the
Middle-man, chosen of his race, and the
Development of His next noblest Creation the
Manufacturer : none from politicians, because
they think that the working-woman will never bea

danger to any party ; none — alas ! — from
ladies, because their injustice is too old and
stale, and the Song of the Shirt, which has
been sung for forty years, is known by heart,
and the sight of the sister, who never cries
out or complains, is familiar, and because of
that strange hardness of woman's heart towards
women, which is a wonderful and a monstrous
thing. Nor will the working-girl expect any
help from her own class, because they have not
learned to combine, and there is none to
teach them, and the sharp lessons, including
thwacks, kicks, hammering, fattening, and
boycotting, by which the working-men were
forced and driven into their unions, are impossible
for the girls.

Melinda chose to be a sewing machine. In
this capacity she got button-holes to make with
her friends. They were three really very
industrious girls, and with so much industry,
their rent only four shillings, and bread lower
than ever it has been known before, and likely
to be cheaper still, and tea and sugar always
down again,' they ought to do very well
indeed, and be able to buy themselves pretty
frocks, and perhaps save money, and to go

VOL. I, L

about with rosy cheeks, aud they should every
morning be ready to greet the rosy suu with a
hymn of praise. That they did not do any of
these things, that their clothes were ragged,
their cheeks pale, their eyelids heavy, their
purse empty, was due to the action of a very
remarkable Law in Political Economy — a
science which most wonderfully illustrates the
Divine Goodness and the Beneficence of
Creation. This Law has hitherto, I believe,
escaped the observation of all the professors.
It is the Law of the Lower Limit, which will
be better understood by being named after an
outward and visible sign, the most obvious
and best-known result of its beneficent operation.
I have therefore ventured to call it the
Law of Elevenpence Halfpenny. It has been
found, in fact, by the employers of woman's
labour, who are one and all the most humane,
the most considerate, and the most unselfish
creatures in existence, that there is a limit of
wage below which human life cannot be sustained.
It is highly to their credit that they
seldom try to get below this limit, which is
exactly marked by the wage of elevenpence
halfpenny a day. Therefore no working-woman.

of those who work at home, is allowed to make
more, because this would be a flying in the face
of the Eternal Laws. And it would be clearly
inhuman to offer less. To be sure the women
sometimes get less because they are often out
of work : but the employers cannot be blamed
for that. The Law of Elevenpence Halfpenny
or the Law of the Lower Limit is the only law
that humanity is called upon to obey, and the
conscience of those who pay the girls at this
rate of wages is calm and easy. One positively
envies the conscience of the wholesale matchmaker,
the wholesale jam-maker, the wholesale
shirt-maker, the wholesale inaker of anything
which may be made or sewn by the hands of
women and girls. The wickedness of the men
who refuse to obey this law (designed at the
Creation for them as well as for women) is part
of the universal depravity which causes men to
think and act for themselves, without any respect
for law or authority in religion, politics,
morals, manners, and customs.

The law of Elevenpence Halfpenny. As
Melenda worked exactly two-and-a-half times
faster than Lofty, and Lizzie one-and-a-half
times, it follows that to produce an average of

eleven pence halfpenny, Melenda should earn
seventeen pence and five-twentieths, and Lizzie
sentence and seven-twentieths, and Lofty sixpence
and nine-tenths, and that they did
so shows how good a worker Melenda was.
Sometimes, however, there was less because
work has to be taken back and fetched, and
there are delays in getting fresh work. At the
best, therefore, these girls between them could
earn seventeen shillings and threepence a week.
Their rent was four shillings, so that there was
left the sum of thirteen shillings and threepence
for everything else. That is to say, the splendid
sum of sentence and four-sevenths apiece,
or very nearly sentence halfpenny a day,
remained for all their wants.

My very dear young lady, you who sit
at home in ease, how would you like to find
yourself in food, frocks, fire, furniture, music,
boots, bonnets, books, trinkets, gloves, and all
the thousand-anemone things that go to make a
girl's life, on sentence halfpenny a day ? But
these girls are not like you ? That, I assure
you, is not at all the case. It is a falsehood
invented by the Devil when he invented the
figment of nobility, gentry, and villain. If you

desire to know what the work-girl really is, goto
the looking glass and study very carefully
not your bonnet, which is very becoming, nor
your face, which is so pretty that one wishes he
was young enough to fall in love with it, nor
the dressing of your hair, which might be much
more artistic, but the unseen self which lies
behind the face. That is the working-girl as
well as yourself my dear young friend.

In half an hour or so Lizzie came back,
quiet and subdued, but with a rosy flush on her
cheek and brightened eyes.

'I've had dinner,' she answered when
Melenda pointed to the tea-pot. ' I've had an
egg and a cup of coffee. It was given to me
by — a young girl I know.'

Melenda looked at her sharply, but said
nothing.

Then there was silence in the room save for
the click of the needle and the thimble and the
rustling of the stuff in which thej^ were sewing
the button-holes. But Melenda was disturbed
and ill at ease, partly on account of Lizzie and
the unknown gentleman who made her discontented,
and partly because it seemed to her —
perhaps the bread and butter had not been

thick enough — as if a man's voice was repeating
aloud, over and over again, banging and beating
the words into her head, ' All your lives — all
your lives ; ' and then the voice of her brother
Sam — it was a deep, rich bass — chimed in saying,
' Why don't you strike P Why don't you
strike ? ' This was not agreeable. But the
time passed on, and the distant clock struck two
three and four while Lofty still slept on and
the other two worked in silence.

It was just after the striking of four that
the girls heard footsteps in the narrow passage
below, and voices which were not the voices of
their fellow lodgers. One of the voices said,
Will you wait below, Claude ? We would
rather go up alone.'

And then the door opened, and two young
ladies appeared. They were young ladies the
like of whom the girls had seldom, if ever,
seen, for they were so beautiful and so beautifully
dressed, and at sight of their frocks and
their hats the soul of Lizzie sant? within her.
The District Visitor they knew, because she
sometimes called and always had a fight with
Melenda, but she was not by any means beautifully
dressed. Also certain ladies had once or

twice come into their street and gone about the
houses curiously, and received sharp replies to
their questions. But they were not beautified.

Is there a girl here named Melenda ? '
asked one of them.

Lofty awoke, and sat upright with a start.
Lizzie stared and dropped her work and her
thimble, which rolled under the drawers, and
afterwards half an hour Alas wasted in looking
for it. The owner of the name, suspecting a
visit from people in the interests of Church
services, only looked up and nodded.

Then the two young ladies stepped forward
and seized each a hand, saying softly,

Oh ! Melenda, we are your sister Polly.'

Alas ! that Polly should have chosen this
day of all days for her return after an absence
of nineteen years.

CHAPTEE VI.

AN UNLUCKY DAY.

Claude waited below in Ivy Lane on the shady
side of the street. It was full of children playing
noisily, and there were soft and murmurous
echoes, poetically speaking, from Hoxton
Street on the right, where there is a perpetual
market. Presently he became aware of a shrill
voice rapidly rising, which he easily recognised
as his sister Melenda's voice.

The voice rose so loud that he could catch
some of the words. And it seemed to him as
if this visit promised to be even a greater
failure than that to the Almshouse. At last
the voice grew so shrill and the language so
unmistakable, that he thought he ought to follow
the girls, if only to protect them.

When he opened the door he was greeted
by Melenda herself with a derisive laugh.

Charity boy ! ' she said, pointing with her
forefinger.

He had, however, heard this remark before,
and now received, it without emotion.

Valentine was standing at the table with
flushed face and a look of bewilderment and
pain. Violet was cowering in Lizzie's chair —
absolutely cowering — and crying. Lofty was
looking on, troubled and perplexed. Lizzie
sat on the bed beside her, the work in lier
hands, making believe that the scene neither
interested nor concerned her, and that she was
wholly occupied and absorbed in her buttonholes,
which she handled ostentatiously, holding
the garment up to the light, spreading it on her
knee, contemplating it with the needle in her
mouth, and in other ways proclaiming her entire
unconsciousness of the Eow. Yet she listened
and smiled with pride when Melenda surpassed
herself, and from time to time she lifted her
great eyes and took in some fresh detail of
the ladies' dresses. Oh ! could she ever have
dreamed of things so beautiful .^

'Charity boy!' repeated Melenda. 'Of
course he brought the charity girl with him.'

Claude made no reply, which disconcerted

her. And he looked at her not angrily but
gravely and wonderingly, which made her still
more angry.

What is the matter, Valentine ? ' he asked,
after a pause. ' Has my sister been rude to
you ? '

Yes,' Melenda broke in ; ' I've been rude
to both of 'em. I've told them the truth, and
I wish they may like it and get it every day.
Rude ? Oh ! yes, I've been rude. Don't make
any error about that, Claude.' She stuck — I
use the word deliberately — she stuck her elbows
on the table and put on her most defiant face.

what is the truth, Melenda?' Claude
asked her ; ' will you tell it to me as well ? '

The aggravating; thins with Claude was that
you could never make him angry by calling him
names, not even by calling him a charity boy.
To-day, being in a Age Eoyal, Melenda began
with this supreme insult. She generally ended
with it. People ought to get angry when you
call them names, else there is no reason in calling
names ; and then, what a weapon thrown
away ! Not to get angry in return is unkind
towards one's fellow creatures ; it betrays want
of sympathy ; it arrogates a disgusting superiority

; it makes people ^\liO have yielded to
their wrath, and slung all the names they could
find, hot and ashamed of themselves. Common
people, ordinary, simple, unaffected people, not
stuck-up people, get very angry when they are
called names, and retaliate by calling worse
names immediately by return post, or they take
to punching heads or j jumping upon one another.
Claude, for his own exasperating part, only
looked at his sister with his grave eyes as if he
was wondering where she was feeling the pain
and what ought to be done for it.

Let us have the whole truth, Melenda.'

The truth is that we don't want fine ladies
here. We're work-girls, and we've got to earn
our living, and we ain't ashamed of it. We
don't want to be looked at like as if we were
elephants in a circus. Let 'em go and look at
somebody else. We ain't a show. Lofty ain't
a clown ; I ain't a jumping-horse ; Liz ain't a
salamander.'

Don't you want to see your sister again,
Melenda ? '

My sister ! ' She threw out her arms with
a fine gesture, free and unstudied. ' Oh ! look
at me and look at them. Listen to him — my

sister ! Look at my frock, and Lofty's frock,
and Lizzie's frock, and look at theirs. My
sister ! And they can't tell which it is. My
sister ! If you come to that '

But one of these young ladies is your
sister — and mine.'

It's the first I've heard of Polly being a
young lady. Which of 'em is it, then ? Is it
her, who can't be spoken to but she begins to
cry? or her' — Melenda suited gesture with
her thumb to words, so that no mistake should
be possible — ' who wants to shake hands and
to kiss ? A pretty kiss ! '

They only learned a day or two ago that
they had a sister. Was it unkind in them to
make themselves known to you as quickly as
they could ? '

'Well, they're curious, and they've had
their curiosity. They've seen me, and now
they may go away and boast to all the swells
that they've got a sister who makes buttonholes.
Sooner they go the better. Come !
they've wasted time enough already.'

You are very unkind,' said Valentine.
If we were to come again when you were not
so busy with work '

No,' said Melenda, ' I don't want to see
either of you never again. One of you is
Polly, because you say so, and I don't see why
you should be proud of being my sister. Well,
when Polly leaves off pretending to be a lady
she may come here, and not before.'

Your sister,' said Claude, ' can never lay
aside that pretence.'

'Mother hadn't ought to let her go,' the
girl went on ; 'I always said so. Why should
Polly be brought up with nothing to do all her
life but to sit down and to eat and drink ? '

On the contrary,' said Claude, ' she has
done a great deal.'

Does she go dressed like this ? ' asked
Melenda, springing to her feet, and displaying
With rapid gesture the deficiencies of her scanty
wardrobe, the whole of which was upon her.
Does she get up at six and work all day till
nine? Does she have bread and butter and
tea for all her meals ? '

Oh ! ' said Valentine, ' if you will only let
us help you. We did not come here to pry
upon you — not out of curiosity — oh ! not out
of curiosity. We came because we Avant to
know our sister.'

Now you knoAv her then, you can go away
again. I don't round. You see what I am.
Oh ! I know what I'm like, and what Liz is
like, and Lofty — only Lofty is different. Fine
manners, ours, ain't they ? Go away and laugh
at us.'

Indeed there is nothing to laugh at,' said
Valentine.

Then cry over us like her ' — lie meant
Violet. 'I dare say lie likes crying. If a
girl had said half to me that I've said to her,
I'd have had her hair out of her head.'

You are cruel,' said Violet ; ' is it our
fault that Polly was taken from you ? '

Didn't say whose fault it was. It's no
concern of mine. You've got m}^ thimble, Liz.
Where's your own ? '

Melenda, try to be gracious,' said Claude.
'Pretend to know something about manners.
Make believe that Sam is here. You generally
]behave, you know, when Sam is present.'

Melenda sniffed. ' Come,' she said, returning
to the charge, ' you were curious to see
your sister, weren't you ? Well, you've seen
her, and I dare say you'll ask her to tea and
shrimps and meet your fine friends. I'll come

with Joe and Sam and some of Joe's kids if you
like, to make a family party. And now you
can go away and be mighty thankful that you
-weren't left to grow up with your mother and
me. Else you'd be sitting here this moment
where Liz is sitting, and working like Liz is
working.'

She sat down, picked up her work, and
began to sew again violently.

Valentine sighed. ' You shall see me again,'
she said, ' whether you like it or not. You
cannot lock the door in your sister's face. I
will make you want to see me.'

Melenda went on sewing without any reply.

Then Valentine turned to Lofty.

Tell me,' she said, ' are you perhaps a
cousin of Melenda's and mine ? '

No,' said Lofty, ' I'm only her friend.
We've lived together for eight years, Melenda
and me.'

And do you sew every day ? '

Unless we're out of work we do. It is all
we have learned.'

But you don't look strong enough for the
work.'

I'm stronger than I look,' said Lofty,

smiling. ' I can do a good bit of work. Its
my back which isn't strong, and makes me
cough sometimes. IVe got to he down a great
deal. And then Melenda works for me.* She
looked up shyly. ' You won't mind what Melenda
said, will you. Miss? She's put out today
about something — something somebody
said to Liz about the work, it was. Please
don't mind ; she's easy put out, but she's the
best heart in the world.'

'You'll just have to lie down again, Lofty,'
said Melenda, ' if you talk so much.'

Wliat is your name ? ' asked Valentine.

Lofty— Charlotte East. This is Liz. Her
father 'lives downstairs, but she lives and works
with us. She's seven years younger than me.
I'm twenty-four and Liz is seventeen.'

Do you like your work, my dear .^ ' Valentine
asked Lizzie.

The girl turned her great heavy eyes upwards.
' No, I don't,' she replied slowly.

'If you've got to do it, what's the odds
whether you like it or whether you don't .^'
asked Melenda.

Come, Valentine,' said Violet, ' it is no use
staying.'

JSTot a bit,' said Melenda.

Have you no kind word for us at all,
Melenda ? ' Valentine asked.

Look here,' the girl replied ; ' you don't
belong to us, neither of you. Go away to the
people you do belong to — you and Claude.
They're the people that keep us girls on a
shilling a day, so as they can get their dresses
cheap. Stick to them. They're the people
who've stolen the land and the labour and
everything that's made. Sam says so. Leave
us alone. Don't come here and laugh at us.
I won't have it. And as for you ' — she turned
to Violet, who shrank back and caught Claude
by the arm — ' dare to come again and cry at us !
If you do, I'll tear your bonnet off.'

You are behaving very rudely, Melenda,'
said Claude.

She sniffed again and tossed her head.

Since, however, she continued in this hard
and unrepentant mood, and showed no sign of
melting, there was nothing left but to withdraw,
which they did, retreating in good order, as the
history books say, or rolHng sullenly over the
border, as they also say. That is, the enemy
did not shove them downstairs, nor tear off

VOL. I. M

their bonnets, nor hurl things after them, nor
call them names, but suffered them to retire
unmolested. To be sure, they were routed ;
there was no possibility of mistake about that.

For at least two hours Melenda continued
stitching in absolute silence, but her lips moved.
At the expiration of this period she broke out
into short interjectional phrases, which showed
that her mind was powerfully working. ' I'm
glad I spoke out — did her good for once — I
won't be cried at — we don't want curious ones
here — teach them to keep their own places,' and
so forth — not original or novel phrases, and
perhaps wanting in dignity, but with some fire.
Then she relapsed into silence again.

It was nearly nine o'clock when it became
too dark to see the work any longer, and they
put it by.

'Then Lizzie began to make certain preparations.
She took a hat out of a drawer — a hat
with a feather in it. She tied a bright-coloured
ribbon round her neck, and she put on her
ulster, which is a work-girl's full dress for summer
or for winter, only in summer there is not
always a frock under it.

Liz, dear,' said Lofty, ' you won't be late.

will you ? And, Liz — don't — oh ! Liz — don't
talk with any more gentlemen.'

Lizzie made no reply, and disappeared.

She's put on her best ribbon,' Lofty said,
with a sigh, ' her Sunday ribbon. What's that
for, I wonder ? '

Melenda made no reply. She was thinking
of her own sister, not of Lizzie.

Oh ! ' she cried presently, throwing out
her arms in a gesture unknown to the stage,
but natural and very striking ; • if she'd only
come alone ! But to come in a pair, and for
both to sit and smile and say they didn't know
which of them was Polly, as if it didn't matter
what became of her — I suppose because she
was a poor girl and her mother was a washerwoman,
and you and me and Liz beneath their
notice, and it was all pride and curiosity and
looking down upon us — I couldn't bear it,
Lofty, sol spoke up. I'm glad I did.'

She showed her gladness by bursting into
tears.

I'd do it again. If they come again, I'd doit
again. With their kid gloves and their real
flowers and gold chains, and to look about the
room as if we were wild beasts at a show, and

M 2

a teapot a thing they'd never seen before. We
don't want 'em. Let 'em leave us to ourselves.
We can do our work without them, and bear
what we've got to bear, Lofty, you and me
together, can't we ? '

They looked sorry,' said Lofty, doubtfully ;
they'd got kind faces and they spoke kind.'

I don't know,' Melenda went on, ' which I
hate the most — the one who looked as if the
very sight of us made her sick and ashamed —
that was the one who began to cry Avhen I up
and checked her ; or the one who wouldn't cry,
and only stared as if I was something strange,
and kep' saying that I was mistaken, and
wouldn't get into a rage, say what I liked.
Just like Claude — you can't put Claude in a
rage. I believe that one must be Polly. All
the same I hate her : I hate 'em both.'

I wouldn't hate them if I were you,
Melenda,' said Lofty. ' What's the good ?
They only came to see if they could help you,
perhaps.'

They help me ? Likely ! I wouldn't
have their help, nor Claude's neither, if I was
starving. As for Polly being my sister, they
took her away and we've lost her.'

If it was to dress lier up and make her a
lady, so much the better for her. I wish
somebody would take us all three away and
do just the same.'

You've no spirit, Lofty. Of course it's
your poor back. But you've no spirit.'

Melenda put on her hat and went downstairs
into the streets. She always finished the day
in this manner. After fifteen hours of sewing
in one room and in one position it is necessary
to get change and fresh air. Therefore two
of the girls roamed the streets, making of
Hoxton Street and Pitfield Street and the City
Road and Old Street their boulevard from nine
o'clock or so until twelve. The society of the
streets is mixed ; things are said in them which
in other circles are left unsaid ; but there is
life and a faint semblance of joy, and some
kind of laughter and light and fresh air.
Melenda passed through the children playing
in Ivy Lane, and the groups of mothers
standing about and talking together, and
turned into Hoxton Street. She avoided for
once the crowd on the pavement, and trudged
along in the road behind the costers' carts,
for it is a street where they hold perpetual

market. When lie came to the end of
Hoxtou Street she walked on till she came
to the briclo'e over the canal. It is a strange
place. The water lies below black and rather
terrible. Melenda had heard legends of girls
throwing themselves into that black water
when they were tired of things. There is
generally visible a baro'c with its liiiht and its
fire. To night the girl's brain, as she leaned
over the parapet, was full of tnmnlt. Her own
sister had come back to her, and she had
driven her away with shameful words and
insults. To be sure she had long forgotten the
very existence of her sister. Perhaps, from
time to time, she thought of her as one thinks
of an old playmate gone away years ago to
Australia or to the Western Lands, never to
return. But she had come back — the little
Polly — transformed into a young lady, and
Melenda had used hard words.

It Alas nearly midnight when she got home.
A few of the children were still in the court,
but they were sitting on the doorstep, and
some of them asleep : these were the children
who were afraid to go upstairs because father
was drunk and not yet gone to sleep. A few

women were still talking, but most had gone
home and to bed. One or two of the mai
were singing or roaring or crying, according
to their habits dien drunk ; but not many,
because it was Monday night, which is generally
a sober time. In the room on the first floor
iron Liz was in bed and sound asleep. Lofty
was lying on her back, watching and waiting.

Melenda,' she whispered, ' they were beautiful
young ladies. They meant to be kind.
Don't make them cry if they come again

There oughtn't to have been but one,' said
Melenda severely. ' Go to sleep this minute,
Lottie. Polly wasn't twins.'

CHAPTER Iii.

AFTER MELENDA.

In the evening of the same day Lady Mildred
was at home. Claude's acquittance with
society was limited, as may be supposed. He
who is climbing must wait until he has reached
the higher levels before he can think of society.
Such an evening as this, with the musical
laughter of girls, the continuous murmur of
talk, the brightness of the rooms, the atmosphere
of happiness and freedom from care,
just as if everything was real, solid, and
abiding, and everybody was young and happy,
and was going to remain young and happy,
filled Claude with a kind of intoxication and
delight, and to-night he could admire his sister
in one of these two girls with a sense of wonder
as if it was a dream. His life had been serious
the life of one who had no chance except to
succeed by his own efforts. Society, which has

no serious aims, holds no place for such a man
until he has succeeded : women hold no place
in such a man's life until he has got up to a
certain elevation.'

What are you thinking of, Claude ? ' Valentine
asked him.

I was thinking of contrasts and incongruities,'
he replied.

The contrast of the afternoon with the
evening. Yes. But if you cannot forget
those things, you will begin to think that weare
mocking at misery. What would Melenda
think and say if she were to stand among ii
suddenly ? '

One can hardly imagine,' Claude laughed,
anything more incongruous.'

I suppose she would ask us how we could
possibly feel happy on the very day when we
had seen her home and her friends. And I
am sure she would not understand how we
could sino; and lauofh and vet not dorset her or
cease to think of her. Society must have its
incongruities — I suppose, because we must hide
away so much of ourselves.'

At the other end of the room was Violet
in the middle of a group, talking with bright

eyes and apparently the lightest heart in the
world.

Violet had a hysterical fit when we came
home this afternoon,' Valentine whispered.
Melenda was too much for her. Yet lie puts
on a brave face, and nobody would suspect the
truth '

With her — one of her group — was Jack
Conyers. As Valentine crossed the room with
Claude he glanced quickly from Violet to
Valentine and then to Claude.

Strange ! The girls were not only like
each other, but they both looked like Claude.
It was the first opportunity Conyers had obtained
since hearing of Claude's relations with
Lady Mildred's daughters of making a comparison
between the girls and their brother.
Surely, with the portrait of Sir Lancelot at
five-and-twenty, gazing upon the room from
the wall ; with Lady Mildred herself, present
in the flesh ; with the two girls, and with
Claude their brother, there should be data
enough to solve the problem easily. Jack
Conyers, however, like everybody else who
attempted a solution of the riddle, forgot one
essential thing. It is this : if two girls are

brought up together from childhood in exactly
the same way, with the same education, the
same food, the same governors, pastors, and
masters, and are kept apart from other girls,
and are dressed alike, they may grow very
much like each other ; little points of resemblance
may become accentuated. Chinamen,
for instance, who are a very gregarious people,
present to the outward world millions of faces
all exactly alike. Old married people are
often observed to have grown like each other ;
and if you look at a girls' charity school, where
they live all together under one roof, and are
subjected to exactly the same rules and influences,
you will find that they certainly grow
to have the same face.

There is, for instance, a certain Reformatory
of my acquaintance in a London suburb. The
young ladies belonging to this institution are
marched in procession to church every Sunday.
As they pass along the road, the admiring
bystander becomes presently aware that they
are all exactly alike. It is bewildering until
philosophy lends its light. For the girls are
like so many sisters : here a dozen twins ; here
a triplet or two ; here more twins. Some are

older, some are younger ; but they are all of
one family — they are apparently of one father
and one mother. The Reformatory face is
striking, but by no means pleasing. It looks,
in fact, as if Monsieur ]e Diable has had more
to do with the girls' fathers or mothers, or both,
than with other people's fathers and mothers.

]Neo doubt it was due to the nineteen years
of close association and friendship that Valentine
and Violet had grown so much alike, and
Mr. Conyers, had lie been wise, would have
looked for points of dissimilarity rather than of
resemblance. But this he did not think of.
Besides, the young ladies were not like the
models who came to his studio : they did not sit
to him ; lie could only study their faces furtively.

T]iey both look like Claude too,' Jack
Conyers thought, with troubled brow. * First
one looks like him, and then the other. If
only they wouldn't dress their hair exactly
alike, there misrht be a chance.'

Other eyes besides his own were curiously
watching and comparing Claude with the two
girls, for some of the people knew that the
brother of one was present, and there was a
natural anxiety to know which he resembled

and what sort of a young man he was. Seeing
that he was only the son of a working man, it
was rather disappointing to find a young man
of good manners and excellent appearance,
reported to be a Fellow of Trinity who had
distinguished himself, and was now called to
the Bar. Except that the face was somewhat
like the faces of the girls, cast like theirs in the
oval mould, there was nothing at first sight to
connect him with one girl more than with the
other. So that everybody was disappointed
and went empty away.

Presently Valentine sang. She had a strong
and full contralto voice, which had been carefully
trained and cultivated. And lie had,
besides, the heart of the musician. But she
would not sing more than once.

Claude,' Violet whispered, when the singing
ceased, ' can you sing ? '

Not at all. I have no voice.'

Nor have I. That is one point of resemblance
between us. Is it part of our inheritance?
No voice and no fortune. Of course
you can paint and draw ? '

No. I can hardly hold a pencil, and I
never tried to paint.'

Oil ! That is very strange, because it is
the only thing I can do at all. In that
respect Valentine is like you. I suppose you
cannot embroider ? I am clever in embroidery.'

No, unfortunately. But I can make Latin
and Greek verses : that is perhaps a branch of
embroidery.'

If you could make English verses I would
claim this as a point of resemblance. Are you
clever at sums ? '

Sto, not very.'

Oh ! I am sorry, because I am. Now
Valentine can never add anything correctly.
Are you — tidy ? '

No, not at all.'

I am so glad, because I am the most
untidy person in the world, and Valentine is the
neatest. Her room is like a ship's cabin. Arc
you fond of dogs and animals ? '

• Not very.'

What a pity ! because I am ; and I have
the most lovely dogs at home — in the country
you know. I would not let the poor things
come to town. But Valentine does not
care much for them. Do you like music ? '

Yes ; but I cannot play.'

Well, I can play, I suppose, but Valentine
is really a musician, not an amateur. Well,
Claude, this is most exasperating, because one
moment you are like Valentine and the next
you are like me. Is there anything else that
you can do ? '

I know one or two modern languages
and a little law. And I can row a little,
play cricket a little, play tennis a little '

We can play lawn-tennis too. Claude,'
she lowered her voice ac^ain — ' never mind
the points of resemblance. But, oh 1 it was
a truly dreadful afternoon. My poor
brother ! '

What she meant was that if she, in one
interview, found Melenda so unspeakably
dreadful, what must be his own feelings about
her when he had always known her ?

As for me,' he replied, intelligently answering
her unspoken question, ' Melenda has always
been my sister. I am used to her. But of
course she has not been yours.'

Spare us another interview, Claude. I
am selfish, I know. But I cannot bear to go
there again — just yet.'

Yoti shall not go again unless you wish

Violet. I am afraid she was — well — outspoken.'


She was — unspeakable.'

This was true, and the fact is a sufficient
excuse for the silence of history as regards her
actual words. History, like schoolmaster Sam
in his class-room, is perpetually wiping out
something with a sponge. Also, like Sam, History
has a board as black as Erebus itself to
write upon.

Yes ; ' it was Jack Conyers' voice, which
was not loud lout penetrating, and he was
talking with Valentine. ' Yes ; since I sav
you in Florence I have been irresistibly forced
to devote myself Vvdiolly to Art. Such other
personal ambitions as I may have cherished are
now altogether abandoned.'

Indeed ! But there is nothing more delightful
than Art, Mr. Conyers, or more honourable,
is there ? '

I shall hope to see you and your sister in
my studio some happy day. Miss Valentine.
My picture will not be completed and ready
for exhibition for three or four years more.
But my friends will be allowed to see it in progress.'


I hope we sliiill see it in the Academy or
the Grosvenor.'

He 2)iit lip his hands and shuddered
gently.

'Not that,' he murmured; 'anything but
that;

Chide,' said Yiolet, ' that is the man who
paid us so much attention hist winter in
Florence. He really was very useful to us ; and
he divided his attentions equally, you see, so as
to prevent mistake.'

'What mistake?'

Why, you silly boy, he might have made
love to Polly instead of to Beatrice. He has
had ten minutes with Valentine, and now he
will come to me. Do you believe in him ? '

I knew him at Cambridge. We thought
he was clever.'

He talks perpetually al)out himself, as if he
very much wished to be thought clever ; and
- — I don't know — but there does not seem
always the right ring about him. Does there ?
He isn't real.'

Presently Claude's turn came with Lady
Mildred. She was always gracious — always a
gr ancle dame de par le monde — but lie had

VOL. T. N

never been more gracious or greater than that
evening, when she found her opportunity to say
a few words for his own ear.

Do you remember, Claude,' she asked him,
a certain day twelve years ago when I took
you to the opera, and told you that if you wished
you could take your own place among the
people you saw there ? '
'I remember all that you ever told me,
Lady Mildred.'

Well, the time has come ; you may take
your place. I will, if you please, place you in
as good a set as anyone can desire. It helps a
young man to be seen occasionally in society.'

I have never thought much of society.
My ambition has always been to justify '

I know it has, Claude. You have more
than justified what was done for you at first.
Otherwise, should I have made you known to
your sister ? '

But you allowed me to take them to '

Yes, Claude. Your sister ought to know
her relations. She need not associate with
them unless she pleases. Perhaps she would
not quite appreciate you unless she understood
what you had done. I want her to be proud
of you, Claude.'

Thank you,' he said.

You think — you feel — that success and
personal distinction will satisfy your soul,
Claude ? '

'Why,' he replied, wondering, 'what else
is there ? We are all fighting for place of some
kind, and I am fighting for a front place.'

'And you think you will be happy when
you get til at place ? '

I am sure that nothing else will make me
happy. Why do you ask. Lady Mildred ? '

Be happy, my dear boy, in any way you
can. Only do not be quite sure that there is
no other ambition possible for you.'

Claude walked away with Conyers about
midnight. His friend was not quite satisfied.
He had not discovered anything, and he
doubted whether he had made it quite certain
that he was going to be a great painter.

Well,' he said, ' have you learned anything
yet — the truth about these young ladies?
That is, if it is not a secret of state.'

Not a secret of state at all. Only that we
do not know. Lady Mildred will tell us when
she pleases.'

They smoked their cigarettes in silence fora
while.

Jack,' said Claude, after a pause, ' about
that girl — the girl you were talking about —
you know — the girl with the eyes and the
possible face — the girl you talked of making
your model.'

I remember. What about her ? '
Don't do it, Jack. Let the girl stay. I
have been quite lately among girls of her
class. Such a girl might very well be my own
sister. Leave her alone, Jack.'

My dear fellow, out of half a million girls
but have it your own way. There are plenty
of models, though not many with such eyes.
But have it your own way. As if any girl
could be harmed by devoting herself to the
service of Art ! '

Yes,' said Claude, ' the same thing used to
be said in Cyprus when they wanted a girl to
devote herself to the service of Aphrodite.'

If the girl would sit to me I would paint
her. That is all. But you are quite right,
Claude. It would be a pity to turn her head.
She shall stay with her friends and go on with
her sewing, so far as I am concerned.'

CHAPTER VIII.

ALICIA.

Well, Jack, as yoii have not thoiiglit fit to
call upon me, I have come to call upon you.'

His visitor was a woman no longer in her
first youth, but not yet much past thirty ; of an
age when one begins to say of a woman that
she still keeps her good looks — a handsome
woman, large-limbed and tall, with full cheek
and smiling mouth ; a good-tempered woman,
yet one who knew her own mind and had her
own way. And tliougli she laughed, her eyes
had a look in them which made Jack, who felt
guilty, wish that the visit was over.

'Thank you,' he said. 'It has been very
rude of me, but I have been o^ettinc^ settled.
You know that I have at last taken a studio.'

'Eeally! You may call me Alicia, you
know, Jack, just as you used to do. I am glad
to hear that you have begun to do some work.'

'I have begun my Work.' There is a
subtle distinction between beginning to work
and beginning one's Work.

Oh ! And — meanwhile, Jack ? '
He met those eyes and blushed.
Meanwhile ? ' she repeated. ' A man can't
make himself an independent gentleman quite
for nothing, and you've been playing that game
now for live years. And a man can't make
money by painting, unless he is mighty lucky,
all at once. Therefore, meanwhile, Jack, and
until the money begins to come in ? '

What do you mean ? ' But he knew very
well what she meant, because this lady knew
all his family history and the exact amount of
the fortune — a very little one — with which he
had started, and it was no use making pretences
with her : very few women are so considerate
with men as to help them along with their
little pretences.

I mean, how are you going to live ? '

Like the sparrows, I suppose — somehow.'

Sparrows don't belong to clubs, and

haven't a taste for claret, and don't pay a

hundred and twenty pounds a year for rent.

Stow, I'm not going to let you take any of

their money from the girls —-they've got little
enough, Lord knows.'

I do not propose to rob m}^ sisters, Alicia.'
Then you will be wanting money very
badly indeed before long. Besides, you never
will make any by honest work. You can't
paint, Jack, that is the truth, and you never
will be able. What is the use of deceiving
I didn't live eight years with my
poor old man without learning something
about pictures. Look here, now.' She took
up one of the small portraits on the mantelshelf.
' Here's a thing ! Yours, of course.
Here's flesh — like putty ! The eyes are not
straight, and there's no more feeling about the
lips than — well — and the worst of it is, you'll
never learn. My old man wouldn't have given
you half a crown for such a thing. No, you'll
never learn, for your only chance is to begin
at the bottom of the ladder, where everybody
must begin. But you're too conceited for that.
Oh ! you're a genius, I know, and painting
comes by nature, we all know that.'

Jack reddened with anger. But he answered
mildly, because for many reasons he
could not quarrel with this plain-speaking lady.

'Eeally, Alicia, you carry the license of
old friendship too far

Not a bit too far, Jack. It does you good
to hear the truth, Who was this girl whose
head you've got here? I seem to know her
face. Some model, I suppose. She sat to you
and you paid her a few francs, and now you've
stuck her over your mantelpiece for your
friends to see, and you pretend she was
in love with you, and you brag about your

conquests ' A cruelly truthful woman,

because that Alas just exactly what Jack had
done. Men like Jack Conyers always do this
kind of thing. ' Pretty conquests ! '

Did you come here, Alicia, on purpose to
insult and wound me ? '

Not on purpose. But I certainly came to
have it out with you.'

She sat down, as if to contemplate the
situation.

Patience has limits, Jack, I warn you. It
may seem to you easy as well as honourable to
look out for a better match in society, and to
throw me over if you succeed. Well, I don't
think you will succeed. For you see, not
many ladies, old or young, in society have got

two thousand a year. And what have you got
to offer them in exchange for their money,
because they are not likely to give themselves
away for nothing ? If you haven't got fortune
or family or brains, what have you got ?
Pretence — pretence of genius — sham and pretence.
It's too thin. Jack. It won't stand
washing. Besides, things will have to come
out. Fancy your having to confess the little
facts you have put away so carefully ! Nobody
in society cares where you come from so long
as you can behave yourself and amuse people.
All they want is to be amused ; but when it
comes to marrying, questions will be asked, my
dear boy — will have to be answered too.
Don't look so savage. Jack. Your father
wasn't much, was he? And mine wasn't ina
very lofty social position, was he ? And my
poor dear old man made his business in the
picture-dealing line, didn't he ? But then, you
see, I don't pretend.'

• I suppose it is not a crime to desire social
position,' said the young man humbly. ' I did
not say I was trying to marry anybody. Can't
I desire social position and success in my Art? '

Desire away, Jack ; desire as nuich as

you like. But how, meanwhile, I ask again,
are you going to live? And how long do
you think I shall let you play most and loose
with me ? This kind of thing will net continue
for ever.'

Jack muir cured that he had no wish at all
to play fast and loose with her.

Look here,, then,' she said, ' I will meet
you half way. I will give you the rest of the
summer. Have your fling ; have youL^ shy
at an heiress. The season is nearly over. I
won't give you longer than the summer. Then
you must come back to me for good or not
at all.'

Jack made no reply. I think, however,
that in his heart he was grateful both for the
length of the rope and the chance at the end
of it.

I know exactly what kind of life you
desire. Your name sounds good, and you want
to be thought of a good old family. You could
hide the family shop, because the name wasn't
over the door, and you lived at Stockwell.
You want to be thought a man of great
refinement, and you want to be thought a
genius.'

You can say what you like in these rooms,
AHcia.'

I know I can. You also want all the
solid comforts. As for them, I can give them
to you : and some of the other things as well.
You shall pretend to be a genius, if you like
I'm sure, I don't care what you pretend.
I'll give you an allowance to keep up appearances
with — as for its extent, that will
depend on your behaviour — yes ' — for Jack's
face showed a disposition to be restive —
married women's property is their own
nowadays, remember.'

Oh ! keep your property.'

'You shouldn't have made love to me.
Jack, a year ago, unless you intended to hear
the truth.'

'You certainly make the most of your
privilege.'

Oh ! Jack, you have always been such a
tremendous humbug'. You were a humus
dien you were a boy and used to brag about
the great things you meant to do, and all the
time the other boys walking past you easily.
Then, you must become a gentleman, and must
needs go to Cambridge and spend most of your

little fortune there, pretending all the time that
your father wasn't '

That is quite enough, Alicia ! '

Why, Jack, weren't the two shops side by
side, your father's and mine ? And didn't we
go to church together ? And didn't we go to
the theatre together ? And didn't you tell me
everything ? Wh}^ shouldn't we speak plain,
you and me ? When I married my poor dear
old man, didn't I promise and vow that you
and me should continue friends ? You, a great
man ! You, a great genius ! Oh no ! But
you can look the part, and that is something,
isn't it ? Good-bye, my dear boy. I don't
like you so well as when you were a boy and
made us laugh with your conceit, being always
as conceited as Old Nick. Come and have
dinner with me to night. I won't interfere
with your heiress-hunting. Nobody but yourself,
and a bottle of the poor old man's best
claret. Good-bye, Jack. Dinner at half-past
six sharp.'

She lingered a moment and looked at the
three portraits again. Then she burst into a
loud laugh, Natural, long, and hearty : ' Don
Juan ! Conqueror of hearts ! Oh ! we poor

women, how he makes our hearts bleed ! I
thought I knew the face. Why, I know them
all three now. And, Jack, it is really too thin.
Every picture dealer knows them. I've got
'em all at home. This one is a Frenchwoman,
and sits in Paris. She's been Cleopatra and
Ninon Longclothes, and anything else you
please ; and this is an Italian creature who's
Venus coming out of the sea or a Nymph
bathing — we've got her in both characters on
the staircase wall. The Venus was put up at a
hundred, but my old man never got his price.
And the third sits for a Spanish girl, with a
guitar, you know — which is stale business now
peeping behind a lattice or kneeling in church.
Oh ! Jack, Jack, what a terrible humbug you
are ! '

CHAPTEE IX.

SAM.

There remained Sam.

After the embarrassments alreacl}^ twice
caused by the introduction of the Duplicate
Polly, Claude thought it would be best to
explain beforehand. He did this, therefore, by
letter, and invited her brother to meet the
doubtful sister in his own chambers on the
Sunday morning.

Sam accepted, but without enthusiasm.
He already had one sister of whom he was
ashamed, because she remained in poverty.
Very likely the other would be just like her
and an additional clog on his own respectability.
Sam was one of that numerous tribe
which dislikes the family clog. Claude, in his
letter, spoke of the new sister as a young lady,
but then the word Lady in these days of
equality covers so wide an area. This is quite

right, because, why should a title so gracious
and beautiful be limited to the House of Peers
and the narrow class of Armio-eri ?

Yet, everybody must not use it : it lias still
a distinctive meaning ; it has a lover limit,
except in the mind of the omnibus conductor,
who employs it as a synonym for Madame.
Melenda, for instance, Alas below that limit.
She could be properly described as a Young
Girl, which is the general name for the workwoman
in youth, but no one would think of
calling her a young lady. One who is employed
in a shop ; one who has been called to
the Inner Bar ; one who is in the ballet ; one
who is in the Front with the playbills, may bea
young lady : but not a work-girl. Sam very
naturally concluded that his other sister — the
young lady — would be following such occupation,
and he saw no reason for joy at the new
addition to the family circle. But he was not
unkind : it was only natural, after all, that
Polly, on returning to the family circle, should
wish to see the brother who had so greatly distinguished
himself : the fame and rumour of his
own rise had, no doubt, reached her wondering
ears : a man's relations only really begin to rally

rouiK.l him when he lias shown how strong and
tough and brave he is. Sara promised, therefore,
to give up a portion of his Sunday morning
to family affection. He kept that promise,
and when he arrived in King's Bench Walk he
found the girls waiting for Mm.

He was not, however, prepared for the
sight of two young ladies, the like of whom he
had never before encountered, either for appearance,
or for dress, or for manners. They do
not make girls, at least not many girls, after
this pattern in Haggerston, where Sam's school
is situated.

One of these young ladies, Sam,' said
Claude, ' is your sister, but, as I have already
told you, we do not know which.'

Sam looked from one to the other, reddening
and confused. Their eyes did not say, ' Is
this the great and distinguished Sam ? ' Not
at all : their expression conveyed another question,
which he was quite sharp enough to read,
namely, ' What will Sam be like ? ' One after
the other gave him her hand, which Sam accepted
with a pump-handle movement, saying
to each, ' How de do ? ' just as if they had met
after only a week's absence. Then he recovered,

in some sort, the sense of himself and
his own greatness, and he thought of the awe
which lie was doubtless inspiring, though the
girls concealed it. Yet he was fain to mop his
face with a pocket-handkerchief, and he said
it was a hot morning, and in his agitation he
dropped the aspirate, about which he was
sensitive, because his owen was the only aspirate
to be found in all Haggerston except in church,
and he mopped his face again. Then he found
a chair and sat down. In this position he
immediately rallied and stuck his thumbs into
his waistcoat armholes. This is not the most
graceful attitude possible for a man, but it
suited Sam better than some others would have
done. He could not, for instance, stand, like
Claude, with no support or background ; nor
could he lean gracefully over a mantelshelf.
He wanted an attitude which should convey a
sense of strength and of complete self-satisfaction.


You don't know which is Polly, Claude ? '
he asked, looking from one to the other as if
they had been a pair of lay figures. ' Well,
I'm sure I can't remember. Sever mind, my

VOL. I. o

dears,' he added, with a reassuring nod, ' I'll
call you both my sisters.'

Claude had used almost the same words,
but somehow the effect produced was different.
Violet turned away her eyes and Valentine
gravely inclined her head.

Sam, as regards the outer man, which
people insist on taking in evidence as regards
the unseen soul, was stout and strongly built,
with square shoulders. He was under the
middle height, and his legs, if one must speak
the truth, were short and curly. This is considered
to be a sign of strength, though it is the
line of beauty in the wrong place. His face as
well as his legs showed strength ; his forehead
was broad and square ; his sharp eyes were set
back under thick red eyebrows ; his coarse red
hair rose from his forehead like a cliff; his nose,
if short, was also broad ; his mouth was firm,
and his chin square. Never was there a
stronger or more determined-looking young
man. Never, certainly, if attitude and expression
go for anything, was a young man more
self-sufficient.

'You heard, of course,' he said, amiably,
how your brother had got on in the world,

and then you naturally wanted to see him.
Well, here I am. Only don't look to me for a
shove up. Everybody for himself, I say.'

We will not ask anyone for a " shove up," '
said Violet, ' even though we do belong to the
poor."

The poor ? ' Sam started in his chair and
turned red. ' What do you mean by the poor ?
You belong to the working class, not the poor.
The poor ? Why, you are the great backbone
of the country.'

Am I ? ' Violet replied. ' Then if all the
country has to depend upon '

The mainstay and support of the nation,'
Sam continued. 'Don't let me hear you call
the working class the poor again. One would
think you came out of the Union.'

I am told that people in very high place are
positively ignorant of rank in the middle class,
and actually regard the general practitioner's
lady as of no higher position than the wife of
the leading draper, and the Vicar's young
ladies as occupying the same level as the
auctioneer's daughters. In the same way it is
difficult to understand that there is rank and
position among working people ; so that before



one gets to the Poor, properly so called, one
has to go very far down. They are, in fact,
like the Each who continually recede the more
one advances, so that one begins to suspect that
there are no Each left in this Realm of England.

Very likely I did come ont of the Union,'
Violet replied, desperately. Was there no
graciousness among the Monument family ?
Why should we not come out of the Union .^ '

As for that,' Sam continued, ' I suppose you
know nothing about your own family. I
always said it was folly letting a girl be
brought up by her natural enemies.'

Why,' asked Valentine, ' why her natural
enemies P '

Of course, you know nothing. Who are
the enemies of the working man unless it's the
people who live upon him Answer me that.
What have your friends done for their living —
eh ? Answer me that.' He became suddenly
quite fierce, and looked exactly like Melenda.
His eyes glowed like hers, and he turned upon
Valentine almost wrathfully. ' Of course you've
been taught to look down upon the working
classes and call them the Poor, and that you
must be good to the Poor. Why, look at the

way you're dressed. Should a decent workingman's
sister go about with gold chains and silk
frocks and kid gloves ? '

'You see, Val,' said Violet to Valentine,
Joe told us the same thing. We shall both
have to dress like Melenda.'

Joe isn't a fool,' said Sam, ' though he's
ignorant.'

Pray tell us all the faults you have to find
with us,' said Valentine. ' If we know what
they are, we may correct them. We have certainly
been taught kindness to poor people, and
we have not been taught to despise workingmen.
But go on.'

I don't want to hind fault with you,'
Sam replied, more gently, ' only for luxury
and laziness and living on other people's
labour.'

You read about the luxury and laziness in
your papers, my brother,' said Claude. He had
been standing in the window looking on without
remark. ' Always verify your facts, Sam.
I am sure you will not object to that rule.
Ask them what they have learned. You will
find that their record ot* work is as good,
perhaps, as your own.'

Yes, I know : learning to play music and
to read French and paint and make pretty
things and to dress up fine. Well, I don't say
it is your faults. You can't help it. I hear
you've been to see my mother and you've set
her back up ; and you've seen Joe, and he wants
to know what it means, and what you're going todo
— whichever of you it is — for a living when
her ladyship is tired of you. And you've seen
Melenda, and she flew out, being driven most
out of her wits by hard work and being always
hungry. And now you've seen me.'

Yes,' said Violet. This young lady really
could convey more meaning in a single word
than others can in fifty. ' Yes.'

Claude's eyes brightened and Valentine
looked anxious. But Sam observed nothing.
Half tones were in fact lost upon him.

Yes, now you've seen me. All the rest of
them are proud of me, and I'm proud of
myself.'

I dare say,' said Valentine, because Violet
smiled, which might be considered an aggressive
movement. ' I dare say we shall be proud
of you as we are of Claude when we know
you.'



Of Claude ? ' Sam snorted, and drew this
feet under his chair. ' As proud as you are of
Claude ? Why, do you know what I am ? '
He swelled out his chest and squared his
elbows. ' Do you know what I am ? I'm the
Master of a Board School. Do you know what
that means ? '

Sam has every reason to be proud,' said
Claude. ' When he was only a boy he resolved
on making himself a master in a school, and he
has done it. He taught himself mostly ; I have
been t audit.'

Sam then proceeded to give a short sketch of

his own progress, showing how he had scaled

Alps, levelled great rocks, crossed mighty floods,

in his single-handed struggle. The story lost

nothing by being told by the hero. Few stories

do, which you may prove by referring to the

pages of any contemporary biography. ' And for

the future,' he concluded, ' remember that you

will have to deal with the Schoolmaster. The

working men are the masters of the country,

and we are the masters of the working men.

I—

They are looking to us already. We are going
to be their leaders.'

The House of Commons,' said Claude, ' will

shortly be composed entirely of elementary
schoolmasters.'

As soon as members are paid,' Sam replied,
there will be a good many. And the more the
better. The time has come when you must
have men in the House who know something
not Latin and Greek, mind, but something
useful. What geography do they know, now ?
Nothing at all. With English possessions and
colonies all over the world, the members
know nothing of geography. There isn't a
Sixth Standard boy who wouldn't be ashamed
of the way they talk and the blunders they
make. What do they know about trade and
manufactures ? Nothing. What do they know
about the working man ? Nothing. As for
us, we do know him.'

Do you influence him much .^ ' asked
Violet, innocently, so that I do not know
what it was that made Valentine look
alarmed.

Not so much as we would. They won't
let us teach him the truth at school. The Code
won't let us — they know very well why.
We've got to waste the time teaching him
things that will never be any use to him, such as

spelling. What's the good of spelling to a man
who never writes? And if you do write,
what's the odds to a working man Avhcther he
spells right or wrong? But we must not teach
the rights of humanity. We mustn't tell the
boys anything about them. It would be
difficult to examine for a grant in the Eights
of Man, wouldn't it? and dangerous for some
of the Committee of Council. But we know
what the working men want and what they
mean to have.'

Tell us what do they mean to have,' said
Valentine.

What's the use ? ' It was curious to
mark how Sam's rugged face leaped suddenly
into rage and even ferocity, and then as suddenly
dropped into gentleness. He was quite
gentle now, as he answered, looking with a
sort of pity upon a creature so beautiful, so
dainty, and so unfit for the stern realities of
life.

What's the use ? ' he said. ' You are a
young lady now and you belong to our enemies.
What's the use of frightening you ? Go
home and enjoy yourself and eat and drink.'

But tell us,' she persisted.

'I think we had better go home— and eat
and drink,' said Violet.

Sam thinks his own opinions are those of
all the working men,' said Claude. ' It is not
unusual when people think strongly. Tell
them your opinions, Sam.'

They are not my opinions only,' said Sam ;
don't think it. Well, if you ain't afraid, I
am going to tell you just exactly what we
mean to do — I and my friends — with you and
your friends. You don't know and you don't
suspect : it's just the same ignorance that was
in France before the Eevolution. One or two
suspected what was coming, but most thought
everything was going on for ever just the
same. Very well. Don't you girls go away
and say afterwards that you were left in
ignorance. Go home and tell your friends
that the working men of this country are going
to have a Eepublic at last ; not what your
friends think and call a Eepublic, but the real
thing. In a real Eepublic every man nuit be
equal, so we shall of course abolish the Lords
and all titles and privileged classes. As for
the land, it belongs to the people ; so we shall
take the land and it shall be cultivated for the



nation. And if anybody wants to be a priest,
he may if he likes, after his day's work ; for of
course we shall disestablish the Church and
take over Church property of all the churches
for the good of the State. There shall be in
our Eepublic no lazy parsons and ministers
living on the people ; and there shall be no
lawyers, because there will be free justice, and
every man may have his case heard for nothing
by a jury, and juries will sit every day if they
are wanted. There will be no masters, employers,
or capitalists, but equal wages for all
and the same hours of work, with extra rations
for those who have got children to support.
There will be free education ; there will be no
idlers ; everybody will be a working man.
We shall take over all the railways, abolish the
National Debt and the local debts. There will
be no tradesmen, because the State — that is,
the People — will keep the stores and distribute
food and clothing. There will be no rates or
taxes, because there will be no money, and
labour will ])c the only coin, and everybody
will pay his share by his own labour. There
will be annual parliaments sitting every day
all the year round, and nobody allowed to

speak for more than five minutes. There will
be, of course, manhood suffrage.'

Will women vote ? ' asked Violet.

Certainly not,' Sam replied, with decision.
Women can't govern. Besides, they can't be
trusted to work for the public good : they
would want private property restored, and
they'd set up a church and try to ix things so
that their own sons should have nothing to do.
Women haven't got any sense of justice.'

Delightful,' said Violet. ' I was afraid I
might be called upon to assist in governing.'

Pray go on,' said Valentine.

There will be plenty for all and no luxury.
There will be no saving money, because there
weill be no money to save, and everybody will
have to work, whether he likes it or not, until
he is sixty, and then he will be maintained by
the State. All buying and selling will be in
the hands of the State. The great houses will
be turned into museums ; the private parks
will be either cultivated or turned into public
gardens. Now, do you begin to understand ? '

I think I do,' said Valentine. ' When is
all this to be begun ? '

I don't know. Perhaps in a year or two

perhaps in ten years. We are educating the
people. We shall try to keep back those who
want to act at once initial everybody has been
taught our principles.'

Sam is a Socialist,' Claude explained. ' I
ought to have told you that before you came.'

Why, listen to this.' Sam was thoroughly
roused by this time. ' Here are facts for you.
Claude can't deny this.' He sprang to his feet
and stood over Valentine with flaming eyes,
breathing like a bull, and hammering his facts
into the palm of his left hand with the most determined
forefinger ever seen. ' Look at this.
. .' Here followed an avalanche of facts.
What, I say, have the capitalist and the landlord
done that they should get seventy per cent,
of the working man's harvest ? When our men
are in they will get the whole for themselves.
Talk of compensation ! Do you compensate a
pickpocket when you take the purse out of his
hands? Vested rights Eights of robbery.
We shall take all — land, houses, wealth, and
all — and we shall give them to the People, to
whom they belong.'

By this time the indignation of the prophet
had touched his lips With fire, and he went onto

arraio^ii the class of those who have great
possessions with extraordinary vehemence and
passion, and prophesied their overthrow, like
another EzekieL Violet looked on and wondered,
thinking how very much he resembled
Melenda. Valentine looked on and wondered,
because up to that time she had only heard
vaguely of the extreme wickedness of the
wealthy class, and because she could not understand
at all how they were so wicked, or why
they were going to be so dreadfully punished,
or what this new world of the Socialist would
be like. She was reassured by the attitude of
Claude, who still stood at the window gravely
listening' but without the least assent in his
face or emotion in his grave eyes.

And now you know,' Sam concluded,
something of what is coming, not in this country
only, but everywhere. Oh! yes: in the
United States, which they pretend to be a land
of freedom, and it's a worse country for the
working man than this, even. Perhaps it will
come there first ; and in France, which they
pretend to be a Eepublic — a fine Eepublic ! —
and in Germany and Russia, where they don't
pretend to anything but despotism, kept up with

millions of bayonets for the luxury of the privileged
class. Then there shall be no more riches
and no more poverty, no more rich and no more
poor, no more luxury and no more starvation.
If you are wise you will come over to us at
once.' He seized Valentine's hand and held it
tightly. ' Come out of it, I say, before the house
falls down about your ears. Some declare that it
is going to be a bloodless revolution, but I know
better. There is too much to lose — money
and rank and state and the easy life. Oh ! yes
the easy life. They won't give these things
up without a fight ; they will fight to the death
to defend their possessions. They will have all
the shopkeepers and the merchants and the professional
people on their side, and at first they
will have the soldiers. It will be the working
man against the world. It will be a o-reat and

o o

terrible strui^ole. There can be no Eevolution
it isn't in the nature of things — without
fighting and rivers of blood. Come over to us,
you two. I don't care which of you is my
sister ; you may both call yourselves Polly if
you like, and I'll stand by you both. But leave
Claude and leave your friends and come over
to us.'

How shall we live if we do ? ' asked
Valentine.

'We will find something for you. Not
button-holes to sew, like Melenda's work, but
something that a decent girl can do. You've
been educated, I suppose, in your finicking way.
You know something besides looking pretty
and putting on fine clothes. Perhaps it's not
too late for Board School teaching if you're
clever enough. You are the one for school-work
' — he indicated Valentine ; ' you wouldn't
be afraid, and you are strong. As for you-= '

What could I do ? ' asked Violet.

I don't know. You don't look fit for
much. V/ell, every girl can sew if you come
to the worst. But there ; you've heard what is
coming — the greatest Eevolution that the world
has ever seen, and the People to the front with
a rush. When that rush begins '

K good many will be carried off their legs,'
said Claude.

Sara made no reply. He had worked himself
up to the redit pitch and was now cooling
down. He was a little ashamed, too, because
Claude remained unmoved. As for the girls,
he had certainly succeeded in animating one

with his dream of the people, and frightening
the other by his vehemence. But he cared
nothing for that — anybody can work upon the
emotions of women. But Claude, who ought
to have argued with him or confessed himself
conquered, listened without the least sign of
being moved. Yet he listened with attention,
as if he had not heard it all a dozen times before.
He could not complain that he had not heard
the Socialist's arguments.

Sam went away. The courts of the Temple
were deserted. He thought of the coming
Millennium, when there should be no lawyers
at all, but Justice should be free. As these
courts were on that Sunday morning, so should
they be every morning, in the glorious future of
the Socialist, empty and untrodden, except by
the feet of the children playing in their gardens.
No more lawyers ! He had no personal experience
of lawyers, but yet his heart glowed
within him at the prospect of their suppression.
He passed under the cloisters beside the old
church. Through the open doors he heard the
rolling of the organ and the sweet pure voice
pf a boy who was singing a solo part in an

VOL. I. P

CHILDREN OF GIBEON

anthem of prayer and praise. The very sweetness
of the music irritated him, but he consoled
himself with the thought that religion would
shortly be entirely abolished, and that the sensitive
ears of such thinkers as himself should
no longer be annoyed with the singing of hymns.
The Templar' church would be as empty and
as deserted as the chambers and courts without.
He passed into Fleet Street. All the shops
were closed. Why, so it should be every morning
and all the year round as soon as his friends
were in power. Not a single shop should be
left. No more trade, no more masters, no
more buying and selling for profit. So, well
satisfied with the prospect, Sam went his
way.

In the evening there was to be a great
social gathering of a certain branch of the
Democratic Federation Union, at which some
of the members were going to perform a play,
and others were to sing and recite, and he
himself was to address the meeting. It was
going to be an occasion of some importance,
and Sam was only sorry that he had not invited
the two girls to be present. The evening
would have opened their eyes. And though

Sam professed to despise women, and was in
no hurry to hamper himself by marriage,
he did very well understand that the adhesion
of two such pretty and well-dressed girls to the
Cause, which is at present sadly to seek m the
matter of young ladies, would greatly stimulate
waverers and bring enthusiasm into the ranks.
There is no leader in the world like a girl, if
one can be found capable and courageous ; but
such a girl is rare.

You have heard Sam's creed,' said Claude ;
'he believes it, every word.'

After all,' said Violet, ' I can sew. Girls
can do so much.'

'And I,' said Valentine, 'can teach after
my finicking education. But, Claude, a world
with no poverty and no suffering '

Come,' said Violet, ' you must not even
talk of it, Val dear, or we shall have you going
over to the Socialists. Let us remain with our
natural enemies, and eat and drink as much as
we possibly can before we are drowned in
Sam's rivers of blood. Claude, you will come
to luncheon with us, won't you ? ' She heaved
a deep sigh, which expressed some hidden

p 2 *

emotion. 'We have now seen Sam. He lives
a long way off, does he not ? We shall see
him again, perhaps, when he is President of
the Socialist Eepublic and chopping off everybody's
head with tremendous energy.'

CHAPTEE X.

THE GREAT RENUNCIATION.

Blessed above their fellows are those who can
find relief for an overcharged mind by drawing
T do not mean the sweet copying of flower,
fern, and tall grass, but the drawing of faces,
heads, and figures, so that in times of oppression
and affliction one can caricature one's enemy by
representing him as a fool, an ass, a beast, a
fox, or a serpent. This is the reason why the
London School Board has thoughtfully introduced
drawing into the schools, so that work-girls
shall be enabled, in their after life, to find
some relief and consolation. In the rare
times of joy, in the same way, the multiplication
of one's friends' portraits increases one's delight,
and in times of doubt one can prevent the
subject from harassing the mind by drawing
likenesses of the personages concerned. Thus,
it was highly disagreeable to Violet to think

of Joe, with his grimy hands and smeared face
and working-man's garb, as perhaps her brother.
It was equally disagreeable for her to think
that he was perhaps Valentine's brother. She
drew him, therefore, in various positions, all
more or less ridiculous, but especially that
when he sat upon the table and grinned. This
greatly relieved her soul. In the same way
Sam, who was to her a much more objectionable
character, lost half his terrors when she had
drawn him triumphantly seated in the Revolutionary
Car of Juggernaut, or flourishing with
zeal an executioner's axe, or calmly cutting off
heads so as to make everybody the same size.
But she could not draw Melenda. There are
limits even to this artistic method of consolation.
Valentine had no such relief. Like Saul in
his trouble, she turned to music for consolation,
but found little. Joe and Ehoda and the
blind old lady and Sam were nothing. As
connections they were not, it is true, gentlefolk,
but they were such as anyone might possess
without either shame or pride. Nobody in
these days really thinks — though they may
pretend — any the better or any the worse of
a man for having brothers and cousins who

are carpenters or counts, baronets or bakers,
Consists or Baptists, Socialists or Need Republicans,
Mormons or Methodists, because a
man can no longer as in the good old days
acquire fame or notoriety or disgrace by
professing any trade or holding any form of
belief whatever, unless, indeed, one were to
go round with senators and boxes of whitish
paste, and profess himself a practical dynamite.
Sam was a very possible brother, and interesting
in his self-sufficiency, his conceit, and his
extreme views of politics. But besides Sam
and Joe, there Alas Melenda. For nearly
a week Valentine went about with a grisly
spectre always before her eyes — the spectre
of the workgirl, half-starved, over-worked,
resigned, in a rage, uncomplaining. When
Sam proclaimed his gospel of universal plenty,
she thought of the happy change it would
work for Melenda and her friends ; Avhen he
sat at dinner she thought of Melenda's cold tea
with bread-and-butter ; when she Event to her
own chamber at night, she saw before her
those three girls crouching together on their
miserable bed in the wretched room ; always
day and night there was present in her mind

that little group of sowing girls ; always the
hollow eyes of one gazed reproachfully at her
from the bed, saying, ' Why will you still
consent nie so ? What have 1 done ? ' and
the large heavy eyes of the other raised in
wonder that all women were not as she herself,
the uncared-for slave of manufacturers, born to
be expended in toil ; and the fierce eyes of the
third girl asking her how she dared in the
insolence of her own luxury and happiness to
mock the misery of her sister.

And then she made up a Scheme. No one
but Violet knew of it, and when Valentine
opened up the subject she first laughed at it
and then cried over it. Gautama himself did
not devise a more complete thing, so far as it
went. No self tormentor in Egyptian Laura
or Syrian desert or Galilean cave ever proposed
for himself a thing of greater discomfort.

And then she told Claude.

It is impossible,' he said at once, without
the least hesitation. Every really great scheme
is always declared impossible until it has been
carried out, when it is perceived to have been
a perfectly easy thing, and nothing to brag
about. Anybody might have done it.

Oh, Claude ! ' her face fell ; ' and I looked
forward so confidently to your help.'

Let us find some other way for you.'

There can be no other way. Don't you
see, Claude? There is my own sister — my
sister and yours. Think how she is living ;
think of her miserable days. I must go and
stay with her. I must help her. I dare say
she will try to drive me away. Very well. I
will not be driven away.'

But it is impossible, Valentine. You don't
know what it is you propose to do.'

The difficulties were in fact enormous. But
many enormous difficulties, when sliced, turnout
to be like the lions which faced Christian
with angry roar, and so much terrified that
greatly tried pilgrim. The lions are chained,
and can do no harm. Or they turn out to be
mere goblins, like those gruesome and shapeless
and nameless things which whispered horrible
suggestions into the pilgrim's ear when he was
nervously staggering along that Valley.

It is quite impossible, Valentine,' Claude
repeated. ' It would kill you. Their life is
not yours.'

I will make it mine. Oh, Claude ! I

thought I should have had your sympathy at
least.'

The tears stood in her eyes. All night long
she had been lying awake filled and possessed
by the thought. In the morning it only showed
fairer and more beautiful than in the night.

They are my own people, Claude.'

I do not know that. Besides, how are
you to live among them ? Will you stay with
my brother Joe ? or with my mother ? or with
Sam?'

jSfeither. I intend to live with Melenda,
or at least as close to her as can be managed.
Where she lives I can live.'

But you have seen that Melenda lives in
the very poorest way possible. Why, from a
single visit it is impossible even to realise how
poor and squalid is her life. Things that she
does not mind at all would be simply intolerable
to you.'

No, Claude. Whatever Melenda endures
I can endure.'

Claude shook his head.

And then the place, and the people, and
the language, and the drunkenness — oh, Valentine,
it is quite — quite impossible.'

Think less of the clifhciilties and more of
what I could do for our sister, Claude — she is
our sister, you know — if I went and lived with
her. Sit down and think about that. Think a
little, Claude.'

Claude sat down to think, and Valentine
had recourse to white witchcraft.

Every woman — fortunately very few women
fully realise this great truth — can do with every
man whatever she pleases, provided, first, that
she is young and beautiful ; next, that the man
is a man of imagination and possessed of a right
feeling for the sex ; and thirdly, that she has
the mastery over some musical instrument. All
these conditions were satisfied in the case of
Claude and Valentine.

Then Valentine began to play. First she
played a solemn march with full strong chords
a march full of hope and high resolve — and
she watched Claude furtively. Presently the
music entered into his soul, and he was fain to
rise and to walk about the room. When his
step quickened and his eye brightened she
changed the music, and began to play one of
those songs which need no words, because, when
they are played, the thoughts rise naturally to

the level of the song and flow rhythmically,
and great ideas take form and shape. And still
she watched him. Then she changed the air
again and played a simple Scotch ditty, one of
those which go straight to the heart, because they
came originally from the heart. When she saw
that his eyes were soft and his gaze was faraway,
she paused abruptly in her playing, and
lie started.

I will help you,' he said, ' if I can. I do
not know what you will do for Melenda, but
you shall try. At all events, you will do something
for yourself.'

'That is nothing;. I must think of those
girls, not of myself.'

But— Lady Mildred ? '

Let us get everything quite ready first, and
then we will go to her with our plan complete
and waiting for nothing but lier consent. I
think she will consent.'

Every scheme, even the noblest, requires
machinery and service. Every drama wants to
be properly rehearsed and duly mounted. The
mounting of the little comedy designed by
Valentine was carried out by Claude. It took
him two or three days. First he went to Ivy

Lane, and there, unknown to Melenda, who
was sitting at work upstairs, he ascertained
certain facts connected with the lodgers in
the house. The ground floor front was
occupied by an elderly gentleman of unknown
calling, who was reported to be perfectly quiet
and harmless though dreadful poor. The
ground floor back was inhabited by an old
lady Who herself assured Claude of her
perfect respectability and unblemished character.
If a woman's word is not to betaken
for so much, for what can it be taken .^
As regards her profession, she got occasional
employment in the funeral furnishing line.
One would not, perhaps, choose this line, but
it is necessary to live. Her practice, this lady
further explained, in evidence and support
of her great respectability, was to 'go in '
when the winter approached and to 'come
out ' for the summer. In this euphemistic
manner do some ladies speak of the Union.
She was not by any means a nice-looking
lady, and she looked as if perhaps some
portions of her life had not been spent in
honest industry. She also confessed, and
denied not, that there were times when the

possession of a little money tempted her to
take a glass ; but these occasions, she said
truthfully, were rare, because she seldom got
the money.

The back room upstairS; behind Melenda's,
was occupied by a middle-aged single woman,
a machinist who made trousers all day long
with the help of a sewing machine, and was in
even direr straits than Melenda. She accepted
a bribe of five shillings and the week's rent and
vacated the room, which Claude proceeded to
get thoroughly washed, scoured, scrubbed,
and repaired. Then he put furniture in it, and
that of a kind which made the collector
believe that a district visitor at least was
coming to live in Ivy Lane. All this he did
without the least knowledge or suspicion of
Melenda.

When everything was quite ready, Valentine
laid her plan before Lady Mildred. With what
eloquence she pleaded her cause, with what tears
and entreaties, it needs not to relate. These
may be understood.

Let me go, dear,' she concluded. ' Oh,
let me go. I have no rest for thinking of
those girls — one of them my own sister.

Let me go and live with them for a little
while. I am not afraid of anything that may
happen to me. I shall be quite safe among
them.'

Lady Mildred showed no surprise ; nobody
is ever surprised in these latter days at any
course which is proposed by daughters. She
listened patiently, and bade her wait a day for
her reply.

Now whenever Lady Mildred had quite
made up her mind about the course she would
adopt, she invariably went through the formality
of consulting her friend, Miss Bertha
Colquhoun. Li no single case did she ever
adopt that friend's advice, which was always
contrary to her own opinion. Taking counsel
with your friends, in fact, generally means
getting an opportunity of putting your
opinion into words, and of seeing how it looks.
Much the same may be said as regards argument.


Of course I knew very well,' she said,
that something would happen when I brought
Claude to the house and allowed the girls
to visit his relations. I confess, however,
that I am a little startled to fid them so

differently affected ; for Violet is as much
repelled by the poverty of the work girls as
Valeiitme is attracted.'

But of course, Mildred, even you will not
actually suffer Valentine to go and live alone
among them ? '

I do not know. Why not ? '

'Alone, Mildred? Alone, and among
those common people ? Your own daughter
well, perhaps your own daughter — brought
up as Valentine has been — would you suffer her
to run the dreadful and terrible risks of such a
thing?'

What are the terrible risks ? '

Violence — insult — robbery — everything.'


No ; I do not fear these at all. The principal
risk is that of learning that the world is
really a very wicked place. The new theory
about woman's education, that she should not
be kept in ignorance of evil any more than
the boys, has a good deal to be said for it.
Valentine will discover among these people that
the world, which has always seemed to her so
beautiful and so virtuous, is really full of dark
places and injustice.'

Is that good for a girl to learn ? '
Why not, since it is the truth ? Will
Valentine be made wicked by the discovery of
wickedness ? I do not think so.'

And Violet ? Is she to go with her
sister ? '

Violet is of less courageous mould. She
will remain with me, and we shall go away
together somewhere — to Switzerland or the seaside.'


You would surely not go away and leave
that poor girl alone and unprotected in the
awful place she is going to ? '

Yes. But she will not be quite alone ;
there is that sewing-girl — perhaps her sister.
Working-men do not generally insult respectable
girls, I have learned, though they are
thoughtless about them. I think she will be
quite safe with her supposed sister.'

'Well, Mildred, I do not see that any
possible good can come of it.'

Suppose,' she replied, ' a girl were to
learn and understand, in this or some other
way, some of the worst wrongs that are inflicted
on women in this city — wrongs that can
only be realised by actually sharing them or
vos I. Q

witnessing them day after day ; and suppose
that she is a brave girl and clear-headed, as
well as sound of heart — think, then, what this
girl might become and what she might do in
after life. My dear Bertha, think of the things
you have yourself read and cried over, but
never really understood — T mean the ill-treatment
and oppression of work girls. Do you
suppose that women could be treated so if we
made up our minds that they should not ?
We cannot believe that the " Song of the Shirt "
would have any meaning left at all except an
ugly memory, if the women of this country
once resolved that it should not. It is forty
years and more since Hood wrote that song,
and word for word, tear for tear, I am sure
that it might be written and sung again this
very day. Valentine shall learn for herself.
Let her go, and let her — if it must be — suffer.'
In the morning she gave judgment. There
were present at this family council, besides the
petitioner and Claude, Violet and Bertha.
Everybody, except Lady Mildred herself,
looked, for some reason or other, guilty.
Bertha, because she had not risen to the level
of the situation, and still looked on the step

proposed as impossible for a gentlewoman ;
Violet, because she was ashamed of herself
and her own shrinking from the life which
Valentine proposed to share ; Claude, because
he had made all the arrangements beforehand,
as if it was quite certain that consent would be
obtained, and yet had made them secretly ;
and Valentine, because she was afraid she
might be refused.

My child,' said Lady Mildred, taking both
her hands, ' you have thought seriously and
calmly over this scheme of yours ? Have you
ftdly considered what it may mean ? — that, for
instance, it will colour your whole life, and
perhaps sadden it ; that you go alone among
people of whom you kno\v nothing but that
they are rude and coarse ? '

Oh, yes,' said Valentine, ' I have thought
of that. Claude has told me everything that
will happen to me. But I feel as if I must
do it.'

'I shall not deny you, Valentine.' Then
she turned to Violet. ' And you, my child ? '

No,' said Violet, ' I could not do it. I am
ashamed of myself. I am a coward, if you
please, but I could not do it.' She was about

(i 2

to assign as the reason of her dreadful cowardice
her own identity with Polly and her close connection
with the Monument family, but she
refrained. ' Valentine sees beautiful things
where I see nothing but rude manners and
coarse speeches. I could not go to live among
those people even if Valentine were beside me.
And alone ! ' she shuddered.

You shall not be asked, my dear.'
Perhaps it will not be so dreadful as it
seems to us,' said Valentine. ' I have repeated
it over and over again to myself. Instead of a
beautiful home like this, a single room in a
row of dingy houses ; instead of the open Parka
great nest of mean streets ; noise instead of
quiet ; in place of your kind voices, there will
be quarrels of women, cries of children, and
bad language of men ; m the place of this

sweet home ' Here her voice hailed her,

and the tears came into her eyes, and Violet
kissed her with tears of her own.

As for your going alone,' said Lady
Mildred, ' of course the world would disapprove,
but then we need not consider much
what the world may say. An Eastern lady, I
believe, estimates her importance by the care

taken in guarding her. We all come from the
East, which accounts for a lingering of the
feeling among ourselves. If we do not guard
you, my Valentine, the world will say that we
do not care for you.'

But I shall not say so.'

Tell us, then, exactly, what arrangements
you propose to make.'

Claude explained that there was a room-not
a large room nor a very pretty room, but a
place weatherproof — on the first floor and at
the back of Melenda's room ; that he had
persuaded the tenant to give up this room to
himself; that he had caused it to be cleaned,
scrubbed, whitewashed, and fumigated ; that
he had furnished it ; and that Valentine could
take possession when she pleased.

And all before I was consulted at all .^ '
said Lady Mildred.

Claude blushed, but did not explain that
Valentine had converted him to her view, and
that he had done her bidding.

But who is to do up your room everyday
? ' asked Violet.

Claude had no proposition to make on this
important subject. But Valentine confessed,

with a blush and a sigh, because this was a
detail less attractive than some others in her
scheme, that she would probably have to do it
for herself.

Yourself? ' said Violet ; ' why, there are a
thousand things that have to be done. Who
will cook your dinner and make your breakfasts
and everything ? '

I suppose I must do all this for myself.
Melenda does.'

Melenda dines off cold tea and bread.
She threw the fact at our heads, and reproached
us with living on beef and mutton, and eating
more than is good for us — you remember,
dear ? '

I do not think I can live on tea and bread,'
said Valentine ; 'but I shall live as simply as I
can. And I do not in the least mind boiling a
kettle for myself.'

She will come back,' said Violet, ' with her
hands as hard as a housemaid's.'

Then there are the evenings. What will
you do in the evenings ? '

The days are long now. Besides, there is
Melenda to cultivate.'

Yes,' said Violet.

I will not deny you, my child,' said Lady
Mildred. ' You shall have the desire of your
heart. But it must be on one or two conditions.'


Any conditions.'

Then, first of all, you will persist in the
scheme for three months, even if you are lonely
and unhappy, even if Melenda turns out more
obdurate than you expected, and the life and
companionship are far more disagreeable than
you ever anticipated. You must not give it up
unless you fall ill.'

I accept that condition willingly,' said
Valentine. 'Whether I like it or whether
I do not, I will stay there for three months.'

The next is that you will be completely
separated from Violet and myself. We shall go
quite out of your way somewhere — I do not
know yet where — and stay out of your way all
the summer. You will see nothing of us until
next October. You will have no letters from
us, nor will you write to us. That will be
very hard for us, my dear, will it not ? '

It will be very hard for me, and yet I
accept.'

The next condition refers to Claude. It is

that he consents to remain in London all the
summer, and that he sees you as often as possible
— every day if he can — so that if you fall
into any trouble you may always feel that you
have some one at hand.'

That is a condition,' said Claude, ' which I
willingly accept.'

He has already promised it,' said Valentine.


Then you must promise, next, that you will
not try to live like these poor work girls. Cold
tea and dry bread is bad for them, but it would
be far worse for you. You will live on something
more substantial.'

That is a very easy condition. I am
sure I do not want to live on tea and bread.'

I have no more conditions to make, my
dear. But remember that it is useless to
take things which one cannot mend too much
to heart. And do not give away money to
people ; and do not believe everybody's story ;
and do not entangle yourself with too many
friendships.'

I will try not to make too many friends,'
said Valentine.

And do not give people credit for every

virtue simply because they are poor and live
in a single room. I dare say some of the minor
vices may be found even in this Arcadia of
yours, my dear.'

Only untidiness at worst,' said Violet sarcastically
; ' there cannot possibly be anything
more in Ivy Lane.'

Then,' said Lady Mildred, • when Avill you
go, my dear ? '

Let me go this very day, lest I get frightened
and repent in the night.'

Yiolet went with her to her own room,
where she changed her dress and put on a
plain frock of brown stuff made up for the
purpose, a simple hat without feathers or ornaments,
a grey ulster, and a pair of Swedish kid
gloves.

Oh, Yal,' Yiolet laughed, but the tears
were in her eyes, ' you are as much like a
London workgirl as a village maid in a
comic operetta is like the real rustic. But
never mind, my dear, you look as beautiful
as the day and as good as any angel, and how,
oh, how in the world shall I get on without
you?'

Then, together, they packed a box with

things absolutely necessary, and a few books,
and all was ready.

You caiiit be going ! ' cried Violet, clinging
to her. ' Oh, my dear, my dear, it is always
you who think and say the best and noblest
things. It is because you are Beatrice and I
am only Polly, and she is selfish and cannot tear
herself from her luxurious life. But you will
be the happier of the two. I shall think of you
and be ashamed of myself every day that you
are gone. If we were really sisters I think I
could do what you are doing. But I am
only '

No, Violet. I am Polly, and the proof is that
I am constrained by an irresistible force to go
among my own people. Do you think I shall
make them love me ? '

Oh, Valentine, can they help it ? You will
change them all. Sam, after a little of your
society, will cease to yearn for his rivers of
blood, and Joe will leave off grinning, and
Melenda will become as gentle as a turtledove.'


BOOK II.

CHAPTEE I.

'I AM YOUR SISTER

It was done, then. Valentine sat alone in her
hermitage — a single room on the first floor of
a tenement house in Ivy Lane, Hoxton. She
was in the middle of the great town, but she
was as lonely and as far from the world as if it
had been the Hermitage on the Coquet Ever
or a cave beside the Brook Cherish. She also
realised with wonder how rapidly the greatest
events in the world get themselves accomplished.
Only two or three hours before she
was torn with doubts as to whether this thing
would ever be permitted, and lo ! it was
already done — that is to say, it was begun,
because nothing in this human world ever gets
itself finished.

Claude carried her box with brotherly care

up the steep and narrow stair, and then looked
around expectant, as the railway porter lingered
about the door of the cab. He Awaited, like
the railway porter, for his tip, the meed of
praise because he had taken no small pains.

Tell me,' he said, ' tell me, Valentine, what
yon think of it.'

It is very small. But then I am not very
big. And you have made it look pretty. I
expected nothing half so pretty as this. Thank
you, Claude.'

'I remembered, first, a certain room in
Newnham which I once saw. It was not much
larger than this, and it was very daintily
furnished. I hope the girl it belonged to was
pretty, and that she got her First Class.
Cleverness, you know, and beauty, and taste
ought always to go together. Next I read a
certain chapter about hermits in " Hepatic."
After that, I recalled the fittings of a cabin ina
little yacht wherein I sailed last year. And
then I read a few chapters of " Robinson
Crusoe " and of " Philip Charles." This
carried me a long way, and then with justa
page or two of Xavier de Maistre and the
help of a book on aesthetic furniture, and one

visit to an artistic upholsterer, I managed to
furnish your room for you. This is the result.'

They were both extremely grave and
serious, because, now that the thing was
begun, it looked horribly beset with perils of
all kinds. Perhaps this was the reason why
Claude talked with a certain show of frivolity.

Thank sou, Claude.' I do not know
why, but her eyes became dim.

Here is your tea service Claude began,
pointing out the things as if it was a private
museum — in fact he was almost as proud of them
as if he was a collector — ' four cups in blue,
and here is your dinner service. I hope you
will like the pattern.' They were ranged
on the shelves of a small ebony cabinet fixed
on the wall over a chest of drawers : ' Here
are your book-shelves ; the leaves of the table
can be let down so as to give you more room,
thought you would like candles better than
oil, and I hope you will find this little reading-lamp
useful. The view from the window is
not extensive and not very nice, but I have put
a box outside with mignonette in it. I know
the easy-chair is comfortable, because I tried it
myself. You will have no other looking-glass

than this mirror over the mantel-shelf. See,
here is Violet's photograph, and here is mine.
The old fireplace was truly disgraceful. I
believe that the previous occupant, poor thing,
in her extremity, had eaten two of the bars.
So I put in this. It is pretty, I think, and the
tiles are really good. As for stores, you will
find some in this cupboard — quite a big cupboard,
isn't it ? Here are coals, but I fear you
will find your coal supply a difficulty. This
is your filter, and here are your cooking
utensils. Try to think if there is anything
I have forgotten, or anything else at all I can
do for you. Shall I come every day to sit on
the stairs and peel potatoes for you ^ '

No, Claude, thank you. And now you
had better leave me, or else T am afraid I shall
begin to cry. I am sure I shall not want
anything more.'

You are not — not afraid, Valentine ? '
If I were I shoidd not acknowledge it.
But go, Claude. To-day is Thursday. Come
to see me on Sunday morning — not before.
I think I should like to be quite alone until
then. If I am in trouble I shall make Melenda
help me. Good-bye, Claude. It is a beautiful

thing to have a brother who will take so
much trouble for one. I am very grateful.
Good-bye. Go and stay with Violet this
evening.'

When the door was shut and she had
wrestled with that inclination to cry — sustaining
for a few moments a shameful defeat,
but she rallied— she sat on her bed and looked
about her. The room was certainly very
small, yet Claude had made it pretty. The
walls were of plaster, newly scraped and
repaired and stained, and made quite clean ;
the ceiling was freshly whitewashed ; the little
green and gold iron bed was covered with a
counterpane of pleasing design ; two candlesticks
stood on the mantel-shelf, and her lamp
was on a three-cornered bracket ; an embroidered
cloth lay on the table, and there
were flowers in a vase ; there were pretty
curtains to the window, of a soft stuff, pleasant
to look upon and to touch, and on the floor
lay a rug large enough to serve for carpet.
There were only three chairs, one of them an
easy chair, low, long, deep, and luxurious, in
which one might meditate and rest ; and the
fireplace was pretty, with its tiles and its brass

fender. In the cupboard she found a loaf of
bread, butter, a small ham — already boiled —
sugar, tea, coffee, and other things ; and on
the lowest shelf she discovered, and handled
with some curiosity, a saucepan, a pot, a
frying-pan, a gridiron, and a Dutch oven ;
would she have to learn the use of all these
things ? Besides the mirror over the mantelshelf,
Claude had hung up some fans and
feathers and a little picture or two. It really
is a beautiful thing to have a brother who will
work for one. What servant — what army of
servants — would have made this place so
dainty and so pretty ? It is a thing, in fact,
which cannot be done to order. And the
discovery of so small a detail as a box of
matches almost brought her to tears a second
time. Claude had remembered the matches!
Everybody knows the dreadful carelessness
of even good housemaids in the matter of
matches.

It certainly seemed as if life was going to
become, for a time, a much more simple thing
than she had been accustomed to consider it.
Here she was, in a little room only twelve feet
square, surrounded by everything necessary for

existence, with food and drink, shelter, bed.
and clothes to wear. Wliat else can a reasonable
being want ? In Park Lane they had one
room for sleeping, one for eating, a third for
study, and a fourth for society. The things to
eat were not kept m the sleeping-room, nor
were the clothes kept in the eating-room, nor
was the cooking done in the room reserved for
society — fancy Violet ' riding ' a steak in the
large drawing-room ! Nor was the coal cellar
kept in a bedroom, nor was the pantry confused
with the library. Yet here where
bedroom, dining-room, drawing-room, library,
kitchen, scullery, and coal cellar all combined
in one small chamber which Claude had made
pretty for its three months' tenant.

She sat on the bed for a long time,
thinking. Now that the thing was really
begun, and she was alone in the house, and
going to remain alone for a long time, she felt
more than a little afraid. Suppose that someone
were to walk in at the open door and visit
lier, unasked. The house door w-as open all
day, and there was nothing to prevent any
curious or impertinent person — at the thought
she sprang to her feet and examined her door.

YOL. I. R

Oh, prudent Claude ! He had thought of this
too. He had provided the door with a chain,
a boh, a lock, and a wooden bar, which could
be dropped into strong iron stanchions, capable
of withstanding any ordinary pressure. And
besides these fortifications, she had Melenda
close at hand, though as yet Melenda was
ignorant of her arrival. If anything happened
she could call out for her. Surely Melenda
was fierce enough and brave enough for any
emergency whatever.

Quite alone ! There are many men who
all their lives spend more than half the twenty-four
hours in loneliness absolute, yet do not
seem to mind it. Who can be more lonely,
for instance, than the tenant of chambers, who
sits in them all day working or waiting for
clients, and all night reading or sleeping ; and
perhaps when the clerks are gone, the only
man left on the ghostly staircase .^ Yet men
live on in this solitary way, sometimes without
even a club, and never complain of loneliness,
and never seem afraid of ghosts. Not long
ago there was a man who died at the ripe age
of eighty-one, and had lived for thirty years all
alone in a country house, seeing no one, and

not even admitting a woman to clean up, and
not taking the trouble to clean up the place
himself, so that when he died the female
population to a woman made haste to visit the
house in order to gaze and gloat upon the
dust. Yet he was quite happy. Men, in fact,
live alone from the time when they leave
school to the time when they marry, which is
very often a long spell. They have their little
distractions — their clubs, their friends, their
theatres ; but they spend most of their evenings
and all their nights alone in their rooms.
Women, on the other hand, seldom live alone :
young women never. They are accustomed to
go about together, to sit, work, and even study
together. Valentine had never been separated
for a single day from Violet. She had never
been without the sense of protection with
which young ladies are wrapped and clothed
as with a suit of armour. Except in her
bedroom, which was next to Violet's, she had
never once been alone in all her life. And,
needless to point out — though this is of minor
importance — she had never done anything at
all for herself. Now, like Tommy Merton, she
was to discover that if she would eat she must

k2

work — that is, she must cook. She got up,
therefore, and began to wonder if she coukl
make herself some tea. Again, that most
thoughtful youth Claude had remembered
everything. The fire was laid, not with sticks
a slow and uncertain method unless you use
a whole bundle, which costs a halfpenny, and
is never permitted even in the most extravagant
household — but with the resinous wheels,
which burn fiercely and make a fine fire in
two minutes. The kettle, she found, was filled
with water ; in the cupboard was a caddy full
of tea. There was white sugar in the sugar-basin
; nobody knew better than Claude that
brown sugar was becoming for Polly's position,
but he pretended to forget that detail. In the
same way he had committed gross incongruities
in the French bed, and the pretty lamp with
the tinted shade, and the aesthetic table-cover.
Then Valentine discovered further, a saucer
full of white eggs — not the ' selected ' at ten
for a shilling — and two or three pots of
preserves, besides the bread and the butter
already mentioned. There was also a jug of
milk. Where, Valentine wondered, would she
get her milk for next day? Then, with a

solemn feeling, as if she was setting a light
to the sacred Hearth of Vesta, or propitiating
the Lares, she struck a match upon the magic
box and set the fire-wheel crackling and
blazing, and made the coals to burn merrily
and to dart forth long tongues of flame, licking
the bars and the sides of the kettle, and when
the water presently began to sing, Valentine
began to feel that she might find happiness
even in living alone.

While the kettle was singing, and before it
boiled over, Valentine looked out of window
over her box of mignonette. The back of Ivy
Lane at this point ' gives ' partly upon Hammond
Square, which now consists of a Board
School, with its asphalted pavement, where the
children were playing. The great red-brick
building of the school dominates the mean
houses in which it is placed, much as a
mediaeval castle used to dominate the village
which clustered round it. There is, however,
an important distinction. The castle was on
an eminence above the village ; the Board
School is on the same level with it. This fact
alone is sufficient to prevent the Board Schoolmaster
from becoming a proud baron. On

the west of Hammond Square is the back of
Wentworth Street, and between the ' backs '
there are small yards which were once meant
to be little gardens, but are innocent of flowers,
though here and there stands a solitary tree,
the melancholy survivor of the orchard, with
blackened trunk and grimy branches. The
yards are now used for the drying of linen, and
there is always a great deal hanging out on
fine days, so that at first one feels that Hoxton
must be a very clean place, and therefore not
far from the Kingdom of Heaven. But that is
only a first suspicion, and not a first impression,
for the wish is father to the thought. A closer
inspection shows grubby yards, filled with
rubbish, brickbats, and everywhere cats, a
most wonderful collection of cats, sunning
themselves upon the walls ; and all sleek, all
well-fed, fat, and good-tempered, and probably
quite certain that they are living in a picturesque
country, and in the highest society,
among; ladies and gentlemen of the greatest
refinement. Then Valentine looked across the
space between the two ' backs,' and as she had
eyes stronger than most she could see through
the open windows opposite, and could catch a

glimpse of interiors which filled her soul with
pity. One certainly ought, under all conditions
of life, and at any juncture, to be clean and to
live in clean rooms ; but this commandment
has never been written. It is not, therefore,
felt to be so binding as the others, and in time
of pressure and trouble the enthusiasm for
cleanliness is apt to decline. Few people have
the heart to clean up when there is no work to
be done, and no money to spend, and nothing
to drink. And Valentine saw another thinly :
not only were there backyards and grimy
windows, but there were courts at the back
with houses even smaller than the one in which
she sat. In fact, some of them were only
two-roomed houses, and these houses added
their little backwards and their dirt, and,
as she was to discover later on, their noise
as well.

Valentine left her window. And then she
made her tea and drank a cup, with a curious
sense of unreality, because Violet's voice should
have been in her ears ; and it was incongruous,
and like a nightmare, that she should
make her own tea for herself alone in her
bedroom.

After her tea she sat reading until about
half-past eight, when the sun had set and the
twilight was upon the ugly backs and grubby
yards. And then, but with misgivings, she left
her room and timidly knocked at Melenda's
door.

The girls had just finished work for the
day. Melenda was folding it up ; Lofty was
arranging herself for rest. Lizzie was stretching
out her arms as Ixion might have done when
they took him down from his wheel and told
him he might knock off for the night.

I have come back,' said Valentine.

Oh,' replied Melenda, pretending not to be
astonished. But the other two gasped.

You said that Polly might come if she
came by herself. Are you glad to see me again
now that I am alone ? '

Not likely,' said Melenda shortly.

I have come to stay here. I have got a
room in this very house.'

Lizzie opened her great eyes wider, but
Melenda, who was not going to be surprised by
anything, only sniffed.

What have you done that for ? '

To be near you. We are sisters, Melenda.'

The other day you didn't know which was
which. As if a girl could get lost. And how
are you going to live? There's no service
about here. There's a young girl wanted at
the public-house, I believe, but you must be
pretty low down if you'd demean yourself by
going there. I wouldn't, no more would Lizzie.
Have you saved your money ? '

I have some money for a time.' This was
delicate ground, and she hastened to get over it
quickly. ' Claude furnished my room for me.
Let me show it to you.'

Well,' said Melenda ungraciously, ' I can't
help it, if you choose to come. You won't
stay long, I suppose. Let's see the room.'

They all three went with her, impelled by
the strongest of feminine instincts.

Valentine had now pulled down the blind,
drawn her curtains, and lit the pretty reading
lamp with its coloured shade.

Oh — h ! ' the girls gasped. They had
never before seen a pretty room, and the prettiness
of this room took their breath away.
Even Melenda, who had been prepared to
admire nothing, was taken by surprise. They
went round, looking at and examining everything,

the easy-chair, the fireplace, the bookshelves,
the table, and the pictures.

See,' saiclj Valentine, ' here is my cupboard
with my stores. We will have dinner together
if you will. Here are my books ; we will read
together every day if you like. Here is my
work-box. I will work with you if you will
let me. I can work very well.'

'What's gone of all your fine clothes and
your gold chain ? ' asked Lizzie, staring at the
plain brown frock.

I have not brought them here. I have
only this frock and an ulster like your own.'
Melenda laughed scornfully.

It's nothing but play-acting, Polly. Lord !
nobody would take you for a workgirl — you
and your ulster! Why, it isn't ragged, and
your elbows don't stick through. And where's
your fringe ? [And you've got a collar and
cutis : and look at your fingers ! I'll just tell
you what you look like — nothing but a lady's-maid
out o' work.' She made this comparison
in tones so contemptuous that for a while
Valentine was confounded.

I will pass for a lady's-maid, then,' she
replied, when she had recovered a little. ' You
won't be unkind, Melenda, will you ?

Melenda was examining the photographs on
the mantelshelf. ' Here's Claude,' she said ;
he looks a swell, don't he P What's he got a
square thing on his head for ? And why does
he wear a black gown ? '

Claude is a great scholar. He is photographed
in the cap and gown that scholars wear
at the University. That is Violet, my sister.'

That's the other one,' said Melenda ; ' her
that cried. She won't come again, because I
threatened to pull her hair off.' She laughed
grimly. ' Looks a bit like Joe, somehow.
But you look a bit like Claude.'

Will you let me sit with you, and go in
and out without disturbing you, Melenda .^ '

It was Lofty who replied for her.

Don't ask Melenda, else you'll only put her
back up, and she'll answer hasty. Come without
asking.'

'We're work girls,' Melenda added, not a
bit offended by this allusion to her temper, ' and
we've got our work to do, and we can't be
chattering. If you won't make Liz chatter and
lose her time, you may come. Lofty likes you,
if I don't.'

Valentine turned grateful eyes to the thin
hollow-chested girl with the weak back.

So Claude took and furnished the room
for you, did he ? ' said Melenda. ' Where'd
he get the money to spend on it ? I suppose
you don't mind being beholden to him, do
you ? '

Not a bit,' said Valentine ; ' I am glad to
be grateful to Claude.'

Humph,' Melenda grunted. ' He shan't
help me if I know it. And he came here and
took the room and all — they told me a swell
had been about the place — without seeing me
or telling me anything about it. He's in a
rage with me, I suppose, 'cos I let out the other
day.'

You called him names when he came.
But he is not in a rage with you at all, T am
sure.'

He pretended not to mind. Why didn't
he call back then, instead of standing and 
as if he was lookinf^^ throuo;li one with a
bradawl ? Many a man would have knocked a
girl down for less.'

Claude docs not knock women down.'

Melenda changed the subject.

How are you going to cook,' she asked,
with a finicking stove like that ? The water's

laid on behind, one cask for every two houses.
You'll have to do all your own work yourself.
Lofty '11 tell you how to manage, if you'll ask
her — lie knows how to cook beautiful. You
should taste her beef and onions. You can
pay her any way you like. Her back's awful
bad sometimes — sit down on Polly's bed,
Lofty — and she never flies in a rage like I
should do if my back was bad. And she isn't
so proud as she ought to be. She'll take things
from you.'

Melenda spoke with the superiority of
health and strength, but Lofty hung her head.
Pride, independence, and freedom were fine
things for girls with strong backs, but lie was
permitted to be beholden to people. It was a
permission of which the poor girl could rarely
avail herself. As for Liz, she gazed about her
with great eyes and open mouth. The room
looked to her like a little garden of Eden, or at
least like Eve's Petit Trianon, if she had one in
that park.

I am going to have some supper,' said
Valentine, pleased to have got on so welL
'Here is a ham that Claude gave me, and
bread and butter, and we will light the fire

again and make some cocoa, if you would like
to have some.'

The ham looked splendid when Valentine
put it on the table. All three girls became
instantly conscious of a hollow and yearning
sensation. Lofty turned quite white,
and Lizzie clutched the back of a chair, but
Melenda flew into a rage because of the temptation


I won't eat your ham ! ' she cried ; ' I won't
eat any of your ham ! Do you hear ? I won't
take anything from you. Lofty may, because
she's weak in her back. Lizzie ought to be
ashamed — she ought — if she eats any ! I
shan't. I shall go out for a walk. I shall take
and walk up and down Hoxton Street till I'm
tired. There ! They're a nice lot in Hoxton
Street of a night ! You'll be proud of your
sister, won't you ? If I'd got any money to
spend I'd go to the Britannia or else to the
Variety Music Hall, and I shan't get home
before midnight likely.'

She made these announcements with defiance.
They illustrated at once her independence,
her freedom of action, and her contempt
of criticism. With the light of wrath in her

eyes, with her parted hips, and the lamp-hight
softening the effect of that hip of hair on her
forehead, Melenda looked her very best. She
might have been painted as an actress in a great
part. But she ought to have been painted in a
rage. She banged out of the room, and they
heard her run downstairs. Then she ran back
again.

If you sit with Lofty,' she said, while all
trembled, ' or if Lofty sits with you, prop her
up and make her comfortable. Don't go to say
that I don't look after Lofty. Don't dare to say
that, or I'll serve you '

Her eyes fell upon the photograph of
Claude in the square cap and the gown,
who seemed to be asking her, with grave
face, if this language was becoming to a girl
who respected herself. She stopped, turned, and

fled.

And now,' said Valentine, ' we will have
some supper

Do ladies all live in beautiful rooms like
this ? ' asked Lizzie, Avhen that meal of fragrant
cocoa with ham and bread and butter, served on
a snow-white cloth, was finished and the things
put away. She had not spoken a word, but

looked about lier all the time curiously and
wonderingly. ' Do they all live like this ? '

I suppose so,' said Valentine. ' This is a
poor little room, but Claude has made it
pretty.'

And do they all have as much ham and
bread and butter as they like? '

Yes, I believe they do.'

Liz asked no more questions. But presently
she rose and put on her ulster and hat,
and went out without a word. She was no
longer hungry : the sight of the pretty room
and the dainty supper filled her with physical
content and ease, and with a vague yearning that
it might be always like this, and in her mind
there echoed certain words which she could not
repeat to Lofty and Melenda. ' You ought to bea
lady,' said these words. ' You ought to live
like a lady in pretty rooms, and be dressed
beautifully, and have nothing to do but to
please some one with your lovely eyes.' Why,
she knew now what it was to be a lady and
to live in a pretty room. She had never
known before, poor Liz. And it seemed an
altogether desirable and a lovely life. She
went out into the street thinking how it would

be to have every day such a supper, to sit in
such a room, to wear such a pretty frock, and
to have, put away somewhere, beautiful dresses
and gold chains. ' You ought to be a lady.
You ought to live like a lady in pretty rooms,
and be dressed beautifully, and have nothing
to do but to please some one with your lovely
eyes.' Perhaps it was the devil who whispered
these words in her ear continually, so that she
saw nothing as she walked along the crowded
street but the pretty room, with its soft-coloured
light, and the sweet face of its owner, and her
graceful, gentle ways. ' You ought to be a
lady.' If she only could !

When she got home at twelve, Lofty was
already asleep. Generally the pain in her
back kept her awake. But now she was
sleeping. There was light enough for Liz to
see her thin pale face upon the pillow. Something
— perhaps it was that — touched the girl's
heart.

I won't never leave Lofty,' she murmured,
not even to be a lady.'

When they were left alone, Valentine made
Lofty lie down upon her bed and propped her

VOL. I. s

up with pillows, and cooled lier hot temples
with can de cologne.

'Oh,' said Lofty, 'it's like Melenda ; but
she never had any scent, poor thing.' She
meant that Valentine was as kind and thoughtful
for her as her friend Melenda. 'Don't
anger her. Miss. She's a good sort if you take
her the right way.'

You mustn't call me Miss. Call me — no,
call me Valentine

Oh, but I can't, because you are a young
lady. Well, then, Valentine.'

'Are you always left alone in the evening?'

Yes, always. They must go out after the
day's work. I know what you think. The
streets are rough. But Melenda won't get
into mischief. And she's too proud to go into
pubic-houses and drink with the men, as some
girls do. And so's Liz.'

'Melenda said you were not to talk much.
Let me talk to you. What shall I tell
you?'

Tell me whatever you like. You've got
such a soft voice. I told Melenda you were
kind and didn't come to laugh at us, though
you are a lady and all.'

Bat, my dear, ladies don't laugh at working
girls.'

Sam says they laugh at all poor people.'

Sam says what is horribly untrue then.
Do not believe Sam.'

He was here the other day. We'd been
out of work for three days, and Liz she'd gone
to look for it at one house and Melenda at
another, and I was lying down. Sam stamped
and swore — he's dreadful when his blood's up
and he said, " What do they care if all the
work girls in London starve? They're worse
than the men who call themselves gentlemen,
for they have listened to the workmen.
They are the cruellest people in the world,
and the hardest hearted." That's what Sam
said.*

Who are ? ' interrupted Valentine.

'The women who call themselves ladies.
That's what Sam said ; and then he swore
again, and then he went on to say that if there
had been half the tyranny with the men as
there is with the women, all England would
have rose. And the ladies know it, he said,
and they've been told day after day ; the
papers, he says, are full of it ; they are taught

about it ill their poetry books, but they do
nothing ; and Sam says they never will do
nothing, so long as they can get their pretty
things cheap, but laugh at us while we work
and starve. Not that we ready do starve, you
know, because there's always somehow been
bread and cold tea, but sometimes there's
nothing more. That's what Sam says.'

It isn't true, Lofty,' said Valentine. But
she felt guilty, not of laughing, but of apathy.
Help me to be neither cruel nor hard-hearted,
my dear.'

Then she was silent, thinking, and Lofty
lay resting.

Presently Valentine said :

I will tell you a story, a story about
myself, Lofty. Once upon a time, there was a
poor widow woman, who had a large family to
keep, and took in washing, but she had to work
very hard. One day there came to see her a
great lady who had known her a long time
before, and she said to the poor woman, " Give
me your little girl, your youngest. I will take
her away and bring her up with my own child
and care for her. Some day you shall see her
again." The poor woman knew that her

(laughter would be kindly kept, and so she let
her go, and for a long time saw the child no
more, because she was being taught all kinds
of things, and among others to be a young
lady. This is not at all easy for any girl to
learn, Lofty, because it means all kinds of
things besides the wearing of fine clothes ;
among others it means always thinking the
best things and doing the noblest things, so
that I am afraid that girl got but a very little
way. However, after nineteen years, she went
back with her benefactor's daughter to see her
mother and her brothers and her sister, who
was a workgirh But they were not at all
pleased to see her, and her sister made herself
hard and proud, and could not bear to be
helped out of the great lady's treasures, and
said very cruel things and drove her away.
Then the girl put off her finery and came
to live in the same house with her working
sister. She came to learn how w^orkgirls live,
and what they think, and what they want, and
she hoped to make her sister love her. That
is all the story, Lofty.'

It isn't finished. And what does she
want Melenda to love her for ? '

Oil, Lofty, love makes people happy.
Suppose you had neither Melenda nor
Lizzie.'

If I hadn't got Melenda,' said the girl, ' I
should wish I was dead and buried.'

CHAPTER 11.

THE CITY OF Holden.

It is best to drop a veil over the first few hours
of that first night in Ivy Lane. It is sufficient
to explain that the evening between eight and
twelve is the liveliest time of the day for Ivy
Lane ; that the Adelaide Tavern then does its
briskest business, that the street is fullest, the
voices loudest, the children most shrill, the
women most loquacious, and the ' language '
most pronounced. On this evening there was
a drunken man in one of the courts somewhere
behind the house, and somebody of one sex
was beating somebody of the other sex, with
oaths on the one hand and screams on the
other. Suppose some step should come up the
stair, and some unknown person should knock
at her door. Suppose the house was quite
empty except for herself. Yet Ivy Lane is not
the haunt of criminals ; its population is made
up of honest working men and women, whose

principal fault is that they have not yet learned
the virtue of self-restraint.

Towards midnight the noise began to
subside, and the street grew rapidly quieter.
Presently Valentine fell asleep, though with
misgivings in her dreams, which would have
become dreadful nightmares had she but
known that Lizzie, the latest to return, had
left the street door wide open for the night.

"When she awoke the morning was already
well advanced, which was perceptible even to
a new arrival by reason of the stillness. For
at nine the men are at work, and the women
are ' doing up ' in their rooms, and the children
are at school. A Sabbath calm had fallen
upon Ivy Lane and upon its courts to north
and south. Valentine lay half asleep, thinking
that she was at home, and wondering lazily
why her maid did not come to call her.
Suddenly she remembered where she was ; she
sprang to her feet, pulled back the curtains
and looked abroad from behind the blind.
The sun was high in the heavens, pouring
down gracious floods of warmth and heat upon
the linen in the yards ; in the beginning of
all things the sun was created on purpose to

dry the linen ; there seemed to be a universal
calm and restfulness ; from the Board School
at the back there was heard a soothing
murmurous sound of many voices, and from
Hoxton Street the distant roll of carts and the
shouts of costers. Valentine was the latest
riser that morning in Ivy Lane, except perhaps
those who were lying down never to get up
again any more, and those who were in
temporary retirement with fevers and the like.

Thankful and somewhat surprised that the
night had passed with no worse adventure
than that of the midnight clamour, she proceeded
to make her own breakfast. She
hesitated, considering whether it would be well
to invite her friends in the next room. But
the fear of Melenda decided her to breakfast
alone. There was no milk, and she did not
know where to get any more ; there was no
water, and she had to go downstairs and fill
her own kettle, and to lay her fire, and to
brush up the stove, as well as to make her
own bed and dust the room. These things
are not hardships exactly, but it seems more
fitting somehow that other people should do
them for one. What the other people think

about it has never yet been made known to the
world.

Alien Eobinson Crusoe lead quite made up
his mind that there were neither cannibals nor
wild beasts upon his island, the first thing he
did was to go exploring. I have often thought
how much more interesting his story might
have been had there been one, only one, just
one man-eating tiger on the island, so that he
could have stalked Eobinson and failed to
catch him, while Eobinson could have shot at
him from places of ambush and failed to hit
him ; and so both the tiger and the man would
have had a lively time, and the reader would
have been kept awake. No doubt in Hoxton
there is more than one man-eater, but Valentine
never saw any at all, though she was at first
horribly afraid of meeting one, and wondered
what she should do if that should happen.
She began that very morning, and daily continued,
the exploration of Hoxton. There was
indeed so much to see and to learn that she
never got outside the narrow precincts of that
town during the whole of her three months'
stay in it.

The city of Holden, or Hoxton, as it is

now the fashion to write the name, is not
to outward view a romantic or a picturesque
city; none of its friends have claimed for it
that kind of distinction. It does not stand
upon a rock overhanging a river, like Quebec
or Durham; it is placed, on the other hand,
upon a level plain beside a canal ; it is nota
city of gardens, like Damascus ; nor a city
of palaces, like Venice ; nor a mediaeval city
with old walls, like Avignon ; it has no gardens
left at all, except the two black patches of its
two little squares ; yet once it was all garden.
It has no palaces, though once it had great
houses ; it has few associations or memories of
the past, because as a city it is not yet more
than a hundred years old. There is nothing at
all beautiful or picturesque or romantic in it.
There is only the romance of every life in it —
there are sixty thousand lives in Hoxton, and
every one with its own story to tell ; sixty
thousand romances beginning, proceeding, and
ending ; the stories of those who are old and
of those who are growing old ; of those who
are children and those who are young men and
maidens ; of those who think of love and those
who remember the days when they thought

about it ; of those who desire love to come and
those who mourn for love departed. What
more, in Heaven's name, is wanted to make
romance ?

It is a city Avhose boundaries are as well
marked as if it were surrounded, like York
and Canterbury, with a high wall, for it hasa
canal to west and north, with St. Luke's
Workhouse standing in the ante like the Tower
of London or the citadel of breezy Troy. On
the east side lies the broad highway of the
Shoreditch or Kingsland Eoad, which parted
Hoxton from her sisters, Haggerston and
Bethnal Green. The southern march is by the
City Eoad and Old Street. It thus stands
compact and complete ; it is a city lying secluded
and quiet, like the city of Lash.
Travellers come not within its borders ; few,
even among Londoners, wot of it ; foreigners
never hear of it ; to Americans it has no
associations, and they never visit its streets ;
it is content with one line of omnibuses to
connect it with the outer world ; there is no
cabstand in its precincts ; it has no railway
station. The newspapers do not expect to find
anything of interest in Hoxton, and penny-lines

never visit it for the sake of paragraphs.
Its people are quiet and industrious ; folk who
ask for nothing but steady work and fair
wages, and have a rooted aversion to any
public appearance, whether in a police court,
or a county court, or on a political platform,
or at a Gospel revival, just as formerly they
disliked appearing publicly in pillory or stocks.
There is no habitual criminal class in Hoxton,
unless the recent destruction of rookeries in
Whiteness Street has driven a few of the
rogues to find temporary refuge, before ' chivvy-
ing ' begins again, in the southern streets of
this city. As regards civic monuments and
public buildings, there are eight churches and
quite as many chapels, and some of the inhabitants
have been known to visit these
architectural marvels on the Sunday morning.
There is the great theatre called the ' Britannia
'Oxon,' and the smaller or less known Theatre
of Varieties in Pitfield Street ; there is a
splendid great school for boys and girls, where
were once the country almshouses of the
Haberdashers ; there are the Fullers' Almshouses
; there are four Board Schools to beautify
four of its streets ; there are the famous iron

portals of Mary Street ; and there are two
grieves over the canal. There are no rich
residents, no carriages, no footmen ; none of
the flaunting luxuries which are described by
travellers as existing at the West End. The
houses are small and mostly low ; there is no
doubt at all that everybody is quite poor, and
that for six days in the week, all the year
round, everybody works for ten hours a day at
least, and sometimes more. Yet the place hasa
cheerful look. There may be misery, but it
is not apparent ; the people in the streets seem
well-fed, and are as rosy as London smoke and
fog will allow. In the daytime the pavements
of the side streets are mostly deserted, and
there are not many who lounge, hands in
pocket, at the corner of the street. Among
the rows of small houses which speak of decent
poverty there are not wanting one or two of
the old houses, survivors of the time when
they stood among green fields and orchards, the
country residences of great merchants. The
two squares in which they used to live are
still left. And the streets are mostly broad,
because there was plenty of room when they
were built ; two or three of them can even

boast a double width of pavement, supposed
by some, imperfectly acquainted with London,
to be a luxury known only in Whitechapel
Waste. And lastly, the streets, though certainly
not remarkable for originality of design,
are at least not all built after the same pattern,
as may be seen in Bromley beyond Bow.

This was Valentine's first impression of the
quarter, a first impression which might be modified
but would never be quite destroyed. Since
Hoxton possesses some eighty streets, it must
not be supposed that she went into every one of
them in a single mornings. In fact she walked
down Hatfield Street into Old Street, and up
Hoxton Street into Hyde Eoad and Whitmore
Street, and so over the bridge Which leads to
Kingsland, and back by way of St. John's Eoad
to Ivy Lane — the whole with lingering step
and occasional excursions into side streets
which seemed to promise something strange
or curious. Not this morning only, but many
successive mornings, she took this walk among
streets where the people live.

She discovered, if one may anticipate, in
these daily wanderings, many remarkable
things and some remarkable people. Hoxton,

by the circumstances of its trade, is calculated to
develop character in a manner impossible for
some other quarters, such as Kentish Town and
Camden Town, which are cities of the little
clerk. Hoxton, however, is the city of the
smaller industries and the lesser ingenuities.
Here they make the little things necessary to
civilised life, such things as the Andamanese and
the Soudanese can do very well without, but
which we must have. Thus, they are workers
in mosaic and in lacquer : they are buhl
cutters, fret cutters, marqueterie cutters, razor
grinders, glass levellers, and they finish
brushes. Some of them are hair hands, some
pan hands, and some drawing hands, in the
brush trade ; they stitch buff, at least they
say so, but it may be a dark and allegorical
announcement, because one hath never heard of
buff, nor knoweth what its nature may be ;
they gild envelopes, they emboss on steel ; as
regards the women they are all classified as
hands ' — nothing else is wanted by a woman,
not intelligence, or invention, or grace, or
beauty, or sweetness — nothing but hands.
There are bead hands, feather hands — who are
subdivided into curling hands, improvers,

mounters, and aigrette hands — mantle hands,
skirt hands, bodice hands, mob-cap hands,
children's pinafore hands, cape-lining hands,
bead hands, butterfly hands, and tie hands,
who are again divided into flat-work hands,
back stitches, band hands, slip stitches, and
front hands ; they are black borderers, breeders,
and a hundred others. Besides all this, these
industrious people make towel-horses, upholstery
for perambulators, fancy boxes, lace paper for
valentines, picture frames, paint brushes, trunk
furniture, leather bags, scales, marking ink,
trimmings, pipe clay, show cases, instrument
cases, looking-glass backs, shillings and rush-wicks
; they carve pianos, dress collars, and
work in horn ; they make fittings for pubHc-
houses ; they dye cotton ; they deal in grinders
and they melt tallow ; there linger still in
Hoxton one or two of those almost extinct
medicine men called herbalists. Lastly, in the
manufacture of annette they are said to have no
equal.

These things Valentine did not find out in a
single day, but in many. At first she wandered
just as one wanders on a first visit to a foreign
city, getting lost and then finding her way

VOL. I. T

again, looking into all the shops, reading the
names and the trade announcements and
watching the people. And at first she was
afraid ; but as day after day passed and no one
molested her she grew more confident.

Perhaps the least desirable of all the streets
is the very one in which she had to live. Ivy
Lane, by some called Ivy Street, is vexed by
certain courts, one of which was commanded
by Valentine's window ; they are inhabited by
the baser sort ; perhaps their presence gives a
bad name to the street just as it materially
increases the evening noise. Certainly Ivy
Lane is not so clean as some of the Hoxton
streets ; its windows are unwashed ; its doors
want washing and painting. Yet it has both its
chapel and its public-house. The former is
small and plain in appearance, with a neat little
pediment, a door in the middle, and a window
on either side. The doctrine preached in it
every Sunday evening is remarkable for purity.
As for the public-house, very likely its beer is
equally remarkable and for the same reason.
But Valentine never tasted either. There are
also in the street two chandlers' shops, two
second-hand clothes shops, one of them filled

with women's dresses, and a carver in Avoid.
Is not that a typical English street in which
Religion, Drink, Food, Art, Labour, and Trade
all find a place ?

It was nearly one o'clock when Valentine
returned to her lodsjinc^s. She had beam to
see Hoxton. There seemed little in the place
that was very depressing. A whole city at
work is rather cheerful than otherwise. To be
sure she had not been within the houses and
she knew nothing of the interiors, which are
more important from the human point of view
than the outside. Very likely clergymen,
district visitors, Bible women, and the general
practitioners, know enough about the place to
depress the most sanguine. And when lie
came back, she remembered all the girls who,
like Melenda and Lofty and Lizzie, must be
sitting within those walls stitching all day long
for less than a penny an hour, and her heart
fell. The cheerfulness goes out of honest
labour when one learns that it only means a
single penny an hour.

As she climbed the steep, narrow stair, she
saw, through the half-open door of the ground-floor
back, a strange and curious things. The

occupant, an old woman, whom she had not
seen before, was solemnly engaged in dancing
by herself, to an imaginary audience. She
shook her petticoats, pirouetted, executed 
steps, capered and postured, with all
the agility and some of the grace of a youthful
danseuse. Valentine was thinking of the
sewing-women ; the thing passed before her
eyes as she went up the stair ; she saw it but
took no heed ; nor was it till afterwards that
she remembered it and wondered what this
might mean.

She opened Melenda's door and looked
in. Something must have gone wrong. On
Melenda's brow, or where her brow should
have been but for the fringe, there rested a
cloud : it was a cloud much bigger than a
man's hand — in fact, it treated her as if she
had been a goddess of the good old time, and
entrapped and enfolded her completely, so
that she was veiled in cloud. The other two
seemed cowed. Lofty, sitting on the bed,
hardly dared to raise her eyes. Lizzie turned
her head furtively, but without so much as a
smile or even a look of recognition. Both

waited for Melenda to speak and went on with
their work, but self-consciously.

In fact, there had been a discussion carried
on with great animation by all three, mostly
talking together. This method of controversy
is lively, but hardly calculated to settle the
points at issue. Lofty's part in it was chiefly
one of remonstrance and entreaty. She had
been guilty of eating some of Valentine's ham
for supper, and of drinking a cup of cocoa.
Perhaps it was the unusual sense of repletion
which had given her a good and almost painless
night, though Melenda's attitude in the
morning filled her with a sense of guilt.
Lizzie, on the other hand, who had no excuse,
except that of hunger, for selling her independence
for a plate of ham, actually gloried
in the action, and proclaimed her readiness todo
it again if invited, and laughed at Melenda
for not taking all she could get. There were
rebellious questionings, scoffs, and doubts — all
put down to that concert, and the talk with
the gentleman afterwards. Lizzie never used
to show such spirit before she was tempted.
Many bear with pride the ills for which there

seems no cure ; but when a way is shown,
alas ! poor Pride ! Melenda tried argument,
with reduction to first principle, dogmatic
assertion, and quotations from the Opinions
and Maxims of the Philosopher Sam. Valentine
and her ham were only the text. The
Independence of Woman was the true theme.

Do you want anything ? ' asked Melenda,
with an ominous glitter in her eye.

No,' said Valentine, ' I only came '

Then you can go away,' said her sister ;
we're working girls, and we've got our bread
to earn. We haven't taken money off of rich
ladies for nothing. You can go away and eat up
all the rest of the ham — you and your ham ! '

But, Melenda '

Go away, I say. We've got our work todo.
Don't come wasting time. And Lizzie
eating such a lot of supper that she couldn't be
waked this morning. Go away.'

Valentine meekly obeyed and closed the
door. So far she had made very little way
with her sister. But she caught the eyes of
Lofty as she went out. They said as plainly
as eyes could speak, 'Forgive her, and don't
give up trying.'

Oil, Melinda ! ' said the possessor of these
eyes reproachfully.

Melenda sniffed.

As for me,' said Lizzie, ' if I had the good
luck to have such a sister I wouldn't turn her
out of the room. I'd have better manners.'

You'd beg and borrow all she had to
give, I suppose, and call that good manners P '

I'd take anything she wanted to give, and
I'd behave pretty to her.'

She ain't your sister, then. And I'm old
enough to know how to behave.'

This closed the discussion. And all there
was for the girls' dinner — while, as Lizzie
reflected, plenty reigned in the next room —
was a thick slice each of bread and butter.

At Hoxton, I am told, nobody at all, not
even any of the eight vicars or the seven
curates — but this may be incorrect — ever
thinks of dining late. Dinner at half-past
seven is not possible; one ceases to think of
such a thing the moment one begins to breathe
the air of Hoxton. Valentine, therefore, atone
o'clock, began naturally to consider the
subject of dinner instead of luncheon. She
had to look at it from quite a new point of

view — namely, to think how it was to be
provided, and how she was to use those beautiful
instruments provided for her. To all
right-minded and cultivated persons dinner
necessarily involves potatoes ; you cannot dine
without potatoes. Other things may be neglected.
Pickles, pudding, fish, soup, may be
considered as non-essentials, but not potatoes.
I have, it is true, seen a ploughboy sitting
under a hedge making what he called his
dinner with a lump of bacon fat, a great hunch
of bread, and a clasp-knife, but he thought of
potatoes ; and I have seen a navvy making
what he called his dinner with a great piece of
underdone beef cut thick, as they love it, those
others, and half a loaf. But all this is merely
stoking or taking in coal. Both navvy and
ploughboy know very well that without potatoes
there can be no dinner. There must be
potatoes. Valentine had the remains of her
ham and part of yesterday's loaf, but she had
no potatoes. She spread her cloth, laid out
these viands, which looked very much like
luncheon so far as they went. What about
potatoes? If she wanted them she would
have to buy them. Where should she go in

search of potatoes ? And how was she to buy
them? Do they sell potatoes by the dozen,
like eggs, or by the peck, like peas, or by the
pound, like cherries, or by the pint, like beer,
or singly, like peaches? And how do you
carry them home ? Claude had forgotten one
thing. He thought you could live in Hoxton
without a basket for marketing. She had, it is
true, an apron, but it was not one of those
aprons which are designed for the carriage of
things like potatoes.

Again, even if she could get over that difficulty
she would have to fill her saucepan with
water, for which purpose she would have to go
downstairs and fetch some from the cistern, and
that old woman below, who danced all by herself,
might be looking out of window, and she
might make remarks. And she would have to
light the fire again. And lastly, if she Had
got her potatoes and had washed and peeled
them and had put them in the pot, how long
should they boil ? Christmas plum-puddings,
she had read somewhere, are boiled for several
days and several nights continuously. But in
no book had she ever read the length of time
required to bring out the full mealiness of a

potato. And then, Alien she had boiled her
potatoes and eaten them, she would have all the
trouble of clearing everything away and washing
up. Truly, as has been already observed,
certain things ought to be done for one.

She felt that she could not take all this
trouble, at least for that day. To-morrow,
perhaps, but not to-day. She would be contented
for once with a simple luncheon. She
therefore cut some ham and made some sandwiches.
When she had eaten these and would
have poured out a glass of water, she found
that her filter was empty, and the look of the
outside of the cistern below did not speak well
for its contents. Besides, she did not want to
go downstairs. So, like Melenda and the girls
in the other room, she contented herself with
some cold tea remaining from breakfast, and
then pretended, like the navvy and the ploughboy,
that she had made her dinner. Thus easy
is it to take the downward step, so narrow is
the interval between civilisation — of which a
modern dinner is by many considered the
highest form of expression, and barbarism — in
which there is no dinner, so brief is the space
which separates us — I mean ourselves, gentle

reader, of the highest culture attainable — from
the folk of Ivy Lane.

Consider, however, the time which must be
spent every day, by one who lives alone, in the
mere preparation of meals and in the cleaning
up. The first clean up in the morning ; the
fetching and carrying of water ; the second
clean up after breakfast ; the clean up after
dinner ; the clean up after tea ; more fetching
and carrying water ; always more cleaning of
dishes and drying of dusters. Good Heavens !
one used to wonder how the hermits of old
managed to pass their days. Why, they were
passed, not in holy meditation at all, for which
there was no time, but in continually brushing,
brooming, sweeping, washing, laying the cloth,
taking it off again and putting it away, cleaning
the windows, sweeping up the hearth, buying
potatoes and cooking them, making the bed,
dressing and undressing — the wonder is that
these holy men found any time for meditation
at all. Certainly they have left behind them
few monuments of their life-long thoughts in
seclusion. As for those who did any other work,
they, like Melenda and her friends, never
washed anything at all.

The dinner over, Valentine rested and read
a little, and began the daily journal of her exile,
passing lightly over her late skirmish with
Melenda, and saying nothing — great is the power
of the suppressio veri — about the absence of
potatoes, so that the impression on the mind of
anyone who read those journals would be that
there had been no difficulty at all as regards the
dinner question. Yet she herself remembered
that the question would have to be faced again ;
and, besides, the ham would not last for ever.

About four o'clock she thought she would
go to Tottenham by the tram, and visit the
almshouse once more and her blind mother.

CHAPTEE III.

ox CURLS AND DIMPLES.

I HAVE always thought it a very remarkable
coincidence that on the very first day of
Valentine's sojourn among this strange people
she should have discovered the great Family
Secret — that secret which Lady Mildred
thought known to no one but her solicitor and
herself. Had the discovery been made earlier,
the Great Renunciation might never have been
undertaken : had it been made later, it would
have been prosecuted in a different spirit.
Valentine, in short, on this day established her
previously doubtful identity. Perhaps it is as
well to know for certain who you are as well
as what you are. A Homo in the abstract,
male or female, cannot be expected to take as
much interest in himself, or to care so much
about his own views and opinions, as a Homo
who knows at least one generation of his descent.

just enough to connect him with the human
family. All Philosophy is based upon the
sentiment of family as well as individuality.
Valentine therefore, after this day, but not
before, was capable of constructing a system of
Philosophy for herself if she wished. This in
itself is an enormous gain.

'I thought you'd come back, Polly,' said
the old lady with much gratification. ' I knew
you'd come back by yourself when Miss
Beatrice had enjoyed her bit o' fun with the
pretending and nonsense. Well, we must
humour 'em, mustn't we ? Ehoder, child, you
can go home. Your Aunt 
will make my tea for me to-night. So
you go home.' The girl obeyed, glad to be
released from the embarrassment of taking her
tea with an aunt so very much unlike any other
aunts she knew belonging either to herself or
to her friends.

And so you're going to stay here three
months, while her ladyship goes abroad or
somewhere, are you, Polly ? Well now. And
with Melenda too ! Well, my dear, I don't
know what your temper may be, but of course
you can't show off before my lady, which is a

blessed thing for a young girl. And how you'll
get on with your sister the Lord knows, because
Melenda's awful. Is she friendly ? '

Not very friendly, yet. But I hope she
will be.'

She's morning noon and night in a rage.
First it's the work, and then it's the wages, and
then it's the long hours, and she's always
hungry, which makes her snappish. As for
that, the last time she came you could count
every bone in her body, poor thing.'

Valentine made the tea and cut the bread
and butter, while the old lady, pleased to have
so good a listener, talked without pause about
her children and her grandchildren.

It's a real pleasure to have you back again,
Polly. There's not many pleasures left for a
blind old woman. And good-natured and
willing with it. Well ! ' This is an interjection
which may mean many things, and stands in
turns for patience, resignation, hope, sarcasm,
approbation, or even despair. This time it
was accompanied by a heartfelt sigh, and stood
for prayerful gratitude that so good a daughter
had been restored to her. 'They've taught
you to make a good cup of tea, my dear,

though I'm afraid you've a heavy hand with the
caddy, and to cut bread and butter as it should
be cut, though too much butter and the bread
too thin for poor folk. I suppose you often doit
for Miss Beatrice ? '

Very often,' said Valentine, truthfully.

And you don't fidget like Ehoder who's
always wanting to be off again unless she can
sit in a corner and read her book. She's just
like your father, Polly, terrible fond of a book.'

Was my father fond of reading ? '

Yes, my dear. He was, and that's the
only good thing he ever was fond of. Never
mind him, Polly. Some day, perhaps, I'll tell
you all about him, but never to Claude. You
can tell your daughter everything. That's the
comfort of having girls, though a woman's
always fondest of her boys. A son's a son till
he gets him a wife, but your daughter's your
daughter — as you'll find out some day, my
dear — all the days of your life, though Melenda
has never been the daughter I wanted.'

Then, mother, I am all the more pleased
to be of use. Now — what can I do next.^
I've washed up the things and put them away,
and tidied the table. You've e^ot a beautiful

geranium in the window, I will cut away the
dead leaves. Ehoda ought to do that for you.
Or shall I read to you ? I'm sure you would
like me to read to you sometimes.'

No, Polly,' replied the old lady, drawing
herself up with dignity, ' you shan't do nothing
of the kind. I'm feeling very well this
summer ; I never felt better in my life ; nearly
all my rheumatics has gone away and I sleep
all night, and I haven't said anything that I
remember to make you think I required reading.
And as for years I'm sixty turned, but
the youngest of them all. If I require reading
I believe I can make my wants known and
send for a clergyman, unless I am took sudden
which may happen to anybody, and one ought
to be prepared. Perhaps allowance is made
for such. No reading, thank you, my dear.'

I didn't mean religious reading exactly,'
Valentine made haste to explain. ' However,
let us talk instead, and I will attend to your
flowers. Tell me something more about all of
us when we were little — Claude and Melenda
and me.'

This she said in perfect innocency, and without
a thought of what might follow.

VOL. I. u

I will, Polly. Well, my dear, you were a
fat little tiling, with chubby arms and legs and
curls all over your forehead, and the most beautiful
little laughing face that ever was seen.
No wonder my lady fell in love with you at
first sight. Oh, my dear, it was a cruel hard
thing to part with you, a hard thing it was.'

Why did you then, mother ? '

It was for your own good, my dear, and
her ladyships promised to give you a good bringing
up, which she's done, I'm sure. Besides,
I couldn't bear to think of that pretty face
brought to shame and tears '

But why shame and tears, mother ? '

Well, dear, some time or other, perhaps I'll
tell you. Not to-night. I can't bear to talk of
it nor to think of it. But some day I'll tell
you, because you're Polly. But not to Claude.
If you went away I thought there be one of
them safe, for how to save them other blessed
innocents I knew not. Oh, it was a great
danger, Polly.'

she paused and sighed, and her lips moved
in silence.

The Lord only knows,' she said presently,
how I got through that time.' She shuddered

and clasped her hands. ' Ah, my dear,
it's a wonderful thing when you're old to remember
what you've gone through. If the
Lord sends the trouble, He gives the strength
to bear it.'

You Avere in trouble, were you, mother ? '
Valentine laid her hand upon the blind woman's
cheek. ' Forget it — don't think about it.'

I won't, my dear. Well, when you went
away the house was dull and quiet, because
Claude was a grave child always, and Melenda
never had your pretty ways.'

'Had I pretty ways ? Oh, I'm afraid I
have lost them. What a pity to grow up and
lose one's pretty ways I '

And curls all over your head you had

Had I ? And now my hair is quite
straight.'

And a dimple in your cheek you had.'

The dimple is gone too, I am afraid ; gone
away with the curls and the pretty ways.
What becomes of all these things, and where do
they go to ? '

Dimples don't go, Polly, but perhaps it
doesn't show as it did. Dimples never go. It
is on the left cheek, my dear, and it shows

u2

when you laugh. Ah ! And you were always
laughing.'

Then, for some unknown reason, Valentine
started and flushed a rosy red.

And you had, besides, a little brown
mark, a birth mark, on your arm, just above
your elbow. You were the only one of all my
children with so much as a speck or spot upon
their bodies. Clean-skinned and straight-limbed
children you were all, and as upright as a lance,
except for that little spot on your arm.'

Valentine made no reply, but her cheek
was now quite pale, and she felt dizzy and
was fain to catch at the back of a chair, because
the walls began to go round and the solid earth
to quake. This extraordinary terrestrial phenomenon,
which was not noticed by any of the
daily papers, nor even by the other residents
in Lilly's, was entirely caused by the sympathy
of the great round globe for Valentine, when
by these simple words the old lady revealed the
secret of her birth and filled her with strange
emotions and troubled the calmness of her
brain. Strange that Lady Mildred should
never have thought of these little signs and
proofs. But mothers, like leopardesses, know

the spots upon their children which cannot be
changed any more than the skin of the Ethiopian.


On your right arm it is, Polly, my dear.
Oh, I remember it very well.'

Valentine made no reply.

Where are you, dearie ? ' The blind woman
stretched out her hands. ' Wlieore are you,
Polly ? '

I am here, mother,' she replied, in an altered
voice. ' I am here. But the heat of the day —
or something — made me giddy. Wait a moment,
mother dear. I will be back directly.'

She went out into the open court before
the cottages. After all these years of uncertainty,
now she knew the truth. There was no longer
any doubt.

Suppose that Prince Florestan, just before
coming of age, was to discover that he was not
the Prince at all, but only the son of Adam the
gardener, and that Adam junior, who had
always been employed in picking the strawberries,
gathering the cherries, choosing the
ripe peaches, shelling the peas, and cutting the
asparagus for him to eat, was going to change
places with him . And suppose Adam j union was

suddenly to learn that he was going to eat up
himself all the fruits of the earth as they came
in due season, and that the former Prince was
to be occupied in cultivating the gardens for
him? What would be the feelings of those
young men ?

Valentine's case was not quite this, because
there never was any case quite the same as
Valentine's ; but it was near it. She always
knew that one of the two was Adam the gardener's
son, and now she knew which it was.
Yet it must remain her secret. Nobody — not
Claude, nor Violet, nor the blind old lady, nor
Joe — must know it, partly because it was
Lady Mildred's own secret and must be kept
for her sake ; and partly because for three
months to come she was to depend upon Claude
as upon a brother for protection and advice,
and partly because neither this poor old woman
nor Melenda must know that she was among
them on false pretences.

Some girls on such a discovery would have
made the most of the situation. They would
have gone away and wandered with dazed eyes
among the fields or beside the banks of a silver
stream ; they would have clasped hands and

ejaculated ; they would have thro-wn themselves
in beautiful attitudes upon sofas or in
easy-chairs. Most girls would do, I think,
exactly what Valentine did. Like the young
lady who went on cutting bread and butter,
Valentine went back to the cottage and resumed
her trimmings of the flowers in the window.
For in fact, the dimple in the cheek, the curly
hair which would not be brushed straight or
lie down, the brown mark upon the arm, just
below the elbow — not to speak, Valentine
thought, of the pretty and caressing ways —
all these belonged not to herself at all but —
to Violet. Violet therefore was 
and she was Beatrice, and Lady
Mildred was her mother, and Melenda was not
her sister save in the bonds of womanhood.

This was her discovery.

She was not, then, that interesting creature,
th? poor girl educated and brought up asa
gentlewoman : she was nothing in the world
but Beatrice Eldridge, the daughter of a highly
respectable country gentleman, and the granddaughter
of an earl. She was not a child of
the people at all. Iter mother was not the
poor woman who now sat in darkness ; nor, a

more important thing still, was Claude her
brother. Something of her pride was torn
from her by the discovery. She had made up
her mind ever since she had been able to
understand at all what the thing meant, that
she was the daughter of these humble people.
She honestly believed it. She thought that she
was returning to her own folk after many
years ; and now she was with them indeed, but
under false pretences. If the old lady in the
cottage knew the truth, first she would freeze,
then she would fold her hands over her white
apron, and then she would stand up like a
village school girl, and say, ' Yes, Miss Beatrice,
and my humble service to her ladyship.' And
Claude, if he knew the truth, would instantly
lose his fraternal manner, and could do nothing
more for her. Of course Lady Mildred knew
that he would regard her as his sister. Why,
the position would be intolerable. Melenda, for
her part, would be, if possible, more farouche
than ever ; Lizzie Avould be more shy and reserved
; Lofty would be more timid ; and as
for all the weaker brethren in Ivy Lane, and
wherever the bruit and fame of the thing might
spread, and as soon as it became known that

there was actually living in their midst a young
lady who would in a few weeks be the possessor
of much treasure, all their worst qualities
would come straight to the front with every
possible form of cunning, meanness, greed, and
self-seeking.

Polly, my dearie, what's the matter ? Is
it the heat again ? '

I am better now, mother.'

You ain't cross, my dear, because I wouldn't
let you read, are you ? I'm sure you read beautiful,
and you shall read if you like.'

Cross, mother ! That would be a strange
thing. Ko, I do not want to read since you
don't want it. Shall I sing to you ? I should
like you to hear me sing.'

Why, my dear, I should like that better
than reading. And then we can go on talking
ai^ain. None of the other children ever had a
singing voice. None of them ever went about
singing as most children do. Their father
couldn't sing, though he could play. All his
cleverness went into his fingers.'

Violet could not sing. Her voice was of
small compass, and she never sang even alone
or with Valentine. All her cleverness, like her

father's, went into her fingers. She could play,
though not so well as Valentine. She played
to amuse herself; but she painted and drew
professionally, so to speak.

I can sing,' said Valentine. ' I will sing
you a hymn, mother.'

She hesitated, and then for some fancied
appropriateness — I know not what, perhaps it
existed only in her imagination — of the place
and the time with the vioiif of the hymn, she
chose an old Puritan hymn which has now
dropped out of use and been forgotten, since the
Churches resolved to stifle the sadness of life
and to simulate the voice of one who continually
rejoices and is not afraid and has neither
doubt nor question. This hymn had very
little joy in it, save that of a faith, humble and
resigned, with an under-current, an unexpressed
feeling of sorrow, and even perhaps of humble
remonstrance, that things had not been ordered
otherwise from the beginning. This hymn
begins with the words, ' We've no abiding city
here,' and as Valentine sang them the blind old
woman joined her hands as one who prays, and
the tears gathered in her eyes.

Oh, Polly,' she cried, ' my own dear Polly !

To think that you should ever come back to
your old mother, and to be such a good girl
and all ! Let me kiss you again, my dear. Melenda
never had your pretty ways, poor thing !
Some day — not yet — some day I'll tell you all
my troubles. But you mustn't never tell Claude
mind that. We mustn't never let Claude
know. You and me will keep the secret to
ourselves, my dear. Come often. Come whenever
you can. Oh, my Polly, you have made
me so glad and happy, my dear — so glad and
happy. Your voice is like her ladyship's.
You've caught that by living with Miss Beatrice.
But your ways are all your own — my own little
Polly's soft and pretty ways.'

CHAPTEE lY.
lofty's romance.

Valentine went away with a guilty feeling, as
if she had peeped into the sealed chamber : or
eaten the forbidden fruit : or searched after the
unlawful mystery : or inquired of the wise
woman. Yet truly it was not her own seeking,
but the simplest accident which disclosed the
thing. The discovery was premature. Had
she been able to choose she would rather not
have made it, because the only course now left
to her was to go on precisely and exactly as if
she had not found it out, and so she would be
among them all under false pretences.

When she got home between nine and ten
o'clock the market in Hoxton Street was in
full swing, and the matrons of Ivy Lane were
gathered together in the street, talking in knots ;
there was a group of men about the doors of

the 'Adelaide,' and a crowd noisily disputing
within the bar.

Was it imagination ? or had there already
come upon Valentine in one short hour,
namely, since the Discovery, a subtle change,
so that she no longer regarded the people with
quite the same sense of relationship ? She was
no longer their sister in the narrower sense.
We are all of us, to be sure, brothers and sisters
the clergyman tells us so every Sunday, kindly
coupling himself with the assurance, ' for you
and for me, brethren.' But the recognition of
this fact produces fruits of affection and charity
in comparative scantiness. One may, besides,
acknowledge the relationship, and yet be conscious
of a certain natural superiority. Perhaps
it was only a passing fancy. Yet there must
have been some change. She had come to
stay with her own individual sister : she could
only now stay with the universal sister, and
make believe that she was the private sister.
And a great mass of miscellaneous thoughts
came crowding into her mind too fast and too
numerous for comfortable reception.

As for the people, they already knew
Valentine, though only just arrived, as the

sister of a work-girl living among them in one
of their houses — presumably a shop-girl from
her neat dress and respectable appearance, and
also apparently ' quiet '^-a quality which in
Ivy Lane, as elsewhere, commands the highest
respect. The women parted right and left tolet
her pass, and then closed in again and carried
on their Parliament with talk as copious
and faces as animated as if they had been a
Conference of Advanced Women assembled for
the purpose of destroying religion and reversing
the political power of the sexes. What do
they talk about, these feminine Parliaments of
the Crossways ? Indeed, no man knoweth ;
if any were to stay his steps and listen, that
rash person would probably be treated as an
intruder into the mysteries of Bona Dea. One
might, it is true, imitate the reprehensible example
of Claudius. Foolish persons, ignorant of
these Parliaments and of other things, speak of
streets such as Ivy Lane as dull and monotonous.
How can a hive of humanity ever be dull ?
There is no monotony where there are, constantly
happening, common to all, and talked about by
all, sickness and suffering, birth and death, good
hap and evil hap, and the wonderful and dramatic

situations continually worked out upon
the stage of the Human Comedy by that mysterious
unknown Power, known only to man
by one quality, and named accordingly by such
as speak of Him as ' The Unexpected.' Not a
day but something happens to redeem such a
street from the charge of dulness. Only those
places are dull where, though the human anthill
is divided into streets, the human ants
come not forth to exchange words with each
other, and one man knoweth not his brother,
and each by himself selfishly eateth his own
cob nuts and giveth his neighbour none, and
each alone bitterly endure his own pain. It
is gentility, especially the first beginning of it,
which is dull, when people separate from their
fellows and refuse to partake with them of the
sacrament of sympathy, whereof quiet conversation
is the outward and visible sign. Kingsland,
for instance, is dull, and Shepherd's Bush is
dull, and Camden Town is inexpressibly dull.
The man who once proposed a Palace of Delight
for Whitechapel, forgot that it was ever so much
more needed in Camden Town.

Now, as Valentine passed through the open
doorway, a man who was standing within

CHILDREN OF GIBBON

stepped aside to make room for her and took
off this list to her. It was not mitil later that
she realised the significance of the gesture.
Every one does not recognise the fact that the
Kentish workings-man never takes off his hat to
ladies. A man who does so is not a workingman.
He is, or has been, among the ranks of
those who do take off their hats : that is, he is,
or has been, a gentleman. As Valentine went
up the stairs this man went slowly into the
ground floor front. She turned to look at him.
He looked quite old and was tall, but stooped a
good deal. It was too dark to see much of
him, but the gaslight in the street outside lit
up the narrow passage. She could see that he
had long white hair and a great mass of it, and
that his chin was white with a week's growth
of beard, for it was now Friday, and he only
shaved on Sunday morning. His eyes met
Valentine's in the doorway, and she remembered
afterwards a strange sadness in them, which
made her wonder what was the history of the
man. In her own room she lit her reading-lamp,
and sat down intending to follow out
some of the lines of thought opened up to herby
her discovery. But she remembered Lofty

in the next room, and with self-reproach she
went to see her.

The other two girls were out, and Lofty
was lying alone. She was in much suffering
to-night ; her back was bad and her cough was
bad ; she was moaning as she lay, but in a
whisper, so to speak, because when people
sleep three in a bed, the habit is acquired of
doing one's groans inaudibly for fear of waking
the others. The house was nearly opposite
the public-house, and the smell of beer and tobacco
with the noisy talk of the drinking men
came pouring in at the open window.

What have you eaten to-day ? ' asked
Valentine.

I am not hungry. Well, then ; bread and
tea.'

How long did you work ? '

The others worked all day from half-past
six o'clock till nearly nine. But I had to lie
down sometimes.'

From half-past six till nine ! Fourteen
hours and a half — all the livelong day. They
had been doing this for eight years, and they
were going on with it all their lives, with no
hope of any change or any improvement or

VOL. I. X

any mitigation. It seems a heavy sentence,
my sisters, for the Sin of Eve.

Valentine remembered that in her cupboard
there lay a great bagful of grapes — big purple
grapes from a hothouse, every one as big asa
pigeon's egg and beautiful to look upon for
their delicate bloom. Claude left them therefor
her. Without any more talking, she got a
bunch of these and began to put them one by
one into Lofty's mouth, just as a nurse gives
food to a little child. It was chiefly exhaustion
that had brought on the pain. When she had
eaten a few of the grapes it was nearly gone.

Then Valentine carried her into her own
room, and laid her on her own bed and undressed
her.

You shall stay here to-night,' she said, ' a
little out of the noise from the street. And,
besides, my bed is softer than yours. I can
sleep in the easy-chair. Don't dare to say a
word, Lofty. Eemember that I am Melenda's
sister ' — Oh, Valentine ! — ' and you have never
seen me in a rage. I can get into terrible rages
if I am contradicted or put out. There, now
you are comfortable. Oh, what ragged stockings
and shoes ! I shall give you a new pair

tomorrow. Melenda said you were to have
whatever I gave you. And you want everything,
you poor thing ! And now you must
eat some more grapes.'

If you could only persuade Melenda to
take some,' said Lofty. 'But she won't, and
she's getting thinner every day.'

What shall I do ? How can I persuade
her?'

'Don't do anything, and then, perhaps,
she'll come round.'

Now, Lofty, listen to me. To-morrow is
Saturday. The next day is Sunday. I shall
do all your work for you tomorrow — do you
hear ? — and that will give you two days' rest.
And then we will see afterwards.'

You can't do my work.'

Yes, I can. Why, I can do all kinds of
work. Are you tired now ? '

I was tired when you came ; but I am not
tired now. It was the grapes. You wouldn't
rather be out than sitting with me, would you ?
But, of course, you are a young lady. Lizzie
and the City Eoad isn't fit company for you.
Not that it's good for Liz.'

I would rather be here with you.' Valentine

stroked her thin cheek and soft hair. ' It's
better for both of us.'

Oh ! you are good,' said Lofty. ' And
please don't mind Melenda. She flies out easy,
but she comes round again ; and she's kind tome,
and never out of temper, though sometimes
my back's too bad for me to do any work at all.
Then she works for both. There's not a quicker
girl with her needle anywhere than Melenda.'

I will try not to mind. But, Lofty, is
there nothing that can be done for you ?
Have you no friends anywhere ? '

'No, I haven't got any friends. Father
and mother were country born and bred, and I
don't know where they came from. I've got
no friends — only Melenda.'

'Let me be your friend too.' Valentine
stooped and kissed the girl's forehead. ' Don't
be proud, like Melenda. Let me be your friend
too. Lofty.'

Oh ! it's wonderful,' said Lofty. ' Why,
you are crying too, and you're a young lady.
How can I be friends with a young lady ? '

Why not ? And I'm Melenda's sister, you
know.'

Again — oh, Valentine !

Melenda says you ought to be like herself,
and a work-girl. Sam — that's her brother '

I know my brother Sam,' said Valentine.
A third times Oh, mendacious one ! But it is
only the first step which gives trouble.

Sam says there oughtn't to be gentlemen
and ladies — only men and women. But then,
ladies don't use language, and they don't drink.
It must be a beautiful thing to be a lady, even
without the fine things you had on when you
came here first.'

If I am a lady, that is all the more reason
for my being your friend. Tell me about
yourself. How is it you are so friendless ?
And were you always so poor ? '

It's through father — because he failed and
went bankrupt.'

Oh ! is that all ? ' Mere bankruptcy, in
the light of Ivy Lane poverty, seemed a very
small thing.

Father had a shop once in the Boswell
Eoad, you know. It wasn't a big place, but
oh ! it was a most beautiful little shop, with a
parlour behind and four bedrooms above. In
those days we used to go to school — not a
Board school, but a Select Academy for young

ladies, kept by a real lady who had been a
dressmaker in a large way, but met with misfortunes
— a beautiful school. On Sunday we
all went to chapel, where we had a pew, and
put on our Sunday frocks. I don't think there
ever was a man fonder of his business and
prouder of his shop than father. He'd be content
to spend the whole day in it, setting out
the things, sorting his drawers, and talking
with his customers. And sometimes he'd go
out and stand on the kerb admiring his windows,
where the ribbons used to hang up most
lovely. But mother she'd make him put on
his hat and go out for an hour of fresh air.
Mostly he'd go down Alternate Street and
into Cheapside, just to see how they dressed
their windows. After a good day's takings,
he'd come in and have supper and talk about
bigger premises and of the time when we would
be his assistants.'

The romance of a small draper's shop ! Yet
in it were all the elements which make up romance
: the hopes and ambitions of a man for
himself and those he loved — the family and the
home, the wife and the children — and unexpected
fate impending over all with cruel and

undeserved disaster. No castle with moaned
keep could contain better elements of romance.

And no thought,' said Lofty, ' of what
would happen.'

What did happen ? '

Father went bankrupt. He was broke.'

How was he — broke ? '

I don't know. The customers fell off.
Everybody said it was bad times and so many
out of work. It couldn't be the fault of father ;
nobody could be more civil and obliging.
Perhaps they got things cheaper at the stores
and the big shops ; but father said everyone
must make his profit, else how could people
live ? Whatever it was, the customers fell off,
and then father he began to get low-spirited
and anxious, and things got worse. As for
mother, she'd sit and cry until he came in, and
then she'd brisk up and pretend to laugh, and
say things would come round, and cheer him
up a bit. Oh, poor mother ! '

Poor mother ! ' Valentine echoed.

That lasted a long time, and we got poorer
every day. There was no more school for us,
and we sent away the girl. And one day I
remember — it's twelve years ago and more —

father came into the back parlour, and sat down
and cried as if his heart would break because
there was a man in possession, and we were
ruined.'

Oh ! '

That's all. They sold everything we had,
and the beautiful shop that we'd all been so
proud of was empty and shut up. Then we
went into lodgings, and father began to lookout
for work. But there, he was heart-broken,
and he went about as if he was silly.'

And then ? '

Why, he came home every day without
finding it. Nobody, j^ou see, is so helpless asa
draper who's been bankrupt. For the other
tradesmen despise a bankrupt, and it makes
them think that he must drink or be extravagant.
And, besides, he knows too much.
They don't like to let shop-assistants learn all
the secrets of the trade. So he could get no
work. Then mother, she took ill with the
misery, and went off her poor head, and no
wonder.' Lofty stopped to choke. ' The
parish took her, and she died.'

And what became of your father ? '

Oh ! don't blame him, poor dear, because

he was quite broken-hearted. And he began
to drink, and then he had to be a roader for
the parish at eigliteenpence a day — him who'd
kept his own shop ; and one day he took a
chill from standing in the mud with his broom
and his bad boots, and went to hospital, and
died there.'

And then you were left alone ? You and
had you any brothers or sisters ? '

Lofty hesitated.

Don't tell me more than you like, my
dear,' said Valentine.

There was — one— other,' Lofty replied
with hesitation. ' It was Tilly.'

What became of Tilly ? Did she die, too ? '

Hush ! ' Lofty whispered. ' I don't know
where she is now, whether she's alive or dead.
She said she wouldn't stand it, and she went
away.'

What did she go away for ? '

She was a header : she was that clever
with her fingers she could do all kinds of things.
Once she had very good work as a 
hand, and did flat work and sHp-
stitching. But there wasn't much work, and
she couldn't get enough to keep her ; and one

day she up and said she wouldn't stand it any
longer, and so, with only a kiss and a cry, she
went right away — Melenda was out, else she'd
never ha' let her go — and we've never seen her
since. Sometimes Melenda goes to look for
her, but she's never found her.'

Where has she gone, then ? Where does
Melenda look for her ? '

Lofty did not answer this question.

Sometimes,' she said, ' when I'm alone in
the evening, I think I hear her step upon the
stair, and oh ! what I would do if Tilly would
only come back, and be good again — my poor
Tilly! — just as she used to be, and bear it
all brave, like Melenda.'

And then I think about Liz,' Lofty went
on after a pause. ' Because she's discontented,
like Tilly, and the hard work frets her ; and she
doesn't get enough to eat, and her father's
awful poor, and can't help her.'

Who is her father ? '

It's old Mr. Lane, downstairs. They say
he was a gentleman once, and he did something
' — ' did something,' beautiful euphemism !
' and got into trouble. He writes letters for
the German Jews at Whitechapel when they

first come, and for the German workmen in the
Curtain Eoacl, where they are all furniture
men. He knows a lot of languages, but he's
so dreadful poor he can't give Liz anything.'

My dear, is the whole street full of terrible
stories like this ? '

Well, we're poor, and I suppose there's
stories about all of us — how we came to be
poor.'

There is one thing you've not told me,
Lofty : how you came to know Melenda.'

Lofty told that story too. It was a story
of two girls' friendships for each other — a friendship
passing that of David and Jonathan, commonly
supposed to be the leading case in friendship
; and how one girl who was strong stood
by and worked for the other who was weak ;
and how for her sake she bore patiently with
tyrannies, petty cheating, bullying, and defrauding
; and how the two presently found
another girl as helpless and friendless as themselves,
and forced her to remain with them,
and kept her in the stony path of labour and of
self-respect. Quite a common story — only a
wild weed kind of story — a story which maybe
picked up in every gutter; so that one

wonders why Valentine's heart burned within
her, and why the tears crowded into her eyes
and ran down her cheeks. .

You must talk no more, Lofty,' she said,
when her story was finished. ' They are
getting quieter outside and you will be able to
sleep very soon. There — the grapes are within
your reach. I shall do very well on the chair.
Good-night, my dear. Your cough will be
better now. Oh ! Lofty, Lofty — I never knew
there could be such dreadful troubles as these.
Poor child ! '

Don't cry. Perhaps Tilly will come back.'
We must all be sisters together, my dear,
and love each other,' said Valentine, with some
incoherence, but she had her meaning. ' It is
all that we can do. There is nothing else that
will help us all — nothing else.' /

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

rrJXTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE And CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON



OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

8Z2)
B4-GcK

v.Z

Return this book on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.
University of Illinois Library

M OCT 30 n

L161— O-1096

BY

WALTER BESANT AND JAMES RICE.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3^. dd. each ; post 8vo. illus.
boards, 2j. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Ready-money Mortify.

WITH HARP AND CROWN.

THIS SON OF VULCAN.

MY LITTLE GIRL.

THE CASE OF MR. Craft.

THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY.

BY CELIA'S ARBOUR.

THE MONKS OF Helena.

'TWAS IN TRAFALGAR'S BAY.

THE SEAMY SIDE.

THE TEN YEARS' TENANT.

THE CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

NOVELS BY WALTER BESANT.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3^. 6d. each ; post 8vo. illus.
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN : an

Impossible Story. With Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

THE CAPTAINS' ROOM, &c. With Frontispiece
by E. J. Wheeler.

ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR. With 6 Illustrations
by H. Furnish.

DOROTHY FORSTER. With Frontispiece by
Charles Green.

UNCLE JACK, and other Stories.

London : CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

BY

WALTER BESANT

AUTHOR OF 'all SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN '
DOROTHY FORSTER ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IL

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[The ri'^/ii 0/ translation is reserved]

sPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Square

LONDON

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME,

BOOK II. — continued.

CHAPTER Tags

V. A REAL day's WORK I

VI. BEHIND ST. LUKE's .33

VII. THE PROFESSOR OF Reddish . . .65

VIII. Lofty's foolish DREAM S4

IX. SHOWING HOW THE BAND PLAYED .104

X. THE REVEREND Sandal SMITH . . . 123

XI. A DEAD man's STEPS . . '. . .14.5

XII. THE WOOING OF THE Sphinx . . . . 171

XIII. A USELESS CRIME 135

XIV. ASK ME NO MORE 204

XV. BROTHER JOE's DISCOVERY . . • .224

XVI. THE EARTHLY TRACT SOCIETY . . . • 238

XVII. THE STEP WITHOUT 2^5 >

XVIII. LE pIire PRODIGUE '^'^^i

XIX. IN THE CHURCHYARD 3U

BOOK II, — continued.
CHAPTER Y.

A Real day's work.

If you please, Melenda,' said Valentine,
presenting herself in the morning after breakfast,
' I am come to do Lofty's work for her today.'


Lofty was With her, looking guilty and
rather frightened.

I didn't ask her, Melenda,' she explained.

« She wants a rest,' said Valentine ; ' I mean
to do it. May I work here with you, Melenda,
or shall I work in my own room ? It will be
quieter for Lofty if I sit here.'

It is only another of their whims and
fancies,' said Melenda, looking at Valentine as

VOL. ir. B

if she was a Specimen. ' Give her the work,
Liz, and let Lofty he down till she's tired of
her fancy. That won't be very long, and it'll
rest Lofty. Then she'll put it down and go
away and forget all about the work and Lofty
too. They've got nothing to do and so they're
full of fancies. Here, take the work."

She ungraciously motioned Valentine to a
bundle of shirts, as yet without their buttonholes,
lying on the table.

Lofty must have rest, Melenda,' Valentine
replied, without referring to Melenda's analysis
of her own character. ' She wants more food
and less work. Let her lie down and rest in
my room because it's cooler than this.' Lie
did not add that it was much cleaner, much
sweeter, and much prettier. ' She shall have
my dinner and I will have hers, if you
like.'

Lizzie, remembering the ham, chuckled
sarcastically. It was her only contribution to
the conversation.

'Don't be ungracious, Melenda. I have
not offered to give you anything.'

'You shan't, then. There ! ' Melenda
dashed her work aside and sprang to her feet

ill a sudden passion. ' I'll take nothing from
you — nothing. Not even your cheek, nor your
pride. And you shall take nothing from me.
Oh! you come here and you think you can
make me humble because you've got some
money saved and some fine friends, and you've
been brought up like a lady and taught to despise
us all, and then you think you'll spite me
by taking Lofty from me. You shan't have
her — no.' She laid her arm round her friend's
neck and became immediately soft and tender.
No, Lofty dear ; she wants to part us, but she
shan't, shall she ? All these years we've been
friends and worked together, you and me, and
borne such a lot and never grumbled, and she's
only just come. I'll do your work for you as
well as my own, Lofty, and welcome, if I have
to sit up all night for it. But I can't get ham
and grapes for you — work all I know — like
she can.' The quick tears sprang to her eyes
at this consciousness of inferiority.

She doesn't want to part you and me,'
said Lofty, 'I know she doesn't; and you
oughtn't to think I'd ever leave you. Don't
be so hard on her, Melenda. Isn't she your
sister and all, though she is a young lady ? '

B 2

Melenda dashed the tears from her eyes.
Was Lofty herself going to desert her ?

Lizzie went on with her work, her head
bent over the button-holes as if her friend's
health, and any discussion which might arise
upon it, was of no concern at all to herself.
But she looked up now and then furtively, just
to see whether Melenda was going to catch it
or to let some one else catch it. Melenda's
tears were but the drops of a short shower
which comes before a thunderstorm. She
stood with kindling eyes and clenched lists.
She was jealous ; she was so jealous that she
would have liked nothing better than to have
fallen upon poor Valentine and — luckily, she
did not do it. But she looked so fierce that
Valentine remembered what had been said to
Violet about the tearing out of ladies' hair, and
wondered if she was going to lose her own.
She was fierce because she was jealous, and she
was jealous because Lofty was visibly drawn
towards Valentine, and because for the first
time her own sacrifice of work and time could
do nothing for her friend compared with the
soft words, the grapes, and the creature comforts
so freely bestowed by the new-comer.

You shan't take her from me,' she cried
again, but with weakened force.

'Don't, Melenda,' said Lofty. 'I'm not
leaving you. Oh ! why are you so cruel to
here's

Melenda have in. She said nothing, but
threw herself into her chair and gathered np
her work. If Lofty wanted to leave her, she
must go. That is what her attitude and action
meant.

Look at her,' said Valentine, taking advantage
of this momentary weakness which might
mean softening ; ' look at her pale face. Let
her rest to-day and have good food — tomorrow
is Sunday. I will go on with her work here,
and you may say as many hard tidings to me as
you please.'

I tried to do for you, Lofty — I tried my
best, I did.'

You did, Melenda dear. Oh ! yes, I know.
But it's my back.'

Take her, then,' said Melenda with a kind
of sullen dignity. ' Give her what you like.
Give her hot roast beef and potatoes, if you
like ; but you shan't give none to me.'

Valentine led Lofty away, and set her in

lier own chair with a pillow in the back, and
placed some books on the table within her
reach. Then she went back to the workroom.


Now, as regards the girl who was sick, she,
left to herself, began first to turn over the leaves
of a book which lead pictures in it. It was a
book of poetry. The only poetry Lofty had
ever learned or read— because in the Select
Academy poetry was not part of the Curriculum
was the verse contained in the hymn-book
used by the chapel where in their palmy days
her unfortunate family had worshipped. But
it was a great many years since she had gone
to any church or chapel, and the hymns were
well-nigh forgotten by this time and the hymnbook
lost. Consequently when first she looked
at the ' reading; ' and saw that it was verse, she
thought it must be a hymn-book ; but when she
came to read the hymns in it and found she
could not remember to have read anything like
them in her own book, and missed all the old
tags and phrases, she began to fear that Valentine
was a heretic of some kind. Of the narrow
creed which had been preached in that little
Primitive Christian Church some few ra,£^s

and tatters remained ; notably, that everybody
who did not hold the Catholic Faith as expounded
by the Primitive Christians was in a
perilous state ; and that to be a Papist, or an
Anglican, or a Congregationalist, or a Presbyterian,
or a Unitarian was to invite certain destruction,
while even to continue in the twilight
of Baptists or Methodism was to incur great
risks. It is odd how, when one's early faith is
forgotten, the narrowness of it may remain,
like the crust in the bottle after the wine has
been poured out. So Lofty closed the book,
in confusion of spirit, remembering something
vague about falling from sound doctrines, and
bethinking herself of some half-forgotten phrase
about the whiles of Satan. These wiles had
never been presented to her in a prettier form
than in this dainty volume with its pictures and
its poetry.

The ignorance, if you come to tlihik of it,
of London work-girls and, very likely, of work-girls
everywhere, is colossal ; it passeth understanding.
They have no books in their rooms,
not one single book, not even a Bible or a
Prayer-book or a hymn-book — single-room
lodgers never have any books ; they read nothing

at all, neither books, nor newspapers, nor
journals, nor magazines, nor tracts. They have
no knowledge of literature in any form. They
hear nothing of the outer world : the men, for
their part, may meet and discuss things with
some show of knowledge, because they sometimes
read a newspaper, but the girls do not ;
therefore they have not the least understanding
of what is going on anywhere, and in all the
Art, Science, and Knowledge which we call the
inheritance of the Ages, they do not own the
smallest share. Since, then, they are as ignorant
of everything as the inhabitants of the Solomon
Islands, without being anything like so well-fed
and so comfortable or so pleasantly clothed,
would it not have been far better for all these
girls if they had been born in that Archipelago
instead of Christian England ? There at least
they would have no shirts to stitch if there
were none to wear, and they would have plenty
to eat, even if it were only dried beche-cle-mei\
and there would be sunshine and warmth for
all.

Two of these girls had been educated at
Board schools, where they had reached the
third or fourth standard. If you wish, therefore,

to know the extent of their possible knowledge,
read the third and fourth standard books,
and remember that they have already forgotten
almost all they ever learned from those encyclopaedia
works. And if they are ignorant of
book-learning they are equally ignorant of all
that is concerned with industry, wages, and
trades. They have not the least idea that they
could ever better their condition ; they do not
understand that they might rebel, or strike, or
combine, or do anything for themselves at all.
They cannot go into service because they know
nothing, not even how to lay a table or how to
dust a room ; they cannot emigrate because
they would be of no use in any colony ; they
can only sew, and, like the steam-engines which
are kept going, till they fall to pieces of old
age and rust, on coal and water, the sewing-girls
are just as simply kept at working-power
till something goes wrong with the wheels, on
bread and butter and cold tea.

Their ignorance, however', though it was
colossal, did not make them unhappy, nor did
it humiliate them. The great Giant Ignorance
has one good point : he is, in his way, good-natured
; he never suffers his victims to be unhappy

or humiliated by reason of their subjection.
Melencla, indeed, thought herself possessed
of extraordinary knowledge, as well as
of immense sagacity.

Presently Lofty began to look about the
room and to realise slowly the way in which
3^oung ladies live — always in easy-chairs, soft
and low, with flowers on the table and grapes
in the cupboard, curtains to the window, books
on a shelf, pictures on the wall, fans, scent on
the mantelshelf, and laced handkerchiefs. How
would it be to live like this always, and never
do any work ; never to be hungry, and never
to have a pain in the back ? While she was
thinking of this, and wondering vaguely and
asking herself if Melenda was right in saying
that Valentine would soon go away and forget
all about them, her eyes closed and she dropped
off to sleep, lulled by the unusual sense of rest,
freedom from pain, and physical ease. She
had, besides, a great quantity of arrears to
make up in the matter of sleep, and the morning
was very hot, and there was a most delicious
sense of coolness in the room and the unaccustomed
fragrance of flowers, all of which reasons
may serve for her excuse.

The making of biitton-lioles is one of those
occupations in which it is impossible to take an
artistic interest. She who sews them is not
sustained by a sense of beauty because when
you have finished and turned out your buttonhole,
you cannot possibly call it beautiful ; it is
not a thing, for instance, which you can hold
up and watch while the sunlight plays among
the stitches and the light and shade set off their
graceful curves ; besides, you have got to go
straight on to make another as soon as one is
finished. Nothing sustains the work-woman
but the reflection that, though it takes a good
many stitches to make a button-hole, so many
dozen button-holes make so many pence.

The making of button-holes, however, is
not difficult for a good gentlewoman. Valentine
received a few simple instructions from Lizzie,
and then, taking Lofty's place on the bed, she
began her work. The button-holes were for
shirts, but these were of a coarse and common
kind, made of rough material, for exportation
very likely— shirts warranted to be as uncomfortable
and as rasping as the monastic hair
shirt. In fact, I think it is very likely they
were invented before the Reformation for the

use of monks and modern eremites, and then
only for the strictest and most profoundly
miserable Order of Self-tormentors. They are
now, I believe, used for the converts (previously
shirtless) made by the missionaries. And the
story of ' My First Shirt ' has yet to be written.
So enterprising has always been the Spirit ot
British Commerce !

Valentine was clever with her needle, and
could embroider as beautifully as Penelope.
Unfortunately she was as slow and as deliberate
as that lady-in-waiting, and loved to linger over
her work, and look at it, and think about it,
and at times stitch some of it. Therefore
she soon perceived that Melenda turned out
button-holes about five times, and Lizzy about
three times, as fast as herself. Then she made
haste to imitate them, and addressed her mind
to the question of rapidity rather than of beauty
in her work.

No one spoke : there was no other sound in
the room than the click of thimbles and the
rustling of the stuff. Valentine's thoughts wandered
from her work, which was monotonous.
This, she reflected, was the room in which three
girls slept, worked, and lived. They all three

lay on one bed, that on wliicli she was sitting.
It was a broad wooden bed, with a hard mattress
a good deal depressed in the middle, and
neither feather bed nor springs. The hot Only
sun was pouring in at the window, where the
yellow blind, which might once have been
white and could no longer draw up, was pinned
back so as to leave a triangle of sunshine.
Valentine sat in the shade, and thought she had
never in her life seen so many motes dancing
in the sun. The room was neglected, and
wanted cleaning horribly ; the grate was rusty ;
there was not a book in it, or a magazine, or a
paper — nothing to read ; there were no pictures
on the wall ; there were no ornaments of any
kind ; the whitewash of the ceiling had fallen
down in one corner exposing the laths ; there
was no carpet ; the two or three cooking utensils
which lay within the fender seemed to have
been long unused. A place, it seemed, built
with intention for the abode of grinding,
wretched, hopeless poverty ; a place exactly
fitted for the kind of work, where there was
no prospect of improvement, however zealously
one worked, or of any higher pay or more
regular employment.

Valentine forgot that the girls were young,
and that even to work-girls there is hope, while
they are young, that these troubles will pass
away somehow, and give place to some unknown
kind of joy.

'Well,' asked Lizzie pertly, 'isn't it good
enough for you ? '

It was at nine o'clock that Valentine beijan
to Avork. At ten, or thereabouts, she became
aware that she must stop, get up, and straighten
herself. She did so. Melenda worked on like
a machine, and took no notice at all. The other
girl looked and smiled grimly. 'I thought
you'd give in soon,' she said. ' Lofty has to lie
down every half-hour.'

'I haven't given in,' Valentine replied indignantly.


Then she sat down and went on again.

In another hour her head began to reel, and
she felt giddy. If two hours of button-holes
produced such an effect, what would the whole
day do for her ? She laid aside her work, and
looked up ashamed. By this time the room
was very hot, although the door and window
were both open, and from the street below,
baked by the midday sun, there was wafted upwards

a mingled perfume or incense, made up
of things lying in the street ; of the industries in
the houses — such as the pressing of cloth, which
is a hot and steamy smell ; or the burning of
leather straps, which is insidious, and makes
one feel sick ; with the smell from a fried-fish
shop not far off — this is a smell Which
makes one sad ; and the stale reek of yesterday's
tobacco and ]peer — this is a smell which
makes one sorry — from the public-house opposite.


Do you do this every day ? ' she asked
foolishly, because she knew very well that they
did.

'Every day,' said Lizzie — Melenda still
taking no notice — ' and all day long. Don't
you like it ? '

'Don't you ever stop to read, or talk, or
sing, or something ? '

Sing ! Oh, Lord ! ' Lizzie replied with
infinite contempt. ' Stop to sing ? '

All day long,' Valentine repeated, ' and
never any holiday ? '

Only when there's no work. Fine ladies
never think how they'd like it themselves ' —
Lizzie, too, was able to borrow something from

the indignant Sam. 'Ain't it nice to make
cheap things ? '

Valentine took up her work again and
went on, wondering how long life could be
endured if she were doomed to spend it among
button-holes. Then she tried to imagine herself
the lifelong companion of Melenda, and
altogether such an one as Lizzie, and that
she had never done anything else and never
known any other kind of existence ; and she
wondered what she would be thinking about.
But her imagination failed her, and refused to pretend
any such thing, partly because the things
worn by poor Lizzie were not nice to look at.

Do you never do anything at all .^ ' she
asked presently, ' except work all day and walk
the streets in the evening ? '

Some girls go to the Britannia when
they've got the money, or anybody treats them.
I've never got the money, and I'm not going
to be treated by anybody, no more than
Melenda. There used to be the Grecian as
well, but they've turned that into the Salvation
Army : and there's the Theatre of Varieties in
Hatfield Street, there's Collins's at Islington, and
there's the Foresters in the Cambridge Eoad*

Some girls go to public-houses and drink With
the men. We won't, Melenda and me. There's
talk of a girls' club, but — Avell, there's nothing
else to do but to walk the streets at night, and
you'd walk them, too, if you'd been sitting at
Avork all day.'

And Sundays ? '

We lie abed on Sunday mornings, and go
out in the afternoons.'

And on wet and cold evenings ? '

Then we sit at home, and go to bed early
to save candle and fire.'

Do you never go to church ? '

Not likely ! ' — Liz lifted her ragged skirt.
In this ? '

Don't waste your time chattering, Lizzie,'
said Melenda. Then there was silence.

Soon after noon Valentine was seized with
an overwhelming desire to get up and jump, or
run, or leap over something.

I must jump ! ' she cried, and did it.

That's fidgets,' said Lizzie. ' I used to
have them, but I'm used to it now.'

The attack presently yielded to violent
measures, for fidgets are like cramp, and must
be dealt with resolutely. In reading of convicts

VOL. ir. c

chained to each other, and obliged to sleep
side by side, I have often thought how dreadful
and intolerable a thing it would be if one of
them were to get an attack of fidgets and not
be able to spring out of bed. Then Valentine
was going to sit down again, when Melenda
interposed. Lofty, she said, always rested in
the middle of the day. She had better do the
same and get lier dinner.

Am I not to have Lofty's ? '

'Don't be silly,' said Melenda. 'As if
you could make a dinner off bread and tea !
What time did you generally have your
dinner ? '

'At half-past seven.'

That's supper. What did you have before
that?'

There was tea at five.'

And before that ? '

'Luncheon at half-past one.' Valentine
began to feel guilty of most reckless gluttony.

Oh ! And what did you have at all of
them ? '

Valentine confessed with shame to meat at
luncheon and at dinner, and possibly at breakfast.


There,' said Melenda, ' it's ridiculous. You
can't Lave dinner like Lizzie and me. Go away
and get something to eat, and give it to Lofty
if you like. We don't eat much here, but we're
independent.'

Valentine obeyed, and the other two girls
went on working in silence.

Presently there was heard proceeding from
Valentine's room a most curious and remarkable
sound. Nothing less than the laughter of
taro girls, a thing which had never happened
in the house in the memory of its residents.
Lizzie looked up, curious and envious ; Melenda
suspicious and jealous.

They're laughing,' said Lizzie. ' What are
they laughing for ? '

She's made Lofty laugh,' said Melenda,
who had never even tried to work such a miracle.
What's she said to her ? Lofty wouldn't never
laude at us.'

The laughing continued, and Lizzie's curiosity
increased, and Melenda's face grew louder
and darker.

The old lady in the room below, sitting by
herself With her funeral trimmings in her hands,
thought somebody must have gone mad. Alio

c 2

but mad people and children ever tangled in
Ivy Lane ? But the laughing still went on, and
her thoughts flew back to a time long, long ago
when the poor old thing herself laughed all
day long — living in the Fool's Paradise which
sees nothing around or before but a luminous
and sunlit haze. Nobody would ever laugh, I
suppose, if that haze were to be suddenly removed.
Happy Paradise ! Happy fools who
live in it ! And all to end in the workhouse
during the winter, and such sewing as could
be got in the summer from Mr. Croquemort of
Bethnal Green. Presently she could bear it no
longer, this poor old woman, but got up and
put down her work, and stealthily crept out of
her room and crawled half-way up the narrow
stairs, her , neck craned, her eyes glaring, her
ear turned, to see what they were laughing at,
and to hear what they were saying. She
neither heard nor saw, but a strange emotion
fell upon her withered old soul. The laughter
of girls — light-hearted laughter ! — she remembered
how, long, long ago — fifty years ago —
when she was nineteen or twenty, two young
girls sat in a carriage on a racecourse, and
laughed with handsome and gallant young

gentlemen, while the pink champagne foamed
and sparkled in the long glasses, and the gipsy
woman stood at the carriage-wheel, and the
girls crossed her palms with gold. Then that
old woman, with something like a sob, felt in
her pocket and found twopence, and she went
across the street to the ' Adelaide ' and had a
glass of gin. After this she returned to her own
room and fell asleep, and, perhaps, dreamed
of that long past happy time of unthinking
folly.

As for the laughing, it was over nothing at
all but the cooking of the dinner, at which
Valentine showed herself so awkward and so
ignorant. Why, she knew nothing, not even
the price of potatoes, or how to buy them, and
she had got the very dearest kind of beef, and
such an immense quantity, and Lofty had to
tell her everything, even to the rolling-up of
her sleeves ; but she would do it all herself, and
so they both laughed. And the business was
no doubt as comic as the making of a pudding
on the stage, which is, we know, always most
effective business.

And then, with the laughter, the other girls
heard a hissing and sputtering, which lasted

ten minutes or thereabouts, and was accompanied
by an extraordinary fragrance, of the
kind which used in the old days to delight those
dear, simple Immortal Gods, so easily pleased
the incense, or perfume, namely, of meat,
roasted, seethed, or fried.

Then Lizzie sat bolt upright, and said
solemnly, with pale cheek, and that far-off lookin
her eyes which a painter might take for a
yearning after Things Invisible and Unattainable
—

'Melenda, they've got — it's — it is —
STEAK ! '

What does it matter,' said Melenda, ' what
they've got ? '

Lizzie was silent for another half minute.
But the fragrance mounted to her brain and
made her giddy, and filled her with a craving
for food.

Oh, Melenda, I'm so hungry.'

That comes of taking things. If you hadn't
eaten that ham two days ago, you wouldn't
have been hungry now.'

There was once a foolish Greek person,
whose history used to be read in the ' Analecta
Minora,' when that work was put in the hands

of schoolboys. He had a theory that horses
ate too much, and he gradually reduced the
rations of corn for this own horse, with a view
to making that animal live upon nothing, and
become perfectly independent of food. Just ashe
was upon the point of success the creature
died. Melenda held much the same views.

For shame ! ' she added ; ' where's your
independence, Liz ? ' Just what the Greek
person might have said to the horse.

'Bother Independence,' replied Lizzie, replying
in the very words of the horse, ' I am
hungry.'

If you eat beefsteak to-day,' said Melenda,
'there'll be nothing but bread and cold tea

tomorrow and '

But Lizzie was gone. The perfume of the
beef drew her as with ropes, and she could not
choose but go.

In Valentine's room there was a white cloth
spread and the dinner just ready, and Lofty,
with flushed cheeks, helping to serve it, and
both of them laus^hinnf.

Come in, Lizzie,' cried Valentine gaily ;
there is plenty for all of us. Will you ask
Melinda?'

She won't come. Don't you go — she
might fly m your face.'

Valentine hesitated. Then she sat clown.
During dinner they talked and laughed again
actually laughed and made little jokes
together. When had Lofty laughed last ?

Dinner done and things washed and cleared
away, they went back into the other room.
Melenda was still at work, dogged and stern,
with hard set mouth and resolute eyes, sick
with the yearning that the smell of the roasted
meat had caused, but stubborn and obstinate.

Melenda,' said Valentine, ' can you live on
bread and tea ? '

What's that to you ? I've got to.'
Oh,' she cried, ' it is shameful.'
Then mend it,' said Melenda fiercely ;
mend it if you can. If you can't, let us alone
to bear it as well as we can. We can bear it,
can't we, Liz ? '

Lizzie turned her great eyes to Valentine.
Can you mend it ? ' she asked. ' It is very
hard to bear. Can you mend it ? '

Oh ! I can do nothing to mend it. And
Melenda will not let me do anything to help
it.'

I thought you were going to do Lofty's
work.'

She's done more already than Lofty used
to do in a whole day,' said Liz. ' Let her resta
little, Melenda.'

No, no,' said Valentine, ' I shall do my
day's work.'

The slow minutes passed slowly. Through
the open window there came the murmur and
the hum of Hoxton Street and St. John's Eoad.
It was rather a sleepy murmur, because Hoxton
is not a noisy place, and there are few omnibuses
and fewer cabs, and very few carts and waggons.
Presently Valentine felt as if they were all
three set down in some far-off place of torture,
in an described circle of the Inferno, condemned
to work at button-holes without ceasing
button-holes for shirts which would fit nobody
— like the unhappy damsels who have to
fill sieves with water, and to spend their whole
time — they've got all the time there is — in
pouring it in and seeing it run out again — a
most tedious employment and, one cannot help
thinking, with submission and respect to the
Court, a foolish punishment, and one can only
hope that they get their Sundays at least free,

in-vehicle case they are no worse off than
Melencla and her friends.

Presently Valentine began aloud to shape
out a little apologue which occurred to her.

Once upon a time,' she said, ' there were
three poor girls, and there was a wicked Witch.
The Witch was always making spells for the
raising of storms and bringing diseases upon
good people and thwarting the work of honest
people. For use in her charms she wanted a
continual supply of Button-holes ; but why
Button-holes are good for magic I cannot tell
you, only I believe that if you work at them
long enough you can raise the — the Devil.
Anyhow, I know that they are most invaluable
for conjuring, incantations, making people mad
and miserable, and all kinds of sorcery. The
difficulty with this Witch was to find people
who would sew the Button-holes for her, because
it is horrible work and tedious work,
that no one would do if there was anything else
to be done, and because it is work which by
the laws of the country — but I think this law
is an unjust one — is forbidden to be paid for
at the rate of more than a farthing apiece, so
that the fastest worker cannot earn more thana

shilling a day at it. For a long time the
Witch looked about in vain. But at last she
found three girls who were all so desperately
poor that they were ready to take any kind of
work that Alas offered them. It was a very
heartless and wicked country, in which the rich
ladies took no thought for poor girls, and did
not interfere as they ought to have done, or
insist upon finding them good work and fair
wages, as of course they do in our own country
in England. So she offered them the work.
She did not persuade them with honeyed words.
She did not say, " My dears, if you will come
and make Button-holes for me, you shall have
roast beef and pudding every day, with money
to go to all kinds of beautiful places." Not at
all. She came scowling; and cursing and she
threw the work in the middle of them, and she
said : '* You girls ; take the work or leave it.
If you leave it, you will starve ; if you take it,
you shall taste meat once a week — on Sundays,
perhaps — and live for six days on bread and
butter and tea. You shall work all day long
except Sundays ; you shall not have any holidays
; you shall waste and throw away in this
dreadful work all your youth and beauty ; you

shall not know any pleasure or rest or fulness ;
you shall go hungry in body and soul. Don't
think the rich ladies will interfere or help you.
They care nothing for you " '

'They don't,' said Melenda, now become
interested in the story.

" They have been told about you till they
are sick of hearing the story ; but they will do
nothing for you. So take it or leave it." That
is what the dreadful old Witch said.'

Of course they took the work,' said
Melenda.

Of course they did ; and of course they grew
every day hungrier and more hopeless. And
one of them was weak, and she gets Weaker.
Then the other two worked harder to makeup.
But they couldn't quite make up ; and one
grew more miserable, but she worked on still '
Lizzie bent her head — ' and one grew harder
and more angry, and she worked the hardest of
all'

Very fine talk,' said Melenda, with an intelligent
sniff. ' They've taught you how to
talk. You talk as well as Sam almost.'

But I haven't done yet. Suppose a messenger
was to come from some rich lady to

these girls — a girl like themselves — and suppose
she was to offer them lighter work and better
pay. Suppose she was to offer them, out of her
own abundance, help of any kind '

The girls wouldn't be fools enough to take
it,' said Melenda. ' They want justice. That's
what Sam says. " Take your charity away,"
he says, " and give us justice." '

This lady would say through her messenger,
I cannot get justice. I am quite powerless
to get justice for girls in the clutches of black
wizards and witches. But I can help you
three." Melenda, suppose her messenger
brought this message, would you send her
away ? '

You can talk,' said Melenda. ' But you
won't make me take your charity.'

At four o'clock Lofty made some tea and
brought it to them, Melenda not regarding.
Then they went on working again in silence.
By this time Valentine's fingers ached so that
the needle travelled slowly, and her arms ached
so that she could hardly howl the stuff' in her
lap, and her back, though she was as strong
as most girls, ached with the stooping, and
her head ached with the heat and closeness of

the room, and lier fingers were sore with
handing the coarse material of which the
shirts are made, and her eyes were red and
inflamed.

Bnt she would not give in.

Melenda was working as fiercely and as fast
as if it was seven in the morning, and she had
only just begun, and then after an excellent and
invigorating breakfast. Lizzie with the quiet
dull patience she habitually gave to the work,
but with much greater discontent, for she had
now tasted some of the joys of a lady's life.
It meant, she perceived, a pretty room to live
in, with soft dresses and gloves, and your hair
done beautifully, and beefsteak and cocoa for
dinner. ' You ought,' said the gentleman she
knew, ' to live like a lady, and have nothing
to do all day but to let me paint your eyes.
And when Valentine went away, which would
be very soon, there would be no more beefsteak.


My brothers, think of it : Xh^ mind of man
cannot conceive a greater temptation than this,
when a girl half-starved and robbed of joy and
doomed to the misery of work the most hopeless
and the most miserable, perceives that the

Unattainable — the life of physical comfort and
material well-being, the life she has always
longed for, the life that it is natural to desire —
is actually within her reach and to be had —
just by signing her name to a little piece of
parchment, and giving that agreement — of
course after it has been duly stamped and
entered at Somerset House — to the Devil.

About half-past eight Lofty came in, refreshed
after her long day's rest and sleep.
Oh ! ' she said, tearing the work from Valentine's
hands ; ' oh ! Melenda, how could you let
her go on ? '

For Valentine's cheek was pale and her eyes
were swimming, and now she looked dazed, and
trembled as she sat.

I will not give in,' she cried ; but she did,
because she broke into sobbing and crying, ' Oh,
Lofty — is it every day — all day— all day long,
like this ? '

She would do it,' said Melenda. ' Get a
little water, Liz ! Quick ! Don't stand gaping !
It's the heat of the day. Wet her temples.
That's right. Don't cry, Polly. I kncAV you
couldn't do it. Get something out of her
cupboard for hei', Lofty. Some of them

grapes. What can you expect of a girl like
this trying to do a day's work like Liz and
me?'

Melenda's good temper came back to her
when once she had proved her superiority.
Why, when you came to try a real day's work,
where was Polly, after all ? Nowhere.

You look after her, Lofty.' She went on
with her work, for there was still a quarter of
an hour or so of daylight; but Lizzie threw
down hers. As for Valentine, it was only fora
few moments that the hysteria held her, and
lie sat up again recovered and a little ashamed
of herself for giving in at the end. But — what
a day !

It was Saturday evening, and the lane was
noisier than usual. Presently Melinda. herself
thought she might stop, and they began to put
things away for Sunday. It may be proved
from religious statistics that button-hole makers,
though they never go to church, are more open
to conviction on Sabbatic doctrines than any
other class of persons. They would even like
a Sabbatic week or a Sabbatic year — that
is, a whole week or even a whole year of
Sabbaths.



I must sing,' said Valentine. ' I am so
tired, and I ache so much that I must sing. Do
you never sing, you people ? How can you live
without it ? I will sing to you.'

There must be some recreation after work.
Melenda and Lizzie got theirs by walking the
streets ; Lofty hers by resting. Valentine tried
to find hers by singing.

Below in the street, the people were all
outside their houses, gathered in groups talking
and enjoying the cool air of twilight. To these
people there happened the most wonderful thing
in all their experience. Suddenly there struck
upon all ears the voice of one who sang — the
voice was like unto the sound of a silver clarion.
The song they heard went straight to all hearts
by reason of the air, for they were careless of
the words ; it made their pulses quicken and
brightened their eyes, and the Parliament of
Women was hushed, and the feet of all were
drawn towards the house, and even the children
ceased their shouting, and sat still to hear. For
such singing had they never heard and never
dreamed of. What Valentine sang, in fact, was
a ditty called the ' Kerry Dance.'

While she sang there came down the street,

VOL. II. p

not arm in arm, because they were deadly
enemies, yet walking together because they
loved each other, a certain Assistant Priest — •
formerly he would have been called the Curate
and a certain young General Practitioner,
Medicine-man, Doctor, a person skilled in Physic,
Anatomy, Botany, Biology, and all kinds of
learned things. Both were young as yet, and
poor. I know not which of the two was the
more pragmatic, pedantic, and conceited ;
whether the Assistant Priest, who professed to
know the secret ways of the Almighty, and
pretended to be entrusted with the most tremendous
powers, and measured Law, Order,
and Humanity by the little tape of his little sect
he was a Eitualist person and impudently
called his Sect ' the Church : ' or he who knew
all about Bacteria and Mikrokokkos and Evolution
and Protoplasm, and didn't want any
Church at all, and saw no soft place anywhere
in his stupendous intellect where he could possibly
want any religion.

Oh Lord ! ' cried the Doctor, who only
believed in himself, and therefore generally
called upon the Lord.

Dear me ! ' said the Assistant Priest, who

didn't believe in himself at all, and therefore
swore by his own name.

'This is very wonderful,' said the Doctor,
listening to the Voice.

Oh ! To think of it,
Oh ! To dream of it,'

sang Valentine.

This,' said the Assistant Priest, ' is the most
wonderful thing I have ever heard. What a
Voice ! '

He left the Doctor and followed the Voice
up the stairs, and found himself unexpectedly
in a room filled with four girls, at sight of whom
he turned and fled, conscious of intrusion.

But the people in the street were clapping
their hands.

Said Lofty, ' Oh ! it's lovely. But they want
another.'

Valentine haue-hed and sanoj another. The
singing quite restored her. This time she sang
Phillips is my only joy.'

The people held their breath while they listened.
When it was over Valentine shut down
the window, to show that the performance was
finished.

It's all very well,' said Melenda, once more

conscious of inferiority ; ' anyone could do it if
she had been taught.'

Anyone,' said Valentine.

But oh ! ' said Lofty ; ' all the same it's
wonderful.'

There were four girls in the room,' said
the Assistant Priest, ' and one was lying on the
bed. And the one who was singing looked
somehow — but it was rather dark — like a
lady. I felt I had no business there, so I came
away.'

Of course she was a lady,' said the Doctor.
Nobody but a lady could sing like that.
Well ; I hope she'll come again. What a mistake
you fellows made when you turned the
women out of your choirs ! By Jove ! That
girl's singing would actually make the men goto
church ! '

What the Assistant Priest replied I shall
not report. As he lost his temper every day
with the Doctor — they met every day — it ^^'ould
not be fair to set down in cold blood the things
he habitually said on these occasions. One
may, however, record briefly that he had now
began with, ' I do think ' — which is the London
clerical equivalent for a well-known Yorkshire

idiom ; sometimes lie added, ' I must say.'
But that was only when the controversy raged
loiig and bitterly, and when this, or its equivalent,
in nautical language, or the barges
dialect, or the London patois, was absolutely
necessary.

CHAPTER VI.

BEHIND ST. Luke's.

On, Claude ! ' Valentine opened lier door and
came out to meet him when he knocked on
the Sunday morning. ' I never thought I
should be so happy to see anybody ! And you
are ten minutes late, sir. To be sure, you
have not been all alone in Ivy Lane for three
days.'

'The place is truly awful, Valentine. It
looks even worse to-day than when we came
here with Violet.'

Certainly Ivy Lane has a way of looking
more mournfully shabby and dirty on Sunday
mornings in summer than on any other morning
in the week ; perhaps this is because there are
more potsherds, mouldy crusts, bruised and decaying
fruit, bits of paper, cabbage stalks,
potato peelings, broken pipes, plugs of tobacco,
and other drift and wreckage of life lying about

on that than on any other day. It was already
past eleven, but very few people were stirring,
and no one had yet taken a broom in hand or
thrown a bucket of water over the flags. Lizzie
and Melenda were not yet dressed ; Lofty was
lying on Valentine's bed in restful ease, not
asleep, because it is foolish to sleep in moments
free from pain. She had a book in her hands,
but her thoughts were wandering away to the
old times of the happy days in the little shop
before the custom fell off; and she was a child
again with poor impatient Tilly, and her father
was proud of the shop, and her mother was
happy in her husband and her children. For
what sins, far back in the third or fourth generation
of unknown and obscure ancestors, had
Fate been so hard upon this poor draper of
Goswell Eoad and his family ?

You are still alive, Valentine, and no one
has '

No one has offered me the least incivility,
Claude, except of course Melenda, who is still
unforgiving.'

She looked as bright and as fresh as a
young girl of twenty can be expected to look.
Her long day's work had left no trace behind

except a little paleness of cheek, and perhaps
a little shading below the eyes ; standing among
those dingy houses in her youth and grace and
beauty she looked as Aphrodite herself might
have shown had she imitated the Father of the
Gods when he went visiting the slums, and
called upon Baucis and Philemon in their
squalid hut. She had been waiting for Claude
a whole half-hour, quite ready for him, and
with her Things on ' — pretty, poetical, feminine
locution ! To mere man, a woman's dress is
the setting and frame of beauty, the mysterious
accompaniment of loveliness, a thing to be regarded
with wonder and respect : but to
superior woman it is but a collection of ' Things.'
Such is the philosophic superiority of the sex,
and so readily do they despise mere external
trappings and outward show.

'It is a dreadful place,' Claude repeated.
I am amazed that you dared to come here.
Can you be happy in it ? '

A most weak and feeble question. What
is the use of asking a girl who is young, strong,
beautiful, and relieved from the necessity of
work, if she can make herself hajDpy anywhere,
and especially where she is entirely free ? No

one knows, until he has witnessed it, the happiness
which the young lacey, even of the best
regulated mind, feels when her movements
are free and uncontrolled ; and to think that,
with their liberty yet to gain, women will
fight for such vain shadows as female suffrage
and a seat on a School Board ! Besides
which, Valentine was going to spend a whole
morning in the company of a young man
charming in many respects, but especially
in this, that he believed himself to be her
brother.

Happiness, again, is so uncertain a quality.
Nobody, except a newly engaged couple, is
often consciously happy. We do not recognise
happiness until it has vanished ; and then we
lament, yet with pride, as those who have
entertained a god unawares. A truly remarkable
thing that all the world should ardently
desire a possession which nobody understands
until it has vanished. A certain ancient
]philosopher, after he had made an impromptu
conundrum, or a double acrostic, upon this
paradox, went away and elaborated a Treatise,
now happily lost, on the ' Folly of Praying for
Happiness.' I suppose that, even on this

Sunday morning, Valentine would hardly have
confessed to perfect happiness.

I am going,' she said, ' to take you for a
walk. There are no parks in Hoxton, and
there are no gardens or anything. I suppose
there is no place in all London so far from any
open space as Ivy Lane. So we can only walk
about the streets. But when we are tired, I
know of a beautiful churchyard — I found it the
other day — where we can sit down and rest.
A good many of the people are in bed still,
because it is Sunday morning. Lying in bed
saves breakfast ; and, besides, it rests them.
They get up, I believe, somewhere about dinner
time. Melenda and Lizzie are in bed now, for
instance. However, we shall find some of the
people in the streets.'

For her own part Valentine had very little
desire to study the People — with a capital initial.
She came to Hoxton solely in order to get
acquainted with the members of her own particular
family, the Monuments : and especially
with Melenda Monument. But she was naturally
curious about the new strange life she
found there. Curiosity has led to a good many
remarkable things : to the conversation Avitli

the Serpent and the tasting of the Apple ; to
the breaking of all laws — human and divine,
moral and meddlesome, just and unjust ; to the
acquisition of all the knowledge that has been
acquired, and to the growth and development
of sympathy. She was by no means a Philanthropist.
Her interests, like those of all healthy-minded
young people, where as yet chiefly
confined to those whom she knew and loved.
Her affections as yet limited her sympathies ;
she had no desire to deduce and to lay down
General laws concerning' the manners and customs
or the instincts of what we feelingly call
the ' Lower Classes ' — philanthropy does sometime
cover such a beautiful contempt for its
objects. She just began by being interested ina
group of three working girls, from whom she
was rapidly learning the one lesson most worth
learning, namely, that the People are, in all
essentials, exactly the same as the Other People.
There are not, in fact, in this any more than in
any other country, two races, but one ; and the
best way of acquiring an exhaustive and scientific
knowledge of that one race is to sit before
a looking-glass for a long time and look at it.
This is really a most valuable maxim, and the

sooner it is generally accepted and acted upon
the better for everybody, particularly for those
who are ridden by Fads, Fancies, and Old Men
of the Sea. Women, for some unknown reason,
understand this law better than men, and it is
the cause not only why they make better nurses,
but also why they are harder in their dealings
with the poor and needy. Those who love sweet
sentimentality and the pleasures of imagination
should not try to understand too many laws of
humanity.

Valentine was brimful of things to talk
about ; but when a lady lives altogether in one
room, she cannot very well use it as a salon.
This difficulty is generally, by the ladies of Ivy
Lane, on the evenings when they are At Home,
overcome by receiving their friends upon the
kerbstone or by sitting on the doorsteps.
Valentine, perhaps in ignorance of this custom,
preferred to wander about the streets, and led
Claude forth into labyrinthine Hoxton. The
city has been, it is true, laid out something like
an American town, with parallel streets and
cross streets at right angles ; but it has happily
preserved some of the old winding-ways which
were formerly lanes between hedgerows, across

fields, and among orchards of plum, cherry,
apple, and pear. The lanes ream — some
think that Daedalus once lived in Hoxton, about
the time when Pythagoras was teaching at
Cambridge — but the hedgerows are gone, and
houses and shops have taken their place.
Valentine piloted (Claude among the winding
courts, but first she led him into Hoxton Street,
where on a Sunday morning there is always a
great market held and all the shops are open.
The roadway is covered with the carts of costers,
and the pavement is crowded with those who
stroll idly along, content to be doing nothing
except to lean against something solid, pipe in
mouth and hands in pocket. Valentine led the
way with the air of an old acquaintance — a two
days' old acquaintance — and as one, therefore,
competent to become a cicerone. She showed
Claude the streets, branching right and left,
those where every room in every house is a
workshop as well as a living-room and a ,
and those where every house contains
a workshop. There are no other kinds of
houses in Hoxton City. In one place she
showed him a mysterious court, paved and
broad and clean, consisting of little two-storied

houses inhabited by cobblers, repairers of umbrellas,
sign-writers, feather-finishers, and the
like, which is protected and beautified at
either end by most magnificent iron gates, solid
and splendid, richly worked, and fit for a
duke's palace. How did these gates come to
Hoxton ?

Presently, in their walk, they came to a
church, and they looked into it. The morning
service was halfway through. Wonderful
spectacle ! There was not a single man in the
church, except the two clergymen, the choir,
and the churchwardens : yet everything set out
in readiness for a full and enthusiastic congregation
of the Faithful, with a lovely row of
limited candles in staring brass candlesticks
where no lights were wanted, mocking the
sunshine which poured through the Windows,
quite an extensive choir in surplices, and two
officiating clergymen, and in one snug corner a
place provided with a curtain and a chair — the
whole forming the simple Properties necessary
for a nice little Confessional. Sad indeed that
Englishmen should be found to scoff and to
stand upright and to think for themselves, and
to speak words of derision about this innocent

little piece of furniture ! Outside the church,
benighted scoffers stood about in groups among
the carts and the carrots, and even joked and
actually laughed among each other ; but not at
the Church, nor at the Confessional-box, because
they were perfectly, wholly, and completely
io-ignorant and careless and indifferent about
anything which might be going on within that
building.

This,' said Claude when they came out,
reminds me of a procession on the stage where
they have forgotten the spectators.'

It is like a concert,' said Valentine, ' where
there is no audience. Isn't it dreadful, Claude,
for nobody to go to church ? '

It doesn't seem quite as if the Church had
got a strong grip of the people about these
parts, does it ? '

Then they left that street, and presently
stood upon a bridge and gazed upon the
romantic waters of the canal which parts
Iloxton from Kirkland : and then aloni:^ St.
John's Eoad, which is a boulevard less popular
than Hoxton Street, yet loved by the quiet and
the meditative. At the end of the street stands
a massive church — one of those churches built

in the middle of the last century, with a vast
portico of granite pillars and a white spire
which is big and high and yet not beautiful.
They looked into that church too. There were
no confessional cribs and no candles ; no one
was mumbling ; the clergyman, on the contrary,
was speaking out plain and clear, and the service
preserved something of the ancient severity.
In that church there could be counted no fewer
than twenty-five families — father, mother, and
children — all worshipping together as they
should, and making a grand total of at least a
hundred and twenty people, without counting
the preacher and the pew opener. This is very
satisfactory indeed, because the parish contains
only seventeen thousand six hundred. One
churches out of every hundred and fifty ! It
makes one hopeful, because it reminds one of
the Early Church in Some, as depicted by M.
Eenan.

Then they walked down Pitfield Street and
thought no more about the people but selfishly
considered each other, and Valentine narrated
all her adventures, and told of Melenda's
stubborn independence, and of Lofty, and
of Lizzie, and her own experiment of a long

day's work. Only she concealed her great
discovery.

'You must never do that again, "Valentine
said Claude, referring to the day's work.
Promise me you will not.'

I do not think I could. But oh ! think of
those poor girls working every day and all day
long, and for so little ! Is it just and right ?
Who is to blame for it, Claude ? '

The system, I suppose, is to blame — whatever
the system may be. I have never considered
the subject of the English Industries,
except when Sam forces his own opinions upon
one.'

But it concerns you, Claude ; and Melenda
is your — our sister.'

Why do they go on doing such work, I
wonder ? There are other things to do. But
Melenda weill not brook any interference. How
can one help a girl who will not accept any
help ? What can I do ? '

Valentine made no reply. She was disappointed.
Claude did not respond to her own
enthusiasm. To him it was no new thing to
hear that working girls are disgracefully paid
and cruelly worked. It is, alas ! no new thing

VOL. II. E

to any of us. We hear about them every clay,
yet the thing goes on.

Melencla might go into a shop, or she might
go into some kind of service. Anything,' said
Claude, ' would be better than what she does
now. But she will take no help from me.'

You might as well put a zebra in harness
as Melenda into any kind of service. Can
nothing be done to get them better work ? '

I don't know. I will consult with Sam if
you like.'

No, Claude, I don't want you to consult
with Sam. Consult with yourself. With all
your knowledge and cleverness you need not
stoop to take advice of a Board Schoolmaster.'


My knowledge has not taught me how
to deal with work-girls.' Here he noticed
a change in Valentine's face. ' I have
disappointed you, Valentine. I knew I
should.'

]Neo, Claude. But I thought— I hoped—
oh ! I am so sony, Claude, for those poor
girls.'

Show me, then, some way to help them.'

At this point they reached the junction of

Pitfield Street and Old Street. Here Valentine
turned to the right, leading her companion past
the old wells of Dame Annie le Clair and the
Peerless Pool — but they were both, unhappily,
ignorant of their historical associations — past
the great Hospital named after the Physician
Apostle, where certain Demoniac, unhappy
ones of the earth, wait for their release from
the prison of unreason — it is brought to them
by a Personage figured generally as a skeleton
with a scythe. Then they passed a church
which boasts the most amazing spire conceivable.
In the whole of the habitable
world there is to be found none other like unto
it. Country people and strangers flock in multitudes
to Old Street only to gaze upon its miracle
of ugliness. Travellers are said to cross
the Atlantic with no other purpose than to visit
this, the ugliest church in the whole world.
Why not ? Any street might be proud of owning
the ugliest thing that ever was built, and if
people willingly face the perils of the deep to
visit the most beautiful church in the world,
why should they not incur the same risks for
the sake of the most ugly ?

At the back of the church there was

E 2

LIBRARY

lll\Ji\/t:DCn-\/ nr >. c.

formerly a vast burying-groimcl, because when
St. Luke's was built, a hundred and fifty years
ago, the ground hereabouts was cheap. It is
not venerable, as men generally reckon that
quality in churchyards, by age, for the church
itself has only baptised and buried five
generations of mortal men and women. But it
is venerable because here lie at rest the once
aching bones of thousands who in their lives
knew no rest. Here you will not find the remains
of any great or illustrious men ; they are
all the bones of toilers ; their names and histories
are clean forgotten — even the histories or
those whose heirs, in their pride, had the name
and date of birth and death carved upon a headstone.
The stones themselves still stand,
ranged round the walls and within the railings,
but no man leadeth them any more, and if one
doth perchance read them, the names, even to
the oldest parishioner, awaken no memory.
They have long ceased to bury in this Acre of
the Lord ; the funeral verses of hope and resignation
are no longer heard ; there is no
more rattling of ashes upon ashes and dust to
dust, and they have now laid out the ground
for the children's play and a place of rest and

meditation for the old. The graves are
levelled ; the headstones are placed back two
and three deep within the railings, where the
garden mould covers them up within an inch or
two of their deathless names, and so they stand
or lean, with only the inscriptions visible, and
look as if they were not churchyard stones at
all, but the stone faces of the very original
holders and possessors of the ground, stonily
gazing without power either of spoken remonstrance
or of approval upon the present use of
their sleeping place, yet so great is the power
of expression in a headstone that one can
plainly distinguish in some of them satisfaction
; and in some, doubt ; and in some, stern
disapprobation. Two or three of the old railed
tombs are left upon the grass to serve,
perhaps, as the skeleton at the Feast. As for
the ground itself, it is laid out in four fair
lawns, each with a round bed of shrubs and a
narrow bed of flowers. In the middle the
ground has been artificially lowered, and one
descends by a step or two into an area where
they have erected a pedestal. Why a pedestal
with nothing on it should have been put up
passeth man's understanding : but this is the

taste of St. Luke's, and we have only to bow
before it. There are, one is pleased to remark,
seats in plenty ; and the walks are asphalted
and easy for the foot of age ; and they have
planted trees which will perhaps some day grow
tall and be umbrageous.

This morning there were in the garden a
goodly number of old men and women with a
great quantity of little children. The men sat
together, and the women sat together, and they
talked after their kind, which is a querulous kind,
because old age is a term of life only to be represented
in a favourable light by those who
know how to conceal things and are rich
enough to make themselves comfortable.
These old people hear the voice of the grasshopper
continually ; besides, they all have
rheumatism, and they do not attempt to conceal
that they hate the voice of the grasshopper and
abhor rheumatic pains.

Let us sit down,' said Valentine.

The problem of Melenda,' Claude egan
sententiously, ' is the great problem of labour.
It is nothing less than the problem of the

age.

Then solve it, Claude. In the old days a

knight was sent forth to kill a dragon or a
loathly worm.'

Anybody could kill a dragon.'

Or to find the Holy Grail '

If one were to find it now, people would
first dispute its authenticity, and then they
would stick it in a museum as an archaeological
curiosity.'

But this is a task of much more interest
than a doubtful relic. Is it possible, Claude,
that you have never thought about Melenda
and her life ? '

Seriously, Valentine, I never have. Do
not reproach me with selfishness. Her own
independence is one cause, and then we have
always been accustomed to go each his own
way. Sam goes one way, Joe another, Melenda
another. The only way that I can think of to
help such a girl, so fiercely independent, is to
alter the system itself, and that so radically that
these miserable wages shall be made impossible.
And it has never occurred to me that I should
try to do this. Had I the lever of Archimedes
I could not do it.'

Yet I think — if I were you, Claude — I
think that I would try,' she replied slowly.

I have read books and treatises on Went,
Production, and so forth. Everybody reads
these things, especially a barrister who wants
all the information that he can get from every
side. But certainly not with a view of inventing
or preaching any new system.'

Never mind the books, Claude. Look at the
people, not the theories. Here is our own sister,
Melenda. This poor thing is condemned to a
life that is only better than a slave's because
she thinks she has kept her independence and
because she cannot be tied up and flogged.
Our owen sister, Claude ! She is miserably fed
and wretchedly clothed ; she is always half-starving
and she goes in pitiful rags. Her very
pride and her independence make her misery
cry out the louder for your help. Your own
sister — our sister. And she is so brave and so
fierce. Our honour is concerned, Claude ; we
must try ; if we cannot help her any other way,
we will help her by altering the System, even
if we have to call in Sam, and all become
Socialists. It is for Violet's sake and mine,
Claude, as well as your own. How can we
endure to live in happiness while she lives in
such misery ? '

Yes, Valentine, yes.' Claude was moved
by her emotion. ' You are right. It concerns
me, you, Violet — all of us. And I am a selfish
creature. But — what am I to do ? '

I do not know,' she replied impatiently
What is the use of education and knowledge
if they cannot be used to find out things ?
Have you become a Fellow of Trinity and a
great scholar and a lawyer only for your own
advancement, Claude ? '

Claude made no reply, for, you see, his own
personal advancement was exactly what he had
always considered the ultimate end and object
of any success he might make in life. He had
always put the thing to himself from this point
of view ; he intended to get on, to climb as
hic^h as he could, and to do the best he midst
for himself. He had climbed already from the
washerwoman's cottage on the edge of Hackney
Marsh to the Trinity Combination Room, which
is a good way up the hill, and he was continually
thirsting for opportunities to climb
higher still. When he took the prizes at
school ; when he carried off scholarships at
College ; when he stood third in the First Class
of the Classical Tripos, he felt himself answering

the end of his existence, and justifying Lady
Mildred's sagacity in picking him out from
among so many. His own advancement ! Why
yes — his own, and no other's.

Do not be angry with me, Claude,' she
pleaded. 'Only this morning, before you
came, while I was thinking of these poor girls,
something I had read somewhere came ito my
mind. It Alas to the effect that all o^^eat thini:^s
are done by strong men ; each thing by one
strong man, who knows what he means and is
stron<]^ enough to make other men work for
him. If that is true, we should be always
praying for a strong man.'

I suppose we should.'

Why should not you, Claude, be the
strong man ? '

'Because I am not a strong man, and
because my own work has been laid down forme
on other lines.'

That is only your own work for yourself.'


'Yes — yes, of course,' he replied a little
uneasily. 'But then it is work which leaves
no time for anything else.'

Suppose you have chosen deliberately the

work which seems to suit you best, and the
goal which seems desirable above all others
as the noblest and highest ; suppose you have
good reason to believe that you will succeed ;
suppose in fact that sou are perfectly satisfied
with yourself, and that suddenly you are
shaken to your very centre by the information
that your aims are merely personal and selfish ;
that you are called upon to undertake certain
other work which may cause you to change
your whole plan of life ; that everything you
value must be abandoned if you obeyed that
call ; — this was the new licht which flashed
suddenly upon Claude's brain on that July
morning as he sat among: the ashes of the
obscure dead and among the houses of the
obscure living. Dead and living, he belonged
to them ; they were his own forefathers who
lay sleeping beneath his feet ; they were his
sisters who worked in the houses around him.
He belonged to them. But never before had
it occurred to him that he might work for them
instead of for himself.

Seriously, Valentine, I do not think you
understand what it is you propose. Do you
really mean that I should set myself to finding

out a remedy for evils which have defied every
professor of political economy? '

I mean that seriously.'

But what am I, Valentine, that I should
discover an answer to the questions which have
baffled all the greybeards ? '

Perhaps the answer must come from the
young. Oh ! do you think that Paul waited
till he was grey before he began to speak ? '

Sometimes it seems to me as if Valentine
struck here upon a great and remarkable truth.
We have perhaps been all along asking too
much of the old. It is perhaps from the young,
while their hearts are full of generous emotions
and unselfish sacrifice is still possible, that an
answer to all great questions may be expected.
The world belongs in fact to the young ; not
only the world to enjoy but the world to fight ;
the future is in the shaping of their hands ;
theirs is the inheritance ; they are the princes
and the governors, the Sheikhs and the Emirs, the
Generals and the Captains. The old may goon
accumulating and storing, relating and
writing ; that is properly their department ;
they are historians. As for new and great
ideas, they are too much for them ; when one

such idea is conceived and one such great
scheme is brought forth, the old philosopher,
the veteran economist, the defender of Vested
interests, the man of sixty-year-old ideas, will
very naturally bring out his watering-pot arid
turn the rose on to that idea, and point out
the real wickedness of the world, the selfishness
of man, and the unremitting watchfulness
required by this project, all of which render
the scheme impracticable and impossible. Then
the young men will use much the same language
as that employed by certain unlucky village
children towards a certain Prophet of old, but
with a different conclusion to the story. For
ill my story the children would kill the bears.

Everything,' said Claude, 'up to the present
has been driving me farther from my own
people ; even, I thought, the recovery of my
sister. It will be strange if she should take
me back to them. Let me think, Valentine.
I acknowledge the obligation, but I declare
that I can do nothing. Why should I waste
myself in beating the air?'

For Valentine did not sec, which was clear
to himself, that such an effort, to be serious,
would require nothing short of a man's whole

work "with all his thoughts and all his strength.
And even then he would most likely fail. Yet
some small success might be effected. And
the things touched his honour. His own sister
not his sister in the Common bonds of
humanity — but the child of his own mother,
was one of those who lay tied and bound by
strong chains in the dungeons of Castle Famine,
held there by the great Bully Giant Competition.
His own sister. But what could he do for her,
except — and that perhaps in vain — give her all
that he had? And so, like the other young
man who had great possessions, he was minded
to go sorrowfully away. For his own possessions
were neither of silver nor of gold, but
the far more precious things of knowledge and
Ait and understanding — the things which would
lead him to honour and distinction and men's
praise in the brave days before him.

At this point of their discourse there
came ambling along the asphalte an old lady.
Valentine seemed to know her, but could not
recollect where she had seen her — a curious
old lady to look at, because she walked
delicately and gave herself airs such as might
become a young and beautiful woman. There

were not now remaining many traces of former
beauty, but as much perhaps as one expects
after seventy years of a life not devoted wholly
to the contemplation of things spiritual. She
was dressed in a frock which looked ridiculously
girlish, and as she walked she rolled her eyes
about as if to watch the effect produced by her
appearance.

Ho ! ' said this dear old thing, stopping
before Claude and Valentine. ' Ho ! Indeed !
The young lady of the first floor back ' —
Valentine remembered her now. She was the
old woman she had seen dancing all by herself:
The young lady with the new furniture ' — she
had inspected it through the keyhole. ' I hope
you are very well this morning, my dear ; and
I hope you are as happy as you are beautiful.
Your lovely dress matches your lovely complexion,
and if you didn't make it yourself, it
was made in Regent Street, and cost three
guineas if a penny, simple as it looks. Your
pretty boots match your pretty little feet, and
if they were not given to you they cost you a
guinea a pair, and your gloves were .
Quite right. Quite right. Be as happy
as you are beautiful, my dear — while your time

lasts. Youth is the time for happiness. I was
happy myself once.'

Neither her words nor her appearance
produced an impression of the straightest and
most narrow virtue.

I am very well, thank you,' said Valentine
coldly.

With your young man. My dear, I said
sou had a young man. And he a gentleman.
I said that nothing short of a gentleman would
do for you. And he knows how a girl should
be dressed, he does. Very proper too, my
dear. I had the same sentiments as you when
I was young.'

Let us go, Claude,' said Valentine rising.

Claude gave the old crone a coin, and she
ambled away with a parting smile and a nod,
very terrifying to behold.

A reminiscence,' said Claude, ' or a survival
of something in the theatrical way, I
should say.'

If I thought,' said Valentine, ' that I
could ever come to look like that old woman
it is not her age and her baldness and her
poverty, but her terrible eyes — I would go
straight into a nunnery at once and hide
myself

CHAPTER VII.

THE PROFESSOR OF Reddish.

I've been doing up the room for father,'
Lizzie explained. It was Sunday evening, and
about nine o'clock, when Valentine came home
and met her coming out of the ground-floor
room. ' I do it every night before I go out.'

And you sit with him sometimes, I
suppose ? '

No, I ain't fit company for father. He
don't want me. He was a gentleman once,
and he talks proper.'

Have you got no mother or sisters, or
anybody besides your father, Lizzie ? '

There's Melenda and Lofty. That's all
I've got. Before Melenda taught me to sew I
used to be a step girl.'

'What's that?'

'It's like this, you know. Some people —
not here, but Kingsland way, over the Canal —

VOL. II. F

like to have their doorsteps cleaned once a
week. That's what I did for 'em, at a penny
a step, and sometimes three-halfpence. When
Melenda taught ]ne to sew I gave up that. It
was only a low trade.'

Where is your mother ? '

She died long ago. There's only father,
and he can't do nothing for me.'

If he knows how to ' talk proper,' Valentine
thought, he might at least have taught his
daughter the same art. She remembered the
tall old man with stooping shoulders who took
off his hat to her. Doubtless this was Lizzie's
father.

Is your father so very poor ? '

Dreadful poor,' said the girl. ' He was
a gentleman once, but that was a long time
ago.'

Do you think he would let me call upon
him?'

'I don't know.' She opened the door.
Go in first and ask afterwards. Father,
here's Melenda's sister says may she come in ? '

May she come in ? ' The old man raised
his head slowly and repeated the words. Then
he rose and bowed, offering his chair, the

only chair in the room. There was no candle,
but the gas-lamp in the street outside gave
sufficient light to show that the room was
furnished with a wooden bed covered with a
rug, a table, a chair, a washing-stand, and a
candlestick. There seemed to be literally
nothing else at all. Strange to say, there was
not even a pipe or the smell of tobacco.

When a young lady comes to see me,' he

said politely, ' the least I can do is to offer her

chair. Pray do me the honour to be seated.'

The manner and the voice and the words
of the man were inconceivably out of keeping
with the squalid place in which he lived.
Valentine accepted the chair and sat down,
wondering who this man might be. Lizzie
stood at the open door watching her father
with undisguised pride. It was long since she
had witnessed any of these Reminiscences of
Polite Society. ' Once he was a gentleman.'
Why, thought Valentine, is he now a ragged
gentleman, and how is it that he has suffered
his daughter to grow up without any manners
at all, since his own are so good ?

'You have been kind to my daughter,' he
said, still standing. ' Nobody, so far as I know,

p 2

has ever before been kind to her, not even her
father.'

You can't help that,' said Lizzie loyally.
It ain't your fault, father.'

Therefore I thank you,' he added, without
noticing the interruption. ' My daughter is a
work-girl, and is naturally more accustomed
to ill-treatment than to kindness.'

But I have done nothing for Lizzie.'

You have given her dinner and supper,
and you have spoken kindly to her. It is
something that the girl should find anybody to
give her anything. Yesterday evening I heard
you singing upstairs. You have a very beautiful
voice. I could play and sing myself formerly.
But it is thirty-five years since I played last.'

Have you forgotten how to play ? '

I have not played anything for thirty five
years,' he repeated.

And now you live here all alone.' It was
a weak thing to say, but one cannot always find
epigrams, and besides, Valentine was still
occupied in wondering what this strange thing
might mean — the grey-headed, ragged man
who lived alone in so miserable a room, and his
daughter, who seemed to have nothing to do

with her father except to look into his rooms
once a day — a man in such a place who had
the unmistakable manners and language of a
gentleman, and the other who was nothing at
all but the London work-girl — rough and
ignorant, and ill-mannered.

As you see,' he answered, ' quite alone.'
He sat down on the bed, his hands joined
over his knees, looking at his visitor with large
and lustrous eyes. His clothes were dilapidated
to the last degree — his coat in rags, the elbows
in holes, his trousers patched at the knees
apparently by an amateur, and his boots gaping
at the toes. He was picturesque in his rags.
Lying on the bed was a tattered Inverness cape,
and on the table an old felt hat.

A broken-down gentleman. It was apparent
in his voice, in his speech, and in his
carriage. By what unlucky accident had this
poor gentleman got down so low ?

Girls like Valentine are not accustomed to
read a man's past history in his face, but she
could discern that on this man's face there was
not the seal of drink and vice. It was a face
with refinement stamped upon the high white
forehead, and gentleness in the blue eyes which

met Valentine's steadily and openly, though
with a strange sadness such as she had never
before seen even in pictures.

Nobody,' said Valentine, ' can be quite
alone in the world. You must have some
friends or relations.'

Most men have. But a singular accident
happened to me — a very singular accident ' —
he raised his voice with a strange smile — ' about
thirty-five years ago. All my relations died
suddenly. All the relations I had in the world
and all the friends in one day. There is not a
single person now in the whole world who ever
asks if I am living : not one who cares to ask
me or wishes me back again. I have passed
quite away, even out of remembrance : even
out of the prayers of those who once loved me.
For they are all dead. They all died on one
day.'

And have you made no new friends all this
time ? '

None. Those who are so poor as myself
make no friends. Twenty years ago I found a
woman about the streets as poor and as miserable
as myself. I made her my wife, and we
shared our misery. Perhaps hers was lessened.

Lizzie is her daughter, but she is dead. I have
no friends.'

Poor man ! '

I have not complained.'

Perhaps if you were to go " back again,"
as you said, you might find some of your old
friends. They did not all die, I am quite
sure.'

Yes, they did. Every one. It would be
odd, too, to go back to the old world just as I
am now, and if they were living, to offer them
my hand. Sometimes I have thought of it.
But there — what does it matter ? As for the
past, we live in the present and the past lives
in us. Yes ' — his voice sank — ' the past never
dies : every moment lives for ever. That is the
dreadful thing. Why, even the souls of the
forgiven must go about for ever with hanging
heads and shameful foreheads. Always,' he
repeated, ' with shameful foreheads.'

This was the man who had ' done something,'
Valentine remembered.

Lizzie at this point, finding the conversation
just a note or two above her, went out and shut
the door softly.

You have your daughter.'

Yes. But I can do nothing for her. You
wonder that she is what she is. Young lady,
there is a level — I have reached it and stand
upon it — which the thoughts and habits of such
as yourself would turn into a hell. Better for
the child of the gutter to grow up in the
gutter.'

You must not call Lizzie a child of the
gutter. She is your child, and she is a pretty
njirl, and has refinement in her face if not in
her manners.'

Let her remain where she is and what she
is. Then perhaps she will never understand
the nature of her inheritance.'

What inheritance ? '

Lizzie is a great heiress ; she will inherit
the whole of my property if she ever finds out
of what it consists.'

Your property ? '

The accumulations of thirty-five years,
invested at Compound Interest in Shame and
Dishonour.' The words were strong, but he
spoke quite calmly. ' It is so great a property
that I cannot bear to die and leave it behind
me. I should like to rob her of it, and have
it buried in my pauper's grave with me. It is

all my own making, this Property. I am quite
a self-made man. When I began I had nothing
of it. Yet that does not avail. I must die
and leave it behind me. A man may take into
the grave nothing of his labour Which he may
carry away in his hand. What profit hath he
that he hath laboured for the wind .^ '

You read the Bible still,' said Valentine
starting.

No, I read nothing. There is not a Bible
or any book at all in the room : but I remember
something of what I used to read. These are
the words of the Preacher, who said many wise
things. It was he who praised the dead which
are already dead more than the living which
are yet alive. I too, who am yet alive, praise
the dead, more than the living. It must be a
beautiful thing to be already dead. There the
prisoners rest together : they hear not the voice
of the oppressor : the small and the great are
there, and the servant is free from his master.'

He said all this in measured tones, and
without the least passion or sign of emotion.

You have no books. Can I lend you

any .?

No, I do not want to read.'

Do you always sit here doing nothing ? '

Always. It is my happiness to do nothing.
Then I can live the past over again, up to a
certain point, and I can follow the impossible
future. I know,' he went on, ' that you would
like to be helping me. Ladies who come to
such places as this think they can set everything
right by a few acts of kindness. I thank you,
but you cannot help me. Look round the
room ; you see that I have reduced my life to
the simplest form possible. Here is a place to
lie down upon, with a rug to keep me warm ;
here is a roof, and here are walls ; a chair, a
table, a candlestick, a washing-basin — Avhat
more does a man want ? I get my breakfast
and my supper at a coffee-stall. When I can
afford dinner I get it at a coffee-house. I
neither drink nor smoke tobacco. I have no
other wants than a certain amount of food and
a place to lie down.'

You are a philosopher.'

No ; a philosopher is contented, but I am
not. I live in this wretched way because I
have no choice. You are curious to learn how
I live. Very well, I will tell you. It is an
honest way. I know two or three languages

German and French and Italian. I learned
them when I was young. I also — by accident
once learned some Hebrew. I have since
learned a little Polish. I know where German
immigrants congregate, and I write letters for
them, especially for the Polish and German Jews
all kinds of letters, begging letters, letters
asking for employment — at twopence each, or
whatever I can get for a letter. They tell me
their wants in their own language, which is
generally Reddish — that is to say, Polish and
German and Hebrew mixed. Sometimes I do
well ; sometimes I do badly. Very often I do
not make as much as a shilling a day. I pay
three-ands sixpence a week for my room, and I
can live on half a crown — fourpence a day.
That is all ; that is my life.'

Your present life.'

Yes, my present life. Young lady,' he
raised himself upright and sighed heavily,
'there are some lives, some unhappy lives,
across which Fate draws, right in the middle
of them, a thick black hue. My life has been
so divided.'

The thick black line meant, perhaps, some
kind of failure or bankruptcy, Valentine conjecture,

such as reduced Lofty's father to the
profession of roader. Yet he spoke of Shame
and Disgrace, and he was generally supposed to
have ' done something.'

I wish I could help you in some way,' she
said. ' Let me try for your daughter's sake.'

You say this because you are a young
lady, and generous. But I want only what I
have told you— food and a sleeping-place, and
obscurity. Stay, you can do something forme.
Will you sing to me .^ '

Valentine considered a little. Then she
joined her hands and sang to him. She sang,
He shall feed His flock,' perhaps because it
was Sunday evening.

Thank you,' said the man when she had
finished. ' It is thirty-five years since last I
heard that sung.'

May I come again and talk to you sometimes
? '

Yes, if you please. But it is not right for
you to come here. Besides, I might get to look
for your coming, and that would interfere with
my dream.'

Your dream ? '

While I sit here alone in the evening I am

possessed by a dream. It is the dream of my
old life, carried on just as it should have been. I
follow myself in my dream step by step and
year by year through the career which might
have been mine, had it not been for that — that
thick black line. If you were to destroy that
dream, you would destroy my only pleasure.
Then I should become discontented, and dream
of reverse instead. That would be bad and
foolish for me ; first, because I never shall get
my revenge, and next, because thinking of it
calls up the devil, who makes me fall into a
rage and then claws at my heart and tries to
drag it out of my body. One of these days he
will succeed, and then the doctor will say I
died of angina pectoris, because it is not scientific
to say that a man died of a raging devil.
If it were not for that I should dream of revenge
perpetually.'

Oh, but,' said Valentine, in the amiable
manner of one who has no enemies to forgive,
revenge is such a poor thing to desire, and
besides, it never satisfies.'

I don't know,' the man replied. ' Simple
killing does not satisfy. But something like
the Eternal Revenge of Hugo Foscolo, you know.

something to go back to at intervals, and when
the old rage rises again in your heart like a
flame. Ah ! ' he clapped his hand to his heart,
it begins again.' He gasped, and held his
breath as one in sharp and sudden pain. Then
he pulled out of his pocket a little bottle, and
the room became charged with the faint scent
of ether. ' I must not talk any more about it.
Sometimes I think that for ever and for ever I
shall be punished for my sin by this flaming
fire in my heart, and the burning desire for revenge.
Well, I will not complain. Hush ! Do
not talk to me any more. Let me get back
quickly to my dream.'

She turned to go. Just then there came the
sound of steps and a kind of scuffle outside the
door.

It was caused by the old lady of the back
room, who was being dragged, pushed, or
assisted to her own room by a young man
dressed in a black frock-coat and a tall hat.
The old lady was apparently unwilling to go.

Is she ill ? ' asked Valentine.

No ; in these cases the illness follows
the attack. She will be ill enough tomorrow.
Come, old lady, off you go to bed.'

The patient began to sing, and even Valentine,
in spite of her inexperience, was able to
understand that her illness was caused by nothing
else than a rush of alcohol to her head.
In fact, the poor old creature was tipsy. She
had been spending on gin the shilling which
Claude gave her in the morning. The man
who was helping her got her into her room with
a vigorous effort, and came out, shutting the
door upon her.

There,' he said, ' she's all right now.
You'll hear her making a little noise perhaps,
but not much, and she'll soon be asleep.
Somebody has given her gin, and I suppose
she'd had nothing to eat all day. The boys
were chivying her about the street, so I
brought her home. She will sleep it off.'
Then he looked into the front room. ' Good
evening, Mr. Lane. Sto more attacks, I
hope?'

I had one just now, Doctor. I began to
think '

Well, then, you mustn't think. I
warned you before. If you get excited you'll
just kill yourself. How's the Dream getting
on?'

It is working itself out slowly, Doctor.
Slowly the Career approaches its appointed end.
A Deanery has been offered him, but he has
refused it. A man of such eloquence and
learning can't be shelved with a Deanery ! A
Bishopric is the least that he will take. Sometimes
there are thoughts about an Archbishopric.
But I doubt whether there will be time on
account of my thinking, you know, and the rages
I fall into '

You must not fall into rages.'

The other day I seemed to hear his voice.
But it was only someone talking outside with
this young lady. Yet it was his own voice —
exactly his own voice.'

I have warned you, remember. Goodnight
! '

The Doctor shut the door, and turned
abruptly to Valentine.

Well,' he asked, ' you are the young lady
that was singing the other evening. What do
you think about us ? '

He might just as well have asked what
Valentine thought about humanity in the
abstract. She replied to that effect.

I don't suppose you have come here

without an object,' lie went on. 'You have
got something at work in your brain. It is
charity or religion or humanity, I suppose.
Whatever it is, if you want information come tome.
I know all the people about here.'

He had a rugged face ; his cheeks were
without colour, as often happens to those who
have lived always in the streets of a great city ;
he was neither tall nor short, rather a thin man,
about thirty years of age ; but he had a big
head. His eyes were deep set under shaggy
eyebrows — quick earnest eyes ; his forehead
was square, and his nose was large, roughhewn
and distinctly ugly ; his dark hair was
parted at the side, and had already begun to
go ' at the temple ; he carried his head
a little on one side habitually. It is a mode
which suggests a thoughtful disposition.

Thank you,' said Valentine.

You will want to know a good deal, I daresay.
Very good then. To save you trouble''
He spoke in a quick jerky way as if he was
wanted elsewhere, which was in fact always
the case with him. ' Do we go to church ?
We do not. Do we revere the institutions of
our ancestors ? We do not. Have we any

VOL. II. a

respect for rank and dignity ? Not a bit. Do
we care for anything but meat and drink and
warmth and ease ? We do not. Are we dangerous
? Not so long as we are in regular
work. Do we save our money ? Not a mag.
For whom do we vote? For the Radical,
because he promises to tear things down.
What is our political programme ? The abolition
of Church and Lords. Why ? Because
we think it will raise wages and lower the price
of beer.'

Thank you,' said Valentine. ' But I am
not likely to inquire into the politics of the
people.'

Do we, then, earn for Art ? No, we do
not. Do we love things beautiful ? We don't
even know what beauty means.'

I do not expect to find Art here.'

Are, then, our morals good ? They are
not. Have we any virtues at all? A few.
We are tolerably honest ; we are generous
when we have any money, and we stand by
each other when wee are in trouble : man by
man, woman by woman, and girl by girl.'

'Girl by girl?'

Because,' he explained, irreverently,

there is none other that eightieth for them, as
your Prayer Book says, but only they
themselves. So they stand by each other.
There's a magnificent example in this very house
upstairs.'

Thank you very much. Good night.'
She moved towards the staircase, but he stopped
her.

One minute,' he said. ' I mean what I
say. They tell me you are staying here. It is
a queer place for a young lady to take lodgings
in. Got a little pocket Gospel of your own to
run, perhaps ? '

No, I am quite contented with the old
Gospel.'

Come to do good, as they call it? Well,
you mean the best, I dare say. Don't do more
harm than you can help. I'm always somewhere
about the place if you want me. Goodnight.'


He nodded his head familiarly, without the
usual ceremony of lifting his hat, and hurried
away.

G 2

CHAPTEE VIII.
lofty's foolish dream.

After her two days' rest, Lofty ought in
common decency to have shown some signs of
improvement, if not of complete recovery.
That she did not was only part of the well-known
ingratitude of the poor. You may give
them a lift over a bad bit, and they go on
stumbling into worse bits : the sick woman
basely and ungratefully develops more alarming
symptoms and the man out of work continues
to meet with new disappointments, so that
where you began with a helping hand you
must either maintain a pensioner or leave your
patient in a worse plight than you found him.

I do not think that Lofty meant to be
ungrateful ; she would have preferred, I am
quite sure, strength to weakness and health to
pain, but she did have a very bad night on
Sunday, and when on Monday morning Valentine

looked in she found the girl in a low way.
One bunch of grapes and two days' rest, and a
real, not a phantom, dinner on each day, were,
you see, insufficient by themselves to meet the
case. Valentine thought of what the old man
below had said about ladies thinking to set
everything right with a few acts of kindness.
Even a bunch of hothouse grapes, at four
shillings a pound, is not enough to repair the
mischief wrought by eight long years of privation
and hard work. Valentine might as well
have tried to restore her youth to the old lady
on the ground-floor back With a box of violet
powder. Acts of kindness are not without
their uses, but they cannot actually cure
disease.

Lofty was lying on her back, pale and with
closed eyes. The two girls were standing by
the bedside frightened.

She's awful bad,' said Lizzie. ' She's been
bad all night. It isn't that she's hungry,
because yesterday was Sunday and there was a
bit of meat. You can speak to her if you like ;
she isn't asleep.'

Don't try to speak, Lofty. We will carry
you into the other room. It is quieter and the

bed is easier. We will all three carry you.'
Melenda turned lier shoulder with an expressive
gesture. ' Melenda, are you so proud that you
cannot even bear to see your friend relieved ? '

Do what you like for her,' said Melenda.
Then she burst into tears of jealous rage at her
own impotence. ' You shan't do anything forme.
Oh, Lofty ! ' she flung her arms over her
friend. ' I can't do anything for you, my dear,
and I thought I was to do everything. I'm no
use to you when you want my use the most.
And now you're going to be helped by a
stranger.'

Valentine said nothing, and presently Melenda
left off crying, and consoled herself by
assuming the command in the matter of carrying
Lofty.

The other room was certainly quieter and
cooler, and the bed was not so hard. And
then they sent for the doctor.

It was the same young man who had spoken
to Valentine on the Sunday evening. But this
morning he seemed rougher in his speech and
manner.

'It's been coming,' he said; 'I've seen it
coming.'

'What is it?'

She's got to rest. Don't tell me, you girls,
that she can't. Because she's got to, do you
hear? and she's got to have good food.'

Eest and good food ! ' said Melenda,
bitterly. ' Oh, Lord ! why don't you say she's
got to have oysters and chicken and port
while ? '

Good food ! ' said Lizzie. But she looked
at Valentine.

'Eest and good food,' the doctor repeated,
and nothing to do for the remainder of her
da3^s ; and that won't be long,' he added in a
lower tone.

She shall have rest and proper food,' said
Valentine.

The sharpest sting of poverty is when you
are made to feel your own impotence to relieve
the suffering which wealth can remove ; even
to avert the death which wealth can stave off.
Melenda's eyes flashed, and she made as if she
would say something fierce and resentful ; but
she restrained herself in the presence of the
doctor, though the effort cost her a good deal
and the tears sprang to her eyes. ' Come, Liz,'
she said, ' we'll go back to work.'

There's only you and me now,' she said
presently, looking up ; ' Lofty won't come back
any more. She Avon't let her come back.
She'll give her grapes and beef and cocoa so
that she won't want to come back. She's given
her a new petticoat and new stockings already.
She'll try to make her hate us just to spite me
because I let her have a bit of my mind. Oh,
I know for all her meek ways she's a sly one !
If it's good for Lofty ' — here she choked. She
wished to be loyal to her friend, but it was a
bitter thing that she should be taking gifts from
anybody but herself. ' You'll go next, I suppose,
Liz. Very well then. There'll be only
me left. If you want to desert me, take and
go and do it. Perhaps she'll give you all
your meals if you stoop so low as to take
'em.'

Don't talk wild, Melenda. Lofty hasn't
deserted us. Why can't you be civil to your
own sister ? Why shouldn't she help Lofty ?
I'm glad she came here — there ! I'm glad she
came. Do you hear that ? '

Melenda at other times would have crushed
this spirit of revolt, but she was this morning
too dejected, and made no reply.

Desert us ? ' Lizzie went on. ' Why
shouldn't Lofty desert us, come to that
What can we give her ? Desert us ? Why,
Melenda, it's so miserable that we may just
as well desert each other at once, and give up
trying.'

Still Melenda made no reply.

Last night,' Lizzie continued, ' she went
and sat with father. Poor old dad I With
him in his rags. Did you ever do that ? And
she sang to him, and Saturday all day long she
worked for Lofty. You never did more.
Desert us ? What could Lofty do better, I
should like to know ? Look at this bed and
the one she is lying on ; look at this room and
the other ; look at her dinner and ours. I
really wonder you should talk such nonsense.'

Still Melenda made no reply. She was
crushed. Her growing discontent and her
newly-born knowledge of better things gave
Lizzie a spirit which privation could never give
her.

In this way, however, Lofty's chains were
taken from her.

Day followed day, but she did not rise from
the bed. Sometimes Melenda sat beside her,

work ill hand, gentle with her, though full of
resentment against Valentine. Sometimes Lizzie
sat with her. Generally it was Valentine who
read to her, sang to her, talked to her, and
nursed her. There are some women whose
mere presence soothes a patient ; whose touch
drives away pain ; whose voice is a sedative ;
who are the born nurses. Valentine belonged
to them.

A little happiness, even if you do have a
bad cough with it, and an aching back, and
limbs which feel as if they could never move
again, is a medicine delightful to take, and
sovereign against many evils, especially lines
in the forehead, drawn mouth, and worn eyes.
Lofty's thin cheeks did not grow any fuller, but
they lost something of their waxen pallor, and
a faint glow appeared on them as of winter
sunshine. Her hollow chest did not grow
any deeper, but her shoulders seemed less contracted.
Her eyes were not so weary, and on
her thin lips there presently appeared once
more the old smile which she had lost about
the time when her father went bankrupt, and
her mother went mad, and her sister said she
wouldn't stand it any longer. She would never

get any better ; she knew this somehow, but
it is not hard, when one has had so long a spell
of work, just to lie passive, though the days
which slip by so quickly bring death so very
near. Less hard still is it when one has such
a nurse as Valentine, and a doctor, who comes
every day with something to charm away the
aching, and for the first time, after many a long
year, dainty and sufficient food. Presently
sweet and pleasant thoughts began to linger
in her brain ; they were thoughts that came
to her while Valentine read and sang. The
spectre of Famine, with her dreadful uplifted
scourge of scorpions, had vanished. She was
no longer driven to try, if only for half an
hour, to hold the shirts and make the buttonholes.
She was no longer anxious for the
future ; though there was no more work for
her to do, she should not starve. Valentine
was with her ; she could close her eyes in
peace and sleep without dreaming of an empty
shelf in the morning. Is it possible for us,
the overfed sons and daughters of a luxurious
bourgeoisie our eyes swelling out for fatness,
who have never know a single day without its
three abundant meals, and never felt the pangs

of unsatisfied appetite, even to conceive of an
existence such as Melencla and Lofty had lived
together for eight years, with never enough to eaton
any day from year to year ? Why, one asks,
what contentment, what resignation, even what
acquiescence in life as a gift or a loan, of something
precious, can there be when one is always
hungry ? Of the two other girls, the presence
of Valentine made one daily more discontented
with her lot because of that terrible temptation
of which we have heard. She could any day,
only by saying the word, convert herself, she
was told, from a work-girl into a ' lady ' — the
word being used to signify one who does no
work for her living, and wears fine clothes and
lives in comfort. As for the other, it made her
daily more obdurate and more angry, because
she was so helpless, and it was Valentine who
did everything for her friend

I won't be kind to her, then,' she said, when
for the fiftieth time Lofty besought her and
expostulated with her. ' I won't give in and
be kind to her. Why should I? First, she
comes and laughs at us.'

No, she didn't laugh

She said she was twins and she didn't



know which she was. Do you call that
laughing at us ? I do. Then she comes again
and thinks she can make it up with beefsteak
and ham. No, Lofty ; and it ain't likely.'

She came to live here of her own accord.
She wasn't obliged to come. She's never cross
and never unkind ; she never says a hard word
of anybody ; and oh. Melenda, the care she
takes of me ! Even you, my dear, never took
more care. And the nights when she sits up
with me, and the things she gets for me, and,
oh, Melenda, I ain't her sister, and she'd
do more than this for you if you'd only
let her.' Melenda sniffed. That fact made
Valentine's conduct the more intrusive. ' And
she watches every day for you to give in a
bit.'

Let her watch, then,' said Melenda.

No little pocket Gospel after all .^ ' asked
the Doctor again. He was standing at the
foot of the bed looking at his patient. He had
not removed his hat — a ceremony lie usually
omitted in his rounds — his hands were in his
pockets, and his shoulders were a little rounded,
and he looked as if he despised the vulgar

details of good manners. 'No little pocket
Gospel, then ? '

None — why ? '

'Because — well — because, the summer is
hot and this place is noisome, and you are
doing the work of a hospital nurse, and somehow
you look as if you ought to be at the
seaside, or in some quiet country place under
the trees. And, in short, what do you do it
for?'

Why do you ask for motives ? You said
yourself the other day that there was only one
motive, and that was pure selfishness.'

That is so. They call it religion, patriotism,
benevolence, charity — whatever they please.
It is all self-preservation.'

And there is no disinterested action at all
possible for poor humanity?'

There are illusions. Women do wonderful
things for men whom they love, as they call it.
Men call it love when they subjugate a woman
and get a slave for nothing. Why women
delight in beings slaves I do not know.'

And so everything is an illusion.'

Everything except what you see ; and
sometimes that is an illusion too. When life is

over, what is the past but illusion ? We are
born : we live and suffer : and we die : and
are forgotten. That is the history of Ivy
Lane, where there are eight hundred people,
and two births and one funeral every week.
But I don't understand you. If we ever do
get a lady here, she comes and looks about
her, and is disappointed because we are not
more unpleasant, and then she does a kind
thing or two and goes away with a feeling that
the sum of poverty has been sensibly alleviated
by her visit. She has seen a suffering object,
which gave her pain ; she has relieved her
suffering for a little while, which gave her
pleasure. But you — why, you have given —
Yourself. Well ' — he changed the subject
abruptly — 'what do you think of the working
girl? You have got three of them to study.
There are thousands just exactly like them.'

I can think of these three only and how
to help them.'

He answered indirectly. He took up
Lofty's arm and bared it to the elbow.

You see : a strong bone and a good
length of limb. Nature designed this arm fora
stout strong woman. A fair breadth of

shoulder, too. Nature meant this girl to bea
really fine specimen. Look at her forehead :
it is broad and low — a capable forehead ; and
her mouth — see how fine are the lines and yet
how strong ; this was meant to be a very noble
woman, strong in her illusions of love for
husband and children. Yet, you see, a splendid
model ruined.'

Poor Lofty ! '

We are always wasting and ruining fine
models. This street is full of human wrecks.
You've got two of them below — Mr. Lane, the
letter-writer, and the old woman. What does
it mean ? '

Can you tell me what it means ? '

Nature says to man, " Learn my secrets,
or I will kill you. I have no pity on anyone —
I will kill you unless you learn my secrets."
Very well : some of us, the happy few who
can, are always learning these secrets, and
saving men from Nature's traps. But man
says to his brother, " If you are not strong
enough to defend yourself against me, I wil]
make you my slave ; you shall work for me on
my own terms." I don't know whether Nature
is more cruel than man, or man than Nature.

Here you see ' — he touched Lofty's cheek.
The girl did not understand a word of what he
was saying, but he was the Doctor, and if he
were to cut off her arms she would not dream
of resistance. ' Here is a case in which man,
meeting no power of self-defence, has worked
his wicked will, pretending that he is obeying
the laws of political economy. That is to say,
he turns this girl into a machine for doing what
she ought not to have done at all, for longer
hours than she ought to work, for less pay than
she ought to receive, and for poorer food than
any woman ought to eat. Nature, at her worst,
would not have trampled on her worse than
man has done.'

What are we to do then ? '

He sat down and looked in her face
blankly.

I don't know. If I did know everybody
else should know. There are only two ways
of helping the working women, and one of
these, at least, is possible. The impossible
way is that the ladies of the country shall unite
to form a Protection League for their working
sisters.'

Why is that impossible ? '

VOL. II. H

Because they don't care for their working
sisters,' he replied, bluntly. ' You only care
because you have lived among them and know
what their sufferings are. Ladies deliberately
shut their eyes ; they won't take trouble ; they
won't think ; they like things about them to
look smooth and comfortable ; they will get
things cheap if they can. What do they care
if the cheapness is got by starving women ?
What is killing this girl here ? Bad food and
hard work. Cheapness ! What do the ladies
care how many working girls are killed?
Confess now.'

Valentine would not confess.

Well, there may be another way. It is
by the working people themselves, and that by
a grand universal League, or Federation, or
Brotherhood of Labour — men and women alike
to control wages and work. I do not see
why such a League should not be formed. If
men can unite for one branch of work they
ought to be able to unite for all.'

Why should they not ? '

Because the mass that has to be moved is
so gigantic that not one prophet but ten
thousand all preaching the same gospel at the

same time are wanted. I wonder how it would
work out.'

How would it ^vork out ? '

We've always got to take into consideration
man's greed and selfishness. However, if we
got over that, first of all, a case like this would
not be allowed. The League would make it

impossible. The League ' he sat down and

put his hands in his pockets, looking straight
into Valentine's face, but as if he did not see
her. * I have often wondered what such a
League would do. I suppose it would become
a most stupendous tyranny — everything for the
general good must be. I think it would try
to be just on the whole — there's somehow a
natural instinct against injustice ; it would bethe
most powerful instrument ever devised ; it
would control the whole Government ; it would
go making all kinds of laws for the restriction
of liberty, that is quite certain. I suppose
they wouldn't let the men marry under thirty
nor the women under five-and-twenty. As for
the men with land and capital, and Corporate
Bodies and Companies with property, I should
say the League would make itself unpopular
with them. One thing, however, the League

H 2

would do, and that as soon as it was established.'


What is that ? '

It would insist on this girl and her friends
working half the time for double the wages.'

I don't see inch difference,' said Valentine,
between your League and Sam's Socialism.'

I haven't the pleasure of knowing Mr.
Samuel, but there is this difference — that my
League will be formed by the people for the
people, and the Socialists want to impose their
scheme on the people.'

Why not, if it is good for them ? '

Because, young lady, yon can't improve
people by any scheme or law or government at
all. They must improve themselves. The
best chance is when every man feels that he is
part of the Government. You have no idea
of their obstinacy. They will neither be led
nor driven nor coaxed ; they will only go of
their own free will. And some ways they will
never go at all.'

Then I wish the Brotherhood or League
were formed already.'

Perhaps you and your friends would lose
your property and your money.'

But we should free Melenda.'

'A very good thing for her, and I don't
suppose it would be very bad for you. As forme,
I have got no money, and my profession
brings in as it is only the wages of a mechanic
so I shall not suffer.'

He got up and buttoned his coat.

You, Lofty girl,' he said, ' keep quiet.
I sometimes think ' — he turned to Valentine
again as he went out — ' I sometimes think
that I may hive to see that great League of
Labour.'

I know not what Lofty heard or understood
of the Doctor's discourse, but it may have been
this which suggested a truly wonderful dream
that came to her that very afternoon when she
fell asleep after dinner while Valentine sat
reading, and through the open window came
the murmur of the children's voices in the
school behind Ivy Lane. According to an
ancient authority there are five kinds of dreams ;
and sometimes they come through the gate of
horn and sometimes through that of ivory.
This dream came to Lofty through the gate of
ivory. It was the kind described as the
imagination of a non-existent thing, and yet a

holy dream, and one to be received as a gift
from heaven and sent to cheer and comfort a
dying girl with the vision of what might be.
She dreamed tJiat she was in a workshop —
lofty, well aired, and beautiful. She was doing
some kind of work — I think she was making up
white linen robes for the harpers who phil
before the Throne — and her work filled her
with joy. She was quite well and strong,
and without pain of any kind, and she felt a
strange elasticity in her limbs. Her sister Tilly
was beside her dressed in white like herself,
and as she recognised her it was as if a sponge
had blotted out the past, so that it should be
remembered no more, and Lofty rejoiced that
Tilly too should have a frock as white as any
in the work-room.

Melenda was with her too, the lines gone
from her face, her thin cheeks filled out, looking
truly beautiful in the eyes of Lofty and her
like ; and Lizzie was there, also with work in
her hand, but laudiino- and talking more than she
worked. Valentine was there too, dressed just
the same as herself, but she looked more lovely
than all the rest ; and the other one — she who
had cried dien Melenda spoke up; but now
she was sittings beside Melenda with one arm

round lier neck. They were all so fond of
Melenda that they could not make enough of
her. There were thousands of work-his in
the room ; they were all laughing and talking
happily ; and outside the open window stretched
a great garden with the morning sun lying on
it, and orchards filled with trees loaded with
ripe apples. The scent of flowers came into
the room ; and no one was tired, no one was
hungry, no one was cross or wicked. Strangest
thing of all, Lizzie's father was with them,
looking venerable with his long white hair
brushed off his forehead. He was not in rags,
but dressed like a gentleman, and he sat at a
great organ. When he began to play, Valentine
stood up to sing, and all the girls tried to sing
too, but could not, because of the tears — tears
of joy and happiness — and the memories of the
cruel past, which choked them.

Why, Lofty, Lofty ! ' said Valentine, ' what
is the matter, dear ? '

It was my dream,' she replied, looking
about her.

You laughed and cried together, dear.
Bat you have had a long and refreshing sleep,
and it is nearly tea-time. This makes up for
last night, doesn't it ?'

CHAPTEE IX.

SHOWING HOW THE BAND PLAYED.

Melenda says Sam's here,' said Lizzie, putting
her head into the room. ' If you want to see
him, you'd better come at once. And, I say,
you'd better look out. Melenda's in a rage,
and the band's a-going to phil, sharp ! '

Sam Monument, from time to time, remembered
that he had a sister, and went to
visit her. It was not often ; because since his
rise to greatness, he was no longer proud of his
poor relations. The few among us who have
raised themselves to the level of a Board Schoolmaster
will sympathise with Sam. Besides, it
made him ashamed even to think of Melenda ;
and it made him rage like Scylla and Charybdis,
and the Maelstrom, and the rapids of Niagara,
actually to see her at her miserable work.
Again, there is a rule which should be carefully
observed in visiting one's poor relations ; but

Sam had never heard of this rule ; namely,
always to visit them in mild and cloudy weather.
The former, that one may be spared the bitterness
of cold ; and the latter, so that there maybe
no mockery of sunshine. Sam came to Ivy
Lane on a splendid summer evening, when the
sunshine made everything glorious that was
clean and neat, and magnified the meanness of
everything that was dingy and ill-kept. When
Valentine opened the door he was standing
with his back to the empty fireplace, which
gave him the command, so to speak, of the
room. Melinda was sitting by the table, her
work in her lap, and the thimble on her finger ;
but she Alas not sewiiisf ; and there was a clean
in her eye which betokened another approaching
Triumph of Temper. She looked strangely
like her brother ; the eyes as bright, the lips as
firm, only that her owen red hair was long and
Sam's was short, rising from his forehead like a
cliff, so that his head resembled the rounded
back of a hedgehog about to defend its property.
Oh ! ' he said, with a kind of snort when
Valentine appeared. ' You are here, then.
Claude told me something about it. I hope
you are pleased with what you have found.

Ever been in this room before ? Have you
looked round it? Satisfied and pleased with
it? Like to feel that your sister lives in it?
Nice place, isn't it ? ' He went on without
waiting for an answer. ' Nice work, too, they
do in it. Wholesome, well-paid work. Work
to make a woman rich and happy. Something
for your rich friends to be proud of, isn't it ? '

The room looked more than commonly
dingy. The strings of the blind were broken ;
the blind itself was pinned up, and a reflection
of the evening sun from an opposite window
fell upon the side of the room, not so much
lighting it up as showing how dingy it was, and
how" desperately shabby.

'It don't matter much what you think,
Sam, nor what she thinks. Thinking can't
alter things. Those who've got work to do
must do the work they can get. She can give
dinners to people who haven't the independence
to refuse ' — Melenda tossed her head at Lizzie,
who laughed defiance — ' and will only be the
more discontented afterwards, when she goes
away. But she can't get us better work nor
better wages. What's the good then ? '

'What did you come for?' Sam asked.

What made you leave your friends and comedown
here ? These people are your enemies :
the working people are the natural enemies of
the people who do nothing. I told you, when
I saw you first, that you've got to choose. If
you like to give them up, say the word, and
I'll find something for you to do. If you won't
give them up, then go away back again, and
enjoy yourself as long as you can, till the
smash comes.'

I shall not give them up, certainly,' said
Valentine. ' And I am not going back again
just yet.'

Oh, very well. You're one of those who
go tinkering up a rotten place here and
painting over a bad place there, and pretending
that everything is sound and healthy. I know
the sort. You get some people together, and
you give a concert, and call it softening the
masses. You get a few pictures and hang 'em
up in a schoolroom and call it introducing Art
among the Lower Orders. Yah ! Art and the
Lower Orders ! Or you have tea and cakes
and a hymn, and call it bringing religion home
to the people. And then you go around with
pennies and oranges for the children and

flannel for the old women, and call it bringing
the classes together. As long as you choose to
stay with them, I tell you all the people are
your natural enemies. Melenda here is your
enemy, and so is Lizzie, and so is the girl
you've got laid up in the other room.'

There is a pleasing nursery fiction that
accounts for many disagreeable things by a
theory on the right and the wrong way of
getting out of bed. Valentine remembered
this and felt quite certain that Sam, Melenda,
and Lizzie had all three e^ot out of bed the
wrong way that morning. There was going
to be a Eow, and one of uncertain dimensions.
And she was invited by Melenda in order that
she might assist at that Eow and help to make
it a Eow Eoyal. Therefore, she made haste
with a soft answer.

I did not come with any ambitious idea of
spreading Art or Religion. I simply came
because I wanted to know — my sister — Melenda.'
This was not a fib absolute, because
when she came Melenda was a possible sister.
But it was so far a fib that Valentine hesitated
a little over its utterance.

Ho ! ' said Melenda, just to show how

very little way in knowledge Valentine had sofar
advanced.

Partly I wanted to see with my own eyes
the kind of life from which I — that is, Melenda's
sister, Polly — had been taken.'

Yes,' said Melenda ; ' to look at us as if
we were black savages in a show, and to give
us half a sovereign each, and then go away and
forget us.'

Melenda is unjust,' Valentine replied ;
but she tolerates my presence, which is something,
though she will not accept any service
from me.'

'How long are you going to stay? You
can't be comfortable here .^ ' Sam asked.

I didn't ask her to come, and I shan't ask
her to stay,' said Melenda the Irreconcilable,
now in her most stubborn mood, her upper lip
stiffened and her eye set stormy. Perhaps she
was stimulated by the example of her brother,
who was of mule-ike obstinacy. He called it
firmness.

I am to stay here all the summer,' Valentine
explained. ' Then I am going back for a time.
After that my plans are not yet certain.'

Humph ! ' said Sam. ' You've taken a

great deal of trouble for nothing, That's all.
As for wanting to know a girl who hasn't got
the spirit to raise herself out of this ' — he
looked round with the infinite contempt of a
self-raised man — ' I don't see what you expect
to get by it. You've only put her back up so far.'

That's all,' said Melenda ; ' and it is going
to keep up.'

There's one thing you might do,' he went
on. ' You might help to make the workwomen
discontented. Suppose you got hold of Lizzie
here ! ' He laid his hand upon her shoulder.
Suppose you made her compare her frock with
yours, and told her to ask why there is so much
difference Lizzie lifted her great eyes upon
Valentine's frock, which really was a very neat
and finished piece of work, and fitted her like a
love. Her own, she knew well, coukl not be
compared with it. Little did Sam know of the
seeds of discontent already planted in her
bosom. ' But that you don't dare to try. You
and your friends are all for keeping them quiet.
Make her feel that she hasn't got what she
ought to have ; then teach her why she hasn't
got it — because she's robbed by your friends.
Then there'll be a chance that the girls will

combine to get it, and that they'll be backed up
by the men. As for these girls, they haven't
begun to grumble.'

Haven't we ? ' said Melenda.

They believe that there isn't more money
to be got.'

No more there is,' said Melenda.

They think it is a law of the universe that
they should work and live in a room like this,
and go in rags, and be paid elevenpence
halfpenny a day.'

And find your own cotton,' said Lizzie,
furnishing a not unimportant detail.

And fourpence for the workroom, which
you can get for a penu}^ outside. And if you
dare to complain they make it sixpence,' Melenda
added.

'And be sworn at if they're Germans,
and drilled if they're English. \¥e like it, I
suppose.'

You're a fool, Sam,' said Melenda, putting
the case plainly. ' You and your discontent !
If you really think we like it, you're a bigger
fool than you look. We didn't want her
coming here, nor you neither, to teach us that
it's a shame.'

Nor to tell me to look at her frock and
mine,' said Lizzie.

Come then, Sam,' his sister went on while
Valentine kept a careful silence, ' come then.
Have you got anything better for us when we
have got discontented ? There's machine work
and shirts at a penny apiece ; we can get twopence
a dozen for the button-holes ; there's bottle-washing
for five shillings a week, and cigar-making'
for the same ; there's the dust yards and
the sifting at a shilling a day. Shall we change
for that ? There's the matchmakers with the
stuff that eats away their mouths '

Oh, Melenda ! ' said Valentine.

What's he come here for, then ? How
can we find time to keep the place neat and
tidy ? Why ain't we better off ? Let him show
us the way, then.'

It's better,' said Lizzie, ' to help people
than it is to get into a rage with them. Valentine
does help me and Lofty in spite of
Melenda.'

Melenda looked as if she might turn on
the other two as well as on her brother. But
she refrained. ' If that is all you've got to say,
Sam, you may as well go.'

'Coming here,' Lizzie went on, with a
laudable desire to assist in the music of the
band, ' and swearing at us as if it was our own
fault.'

'I didn't swear,' said Sam, in some confusion.


You did. You always do when you come
here.'

'Well, then, it's enough to make a pig
swear,' he replied guiltily, because a Board
School master certainly ought not to swear.
Language and temper are beneath the dignity
of a profession which should be above the
minor weaknesses of humanity.

Well, Sam, please do not swear again,' said
Valentine, still anxious for peace ; ' and now —
you who know so much and have had so many
opportunities for studying the question from
your position — your exceptional and high position,
Sam — won't you sit down quietly and give
us your advice ? '

He did not sit down, but he took the chair
from her and placed it before him, his hands
on the back so that it made a kind of pulpit.

All he's got to tell us,' said Melenda, ' is that
it's a shame, and we ought to combine and strike.'

VOL. II. I

It's the system,' Sam began. ' I am ready
to give you the best advice if you'll only follow
it. It's the rotten competitive system — you've
got to abolish that. As for you girls combining
and striking, you won't do it. I told you once
to combine, but now I see that women ain't
educated up to combination. Combination
means common sense — yon haven't got it ; you
haven't the brains nor the courage to do it.'

We've got our independence, anyhow,'
said Melenda.

And much good that does you. Independence
! As if anybody is independent who's
got to work for your starvation wages. You're
slaves — you're white slaves. That's what you
are ! '

And what are you, then, I should like to
know ? You've got no work to do, I suppose ?

We cannot alter the system,' said Valentine,
again interposing ; ' at least, I suppose we
cannot alter it without a good deal of trouble
and delay. Meantime, don't you think you
could devise something temporary for Melenda
and Lizzie until you have swept away competition?'


'Who wants his help?' asked Melenda.

I tell you he can only say it's a shame. That's
all he ever does say.'

I can't help them,' said Sam ; ' nobody can
help them in that way. I tell you again that
it's the fault of the system. There are women
by thousands no better off. If you can make
your ladies leave off trying to get things cheap ;
if you can make your masters contented with
a workman's wage for profit ; if you can make
the men resolve that the Avoient shall be properly
paid, and that they must strike for them
and forbid them to take less ; well — if you can
make everybody think of his neighbour first —
then you may let your system alone, because it
won't matter. You can't do that, and so you
must destroy the system.'

Then there seems a very poor chance for
the present generation of shirt-makers. But
what are you going to put in its place ? And
how do you know that it will be better than
the present plan .^ '

Sam smiled with pity ; girls brought up like
Valentine were indeed ignorant.

You know nothing,' he replied ; ' I have
told you already some of our scheme, but I

1 2

suppose Claude laughed at it and told you to
forget it at once.'

Tell me again, then, if you please.'
Very well. Now listen. We shall destroy
the competitive system. What does that mean ?
Why, that there will be no masters first, no
capitalists, no landowners, no property of any
kind.'

Oh ! then who will pay the workmen ? '
'Listen, and don't interrupt. The State
will be the only employer of labour. There
will be no rich people. If you have a mountain
of gold it will not buy you an hour of
luxury, nor will it save you an hour of labour.
The stores will be kept by the State, and the
food distributed daily. All will work alike and
all will live alike. There will be only one rate
of wages, and men and women alike will be
paid, not in money, but by abundance of everything
that is necessary and pleasant to life ; no
man will be at the beck and call of another.
Think of that ! Oh, we are on the eve of the
most glorious revolution 1 ' He swung his arms,
and his eyes glowed. ' There will dawn before
long the most glorious day. Why, there will
be no crime lieu, because every man will have

all he wants, so that there will be no temptation
to steal and rob ; and every man will be
happy, so that there will be no temptation
to violence ; and every girl contented and well
fed, so that every girl shall keep her self-respect.
There will be one offence, and only one against
the State — the crime of laziness, which will be
punished by bread-and-water diet. There will
be one education for all ; the government shall
be by the people for the people ; there will be
no rich class, no better class, no priests, no lazy
class ; everybody for a certain time every day
will work at something productive — but production
will be regulated by committees ; for
the rest of the time a man will do as he pleases.
Some will become artists, some will study, some,
I suppose, will be preachers, some scientific
men, some actors, some will write books, some
will play music — the only professional men ivho
will not be required to work at production will
be doctors of medicine and schoolmasters.
These, of course, will be chosen from the
cleverest of the boys. The courts of justice
will be administered by juries who Avillsit ever"
day all the year round, every man taking his
turn ; law shall be open to everybody and will

be free, but there will not be much left to
dispute about when all property is held in trust
for everybody. All the things that are now
luxuries — the rare fruits and the costly wines —
will be distributed to the sick and the old.
Books, pictures, music, and plays w411 be produced
for nothing; at all after workings hours.
Every man will be taught that he must be
watchful of his own rights and jealous for the
community. Every man will take his turn to bea
policeman. There will be no other distinctions
among men than those which nature has
created : for some will be strong and some
weak, some will be quick and some slow. But
there will be no titles, no aristocracy, no class,
and no pride of one man over another. Think
of it ! No more poverty — no more disease
from luxury or from privation, no more ignorance,
no more indolence, no more vice ! Think
of it, I say, if ever you think of anything.'

He paused, not because he was exhausted,
but because he wanted, naturally, to observe
the effect of his oration.

Melenda pretended that she was not listening.
But she was. She listened against her will ;
she could not tell that the thing was as yet

only a dream, and could never be realised in
her own time. Sam's words filled her soul
with vague hopes and a warm glow ; and he
looked so grand while he spoke that she was
proud of him, and forgave him for his impatience
and contempt. Lizzie for her part
was wholly unmoved. She thought of nothing
but of Sam's advice to be discontented and to
compare Valentine's frock with her own. It
was right, then, to be angry and to ask why
she must live on slops and go in rags, and
Valentine lived like a lady.

As for Valentine, it seemed to her as if in
this squalid room the Avoids had altogether a
new force and meaning. In Claude's chambers
she had only half perceived their significance,
but here — in the presence of the two girls —
they fell upon her ears like the first preaching
of a new gospel. What sacrifice would be
too great to bring about the state of things
pictured by this young apostle ? Surely there
has never been since the world began any
dream more generous and more noble than this
of the Socialist, insomuch that there are some
who think that it was first revealed to the
world by the Son of God Himself. It is so

beautiful that it will never be suffered to be
forgotten, so beautiful that mankind will henceforth
be continually occupied in trying to make
it a practical reality ; and with every successive
failure, will always be drawing nearer and
nearer to the goal, until at last, if the kind
gods consent, even after many years and many
generations, it shall be won, and with it the
Kingdom long talked of and little understood.
But those who expect it in this their lifetime
might as well expect the Kingdom of Heaven.

Thank you, Sam,' said Valentine, bringing
herself back to the present with an effort.
But this is a scheme for the far future.'

'No, it is for the present. Not to-day
perhaps, nor tomorrow, but before your hair
is grey it will be realised over the whole world.'

Meantime what are Melenda and Lizzie
to do?'

We've got to go on working,' said the latter.

What will you do meantime for your
sister, Sam ? '

Melenda may — she may ' he made an

heroic effort, ' well, she may come and live
with me if she'll behave.'

*I shan't then, there! I won't live with

anybody, and I won't behave, and I'll go in
and out just as I please.'

Can you not find any better way of life
for them? ' Valentine persisted.

No, I can't. There isn't any better work
for girls who can only sew. You must alter
the system. The work and the wages are
getting worse instead of better. The worse
they get, the more injustice there is, the sooner
will be the end. You must begin with the
beginning, I tell you. Destroy Capital and
abolish Property. But what do you care for
the people ? '

I Cere for this room at least and the
people in it. Come, Sam, give me credit for a
little humanity. I care for those of the people
whom I kno^v. Isn't that enough for a
beginning? How if we were all to do as
much ? Perhaps there would be no need to
alter the System.'

You talk like a woman. Well, then ' — he
picked up his hat, which he had flung on the
floor at the earlier stage of the discussion —
I've made my offer. If Melenda likes to
accept it, she can. If not, she-will please herself.
I'm going. Good-night, Melinda.'

Will yoii let me walk with you a little
way ? ' Valentine asked.

Just as you like.' It seems an ungracious
way of putting it, but what he meant was
simple consent.

They walked down Hoxton Street, across
Old Street, and along the Curtain Eoad, where
the furniture places were closed, and the street
quiet, and the German journeymen were out
of sight in some hidden dens, smoking pipes,
and dreaming like Sam of a New World.

You belong to the other side,' he said after
a while. ' That is very certain. Yet I should
like to talk to you ; but there — it is no use, I
suppose. You've been brought up in their
way, and because it's an easy life you think it
is beautiful.'

I only know of one side.'

'That's rubbish. In all history there's
always two sides : there's the tyrant and there's
the slave : there's the oppressor and there's the
oppressed : there's the rich and there's the
poor : there's the workman and there's the
master. The Lord didn't make simple man,
you see. He made two classes. There were
two Adams. That's what they want us to

believe. The land belongs to one of them, and
the duty of tilling it for nothing to the other.
Oh, yes, I know the talk. There's two classes
when we are quiet ; there's only one class
when it comes to keeping them contented.
Wait till we get our turn.'

In your scheme, Sam, no one is to be
lazy, no one is to shirk work, and the best
men in the country Avill think it their highest
privilege to work for all. I understand you to
mean this. Yes. It is very beautiful. But
how are you going to teach and to discipline
the people and keep them up to the mark ? '

Oh ! ' Sam replied superior. ' Why, the
very question shows your ignorance. You
don't understand the first elements of our party.
Don't you see that there will be no necessity
for teaching at all — that the very establishment
of justice for the first time in the history of the
world — free and equal justice, with no favours
to any, will create such a grand universal
jealousy that all injustice of every kind will be
made impossible ? There never has been any
justice hitherto. There have been laws and
lawyers, and decisions of courts have been
sold to the holiest bidders. But there has

been no justice. It will be such a beautiful
thing that everybody will watch everybody
else and himself as well, to see that there is no
shirking of duty, There will be an irresistible
determination — but of course you cannot understand
the force of the Will of the People ? '

Well,' said Valentine, to whom the talk
about the irresistible Will of the People was a
new thing — and indeed it is strange that while
cultivated and educated men have never agreed
together to have a Will of their own and to
pronounce it, we are constantly told that the
rough and ignorant are thinking as one man,
and acting; together with one consent and in
such beautiful unanimity — ' well, then, the
Will of the People, I suppose, will order everybody
to be equally good, and the order will be
obeyed without any difficulty. Why, it will
be a return to the Promised Land — No, it will
be nothing short of a return to the Garden of
Eden. And, Sam, just think what a discovery
you have made ! The flaming sword which
turns every way in the hands of the cherubim
is nothing else than the Competitive System.'

As you like,' Sam replied a little sulkily.
There was just a faint hint of ridicule in

Valentine's words. No Prophet can abide
ridicule. ' I don't care what you call it. Call
it what you please. Only don't pretend that
you misunderstand the meaning.'

Sam, you are so strong and brave,' Valentine
laid her hand upon his arm, ' you are so
clever, you know so much, that I am sure you
can help us if you think it over. Never mind
the Competitive System : that will take a good
many years to destroy, I am sure, and perhaps
it will outlast our time. Try to find some
readier way to help those girls. Consider, one
of them is dying slowly ; we can't save her ; we
can only make her easier : the other two are
wasting their lives in the most terrible poverty.
I could give them money, but indeed it is not
alms they want. Melenda will not have it.
Won't you try to help them P Think, Sam, oh,
think ' — she laid her hand upon his arm — ' of
their rags and their misery and try to help them.'

I do think of their rags. Good God I
Valentine, or Polly, or whatever they call you,
I think of their rags and their misery for weeks
together after I have seen Melenda.'

Then I wish, Sam, that you saw lier everyday;


If I did I should only hate the system
more and more. That other girl — she'll die,
I suppose.'

Yes, she must die. Melenda is stronger.
The one who will go next is Lizzie, unless
something can be done.'

There's only one thing that can be done
destroy the Competitive System. Abolish
property. Sweep away Capital, Lands, and
Church, and Masters. Give Socialism a fair
start.'

Nothing more could be got out of him. A
mathematician, we know, tries his theory on
elementary cases ; Socialism, and the ladies
and gentlemen who construct, with infinite
labour, constitutions, schemes, and plans for
the universal good, do not. The simple case is
beyond them. They are full of rage against
the old system, but their indignation is expended
in deepening their political convictions.

There was once another man who went
down the Jericho road and fell among thieves.
First there passed by the priest, just as in the
former case, his scornful chin in the air : and
then the Levite followed. Now this Levite did
not immediately pass by, but he stopped and

inquired carefully into the particulars of the
case and made full notes of them, and then he
went his way, and out of the notes he compiled
a most tremendous oration, eloquent, fiery, and
convincing, which he delivered at a meeting of
the Democratic Federal Union, on the wretched
system under which robbers are suffered to
exist, and propounded another System by
means of which there would be no more
robbers in the land at all. And yet the old
System goes on still, and still we see coming
along the hot and thirsty road the Samaritan
with his nimble twopence.

Good-night, Sam,' Valentine said coldly ;
I ask you for advice, and you offer me the
chance of a new System. Go away and rail
at Competition, while we look after its
victims.'

CHAPTER X.

THE Reverend Sandal SMITH.

The Assistant Priest of St. Agatha's — this was
the church where the morning congregation
did not contain a single man — was at this
time — he has just been promoted to the more
independent sphere of a mission church — the
Eev. Eandal Smith. It was he who ran up
the stairs when Valentine was singing in order
to discover the secret of this strange thing.

This young gentleman became, by a gradual
and natural development of events, one of
Valentine's friends. Their friendship, it is true,
was based upon what the Doctor maintained to
be the true basis of all friendship — self-interest.
He first introduced himself to her in the street
there was no other common place of meeting
stopping before her and half lifting his hat.
It was one of those sweet things in felt with a
very broad flat brim and strings and a tassel.

and lie took it off with the doubtful courtesy
which certain Englishmen yield to the Uncertain
Person, as if it were a disgrace to lift
the hat to any under a recognised social position.
This prejudice will vanish when the Board
Schools condescend to teach manners, and the
working man has learned to lift his hat to the
working woman.

I beg your pardon '

He affected the quick breathless manner
adopted by many young clergymen and by
some young masters in public schools. It is a
manner which may mean anything, like an
algebraical symbol — perhaps that is the reason
why it has been adopted — but it is really
understood to be a ' note,' or outward and
visible sign, of earnestness coupled with
intellectual superiority. At Toynbee Hall,
very oddly, it is not recognised, which makes
one suspect the sincerity and the superiority of
that institution.

I beg your pardon. I think I heard you
singing the other evening in Ivy Lane.'

It is very likely.'

I — I — have also learnt ' — it was difficult to

VOL. II. K

believe — ' that you are the — the — sister of one
of the girls who hive there.'

It is possible.'

He was quite a young man, not more than
five or six and twenty, slight and small in
stature, shaven of cheek and chin, pale-faced,
insignificant of aspect. As to his creed, he professed
to belong to the small and narrow sect
called Naturalists, and this was proclaimed to the
general world by the brim of his hat which was
so broad, and the length of his skirts. By
these . symbols he professed the most decided
views as to his own authority, and the tremendous
powers which he held by virtue of his
office ; though he was really a most simple
creature, who would have been crushed, had heat
all understood or realised the nature of his
own pretensions, by the mere weight of them ;
he had never distinguished himself in any way
either at school or college ; he had read next
to nothing, and knew next to nothing, of
history, literature, or theology ; his creed was
narrow, bigoted, historical, and intolerant ;
his manner was fussy, underbred, and full of
little affectations. With his priestly pretensions, "
and his ignorance, and his fussiness, he was

just exactly the kind of figure that scoffers like
to put up in a pillory and pelt with epigrams,
new and old, derisive laughter, mocking questions,
and sneers and jeers. He was also
exactly the kind of man who would not alter
his course for any amount of epigrams, whether
they cut like flints or whether they broke in his
face like rotten eggs ; and, when they took
him down from his pillory, he would have
gone away wondering that the world could be
so sinful as actually to scoff and sniff at the
sacerdotal office.'

In other respects this assistant priest belonged
to a kind of mortal which has never been
extinct or unknown amongst us, and of late
seems to have become common. It is not the
cleverest kind, nor is it the most learned, the
most critical, the most logical, or the most
capable of argument. But it is a kind which
has one great distinctive quality : it has
perceived very plainly that there is a kind of
life, possible to all who choose to follow it,
which is an imitation, however humble, of a
certain great Exemplar. In fact, no Hermit,
no Solitary, no Friar of orders grey, black,

K 2

white, blue, green, yellow, buff, indigo, magenta,
mauve, or alezan, ever more diligently followed
that Exemplar than do the men of this kind.
At the age of twenty-three, that is to say,
as early as it is permitted to them, they absolutely
renounce for ever the world and all its
delights ; they give up society, culture, learning,
art, and pleasures of every kind ; they plunge
head foremost into a vast ocean, mirky and
cloudy, whose waves have no brightness and
whose waters know no smiles ; they become, in
fact, assistant priest or curate, whichever they
prefer to be called, in a parish of poverty ; they
are the slaves, all day long, of the people ; they
cease to have any individual life ; they have no
longer any pursuits.

It is a comparatively unimportant detail in
such a life, that the man has a church where
he must perform certain duties. Yet these take
time ; he has to read prayers, or to sing matins
and evensong, if he prefers that way of describing
the Function ; he marries and baptises ; he
has once a week to provide a discourse always
full of new thoughts, powerful logic, and words
which burn — at least, these things are expected.
It does not really matter in the least what he

preaches in places like Hoxton, because no one
ever goes to church. Generally, he preaches a
set of doctrines which the British working man
is just as likely to embrace as he is to abandon
the franchise, or to dissolve his trade unions, or
to give up his beer, or to join goody clubs. But
his real work is outside his church. He is the
almoner of the parish ; he is always administering
charitable funds, finding out deserving cases,
and dividing eighteen pence equally among
thirteen poor people ; he is a professor of the
conduct of life ; because weaker brethren get
drunk he has to wear a nasty little blue ribbon,
and may not look upon the amber and the
froth of the cheerful pewter ; because there are
so many to be helped, and so little to help them
with, he lives with the greatest frugality, and
gives away all that he can spare, being paid
for the most part in the coin of ingratitude ; he
has got schools to visit ; of late years he has
been-expected — who has neither Art nor culture
— to become the Prophet of culture and
the Fosterer of Art ; and now, on top of all
these duties, he has had imposed upon him the
care of providing and devising amusement,
holidays, excursions, concerts, clubs, and institutes

for the young and old. He works all day
long and regrets that there are not more than
sixteen hours available; he is always cheerful.
And for the sake of what he does and the life
he leads, let us by no means laugh at this young-man.
but suffer him without sneers or epigrams
to believe Avluit it pleases his historical soul
to think he believes, so long as he does not try
to make us acknowledge that he carries about
in his own little waistcoat pocket, on the same
bunch as his latch-key, the keys of the Gates
of Heaven.

I — I — I heard you sing,' he repeated.
^ And I was much pleased. For an untrained
voice — '

Quite so,' said Valentine gravely. But
there was in her eves a lio-ht for which there is

^ o

no prettier word, I regret to say, than the word
twinkle.' Nothing is more delightful than the
sudden awakening to a sense of the humorous
situation shown by the twinkle of a girl's
bright eyes.

But perhaps you have been trained. I
beg your pardon.'

Pray go on.'

I have an Institute of working boys. It

occurred to me that perhaps — perhaps — would
you sing to them ? '

I do not know. Will you show me your
Institute ? '

He led her into one of the streets which
branch off right and left, and stopped at a
corner house.

This is the place,' he said. ' We get the
working lads here, and teach them and amuse
them in the evening.'

The door opened, without the intervention
of hall or passage, into a good-sized room of
irregular shape, fitted with benches and one or
two narrow tables ; at one end was a great fireplace
With texts displayed above it, and at the
other end was a low platform with a piano.
On the walls at the end where a few shelves
which formed the boys' library.

Upstairs,' said the young clergyman, his
eyes kindling as he showed his beloved Institute,
' there are class-rooms and a bagatelle
board, where the older lads may smoke if they
like ; outside in the yard is a gymnasium.
This is our common sitting and reading room
where we sometimes try singing. Unfortunately
I was never taught to sing or play. I

can intone of course, but I cannot sing, and as
for accompaniment I am trying to learn a few
simple chords. Perhaps I could help out with
something for you.'

Let me hear you,' said Valentine.

His knowledge of the art was limited and
his simple chords were few. He confessed
that he rose every morning at six in order to
acquire some mastery over the instrument, but
as yet with small success.

What do you do with your boys ? ' she
asked him.

It appeared on explanation that his evenings
were wholly devoted to the care of those boys,
with whom he worked, read, taught, and played.
While he spoke of them his face lit up, he
forgot the little mannerism of speech and became
natural. This was the work that he
loved.

Valentine felt that she stood on the
threshold of a new kind of life. She went onto
question him. He had other work, and a
great deal of it, of a much less interesting
kind. He ouc^ht to have had nothing to do
but to look after the boys, whose minds he
was filling with thoughts which would lead

some of them whither he could not guess.
But he had, besides, the church services everyday,
sick people to visit, poor people to relieve,
a mission chapel to serve in some slum or
other, addresses to prepare — an endless round
of work, with no rest for a single day in the
week and no hope that it would ever grow
lighter.

It is a hard life,' said Valentine, wondering
at the courage of those who embrace such a
life.

It is my Work,' he replied, lapsing into
breathlessness and folding his hands, after the
unreal manner of his kind. Why weill they
fold their hands ?

Valentine thought that he belonged to
those heroes who are best left unseen. There
are many such, and when they die their lives
read most beautifully.

She sat down and suffered her fingers to
ramble over the keys, thinking of this man and
his life. Presently she looked up. ' I will
sing for your boys whenever you please.'

Thank you.'

Do you know all the people in your
parish ? Do you know the working women ? '

I try to know them all,' he replied, breathlessly.
' It is my duty to know them all. The
parish clergy are in charge of them.'

'Do you ever think of them? Can you
tell me how anything can be done for
them ? '

'If they would come to church, and submit
to discipline.'

'I do not speak of their religion, but of
their material welfare. Can anything be done
to get them better wages and easier work ? '

I do not know. It is not the duty of a
parish priest to consider the subject of work.'

You are among these poor working women
all day long, and yet you have never considered
the subject? Surely it niust force itself upon
you.'

What would be the use ? I can do nothing.
I suppose there must always be poverty — " The
poor ye have always with you'"

Oh ! ' Valentine cried, impatiently. ' Nobody
ever tries to help. I have asked a schoolmaster,
and a doctor, and a scholar, and now I
have asked a clergyman ; and there is no help
in any of them. Does nobody in the world
care what becomes of the working women ? '

The Church cares for all alike,' he replied,
still breathless and superior.

She bade him i^ood mormuo' and left him.
There was then no help to be got from man,
not even from those who go continually among
the people and see their suffering and the
patience of the girls every day. There are
men and women working perpetually for every
other possible class, but none for the work-girl.
She alone is left unprotected and unheeded,
and no man regarded her.

Then an Oracle came to her ; the true
Oracle is unsuspected and unsought — sudden.
You must not go and inquire at Delphi anymore.
The Voice comes to you of its own
accord. It came to Valentine from an old
lady. There were two of them standing on
the kerbstone ; one carried a loaf under her
apron, and the other a key. They were clean
and respectable old ladies. As Valentine
passed them, one said to the other, ' No, mum,
it's no use expecting it ; and if you want a
thing done, you must do it yourself.'

These words Valentine rightly and piously
accepted as an Oracle or Voice from Heaven.
The assistant priest meanwhile stood at the

door of his Institute, and watched her walking
down the street with buoyant step and fearless
carriage. I suppose he had seen young
ladies before, but it seemed a long time, and
for the space of two minutes and a half he
allowed his thoughts to follow the way of most
young men's thoughts in spring, though it was
now full summer. In that brief interval he
enjoyed in imagination a whole twelve months
at least of the Blessed Life, the Life of Love
and Ease and Happiness, with such a companion
as Valentine. At live-and-twenty there
are moments when all other things, and especially
the Great Eenunciation, seem stark
staring Foolishness compared with the Life of
Love. I believe that all women in all ages
have secretly entertained this doctrine, and that
all men have from time to time been tempted
by it. The Light of Asia experienced many
such painful moments of doubt, though his
biographers have passed them over. We know,
besides, how hermits and holy men have been
wont to keep tubs of ice-cold water and deep
snow-drifts ready against these attacks of the
Devil. A terrible thing, indeed, should a
young man, after he has gone a-hermitimr,

meanly give it up and sneak back to his sweetheart
!

Now, as Valentine walked along the street,
just after she received the oracle, she encountered
the very last man she would have
expected to meet in Hoxton.

You here, Mr. Conyers ! '

It was, in fact, Mr. Conyers himself, and
the great man appeared to be confused at the
meeting. He actually blushed and stammered.

I, yes, yes, I am here. And you. Miss
Valentine ? '

I am staying with some friends.'

Yes, I remember. Your sister told me. I
thought, however, you were gone to Whitechapel.
Everybody goes to Whitechapel now.
I am travelling about London in search of a
new face for my picture. All the faces somehow
seem to have been used up.'

Have you succeeded ? '

I hardly know yet.'

She left him and went on her way.

She is staying with friends.' Mr. Conyers
looked after her thoughtfully. ' I am glad she
didn't meet me five minutes ago, with that big-eyed
girl. It might have been awkward. She

is staying with friends — lier own people. Violet
told me as much, and Claude is looking after
her. Is it likely that Lady Mildred would
suffer her own daughter to live in such a place
as this and be looked after by Claude ? Lady
Mildred may be liberal in her views, but she
must think of her daughter's reputation. Oh,
there cannot be any longer a doubt.'

A sweet smile — the smile of contentment —
played upon his lips. He was thinking of
Beatrice Eldridge and of himself, and of a
perfectly easy life, with nothing to do but to
enjoy and to develop, and then slowly to ripen
and to decay. ' I think Valentine is better-looking
than Violet,' he murmured ; ' but with
such a hateful of money, who would make
comparisons ? '

Meantime the big-e3^ed girl, who was none
other than Lizzie, strolled slowly homewards
■ — it was her dinner hour— thinking of the
words that she had heard once more and for
the tenth time, because this man would not
leave her alone. The temptation to have done
with her hard and wretched work had grown
almost to a desperate yearning for ease. It
seemed to lie at her feet ready to be picked up.

The more she saw of Valentine the more she
longed to be even as she was. The discontent
which Sam wished for all women had seized
upon her, but without producing quite the
effect which he anticipated. Lizzie had no
desire to combine with other girls. She wished,
on the other hand, to run quite away from
them, and never to have anything more to do
with them.

In the evening Valentine sang to the boys.
There were twenty or thirty of them with the
Reverend Eandal Smith. She played to them
first, and then she sang to them, not one or two,
but a dozen rattling good songs which went
straight to the boys' hearts and made them all
sit with open mouths. And before she sang
her last song, Which was that pretty old ditty
about Sally in our Alley, she made a little
speech.

Boys,' she said, ' you will soon be men and
able to look out for yourselves. Will you
remember your sisters, the girls who cannot
help themselves ? You will have reasonable
hours and good pay ; they will have to work
all day long for cruel pay. It is your business
to help them — I don't know how yet — but you

must find out if others cannot. They will be
your sweethearts. Can you bear to think that
the girls you love are cruelly neglected and
shamefully ill-used ? Perhaps you will be able
to make a union for them. Think of them.
I shall come and sing to you again if I am
allowed. Every time I come I will remind
you of your duty towards your sisters — the
girls who work. Now I will sing you a song
all about one of them and her sweetheart.'

CHAPTER XI.

A DEAD man's STEPS.

In" the multitude of counsellors, as we know,
purposes are established. Hitherto, however,
Valentine's counsellors had advanced her no
more than those of the Patriarch Job. She
looked from one to the other, asking in vain
the questions which everyone asks when he
begins to understand the simple facts. But
there was no answer from any, save from Sam,
and he proposed to meet the case by simply
knocking down the house of cards and building
it up again.

She thought of the old lady in the almshouse.
Perhaps from her she might get something
practical, something that would help Melinda
at least, something short of Sam's universal
revolution and the Doctor's universal confederation
of labour. It is by a natural instinct
that mankind in all ages, and at every

VOL. II. L

juncture, have sought the advice of old women,
because none are so wise as to the conduct of
life, especially — which is not generally known
old women in almshouses. Their superiority
is due to the happy circumstance that they
have nothing to do but to observe, to reflect,
and to piece together their experiences.

One must not, however, suppose that all
old women know everything. Some are specialists
; as, for example, those who know the
art of healing, and the properties of herbs.
Then there are those who understand the
management of Man ; it is a secret, and one
man, at least, who has learned this secret, will
never reveal it ; but it is a very simple secret,
the management of Man in all his characters,
as brother, lover, father, and husband. Some,
again, are deeply versed in the treatment of
tender infants. Some can read and foretell the
future, plain and clear, for all inquirers, either
by the cards, or by the hand, or by signs and
omens, or by the appearance of birds. Some
can judge, with the greatest accuracy, of character
from the face, or a single feature in the
face, or from the voice, or the hand, or the
foot. Some can read thoughts, and can advise

a man by knowing exactly what is passing in
his mind. Some can charm warts and order
rheumatism to vanish ; and some can inform
the inquirer exactly, and without any oracular
indefiniteness, whether any proposed course of
action will be lucky or unlucky. They are Sibyls
every one. I do not know what advice Mrs.
Monument would have given to Valentine's
questions, because, most unfortunately, she Alas
prevented from putting any by a very singular
occurrence.

It was this : Valentine found the old lady
sitting alone, and in a strange state of nervous
agitation, with shaking hands and trembling
lips — in the condition known to inebriates as
'jumpy.'

'What's the matter, mother?' she asked.
Your hands are trembling, and so are your
hips. Are you ill ? '

No, Polly, no. Oh, thank Heaven you've
come, my dear ! I don't know myself to-day.
When you spoke just now I actually thought
it was her ladyship's voice, and I never even
heard your step outside. Give me your hand,
child. There ! I feel safe while you are here.'

Why, mother, what is it ? '

L 2

I sent Elder away after dinner, because
I couldn't bear lier fidgets. I would rather go
without my tea. And I went into the chapel ;
bnt I couldn't get any rest. And, oh, dear,
dear ! how glad I am you've come, Polly ! '

Well, mother, you weill tell me presently
when you feel a little stronger. You shall
have your tea earlier this afternoon. I want
to talk to you about Melenda.'

'What about Melenda, Polly? She's
never been the good and dutiful daughter that
you are. She doesn't come to see her mother
but once a month, and then she's always in a
rage. She came last Sunday and tore round
and carried on dreadful about you and Lofty.
Steer mind that. What about Melenda ? '

She is working too hard and living too
low. She ought to be made to do some other
kind of work. What could she try ? '

I always told her — but you might as well
talk to a stick or a stone — that honest service
is the best thing in the world for a young
woman. What is her freedom after all ? She's
free to walk the streets and to get into bad
company ; she's free to learn bad manners, and
she's free to go hungry and ragged. Well, my

dear, she won't hear my advice, and — Oh,
what's that ? '

It's nothing, dear,' said Valentine. ' Bnt,
mother, what makes you so nervous to-day ? '

I can't tell you, child. I can't tell anybody.'


It was useless to ask her for advice. The
old lady was incoherent and incapable of
thought. Valentine made haste to get ready
the tea and to talk on indifferent things. And
while she talked she saw that her mother either
listened with an effort or did not listen at all,
but suffered her lips to move in silence, while
the trembling of her hands showed the disquiet
of her mind.

When she had taken tea, which is a sedative
and restorative of the highest order, the old
lady felt herself stronger and breathed more
freely.

Polly,' she said, ' if you hadn't come today,
I should have gone clean off my poor
head, I should.'

'Well, mother, wouldn't you be easier if
you told me all the trouble ? Is it anything
about one of the boys? Is Joe in difficulties
? '

'No, no, nothing's the matter with Joe.
And I can't tell Joe, because he would only
laugh at me. But I must tell somebody. My
dear,' she stooped forward and whispered, ' I've
had a most terrible fright.'

A fright ? Did thieves try to break in —
here ? '

Ko, Polly ; no, not thieves. Bless you !
I ain't afraid of thieves. It's far worse than
that.'

What was it ? '

I heard a step, Polly.'

A step ? '

Polly, I can't tell you ; the young don't
understand what a dreadful thing it is to hear
a step you haven't heard for twenty years — a
dead man's step — and to wonder why it came
and what it wanted ; and then to remember
all the misery that step might have caused if
the dead man wasn't dead. I know he's dead.
I'm quite certain of that. Yet I'm terrible put
out, my dear ; if I hadn't told you I think I
must have gone out of my senses, so shook
I am to-day. Some one I must ha' told. I
couldn't tell Ehoder, because Joe would never
forgive me if I did. She's one of them who is

never to know. Claude is another, and so is
Sam.'

Whose step was it like, then ? '
'Polly, give me your hand again. Oh,
what a blessing you are to me, my dear !
Your Christian name was Maria, because he
ordered it ; but I've always called you Polly,
and I always shall. It was the step of your
own father, my dear, who's dead and
gone.'

• ' My father ? But since he is dead ' — for
the moment her thoughts turned to a certain
portrait, that, namely, representing Sir Lancelot
in his uniform as Colonel of Yeomanry Cavalry
proudly bestriding a gallant charger. Then
she remembered that, unlike any other girl in
history, she had, in the mind of most people,
two fathers. There are many girls who have
only one father between them ; but Valentine's
is absolutely the only case on record in which
a girl has had more than one father. ' Why,'
she added, ' it is twenty years since my father
died.'

jN'o, my dear, it is only five years. Joe
brought me the news, and I cried for joy and
thankfulness. Cried for joy, I did.'

Only live years ? But we always thought

I told her ladyship twenty years ago that
he was dead. It wasn't true ; and yet lie was
as good as dead to me and to the children ;
and to the world as well. I don't know
whether the world or me was Letter pleased
that he was dead to everybody. I don't know
which of us prayed the hardest that he would
never come to life again.'

Why, mother, Avhat does this mean ? '
The bitterness of these words, and the intensity
with which they were uttered, startled and
terrified Valentine. What could they mean ?
She turned pale with a sudden presentiment of
evil.

I told Lady Mildred a falsehood. It did
her no harm, and I couldn't — no, I couldn't
tell her the truth — her who'd known me when
I was respectable, and didn't even guess what
had happened. It was my secret all to myself
and to Joe. There's some thini2^s a woman
can't telL As for the truth, Joe and me knew
it, and nobody else, and I was then on Hackney
Marsh out of the way, and there was plenty of
time before me even if he should come back,

and I thought to get the children put out to
work so as he shouldn't know where they were
nor ever be able to do them any harm, or bring
shame upon them as he brought it on me.'

Do them harm ? Bring shame upon
them? Why?'

You don't know, Polly. But I'll tell you
now, because I can talk to you as I can't to
Melenda or the boys ; and oh, my dear, I feel
the comfort of having a daughter I can talk to.'

Go on, mother,' said Valentine.

Well then, my dear, if there was ever a
wickeder man than your father in the whole
world, Lord help his wife and children ! And
if ever there was a man who was more bent on
wicked ways and more gloried in his wicked
life, I never heard of him.'

Where was he then, when he was dead to

you and ' Here she stopped, and her cheek

flamed suddenly scarlet as if she had received
a shameful blow, for she understood where he
was. Those who are dead to wife and children,
yet living : those whose living death is a
subject of rejoicing in the world, are in

Mother,' she said, ' he was in prison.'

Hush ! my dear,' her mother whispered.

not SO loud. Yes, he was in prison. Hush !
don't ever say that word out loud again.
Nobody knows it but Joe and me. Joe was
old enough to know when he was took. Thank
God, the knowledge of it frightened him and
helped to make him the sober steady man he
is. No one else knows — not Joe's wife nor yet
his children. They don't know. And none of
the rest knows, not Sam, nor Claude, nor
Melenda. Don't you tell them, Polly — don't
you never tell them. Sam's that proud and setup
with his grand position and his success that
it would cut him to the heart, and my Claude,
too, though, of course, he isn't to compare
with Sam. Don't make them hang their proud
heads. And Melenda, too — bless the girl —
with her independence. Don't shame them,
Polly, don't tell them.'

I shall not tell. Oh, mother, why did you
tell me ? ' she asked impatiently.

When you came here without any play
action', and leaving Miss Beatrice at home with
her Mar and kind and thoughtful for your
mother, my dear ; oh, what a blessing it is to
have my Polly back again ' — Valentine kissed
her and fondled her hand, penitent already for

her impatience — ' full of your soft and ladylike
ways, my dear, wliicli Melenda couldn't never
learn, living as she does, slaving and starving,
it came into my head that I must some day tell
you. What's the good of having a daughter if
you can't tell everything that is in your mind ? '

Tell me everything,' said Valentine with a
sinking heart. ' Tell me everything, then, if it
will relieve your mind, dear.'

I wouldn't have told you anything, my
dear, if it hadn't been for that dreadful step
which frightened me out of my wits almost.
It was nigh upon the stroke of ten, because I
heard the clock soon afterwards. I'd foro-often
to lock the door ; why, I often leave it ajar
when I go to bed so as Ehoder can get in first
thing in the morning. I was fast asleep — I
must have been asleep though I dreamed I was
av7ake, and all of a sudden in my dream of
being awake I heard his step. It came over
the flags within the court and walking quickly,
as he always walked, stopped at my door and so
into the house.'

Oh ! ' Valentine was trembling now,
because that strange horror, which we call the
fear of the supernatural, is the most catching

thing in the world, much more catching than
measles. ' Oh ! and then you heard his footstep
on the flagstones ? '

Yes, and in the house ; the step came into
the room below. I don't know how long it
lasted because I couldn't move hand or foot,
and I couldn't breathe even, and my tongue
was tied and I couldn't open my mouth. Oh,
dear, it was last night.' She stopped, overcome
by the recollection of that dreadful
dream.

When I came to I got up and crept downstairs
and felt about the room. But no one was
there. How should there be ? Blind people
can't see ghosts, like other people, but they can
feel them if there's one about. There was a
blind woman once in the village when I was a
girl, and they said the reason why she always
looked frightened was that she was haunted by
the ghost of her husband. He'd sit beside her
bed all night and say nothing, and she couldn't
see him, but she felt him there, and if all tales
about her was true, it served her right. She
died young, my dear, because she couldn't
bear it. If one blind woman, why not two ?
Perhaps he came repentant. Well, I'm ready

to forgive him, now he's dead ; I couldn't
before.' Many Christians resemble Mrs. Monument
in this view of forgiveness as a duty.

You are quite sure there was no one
there ? '

Neither man nor ghost was there, and the
door was ajar just as I'd left it.'

'And was nothing stolen ? '

No, my dear ; there isn't anything worth
stealing.'

It was a strange dream,' said Valentine ;
a strange and a dreadful dream. Did you
hear the step again when you went back to
bed?'

No, my dear, not again. But I lay awake
all night waiting for it, though I knew it was
only a dream.'

Shall I stay with you to-night ? '

No, my dear, I am better now I've told
you. I am not afraid any longer.'

Well, don't forget to lock and bolt your
door.'

Locks and bolts won't keep out ghosts.
And never a lock nor a bolt ever made would
keep him out when he was alive, much less now
he's dead.'

Forget your dream, mother, and tell me
more about my father. Tell me all, unless it
gives you pain to talk about him.'

No, my dear, it eases me, because if I don't
talk about him I think about him. I almost
wish I hadn't told you anything, Polly. It won't
make you any happier to know that. But then
I was so upset '

Yes, mother, it was better for you. I know
now that my father's only legacy to his children
was a record of disgrace which you have mercifully
concealed.'

'Disgrace and shame, Polly,' the blind
woman echoed.

Presently she went on again.

When he came to the village first and
began courting, my head was turned because he
was such a handsome lad and I was such a
homely one. His ways were finicking, as if he
was a gentleman, and there was nothing that
he couldn't do. He'd play the fiddle, which he
did most heavenly, till you either laughed, or
cried, or danced, just as he wanted you to do ;
he could do conjuring tricks, and he'd make you
believe whatever rubbish he wanted; he could
carve most beautiful in wood ; and at his own

trade, which was locksmithing, I don't suppose
there was a cleverer lad in the world. Well, I
never asked him what he came into our parts
for, and though there Alas three houses broke
open while he was coming and going, nobody
ever suspected my James, and least of all could
I suspect him. And on Sunday always in his
place at church beside me with his book in his
hand, so that the vicar thought he was a soot
young man indeed, and everybody told me I
was a lucky woman. A proud woman I was,
I can tell you, when I stood with my man and
all the people there to see. Little Lady Mildred
herself Alas brought to the weddings because I'd
been under-nurse, and she gave me my white
frock, at least her mother did, and said it washer
gift, and — there — it's seven-and-thirty
years ago. Joe is six-ands thirty, and you are
only twenty, but close to twenty-one, being
actually fifteen years younger than Joe. My
dear,' she interrupted her narrative in order to
apologise for this difference, ' I know it is
natural there oughtn't to be such a distance
between the eldest and the youngest of five.
You ought to be thirty at least by now if you
had your right. But I couldn't help it because

your father, you see, he was generally in the
place — the place, you know, where he died at
last.'

You mean he was m prison,' said Valentine
stoutly, ' and don't mind about the difference
between Joe and me. I daresay I shall get to
thirty in good time.'

In prison then, my dear. Now though we
came to London at first to look for work, I very
soon found out that he hadn't got any regular
work, and wouldn't take it if it was offered.
Half his time he was away, saying it was country
jobs which paid him well, and he'd be away
sometimes a month at a spell, after which there
would be a month's idleness and doing nothing.
But always plenty of money and better living
we had than many a gentleman's house.'

Did he have any relations ? '

No ; not any that I ever heard of — some
of the books here on my shelves belonged, he
said, to his father ; and he said his father was a
gentleman, but what kind of a gentleman he
was to have such a son I'm sure I don't know.
Well, Polly, I lived, as they say, in Fool's
Paradise ; for he never got drunk and he didn't
use language and he was not a striker, and

though he would only work when he was
obliged and left me so much alone, I loved him
and thought I was the happiest woman in the
world. Happy ? Yes, like the innocent lambs
in the fields. It was when Joe was a baby of
three months that I found out the truth. He
got ten years ' — Valentine shuddered — ' ten
years. It was a bad burglary. His box of
tools was in our lod^incrs and a chest full of
stolen things, and they talked of trying me
along with him, but they didn't. My dear, I
never so much as suspected. Ten years ! Then
I took Joe and all the money that I had and
went away to Hackney Marsh, and took my
maiden name again, and began with the
washing.'

And after his ten years he came back
again, I suppose ? '

Before then ; he came back with a ,
and you maybe sure he found me out.
I don't know how, but he did ; and you might
as well try to hide a rabbit from a weasel as
try to hide anything from that man. He came
back, my dear ; and then he lived a very strange
life. For he told me he had reformed, and yet
he would stay away for a month at a time, and

VOL. II. M

a fine reform it was. He kept quiet when lie
was at home and gave out to the neighbours he
was a seafaring man, and he mostly wore a blue
jacket. He never took any of my money and
I wouldn't touch none of his, and he never had
any meals in the house, but he'd sit in the
parlour and read his books, and he'd smoke
cigars and drink port wine like a gentleman,
all by himself. Twice he went away and didn't
come back for eighteen months, so I suppose
he'd been took again. But after each spell back
he came, and that went on, my dear, for seven
long years — seven years — me asking no questions,
and him telling no lies, and coming and
going just as he pleased. Seven years. Sam
came first, and then Claude, and then Melenda.
But before you were born, my dear, though not
before your name was fixed, which was Maria,
as I've told you often, he was took again. It
was another burglary, I know, with violence,
and he got five-and-twenty years, which Joe
said was as good as a lifer, and we needn't
expect to see him ever again.'

Is that all .^ '

That's all, my dear. And now you and me
have got that secret between us, and we are

never to let the two boys nor Meleiicla know,
are we ? '

Never to let the boys know,' said Valentine.
' Oh, poor Claude ! '

If they never find it out it won't matter
to them, will it ? ' said his mother. ' Joe's wife
and the children don't know it. Nobody knows
it except you and me and Joe. Sometimes I
think it's made Joe the good son he's always
been to me, because we've had that secret to
ourselves.'

Since he is dead — but is he dead ? '

Yes, he is dead,' she replied quickly ; ' Joe
heard that for certain. There's no doubt about
that.'

Did he never write to you ? '

Never, and I'll tell you why. It was
because he thought my cottage was such a good
hiding-place, where he could come and go ashe
pleased and never be suspected at all, and
me living under another name. Only mind, I
wouldn't have any boxes brought home with
him. You see, if he'd written to me the police
would have known where to look for him.
Why, I've known him — oh, a dozen times —
talk to the policeman over the garden palings

M 2

about himself and his own burglaries as cool
as you please.'

What was his name ? '

His name was Carey — James Carey.
Why, my dear, you are too young to remember
it, but thirty years ago the newspapers
were full of his name, and the whole country
was ringing with his burglaries. They wrote
a life of him and sold it for a penny all over
London. But of course you've never seen the
book;

No. Valentine had little wish to see that
biographical work. Yet there was just a touch
of pride in the old woman's mention of that
book.

Look on the shelves, Polly. There are
some of his books. You will find his father's
name in them. At least he said they were
his father's books ; but dio knows what his
name really was, nor what was his history ? '

Valentine had remarked a row of well-bound
books on her first visit ; chiefly, I suppose,
because books are not too often met within
a Tottenham almshouse. Now she took
them down and examined them. The first
book was the 'Divine Commedia di Dante

Alighieri,' in Italian ; a beautifully bound copy
of a scarce edition, as Valentine knew. One
does not usually expect to find rare editions in
an almshouse. She passed on to the next on
the shelf. This was ' Cupid and Psyche,
English'd from the Latin of Apuleius,' quarto,
in calf, with the date 1741. Then came
Froissart's Chronicles,' in four goodly volumes,
quarto, and half-calf, the translations of Joannes.
After this came an odd volume of Hutchinson's
Durham ; ' then another odd volume of La
Fontaine's ' Contes et Nouvelles,' illustrated
very beautifully ; then two or three volumes of
Florian's works, magnificently bound. There
were others, but Valentine stopped there because
she suddenly apprehended the possible
meaning of this thing.

If I desired to possess, and intended to
show about for the gratification of vanity and
the support of my pretensions to gentle birth,
something solid and not to be disputed, I should
not content myself with the ordinary well-known
methods. I might, like some of my
neighbours, invent and circulate family anecdotes
which unkind friends would proceed to
quote and to misrepresent in a nasty sniggering

spirit. I might, also, as they do, adorn my
rooms with family portraits which may be had
at a reasonable figure, and are effective so long;
as there exists a friendly disposition to a give-and-take
credulity. I might, in addition, exhibit
a family pedigree, going back to the Wars
of the Roses at least, and beginning with a
vacant knight supposed to be connected with
a very illustrious house ; this, too, may be
procured for a small sum, beautifully written
on parchment, and adorned with shields. I
should certainly stick up, wherever there vas
room for them, coats of mail, with trophies of
spears, shields, bucklers, and pikes, all family
heirlooms, and descending in the male line
direct from the Crusaders and Coeur de Lion.
I should buy old silver mugs, and have my
arms engraved upon them with the names of
ancestors. These thing's are all useful in their
way, but they want corroboration. Therefore
I should proceed to search for, and to buy,
old books of the sixteenth, seventeenth, and
eighteenth centuries, icithoiit names in them and
in these books I should write the names of my
ancestors in a pale brown ink, with the date
of acquisition and a remark or two in Latin.

Nothing is so effective as Latin. I should arrange
them upon a shelf about the average height of
the human eye, which is five feet seven inches,
and I should say, when my friends took them
down curiously, ' Alas ! all that I have been able
to save of the old family library. You will find
the names of one or two of my people there.
See ! here is good old Sir Simon, knighted
by Queen Bess, at Tilbury.' There might be
jealousies and envying, and unkind remembrance
of one's grandfather and the shop ; but
there would be no flouts or jeers, because
nothing more effectually proves the antiquity
of the House than old books formerly belonging
to ancestors. For modest men it is perhaps
sufficient to prove that your grandfather could
read Latin and Italian ; therefore, books only
eighty years of age might be purchased in
order to serve that purpose.

Valentine opened the volumes. Li each
one there was a book plate with a coat of arms,
and under the shield in each was written the
name of ' Francis Venison Carey.' Therefore
the said Francis must have known Italian and
French at least, and he must have been fond of
books and bindings, and illustrations, and he

must have taken an interest in comity history,
and therefore, without doubt, lie must have
been a gentleman by birth.

Were these books my father's ? ' she asked.

They were all his, my dear, and his
father's before him.'

Who was his father ? '

I don't know, my dear, because he never
told me. I've always thought my husband
must have been a love child. He left them
with me wherever he went. To be sure he
couldn't take them with him when he '

No,' said Valentine, ' certainly he could not.'

Even an author's works cannot follow him
into that place, though they may, and generally
do, accompany him to the grave.

Then his father was a gentleman.'

So he always said, my dear. But a love
child I think he must have been. And he said
that he'd got fine relations ; and then he'd laugh
and boast that he was bringing great honour
on the family, though they would do nothing
for him.'

It is strange,' said Valentine. ' Did he
never explain how he came to fall so low ? '

No, never ; and as to being fallen low he

pretended he'd risen high, and couldn't own
that his way of having was shameful and disgraceful.
'' Why," he said, a dozen times after
he pretended to be reformed, and could talk
Scripture by the half-hour, " why," he said,
it's me against the world : my cleverness
against your locks, and your laws, and your
police. And I'm the head of them all. There's
not a man in the profession but envies me and
admires me. Who is there that's got into so
many houses as I have? Who's defied the
police as I have ? " That's the way he used to
go on, and as to living by honest work it was
nothing but slaving for a slave driver : if he
couldn't be a slave driver he wouldn't be a
slave.'

'And was he any the richer for his robberies
? '

^ I don't know, my dear, where the money
went, because I never asked. But it went in
wickedness, I dare say.'

Oh ! ' cried Valentine, stung by a sudden
terror. ' Suppose he wasn't dead after all ;
what misery to see him appear again ! '

He is dead,' said the widow, quietly.
It was his ghost whose step I heard. Well

may he walk and be uneasy. If he wasn't
dead he'd ha' been out before now. But I
know very well that he's dead and buried.
And, oh, Polly, I'm half sorry after all that I
told you ! '

CHAPTEE XII.

THE WOOING OF THE Sphinx.

No intelligence, letter, or news of any kind, was
to come from her own people to Valentine
during her Retreat. She was to be completely
cut off ; as much as if she had been expelled
the family circle. A hard measure, yet Lady
Mildred was a wise woman, and no doubt had
her reasons. Valentine was to hear nothing,
whatever happened. With the exception of
one episode, very little, indeed, happened.
Lady Mildred and Violet went to Ilfracombe,
and presently Mr. Conyers made his appearance
there. This was the single episode of interest.
He stayed for three weeks ; and he came, as
was immediately apparent,, with the intention
of making himself, if possible, pleasing to
Violet.

Ilfracombe in the season is an admirable
place in which to study with thoughtfulness

the character and the charms of a young lady,
especially if she be not surrounded by other
young ladies, and if she is permitted a certain
amount of freedom, and if there are no other
students of the same young lady about the
place. In all these respects Mr. Conyers had
the greatest possible advantages ; he had the
field to himself, and he was allowed every
opportunity of carrying on this singularly
attractive study. He walked with Lady Mildred
and Violet on the Capstone Rock ; he
drove about the country with them ; and he
accompanied Violet when she went sketching ;
he was even permitted to go sailing with her.
She had a boat of her own, and a boatman
specially engaged for her own service. But
there is generally a swell upon the ocean off
Ilfracombe, and too often while Violet sat,
rope in hand, bright of eye, and light of heart,
when the white sail flew round the headlands,
the young man beside her was fain to preserve
silence, while his eyes assumed a fishy glare and
his cheek was blanched.

I am watching them,' wrote Lady Mildred ;
he may amuse Violet, but I am certain he
will not touch her heart. To begin with, he is

not exactly — well, there are gentlemen of many
kinds, I suppose, and he knows how to conduct
himself ; but he is not exactly a gentleman after
our kind ; I do not hear anything about his
people, but I suppose they are not distinguished,
or we should have heard about them. He
does not ride, or shoot, or hunt ; he does not
know anybody, and I do not know where he
comes from. He does not strike one as having
lived with clever people, or well-bred people,
or rich people ; and I dare say he is quite poor.
If he is going to succeed in his work, it may
help him a little to know people like ourselves.
Perhaps, as you say. Bertha, he is in hopes of
marrying an heiress. Let us give him every
chance then.'

His best chance was when Violet went
sketching, and he could carry her things and
talk to her while she sat at work. He had
learned from certain journals a patois criticism
every kind of patois is necessarily a debased
form of the real language — and this he talked,
borrowing the ideas, which are misty, of this
school, as well as its tongue, and pretending
that they were his own. It seems a great
pity that Nature, when she created this man so

ardently desirous of distinction, gave him no
ideas of his own. What is genius without
ideas ?

From talk of Art to talk of Love is a
natural step. Love-making, indeed, may be
made, in capable hands, a most artistic chapter
of life, and one to be remembered ever afterwards
with feelings of the liveliest satisfaction.
It is most mortifying to think that most of us
throw away and waste the most splendid
chances while they are in our hands, hurrying
the situation, stamping the dialogue, and simply
ruining the ' business.' Some men. for instance,
have actually been known to propose by letter ;
while even of poets, who ought to know better,
and dramatists, and novelists, not to speak of
painters, all of whom should be perpetually
studying situation and getting the most business
possible out of every tableau, there are few
dio have extracted from their own love
passages anything like the amount of emotion,
incident, and pathos which they should have
yielded.

In this case Jack Conyers made no headway
at all. It seemed as if the girl, in the
most innocent way possible, purposely diverted

every advance into another direction. All
roads in conversation may lead up to love, but
there are cross lanes at every other step into
which one may turn. Violet willingly walked
with him and talked with him, but she showed
no sign of taking the least interest in him.

By this time he had completely satisfied
himself that Lady Mildred would never have
allowed her own daughter to live alone or*
among quite poor people in such a place as
Hoxton. None of the ladies of his own family
would have considered such an arrangement
possible — there were ladies in his own family,
though he never spoke of them, and did not
invite them to this chambers in Piccadilly. Of
course they knew, although they certainly did
not belong to quite the very best circles, what
was proper and what was improper. The
Great Middle Class especially knows what is
proper. It did not occur to Mr. Conyers as
even possible that any young lady, much less
a young lady who was the daughter of a
baronet and the granddaughter of an earl,
could dare to disregard those laws of propriety
which are held as sacred as the Decalogue by
the whole of Bourgeoisie.

He was so certain that he was going to
risk his fate. He would make a determined
effort. Somehow, although every morning he
resolved upon proposing that very day, he
never succeeded. He was constantly alone
with the girl. Lady Mildred allowed her to
go about as she pleased. He was in her boat,
well off the coast with her ; no one else but
the old boatman within hearing ; he was
standing beside her while she sat and painted
all the summer morning through ; he was
strolling with her over the cliffs to Lee, or
inland, where the sea mists sweep up the narrow
combe ; he sat with her on the Capstone
Rock, while the waves rolled up against that
great headland, and outside the harbour the
pleasure-boats rolled and rocked and gave the
people inside such exquisite pleasure that they
all held their heads over the side and begged
and prayed to be taken ashore instantly. And
all the time he talked, and all the time he felt
with a sinking heart that he was making nb
impression.

He made a last effort on the day before he
came away.
^ J I must go back to town,' he said with a

sigh. ' This has been a very pleasant holiday.
I shall remember it all my life. But Work calls.'

I thought yours was a kind of work which
could wait till you chose to do it, Mr. Conyers.
You have no work that you must do, have
you?'

Mine is Art work,' he replied reproachfully,
because she ought to have understood. ' Of
course, therefore, I wait until it calls me.'

Oh ! you wait for inspiration ; and now it
has come. That is why, all the time you have
been down here, you have done nothing. I am
only a feeble creature, but I must be always
drawing. Well, and have you got your inspiration
at last ? And is it overwhelming .^ '

It seemed as if she was actually laughing at
him.

'If I thought that anything concerning
myself could interest you '

'It does, Mr. Conyers. I am interested
about all my friends. You are one of my
fiends, are you not? Besides, I am rather
curious about you.'

Are you really curious about me ? '

Yes. I want to know what you really
can do. You see, Mr. Conyers, we have had a

VOL. II. N

great many talks about Art, both in Florence
and here ; but I have never seen any of your
work. Surely you have done something by
this time. Claude tells me you used to draw
very well at Cambridge.'

I will shoal you some day. You understand
that a man may not desire to let his
immature work be seen. I will tell you, in
my own studio, if you let me, something of my
aims, perhaps.'

As you please. But are they mysterious ?
If you are an artist, of course you propose to
be a great artist, Claude is a lawyer, and
desires to be a great lawyer.'

My ambitions shall not be mysterious — to
you.'

Do not confide secrets to me, Mr. Conyers.
I am the worst person in the world to keep
them.'

If you are curious — that is, interested — in
anyone, you like to know everything about him,
do you not P '

You mean about his family connections ? '

She was thinking of her own; but the
question reminded him how awkward it might
be if he should have to explain certain things,

and how difficult it might be to put them so
that they should look really picturesque —
almost everything may be made to look picturesque
with proper handling, though the paternal
profession and the ' girls ' would require delicate
handling when it came to explaining and
introducing.

Fortunately, my own family connections
are well known,' said Violet lightly. ' Claude
and I come of an old family ; on both sides,
I believe, a family older than the Conquest.'

But you do not know — it is not certain

Well then, Mr. Conyers, we will leave it
uncertain until October, and then, if you please,
you shall show us some of your work, and
explain some of your aims ; though, if I were
you, I should think less of the aims and more
of the work.'

The most stupid man in the world could
not fail to perceive that the subject must be
deferred till after the coming of age. But he
did something to show the disinterested nature
of his passion — he went to Lady Mildred and
begged for a few words with her.

It is, briefly, Lady Mildred,' he said, ' that

N 2

I have ventured to fall in love with one of your
daughters.'

You mean Violet ? ' she asked coldly.

I have not presumed to speak to her. I
do not know whether she regards me with any
favour at all. But I have seen her every day
here — thanks to your kindness.'

And you think you are in love with her?'

I ask only one thing, permission to take
my chance ; your permission to speak when
you return to town. I have, I confess, but a
slender fortune, though I have large ambitions.
My future,' he added, proudly, 'is, I believe,
in my own bands. It may be a distinguished
future

Every woman desires a distinguished husband,'
said Lady Mildred. ' But it would bea
dreadful disappointment were promises not
filled, would it not? If you place any
reliance on your genius, Mr. Conyers, it would
be well to have some first-fruits ready. But
indeed it is not genius that I desire for Violet
so much as certain other qualities. You know
the history of the two girls ? '

One is the sister of my dear friend, Claude
Monument. The other is your own daughter.'

One is an heiress and the other ]ras
nothing.'

Behave me, Lady Mildred, I should be
happy indeed with Violet even in the latter
case.'

That is well said ' — it was fairly well said
but there wanted what we call the true rini2^.
That is well said ; and now, Mr. Conyers, as
you might be tempted to tell Violet all this at
once, I beg you will go away, and if you are in
the same mind in October, when we return,
you have my full permission to speak to her.'

He went away, hardly satisfied ; he returned
to London. Town was quite empty, but Alicia
was at home ; there was always dinner for him
a good dinner — such as Alicia loved, with
the beautiful claret, which she also loved,
served in the great silver claret jug ; dinner
laid on the massive mahogany table, in the
room with the huge sideboard and the pictures
of game and fruit, all betokening a solid income
and the substantial results of successful trading,
with Alicia herself to talk about the old times
before he set up for a line gentleman and a
great artist and a man of culture and sweetness,
and was only a conceited handsome boy, who

liked drawing girls' heads, and looked a good
deal at his own face in the glass, and gave
himself airs, and talked about himself to the
girl five or six years older, who lived in the
adjacent villa at Stockwell, and belonged to
folk of like standing with himself He liked
this talking over the old times With her. She
was a person of no imagination ; she always
laughed at his pretensions ; she told him the
whole truth ; and she never swerved from the
doctrine that there is but one thing in the
world worth striving for, and that is the thins
for which all good business people diligently
strive — a solid income — all the rest being pure
illusion.

For other distractions there was the girl at
Hoxton. Something had come over this girl ;
a change in her manner and her talk ; she had
grown shy with him ; the careless common
talk of the streets, which formerly flowed freely
from her lips, in a great measure disappeared
' it is the influence of my conversation,' he
said. She was ]how dressed better ; she had a
newly trimmed hat, and a new frock, and nev
boots ; and quite suddenly she began to fill out
in figure and to improve ; her face was no

longer promising, it was really pretty ; she had
more than a pair of large and expressive eyes,
and she carried herself uprightly. All this was
the result of Valentine's dinners, Valentine's
example, and Valentine's gifts. The girl was
quick to learn ; she was shy with this lover of
hers because she understood that the situation
was serious, and she was afraid of what was
before her. Melenda declared that Valentine
would soon go away and forget them. She
also — her name should have been Cassandra —
foretold the approaching death of Lofty. Then
the old life would begin again ; but it would be
worse — far worse — because she had now learned
and knew what the easier life was like. Of
course she ought not to have gone on meeting
him ; Valentine would be very angry if she
knew ; and yet the future that awaited her —
and then — when it began — if this man should
still want her to go away and become his
Model, what should she say ?

'Mr. Conyers is gone, Violet dear,' said
Lady Mildred ; ' are you sorry ? '

Father. He amused us, did he not ? I
like talking to a downright affected man.

Besides, I was pleased to watch his love for
Beatrice. There is nobody he would so much
like to marry as that young lady. He thinks
he can deceive me into believing that he is in
love with me.'

Violet ! '

But he is a wretched actor. One sees
through him every moment.'

My dear child ! '

'I wonder if he can really do anything.
Claude says he used to draw. I dare say he
has some talent. But when a man calls himself
an artist, and for three whole wrecks never
touches a pencil, and goes out with one and
looks on without offering to draw or paint anything
at all — my dear mamma, I fear that Mr.
Conyers is a humbug.'

He has asked permission to address you,
Violet ; I have given him that permission, but
I have put it off until we return.'

Thank you, dear. I wonder where he
comes from. He seems to know nobody. Well
I wonder what Valentine is doing now — poor
Valentine ! with Melenda ! Mamma, I am quite,
quite sure, that Beatrice — Mr. Conyers made a
mistake when he gave you my name — will
refuse that man.'

CHAPTER Xii.

A USELESS CRIME.

Life is entirely made up of coincidences,
though in novels, which should be pictures of
real life, as much is generally made out of a
coincidence as if the thing was unusual. That
is because, although it is common, it is dramatic.
One need not be surprised, therefore, to hear
that Valentine heard more about the man James
Carey, and that from quite an unexpected
quarter.

It was from none other than the old letter-writer,
Mr. Lane.

Valentine met him one evening soon after
she had received that confession at the Alms ■
house. He was creeping along the pavement
on his way home, his shoulders were stooping,
his head more bowed, his coat more ragged
than when first she made his acquaintance.
She stopped him and offered him her hand. He

*m>

did not take it, but he made as if he would
take off his hat. This habit, as has been
already remarked, is an indestructible proof of
good breeding. Another sign is the handling
of the knife and fork. A third is the pronunciation
of the English language. Mr. Lane did
not carry out his intention of taking off his hat,
because he remembered in time that the brim
was like the maiden in the ditty, because at a
touch it Avould yield. Yet the gesture moved
Valentine with pity because it reminded her
that the man had once been a gentleman. And
how, by what cruelty or misconduct, had he
fallen from the ranks ? '

May I walk with you ? ' she asked. ' Weare
going the same way.'

They where in the Curtain Eoad, and it was
on Saturday evening, when the furniture warehouses
are all closed, and the German journeymen,
if wicked report be true, are all locked
up in their attics without coats, hats, or boots,
so that they cannot get abroad until the Monday
morning, and then they must go to work again,
and cannot expect or ask to get out of doors
until Saturday night.

The loneliness of Curtain Eoad on Saturday

evening' is as the desolation of Tadmor iu the
Desert, but the smell of varnish serves to
connect the place with the handiwork of
man.

Surely,' replied Mr. Lane, ' surely. It is
long since a young lady walked with me — very
long. It is five and thirty years.'

She perceived that he walked feebly and
that his knees trembled.

I am going to take a cup of coffee, Mr.
Lane. Will you take one with me ? '

You wish to give me a cup of coffee.' He
laughed a light, musical, but not a mirthful
laugh. ' It is kind of you. I will accept it
with pleasure.'

He had been down on his luck all day, ashe
presently told her in the coffee-house. Here
she gave him a chop with his coffee, and thus
afforded him an opportunity of displaying the
little mannerisms with a knife and fork which
characterise English gentlemen all the world
over. His luck had been very bad, it appeared,
for many weeks, so that when the rent was paid
there was not always Enough to satisfy the wants
of the machine. This evening especially he
was much run doA\n, and the unexpected chop

broiiglit a sense of physical comfort which he
had not known for a great while.

I thank you again,' he said, when he had
finished. ' I am sunk low indeed, for I am not
humiliated by the gift of a supper.'

Do not speak of humiliation,' she replied ;
are we not friends and neighbours ? '

Neighbours certainly. By divine goodness.
Friends .^ — hardly. Men like me have
neighbours — the lower we sink the more
neighbours we have. But friends? — no, we
have no friends. Friendship begins much
higher up. First comes the man who struggles
and starves side by side with another in the
mud ; there is no end of his labour, neither is
his eye satisfied with riches — for he gets none ;
he and his fellows touch each other as they
search for food, like midges flying in a cloud
beside the river ; but these men are not friends.
Then there are work-fellows on board the same
ship and in the same workshop. They are
companions, but not friends. And there are
the men who are engaged in the same tricks.
They call themselves pals, but they are not
friends. Friendship, young lady, can only be
formed at a certain stage of civilisation.'

Oh ! But there are such friendships as
those of Lofty and Melenda and your daughter
Lizzie.'

The girls club together and fight against
starvation. Call them friends if you please.
But — ' he paused and considered. ' There are
some old lines in my head —

Love seeketh not itself to please,
Nor for itself hath any care.

Who can seek for anything but for himself
when he is hungry ? Starving people have no
room for friendship or for natural affection.
My daughter eats her bread and drinks her tea
in one room — I eat my bread in another.
She goes her way, and I do not ask — I have
no right to ask — what way it is. Friends ? —
we have no friends.'

The lines are Blake's,' said Valentine,
somewhat astonished.

'Possibly. I have forgotten. Shall we go
home?'

When they reached Ivy Lane, Valentine
went with him unasked into his room.

Will you tell me something about your
dream ? ' she asked.

About my dream ? Oh ! yes. About my

dream. It is a dream wliicli goes on continually.
It has gone on for five-and-thirty years.
My dream ? It is my life. The rest is a vain
show and shadow — a procession of days and
hours which are possessed of mocking devils,
except when you come to me. And even you
are part of the show and seeming. That is not
my life. No one would live such a life as that.
You are a dream, and Ivy Lane is a dream,
and Lizzie is a dream, and all the hunger and
poverty and misery are part of a dream. But
what you call my dream is my reality — my
life. Stay — you do not know the beginning.'

I shall guess the beginning, perhaps, if
you tell me where you are at present.'

They have offered the man in my dream a
bishopric. It is unusual so soon after a deanery
has been refused. He is to be the new Bishop
of Winchester. It was always his ambition to
be Bishop of the Diocese in which he was
born, and where there is Portsmouth with the
ships and sailors. His father, you know, was
a sailor — middy at Copenhagen and Lieutenant
at Trafalgar — so that he always loved sailors.
One can understand how great an honour this
invitation seems to him.'

'Will he accept it?'

Surely — surely. It is a mark of the
Divine Blessing on his life and labours. Besides,
lie who desireth the office of a bishop
desireth a good work. This man has always
looked forward to it as to the crown of his
career ; yet humbly, because it brings heavy
responsibilities. The consecration will take
place immediately. Meantime he meditates
upon his duties. To-night he will meditate
more deeply and with more spiritual advantage
because I have eaten well. So closely united
are soul and body.'

The beginning, as I read it,' said Valentine,
is that hive-and-thirty years ago you were a
clergyman ? '

There was, indeed, something in the appearance
and carriage of the man, in spite of his
rays, which suo-rested the clerical calling. Impossible
to say exactly what was the peculiarity,
but it existed.

I was once a clergyman,' he answered
simply. ' I dream of my own life — as it might
have been.'

Please go on.'

My eldest son — I was married thirty-five

years ago — has just obtained a University
Scholarship ; my second is doing well at Winchester
— my old school ; my daughters are
sitting with me in my study ;• and my wife —
but she is dead.' A change came over the
man's face. Was his wife, then, not altogether
a dream?

Valentine waited to hear more.

Five-and-thirty years ago,' he said, ' I
was thirty, and I was married — not long
married — when the dreadful thing happened
to me. Good God ! Why was it suffered to
happen ? '

Do not talk about it. Forget it if you can
and go on with your Dream.'

I must talk about it. There come times
when I am constrained to tell some one, even
if it kills me to tell it. Last time I told it to the
Doctor. He came here yesterday to see me, but
he only talked about you.' Valentine blushed.
He is in love with you. Of course he is in love
with you. Everybody must be, you know that.
It was not last night that I told him, but long ago
months ago — the last time that I was forced
to tell it.' His face was agitated and his lingers
twisted nervously. ' I must tell you.'

But it agitates and pains you. Do not tell
me. Talk about your dream.'

No, no — sometimes I understand that my
dream is only a dream, and the real life is here,
among these rags ; and then I must tell someone,
even if it kills me.'

He came to the village and lodged there
three months, at the village inn. We all got to
know him. The Vicar at the Vicarage — that
was myself — and Sir William at the House.
He went about among us all, smooth-spoken
and well-behaved ; not a gentleman exactly, buta
man who could sit with gentlemen. He came
to church every Sunday ; he played the violin
beautifully, and I played the violoncello, and
my wife the piano — it is not often that a good
player comes to a village — and we had trios.
I was married — yes, I had been married for six
months. I should have been married before
but for some college debts. I don't think there
was anybody in the world happier than I was
all that summer.'

Hush ! Do not excite yourself ; tell the
story quietly.'

Tell the story — tell my story quietly ?
Oh ! you don't know.' His cheeks were

VOL. II. o

white, his face was working, and his body
writhing with the excitement of his story.

'But you are right. The Doctor said I
must keep quiet if I could. I will try. It
was in the same summer that the great
burglary took place at the House, and her
ladyship's jewels were stolen. I have sometimes
thought that, perhaps, James Carey did
that too ! '

Who ? What was the name ? '

James Carey was his name. James
Carey.'

James Carey ! ' Somehow she was not
surprised. There could not have been two of
that name — villains both. Yet it was strange
to hear about him so soon again, and in this
very house under the same roof with his
daughter. What new villainy was she about to
hear ?

When you have heard the story you will
get up and go away.'

No, no — I shall not.'

'It is a story of a great villain and a
wretched sinner. There wjs a certain old
debt, undischarged, which troubled me.' He
told his story in jerks, stalking across the room,

and throwing about his arms. ' The man
threatened. I could pay him in three months,
but he refused to wait. I was in dreadful
trouble about it. The man Carey wormed himself
into my confidence, and I told him. I was
trustee, with another man, for a child. She had
some money invested in our names. Carey
showed me wdiat to do. I ought not to have
listened. I might have gone to that other man,
my co-trustee ; he would have lent me the
money ; but I was ashamed. Carey told me
how to do it. Well, I was tempted, and I fella
preacher of God's judgments — and I fell
I drew a cheque — it was for a hundred and
twenty pounds. I signed it with my name ;
Carey signed my fellow-trustee's name — out of
friendliness, he said. In this way, you see, I
became a forger — yes, a wretched criminal — a
forger. Why don't you get up and go away ?
I was to draw the money and to pay it back in
six months' time ; no one would ever know anything
about it. He was the actual forger, but
I was his accomplice — his equal in guilt. Oh !
I have never complained of what followed. I
deserve everything, and more. I do not complain,
except sometimes, that men are made so



weak. Nothing that has been done to me is
equal to what I did to myself. I was such a fool,
too — oh, I remember. When we had signed
the cheque, Carey went to the bank to draw
the money for me. Well,' — he stopped and
laughed — ' what do you think ? He never
came back — he never came back with the
money.'

Do you mean that he kept the money ? '
That is what he did. But I was a
forger. Why, it was found out at once — I
don't know how. My writing was well known :
experts swore that the forgery was by me, too.
My desk was found full of imitations. Carey
had put them there. They found out about
the creditor and his threats. There was no
defence possible except that another man had
drawn the money. I do not complain ; but
sometimes I think he was a greater villain than
myself. I was only a poor contemptible wretch,
born for such a lot as this.'

The man Carey,' said Valentine, ' is dead.'

Is he dead ? Is he dead ? ' — he spoke as

if he was disappointed — ' I cannot think that

he is dead. Because for five-and-thirty years I

have always thought to meet him face to face,

Dead ! And my own course is nearly run !
Great Heavens ! What a course ! '

He gasped and laid his hand upon his
heart. But the spasm passed.

I have suffered penal servitude. I have
been cut off from my fellows. All this I
deserved. I have been disgraced and exiled
and starved. I do not complain. But surely
the other man should have had something ! '

He died in prison. He received a harder
punishment than you.'

He — died — in — prison.' There was consolation
in the fact. ' I thought that I should
die before him, so as to be ready with my testimony
against him when he should come before
the Judge.'

Forgive him,' said Valentine. ' Forgive
the dead, who can sin no more.'

" Their love and their hatred is now
finished ; neither have they a portion for ever
in anything that is done under the sun." Thus
saith the Book.'

Then forgive him.'

Xo ; I cannot forgive him until the Day
shall come when I can forgive myself. And
that will be — never. Oh ! men talk of forgiveness

; but how can they ever forgive themselves
? '

Then do not speak of the man again. Tell
me of your life since then. You found love.
You have your daughter.'

Love ! Do you think in such depths as
mine there is room for love ? I found a miserable
girl in the streets, a girl as wretched as my
daughter is now ; as poor, as starved, as hardly
worked, more cruelly robbed. I married her.
Why ? I suppose to save her from a little of
the pain. Oh ! I did not ask if the other wife
was dead ; all that belonged to the past life,
which was gone. I married her ; and perhaps
she was less miserable for a while — I think she
was — and then she died. I found money
enough to pay some other poor wretches for the
keep of the child. You know her — what she
is. I have been able to do no more for her.'

Poor man ! Poor child ! ' Valentine took
his hand — the long nervous hand, thin and bony
as a skeleton's.

She is the child of the gutter, which has
been her playground as Avell as her cradle, and
will be her grave. What can you expect?
Has she any of a woman's virtues ? I do not

know. They are not wanted in the gutter.
Let her live her life out with the other gutter
children, and then he down and die. Perhaps,
after she is dead she will find out why any of us
were born, and what it means.'

Poor Lizzie ! '

Sometimes when the thing comes back to
my memory — the prison cell — the coming out
again, which was worse ; the miserable life that
I have led in this hiding-place — I feel as if I
must ask why? But the heavens are silent.
One cannot be heard up there, because of the
crowd who are all crying out together and
asking why ? — poor wretches ! You know,
when Abraham communed with the Lord it was
in the desert alone under the clear sky. It is no
use crying out among so many. Else I could
lift up my voice and ask why I was born so
weak and others so strong.' Here his face
became suddenly contorted and his eyes glared
and his body bent double and his hands
clenched, and he swayed from side to side
as one who is wrestling with an unseen adversary.
Valentine sprang to her feet, but she
could do nothing. You cannot help a man in
mortal agony.

The attack was over in a few moments.
Presently he lay back upon the bed pale and
exhausted.

It was the Devil,' he whispered. ' He
always clutches at my heart when I think
about James Carey. I thought he would have
killed me that time.'

Do not talk. Lie quite still and quiet.
Shall I bring the Doctor to you ? '

No, no ; it is over now. Give me that
bottle. The Doctor can do nothing.'

She sat by the bedside and administered such
words of consolation as came into her mind.

Then he sat up on the bed and began to
tell her more about his life, and how, after a
long period of misery and starvation, he found
out the precarious way of earning his bread
which he had practised ever since, and how
the old life had vanished so completely that
from the day when he was first put into prison
he had never read a single book, nor looked ina
single paper ; and how, in the worst time of
his trouble, his dream came to him and became
a Ministering Angel ; and he had found solace
ever since in following an imaginary career of
honour and distinction.

A thick black line indeed lead been drawn
across his life.

Wliat consolations,' lie asked, ' can console
for such a life as mine ? There is the thought
that sooner or later there will be an end of
everything. 'surely," said the Preacher,
surely oppression maketh a man mad, and
better is the end of a thing than the beginning
thereof." '

As for the other form of consolation, which
sometimes does console, the poor man had lost
the power of feeling it.

'You must never agahi,' said Valentine,
even think of this man. As he is dead you
may the more readily forget him. And if you
do not think of him too much, you may perhaps
forgive him.'

Forgive him ! '

As you hope for forgiveness yourself.'

I do not hope for anything.'

'But he is dead.'

I do not know yet whether I shall meet
him after death. Do not speak of forgiveness.'

He fell asleep presently. It was long past
midnight when Valentine went upstairs to lier
own room. Lofty was lying asleep ; her pains

had left her for the moment ; she was growing
daily weaker ; the moonlight was coming into
the room ; from the neighbouring court there
came the screams of an angry woman and the
oaths of an angry man. Then these subsided
and all was quiet. At one o'clock Valentine
heard a step on the stair. It was Lizzie, the
child of the gutter, come home from wandering
about the streets. Valentine thought of her
father's words. Should lie be suffered to he
for ever in the gutter ? Had she any womanly
virtues ? Well, the girl had one virtue : she
loved her friends.

Lizzie passed into her room and closed
the door.

Then Valentine leaned out of the open
window and thought of the great Human
Questions — why we are born — why we suffer
why we perish — and looked into "the Silent
Heavens above. Li the clear sky rode the
Queen of Night in splendour ; some of the
stars were visible ; she seemed to hear millions
of voices around her crying aloud in the night,
all asking these questions, some with shrieks,
and some with sighs, and some with wonder.
And she longed for the peace of the desert

when, on such a night as that poor old man
had reminded her, the Patriarch could step
forth and commune with the Lord beneath
the stars. Alas ! the crowds of the great city
would stifle such a commune at the very outset.
Yet there are some — Valentine remembered
— who find consolation in the faith that
the heavens are not deaf as well as dumb.
Else we had better all be dead, and let the
great round world roll on for ever by itself
without the mockery of man. And some day,
we must also believe, all questions shall be
answered, and on that day at length men shall
learn even how to forgive themselves, and
Shame aud Remorse shall be no more.

CHAPTEE XIV.

ASK ME NO More.

Ivy Lane, including the part now called Ivy
Street, and the courts leading out of it, is
estimated to contain 1,200 people, which gives,
if you compute by the square mile, a most
preposterous rate of population. Most of the
evils of life have taken up a permanent abode
there, or are efficiently represented. Poverty,
for instance, is always there, but that is too
common to be regarded as an evil any more
than a bald head or grey hair ; most people
either suffer from it perennially, or get it from
time to time. Destitution is always somewhere
in the lane, with empty shelves and pinched
faces ; Disease is always somewhere ; Drunkenness,
as soon as the evening shades prevail, doth
still take up its wondrous tale ; Repentance in
the form of headache and heartache is never
absent from Ivy Lane, because the people are

always backsliding, and because, as the copybooks
ought to enforce with greater emphasis,
there is no overstepping which is not followed
by its owen headache ; or as another Book hath
it — 'The way of transgressors is hard ; ' Injustice
is always outside Ivy Lane, oppressing the helpless
; cheating and knavery, falsehood and treachery,
craft and subtlety, everything is in Ivy
Lane. Here is always the young man choosing
between the Broad and the Narrow Way ; between
the Easy Way and the Enough Way ;
generally he chooses the Broad Way and so
gets presently into difficulties. There is the
young girl with such a choice as Lizzie's always
before her. There are the old men and women
who feel in a blind confused kind of way that
they must have made some great blunder at
some time or other else they would not now be
so horribly poor. Love is always there, the
Love of wife and sweetheart and mother; Love
in all its forms, strong to save. New life is
always there : every minute, or thereabouts, a
child is born. And Death is always there :
once a week at least the black box, generally
a little one, is carried down the Lane.

This hive of swarming life, as soon as

Valentine got over a few initial difficulties and
grew accustomed to regard certain things without
shrinking or terror, filled her with admiration
mixed with humility. It shames us to
witness the virtues of humble folk, because I
suppose we are so perfectly certain that in our
own case, supposing that we had ourselves to
live in such a way, these virtues would be
conspicuously absent. They are the humbler
virtues, but useful and solid, such as Patience,
Helpfulness, Cheerfulness, and Sympathy with
other lives of little joy. By degrees Valentine
got to know all the people. She talked with
them in the streets, and sat with them in their
rooms, and became, without difficulty and without
money-giving, their friend. In every room
there was a history. Thus, in one lay an old
soldier, a Crimean veteran, full of stories, kept
from starvation by a pension of nine pence a
day, dying slowly of rheumatic gout, first
engendered in the trenches before Sebastopol.
There was the woman who washed, not as
Mrs. Monument was wont to wash, with a
lovely drying ground outside, but in her own
room, hampered withal by a daughter of seventeen
not quite right in her head — ' half-baked,'

to use the popular and feeling expression.
There was the decent man, laid up for the last
four months with a bad knee, and all his savings
gone. There was the painter who lead always
been in good work until his hand ' dropped ' —
a common misfortune in the trade when one
grows elderly. There was the man whom
rheumatism had seized by the fingers and the
wrists, swelling his joints into huge lumps and
twisting them out of shape so that he coidd
not work. There were everywhere the women ;
here one down with a bad confinement ; here
one with a drunken husband who spent all the
money in the ' Adelaide ' ; one whose husband
was out of work ; one whose husband had
deserted her ; and one whose husband was
dead, and her children crying for the food
which she could not give them. Another, an
elderly single woman, gaunt and thin, proud and
ashamed, held out against Valentine for a longtime,
with something of the decayed gentlewoman
in her speech and manners, and no
doubt a history of her own if she chose to tell
it, but she kept it to herself. As for her work
such a woman is not born for such work —
she had to make trousers with the help of a

machine for a delightful German firm whose
daughter, though only seventeen, was told off
on account of her supernatural hardness, lier
shrewish temper, and her fluent tongue, to
]bargain with the women and beat them down
to the uttermost and rail at them. But yet, by
reason of the beneficial law of Elevenpence-
halfpenny, and despite the amiable young German,
even this poor thing earned enough to
keep the machine going. And everywhere a
doleful and monotonous spectacle, the women
and girls who toil all day with feverish energy
for their miserable wage. Everywhere the life
that is not life ; the same slavery ; the same
oppression ; and the same patience.

Of course these people are full of sin and
steeped in wickedness ; everybody says so ; they
are fond of drink and prejudiced against church,
and avid of any little enjoyment which falls in
their way; they are stiff-necked; ungrateful and
never satisfied— considering that whatever is
done for them they are always left with the
same long hours and the same short pay, it is
not wonderful that they should be discontented.
All of them, moreover — a thing which must be
considered — belong to the class which never

get any share at all in the fruit and the wine,
the cakes and the ale, however hard they work ;
nay, the harder they work, the less they seem
to get. sind there are others, beside Sam the
Socialist, who are loudly asking the ominous
question if this is right, that any workers, even
working girls who cannot combine and never
complain, and are perfectly helpless and cannot
kick, rebel, or demonstrate, and are under no
law but the Law of Elevenpence-ha'penny,
should always get less than their share.

'You take it too much to heart, Valentine,'
said Claude.

They were sitting beside the pretty ornamental
water in Victoria Park. It was half-past
one o'clock, when the Victorian are all at
dinner, and the Park was like the Garden of
Eden, not only for its summer beauty, but
because it contained only one single pair, a
man and a woman. They had been talking
over these things, and Valentine was betrayed
into more emotion than was usual with her.

I cannot take it too much to heart. It is
impossible.' The tears crowded into her eyes,
and her lips trembled. ' I horsed,' she added
gently, but her tears rather than her words

VOL. II. p

reproached him, ' I hoped that you would have
helped us, Claude.'

She was paler and thinner than when, six
weeks before, she had begun her solitary life in
Ivy Lane. Her face, always serious, was now
set with a deeper earnestness, and there was no
smile upon her lips. You have observed the
first delicate beauty of a girl who knows nothing
about the world and its wickedness, whose
reading, as well as her companions, has been
under supervision, who has been taught to
believe in everybody's goodness, who has only
just begun to go into society, and who is as yet
perfectly heart-whole. V/ell, that was now
gone.

In its place was the beauty of the girl who
is young, still innocent, but no longer ignorant.
Such knowledge as had come to Valentine does
not destroy the early beauty, but it saddens
the face and makes the eyes grave. She had
learned hundreds of evil things ; henceforth,
things which had been mere phrases, prayers
which had been meaningless, would possess for
her their real and dreadful meaning.

There is nothing more saddening for a girl
than the discovery that the world is not only

very wicked, "which the most carefully shielded
girl must learn some time or other, but that its
wickedness, in every form, is about her and
around her, at her very feet, and that she is
in a sense already responsible for some of
it. This knowledge of evil came to Valentine
suddenly, not bit by bit and gradually, as
ladies sometimes learn it, but in an overpowering
cataract which was almost more than
she could bear. Perhaps it would have been
better, it would certainly have been easier for
her, had she been kept from the knowledge.
The cultured life, surrounded by hedges which
are filled with rose bushes, hawthorn, eglantine,
honeysuckle, and wild flowers on one side, but
set with prickly pears and impenetrable thorns
on the other, so as to exclude the rough and
wicked world, is far more pleasant for a girl ;
most of us would keep our girls in this Paradise
as long as we could ; Ave think that because
their frames are weaker and their limbs more
delicate than our own, we ought to keep them
even from knowing the wild forces and the
UD governed passions without, as if it was the
body and not the soul that is threatened by
those waves which break and those winds

p 2

which roar. Yet Lady Mildred knew beforehand
something of what Valentine would experience.
She did not act without deliberation :
we are all, she thought, men and women alike ;
it cannot be altogether bad for us to know the
truth about ourselves and our brothers. Some
of us still remember the old story of how the
knowledge of good and the knowledge of evil
go together ; and there are hundreds of women
who all day long wade breast-high in moral
sloughs and slums, and emerge unspotted, save
that some of the sunshine is taken out of their
faces, some of the light from their eyes, some
of the smiles from their lips.

The tears in Valentine's eyes went straight
to Claude's conscience like the stroke of a whip.
This girl had not been his sister so long that
he had ceased to regard her with a reverence
which few brothers display towards their sisters.
Besides, she was entrusted to his care ; and,
again, he had been thinking.

I have not forgotten my promise, Valentine,'
he said quickly; 'I remember all that
you say to me. But it is a very serious subject.'

You have really been thinking of us, Claude ? '

I have been reading as well as thinking.

But, Valentine, as yet I feel powerless even to
suggest anything.'

But you will never let it drop — never.
Oil ! Claude, I see Melenda every day.'

'There is no doubt,' he began, 'that
Av or king women are treated absolutely in accordance
with the principle so dear to employers
supply and demand. If that is a true
principle, then I suppose they ought to have
nothing to complain of.'

Nothing to complain of I '

Supply and demand means that women
have got to take the best terms they can get ;
in the struggle to live they undersell each other
till they reach the lowest terms on which life
can be supported. That is the whole case,
Valentine. The employer gives the lowest
wages which will be taken. There is no question
of justice, or of kindness, or of mercy.
They call it a law of political economy, which
must be obeyed.'

Is it also a law of political economy that
men who employ the women are to get rich ?
Who makes such laws ? I suppose the manufacturers.
Let us make our own laws for the
women, and the fie-st law of all, that whether

the employer gets his profit or not, the girls
shall be properly paid.'

We should then promptly lose the services
of the employer.'

Then we would do without him.'

Women cannot combine like men. They
are unaccustomed to act together. There are
too many of them. And they have no public
spirit.'

I have heard all this before, Claude. But
first set up all your difficulties, and then you
can cut your way through them.'

They could perhaps combine,' Claude went
OH, ^ if they had the support of the men. How
to get that? How to make the working man
feel that he must look after his sister ? '

You will teach him that, Claude.'

You are persistent, Valentine. Every day
your eyes look at me reproachfully '

I do not mean to be reproachful.'

And yet you are reproachful. And everyday
the burden you would lay upon me grows
heavier to look upon.'

Then take it up, Claude, and every day it
will grow lighter.'

One must move the girls to act together ;

one must move the working man to act for this
sister ; and one must move the ladies, the
gentlewomen, to act for the women who
work. You demand impossibilities, Valentine.'

Only a man can move the women. You
must speak to them, Claude. You must
speak right out — from your very heart.'

It is strange,' he went on, pursuing his own
thoughts without answering her, ' it is strange.
The oppression of the working woman is no
new thing. It has not been discovered yesterday
or the day before. It has been preached
and described over and over again. Never a year
passes but some one writes indignantly about
their treatment. It is fifty years since Hood's
Song of the Shirt " Alas written, and forty
since Mrs. Browning's " Cry of the Children."
Well, the children have long since been
released, and yet the women remain in their
misery.'

That is because we care for the children,'
said Valentine, ' but we do not care for each
other.'

'There are no women anywhere,' Claude
went on, 'so charitable and so generous as
Englishwomen ; they are never tired of doing

good things, they sacrifice themselves, they go
about among the poor, they are misses.'

But oh ! ' Valentine interrupted him,
'how many thousands are there like me, who
have never done anything but look for new
pleasures ! '

There is a great literature upon the subject ;
the lines are written in blood, yet no man regarded
it. The story of the gentlewoman of
London is so terrible that one wonders why
Crusades have not been preached. As for that,
a Crusade has been preached, but nothing comes

of it;

It is because the preachers are women,
and no one will listen to them. They want a
man to preach, Claude ; they want you.'
They want a stronger man than me.'
I can teach you what we women are like.
I have studied myself on purpose. We are soft
and luxurious ; we like things to be smooth and
pleasant ; we never ask how things come ; we
think the world was made only for us to enjoy ;
we hate to hear painful stories ; we put ugly
things out of sidit. You must force us to
hear the whole truth : don't talk about our
kind hearts ; lash us with the truth about our

hardness till we cry for shame and repentance.'


She looked as if she herself could preach such
a sermon on such a text.

You are too bitter, Valentine.'

We want a man,' she repeated, ' who must
be young and generous ; he must be full of anger ;
he must be able to speak, and fearless ; he
must be a man who can speak to women of any
class ; he should be a scholar ; he should know
the working women well ; he should be bound
to them, Claude, by more than the ordinary
ties. Oh ! where can such a man be found unless
it is yourself .P Claude, it is your sister
Melenda who calls you out of her misery and
her helplessness. Listen ! Oh! you mustlie^Y
her voice among them all — it is so full of rage
and of madness. For what good were you taken
from among them if — you — you of all men —
spend your powers and your knowledge for
your own ambition ? Oh ! Claude, if you
could see the girls in their pain, too wretched
even to pray ' — she stopped because her voice
broke down. ' Claude, forgive me. I will
never trouble you again. You have your own
ambition ; you have chosen your own way ; and

all I can do is to stay among them and help one
or two.'

She had conquered him before, when she
made him help her in the Great Eenunciation
by her music. She conquered him now by her
tears. He took her hand and inclined his head
over it saying, ' Take me, Valentine ; do with
me what you please. I am altogether at your
service.*

Claude ! ' she dashed away her tears and
sprang to her feet. ' You mean all that you
say — exactly — all that you say?'

All, Valentine. Why, my honour is concerned
; it is my 'sister who calls me. Which
of my sisters ? Is it Melenda, or is it 
? '

She cauoiit his hands and held them with
sparkling eyes.

Only,' he said, ' do not expect too much. I
told you at the beginning that you would be
disappointed in me.'

JSFo, never disappointed ; always proud of
our brother. And now, Claude, now — oh ! the
women have never — never had such a chance
before. You will feel for these poor girls as no
one else but yourself could feel for them. It is

like taking; one of themselves out of the dreadful
work-rooms and giving her voice and speech
and knowledge. Do you think that my mother
• — that Lady Mildred — meant this all along?
Do you think she designed from the beginning
that you were to give to the people the things
she gave to you ? Why, it was like a woman
was it not ? — to give them through a man.
But what did she intend for Polly ? ' Certainly,
she remembered in time, Polly showed, as yet,
no signs of giving back anything to her own
people. Valentine ceased, therefore, to pursue
this speculation, which might have carried her
farther than lie wished. ' Oh, happy girls ! '
she went on, ' they have found a Leader at last.
You will speak for them, Claude, and write for
them, and think for them. Oh, to be a man
and to have a Teat cause to li<][ht for ! And
you dared — oh ! you poor boy, only a month
ago — you dared to hesitate between your ambition
and tills wonderful Career that lies before
you. Oh. it fills me with such joy ! I cannot
tell you how happy it makes me,' yet she was
crying. ' I have been wretched because of my
own helplessness. But now you are with me
all the difficulties will vanish.'

As for me I feel that the difficulties are
only just beginning. You will help me to face
them.'

Yes; I will help you if I can. I did not
understand at first, but now I do, that this is a
work which will take all your soul and all your
strength, Claude ; all your time — perhaps all
your life. Will you give so much to your
poor sisters, who will take it all and perhaps
never thank you ? All your life, Claude ? All
your life — and never to regret or to look back P '

It is all I have to give, Valentine. I am
prepared to give so much. Even to give up ' — •
he blushed and laughed — ' even to give up the
Woolsack, and never become Lord Chancellor.'

She did not comprehend — no woman could
comprehend — the full extent of Claude's sacrifice.
Many young men are ardently desirous
of distinction or even notoriety ; they will stoop
to Tomfool tricks if they cannot get a shove by
any other way. Claude, on the other hand,
was possessed of the idea that he ought to
justify his social promotion. It seems, if you
think of it, an extremely foolish thing for a
young man to be picked out and raised above
his fellows if he does nothing afterwards to

justify the selection. One such case have I
known. The man had everything in his favour ;
that is to say, he was, to begin with, the son
of a village blacksmith, which is an enormous
advantage at the outset. You cannot get much
nearer to the hard pan. Then he was a strong
and lusty creature ; and he was much impressed,
like Claude, with the necessity for
work. He did work ; he worked day and
night ; yet, most unhappily. He was awkward
and stupid, and could never acquire either
knowledge or manners. He experienced as
much difficulty in passing his examinations as
if he had been the Son of a Duke ; he entered
a profession where brains are welcomed but
are not necessary ; and he has remained ever
since in the lower branch of that profession on
the wai]^es of a blacksmith's assistant.

Consider : Claude had his fellowship ; that
is to say, a certain income for a few years
longer ; he could afford to wait ; he had already
some work, and could very fairly expect more ;
he could speak ; he had studied Law with the
same intensity which he threw into all his
work ; and he was calmly certain that he was
going to do well. There is one excellent thing

about a good degree, that it makes a young
man believe in himself. He who has been well
up in the First Class never afterwards doubts
his own capacity to become Lord Chancellor,
Archbishop of Canterbury, Editor of the
Times ^ Poet Laureate, President of the College
of Physicians, Prime Minister, — anything except
Ambassador. That is the one distinction which
shares with the Garter the pride of being kept
absolutely out of anybody's reach. These First
Class men do not generally aspire after the
fame of Thackeray or Fielding, because, in
Academic Groves, the craft of the novelist is
held in contempt, and is not yet even recognised
as one of the Fine Arts. They do not read
Lucian, Apuleius, and Herodotus. Claude
therefore, who had been very near to the top,
regarded any of these positions as a young
athlete may regard an Alpine Peak. His foot
may yet stand upon it. If now, at the very
outset and beginning, he was to withdraw in
order to work for Valentine, it would most
likely be to destroy everything ; and for what ?

What will you give me, Valentine, in exchange
for the Woolsack .^ '

She was exalted at the prospect which she

saw before her, fair and glorious, because she
was still very young, and because she believed
greatly in this young man, who might have
been, and thought he was, her brother.

Oh ! ' she said, ' you want nothing. It is
a nobler life that you have chosen. It is a far
greater thing even to try, and though you fail
altogether ; but you shall not fail, Claude ; you
shall not fail. I said that your sisters will take
all that you give, and never perhaps thank you.
But I will take care that they shall. And in
exchange you shall have the hearts of a
hundred thousand women, whose lot you will
change from wretchedness to plenty. Will not
that be compensation enough for you ? '

When history comes to ask — as no doubt
it will — how it happened that so excellent a
Lord Chancellor as Claude Monument was lost
to the country, and why he never became Sir
Claude Monument, and then Baron Monument,
and then Earl of Hackney Marsh, I hope this
chapter will be considered a sufficient reply.
No one is to be blamed, except himself, and
we must not blame him greatly, because he
was like his forefather when the woman tempted
him, and he fell.

CHAPTER XV.

BROTHER joe's DISCOVERY.

Claude's conversion, or his awakening, or his
act of crowning folly, whichever you please to
call it, by which he absolutely abandoned and
threw away as promising a career as ever
offered itself to an ambitious young man, took
place on the morning of Saturday, the twenty-ninth
day of August.

The date is as important as other historical
dates. It marks the commencement of a new
era, as wall be presently seen, and it has,
therefore, to be remembered like that of the
Hegira, or that of Martin Luther's ' Theses.'
It is also extremely important for another reason
of a more private nature, and therefore, because
all of us love the individual above the class, of
more general interest. It is that on the very
day after his conversion Claude learned a very
important family secret. If he had known it

on the Saturday morning his decision might
possibly have been the same, but there would
have been hesitations and difficulties.

He found out this important fact in a very
simple way, so simple that he wondered afterwards
why he had not thought of that way
before. But then he had never set himself to
discover a secret which Lady Mildred evidently
regarded as her own, nor had he ever thought
of ways by which that secret could be discovered.
That kind of small mindedness is
impossible for a man whose chief desire it is to
justify his promotion.

On the Sunday morning, being the day
after the Great Surrender, he called upon his
mother. This was not in itself by any means
an extraordinary event or one calling for
observation. And his mother talked a great
deal about her daughter, which was also not
extraordinary, because during that summer the
old lady thought and talked of little else, and
occupied the whole time, during every one of
Claude's visits, in a running commentary on
the virtues of her daughter Polly. Claude, she
thought, should consider his sister more ; he
should take her to tea sometimes, say at the

VOL. II. Q

Spaniards, or Jack Straw's Castle, or North End,
or High Beech, or Chingford, or to some other
country place of a Sunday ; she would be all
the better for country air, and she was too
proud to keep company with the first that
offered ; as for thoughtfulness, and good temper,
and sinsfinsf like a bird, and never being; cross,
and catching a person up, or getting into rages,
as Melenda did, there was nobody in the world
like Polly, and what she should do when Polly
went back to her place in October she did not
know.

While they were still talking about her, it
happened — again not an unusual thing on
Sunday morning — that Joe came slowly down
the road and looked in at the almshouse, and
stood at the door, leaning and listening, pipe
in mouth, slowly getting, in his own way, the
utmost possible enjoyment out of a fine Sunday.
He never said much at any time, chiefly because
he was of an amiable disposition, and loved to
oblige and gratify other people, and very well
knew that people liked talking better than
listening, and that everybody had a great deal
to say on every subject. This morning he said
nothing at all, but from time to time there

passed over his face something broader than a
smile, and something narrower than a grin.
On Sundays he was newly shaven, so that the
play of his lips had a chance, and his face,
which during the week was always smudged,
was now clean, so that his eyes had a chance.
His lips, while his mother talked of Polly,
smiled from time to time, and his eyes danced,
if a man of Joe's age can have dancing eyes.
Claude observed these signs of amused intelligence,
and wondered what they might mean.
Presently, and soon after stroke of noon, Joe
got up to go, and Claude accompanied him.
They walked away together, side by side,
workman and gentleman, as it should be
with all workmen and all gentlemen, as well
as with those who are brothers. Outside
the almshouses, Joe knocked the ashes from
his pipe and laughed, not aloud, but with a
chuckling, bubbling, secret enjoyment.

What are you grinning at, Joe .^ ' asked
Claude, ' and what made you keep smiling
while my mother talked ? '

She goes on about the gell, don't she,
boy ? Never tired of singing' her praises — might
make a man jealous, because there's my Ehoder

q2

been with her as many years as that one
weeks.'

She is very fond of her.'

Well, I ain't jealous. Not a bit, Claude.
I like to hear her. It does me good to hear
her go on like that, the poor old woman I It
makes her happy, don't it ? '

Why shouldn't she go on as you call it ? '

She and her Polly ! Ho ! ho ! ho ! '

What do you mean, Joe ? '

Joe stopped and looked at his brother in
questioning guise.

Why, you don't mean to tell me that you
haven't found out ? '

Found out — what ? '

It don't matter to you and me ; and if the
old woman likes to think she's Polly, and if it
makes 'em both happy, what's the odds to anybody
? '

Well, but, Joe — what can you know about
it?'

Joe laughed.

As if I shouldn't know my own sister directly
I set eyes upon her.'

How should you know her when you
haven't seen her for twenty years ? '

'Brigadier, you're a scholar, and you've
read a mighty lot of books. I haven't. But
I'm blessed if I don't think I am as sharp inmost
things as you.'

Sharper, if you please, Joe. I am sure you
are, in fact. But go on, please.'

Why — can't you guess now ? Look here,
Lootenant, it's this way. When father died —
you've got no call to be ashamed of your father,
mind — T was sixteen years old. Consequentially,
I remember him, and his face too, very
well, I do. You were only three or four.
Consequentially you can't remember him nor
his face, k nd he hasn't left his likeness behind.
There's never a photograph of him anywheres.
Now do you begin to see ? '

Claude had not begun even yet to see. He
had never somehow connected his father, who
was the Shadow of a Stane — but a blameless
Name — with these two girls.

When I see the two young ladies, pretty
and sweet-mannered like the flowers in the
Garden, and when I heard them going on in
that pretty way of theirs about Valentine and
Violet, and Miss Beatrice and Polly, and not
knowing which was which, and the old woman

clutching hold of the one that wasn't Polly, and
then the one that was, I could ha' laughed
right out. But I didn't, Claude, I just let
things be, and sat as grave as a judge.'

Well, Joe ? '

Well ? And didn't you see me call
Ehoder and range her up alongside the two
young ladies ? What do you think I did that
for ? Why, for you to see as well as me, of
course. I said to myself, " Claude's got eyes in
his head. It's easy for him to see which of
them two young ladies my gell favours."
There she was — there was my Ehoder alongside
the two who don't know which is which.
Why, to me the likeness was just wonderful. It
was most enough for a blind man to see.'

Yet I saw nothing.'

That was because you didn't think about
anything but them two pretty creatures. Your
head was full of 'em. As for my Ehoder, you
hadn't a thought for her. Now look here,
Claude, Ehoder's a very pretty gell — as pretty
as most, and what's more to the point, she's just
exactly like your father must ha' been when he
was sixteen — as much as one sweet-pea is like
another — though her grandfather couldn't

exactly be called a sweet-pea. Cast your eye
on Ehoder and you'll see your father over again.
Then think of the two young ladies.'

Claude chased colony He beo*an to
understand now.

Get on a little faster, Joe — do get on.
Tell me everything.'

'Father, you see,' — Joe did get on, but
slowly — ' he'd got a delicate kind of face, With
what the women call speaking eyes, and a soft
sort of a smiling mouth — oh ! he was a good-looking
chap ; if you were old enough to remember
what he was like, you wouldn't forget
him in a hurry. Looked like a gentleman, he
did. Well now, here's the long and short of it.
Ehoder has got the same eyes and the same
delicate sort of a face, and the young lady she
calls Polly hasn't.'

'Oh!'

But the other one has. That very same
identical face and e^^es she's got. Same as my
Ehoder. That's why I put her up alongside for
you to see. And now do you understand ? '

There was no longer any room for doubt on
the point. The most stupid would have understood.


Is it possible ? Are you quite sure of what
you say, Joe ? '

Certain sure I am. Lord ! when I see that
one coming back again without her falls and
pretending she was Polly come to look after
her mother, I could ha' laughed again. But I
didn't laugh, Claude, because mother took it
mighty serious.'

Joe, she does not know. Valentine really
does not knoAv.'

'That's what I was in trouble about. I
said, Either she's acting, or she isn't. If she is
acting, it's the best acting I ever see, and it
would be a shame to spoil the fun ; and if she
isn't, she's a good girl, and it would be a shame
to tell her when she think's she's doing her
best by her mother and Melenda.'

'This is no acting, Joe. Valentine does
not know anything, and she must not be told.'

Besides,' Joe continued, ' it isn't every
young lady who would come and live as she's
living. Not but what she's safe enough ; and
Melenda, though she's set her back up, wouldn't
let anybody insult her but herself. I found
that out first thing, Claude.'

Did you, Joe ? ' Claude was much touched

with this act of forethought. It really was a
good thing for Joe to have done, if you come
to think about it.

Lady Mildred's daughter must not be let
come to no harm,' Joe replied. ' If it hadn't
been for her, where should we all be now?
So, Claude, I had a word or two with Melenda.
And she knows what to do.'

Don't tell my mother, Joe. Let her find
out when the time comes. Perhaps she may
never find out.'

'I won't tell, boy. Don't be afraid of me.
Captain.'

And I say, Joe, don't be offended, you
know, but I hope you haven't told Ehoda or
or anybody at home.'

'Tell Kinder? Ho, ho! Claude, do you
think I was born yesterday? You might as
well tell the parish pump. I've told nobody
except you. Me and you know — that's enough.
Polly is the other one — the one who looked
out of the corners of her eyes at me — thought
I was going to knock her down, perhaps, or say
something rude, or go swearing at the ladies ;
or to jump upon her, very likely ; wondered if
a working man was tame, and looked round

the almshouses as if she was half ashamed and
half cmious and half amused. That one is your
sister, Claude. That's Polly-which-is Maria.'

Claude began to consider rapidly the situation
and its possibilities. If Valentine knew
this, or was to find it out, the whole reasons
for her retreat from the world would be lost,
and she might as well go back again. Then
the brotherly relation with himself Avould be at
an end ; he could no longer go on working with
her in the same free and unrestrained manner.
Why — he thought — what could be the reason
for allowing Valentine to be under his care
unless the maintenance of that brotherly sentiment,
so that there should be no room for any
other when the Discovery had to be made?
It was wise and thoughtful of Lady Mildred,
who was always wise and thoughtful. They
were always to remain brother and sister.
Very well, it was strange to feel that they never
could be brother and sister. Meantime, in
loyalty to his benefactor and friend, the situation
must be accepted now at the cost of some
deception and dissembling.

Is it possible ? ' he said a second time.

As for this one,' Joe went on, ' that you

call Valentine and mother calls Polly, she must
be Miss Beatrice, I repose, and Lady Mildred's
daughter. But, bless you, she isn't a bit proud.
She sings about the place like a lark, and does
up the tea-things, and dusts the room, and
makes the old woman laugh, and fixes her
easy and comfortable ; and then she comes upto
our place and sits down friendly and talks to
the missus ; and she's as good as a mother to
Ehoder — who's afraid of her — and she buys
things for the kids — boots and fruit and toys
and things. She's a topper, Claude. That's
what she is, and don't let's make no error
about that. But you trust me. I won't tell.
As for letting anybody know — why — there '

He filled his pipe again and began to feel
for his box of matches.

'You remember my father well?' asked
Claude.

Joe's face changed curiously, and again
Claude wondered. For this time it chant-ed
from sunshine to cloud, and his eyes darkened.

Yes,' he replied shortly, ' I remember him
very well.'

It is curious,' said Claude, ' that I seem to
know so little about him.'

Well, Claude, there isn't much to know,
perhaps. He's dead. That's about the sum of
it. When a man's dead, there isn't much to
say about him generally, is there? Once a
man's dead, you see — why — he's dead, ain't
he?'

How was it he looked like a gentleman ? '

Can't say,' Joe replied, ' 'cause he never
told me.'

'A locksmith doesn't often look like a
gentleman.'

Well, I'm a plumber and a locksmith,
and a house decorator, and anything you
please. And I suppose I don't look very
much like a gentleman, if you come to that.
Unless it's on Sunday morning, when I've goton
my Sunday trousers and in clean shirt sleeves,
and I'm a- carrying home the beer for dinner,
and then I feel a gentleman down to the ground.
But you always look like one, Claude. There's
no doubt about you. So did father, though
not such an out-and-out Toff as you, Captain.'

I should like to remember him.'

'Should you?' Joe replied, with a strange
light in his eyes. 'Well, Claude, you've got
no call to be ashamed of your father — remember

that — though he was but a locksmith.
Honest he was, and truthful — specially truthful.
That's enough said about father. And don't
you never talk to your mother about him,
because she don't like it. Widows don't mostly,
I suppose, like talking' about their husbands.
Seems natural, somehow.'

As a general proposition this maxim maybe
disputed, but in his own mother's case, Joe
was right. Mrs. Monument did not like talking
about her late husband.

CHAPTER Xii.

THE EARTHLY TRACT SOCIETY.

In this informal way, merely by conversation
on a bench in Victoria Park, was formed a
Partnership which has already accomplished so
considerable a work. It seems, now that we
can look back from the vantage ground of a
few months' history, a natural result of Valentine's
Great Eenunciation and Claude's Great
Surrender. And although the thing is spreading
far and wide, it must not be forgotten that it
was originally intended for the most obscure
and the least known quarter of London, a place
quite hidden away and forgotten, concerning
which nothing has ever been written, and for
which nothing worthy of the chronicler has
ever been attempted. Who could look for
great things out of Hoxton? In that respect
it may compare with a certain little city of
Galilee.

The complete history of this Partnership
will doubtless be some day written in detail.
It is nothing less than a chapter in Political
Economy, and belongs to that important section
of the science which shows how tendencies
have been mistaken for laws ; how selfishness,
avarice, greed, knavery, ch watery, and injustice
have been considered the great and beneficent
purpose of Creation, and tricks of Trade have
been taken as forming part of the Eternal Reign
of Law.

It is, in fact, the story how the supposed
Laws of Humanity may be modified by simple
acts of Humanity. This, if they were indeed
laws, is exactly as if the Laws of Gravitation
could be suspended or reversed by a simple
effort of the human wil. And as the ideas of
the Partnership are spreading, and have already
got outside Ivy Lane and have invaded danger
Street, Wentworth Eoad, Bacchus Walk, and
James Street, and are now crossing the Kings-land
Eoad into Haggerston, and have leaped
across the canal into Islington and Dalton, and
are stirring the sluggish blood of Goswell Eoad,
it is only just to Valentine that the truth about
the beginning of the New Gospel — after all

only a natural outcome of the old — should be
clearly stated.

Great ideas grow quickly in the brains
where they are first inspired, especially if they
are assisted by a Partnership of the only true
kind — namely, a male and female partnership ;
for the masculine mind at its best is as prolific
of ideas as a sunflower is of seeds or an oak of
acorns. It puts them forth freely and without
stint, while the feminine mind receives such of
them as it catches, and nurses them tenderly
while they are yet young, watching them grow,
placing them in the sunshine, keeping them
from East winds until they are able to go alone
and need her care no longer. There have been
Partnerships where the reverse process has been
attempted, but purely feminine ideas have
proved to be weakly sickly things, and man is
never a good nurse. It does not do to fly in
the face of nature. Some day there will be
some such partnerships as this in Art, and
especially in the Art of Fiction, whereby for
the first time the true woman may be revealed
to the admiring man, and the true man to the
admiring woman. As yet it has been given
unto us only partially to discern the working

of the feminine mind, and to understand darkly
that it works on lines wholly different from our
own. There are so many great ideas — just
as there are so many acorns — that by this time
there should be nothing left in the way of
Human endeavour to discover or to do. Unfortunately,
just as there are so many acorns
which never come to oaks, so there are so many
great ideas which perish in the very inception
or first beginning of them. Some are gobbled
up by the pigs — those, namely, which are too
generous for contemporary mankind ; some fall
on rocks — those, namely, which are in advance
of their generation ; some in ditches where they
are choked by weeds — those be they which are
uttered in humble and lowly place ; some fall
among the crowd, which is busy in buying and
selling, and so heed them not, but trample them
under foot ; and some fall into running streams
and are carried out into rivers and so into the
Ocean and are lost — these are ideas which are
proclaimed at the wrong time, as when, during
a time of war, a man shall go about preaching
peace. The loss of all these ideas is a dreadful
hindrance to progress. Another is the inconceivable
stupidity of that blind, deaf-and-dumb

VOL. II. R

race known as the ' Other People.' What a
world — Avhat a wonderful and beautiful world —
could we create in a year or two but for the
Other People ! All the wars, all the injustices,
all the blunders, and all the crimes are due to
the Other People. But for them we should
unite, combine, agree, concert, devise, and
execute such things as the world has never yet
seen. It is for this long-eared race that statesmen
make pledges, promises, and assurances ;
they have eyes which see not and ears which
hear. not ; they are idolaters, and worship one
man, one formula, one idea ; and for stiff-wickedness,
for continual lusting after things
which they ought not to desire, they are worse
than the Israelites in their most palmy days.

What next, Claude ? '

What next, indeed ! What first ? '

To begin with then, I knows quantities of
people in Ivy Lane. I can ask questions without
giving offence. They are all friendly with
me, and they don't think that I am working
for them.'

I suppose nobody likes being worked for,'
said Claude. ' Suppose the working man were
to form a society for the reformation of higher

D

class manners. It would be irritating to know
that hundreds of men and women were going
about in the West End trying to raise one — the
Low Level one — to a higher level. How
would you like it, Valentine, if you knew
that worthy people were wearing blue ribbons
solely in order to make you temperate ? How
should you like to be invited to tea and
addresses for your moral good ? '

I should be very angry.'

So I dare say will your friends in Ivy
Lane become if wee let them suspect that weare
working for them. Patience, Valentine,
and let us get the facts.'

It is in my favour,' she said, ' that I do not
belong to any of the well-known organisations
of parish religious societies — Church or Chapel.
People do not suspect me of wanting them todo
something or believe something, since I
neither wear a monastic dress nor belong to
the religious missions. I am not expected to
rebuke nor to admonish, which makes a great
difference.'

She might also have explained that there
were certain graces of manner peculiar to her
which greatly assisted her and softened the

R 2

hearts of the people and would not permit them
to be brutal.

There stands a little chapel in Ivy Lane, of
which mention has already been made. It is
quite a modest little structure, yet proud, and
justly proud, of the purity with which the
Christian doctrines have always been proclaimed
here to the people by faithful ministers who
have never felt the least need of worldly learning.
It is complete though so small ; there is
a gallery in it ; one window with a circular
head at the back and two in front. There is
also a harmonium, and there is a table on which
a desk stands and does duty for a pulpit on
Sundays. It holds at least forty people without
counting the gallery. One of the first things
the Partners did was to engage this chapel for
week-day services of a different kind. Here
Valentine placed a piano, and invited all the
ladies of Ivy Lane to come and to bring their
babies, on certain evenings, when she gave them
tea, and sang to them ; and sometimes the
Doctor, who had a manly bass, sang too, or
gave recitations ; and sometimes Claude read.
The women came first, because it was a new
thing and pleasant ; then some of them got

tired of the singing and the reading, and wanted
the perfect freedom of their own tongues, and
returned to the open court again. But some
there were — there is always a leaven — who
preferred the peace and the good behaviour in
this chapel to the noise outside. It was from
these quiet women that Valentine gathered, bit
by bit, the real life of the poor. You may
talk to such people for hours together without
hearing anything at all, and then, quite suddenly
and unexpectedly, and perhaps from the most
stupid person in the world, you will get a
single hint, a fact, a suggestion, which makes
your heart leap up because it explains a thousand
things, and shows the way clear and
certain where it was formerly hidden by the
bushes.

Very well ; anybody can hire a hall and
play and sing to people. The Kyle Society
are always doing it, with admirable results.
That is to say, the people are pleased, and go
away, and are not in the smallest degree stimulated
to learn singing and playing for themselves.
If this is all the Partnership and the
Great Eenunciation and the Surrender has been
able to effect, Valentine might as well have

remained among lier own friends and merely
married an Earl or a Viscount, and Claude
might as well have stayed where he was and
merely become in course of time Lord Chancellor.
But there are other things, though
some of them belong to a later period, after
her first three months of exile were finished,
and she had gone home and returned again.
Besides, it is in the nature of every healthy
human thing to grow and of every truly
spiritual thing to grow without knowing the
decay which presently falls upon things of the
flesh. The purpose which began with nothing
more than the study of three working girls,
widened until it covered the whole wide and
terrible subject of women's wrongs ; when
Valentine called for the assistance of Claude it
was in the hope of redressing some of those
wrongs. But man's intellect tends to roam
and woman's to concentrate ; and, as the former
is the stronger, so Purpose grows.

'Don't you think, Claude,' said Valentine
one day, ' don't you think that a person even
in these days may get a Revelation — that is, a
perfectly true idea ? '

Wiry not ? Every true thing is a Revelation,

I suppose. You have a new thing in
your own mind ? '

Is it new ? It is this — if everybody knew
all that science can teach, there would be no
suffering or disease, would there ? '

No, I suppose not, if science could learn
new things as fast as they could teach them to
the people.'

And if they knew everything in morals
there would be no wicked men, would there ? '

The only original sin is ignorance. Your
idea is not quite new, yet it is new enough for
us. Go on, Valentine.'

It is new to me.'

'Huxley has compared life to a game of
chess with an invisible opponent who knows
every move of the game, and takes advantage
of his knowledge. If you make a false move
he crushes you without the least remorse.'

I did not mean anything quite so grand as
that. I meant something much simpler. Such
as that people ought to be clean and to keep
their houses clean ; they ought to take care of
their own health ; they ought to be temperate
and thrifty ; they ought to get fresh air ; they
ought to practise self-control '

All this is perfectly true. But '

^ Wait a little, Claude. I cannot put things
quite like Professor Huxley. They have been
told, I suppose, that they ought to do all these
things. But then they have not been told why.
Do you think if they knew the reasons for
obeying that they would go on disobeying laws? '

You have not said all that is in your mind,
Valentine.'

Not quite. If you told me not to go
across a field but round its sides I might obey
or I might not. If you proved to me that I
must not cross the field because there was a
great shaking quagmire in the middle which
would swallow me up, I should certainly not
cross the field.'

I begin to perceive, my Partner, that you
have got hold of a practical idea.'

It came of something you said the other
day, Claude,' she said, blushing with the pleasure
of having really thought of something.

Of course. Adam once laid all the blame
on Eve, and she has been giving him all the
praise ever since.'

Well — perhaps — I do not know — things
may be so connected that it would be easier to

move the men in the right direction if we first
endeavoured to make them more careful about
their homes.'

You connect the women with the home,
of course.'

Do you really think my idea, though it
may not be at all new, may be worth considering
? Should we begin by teaching people
something? Oh ! we are getting on so slowly.'

'Do not be despondent, Valentine. We
shall get on slowly though we give all our lives
to the task. We have got to accomplish something
well-nigh impossible. We have got to
find out if anything can possibly be done to
improve the condition of our friends. As for
that quagmire illustration of yours it is almost
as good as the chess comparison. But who is
to make the people understand it? '

You, Claude, of course.'

Claude laughed. ' Of course I can do ^
everything. Well, I obey. The real Augean
stable, I am quite sure, was Ivy Lane, and the
river which was turned into it was the Regent's
Canal. It was, in those days, called the Ever
of Knowledge.'

It was from this conversation that the great

Earthly Tract Association first had its origin.
Attempts have been made, I know, to connect
the foundation of this most remarkable Society
with other people, and many go about professing
themselves to have been the Founders.
But the real Founder was none other than
Valentine ; the first members were only herself
and Claude ; they began with the expenditure
of half-a-sovereign and the printing of a single
tract, which Valentine gave to her friends, the
women of Ivy Lane ; they wrote all the earlier
tracts themselves, though it was very early
in their history that the Doctor joined them.
Little by little more tracts were written and
distributed ; then they began to re write the
first tracts, which naturally attempted too
much, and they recast their original design.
How the thing grew and extended itself in all
directions ; how people from Manchester and
Birmingham and Bradford, where they are
always open to ideas, heard of these tracts, and
sent for them, and for more ; how the tracts
began to be spoken about ; how wealthy people
gave them money, and the sale of the tracts
brought in more money, and how they were
obliged to have an office and to take in clerks,

and how that office is spreading into a great
warehouse, and the tracts are being translated
into all languages, and how it will very shortly
become a vast buildings on the Thames Embankment
— all this is history which has to be
written in the immediate future when the
Earthly Tract Society shall have done its work
and scattered knowledge over the whole world,
as the late Professor Hollo way scattered his
advertisements, and shall have taught people
in simple language the Conduct of Life. ' If,'
said the original Prospectus of the Society,
people had taken as much pains to spread the
knowledge of things in general as they have
taken to spread the knowledge of one form of
the Christian Faith — which they might have
done, and not left the other undone — the
general ignorance would be by this time as
good as gone ; it would have been swept away
as by a mop and a bucket.'

The whole of the English-speaking world
that is to say, the educated and the uneducated
— clearly understand the Christian creed
as it is expounded by the Evangelical Party ;
and this, not because the people all go to
church, which they do not, nor because they

read books, for they never read any book ; nor
because these things are presented to them in
the papers, which is not the case, for the papers
preserve silence on these subjects ; nor is it due
to their home influences, which make more for
the derision of all religions than for the defining
of any particular form ; nor to their schools,
because catechisms are no longer taught in
them ; but wholly, solely, and entirely to the
dissemination of Tracts. Would you, therefore
' — one is still quoting from the Prospectus
' make the people wise in the Conduct of
Life ? Write Tracts, give them simple rules of
life and the reasons for them. Then distribute
these Tracts broadcast among the people, from
street to street and from house to house — keep
on distributing Tracts. Prepare a Tract, or a
series of Tracts, for every virtue and for every
vice, setting forth as faithfully as the Religious
Tracts have done for many years, the true
Doctrine and the consequence of violatingitslaws.'
The first thing,' said Claude, while this
Prospectus was under consideration, ' is to
write the Tracts.'

That of course, Claude, you will do.'

Of course, Valentine. I am an encyclopaedia.'

You can consult an encyclopaedia. Let us
begin at once.'

We will form ourselves,' said Claude,
'into an Association. You shall be the
President, I will be the Secretary ; we will
call ourselves the Earthly Tract Society, to
distinguish ourselves from the older Association,
which has never attempted the improvement of
the world in comfort, culture, and manners.
I think the name sounds well and will carry
weight. And now, Valentine, let us begin to
set down some of the Tracts we shall want and
to give them their titles.'

Let no one think it an easy matter to write
a tract. Many of the earlier ones, for instance,
those that were first issued, proved quite
useless, because they were pitched a note too
high or a note too low. A Tract must Jive a
definite thing to say, and it must say that thing
with great vigour and plainness, and without
the least chance of mistake ; the propositions
laid down must be, if possible, those which are
not capable of denial ; and they must be stated
with attractiveness. No Tract, for instance,
must contain a theory or anything which maybe
argued against. Every Tract must also be

short ; and perhaps it is as well that there
should be half a dozen Tracts on the same
subject ; it is well, also, that the Tract should
be signed, because people like a man who is
not afraid to advance his opinions. Sometimes
a dialogue may prove the most useful way of
presenting the subject — Sometimes a fable,
sometimes a story, sometimes a piece of history ;
in fact there is no form of literature which
may not be pressed into the service of the
Earthly Tract Association, except Satire. This
would be a perfectly useless weapon when
employed against the habits of the Avorking
classes. One might as well address them in
Greek or Hebrew.

The most successful of the early series
were, I think, all written by the Partnership,
and among them, especially, were the Domestic
series. It began with the Tract on Wives,
meaning the right Treatment of a Wife, with
her husband's plain duties towards her; the
corresponding Paper on Husbands ; on Children,
with a Parent's duty to his offspring ; on
Language, the word used in its popular sense,
and with special reference to the use of the
Universal Adjective ; on the House ; on Woman's

clothes ; ou DiiiiicTs ; on clean Streets ; on
Water ; on Fresh Air ; on Amusements ; on
Holidays ; on Beer ; on Pretty Things ; on
Dressing the Hair ; on Boots ; on Wages, high
and low ; in the last-named tract the workingmen
are first approached, but with great
delicacy, on the subject of permitting their
girls to take less wages than will keep a girl
strong and healthy ; on Hours of Work ; and
so on. When the Doctor became associated
with them he contributed the well-known
Tracts on certain forms of disease, and how
they may be prevented ; on certain elementary
principles of Physiology ; on Food, and what
should be eaten ; on Exercise ; on Tobacco ;
and many others. It was later that the Series
of Tracts appeared which dealt with the duties
and privileges of an English subject ; it was
from these papers that the English workman
learned for the first time, with considerable
astonishment, what neither his school nor his
newspaper had taught him, the prodigious
extent and wonderful history of his own country,
how it grew, and how it must be preserved and
developed, his own inheritance in the world
and what it means to be an Englishman. The

latest Tracts of all are those on the Co-operation
of men and women, and if these tracts are to
bring about the Doctor's Universal League of
Labour, it will be interesting to watch that
body and to consider its ways. One need
hardly stop to notice the very remarkable
effect of the Tracts upon Ivy Lane, because they
are already well known, and the place has now
become a Show Street. The houses are as
beautifully clean as a Dutch village, the blinds
are white, the little chapel has become a
Concert and Dancing room, the Adelaide Tavern
is the Street club ; there are flowers in every
window, and these are clean ; within, the floors
are scrubbed, walls are dusted, water is filtered ;
the men have quite left off getting drunk ; they
never swear unless the situation demands strong
and plain words ; they do not beat their wives ;
the women do not scream and fly into rages ;
quarrelling among them is almost unknown ;
all alike have grown critical over their meat,
their beer, their tea, their coffee, their bread,
and their dress ; every family saves something
every week ; and the Universal Adjective has
quite fallen into contempt, though, I confess, it
may still be heard in other parts of London.

More important still is the growth and
development of the institution founded to run
side by side with the Earthly Tract Society,
that of the Street Committees. Every street
has now its own committee, elected by the
inhabitants. Up to the present time their
functions have been almost entirely sanitary ;
but they are gradually invading the region of
morals, and they are already the terror of the
fustian and the dread of the vestry, and the
cause why landlords blaspheme. Besides, other
streets have followed the example of Ivy Lane.
There is, as mentioned above, a Movement in
danger Street ; there is a shaking in Myrtle
Eow, and Bacchus Walk has already elected its
Committee. It is to the Street Committees
that the Earthly Tract Society look most
confidently for the carrying out of their most
ambitious projects. For in morals and insanitary
measures, and in the general Conduct
of Life, nothing can be forced on the people
which the people have not resolved upon
getting for themselves. But consider the possibilities
of a Street Committee. Where would
the wicked man find a home if the Street
Committee be watchful for righteousness?

VOL. II. s

Where would the Fenian and the Dynamite
rest their heads if the Street Committee refuse
to receive them ? What will be the fate of
that landlord who refuses to keep his houses in
repair ? What that of the tenant who refuses
to do his share of the cleaning-up work ? And
how long, think you, will the Street Committees
suffer the women to live under the Law of
Elevenpence-Ha'penny ? There will come a
time — one sees it already in the close future —
when the pickpocket shall find no home anywhere,
and the burglar no place to store his
swag and keep his jemmy ; when all evil-doing
shall be driven out of the land, and faith,
goodness, charity, hope, and the love of beauty
and the desire for Art shall spring up like
flowers in the sunny month of June, and the
men shall at last join hands and shall swear by
the Living God the women shall no longer be
robbed and wronged.

Moses, as we know, proceeded on the
method of inculcating all his laws and precepts
together — the Earthly at the same time as the
Heavenly. But then he had a Chosen People,
and even with them the result of this method
did not yield results by any means so satisfactory

as might have been clesireil. Perhaps Claude
and Valentine were wise in their generation
when they made their people clean first and
taught the nobler truths next, and left religion
to those who profess religion.

But I am sorry to say that the Assistant
Priest of St, Agatha's refused to assist in
writing the Tracts, or in their distribution,
because they were not in the first place put
under the protection of the Church, and
because poverty and disease were treated as
things which might be removed by wise treatment,
and nothing was said about the duty of
Discipline, Confession, and Penance, and because
the Institution of Lent was left out of the
programme altogether.

s 2

CHAPTER Evil

THE STEP AVI TH OUT.

About a fortnight after that strange and terrifying
dream came to Mrs. Monument, and
when she had at length completely shaken off
the horror of it and nearly forgotten to dread
its return, it did come again, like some foul
spirit who refuses to be laid. It came just as
before, with the sound of a remembered footfall.
There is no one single man in the whole
habitable globe who is not unlike every other
man as regards every single feature, detail, and
particular of mind and of body. For instance,
you may secure the identification of a man for
life by taking an impression on wax of his
forefinger or thumb, ]because the curves and
corrugations of the skin differ with every man
and are peculiar to him. Each of us is individual,
and stands alone in the universe — incomplete
isolation — a thing curious and terrifying

to consider. Most marked of all is a man's
footstep, which, once recognised, can never be
mistaken or forgotten. So that, when that
dead man's footstep came again, Mrs. Monument
was stricken with a terror unspeakable,
and tenfold worse than on the first occasion.
It came in the daytime, too, when such things
are never expected. If the spirits of the dead
walk, it is at night and in the dark, though
even then it is not usual, nor is it recorded of
any that they Walk in boots and reproduce the
old familiar footstep. I have never yet heard
this thing of any Ghost nor have I ever yet seen
any who Walked in boots. There have been
instances — but they are few — of daylight
apparitions, but tradition and custom have
established a prejudice against the mixture of
sunshine with the spirit world. This is the reason
why the Supernatural Terror — a thing quite
apart from any other feeling — is so much more
terrible by day than by night. A Nightmare
we know : not a pleasant creature, but familiar,
and an old acquaintance in whatever form it
comes. But a Damage — that, if you please,
is a thing so uncommon and of such rare experience
that it belongs to the category of

Nameless Things which follow after the lone'
list of devils, imps, ghosts, elves, fiends. Streets,
Nimis, and spectres which possess and enjoy, like
Peers of Great Britain, their titles and ranks.

It was in the evening, bnt before sunset.
The old lady had taken her tea and sent Ehoda
home. She expected her daughter Polly, and
she sat in her great chair beside the empty
fireplace, knitting in hand, waiting with the
stolid patience of the blind. The evening was
warm, and, after a comfortable tea, one may
sometimes experience a fuller sense of comfort
than is generally the lot of mortals, and Mrs.
Monument was just then completely free from
rheumatism, and had no other kind of ache,
pain, or disease either beginning, or going on,
or coming to an end, which is unusual when a
person reaches the age of sixty. All these
causes combined made Mrs. Monument drop
her eyes and her knitting, one after the other,
and persuaded her to nod her head with the
Eoyal Condescension only to be observed at
such moments, aud then to let her soul lie
down and be at rest, while her eyes dropped
and her lips opened. Mrs. Monument was fast
asleep.

She slept peaceably for half an hour. The
almshouses were always quiet behind their
brick wall, but to-day all the Collegians, except
herself, were out basking in the sun, which is a
perfect cure for everything when you can get
enough of it ; and the place was absolutely
silent and peaceful. The continual rolling outside
of carriages and carts, the tramp of the
footsteps on the pavement, were audible, it is
true, because they were going on all day long,
and the greater part of the night, just on the
other side of the wall, but no one in the houses
ever heard them or noticed them, nor did they
break the slumbers of the lightest sleeper, nor
did they add anything to the most grievous
headache.

Suddenly Mrs. Monument awoke with a
cry. She started and sat upright, with pale
cheek and outstretched arms, and blind eyes
which rolled helplessly around.

The stejo ! I heard his step again.'

She listened. But it did not come again.
There was the rolling of the tramcar and the
jingling of its bells ; there was the rumbling of
heavy waggons; there was the whistle of an
engine on the railway ; there were the steps of

passengers ; there was a barrel-organ ; there
was the whistling of a boy. But there was not
the step which had awakened her. It was a
single and solitary step ; a step like Eobinson
Crusoe's impression of one — only one — foot on
the sand — a single footfall — a mysterious footfall
— where was the other foot? Was it a
one-legged Seven League Boot? Mrs. Monument
sat listening for another, but no other
touched her ears.

Tien she sprang to her feet, and with every
outward sign of terror, with trembling hands
and parted lips, she began to grope and feel
about the room, stopping every moment to
listen, lest the step should fall again and should
escape her. But she could find nothing ; she
could hear nothing ; as for the footstep, she
would have heard it, she thought, fifty yards
away. Why, she had heard it once before —
the footstep which had been silent for twenty
years, but which she never could forget ; once
before it smote her ear in the middle of the
night, and now in daytime, close beside her, in
the very room she heard it — a soft and gentle
step which she could not mistake.

She felt about the open door ; she came

out into the little court and stretched lier
hands out as if in search of space illimitable.

It was the Dream,' she murmured. ' It was
the Dream come back assail. But there was
some one in the room. I know there was someone
in the room.'

She knew it by the instinct of the blind,
Alio feel the presence of things without seeing
or touching them.

And Avliile she stood there, a pitiful spectacle
of fear and horror, the latch of the gate was
lifted and her daughter Polly came into the
closed harden of the almshouse.

Mrs. Monument was wrong. It was no
dream. She had heard her husband's footstep,
because he was standing before her, looking
lier full in the face. He was not dead at all,
but alive. And he was enlarged ; they had suffered
him to go free ; he was released with a document
entitled, after the name of a celebrated
play, the ' Ticket of Leave.' He had called
a day or two after his release to see his wife,
as a husband should, after nearly twenty years
of separation. She was, on that occasion, gone
to bed ; and so he came away. Business, that

is to say, an eager and wolflike pursuit of
pleasure and drink after twenty years of abstinence,
kept him away for a whole fortnight.
Now, his money being well-nigh spent, he called
again.

A little while before Mrs. Monument woke
up so suddenly and cried out, and began to
carry on in so surprising a manner all by herself,
there came along the road, on the east
side of it, where the sunshine falls in the afternoon
and evening, and where, for that charitable
reason, they have planted most of the
almshouses, a man somewhat advanced in years.
He was dressed neatly in a sober grey tweed
suit, and Adore a round hat. He was slightly
built, and a little below the middle height ; a
thin, spare man with sharp features and small
delicate hands ; his hair was short and quite
grey, and his cheek was smooth shaven. His
features were small and fine, especially his
mouth ; his eyes were bright and surrounded
with quite a cobweb of crow's feet and wrinkles.
He had something the appearance of a gentleman's
servant, a butler in a great house, a hall
porter in a club, or something extremely respectable

in the Service, and therefore he seemed
out of place in a region where there are few
gentlemen's servants kept, and where clubs
are unknown except for political purposes.
Certainly a most respectable person, with a
little awkwardness about his manner of vv^alking
as if he was a stranger to crowded streets.
Presently he stopped in front of a low brick
wall with a gate in the middle of it and hesitated.
Then he lifted the latch, opened the
gate and stepped within, where was the garden
of the almshouses, and behind the garden the
row of cottages.

The man turned to the rif^ht and walked
straight to the last of the cottages, that, namely,
which belonged to Mrs. Monument. It might
have been noticed by an observant person that
he walked almost noiselessly, an art which
may be acquired by anybody, but it requires
study and much practice. When you have acquired
it you have also acquired the Stealthy
Style, much spoken of by the better class of
novelists, those, namely, whose publishers sell
their productions at a penny the Complete
Novelette. This style may be of advantage to
some kinds of professional men, especially if.

as this gentleman was, they happen to be
burglars by profession. When the man reached
the door of the cottage, which stood wide open,
he looked in. Beside the empty fireplace in her
chair sat an old woman with white hair, asleep.

The man looked at her curiously.

She is changed,' he murmured. ' I wonder
if she will know me, and I wonder what
she will say when she sees me ? I wonder if
she knows I am alive.'

He stepped inside noiselessly and looked
about the little room. The woman still slept
undisturbed. There was nothing in the room
worth stealing if he wished to steal ; nor was
there anything particularly interesting to look
at ; but his eyes fell upon the shelf of books, and
he nodded with a kind of satisfaction. So \ox\^
as the books — his books — were there, he was not
forgotten. On the table was some knitting
work and needles in a basket, and lying with
the work a torn envelope. He took this out —
being an extremely curious person — and read
the address upon it. ' Claude Monument, Esq.,
25 King's Bench Walk, Temple.' It had been,
in fact, left there by Valentine.

Claude Monument ! He remembered now ;

there was a son of his named Claude — Ckiude
Naval. The boy was Having, then, or at least
working in the Temple where the lawyers
live ; perhaps a lawyer's clerk. His own son a
lawyer's clerk ! Strange Irony of Fate ! He
folded the letter and placed it carefully in his
pocket. It might be useful. This man was
none other, in fact, than the great James Carey
himself, once the acknowledged head of his
Profession, formerly the Prince of Burglars.
And he was set loose again upon an unsuspecting
world after twenty years of seclusion.
When such a man as James Carey is set free
the world ought to be warned. It was his step
that the poor woman of the almshouses had
actually heard in the evening. He had come ;
he had found the room dark and empty, and
he had gone away again. Now he was come
back to make his release known to his
affectionate family, and to look around.
Twenty years of prison fare and life do not
make a man inclined for honest work ; and if
there was any money to be got out of his wife
and children, before 'jobs' began to offer
themselves again, he might as well get that
money.

Perhaps he stepped upon a loose plank;
perhaps he forgot his habitual caution — I know
not — but suddenly the woman started in her
sleep, sat bolt upright, and shrieked, ' this step !
I hear his step again ! '

In an instant he saw that his wife was
blind ; her glaring eyes rolled over him so to
speak as if he was not present; he saw her
blindness in her outstretched hands and gestures
of helplessness. The thing was quite unexpected,
but with quick step and without the
least noise, he crossed the threshold, stepped
over the flagstones, and took up his position
among the cabbage stumps outside, where he
waited and watched.

His wife was blind and in an almshouse.
He had made up his mind that there would
be changes. People do not stand still ; the
children would be grown up ; perhaps they
would be ashamed of their father ; their mother,
he knew, regarded his exploits with a most
extraordinary and unaccountable prejudice.
He had no doubt that she had tried to make
them respectable, whereas, if he had had his
way with the children, there would not have
been in the whole world a cleverer or a more

successful gang of plunderers, a more united
and happy family, or one which lived more
merrily and enjoyed more abundantly the fruits
of the earth — other people's fruits, of course — ■
in due season. Shame, that a man should not
be permitted, even in prison, to direct the
education of his own children in their own
interests. But if they were respectable and
unwilling to own their father, he must then —
he had thought it all out — he must compel
them to pay for his silence and suppression by
a weekly subsidy. But who would have
thought that his wife would 2^0 blind ? He
did not know what to say or how to act, and
therefore he did nothing, but watched.

She came tottering to the door and stretched
out her arms to the world, crying ' Who is
there ? Who is there ? '

The man made no reply. He had fully
intended to present himself, and to say, ' Here
I am, back again. Give me all the money you
have got in the place. Tell me where all the
children are. I shall want money till I get
back to my old work. As for repentance,
don't think of it, and as for talking, stow it.'
This was the amiable speech he had proposed

to make. But his wife was blind as well as
grey, and, for some spark of humanity still
lurking in his breast, he could not make that
speech. While he stood among the cabbage
stumps there suddenly appeared between his
wife and himself a third person — a young lady.

Mother,' she said, taking the blind woman's
hand, ' what is it ? Oh ! what is it ? ' For she
connected the terror and the helpless hands
with the strange man standing, silent, opposite
to the door.

It's the dream come back. Oh ! Polly,
thank God you've come, my dear ! It's the
dreadful dream. I heard his step a fortnight
ago, in the night — once — only once — upon the
stones, and again I heard it just now — once.
My dear, my dear, I'm frightened out of my
wits. Is it the dead come back to plague
me?'

The step again ? '

Your father's step, my dear. And something
there was in the room. I felt it. something
in the room. His ghost most likely.'

Valentine turned upon the man a face so
full of horror, and loathing, and shame, that it
actually pierced him to the heart, though his

conscience was long since seared with a hot
iron, and twenty years of prison had only
hardened him. Yet those eyes made him
shiver, and he dropped his own.

What a strange thing ! ' She kept her
eyes upon the man as one keeps his eye upon
a wild beast. 'You are sure you heard his
step ? '

Quite sure. As if I could ever forget this
step.' The man smiled complacently. ' I
heard it on the boards, falling as soft as the
step of a cat. And oh ! Polly — thank God
you've come,' she repeated, clinging to her
daughter.

Why, mother,' she replied, in a strange
voice and with burning cheeks, ' he is dead
long ago — five years ago ; ' she held up a
warning finger to the man. ' Thank Heaven !
the miserable, wretched man died in his
miserable, wretched prison, where he deserved
to die, and was buried in the prison churchyard,
where he deserved to be buried, among
the thieves and rogues, his companions. Don't
tremble so, mother : he is dead, we have forgotten
him and all his villanies.'

Yes, my dear, yes. But your own other,

yoL. II. T

my clear. Don't speak ill of your father and
your mother, because it brings bad luck. And
him dead too. But why did I hear his step ? '

I don't know. There is nobody here,
dear,' she said tenaciously, and with another
warning gesture with her forefinger. ' You
were dreaming again. Now go back and sit
down and calm yourself. As for me, I am
going to get you something for your supper — a
lettuce, I think. Yes, I will be back in five
minutes. Go and sit down, dear. Oh ! you
poor, dear old thing, what a fright you have
had ! Sit down now. I am here, you know,
and if anybody offered to frighten you, I would
I would kill him.' She said this with such
ferocity in her eyes that the man in the garden
trembled.

She placed the old woman in her chair.
Then she went outside again, and silently
beckoned the man to follow her. He obeyed
her, walking among the vegetables, where his
footsteps were not heard.

Outside the place, Valentine took the first
turning to the right, which happened to be a
new street of grey-brick houses not yet finished.
Nobody ever walks in unfinished streets of

grey-brick houses, not even lovers, who will
walk anywhere else, but not in unfinished
streets, between lines of dreadful grey bricks.
On Sundays the jerry-builder walks there alone
and wonders how long his houses are likely to
stand.

Presently she stopped and turned fiercely
upon the man.

Oh ! wretch ! ' lie cried, ' I know who you
are. Oh! mean and skulking wretch! We
thought you were dead ; we rejoiced that you
died, like a miserable rat in a trap, in your
prison cell, and were buried in the prison
churchyard.'

What do you mean ? '

'Silence! Don't dare to speak. Let me
think.'

For she understood that the most dreadful
thing in the world that could happen to them
had happened. Dreadful to everyone of them.
To the poor old lady, to Joe, the honest and
respectable Joe, who had nothing but his good
name, to Sam, to Melenda, and, most dreadful
of all, to Claude, and — no, no — Violet must
never know, whatever else happened, whoever
else suffered. She understood what this man

T 2

meant, and she was filled with wrath because
she was not his daughter.

You are not dead, then ; and the first use
you make of your liberty is to terrify your
wife. You ought to have slunk into some corner
where no one knew you, and buried your
shameful head there till you died. Oh ! I know
your story, your miserable, disgraceful story.'

You called her mother,' he said, stupidly
staring, 'and you're a young lady, likely, or
perhaps only a young lady's-maid.'

She made no reply.

If she's your mother, you must be my
daughter.'

Again she made no reply.

And a precious dutiful daughter she's
made you.' He cleared his throat and began
to pluck up his spirits. ' I'll have it out of her
for this. You mind that. I'll have it out of
her, and I'll have it out of you, too — both of
you — all of you.' He stopped to swear a
little — just a little — meaning to swear a great
deal before he finished. ' Now, then, where's
your obedience ? Where's your Fifth Commandment?
— before I take and wring your
undutiful and impudent ncck.^ '

He did use miicli stronger language, but
that was the substance of his remarks, and the
rest may be understood. He also doubled his
fist and shook it in Valentine's face, but not
with much confidence.

If you dare to touch me with your little
finger,' said Valentine, ' I will shake you to a
jelly, you miserable creature ! '

She was taller than this slight, small-limbed
man, and a good deal heavier. Moreover,
there was in her eyes a light of wrath so lurid,
and on her cheeks such a fiery glow, and she
looked so remarkably as if she could do it, and
would rejoice in doing it, that the man was
cowed. But he looked dangerous.

Well, then, you're my daughter, I suppose
he went on sulkily. ' What's your name ? '

I am called Polly,' she replied, with some
hesitation. ' Your youngest child was baptized
Maria.'

A pretty Maria you are,' he said. ' This
comes of a girl growing up without a father's
care. And how do I know what you do for a
living ? Maria — yes, I remember now. One
forgets a many things in quod. Maria it was.
I made up the name myself from a beautiful

book about pirates and scuttle' ships, and
fighting with marine spikes — they don't keep
them books in quod. And the other gal was
Melenda. And that name I made, too. I
forget how I made that name — Mile End, was
it ? Mile End in the book F— I forget. And
there was three boys — Joe was the eldest — and
Sam and Claude ; a pretty boy Claude was.
Like me he was. I chose his name, too, after
Claude Duval, the Prince of Highwaymen.'

Valentine shuddered. Yes, Claude tuas
like him ; and so, alas ! was Violet. The likeness
was unmistakable.

Come,' he said, ' don't go on like a she-devil.
I'm back again. You can't get over
that. Let's be jolly. Lord ! I don't want
quarrels. I never did. Your mother '11 tell
you that I was always a man for peace and
quietness, if such was to be had with my dacca
and my grog, or it might ha' been my port
wine and my sherry wine. And you're a
pretty girl, my dear, with a fine spirit of your
own. There ! I respect you for it. You're
the girl to stand up for your mother, ain't
you, now ? Kiss your old father, Maria, my
dear.'

He made as thoni^h he was about to kiss
her. Valentine — I shudder ; one cannot choose
but shudder — Valentine shrank back, and, with a
cry of disgust, actually lifted her hand and struck
the man on the cheek with so hearty a goodwill
that he reeled. Ivino^ Richard Lion Heart
never dealt a better stroke. That this wretched
convict, this common felon, should offer to kiss
her !

Oh ! ' she cried, ' if you dare to touch me,
I will kill you.'

The man picked up his hat which had
fallen off and stared stupidly. That a girl
should chastise her own father !

Oh ! what a pity, what a thousand pities,'
Valentine went on pitilessly, ' that you are not
dead.'

He began to whine, holding his hat in his
hand, and addressing the unsympathetic grey
bricks and the scaffolds.

'I return home,' he complained, 'after
twenty years. The moment I am out I hurry
to my wife's humble home. I have put off
the old man, and am resolved to lighten her
lot and cheer her declining years, which is a
shadow of things to come. I am full of

repentance, and count all things else but loss,
as I frequently told the good chaplain. My feet
are now shod with the preparation of the
Gospel of Peace, and I Avalk in love. I told
him that too, and he believed it ' — the man
actually grinned. Then he became serious
again. ' As for my character, my only anxiety
is to redeem it ; and having been a brand ready
for the burning, but now plucked from the
fire, I expected treatment accordingly. And
this is what I get ! A daughter who calls me
names, and strikes her old father. Strikes
her poor, old, grey-headed, infirm, tottering
father. But T offer the other cheek.' He did
so ostentatiously, but Valentine took no advantage
of the offer. ' This is the Christian
spirit of my child. Take the other cheek. It
may kill me. But take it. I have had my
faults ; I own that I have had faults ; but I
always loved my children. Let me go to your
mother, Maria. She will receive me in a better
spirit. He that loveth his wife loveth himself.
Let me find out my four other dear children.
There is Samuel — my son Samuel. I hope he
is given to virtuous courses. And Melenda —
my dear pretty Melenda. I pray that she is a

Christian and a Churches, and. all a penitent
and forgiven father, who has worked out his
sentence, and got a good character again, can
hope to find. And there is Claude '

Stop ! ' cried Valentine imperiously.

He obeyed, watching her with furtive and
evil looks.

I know,' Valentine continued, after a little
reflection, ' that you can talk. You deceived
your poor wife by your lies and your glib talk
into marrying you. Let us have no more
speeches. Now listen to me ' — her words were
brave, but her heart was beating. ' Listen tome'
— she took courage by the aspect and
appearance of the man, who watched her like
a cowed and frightened cur — ' you are to go
away from here — quite away to another part of
London. I don't care where you go. You are
never to see your wife again, or attempt to see
her, or write to her, or let her know in any way
that you are alive. Oh ! we have thanked God
so often that you are dead that we cannot
afford to have you coming to life again. You
are a dead man, do you hear? First of all,'
she repeated, ' you are never to see or to communicate
with your wife. Never — never.'

I hear. What the devil's coming next, I
wonder ? '

Meantime he had observed — he had not
forgotten his old trick of observation — two or
tln^ee things Which struck him with wonder and
made him reflect. The girl had white delicate
hands ; her fingers were not marked or pricked
with any kind of work ; her dress which was
simple was well made, and she wore dainty
well-made boots. It is only a lady Who wears
a'ood boots, he thoiiiijht, because he had in his
old days made careful studies of the sex for
professional purposes. But how in the world
could his daughter be a lady ?

The next thing is that you are not to try
to communicate with any of your children, or
find out where they live. Do you hear ? You
shall not make their lives shameful for them
by your loathsome and horrible presence.'

Suppose I won't promise ? Why should I ? '

'In that case you shall get no help. I
promise you so much — not the least help
from any of us. We shall keep you from your
wife by main force if necessary. You may
starve in the ditch and we will not help you.'

I have often wondered how Valentine

would have received this man had she not
known the Avhole truth concerning .
One or two tidings are quite certain.
She would not have used language of such excellent
plainness ; nor would she have boxed
his ears ; nor would she have been so unhesitating
in her manner and her action.

I only want honest work,' he said with a
whine. ' Give me honest work and I will
trouble no one. You shan't know you've got
a lather. I forgive you for your hard words —
for your blows. Let us — oh ! let us walk in
love.'

'I do not believe that you want work at
all,' said Valentine ; ' you did not work before
you went to prison, and I do not believe that
you want to been now. You want drink and
tobacco, and nothing to do. Well ; I will give
you what you want — on conditions. What
money have you ? '

He sadly replied that he had nothing ; nota
copper, which of course was a lie. He went
on to explain, forgetting that he had already
said he was just out of prison, that he had spent
such money as was due to him in the fruitless
search after work.

I am weary and footsore,' he said, with a
sigh. ' Weariness I complain not of, and foot-soreness
is my righteous punishment.'

Lift up your foot.' The man obeyed.
Twenty years of prison make a man ready to
obey anybody. ' It is false ; your boots are
quite new ; you "have not walked about at
all.'

'And yet she is my daughter — my own
little Maria ! That I thought would have sat
upon my poor knees and comforted my broken
heart. And she's got a hard heart — oh ! what
a hard heart ! I'd rather have my footsoreness
than such a hard heart.'

I do not want any promises or assurances
from you at all,' Valentine went on, ' and I
want no more hypocrisies. I will give you — I
will give you ' — she considered how little she
might offer — ' a sovereign a week so long as
you keep away. The moment you seek to find
out any of your children or terrify your wife
the allowance ceases. Do you hear and understand
? '

Yes, I hear. What's a sovereign ? It isn't
worth making a promise about. I can spend
a sovereign a day and think nothing of it.'

Then earn a sovereign a day.'

If you can get a sovereign a week to give
away, you can get two. I shan't ask how you
get it, my dear. Lord ! everybody knows
that a lady's-maid — you look like a lady's-maid
— generally gets opportunities.' He looked
so desperately cunning that Valentine longed to
box his ears again. When a woman begins
boxing of ears there's no saying where she may
leave off — witness the case of certain Czarinas
and other ladies who have had command of
the knout and the flagellum and the stake.
Spring it to tv/o sovereigns for your poor old
father, Maria, my child.'

I will give you one and no more — but
only on my own conditions. Here is the first
Aveek's money.' She opened her purse and
took out the golden coin. His eyes greedily
grasped the fact that there were many more
lying in the purse. ' It is the last if j^ou break
my conditions. If you do not, I will send
another next week to the address you may
name.'

She gave him a leaf from a pocket-book,
and he wrote on it an address to some street in
the East End.

You can write to me to the almshouse ;
to the care of my mother. But don't sign
your letter ; and don't dare to address me — meas
your child.'

Who are you, then? ' he asked, looking at
her with admiration and surprise. ' Who are
you, if you are not my child .^ A daughter of
Hester Monument should be standing over a
washtub. What are you ? '

That I shall not tell you. Eemember that
there is not one of your children — not one of
them who knows the truth — who will not
receive you with shame and horror unutterable.
There is not one who will give you a helping
hand except myself. You have your choice.
Take my twenty shillings a week and go away
and get drunk among the rogues and villains
your friends. If you refuse my conditions,
or offer to molest any of us, you shall see how
much you will get from all of us together.
Go!'

There were two or three things in this
speech which filled Mr. Carey with pain — •
especially to be told that his children regarded
him with shame. Every man who becomes,
whether by his own consent or not, a hermit

for twenty years, builds up during his isolation
an eijigie of himself. Mr. Carey knew that he
had retired amidst a blaze of popularity ; the
]papers were full of him and his exploits ;
]portraits were sold of him in the Illustrated
Police News and elsewhere ; he knew that he
stood first in the profession, which is a proud
tiling for anybody in any profession to say. He
was the Premier Burglar. He was the gallant
hero who pitted his own ingenuity and resources
against all the intellect and the strength and
the organisation that the richest country in the
world can command. To be caught and
clapped in prison was a defeat, to be sure, but
there was all that glory — ' loathing and horror '
the girl called it. This, then, was their
mother's influence — their mother's ; the influence
of one who could never rise to the level
of his Greatness.

And she said he had consorted with rogues
and villains. Rogues and villains — rebels when
successful become revolutionists — would willingly
have consorted with him, but he Avould
have none of their companionship. He lived
apart from the vulgar criminal ; he consorted
not with the C(^nnnon burglar. He worked

alone, and lie lived apart from this fellow-professional.


I do not suppose that Mr. Carey expected
to be received with open arms. But he did
expect some show of respect — at least that
respect due to his position in the walk of life
he adorned. And to be received with these
words of disgust and insult by his youngest
daughter — it was hard to bear. Had it been
her mother he would have felt it less, because
she was a woman of slow imagination and contracted
views, and could never understand his
glory.

Go,' said his unnatural daughter.

He obeyed, and started on his way without
a word.

No,' she said, ' not back by that road.
You will pass the almshouse, and she may hear
your footstep again. Go down this road.'

I do not know where it leads to.'

I don't care. Go this way.'

He obeyed, and walked slowly away, turning
from time to time like an unwilling cur.
Each time he turned his head he saw the girl
standing; in the road v>\atchin£r him.

Alien he was out of sight, Valentine returned
slowly to the almshouses.

That was a terrible dream, Polly, wasn't
it?'

'A dreadful dream, mother. But I don't
think it will come again. I will stay here tonight
just to prevent your having it, you know.
It won't come if you think some one is with
you.'

Polly, my dear, it is just wonderful the
difference since you came back. And, oh ! the
comfort of having some one that I can tell all
my troubles to ! '

VOL. II.

CHAPTEE XVIII.

LE PERE Pedicle.

The ticket-of-leave man went away obediently ;
and, once arrived in the main road, he began
to think — that is to say, to devise wickedness.
This girl, who said she was his daughter, if he
could only, in some way or other, get her under
his thumb. She was a most beautiful girl ;
she was possessed of manners which would
make anybody think her a lady ; she wasn't
afraid — Heavens ! what could he not do if he
had such a girl to work for him .^ There was
once a professional in his own line, a cracker
of cribs — he had read this story somewhere in
the old days when he used to read so many
books — who had in his power, and at his
orders, such a girl, whether his daughter or his
mistress he knew not. She went into the finest
society and kept her eyes about her, and put
this fortunate Professor on to what she observed,

and helped him to get ito houses, unlocking
doors for him, slipping the bolts at night,
pulling up shutters, and opening windows for
him. And all the time pretending she was a
lady. Mr. Carey remembered this beautiful
story, and dreamed of the wonderful time he
might have if Maria would only be such a
daughter to him. And he dreamed as well of
the great and glorious reputation he might
make for himself; much greater and much
nobler even than his first glory, which was
now, he already perceived with sorrow, well-nigh
forgotten. In fact, the burglar, like the
singer and the actor, is liable to a swift oblivion.
His works do not, like those of the poet and
the sculptor, live after him, and there is little
to keep his memory green, except a few pages,
perhaps, in the Newgate Calendar.

From daughter to son is a natural step.
Mr. Carey began to think of his son as well —
there was another daughter ; but he had heard
nothing about her, and three sons, all men
now ; one of them, he knew, was a workman
of some kind ; as for the other two, what were
they ? She dared to make conditions about
her measly sovereign, did she ? He was not

17 2

to show himself to any of his children. Why
hang her conditions ! He would do as he
pleased. He would go and see his children if
he pleased. The Avorking man, he reflected,
would certainly be married, and as certainly
would have no money, except perhaps the
price of a pint, which is neither here nor there.
Besides, he had not yet found out where this
son lived, nor where the second lived. There
remained the third, his youngest son, Claude,
who lived in the Temple. He only knew about
the Temple that it is a place much frequented
by lawyers, a tribe whom he naturally disliked,
and ranked in the same class with policemen,
detectives, and judges. His son was employed
there in some capacity ; a clerk, no doubt.
Every profession, of course, preferred to their
father's ! He took the stolen envelope out
of his pocket. ' Claude Monument, Esquire,
25 King's Bench Walk, Temple.'

It's a chance,' he said. ' Perhaps the boy
has got some money. I'll risk it.'

He had been drinking since he left his
daughter, and the brandy and water, perhaps,
gave him the courage to break the conditions
and so endanger the weekly sovereign. However,

he did break those conditions, and yet he
did not lose his allowance, as you shall hear.

About ten o'clock that evening Chide was
sittings alone in his chambers. He was neither
reading nor writing, but the lamp was beside
him, and a book was on his knees, and he was
looking into the fire, for the evening of early
autumn was chilly. Outside, the Temple was
very quiet. There are only a fcAV now who
continue to live there, and these were out of
town ; I think that in all these courts Claude
was the only living person except the policeman.
And there was a silence almost as absolute
as that which fell upon the place after the
Suppression of the Great Order and the burning
of the Grand Master and this Knights.

He was thinking about the strange work in
which he was engaged ; and upon Valentine,
who thought she was his sister, but was not,
and of her glowing cheeks and kindling eyes,
and the voice which moved him like the notes
of some great organ playing mighty music.
He was thinking, too, that it would not lead to
peace of mind if he should continue to think of
those eyes and that voice.

In the midst of this silence — he heard no
warning footstep on the stairs — there was a
single knock at his door.

He wondered who could be his visitor so
late and so unexpected.

It was a stranger ; an elderly man, thin and
spare, with grey hair, who stood at his door.

I beg your pardon humbly, sir,' he said,
taking off his hat ; ' I am come in hopes of
seeing a boy, sir, a boy named Claude Monument,
who works orx this staircase. Perhaps
he is in the housekeeper's room on the basement.'


Can't you read? There is the name on
the door.'

The man read and looked surprised.

I am Claude Monument. What do you
want with me ? '

You Claude Monument ? You ? '

It was rather dark in the passage where
Claude stood, but the gas-lamp on the staircase
showed Mr. Carey that his son was not quite
what he had expected.

'Is your master out of the way, young
man ? ' he whispered.

What do you mean ? '

Your master. Is be out of the way ? '

My master ? '

Can you take me where we can have a
quiet talk together — you and me — without his
asking questions ? It's for you and me together,
you know.'

Who are you ? '

I've something important to tell sou —
something joyful. But, I say, you can't be
Claude Monument ? Why, you're dressed like
a gentleman.'

Who are you ? '

Well, that is just what I have come to tell
you.'

Claude hesitated. ' These are my own
chambers,' he said.

Good Lord ! Your own chambers ! ' The
man was amazed. ' Your own chambers I Your
own ! IIow the Devil — and the gal looked like
a lady. Quite time I called and inquired.
Look here, young man, if you live here, and if
you are alone, take me inside. I've got something
to say; something — ah ! — something you'll *
be pleased to hear. But we ought to be quite
alone. It is a family secret, young man — a
family secret, and it mustn't be talked out loud.'

Come in, then.' Claude admitted the man
and shut the door, not without some presentiment
of coming evil. A presentiment never
does any good, being in this respect like the
cold wind before the rain ; it comes too late
for a warning, and no sooner is it felt than the
Evil tiling is upon one. Yet it is a comfort
somehow to feel afterwards that one had a
presentiment. Men bitten by rattlesnakes have
often been consoled in their last moments by
this thought.

']^ow,' said Claude, leading his visitor into
the room, and shutting the outer oak, ' who are
you, and what do you want ? I don't remember
to have seen you before.'

There was only a reading-lamp on the table,
but the lamp was covered by a shade, so that
the room was comparatively dark. The man
had taken off his hat, and was now holding it
awkwardly in both hands as if he wasn't used
to a hat of that kind ; indeed he had worn one
of quite a different shape for twenty years.
Claude saw that he was grey-headed and
smooth-checked, and that he was a man of
slight build.

Now then,' he said, ' go on with your
important news.'

The man cleared his throat.

Are you really and truly, young man,' he
asked, ' Claude Monument ? '

That is my name.' Claude owed no man
ought, so that the man could not possibly have
come for money. Perhaps he was a beggar
of the more complicated kind, a book hawker,
or one who touts for subscriptions. But beggars
of this kind ply their trade by day. He
felt uncomfortable.

You are the son of Mrs. Monument who
used to live beskle Hackney Marsh, and — if one
may speak of it to a swell like yourself — took
in washing, being a-poor but honest woman.'

My mother was a washerwoman,' said
Chaude.

Well,' the man went on, ' I don't understand
it. You look like a gentleman, and the other '
here he checked himself — ' And you live
among the lawyers.'

I live among the lawyers.'

I've seen 'em in court — many times, takin'
their characters away from unfortunate men.

I've seen 'em, and heard 'em.' He added a
short but impressive prayer relating to their
final doom. ' And you live here ! Lord ! his
eyes swell out with fatness, and look at me
without a mag.'

Who are you, then ? '

Claude snatched the shade from the lamp.
The man was decently dressed ; he did not look
like a beggar ; yet he was certainly trying to
get something out of him. As for the man's
knowing something of his family history, everybody
knew that. Wherever he went, on his
first introduction, or on the first mention of his
name, there followed the whisper, that he had
often actually heard, and more often saw on the
lips of those who uttered it. Your OAvn experience
of the world, dear reader, will supply
the words.

The man did not reply. He was looking
about the room, which had a certain appearance
of wealth — that is to say, there were easy-chairs,
pictures, half a dozen silver cups won
at scratch fours and other sports ; and there
were a few ' things,' as collectors say ; there
were books — heaps of books — and curtains,
and carpets, and all the things which go to

make a young man's chambers look handsome
and well-appointed. On the mantelshelf were
two large photographs of two girls. The man
recognised one of them. 'That's Maria,' he
murmured ; ' the other, I suppose, is Melenda.'
Then he turned sharply to Claude.

Are all these things your own .^ '

Certainly.'

'And you leave your mother in an almshouse.
And the other one ' — he checked himself
again, though the situation was absolutely
incomprehensible .

Claude reddened, but he kept his temper.

What has that to do with you ? ' he said.
Get to your business.'

Young man, you leave your mother there
blind, too — among paupers, without a sixpence
to bestow upon any deserving relations
and friends who might happen to call '

Get on with your business.'

If such is your treatment of your mother,
how would you treat your unfortunate father?'

Claude laughed.

For Heaven's sake, man, tell me what you
want, or I shall turn you out of the place.'

If your unfortunate father was to come to

you, not having seen you for twenty years — if
he was standing before you poor and destitute,
as I might be now, but happy in his mind
through repentance ; all his old pals scattered,
and nothing left him in the world but his hopes
of heaven and his good resolutions for the path
of righteousness, which wraps a poor man as
with a garment, and keeps off of him the cold
wind of poverty ; and with his clear conscience
and this term worked out and his ticket in his
pocket, afraid of no man, whether policeman
or magistrate — would jow treat that father with
scorn, and send him, like you sent your mother,
to an almshouse for the remainder of his
days P '

Can you do nothing but ask questions ?
Now, man, come to the point or leave the
place. As for my father, you may keep his
name out of it, because he has been dead for
twenty years.'

Suppose he wasn't dead,' he whispered
hoarsely, looking Claude full in the face, but
only for a moment, for his shifty eyes dropped
again. ' Suppose your father wasn't dead,
after all'

I cannot suppose anything of the kind.'

Who told you he was dead P '

'I don't know. I have always been told
he was dead.'

Did they never tell you where and how he
died?'

No ; I never asked.'

'And did they tell you what was his
trade?'

My father was a locksmith, and clever at
his trade.'

'He was. Correct, young man. There
wasn't a finer locksmith in all London either
for making a lock or for picking one — or for
picking one, mind — which made his fortune
and his name. There wasn't a cleverer man at
his trade in all England — ay, you may throw
in the United States as well, though he never
practised in the States. He was the envy and
the pride of all such as followed the same trade.
A locksmith! And so that's all you know
about it. Lord ! To think that children could
be so bad brought up. So you think your
father was a low mechanic, do you? That's
what they told you. And that he's dead.
That's what they told you. Well, it's like them.
It's all part of the same treatment. Made you

ashamed of your own father ; called him a
mechanic, did they ? '

This is very strange.' . Claude by this time
felt a profound uneasiness in the presence of
this man, who looked at him so curiously and
asked so many questions and gave no answer
to any. ' Can't you tell me who you are, and
what you want ? '

'Directly — I will directly. So he was a
locksmith, and clever at his trade, and he died
somewhere. Nobody knows where ; none of
his children ask after him ; no one cares about
him ; they have even dropped his name and
taken their mother's.'

What ! Dropped his name ? '

Young gentleman,' he went on slowly, ' I've
got a most important communication to make.
Give me something to make it on.'

Here are paper and pens.'

I want drink, man. Good Lord ! I've
been off of it for twenty years, and I've only
just begun again. Give me something, I say,
to make it on.'

Claude gave him some whisky. He drank
half a glass of the spirit neat, and then a
tumblerful mixed in equal proportions.

'That's what I call something to make
communications on. Now then, I'll sit down,
I think.'

He sat down. 'A most comfortable chair,
too. You swells know how to make yourselves
comfortable, don't you? And to think that
you're a swell, and your mother in an almshouse !
and your father out on his ticket of leave ! '

What ! ' Claude started. ' Say that again,
man. What do you mean by that ? '

A dozen times I'll say it, young man.
Your father, I said, out on his ticket of leave,
I said. Out — on — his — Ticket — Ticket, you
know — Ticket — of Leave. Leave, you know.
For the unexpired part of his term. That's
what I mean.'

Claude did not call him a liar ; he only
gazed stupidly at him.

I will say it a hundred times more if you
like,' continued the stranger. Your father '

'No! don't say it again. Don't — don't
dare to say.it again.'

Why, you are not ashamed of it, are you,
mate ? You can't be ashamed of it. A Ticket
of Leave is a very honourable thing to have.
Only well-conducted convicts, and them as can

stand fast in the Faith and can be trusted, and
are favourably reported on by the good chaplain,
ever get a ticket of leave. My good
chaplain thought very high of me when I came
away. Continue in Prayer, ses 'ee, and watch
in the same, he ses.'

Your chaplain ? Yours ? Are you a
convict, too ? '

Look here, young feller, don't speak as
if convicts was dirt beneath your feet. Very
likely you'll be one yourself before long. Most
chaps are sooner or later. Convict ! Yes, and
why not? I've served my eighteen months,
and my two years, and my five years, and my
five-and-twenty, and by this time I ought to
know. Convict? Why, there's many and
many a better fellow in than out, let me tell
you. As for yourself, with your swell clothes
and your pictures and all, I should think you
must be in before long. It's a neater turn-out
than ever I could show, though I was looked
up to as the head of the Profession, and there
wasn't a man in it but would have worked
under me and proud. But I worked alone.
No one knew where I was, nor where I was
going next. Yet I never got so far as to rooms

in the Temple among the lawyers themselves.
What's your lay, mate? Is it genteel fain?
Is it sport? Is it races, or cards, or what —
that keeps such chambers as these ? '

Claude felt dizzy and sick. He could not
reply.

'You may tell me, my boy, because, you
see ' — again he lowered his voice and dropped
his eyes — 'you see, Claude, it's a long time
since you saw me, and o' course you can't be
expected to remember me. But I am your
father. No thin' else than that, my son.'

'You? My father? You?'

The man crossed his legs in his chair and
grinned. He had told his secret, and he was
bolder.

Yes, Claude, I'm your father. I couldn't
get out to see you very well, and none of you
ever come to see me. Of course, if you'd
known I was alive you'd have come regular
and as often as they let you. Give us your
hand, my boy. You're a well set-up lad, and
I'm proud of you.'

My father ? You ? ' Claude repeated ; but
he did not take that proffered hand.

The ticket-of-leave man swore a great oath

VOL. II. X

as loudly as if lie had been a Norman king.
Then he assured Claude again, and with much
greater emphasis, that he really was his parent.
Look here, boy,' he went on, ' you ought
to be proud of your father. But they've never
told you about me. Now I've got a surprise
for you — a joyful surprise. Your mother, you
see, never took any honest pride in my profession,
and ran away from me, she did, when
she found out what I was. Mean away and took
her maiden name again, and told all her children
they were Monuments. It wasn't hard to find
where she'd gone to, which I did first thing when
I came out. Bless you, it was the most convenient
thing in the world for me, that little
cottage by the Marsh ! If ever I Alas wanted,
and when it was convenient to lay by for a bit
till people got unsuspecting again, I could go
and lay by there. The neighbours, they
thought I was in the seafaring line, which
accounted for my coming and going as I
pleased, and many's the hiding-place I've made
in that cottage unknown to that honest woman.
She was too proud to take any of my money —
well, I had all the more to spend, and I had no
pals to stand in with, and so I lived like a fighting

cock, travelled first-class like a gentleman,
and stayed at the best hotels and drank champagne
like the out-and-out swell I was. But I
never got to lodgings like this. I wish now I'd
thought of that.'

Claude stared at him, and listened without
saying a word.

Well, at last, there I was — five-and-twenty
years. So she told you all I was dead ; and she
never told you who her husband was, nor where
he was. My son, I am no other than the great
Jem Carey, of whom you've heard o' course.'

Claude's face showed no emotion at all on
hearing this intelligence.

'Jem Carey. Why, man, you can't pretend
you never heard of Jem Carey. The King of
the Burglars they called him ; Prince of Housebreakers,
some of 'em said. His name was in
all the papers, and the country rang with his
noble name. Jem Carey — why, you must have
heard talk of Jem Carey.'

Unfortunately,' said Claude, ' I have never
heard of him before.'

Oh ! Lord ! ' said Mr. Carey, properly disgusted.
' And you the boy that I destined for
the profession from the beginning. I said to

X 2

myself I must have a successor. One of my
boys shall be brought up to his father's business.
And I had you christened Claude Duval a purpose,
after the most dashing highwayman in
history.'

Claude for the first time in his life actually
wished that he could exchange his Christian
name for another — Samuel, for instance, or
Leviticus, or anything.

Mr. Carey contemplated his son with a
doubtful eye. There was no kindling of joy
or of glory in Claude's aspect, but on the
contrary a steady look of pain and dismay.

Won't you shake hands then ? ' He held
out a forgiving and paternal hand.

No,' said Claude, ' I will not shake hands.'

Very well' The man put on his hat. ' I
will go away now. I shall come again when
you have got your swell friends round you. I
will introduce myself to them as a 
man and your father.'

'You will do as you please.'

Mr. Carey hesitated. ' Will you give me
something to help me on my way ? '

Nothing. Be good enough to go.'

Your father is starving.'

'That is not true. You are just out of
prison, You must have some money. Go.'

I come back after twenty years of Quod,
and I find my boy a swell, and this is how he
treats his repentant father.' He looked as if he
was trying to cry.

You can go. I have nothing for you.
Take yourself and your history and your
prison cant ' — he shuddered with shame — ' out
of my chambers. You have my address. You
can send me yours. Whatever we do for you
if we do anything, remember — will be done
on the condition that you keep yourself out of
the way of everybody.'

I'm going. I am sorry I came to such
an unnatural son. But I have other children.
Yes, they will be kinder to their father.
They will be Samaritans, if it's only twopence.'


Claude made no reply.

There's my boy Joe, my eldest. No
doubt he's a married mau now, and his wife
and children will be pleased to see the poor
old man, and to take him in. And there is
Sam. I can very easily find out Sam if I like.
I think Sam will be glad indeed to see me.

And then there's my ^\ife in the almshouse.
Poor old woman ! she hasn't got any money,
but she'll share her crust. And — then there's
the two girls. Very likely those are their
pretty likenesses.' He pointed to the two
photographs. ' The girls look the right sort,
don't they ? Which of them two, now, is
Maria, and which is Melenda ? '

Claude took the photographs and laid them
on their faces. It was intolerable that this
man should so much as look at them.

Stay,' he cried. ' You shall not even try
to make yourself known to— to my sisters.
Do you hear ? Do you hear .^ '

He would have seized the man by the
collar, but a certain filial piety — a filial repugnance
— prevented him. It is impossible for
anyone to shake his own father by the collar,
however badly he may turn out. Valentine,
it is true, had boxed Mr. Carey's ears, but then
she had her secret, and knew that he was not
her father ; and besides, he had offered to kiss
her.

Good Heavens ! ' Claude cried, looking at
the man with a kind of despair. ' They said
you were dead. We thought you dead. We

believed — we were told — that you were an
honest man. You audit to have been dead
long ago.'

Audit I ? ' The man grinned. ' That's
a question of opinion. Why, I mean to live
for thirty years more. Prison is a very healthy
place, my dear boy, whatever you may think,
though they do cut the diet close. I feel as
young and as fit as if T was twenty-five instead
of sixty. I mean to live to ninety, and I shall
very likely come here a great deal. Thirty
years more I intend to live. We shall see each
other very often, my son. Oh ! very often
indeed, Claude, my boy.'

Claude made an effort and refrained, even
from bad words. 'You heard what I said
about — your daughters.'

'Explain yourself more clearly, my son.
I am afraid you presumed to give orders to
your father. Whereas you will read in the
Epistles, Children, obey your parents in all
things.'

I said that you must not attempt to find
out your daughters.'

Why not, my son ? '

Because your very existence is a shame

and a disgrace to us ; and because they are
happy in believing you to be dead.'

'Is that all?'

No. Because they have never been told,
poor things, that their father is a convict.'

Mr. Carey put his hands in his pocket and
whistled.

Look ye, my lad,' he said ; ' suppose I
want my girls. Consider a father's feelings.
However, I am a peaceful man ; I am always
open to reason. What will you give me .^ '

Claude hesitated. It was clear that this
man would have to be bought off. But at
what price?

I don't know,' he replied ; ' I must consult
my brother.'

Is he a swell, too ? Hang me, if I understand
it.'

No ; he's a locksmith by trade.'

'Then I shan't wait for Joe's opinions.
I'm one of them who stick to their rich friends.
I stay where the money is. Now, there's
money here. If you and me don't come to

an understanding ' Here he interposed

a long parenthesis full of all the words he had
not been allowed to use in prison. It treated

of his son's behaviour to him and the revolting
nature of that unfihal loathing which Claude
exhibited towards him. This, he said, he must
and should revenge, unless an understanding
was come to. ' Then I go straight to the
almshouse — I know where it is, and I'll frighten
the old woman into fits ; and tomorrow I'll
find out Melenda and Maria, and introduce
myself to their fine friends.'

Ten minutes later Mr. Carey walked down
the stairs. He was richer by thirty shillings
than when he mounted those steps. He had
also the assurance that this sum would be continued
to him as a weekly allowance so longs
he observed two or three simple rules.
These were, in point of fact, the same as had
already been made by Valentine. He was
not to make his existence known, or to force
himself upon his wife or any of his children,
especially either of his daughters. Should he
break these conditions, Claude assured him, in
the most solemn manner, he should never receive
another farthing from himself or from
any of his brothers and sisters.

The parent replied that his sole desire was
to live virtuously and to retrieve the past in

the eyes of the world ; gentlemen who are
penitents of this description always assume that
the world is following their career with the
greatest interest, and yet they continue in a
retiring modesty about their own antecedents.
He also said that he should strive to find some
quiet corner in London where there were none
of his old associates, and only pious men.
Here he shoidd perhaps be enabled, by his
son's assistance, to open a small shop in the
good book line. He had thought of conducting
an open-air service on Sundays for penitents
like himself. As for telling any of his
family that he was alive, or being wishful to
force his company upon them, nothing could
be farther from his thoughts. Claude might
trust him. It was not a great thing for a
father to ask the confidence of his son. Thirty
shillings was little enough for the mere necessities
of life. But he would make it do. He
deserved no more. Fortunately he never
drank ; that habit he had given up ; he illustrated
the remark by taking another glass of
whisky and water. He had read a great deal
of the Bible while in his cell. Among the

things he remembered were the gracious words
of Paul, Corinthians '

'That is enough,' said Claude. 'Here is
your first week's money. I shall send your
next to this address. No ; don't dare to come
here for it. I do not want ever to see your
face again.'

They'll never tell each other,' Mr. Carey
murmured, going softly down the stairs. ' They'll
be ashamed to tell each other. And they're
good, between them, for two pound ten a week.
This is a good day's work — a very good day's
work.'

CHAPTEE XIX.

IN THE CHURCHYARD.

When the man left him, Claude remained
standing, and mechanically listened for his
footsteps on the stairs ; they were as light as
the steps of a girl and as noiseless ; but he
heard them on the gravel in the court below.
Then they ceased, and he lifted his head and
breathed a sigh of relief. He was alone.
Something to get rid of such a presence, though
one knows full well that it will come again.
Over his mantelshelf there was a cabinet
adorned, among other things, with a small
square of looking-glass. In this Claude caught,
as he turned his head, a glimpse of his own
face. He shuddered and crimsoned with shame
for he recognised, unmistakably, the features
of the man who had just left him. Only for a
moment, then the resemblance disappeared ;

but lie had seen it ; lie was the son of that
man.

He took up the photographs of the two
girls which he had laid upon their faces while
the man was with him. The same resemblance
flashed across Violet's face in the same strange
and sudden manner, disappearing instantly. It
was like the evidence of an unwilling witness.
Behold ! ' said the picture, ' I am none other
than that man's daughter.'

He was, then, the son of a convicted felon,
a burglar, a ticket-of-leave man, an habitual
criminal ; not, as he had formerly thought, and
often proudly stated, fahr Jiliiis^ the son of a
Smith ; not the son of an honest man whose
memory he cherished with filial pride and admiration
; but the son of a man who had spent
most of his life in prison ; he had been all his
life going about under false pretences ; his very
name was false ; it was Carey, not Monument
at all ; James Carey, his father, was a most
notorious and celebrated evil liver, and his own
very Christian name was chosen for him in
liononr of an illustrious thief. His father was
a burglar and a convict — the one goes very
naturally and fitly with the other. If a man's

birth were a mystery, and if lie were tempted
to pry into the secret in the hope of turning
out a Baron or an Earl, and were then to find
out that his father was not a nobleman at all,
but only a Eogue, there would be little pity for
that man. Because, given an unknown father,
and remembering that there are more Rogues
than Barons in the world, the chances are in
favour of the less desirable connection. But
when a man has all his life rejoiced in the
honour of his father, and been as proud of him,
though he was but a locksmith, as if he had
been a Baronet, and now has without any
fault of his own such a father sprung upon him
suddenly, that man is very greatly to be pitied.
He needs all the pity and all the sympathy that
the world has to offer. It is one thing indeed
to have it whispered that you are self-made,
son of a working man ; and another thing to
hear it whispered, each whisper ringing in your
ears like the blast of Fame's trumpet echoed
from pole to pole, that you are the son of a —
Convict.

Claude heard that whisper already. The
room was full of the echoes of that whisper.
They rang from wall to wall, from floor to

ceilii]o\ ' Son of a Convict — son of a Thief —
son of a Eogue ! '

I will emigrate,' he said, ' I will take
another name — I will go to some far-off colony
where no one will know who I am.'

A foolish resolve. Because there is no
colony, near or far off, which will receive any
man without knowing all about him ; who was
his father ; what he has done ; why he has left
his native country. He may keep these things
secret if he pleases. Probably they will be
found out for him. In either case, hq will
enter no better society than can be found at a
Bar or in a Saloon. He will be a declare.

London is the only possible place for such
concealment. He who travels, as the poet
tells us, may change his sky but not his mind.
He may also change his name, but never his
history — that is unchangeable and indestructible
and that, whatever it may be, good or bad,
these honest colonial insist upon knowing
before they admit him to their society.

Claude, ignorant of this fact, remembered
immediately that he could not emigrate, because
it was impossible for him to leave his people.
He thought of the misery which might come to

CHILDREN OF GIBBON

them ; to his mother ; to his brother Joe ; to
Sam, proud, like himself, of his honest father ;
to Melenda — to Valentine first, and to Violet
next. He remembered their defenceless condition.
Could he be so cowardly as to leave
them ? Could he go away and leave them to
the tender mercies of this — creature? One
must not under any circumstances speak evil of
one's father ; one should not, if possible, even
think evil of him. Therefore it is providential
that there exist certain neutral words which
carry reproach by the manner of expression
rather than by any accusation conveyed in
themselves. Thus — ' this ' — gasp — ' Creature,'
this ' — gasp — ' Man,' ' this ' — gasp — ' Woman.'
Moses said, when he broke the tables of stone,
this ' — gasp — ' People.' We can use such
words — gasp and all — without breaking any
commandments — blamelessly, and for the relief
and solace of the soul.

He stood in his silent room for an hour at
least, trying to look the thing in the face, and
failing altogether. Then a thought — a feeble
thought at best — struck him. Joe it was who
said his father was dead. What if the man was
an impostor ? Why did Joe say he was dead ?

What reason could there be for Joe making
up a story? He forgot for the moment the
evidence of the looking-glass and the photographs,
catching as men in trouble do at a
straw. He would go at once and consult Joe.
His mind was so troubled with the burden of
this horrible discovery that he actually forgot
that it was already midnight. He seized his
hat and salted forth with intent to get to
Tottenham.

He walked down Fleet Street where there
were plenty of people about, especially late
journalists ; up Lydgate Hill which was still
awake ; and along Cheapside, where the stream
of life was still running, but in a narrow
thread. At the Bank there were the last
omnibuses with a great shouting and a crowd.
But Cornwall was quiet. Whether the streets
were noisy or quiet, crowded or empty, made
no difference to Claude, who strode on, wrapped
in his gloomy thoughts. Then he turned into
Bishopsgate Street and began the long straight
walk which leads past Shoreditch and along
the Kingsland Eoad and the Stoke Lexington
Eoad to Tottenham. The road was nearly
deserted now, and long before he reached

VOL. II. Y

Tottenham the last belated resident was safe in
bed. Nobody awake, he thought, except the
policeman and the burg perhaps he remembered,
with a natural shudder, his own
father, getting his hand in again, after many
years' total abstinence fi'om the jemmy.

As he walked along the silent road there
followed him two Voices, speaking in his ear at
either side. They kept on repeating the same
words, and those very disagreeable words, such
as, ' Your father is a convict and a thief . . .
Honour thy father that thy days may be long
in the land . He has spent most of his days
in prison . . . The Fathers have eaten som
grapes, and the children's teeth are set on
edcre . . . He is a most notorious and even
historical Eogue . . . unto the third and fourth
generation . . . The most wicked man, probably,
that at present lives . . . that which is
crooked cannot be made straight . a lawless
and impenitent villain . . . his seed shall be
destroyed among the children of men . . .'
And so on — one at each side. To stifle these
voices he began to think of a certain work on
the Mystery of Pain, written by a learned
physician who persuaded himself that he understood

all about it. With pain may be considered
Shame and all kinds of Evil. Everybody,
said the learned Physician, should bear
it cheerfully if anybody else is relieved or
helped by it. But who was benefited by the
fact til at Claude's father was a Eogue ? And
who, to put a plainer case, can help another
man by having a toothache? This doctrine
Claude perceived would not help his own case.
And then he suffered the Voices to go on
again.

When he arrived at Tottenham and stood
at the door of Joe's house, with its closed
shutters and drawn blinds, he realised for the
first time that it was the very dead of night, in
fact at two o'clock in the morning, when sleep
is at its soundest. He might knock up his
brother, but what excuse could be made to
wife and children for this unusual disturbance ?
Or he might go straight home again, which
would be absurd after coming all that waj^
Or he might walk about until morning, which
was not far off; or he might find a place where
he might sit down and gnash his teeth.

Not many years ago Tottenham was a
small country town full of pleasant lanes,

T 2

spacious houses, leafy orchards and splendid
gardens, with memories of Isaac Walton, and
the High Crown and the famous arbour — ' the
contexture of woodbine, sweet-briar, jessamine,
and myrtle ' — and the Seven Sisters, and many
goodly mansions inhabited by great London
merchants, and of Quakers fiery for the faith
and abounding in good works. The Quakers
have mostly gone ; the big houses are mostly
pulled down ; rows of streets lie to right and
left, ugly with grey brick and mean design
and monotonous uniformity. Claude strolled
about these new streets, slowly and wearily.
His first excitement was wearing off; besides,
he was feeling tired. Presently he took by
accident a road which led him past the new
houses and into the region of old Tottenham —
such of it as still exists. He was in a lane with
walls on both sides — they were old red-brick
walls with stonecrop and w^allflowers on top,
but these details escaped him in the darkness ;
beyond the walls were trees, and beyond the
trees were gardens, and the night air was
heavy with the scent of a thousand flowers —
the Powers of early autumn when the mignonette
is still sweet, and the honeysuckle and

jessamine still blossoming. The lane led him,
he perceived, to the Church, which stood, a
dark mass With a black tower, outlined against
the sky among the white tombstones.

He opened the gate and stepped within the
churchyard.

Tottenham church has a very good churchyard,
full of interesting monuments of unknown
people, and in the daytime you might wander
there for a long time and learn quantities of
history just hinted at in the bald disjointed
way common to tombstones. You might, I
say, under happier conditions, but you cannot,
because they have stuck up rows of spiky iron
railings beside the path, so that no moralist,
unless he have very long legs, shall ever be
permitted to get any good out of the churchyard
at all. It is an abominable, unchristian
custom. What should we say if the Catacombs
of Some, or the Cemetery of Aries, were to be
closed for ever, and so the messages and lessons
of the dead to the living were to be read no
longer ? What if they were to hang curtains
before all the tablets hi Westminster, and rub
out the inscription of Eshmunazar ? This,
however, if you come to think of it, is exactly

what the bright Intelligences of Tottenham
have clone for their folk. At Waltham Abbey,
too, this same thing has been clone, and at
St. Giles's in the City, and I dare say in
hundreds of churchyards. There are, again,
two splendid yew trees in the churchyard
which ought to be surrounded by benches for
the old folk to sit upon in summer evenings ;
but they are now within the spikes and there
is no bench round either of them, and so
another opportunity is lost until, in good time,
there may haply come a Vicar with a touch of
poetry and sentiment, and a feeling for the dead ;
and then the spikes will be taken away, and
the benches will be put up, and the tombstones
will resume their solemn lessons to the living.

Claude was more desirous of resting than
of reading the monuments ; it was too dark to
read, and, besides, he was not in a moralising,
but rather of an accusing and rebellious mood.
He stepped over the spikes, however, being tall
enough and long enough of hmb, and finding a
flat stone, sat down upon it and tried to think
connectedly, which he had not as yet been able
to do. It is something in every case of trouble,
just to put tie facts plainly. Three or four

hours ago, he explained to himself, as if there
was somebody inside him who was very stupid,
he had suddenly come into possession of the
most undesirable thing in the whole world, a
thing absolutely impossible to get rid of, or to
forget, or ever to put away and hide — namely,
a disgraceful and shameful father. Try to
think, you of the majority, whose fathers have
lived blameless lives and left an honourable
record behind them — put it to yourselves —
what it would have been to you, had they, Hke
Claude's father — you will find a difficulty in
finishing the sentence.

When your doctor discovers that you have
got a disease which he will never be able to
cure, which you will have to carry with you to
the grave, a burden which will never fall off
your shoulders, you presently, when the shock
is over, fall to inquiring after the various
methods employed by the faculty for alleviating
the horrid thing, just as the man who has to
carry a knapsack is always trying to adjust the
confounded straps into the most comfortable
position possible. Claude began already to adjust
his straps. It was a horribly heavy burden
which was laid upon his shoulders. It was a

burden with which he could no longer venture
among his friends ; it would render impossible
for him the only life which he thought worth
having — the life of culture among men and
women of culture. It could not be hidden
away or disguised ; it was like a humpback.
How could such a burden be alleviated ?
There seemed but one way. It was the way
already adopted by Valentine. His father
must be bribed into effacing himself. No one
must be permitted to know of his existence or
to see him except Claude himself. He must
bear the burden alone ; he must keep the secret
to himself. Perhaps when his father — he kept
on saying ' my father ' to himself, in order to
bring the Thing home more completely — when
his father quite understood that his only chance
of getting money was to keep quiet and out of
the way, he would do so. If he disobeyed,
why then — Claude ground his teeth — then he
might do his worst ; and then — poor Violet !
poor Valentine! He sprang to his feet in
an agony of wrath and shame, for in such a
case he could do nothing for them, nothing at
all, but sit down with them in sackcloth and
ashes, and remember that this was only the first

generation and that there were yet two or even
three to follow, with the sins of their grandfather
to drag them down as they strove to
climb upwards.

The annals of our ancestors are for the
most part forgotten, so that it is only in great
families, whose history is preserved and handed
down to posterity, that the tragedies, the disgraces,
and the shames are remembered. Todo
the great families justice, they seem rather
to rejoice in the desperate villanies of their
ancestors. But the evil deeds of the rude forefathers
are for the most part vanished into
oblivion, no longer remembered, no more talked
about by the second and the third generation,
though they may, in their poverty and obscurity,
be suffering for those sins. Who remembered
that the great-uncle of the family baker — himself
a very worthy man — was hanged ? Who
caret that the respectable family solicitor had
a grandfather by the maternal side sent to
Botany Bay ? What difference does it make
to the Vicar that his father's sister — the thing
having been carefully concealed — ran away
with the groom ? All these stories are clean
forgotten and out of people's minds ; so that

the sins of the fathers do not seem always to
pursue the generations which come after. Yet
there are some hereditary disgraces which
nothing but the waters of Lethe can wash away.
Where is that benevolent stream? In what
region, in wdiat unknown corner of the earth
does its current flow ? How shall we find it
so that we may make that which hath been
vanish away and become as if it had never
been ? There is a way — religious men tell us
that way — by which things may be forgiven ;
but I have never yet heard any method by
which they can be forgotten.

I suppose it was somewhere about two
o'clock in the morning when Claude sat down
upon the tombstone, his mind torn by these and
a thousand other thoughts, which took shape in
the twilight and flitted before his eyes like
ghosts in the deep shadows of the place. The
headstones became faces which mocked and
jeered at him ; he saw the figure of himself
wandering in the dark shadows with downcast
eyes and bowed and shameful head ; the shades
of Valentine and Violet fell at his feet, weeping
and sobbing for shame and disgrace ; his
brother Sam stood before him with clenched

fist, grinding teeth, and helpless rage in his
eyes ; Melenda turned away in humiliation
from her friends and hid her proud face ; and
his mother wept because the thing she had
concealed so long from her children had come
to light at last. The night was not dark, but
there were black depths beneath the trees and
in the recesses of the church ; there was such
a dim suggestion of light as is favourable for a
procession of ghosts. Presently there arose a
young moon in the east ; the sky was clear
and the air was quite still. The silence fell
upon his heart, but it did not soothe him. The
dead men lying around him tried to whisper
comfort in his ear — ' We have lived ; wee have
suffered ; we are dead. Our suffering is over ;
yet a little while and no shame or disgrace can
touch you — your lot shall be with us.' Yet
the words brought no consolation. Then the
still soft air of the night lay upon his cheek
and murmured gently — ' Live out thy life.
This thing can do thee no harm ; go on as if it
had never been.' And again, 'Bear it alone
and bear it with brave heart, for the sake of
those who might be crushed beneath the burden.'
But these words failed to comfort him. And

again — we are a scoffing and an infidel generation
; but in all times of sickness, sorrow, or
any kind of adversity, there are certain words
which rise up in the mind of every Englishman,
though he believe in nothing at all but his own
infallibility. They come out of an old Book
which it is a fashion with some to dishonour, to
neglect, and even to deride — so in Claude's
mind there arose and lingered certain words
which need not be set clown concerning strength
and trust, and presently he lifted his head and
saw the grey dawn spreading in the East, and
heard the birds twitter in the trees around him.
Then he got up — the air was cold — and he
shivered. It was light enough now to see
things clearly outlined in the chill morning
light. He tried the handle of the door of the
Great South Porch — by great good fortune it
was open. Within there is a bench on either
side — he thought he would sit down there.
But he tried the handle of the church-door.
Wonderful accident ! That, too, was open,
and he stepped within the church. It was
fast growing lighter ; the painted windows —
the lower windows are all painted in Tottenham
Church — were beginning to show a glow of

colour, and a pale light shone in the clerestory
windows, making the bays and aisles and
columns mysterious and ghostly. Then the
windows grew brighter, and the colours warmer,
and presently the East sprang suddenly into
splendour when the sun rose and the colours
fell upon pillar and on wall, painting in crimson,
blue, and gold the figures of Ferdinando
Heyborne and Richard Wanderer and Eliza his
wife. With the daylight the ghosts and devils
of the night fled shrieking, and Claude stood
upright, facing the splendid sunshine, and remembered
that he Alas a man, with a man's
work before him, and a man's duty to bear,
and his burden to endure, and his honour in
his own hand, and that the past Alas dead.
Wherefore — I do not explain the phenomenon,
but I state it — while his strength and courage
came back to him, and he felt once more the
power of his will, and peace returned to his
soul, his eyes overflowed with tears, and he sat
down and hid his face in his hands, and then —
he fell fast asleep.

It was nearly eight o'clock when he awoke
and went out of the church. The business of
the day, so far as concerned the birds in the

gardens round the churchyard, was already
pretty well over, because the sun, who gets up
about half-past five at this season of the year,
was already nearly halfway towards high noon.
It was too late, moreover, to see his brother,
who would now be on his way to the workshop,
or perhaps already deranging somebody's pipes,
laying the foundations for an attack of typhoid,
or for a boiler explosion, or an overflow of the
bath, or an escape of gas — for Joe was really
clever in his own line. But that mattered
nothing. Now, he was not going to tell Joe or
any one else at all. It should be his own secret.

I wish, however,' he said, ' that I had a
clothes-brush. And my boots would be all
the better for a little attention. I'll go and
see my mother.'

She was already dressed and in her armchair.
To his astonishment Valentine was
there too. The fire was burning brightly, the
kettle was singing, the cloth was spread, and
she was making the tea, looking fresh and
bright enough to raise the spirits of a man
going in for a competitive examination.

That is the step of my boy,' cried the old
lady, while he was yet afar off.

Claude ! ' cried Valentine. ' You here at
this hour ? '

Claude stooped and kissed his mother.

Give him a kiss, Polly,' she said, in the
quick peremptory tone with which she ordered
her daughter about. ' Can't you kiss your own
brother, child ? '

Valentine blushed but obeyed — that is to
say, she offered her hand as a substitute for her
cheek.

Suppose,' said Claude, when he had paid
this knightly homage — ' suppose I had got up
early in order to walk here and have breakfast
with you, mother ? But how is it you are here
too, Valentine ? '

I stayed with mother all night because her
nerves were a little shaken, and I did not like
her to be alone.'

'We're glad to see you, my dear. Polly,
go and buy two or three eggs and a bit o'
bacon. The boy must be hungry. Have you
got any money, child ? Now, run, my dear ;
make haste.'

Valentine nodded to Claude, and laughed
and ran upon her errand.

She's a real good girl, Claude,' said the old

lady. ' That's what she is, mind ; there's
nobody like Polly. Don't you let her be put
upon by Melenda. She's got a heart of gold,
and she thinks of everything. Last night I had
a dreadful fright — oh ! a most terrible fright,
and it put me all of a shake '

What was it, mother ? '

My dear, I thought I heard a footsteps
was a footstep that I knew, and the second
time I heard it — the step of a dead man — your
father, Claude. It was only a dream, I know ;
because Polly, she came in a minute or two
afterwards, and she said there was nobody.
But it gave me such a shake as I never had
before ; I haven't felt like myself ever since.
But Polly, she don't mind staying here.'

What time was it, mother ? '

In the evening, about eight o'clock.
Polly stayed all night with me because I was
afraid.'

And you — you heard nothing more, did
you?'

No — nothing more. It was only a dream,
you see. But it gave me a terrible turn.
When a person is blind, she feels these fancies
more than most.'

Don't think any more about it,' said
Claude. It must have been the step of his
father ; but how was it that Valentine saw no
one ? And how could his father have got his
Temple address ?

Then Valentine came back with her purchases.


'You don't look well, Claude,' she said.
You have dark rings round your eyes and you
are pale. Have you been walking too far
before breakfast ? or have you been working
too hard ? '

I am very well — but I thought you were
looking pale, Valentine. There is nothing the
matter, is there ? '

What should there be .^ ' she answered with
the approved evasion.

Involuntarily they watched each other, both
thinking of the dreadful secret they knew and
would keep from each other. And once
Claude met Valentine's eyes, and he felt,
wondering, that they were full of pity. Why
did she pity him ? Yet, if she knew — oh !
how greatly would she pity him ! He could
not mistake that expression, which would be
read and understood by the merest beginner

VOL. II. Z

in the art of thought-reading. Why did
Valentine pity him ? She knew nothing.

Eat your egg while it's hot, my dear
said the old lady, pleased to have her boy with
her. ' You were always a famous boy for an
egg. Polly, my dear, cut his bread and butter
thick. And plenty of sugar in his tea. What
a boy he used to be for sugar, to be sure !
Claude, it's twelve years and more since you
had your breakfast with your mother. If I
could only see you — oh ! dear, dear — if I could
only see you with my own eyes as I used to
see you, eating hearty as you used to eat. I
suppose you've grown out of bread and dripping
— Polly, is the bacon kept hot for him ?
Don't let him say we sent him away hungry.
I hope the loaf is to your liking, my boy ! I
wish we had some jam for him. Cut him a
crusty bit, Polly. He used to like the crust.
You and me can eat the crumb ' — and so on,
because her boy was at breakfast with her ;
and because, as women use, she made a king
of him, and of herself and her daughter she
made his slaves.

Claude ate and drank, being hungry after
his night in the open, and he tried to laugh

and joke. Between him and Valentine — each
saw it and thought it hidden from the other —
stood the spectre of a grey-headed man, with
cunning eyes and smooth face, holding out his
hands for more, and threatening to turn all
their innocent joy into mourning ; and all their
pride into shame !

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE And CO., KEW-STREET SQUARE

London

m

I

,ML

m

L I E) Rally

OF THE

U N Diversity

or Ill Noise


B+GcK

v,3

*«??;

m

Return this book on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.
University of Illinois Library

W3 (^ >"3

L161— O-1096

WALTER BESANT AND JAMES RICE.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, ^s. 6d. each ; post 8vo. illust.
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Ready-money Mortify.

WITH HARP AND CROWN.

THIS SON OF VULCAN.

MY LITTLE GIRL.

THE CASE OF MR. Craft.

THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY.

BY Celia's ARBOUR.

THE MONKS OF Helena.

'TWAS IN TRAFALGAR'S BAY.

THE SEAMY SIDE.

THE TEN YEARS' TENANT.

THE CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

NOVELS BY WALTER BESANT.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3^. 6(/. each ; post 8vo. illust.
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN : an

Impossible Story. With Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

THE CAPTAINS' ROOM, &c. With Frontispiece
by E. J. Wheeler.

ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR. With 6 Illustrations

by H. Furnish.

DOROTHY FORSTER. With Frontispiece by
Charles Green.

UNCLE JACK, and other Stories.

London : CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

BY

WALTER BESANT

AiTHfjk or 'all sorts ant conditions of men

Dorothy FOKSIEK' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

ITcmbcriT
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[The ri^kt 0/ translation is reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME,

book II. — continued.

CHAPTER PAG*

XX. THE LADY WITH THE PARASOL . 1

XXI. A FRIENDLY FATHER 22

XXII. THE DOCTOR SPEAKS 41

XXIII. HOW MELENDA WAS DRILLED . . . . 58
XXIV. MELENDA IS VANQUISHED . . . .84

XXV. lizzie's TEMPTATION 106

XXVI. NO DEFENCE 126

XXVII. ALICIA 141

Xxviii. RETURN, O SHULAMITE 152

XXIX. THE LAST EVENING 174

XXX. THE bishop's DEATHBED . . . .190

XXXI. HOME AGAIN 220

XXXII. THE FINDING OF THE INQUEST . . . 24.?

XXXIII. COMING OF AGE 272

XXXIV. VALENTINE SPEAKS 290

B OK II, — continued,
CHAPTER XX.

THE LADY ^VITH THE PARASOL.

There are some institutions, some kinds of
wickedness, some classes of men, some modes of
suffering, wliicli seem, to people of the gentle
life, outside the possibility of any connection
with themselves. They belong to another
kind of creature, only outwardly resembling
them. The Prison, for example, is an institution
only known to most of us by hearsay: those
kids of sin which bring upon us the man in
blue, are such as we think we shall never
commit — the disgrace, shame, and remorse of
crime, are onions the emotions which we shall
never feel. This way of looking at life is, of

VOL. III. B

course, misleading, because everything becomes
possible when one is tempted.

Valentine had learned already that the girl
Polly, whom she personated, was the daughter
of a dead convict : she learned now that the
dead had returned to life, and was prepared to
heap coals of unspeakable disgrace upon everybody
connected with him, unless she could
stave him off. And in Ivy Lane, under the
same roof, were the man's daughter and the
man's chief victim ; for there could not be,
even in Mr. Carey's remarkable career, another
instance of wickedness quite so bad as the case
of Mr. Lane ; and every night, also in Ivy
Lane, sharing the same bed with his own
daughter, was his victim's daughter. There
cannot possibly be any misfortune much worse
to bear than a disgraceful father. A foolish
father, a spendthrift father, a miser, a brute, an
evil liver, a selfish father — these are common,
and have often to be endured. But to have
such a father as James Carey, Prince of Burglars,
that is indeed a cross not often laid upon
suffering humanity. To be sure he was not
Valentine's father ; but she felt as if, but for the
accident of Violet being Polly, he might have

been. When lie went home in the morning
the little room upon which this Evil Spirit
might at any time intrude his detestable presence
if he found out the place, seemed like an
Oasis of Eest, with its flowers and pictures.
Lofty was lying on the bed, now her permanent
abode ; her eyes were closed, but she was not
sleeping, and she welcomed Valentine's return
with a smile of affection which went straight to
her heart, and filled her eyes with tears. When
one is in great trouble even a little thing will
sometimes do this.

My dear,' Valentine said, kissing her,
have you had a good night ? I was obliged
to stay at Tottenham.'

I am always having bad nights now.
Melenda's been sitting up with me — I've been
dreadful bad — I'm glad it wasn't you again.'

But Melenda was working all day — she
must not sit up aU night.'

She liked doing it — oh ! Valentine ' — Lofty
held out her thin hand to take Valentine's —
she is always half-starved — we were all half
starved till you came — and now work is slack :
and what will she do, poor thing ? And she's
harder and more independent than ever ! '

B 2

What can I do for lier ? ' She thought of
a clanger almost worse than starvation. ' Lofty,
we are all in terrible trouble.'

Not you, Valentine — you haven't got any
trouble, have you ? '

Yes, I have, Lofty — but don't talk about it.'

And I'm such a burden to you ! Oh ! if
I could get better. I'll show you, and Melenda
too, as soon as I get better.'

Yes, dear — don't think of yourself as a
burden, Lofty. The trouble has nothing to do
with money.'

Melenda's jealous,' Lofty went on. 'But
she's not so jealous as she was — she doesn't
sniff any more when she looks at your pretty
things. In the night, when she thought I was
asleep, she began to cry — she kept on crying.
Do you think she cried about the work being
slack? I never saw her cry before, except
when she was in a rage ! '

Valentine turned her face away. There
was reason enough for Melenda's crying in
Lofty's hollow cheeks and lustrous eyes, in lier
weakness and her bad nights.

It was the Doctor's morning. He called,
and gave his patient a few directions. Then

Valentine followed him down the stairs. lie
replied to the unspoken questions which he read
in her eyes :

I think, exactly and truthfully, that she
may last perhaps till the spring. That's all
there is to think.'

Poor Lofty ! '

When the weather gets chilly you might
send her to Vintner or somewhere, if she can
travel, and so prolong her life a little — it's my
business to prolong life. But ' — he pointed to
the direction of Melenda's room — ' is that kind
of thing worth living for ? Perhaps there is
something beyond, and perhaps there isn't.
I'd rather take my chances on the other side,
if I were Lofty, than stay here. Not that she
will be asked — poor girl ! — which she'd rather
have.'

She is happier now ; she seems to forget
the past miseries. It is something for her to
have sufficient food and to rest.'

And when you go away, what is to prevent
all the miseries coming back ? '

The past shall never return, for her or for
the others. Doctor, if I can help it. We maybe
powerless against the system which makes

slaves of these girls, but we can do something
for one here and there ! '

I believe you are the Countess of Monte
Crista ! I hear the same story about you
wherever I go. I wonder if your ladyship
keeps millions in the cupboard ? '

No ; my millions are not there.'

Has your ladyship a sister called Melenda ? '

Perhaps.'

You are not well this morning,' said the
Doctor, changing his tone ; ' you've got a black
ring round your eyes, and your cheeks are
white. What's the matter with you ? '

I am in great trouble,' said Valentine,
but I cannot tell you what it is.'

Well — anyhow, don't vex your soul about
the women. We'll get the Labour League
some day and work wonders ; see if we don't.
The men shall rule it, though — it's good for
women to be ruled by men.'

Then Valentine sat down and waited,
curious to learn what the convict woukl do
next.

The convict behaved exactly as might have
been expected of him, only with greater
promptitude ; for the very next day, Valentine

got a letter from him, addressed to the almshouse,
stating that, by a most unfortunate
accident, he had lost the sovereign she had
given him and was now penniless, but full of
trust that his daughter would see her repentant
father through.

She made no reply to this letter. Two
days afterwards there came another. A most
magnificent chance occurred, he said, by which,
for thirty pounds down, he could secure a
tobacconist's shop, a going concern, with a
connection in the newspaper line. Only thirty
pounds wanted to establish himself in a Christian
way for life ! He would give up her
allowance altogether in consideration of the
thirty pounds.

Valentine read this letter carefully. The
man was certainly feeling his way. As forgiving
him the money, that, of course, was out
of the question. Her only chance with him,
she thought, was to make him understand
clearly that he would get nothing if he did not
comply with the conditions. She resolved on
seeing him again, though with misgivings.
She wrote to him, therefore, telling him to

meet her in the gardens at the back of St.
Like's, on Saturday morning at twelve.

Mr. Carey kept the appointment. He came,
however, half an hour before the time, and he
was accompanied by a girl. She was dressed
soberly and respectably. She wore a thick
veil and carried a parasol with a black lace
fringe — one of those instruments by means of
which ladies can observe others without being
themselves observed. They are adapted for
Modest Curiosity, or for Curious Modesty, or
for anything in the Detective and Secret Search
Line.

'She isn't come,' said the man, looking
about. ' Very well, then, she'll come directly.
All you've got to do is to sit here and wait till
she goes out. Then you get up and follow
her, and find out where she lives and come and
tell me.'

That's right. Daddy,' said the girl, grinning.
It isn't the first time I've done that ! Oh,
isn't it beautiful to see them walk right away,
unsuspecting, and me on the other side of the
road, quiet and takin' no notice, and generally a
good bit behind, till they get home ? And next
morning some of uscalls^ and the game begins ! '

Never you mind about the next morning,'
said Mr. Carey ; ' that's my look-out. You
just find out where she Ives — that's what
you're paid to do ! '

Very well, Daddy.' This girl will, no
doubt, some day be taken on in the Detective
Service ; but at present she is the confidential
employee of a small, modest, and retiring
Syndicate, for whom she finds out all kinds of
secrets connected with houses and their private
interests ; shops, shorten, and clerks,
religious professors and their private characters,
gambling and betting clubs and their
associates. When, after infinite pains, les,
pretences, and inventions, chiefly by the aid
of this clever young lady, they have got possession
of a secret, they begin to exploits it
for their own purposes ; that is, they sell the
secret or their own silence, and sometimes
make considerable sums of money, and on the
whole, when the young lady is active and has
been fortunate, they do very well indeed.
Sometimes, however, they get into Prison.

Well, Daddy,' said the girl, ' I found out
about the old woman's sons for you, didn't I .^ '

I don't say you didn't. You were paid

for it handsome. But it's been no use to me
yet.'

Mr. Carey left her on the seat and began
to walk up and down the asphalt walk, with
one eye suspiciously turned upon the policeman,
much as a partridge, even out of the
season, may regard a man with a gun.

Valentine arrived presently, only a few
minutes late. Mr. Carey perceived, from a
certain look of contumacy in her eyes, that
she was likely to give him trouble. He held
out his hand, however, in a fatherly and forgiving
spirit.

You have written to me,' she said, rudely
refusing to take it ; ' you have written two
letters to me. One contained a falsehood
about losing the sovereign I gave you, the
other also contained a falsehood about a shop.'

No, Gospel Truth — not a falsehood ; and
it's a most beautiful chance. 1 shall never get
such a chance again. The shop is next door
but one to a Chapel, too. Oh, how handy for
the Means of Grace.'

I told you the other evening, and I tell
you again, that you will have no more money
from me than the pound a week I have offered

you ; and if you break my conditions, you
will have nothing . at all. Now do you understand
? '

Well, my dear, I thought you'd say that.
Most of 'em do, till they feel the screw a bit.
Then they talk reason.'

Nothing. That is all I have to say to
you. Now you may go.'

Look here, my girl,' he tried to bluster ;
but somehow the girl's face, or the near presence
of the policeman, abashed him, and he
spoke in little more than a whisper. ' Look
here — your father's a ticket-o'-leave man, and
your name isn't Monument at all, but Carey ;
and you're the daughter of a Convict and a
Burglar, and you're ashamed of it. That's
what you are. Very well, then, it's like this ;
you're ashamed of it more than a pound a
week, and you've got to pay up accordingly.'

You shall have nothing more.'

Perhaps you can't lay you' hands on thirty
]pound all at once. Lor, I don't want to press
you, and perhaps I can help you to get it off of
somebody that has got it. There's a lover
or a husband about — oh, I know. And he
mustn't never know, must he ? Husbands and

lovers mustn't know about the ticket o'-leave
men, must they ? Perhaps you're married and
there's babies. Very well, then, naturally you
don't want the babies never to learn about the
great Burglar, though perhaps when they're old
enough they may be glad to crack a crib and
thankful of the chance. But there's a prejudice
against Burglars, ain't there ? You'd give
a great deal not to have your father in your
house, wouldn't you ? Why, there, we're
agreed already.'

I suppose I must hear what you have to
say.'

'Why, of course you must. Very well,
then.' He coughed and looked at her with
some hesitation, because he was wondering
how far he might go, and ivhat figure he might
name, and he considered her dress and external
appearance carefully before he spoke. The
gloves decided him, though perhaps the boots
helped. It is only the really prosperous who
have both stood boots and o-ood slaves. Mr.
Carey, an old student of human nature, remembered
so much. 'I want more than
thirty pound — I want a hundred '

Do you ? '

'A hundred pounds. I'm ready to take
that money, partly in variables and partly in
gold — partly to-day and partly the day after
tomorrow.'

You must ask some one else for the money
then.'

I shall ask my wife. At the almshouse.'

You cowardly villain ! Then you will get
nothing ! '

I shall ask my sons then, one after the
other. I know where they are, all of them.'

Valentine changed colour. The man had
already found them out then !

You see, my pretty,' he went on, with a
mocking grin, ' your father isn't quite such
a fool as you thought him — not quite such a
fool. And he's been making a few inquiries.
Joe works for a plumber ; most respectable Joe
is ; and Sam's a schoolmaster, highly thought
of; and Claude's in the Temple, where the
lawyers live. As for you, my pretty, you —
with your lover or your husband — I haven't
found out yet, because I haven't tried. But I
shall find out as soon as I do try. All of 'em
will be delighted to see me, though they have
cast off their father's name, and I dare say

your lover will be as pleased as Sam and Joe
will be pleased when I show up.'

The girl recovered her presence of mind.

You will do just exactly as you please
she said quietly. ' You have heard what I had
to say.'

'And you shall do just exactly as I
please,' he replied with a rough oath. 'A
hundred pound. That's my first and last offer.
I ask no more and I take no less. I don't ask
you where the pound a week comes from, do
I ? Very likely it's the housekeeping money,
or it may be out of the till. Who the devil
cares where it comes from ? '

She made no sign, standing with folded
hands, and eyes which looked as if she had not
heard.

It's so easy done,' he went on. ' It isn't
as if I wanted anything dangerous or difficult.
I'll take all the danger myself ! There's lots
of ways — there's a cheque and a signature — I
shouldn't want any more than that. You get
me a signed cheque, and I'll alter the amount
I know how to take out the writing' and put
in fresh. There's a door left unlocked at night
perhaps — or there's just the little straight tip

where the variables is kept ; or may be there's
the least bit of help when the till's got to be
cleared ! Mind you, my dear, I don't value
no lock nor bolt ever invented, not a brass
farthing'. You needn't be a bit afraid of me —
not one bit. Money or money's value — it's all
the same to me. Just turn things over in your
mind, Maria, my dear, and you'll come to
reason, I'm sure.'

Oh ! ' said Valentine, ' surely this man is
the most wicked wretch in the world ! ' Nothing
ever astonished Mr. Carey more than his
daughter's plainness of speech. She had even
boxed his ears ; and he shrank from her in
cowardly terror lest she might do it again.
Now, it is not often that a man can boast of a
daughter who has both boxed his ears and
called him names. Such daughters are rare.
Even King Lear's elder daughters did not reach
this level.

Now,' she said, facing him with a resolution
which he admired, ' listen to me again.
I will give you no money except this pound
a week. Eemember, that as for getting you
a hundred pounds — begging it, borrowing it, or
stealing it — I will have nothing to do with it.

And if you dare to show yourself to my mother
or my brothers, you shall have nothing more
from me at all. Do you hear ? Nothing !
And this I solemnly swear to you, because
I suppose you will not believe a simple
promise.'

His eyes dropped, and he made no answer.
Then he began to protest that he wanted nothing
but an honest livelihood, and to show his
repentance, throwing in the Scripture phrases
which reeked so frightfully of the prison, when
she interrupted him again :

There is one thing I might do for you.'

What is that ? '

I might send some one to you who would
make you an offer '

What kind of offer ? '

So much a week, if you would go abroad
and stay there.'

What ! And leave London, when I have
only just come out ^ '

'Yes, you would have to leave England.
It would be a liberal offer.'

Leave England ? And at my age ?
Never ! '

You have heard what I had to say. Now

go. Leave me here. Take your detestable
presence out of my sight ! '

Mr. Carey obeyed, with mental reservations
about the future, and the revenge he would
take on this unnatural child. He had yet,
however, to discover where and how she lived,
and why she was so anxious to keep the knowledge
of his existence from her brothers.

As for Valentine, she felt inclined to communicate
to the Policeman in the gardens
certain new ideas as regards the Penal System.
It ought to include, she would have told him,
provision for the incarceration of such a man
as this for life. He should be allowed such
special luxuries as tobacco, rations of drink,
and permission to keep his gas alight till — say
ten o'clock at nidit. But he should never be
allowed to go back to the world for a single
day. The place of his incarceration need not
be called a prison, perhaps, but a Penitents'
Retreat, or some such name, so as to soften the
apparent cruelty of the sentence. She did not,
however, communicate these ideas to the policeman
; but she left the garden and walked away.
The girl with the parasol and the black fringe
round it got up from the seat and went out

VOL. III. c

after her slowly. The policeman looked on
and noted the circumstance. First, one girl
comes to the garden with a man. Then another
girl comes. Man converses with that girl.
First girl waits. Then second girl goes away
alone. First girl follows second. There was
a little game up. But he was on duty in the
garden, and he could not follow and observe.

Valentine was a very easy person to follow
and watch, because she walked quickly, looked
neither to the right nor to the left, and was so
absorbed in her own thoughts that the woman
might have walked at her very elbow without
attracting her suspicions.

She crossed the City Eoad and walked along
the street until she came to Hoxton Street, when
she turned to the left. The girl followed.
Valentine went on nearly to the end of the
street, when she turned into a mean and
shabby street. The girl stood at the corner
and watched. There was a public-house in
the street. Perhaps she was going there, but
she was not. She entered a house exactly
opposite the public-house. The spy stood at
the corner, with one eye on the house, and
waited, looking at the shop-windows for a few

minutes. She could uot be living; there — that
was absurd. Young ladies cannot live in such
a place. Presently, however, as she did not
come out, the spy turned into the street, and
as there was no one about of whom she could
ask any questions, she went into the public-house
and ' took ' something.

Isn't there a young lady,' she asked the
potman, ' as comes and goes in the house
opposite ? '

There is just,' replied the young man, who
had taste. ' And what do you want with her ?
Because, you see, if you mean any harm to her,
you'd best clear out of Ivy Lane.'

I mean harm ? Why, bless the man, I
worships the ground she treads on. A sweet
lady ! Where does she live when she's at
home?'

'" Why, there.'

Oh ! Does her husband work, then ? '
Her husband ? She ain't got no husband ! '
Oh ! Then how does she live ? '
Go and ask her yourself,' he replied.
The girl looked into the house. It was only
a mean and shabby tenement house ; she belonged,
then, to poor people. What was the

c 2

little game of the old man — her new friend —
with this young person ?

But that was no concern of hers. It was
something vile and wicked, of course, because
she knew all her companions were vile and
wicked. She went away, therefore, and faithfully
narrated what she had observed.

Mr. Carey was greatly puzzled at this unexpected
discovery

His daughter, who permitted herself such
airs, and talked as if she had thousands, and
looked like a lady in every particular, wearing
the most beautiful boots and gloves, actually
lived in a mean street of Hoxton, the meanest
and also the most virtuous part of all London
a place in which he should be ashamed to be
seen. And she lived in a single room, with those
gloves and those boots. What could this mean ?

Pity, my dear,' he said, ' that you couldn't
find out how she makes her money. For
money there is.'

'If you'd told me what you wanted, and
why you wanted it, I might have found more.
All you said was, " Find out where she lives."
Well, I have found out, and a potboy who told
me nearly bit my head off for asking about her,'

What is lie, then ? '

Well, I think she's one of them which go
about with Bibles, and fake up excuses for
making the people virtuous. There's no end
to their dodges. They're getting as artful as
you and me pretty well. One of 'em collects
rents in a court close by here. It's an Irish
court, too. But, bless you, she ain't afraid, and
they won't harm her. Well, I repose that young
lady is up to some game of that sort, Daddy.
And what game you are up to with her I
shoidd like to know.'

Mr. Carey shook his head. He was con
scions of so heartfelt a dislike to all forms of
religion, virtue, or morality, that he thought it
must have been transmitted to this descendants.
Besides, a woman to do this must be a lady to
begin with, and his daughter Maria Alas only
the daughter of a washerwoman. I am sorry
to say that he placed a bad construction on the
matter, and concluded that she was engaged,
for purposes of her own, in some genteel game
which might be spoiled by the discovery of her
father's profession, and of his return to its active
exercise. 'But,' he murmured, ' I'll have that
hundred pound yet.'

CHAPTER XXI.

A Friendly FATHER.

For a whole fortnight Mr. Carey refrained from
molesting either of his children, graciously consenting
to receive twenty shillings a week from one
and thirty shillings from the other. The reason
for this modest retirement and simple content
was simply that as yet he had made few friends —
it takes time for a professional gentleman of distinction
to find out congenial spirits of his own
lofty level — and therefore he had met with no
temptation for the display of that hospitality
which formerly was one of his most delightful
qualities. Besides, he had not yet overcome
the strangeness of the world, which had changed
a good deal during his twenty years of seclusion,
even to the language of the fraternity,
and this, I understand, undergoes a complete
change in twenty years. Book language lasts,
it is true, but the slang of rogues, like the

dialect of a savage tribe, is always clinging
from generation to generation. Mr. Carey
found that the old patter, that spoken by himself
in the early sixties, was unknown, and even
provoked laughter among the new generation ;
and it distressed him that he was completely
ignorant of the new idioms, and was slow to
understand the back slang, the rhyming slang,
and the so-called theatrical slang which are now
current in Thieves' Land. Consequently he
sat apart and stayed his soul with flagons,
tobacco, and books. Fifty shillings a week was
enough for his simple wants. Therefore it was
in pure devilry and with the deliberate intention
of veins and shamino- his son Claude
that he paid a second visit to the Temple. The
door was shut ; nevertheless, Mr. Carey opened
it with the help of a simple instrument which
he always carried about him. When Claude
returned about midnight he heard, while yet
upon the stairs, the scraping, not unskilful, of
a fiddle. Such a sound is strange in King's
Bench Walk. Outside the door he recognised
that the fiddle was being played in his own
chambers, and on opening the door he discovered
that his father was the musician. He

was sitting in a chair playing merrily ; in his
mouth was a short pipe, a bottle of wine, half
finished, and a glass stood on the table.

Glad to see me, Claude ? ' he asked, nodding
and grinning. ' I thought you would be,
so I came round. It's a goodish step from
Whitechapel, isn't it ? I told you I should step
in sometimes. Well, you were out, so I let
myself in. It's not a bit of good locking a
door to keep me out, bless you. Lord, there
isn't a lock in the whole country that will
keep me out, and so, my son, I've been
making myself comfortable.'

Claude groaned, and his father, with a
smile of satisfaction and a brightened eye, for
the sight of his son's disgust and humiliation
affected him with a singular joy, went on with
his conversation, which was a monologue.

'I picked up this fiddle on my way —
bought it in Houndsditch for a sov, which
you'll have to hand over, my dear boy.
Have you got the money about you or shall I
put one of these pretty mugs up the spout?
I suppose they're real silver. Thank you ! It
is a very good fiddle for the money, but my
hand is a little out. There's no fiddling allowed

in the jug. I'llplay you something, Claude.' He
played correctly, and with some feeling and
an old-fashioned lingering among the notes, as
if he loved them every one, Bale's air ' Then
you'll remember me.' After this he played
My pretty Jane,' and ' Tom Bowling.'

There, boy,' he said, laying down the
fiddle, ' can you do that ? Not you. Can you
take the fiddle, and play a hornpipe, and make
the boys dance whether they want to or not,
and draw their hearts out of the women, and
the tears from their eyes ? That's what I
could do when I was a young man. As for the
girls, a man who can fiddle like me can do what
he likes. Ah, Lord! To think of the old
days ! Can you do it ? ISTot you. What can
you do ? How do you live, I say ? Wliat is
your lay, now ? Where do you find the money
for all this ? '

Claude made no reply.

Then the man filled and lit his pipe, and
drank two more glasses of wine. It was
Burgundy, and he seemed to appreciate it. But
the wine did not warm his heart apparently,
for his eyes had a devilish look in them as they
fell upon Claude's face — the look of one who

considers evil clay and night — the look of one
who took pleasure in contemplating his victim's
shame, and revenged himself at the same time
for the loathing of his own presence. He
already hated this son, who showed so clearly
the humiliation caused by his return, and yet
bore with him, and did not, as he might have
done, shove him violently down the stairs. He
hated him, and he rejoiced in his power of
humiliating and disgusting him more and
more.

Look ye, Claude,' he said, with a full,
round, and sonorous oath ; ' you may keep your
trade to yourself, if you please ; you're afraid
of my getting a hand in it, I suppose. But
you won't keep your old father out of your
rooms ; I shall come here for company and
for drink — I shall come here whenever I choose.
It's rather lonely where I've got my pitch, and
they're a low lot about now, compared with the
old pals, and there's not many of the new men
that I care to know. Why, there was a man
last night pretended never to have heard of
the great Jim Carey. The profession has gone
down : it's gone very low indeed. Any man
calls himself a burglar when he's once learned

to crack a crib, and to carry a revolver in case
he's heard upon the stairs. As if I ever wanted
pistols! — as if I was ever heard!— as if anybody
ever heard or caught me in a house !
Ah ! Claude, it was a great misfortune for you
when your father was lagged. You'll never
understand with them prejudices of yours what
a misfortune it was. You've got a quick eye,
and a light tread, and clean fingers. You
would have equalled your father almost ; you
couldn't surpass him. And I'd always made
up my mind what to do with you. And
now it's come to this — a black coat and a tall
hat — talk like a swell — lodgings among the
lawyers — actually among the lawyers — my own
son — Jim Carey's son — among the lawyers ! —
and something genteel in the book-making line.
Well, as I was saying— this bottle's most empty ;
go and get me another. It's cool stuff, and
carries a man along better than brandy. As I
was saying, the profession is clean ruined by revolvers
; it's getting low ; there's no pride in a
neat job. But there, nothing good ever came
from America yet. I am getting old now, and
I doubt if I shall ever do much more, my boy :
but it's heart-breaking to find yourself forgotten

after all that's been done. As for work, why
should I work any more, when I've a beautiful,
dutiful, affectionate son to keep me, not to speak
of a wife and two daughters, and two other
sons, every one of whom desires nothing so
much as to welcome back the fond father
they have lost. He is a ticket-o'-leave man ; he
is repentant, and is open to the tender influences
of awakening grace, and understands at
last the Christian virtues and has cast off the
works of darkness. The good Chaplain says
so, and the Chaplain ought to know, because
lie's always converting such a lot of wicked
sinners, and a giving of 'em the best of characters.
It's a contrite spirit — oh ! — and a broken
heart ! '

For heaven's sake,' said Claude, ' it is past
midnight, drink what you want and go.'

I shall go when I please. Now, about
this family of mine. Thirty bob isn't enough,
my son ! '

I shall give you no more.'

Very well, then, I shall think about trying
the rest of them. Perhaps altogether they
would make it forty. As for the girl who lives
in Ivy Lane, Hoxton ' — Claude started —

dressed like a lady, tliougli where she gets her
money from is what I do not yet know '

Who told you about her ? '

'Never you mind. Who told me about
you, and about your mother, and about Sam
and Joe ? I know all about the family ; there's
Joe — he isn't worth calling on, because he's
only a working man with a family of eight.
Sam, again, he's only a poor miserable schoolmaster.'
(It must be remembered that Mr.
Carey went into his hermitage before the passing
of the Elementary Education Act, and, therefore,
did not appreciate the present position of
the schoolmaster.) 'He's got the parson over
his head to bully him, and make him go to
church and look humble. He's o:ot nothing
his miserable salary. There's no use in
worrying Sam. And your mother's in an almshouse
and blind. If I go to see her perhaps
they'll send her away out of the place, 'cos she
isn't a widow, and make me keep) her. I don't
want to keep her. And there's the other
girl — Melenda — and as yet I don't know where
Melenda is. So you see, Claude, there's only
you and your sister Maria. One of you two I
must see sometimes, and I shall. Which shall

it be ? All I ask, Claude, is — which shall it be
you or her ? Come, nov.'

If you thrust yourself on her ' — it was
clearly Valentine of Avhom his father spoke —
I swear that I will stop my money altogether,
and you can do what you please.'

Don't you think it just possible, my dear
son, that your sister Maria has got friends who
would rather not know about her father?
Don't you think she would come down as handsome
as you've done — you and your thirty
bob ! — just to keep these friends from knowing ?
Therefore, Claude, which of them is it to be?'

It seems as if I can't keep you out of my
chambers if I tried.'

No, my boy — you can't. Take your oath
of that.' He took his two or three times over,
with a glass of Burgundy to each, just by way
of setting an example.

But if you force yourself on Val — on your
daughter, I shall do my very best to dissuade
her from giving you anything.'

Thank ye. You're a dutiful boy, ain't
you ? And suppose I force myself upon both
of you ? '

Claude made no reply at all.

Ell ! ' he repeated ; ' suppose I force myself
upon both of you ? '

Then,' Claude replied, ' there will be only
one thing for us to do. My sisters and I will
all go away — out of the country — somewhere — ■
anywhere, out of your reach. Sam and Joe
shall have the task of protecting my mother.
You may be very certain,' he added grimly,
of the reception you will get from both Joe
and Sam.'

Nice boys, both,' said their father. ' They
won't turn up their noses as if they were gentlemen.
A pretty kind of flash gentleman you are ! '

Very nice boys they will be,' said Claude,
when they hear who you are and what you
want. They will astonish you by their nice
behaviour. I fancy I see Sam before he flings
you into the gutter for pretending to be his
father, the honest locksmith. Why ! we might
all pretend that you are an impostor. I wish
I had begun that way ! '

No, you don't, Claude.' But he looked
uneasy. Suppose these sons of his should all
pretend not to believe in him, there might be
considerable trouble and difficulty before him.
'Don't think of that.'

Yes, I wish I could see Sam's face when
you go to him. Go to him, by aU means. Or
go to Joe, and then you will find out how
dutiful your sons can be, and how deeply your
eldest son respects and loves your memory.'

'You can talk, young 'un, if you can do
nothing else. So can I. Never mind Sam
and Joe ; you and me will do. I will stick to
you, my boy '

'As the leprosy stuck to Naaman '

Quite right, Claude — always quote the
Scriptures. Didn't Joe never tell you about
me ? Joe was — how old was Joe when I was
last lagged ? He was sixteen. Oh ! Joe knows
all about it. I saw him in Court Avhen I was
tried. It was a beautiful trial, and it would
have done your heart good to hear how my
counsel bowled 'em down, one after the other.
At one time I thought I should have got off
altogether. But it wasn't to be. There was a
Providence in it, as our Chaplain said. It
brought me to a knowledge of the Truth. Be
not, then, ashamed of me, a Prisoner ! ' The
man displayed a horrid aptitude in quoting the
Book most read in prison. He took the more
pleasure in it because it caused such peculiar



pain and disgust to his son. For this reason
the historian passes over most of these flowers
of speech.

Joe,' said Claude, ' thought so highly of
your profession and your career that he concealed
everything from us, and bade us, on the
other hand, be proud of our dead father — he
said you were dead, because he wished and
hoped that you were dead. We were to be
proud of our father, on account of his character
for honesty and straightforwardness. His character
! Good heavens ! '

Mr. Carey laughed ; but his eyes looked
more wicked.

That was not well done of Joe. When I
quarrel with you, Claude, I shall pay Joe out
for that. I shall go to Joe's house and introduce
myself to his wife and children, and shall
tell them the whole story. It will please Joe
when he comes home in the evening, won't
it?'

Claude said nothing.

And it will please you, my son, when I
tell you that I have already begun practice
again. Yes, in a small way — not in a low and
mean way, mind you, but in a small way only.

VOL. III. D

I knock at the front door and tell the maid
that the back bedroom is afire. She rushes
upstairs, and I then step in and help myself.
Twice to-day I did that trick.'

Oh ! '

Then I got a book and a pencil, and I
pretended to be the Gas Company's man, and
went downstairs to examine the meter.'

For heaven's sake, stop ! '

These rooms would make a beautiful fence.
I'll bring the things here, Claude.'

'You shall not.' Claude's eyes showed this
man that he had gone too far. He laughed,
and took some more drink.

You're capital company, Claude if you'd
drink more. That's the pity of it, you can't
drink. Sit down, my boy, and let us drink
together.'

Drink together .^ '

If you won't drink then, and if you won't
smoke, you'll just have to listen.'

This ghastly night wore itself out at last.
The man drank, smoked, and talked. He
talked with extraordinary volubility. He
seemed perfectly careless whether Claude were
listening or not. It was sufficient for him that

he was awake. He talked, with deliberate
design, on all those topics which he knew
Avould most humiliate his son ; of his crimes,
bold and successful ; of the changes and chances
of his profession which were constantly landing
him in prison ; of his last burglary, when he
made a splendidly daring attempt at a great
lady's jewels, and would have got them had it
not been for a lout of a country policeman, who
accidentally stopped him, and whom he very
nearly killed in the fight which followed ; of
his trial for burglary and violence and his long
sentence ; of his prison life, and his dodges with
the Doctor and the Chaplain.

Claude stood on the hearth rug, without
replying. The man talked on for several hours,
during which Claude endured an agony. The
clock struck four. Then the man rose slowly.
The drink he had consumed seemed to have
made no impression whatever upon him ; he
was not ' disguised,' his speech was clear, his
bearing steady. But he looked more wicked,
as if the wine had brought out upon his forehead
with greater clearness the Name of the
Beast or the Number ot his Name.

I shall go to sleep,' he said. ' You are

D 2

capital company, Claude, my deai^ boy. I
knew you would be. I shall come very often.'
The bedroom door was open. He stepped
inside, threw himself upon the bed, without
any preliminary undressing, and fell asleep ina
moment.

Claude sat down with a sigh of relief. But
he was too tired for any further load of shame,
and he fell asleep in the chair.

When he awoke it was nine o'clock, and
his laundress was in the room. He remembered
his guest of the night and hastened to look into
the bedroom. But the man was gone. He
had taken his fiddle with him.

'Valentine,' said Claude, later in the day,
I have something to tell you.'

You have had something to tell me for
the last fortnight. Are you going to tell it
now? What is it, Claude?' She laid her
hand on his arm, and looked into his face with
the sisterly affection which was not counterfeited .
Do you think we do not take notice when you
look ill and worried ? What is it, Claude ? '

Have I looked worried ? '

You poor boy ! There has been a line an

inch deep across your forehead, and your eyes
have had a distressed look, as if there was
something you could not understand.'

I don't understand it, Valentine, It is
a part of the Mystery of Evil. But you — are
you worried, too ? Life here is too much for
you. I wish to heaven the middle of October
was come.'

I am always troubled about the girls,' she
replied, tenaciously. ' But I am very well.
Tell me something of your own trouble.'

I cannot, Valentine. Some day, perhaps,
but not yet. I am a coward, and I am afraid
to tell you. What I have to say now is, that
certain things have come to my knowledge
within the last week or two, which have made
me realise, in quite a new sense, how I belong
to the very lowest of the people.'

Why, Claude, you have found some mare's
nest ! ' She laughed, but she felt uneasy.
Could he have learned the truth ? ' You have
discovered, perhaps, that you have cousins very
poor. What does that matter ? '

It is not their poverty ' — and then she
knew that he must have learned \\\q. story of
his father's life. Who could have told him?

Not the old lady! Was it Joe? Why had
Joe told hin ?

It is not their poverty, Valentine. I have
only just learned from what dregs — from what
unspeakable depths — I have been rescued — all
of us have been rescued — you with us, if you
were Polly.'

Oh, Claude, do not talk like that ! Dregs
depths — why these things are beneath your
feet! What can it matter, now, what your
relations were? You cannot be ashamed of
what they are ! '

No ; but of what some of them were.
Would it not matter if some of them were —
criminals, Valentine ? '

No, Claude,' she replied stoutly, ' not even
then ! '

Nay,' said Claude sadly, ' it would matter
a great deal. Such a thing as that would lay
upon me a new obligation. I should have to
atone and to make such reparation as may be
in my power. You asked me once if I was
ready to give all my life, if it were called for,
to the work we have attempted. Why,
Valentine, it is called for! The old life — the
life I used to long for — the life of honourable

work and distinction — I need make no farther
question about giving it up ; it has already
become impossible for me. It is not any
longer a question of choice. Do not ask me
why ; but I can never again even sit down
with the new who have been my friends. I
must leave the Temple. I shall come to live
here. Oh ! I will hide nothing ! If people say,
There goes the son of a — of a " '

Of a locksmith, Claude,' Valentine interrupted
quickly; ' remember what Joe told you.
Eemember what Sam and Melenda believe.
Think, if not of yourself, of Violet and of me.'

She knew now — she was quite certain —
that, in some way or other, Claude had discovered
something, if not all, of the truth.

'I do think of Violet, and of you,' he
replied ; ' heaven knovv^s that. If it were only
myself concerned, I could bear it lightly. But
suppose Violet should find it out. And how am
I to keep the truth from her ? '

I believe,' said Valentine, wise with the
wisdom of books, ' that nothing is ever so bad
as it seems to the imagination beforehand.
Therefore, I daresay Violet and I will be able
to bear it, whatever it is. Women are really

much stronger than men, in many ways,
though you are so conceited over your superior
intelligence ! '

You do not ask me what it is that I would
conceal.'

No ; I am contented to wait. Meantime,
Claude, conceal nothing if you please. I do
not ask you to conceal things ; but parade
nothing. My 2^oor boy ! Yet, if this trouble
should give us a stronger champion, we ought
to be glad that it has come upon us. Clear up
that clouded brow, Claude. Let us see the old
light in your eyes.'

CHAPTER XXII.

THE DOCTOR SPEAKS.

The Doctor is in love with yon.'

This information was conveyed by no
higher an authority than the ragged old man
below ; but it is information of a kind which is
not readily forgotten, even though — as the newspapers
in the last century used to say of the
King of Sweden's movements — it wants confirmation.
It is of the kind which makes a girl
pensive. Whatever the answer she intends
to give when the question shall be put to her,
the knowledge that it will be put, and probably
very soon, greatly raises the aspirant in
the young lady's esteem. It makes him interesting
; it also makes her expectant and
watchful.

Valentine remarked, first of all, that the
Doctor attended his patient with a regularity
amounting to zeal ; this in itself could not fairly

be considered a symptom. But lie stayed
longer than was necessary, and he always made
his visit the occasion of conversation with herself.
This, again, taken by itself, is not a
symptom, because Valentine was the only
young lady living within the boundaries of the
Doctor's round ; in fact the only lady he had
ever known in all his life, and she was without
doubt a very pleasing young lady, and it was
natural that he should like to talk to her : one
would not wish to draw conclusions of love
from mere attraction. Presently, however, she
became aware of a change in his talk ; he began
to speak of himself. Now this, as everybody
knows, is an infallible symptom ; he told her
of his own position, his prospects, his history,
and his opinions. He wanted, quite naturally,
because he was so much interested in lier, to
interest her in himself. So far he succeeded,
because he really was an interesting man.
None of the physicians in the West End whom
she had met were at all like this young Physician
of Hoxton.

Of course,' he said, one day, ' I don't pretend
to be a gentleman ; don't think that —
I've got nothing to do with gentility, and I

don't know the manners of society. I am
just a Mile-Ender — the old man keeps a shop
there, and I could have become his partner if
I had chosen, with a tidy income and a nice
snug, comfortable life — chapel twice on Sunday,
and a hot supper on a Saturday night, and

all '

What a pity to have missed the hot
suppers ! '

Yes ; it's cold supper with me, every day
of the week.'

Why did you give up the shop ? '
When I was a boy, I unluckily got hold
of some scientific books, and I began to read
them. Nothing seemed worth looking at after
that, except Science. I was lost to trade from
that day.'

And so you became a doctor ? '
'Member of the Eoyal College of Surgeons,
Doctor of Medicine in the University of London,
General Practitioner in this genteel neighbourhood.
This is the end of my scientific
ambitions. London Hospital is not so very far
from Mile-end, and it seemed to me as if the
only way into the scientific life was through the
Hospital. A good many scientific men have

begun that way, so why not I ? I had never
heard of the Scientific Schools or of University
and King's and South Kensington, you see, and
the old man had never heard of them either.
So I became a Medico. Well, I've got the
scientific life I asked for — Medicine is called
scientific, I suppose — and it isn't exactly the
kind of life I fancied, which is always the way.
You ask the Fates for what you want, and you
get it ; they give it to you, and then it doesn't
turn out what you thought it was going to be.'

But you've got the most beautiful, the
most unselfish life in the world ? '

Have I .^ Ho ! ' he grunted in derision.

The most beautiful and the best ; you are
everybody's friend ; you go about, carrying
health and recovery in your hands.'

'Well, my hands are certainly occupied a
good deal in making pills and compounding
draughts, and there's only a measly boy, besides,
to help carry those pills and bottles. So I
suppose you're right, If I'd stuck to the shop
I should have been measuring yards of stuff' on
the counter. Making pills or measuring calico,
it doesn't seem much of a choice to offer a man.
But the calico for Money.'

'Money!' This girl, Who had so much,
naturally held money in the deepest contempt.
Money ! what does such a man as you want
with money ? What would you do with money ?
Money cannot advance science.'

There is a sense of freedom without money,
isn't there ? A man with empty pockets isn't
tempted to buy things, and doesn't nourish
extravagant desires, and can't give anything to
anybody.'

The work you do for them actually doesn't
want money.'

There you go,' replied the Doctor. ' For
them ! Hang it, can't a man be allowed to do
something for himself P Here 1' am, with the
wages of a mechanic, doing twice a mechanic's
work ! I used to be ashamed, at first, of taking
their half-crowns from the poor devils — I beg
your pardon — from the others, and where is
the life of science I longed for ? '

Why, you have it — you must be learning
something new every day ! '

Oh ! the action of drugs and the symptoms
of disease — yes, to be sure, whatever advances
man's knowledge is good, I knovv^' he went on
impatiently ; ' of course even this is better than

standing behind a counter with a j^ard measure
and pair of scissors. But I wanted to advance
knowledge — not my own, but the world's. I
had ambitions — but you don't know ; women
never understand.'

'We sometimes understand a little,' she
replied, humbly.

See here.' He pointed to the sick girl,
who lay with closed eyes, as if she was asleep.
This is the great mystery which men are
always searching after, and have never found.
I wanted to be one of those who search.
Some day it will be discovered, and then we
shall be like the Immortal Gods. Meantime,
what are we ? One after the other, for all of
us in turn, the steady flame begins one day to
dwindle ; then it burns low ; sometimes it goes
on flickering for a long time. Then it goes out.
Birth, growth, decay, and death. Why? We
cannot tell. We are surrounded by a great
black cloud, which we keep pushing back
farther and farther ; and it is always rolling
in again. Whether it is close around us, or
whether it is pushed far away, we never succeed
in getting through it or looking over it. And
beyond it — silence I The generations pass away,

and one after the other, we all ask the same
questions, and have to lie down unanswered.'

What is the use of asking questions which
cannot be answered ? '

The use ! The use ! There's all the use,
not for asking but for looking. Those who
keep on searching find at last. All the secret
mysteries of fife Avill be found out, some time
or other ; and yet you think I ought to be
satisfied with such work as this, while others
are able to search.' He put on his hat and
went away, without the usual ceremony of
leave-taking. He was a very rude and unpolished
person ; but somehow he was in
earnest. Any man in earnest is always sure
of forgiveness, whatever his social sins may be.

I've been thinking,' he said, a day or two
later, ' about jour notion of an unselfish life.
I can't feel any reality about it. A man must
work, but he ought to choose his own work.
And every man must work for himself. Would
you have a man really satisfied with being a
General Practitioner in Hoxton .^ '

If there is no choice, isn't it wisest to find
out all that there is in his manner of life that is
noble and generous, and so be contented with it ? '

I don't v/ant nobility and generosity. I
am a selfish creature ; every man is, whatever
you may pretend. Very well then. I want
everything that I can't get — leisure, books,
instruments, money to work with. What do I
care about other people? If I cared about
other people I should be contented, and then
my life would be just a selfish indulgence.
Let me have all I want for myself first. I will
think about other people afterwards.'

As it is, you can't have what you want,
and therefore you have made the best of it, and
begun to think of other people first.'

'Then, suppose I wanted' — he rested his
chin in the palm of his left hand and his left
elbow on his left knee, with his left leg crossed
over the right — it is a meditative attitude — and
he looked thoughtfully in her face. ' Suppose
I wanted to make love ? Life is an incomplete
kind of thing without it. Incomplete with it,
for that matter ; but still '

'You said the other day that men and
women cheat themselves with the unreal sentiment
that they call love.'

So I did. But sentiment may have its
value.'

And you said that man's love was another
name for his desire to obtain a slave.'

So it is. But there might be women for
whom one would reverse the situation.'

And you despise women.'

That is true, in a way — perhaps a little
more than one despises men. So would
you if you were a Gap. But there are
women one cannot despise. With these a
man would willingly exchange the illusions
of love.'

Be patient, Doctor ; perhaps your day
will come. Meantime, though you are such a
selfish creature, you do a good deal for these
poor people, to gratify your own selfishness, no
doubt.'

In the way of business. I take their half-crowns
all the while.'

Yes, I know how much you will get from
the poor woman you sat up with this morning
until four.'

Way of business,' he repeated. ' I wonder
who serves out the lives ; I suppose they are
served out by some one. So many hundreds
told off for General Practitioners ; so many for
starving gentlewomen ; so many for drunken

VOL. III. E

husbands. One, just one, for Miss Valentine
Elclridge.'

There was certainly very little reason why
this young Doctor should look cheerfully on
life. His practice was larger than is comfortable
; and the larger it grew the poorer he
became, which is a truly wonderful result of
success. He was paid in shillings and half-crowns
; he lived in a small house, with an old
woman to look after him, and she looked after
him badly. He made up his own medicines
and dispensed them with the aid of a boy ; he
walked about the streets all day and sometimes
all night ; he made his meals and took his rest
when he could ; he had no time for reading,
and his thirst for knowledge was very great.
Tantalus was, I believe, a young and very successful
General Practitioner in a poor neighbourhood,
who ardently desired leisure for
study and research.

He had no society ; and the Assistant-Priest
of S. Agatha — Mr. Eandal Smith — was his only
friend, and they quarrelled every time they
met.

Smith,' he said one evening when he found
time for a pipe and a glass of beer (of course

Mr. Smith didn't smoke, and sported a blue
ribbon as proudly as if it had been the Order
of the Garter) — ' Smith, did you ever turn your
attention seriously to the question of Love ? '

Mr. Eandal Smith's pale face flushed. ' My
WORK,' he said, proudly, ' compels the Celibate
Life;

Don't talk more ecclesiastically than you
can help. Mine compels the Celibate Life as
well, because the income isn't more than
enough for one ! But I don't brag about it.
Why can't a man go on through life without
falling in love ? Why does he ever want to
hamper himself with a woman ? She doesn't
probably knows anything ; she doesn't care for
the things he cares about. Very likely shea
fool ! He can never be so free when he is
married as when he was unmarried.'

Perhaps,' said the Assistant-Priest, ' she
has qualities which he desires to possess.'

You don't fall in love with a pretty face
at least, only a fool does that — nor yet with
a pretty figure. Pm an anatomist, and I know
all about the pretty figure. It's a fine piece of
machinery, I confess ; but it is a great deal too
delicate for the work we expect of it, and it is

E 2

LIBRARY

IIMIX/CDCITV O.Z MIIMni?s

always getting out of order. You can't fall in
love with a machine, or with the case they've
made for it.'

No ' — Mr. Eandal Smith saw his chance to
make a point — ' you fall in love with the soul.'

Ah ! that's your department. I never saw
a soul in the dissecting-room ; never heard of
anybody who did. All I know is, that there
are no diseases in my knowledge which are
caused by the soul, so that it can't form part
of the body I '

It doesn't,' the other man replied, still
getting the best of it. ' That is why you fall
in love with it.'

Whatever it was that the Doctor loved, it
was called Valentine, and it had a very charming
face, with eyes which sjioke all kinds of
possible things, and especially a most beautiful
sympathy, so that this young Doctor felt that
he could talk about himself and his own
thoughts all day long with her, and that neither
of them would get tired. He, at least, woukl
not. Men vary in their expressions of love ;
but a strong and masterful nature generally
takes this form and demands perfect sympathy
from the object of its passion. So that the

Doctor was partly right in calling Love the
desire to o^et a slave for oneself. The things
Valentine with which he was in love, also
had a pretty figure, a graceful manner, and a
highly pleasing voice.

He spoke at last. It was in the beginning
of October, a week before her furlough was to
expire.

You are actually going away in a week ? '
he asked.

Yes ; for a little while. You will come
every day to look after Lofty while I am away,
will you not ? '

I will do what I can for her — or for you.
Before you go '• — it was in Valentine's room,
but they had got into the habit of talking
freely before Lofty, who seemed to take no
notice of what was said by these two — ' before
you go, I should like you to know — just for the
sake of knowing — not that it will do anj'^ good,
but still you ought to be told — that there are
two men in love with you.'

Oh ! Why should you tell me that ? ' she
answered, with a natural blush.

They are not much to boast of — only
Hoxton men ; but still — men.'

Don't go on, Doctor.'

I must now. One of them is Eandal
Smith. He confessed it last night when I taxed
him with it, after beating about the bush awhile.
He's been in love with you, he says, for a longtime.
Of course, he can't look at things
straight, and he pretends that it's out of gratitude
to you for singing and talking with his
blessed boys — the humbug ! But he won't
tell you, because he's got to be a Celibate for
the good of the Church— ho ! ho ! — and because
you won't submit to discipline I That's
what he calls confession, and penance, and
Lent.'

Poor Mr. Smith ! I shall always think the
better of myself, because there never was a
more unselfish man, I believe.'

As for the other man — will you guess who
that other man is ? '

She met his eyes with perfect frankness and
without a blush.

Do you mean — yourself ? '

Yes, I do. I don't at all understand Why,
but it is so.'

It is a part of the general pretence and
unreality of life, perhaps.'

No, it is as real as — as Neuralgia, and as
difficult to shake off. I don't know who you
are, but I know what you are. Smith doesn't
want an answer. Have you, by any chance, got
one for me ? '

Only, that a woman ought to be proud, to
think that two such men like her. Will you
go on liking nie, both of you .^ ' She offered
him her hand, but he did not take it.

I said Love, not Like,' he replied grimly.
Well, you've said what I knew you would say,
only you've said it more kindly than I expected
or deserved, perhaps. Yet, I don't know.
If a man loves a woman he can but tell her
so. even if she's a royal princess. That'll do.'
He rose and stooped over Lofty on the bed.

Feel easier this morning, don't you ?
That's right. Had a good night ? Pretty good.
Don't talk much. Let Melenda come and talk
to you, but don't you talk. Very well ; now
keep quiet. We shall soon be — quite well.'

Doctor ! ' It was Valentine, as Lofty
closed her eyes again and lay as if she was
asleep.

Quite well,' he repeated, with a kind of
defiance. ' Asleep and well. What could be

batter for her, or for any of them, come to that,
poor things ! '

The tears came to her eyes, but she said
nothing.

Her sorrows will soon come to an end.
You have made her happy, in spite of them.
Now I'll go. Forgive me.'

There is nothing to forgive, believe me.'

I was bound to tell you, once, before you
went away. I shall never speak of it again —
you know it, and that is enough.'

He looked in her face once more, from
under his shaggy eyebrows, and pressed her
hand. Tien, as he left her and went his way,
at the bottom of the stairs he tumbled over a
couple of cats which were sleeping on the lowest
step in the sun. I am sorry to say that he
swore at those cats aloud. I have said that he
was a rough and a rude young man. When he
cursed those cats, he cursed his own fortune as
well. Valentine heard the words and forgave
them, understanding the cause. As for the cats,
they knew the Doctor very well, and retired
with precipitation and wonder, asking each
other what m the world could be the matter
with a man whom they had known and respected

since kittenclom, as a constant and tried
friend of cats. There are a great many cats
about Ivy Lane — cats have taken the place
formerly occupied by oyster-shells in poor
neighbourhoods — but tie Doctor had never
before kicked a single one of them. Therefore
they were naturally hurt and surprised. One
more illusion gone.

Valentine,' Lofty whispered, ' you are
going away in a few days. I heard all that
you said.'

Yes, dear, but only for a day or two. I
shall come back. Do not be afraid.'

The Doctor loves you. Everybody loves
you, except Melenda. And I shall soon be
quite well. Oh, I know now what he means.
I understand things much better now than I
did before you came. Oh ! before you came.
If I could but see Tilly once more before I am
quite well — and asleep.'

Lofty — Lofty — may poor child.'

Don't cry, Valentine. Perhaps Melenda
will give in when I am — asleep and well —
because we have been such friends, her and me.
And you've been so good to me. You'll be
patient with Melenda, won't you? '

CHAPTER XXIII

HOW MELENDA WAS DRILLED.

When Melencla carried back the bundle of
finished work to the shop she generally returned
with the money and another bundle,
if work was abundant and she was lucky, by
noon, or one o'clock at latest. On this occasion,
which was a certain morning towards the end
of September, she did not return at the usual
time, nor did she indeed come back until past
seven o'clock in the evening, when she appeared
at Valentine's door with empty hands.

• They've drilled me,' she said, with a catching
in her breath. ' They've drilled me all
day long.'

Oh ! Melenda ! ' It was a bad day with
Lofty, and she was reduced to a whisper. ' Oh,
Melenda ! '

And they haven't finished yet. Don't tell

Liz, but it was all along of her button-holes.
She's got dreadful careless lately.'

What is drilling ? ' asked Valentine. ' Melenda,
you look frightfully pale

Melenda was a brave girl, and strong, but
the day's work, whatever it was, had been too
much for her ; and now she sank into a chair,
and threw her hat upon the floor. Her cheeks
were white, but her eyes were hot and angry.

I'm tired, that's all. So would you be ;
and I'm hungry, too. Iso, I won't have anything
out of your cupboard. There's some
cold tea and some bread and butter in the
other room.'

Valentine brought them to her ; it was the
first time that Melenda had accepted any service
from her. But in taking the food from
Valentine's hands she preserved her independence
because it was her own bread and butter.

What is drilling ? ' asked Valentine again.

Last time they drilled her,' whispered
Lofty, ' she went off directly she came home,
and we had dreadful trouble to bring her
round. Don't go off, Melenda dear.'

'I ain't going off; I'm better now. Don't
tell Liz it was her fault.'

The trouble came upon Melencla through
Lizzie's ladies not her own. It is not everybody
that can bear a glimpse of the better life.
That which poor Lizzie got caused her the
most poignant envy and discontent. Very soon
Valentine would go away and leave them.
Then the bread for dinner would reappear, and
the dainty meals which Valentine had given
her would be a memory of the past to embitter
the present, and the stockings and shoes and
things ' with which Valentine had replenished
her scanty wardrobe would wear out, and there
would be no money to get any more. Let us
do the child justice ; she thought, too, how
the cheerful face, the kindly voice, the evening
song, the lips that never uttered a harsh word,
would go too, and the lodgings return to their
former condition when they were all comparatively
satisfied, because they knew no
better. ' This is the way,' she said to herself,
that ladies live at home, and this is the way
we live,' and always in her ear the voice
whispering, ' Come with me, and you shall live
like a lady.' The good food which Valentine
provided her, the comparative ease — because
now that Lofty was off their hands they were

able to o;et aloiif? with less Avork — the better
clothes that she wore, the greater attention
which she paid to Valentine's example, and
therefore to neatness and cleanliness, had made
poor Lizzie by this time a really pretty girl.
When Valentine came she was a girl With
possibilities ; now she was a girl with realities ;
her figure filled out and rounded, her cheek
fuller and of a healthier hue — her eyes brighter.
She represented, in fact, like any other animal,
the advantages which result from good and
regular feeding.

But these things made her, as well, careless
in her work, and Melenda was drilled, therefore.


But what is drilling ? ' Valentine repeated.

I got there,' said Melenda, eating her
bread and butter ravenously, ' at half-past nine
this morning. I thought I'd be in good time.
So I was. The clerk — it's the fat-faced one
with the whiskers — he took my Avork and
passed it in. Presently, he calls me and he
says, " You stand there," he says. '' They'll send
down your money and your work presently,"
ses 'ee. Then he grinned, and the other girls
who were standing about the slip for their

turn, they looked at each other and they
whispered, " You poor thing ! He's going to
drill you." Of course I knew that. And so
he did.'

Oh ! '

Drilled you ? ' asked Valentine, for the
fourth time.

'Now I'm better,' said Melenda, finishing
her bread and butter. ' Coming home, Lofty,
I thought I should ha' dropped.'

But tell me what they've done.'

Lord ! you don't know anything, and
you've been here nearly three months. You're
real ignorant, Valentine.' Melenda, in her own
opinion, knew everything. ' It's like this, you
know. If the work isn't so good as it ought to
be, they just drill us. Well, we can't help it.
A girl hasn't got any rights, Sam says, because
she can't fight for herself, and nobody cares to
fight for us. The men they stand up for the
men, and the women stand up for the men, but
they don't care for other women. Sam says so.
As for the ladies, what odds is it to them if weare
all drilled to death ? '

But what is it ? ' Valentine asked ; * how
do they do it ? '

They don't do anything. They just tell
you to stand and wait, and they keep you
waiting. If you go out, you're told when you
come back that the Avork's come down and
been given to another girl. You've just got to
wait for your money and for the new work as
long as they choose to keep you. Sometimes
they've drilled a woman for five or six days,
and her with babies at home crying for their
food. What do they care .^ '

Oh ! but it is impossible. Have you been
kept standing all day long Actually standing
all day ? And without food ? Have you had
nothing to eat ? '

Not likely,' said Melenda ; ' neither dinner
nor tea.'

'Melenda,' said Valentine, 'you must let
some one help you. Oh ! my dear, it is a
Shame ! It is horrible.'

I won't then,' Melenda cried fiercely. ' I
said I wouldn't, and I won't. I've always been
independent, and I always will be.' It washer
formed of consolation, and though it was
no more than a fetish, it never failed.

Independent ! Oh, Melenda — what independence
! '

In the morning Melenda went again to get
her money and her work. Again the clerk
ordered her to stand aside and wait. She was
to be drilled a second day, a punishment which
marked the gravity of her offence.

Melenda obeyed with an angry spot in
either cheek. Some of the women about the
place whispered her that it was a Shame. It
was all that the women could do. ' It is a
Shame,' they whispered low, so that the men
should not hear, The whole history of Woman
seems somehow contained and summed up in
those four short words, ' It is a Shame.'

If you think of it, the chivalrous sentiment
and the Christian sentiment and the humanitarian
sentiment, all combined, have done but
little as yet to remove the truth and force of
those four little words. Everywhere the woman
gets the worst of it. She is the hardest
worked, and has to do all the nastiest kinds of
work ; she is the worst paid ; she is always
bullied, scolded, threatened, ragged, and sworn
at ; she has the worst food ; she has the lion's
share of the trouble and the lamb's share of the
pleasure; she lias no holidays ; she has the
fewest amusements. Even in those circles

where women do not work and are never
kicked, she has the worst of it. Beautiful
think's have been written about womanhood,
damsels, and gracious ladies. Girls do, in fact,
enjoy a brief reign while they are wooed and
not yet won. And after that the men take for
themselves everything that is worth having,
save only in those well-appointed and desirable
establishments where there is enough to go
round for man and wife too. But for the great
broad lower stratum of the social pyramid,
there is but one sentence that will express the
truth. You will hear it from the lips of women
and girls wherever working women and girls
meet together ; on the pavement and outside
the shops it is cried aloud ; iii the shops and
work-rooms it is only whispered ; one short
sentence, in four short words, ' It is a Shame.'

All day long to stand and wait. It seems
a cruel thing. And very likely at home the
children crying for their bread, or sitting empty
and hungry at school, while the figures swim
and reel upon the blackboard, and the teachers
wonder how children can be expected to learn
when they have had no breakfast and no dinner.
To be made stand and wait from half-past nine

VOL. III. F

ill the mornings until seven in the evenings.
And women, my Christian brothers, are not
really so strong as men, though we treat them
as if they were capable of far more endurance
than we ourselves ever give to our own work.
It seems cruel ; but then, consider, drilling is
punishment. There must be punishment. And
the very nature and essence of punishment is
that it is unpleasant. In the good old slavery
times women were tied up to the post and
lashed, which hurt them a good deal, and even
inflicted deep iiesh wounds and caused indelible
scars. But these heal up ; the pain of being
drilled for three or four days in succession is
certainly a great deal worse than the pain of
beincT lashed for three or four minutes, and the
injuries it inflicts on a girl are not skin and
flesh injuries and do not heal up, nor can they
be forgotten in a day or two. Quite the contrary
; these injuries last a whole lifetime, and
sometimes lap over to the next generation.
There must, however, be punishments in every
trade ; how else are you to get work done
properly? You cannot fine a woman whom
you have already engaged according to the
strictest principles of sound political economy

on the Law of Elevenpence-Ha'penny ; you are
not allowed by foolish modern laws to flog her,
not even to correct her with a cane, nor to box
her ears, nor to kick her ; it is no use turning
her off, because the next girl will be no better ;
you may not put her in the stocks or the
pillory; you may not duck her; civilisation,
humanity, Christianity, and political economy
agree together in forbidding all these think's.
But they agree in allowing an employer to pay
starvation wages to his girls, and by way of
punishment, when he pleases, to drill them.
It is a small and miserably inadequate kind of
punishment. Let us pity the poor employers ;
they have nothing else left.

On the third day she went agiiin.

Again she was told to stand aside and
wait.

Again she obeyed, and prepared submissively
for a third day of patient suffering.

Only one hundred and fifty years ago,
when maid-servants or work girls committed
any fault, it was customary to beat them with
sticks. As it was the custom no one took
much notice. One of the sights of London
was Bridewell Prison, where visitors and idlers

1-2

went to see the women flogged. Sometimes,
again, the women were placed in pillory and
so exposed to the derision of the multitude.
It seems barbarous to us when we read of
these things. We have now, no doubt, castaway
for ever such barbarities. Of course we
have — we are now so considerate and kind to
women that we never overwork them, never
pay them wretched wages, and are constantly
careful that other people shall treat them with
equal consideration. This is an age of humanity.
We even go too far in our resolution that
there shall be no cruelty. If a schoolmaster
flogs a boy we invent stories to stimulate and
goad the public wrath. We say that the
schoolmaster has even cut the boy's toes off in
the zeal of his argumentum haculinum. We
will have no boys whipped, no donkeys kicked,
no dogs or cats ill-treated ; and it is commonly
reported that the cases of the fox, the hare,
the rabbit, the weasel, the stoat, the pheasant,
the partridge, and the grouse, are shortly to
be taken into serious consideration. Wherefore
it is absurd to suppose that there can be
any cruelty in drilling.

Girls who are drilled do not cry out, to

begin with, nor do they write to the papers.
They know very well that, if they do venture
to complain, they will get no more work.
Besides, if it were cruel, if it were not for their
own good, it would not be done. Like many
other necessary chastisements, however, drilling
has its disagreeable side. Those girls, to
begin with, who habitually work sitting all
day, feel extremely uncomfortable after standing
for a couple of hours. The discomfort
increases to the point of pain, and from pain
to torture if it be prolonged sufficiently. When
the torture does begin, the girl feels first of
all grievous pains in her limbs ; she shifts her
weight from one foot to the other, her feet
swell, her back and shoulders ache, her head
becomes an aching lump of lead ; she is
nothing at all from head to foot but a collection
of aches and pains ; there is no part of
her which does not give her pain ; every bone
is aching, every muscle is drawn, every joint
is swollen, and you may observe, if you take
the least interest in a girl who is being drilled,
that, after an hour or two, her cheeks have
become flushed, her lips tremble, her hands are
shaking, and her eyes are unnaturally bright.

There is another thing. Workgirls do not
generally breakfast off anything richer or more
substantial than bread, or read and butter.
At stroke of noon they are ready for their
dinner, which may be bread with a piece of
fried fish — it is cheap and very nourishing
dipped in oil, as the Beni Yakub love it — and
sometimes of bread and butter with tea. Atone
o'clock, if this meal has not been provided,
they are desperately hungry ; by two or three,
they are faint and sick With hunger. By the
evening, if they have had nothing since breakfast,
they are devoured by that pain which
was once poetically and happily likened unto
the gnawing of a wolf at the intestines by a
man whose name has been forgotten, but who
had personally experienced this pain, and had
also been clawed by a real wolf — I think it
was in Epping Forest, about the time of King
Athelstan. This man, wdao lived to a great
age, and now lies buried in Greenstone churchyard,
beside St. Edmund's oaken church,
always declared that he greatly preferred the
real animal to his imitator.

All day long the people came and went in
the shop, each one about his own business,

nobody regarding so insignificant a tiling as a
young; workgirl standing still and submissive ;
no one, indeed, knew or guessed or cared to
think that here was a girl who was aching in
every bone and sick and faint with fatigue and
hunger, waiting for money due to her and for
work promised her, who had so waited two
days and was now waiting the third day. And
the hours dien one is being drilled move on
so slowly. They go too slowly in the City for
those in the ranks of Clerkdom ; far too slowly
for the youngsters who want to be off and
away, using up the last of the autumn evenings
upon the bicycle in the roads about Layton and
Wanted ; far too slowly for the young man
who longs for the evening, when he may walk
and talk with the girl who is going to marry
him as soon as he reaches the income of a
hundred and twenty pounds ; too slowly for
him who is already married and now draws two
hundred, and has a house at Edmonstone, with
a garden and children five. But the hours
went much more slowly to Melenda than to
any of these. The fat-faced clerk already
mentioned — he with the whiskers — went on
With his work and from time to time turned his

eye upon Melenda. Because it was the custom,
lie thought iiothmg of the punishment. Justin
the same way, when the Eomans nailed a
man on the cross, the thing was so common
that none of the passers-by gave a thought to
his agony. He hung up there, over them,
sometimes enduring his agony for two or three
days, while everybody went on below just as if
the man were lying on a bed of roses. The
soldiers on guard rattled their dice and told
their stories and sang snatches of song ; the
boys played with their knuckle bones and
quarrelled and fought at the foot of the gibbet ;
the women carried their fruit to market on their
heads, and hardly looked up ; the happy lovers
passed hand in hand beneath the man who
would love no more, and on whose drooping
head were the dews of death ; the scholars
walked by disputing. There was a man being
slowly done to death upon the cross — well, it
was the custom. This clerk was like the
Eomans ; I dare say he knew that drilling was
painful, but it was the custom. The girl had
left at home, very likely, brothers and sisters
who were waiting for the money and the work,
and were, meantime, without food : perhaps he

understood in his dull and unsympathetic way
that hunger is an extremely painful thing.
But it was the custom. He was only doing
his regular work. He was no more moved
than the Woman soldiers, or than the schoolmaster
is moved by the sad face of a boy kept
in, or than the beadle was wont to be moved
when, in the days of his now lost magnificence,
he walked, gold-headed staff in hand, beside
the wretch who was being admonished at the
cart tail by the nine-tailed vengeance. It was
the custom.

Out of so many work girls, there are
always so many careless girls ; therefore so
much drill, so much starvation. It was
nothing but the necessary discipline of the
Establishment. The clerk was really a very
kind-hearted person, who would not willingly
give anyone pain. He spoke with the greatest
abhorrence of the ruthless Russian and the
tyrannous Turk ; if he had any money to spare
he would subscribe to all kinds of virtuous and
benevolent things, such as the Cruelty to
Animals Society ; and as for Vivisection, words
fail him when he even thinks of it. One
is anxious that this gentleman, who is still

comparatively young, should not be misrepresented,
and therefore it should be added that he
is a member of a surpliced choir, in which he
sings tenor, and that he belongs to a Guild, and
sometimes is allowed to put on a long cassock,
which makes him completely happy. The
chiefs of the Establishment have houses at
Bucklers Hill, Stoke Lexington, and Finchley.
They are all most kind-hearted men. If their
children were kept waiting for breakfast a single
quarter of an hour, they would turn every servant
— man Jack and maid Jill — out of doors ;
if any of their own girls were kept without food
for a whole day, they would fall into apoplectic
fits. It is needless to say that they are diligent
at church and chapel ; they approve of all good
works ; on the question of discipline they speak
vaguely ; on that of woman's wage they cling
manfully to the great sheet anchor of trade —
the Primal Law — the most beautiful and most
beneficent of all Laws — that of Supply and
Demand. Theirs, you see, is the Demand ; the
girls furnish the Supply. In the evening the
chiefs, who make a succulent luncheon at one,
go home every man to a handsome dinner at
half-past seven, picking up something on their

way at the fish aucl game shop outside Broad
Street Station. At the moment when their
gongs proclaimed the serving of dinner, Melenda
would be allowed to go home to her bread and
tea.

I believe that a two-days' drill is considered
severe. Melenda's case must therefore have
been very serious indeed, for she was drilled
the third day, and perhaps it was intended that
the drill should go on for a day or two longer,
but an accident, the nature of which you will
learn immediately, prevented the continuance
of the punishment. It was not that Melenda
went off,' or fell dov/n, or flew into a rage
and delivered her mind and was consequently
excited. She did none of these things. She
stood perfectly quiet and waited. The clerk
began to think that punishment had gone far
enough, but it was not by his orders that girls
were drilled. That was done in a department
upstairs, which took about as much human
interest in the girls as a Board of Magistrates
laying down rules for Prison Diet, or a Board
of Guardians ordering a costume for workhouse
girls, or the Admiralty issuing orders for the
British sailor.

Valentine it was who ended her punishment
for her.

When they found that Melenda did not
return by the noon of the third day, Valentine
declared that the thins should no longer be
endured.

It was nearly one o'clock. Melenda stood
alone in a kind of corner, out of the way of
the people who kept coming and going. She
now hoped for nothing but the stroke of seven
still six long hours distant — and stood swaying
herself gently from side to side, to ease
some of the pains which racked her limbs.
When she saw Valentine at the door lie
changed colour, and was ashamed. This was
indeed, she reflected, a beautiful kind of independence
— independence to be justly proud
of! Valentine looked about the place, saw
Melenda standing in her corner, and then
addressed, the man who seemed to be in office.
It was, in fact, the clerk whom Melenda called
him with the fat face.'

Is it, pray,' she asked, ' by your orders
that girls are tortured in this place ? '

I don't know what you mean,' he replied.


Is it by your orders, then, that the work-gals
are drilled, as you call it ? '

'No, it isn't. The orders come from upstairs.'


'Will you tell me where I can find the
chief partner of the house ? '

Oh ! come,' said the clerk, laughing,
that's too good, that is ! You don't expect
him to bother his head about a workgirl, do
you?'

Will you take me to him ? '

Well, no — I won't, if you come to that.
It's more than my place is worth.'

Will you tell me his name ? '

Why, of course ; all you've got to do is
to read the name on the brass plate at the
door.'

He dimly perceived, through the fog of
daily routine and custom, which clouded a
perhaps otherwise fair understanding, that here
was a young lady, and that there was going to
be a row.

There was, but not much ; because you
really cannot expect the Senior Partner in so
great a House to trouble himself about a mere
insignificant London workgirl. You can't sella

workgirl as you can sell a roll of silk ; you
can buy her, it is true, and you can buy her
cheap, and you can use her up quick ; you can
drill her if she is careless ; you can pay her
the wages of competition — in some confusion
of ideas, Valentine thought these must be the
wages of sin turned the other way about. All
this an employer can do with a workgirl, but
he cannot sell her ; • so that he has naturally no
direct interest in her, except to get as much
work out of her as he can while she lasts.
And this, of course, he does.

In ten minutes' time Valentine reappeared.
With her was an elderly gentleman of benevolent
aspect.

You shall see for yourself,' she said, indignantly.
' You cannot disclaim the responsibility
for abominable cruelties committed in
your name. You shall deny them if you can ! '

Cruelties ! Eeally, my dear young lady —
cruelties in my House ! It is absurd. Let us
see these cruelties.' He looked at her card —
Miss Valentine Eldridge.'

I am a daughter of Lady Mildred Eldridge,'
she said, instinctively getting at a weak place.
Now, sir, will you please to tell me whether

it is by your approval or by your orders that
this girl has been ordered to stand here for
three days, from half-past nine in the morning
till seven at night— nearly ten hours each day —
without being permitted to leave the place or
to sit down for three whole days ? To stand
all day without food from nine until seven !
Would you dare to use your own daughter so ? '

Eeally, this is very '

For three days ! Oh ! ' Valentine was
now so indians that she said more than Alas
wise. 'Do you understand at all what it
means to stand for ten hours in one place ?
Do you understand what it is to go without
food for a whole day ? Do you know that she
has been kept from the money owing to her
all this time ? You have, I suppose, the right
to pay her starvation wages and to overwork
her. Have you the right to torture her .^ '

One moment. Miss Eldridge.' He called
the clerk and retired up the shop in conversation
with him.

I hear,' he said, presently returning, ' that
the girl was not told to stand, but to wait ;
there has been nothing to prevent her sitting
down, or going out for dinner or tea, had she

chosen ; her work was kept back for three days
as a slight — a very slight and inadequate —
punishment for very culpable negligence. Under
these circumstances 1 trust that you will recall
the harsh expression.' He spoke with great
dignity, but his cheeks were red.

'I will not. Your excuse is a miserable
prevarication ! It is false that the girl could
sit down or go out. She has been deliberately
tortured. You make a practice of torturing
the poor helpless women you employ.'

At all events, it shall not occur again with
this girl. She shall receive whatever money
may be owing to her and she may go. We
will strike her name off our books,' said the
Senior Partner. ' Since discipline is construed
into cruelty, and kindness into torture, you had
better, Miss Eldridge, take your protegee elsewhere.
I am sorry I cannot help her any
longer.'

Nothing could have been grander than the
way in which he delivered himself of these
words. He took off his hat and retired. It
was not until he was gone that Valentine found
any reply, and then it would have been unequal
in dignity to that of the manufacturer.

Now you've lost your work altogether,'
said the clerk. ' Lord, what a fuss to make
about a day's drill ! '

Will you find a chair for the next girl you
drill ? ' asked Valentine.

'Well, Miss,' he replied — mindful of the
Senior Partner's words — ' I told her to wait ; I
didn't say stand ! Is it my fault that there was
no chair ? '

We are always made to stand,' said Melenda.
Never mind — there's other places ! '

They went away, Valentine feeling miserably
guilty. She had fallen into a rage, and before
a man known all over London for active
benevolence, and she had gone to his private
room and accused him of cruelty and of torture,
and of undertaking his girls and overworking
them. Valentine, for once in her life, showed
to put it mildly — an immense capacity for
indignation. She startled the good old man,
and when she offered proof of her words, he
could not choose but follow.

He had a dinner party that evening, and I
think he must have been feeling uncomfortable,
in spite of his grave and dignified language,
because he talked a good deal about the

VOL. 1.11. G

question of women's wages. They were
necessarily, it was agreed by all, ruled by the
state of the labour market first, and the production
market next. And there was only one
feeling, that it was most desirable to find someway
in which the wages of women and girls
could, without violation of Political Economy,
be improved. He did not tell the drill story
because there were one or two awkward
points about it. Besides, this young lady
certainly had friends, and her friends might
write to papers. Now, there is nothing in the
whole Avorld which men of all ranks, classes,
trades, fortunes, or professions, dread more than
the publication of ' trade customs ' ; because,
somehow, from the fee of a barrister down to
the bill of a plumber, so many delicate questions
can be raised, and so many awkward questions
may present their sharp and spiky points ; and
it is not enough to feel, as we do feel, that weare
all in the same boat. This makes it, in
fact, worse, because if anyone in his wrath
should happen to bore a hole in the boat on
account of another man's sins, down Ave all go
together. The benevolent Senior Partner could
not get out of his mind the white face and

You've got my work took from me, Valentine,'
said Melenda, not ungraciously. ' Never
mind — you gave it him hot ! He didn't like it,
though he bounced it off. There won't be
much more drilling done there for a month or
two. But, Lord ! it isn't him you should
blame. He don't know nothing about it. It's
upstairs where the orders for drill comes from.'

G a

CHAPTEE XXIV.

MELENDA IS VANQUISHED.

Thanks, therefore, to Valentine's well-meant,
but perhaps injudicious, interference, there was
now no work to do, and the girls were idle.
Of the two evils, compulsory idleness, with no
money and therefore no food ; or compulsory
drudgery, with very little money, and very little
food ; perhaps the latter is the lesser, though
work girls differ in opinion. Lizzie, leaving the
care of the future to Melenda, went rambling
about the trees, appearing regularly at mealtimes
in Valentine's room ; if she loved anything
it was idleness, and as she could now get
well fed without doing any work, she was
contented with the present, and not anxious to
begin again at the button-holes.

Melenda it was who went seeking work,
and, as generally happens in such cases, found
none. There were already, as she very well

knew, far more seekers than work for them.
This is the hopelessness of women, that there
are so many who seek for work and will take
it at any terms. There are, for instance, those
who ought not to take it at all, such as girls of
the better sort who live at home and weill do
work for any wretched pay in order to earn a
little money for dress ; then there is the married
woman, who will take work for any pay in
order to buy a pair of new boots for her boy :
these crowd the shops side by side with the
women whose very livelihood depends upon
their work, and are obliged to take whatever
work and whatever pay is offered.

It was a slack time, too, and perhaps the
history of Melenda's late dismissal Alas noised
abroad to her discredit among establishments
which reserve the right of torture. However
that may have been, Melenda got no work.
She was greatly magnanimous. She never
charged Lizzie with the carelessness which
brought on punishment ; more than this, she
did not suffer Valentine to feel that she had
been indiscreet in her treatment of the Chief
Partner. And she was too proud to complain,
and so sat in misery and hunger alone in her

room, except when she sat by Lofty's bedside.
Why was she so long in getting well, when she
had plenty to eat and nothing to do, and rest
for her poor back ? Yet she showed no signs
of getting better, and only spoke in a whisper,
and grew daily thinner and more wasted.

Melenda's got no money at all left now,'
said Lizzie, after four or five days of this vain
and fruitless seeking. ' Yesterday there was
twopence : to-day there is nothing, not even a
loaf.'

She made this remark as if it was a matter
of quite small importance. At a certain depth,
the fact of being penniless and out of work is
not so uncommon as to excite either wonder or
compassion. Besides, there had been penniless
times before, and they had pulled through
somehow.

But Valentine hurried to Melenda's room.
She found her sitting beside the table ; there
was nothing at all on the plate where the loaf
was wont to stand ; the lid of the teapot was
off ; there was no work on the table ; the room
was quite neat and tidy. Now for a workwoman's
room to be tidy means that there is
no work. The girl's eyes were set hard, and

when she saw Valentine at the door they
became harder. ' What do yon want here ? '
she asked. ' I haven't asked yon for any help,
and I won't — I'll starve first.'

Oh, Melenda, you are starving already !
Yon have starved because you were so proud.
My dear, if you will not accept, will you at
least borrow ? '

No, I won't have anything from you.'

'You have had a great deal from me
already. Take a Httle more.'

What have I had from you ? '

You have taken for your friends what you
refused for yourself.'

Lizzie may do wdiat she likes. As for

Lofty ' Her voice broke down, and the

tears came into her eyes. ' I've done Avhat
I could for her. All I could do I've done ; I'd
ha' worked my fingers to the bone for her.
But that wouldn't ha' done her any good.
We've been friends for eight years.'

You have, indeed ! ' said Valentine.

You know and have read how in certain
wild parts of the Earth, where the policeman
and the Ten Commandments which he guards
are both unknown, and the choicer blessings of

civilisation have not yet arrived, and even
Lynch is as little studied as Coke upon Blackstone,
men join hands and become sworn friends
and allies against all the v^orld. But, as in our
modern times the word friendship has come to
mean so weak and feeble an alliance that your
friend will not hesitate to stab you in the back
with an epigram, or to ruin your fondest hopes
for his own advantage, it has been found
necessary to make use of another word. These
.men in the wild places are therefore brothers.
We ourselves — we of civilisation and slang —
when we mean that a man is a real friend, call
him affectionately a pal. It is expected of a
pal that he will stand by one both in public
and in private. This differentiates him from a
friend.

Workgirls, however, are friends, not sisters
or pals. Like the men in the wild places of
the Earth, where every stranger is an enemy,
and every creature one meets is a wild creature,
they stand hand in hand ; everybody is an
enemy ; those who employ them rob them ;
those who sell them food rob them ; they are
robbed in their rent, they are everywhere and
in everything robbed, stinted, and starved.

Political Economy is dead against them — who
can stand up against Professors ? They are
weak of body and have no power of speech ;
they are as dumb sheep, for they do not even
bleat in complaint, but together — two and two
they are strong in patience : together they
can suffer, together they can bear the life which
we of the Christian brotherhood have assigned
to them in these happy and religious days of
charity, faith, and hope. In this Saturnian
age, when we are all brothers and sisters in
love and sympathy, standing together hand in
hand, they can find something like contentment
among the potsherds and the mouldy
crusts.

It's me, after all, that she could have done
without,' Melenda went on, ' and you that's
done everything for her.'

You have taken this service from me for
her sake,' said Valentine ; ' my dear, take
another service — for her sake — I do not say
for your own.'

You want me to take your food and your
money. I won't, then ; I'll starve first ! I am
starving ! Oh, there's a pain like a knife inside
me ! Go away and laugh at me ! '

Oh, you are too proud ! Melenda, would
you disturb poor Lofty's last days ? Will you
let her die in sorrow because you are so
hard ? '

Her last days ? ' Melenda sprang to her
feet. ' What do you mean ? '

I mean that she is dying. She may last a
week, or even three months, but she is dying.
Nothing can save her noah. Oh, Melenda, your
friend is dying ! '

Lofty dying ? Lofty dying ! ' she sank into
her chair in despair. She knew already that
Lofty would never recover. But between
going to die and actually dying there seems so
wide a space.

She will very soon pass away from us, my
dear ; away from the crowded street and her
life of toil and pain. Would you keep her?
You would not wish that she should stay. She
is going to some better land. While she lives,
Melenda, my sister, let us make her happy.
She can only be happy if she knows, when her
eyes are closed at last, and she has no more
pain to bear — that you and I will love each
other, for her sake — for her dear sake,
Melenda.'

Lofty — dying ! ' she murmured, as if she
had not heard.

Then Valentine threw herself at her feet
and caught her by the hands.

Oh ! my dear — my dear ! Do the thing —
for her — which Lofty most desires. " If only,"
she said this morning, ^' if only Melenda will
leave off being hard-hearted." The Doctor
has told her that she will die, and she is not
afraid, poor dear. But she is troubled for
your sake. Forget your angry thoughts and
angry words, Melenda ; they shall be as if they
never had been spoken. Try to believe that I
love you. My poor, proud, brave girl, you
have suffered so much and have been so
strong. Let love break down your pride ! '

The tears fell fast on Melenda's hands.

What's the use ? ' she cried, ' oh ! what's
the use ? Lofty's d3dng, and I am all alone.
You are a young lady ; I don't believe you are
my sister Polly at all. Sam says it's the other,
because she's like Joe's Ehoder. How can you
love me even if you are Polly? Look at your
clothes, and look at mine.'

My clothes ! What have clothes to do
with it ? Do you think I have watched you

every day for three months and seen how brave
yon are, and how yon have worked for Lofty,
and how patient yon have been with Liz, and
your resolution, and —-and everything ' — she
conkl not refer to evenness of temper, bnt
there are always some points which must be
omitted — ' and not love and admire you? '

• Oh ! what's the use ? ' cried the girl ; ' I'm
always cross and ill-tempered, even with Lofty.'
She slipped one hand from Valentine's grasp,
and passed it over her streaming eyes.
Try me, dear,' said Valentine.
She threw her arms round poor Melenda's
neck, and kissed her a dozen times. ' I told
you when I came,' she said, ' that perhaps I
was your sister Polly. Perhaps I am not after
all. Polly or not, we are sisters, you and I,
always sisters. Shall we promise ? '

If — if you like,' said Melenda, with such
sobs and tears as become the vanquished ; ' if
you like.'

Then, my dear, sisters must do everything
they are told to do by each other. You will
order me and I will order you. First, I am
going to dress you.'

Melenda was conquered.

Valentine ran into her own room, and
came back with a bundle of tidings.

Do you think I am going to have my own

sister go about in such shocking rags as these

any longer ? Take off your frock this minute,

and — oh, the ragged petticoat! Here is one

of mine, and a frock, and a pair of my own

stockings. Everything has got to be changed.

You are not quite so tall as I am, but the

frock is short for me. There, my dear, the

stockings fit you like a glove. You and I

have both got such small feet, which is almost

a proof that I am Polly, after all. The frock

is a little loose in the waist — that is because

you are so thin — but you will fill out very soon

now. Oh ! my dear, what sticks of arms

you've got ! Mother says she can count every

rib in your body, and I am sure I could. That

comes of eating so little. To-day you shall

have chops, and tomorrow steaks, and you

shall never — never — never go back any more

to your horrid cold tea and bread and butter,

mind that. Now there's your hair. Do you

know, Melenda, you have got much finer hair

than most girls ? See what a colour it has !

Artists would give anything to paint that

beautiful dead gold hair. What a pity you cut
it iu the front ! You will have to let it grow
again. Why, it hangs down below your waist.
Now sit quite steady, my dear, and I will dress
it for you nicely, so as to hide the nasty fringe.'

With true artistic feeling, Valentine carefully
combed back the fringe, and plaited a braid of
the thick red hair to hold it back in its place,
and rolled up the great mass of hair behind.
When it was completed the effect was wonderful.
For the first time there was displayed a broad
and white forehead — for the first time Melenda's
eyes showed at their best— strong and steadfast
eyes, deep set, though now red with tears ; for
the first time her face looked as Nature intended
it to look, not beautiful, but clear, capable, and
trustworthy. In the grey dress which Valentine
gave her, with a red handkerchief in front,
with a white collar and white cuffs, and her
hair dressed in this new fashion, fringe hidden
and forehead displayed, no one could have
taken her for the ragged workgirl of that very
morning.

Oh ! good gracious 1 ' Melenda cried, when
Valentine completed her operations by bringing
her the looking-glass.

There,' said Valentine, ' you look like —
like a Professor of Mathematics,' she added
with a little hesitation ; certainly Melenda in
her new dress had the air of great capability.
Exactly like a Professor of Mathematics, and
you ought to be at Girton College. There isn't
a Senior Wrangler anywhere who could look so
clever if he tried his utmost. Nobody would
believe that I had such a beautiful sister.
Come, dear, we will go to Lofty.'

Lofty, here is Melenda ; we are friends, assisters
ought to be. I have been dressing her.
Now you are not to talk, but you may whisper,
if you please, that you are glad. What shall
we do with her ? ' She Event on talking
because Melenda was blushing like a bride in
her new character of Melenda the vanquished,
and the tears were very near the surface.
'What shall we do with her now that she
has no more work to do ? • As for the old work,
that is done with. There shall be no more
button-holes. First of all, Melenda has got to
nurse you, Lofty, hasn't she? That will be
work she will like, and perhaps now she is at
your bedside, Lofty dear, you will get well soon.
Oh ! and she has had no breakfast yet. Here

is a box of sardines, and here is bread. I will
make some fresh tea in a minute. Eat at least
half the sardines before yon say a single word :
mother says you never did eat enough. Now
isn't the flat kettle a capital thing ? Here it is
boiling already. Why, how in the world could
Lofty and I enjoy our breakfast and dinner
when we thought of your bread and tea ?
There ! Now I push the table closer so that you
needn't move out of your chair, and oh !
Melenda ! don't begin to cry again, or we shall

all of us '

It is a pitiable thing that three young women
cannot feel unexpectedly happy without crying
over it. Perhaps, in Melenda's case, the sight
of the food which she had refused so often was
an outward and visible sign of her changed
frame of mind ; a holy sacrament and token of
a solemn covenant, meaning reconciliation and
affection. She was not one to go back upon
her word : she vas vanquished : her independence
was gone. If Lizzie had been the girl
concerned, we should have added that she was
hungry. But with Melenda that circumstance
mattered nothing. She was always hungry ;
she had been hungry for eight years ; she was

hungry day and night, and except sometimes
on Sunday, all the week through. However,
she bowed her head and took her breakfast,
and choked over it, while Valentine recovered
slowly.

No one, unfortunately, noticed Lizzie.

She stood looking on with wonder and
jealousy and a certain fear. Melenda was
dressed like a young lady — a young lady of a
shop. Her hair was brushed back, she was no
longer a workgirl : no workgirl wears a white
collar and cuffs, no workgirl was ever yet known
to have her hair so dressed. Therefore, Lizzie,
who had a quick, if not a logical mind, jumped
at once to the conclusion that when Valentine
went away — Melenda had always insisted that
she would soon go — she would be left behind,
alone. No one wanted her ; no one took any
notice of her ; she was not Valentine's sister !
And Lofty was going to die ; they would both
be gone, and she would be left quite alone.

She stepped out of the room, put on her
ulster and her hat, and descended into the
streets, her poor little brain in a tumult of envy,
jealousy, and apprehension.

And now,' said Valentine, cheerfully, ' you

VOL. III. II

VJ

ill stay and nurse Lofty, won't you? If there
was anything you would rather do than that,
you should do it. But I know there is nothing.
Here is her medicine and the glass. Don't let
her talk too much, but you may talk to her.
Tell her about the man at the factory, the Chief
Partner, you know and how he pretended you
could have sat down if you pleased, the old
Humbug I Let her go to sleep if she can, and
if she is thirsty, here are her grapes, and don't
go into your own room till I give you leave.
Obey your sister, my dear 1 '

Presently they heard footsteps on the stairs
and in the other room. But Melenda obeyed.
The steps came and went, twice or three times.
When, in the afternoon, Valentine took Melenda
back into her own room, the place was trans •
formed ; they had scrubbed the floor and cleaned
the windows, washed the woodwork of the door
and cupboard, they had pasted up the paper
where it had fallen, they had put up a new
blind and pretty curtain, they had brought new
chairs — the old wooden bed was gone, and a
new iron bedstead was in its place, with new
sheets and blankets. There were flowers on
the table — even the rusty grate was cleaned up

and polished ; and a piece of carpet lay upon
the boards, which were hardly yet dry.

'" There ! ' said Valentine ; ' this is an improvement,
isn't it, my dear ? The past is quite
gone ; let us make the future as unlike it as we
possibly can, so that we shall never be reminded
of it.'

But my work ! ' said Melenda, feebly.

We shall find work. Do not be troubled
about work.'

Thus was Melenda subdued, dressed, and
promoted. In the morning she was a Young-girl,
in the afternoon she was a Young Person,
Students of modern English will recognise the
distinction. The next step is, of course, that
to the rank of a Young Lady, which is obtained
by getting employment in a shop, or behind a
Bar, or in a Show. There is not any other
promotion open to working women beyond
and above this rank of Young Lady. They are
never, never by any chance, made Duchesses or
Countesses, or anything. This is, no doubt, a
shameful wrong, but it is not yet felt ; and until
an evil has become a crying evil, and a cry has
become a bitter cry, and a thing that is felt and
acknowledged to have become a disgrace to the

H 2

country, we are resolved not to mend it or to
mind it.

In the evening, Melenda went out, as usual,
by force of habit. The street market was in
full swing ; the roadway as well as the pavement
was crowded with people — women with
baskets, men loitering along with pipes in their
mouths, everybody making rough, good-natured
jokes ; the boys whistling, the men at the
barrows and stalls shouting ; everything going
on just as usual. Strange ! These things
amused her no longer — and the people seemed
not to know her ; they did not chaff' her, nor
did the boys push her, nor did the young men
address her with words of impudent familiarity.
Quite the contrary. They made way for her, as
if she had been a young lady. And for the
first time in her life, she did not like the crowd.
She left the street, therefore, and went back to
her own room. It looked so pretty and so much
like Valentine's, especially when she lit the
lamp with the coloured shade, that she wondered
how in the world she could have gone on so
long in such a grimy den ! Thus easy is it to
take an upward step. And may every Young
Girl speedily become a Young Person, like
Melenda, if not a Young Lady !

When Lofty fell asleep), Valentine came to
talk with her. They had such a talk as made
the girl's heart glow within her. For Valentine
spoke of a divine futile, in which the women
who work — yea, the very lowest and poorest,
such as she and her friends had been, shall work
in happiness, not in misery, for a wage which
will keep them in comfort, and for hours which
will give them leisure ; when there shall be no
drilling, and driving;, and swearing and abusing !
And when there shall be time to look about
and enjoy the world, while yet the pulse is
strong and the blood runs swift ; and when
Avoient who work shall be able to read books
as well, and to learn music, and to visit green
fields and forests.

My dear,' said Valentine, ' remember that
the time must come. Perhaps we shall not see
it, but let us help its coming while we live. The
future belongs to those who work. But the
girls cannot do much by themselves — they must
have two things — the help of the working men,
and that of the women who do not Avork.'

Then she accused herself, and her own
hardness of heart — her apathy and selfishness, in
having lived for one-and-twenty years without

SO much as thinking of the women who
work, and, with herself, she accused all those
women who do not work and do not think.
Why,' she said, ' it is forty years since the
most generous hearts in England showed a way,
and preached it as if it were a new Gospel —
yet I think it is only a part of the old ; the
men have followed it, but not the women.
Oh ! Melenda,' she cried, ' it needs nothing but
determination that the women shall have the
proceeds of their labour. And we are too lazy
and too indifferent to care for them.'

These were stirring words, such as Sam
would use. Melenda understood very little of
what they meant ; but they rang like words
meant to put people in a rage, and therefore
she liked them.

We will start our co-operative work here,
Melenda. You shall be the foreman, when
you have learned a little more. Oh ! there
will be plenty of vv^ork for you ; we shall work
together, and Claude will work with us. I
shall want you to give me more than I can give
you — all your time, all your cleverness, all your
skill. Why, what can I give you, my dear, in
return? And then, when we are quite ready

with our workshop and our gHs, we shall go to
the ladies, and tell them what we are going todo,
and ask them if they will come to us instead
of going to the shop ; and perhaps the
shops will come to us instead of going to the
factory. There must be some sympathy, somewhere
in the world. But yet, after all that has
been said and written about it, we seem only
just beginning. Claude says that the history
of all great things is the same : first it is the
man who finds the truth and preaches it to
deaf ears, and dies ; and then the little school of
disciples which survives him and preserves his
teaching ; and afterwards, the martyrs, and the
preaching to the four winds of heaven, and to
a great, stupid world, which will hear nothing,
in spite of its long ears ; till, little by little, the
words begin to take effect, and produce their
fruits ! '

The Doctrine of Co-operation was difficult
for Melenda to grasp. She only understood, of
work, that it must be ' given out ' in the usual
manner and by the customary machinery of
clerks. There are many points of distinction between
the masculine and the feminine mind : as
that the woman is not happy" unless lie is quite

sure and certain, and that the man gets along
very comfortably under a sense of uncertainty ;
also that any man who disagrees with a woman
is, to her, an utterly contemptible person, while
to a man, he is only a person with a curious
mental twist. But the most distinctive of all
these points is, that a woman never invents
anything, or wants to change anything, or to
improve any methods or ways of doing things.
In order to illustrate this proposition, consider
the common housemaid, the common household
cook, and the household nursemaid ; the first
of these has never been known to show the
smallest invention in the laying of a fire, nor
the second in constructing a dish, nor the third
in dressing a baby.

Melenda, therefore, could not at first understand
how the Golden Age may be restored.
Few, indeed, are those whose imaginations can
overstep the bounds of custom and sally forth
into the world where women are actually paid
for labour, at a price which is not ruled by competition.
In that world, if work is slack, there
will be savings to fall back upon ; there shall
be no grinders and drivers, and no woman shall
be able to undersell another. In that world

will spring spontaneously all those beautiful
virtues, which can only flourish in physical
comfort, sufficiency of food, and freedom from
anxiety. And in that world, the girls will
refuse to marry early, and the men will not
ask them.

'But they will always try to beat us down,'
said Calendar, incredulous of any Golden Age.

CHAPTEE XXV.

lizzie's TEMPTATION".

Lizzie went down into the streets unperceived,
and with a sense of having been driven out.
To such girls, who are perfectly conscious of
their poverty and their personal insignificance,
there is no greater pleasure than ' notice,' and
therefore no greater blow than neglect. She
was jealous — she had taken Valentine's dinners
for nearly three months — she had never shown
any pride about accepting presents ; yet no
fuss was made over her. And the moment
Melenda gave in, there was as much rejoicing
as there is over a sinner who repents. Melenda,
the penitent, was caressed and cried
over, while no one took the least notice of
herself.

Besides, Melenda would not be a workgirl
any longer, that was quite clear ; no workgirl
could be dressed in that way, and Valentine washer

sister. And Valentine was going away. Melenda
always said that she would go away and
forget them, and Melenda was never wrong.
She said so herself, which proved the truth of
the statement, and Lizzie always believed her ;
well, then ; now that Valentine and her sister
were friends, they would go away together.

And Lofty was going to die.

Everybody was agreed that Lofty was
going to die ; she knew it herself, and talked
about it. It is strange how quickly a girl may
become accustomed to the contemplation of
approaching death. The Shadow hangs over
the house ; everybody feels it, the sick and
the well, the patient and the nurses. Day
follows day and the Shadow remains or becomes
deeper, but Azrael lingers, and when he comes
at last, though 'his terrors have vanished, the
surprise remains that the end should be so soon.

Lofty would die. Lizzie knew that she
might linger on. Would Valentine leave her
and forget her ? She ought to have perceived
that this was impossible, but she did not
perceive it. In her trouble and perplexity,
the foolish girl pictured herself nursing her
friend through her last days and then left

alone, willioiit even Melencla. What should
she do ? Who would find for her the work —
hard work, but better than none — that Melenda
had hitherto found ? How was she to live ?
Lie had no other friends in the world — her
father counting as nothing — except the two
girls. They had been sufficient for each other ;
and now the little circle was going to be broken
up. Then, again, who would share a room with
her? To the London workgirl, the thought
of sleeping all alone in a room is full of terrors.
If it was dreadful to think of the night, how
much more dreadful to think of the day ! For
the last two months she had been as happy as
the unwonted sense of physical satisfaction
which comes of good and abundant food can
make a girl ; it makes an enormous, an
inconceivable difference. She knew, Melenda
said so, that it would not last, but she was
satisfied with the present. If you give ever
so little happiness to these poor girls, starved
of joy, they blossom like flowers in sunshine.
Now she was like the butterfly who feels the
first chill winds of autumn and knows that
summer and sunshine are over. To the butterfly
there is no other chance or hope. For

Lizzie there was what seemed to her ignorance
not only a chance, but a certainty. It was a
letter — the last of a dozen letters — received
two days before. She had read it a dozen
times at least and knew it now by heart, yet
she read it again a dozen times.

It was nothing less than a love-letter. The
man who wrote it had told her over and over
again the same thing, yet words which are
written seem to mean more than things
which are said. He loved her and he thought
about her day and night. That was what the
letter said. But he had told her so day after
day, walking beside her ; he whispered it to
her in the crowded streets ; he had told her soin
the quiet side streets — there are side streets
in Hoxton, where, but for the children, who do
not count, and are besides sometimes in school,
and the costers, who are not always bawling,
there reigns a perennial silence ; he had taken
her hand in his and kissed her, telling her so,
not in a rough way as working lads use, but
daintily, and yet with a curious coldness as if
it wasn't quite true. It was not quite true,
but he told her this because he wanted her ;
and besides, it was nearly true, for the girl

had grown wonderfully pretty. He really did,
as he told her, desire above all things to get
that face and those beautiful eyes into his own
studio. Lizzie knew very well that her face
and her eyes were beautiful ; she did not
know how much her beauty had grown since
Valentine found out and provided for her an
infallible remedy against the dreadful disease
known to girls as ' falling off.' The remedy
consists solely of a good dinner taken daily,
with a reasonable breakfast and a hearty
supper. It is sovereign for colouring the
cheeks, brightening the eyes, putting in dimples
here and there, and filling out the figure. So
that Lizzie, who had been nothing but a thin,
hollow-checked, and hollow-chested girl such
as may be seen by thousands, only with large
and beautiful eyes, was grown, in three short
months, tall and well-proportioned, of good
carriage, with soft and dreamy limpid eyes and
a mouth that looked as if it might smile, but
could seldom laugh, and a face of infinite
possibilities. In her speech, too, she had
amended, being an imitative animal. But her
ulster still covered a ragged frock and her hat
was shabby to the last degree. This lover of

lies went on to assure her that he wanted todo
nothing all his life but paint her face and
eyes — the hands, he reflected, but did not say
so, would have to be chosen from another
model ; but he could not even begin until she
made up her mind to give up her present life,
and to trust herself entirely to him. Was she
afraid of him ? Well, you see, Lizzie was
afraid of him. He was a gentleman. Work-girls
are horribly afraid of gentlemen, though
they pass it off with cheek and chaff ; and
though in every Workshop there is a tradition
that once there was in it a girl as poor as
themselves, whom a most beautiful gentleman,
young, handsome, and passing rich, picked out
from all the world, and loved her better than
he could have loved any number of Countesses,
and married her, and made her happy ever
after. They tell the story, but they forget
altogether how horribly dull it was for that
girl after her marriage, with nothing to talk
about, and none of her old friends, and the
best company manners to be carefully maintained
all day long. And naturally, they do
not understand how dull it was to the unfortunate
young gentleman, and low devoutly

he wished ever afterwards that he hadn't done
it, but had taken up instead with even the
least desirable of the Countesses. Lizzie,
however, found this gentleman lover horribly
dull company. She lead nothing to say ;
absolutely nothing. She was afraid of him
and of his cold polished manner.

Was she afraid to trust him ? It was a
most eloquent letter. That could hardly bethe
case ; she should have everything that
the heart of a woman can desire ; she should
lead the softest and easiest of lives ; her only
duty should be to sit to him ; her days
should be full of light, sunshine, and Art.
Here Lizzie felt that fear again ; for what was
it that he was always talking about .^ What
was this precious Art? She knew nothing
about Art ; she cared less. One evening her
friend took her to the Bethnal Green Museum,
Adhere she saw big vases and paintings. He
said that was Art, but it made her yawn. She
would have to make him do without kxi. She
should, the letter went on to assure her, be
always dressed in the finest and the prettiest.
Her hands, which were now spoiled by rough
work — making button-holes in thick coarse

shirts does really pull the fingers into all sorts
of shapes — should grow white and delicate asa
beautiful woman's hand should be.

There was never yet devised by the subtlety
of Man or Evil Spirit a more terrible temptation
than this which falls in the way of such girls
as Lizzie. Fortunately for man, no such temptation
is possible for him, though he is often
enough tempted to enact the part of the Serpent ;
else the lot of humanity would be far more
wretched than it is. It is a temptation which
assails a girl partly through her womanly pride of
beauty and love of admiration ; partly through
her natural desire to escape the hard life
which has been her lot and to enjoy the easy
life of which she has only caught a glimpse ;
and partly through her youthful desire to enjoy
the sunshine and to have a little play, and to
gather some of the flowers of the Spring.

Even if Lizzie had been less ignorant ; even
if she had known what would have followed;
even if she had seen, as in a map, the years of
her life stretching out before her — even if she
had seen herself sinking deeper and deeper
into misery — yet think what a temptation !
Even if she had been restrained by religion —

VOL. III. I

but she had no religion ; or by education — but
she had not been educated ; or by love and
respect for her friends — but Lofty Alas dying
and Melenda Avould be taken from her, and
then she would have no friends.

There is no such temptation in all the
world, unless it be the temptation to steal for
one's starving children. Against a life of
penury and privation, a lot of plenty ; against
hard work, idleness and leisure ; against the
fierce anxieties and struggles of competition,
ease and freedom from any anxiety.

Alas ! Lizzie, left alone, was not strong
enough for such a temptation.

Let us bring out the woman who gives way
to the Place of Stoning. Tear the veil from
her face and make her stand before us trembling,
crying, full of shame and terror and
despair. The matrons, of course, are armed
with the largest and the sharpest flints. But
see — the men sit down and refuse to throw a
single stone. Even the employers of women
and the manufacturers, and those who are
governed by the Law of Elevenpence-Ha'penny,
refuse. And the women are ashamed to begin.
Then she steals away unharmed. And always

in the City within its grey walls, almost insight
of the Place of Stoning, sit Lizzie's
friends, sewing button-holes as she did, making
shirts, machininof men's coats, robin: cigars,
fashioning match-boxes, sorting paper, connecting
jam, all starving, all hollow-eyed, all
sad of heart and heavy of limb, and all getting
their Elevenpence-ha'penny a day, when they
are in hick. And in the midst of all the
Serpent, twined about the branches of the apple-tree,
continually whispers to those who are
young and pretty and will listen, his soft and
mellifluous promises.

Lizzie suffered the temptation to assail her
all day long. She wandered about the streets,
now buffeted and beaten by the Tempter, who
reviled her for her stupidity in resisting ; now
contemplating with shrinking terror the picture
which he held up before her imagination of a
wretched girl alone in a wretched room, with
no Avork, no money, no food, no friends, no
light, alone in the world. How could she goon
living; so ?

Why,' said the Tempter. It was not the
Serpent actually visible, but a memory of certain
words which had been said to her by the man

I 2

who followed her and wrote to her those letters,
Why, what do you know in this God-forgotten
place of what is done at the other end of the
town ? There are girls, not half so pretty as
you, whose photographs are sold in every shop
and put up in every window. They can get
what they please to ask at any Theatre, just
for going on the stage to be looked at. Why,
you want nothing but a little better dress to
outshine them all.'

Then she remembered how lie took her into
one of the little draper's shops, of which there
are so many everywhere, and picked out a
bright-coloured kerchief, one of the cheap
things in jute which look so pretty. ' Take off
your hat,' he said.

She took it off, and with a dexterous hand,
which showed practice upon more than the
mere lay figure, he twisted the kerchief round
her neck, and over her shapely head, so as tolet
the curls of her fringe play about the folds
and to set off the singular beauty of her eyes
with a frame rich and full of colour. ' Look,'
he said, showing her the looking-glass. Then
he took off the thing. 'Put on your hat.
Look now.'

She shuddered, because it seemed to her as
if all her beauty lay in the crimson handkerchief.


Don't think,' he went on, outside the shop.
Don't think that I shall let you go upon the
stage. I shall keep you all to myself. The
world shall only see you in the exhibition of my
picture. I can wait for you a little. But don't
try my patience too long. As soon as you are
tired of privation and toil, come to me.'

She ought to have put the thought behind
her ; it shoidd have been treated as a thing
impossible to be even considered. But this she
did not do.

Late in the afternoon she went into a small
stationer's shop, the place where her letters were
received for her, the only letters she ever had
from any one. Her mind was made up. She
would struggle no longer. After all, she would
be better off than some, because he was a
gentleman.

For a penny she bought a piece of notepaper
and an envelope, the showman kindly
allowing her to use the counter and her own
pen and ink for nothing. Here she wrote a
letter in reply'. It was the first time lie had

ever answered her letters, wliicli always proposed
a meeting, so that they could be answered
by word of mouth, and her answer hitherto had
always been a hesitating ' No.' It was a very
short letter, because she had never written a
letter before in all her life, and perhaps, she will
never write another. It was also spelled in a
manner disapproved by the great Butter, and
disallowed at Spelling Bees, but the spelling we
may alter.

Lofty,' she said, ' is going to die. Melenda
is going to be took away. She's got a new
frock, and her fringe is brushed back. So I
shall be all alone. I can't stay all alone. So
I will come to you tomorrow. Tell me where
you will meet me. — Your friend,

Lizzie.'

She addressed and posted the letter — this
took her last penny. It was then two o'clock.
He would get it in two or three hours. She
would have an answer the next morning. Now
when she had irretrievably promised this thing,
because nothing is so hopelessly past recall asa
letter dropped in a post-office, she felt strangely
agitated. She was afraid to go home. Like

Eve. she wanted to hide herself. She had no
more money, and was getting horribly hungry,
but she was afraid to go home. Her eyes, she
thought, would tell the tale of what she had
promised. They would guess it from her
cheeks, which were burning. If they guessed
it, what would they say? If they actually
found it out, how would Melenda rage, and
how would Lofty cry, and how would Valentine
look at her with grave eyes, full of pity and
of Wonder, under which she would sink to the
earth in shame ^ When principle and religion
fail, you see, the opinion of one's friends may
still be useful.

It was quite late, nearly eleven o'clock,
when she got home. Her father's candle was
burning, and she opened the door and looked
in. He was sitting in his chair, motionless and
abstracted, as he sat every night.

Can I do anything for you, father .^ ' she
asked. It would be the last time she would
ever do anything for him.

Is that you, Lizzie .^ ' he replied, shaking
his head as one who rouses himself. ' No, my "
dear, thank you. Why should you do anything
for me ? I've never done anything for you,

have 1 ? And now. I never shall. You ought
to have had a better father, child ! '

Never mind, dad ; it isn't your fault that
you're so dreadful poor.'

It is my own fault, I suppose, that I have
a daughter to share my poverty. Never mind,
child. You have found a friend at last.'

If you mean Valentine, then you're wrong.
She's going away. She's going to take Melenda
with her and Lofty's got to die.'

If she is going away, she will come back.
She has been here this evening. You Avill

have no more trouble, Lizzie. As for me

the Bishop is very ill. His sons are sent for,
I do not know what will happen ; but you can
do better without me. There Avill be no more
slavery for you, child.'

There would not, she thought ; but what
he meant she knew not.

The Lord,' he went on, ' cursed mankind
with the curse of labour ; the profit of the
earth is for all. The Preacher said it. Yet
there is the work of the wicked and the work
of the just. And there is a vanity, saith the
Preacher, that is done upon the earth ; but
there be just men to whom it happened

according to the work of the wicked. That was
not quite your father's unhappy case, my
daughter, but something like it. And as for
you, your toil has been for the wicked man.
Henceforth it shall be for the rig-hideous woman.
That will be your happiness.'

She could not understand one word. It was
his wont to speak in this kind of allegory, and
generally she did not try to understand. But
this evening, of all evenings, after what she
had done and promised, what did he mean ?

Never mind the Preacher, father. What
do you mean ? '

She will tell you herself. Go, child. I
told you that the Bishop is dangerously ill.'

Lizzie hesitated. It was the last time that
she would see her father. She felt sorry for
him, with his long grey hair and feeble limbs
and his dire poverty. She lingered a moment.
It was cruel to leave him, but she could do
nothing for him, nor he for her. She shut the
door and went upstairs. Melenda was in the
room. Gracious! — what had happened ? She
was reading a book, rather ostentatiously perhaps,
but it was the first time for eight years,
and Melenda felt that the thing gave her dignity ;

and by the light of a most beautiful lamp
covered With a most beautiful red-coloured
shade ; and there were white curtains to the
windows, and a carpet on the floor, and a bright
new bedstead. Lizzie gasped. ' What does it
mean, Melenda ? '

Lizzie,' said Melenda, who was not at all
the kind of girl to practise virtue passively, and
was an ardent missionary, whatever views she
might adopt ; ' Lizzie, it's time you cured yourself
of walking the streets till midnight. It
isn't respectable.'

'Well, Melenda, only last night you were
out yourself. What's up now ? You and me
are respectable, I suppose, though you have
combed back your fringe. What's come to the
room ? '

She gave us all these things. They are all
from her, and they're all for you and me, Liz.
I'm not ashamed any more to take her presents,
and I don't care if you do throw them in my
teeth, after all I've said. I've given in. They're
for you and me. Everything's new, even new
sheets to the bed.'

For you and me ? Isn't she going away
then ? '

Yes, lie's going away in a day or two.'

And ain't you going with her ? '

No, you and I are going to stay and nurse
Lofty. The Doctor says as soon as possible
she's to go to the Isle of Wight, he says, and
she may last through the winter, with care, he
says. You and me will take care of her.'

And where's the money and the Avork to
come from ? '

She'll find the money and the work too.
Oh, Liz ! such a fool I've been ! She's full of
thought for us ; she's the best girl in the world !
Sam says the other is Polly, because she's like
Joe's Ehoder. But I don't care — I shall never
care about the other — the one who cried ! '

It's all for you — she doesn't care about
me.'

Yes, she does, she cares as much for you
as for me, which shows that she can't be Polly.
Don't get jealous, Liz, there's a good girl.
Let's be happy while we can, and have no more
tempers ! I know I have a bad temper — but
then we've all been so hungry, and Lofty 's
been so bad — poor Lofty ! '

She paused and Aviped away a tear.

She's got a new frock for you, Liz. She's

been talking about you all the afternoon, and
after tea lie took a cup down to your father,
with a plate of meat, and talked with him,
and told him what she was going to do for you
and came upstairs crying ! Why, you didn't
think we should go away and leave you all
alone, did you, Liz? Well! I wouldn't have
thought that bad of you — never — I wouldn't !
You know she's coming back again, and then
we are going to set to work — somehow — to
make a business like the men, or co-operate
somehow — I don't know how. It's the ladies
themselves who are going to manage it. She
says if the ladies had made up their minds
years ago, we should all have been paid fair
wages by this time. But they'll do it now, or
else she'll know the reason Why ; and thereto
be no more drilling, and plenty of work for
everybody, and good wages — that's what she
says.' It was not exactly what she said, but
it was near enough. ' Not,' said Melenda,
descending again from the imaginative to the
practical, ' not but what they'll go on trying to
beat us down, if they can.'

Lizzie made no reply, but proceeded to goto
bed. And then, whether through the

strangeness of the new bed, or her hungry
condition — for she had eaten nothing since
breakfast — or the discovery that lie had been
wrong in her assumption, she lay awake half
the night ; and when she fell asleep, it was
only to dream that Melenda was pursuing her
with a long stick in her hand, and an infuriated
countenance — and that Lofty was weeping, and
Valentine pointing the finger of scorn, and all
Ivy Lane looking on, while they cast her out.

CHAPTEE XXVI.

NO DEFENCE.

This,' said Valentine next morning, ' is our
last day but one together.' They were all at
breakfast — Melenda with them for the first
time.

But you won't be gone long,' said Melenda.

No ; I shall come to see you nearly everyday,
until I come to live with you again.'

There was something the matter this mornings
with Lizzie. She would eat nothing, and, when
Valentine said she was coming back again, she
took up her cup of tea and choked over it,
which was strange, because Valentine's departure
for two or three days hardly seemed to
offer an adequate cause for this emotion.

I do not know when I shall be able to live
here altogether, but that is what I shall try todo.
Then we will get more ladies to come
here, and we will make our own Society in

Hoxtoii. Instead of everybody living together,
all in one part of town, we ought to separate,
and make settlements in different parts of
London. Then there would be a chance for
better things, and Art, perhaps, and Culture.'
Sometimes Valentine would talk in this unintelligible
fashion, but the girls listened without
laughing at her, which would have been rude,
or questioning her, which would have been
uninteresting. ' As for you, Lofty dear, I shall
come to see you as often as I can. I am only
going to Park Lane, which is not more than
two or three miles from here, though they think
it is two or three hundred miles by distance,
and several centuries by time. But then they
are dreadfully ignorant in Park Lane.'

Why didn't you tell me yesterday ? ' cried
Lizzie, With a sudden outburst of passion.
Oh, if you'd only told me yesterday morning ! '

'My dear child, does it matter much? I
am very sorry, if it does matter, that I did not
tell you yesterday.'

If you'd only told me ! ' she repeated ; ' if
you'd only told me ! ' What was the matter
with the child ?

Since it is the last day \ml one, and

tomorrow I shall have a great deal to do, and
Lofty has had a good night, cannot we go
somewhere together? Melenda can leave Liz
to look after Lofty. We will go to Tottenham
first, and spend the day with mother, if you
like, and look at green fields and the Ever Lea
shall we ? '

I can't look after Lofty,' said Liz, with
burning cheeks. ' Oh, you mustn't go away
and leave Lofty by herself.'

Where are you going, then ? '

Tm going— I don't know where I am
going ! '

She sprang to her feet and ran into the
other room.

Stay here, Melenda dear,' said Valentine.
She remembered the Doctor's warning, and ran
after the girl. ' Lizzie ! ' she cried, catching
her by the arm, ' you must tell me what you
mean — where are you going? Why can you
not look after Lofty ? Does Lofty know why ? '

No, no, you mustn't tell Lofty ; please
don't never tell her ! '

Does your father know ? '

He won't ask after me — he won't miss me.
Don't tell father. I must go ! '

Then I shall go with you ; I shall not let
you go out of my sight all day long.'

Lizzie sat clown. The eyes that she feared
were upon her, and, as she expected, they were
full of grave reproach.

Where are you going, Lizzie ? '

I thought I was to be forgotten and left
alone. What is it to you ? I ain't your sister,
like Melenda. You don't care for me like you
do for Lofty. If I'm left alone, with no work,
I shall starve. Let me go ; it's nothing to
you.'

It is everything to me, Lizzie. Do you
think we do not care for you ? Why, after all
these years, when you have worked with
Melenda and Lofty, ever since you were a
child, do you think they do not care for you ?
Tell me, what folly is it that you have
committed ? '

Lizzie hung her head guiltily.

I know that you have been seen more
than once, walking with a gentleman. What
did he say to you ? '

He wanted me to go away and be his
model. He wants to paint my face and eyes.
Well, then — what's the harm ? '

VOL. III. K

If there is no harm, why didn't he come
here and ask you openly, before Melenda and
Lofty ? '

Oh ! ' the girl began to cry. ' I said I
couldn't never leave Lofty and Melenda. I
told him so twenty times — I told him so ; but
he wouldn't take " No " for his answer. And
he knew where to meet me, and sometimes,
before you came, when I was dreadful hungry,
he'd give me a chop for dinner. But I wouldn't
take his money. Oh ! don't tell Melenda ; I
think she'd beat me, she'd be in such a rage.
And don't tell Lofty, because she'd cry.'

Lizzie, you've been worse than foolish !
But there is something more to tell.'

She felt those eyes, greatly superior, upon
her, and she confessed the whole.

Then he began to write letters to me.
Oh ! beautiful letters ; and the day before
yesterday there came another ; here it is.'

She drew forth the letter, of which we
know, from her pocket and gave it to Valentine.

Am I to read it .^ ' She opened and read
it through. ' My dear, it is the letter of a badman
— a wicked and deceitful man. What he
says is false. It is false that you are the most

beautiful girl in the world. Oh, what nonsense !
there are hundreds and thousands prettier than
you, in this place only. It is most wicked to
flatter a girl in this extravagant way. And
how can he love you? He calls himself a
gentleman, T suppose ; he is a man of education ;
and you, my poor child — what do you know,
and how could you talk with a gentleman so that
he should pretend to fall in love with you ? '

It will be remarked that Valentine had not
yet learned everything ; and that, as regards
the science and practice of love, she was still
in that happy state of ignorance where it is
believed and accepted as a maxim that a
gentleman cannot possibly fall in love with a
girl below himself in the social scale. Most
young ladies believe this, even after their
brothers have got engaged to barmaid.

You don't love him, Lizzie ? You can't
love a man, you know, unless you are his equal,
and can understand him ! ' Which also proved
that she was as yet inexperienced in the ways
of love and in the workings of the human
heart, which does sometimes refuse, if history
hath not lied, to recognise the artificial distinctions
of birth, wealth, and education.

K 2

You don't love this man,' Valentine
repeated.

I don't know. I am afraid of him.'
This confession was really, though Valentine
did not know it, a most extraordinary and
almost unique instance of a girl in Lizzie's class
being able to explain or disclose her mind at
all. Most girls are absolutely unable to detach
even one of the fine, confused variety of
feelings which agitate their minds when a
wooer comes to them. Lizzie was flattered by
the praise of her beauty ; she was honoured
by the admiration of a gentleman ; she
was tempted by the offer of the ' easy life ' ;
she knew that her lover was handsome,
well-dressed, and of good manners. But
she was afraid of him. I suppose the reason
why she confessed that fact to Valentine
was that fear, of all the contending forces in
her brain, was the strongest. ' I'm afraid of
him.'

Why, then, there is not much harm done,'
said Valentine with a sigh of relief ; ' if you are
afraid of a man you cannot love him. If a girl
loves a man,' she went on, like the Philosopher
on the seashore, picking up shells and feeling



after knowledge in the unscientific, pra3-
Baroniae method ; that is, without the making
of experiments — ' If a girl loves a man, I suppose
she is attracted by him ; she cannot, certainly,
be afraid of him ; she must long to talk
with him, and to hear him talk. Do you long
to talk to this man ? '

No ; I can't understand what he says.
It is all about Art, and what people should do
for Art. He says we must all give ourselves to
Art — I don't know what he means, but he is
always saying it.'

Then of course you are not in love ! Well,
go on. You have something more to tell me.
Where were you going just now P '

'I thought you were going away with
Melenda, and Lofty was dying, and I should be
alone. I couldn't live all by myself, and there
is no work.'

Yes, my dear, you were very foolish. You
ought to have trusted your friends. But you
know better now. Now go on, and tell me
all.'

I'll tell you, only don't tell Melenda and
Lofty — I'm afraid you will tell them.'

'No, I w411 not let them know if it can

possibly be avoided. But you must tell me
the whole truth.'

Confession is said to bring in some troubles
the greatest relief possible, especially to the
feminine mind. But as yet the Apostle's injunction
has never been perfectly carried out,
only partially even by the Wesleyan Methodists,
who, I believe, are supposed to confess to one
another in open meeting of the church members
but I doubt the fullness and reality of their
confessions. As for confession in the ecclesiastical
way, in a hole and corner in the dark, and
through a square aperture in the wall, and to
an unknown man beyond, that, to an outside
heretic, does not seem to meet the Apostolic
precept. Lizzie found in full confession the
greatest relief. She poured out the whole story,
down to the very words of his letters. Besides,
she was in a great fear that the gentleman
would make her keep her promise, even if he
had to drag her away ; and Valentine was
like a strong fortress of protection.

And he'll be waiting for me — and perhaps
he'll come to fetch me — and what shall I do .^
And what will Melenda say ? '

Poor child I ' said Valentine. ' It was a

dreadful temptation, my dear. Never tell anybody
this — keep it busied and forgotten. I
will help you through. But never, never speak
to a gentleman again.'

They went together to the stationer's shop,
where the letter was lying for Lizzie. Valentine
opened it. First there was a bank-note
for five pounds in it, and then a brief letter,
directing the girl to buy, with the money enclosed,
a few necessary things, and to meet the
writer at the gates of St. John's Church that
morning at twelve. Valentine kept the greater
part of the letter to herself, because it contained
references to beautiful eyes, which might have
weakened Lizzie's repentance. After a surfeit
of sweets, more sugar is undesirable. There
were also expressions of contempt for her recent
work, which were as well left unsaid. Then
Valentine began to consider what was best to be
done.

Come home with me,' she said ; ' let me
bring you safe home first. My dear, you are
like a deer escaped from the eagle's clutches, ora
lamb from the wolf. He would have torn
you to pieces with his cruel teeth. Hold my
hand tight, you poor, silly child, and thank

God that you told me everything and were
stopped in time ! '

Lizzie made no reply, and they Walked backhand
in hand, and both with hanging head and
flaming cheeks, for the cloud or shadow of
shame was upon both their hearts, and one of
them thought that her dream was come true
that the very children of Ivy Lane were
going to call out upon her, and that Melinda
was waiting for her with wrathful eyes and
scornful words and cruel blows.

Come in here,' said Valentine, as they
entered the house ; ' come into your father's
room. It is a wretched room, is it not ? He
is miserably poor. You would have left him to
his fate, in his poverty and his old age, without
one friend to help him and not one to love him
and to console him. He is ill — any sudden excitement
or sorrow will kill him. If he were
to learn that you had left him and run away
to strangers, and to your own ruin, he would
most likely die from the shock. You would
have killed him ! From this you have been
saved

Upstairs, Lofty is on her death-bed. The
end may come to her any day. If she were to

learn that you had left her without a word of
farewell, and run aivay, the end would come
very quickly. You would have killed her, too.
From this you have been saved ! '

Let us leave them together.

We generally think that the priest, because
he hears no end of confessions, and knows such
a quantity of wickedness, makes the best admonisher
unto godliness. In the same way,
the solicitor, who becomes intimately acquainted
with all possible forms of roguery, or the
Police Magistrate, or the schoolmaster, or the
policeman himself, or even the Professor of
Roguery standing in a neat uniform at the
treadmill, ought to be good admonishers. For
my own part I think that the grave and serious
remonstrance, With womanly tears and sympathy
and kisses, of an innocent girl might, with such
a girl as Lizzie, be worth the admonitions of a
hundred priests. And it is to be hoped that
the words which poor Lizzie heard that day
may sink into her heart and bring forth fruits
of righteousness.

o • • • •

It was an hour later when Valentine and

Lizzie went upstairs. There were signs of recent
tears in Valentine's eyes, and Lizzie was crying
and sobbing still.

Oh, Lofty ! ' she cried, throwing herself
upon her knees and clasping her hands — ' But
you must never know '

This foolish girl,' said Valentine, ' actually
believed that we were ojoinc^ to leave her all
alone here ! I have been scolding her ; but
Ave must forgive her, because she is so sorry for
her want of confidence. Melenda dear, don't
say a word to her about it. Lofty, you will
forgive her, won't you ? And you must keep
her here all day — it shall be her turn to nm'se
you.'

At twelve o'clock, Valentine kept Lizzie's
appointment for her. She had no other directions
than to meet an unknown gentleman at
the gates of St. John's Church at noon. This,
however, was most likely a sufficient indication,
because gentlemen are not common in the
streets of Hoxton at any hour, and a gentleman
waiting about a street corner is easily distinguished.
She arrived at the trysting-place a
few minutes after the hour, .and there was
already a gentleman standing on the broad

pavement, outside the railings. A man, at
least, was there, dressed like a gentleman. He
was, no doubt, the Wretch who had written
those letters. There could not be two gentlemen,
each with an appointment for the same
time, in the same place — and in such a place !
A hansom cab was waiting close by, evidently
for him and for his victim.

The girl's heart beat fast. She would have
liked to say something, but she could not trust
herself. The man was looking in the opposite
direction, but he turned as she neared him.
Good heavens ! It was none other than Mr.
Conyers.

You ! ' she cried.

Miss Valentine ! '

You ? Oh ! is it possible ? '

She remembered now, that she had met him
once before, nearly on the same spot. He was
confused then ; he looked more confused now.

She had no doubt, not the least doubt, that
he was the man whom she had come to find.

You are waiting for some one,' she said.
You have got a cab waiting, too ! '

He made no reply.

You are waiting for my friend, Lizzie. I

have brought you back the bank-note which you
sent her. She will not keep the appointment.'

He took the bank-note.

I asked her,' he said, ' to let me paint her
face.'

I have read the letters,' Valentine replied,
in which you asked her. They are in my
hands. Go '

Mr. Conyers was a man of considerable impudence
; but there are times Avhen the most
brazen impudence must break down. No living
man, for instance, could stand unmoved before
the scorn unutterable, the condemnation unpitying,
of a young lady, for such a thing as
this man had attempted. He made no reply.
There was nothing, absolutely nothing, that
could be said. She had read his letters.

Go,' said Valentine, pointing to the cab.

He turned and got into his cab without a
word of explanation or excuse. She had read
his letters ! After that, Avhat room was therefor
defence ?

CHAPTEE XXVII.

ALICIA.

To Eussell Square,' he shouted to the driver.

It was in Eussell Square that Alicia lived, in
one of the largest and finest houses, full of the
most solid furniture, and crammed with pictures
pictures in every room and on every wall, as
one might expect of one who was the widow
of a dealer in pictures. Jack Conyers hated
the house, and the furniture, and the pictures,
because they all belonged, somehow, to the
life from, which he had vainly attempted to
escape. Those game and fruit pieces in the
dining-room, those landscapes in the drawing-room,
those portraits — not family portraits — on
the stairs, the massive furniture, all alike spoke
of money and of trade, and he desired to belong
to the world of money without trade.

Well, that was over now ; the morning's

work had effectually demolished any chance of
that ; he must think about it no more.

And after making everything ready for the
grand coup ! Violet was certainly Beatrice. He
had established, in his own mind, so many points
of resemblance between her and the portraits of
Sir Lancelot, and so many between Valentine
and Claude, that he had no doubt at all on
the subject. And now to be caught, actually
caught, like an offending schoolboy, by one of
the two girls concerned, in such a business asa
love affair with a workoirl — a think; so unworthy
of a man of Light and Sweetness and
Culture ; so common, so Philistine, so vulgar,
and so low ! And his very letters read — the
thought of those letters made his cheeks to
flame and his nose to feel hot. And that the
thing should be discovered on the eve of his
great coup only three days before the disclosure
of the secret ! But the damning thing was
the fact of the letters — Valentine said that she
had read all his letters. If it had not been for
the letters he would have brazened it out.
What business had she to read letters not
addressed to herself? But women have no
honour. They were, in fact, letters of the kind

which cannot possibly be explained away or
forgotten or forgiven — letters to a common
working girl, dressed in a shabby old ulster
and ragged frock, who called him ' Sir,' unless
she plucked up courage to utter some delicate
street joke, some cry of the gutter. Now there
is this curious and dangerous quality about such
letters that, whether a man addresses himself
by love-letter to a shoemaker or to a Countess,
incontinently he gets carried away by the enthusiasm
of beauty and the magic of imagination,
and becomes extravagant. Therefore,
Jack's letters to poor Lizzie might have been
written to Violet, so high pitched and so serious
they were. And, apart from this other side
of the matter, which was bad enough in all
conscience, this unhappy young man felt that he
had made himself ridiculous. No doubt Valentine
would show those letters about.

A good morning's work. The best house
on his list closed to him. Worst of all, if
Alicia heard of it most likely she would be lost
to him as well.

Alicia was out. Jack waited for her ; and
while he waited he wrote a short note to Lady
Mildred. It was not a pleasant note to write ;

but it was better to withdraw of one's own
accord than to be kicked down stairs.

Dear Lady Mildred,' he said : ' When I
spoke to you at Ilfracombe and opened, as I
then thought, my whole heart to you, I did not
know, nor could I possibly foretell, that I had
made the most terrible mistake. This is the
case, however, and I have no other hope than
to throw myself on your mercy and ask for
forgiveness.

'I have long loved another lady, and I
have now learned that in certain conclusions I
had too rashly drawn, concerning her affections,
I was wrong. Fortunately, I have said nothing
to Miss Violet on which I can reproach myself.
Again I ask your indulgence, and remain, dear
Lady Mildred, yours very sincerely,

John Conyers.'

Not a pleasing letter to write. But it had
to be done. Better to preserve the appearance
of walking out, than to be turned out. I do
not think it likely, however, that he will ever
call upon Lady Mildred again !

Alicia returned rather late, and hungry for
luncheon. She was a lady who was always
hungry for luncheon.

You here, Jack ? I expected yon about
this time. Let us have koch, my dear boy —
you've got such a long face that I know exactly
what you've come to say. You shall have
some fizz, to give you Dutch courage ! Don't
be more ceremonious than is necessary. I
should like it best if you would just say,
"Alicia, my dear, I've concluded to comedown."
But I suppose that won't do for you
it isn't grand enough.'

They had luncheon together at the great
mahogany table, among the pictures of game
and fruit. How in the world can a man ever
become a leader of Art, Culture, and the Higher
Criticism, who sits daily among these pictures,
and has married the widow of a picture dealer ?

Now, Jack,' said the widow, ' will you
have a cigarette, or will you talk without
tobacco ? I don't mind, you know,'

Jack proceeded, with some solemnity, to put
his case in the most favourable light possible.
He said, but the lady laughed aloud while he
spoke, that he must appear to have acted an
unworthy part ; he could not, in fact, understand
his own blindness ; for three months he
had been as one who struggles against the

VOL. III. L

overpowering force of conviction ; he had
tried to persuade himself that his happiness lay
elsewhere. ' This illusion,' he concluded very
gravely, ' this illusion, Alicia, has now been
dispelled.'

Has the young lady refused you, then? '

No ! My proposal for the young lady
has been made — I confess it — and it lies still
in her mother's hands. She is the daughter
and heiress, Alicia, of the late Sir Lancelot
Eldridge '

What does it mean, then. Jack ? '

It nieans, Alicia, that I have returned to
my allegiance, to my first love '

Oh : ' She received the information doubtfully,
because there was a lack of ardour in the
bearing of her suitor. His words were ardent,
but his manner was cold.

I have reason to believe that the kindness
of Lady Mildred might — I only say might,
Alicia, because I do not venture to claim any
positive knowledge as to the young lady's
feelings — might be equalled by the kindness of
her daughter '

Oh ! '

I have, however, written to Lady Mildred ;



you shall see the letter, here it is.' He drew
it forth and gave it to her. ' You see, it is a
free withdrawal '

Jack ! ' She read the letter quickly, and
kept it. ' Are you quite, quite straight with
me?'

Perfectly, Alicia. I have never been
anything but straight with you.'

And it isn't money ? '

You mean that I have not much left.
That is quite true, I have nothing to conceal
from you. But it isn't money. There is plenty,
at all events, in that young lady's hands, far
more than there is in yours. But it isn't
money, Alicia, I am not so mercenary as you
think, and I have given up this other girl
wholly for your sake. Forgive me, Alicia !
Perhaps, some day, you will take pride in
me '

She laughed gently. ' Ah, Jack ! you
always said that. Well, let me see. I know
where you were. Down at the sea side with
one of those girls '

The daughter and heiress '

Trying to get round her. Then you came
back to town. I thought you were afraid of

L 2

catching the wrong one, which would be
catching a crab, wouldn't it ? '

I have always known which is the real
daughter '

Have you ? I thought nobody knew.
Well, now, I will post this letter myself, to
prevent accidents. Jack,' she said, looking
straight in his face, ' there was once a manlike
you, with no money of his own, you know,
who married a woman with a tolerably good
fortune. He thought, as soon as he was
married, that he could do what he liked, and
so he began to carry on shameful, as if his
wife hadn't common feelings. She let him
have his head for a bit, and then, when he'd
quite got accustomed to the best of everything
and couldn't live without it, she turned him
into the street, where there is no claret and
no champagne. So that poor man caught a
Tartar, didn't he ? '

What has that to do with me ? '

Oh ! nothing, of course ; and I'm sure
you'll never give me cause to allude again
to that unfortunate creature, who now walks
the streets between two pretty boards ! I don't
mind the portraits of the models — your three

beautiful conquests, you know — and I don't
care a bit about Miss Eldridge, because I am
quite certain she wouldn't have had you. But
there is something worse than either. There is
a certain little girl at Hoxton, the workgirl,
Jack.' He started and turned pale. What
did she know ? ' You've been seen walking
with her ; not once, but half a dozen times.
Now, you know, I am not going to stand that !
It isn't likely.'

She was going to let me paint her face,

Alicia '

Well, you'll paint somebody else's face —
your own, if you like ; it's red enough now.
No, Jack, no more visits to Hoxton, if you
please. I Wonder if it is reckoned good form
for a gentleman — your father and mine weren't
gentlemen, but they wouldn't have done that
to meet a ragged little creature like that,
in her dinner-hour, and turn her silly head
with nonsense ? I wonder what men are made
of.^ You told her she was pretty, I suppose
? '

I am sure I don't want to meet the girl
any more. These girls, Alicia — don't imagine
that I was really turning the girl's head with

any nonsense — often require a great deal of
persuasion before they will consent to sit '

I dare say,' lie replied, with an incredulous
sniff. ' Well, Jack, I'm a fool to forgive you,
and I shan't trust you too much. Most women
would give you up altogether after finding out
all I've found out. But when we're married —
mind You may kiss me again, if you like.'

Jack obeyed her, but not as if he liked it
much.

'As for playing the distinguished man, I
think you will find it a precious deal easire
in Eussell Square with me than in Park Lane
with your Eldridges ! We're an easy-going lot,
me and my friends, and we will just take you on
your own estimate, however big it is ; and if
you like to talk Art and Esthetics when my
friends come to dinner, why this is just the
house to talk it in. Wasn't all the money made
out of Art ? I don't say we shall understand
you, but that doesn't matter a bit, and they'll
think all the better of you if they don't,
particularly as they all knew your poor father !
You'll look well, and you'll talk well, and you'll
be very careful, my dear boy, very careful
indeed, not to turn up your distinguished nose

at my friends because there may be a letter
waiting here and there, or because their money,
like mine, was made in the shop. If you do,
there will be pepper. As for your father ^

That is quite enough, Alicia — we understand
each other thoroughly. We shall make
ourselves perfectly happy, and you shall have
your own way in everything.'

I mean to, Jack. As for getting into
society, I am not anxious to know people who
despise honest trade. But if you like to bring
them here, you can. They won't dare to show
their contempt for the shop, I think, in my

house. If they do but never mind, my

dear Jack, you are going to lead the most
comfortable life in the whole world. And you
don't deserve it a bit ; and I shall tell all my
friends — who wouldn't tell a fib for the man
she loves ? — that you are really almost as clever
and distinguished as you look ! '

CHAPTEE XXVIII.

RETURN, SHULAMITe!

So, at last, dawned the morning of Valentine's
last day in Hoxton — the last day comes, if one
waits long enough, of everything.

Her last day. She awoke before daybreak,
and watched how the dawn — a pretty sight —
gradually revealed in all their beauty, the
Board School and the back yards and the courts
commanded by her window. There were no
larks singing in the sky or swallows flying
about the eaves to welcome the sun, perhaps
because the season was too late for larks and
swallows ; nor was there any autumnal splendour
of wood and coppice for the sun to shine
upon and to glorify ; but there were cats and
there were sparrows — and gradually there
arose a murmur of life, and dirty blinds were
pulled up or pinned up, and the mortals behind
them foot themselves dressed in their work-a-day

clothes, and the day's labours began. For
most of them such dreary, weary, monotonous
and unprofitable labours !

Her last day. She looked round the little
cell where she had spent three long summer
months, a willing prisoner — and now she loved
the place. On her bed lay the sick girl, who
had taken so many nights' rest from her. When
first she came there was no sick girl to care
for, nor had she any single friend — who now
had so many — in the whole place. There were
her household gods — all the things which
Claude had given her for what she thought
would be a three months' picnic, but proved
to be the prelude to a lifelong work — they
were no longer new ; the frying-pan, never
very strong — man, mere man, cannot know
how to choose a frying-pan — was now battered
out of shape ; it had fried quantities of chops,
steaks, eggs, kidneys, and bacon. The saucepan
and the kettle, both showed — because
they had boiled with enthusiasm — the black
and respectable garb of labour. The first freshness
was gone from the colour of her rugs and
curtains. The mignonette in the window-box,
which had been all the summer so great a

solace to her, was now reduced to three scentless
stalks. The summer was over, and the air,
when she opened the window, blew fresh and
cold ; and as for her face, as she looked in the
glass and wondered what Violet would say, it
seemed to have grown longer, though that
could hardly be, and graver. In the past three
months how much had lie learned and how
much had she seen ?

Her last day ! She was going home — to'
the real home ; in what Sam called the camp
of those who are the natural enemies of the
working-classes, where no one has to work,
and the days flow on m idlers all ; where there
is abundance, where there is music, where there
is Art, and where there is the magic of poetry ;
where the girls are wrapped in soft silks, and
kept from hearing how the workwomen cry aloud
and cry in vain, and how they suffer in patience,
hand in hand, with no one to help them or to
care whether they live or die. But their cry,
and the memory of their sufferings, would never
leave her. She knew that she could no longer
remain in that camp : she must come back
again ! She must return to the world where
the women suffer. Everybody who once visits

that world must go back to it. Those who work
in it never want to leave it. Only three months
ago : Why — Claude was then her brother ;
what was he now ? How could they go on
working together when he should find out the
truth ? Three months ago they were both
children of an honest workman, dead long
since, and now Claude's father was not dead at
all, but a shameful, horrible, living creature,
who was going to bring misery upon all of
them unless she could keep him silent and
obscure. That silence, at any cost, she would
procure and pay for — Claude must never know
or suspect, and Violet must never know or
suspect.

Lie would come back again, not as a visitor,
but to live. That Alas now her firm resolve.
She was as bent upon it as a novice is bent on
taking the vows. But she would no longer live
in her single chamber. That was not necessary.
Enough for three months to have been housemaid,
cook, parlour maid, and lady's-maid all in
one ; enough for honour to have carried water
upstairs, swept her own room, cooked her own
dinner, boiled the kettle, made the bed, and
cleaned the window. In one respect only she

differed from the old woman below her —
that she put out her washing. Now the old
woman never had any to put out. For the
greater part of the time her bed had been
occupied by a girl in a consumption, so that
she had to sleep as she could, on a chair, or a
bed made up of three chairs. One must be a
Moravian missionary before one can contemplate
without a shudder a continuance of this way
of life. She was coming back, but it would
be to a home of her own, where she could live
somewhat more as she was accustomed to live.
Her house should be in Hoxton — she was resolved
upon that, but it would not be quite in
the midst of those who habitually get drunk
on Saturday nights, and commonly use coarse
imprecations, and when in liquor knock down
and kick their wives. Even the Fellows of
Toynbee Hall do not actually live in the very
courts and lanes of the Whitechapel Eoad and
Commercial Street. No doubt they will do
so when, by their efforts, these courts have
become Courts of the Great King ; at present
they seclude themselves in their College, each
man with his own room aesthetically furnished
for the pleasure of his soul, and removed

somewhat from noise and stress and struggle of
the common life. We may, in fact, give ourselves
up, ' like anything,' for our fellow-creatures,
who will very likely give up nothing,
not even a humble little vice or two, in return ;
but there are some hours in the day which
should be kept apart and consecrated, even by
the most thorough Renunciation, for the recreation
and refreshment of his soul. All the
monks, hermits, and recluses on record made
the great mistake that they did not provide
such hours of rest. The gain, for example, in
the way of spiritual elevation would have been
inestimable if the Holy Fakeer, Simon Stylites,
had let himself down by a rope ladder, once a
day, just to enjoy in the cool of the evening
the conversation of the damsels and gossips in
the bazaar ; and think of the difference it would
have made to the saint Who used to swing all
day with the hook in his back, if some kind
friend had taken that hook out of him everyday,
at the going down of the sun, so that fora
couple of hours at least he might have smoked
a pipe and had a chat beneath the village banyan.
To what pinnacles of spirituality might
not the Fakeer Simon and the hooked saint

have risen ! But they failed. Simon got no
higher, spiritually speaking, than the top of his
pillar, and the other holy man never got outside,
so to speak, of his dangling hook, because
they were always attached to these foolish
things. And now their sayings, if they ever
said anything, and their discoveries, if they
ever made any, in Theology and Morals, are
quite lost and forgotten, just for want of that
little daily intermission and rest, which would
have brightened them up and inspired them
with words of wisdom.

These general reflections applied to Valentine
mean that too much Hoxton for those who
have the best interests of Hoxton at heart is bad
for Hoxton.

When Valentine went downstairs, she
found her friend the letter-writer starting on
his daily round among the German immigrants.
There had been recently quite a large importation
of Polish Jews who were making a little
Reddish Poland for themselves up a court. I
think they had brought with them a great
many barrels of native dirt, so as to feel homelike
; and were now living on charity, in the
begging of which the scribe was making an



unusual harvest. He was cloiuo; so well that he
had bought a new pair of second-hand boots ;
like a tax-gatherer, he carried his ink in one
waistcoat-pocket and his pen in another, while
his writing-paper lay in a shabby old leather
case, which perhaps was once brown, but now
was black with age. He greeted Valentine
with cheerfulness, though the Bishops at the
moment was lying grievously ill. and his family
were gathered at the Palace, and three physicians
were in consultation.

But suppose the Eisfiop dies,' said Valentine
; ' then your dream will be finished.'

Yes,' he answered, with his soft and gentle
smile. ' Yes, if the Bishop does not recover, my
dream will be finished indeed ; for I am the
Bishop, you know. You are leaving us to-day ? '

To-morrow morning. I have got, where
I am going, another mother and another sister.
Do you not think it is time I went to see
them ? '

They were standing in the court, between
the little Chapel and the open space on the
south side, where two or three houses have
been pulled down. The old man pointed with
his stick to Melenda's window, which was open,

showing the new clean blind and the new curtains
; next, he passed that stick slowly before
all the houses comprehensively and severally,
meaning to include them all ; and then he
pointed to the little children swarming about
the place like tadpoles in a pond ; and, lastly,
he indicated the women, bustling about their
daily tasks. He did this solemnly and slowly,
as one who hath a thing to say and thus delivers
his soul.

Do you know,' he asked, after performing
this ceremony, ' do you know what they are
saying, all of them, at your departure ? '

What are they saying ? '

They are saying, " Eeturn, Shulamite ! " '

He walked away slowly, with his rounded
shoulders, his long grey hair and his ragged
coat ; an old man who ought to have been
taken right away and forbidden to work anymore
; who should have been provided withall
kinds of things that are pleasant to old men
-with books and sunshine and warmth and
companionship. In a well-ordered State this
will be done for all the old men alike, from
saint to sinner, from Duke to ditcher. But
nothing can ever be done now for this individual

poor old man, and you will presently discover
why.

Eeturn, Shulaniite ! ' The words lingered
in her ears ; the sweet old words of love and
yearning.

Did they want her to return? Had she
done anything to anybody during her three
months that they should want her to come
back to them, or that they should miss her
presence among them ?

There is a Sense Which lies dormant with
most of us. It may always be awakened, and,
once roused, it never leaves us. Let us call it,
if you please, the Sense of humanity. It is
not philanthropy, nor benevolence, nor sentimentality
; it is a thing much fuller and wider
than any of these. Peter got this Sense widen
he had the vision of the Great Sheet. It is the
Sense of the Universal Brotherhood. Some of
the French Republicans were filled with it when
they first began to shout their cry of Equality
and Fraternity. Some of the Socialists are
filled with this sense ; it has nothing to do with
religion or with creed : the lives of the Saints
are full of the stories of men who have had this
sense strongly developed ; the lives of the

VOL. III. M

Sinners, which have yet to be written — would
that I could attempt that stupendous task ! —
will also be found quite full of such stories.
Saint or Sinner, it matters not ; the Sense of
Humanity may be found in either. One maybe
a Peer and have it ; one may be a beggar
and have it not. Those who have it, and have
developed it, are like mathematicians, when
they resolve all plane forces to two, and all
forces in space to three, for they presently
resolve humanity into the simple pair — the
man and the woman ; or, to be practical, since
in the world there are no planes, but everything
is of three dimensions, into the man, the
woman, and the child. It is a Sense by means
of which one is enabled to separate the man
from his clothes, whether they are rags or
gowns of office, and from his sins, whether they
be those which society allows, or those which
are not recognised ; and — which is a dark
saying — it destroys respect and yet builds up
reverence. Valentine had discovered this Sense ;
she had awakened it in Claude ; she saw it in
Sam, in the Doctor, and in the Assistant Priest.
When the letter-writer had passed out of
Ivy Lane Valentine remembered the old woman

who lived below her and got drunk whenever
lie could. She was not at all a nice old
person, but Valentine thought she Avould see her
before she departed — it would be neighbourly.
So she knocked at her door and went in. This
morning she looked very dreadful, because she
had been tipsy the evening before, and lead got
a bruise round one eye, and the other was
red ; her lips were tremulous and her cheeks
blotched ; also she wore no cap, which was
an error in Art, because her head was bald
in patches. Queen Venus, when she is old and
bald, ought at least to wear a cap. And she
was muttering over her work, which, as has
already been stated, was intimately connected
with approaching funerals.

Well, my dear,' she said, cheerfully, ' and
how is the sweet young gentleman P And how
long are you going to stay here ? '

I am going away tomorrow. I came to
see if 1 could do anything for you before I go.'

There, now ! I said there'd be a weddings
when I saw you in St. Luke's graveyard with
him. A sweet young couple indeed. Ah! it
does an old Avoman's heart good to let her eyes
fall on such.'

M

But I am not going to be married.'

Well, my dear, it won't matter much how
you arrange it. And there'll be another match
soon, unless I'm mistaken, with Liz upstairs —
there's another pretty one for you — and her young
gentleman. Oh ! I've seen them together too.'

Is there anything I can do for you before
I go?'

Well,' said the old woman, ' I dare say he's
given you some money. He looks the sort to
be free of money.'

I tell you I'm not going to be married.'

I didn't say you were, my dearie. But if
you've a shilling upon you to spare, I'd thank
you for it. Get all you can, my dear, get all
you can while your time lasts.'

She looked detestably cunning and inconceivably
wicked. Valentine, however, found a
coin for her.

The air's getting fresh now,' the old lady
went on, ' and the nights are cold. When it's
too cold to sit without a fire and to sleep without
blankets, I've got to go back to the 'Ouse.
It's warm there, if it's nothing else. You think
it's hard, but wait till you're as old as me, my
dear, and see if you don't come to it as well,

Make yourself happy while you can. It's no
use saving; spend and enjoy all you can get
while you are young, my pretty. When you're
old you'll have the remembrance of it, and it'll
make you feel happy just to think that you
didn't let the good times slip past. Don't
forget me next year if I'm spared to come out.
Oh ! it does one good in such a place as this,
even to see a pretty girl with a proper frock on.
But there, you won't be ]pretty when you come
back here. Lord ! what a figure I had once !
And I can tell you about the time when I had
a house of my own ! '

Valentine left her at the commencement of
these recollections. Eve, in age and decay,
long after she had eaten, not one, but all the
forbidden apples within reach, and longed for
those out of her reach, may have looked so and
talked so. A curious case for the spiritual
physician. Next year she will be ' out ' again,
for these old women are tough and long lived ;
and perhaps for many years she will continue
to be alternately ' in ' and ' out,' and to exist as
an example and a warning for the young. This
dear lady, too, ought to be taken away and
carefully cherished, with warmth and good food.

raid the semblance of liberty. Not that she
would ever repent her of her sins, or wish the
memory of the past to be other thai it is, or
get a gleam of light into her darkened soul
about a better life. A better plan, perhaps,
would be painless and sudden extinction. But
the old lady, who, I suppose, would have to be
consulted, for form's sake, is not yet educated to
the point of perceiving how much her disappearance
would benefit mankind. The subject
opens a wide field for speculation, for there are
so many among us who might with advantage
be painlessly and unexpectedly extinguished.

Valentine proceeded on her way down Ivy
Lane calling at the houses where she had friends,
that is to say, at nearly every house. The
children ran after her as she went, catching at
her hands and hanging to her skirts. That
means nothing, because children are so foolish as
to trust and love everyone who is kind to them.
Come back soon,' they cried ; ' Come back
soon.' Then from the children Valentine went
to see her friends the workwomen in their
rooms. She knew, by this time, dozens of
them, which is not difficult in this ,
where there are so many thousands

always at work. The women paused in
their Avork for a minute to bid her farewell.
There was the young tailoress of nineteen with
two babies and a husband out of work, and her
mother who looked after the babies, while she
worked from seven in the morning till ten at
night, for eight shillings a week, less the cost of
coal and candle, soap and cotton. She was a
handsome, capable looking girl, with square
chin, fresh lips, and strong eyes. She looked
up and laughed a welcome, and when Valentine
bade her farewell, she cried, but not for long,
although a whole hour's crying would only have
cost her a penny and one-fifteenth. ' But you'll
come back soon,' she said. Then there was the
woman dio lived on the ground-floor, working
all day long for bare life, with her daughter ;
there was the old lady with the imbecile
husband, who worked for both ; there was the
girl who ought to have been married some years
before, and there was the Q-irl who oue^ht not
to have been married for some years to come ;
they all stopped to bid her farewell and to
say ' Come back soon,' and then returned
again to their breathless and headstrong flight
from the Fury of Famine, who pursues them

continually with a scourge of knotted cord, ora
ilagellum loaded with lead, such as that
with which the Eomans corrected disobedient
slaves. Then there were the older women with
their great families — Nature, very oddly, when
the Horn of Plenty is quite empty, always fills
it with babies. How bravely they work, these
mothers ! And how their faces harden, and
how early the lines gather round lips and eyes !
Surely, as the girls murmur when the drilling
begins, surely, ' it is a Shame ! '

And from them too, from every room into
which Valentine had found her way, from every
court there came the cry, ' Come back soon ' —
Eeturn, Shulamite ! ' Strange how the
words lingered in her ear and repeated themselves
— words sometimes will just as if they
followed one about or were echoed within the
recesses of the brain.

At the door of the Boys' Institute, she met
the Eev. Mr. Eandal Smith. He was looking
pale and over-worked, because he had been in
London all the summer ; and besides, had given
away his money, and had none togoonhohday
with ; and his long coat and broad-brimmed
black hat were flabby because he could not

afford new ones, and he looked faded, and
dejected, and boyish, and without dignity.

I Imo you are going,' he said gloomily.
The Doctor told me.'

I am coming back again.'

It is wonderful that you stayed so long.
We shall miss you, though you never come to
Church.'

'Not to your Church.'

Oh ! what a power for good you might be
if you chose ! Why, you might bring all those
boys of mine to Church : they would follow you.
It's the only thing for them — Church Discipline
and Confession. I knoAV you hiugli at us ; but
there is nothing except the confessional forgetting
a hold over the people and putting the
priests in their right place.'

Well, Mr. Smith, if you will confess to the
Doctor, I dare say he will confess to you.
Will not that satisfy you? Never mind your
confessional, tell me about yourself. You look
pale — you want a holiday.'

I cannot get one, unfortunately.'

As Valentine considered this young man she
remembered that it was for some such life as
this, without the choral services, that Chide

was giving up Lis career. What if lie should
weary of it ?

Tell me,' she said, ' you who work sohnrd
and do so much for the boys — are you contented
with your life ? '

I am quite contented with it. I ask for
nothing better.'

That is a brave thing to say. Would you,
if you had the chance, exchange it for an easier
life and a taro-er income ? '

Not now,' he replied, sturdily. ' When I
grow old and feeble I should like a stronger
man to come here.'

Do you think that everybody engaged in
such work as this continues to be as satisfied
and contented ? '

I think so. We must not desire anything
beyond the work that we are set to do.'

Do you never wish,' Valentine continued,
for opportunities of distinction ? Are you
never ambitious ? '

I have uo other ambition,' he replied, with
an ecclesiastical tag and a return of the breathless
manner, ' than to be a faithful servant.' In
fact, he had no desire for distinction at all, probably
because in quite early life he understood
that he was neither sharp nor clever.

And do you never,' she asked, ' do you
never think of love or marriage ? ' She was
asking all these questions in the interest, so
to speak, of Claude, and she suddenly, but too
late, remembered what the Doctor had told her.
This young man lead been thinking about love.
Forgive me,' she said hurriedly, because he
blushed and trembled and looked about for the
earth to swallow him ; ' forgive me, Mr. Smith,
I ought not to have asked you that question.'

It — it doesn't matter. Thank you,' he
said, ' it's of no consequence.'

I was only wondering,' she explained,
whether in such work as yours there never
comes a sense of weariness, as if it was all no
good and one might as well be living like the
rest of the world.'

There is no weariness of the work. Sometimes,
perhaps, sometimes one thinks of a life —
with — with love it.' His eyes dropped, and he
blushed again.

No weariness in the work. That never
palls, does it ? '

Well,' he was really a truthful young man,
there are the church services. It is no doubt
the best discipline possible for a man, and of

course we say matins and evensong for the
whole parish, but as nobody ever comes to hear
them, one sometimes feels as if there were too
many services.'

So I should think;

It is a weakness of the flesh which I hope
to overcome in time.'

She touched his hand and left him with a
pleasing and rather uncommon mixture in her
heart, composed of admiration, respect, and
pity in equal parts, and just as one adds to a
claret cup a little sprig of borage, or a strawberry,
so she added the merest dash of contempt.
His life was so hard — he was so
contented, so courageous, and so unselfish — he
was so patient — he thought so little of himself
he was so free from any ambition except to
be, as he said, a faithful servant — he accepted
with so much meekness the tiresome and useless
things which wasted his time and dragged him
from his real work, the daily chanting of
services which nobody attended, the weary
iteration of litanies in an empty church and the
fripperies which this poor ignorant lad took for
the true religion of the past, the present, and
the future ; a religion in which, he thought,

there was to be no singing except of Gregorian
chants; and no sunshine except through
painted windows ; and no attitude for the
laity in scecida sceculorum^ except of continual
reflexion before a close-shaven man in a
cassock and a cope, and a brett cap, surrounded
by boys in white surplices, with pots
of incense.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE LAST EVENING.

You must spend this evening with us, Claude,'
said Valentine ; ' it is my last evening, and weare
going to have tea in Melenda's room.
Besides, I want you to say all sorts of kind
things to the poor girl.'

Your last evening ! A good deal has
happened, Valentine, since you came here first.'

Yes, a great deal has happened. But,
Claude, we must get those lines out of your
forehead and the depression out of your eyes.'
See how readily men betray their trouble.'

You will not do that easily, Valentine,' he
said, with a forced laugh. 'The fates are too
strong even for you.'

She was now quite certain that the trouble
of his soul could only be caused by some knowledge
of her Other's history, but she could not
learn how much lie knew.

You do not regret your choice, Claude ? '
I had no choice,' he replied gloomily ; ' I
thought I had. But I had not. There are
some men, Valentine, who are condemned to
obscurity from the very beginning ; they can
only be happy when they are unknown and
forgotten.'

Claude was more than usually gloomy
because he was suffering from an acute attack
of a complaint not described in any book on
medicine. Celsus and Galen ignore its symptoms.
It has no name, but it is caused by
family or paternal shame. His excellent father,
who found in the torture of his son a truly
delightful amusement, and concluded that the
daughter, who lived in Hoxton, was not worth
following up so long as she paid her weekly
sovereign, now visited his chambers at all
hours, having a master-key which he had made
for himself. He borrowed Claude's clothes ;
he drank his wine ; he sat there and fiddled all
day long ; he smoked tobacco there ; he opened
all the desks and drawers and read all the private
papers — even those verses with which every
young man loves to comfort his soul, and the
letters from his friends ; he came in the morning

and sta^'Gcl all day ; lie came in the evening
and stayed all night. Claude might give up
his chambers, but the man would follow him,
and what would be the end ? He demanded
money perpetually, and always got some, if not
all that he asked, by the exercise of a very
simple threat. If he did not get it he would
o;o to his daughters. He had even bes^un to
take away things which were portable and
might be pawned, such as the silver mugs, those
volumes which were expensively bound, and
the pictures ; honestly, however, giving his son
the pawn tickets.

Claude made no objection at all. Let the
man go on ; let him strip the place ; let him do
what he pleased, so thai he remained unknown
to the rest of his family.

Claude forced himself, however, to assume
a pretence of cheerfulness, and stayed with
Valentine. They all had tea together in
Melenda's room. It was a quiet party; Melenda,
to begin with, was shy, and as yet a little
awkward in the performance of her new
character as Melenda the Amiable. Yet she
looked the part. The new dressing of her
hair changed her face, her eyes were no longer

fierce ; two days only of good food had taken
the mimicry look out of her face ; she was in
i^eposc, and she was afraid of her brother, who,
however, said nothing about the great and
startling transformation — not even to offer a
word of congratulation, being quite absorbed
in thought about other things. As for Lizzie,
she was still under the influence of Repentance,
and not without fear that her lover might himself
come to the house, and insist on her
promises being kept. Moreover, the Shadow
of Death rested upon the place, and in the
next room lay one who patiently awaited the
summons.

The autumn day was already closed, for in
the middle of October the sun sets at five ; the
curtains were drawn, the lamp was lit, the fire
burning, and Melenda in the newly-born joy of
her own humiliation, thought the room looked
almost as lovely as Valentine's ; and after tea
they sat round the hire, Valentine holding
Melenda's hand in her own.

About seven o'clock they heard steps upon
the stairs, and there appeared at the door no
other than Joe himself, accompanied by his
daughter Ehoda, and Sam.

VOL. III. N

Mother told us,' he said, ' that you were
going away tomorrow. Why, what in the
name o' wonder has come over the place ? '
For Melenda's room, he perceived, was transformed
into a lady's bower.

It is only that Melenda and I are friends
at last,' Valentine explained. ' Come in, Ehoda
dear: come in, Sam.'

And so I thought I'd come. Well, I
shouldn't ha' known the place, Melenda, I
shouldn't really — nor you neither, I shouldn't
and I brought Ehoder along with me, and
we went out of our way to fetch Sam. Look
at your Aunt Melenda, my gal ; now she's
something like, I never knew you were so
well worth lookin' at, Melenda.' Melenda
blushed and lashed.

Sit down, Joe,' said Valentine. ' Ehoda,
you take my chair. Sam, you must sit on the
bed, unless you like to stand.'

So, for the first time since the departure of
Polly into the aristocratic world, the whole of
this remarkable family, counting Valentine as
Polly, were gathered together. The vicissitudes
of families have furnished many subjects for
the moralist and the storyteller, as well as for

the genealogist. In every house there are those
Who have cliinbecl or are climbing, and those
who have gone under and are still going lower.
Down goes Jack, and with him his whole
detachment. Up goes Dick, and with him his
sons and his daughters and his grandchildren.
But it is rare to find so much variety in one
group and one generation. It is not usual, for
instance, for a Fellow of Trinity to have one
sister a needle-woman, and another a young
lady ; nor is it a general thing for a plumber's
man to have one brother a Board School Master,
and one a Cambridge Scholar. It is also unusual,
Claude reflected, for any family to have
a father with so remarkable a history as their
own.

You're going away,' Joe repeated slowly,
looking still at Melenda, whose changed appearance
fascinated him. ' You're going away.' It
is the place of the elder brother to give
utterance for the family on all occasions of
importance, and on every conseil de famille.
Joe accepted his responsibility, and was always
ready to perform his duties as Head of the
Family, though Claude might be a gentleman,
and Sam had achieved greatness. ' You're

N 2

going away tomorrow ; well, you've done a
deal o' good to us since you came. Mother,
she'll miss you more than a bit. We left her
crying', didn't we, Ehoder ? And so will the girls
here — they'll miss you terrible, won't you,
Melenda? Lord! it's wonderful. You look
just exactly like a girl out of a shop, quiet and
respectable, instead of going about in rags, and
flying in one's face like a wild cat. And you'll
miss her too, Liz ; and as for that poor girl in
the next room — your own room too — what in
the world will she do without you? '

But I am not going away for long. I am
coming back. I am going to live in Hoxton ;
so is Claude.'

Sam grunted.

There was two of you came first,' Joe went
on slowly. ' You said then as you didn't know
which of the two was Polly. As for the other
one, she hasn't come again, has she P Very
well ; first, we don't need to say much about
you before your face, do we .^ No. When you
go away, whether it's for short or for long,
there's some you've left behind Who'll remember
you, ain't there, Melenda ? '

?he knows there is ' said Melenda.

Well, and about the other one now. If it
should happen,' — he said this very slowly, so
that there might be no possibility of any
mistake — ' I wish to say — for all of us — that if
it should happen to come to pass that the other
one was to turn out to be Polly after all, and
not you at all ; and that you should turn out to
be her ladyship's daughter. Miss Beatrice —
which it may be for aught I know — why, I
want to give you a message for the other one.'
Yes, Joe, what is the message ? '
'It is a message from all of us ; from
Melenda, and Sam, and Claude, as well as from
me. It's to tell her not to be ashamed of her
family, because her father was a man with such
a character for Truth and Honesty as very
few men can boast, and a clever workman as

well ' Oh, Joe! — Claude and Valentine

glanced involuntarily at each other. ' That's
what I've always told Claude. Don't let her be
ashamed of her father ; and as for us, why we
don't expect her to come and hive with us as
you've done ; we don't ask her, nor we don't
expect her. We know that she's a young lady
accustomed to live among young ladies, and
we're only plain working people. It's enough

that you've come. We haven't harmed yon,
have we ? You've heard a bit of rough talk now
and then ; perhaps you've seen a bit o' rough
ways, and found out a deal of things you never
suspected before, I dare say ; but our people
haven't harmed you — our people never will harm
any respectable gh'l. If she'd wanted us, she'd
have come to us with you. So you tell her
that she's a sweet young lady to look at, and
we like to think of hc-r pretty face, but we
shan't take it amiss that lie don't come to us,
because she is not one of us. Don't forget to
tell her that — not one of us has got anything
to ask of her or to take of her.' Sam snorted,
and Melenda tossed her head. She had surrendered
to one and not to both. ' Lie needn't
be a bit afraid that any of her relations will
ever seek her out, or intrude upon her, except
Claude, and he's a gentleman. I don't see that
she's any call to be ashamed of us as honest
and respectable people, ain't we, Melenda ? and
one of us has worked himself up noble, hasn't
he, Sam ? As for her father, you tell her again
that he was one in a thousand — ah ! — as one
may say, one of a thousand for honesty

With the repetition of this Colossal falsehood,

Joe paused. Then he added a few words
of personal application, just as a clergyman
winds up his discourse.

As for you,' he said, ' whether you are
Polly, or whether you are not, you're a lady,
and such we are glad to see. You can't come
too often nor stay too long. You don't want
to poke your nose into the working man's
affairs, as some ladies do ; you don't think your
duty lays in giving advice gratis ; you don't
want to manage folk as if they were Sunday
School children ; you don't come the Temperance
Gospel nor the Blood and Fire
Hallelujah over us ; you don't look at us as if
we were specimens in a museum ; you don't
sniff and make believe as if you were sorry for
us all when there's a little mess about the
place ; when a chap's in trouble or down in
his luck, you don't wait for three weeks while
the case is gone into ; you don't talk about us
as if we working people were the Poor, and
everybody else was the Pdch. Sam does that
when he gets into a rage, but it don't amount
to more than slashing into the System. Sam
thinks he can make us all rich and happy with
a new System. Lord ! tlierc ain't a great deal

of difference between his after all ; it's mostly
a matter of clothes. Look at Melencla, now
you've smartened her up. She ain't so pretty
as you, but now she's dressed and quiet, she
looks as nice mannered, almost.'

Thank you, Joe,' said Valentine. ' If it
should be as you think, and Violet should
prefer her present life, which is possible, I will
tell her what you say. If it should not be so,
why, all the more reason for my coming back to
live among my own people, and to be proud
of my brothers. Oli ! Joe, I do think you
are the best fellow in the world.' For that
brave sticking out for his worthless father, so
that the brothers and sisters mis^ht never be
ashamed, and never even suspect the truth, went
straight to her heart.

'And now we'll go,' said Joe. 'Come,
Ehoder. Good-bye, Miss Eldridge.' He took
her hand respectfully, not fraternally, and she
clearly perceived that he knew her secret.

Then Melenda and Lizzie went to look after
Lofty, and the three who remained began to
talk.

And what are you coins to do when you
come back ? ' asked Sam. ' You can't do any

general good, though you may. do something
these three girls. Nothing can be done
of any real use until the System is changed,
and we've begun by putting the Land on a
proper footing. That's at the bottom of al.'

You shall settle that, Sam,' said Valentine.
Meantime we shall take the world as it is, and
go on tinkering in our small way, until your
revolution sets everything right for ever after.'

What's the use of arguing with a woman ? '
Sam asked, turning to Claude. ' Here we are,
working up for the grandest change the world
has ever seen — the change that is c^oincf to cive
the people their own back again — and she keeps
on at us because we don't stop to make a fuss
about the workwomen.'

We cannot expect you, with such a
magnificent scheme in your head, to think
about your sisters, Sam, can we ? '

It will all come in time. I am thinking
them, I tell you. When we've abolished
rent and competition, and interest, and capital ;
when we've nationalised the land, and prevented
anybody from getting rich, and made everybody
work, I suppose women's wages will be as
good as men's ; that is, they will all be alike,

and they'll mean a good living to everybody —
won't that satisfy you ? '

Perhaps, when it comes. But, Sam, how
long is it in coming ? And suppose we don't
like it when it does come ? Suppose you only
make it more possible for selfish men to use
the labour of others, and for strong men to
trample on the weak P '

You are talking nonsense. You don't
know the very first bec^innino^s of our revolution.'


Claude, have you nothing to say ? '

Claude hesitated. Things had grown terribly
real with him of late, and he spoke
slowly and with sadness. ' I do not suppose,'
he said, ' that some men are born with saddles
fitted to their backs, and others with spurs on
their heels. And I think that Maurice was
right when he taught that the reign of Universal
Competition is not exactly and altogether
the Kingdom of Heaven. And I do not
believe that the Lord is always on the side of
the man who is making money.'

Very good,' said Sam. ' Why, this is just
as I would begin myself.'

But I am certain there is no System, or

Institution, or code of laws, whatever, which
can be imposed upon a people, unless they are
ready for it, and desire it for themselves. You
will never live to see your dream realised, Sam,
because it will be always impossible to make
the men of ability, who are the only men to be
considered, desire a system in which they themselves
shall not be able to do good to themselves
first. If it were established to morrow, it
would fall to pieces the next day, for want of
incessant and universal watchfulness. I think
we had better take the world as it is, and use
the materials lying ready to our hands.'

Oh ! the world as it is,' Sam repeated,
with the Lords and the Church, and the
parsons, and the landlords, and the manufacturers,
and the capitalists ! '

'With all of them — just as it is — let us take
it as it is. Meanwhile there is a Eevolution
going on of which you know nothing. It is a
movement which will be perhaps one of the
greatest things that the world has ever seen.'
He did not mean the Earthly Tract Society.
Men and women who have learned all that
science and art and history and philosophy can
teach them, are returning to the soil and to the

gutter from which their fathers sprang. They
come back laden with treasures, which they
long to lavish among the people. This is to
practise the Christianity which you advanced
Thinkers despise. Consider another thing,
Sam. It is not only that these missionaries will
live among the people and teach them all
kinds of things, but they will bring the fierce
light of publicity to bear upon their ways and
their wants. Do you think that any employer
in the world would dare to pay his working
women as Melenda has been paid, and to treat
them with the cruelty of drilling as she has
been treated, if he knew that his name and his
rate of pay and his treatment of woman would
the very next day be paraded in the public
press? The power of publicity has only just
commenced. The Journalists as yet only half
understand their own power. Wliy, these men
and women are going about actually setting up
electric lamps in dark places. Let us try to
bring this light into all the workshops, so that
no kind of grinding and tyranny shall be
overlooked. You know what the Russian student
said at the grave of his dead comrade, while
the police stood by ready to arrest him for a

word ; " My brothers," lie said, stretching out
his arms, " Light ! We want more light." With
light, everything may come ; even some of
the universal unselfishness, Sam, which your
generous heart thinks possible. At least, the
first steps will be taken when the people
begin by themselves to resolve that justice and
equity shall be meted out to all, even to the
London working girl. And as for systems, the
force of opinion is stronger than any system.
Opinion is the will of the people ; let us get
opinion on the side of the girls. And then —
Lig;lit — more Limit.'

CHAPTER XXX.

THE bishop's deathbed.

It was about nine o'clock when Sam left them.
He was angry, because he could not convince
them, and because his brother Alas so very near
the gate of truth, and so very perverse in his
refusal to step in. And yet, said Sam to himself,
logic, justice, equity, reason, natural
religion, the laws of the Universe — everything
cries aloud that there is no Gospel but Socialism.
All men are born equal — every man with two
legs and ten fingers, and no possessions at all,
not a scrap of purple velvet, and not a shovelful
of land ; no spurs on his heels, and no
saddle on his back ; no crown on his head, and
no chains on his wrists ; for everyone the same
inheritance, namely, the whole of the round
world and all that therein is, that is, as much
of it as, divided among the x inhabitants, in
equal portions, constitutes his share. Every

man must work every day for the general good,
he must eat at a common table — why should
one man have cutlets a la Soubise, and another,
cold pig? He must share in all the luxuries
that are attainable by every one : if there be
other luxuries which are not enough to go
round, they may be divided among the sick
and the aged ; why should one man drink
champagne and another vin bleu? This is
Sam's position, and, really, it is impossible to
dislodge him from it. He is impregnable,
because he is perfectly right. Against him,
however, is a force with which he and his
friends have never reckoned ; it is sometimes
called Human Nature. It is, in fact, the simple,
unarmed, naked, natural Man, v/ho, alone, is a
match for a host, armed with all the weapons
of logic, and reason, and right, because of his
selfishness, which is a whole armour in itself.
He wants all he can grab for himself, and he
will go on grabbing all he can. He derides
equality ; he holds that the spoils are for the
strongest ; and on this principle he is resolved
to live, and so will continue to live until the
Kingdom of Heaven comes to change all, and
make his position disagreeable. Such being

the habit, custom, resolution, and attitude

of the Natural Man, the Socialist may rage

furiously, but he will rage in vain.

'I must go, too,' said Claude, taking his

list ; ' I am glad they came to-night. Alas !

the summer is over, tomorrow morning you

will be gone. Good-night, Valentine, and

farewell'

Why a solemn farewell, Claude ? '

Because the past can never be repeated

Nothing is ever repeated ; but things can
be continued. If you are going to walk, let me
walk a part of the way with you. Oh I I am
not afraid of returning alone, no one ever
molests me. I am just a shop-girl going home,
you know, after business.'

They went out together. The streets where
crowded, because it was fine, and a Saturday
night. Even Pitfield Street and East Eoad,
which are considered quiet thoroughfares, were
filled with costers' carts, and with folk who
came out to buy. The City Eoad was noisy
with multitudinous footsteps, and a good half of
Old Street Alas blocked with the overflow of
AVhite Cross Street, where there is held everyday

and every evening, the noblest costers'
market in the whole of London, not even excepting
that of the Whitechapel Eoad. The
space is more limited ; but then, the very narrowness
sets off the variety and cheapness of
the goods displayed. Many costers' markets
there be in this great town : one would not
willingly do injustice to Clare Market, to the
New Cut, to the High Street, Marylebone, or to
Leather Lane ; but that of White Cross Street
outshines them all.

These faces haunt me,' said Valentine, as
they moved slowly through the crowd. ' I
shall carry home with me a ghostly crowd of
faces. How many thousands of faces have I
seen here and none of them alike ? The noise
is nothing ; one does not remember noise, but
the faces — the faces remain ; they are always
with me.'

If the faces were all boiled down into oneby
repeated photographs, what sort of a face
would it be ? '

Not into one face, Claude ; there must be
two faces ; those of the working man and the
working woman. I think the man's face would
show a certain sluggishness and a i^'ood deal of

VOL. III. O

self-indulgence, and in this eyes one would discern
a sense of Inimour ; the woman's face
would show patience and suffering, and her
eyes would be sharp with indignation ; they
would have no humour in them. Whatever
they might turn out they would not be bad
faces.'

The English face, compounded of many
races, is seldom, in fact, a bad face ; it is good-tempered
to begin with ; it is independent and
self-reliant ; there is a love of justice in it ;
there is strength in it ; there is capability in it ;
there is the possibility of wrath in it ; such
wrath as makes the Englishman, when his blood
is roused, the most dangerous animal in the
world — witness the savagery of our soldiers in
India not quite thirty years ago ; yet the devil
faces which one sees in Paris, when the people
are out in the streets, are never found in White
Cross Market. To watch the English face is to
learn trust in the English people.

You will cease to think of your troubles,
Claude,' said Valentine ; ' you will think of these
men and women instead, won't you .^ It will
be best for you ; and I am sure it is best to let
the dead bury the dead.'

I wish to heaven I could. But suppose
the dead refuse to be buried.'

She said no more. Perhaps he lead found
out even more than she had feared. Presently
they reached the end of Old Street where it
runs like a broad river into Goswell Eoad and
Alternate Street, and here Valentine stopped.

Good-bye, Claude,' she said ; ' come to see
us at home tomorrow evenings. I am Gfoins;
home again. Oh ! I have had the strangest, the
most beautiful summer that ever any girl had,
and all by your help, Claude. How can I ever
thank you enough? I wonder if you can
understand at all what it has been to me — this
revelation of Men and Women, whom we dare
to call common men and women. I am like
Peter after the Vision and the Message, which
only came to him three times. But my Vision
and my Message, Claude, have been repeated
to me daily for ninety days.'

And as for me, Valentine,' he replied,
huskily, ' I can never tell you ; I can never
even try to tell you what the summer has been
to me.'

He pressed her hand and she left him. She
was not, you see, his sister ; that he had known



all along, and now she would find out the
truth, and it was impossible that they should
continue together in the old relations. What
more ? He loved her. Who could help loving
her, who was so winsome, so loyal, and so
brave ? He had always loved her, ever since
the day when he found out that she was not his
sister, and for her sake he had given up all his
ambitions, yea, even the ambition of the Chancellor's
woolsack ; and there were moments
when it seemed possible, but the appearance of
his father made that and everything else impossible
; and now, he should never be able to tell
her, even in the after years, what she had
become to him. How could such a man as
himself, with such a Family Record, dare to
connect himself, even in thought, with such a
girl ?

He stood at the corner of the street watching
her light figure speeding quickly along the
pavement. Now, either because his heart was so
full of love that he could not bear to let the girl
go out of his sight, or because a Divine admonition
came to him — they do come sometimes
and interfere strangely with the fortunes of men,
though generally we disregard them, so that

rogues triumph — Valentine had not got thirty
steps before he felt constrained to turn and
follow after her. He did so, keeping a few
yards behind her, and not losing sight of her
for a moment.

The light figure moved swiftly among the
people who crowded the pavement, through
the men who lounged hands in pocket, and
the women who pushed basket in hand. They
made way for her to pass, no one offering her
the least familiarity. Some of them, perhaps,
knew her by this time. She passed through the
crowd and crossed the street to the north side
where there were fewer people. Presently she
stopped, and Claude watched her while she
talked to a girl. I know not what she said, or
whether she gave the girl anything, but when
Valentine left her that girl went away quickly,
and in exactly the opposite direction, which
seemed as if she had changed her mind about
something. In the City Eoad she stopped
again, to talk with another woman who had a
baby in her arms. She did give that woman
something, and she, too, turned and walked
away in another direction, which leads one to
believe that she proposed to go home and put

the baby to bed. One of these days we shall
have a Female Police in addition to the present
highly efficient masculine force. They will be
called probably the Female Persuasives, rather
than the Female Force ; they will carry no
clubs or revolvers, and they will be horribly
dreaded by all kinds of sinners. When you
have crossed the City Eoad and engaged, so to
speak, with Brunswick Place, you are already
within the limits of Hoxton itself, and if you
are so happy as to live in that City of Industry,
you are among friends, and almost at home ;
therefore you will naturally, as Valentine did,
begin, at this point, to walk more slowly.

Claude still followed her, as far as ih(d
western entrance of Ivy Lane in St. John's
Eoad. There he would have left her and gone
his way, but for a thing which awakened his
suspicions. St. John's Eoad is not better lighted
than any other of the less important London
streets, where they blindly follow the custom
of our ancestors, and plant the gas lamps —
each with a glass top artfully designed to let
all the light mount upwards to the sky and so
be lost — at the same intervals as were thought
good in the old days of oil lamps. The

conservatism of the official mind is a truly
wonderful subject for contemplation. The
street was, however, well enough lighted for
Claude to see a figure waiting about on the
pavement, opposite to Ivy Lane. There were
plenty of people walking, but this man was
evidently waiting, and when Valentine turned
into Ivy Lane, this man crossed the road and
followed her.

He followed her at a distance of three or
four yards — Claude Wondered what it might
mean. Then he passed under the gas lamp at
the entrance of the street, and Claude saw his
face. Heavens ! It was the face of his father !
What could he want with Valentine, except to
break his promise, and molest and frighten
her ? It was his father, and by a lurch of the
shoulders which betrayed him, his father, it
was certain, had been drinking.

Claude quickened his step, his first impulse
being to stop the man ; but he checked himself,
because to do so would certainly cause a
row in the street. He would wait till Valentine
was in her own room. He kept close behind,
therefore, ready to interfere for her protection.

The street was pretty full of women,

talking, tliougli it was past ten o'clock and the
evening was chilly : there were also a good lot
of children, shouting and playing. Valentine
passed through them, with a word of greeting
and a fair good night for each. The crowd
parted right and left and made a lane for her,
because they knew her ; they parted again for
Mr. Carey, because the crowd always does
make a respectful lane for a man who has been
drinking. But for Claude they did not make
way, and he had to force his way through, and
the children got about his feet, so that the
chase drew ahead of him, and he was unable
to prevent what most he dreaded.

On the ground floor Valentine found Mr.
Lane's door wide open, and his candle burning.
She looked in and nodded pleasantly.

You are feeling well to-night P ' she asked.

'Never better, never better,' he replied
stoutly. ' Business has been good this week.
I think they are beginning to find me out at
last. It is strange, too, because I am very near
the end of my dream.'

I hope not. Can't your dream last a little
longer ? '

I've got no control over it. You don't

expect me to alter the decrees of Fate. The
good Bishop is on his deathbed — I am certain
he can never recover. The children are with
him. The prayers of all the churches in the
Diocese have been offered for him. Many
there are who live on, long after sixty-seven :
mostly they are men who have only cumbered
the ground, whose lives should be an eternal
shame to them — men like me — unprofitable
dogs. Men like the Bishop are generally called
away early, before the allotted span. Well, he
will go to his own place. But as for me, what
shall I do when he is dead and buried .^ '

Indeed, Mr. Lane, I do not know. You
will have to find some other amusement for
your evenings.'

Amusement ? For mee ? ' He shook his
head ; and she left him,

Then the old woman who lived at the back
came out of her den.

There's been a gentleman asking for you,
my dear,' she said — ' not a young gentleman :
oh, no ! — an elderly gentleman — quite the
gentleman — with a pipe in his mouth, and a
little in liquor : and most pleasant in his
manners, and liberal and generous.'

A gentleman for me ? '

Yes, my dear, and very anxious he was to
know your ways, and asked a many questions ! '
(she did not add that he had begun by giving
her a florin) ' about what you do with yourself,
and who gives you your money. But I was
very careful — oh ! I am very careful indeed, my
dear — I didn't let out nothing about the young
gentleman. For, thinks I, very likely he maybe
one of the jealous sort ! '

Oh ! ' said Valentine impatiently, ' what
have I to do with any elderly gentleman ? '

I do hope there's not going to be any
trouble about the young gentleman. Perhaps it
wasn't jealousy, and to be sure, I have known,
more than once, the lawyers to step in at the
last moment and stop it, when the banns was
on the point of being put up, so to speak, and
the wedding ring bought. Mind, my dear, don't
you give up the letters — don't give up a single
line of writing — make 'em pay for the letters, if

it's five hundred pound Here he is again

don't forget about the letters. He do look
like a lawyer a bit, come to look at him, don't
he?'

It so happened that Mr. Carey, at the very

beginning of this evening, and when he had
not yet taken more than two or three glasses,
lead begun to consider the problem of his
daughter, and why she lived in Ivy Lane, and
where she got her money from, and by what
steps she had come to look like a lady, and
what a beautiful thing it would be for himself if
he could by any means entrap her, and make her
his confederate and partner. Such things have
been done ; but first it is necessary to know a
little of a girl's history. He drank another
glass or two, then he resolved that he would
himself pay a visit to Ivy Lane and find out
what he coidd. It was a beginning, and he
would trust no one but himself. So he came
and began, Valentine being out, by pumping the
old lady, who willingly told all she knew, which
was little to the point. Then he waited for her
return.

Well, my dear,' he began, cheerfully, 'well,
Maria, my gal, I've found you out at last —
eh ? You didn't expect me, did you .^ Well,
this is an agreeable surprise for you, because,
my dear, I'll take the liberty, being your father
and all, of asking what it means, and how you
make your money ? It's my duty to see that

my children are living honest, and my please
to advise them in their courses.'

Go away ! ' said Valentine.

The old woman stopped at the foot of the
stairs to watch. Was he a lawyer? Was it a
jealous one ?

Go away ! ' Valentine repeated. The man
laughed. The drink had given him courage.
Otherwise he would have obeyed.

In the front room the dreamer started and
looked round : he had heard a voice he
knew.

Come,' Mr. Carey whispered — ' let us talk
it over friendly. Give me a kiss, my dear.'

He laid his hand upon her shoulder. Valentine
shrank from him with a cry. Melenda
heard her — flew from her room, and sprang from
the top to the bottom of the stairs with one
bound, and stood before her.

Now, then, who are you ? ' she cried.
Don't you be afraid, Valentine. It's only some
man who's been drinking, and come to the
wrong house ! I ain't afraid of any man, drunk
or sober — don't you mind. Your very last
night, too ! '

Now, don't you put your oar in, young

woman. You'd best stand out of the way, you
lead ! '

Go out of this,' said Melenda firmly, ' or
I'll show you the way.'

Well,' he went on — ' if this don't beat
all ! ' He steadied himself, because the drink
made him just a little heavy in the head, and
just a little uncertain in his speech : ' They
ought to be proud of me — everybody else
would be proud of such a man — you'd be
proud, you would, my dear — you look like
somebody I knew once — you do indeed — it's a
most remarkable likeness ! There isn't such
another man as me in all London. Why, you
wouldn't believe it, from the conduct of that
skittish little devil there, that I'm James Carey
the great James Carey. Everybody has
heard of James Carey ! They used to call me
the King of the Burglars. I'm King James
the First — his Gracious Majesty King Carey.
His Eoyal Highness and Eight Reverend King
Carey!'

Go away ! ' said Melenda, ' or I'll tear you
in pieces ! '

She hadn't torn anybody to pieces for sometime
; she had not even enjoyed the luxury of

a Rage Eoyal, since the last day of the drilling.
Now she looked fierce enough for anything.
But then a hand was laid upon the man's
shoulder —

Come away,' said Claude — ^ come away
without a word ! '

^ It's the boy,' said the man, with such a
gush of horrid blasphemy only possible after a
wretched man has swallowed compulsory doses
of Scripture for twenty years. ' It's the adjective
boy ! What's he doing here ? Oh ! you
think you'll get rid of me, do you ? The
allowances are to stop, are they ? ' He addressed
Claude, because between him and Valentine,
there stood a tigress with flashing eyes and
thirsty talons. 'You'll stop yours, will you?
Well, we'll see to that, my young swell, and
whether you'll rather pay down, or let me own
up — pay down, my boy, or let me own up.'
He had not drunk so much but that he was
perfectly coherent in his speech, but the drink
made him foolhardy.

Go ! ' said Claude.

I shall not go.' He raised his voice and
added a volley, copious and eloquent, of those
flowers of language which are so abundant in

Ivy Lane as to pass for weeds. 'I shall stay,'
he concluded, 'all night if I like.'

By this time a little crowd was gathered
round the door, expectant of a row.

Then there happened a strange and wonderful
thing. The door of the ground floor front
opened, and there came forth, slowly and
unsteadily, the old man whom they all knew, the
harmless old man who had lived onions them
so many years, and had held speech with none
He carried in his one hand a lighted candle.
The other hand, raised to his shoulder, trembled
and clutched and closed. His face was perfectly
white, as white as the face of a dead man.
His long limbs trembled with extreme weakness
; his head was bent forward eagerly ; his
eyes were glaring. It was actually the face of
a dead man with living eyes, which gleamed
with light supernatural.

Oh ! ' he said, with a deep sigh of satisfaction,
' at last I have found mine enemy. I was
dying — but I heard his voice. The Bishop ' —
he turned to Valentine — ' the Bishop is dying.
And I was dying. But I knew I was not to
die till I had seen him once again.' He looked
round him as one might look who was taking a

last farewell of earth, and he gave his candle to
Valentine as one about to die upon the scaffold
hands the last thing he values to the last friend
beside him.

No man,' he said, solemnly looking about
him, ' hath power in the day of death ; neither
shall wickedness deliver them who are given
to it.' Then a very wonderful change passed
suddenly over his face. It became the face of
a young man : the change which sometimes
falls upon the face of one who is nearly dead
fell upon this man's face before his death.
Valentine saw it and knew that she was looking
upon the man as he had been, save for this
white hair, thirty-five years before, while he
was yet in honour and respect. Mr. Carey saw
it too — and staggered as if struck suddenly.

You P ' he said, ' you ? I thought you
must be dead long ago.' He became instantly
sober, as half-drunken men sometimes do.
Then as the long lean figure turned towards
him with outstretched arms, he quickly stepped
out of the house and find, running through the
people. After him, with long swift strides,
followed Vengeance, long deferred. It seemed
as if no one noticed them, for no one ran after

them, and no one cried after them. They
passed through the crowd unheeded, and as if
unseen. When Claude thought of this afterwards
it seemed to him a thing beyond and
above the natural. Though the streets were
full of people, this strange flight, this strange
pursuit, attracted no attention at all, no more
than if they were invisible. But he who fled
was filled with a wild and dreadful terror, that
which falls upon the heart when some long-forgotten
crime springs into light, and escape is
impossible, and the time of forgiveness is past.
And he who followed after was filled with such
gladness of rage and satiated revenge as filled
the heart of Fredegonde, when, after many
years, she saw Brunehaut about to be dragged
at the heels of the wild horse. The fugitive
ran in vain, for at his heels, though he knew it
not, there followed Death, before whom all fly
in \*ain. He was in the shape of an old man,
striding with long steps, bareheaded, his grey
hairs flying behind him, in rags, with panting
breath, white face, and outstretched arms.

There is a place beyond St. John's Eoad
where a bridge crosses the canal : and beyond
the bridge there is a way down to the bank.

VOL. III. p

It is a dark and narrow way. The man ran
down here — thinking that he might so escape.
But he did not. As he reached the tow-path,
the avenging hand was Laid upon his shoulder.
He turned and faced his enemy. Of what
should he be afraid ? A poor, old, trembling
man who had been starving during all the years
which he himself had spent in prison, well
cared for and well fed. He looked so decrepit
that James Carey laughed aloud and forgot his
terror. He had been afraid because he had
been drinking. That was all. Afraid of a silly
old fool too weak to harm a girl.

Man ! ' cried Mr. Lane, seizing his enemy
with both hands and shaking him by the coat
collar, ' Man ! give me back my ruined life.'

James Carey would have laughed again,
but that his enemy's face became distorted as
by sharp and sudden pain — for once more, for
the last time, came that clutching and tearing
at the heart — and that his enemy's legs trembled
and his body swayed to and fro, and they were
on the water's edge, and the decrepit hands,
strange to say, held him like a vice. Then
there was a staggering and a struggle on the
gravel ; and a cry of agony and terror, and a

splash in the water . . . and . . . and . . . why,
Mr. Lane had got back his life, and, with it,
had already learned, one hopes, why such misery
and such weakness as his had been permitted
even for such an infinitesimal period of time as
thirty five years. When the victim recovered
his life, what did his tempter and oppressor
recover ?

Who was it .^ ' asked Melenda, when they
were gone.

A drunken man,' said Valentine.

But he seemed to know you. And Claude
knew him. And what had he done to Lizzie's
father ? '

I do not know,' said Claude ; ' but I know
this of him, that he is a bad man. Do not ask
any more, Melenda.'

Well,' said Melenda, ' he's gone at any
rate. Come upstairs, Valentine.'

She left them and went back to Lofty.
The old woman, feeling the florin burn in her
pocket, stole out gently, and made for the
public-house opposite by a circuitous route,
namely, half down Ivy Lane and back again,
so that she should not seem like going out

p 2

expressly for a drop of gin. Lie would only
Lave two twopenny goes and drink up the rest
on the morrow — Sunday. And on Monday she
would go ' in ' again for the winter. Oh ! this
florin was a blessed windfall indeed, because
now she would be able to go back to the House
with some of the resignation which accompanies
recent gin. The crowd at the door
had dispersed, disappointed ; there are always
more disappointments than real rows ; things
seldom come off in all their possible fulness.

The man is gone, Valentine,' said Claude.
Do you know who he is ? '

Yes, I know him. Something terrible
will happen. The other man — Lizzie's father — ■
will do him a mischief ; they are old enemies.
Oh, it is more wickedness.'

If there is to be more trouble,' said Claude,
somebody must be here to meet it for you.
Go upstairs, now, Valentine. Good night.'

Valentine obeyed. She did not ask Claude
how he came to be there ; it was natural that
if she was in any danger he should be there to
protect here's.; Nor did she ask Claude how he
came to know the man.

Meanwhile, Claude shut the street door, and

sat down on the stairs and waited. They were
very uncomfortable stairs to sit upon, being
steep and with narrow steps. The candle left
in the room beside him went on burning until
midnight, when it went out suddenly after just
one flicker in the socket. Then the stairs were
in perfect darkness, but the front room was
lighted by the gas lamp in the street. Outside,
the talk of the people grew languid, and finally
ceased altogether, and the shuffling of their feet
was heard no more ; the children left off shouting
and crying and went away to bed ; the
public-house shut up, and the men in the bar
dispersed noisily ; there was an occasional step
of a belated resident, and then nothing but an
echo of steps from Hoxton Street, or the distant
shouting of some drunken man.

Claude sat on his uncomfortable perch for
two or three hours, and then he remembered
that there was a chair in the next room. He
changed his position, but he did not allow himself
to sleep. Strange ! that the old man did
not return. Had something happened? His
mind was agitated and full of foreboding.

In the middle of October the nights are
long; the sun does not rise until after six.

Claude waited and watched through the whole
of that long night, for seven long hours.
Neither of the two men came back. As for
one, he was probably in the Temple asleep on
Claude's bed, or drinking and smoking and
bidding through the night. But the other —
Lizzie's father — where was he .^ '

And what would come of it all ? What
would be the end ? As for Valentine, in a few
hours she would be safe ; in two days more
she would know that she was not this man's
daughter at all. She knew who he was ; she
said so. How did she know it ? How much
did she know ? There was plenty to occupy
his thoughts all through the night.

The morning broke at last — Sunday morning.
At the first streak of daybreak Claude
went out into the court, as if expecting to find
there some traces of the missing pair. The air
was keen and clear ; Ivy Lane, as the light
grew stronger, looked inconceivably disreputable,
shabby and dirty, with the wTCckage and
rubbish of a week lying about, the cabbage
stalks, bruised plums, rotten apples and pears,
the shreds of paper and potsherds. Well,
Valentine was going away ; she was no longer

to be considered ; he was free, so far as she was
concerned. He would go to Joe and tell him all ;
between the two their mother would be protected
; he would give nothing more to his
father, and as for his real name and the family
history, let them both be proclaimed upon the
housetops, with all the infamy and the shame
of it, if needs must.

Thank God,' he murmured — ' Valentine is
not his daughter ! '

A little before eight, there was already
some stir among the younger and hungrier
residents ; the elders lie in bed as long as they
can on Sunday mornings, and whe the bell of
St. Agatha's was calling upon a deaf and stiffened
people to get up and come to early
celebration, and the assistant priest was hastily
robing himself for that lonely Function, and
the shops in Hoxton were getting swept out
and garnished for the Sunday morning market,
Valentine came downstairs.

You here already, Claude ? 'she asked,
surprised.

Why, Valentine, you did not suppose I
should go away and leave you unprotected,
would you ? '

You have actually been here all night ?
You have been watching for me ? Oh, Claude !
it is too much ! '

Nothing is too much for you, Valentine.
Don't think of me, but tell me — what do you
know of this man ? Why does he come here ?
Why did he follow you ? '

What do you know, Claude ? '

I know all that there is to know ; the
whole shameful business.'

And I, too, know all that there is to know.
Do not pain yourself to speak about it. I have
known the whole story for a month — Joe and
the mother both think he is dead.'

But how did you come to know him ? '

Valentine told her tale, briefly ; and
passing over one or two passages, especially
that in which she was constrained to box the
man's ears.

I bought his silence,' she concluded — ' 1
sent him money every week. But I knew that
some time or other it would be found out.
Claude, be brave — let us take Joe into our confidence
and devise something that will keep him
from the others.'

I bought him, too,' said Claude — ' but I

will give him no more money. Thank heaven,
you are out of his reach, and so is Violet ; she
must never know. As for the others '

Let us persuade him to go away, Claude.
He may be bribed.'

He will never go away as long as there is
a house left in England that he has not
robbed.'

There are so many houses in London alone,
that the prospect opened up was more stupendous
than the mind of man can well take
in. And to think, besides, that new houses are
always being built.

At least, Valentine,' Claude went on, ' you
are going home this very day. Go at once — if
you go now you will find them at breakfast —
if you stay here, there may be, I know not,
some terrible tragedy. I feel as if anything
may happen ! Why has not that old man been
home all night? And they were enemies, you
say. Go at once, Valentine, before any scandal
happens which may involve your name. So
much, at least, we owe to Lady Mildred. I
will get you a cab. Have you anything to
pack ? '

She obeyed. There was nothing that she

wished to take away. She transferred the care
of Lofty to Melenda, kissed the girls, promised
to return in a day or two, and hurried away,
with the sense that something was goings to
happen.

Claude remained, watching in Mr. Lane's
room, all the morning. Presently Lizzie came
downstairs to see her father, and appeared
neither astonished nor alarmed to hear that he
had not been home all night. He had slept
out before, when he had work to do. Claude
told her nothing of what he knew or suspected.
He must have gone down Whitechapel way, she
said, amono- the German Jews, who regard not
the Christian Sabbath when they want work
done.

At one o'clock the ' Adelaide ' opened its
hospitable doors, and the old lady of the back
ground-floor crossed the court, and proceeded
to spend what was left of her florin. In half
an hour she came out, with trembling lips and
glassy eyes, and returned to her own room,
where she flung herself upon the floor heavily,
the door wide open, careless of the world, to
sleep ofi* the last drink she would get for six
months, at least.

At two, Claude thought he would wait no
longer. Perhaps his father might have gone to
the Temple.

He had not — no one was there, and there
were no traces at all of his presence. Nothing
had been taken away, no tobacco was on the
table, and there were no empty bottles. This
was very strange. Surely something must have
happened !

CHAPTEE XXXI.

HOME AGAIN.

Claude withdrew from Ivy Lane. Heavens !
without Valentine how desperately mean and
squalid the place appeared ! Even Melenda
and Lizzie, now neat and ' respectable,' were
incongruous amid such surroundings ! As was
Ivy Lane without her, so would be his whole
life without her.

He stayed in his chambers all that Sunday
afternoon, expecting a visit from his father.
But there was no visit. What was he doing ?
And why had not the old letter writer returned ?
All day he sat in the quiet rooms looking over
the empty courts, while his feet were drawn as
by a magnet towards the west of London.
Persons who are afflicted with a constant drouth
are drawn to public-houses as by strings ; but
lovers towards their mistresses by ropes and
hawsers. When it drew dusk he went to his

club with a sense of safety because he could
not be disturbed there, and after dinner he
repaired to the house where he fain would be
all day long.

I am very glad to see you again, Claude.'
Lady Mildred welcomed him with unwonted
warmth. 'You have been a brother indeed,
and more than a brother, to Valentine. She
has told me all that you have done for her.
And now, before you go to see the girls —
Violet is very well and is longing to see you
again — sit down and tell me something about
your summer. I am afraid you have been a
prisoner, from your own point of view. I
want to know exactly what it is that Valentine
has done. All I can get from her, except by
parenthesis, is an enthusiastic account of what
you have done. But you are looking ill, my
dear boy ; ill and worried. Is anything
troubling you ? '

Yes ; one or two things are troubling me a
great deal. I will tell you about them afterwards.'


Then he began to talk about Valentine's
life among these poor folk of Ivy Lane, and
because it was a really fine theme, and he had

been watching the subject of it closely for three
long months, during which he had thought
of nothing else but the girl and her courage
and her patience, he spoke eloquently and
even with burning words. It was a rare
spirit indeed which had persevered until
Melenda was conquered, which had saved
Lizzie and nursed Lofty. And if Claude's
lips were touched with flame, and his eyes
glowed, it was not only because he loved
the damsel, but also because he admired her
deeds.

Lady Mildred listened and watched him
curiously, as if trying to read something unexpressed
— something between the lines.

And your own part in all this, Claude ;
you have not spoken of yourself.'

Oh ! my part. I am Valentine's servant ;
her Vizier.' But he hesitated and dropped his
eyes, because he would have to confess that he
had deliberately thrown away all those gods
which formerly he had worshipped.

More than a servant, Claude, I think.
What is this I hear about your self-sacrifice ? '

The young man blushed. Nobody likes to
be suddenly accused of such a virtue as self-sacrifice,

which is at once rare, clifFiciilt of
attainment, and much admired.

It seems to me a very serious thing, this
that you propose, my dear boy,' Lady Mildred
went on. 'You have always been ambitious
from the very beginning. Nobody has begun
better than you ; none of your contemporaries
has a better chance. There is, I am assured
by those who know, a really splendid prospect
before you. Think well before you throw it
away. There is a successful practice before
you ; in course of time, perhaps, a seat upon
the Bench — even in the future a peerage —
anything is possible for such a man as you —
including, if you are wise enough to wait
until success is assured, such a marriage, with
such connections, as will advance your children
as well as yourself. Wealth and distinction
are as certainly within your grasp as can be
humanly predicted, and you propose to throw
them away. Are they things, then, of no value
to you ? Claude, if you have consented to this
sacrifice only to please the whim of a girl, I
cannot, I must not allow it to be carried into
effect without remonstrance.'

Valentine has no whims — she has purposes.

But, indeed, even if it was at first by her
entreaties that I consented to change the plan
of my life, that no longer remains the only
reason. My old plans are abandoned of necessity
— there is not left to me any choice buta
life of obscurity.'

Why have you no choice ? '

Do you remember, Lady Mildred, how,
long ago, you took me to Westminster Abbey
to hear a great preacher, and to see the tombs
of great men? and to the Courts of Law to
look at the judges and hear the barristers : and
to the Academy to see the pictures — and to the
theatres to see the play ? — and how, everywhere,
you fired my imagination by telling me that
this, and this — and everything, was in my reach,
if I desired it, and chose to work for it. You
made me the most ambitious of boys. Besides,
I had to justify things — certain things — my
education.'

You have nobly justified those things,
Claude ! '

'Chere never seemed to me anything in the
world worth living for, except distinction and
success. And now I have to give up all.'

Why, Claude ? '

-s

I cannot pretend that it is for the sake
of my own people — for unselfish motives — I
thought I might pretend that, imtil a fortnight
ago. And I cannot pretend that it was for love
of a girl, though there is nothing in the world
I would not do for Valentine's sake.'

Claude ! '

No, Lady Mildred, she is not my sister —
she thinks she may be, but I know better — my
brother Joe told me the truth. He recognised
Violet's resemblance to her father and his own
daughter, and I love Valentine. One moment,
please. I can no longer think that I am giving
up my ambition for her sake. I am only a
man who must live in obscurity ; I am condemned
to it because I am overshadowed by a
great social disgrace.'

What disgrace, Claude ? What possible
disgrace can have fallen upon you ? '

It has become impossible that I should
continue to live any longer among gentlemen.
I can no longer pretend to associate with them.
I must not, for common decency's sake, sit
with them or talk with them ; I ought not to
have come here even, without letting you know
the truth before I came. But I only found it

VOL. III. Q

out three or four weeks ago. It is my father '
lie stopped short with cheeks aflame, for it
was a most horrible thing to put into words —
my father is not dead, as I always thought,
and as you were told. He has been in prison
all these years ; he is not an honest man,
as my brother Joe always declared ; he is a
liberated convict : he is at large, with a ticket
of leave.'

Oh ! Claude ! my poor boy, is this true .^ '

'Yes. He first made himself known to
Valentine, whom he took for his own daughter ;
she stood between him and my mother, who
does not know — yet. She bribed him to
silence : I know all now. Valentine had a
terrible time with him. Then he broke her
conditions and came to me, unknown to her, to
my chambers, to the Temple. I dare say he is
there at this moment, drinking and smoking.
He takes my money : he pawns my things : he
comes at all hours of the day and night. Now
you know. Lady Mildred, the trouble that has
fallen upon me.'

My poor boy ! ' she repeated.

If I do anything or succeed at all, he will
be at my elbow, selling his own silence. He

takes a delight in the shame he inflicts upon
me. He is, I firmly believe — though he is my
own father — the worst man that lives. Oh !
can there be,' he cried, with a despairing
gesture of shame and pain, ' can there be — is
there anywhere, in this great city, a man
nearer to the gutter than myself? Now you
understand why I must go away and hide
myself. If I do any work it must be for the
people from whom I sprang — if only in atonement
— it must be work that will never bespoken
about. Is it for me to have ambition?
Is such a man as myself to ask for distinction ?
Why, if I were a Judge tomorrow, I might
have to try my own father. My only friends
should be the men like myself, whose fathers
are in the (gaols — the sons of the burials and
thieves of London. And now, Lady Mildred,
you understand, do you not, why I am not
ashamed, since I have told you all this, to confess
that I love Valentine. For a man sc
fettered and held in bonds might as well love
a princess. All day long I hear my father's
voice, that mocks at everything honest and
true ; all along I say to myself, " Go back to
the slums and work for those who are like

Q 2

yourself, children of the gaol-birds and the
outcasts ; " and at night I lie awake, waiting for
the sound of his footsteps in my room.'

Claude, my poor boy I '

I trust only that Violet will never learn
the truth. As for the others, sooner or later
they will learn it, I suppose. One cannot
always keep such a man back, and very soon
he will have taken all the money I have.'

Violet shall never know if I can prevent
it. And as for yourself '

As for me, my course is clear. What
other men do for a few years and of free choice,
able to take up and lay down as they please, I
must do all my life, and by compulsion. And
as for Valentine, I shall go on being her servant.
You will trust me, I know you will trust me,
never to let her suspect, by any word of mine,
that I regard her other than a sister. I have
endeavoured — I have always hoped and endeavoured
— to be a gentleman.'

Thank you, Claude.' She pressed his
hand with both her own in a kindly and
motherly fashion. ' You learned very early,
my dear son, the instincts of a gentleman —
there is nothing finer in the world than to bea

gentleman — and I have always trusted you
and always loved you. Oh ! my poor boy,
I am so sorry for you.' For the first time
Lady Mildred kissed him. She laid her hands
upon his shoulders and drew his face to her
and kissed him on the forehead, while her eyes
were full of tears.

Claude turned his head to hide his own. ' I
am glad,' he said, ' that I have told you. I can
bear it better now that you know.'

Yes, it is better to tell things to people
who love you. As for Valentine, she will
always love you — as your sister. I am sure of
that. It is good for a young man to love a
girl, if she is worthy of him, though he can
never win her. Go on loving my daughter,
Claude, and, if you please, believe her to be
everything that a woman can be, this side the
Gates of Heaven.'

And now,' she added, ' forget your troubles.
We will all take counsel how to bribe this man
into voluntary exile. You shall be protected
somehow. And Violet shall never know ; and
now go and make the girls happier, Claude.
They are longing for you.'

It was immediately after this that Lady

Mildred explained some of her views on the
situation to her friend and confidante.

'My dear Mildred,' said the latter, 'I
cannot believe that any good can come of
a girl going to live by herself among the
scum.'

The scum, Bertha, rises to the top.'

'Then the grounds, or the settlings of
society, with the drunken and disreputable
people, unprotected. Think of the wickedness
she must learn.'

Yes, I suppose that Valentine knows
already much more wickedness than both of
us put together. It is strange to think of it.
Yet the knowledge does not seem to do her any
harm. She is as sweet as ever and as good,
though she looks more womanly. I dare say
Eve looked more womanly after she had eaten
of the tree of knowledge of good and evil,
but "she would look guilty as well, which my
child does not.'

No, poor thing 1 '

When you and I were born. Bertha, forefathers
mostly called the people the Mob, or
the Common People, or the Lower Orders, or
the Lower Classes. They laughed at their

ignorance, and expected one thing only of
them — respect. Things are changed.'

They are indeed ! '

'We cannot afford to laugh at the ignorance
of the people any more, because we have
given them all the power, though they don't
know yet that they have got it ; but they weill
find out very soon, and then '

Oh, Mildred ! don't say there is going to
be a horrid Eevolution, and that we shall all
be swallowed up.'

We have had a long rope if we are to be
swallowed up. But I am not afraid of the
English people. And as for the Eevolution it
has been quietly going on all around us for a
hundred years. They will take away class
power, and curtail the power of land and
capital. Bertha, but they will not guillotine us.
We are an orderly people, and do not want to
murder each other. But the more we, of our
set, learn what working people want and think,
and how they judge things, and the more therefor
their part, learn what we think about
things, the better it will be for all of us, and
the safer. Valentine has learned things which
she will never forget. Do you think that if

there were many girls like lier, the workmen of
this country could be made, by any stump
orator, to look upon rich people as their
natural enemies ? '

I like the old ways best,' said Bertha.
Let the working man go his way, so long ashe
behaves himself, and let us go our way.
But what will you do about Claude .^ Of
course, if Valentine should turn out not to be
his sister after all, they cannot go on together
as they have done.'

That will be for Valentine to determine.'

But, my dear, the young man might so far
forget himself as to fall in love with her.'

It will be Valentine's business. She will
do as she pleases.'

Would you ? But you could not let your
daughter marry a young man who has such
family connections — a workman brother and a
working-girl sister ? '

My dear, I think a woman can never do
better than marry a distinguished man. I
married Sir Lancelot because everybody said
he was distinguished. He has been dead nearly
twenty years, and everybody has clean forgotten
him, so that, I suppose, there are certain

kinds of distinctions wliicli don't last. But as
for Claude, I am sure that he will distinguish
himself in a way that does last. If one of the
girls — the one who is not his sister — were to
marry him, she might advance him.'

'But of course they Avill both love him
merely as a brother, which is a safeguard.'

I don't know. The true sisterly feeling
does not grow up in three months. It wants
the long years of childhood.'

We have said nothing about Violet,' said
Bertha, after a little.

What about Violet ? '

I mean about her future, if lie should be
Claude's sister.'

Violet in any case will remain with me.
She has the artistic temperament, which
naturally dislikes rude realities and shrinks
from rough people. Artists are full of emotion
and sympathy because they are quick to see ;
yet they are generally touched with a kind of
selfishness of their own, which also belongs to
the temperament. Now Valentine is not an
artist ; she neglects the rags, whether they are
picturesque or not, and looks for the man
below them ; she will go back to the raa's and

roughness, but Violet will remain. Claude will
go with Valentine, sister or no sister, and Violet
will stay with me.'

'And now I am quite sure,' said Bertha,
quickly, ' that if Valentine had not been your
own daughter, you would not have sent her on
this Quixotic errand.'

You will know tomorrow,

Yes,' Bertha repeated, ' I am quite sure.
You would never have incurred the terrible
responsibility of risking another person's child.
Yes. You are a clever woman, Mildred, but I
have discovered your secret at last. AVell, the
son of the soil goes back to the soil. That is
wonderful, considering what he must remember
about the place. It is not wonderful at all
that Violet should refuse to return, though she
cannot remember anything, because she can
imagine. But it is to me inexplicable that
Valentine should have wanted to go down thereat
all, and still more wonderful that she should
want to return there.'

Here is Claude at last,' cried Violet,
Claude at last ! Oh, Claude.' She gave him
both her hands, and would have liked nothing

4 '""

better than to kiss him on both cheeks. ' How
glad I am to see you again, and Valentine again !
Is it really you ? Sometimes I thought it was
all a dream and that there never was any
Claude. You have made Yal thin, Claude,
and you are thin yourself. And she has been
having grave fits and telling me dreadful stories
about working girls, poor things.'

At that moment Valentine was not grave at
all. To be back ao'ain in the old home atmosphere
; to put on again a dress that was not the
plain grey or brown stuff she had worn for three
months, but the same dress, or something like
it, in which Claude had first seen her, a sweet
and dainty confection of white, with lace ; and
to be again with Violet, filled her with happiness.
To Claude she was always more than
mortal. And now she was more than a goddess.
And she was lauofhinff. Alas ! had he ever once
succeeded in making her laugh during the whole
three months that they had been together everyday
? Could this really be the same girl who
only twenty-four hours since was shrinking in
terror from his — his father — Violet's father?

I think it must have been a dream,' Valentine
said, ' unless, perhaps, everything is a

dream. The summer, in that case, is only just
going to begin ; it is still June and we are considering
where we shall go. It is like the last
scene in the opera, which is the same as the
first, and the heroine wakes up to find that it
has all been a dream. I suppose there is not
any such place as Ivy Lane, is there, Claude .^
Was there ever a tall old man with grey hair
named Mr. Lane ? He had a daughter in my
dream called Lizzie, and there was a girl named
Melenda, and another named Lofty — poor
Lofty.'

And another pretending to be ,'
said Violet. 'No, dear, it isn't a
dream, and I have had the most dismal time
you can possibly conceive. She looks much too
pale, Claude. Do you think she has had enough
to eat ? ! Yal, how could you live three
months by yourself, and among those horrid
people ? I hope my relatives behaved with
tolerable decency towards you. Did Melenda
tear the clothes off your back? Did Sam
make you a Socialist? Did Joe treat you
civilly ? Tell me, Claude, were they nice at
all ? '

Melenda is now my dearest friend,' said

Valentine. ' You would not know her if you
saw her now.'

Oh ! ' The little interjection implied that
Violet had no desire to know that young lady
more intimately. ' And she has done everything
for herself Claude. Do you think you
ought to have permitted it ? '

I am rather ashamed now,' said Valentine,
of having a lady's-maid.'

She has actually cleaned her own windows
and washed her own cups and saucers. Yet
she hasn't spoiled her hands. Why do all
housemaids have red hands, then ? '

I confess that I did not really like cleaning
up. But it is soon done, and it gives very little
trouble.'

That depends upon the person,' said
Violet ; ' to me it would give all the trouble
in the world. I want everything provided forme,
clean, bright, pretty and finished, just as if
things grew so, and would always remain so.
I don't want to know who made them — no
doubt, unpleasant 'people — or how they came.
I like to have everything made for me, brought
to me, and presented to me, as a matter of
course, just as if I was a Princess by Divine

Eight. And oh ! if I were a Princess, how
fervently I should believe in Divine Eight ! '

My dear, you will always have everything
just exactly as if you were a Princess.'

Instead of a '

'No, Violet, you shall not say it. The
strange thing is the way in which mistakes are
made and young Princesses get mixed up and
served out wrong. Now I am certain that
Melenda was meant for a Despotic Sovereign.
She would have made an admirable Czarina in
the days when they chopped off heads without
trial. And Lizzie was born, I am sure, to be a
fashionable young lady.'

And what about that other girl wh o
looked delicate and was lying down ? '

She is dying, Violet,' said Claude, gravely.

Poor thing ! I suppose there is always
somebody dying there. We must send her
grapes, Val dear.'

Violet belonged to that large school of philanthropists
who would treat every painful case
with half-a-crown and a basket of grapes. And
so great is their sympathy with those who
suffer that they cannot bear even to think of
them, much less to talk about them.

There is tragedy as well as comedy at
Hoxton,' said Claude.

Then they fell to talking again in a lighter
strain, and they were so happy at being together
again that they talked the greatest nonsense
imaginable. Claude forgot his troubles and
laughed with them, though, for all three, the
tears were close behind the laughter, just as in
the pools which are sometimes geysers, the
bubbles on the surface show the agitation of the
waters below. As for Valentine, this return to
an atmosphere of peace, where there could be
careless talk, was like the wandering down a
green glade, beside a little brook, with the
birds singing and the flowers at her feet, after
a long sojourn in the hot and thirsty sands.
She had never appreciated it before. This
possibility of careless talk, as if there were
no misery in the world that she could cure or
cause, or that concerned her. An atmosphere
of peace. It is, if you think of it, the choicest
possession of the easy classes. Yet they share
it with the shepherd on the hill side and the
gamekeeper in the woods. Those who live in
crowded streets and narrow courts, in tenement
houses or in model lodgings, can never breathe

this atmosphere of peace. All around them is
the buzz and humming of their fellows — not a
peaceful murmur as of bees, but an angry, dissatisfied,
suffering sound, made up of groans
and oaths and lamentations, as well as of the
laughter of children and the shouts of those who
play.

And Claude was wondering whether the
Valentine of this evening could be really the
same girl, who, twenty-four hours before, stood
in the doorway shrinking with terror from a
half-drunken and unrepentant convict who
called himself her father. In his inexperience,
he made no allowance for Reaction. One is
never so completely foldtre as on the day after
a period of great anxiety. Gentlemen, for instance,
who have been locked up for a short
term are said to exhibit a warlike blitheness
and vivacity at the ' friendly lead ' which follows
their release.

Then Claude wondered, looking at the
two girls, how he could ever have entertained
the least doubt as to the real Beatrice. For he
saw now that the face of Violet was Joe's face,
and his own face, and his father's face. And
her voice was Joe's, and his own, and — his

father's ; a soft and sweet voice in her, and in
the men a low and musical voice. How could
anyone have ever doubted ? To be sure, when
he saw Violet for the first time he had not yet
seen his father, and he thought less about Joe
than about Melenda and Sam. Now Violet was
not in the least like Sam and Melenda, who, as
we know, ' favoured ' their mother.

Authorities are divided as to whether at its
best the masculine or the feminine countenance
is the more perfect from the artistic point of
view. Yet one would have liked, in the days
dien there was the strongest feeling on the
subject, to have said unto Zeuxis : ' Just figure
for me in undying colours the most beautiful
girl-face that exists any where around the shores
of the Mediterranean.' English girls about
that time were still in the rough, somewhere
among the Hercynian forests. ' Next, paint
me the same face in its masculine form, and
then the same face as a child, as a boy, as a
girl, and as an old man, and as an old woman,
so that in every age we may have the most
perfect type of beauty.' I think that Violet
would have done very well for the first type
and Claude for the second. Horrible to think

VOL. III. K

of the same face grown old and marked with
the seal that stamps the prison bird ! His own
face, Claude clearly discerned, and his father's
face, were both so plainly drawn in Violet's,
that he wondered how there could ever have
been the slightest doubt. But very few, of
those concerned, had had the pleasure of making
Mr. James Carey's personal acquaintance.

CHAPTEE XXXII.

THE FINDING OF THE INQUEST.

When Claude went back to his chambers, he
was disappointed in not finding them already
occupied by an elderly gentleman with grey
hair and a fiddle in his hand, and a pipe in his
mouth. He fully expected to find that gentleman
in occupation ; he expected to hear
him fiddling as he went up the stairs ; in fact,
he made up his mind while walking home what
he should say to him, and he arranged a
dramatic scene, short but very effective. He
would begin by saying, firmly and calmly,
You have broken the conditions. I shall
therefore discontinue your allowance. You
will get no more money from your supposed
daughter ; and I will take care that the others
shall give you nothing. If you attempt to
worry my mother she shall be taken out
of the almshouse, and placed under proper

li 2

protection.' At this point his parent would
probably break out into that rude eloquence
which is known in Ivy Lane as ' language.'

Then Claude would go on — ' I will, however,
allow you twenty-five shillings a week,
on the condition that you go out of the
country — to Guernsey, or Jersey, or somewhere.'
A certain amount of filial piety (how
much filial piety ought to be expected towards
a father who turns out so badly ? ) would
suffer him to be regardless of the lans^uas^e, but
he would be firm in refusing to give him
anything, except on that one condition. Filial
piety, he was sure, was consistent with
starving a parent into submission, so long as
submission is good for his children. This
reduction of obstinacy once effected, one might
again consider the Fifth Commandment and
its bearings on the case, and how one might
contrive to scrape together, somehow, in
obedience to the Injunction, a little, if ever so
little, honour for one's father ; just as the toper
squeezes the empty bottle and the miser skins
the fain .

Somehow these previously arranged dialogues
and dramatic situations never come

off as they are intended, so that one always
has to fall back upon impromptu words and
unforeseen tableaux.

His chambers were empty ; the windows
were dark ; there was no one in King's Bench
walk, except the ghosts of the dead lawyers,
who have long since driven away the ghosts of
the Knights Templar, and now walk nightly in
wigs and gowns, a merry troop, laughing and
telling each other the old circuit stories of
which barristers are never tired ; the stars
echoed to no other footsteps than his own ; no
one waited for him on the landing there was
no one in the room.

Well, his father had only postponed his
visit, that was clear ; he would come in the
night, or next day, or the day after, because
no more money would be sent to him, and lie
must sooner or later come to terms, because he
had no means of getting any. That he would
go to Tottenham appeared unlikely, because
there was nothing to be got out of a poor old
kinswoman. There was, indeed, another possibility,
which Claude did not take into account,
as it was a thing quite outside his own
experience. He forgot that his father had a

profession — not, it is true, one of the learned
professions, but yet a profession wliicli requires
the greatest dexterity, a brain full of resource,
an eye keen to watch for opportunity, vulpine
stealth, and that kind of natural aptitude,
which, when applied to the arts of poetry, the
drama, and fiction, we call Genius. What was
there to prevent Mr. Carey from resuming the
active practice of that profession ? This,
indeed, conducted with the greatest caution,
and, if necessary, supplemented by an occasional
levy upon his son and daughter, was
the scheme of life contemplated by the enlarged
captive. He nourished thoughts, also, of a
second course of public glory ; he would again
be the head of the profession. Fate, as too
often happens, prevented the accomplishment
of this design ; otherwise, the end of Mr.
Carey's history and of this story would have
been different.

Then Claude, with dismal forebodings of a
nocturnal visit, went to bed. The Temple was
perfectly quiet ; there was no noise from the
river, which by day is not at all a silent
highway, and none from the Embankment ;
there were no steps on the gravel and in the

court below. He lay awake waiting for the
soft footfall which he knew and dreaded, or for
the light click of the burglar's key unlocking
his door ; once or twice he thought that the
man must be actually in bis rooms, and he got
up and looked into his keeping room in order
to satisfy himself. Two or three more such
nights as this and he should go mad ; when at
length he did fall asleep, worn out by the long
vigil of Saturday night and by his own anxieties,
it Alas to dream that his father stood by his
bedside threatening that he would never leave
hmi, that he would remain with him night and
day, all the rest of his life, that he would never
be out of his sight or out of his thoughts for a
single moment.

That dream will in a way be fulfilled ;
Claude will never cease to have his father with
him ; he ' can never ' be out of his thoughts.
Yet this nightmare will not come true in the
sense in which it was first understood.

All the morning he remained in his
chambers, expecting this visitor, or at least a
letter or some kind of message, if only a
threatening message. None came at all. The
very silence itself was threatening, and all the

more because its threatening were as vague
and uncertain as the distant roll of thunder.

In the afternoon Claude resolved to wait
within no hosier. He would go to Tottenham
and satisfy himself that his mother had not
been molested.

She had not. He found her walking with
her granddaughter Ehoda, in the sunshine on
the flags. She was quite calm and undisturbed,
there was no reason for asking her any questions.


Her husband had not been near her, that
was certain, since the day when Valentine
bought him off. But for her part she asked a
thousand questions about Lady Mildred, and
how her daughter had been received, and when
she would come back again to see her mother.

I wouldn't stand in her light, Claude, not
if I was never to see her again.' Like all blind
people she spoke of seeing her friends just as if
she still had the use of her eyes. ' And if she's
happy she must not think too much about me.
Not but that she will, for she's that affectionate
in her nature that she loves all that loves her
and thinks about them day and night. Give
me a loving-hearted girl, Claude. Why, as for

you she loves the very ground you tread upon.'
Claude started and blushed ; one need not
blush at being loved by one's sister, but only
Ehoda saw the blush, and she was selfishly
thinking about her own little ambitions, not
about Claude at all. And therefore, though
she observed some evidence of emotion, she
did not connect it with any cause. ' If you
were her sweetheart, my son, she couldn't love
you better. She'll sit and talk about you all
day long, she will, and never get tired ; and
makes me tell her again and again, just like as
if she was a little girl again, how you took to
your book when you was only a little boy, and
how you were sent to a grand school by her
ladyship, and how you got all the prizes and
brought them here for me to see and feel their
beautiful leather covers. Oh ! she's a good
sister, Claude, as well as a good daughter.'

I suppose she loves Joe and Sam quite as
well.'

Not she, then. She's uppish you know,
and Joe, he's a good boy, but he's only a
working man, you see. He hasn't got your
fine ways ; and as for Sam, he's hardly civil
with anybody, is he ? '

I am glad you think she loves me, mother,
said Claude, meekly. ' But the, of course it's
natural to love her brother, isn't it ? '

- Of course it is, my dear. You don't make
half enough of her, Claude. As for talking
about her, you never do. Nor about yourself
either, lately. You've got to be silent, my
dear boy. There isn't any trouble, is there?
You haven't got caught by some artful hussy, i
hope ? '

In Mrs. Monument's view, if one of her
sons fell in love, he must be caught by an
artful hussy. Such is the opinion which women
in certain circles entertain as to girls and their
wiles. To be sure, a mother is difficult to
please in the matter of daughters-inlaw.

No, mother, there is no artful hussy in
the case, I assure you. And as for loving
Valentine, I am certain no brother in the whole
world loves his sister so much. I can say
nothing too good for her. Never dream that I
do not think about Valentine, mother.'

That's well said, Claude. That's a brave
boy. Brothers don't generally care about their
sisters, more's the pity. If they did there'd be
many a poor girl saved from trouble.'

Then Claude went to Ivy Lane, getting
there about six o'clock, just before dark. It
struck him that the street was unusually animated
for the time of day, and he might have
guessed that so many people would not have
been gathered together at six in the evening
without some cause. However, he passed
through them, and so to the house. The front
room was still empty, and from the position of
the chair, which was exactly where he had left
it, it seemed as if no one had been there since
he left it. Therefore the old man had not yet
returned. He looked into the back room ; this
also was empty. In fact the old lady, who
could no longer do without a fire, had that very
morning changed her residence for the winter
and gone where, whatever may be their faults,
they do keep up a good fire, namely, to the
House ; and was already dressed in the blue and
white check which forms the neat and tasty
uniform of the place, and had consumed in gin
the last twopence of Mr. Carey's florin, and
was looking forward with resignation to six
or seven months of temperance and regular
hours.

Claude went upstairs. Melenda's room was

open, but no one was in it. Melencla herself
was sitting in Valentine's room with Lofty, who
was asleep.

She ran to meet Claude with some siojns of
agitation.

Oh, Claude ! ' Melenda came out hurried y ,
I am so glad you are come again. Something
dreadful's happened. Hush ! I don't want
Lofty to hear.'

Wliat is it ? '

It's Lizzie's father. He's dead.'

How did he die ? '

I don't know. It was this morning that a
policeman came and asked if there was a man
lived here named Lane, and we called Liz, and
she said yes, and he was her father ; and he
said, " Then your father's dead," he said, " and
you'd better come along o' me," he said ; and
she went. And I can't leave Lofty, and there's
nobody in the house but us two. Oh ! dear.
I never thought we should miss Valentine so
soon.'

Outside the house the people Avere talking
together in knots of two and three. They
spoke in low voices, as people talk in the
presence of the dead.

Now, Awhile Claude looked about him for
some one to ask or to advise him, there strolled
leisurely into the street none other than his
brother Joe.

You here, Joe ? '

'Why, Colonel,' said Joe, slowly, 'I ses
to myself when we knocked off to-day, I ses,
There's Melenda with that sick girl, and the
young lady gone, and perhaps they want a bit of
help or advice.' So I came down the road in
the tram, and here I am.'

Well, Joe, it strikes me that we shall all
want as much advice and help as we can get
before very long.'

I beg your pardon, sir ' — one of the women
detached herself from the group and accosted
Claude ; ' you knew the poor old man, sir. I've
seen you here with the young lady.'

Yes, I knew the old man ; what has happened
? '

They picked him up in the canal, and
they've got him at the " Stag's Head " in the Canal
Road. Lizzie's gone there too, for the inquest.'

Found in the canal ! Claude felt sick and
dizzy. How did the man get there ? and in
whose company was he last seen ?

What's the matter, young im ? ' asked Joe,
surprised. 'What makes you so white in the
gills?'

Come with me, Joe ; I'm afraid we shall
find out soon enough.'

In the parlour of the ' Stag's Head,' on the
great table dented and battered with a thousand
hammering of pewter pots at friendly leads and
the emphasisings of a thousand toasts at lodge
meetings — for a lodge of the Ancient Order of
Buffaloes met here — and club meetings, there
lay a shapeless heap, covered over with a white
sheet. A policeman sat in the room, not for
fear of those who break in and steal, but out
of respect to what was under the sheet. Ina
far corner — as far as she could get from
the table — sat Lizzie, looking scared and
frightened.

Oh ! ' she cried, ' you've come at last — I
knew you'd come. Don't go away, please.
There's to be an inquest directly and I've got
to give evidence. Oh ! I am so frightened.'

Don't be afraid, my gal,' said Joe ; ' we
won't go away till you've done.'

Father's dead,' she whispered.

I know,' said Claude. ' But, Lizzie, is

there no other place than this for you to
wait ? '

There's only the Bar, but it's full of men
drinking, and they keep asking questions.'

How was it P '

I don't know. They are there — under the
sheet. You can look if you like.'

Who are they ? '

Why, the other — I don't know who he is.
They found them together.'

If you knew the deceased, either of you,'
said the policeman, ' you might give evidence.
The jury are called for half-past seven.'

He laid back a corner of the sheet and
showed the face of the dead man. It was perfectly
calm and peaceful ; the lids had dropped
into a smile ; the eyes were closed in what
looked like the sleep of a child. The long-white
hair lay upon the pillow on which they
had placed his head, as if reverent hands had
disposed it to the best advantage, so as to serve
as a frame for the beautiful waxen mask of a
face. The poor old scribe had got what he
demanded of his enemy ; he had got back his
life. What more could he desire ?

Oh ! isn't father beautiful .^ ' Lizzie whispered.

' He was a gentleman once, before he
got into trouble. Don't he look like a gentleman
again ? '

He looked perfectly peaceful and happy.
He looked like one who had spent his life
wholly in the contemplation of things saintly
and the working of things holy. The dead
Bishop lying on his bed could not look more
holy. But there was more beneath the sheet.

The policeman rolled back the sheet a little
further and discovered a second head. There
was, as Lizzie explained, another body found
with her father's. It lay upon its side facing
the first. The limbs were writhing when they
were fixed in death ; the face was distorted,
wild, and full of horror, with open and staring
eyes which still seemed to see something inexpressibly
terrible and fearful. The right hand
of the first corpse held the coat collar of the
second as if dragging an unwilling and 
prisoner to justice.

This was Claude's father. A terrible death
after a shameful life. The thought that it was
his father, whatever the life, whatever the death,
touched him with such pity as one might feel
for one who was not a disgraceful father. All

was finished now, the persecution, and the extortion,
and the dread. No more to be feared
from him. Only room now for the thought of
what he might have been.

That's just how they were found,' said the
Policeman, ' only this one's left hand you see
was clutching the other side of the coat collar
as well, but the hook tore the collar. No one
saw them roll in : no one seems to know how
they fell in. Looks like a quarrel, don't it?
But they're both oldish men, and the one with
the grey hair looks near seventy. Men of
seventy don't quarrel and light, do they ? Not
as a rule, says you. The young woman here is
ready to identify her father, but no one seems
to know anything about the other man. Looks
respectable, doesn't he? Got new boots, and
good boots too, and new clothes. Here's his
hat ' — too well Claude knew that hat ! ' It was
picked up on the bank. Oldish man, but he
looks as if he'd got a good bit o' life left in him
still : wiry kind of face, isn't it ? Didn't like
tumbling in, seemingly. Was it one tried to
push the other in ? Were they in drink ?
Nothing in their pockets ; not a penny ; only a
scrap of paper in this one's pocket with the name

VOL. III. s

of Lane, Ivy Lane, Hoxton, on it. Not a penny :
at least that's what the bargees say who pulled
'em out. 'Ain't likely there would be a penny
after they'd had the run of the pockets.' Claude
thought of asking whether there had not been
found a watch and chain — his own watch and
chain, in fact — but he refrained in time.
Why, man alive,' said the policeman to Joe,
haven't you ever seen a dead body before ? '

In fact, Joe was gazing with open mouth
and hanging hands : his cheeks were white,
and he seemed unable to tear his eyes from the
sight before him. Just so, Claude felt, he must
himself have appeared when first his father announced
himself in his chambers. In the feeling
and beautiful language of our ancestors, Joe
was confounded, and his jaws stuck.'

Why, Joe,' said Claude, ' what's the
matter? Sit down, man, and don't look at
them any longer.' He covered the bodies
again with the sheet. ' Nothing at all in this
man's pockets. Nothing in Iiis pockets. No
letter, or card, or address. Why, perhaps you
will not be able to identify him.'

Perhaps not,' said the policeman. ' As for
this one, we know him through his daughter.'

We know him too,' said Claude. ' Weare
come to do what we can for his daughter.'

And as for the other, why, very likely he'll
never be identified at all ; there's a many bodies
that never do. They are country people, for
the most part, and they get into bad company
and mischief; or they're foreigners perhaps,
and it's bad company with them, too ; and no
one asks after them, and when they don't come
back to their hotels, presently their boxes are
opened and sold, and nothing said.'

Very likely he will never be identified at
all,' Claude repeated, slowly and with emphasis,
looking at his brother. ' Joe, do you feel
better ? We both know this girl, who is very
respectable, and there will be no difficulty in
identifying her father, at any rate.'

Joe retired to the bar, where he had a glass
of brandy neat, and tried to pull himself
together, but with small success. For he had
seen his father again. After all these years, he
remembered him instantly — and his father was
dead.

As regards his former statement concerning
his father's death it had been, of course, fabricated
and invented by himself without the least

authority. He made that statement for the
ease and satisfaction of his mother. When a
man of over forty goes into compulsory retirement
for a period of five-and-twenty years,
which is equivalent to twenty years at least, one
may be justified in supposing that he will never
come out again ; though, from time to time, Joe
asked himself what would happen if his father
were after all to come out and to find his way
to the almshouse, and what his own missus
would say, and what Claude and Sam and
Melenda, from all of whom the truth had been
carefully hidden, would say. Once the fiction
was invented, Joe satisfied his conscience, which
was not more than reasonably tender, by the
assurance that his father could never live to
complete his sentence.

He had lived, then, and he had presumably
received his ticket of leave, and he was out.
How long he had been out, or what he had
done since he came out, what friends he had
made, who knew his secrets, Joe knew not.
His father was out of prison, and he was dead ;
he was discovered drowned like a rat in a ditch.
Suppose the policeman were to ask him if he
knew the body. Suppose they were to seize

him and put him in the witness-box, what
should he say ? Why had he come there with
Claude?

Presently the jury came and the inquest was
held. They Avere mostly householders Who
kept small shops in the neighbourhood ; they
came rather sulkily, but they went through the
business conscientiously, and as if they had
experience of coroners' inquests, and how they
should be conducted.

The court was held in a dingy room — the
bar-parlour — after the jury had viewed the
bodies. Claude and Joe stood in the doorway
and looked on. The witnesses were called ;
the two boatmen who deposed that they saw a
hat lying on the towing-path, and the marks of
the trampling of feet, or some kind of struggle,
on the gravel ; that they dragged the canal,
and almost immediately pulled up the two
bodies locked together in a deadly embrace
just as they now lay upon the table ; one man
holding the other as if he were trying to shove
him under — that they searched the pockets and
found nothing except in one pocket, writing
materials with a name and address ; both men
were very clear and decided upon that point ;

that they lead called the nearest policeman, who
also searched the pockets and found nothing.
The policeman, in his evidence, did not express
surprise on this point. Then they put up Lizzie,
who identified her father as one who lived by
writing letters for Germans and Poles, especially
Polish Jews ; he was very poor, she said, and
as for the other man, she had never seen him,
and her father was one of those who have no
friends. It was fortunate, Claude reflected,
that Lizzie had not been present at the disturbance
on Saturday evening.

He might himself have given evidence.
But to what effect ? That he was a Barrister
and a Fellow of Trinity : that one of the dead
men was his own father, a ticket of-leave man
and a notorious evil liver, whom he was himself
supporting on certain conditions ; that this
convict broke one of these conditions on
Saturday evening, and forced himself upon a
young lady, the daughter of Lady Mildred
Eldridge, whom he took for his own daughter ;
that at sight of the other man, now also lying
dead, he broke away and fled, and the other
ran after him, and that they were no more
seen. This was a strange story to tell in this Bar

Parlour before the Hoxton Jurymen. Further
inquiry would be demanded, and Valentine
herself would have to give evidence, and then
there would be a beautiful case for the
papers.

Joe, too, might have given evidence. He
stood in terror that he should be called upon
to do so. His evidence would at least have
satisfied the police that one of their worst
offenders was gone to another Court of Justice.
He listened with open mouth and pale cheeks.
When the Coroner charged the Jury, he
trembled and shook ; when the Verdict was
returned, he gave a great gasp of relief

As for the summing up of the Coroner,
nothing could be more simple. These two
men, he said, were evidently drowned together.
They might have been quarrelling, but there
was nothing to prove it ; they might have been
drinking together, which seemed much more
likely, because they had not apparently robbed
each other, neither having anything to lose.
One of the men — the one identified — was very
oM and feeble ; the other was well advanced in
life. The one identified appeared also to be
quiet and respectable. Men of that age do not

certainly go out and fight when they are sober ;
the very unfrequented nature of the place
where they were found pointed perhaps to the
theory of drink. One slipped, perhaps, and
dragged the other in with him ; or one was
drowned in an attempt to save the other. As
for the uncalled-for remark of the bargemen
that it looked as if one was trying to shove the
other under, that was a conclusion formed
without any facts to warrant it, and they might
just as well consider that it looked as if one
man was trying to pull the other out. The
Jury without any delay fouixl a verdict of
Found drowned ' ; and to this verdict every
man affixed his name and seal.

The case was over. No one now will ever
know, except his two sons, when and where
James Carey died : and they know no more
than that he was drowned.

As they walked away, Joe, who had taken
a second glass of brandy after the finding, and
yet looked pale and trembled, began to explain
things.

You saw that I was took aback, young
'un, by the sight of them two bodies?' he
boon.

Yes, I saw that, Joe. Very much took
aback you were.'

Well, now, don't you tell the mother what
I'm going to tell you. Don't you let on to no
one, Claude, and I will tell you the truth, and
why I was took aback. Which I do not deny
it.'

I will not tell anybody, Joe. Go on.'

Claude perceived from his brother's anxious
face as Avell as from the general situation, that
Joe's imaginative and creative faculties were

o

about to be called into play, on a larger and
more active scale than usual.

'Well, then, it's like this. Father, you
know '

Who died so many years ago.'

Yes, him. Who died so many years ago,
poor old chap ! I don't think, Claude, I ever
quite got over the blow of his death ; for, says
I, though but a youngster at the time, wherein
the world shall I ever hind another father
who'll be such a honest and respectable father
as him who's been took ? But what you never
have been told, nor any of the others, is, that
father had a brother. That's where it is. Yes,
lie lead a brother — a twin brother — just exactly

like himself : same age, same height, same hair,
same coloured eyes. So like him that you
might have taken them two for each other.
People have been known to make that mistake ;
and once he — the twin brother, I mean — got
off, because he got fifty people to swear he was
handing round the plate at chapel at the very
time that the burglary was committed — namely,
church-time. But, bless you, it was father, not
him, that carried round the plate! They
wouldn't ha' trusted him with a plate if there
was only twopence in it. Besides, he never
went to church nor chapel. If they had a
trusted him with the plate, he'd a sneaked it,
money and all.'

The narrator felt that he was really getting
on splendidly.

Well, Joe ? '

Well — father — you know — father — he
was just about as steady and as honest as they
make 'em. Once they gave him a silver mug
for his honesty, and it was put into the Sunday
papers. I remember that very well.'

Yes, Joe, I think I remember something
of it, too.'

'• You can't very well, Claude — that is, you

can't remember much of it, because it was
before you were born. But you go on being
proud of your father. You stick as tight as
wax to your pride, my boy.'

I will, Joe — I will. I'll be just as proud
of him as if he had never had a twin brother
at all.'

Well, as for that precious twin — that other
chap — he was a regular bad 'un. He was so
bad that father never let him come into the
house where, he said, honesty alone should
shake a les.' Claude lavished, but besfcred
his brother to continue. ' Whatever good
there was about father was bad about that other
chap. If one was sober, the other drank like a
fish ; and if one was a steady workman, the
other one never did a day's work in his life ; if
one got silver mugs for good character, the
other was always going off to quod for roguery.
He was a burglar too, and proud of it. Father
got at last not to speak to him — wouldn't own
to him — wouldn't help him — wouldn't have
nothing to say to him. But it made no
difference, whether father argued with him or
whether he walloped him it was all the same.
A regular confirmed bad 'un, he was.'

I suppose he got into trouble pretty often,
didn't he?'

He did so, Claude. He got into trouble a
heap of times ; he was most always in trouble,
and at last he got a long sentence. I thought
lie must be dead, Claude, I did indeed. And
what struck me all of a heap, sudden-like, when
I see that body was to recognise that it was
nothing else in the world but the body of that
very — same — twin brother. There ! Now
you know why I was took aback. I thought
he was dead ever so long ago. And if I'd had
to give evidence I should ha' had to say that
he was father's twin brother — a ticket-of-leave
man, Claude ' — his voice dropped — ' only a
ticket-o'deave man.'

That was very strange, Joe. Hadn't we
better keep this story to ourselves ? There
are always bad hats in every family, and it
does no good to talk about them, does it ?
Besides, considering we've had a father who is
such a credit to all of us that we are never
tired of talking about him, what does it matter
about this uncle — this twin brother ? '

Eight, lad, right,' cried Joe, brightening
up. ' What does it matter, after all ? We

won't tell Sam, will we ? Nor yet Melenda,
uor yet my missus and the yomig 'is. There's
no need to let 'em know now, and him dead
and all, that their father's twin brother was
such an out-and-out regular bad un.'

Joe's readiness of invention thus extricated
him from a great difficulty, and he has ever
since congratulated himself upon his resource
and the fertility of his imagination, which
enabled him so readily to make Claude believe
in the existence of the twin brother — the ,
and in the exemplary character of
his father.

It is the privilege of the parish to bury,
at the expense of the ratepayers, such persons
as die poor or friendless within their borders.
The parish funeral is not a costly matter ; the
parish undertaker does not generally retire
from business with a large fortune ; and
things are not always ordered at these functions
with as much solemnity as the relations might
desire. Therefore it was felt to be a kindly
act Avhen Claude undertook to provide the
funeral expenses for both these poor men. He
followed ' in person, accompanied by Lizzie,
who was supported by Melenda. Joe did not

appear. Thus, the hawk and the pigeon, the
wolf and the lamb, lay down in death, side by
side, together.

In such a case as this, the words of the
funeral service produce upon the bystanders
something' of an incongruous effect. Did Mr.
James Carey really entertain the sure and
certain hope spoken of by the Chaplain at the
last moment when his soul came bubbling upto
the surface of the dark canal ? Did he hear
that voice that cried, ' Blessed are the dead which
die in the Lord .^ ' Pity that prayers for the
dead are not encouraged by the Church ; one
would have preferred, for such a funeral
service, a few words of supplication in the
deepest humility on behalf of a sinner most
horribly unrepentant, together with a word
of thankfulness on behalf of those from whom
his death had averted so much misery and
disgrace.

Claude gave to each of the girls a wreath,
Lay yours,' he whispered to Lizzie, ' on the
stranger's coffin. Say, " I have forgiven." '

Lizzie did as she was told, thinking it was
part of the service.

Lay yours on Lizzie's other, Melenda,'

lie whispered lier. ' Say, " Forgive the father
for the daughter's sake." '

Melenda, .too, did as she was told. She
knew that there was a mystery and that it was
Valentine's secret. Therefore she made no
search into it, and never spoke of it, and no
one, now, knows the complete history of James
Carey and Mr. Lane except Claude and Valentine,
and, as we have seen, even they do not
know all the concluding chapter.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

COMING OF AGE.

Never Alas there any coming of age which
more nearly resembled a funeral. The daughter
of Sir Lancelot Eldridge should have attained
her majority in her own country house ; there
should have been joy-bells and treble bob-majors,
Venetian masts with streamers and flags, bands
of music, bouquets for everybody, dances on the
village green, treats for the children, sports and
athletics for the young men, a great ball at the
house and half the county invited to it, and, to
crown the whole, the heartfelt, outspoken rejoicing
of an affectionate, grateful, loyal, contented,
industrious, respectful, and scrupulously
clean tenantry and peasantry. We all know
how respectful, loyal, and affectionate are the
peasantry and tenantry of England, Scotland,
Ireland, and Wales.

The family Solicitor came, a young gentleman

of thirty or so, accompanied by his Junior
Partner, who was not quite so young by forty
years or so, and carrying a great box of papers.
They arrived at about eleven, and were taken
into the library. The girls heard their steps,
and felt somehow as one feels when the undertaker
calls.

Claude wai with them, and the conversation
languished, because one of the three was
anxious, and two were stricken with a sense of
guilt. These were the two who had already
discovered the secret. When Lady Mildred
came to them, she found the two girls sitting
hand in hand, and Valentine with hanging head
and burning cheeks.

She looked at them for a moment with
troubled eyes ; then she held out her hands,
and they sprang to their feet, and fell upon her
neck, one on each side, and I think that all
three were crying — those tears which How
freely and readily from women's eyes and express
every emotion, whether of joy, or sorrow,
or sympathy.

My dears,' she said, ' I thought it would be
easy to tell you. It used to seem a small thing
that I should have some day to say to one of

VOL. in. T

you, •' My clear, you are not my daughter."
But it is not a small thing, children ; it is a
very hard thing. I have done, I fear, a grievous
wrong to one of you, because Beatrice
must have her own property ; and Polly must
have her brother, and you will no longer be
equal.'

Beatrice can give Polly half her fortune,'
said Valentine.

Polly can never take any of the fortune,'
said Violet. ' But Claude can still be brother
to both of us.'

Valentine made no reply to this proposition.
That was because she had known for three
months that he was not her brother. This kind
of knowledge entirely changes one's views as
regards fraternal affection. She knew, by this
time, that a Brother cannot be shared. He is
one and indivisible, like a strawberry.

My other daughter,' Lady Mildred went on,
looking straight between them, ' forgive me for
bringing you up in ignorance. At first when I
took you from your mother, I thought chiefly
of helping a very poor and heavily-burdened
woman. I thought little about the child's
future. Then, when I placed her beside my

own little girl, and saw liow^ pretty she was,
and how winning, and how dainty, I thought
how it would be to bring both up together,
and not to let either know which of the two
was the gentlewoman, and how it would be
curious to watch them both, and I wondered
whether birth would show. My dear children,
what has been shown ? Why, that there is no
difference — not the slightest difference — between
3'ou. You have proved that there are,
in every condition of life, children who may be
trained and educated to have the manners and
the instincts of the most well-bred and the
most cultured. But I, for one, never doubted.
Just so, among ourselves, the well born and the
well educated, there are men who are clowns
in manners and hogs in taste. Not the slightest
difference between my two girls. Nobody can
pretend that there is. Yet, the moment the
truth is declared, the world will cry out that
they knew it all along, and always said so, and
it never had been any secret which of the two
was of gentle birth. No one, as yet, has ventured
to say that one of you is less gracious,
less generous, less well-bred, less a gentlewoman,
than the other. There is nothing in the world

T 2

SO good as to be gentle, and one of you, my
dears, is as gentle as the other. And your
brother Claude, my dear Polly,' she added, still
looking between the two, ' is as gentle as yourself.
One of soli must learn that you do not
belong to gentle blood. I trust she will learn
it without regret and without false shame. If
Beatrice will divide what is in her power to
share, and Polly will accept it, I shall be very
glad. But if not, one of you is an heiress and
the other has nothing. Nothing ? Oh, yes,
my children, she has our love, the love of
Beatrice and myself, and she will always be, in
all things, my daughter and her sister : and she
has more than Beatrice, because she has a
brother of whom she may be justly proud.
Patience, Claude ! I will give your sister to
you in a few minutes ! '

Nobody moved — nobody spoke — while
Lady Mildred paused to collect herself. Then
she continued, still looking between the two
girls and holding them each by one hand.

As for you, Beatrice, you become to-day
mistress of your father's house, estates, and
fortune ; you have a great many acres of land,
wliicJi used to moan a great many thousands a

year, but they do not mean so much now ; you
have vestments which have been accumulating;
for you ; you have houses — this very house is
yours — with all that is in it. You have become
to-day a person of very great importance ; you
will be courted wherever you go, for your
fortune, and you will be told that it is for your
beauty and your cleverness. You will be
assailed by all kinds of persons who want
money ; there will be plenty of people ready
to assure you that you have all the virtues. No
one can possibly have a more difficult position
than an heiress, my dear. I am very sorry for
you, and I am sure you will thank me for
keeping you so long from knowing the truth.
It is a grievous misfortune, my child, for anybody,
and especially for any young man or
young woman, to be rich. I do not think anyone
should be allowed by law to be rich until
he is at least fifty years of age, and I doubt
whether most people are ready to take upon
themselves the burden of wealth, even then.
Perhaps sixty is too soon for most.'

•■ Violet.' She kissed her, and the girl
started and turned quite pale, and trembled.
Let me give you to your brother. Claude,

she is your sister. This is little PoUy-which-is-
Maria. Valentine, let me restore you to your
own name. You are henceforth Beatrice, only
daughter of Sir Lancelot Aldrich.'

Oh ! no, no ! ' said Valentine, ' I will never
change my name ; I shall always be Valentine.'

Claude,' cried Violet, ' I was perfectly
certain of it, always, from the very beginning ;
I remembered the wet sheets and the clothes-lines
; I am sure I did ; my owen brother ! You
would rather it had been Valentine — you are
disappointed in your sister ; I am very sorry,
for your sake.'

Indeed, Violet — indeed I am not disappointed.'
He did not say, though it was in his
mind, that he was very glad it was not Valentine
; nor did he — though that too was in this
mind — inform her that her father was lying
dead at that moment in the parish mortuary.
He kissed her solemnly, and rather awkwardly,
on the forehead ; it takes time to learn how a
sister should be kissed, and, in flint, there are
many ways : the simple chaste salute on the
brow is much in use as a formal acknowledgement
of relationship, especially when people are
no longer young ; a common way is for the

brother to kiss his sister on both cheeks, one
after the other, while he holds her head in his
two hands. Bat this is only for quite young
people, and when brother and sister do really
love each other. A girl's lips must always,
of course, be left for her lover. They are
sacred.

Valentine has had you all to herself for
three months,' she said, blushing at his embrace ;
you must think of her already as your sister — ■
not of me at all. But it is my turn now,
Claude. Let us try to be a good deal to each
other ; I am selfish, and I hate — oh ! how I
hate — rough things ; I can never go to Hoxton.
But the world is not all Hoxton, is it.^ There
are other places and other things ; you won't
be always pulling people out of the mire and
getting into a rage about injustices and work-girls,
will you ? '

No, Violet ; we will try to be a good deal
to each other.' But his eyes wandered from
her, and rested upon Valentine.

Then Violet, in her quick way, turned to
Valentine, still holding Claude's hand tightly.
My dear, who should be Beatrice if not you ?
If it had been me,' she added, with more

feeling than grammar, 'I must have abdicated
in your favour. As for sharing your fortune

You shall,' said Valentine ; ' of that I am
fully and absolutely resolved.'

Then Violet turned to Lady Mildred. Her
eyes were very bright and her cheeks flushed.

You have kissed me so often when I was
Violet,' she said ; ' kiss me now, when I am
only Polly — Polly-which-is-Marla. We will go
and live together, Claude and I, the children
of the gutter ; we will live somewhere, but not
in Hoxton — not in Hoxton. I will set up my
easel and paint. Perhaps I shall be able to
sell my pictures, and I shall sign them Maria
Monument, or Polly Monument, or 
Monument, whichever Claude
likes best. As for the fortune, I would die
rather than take any of it. Sometimes you
will let me come and see Valentine, won't
you ? I couldn't live without seeing her
sometimes — just to tell her how the Princess
likes the rags. We have often talked together
about the Princess and the rags.'

Oh, my dear — my dear ! ' cried Lady
Mildred, distressed. ' You do not understand.

You are never to leave me, you are always my
daughter — my Violet. Everything is exactly
as before, only that I have given you a brother.'

She had also, Claude reflected, given her a
large and very interesting family. But no
mention was made of them on this occasion.

Then Lady Mildred drew Valentine away
and left the brother and sister alone.

I must confess to you, my brother,'
Violet said, ' I must tell you the whole truth,
if you despise me for it. Claude, I have always
feared this day. Ever since I learned the story
of Polly's parentage, I have had a presentiment.
Oh, it was a certainty that I was the Polly, and
not Valentine at all. Don't despise me too
much, Claude. I was so selfish that I longed
for it to be otherwise. I longed to be Beatrice,
not for her money, but for her family. Don't
hate me more than you can help, Claude. I
loathed the thought of f:^oino' back to these
poor working people. When Lady Mildred
told me that you were coming, I pictured a
workman, and I was crimson with shame.
Don't despise me more than you can help,
Claude. Then sometimes, when we went about
together, I have seemed to hear all the women

Whispering — you know how kind women can
be to each other — and saying, " What right
has this common f^irl among; us ? Let her ^o

Do o

back to her own people." Why, let me confess
it all, I have even prayed that I might be
Beatrice. And all the time, Valentine was so
unselfish and so ready to meet her— other
people — Claude,' she clung to him and looked
into his eyes for some sign of forgiveness.
Don't — don't despise me too much.'

'There is no question of despising, my
sister.' He should have kissed her again at
this point, but he was unused to sisters and did
not know how such a step would have been
received. ' I have known the secret for three
months, Violet. Do not speak of forgiveness.'

You have known that Valentine was not
your sister? And yet '

And yet I have pretended. Finish your
confession, if you have anything more to say,
and then you will be happier.'

Well then — when we actually went to sec
them — when we talked with Joe and with
Melenda, oh ! and with Sam, it was dreadful.
It was more than I could bear. I can never
2[o acfain to face Melenda and hear her dreadful

abuse. You will not ask me to go there again,
will you, Claude ? I wall go to see m}'- mother
sometimes — with Valentine, but not the
others — not just yet. Perhaps in a year or
two, one might be able to see Sam or Joe, one
at a time, you know", and for a few minutes.
Valentine will take me, perhaps, because she is
not afraid of them. But not Melenda.'

You shall never go, Violet, unless you wish
to go. They do not expect you to go. Valentine
has a message for you from them. You shall
stay here, my sister, and live on in your world
of Art and things Beautiful. Only, don't let it
become an Enchanted Land. Eemember that
outside there are always the men and women
who work.'

Mother,' said Valentine, an hour later,
when the family Solicitor had put the papers
back into the box and gone his way with the
Junior Partner ; ' mother, I have a confession
to make to you.'

What is it, dear P '

Only that I knew the secret from the very
first day. Claude's mother told me.'

Why, she is blind ? '

Yes ; but lie told me about the dimple in
her cheek and the mark on the arm, which
Violet has. But Claude never knew or suspected.
That would have spoiled all. It was the
thought that I was his sister which made him so
ready to work for me, and so thoughtful.'

It might have been so, Valentine ; it was
so proposed by me ; but, most unfortunately,
you see, Claude discovered the secret about the
same time. His brother Joe told him. And
Joe seems to have found it out from Violet's
resemblance to her father. So, after all, the
only one kept in the dark lias been Violet.'

Oh, is it possible ? Could Claude know ?
Yet he always behaved exactly like a brother ;
and I thought '

Yes, dear ; you were both acting a deceitful
part all the time. Yet it was a very good thing
for you that Claude played his part so well,
without speaking of yourself, because it secured
the services of an honourable and very deserving
young man for you. It was unfortunate for
him, because he naturally — I am not blaming
him for it, mind — it was quite natural that he
should fall in love with you.'

Oh, mother ! ' Her cheek flushed quick.

And, of course, considering his birth and
relations, even if it were not for this miserable
story of his father, which he has told me, and
which Violet must never be suffered to learn,
he clearly understands that he must never speak
to you on the subject.'

Lady Mildred paused, but Valentine made
no reply. Her cheeks were crimson and her
lip trembling.

I have talked the matter over with him.
Claude is honourable and reasonable, as I
expected he would be. My dear, he is a
gentleman, though his father is a convict and
a ticket-of-leave man and his mother was a
washerwoman. Claude is a gentleman. Be
quite easy in your mind, my child. He understands
the position perfectly.

The position ? '

Lady Mildred went on slowly as if she
was considering every word carefully, and
watching her daughter as if she was looking
for the effect of her words.

You need be under no misapprehension
about his behaviour, and I am sure you will
meet him half way, and continue in your old
friendly relations, just as when you each thought

the other filled with brotherly and sisterly
affection. The dreadful disgrace that has
befallen him in this monstrous father of his
need not make m.ucli difference for you.'

Disgrace ? For Claude ? What disgrace can
attach to him because his father is a Wretch ? '

My dear, the world would consider it a
disgrace. To be sure, the world never knows
more than half the facts, and never makes
allowance. And as regards your future relations
with Claude, you will find him quite
willing always to be your servant. All his life,
since you have accepted his services.'

My servant ? Claude ? '

He is really a very loyal and honourable
boy. I am proud of my share in him. I have
studied him for twelve years now, and have
learned to think better of him every day.
There is nowhere a young man who has greater
command of himself, or, I believe, greater
abilities, or is more trustworthy. He has
assured me — and you may accept that assurance
fully — that neither by word or look will he
ever make you feel that he has ventured to
love you.'

Oh, mother, I cannot bear it ! '

That is arranged, then. You like him and
you trust him : you have proved him true ; you
have already accepted his services ; you have
taken from him his profession and his career —
in fact the Future of Distinction which awaited
him ; you have plunged into work which may
very likely fail, and perhaps keep him in
obscurity all his life. So that I think you are
really bound to be friendly towards him.'

Valentine tried to speak, but she could not.
The tears stood in her eyes, and her voice
failed her.

Of course, he has done all this out of pure
love for you. It is quite right that you should
know this. You, of course, my dear, must
look for a very different kind of alliance. Sir
Lancelot's daughter may take any place. Your
birth, your fortune, and your beauty, my child,
entitle you to be ambitious, and I do not doubt
that a very good position indeed will be yours.
The mere idea of a young man with such
connections presuming — but Claude does not
presume. He is a very good boy, poor fellow !
and it will always be pleasant for you to remember,
even when you are married and have
other duties, that you possess what very few

women have — a truly loyal and faithful servant
working for you among the poor ; always
humble and obscure, for your sake ; desiring
nothing better, for your sake ; contented to have
sacrificed himself and everything — all for love
of you ! '

Oh, mother ! ' She fell sobbing at her
mother's knees. ' You kill me. You kill me ! '

'Why, Valentine — why? Beatrice, my
dear, what is it ? '

Because — because — how can you talk of
my marrying — any other man ? ' She whispered
the last words, burying her face in her hands.

Do you mean it seriously, my daughter ? '
Lady Mildred smiled, unobserved by her child —
do you mean that you can actually love this
young man? My dear, remember what you
are, and what he is ; — the son of a convict,
actually the son of a disgraceful felon, a professional
thief and rogue, a man who was
convicted and sentenced to twenty-five years'
penal servitude for burglary with attempt at
murder — and his mother only a washerwoman
his brother a plumber or locksmith, or
whatever he calls himself, and his sister a
working girl of the very lowest kind ; and all

their friends, no doubt, such as one may expect.
This would be a very pretty family connection
for Sir Lancelot Eldridge's daughter, not to
speak of myself! Am not I to be considered?
Is there to be an absolute ignoring of rank
and birth ? Are we to have no pride at all in
our family ? Why, there never was anybody
prouder of his family than Sir Lancelot ! '

Claude is — Claude,' Valentine replied ;
what do I care about his family ? Besides,
they all know me, and I know them, and they
love me — and I ' — she murmured softly — ' oh !
I love Claude ! '

Then, my dear,' said Lady Mildred, ' 1
withdraw my opposition. Make your own
choice — marry whom you please. You will
have your faithful servant still, whether you
marry him or not. But there is one dreadful
difficulty in the way.'

What difficulty .? '

I am afraid it is an insuperable difficulty.
Claude will never break that resolution of his
he will never speak to you of love. Oh ! my
poor child, you will — actually — have — to ask
him yourself ' '

VOL. III. U

Chapter THE LAST.

VALENTINE SPEAKS.

She would have, some time, to speak to her
lover, who would never speak to her. This is
a thing which a girl does not forget in a hurry.
It was not until the end of the year, the very
last day in the year, that she did speak, and
then she was constrained by a force strong
enough to break through her womanly reserve.
They were at Bournemouth, whither, in
late October, Valentine brought' the dying
mrl and her friends. A change to Bournemouth
would not save her ; no change of place
and air would save her, any more than a
change of climate would save the poor wretch
over whom the great car of Juggernaut has
passed, crushing bones and grinding limbs. All
the year round this great car of ours moves
slowly onwards, crushing the limbs of hapless
women, and pounding and beating them to

death. Some of us have eyes to see then
writhing beneath the wheels, and each says to
each — of those, that is, who do have eyes to see
that it is not his fault. No ; it is nobody's
fault, but perhaps some day the working menas
well will receive eyes to see their suffering,
and ears to hear their cries, and then they will
perhaps try to find the remedy which we have
failed to find. Not all of them have the good
fortune that befel Lofty in being taken out of the
noise and the dirt, the privation and the hunger,
for just a few weeks, a brief holiday, after her
eight years' suffering, of peace and rest. Happy
girl ! To be lapped in love and plenty, though
all her bones were broken and though life was
ebbing rapidly away. Happy girl ! To forget,
before she died, the existence of the sweater
and the manufacturer ; to feel no more the
weight of that Accursed Law of Elevenpence-
Halfpenny, even though the day was swiftly
drawing near when there would be set up, in
the green churchyard upon the hillside, among
the multitudes of white marble crosses, one
more to mark the resting-place of an obscure
girl slowly and cruelly done to death. Yet no
one's fault. No, it is no one's fault.

tj2

When first Lofty came she could be wheeled
about a little in a chair ; the sun was still warm
at mid-day, the yellow leaves were still on the
trees, there were still flowers in the great
garden of the town ; they could watch the sea,
mysterious, wonderful, to girls who had never
seen it before ; and listen to the plash of the
water upon the shore and breathe the fragrance
of the pines. But very soon the sun lost his
warmth even at noon, and the days grew short
and cold, and Lofty went out no more.

Then she sat in a warm room where Valentine
ministered to her and Melenda nursed her
day and night, her mind filled with sweet
thoughts and gentle hopes, which she had
never known before Valentine came to her, so
that her deathbed was indeed to her an opening
of the Gate of Life. The whole of the dreadful
past was clean forgotten ; she remembered no
more the long and weary days with the never-ending
click of needle and thimble, and the
slow creeping hours, the dull pain in her back,
the hunger of the time, the sleepless nights,
when she longed to moan aloud but would not,
for fear of disturbing the girls asleep in the
same bed with her. Ivy Lane was far away ;

it receded farther every day ; the girl had
never been there ; it was a dream ; always she
had been sitting in this soft chair, and lying on
the soft bed, eating grapes, while Valentine read
to her or made sweet music for her, or while
she gazed through one of those Twelve Gates,
which are never shut by day or night, into the
Wondrous City. And always Melenda quiet
and subdued, and never in a rage, and Lizzie
contented and happy.

There came a day — it was the last day of
the year — when the poor child was to feel her
pain no more. She was lying with a smile
upon her lips, and in her soft and tender eyes
as they rested on Valentine or on Melenda lay
love unspeakable. They all knew — she knew
herself — that she was dying. At the foot
of the bed stood Lizzie weeping without
restraint, and at the head Melenda dry-eyed,
self-contained, sat holding Lofty's white long
fingers. She would cry when she could do
nothing more, but not till then.

Dear Lofty,' whispered Valentine, bending
over her, ' your troubles are nearly over now.'

Lofty made no reply. Her heavy eyes
rolled slowly round till they rested on Melenda.

There is no more sorrow, dear,' Valentine
went on, ' nor any pain left for you. Perhaps
you will see us all again soon ; Melenda, and
Lizzie, and me.'

The dying girl made answer none. In her
last moments she was back again, in imagination,
among the shirts and button-holes.

'Never mind what they said, Melenda
dear,' she murmured, her eyes wandering as if
there was something she did not quite understand.
'Them Germans do swear awful and
call dreadful names, but never mind what they
said ; don't get into a ras^e ; what does it matter
so long as they give us the work ? '

Lofty, there is no more work : it is all
done,' said Valentine, ' all done and put away
and paid for,' she added. ' Oh ! it is paid
for, with this.'

The room gets hot, doesn't it, in the afternoon,
and the days get longer and longer.
Oh ! Melenda, it's you who do all the work.
It's my back, dear — I must lay down again.
Give Lizzie my bread and butter, dear, when
she comes in. I don't want any dinner when
I'm laying down. Poor Liz, she's always

hungry, isn't she ? Don't be hard on Liz,
Melenda. Think of Tilly.'

Melenda clutched her hands and set her
lips ; but her eyes were dry.

When Tilly comes home again, Melenda,
we won't be cruel to her and drive her away,
will we ? Let us take her back again, and
pretend we don't know. Oh ! Melenda — she
was so dreadful poor, and she was always an
impatient one. She wasn't brave and strong,
like you.'

Valentine stepped back, so that the girl's
eyes should fall on no one but her old companion.


I haven't done much work lately, have I ?
because I've been so bad, but I feel better now.
There's no pain in my back to-day, and I shall
soon be quite well. The Doctor said so — and
Valentine — who is Valentine ? Melenda ' — her
eyes were full now of a vague yearning as if
after something unknown — ' Melenda, we've
been friends, haven't we ? — we've always been
friends.'

She closed her eyes and her hands dropped.
Melenda kissed her, breaking out into passionate
cries and weeping. But Lizzie stopped crying.

and laid the limbs straight, and folded the
arms across her breast. For Lofty was dead.

When Claude came in the afternoon,
Valentine led him into the room where the
Dead girl lay.

See,' she whispered. ' This is the beautiful
face she was meant to have. You can discern
it now, though the cheek is so thin. Did you
think our poor Lofty could ever have been
half so pretty? Her face was smirched and
spoiled by our cruelty and neglect and apathy,
not by any sins of her own, poor child ! Since
she ceased to work she has grown daily more
beautiful — and now she is dead. As the Doctor
said, what better thing could befall her ? Oh !
Claude, we have been Christians for nearly two
thousand years, and we can say still that the
best thing for thousands among us is to die.'

Are we Christians ? ' he replied. ' Have
we, even yet, begun to understand what
Christianity means ? '

Presently they left the chamber and went
out together upon the cliff. It was a still
afternoon, with a clear sky and no wind, and
in the west there was a glorious winter sunset.

When the sun had quite gone down there arose
a splendid afterglow, red and rosy, high in the
western sky, and reflected in the ocean, full of
consolation and of hope ; and below their feet
the quiet waters lapped upon the shore. Behind
them, in the east, there was a blackness in the
sky that could be felt.

Claude,' she whispered, ^ we are still in the
presence of the Dead. This place is like a
church ; and — oh ! I can speak at last.'

Speak, Valentine. What is it you would
say?'

My mother tells me you have confessed
things — things about me. And that you said
foolish things about your father's sins and your
own — inheritance. And that your lips were
sealed.'

They where not foolish things, Valentine ;
they were real things. How could such as
myself ask you to share with me my inheritance
of shame ? '

Oh, Claude ! Have I not shared it already ?
Can I ever cease to share it ? Forget that
foolishness. Besides — you are— yourself. Weare
not brother and sister ; you have known
that all along, and so have I. There lies a

VOL. III. X

great garden at our feet, where we can work —
if we work together — always together. Claude,
have I said enough ? Oh ! do not ask me to
say more.'

He took her hand and kissed it. He bent
his head and met her lips and kissed them.
But he could not speak for a while. Presently
he found a voice.

Oh, my Queen ! ' he murmured. ' Oh, my
mistress ! Oh, my Lady and my Love ! ' She
raised her head, while the red light in the west
filled her eyes and made them wondrous.

Hand in hand, Claude, all our lives.'

So, almost beside the girl's dead body,
these lovers were betrothed.

The afterglow died in the west ; the last
day of the year was over ; the Past was done ;
but in their hearts there sprang the new light
of another day.

THE END.

PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

lONDON

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. ci. each.

A History of the ChapBooks of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly

400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile
of the originals.

Social Life In the Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illustrations.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. With nearly

100 Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 120 Illustrations
from Originals. Tv/o
Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 28s.

Bacteria.— A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species, By W. B. Grove, B. A. With
87 Illusts. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London
; together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Barley (Rev. C.W.),Works by :

Crown Svo., cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

English Surnames: Their Sources and
Significations. Third Ed., revised.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.


Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry morley. With 100
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s, 6d.

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. Sixth
Edition, with a New Preface. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beauchamp. — Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists: A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. In Two
Series. All engraved on Steel in the
highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney
Armytage, M.A. Imperial 4to, cloth
extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per Vol.

Bernstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 7s, 6d.

Beerbohm. — Wanderings in

Patagonia; or, Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1886. — One

Shilling Monthly. Illustrated by P.
Macnab. — The first Chapters of Mohawks,
a New Novel by M. E.
Braddon, Author of " Lady Audley's
Secret," appeared in the January
Number, and the Story will be continued
throughout the year. This
Number contained also the Opening
Chapters of a New Novel entitled
That other Person; and several of
those short stories for which Belgravia
is famous.

\* Now ready, the Volume for March
to June 1886, cloth extra, gilt edges,
7s. 6d. ; Case s for binding Vols., 2s. each .

Belgravia Annual for Christmas,
1886. Demy 8vo, with lustres
ns, Is. preparing.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.),Worksl3y:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
A Ballad History of England
Songs for Sail ors.

Besant( Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post Svo, illust.

boards, 2s. each; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

each.
Ready Money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

All Sorts and Conditions of Men:
An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Captains' Room, &c. With
Frontispiece by E. J, Wheeler.

All in a Garden Fair. With 6 Illusts.
By H. Furnish.

Dorothy Forster. With Frontispiece
By Charles Green.

Uncle Jack, and other Stories.

Children of Gibeon: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown Svo. [Shortly

The Art of Fiction. Demy Svo, Is.

Bentham-Edwards (M.), Novels

by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
each. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23. each.
Felicia. I Kitty.

Bewick (Thos.) and his Pupils.

By Austin DoBSON. With 95 Illustrations.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d.

Birthday Books:—

The Starry Heavens : A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Legends. By W. J. Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton. In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 6s.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
Illusts. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform
in size for binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1885, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1886. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 Illusts. in
Facsimile. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 6s.

Academy Notes, 1880-84. Complete
n One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. Cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1885, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1886. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illusts. Is. \ New Edit, preparing.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. 128 Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 38.

Illustrated Catalogue of the Luxembourg
Gallery. Containing about
250 Reproductions after the Orif^-inal
Drawings of the Artists. Edited by
Fag. Dumas. Demy 8vo, 33. 6d.

The Paris Salon, 1885. With about
300 Facsimile Sketches. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy 8vo, 33.

Art Handbooks, continued —
The Paris Salon, 1886. With about 300

Illusts. Edited by F. G. Dumas.

Demy 8vo, 3s.
The Art Annual, 1883-4. Edited by

F. G. Dumas. With 300 full-page

Illustrations. Demy Svo, 5s.

Blake (William) : Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful copperplates.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s. each.
Canters in Hampshire.
Leaves from a Hunting JournaL

Coloured in facsimile le of the originals.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and

Adventure in Asia, Africa, and

America.
Savage Life: Adventures of a Globe-trotter.



Chronicles of No-Man's Land.

Post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

Braddon (M. E.) — Mohawks,

a Novel, by Miss Braddon, Author
of " Lady Audley's Secret," was begun
in Belgravia for January, and will be
continued throughout the year. Illustrated
by P. M acnab. I s . Month y.

Brand's Observations on Popular

Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with
numerous Illustration ns, 73. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown Svo,
cloth extra, 63. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
—Bohemian Papers — Spanish
and American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts

—Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, &c.

Bret Harte, continued —

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bret Harte's Complete Poetical
Works. Author's Copyright Edition.
Beautifully printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram. Cr.
8vo, 4s. 6d.

Gabriel Convoy : A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other
Stories, Post 8vo, illustrated boards,
2s.

The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.
8vo, picture cover. Is.

Luck of Roaring Camp, and other
Sketches. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

JefF Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. 8vo,
picture cover, Is.

Flip. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Californian Stories (including The
Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff
Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Maruja: A Novel. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Queen of the Pirate Isle. With
25 original Drawings by Kate
Greenaway, Reproduced in Colours
by Edmund Evans. Small 4to,
boards, 53. [Shortly.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.

Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pp;, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Brewster(SirDavid),Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brake, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post 8vo, cl. ex., 4s. 6d.

Briggs, Memoir of Gen. John.

By Major Evans Bell. With a Portrait.
Royal 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Brilliant-Savarin.— Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes.

Undertones.

London Poems.

The Book of Form.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.
With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by William
Small.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan.

The Earthquake; or, Six Days and
a Sabbath. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Robert Buchanan'sCompIete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab,

Annann Water.

The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Caravan.

The Master of the Mine. With a
Frontispiece by W. H. Covered.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard engraved
by GooDALL, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown 8vo. cloth ex tra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Fcap. 8vo, picture cover. Is. each,
Kathleen Mavourneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Varney Lovett Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2l3.

The Book of the Sword: Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
8 vo, cloth extra, 323.

Burton (Robert):
The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomise: Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post 8vo. cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Child Harold. An entirely
New Edition of this famous Poem,
with over One Hundred new Illusts.
by leading Artists. (Uniform with
the Illustrated Editions of "The
Lady of the Lake " and " Marmion")
Elegantly and appropriately bound,
small 4to, 16s.

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Caine. — The Shadow of a

Crime: A Novel. By Hall Caine.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23^

Cameron (Comers), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold: A

Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Lovett

Cameron, With Frontispiece and

Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 2l3.
'' The Cruise of the "Black Prince"
Privateer, Commanded by Robert
Hawkins, Master Mariner. By
Commander V. Lovett Cameron,
Ren., Cab., D.C.L. With Frontispiece
and Vignette by P. Macnab.
Crown Svo, cl. ex., 53. [ Sept . 15.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Lovett),

Novels by:
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Juliet's Guardian. I Deceivers Ever.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post Svo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 243.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Chatty & Jackson.— Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson, With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bound, 28s.

Chaucer:

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 63.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.
Fcap. Svo, cloth extra, 63. [ In the press.

Cloud. — Myths and Dreams.

By Edward Cloud, F.R.A.S., Author
of " The Childhood of Religions," &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63,

Cobban. — The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Coleman.— Curly: An Actor's

Story. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman. Crown Svo, Is.
cloth. Is. 6d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Crown Svo. cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post

Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Sweet Anne Page.

Transmigration.

From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (Mortimer & Frances),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet and Twenty.
Franc es;

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
3s.6d. each ; post svo illustrated bds.,
2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonio. Illust. by SirJoHNGiLBERT.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. TvIahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

by G. Du MAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs. ? With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDEsand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du Maurier and C.S.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Files and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story of the

Present Time.
i Say No^^^^

The Evil Genius: A Novel. Three

Vols., crown 8vo.

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins. Pos t 8vO, illustrated bds. ,23.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins'' " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
8vo cloth extra, gilt, 73, 6d.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, ls.6d. ,

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:
Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal Svo, with 65 lusts., 283.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated
by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Dutton), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Hours with the Players. With

Steel Plate Frontispiece.
Nights at the Play : A View of the

English Stage.

Leo: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Copyright. — A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By

Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall. — Popular Romances

of the West of England; or, The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikskank. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Craddock. — The Prophet of

the Great Smoky Mountains By

Charles Egbert Craddock. Post
Svo, illust. bds., 2s. ; cloth limp , 2s. 6d

Creasy.— Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
HuMOURof Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

Cruikshank (George), continued.

1 he Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Ferrol, Author oi
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruikshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Cummings. F. Gordon),Works

by:

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.


In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.


Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cycles.— Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William CvPLES. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Daniel. — Merle England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daudet.— The Evangelist ; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; p ost 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Covenant. — What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Covenant,
M.A. Post 8vo , cloth limp , 2s. 6d.

davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, Is. each; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each.
One Thousand Medical Maxims.
Nursery Hints: A Mo ther's Guide,
Aids to Long Life. Crown 8vo, 23. ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maistre. — A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Poet
8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

De Mille. — A Castle in Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s, 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Sketches by Boz. I NicholasNickleby,
Pickwick Papers. I Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens

1S41-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. —
Also a Smaller Edition, in the
Mayfair Library, Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.
About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.; hf.-bound, 9s.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Fifth Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. By the Rev. Dr.
Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dictionaries, continued—

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A; Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great iVIen. With
Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Rent, M.A. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. By Frances Hays. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 9s.

Diderot.— The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedies," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. 8vo, in parchment, 4s. 6d.

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.


Dora. — Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Ed., cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams, (Uniform with Brewer's
Reader's Handbook") Crown 8vo,
ball-bound, 12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr. 8vo,

cl. ex Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford,
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works, Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol, II., Poems and Minor
Translations, with Introductory Essay
by Ac. Swinburne; Vol. 1 1 1., Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford, Edited by Col,
Cunningham, One Vol.

Dyer. — The Folk-lore of

Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [/« preparation.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A.B.Grosart, D.D. Crown
8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume,

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.J Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert(Lord)ofCherbury'8 Poems.
Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Wharton Collins. Crown 8vo,
parchment, 8s.

Edwardes(Mrs.A.), Novels by:
A Point of Honour. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Archie Lovell. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Eggleston.— Roxy: Novel. By

Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Emanuel. — On Diamonds and

Precious stones: their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

Englishman's House, The : A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition.
Nearly Coo Illusts. Cr. 8vo,cl. ex. ,7s. 6d.

English Merchants: Memoirs

in Illustration of the Progress of British
Commerce. By H. R. Fox Bourne.
With Illusts. New and Cheaper Edit,
revised. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:
The Life and Times of Prince

Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy Svo cloth extra, 123.

Eyes, The.— How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them. By
John Browning.F.R.A.S., &c. Fourth
Edition. With 55 Illustrations. Crown
Svo, cloth, Is.

Fairholt.— Tobacco: Its History
and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With upwards of 100
Illustrations by the Author. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information:
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6 d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 43. 6d. each.
The Chemical History of a Candle :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.
On the Various Forces of Nature,

and their Relations to each other :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.

Farmer. — Military Manners

and Customs. By J. A. Farmer,
Author of "Primitive Manners and
Customs," &c. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Fin-Bee — The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. t'oat
Svo, cloth limp 23. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Manor.
Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 63.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
Svo, clot h limp, 2s. 6d.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Com-plate

Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. Svo, cloth bds., 6s.

Fonblanque. — Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23^

Francisco (R, E.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.
One by One. I A Real Queen.

Queen Co phetua. [

Olympia. Post Svo, illust. boards, 23.
Esther's Glove. Fcap. Svo, Is.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy Svo, cl. bds., 73. 6d. each

Free. — Pandurang Hard ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Friswell.— Oneof Two: A Novel.
By Hair Friswell. Post Svo, illus
treated boards, 23^^

Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry's (Herbert) Royal Guide

to the London Charities, 1886-7.
Showing their Name, Date of Foundation,
Objects, Income,Officials,&c. Published
Annually. Cr. Svo, cloth, Is. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Gardeners Books:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. Gd. each.

A Year's V/opk in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Blenny.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. ByF.G. Heath. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 53. ; gilt edges, Gs.

Garrett. — The Capet Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. Svo,
cl. ex., 33, 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1886. One Shilling Monthly. In
addition to the Articles upon subjects
in Literature, Science, and Art, for
which this Magazine has so high a
reputation, "Science Notes," by W.
Mattie Williams, F.R.A.S., and
"Table Tall," by Sylvanus Urban,
appear monthly.
*„ * Nov ready, the Volume for January

to June, iso, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d. ;

Cases fo r binding, 2s. each.

Gentleman's Anna! (The) for

Christmas, 1886. Containing a Complete
Novel, "Wife or No Wife?" by
T. W. Speight, Author of "The
Mysteries of Heron Dyke." Demy
8 v"o, Is. [Preparing.

German Popular Stories. Collected

by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introductions John Ruskin.
V/ith 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square Svo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 73. Gd.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels byT~

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What will the

World Say ?
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the

Meadow.

Braes of Yarrow.
The Flower of the
Forest. [hem.
A Heart's .

Of High Degree.
Fancy Free.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2g. each.

For the King. | In PasturesGreen

In Love and War.

By Mead and Stream.

Heart's Delights [Preparing.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Loving a Dream. | A Hard Knot.

Gilbert (William), Novels by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains — The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and Galatea
— Charity — The Princess — The
Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains — Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts—
Gretchen — Dan'l Bruce — Tom Cobb—
H.M.S. Pinafore— The Sorcerer— The
Pirates of Penzance.

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
by W. S. Gilbert. Containing:
The Sorcerer— H.M.S. "Pinafore"
—The Pirates of Penzance — loathe
Patience — Princess Ida — The
Mikado — Trial by Jury. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Blenny.— A Year's Work in

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Blenny. Post Svo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Godwin. — Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Golden Library, The:

Square i6mo(Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Golden Library, continued.

Alloy's (Sis Thomas) Most
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes,byT.M'CRiE,D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems: Lion and
Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the
Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including A
Refutation ot Deism, Zastrozzi, St.
Irvine, &c.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The: An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 73. 6d.

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. 545 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edit., demy 8vo, cl. ex., 73. 6d.

Greenaway (Kate) and Bret
Harte.— The Queen of the Pirate
Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25
original Drawings by Kate Greenaway,
Reproduced in Colours by E.
Evans. Sm. 4to, bds., 53. \ Shortly,

Greenwood (James), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found d There.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Guyot.— The Earth and Man ;

or, Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. Gd.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
PiNCUS. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth. Is. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of trie Morrow.
The Serpent Play.

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra, 8s.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character.

By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d .

Holiday.— Every-day Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of

Very EasyTricks,Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, «S:c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extras. 6d .

Ha^^^y (Lady Duffus). — Paul

Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas.— Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of "Far from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, ill stated boards, 23 .

Haywood.— The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Haywood. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by:

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, illustrated
cover. Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts. 6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square 8vo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: .A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 23. Gd.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Haweis (Rev. H. R.). — American

Humorists. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemis
Ward.Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Hawthorne (Julian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Garth. I Sebastian Stroke.

Ellice Question. | Dust.

Prince Saroni's Wife.

Fortune's Fool. I Beatrix Randolph.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6tl. each.

Miss Madonna.

Love — or a Name.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. Svo, illustrated cover. Is.

Hays.— Women of the Day: A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 53.

Heath (F. G.). — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author oi
The Fern World," &c. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; cl. gilt, gilt edges, 6s.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Worlds by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social Pr assure.

Ivan de Biron: A Novel. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Heptalogia (They ori The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev, A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy Svo, cloth extra,
14s. [In preparation.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.
Crown Svo, bound in parchment, 8s.

Hindley (Charles), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings: In
eluding the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Holy.— The Lover's Creed.

By Mrs. Castel Holy. With Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. New and Cheaper
Edit. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by :
The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.— Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.
The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Holmes. — The Science of
Voice Production and Voice Preservation:
A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original lus.
orations. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by:

From Nowhere to the North Pole:
A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.

A Golden Heart: A Novel. Post Svo,
illustrate d boards , 23.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
AdventureSjBons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
lusts. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, gilt, 7s. 61.



Hooper.— The House of Ray :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hopkins—" 'Twixt Love and

Duty:" A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Home. — Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
HoRNE. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s.

Howell.— Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
ot Great Britain. By Geo. Howell
M.P. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hugo. — Time Hunchback of

Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hunt.— Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Thornlcroft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

Self-Co denned

That other Person. Three Vols.,
crown Svo. [shortly.

Indoor Paupers. By One of

Them, Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Angelo.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Irving — Tales of a Traveller.

By Washington Irving. Post Svo,
cloth liinp, 2s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by:

The Dark Colleen. Post Svo, illustrated
board, 2s.

The Queen of Connaught. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, Ss. 6d.; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 28.

Janvier.— Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.
Nature near London.
The Life of the Fields.
The Open Air.

Jennings (Hargrave). — The

Rosicruclans: Their Rites and Mysteries.
V/ith Chapters on the Ancient
Fire and Serpent Worshippers. By
Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.
A New Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d .

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. With a Photograph-portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ferrol (Tom), Works by:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cloth. Is. 6d. each.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants

we Grove, and How we Cook Them.

Jesse.— Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post Svo, cloth li mp, 2s.

Jeux esprit. Collected and
Edited by Henry S. Leigh. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each.

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations: A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred 


Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir bv William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown Svo,
cloth extra, 18s. ; or separately,6s. each.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Josephus.TheCompleteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 143.

Kempt. — Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Kershaw. — Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 23. 6d.

King (R. Ashe), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by :

Oal<sliott Castle. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 38. 6d.

knight.— The Patient's Vade

IVIecum : How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth. Is. 6d.

Lamb (Charles):

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the "Essay on
Roast Pig." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d

The Essays of Eiia. Complete Edition,
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 53.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lares and Penates; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:
The story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3 3. 6d.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each,
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatrical Anecdote?.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Arabian Society in the Middle Ages:
Studies from " The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Life in London ; or, The History

of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

The True Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Lean Dunham
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
IVIy Love!" I lone,

Longfellow:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.

Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
" Kavanagh," " The Poets and
Poetry of Europe," and "Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley.
Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,

Dietetic, and General Guide in
Health and Disease. By N. E.
Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, 2s. :
cloth limp, 2s, 6d,



Lucy.— Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s.

Machine. — Teresa Itasca,

and other Stories. By Avery machine.
Crown 8vo, bound in canvas,
2s. 6d.

McCarthy (Justin, iVI.PO.Works

by:

A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of 18S0. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s,
each. — Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 63. each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. [Vol. I. now ready.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon. I iVIiss Misanthrope.
Liniey Rochford. I Donna Qui;'.ote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.

Camilla: A Girl with a Fortune,
New and Cheaper Edition. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 66

"The Right Honourable:" A Romance
of Society and Politics. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs.
Campbell - Prayed. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),

Works by:
An Outline of the History of Ireland,

from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

A History of Ireland from the Union
to the Introduction of Mr. Gladstone's
Bill. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
6s, lln the press.

England under Gladstone, 1880-85.
Second Edition, revised and brought
down to the Fall of the Gladstone
Administration. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 63.

McCarthy (Justin H.), continued—
Doom ! An Atlantic Episode. Crown

8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. McCarthy. Crown 8vo,

Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Hafiz in London. Choicely printed.

Small 8vo, gold cloth, 3s. 6d.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :
The Princess and Curdle. With 11

Illustrations by James Allen. Small

crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.
Guttapercha Willie, the Working

Genius. With 9 Illustrations by

Arthur Hughes. Square 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.

Works of Fancy and Imagination.

Pocket Edition, Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 2l3. Vol. i.
Vv'ithin and Without. The Hidden
Life. — Vol. 2. The Disciple.
The Gospel Women. A Book of
Sonnets. Organ Songs. — Vol. 3.
Violin Songs. Songs of the Days
and Nights. A Book of Dreams.
Roadside Poems. Poems for
Children. Vol. 4. Parables.
Ballads. Scotch Songs. — Vols.
5 and 6. Phantasies: A Faerie
Romance. — Vol. 7. The Portent. —
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows. — Vol.
9. Cross Purposes. The Golden
Key. The Carson. Little
Daylight. — Vol. 10. The Cruel,
Painter. The Wow o' Riven.
The Castle. The Broken Swords.
The Gray Wolf. Uncle Corne
Lies. \ Ready

The Volumes are also sold separately
in Grolier-pattern cloth, 2s. 6d. each.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. MiLLAis.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate. With a
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.

Macdonald. — Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor, Post Svo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Macllse Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;

with Memoirs — Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal — illustrative
ot the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, Bea. With 8s Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Mackay. — Interludes and Undertones:
or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d. each.

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid.

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost R os e.

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra , 43. 6d,

Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. l3. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
em blazoned i n Gold an d Colours. 5s.

Mallock (W. H.),^orkVb5r:

The New Republic ; or. Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 8s.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8vo.
cloth extra, 63.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur 1

and of the Knights of the Round Table. [

Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d, each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open ! Sesame !
Written in Fire

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman.— Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2a.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of IVIark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or. The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by
F. A. Eraser. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 212 Illustrations by T. Coppin.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With III Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.
—Cheap Edition, post 8vo,illustrated
boards, 2s.

The stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 28.

X7

Mark Twain's Works, continued-^
Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Adventures of Hucl<leberry
Finn. V/ith 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. ci.— Cheap Edition, post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Massinger's Plays. From the

Text of William Gifford, Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Matthews.— A Secret of the

Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s ; cloth,
2s. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.

A Journey Round IVIy Room. By
Xavier de Maistre. Translated
by Henry Attwell.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W
Davenport Adams.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.

The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an
Introduction, by Alice Clay.

Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular
Abridgment of "Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By
Brilliant-Savarin.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities
Selected and Edited by W. T.

DoBSON.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by \V. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea — Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing : Broken
Hearts — Engaged— Sweethearts-gretchen—
Dan'l Bruce— Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
CoUectedand Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.

Animals and their IVIasters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Mayfair Library, continued—

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry

J. Jennings.
The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from
his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.

Forensic Anecdotes; or. Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men oi
Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry S.
Leigh.

True History of Joshua Davidson
By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Ourselves: Essays on Women. By
E. Lynn Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia. By
W. H, Mallock.

Nev Republic. By W. H. Mallock.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-
ley-penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-
mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by
George Du Maurier.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By
H. A. Page.

Punlana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Punlana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Re-told. By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Mathew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E, Davies,
L.R.C.P. Lord. Cr. 8vo, Is.; cl., Is. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amuse-merits.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 43. 6d.

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex. E. Sweet and
J. Army Knox, Editors of " Texas
Sittings." With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Touch and Go.
Mr.Dopillion.

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Miller. Small 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d. each.
The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise

Set of Rules for the Management of

the Skin; with Directions for Diet,

Wines, Soaps, Baths, &c.
The Bath In Diseases of the Skin.
The Laws of Life, and their Relation

t o Dise ases of t h e Ski n.

Wordsworth (Mrs). — Fathers

Rectory. By Mrs. Moles-worth,
Author of "The Cuckoo
Clock," &c. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo,cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

A Life's Atonement.

A IVIode! Father.

Joseph's Coat.

Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.

Vai strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the World.

A Bit of Human Nature.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
First Person Singular: A Novel.

With a Frontispiece by Arthur

Hopkins.
Cynic Fortune: A Tale of a Man with

a Conscience. With a Frontispiece

by R. Canon Woodville.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.
Commons Carr. Illustrated by Randolph
Caldecott, Square Svo, cloth
extra, 73. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J.
Moor Smith. Post Svo, cl. extra, 5s,

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N.
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is.
cloth, Is. 6d.

O'Connor. — Lord Beaconsfield

A Biography. ByT. O'connor, M.P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface,
bringing the work down to the Death
of Lord Beaconsfield. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

O'Hanlon. — The Unforeseen:

A Novel. By Alice O'Hanlon. New
and Cheaper Edition. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by
Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Primrose Path.

The Greatest Heiress In England.

Reilly.— Phoebe's fortunes :

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

O'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works
by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. Svo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and iVloonllght.

Fcap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 5s. each ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Cecil Castles

Gage.
Italia.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
TwoLittieWooden

Shoes.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

Signa.

In a Winter City

Ariadne

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi.

In Maremma

Wands.

Frescoes.

Princess] Naprax*
Fine.



OuiDA, Novels by, continued —
Othman: A Novel. Cheaper Edition.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 5s.
Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected

from the Works of Ouida by F.

Sydney Morris. Small crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 5s. ^

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With a Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
Bea, Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Principle. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 5s. [Shortly ^

Parliamentary Elections and

Electioneering in the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures ot
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of " Rowlandson and his Works,"
The Life of Gillray," &c. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, with a Frontispiece
coloured by hand, and nearly 100
Illustrations, 16s. One Hundred Large
Paper Copies (each numbered) have
also been prepared, price 3 2s. each.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
Pap. P ost Svo^loth limp, 23.

Patient's (The) Vade Mecum:

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By William Knight,
M.R.C.S., and Edward Knight,
L.R.C.P. Cro wn Svo, Is.; cloth, ls.6d.

Paul Ferrol

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Paul Ferrolll : A Novel.
Why saul Ferrol Killed his Wife.

Paul.— Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s^

Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Lost Sir Massinger.
The Best of Husbands.
Walter's Word. I Halves.
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than we're Painted.
By Proxy. I High Spirits.

undergone Roof. I Carlyon's Year.

Pain (James), Novels by, continued —

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only, j From Exile.

Kit: A Memory.

The Can on's Ward.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor. I Murphy's Master.

Fallen Fortunes.

A County Family. | At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of ClyfTe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hun died Pounds R edward.

In Peril and Privation: Stories oi
Marine Adventure Re-told. A Book
for Boys. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Talk of the Town: A Novel.
With Twelve Illustrations by Harry
Furnish. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

The Fly on the Wheel : Humorous
Papers. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
6s. [Ti the press.

Pears. — The Present Depression
in Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(of One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
Goodby and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F.S.A., F.S.S. Demy Svo, Is.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page
lusts. by G. Pu Maurier.

The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de
Societe, Selected and Edited by H.
C. Penned.

Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each.
Beyond the Gates. By the Author

of " The Gates Ajar''
An Old Maid's Paradise.
Burglars In Paradise [Shortly

Pirkis (Mrs. C. L.), Novels by:
Trooping with Crows. Fcap. Svo,

picture cover. Is.
Lady Lovelace. Post Svo, illustrated

boards, 23. preparing.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan:—

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post 8vo. illust.bds.,23 .

Popes Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.

Prayed (Mrs. Campbell) — "The

Right Honourable:" A Romance of
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M.P. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.
Mrs. Plan caster's Rival.
Gerald. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2 3.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by :

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illusts.
Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition,with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. Gd.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Wor hers. Crown 8vo, Is. 6d.

Pyr6technist'sTreasury(The);

or. Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
IJy Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 4s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustav b
Dore. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson.— Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt,
numerous Illusts., and a beautifully
executed Chart of Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles), Novels by :

Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, illustrated,3s.6d.

each ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. each.
Peg Washington. Illustrated by S. L.

F"iLDES, A. R.A.
Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by

William Small.
It Is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. PiNWELL.
The Course of True Love Never did

pun Smooth. Illustrated by Helen

Paterson.
The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack

of all Trades; and James Lambert.

Illustrated by Matt Stretch.
Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.
The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir

John Gilbert, R.A. , and C. Keene.
The Cloister and the Hearth, illustrated

by Charles Keene.
Hard Cash. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.
Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.

Files, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.
Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.
Put Yourself In His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.
A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated

by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by

H. Paterson, S. L. Files, A.R.A.,

C. Green, and H. Woods, A.R.A.
A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate

Crawford.
A Woman-hater. Illustrated by

Thos. Coulter.
Singleheart and Doubleface: A

Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated

by P. Macnab.
Good stories of Men and other

Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey,

Percy MACQUOiD.and Josei'H Nash.
The Jilt, and other Stories. Illustrated

by Joseph Nash.
Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait

of Charles Reade.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 73. Sd.

Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Cro wn 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s.6(i. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Hep Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party
Weird Stories.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square Svo, cloth gilt, lOs.Gd. each.
Our Old Country Towns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

With 50 illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoof.

Robinson Crusoe : A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crow n 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each.

The Poets' Birds.

The Poets' Beasts.

Poets' N ater al History. [Preparing .

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post 8vo, cloth liuip, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 106C-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 53.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Juliana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Juliana. Profusely Illustrated.

Runciman (James), Stories by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.

Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each ; post

Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Round the Galley-Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head : A Collection
of Yarns and Sea Descriptions.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
In the Middle Watch.
A Voy a ge to th e Cape.

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Sanson.— Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (166S to 1847). Edited
byHENRv Samson. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.3s.6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

One Against the World.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion in the Path.

The Two Dreamers

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Joan Merryweather.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The High Mills.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.
Gideon's Rock.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated
Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
63. per year, post free. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XXI. (iSSsX at 53. each.
Cases for Binding, Is. 6d. each.

Scott (Sir Walter), Poems by:

Marmion. With over 100 new Illustrations
by leading Artists. Small
4to, cloth extra, 163.

The Lay of the Last Minstrel. With
over 100 new Illustrations by leading
Art sts. Sm.4to , cl. ex., 163. [S hoitlv.

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
4s. 6d. each.
The Secret Out: One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations;
with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or "White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

"Secret Out" Series, continued-the
Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or.

Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing: A Collection of
Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww,
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easj^ Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. Many lusts.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Senior.— By Stream and Sea.

By William Senior. Post 8vo, cloth
1 mp, 2s. ci.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare:

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623.— A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moor Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
fi-om the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
rom the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 83,

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s. ;
or separately, 2s. each. Vol. I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c., with an Introduction by Leigh
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems.the Shelley Papers,
&c. ; Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi, St. Irvine, &c.

Sheridan: —

Sheridan's Complete Works, with
Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 73. 6d.

Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and ID full-page Illusts.
Demy 8vo, half-parchment t, 12s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s . 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
"Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c., by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo, cl both b yards, Ribs.

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Hotel. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d .

Sims (George R.), Works by :
How the Poor Live. With 60 Illusts.

by Fred. Barnard. Large 4to, Is.
Rogues and Vagabonds. Post 8vo,

illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 23. 6d.
The Ring o' Bells. Post 8vo, illust.

bds., 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

S etc ill ey .^^A~lVl ate h In t h^
Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

S I hang Di ct i orTaryT^T lie Etymological,

Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moor), Works by :

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small 8vo,
cloth extra, with 130 Lasts., 3s. ci.



S-NsiTH (J. RIoyr), Works by, continued —
Tales of Old Thule. With numerous

Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt,6s.
The Wooing of the Water Witch:
A Northern Oddity. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8v o, cl. ex., 6s.

Society in London. By A

Foreign Resident. New and Cheaper
Edition, Revised, with an Additional
Chapter on Society among the
Middle and Professional Classes.
Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Spaiding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them, By T.
A. Spalding, LL.B. Cr. 8vo, cl,ex,,'5s.

Spanish Legendary Tales. By

Mrs. S. G. C. Middlemost, Author of
Round a Posada Fire." Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen

Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,

3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s,

A Bai-ren Title. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cl., ls.6d .

Spenser for Children. By M.

H, Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 410, with
Colour ed Illustrations, cloth gi lt, 6s^

Staunton. — Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B.Wormald. New
Edition, small cr. Bvo, cloth extra, 5s.

Seaman, — The Poets of

America. With full Notes in Margin,
and careful Analytical Index, By
Edmund Clarence Seaman, Author
of " Victorian Poets." Cr. 8vo,cl.ex., 9s.

Stern d alert afghan Kni sei

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :
Travels with a Donkey In the

Cevennes. Fifth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.
An Inland Voyage. With Front, by

W. Cane. Post 8vo, cl. Ip., 2s. 6d.
Virginius Puisque, and other

Papers. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Familiar Studies of Ivied and Books.

Second Edit. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 63.
New Arabian Nights. Crown Svo,

cl. extra, 6s. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 23.
The Silvered Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cheap Edition, post 8vo, picture

cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Stevenson (R. Louis), continued —

Prince Otto: A Romance. Fourth

Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Merry Men, and other Tales and

Fa bless, Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 6s . [Short thy.

St. John. — A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Stoddard. — Summer Cruising

In the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
Mac KAY. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Zim-
Men. Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
ext ra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

St. Pierre. — Paul and VirgTma,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
St. Pierre. Edited, with Life,
by Rev. E. Clarke. Post Svo, cl, Ip., 2s.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c.,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations, Edited
by William Hone. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. ^

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation, With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo,cl.ex,,7s.6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose
and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
T revels." Cr. Svo, cloth extra , 7s. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
The Queen Mother and Rosamond,

Fcap. Svo, 5s.
Atlanta in Corydon. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Cliastelard, Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 7s,
Poems and Ballads. First Series,

Fcap. Svo, 9s. Cr. Svo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

I-'cap. Svo, 9s. Cr. Svo, same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. Svo,ls.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr. Svo, lCs.6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Cr.8vo,12s.6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

8vo, 7s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown Svo, 12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 63.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, Is.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Swinburne's (A. C.) Works, continued —
Note on Charlotte Bronze. Cr.8vo, 6s.
A Study of Shakespeare. Cr. 8vo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide. Cr.8vo,6s.
Studies in Song. Crown 8vo. 73.
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 93.
Century of Roundels. SmalUto, 8s.
A IVIidsummep Holiday, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 7s.
IVIarino Falter : Tragedy. Cr.8vo,6s.
A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. 8vo,6s.
Miscellanies. Crown 8vo, 12s.

Symonds. — Wine, Women and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students'
Songs. Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small 8vo, parchment, 6s.

Syntax's (Dp.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife, With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Rotten. Me d. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Tai ness History of Engl is h

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, 303.— Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 158.

Taylors (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post Svo, cl. limp, 23.

Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works

by. Crown 8vo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d each.

The Sagacity and Morality of
Plants : A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
ColouredFrontispiece and loo Illust.

Our Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them: A Handbook
for Students. With 331 Illustrations.

Taylor's (Torn) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The
Pool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and Passion''
One Vol., cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
*i* The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Tennyson (Lord"! A Biographical
Sketch. Bv H. J. Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6cL

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
posts, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida. | Proud Malsle.

The Vlolln-Playep.

Thomas (M.).— A Fight for Life :

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. Gd.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Times (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men ot
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept In the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The Land-Leaguers.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
JohnCaldigate. | American S senator

Trollope(FrancesE.),Novelsby

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

Mabel's Progress. | Anne Furness.



Trollope. A.). — Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories, By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards . 2s.

Trowbridge.— Parnell's Folly:

A Novel. By J. T. Trowbridge. Post
8vo, illustrated boar ds, 2s.

TurgenlelT. — Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Tukge-
NiEFF, and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
33 . 6d.; post 8vo, il lustrate d board s, 2s^

Tatler (C. C. Fraser). — Mistress

Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, i ll must. boa rds, 23^

Tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast. With a
Frontispiece Jjy P^ Macnab.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.
Noblesse Oblige. With Illustrations

by F. A. Eraser.
Citoyenne Jacqueline. Illustrated

by A. B. Houghton.
The Huguenot Family. With Illusts.
Lady Bel l. Front, by R. M macbeth.

Buried Diamonds: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown 8vq.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols., demy Bvo, cl. bds., 7 s. 6d. each .

Villars. — A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villars. Fcap.
Bvo, picture cover. Is.

Walford (Edw., M.A.),Works by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-sixth Annual Edition,
for 18S6, cloth gilt, 603.

The Shilling Peerage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth. Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1886).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, Is.

Walford's (Edw.) Works, continued —

The Shilling Knightage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,cl.,ls.

The Shilling House of Commons
(1886). Containing a List of all the
Members of Parliament, their Town
and Country Addresses, &c. New
Edition, embodying the results cf
the recent General Election. 32mo,
cloth. Is. Published annually.

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1886). In One Volume,
royal 32mo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 53.

Haunted London. By Walter
Thorneury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra. 73. 6d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown 8vo, clo th antique, 7s. 6d.

Walt Whitman,^Poems by.

Selected and edited, with an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown 8vo, printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram.

Wanderers Library, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or, Lite
among the Ostrich-Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England In the Olden Time
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Rout. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low Life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued —

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings :
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Arteries Ward. ByE. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Memoirs of the Sanson Family (i588
to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.
Illustrated by Wallis Magjcay^

Warned.— A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
C own 8vo, cl ot h extra, 6s.

Warrants, &c. : —
Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 23.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
ot the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Price 5s.

Weathep7How to Foretell the,

vAt^^ the Pocket Spectroscope. By
F W. Cry, M.K.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc.,&c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Westpopp.— Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain ; or, History oi
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List ol
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. 6d.

Whistlep's{Mp.) "Ten o'clock."

Uniform with his " Whistler v. Ruskin :
Art and Art Critics." Cr.Svo.ls . [Shortly.

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.SV),

Works by :
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 2s. 6d.

The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

wrisorTfDp. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),

Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Third Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, whh 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., with Illusts,, 6s.

Studies in Life and Sense. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. preparing.

Common Accidents, and Hove to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth
limp. Is. 6d.

Winter (J7S0, Stories by: ~

Cavalry Life. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Regimental Legends. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

WonTen~of"the Day : A Biographical

Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

WoodT^Sabina": A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post Svo, illust. bds., 23.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and cheaper issue,
cr. 8vo, cl. ex.,7s.Gd. ; half-bound, 8s.

Weight (Thomas), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Windows Pictures, &c.

History of Caricature and of the

Grotesque in Art, Literature,

Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely

Illustrated by F.W^Faij^holt.F.S.A

Yates (Edmund), Novels by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last

^1

Three-volume NOVELS IN THE PRESS

Wilkie COLLINS'S NEW NOVEL.
The Evil Genius: A Novel. By Wilkie

Collins, Author of "The Woman in

White," Three Vols., crown 8vo.

WALTER BESANTS NEW NOVEL,
Children of Gibeon : A Novel, By
Walter Besant, Author of "All Sorts
and Conditions of Men," "Dorothy
Forster," &c. Three Vols., crown
Svo.

HALL CAINE'S NEW NOVEL.
A Son of Hagar: A Novel. By T. Hall Caine, Author of
Crime," &c. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

MRS, HUNT'S NEW NOVEL.
That other Person : A Novel. By Mrs.
Alfred Hunt, Author of "Thorns
Model," "The Leaden Casket,"
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo.

GRANT ALLEN'S NEW NOVEL.
In all Shades: A Novel. By Grant
Allen, Author of " Strange Stories,"
"Philistia," "Babylon," &c. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

'The Shadow of a

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors. Library Editions, many Illustrated,
crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d each.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Philistia.

BY BASIL.
A Drawn Game,
"The Wearing of the Green."

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready Money Mortify.
IVIy Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in i trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room
All in a Garden Fair
Dorothy Forster,
Uncle Jack.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.
Annann Water. I The New Abelard.
Matt. I Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonio.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White,
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss OP Mrs. P

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles
Hearts of Gold

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J LEITH DERWENT
Our Lady of Tears, j Circe's Lovers]

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. I Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Queen Cophetua. I A Real Queen.
One by One. |

Prefaced by Sir Battle Free,
Pandurang Harl.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capet Girls.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. | For Lack of Gold.
What will the V/or*ld Say P
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the IVIeadow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
TheGoldenShaft.lOf High Degree.
Fancy Free. I Loving a Dream.

A Hard Knot. I Fancy Free.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. | Ellice Quentln.

Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust. I Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph.
Miss Madonna.
Love— or a Name.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Mode.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo,
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught

BY HENRY KINGS LEY,
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Lean Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
"My Love !" | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

Llnley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope. | DonnaQulxote

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Camilla.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written In Fire
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. 1 Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Val Strange.

A Model Father. I Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. O LIP H ANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massing 1 A Confidential

bert. I Agent.

Best of Husbands I From Exile.
Halves. I A Grape from a

Psalter's Word. ! Thorn.
What He Cost Her For Cash Only.

Less Black than
We're Painted.

By Proxy.

High Spirits.

Under One Roof.

Carlyon's Year.
BY E
Valentina.

Some Private

Views.
Kit: A Memory.
The Canon's

Ward. [Town.
The Talk of the
C. PRICE.
I The Foreigners

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READE.
It Is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir. I A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. | Readiana,

Singleheart and Doubleface.
The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.
BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's GardenParty,
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
Two Dreamers.
One Against the World,
The Lion in the Path.



Piccadilly Novels, continued —
DY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Rock. I Heart Salvage.
The High Mills. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS,
Proud Malsie. I Cressida.
The Violin Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way we Live Now.
Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.
Kept In the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelist*

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.
The Huguenot Family.
Lady Bell.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY y. S. WINTER.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF POPULAR NOVELS.

boards, 23. each.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes, j Savage Life.

Post 8vo, illustrated

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AWE.
Carr of Carrion. I Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?
Valerie's Fate,

BY GRANT ALLEN,
Strange Stories.
Philistia.

BY BASIL.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."
BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas In Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.

Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Convoy. | Flip.
Maruja.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.

The Martyrdom

of Madeline.
Annann Water.
The New Abelard
Matt.

The Shadow of

the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
Love Me for Ever.
Foxglove Manor.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian

BY M ACL A REN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS,
The Bar Sinister.

BY Wilkie COLLINS.
Antenna. i Queen of Hearts.

Basil. ' My Miscellanies.

Hide and Seek. Woman in White.
The Dead Secret. ' The Moonstone.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued —

WiLKiE Collins, continued.
Man and Wife. Haunted Hotel.
Poop Miss Finch. The Fallen Leaves.
Miss or Mrs. P Jezebel'sDaughtep

New Magdalen. The Black Robe.
The Frozen Deep. Heart and Science
Law and the Lady. "I Say No."
TheTwo Destinies

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. I From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky
Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. I Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. | Nicholas Nickleby

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. | Archie Lovell

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. I Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tlllotson.
Polly.

Seventy five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. 1 A Real Queen.
Prefaced by Sir IT. Battle Free.
Pandurang Hard.

BY Pain FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Cape! Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY CHARLES GIBBON.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What will the
World Say?

In Honour Bound.

In Love and War.

For the King.

In Pastures Green

Queen of the Meadow.


The Flower of the
Forest.

A Heart's Problem

The Braes of Yarrow.


The Golden Shaft

Of High Degree.

Fancy Free.

By Mead and
Stream,

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY yates GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW Holiday,
Every-Day Papers.
BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY J. BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

Ellice Quentln. | Dust.
Prince Saronl's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. CASH EL Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER,
The House of Ray.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self Condemned.

BY JEAN INGE LOW.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY,
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK KERSHAW,
Colonial Facts and Fictions.

BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?



Cheap Popular Novels, cordinned-
Lynn Linton, continued —
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

Dear LadyDisdain
The Waterdale

Neighbours.
My Enemy's

Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford.
MissMisanthrope
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a

Season.
Maid of Athens.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.

Open! Sesame I A Little Stepson.

A Harvest of Wild Fighting the Air

Oats. I Written in Fire.

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.
BY BRANDER MATTHEWS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion.
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.

Val Strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the

World.
A Bit of Human

Nature.

ALIfe'sAtonement
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By theGateofthe

BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.
Held in Bondage. TwoLittleWooden

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.
Signa.

Shoes.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi.

In Maremma.

Wands.

Frescoes.

Princess Napraxine.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir massinger.


A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.

Clyffards of ClyflFe

The FamilyScape-
grace.

Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her

HumorousStories

Gwendolen's Harvest.


£200 Reward.

Like Father, Like

Son.
A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Kit: A Memory.
The Canon sWard

BY EDGAR A. FOE.
The Mystery of Maria Roget.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
Gerald.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend
Hard Cash. I Peg Wofflngton.

Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton. | A WomanHatep.
Readiana. | The Jilt.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.
B Y MRS. J. H. Liddell,
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party
Weird Stories.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery In Palace Gardens.

BY F. W. ROBINSON,
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO &• WINDUS.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY JAMES RUN CI MAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.

BY W. CLARK RUSSELL,
Round the Galley Fire,
On the Fo'k'slo Head.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SAL A.
Gaslight and Daylight,

BY JOHN SAUNDERS,
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion In the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High Mills.

BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.

BY ARTHUR SKETCH LEY.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.
Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Aisle.

The Violin-Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPS.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Candidate.
By FRANCES ELEA NOR TROLLOPE
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY Jet. TROWBRIDGE.
Parnell's Folly.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant,
Huckleberry Finn.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler,
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

Saint Mungo's City. »\

Beauty and the Beast, ^ ^

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND Yates.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrolll.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte,
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

PiRKIS.

The Professor's Wife. By Leonard
Graham.

A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.

Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol.

Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman.

Beyond the Gates. By E, S. Phelps.
An Old Maid's Paradise, By E. S.

Phelps.
Burglars in Paradise. ByE. Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
A Barren Title. By T. W. Speight.
The Silvered Squatters. By R.

Louis Stevenson.

J. OGDEN and CO., PRINTERS, 29, 30 AND 3I, GREAT SAFFRON HILL, Eg.

m

m^

-A^/^^JS*^

^

^

ii'

^:<5r

f£*^'

^M
