*— ^^y^-x-v^^^-* >f<.-v-w> V->^r^-^- ««->*»-"j'<» ■ •- ■■ >,•»■ IT ^^ .fc^ ■ ■

'IT rc::\ .

X^v

n-.^.

■" /£r-rirc>. ';■:"• '?"^''l<Tf- T'5?-^"r "'V^v '"'^ .'v"''; C-.-i .

<rff^»*.»«».'* -A

^Jt'

-t.^-', -.

O'-f

'-V^^^y.a-

i-<'j

/•>«••*,•■»*.- ;^^' i>

V- t*.*-x:tfC;

-";y<o^xvAr::,'^\-^

OF THE

U N I Verity

or ILLINOIS



B46a

vel

VOL. I.

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

AND Parliament bTKLLT

^f)C Oimpic Oiori? of ^f)rcc "JJono un a o^irt

rev

WALTER 13ESAXT

AUTHOR OF 'all Marts AND CONDITIONS Of MBN ' *1IIE REVOLT OK MAN*

•tmk captains' koo.m' etc.

IN TIlkKi: NoI.LMKS
VOL. I.

1*01) bo 11

CHATTO cS: WINDUS. Piccadilly


CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CH.VITER Took

Introduction— TUE Prize OF Tale GOLDEN APPLE . 1

P.iiiT I.-TIIE Making OF A MAN.

I. THE VILLAGE GREEN

II. THE Forest OF HAINAULT

III. WHAT There IS Outside

IV. A NEW SHAME

V. THE CONFESSIONS OF A PHILOSOPHER

VI. THE TYRANNY OF THE THOUGHT

VII. SAMSON AND DELILAH .

VIII. IN THE CIIAMUEU . . . .

IX. POET UNTO POET

I. THE TEACHING OF ART .

XI. THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE .

XII. THE Great CONSPIRACY

II 1 1. THREE Proposals

XIV. THE BANQUET

IV. river's legacy . . . .




6G

lo


J CO





2Ci}
29fl

Introduction.

THE PKIZn: OF Till': Golden Title.

If the montis of the year are feminine, like the
fleeting hours, then the most feminine, the most
variable, the greatest coquette of the ^vliole
twelve, is that nymph whom we call May —-fol
qui sy fie. She is inconstant ; she never
remains of the same mind ; she is faithless ;
she is full of whims ; sometimes she is so sweet
and charming that she carries all hearts, not by
savage assault, but by the mere aspect and
sight of her. Sometimes she is so full of smiles
and winning ways that men, looking upon each
other, wonder how any could be found to speak
a word in her dispraise ; she sings, and laughs,

VOL. I. B

and crowns herself with flowers, hind trips with
light foot and careless ease over meadows
ankle-deep with buttercups. During these her
happy moods we all fall to being happy too ;
every poet thinks of rhymes to fit a sonnet ;
every musician reaches down his fiddle ; and
everywhere there is such a twanging of lyres,
singing of madrigals, dancing of ballads, warbling
of ditties, and universal chorus of praise,
that it is enough to turn the head of any goddess,
to say nothing of a mere minor deity
and simple country nymph. And all in a
moment — lo I — she changes ; she frowns ; she
is cold ; she sings no longer ; she puts on sad-coloured
robes ; she is as forbidding as poor
!Miss February with her seal skins, her red nose
her frozen toes, and the cold in her head.
Alas ! poor May. Then the lyre, the theorbo,
the viol, the bagpipe, the channel straw, the
lute, the dulcimer, tabor, and pipe are all, with
one consent, silenced and put upon the shelves;
the musicians sit down, sad ; the poets tear up
their unfinished lays ; the sonirs cease ; everybody

goes home ; doors and windows are shut
tight, and the poor maid is left out of doors all
in the cold, deploring, alone in her gloom to
lament her caprice. Yet another hour, and she
forgets her ill-humour ; we forget it too : she
is once more the sweet, the lovely, the blushing,
merry, and merry-making month of May ; weare
grovelling slaves again.

It was in the evening of, perhaps, the most
lovely day that this fickle goddess ever vouchsafed
to England that four children were playing
together under the trees of an ancient
forest. The sun was going down, and the west
wa<i already making preparations to receive him
with a grand illumination. The young leaves
were at their bravest and brightest, and the air
was heavy With the fragrance of the May
blossom, because there is no such place in the
world as this forest for the hawthorn. Three
of the playing children were boys of thirteen,
the fourth was a girl of about eleven. She
ran, and jumped, and placed with the boys as
if she were a boy herself, being, in fact, his

B 2

strong and sturdy as any boy of her age, with
a length of limb which gave goodly promise for
the future, to those who love their mistress and
queen to be tall. They had been running and
playing the whole afternoon and were now
growing a little tired. When a boy begins to
feel tired he jumps and runs harder than ever,
and becomes rough, just to show; that he is not
tired at all. But when a girl feels tired she
wants to sit down. Presently, therefore, this
young lady, who had been, all day long, sunshine
and mirth, grew a little cross, and began
to cry fie upon the boys for their rough
handling, a fault which besets and spoils their
sex, and to say severely that she wished there
were no such things as boys, and that they
ought not to have been invented — yet conscious
all the time that she preferred boys to girls as
playfellows — and that she should play no longer,
but should leave them to bang each other with
their shoulders and their elbows. The sky, in
fact, became cloudy and the wind chill.

So she walked away, dangling lier hat by

the strings, in the direction of a fallen trunk, on
which sat a man, thoughtfully regarding the
group, With his chi upon this hand, and a
contemplative cigarette between his lips. He
rose to meet the girl, and took both her hands
in his and kissed her forehead. This was her
father.

He was a little man, though his daughter
looked as if she woukl be tall ; yet not a very little
man. His narrow sloping shoulders — a feature
one may remark more often in Paris than in
London — his small head, and the neatness of
his figure made him look smaller than he was.
Small Englishmen — this man was a Frenchman

o

are generally sturdy and broad-shouldered,
and nearly always grow fat when they reach
the forties. But this was a tim man. In appearance
he was extremely neat ; he wore a
frock-coat buttoned tightly ; behind it was a
white waistcoat ; he had a (lower in his buttonhole
; he wore a pink and white necktie, very
striking ; his shirt-front and cuffs were perfect ;
his boots were highly polished ; lie was five-and-forty,

but looked thirty ; his hair was quite
black and curly, without a touch of white in
it ; he wore a small black beard ; his eyes were
also black and as bright as steel. It is perhaps
misleading to compare them with steel, because
it is always the villain whose eye glitters like
steel. Now M. Hector Philiponon was not a
villain at all. By no means. The light in his
eyes came from the kindness of his heart, not
from any villainous aims or wicked passions,
and, in fjict, though his beard and his hair were
so very black — black of the deepest dye, such
as would have graced even a wicked uncle — he
frightened nobody, not even strangers. And of
course everybody in those parts knew very well
that he was a most harmless and amiable
person. He lead a voice deep and full like the
voice of a church organ; honey sweet too, as
well as dee). And at sight of his little girl
those bright eyes became as soft as the eyes of
a maiden in love. When he spoke, although
his English was fluent and correct, you perceived
a foreign accent. But he had been so

long ill the country and so far away from this
own countrymen that the accent was shglit.
Yet he neither looked nor spoke like an
Englishman.

You are tired, Claire ? '

Xot much, papa, but hot with so much
running. And the boys began to push.'

She sat beside him, laying her hand upon
his arm. Already they were companions, this
little girl and her father. Presently there arose
a great shouting of the boys ; a cloud fell upon
the girl's brow, because they had learned
already to play without hei and in half a minute
she was forgotten. It was a very white brow
over a face Avlhcli mii>lit become beautiful. As
yet, no one except a prophet (of whom there
are lamentably few nowadays, and those few
have their hands full of other things) could say
anything about the child but that she was
singularly like her lather, only, a very uncommon
thing, she had deep blue eyes, with
dark eyebrows and black hair. This combination,
so far as one can learn, happens

nowadays hardly anywhere except in Tasmania,
where it has been accounted for on various
scientific grounds, such as, that the soil is
strongly impregnated With phosphate — a thing
in itself quite sufficient to account for anything ;
and that the air is remarkably charged with
ozone — what cannot ozone effect? — and that
the proximity of the South Pole w411 account
for everything not previously explained. All
these reasons are excellent, and enable us to
see quite satisfactorily why Tasmanian ladies
get black hair and blue eyes. Brat they do not
apply to Mademoiselle Claire, because she never
was in Tasmania, and, I believe, is not likely to
go there. The question wliy she got blue eyes
and black hair may therefore be referred to
the Eoyal Society.

She looked at them Wrestling and running,
just as happily without her as with her, regretfully.
She had thought, perhaps, tliiit they
would follow her and sit down on the trunk
beside her, and refuse to play any longer
because she would islay no longer. At least,

she did not think that they would go on just as
if she were not in existence. Boys are truly
horrid creatures. They are born with none of
the fnier shades. And neglect is the greatest
insult one human being can offer to another.
Presently she slipped off her seat upon the
trunk and opened the lid of a basket. They
had been having a little inconsiderable picnic,
a cheap picnic, with cold tea in a bottle, and
bread and butter, and bread and honey, and a
little fruit. The bottle was empty, and the
bread and butter and honey were all eaten up.
But there was lying, iu the corner, the last of
the oranges.

She took it out.

Papa,' she said, ' shall the boys race
for it ? '

They shall,' replied her father. ' We will
finish with a race. Boys,' he shouted, ' we
will finish with a race — Claire holds the prize.
The course shall be — what? Then, mark it
out for yourselves.'

He looked on with a smile, which was not

the smile of benevolence, or of affection, or of
good manners, or of condescension, or of interest
or anticipation, because he really did not
care about the excitement of the race at all, but
of philosophy. He smiled, because he remarked
the little coquetry of his daughter and the
emulation of the boys.

As for Claire, the suns] line returned to her
face, the sky Alas clear again, the wind was
warm ; the boys were going to fight for her
gifts ; any woman at any age appreciates this
discernment of beauty. Her eyes were bright
and her black locks were blown across her
face. The boys meanwhile, as if a kingdom
depended on the result, measured the ground,
pacing side by side. When they were quite
satisfied that they had got an exact two
hundred yards they stood in a line awaiting the
signal.

She holds,' murmured M. riiilipon, ' the
gift of the golden apple. This was long ago
the cause of discord, and she is happy because
she has it to bestow. Instead of three goddesses

I see three schoolboys ; instead of a
shepherd there is a girl. Why does one think
of Paris ? Yet they will all grow up, and perhaps
some day the golden apple will be a golden
ring, and aha ! Claire, my angel, thou
wilt be worth many golden apples. Are you
ready, brave boys ? Ready all ? Go ! '

When he dropped his handkerchief the
lads started with a rush. The biggest and
tallest of them took the lead and kept it. He
was closely pressed by a slighter-built boy,
who promised to make a good second ; long
behind these two toiled the third, who Alas
of shorter frame and ran as if he were in
bad condition, panting laboriously yet not
giving in.

'Will wins,' said the philosopher. * Happy
boy ! he is born to win everything. The world
is his, because he is strong and brave and not
too clever. Those arrive — Rein? — who are
not so much cleverer than their neighbours.
To have too many ideas is to be inconipris, un-comprehended
; no one understood my ideas

when I was young. The world belongs to
Will Xo ! he loses ! the boy with many
thoughts wins — no — it is over — they are even.
Now, in the big race which may come afterwards,
to whom would the girl bestow the j^rize ?
An orange or an apple may be divided in
halves, but a woman ? No ; she is like the
Eepublic, One and Indivisible.'

In fact the race seemed in the first boy's
hands ; he was ten clear feet ahead, there were
but twenty feet between him and the girl, who
clapped her hands and cried out ; he turned to
laugh at the second : it was a sad example of
pride before a fall ; his foot caught in a tuft of
grass and he was grassed. He was up in a
moment, but he was already overlapped, and
although he made up the difference it was a dead
heat, and they were in neck and neck.

Tic third boj^ continued the race long after
it was hopeless, and came in with a smiling and
satisfied face.

The Frenchman patted this boy on the head
approvingly.

'You did well,' lie said. 'Never know
that you are beaten. Then j'ou will always
feel the pride of victory. My daughter, divide
the prize into four portions and give Olynthus
one of the quarters.'

I Alas winning easily,' cried the tallest lad.
He was as handsome a boy as you may wish to
see anywhere, with clear, fresh complexion and
brave outlook ; a lad of mettle who liked fair
fighting and the rigour of the game ; a boy with
plenty of ability, as was shown by his broad
forehead and clear-cut nostril, yet perhaps
without the yearning for books which makes a
scholar and a writer.

Ha ! ha ! ' laughed the other. ' So you
were, Will; I own that. All the better for me
that you fell down.'

All fair, Allen. But it is a beastly sell.'

Allen laughed again. He was a much
handsomer boy, but his face wanted the strength
that lay in the other's ; his eyes were full and
light, his lips were mobile, his forehead was
hiirh rather than broad.

Claire hesitated between the two. While
she hesitated Will took the prize out of her
hand.

We will divide it,' he said, ' as your father
orders. And Tommy shall have his quarter.'

The ]prizes of life, my sons,' observed M.
riiilipon, sententiously' — he really was a most
profound philosopher, and so lonir as he could
say what seemed a good thing was careless
whether or no it was new — ' the prizes of life
are bestowed, not at random, as foolish people
think, but by fixed rules ; they are not given
to the men who run fastest, but to those who
run most wisely. Combine, Will, prudence
with swiftness. Then doubt not the issue, but
run with courage. As for Olynthus '

Tommy was out of it from the beginning,'
said Will, interrupting in the truthful but brutal
manner common among boys.

If it had been a three-mile, or even a one-mile
course,' said Tommy, ' you fellows would
have seen — as for your little hundred-yard races,
it is only a rush. Give me a long course.'

As for Olynthus,' continued M. Pliilipon,
let him continue to run bravely, short course
or long course, and many prizes will be his.'

Olynthus, commonly called Tonuny, blushed
to the roots of his hair. Nobody noticed this
proof of modesty, because his face was already
so red from the running that no amount of
blushes could have deepened that hue. It was
a blush absolutely wasted. At a later age,
when blushes are rare, this might have caused
subsequent regret. Who would not wish to
retain that bluish which adorns the cheek of
youth when good deeds come to light ? Wliy, it
is an incentive to good deeds. Titus blushed
daily. ]eut Tommy did not mind. Ho Alas,
as I have said, short of figure and bread of
shoulder, his legs were sturdy, his fiice broad
and rather flat, and his nose was a little turned
uj) at the end. perhaps he was only a commonplace
boy to look at. He who makes it
the business of his pilgrimage to watch his
fellow-men becomes something like a portrait
painter, inasmuch as he finds no one commonplace.

At fourteen a slice, however plain, may
mean a great many things — there are infinite
possibilities in every young face on which history
has not yet set a mark ; at 
the number of these possibilities begins
to be counted ; at forty there is a stamp upon
it ; at sixty there is the indelible seal of a
life's history upon it. Tommy's face as yet
was the face of possibility, and to ordinary
observers its range, so to speak, was limited.
Yet you sluiU see to what heights this Tommy
subsequently lose.

When they lead eaten their orange Claire
packed up the basket, and they all began to
stroll homewards. Ey this time the sun had
disappeared and the evening was upon them.

First walked the girl between AYill and Olin-thus,
and they all three chattered together and
pretended to know everything. Boys of thirteen
are encyclopaedias of information ; like the great
mediaeval scholars, they know all that there is
to know ; or, which is exactly the same thing,
they know all that they talk about, from the

hyssop to the oak, and from Bunny to Belies


M. Pliilipon walked behind \vitli Allen.

When the sun had quite gone down, there
fell upon the forest an awful sense of the
mysterious deepening twilight. The tln'ee who
led the way took hands and dropped into
silence ; only now and then Tommy shouted,
just to keep up his spirits and to show that the
more awful the outward look of things, the
higher his courage rose. Allen was perfectly
silent, and presently his companion saw that his
eyes were wide open, luminous, gazing steadily
before him, yet seeing nothing, and his lips
parted. He watched the boy awhile, then spoke
softly.

Boy, shall I tell your thoughts ? '

The boy started and laughed ; he was called
back to himself.

If you can, sir.'

When the sun sank behind the trees, your
courage fell ; you became sad ; you began to
long' for something ; you expected something.

vor [. c

Xow the wind is like a voice to you, but you do
not know what it says ; the trees beckon to
you with long arms, but you do not know why;
beneath the branches in the deep blackness aise
caves filled with things wonderful and mysterious
; you would wish to penetrate these dark
caverns and fight the devils which hide there,
but you do not know how to begin, nor whereto
begin.'

The boy interrupted him.

How do you know, sir ? '

Because, my son, I too have been a boy.
There are some boys with whom their dreams
linger ; mostly they die away and are forgotten.
There are other boys, but not many, ^^hose
dreams take shape and live in words. Perhaps
you may be one of these boys. Who
knows ? '

And yet,' he said to himself, ' I suppose
there will be nothing for it but \\\q 'petit commis
the little clerk. Poor boys ! The pity
of it!'

THE MAKING OF A MAN

THE VILLAGE Green.

All the houses of the village stand along one
side of a broad road which leads, like all other
roads, to London and to Eo.r.e. It is not a
high-road, and has but little traffic. It is only
a road which connects one small town with
another small town — Rumford, in fact, with
Chipping Ongar. When the road was constructed
there was so much ground to spare
that they did not trouble about breadth, and
allowed to remain a belt of grass twenty, thirty, j
or forty feet wide on the side of it. The houses
of the village vary in size from the great square
villa set in a great square garden, to the little
cottage of four rooms built of planks painted
white, with a high pointed gable and porch

overgrown with jessamine. Naturally, because
Ave always have the poor with us, there are
more small cottages than there are great villas.
If there were any ragged children they would
use the green side of the road for a playground ;
but there are none, for this is not a country
village at all, but a suburban village. On the
green, in place of the children, you may see
when the day is fine certain elderly gentlemen
walking together : it is their Exchange, their
boulevard, their place for conversation.

One summer morning, about half-past eight
or nine o'clock, there were three of these
habitues already out upon the green.

Two of these were standing together in the
shade of the tree : one, Sir Charles Withy-comb,
ex Lord Mayor of London, was a little
old gentleman with a short nose and white hair,
a ruddy cheek and a twinkling eye, a cheerful
face and a ready smile — an old gentleman who
might not be very wise, but who was certainly
kind of heart. The one who stood beside him
was tall and thin, with a long white beard, and

which 3'oii observed when he took off his list
a head as bald as an cg!j. lie lead a stoop
ill this shoulder Which leave him a deferential
manner, and he rubbed his hands and bowed
his head when lie spoke, whelp increased the
appearance of deference to superior judgment.
His name was Skantlebur^'. The third, Mr.
CoUiber, vas somewhat younger, but grey-headed
too. lie was sharp and thin of face,
Avitli a hooked nose and the eye of a bird of
]prey. He lacked the kindly expression of Sir
Charles, and looked angry and hungry. This
was because he was both angry and hungry.
lie hungered after shares, bonds, coupons,
consols, funds, stocks and quotations, which had
been his daily food for many years. He was
angry because he could get them no more. He
was as angry and as hungry as a hawk before
breakfast. He was walking up and down the
green looking occasionally at the Money market
article in the paper which he carried in his
hand. On passing the other two he would
stop and exchange a word or two.

Presently there came from one of the lanes
"svhicli led into the road a very neat and dapper
little man, with shiny boots, buttoned frock,
and a white waistcoat. In his button-hole was
a sprig of jessamine. Beside him walked a
little girl of twelve or so. On passing the
gentlemen he raised his hat politely. Sir
Charles acknowledged the salute with a friendly
gesture.

• ' A worthy man,' he said, ' and lives, the
butcher tells me, on a pound and a half of meat
or thereabouts every week, and that not the
prime cut. But, to be sure, he is a Frenchman.
I wonder, Skantlebury, whether the French City
Companies ever have a real banquet. I remember,
in my Company — all ! '

There are some reminiscences better left
unexpressed, because it is not in the power of
words to do them justice. It is a cruel injustice
that not a single poet has ever sung of a City
Company's bancpiet. Wherefore worthy aldermen
can only wag their heads and fall back
upon an interjection.

Next there came running out of a cotta<:je
beside the green — one of the little white wooden
cottages, with six rooms or so — a boy of thirteen
or fourteen. As he passed the gentlemen he
touched his hat respectfully, as a junior should.
Sir Charles nodded kindly.

A tall boy,' he said. ' Grows like his
father : too much like his father. Who failed,'
he added after a moment, because there was no
hurry and they all knew the story, ' fcr a contemptible
sum. Quite a contemptible sum.'
He sighed and shook his head, but his face was
so cheerful and his eyes so bright and his lips
so red, that the butcher, looking out of his shop,
thought Sir Charles was chuckling over some
joke, and smiled in sympathy.

In the silk trade, was he not ? ' asked Mr.
Collier, looking after him. ' There was money,
once, in silk.'

'In the silk trade,' repeated Sir Charles.
Though in a small way ; and formerly in
Brimage and Waring's. His partner got him
into the mess. Name was Stephens, and he

bolted : yes, lie got hold of all the money that
he could and bolted. Then Engledew filled,
and — I suppose because it was such a disgraceful
thing to fail for such a trifle — he — he — in
fact he was ashamed of it, and he hanged himself.
But the boy knows nothing of that.'

Lucky,' said Mr. Collier, ' that some of
u^ weren't troubled by the same scruples. Else
we might be all hanging in a row.'

There are differences, my dear friend,' said
Sir Charles gently. ' My own failure was for a
hundred and fifty thousand. Yours, Collier,
as all the world knows, for a colossal half-million.
It is an event in history. It will not
be forgotten. To fail for such an amount is
glorious — glorious.'

His fixce, on which the sunshine seemed to
linger, glowed with admiration at the thought
of so much greatness. But Mr. Collier only
scowled, as if this greatness had been thrust
upon him.

The iaihircs of the residents in this village,'
said Mr. Skantlebury, rubbing his hands,

amount in the aggregate, it has been computed,
to more than a million and a quarter.'

All ! ' said Mr. Colhber, with a snarl-ike
glimpse of white teeth ; ' don't you wish you
had failed yourself, Skantlebury ? '

This was a cruel thing to say, because Mr.
Skantlebury had, on the contrary, made money,
though in quite a small way. To be almost
the only man in the place who has not failed,
and to have actually made a small fortune while
all the rest have lost large fortunes, is a painful
position for a man.

Mr. Skantlebury blushed and coughed
behind his hand. The action was significant
of the small way. It almost, taken with the
roundness of his shoulders and the bowing of
his head, suggested the retail way.

Sir Charles took no notice of this remark,
and went on about the boy, although no one
was listening.

The boy's mother,' he said, ' was a Fool.
Nobody but a Fool would have acted as she
acted. She had some money of her own —

settled upon her and nil — and isle positively
gave it up to the creditors ! A pitiable business
to see so much money clean thrown away.
They took most of it, and left her a poor fifteen
hundred or so. They live upon it.'

De-probable,' said Mr. Skantiebury.

Then there passed another boy running
after the first, a lad with a strap and a bundle
of books.

Young Gallaway,' said Sir Charles. ' Its
father died too youno-. If he had lived he
would have foiled for a far larger amount. The
Galloway have been in the oil line for many
years. That boy's uncle is a warm man. Oli !
yes, a warm man ; I remember he lost money
by me.'

Sir Charles spoke as if the more this warm
man had lost by him, the warmer he had
become.

At the end of the green the two boys were
joined by a third, and they all set off walking
together as fast as they could.

Young Massey,' said Mr. Skantiebury.

'Another case; his father, too " said

Mr. Collier.

Yes, oil ! yes replied Sir Charles. * A
creditable failure. Seventy thousand only ;
but the circumstances Avere romantic. The
failure happened two years before I was Lord
Mayor.'

lie then proceeded to describe circumstantially
the way in which Mr. Massey dissipated
a good business and became a bankrupt.
Unfortunately, the particulars, of the greatest
interest, are too louis; to be narrated here. It
is sufficient to explain that Mr. Massey was one
of those brilliant speculators who seek a fortune
by shipping coals to Newcastle, sugar to Mauritius,
rum to Jamaica, tea to China, or claret to
Bordeaux : a man full of ideas. He tried to
realise them, and the result was — that he came
to the village.

And they are pretty poor, too, I suppose ? '
asked Mr. Collier.

De-probably,' rei)lie(l Mi. h^k:intlebury,
rubbin^jT his hands ai^aiii.

If you want wealth,' said SirCliarles, 'you
cau go to Bucklers Hill, or to Sydenham, or
to Chi.^lehuist : here you Avill not find it. But
we have our })iide.'

One would not grudge Sir Charles Withy-comb
his pride, because it afforded him so much
police ; but in assuming that he and his friends
were singular in its possession he was wrong,
because pride is one of the things to which
everybody is entitled : it is a right of man ; it
belongs to equality and fraternity : and so
benevolently equal are the distribution of the
choicest gifts in store, that a City waiter maybe
as proud as the City Remembrancer, and the
ship's carpenter as proud as the purser.

'Some of us,' Sir Charles went on, 'have
received distinctions from her Most Gracious
Majesty the Queen ; some of us have been on
terms of familiarity with the great — yes, Mr.
Collier, have lived in Kensington Palace Gardens
; some of us have been in a large way ; we
have failed, as my friend rightly says, for an
aggregate of millions. I have myself entertained

his Eoyal Iligliiiess the riiiicc of Wales.
It was when I was Lord flavor '

Here ]mr. Colhber moved slowly away.

'Lieu I was Lord Mayor, Mr. Skantlc-
bury. At the Mansion rouse. When he
Clime away ' — at this point of the well-known
story Sir Charles's emotion always overcame
]him, to the absolute destruction of his aspirates,
which had been acquired partially and at a
comparatively late period — ' when he came
away his Eoyal 'Illness said to me, " My Lord
Mayor," he said, "I 'ope that every Lord Mayor
that comes after you will entertain me as 'and-some
as you 'ave entertained me 'handsome this
night;' lie did, indeed, Mr. Skantlebury.'

It must be a glorious recollection, Sir
Charles,' said the only hearer left, * glorious.'
lie rubbed his hands again and bowed his
head as if he had heard the anecdote for the
first time. Presently Mr. Collier returned, and
the group was joined by Mr. Massey, a large
old gentleman with a rich voice and a dignified
bearing, who appeared capable of failing for

millions. Then they talked about investments
and consulted the share lists, and were as eager
over it as if they were all going ofTwitliout a
moment's delay to invest the money for which
they had failed.

There is not much money in this village,
but there is continual talk of money, and the
perilous ways of merchant adventurers are
familiar to the residents. There is no hurried
rush to the City in the morning, nor is there
the slow return in the evening ; their feet tread
no more the golden pavement ; yet they have
been there and still would go ; and in their
eyes it is the nearest approximation to heaven
below. There was once, I have read in the
Penny Magazine,' a sailor who was too fond
of ram. Everybody in the fleet, including the
Admiral, Lord Nelson, took the. greatest interest
ill til is rare and exceptional case. It
was finally decided that the only way to
cure the patient was to give him nothing
else to drink. The first day he was in
happy heaven ; sang all the songs he knew.

^vitll many that he did not know ; danced all
the hornpipes lie knew, with many steps which
he only guessed ; and smoked as much tobacco
as can be smoked in a single day. The next
morning he was no longer in heaven, but in
purgatory. The next — but here we must leave
him, the Admiral, Lord Nelson, and the fleet
still looking on with increased interest. Now,
as these gentlemen had been pursuing the
shadow of wealth all the time they were in the
City when they had money to play with, it was
a kind of purgatory to them that they must
pursue it still when they had none. People
who are so unhappy or so wicked as to have
actually become rich need not be considered
ill this story.

In fact the village reversed the proverb,
because it showed how pride comet h after a
fall, instead of before it. For the people who
inhabited its cottages and trim villas had all, in
fact, failed, wound up, made composition, or
agreed with their creditors.

VOL. I. D

At first thoiiglit it seems strange that any
village should be blessed with so great a distinction.
Yet it is not really strange at all. For,
if you think of it, every town must have some
peculiarities. It may be placed on the Thames
or on the Potomac, but it must be placed somewhere,
else it would be worse off than a mathematical
point, which at least hath position.
Then it must have residents, else what sort of
a town would it be ? And the residents must
have distinguishing marks — unless they are
Chinamen, who are all alike over the whole
Empire. We have, for instance, all heard of
the one-ej^ed man in the city of the blind.
Altera, again, was a city where all, from young
to old, were confessedly born fools — no doubt
proud of their folly. Gotham (impudently annexed
by the Americans) is a city, on the other
hand, where they are all proud of their wisdom.
Surely, therefore, there is nothing remarkable
in a village — not a city, but a small village —
occupied entirely by people who have broken
down in the world. It would be strange, considering

low iiumy surly there be, if there were
no such virago.

There was once an island in the neighbourhood
of l^yzantiuni whittier they used to send
deposed emperors, simply dressed in monastic
garb, to live the rest of their lives on beans,
lentils, and cold water. I hive often pictured
to myself the mingled sympathy and joy with
which these unfortunates Avould welcome a new
arrival. They would hold pleasing converse
with him on the glories of the throne when
they sat upon it. They would explain to him
the true nobility of their own conduct, which
mankind had basely misinterpreted ; and they
would ask of him, or exchange with him, credence
as to the extraordinary purity of their
own motives and the greatness of their reigns.
Half-a-dozen of these old emperors sitting in a
row, like old sailors on the Cannon Hard by
Portsmouth Harbour, would be a truly delightful
picture. One can imagine the stories they
would tell about the greatness of tlu'ir fall,
the consolation they wt)uld derive from the

D 2

conteraplalioii and recollection of this fall ; and
the Utter among the cowls when another boat
was signalled having on board another deposed
emperor. Such as this island, so was this
village.

As for the men in this vilhitre, the ex-bankrupts
and compounders, they were, as a
rule, cheerful and chiq)y. They had the Green
to meet in on warm and sunny days. The past
was filled with pleasing memories. They
would compare notes on former splendors.
They would persuade themselves that they
were not quite forgotten in the City yet ; in
fact they were not, nor will they be, forgotten
for a long time. Sir Charles might still hear
very, very truthful things said about him. Mr.
CoHiber's anie will still be received with the
warmest blessings of those whom he has mined,
unto the third and fourth generation.

As for the ladies, the older ones found, like
their husbands, consolation in memory. But
it was bad for their daughters and for their
sons ; for lovers come not to this place. Th

girls — there are not many — are as perfectly
sure of a loveless life as Jephthah's daughter ;
they go about in despondency. When one
thinks about these poor girls thus hidden away
and kept out of sight of marrying man, one
feels first, vaguely, that something ought to
be done and must be done ; and secondly, that
there really should be held, some two or three
times in the year, a Babylonian marriage
market. We have got the Babylon all ready,
and really I think there would not be much
difficulty in getting an auctioneer and a steady
supply of lots. And, after all, such a marriage
would not be much more matter of
chance than plenty that are celebrated everyday.


Naturally, at nr^i, the boys grew up to
regard a big bankruptcy as a just cause for
pride ; they considered, for instance, that Whittington
came short of solid greatness by dying
in good credit ; and they looked uix)n the great
offices in the City as steps in the splendour of
a career which would presently end in a failure

for hundreds of thousands. It was long before
Allen and Will realised that this glory existed
only in the eyes of the village. The truth was
rudely brought home to them by contrast and
comparison. They learned when they went to
school that bankruptcy means poverty. Other
boys — sons of less illustrious citizens — could
have new clothes, while they had to endure
patches in unseemly places, lettings down,
additions of cuffs, and all kinds of makeshifts
to keep on the old clothes as long as they held
together. Other boys, again, could have plenty
of books ; they had to make one set of books
do between them. Some books they had to
borrow. There was scrimping in such small
matters as pens, ink, and paper. They could
not subscribe to the school club, and were thus
cut off from full companionship, and they had
no pocket-money at all. Poverty is nothing so
long as it is not felt. It mattered little to be
l)Oor while the boys lived at home and did not
go to school, because there was at least enough
to eat and to drink. It was when they were able

to compare that the truth gradually became
clear to them.

'It is all very well,' said Will at length,
for a fellow to look forward to be like Sir
Charles and Mr. CoUiber. They failed for so
much that they are grand ; everybody here is
proud of having been a bankrupt. But my
father isn't grand at all. He says that if he
hadn't failed I should have gone to Rugby and
Cambridge. Very well, then, what is he so
proud of it for ? As for me, I don't intend to
fail. I mean to make a fortune.'

So do I,' said Allen.

So do I,' said Tommy. * My uncle is an
oil broker in a large way ; he'll give me a
birth to begin with. You should see his house
at Brixton. I mean to make money too. You
should hear him order about his butler. We
had champagne there last Christmas.'

The three boys were the only boys in the
place, and an object of interest to the residents,
who gave them advice in a paternal spirit, and
sometimes, but seldom, sixpences.

Stick to your books, boys said Sir Charles,
stick to your books, especially your account
books. They have made me, boys, what I am.'
He puffed out his cheeks as lie spoke, and
Allen, though he regarded Sir Charles as the
greatest of men, thought of the frog in the
fable, while Will began to wonder whether it
was the adding up of those books wrong which
had made him what he was. 'They made
your fathers, lads. Now which of you three is
best in arithmetic ? '

The other two pointed to Will, who blushed,
but did not deny the accusation.

Well,' said Sir Charles, ' I hope you are
all good at figures. And what is your ambition,
Will?'

I shall try, sir, not to fail,' said the boy in
his downright way.

Mr. Collier laughed sarcastically, Sir
Charles looked uncomfortable, Mr. Skantlebury
coughed behind his hand.

'Ah! yes — good. And you, Olynthus?'
asked Sir Charles.

I shall try to be Lord Mayor of London,
and ^vhen I fail it shall be for hundreds of
thousands,' replied the ingenuous Tommy.

A noble boy indeed ! Truly a noble boy.
That is the spirit, lads, in which to enter life.
Thus was England made.' He patted Tommy's
head and would have given him half-a-crown
but that he had no half-crowns just then.
Lord Mayor of London,' he repeated. ' Yes,
that is worth aiming at. Did I ever tell you
how I entertained his Royal 'Highness the Prince
of Wales?'

Had he ever told them anything else ?

'When he went away, his Eoyal 'Highness
was good enough to say, " My Lord Mayor, all
I ran say is this, I only 'ope your Lordship's
successor will entertain me as 'handsome as you
'ave entertained me 'handsome this night." That
was about enough, boys, wasn't it ? Eh ?
eh ? eh ? '

'Will,' said Allen, 'I hate money. They

talk about nothing else. Where are the people
^vho read books and talk about things that
don't mean money ? '

I don't know,' Will answered. ' I don't
hate money. With money you can buy whatever
you like. The richer I get the better I
shall like it. With money, Allen, you can
even buy books.'

They went to an old grammar school about
two miles nearer town. To set there the lads
had to tram) the two miles there and back
every day ; they marched side by side ; frequently,
on Saturday afternoons especially, they
would encounter other lads from Stratford,
Bow, Clapton, Stepney, and Old Ford. Then
there would be a fight, in which they sometimes
came off victors and sometimes had to retire.
Yet not ingloriously, for who could resist the
ponderous charge of Will, master of an iron
fist, ambidexter, the Achilles of the Forest ?
Beside him charged Allen, as plucky yet not so
stout of build ; and, outside the melee Tommy
plied the dexterous pebble. Insomuch that

the prowess of the three was bruited abroad,
and the chivalry of the East-end came forti.
When the worsted combatants went home again
they always boasted of a victory and egged
their friends to go too, and try their luck. But
it was observed by the thoughtful that no one
went twice.

The school wa.^ an ancient foundation, and
the boys were well taught. It was not wholly,
for instance, a school for the training of the
Perfect Clerk, whirl is simple, and means
handwriting, spelling, and book-keeping. The
Perfect Clerk needs little more. It was rather
a school for the training of the ambitious clerk
who aspires to a partnership. Most of the boys*
fathers were already partners, and intended
that the boys should follow after them. There
were many things taught in the school, and it
was the fault of the masters if the Literae
humanities were generally regarded by the
boys as encumbrances, or perhaps useless ornaments,
to their possession. The masters, for
instance, knew quantities of Latin — a fact most

discouraging to the student, because clearly
they made no money. There was an atmosphere
of the City about the school. And it
was an interesting school, and had a most
charming old building of red brick with ivy
and picturesque masters' houses ; yet it was a
school from which the boys did not run away
to sea, or enlist in the army, or go on the stage,
or become artists, or take to letters, or try any
of the fancy methods of living. They all looked
forward to going into the City. The knowledge
of this ought to make the fortune of the school.

CHAPTER II.

THE FOREST OF HAIXAULT.

TiiK village where these boys were brought up
stands on the fringe of the old forest which
once covered the whole of the north of London.
It has no beauty of its own, apart from the
white wooden cottages with gables and porches
and garden pangs all covered up and almost
hidden by every kind of creeping plant, and
the gracious amplitude of garden which surrounds
every house big and little, so that the
inhabitants may enjoy the fruits of the earth indue
season. It is so near London that a boy
with an imagination may at any time fancy that
he can hear the bells of Bow Church — not
Stratford-le-Bow Church, which is much nearer
and if he stands with his head half turned

and his left liancl curled round his left ear, he
can easily make out what the bells say, and
urn again, and become Dick Whittington, and
sk Sir Charles the best way to become Lord
Mayor. Yet it is so far away that London fogs
fall never upon its pleasant gardens, and as for
that great canopy of perpetual smoke of which
we hear so much, there is not so much as the
fringe of it between the children's eyes and the
blue of heaven.

It is so far from London, again, as to be
full of country delights, rural sounds and rural
sights. The rurality of the place, to one fresh
from town, seems overdone, an affectation of
rurality, a pedantry and pretence, somewhat
over acted, of rusticity.

Thus, nowhere are the roads more liberally
edged with broad belts of grass, a^ if laud was
plentiful and che]) ; nowhere will you lind
such broad, ugly, uncared-for ditches, with
]pollard wilhnvs and old oaks beside them,
blackberry bushes and brambles scrambling
over them, and tall weeds, reeds, and strange

-svild flowers growing in them ; nowhere will
you find the ducks waddling by the roadside
with more perfect trustfulness, as if there were
no tramps or gipsies in the world; surely, a
duck, of all creatures, must be sincere : she
would not pretend a trustfulness she did not
feci. The roadside inns are picturesque and
dirty ; their signs — brave old signs such as the
*Good Intent' and the 'Travellers Rest' —
hang creak lily over the wooden trough full of
water for the horses. There is generally a
lioi^se and cart waiting ; the horse drinks at
the trough, the driver, leaning against a doorpost
of the inn with a nuit of beer in his hand,
drinks and exchanges opinions with the landlord
; the i)cople in the road roll as they walk,
with hands in pockets, lifting feet accustomed
to a clay soil — quite iw if they were hundreds
of miles from London ; the very children roll
in their walk ; they roll up, ragged and brown,
like the cloud rack ; they are rosy and picturesque
children, save when they bang and
beat each other and cry with dirty knuckles in

tearful eyes. The roads are quiet and there are
few wayfarers. Sometimes when the weather
is warm and the sun is sloping downwards you
may see, leaning over the green palings of the
cottage garden, the meditative maiden, looking
up and down the dusty way. She waits, I suppose,
for the Prince, who is to come some day
and change lier quiet life, and give her a high
old time, a real romantic time, and make her
happy ever after. The seasons and the days of
these quiet girls' lives are very beautiful to contemplate
and to read about — in little bits. All
lives are to be taken, as the artist takes his
landscapes — in bits. If you take a bit so big
as to be, so to speak, a Piece, it becomes monotonous,
even considered as a study of character.
The girls themselves in this quiet place say that
to be always studying your own character
grows in the long run almost intolerable. And
as for that Prince, unless he goes about on a
bicycle on a Saturday afternoon, I have never
met him in any of the lanes in these parts, and
one fears indeed that he may not come until

the spring of soft cheeks and tender eyes begone.


In the road, besides the ditches and the
belt of grass, there is pig — white pig and bhxck
pig ; they lie in the warm nuit happy and
satisfied with life. Tliey burrow their noses
among the coarse tufts of grass in search for
something toothsome, of which they know, and
would tell us if they could ; let us never forget,
tiny brothers, that the pig was the original discoverer
— the Columbus — of Tableland. The
expression of the intelligent and mobile tail, as
its owner pokes his snout into the mud, indicates
the curiosity and excitement of research,
and perhaps the gratitude of success. Lastly,
just to prove how deep we are in the country,
the air is full of sounds absolutely rural. Nowhere
else so near to London can you hear
such sinujiiiix of birds ; nowhere else so near do
you get the nightingale, nowhere else so near
does the dove coo. You may hear the tinkle
of a sheep-bell just as if you were on Dartmoor.
You may see a hawk hovering in the air as if

VOL. I. K

you were on Malvern Ilill. You may hear (lie
sharpening of the scythe, the hammer of the
blacksmith, and the wo-wo-ing of the ploughboy.
On Sunday evening you may wateji
the ploughboy making love. And never an
omnibus, or a tram, or the whistle of a
train.

The forest, by which the village lies, was
once a very magnificent and royal place indeed.
It has associations of history One of the kings
was wont to hunt here, a fiict which makes it
interesting to everybody. Another king once
rode through the forest. The old trees remember
both events very well, yet attach very
small importance to them, being more concerned
with the recent steps taken for their
own ]preservation. For a very remarkable custom
formerly prevailed there. The people were
a religious folk and anxious to live Avell and
keep a clear conscience. Everybody will applaud
them for this. And in order to make the clarity
of conscience easier and safer, they took the
eighth commandment out of the decalogue,

and very soon forgot that it had ever existed,
except when a new curate came and noticed its
omission, and fumbled about and turned red,
when one of the churchwardens would <io and
explain to him briefly, that in the spiritual
interests of the parish, this excision had been
found necessary. Because they gave up their
whole leisure time to carving bits out of the
forest and adding them to their own gardens,
sticking up palings round these bits ; here a
cantle and there a snippet, here a slab and there
a slice ; a round corner and a square corner ; a
bare piece of turf, or a wooded clump : and all
so neighbourly, encouraging each other the
while with a ' Brother, will this be to your
mind?' or 'Help yourself, neighbour;' and
Let me recommend, sir, another slice ; ' or ' A
piece of the Avoody part, dear friend.' The
only tune which was popular in that otherwise
unmusical neighbourhood was the Rogue's
March), and the only articles in demand were
axes to hew down the trees and v.ood ready cut
and shaped for palings wherewithal to stake

E 2

out the now property. On Sundays they
knocked oil* work and went to church and liekl
the plate. If a rustic lopped a branch of these
stolen oaks he got six months' hard, because
the inequalities of rank must be respected, and
nobody can be allowed to steal anything until
he has begun to pay income tax.

This was, in fiict, all that was left of the
great Forest of Ilainault ; once a vast wildwood
filled with wild creatures, boar and stag,
fox and wolf, marten, weasel, badger, stoat,
polecat, water rat, and squirrel. Nobody
looked upon it, nobody lived in it, not even the
gipsies ; and as it was on no high-road, nobody
ever visited it. In the good old days when the
Lord Mayor's Court used to put rogues and
vagabonds, whom pillory failed to cure, outside
the city walls, they came to this forest and set
uj) ill business as robbers, murderers, highwaymen,
pilferers, and farm-house sneaks. Few
grew fat in those trades: most were audit
and luingcd : the rest, less fortunate, starved
when the winter came. All through the last

century the great forest was a safe, commodious,
and convenient rendezvous for those gentlemen
of the road who took the eastern circuit.
Lieu this profession decayed, the forest was
deserted indeed, save for the chipping, picking,
and stealing all round its edge. Thirty years
ago they resolved on destroying it altogether :
in fact, they did destroy an enormous shee of
it — the larger slice : they converted miles of
wild forest, with rough uplands and green dales,
covered with grand old trees, into a treeless
tract, staked out in square fields and rectangular
roads. Then they wagged their stupid heads
and rubbed together their ridiculous hands and
said it was a great improvement.

Yet not all ; there remains a glorious fragment,
so large as to be still called the Forest.
And this place was the playground of the
children of whom we write.

When Claire first began to run about with
the boys I know not ; the custom grew up by
degrees ; its origin is pre-historic ; she was a
very little girl at the time, and it continued till

she became a great girl, and a maiden fully
grown.

To begin with, she had no other playmates ;
she lived a good way from the school, where
the other girls were mostly boarders. Then
the forest is a safe place for children ; yon may
climb up a tree and fall off a branch, no doubt ;
or a branch may be detached by an evil-minded
tree and come doAvn upon yon, but very little
else can happen. There are pools in the
forest, but most of them are shallow ; there are
marshy places and lungs, but a wet foot is the
worst that can happen ; there are gipsies, but
they have ceased to steal children, and only
steal linen, poultry, ducks, and sucking-pigs ;
and even on Sundays there are never here, as
there are in Epping Forest, men who bawl,
drink too much beer, laugh at nothing, carry
their hats at the back of their heads, shout, and
behave, as regards walking, like unto a sailor
on board ship when the raging winds do blow.

Then the cottage in which Claire lived was
the nearest to the forest, so that she could wait

at the garden gate for the bo's 011 their way,
and be left there by them on their return.

As the children grew older they went
further afield, so that there was no part of the
forest which they did not know. They belonged
to the forest ; when they left the houses
and crossed the great meadow which stretches
away from the road, and found themselves in
the broad green way which, like a made road,
runs here into the very heart of the forest, they
were at home. The lanes which lead right and
left from this green road were known to all of
them; they are lanes of springy turf; over
them are the boughs of oak and elm and birch ;
beside them, sometimes across them, are tufts
or clumps or little jungles of hawthorn, honeysuckle,
elder, and blackberry ; the sunlight falls
on these lanes through the leaves and is always
soft, and there is a continual shifting of light
and shade caused by the movement of the
branches. The children explored all these
lanes and knew whither each one led : where
the broad way of turf widened out into an

amphitheatre, they made it a playing ground,
a race-course, a stage for dramatic representation
; where it narrowed again and became no
wider than one of the little lanes they followed
on through shade and sunshine under the
branches of the old oaks till it opened again.
They knew it all. It is not a very great forest ;
beside Fontainebleau and the forests of Eu or
Chantilly, or the New Forest, or the Forest of
Dean it is small ; but it is real forest, it is wild.
An active lad would soon cover the whole
ground. But then a forest is not a park nor is
it a field ; there are endless things to explore
in it ; there are creatures — wild creatures —
which may be started in the underwood ;
among them are the tame cats who have grown
wild and now ])nss ]precious lives in great
discomfort ; in the spring and summer the air
is musical with birds of which these children
knew every note ; in the winter there are the
donkeys who run loose and keep themselves —
they will let themselves be ridden in hard
times, bare backed, and never a kick, for a

crust of bread ; and there are things, yea,
tritons and evvets, and wriggling things, in the
]pools, and jack may be cauiilit in the river
Eoding ; there are butterflies and niotlis to be
chased ; there are flowers in the spring, and
blackberries in the autumn. Besides the
creatures and the trees and flowers there is
scenery ; here and there hill-sides clothed With
wood ; slopes on ^vhich, as you stand upon
them and look among the trees, the sun produces
strange and Wonderful effects ; stretches
of elastic turf; places where the forest seems
to recede and still to recede as you walk
along, great trees, avenues of oaks, gatherings
of beeches, with ash and elm and sycamore
; everywhere the underwood of hawthorn,
honeysuckle, and wild rose ; everywhere the
freshness and fragrance of the wild wood ;
always light and colour even in January, when
the delicate purple bloom lies upon the masses
of bush and shrub and the late leaves linger on
the sheltered branches, and always silence and
rest from the talk of man. In such a forest

the talk of money, ilial was too much in the
ears of these boys, was forgotten ; the meanness
and the poverty of their homes were forgotten
; it was a school in which the boys
learned those things which cannot be written
down.

It is, moreover, a forest so deserted, so
forgotten, that Robinson Crusoe might live
there and seldom regret his island ; no one
knows of it ; no one goes there ; it leads nowhere
: it is five miles from any railway
station ; the children had it altogether to
themselves. The rowdy and the rough know
it not ; there are no tea-gardens ; on Sunday
or on the week day it is silent and lonely ;
you may dream away the livelong day alone
under the old trees, as grey as those olives of
Provence, which are born a hundred years old.
No one ever goes to Ilainault except, two or
three times a year, a few school feasts ; and
then the children do not penetrate fair into the
wood; they play in the broad meadow that
lies stretched out before it ; and if you get to

the right distance from them yoii may catch
the sweetness of the hymns which they sing ;
but you must not be too near them or you will
hear the Cockney twang. Why, even the
guide books do not know Hainault Forest.

To have such a place all to themselves, with
such a country-side to walk in, surely compensated
for poverty. Why, with a turn of
the wheel they might have lived at Lancaster
Gate and then they would have had nothing
but Kensington Gardens. On the other hand,
with another turn of the wheel they might have
lived in the Mile End Road and so have lead
nothing at all but Stepney Green.

In long summer holidays the children could
take their dinners with them and make excursions
around and outside the forest. For instance,
they would walk over to the school at
Chigwell and thence take a path across fields to
Houghton ; the river Roding runs through these
fields ; they could fish in the Roding, which
after rain is an impetuous, headlong stream,
out is sluggish in fair weather. There are

houses to be passed at Houghton, but beyond
the houses is High leech, and beyond High
Beech stretches another forest outside the
range of tramp and rowdy, and as wild almost
asHainault; beyond this comes the road, and
beyond the road Copped Hall Green, an outlying
bit of wild wood ; and then three miles
of road and then an ancient town. There is
nothing in the town except the bridge over
the Lea and the old Abbey Church. The
Abbey buildings have long since been pulled
down ; the east end and chancel of the church
are gone, yet what remains is stately ; and it
is surrounded by a churchyard in which stands
an old, old tree, bound about with iron bands
and ]provided with a bench on which should be
sitting none but old men, contemplating with
forth and resignation the place where they soon
must lie. To one of these boys, if he went
there alone and sat long enough, there presently
came a vision. lie saw a fierce battle, with
men in armour, and armed with cross-bow,
long-bow, pike, lance, and heavy sword. There

was a great shouting and clashing of weapons ;
there was the heavy tramp of chargers carrying
knights in iron armour ; there was the rushing
to and fro of men who charged and men who
fled ; there was the hurting of bolts and arnnvs
in the air ; there was a flight and a slaughter.
It was the vision of Senlac Fight which time
to the boy, because somewhere at his feet there
lay the bones of King Harold and his brothers.
Or, there is another field-path which takes
you to Bucklers Ilill, where there are more
houses ; but you can soon get through these
and then you are in the forest again, where
there are avenues of oaks. When you get
through these you are only a mile or so from
an ancient deserted church. It is empty now
and dismantled ; its windows are broken, its
roof is gaping, it is covered all over roof and
walls with the ivy of live hundred years. A
place hallowed by the joys of love and marriage,
the lio[)es of childhood, the prayers of
life, the tears of death, through all these
generations. Those who have lived and loved,

rejoiced and Ave[)t, lie now around tliuir ruined
church ; their forgotten dust, and the very
oblivion of their lives and their hopes consecrate
the place. It is by such things, far more than
by the formal footstep and perambulation of
the bishop, that a churchyard is set apart and
hallowed.

Or, again, there is another way beyond the
forest which leads along narrow leafy lanes, the
like of which you cannot find outside of Devonshire.
You pass by the way a place at which
the children always stopped to look over
crumbling old wooden palings into a strange
deserted graveyard. There is no church or
chapel in it or sign of any building ; it is a
small square covered with graves, and containing
one or two headstones ; trees stand round
it, and it is covered with long grass ; a wild
and ghostly place. A mile or so farther you
come to a little old town ; a town of which
nobody ever heard, whither nobody goes ; a
town of red-brick gabled houses with red-tiled
roofs standing all huddled together in a circle,

as if tlierc were once walls round it ; a strangely
quiet town, which looks as if. it had never even
heard of the outer world, and took no interest
in anything but itself, but proposed to go on in
this retired fashion, as secure and happy and
peaceful as the city of Lash.

A child who is brought up beside the sea
learns daily lessons in the vastness and illimitable
variety of the world. lie sees the stately
ships go by ; he watches the waves and gathers
the shells ; his mind may become full of great
thoughts ; it cannot learn from the sea any
thoughts that are small and mean. A child
brought up in the monotony of endless streets
must get great and noble thoughts in spite of
the houses standing innumerable, row after
row, line upon line ; there is no education for
such a child outside its home. A boy born on
the steppes of Central Asia is not so badly off,
because there are quantities of things to watch
and wonder at on the steppe — snakes, wolves,
bears, Kurd and Co?siick, Turcoman and Tartar.
But a child brought up in a forest learns,

besides the manners and customs of trees, the
underwood, the flowers, the grass, and the
forest creatures ; besides the beauty of the open
glades and hanging woods and tangled branches
overhead ; the cheerfulness of nature, the joy
of every living thing, and the freedom which
makes that joy possible for humanity.

This forest hatfield, these wanderings iii
the free and open woodlands, among green
glades and wild woods, affected the boys ina
different way. For one, they strengthened
brain and nerve and eye ; they made him strong
of limb, stout of heart, and keen to see things
as they are. As regards the second, the forest
filled his imagination and gave him food for the
vague, delighted dreams which haunted him
day and night.

There was the third boy. But he very soon
dropped out from among them and longed for
the City pavement, lie sat at home, where he
ruled over his mother and sisters and read tales
of fashionable life, and wondered how soon it
would be before he, too, might smoke cigarettes

^vitli reckless baronets, and listen to the popping
of champagne corks and sit up gambling till
they were all knee deep in cards.

But Claire went with the other two, when
she was a little crirl and it was delif]^ht enough
to run and jump ; when she was older and could
learn with them the secrets of the forest ; and
when she was so old that she could think and
wonder and ask herself, in vague and girlish
way, what life had yet to give.

VOL. I,

CIIAPTEE III.

WHAT THERE IS OUTSIDE.

They ^vill be nothing after all,' said Hector
Philiponon, looking at the boys at play, ' but little
clerks — ijet'ds commis. Poor little chaps ! that
must be their flite.' He rolled another cigarette
and began to reflect upon the various conditions
of mankind, and especially on clcrkery.

He knew {\\q petit commis of Paris, and he
rashly concluded that he of London resembled
him, not knowing that in clcrkery, as-in the
Church or the law, or any other calling, there
are degrees, grades, depths, and heights. He
thought that all alike Avere hopeless. Their
labour, he argued, from these unsound premises,
is not skilled ; they have no skill or craft ; they
cau write, spell, read, cast accounts ; they are

worth in the market from fifteen to eighteen
shillings ii "week; and tliougli many arrive at
two, three, or even for pounds a week, lliat is
only by the generosity and pity of tlicir employers,
a race of men who are always confounding
social economists and breaking the
rules of the most lovely theory. These people,
he ignorantly thought, must be miserable, because
they have no pride in their work ; because
their work is monotonous, and the same from
youth to age ; because there are no prizes for
them ; because there is no dignity in their lives;
because they must always remain servants ; because
they must pretend to be gentlemen ; because
they have no holidays, except Kama week
in the year ; because of necessity they nuit
live amidst mean and monotonous surroundings.
This class of humanity did not seem, to this
philosopher, even interesting: a frenchman is
never moved by a thing which is not dramatic :
and it is difficult to dramatise that kind of
sorrow which comes of pinching; one feels little
sympathy With a man who seldom starves yet is

Y 2

always kept low ; who is pinched all rouiul, in
his pay and in this work ; in his education and
his knowledge ; in his ideas and his hopes ; in
his art — here he is not pinched but deprived and
robbed ; in his religion, which requires a whole
chapter of explanation ; in this morals, to explain
which requires a visit to the nearest
music-hall ; in his home, which is all pinching
and pricking ; in his joys, which are of the
saddest. Yet this uninteresting person, if he
exists, needs a great deal of pity.

lie does exist, though M. Philiponon ignorantly
exaggerated his numbers : the hopeless clerk is
found in every city. He is in London as well
as in Paris, and wherever he is found he is
always the same helpless, ignorant, hopeless log.

Now two, at least, of these three boys were
from the beginning, as it seemed to their honest
friend, destined to live the life of thu* hopeless
clerk. 'JliL'ir parents were too poor to keep
them at school after fourteen or fifteen, or to
teach them anything beyond the ordinary school
course. Thevv had no friends, no influence, no

money, and, wliicli was worse*, tlicy lead no idea
lliat life outside the City was even possible for
any boys. It was, therefore, fortunate that
they were ' found out' by Hector PhiHpon. In
the eyes of the vilhiL'e M. Phih[)on was nothing
but a very polite and well-dressed little Frenchman,
who held a post generally supposed to
belong to the most harmless and the meekest
of mankind ; those who, like hair-dressers,
drapers' assistants, waiters, and vergers, have not
so much as a single kick in all their profession.
lie was teacher of French in a large girls*
school. Meekness and harmlessness were professional
attributes. It was known, besides,
that his butcher's bill was ridiculously small,
and this was taken as in itself a proof of meekness.
None of the girls had ever seen him out
of temper, though he was continually tempted
to commit child-murder. This was another
proof of meekness. lie was also reported to
follow the pursuit of gardening during this leisure
moments, and this was another proof of meekness,
if any more were wanted. Lastly, he had

never been in business, anglia therefore never
failed. This was contemptible. He lived in a
very little cottage of six small rooms, standing
on the skirts of the forest, and surrounded by
green wooden palings ; beyond the palings you
saw the old trees. The cottage was built of
the old, not the new, warm red brick, and
possessed a broad Wooden porch with a bench
on either side. One could sit in the porch in
almost all weathers. A wistaria climbed up on
one side and a jessamine on the other; round
and about the house there were honeysuckle,
hawthorn, lilac, laburnum, and roses — roses
yellow, roses red, roses white, roses of all
kinds ; in the front a dainty flower garden ; at
the back a arise vegetable and fruit garden.
The harmless, polite little man could be seen
on half-holiday's, early in the morning, late in
the evening, dressed in a blue blouse, at work
among his flowers and his cabbages. He was
a model teacher of French for young ladies, and
he had but one fault, that he did not go to
church. Kit then a French master is always

allowed to be a Woman Catholic, and there was
no Catholic Church in the place. He was
ignorantly supposed to say mass, all by himself,
alone. Harmless ! And yet he was the only
man in all that village who had ideas ! The
only man who knew his fellow-men, and they
thought him harmless ! If I were a lady, and
if, in addition to this transformation, I vere to
become a lady who ' bossed ' a girl's school, I
should not choose for my French master one
whose favourite reading was Voltaire, trousseau,
Diderot, and such revolutionary writers of the
last century ; nor should I feel comfortable if I
knew that a red republican Wits turned loose
among my innocent flock ; nor should I keep a
bit longer than I could help a man who everyday,
in the privacy of his home, propounded
maxims and gave utterance to thoughts and
sentiments of the most dangerous character.
You shall see how harmless he was.

M. Philiponon, while the boys were young,
was unhappy because he lead no one to talk to
except his little daughter. At the school lie

would talk to the girls in French, but he hated
the girls. Yes ; had bliss BilHngsworth known
it ! He hated the girls and he detested the
grammar of his own language, and he was alone
and could not express his sentiments. Fortunately
he began to talk to the boys who played
in the forest with his Claire, and before long he
made the discovery that two of them, at least,
were boys with heads upon their shoulders.
Then he began, partly because he had nothing
to think about, to watch them and to listen to
their talk while they played, because it is the
talk of a boy at play which reveals the character
of that boy, and he made an observation about
certain differences between them. This was
that one of the boys was always wanting to sit
by himself and read, and always ready to
borrow any book he could get and go away to
secluded spots in order to read his book ; further,
that another was always interested in hearing
the contents of that book without desiring to
read it for himself, and that the third neither
read nor listened, and was not athirst for information.

Now boys are like sheep in this
respect, that no two bo's are alike. But it
requires observation to discover the differences
between them. Therefore M. Philiponon began
to consider these boys more carefully, and he
beciinie interested in them. And by conversation
and observation he was made aware that
they were desperately poor and would be sent
into the City as soon as they could be taken
away from school. lie thought of the 'petit
com mis of Paris, and his soul was sad for the
future of the two l>^'s, bright and brave, and
born for better things. Yet what help? 'What
can we do, Claire ? ' he asked his daughter.
What can we do to help your friends ? '

Will has got a prize for arithmetic, and
Allen for Latin, and Tommy for writing,'
said Claire, implying that they wanted no
help.

That is well ; yet, my child, the ignorance
of all three is profound : it is phenomenal. To
be sure, you are as ignorant as the boys. That
matters less. None of you, I believe, know

that there are a great many people outside the
City of London.*

'Oil! papa. Why, we all learn geography.
I am in A?<ia already. Of course we all know
that.'

Claire, my dear, sit here at my feet and
listen.' They were in the garden alone on a
sunny afternoon. ' You are a very little girl
yet, but you are thoughtful. Consider what I
say. Boys who learn nothing know nothing.
Boys who know nothing and have no money
have no chance. Boys who have no chance
become 'petits coins — little clerks. These
are the miserable who spend their lives copying
at a desk ; do you wish your friends to be
copying machines ? '

^ No, no. ]put Allen and Will could never
be that.'

'They must be that, my child, unless we
help — you and I together.'

'Why, what can I do, papa? '

You nuit become suddenly five or six
years older. You must try to understand

-svliat I am doing and ^vliy. Now listen. The
only thing that can hel[) these boys is knowledge.
They must know more than their competitors.
What tJiey learn at school will not
lies[) them much. I shall try to teach them
the things that Avill be useful. Do you understand
me?'

'Yes, papa.'

Good. In order to do this I must make
them eager to learn ; you nuit help) me by
being yourself nitre eager to learn than to
play.'

Her face fell a little. She would certainly
rather play.

It is for the boys' sake, my daughter.'

She hesitated no longer.

I will be eager to learn, papa.'

'Good girl ! I will reward you by telling
you more. While they are learning they shall
think that they are playing; only you and I
will know that they are teaching themselves
useful things. All the time I shall be putting
things into their heads and making them ambitious.

And you shall have the satisfaction of
knowing that you are helping to make men
instead of machines. You may even, if you
please, tell the boys.'

The boy he went on, ' who knows nothing
is dangerous ; he has power and does
not understand how to use it ; he is an elector,
perhaps, even, an elected ; he is like a loaded
gun in the hands of a monkey. Stupidity is
only safe when it is blind, deaf, and sleepy.
When it wakes up it is mad. Let us prevent
the boys from being stupid.'

The Frenchman proceeded to act. lie put
on his best coat and a fresh flower in his buttonhole,
assumed his most diplomatic manner, and
made three calls in the village. First he called
upon Mr. Massey, and next upon i\Ii's. Engle-dew.
To each lie pointed out the importance
to a young man entering the City of one foreign
language at least, and he offered to teach
the l)oys his own gratuitously. The offer
was accepted promptly and With grateful surprise.
For to fid a man ready to give his

services for nothing is ti lliiiig (suite out of the
common.

I have always said,' remarked Sir Charles
when he heard of it, 'that Monsieur Philiponon
was a harmless, good enough sort of person.
For nothing, did you say, Massey ? Dear me I
In the City, now, we know better.'

We do, indeed. Sir Charles,' said Mr.
Skantlebury. It is difficult to see what services
a man can render his brother man for nothing
in the City, unless he gives him cargoes for
nothing.

The man is a foreigner,' said Mr. Collier.
Tve ahvavs thought that another name for
Tom Fool.'

But if he teaches the boy French ' — observed
Mr. Massey, with a little doui)t.

Take his offer, Massey,' said Mr. Colder.
Take all you can get for nothing.'

Hector also tide the same offer to Mrs.
Gallaway, but it was declined because the ruler
of the house said that his uncle, who had the
great house at Hilton, and was in a Large

Way ill Oil, had jot on without French, and
so could lie.

The lessons were not at all wlial the boys
expected. Tliey looked forward with little
eagerness to learning? irrainniar and writia<^
exercises. They found no grammar at all, and
no exercises. On the contrary, the lamp was
lit in the sitting-room; there were two or three
books on the table. Their teacher welcomed
them in French, and then informed them in
English that for the future no word of their
OAvn language was to be spoken in his presence.
The boys looked at each other in dismay.
Why, he was always with them. Not a word
of English ? Were, then, their very sports in
the forest to bo conducted, so to speak, in
French? Then ]\L. riiilipon rolled a cigarette,
lit it, and began to talk to Claire. Then Claire
began to talk to the boys, but they understood
not one word. Then she read to her father,
and ]presently handed them the book, but they
could not read a word.

When they went home they felt inclined to

cry, and wondered whether it was ]possible lor
two boys to look more profoundly foolish.

The next evening Claire met them at the
garden fete and told them a few French
]phrases, and the names of things about them,
and what she was going to talk about with her
father. Accordingly, when the lesson began,
they knew Avhat was meant, and she went
round the room Lnvinir names to the thing's.
Then they bei^an to find French names for
everything; as they played in the forest; as
they walked to school and back ; whenever
they where with Claire. Remark, that the first
thing you want in a language is the vocabulary;
men who learn many languages begin after the
manner of Adam, with the names, not after the
maimer of the schoolmaster, with the syntax.
Those who do not want to le:irn a language
begin with granular and exercises; this is the
wny of our schools, and it is the cause of our
brilliant success in modern languages. Next,
they learned, chiefly by Claire's help), how to
connect the names with verbs and adjectives

and tidings of that sort; mid they perceived
that a certain amount of grammar was necessary,
which M. rhili})Oii was so good as to put
into their heads ; but there was no regular
teaching ; lie sat and listened while they talked
and read. One may remark that if he had
adopted the method at his school, the girls
would have really learned French ; but he was
expected to follow the lines to which his employer
was accustomed. That is to say, he
read Racine With the girls and made them
write exercises on the experiences of the watchmaker's
aunt and the gardener's grandfather.
Therefore, the girls did not learn French at all
and the boys did, though they wrote no exercises
at all and knew nothing about the gardener's
grandfather. The difference was that
Miss Billingsworth bought a machine warranted
to grind in one way only, and that the boys
got a man's brains given to their service and
always tliiiikiiig what would be best for tlicm.

Wlien their ears lead caught the sound of
the French language, when they had learned

a copious vocabulary and could read with
]pleasure and talk freely, though still with
plenty of mistakes, their teacher set them to
write; they read a story one evening and
wrote it down the next ; then they compared
what they had written will what they had
read and were put to shame. It was necessary
to find out many more things in the grammar ;
they found these out.

Hector rhilipon,in fad, was a man of ideas
and of clear mind. lie wanted the boys to
learn, not to pretend. He therefore made
them teach themselves by an intelligent process,
while he taught his girls by the conventional
process. In two years they really
knew French. Hector, by this most precious
gift, lifted them by one step out of the lower
levels of olerker}^ ; their commercial value was
doubled.

One does not talk every evening with a
man who has read, and can think, and has
acted among his fellow-men, without results.
First of all, the boys read quantities of books,

VOL. I. (J

lively travels, in wliicli the writers, being
Frenchmen, looked out perpetually for dramatic
situations ; biographies, also Written by Frenchmen,
and therefore compiled ^vith a view to
tableaux ; history, which is full of splendid
scenes ; and tales, especially the tales of Erck-
mann-chairman. Next, they learned that there
are other forms of life besides business life in
the City ; this was an immense stride in knowledge
; and other occupations besides making
money by buying cheap and selling dear, and
other men and women besides the people of
the City. They got all kinds of ideas, with
vague ambitions ; they forgot their poverty
and the very small and humble debut into life
which was before them ; their hearts glowed in
thinking of the great deeds of the men who
had gone before them, and the splendid things
which they, too, would achieve. In the course
of time there grew up in both the boys a dim
and shadowy ^"isi()ll of a great and wonderful
future opening out for all the world ; what it
was they did not know, nor did they inquire ;

nor did they realise that the thing had been
suggested by their instructor. All that they
understood as yet was, that some time or other
illic wars and battles would come to an end
because there would be nothing left to fidit
for ; that the history of the world is a history
of people fighting for justice ; that they would
at last, somehow, arrive at justice ; and that
this would so far extend the general stock
of happiness that there would be enough
to go round and to spare. Was not this
a great and suggestive lesson for the boys to
learn ?

Oh ! harmless M. Phihpon ! Oh ! unsuspecting
village I Oil! condescension and patronage!
For here were two boys, with strong
brains and stout arms, already full of ideas and
athirst for knowledge, and here was a crafty
teacup* of girls — nothing more than that —
leading them on, step by step, into ways of
thought, which gentlemen who hud failal for
an aggregate of a million and a quarter could
not contemplate without horror.

CHAPTER IV.

A New SHAME.

The time came when they must leave school
and beghi work. They where now fifteen years
of age, and tall lads, who might have passed for
seventeen. There is a House in the City —
lirimageandWariiig's — whose offices are situated
in the square of Great St. Simon Apostle,
where there is the Dutch Church, and at the
London and the St. Katharine Docks. It is a
House in the silk trade, which has a long and
splendid history, and employs an immense
quantity of clerks, workmen, porters, carters,
and })C()])le of all kinds : and il lias branches
and agencies in the far East, and in France.
The grey-headed men who draw large salaries,
or have a share in the profits, have been in the

Ilouse since tlicy were boys. Tliey entered as
clerks, ambitious rising clerks. There are,
also, grey-headed men Who entered with them
as clerks, without ambition, hopeless clerks,
who began to copy letters and add up, and are
doing the same tliiug still, and draw, some of
them, as much as two hundred pounds a year,
and live at Stepney, or Pentonville, or, it maybe,
happy Horton. Allen's father began as an
ambitious clerk in this Ilouse, but he went out
of it and set up for himself, as do most ambitious
clerks who love to be their own masters.

It was natural, therefore, that Allen's
mother should apply to the partners of this
House in her son's behalf. They promised to
receive him, and they informed the widow that
the boy should be favourably looked after.

By good fortune, ^^'ill also got into the
same Firm at the same time, so that the two
boys, who had so long trudged together backwards
and forwards to school, now went to the
City and back by the same train, sat beside
each other at the same desk, and took their

dinners together for nine pence at the same lune


As for Tommy, hie was, of course, taken
into his uncle's office.

But on the evening before Allen's duties
began, his mother begged hai to stay at home
with her. She had something to tell him. She
was a woman born to be comely, smiling, and
contented, but fate had been against her. The
memory of past misfortune and the pinch of
present poverty had taken the sunshine out of
her face, which was generally hard, except
when her eyes fell upon the boy. For in him
was her only hope. A daughter of the City,
too, who knew of no other life for a man than
to go off ' to business ' every morning, and to
make himself a position. What her husband
had tried to do, her son would succeed in
doing.

The thing she had to tell was so dreadful
that, when she began to tell it, she fell into
passionate sobbing and crying, such as Allen
had never seen before.

Why, mother,' he said, ' if it distresses you,
do not tell me.'

It is about your father,' she cried. ' Oh !
Allen — Allen — I must tell you about your
father at last.'

But I know, mother, without your telling.
He failed in business, and he died, and we have
been very poor ever since. You see, I know.
But never mind, I will make you rich again.'

No ! ' she said, bursting into fresh tears.
'There is a great deal more. The worst
remains to be told. Listen, Allen. He had a
partner — a man named Stephens — Engledew
and Stephens was the Firm, with offices in
Laburnum Court, Threadneedle Street. I knew
John Stephens before I knew your father.
Yes ; I knew John when we were boy and
girl together, and before he became a bad man.
Sometimes I think that he did it out of revenge
when he did it, because he asked me once to
marry him, and I refused. I5ut he went on
being friendly, and I never suspected — never.
A bad man — a bad man.'

Shu i)uut}cd and wiped her eyes.

Remember, Allen, always remember, that
there never was any one like your father for
honour and rectitude, "which made it all the
worse. And his only fault was that he believed
other people to be as honourable as himself.
As for his })artnc'r, he trusted lii.u entirely ;
whatever Stephens told him he believed.
And, oh ! the thiuLTs which that man told
hin.'

'Go on, mother,' said Allen gravely.

My dear, I have always intended to tell
you about the wickedness of this man as a
warning to you. But I cannot. You must
guess his wickedness when you hear about other
men, as you grow older. Whatever you hear
of treachery and lies and wicked profligacy,
remember that Stephens, your fathers partner,
was worse. 1 think there never was, since the
world began, a man so horribly — so incredibly
wicked.' The poor woman's experience of vice
was, to be sure, conned to this one example,
so that possibly there was some exaggeration.

But Allen was not in a critical mood. lie perceived
that something,' had to be told him,
much more painful than anything that had
gone before. ' One day's his mother continued,
your father did not come home at this usual
time. I waited for Jim till l)a:^t nine o'clock.
Then I was frightened, and I put on ney things
and took an omnibus to town to see if anything
had happened. It was ten o'clock when
T got to the City, and all the offices were
- lose, and the streets empty. But in my husband's
office the gas was burning, the door was
unlocked, and I found him — oh ! my dear husband
! oh! my poor husband! — sitting at his
table with papers before him, and on his whiteface,
as he lifted it when I opened the door, I
saw despair.'

She hid her face in her hands. The tears
ran down Allen's face, but he said nothing.
What word of comfort could the boy find to
«;iy ?

Without a word of warning, Allen, the
blow had fallen. Stephens had run away.

leaving: a letter in which he confessed all. Your
father was ruined.'

What had he — Stephens — done, mother ? '
I do not know. That is, I knew once,
because they told me. But I have forgotten,
I know no longer. He had robbed all the
money, he had borrowed more in the name of
the Firm ; everything was gone, credit as well
as money. Your father's good name was gone ;
no one, he said, would ever believe that he
knew nothing of the frauds — think of the word
fraud — the frauds perpetrated by his partner ;
ruin and disgrace were before him, very likely ;
most likely, he said, a criminal prosecution and
a prison. Think of that, Allen. Oh ! boy, you
have wondered why your mother never laughed ;
she can never laugh again, because of that
night. All these things he told me in a quiet,
cold way, without any anger or any hope, so
that I knew his heart was quite broken. Presently,
it was then half-past eleven, he kissed
me — oh ! God of mercy, it was the last kiss he
would ever give me, my dear — my good — my

noble husband — and lie bade me leave him,
because he had much to do, and I must go
home and think of the child. Who was I that
I should disobey him at such a moment ? I
left him, my dear. Oh ! I left him. I Event
home and I waited all night long beside your
cradle, but he did not come home all night
long — what a night ! ' She stopped with a kind
of spasm.

Allen sprang to his feet and began to walk
up and down the room.

Mother ! go on. Tell me all.'

He never came home any more. They
brought me a letter in the morning. He said
that he could have borne poverty with me, but
not shame. He could see no way of escape,
he Could hind no means of proving that lie
knew nothing of the frauds which lead been
committed by his partner in his name. That
he had written to everybody concerned stating
the truth, and that as Heaven had taken from
him what was dearer than life, he would give
up that too, and he prayed that it might be

forgiven him, and that God's blessing would rest
upon us, his wife and innocent boy. And then
Allen — Allen — he destroyed himself

She was silent. She had told all there was
to tdl.

Xow you know, poor boy. It will not
make you happier to know it. At the office
where you go tomorrow everybody knows.
Sir Charles knows about it. I suppose that all
the village knows.'

Everybody, except me,' said xVllen bitterly.

And now you too know. But, Allen,
there was a meeting of the creditors, and — and
the people who had been robbed. And they
passed a resolution that they believed Mr.
Erigledew was free from any guilty knowledge
in his j)ai-tner's frauds. And they offered a
reward for John Stephens's apprehension.'

And did they catch him ? '

Xo ! lie was never heard of afterwards.
We may suppose that he is dead. Something
dreadful is sure to have happened to such a
man. I hope,' she added then, with a little

hesitation, as if she was n<jt quite satisfied with
the honesty of her wish, ' I hope that he repented
before lie died. But, no doubt,' she cheered
ii[) a little, • he died unrepentant and went to
his own place.'

Allen threw his arms about his mother's
neck and kissed her. Then lie went out, put
on his hat, and made for the forest. The evening
was warm and light. As he passed the
cottage he saw Claire in the garden alone. Iter
father, as usual, was hunting the common slug
among the lettuces.

Claire,' he whispered, ' come with me.'

She ran out and took his hand. They ran
together across the meadow beyond which the
forest begins. When they came to the trees and
were hidden among the branches, Allen stopped.

Oh, Claire,' he cried, but his voice failed,
and he burst into cries and tears.

Allen, what is it ? You are going into the
City to-moiTow to make your fortune, and you
are not happy ? Will was with us half an hour
ago. He was full of delight.'

'Claire, I Avant the earth to open and
swallow me,' said Allen. ' I wish I had never
been born. I \<\^\\ I was dead.'

'Please, Allen, tell me why.'

He told her, in as few words as he could
find, the substance of this mother's story.

To-morrow,' he said, ' I have to go into the
City and into the office where they all know
me. They will say, '• Is this the son of the
man who was bankrupt, and who, because he
might have been accused of dreadful tidings,
killed himself?

'Poor Allen.' The girl was only thirteen
years old, but slice knew already the simple arts
by which women become ministering angels.
'Poor Allen! Do you think that any of the
three or four who know will care to speak or
to think of such a thing? As if it was your
father's fault ! As it' it was your fault ! You
may be j)r()ud of your father, Allen, not
ashamed. I have heard ^^ir Charles say that
there was no more honourable man in the City
of London. Allen, dear, don't cry, I have

knoAVii — ^vlly, we have all kiKnvii this all aloiiL^
but no one thinks the worse of you for it.
IIow can they ? Come, let us go back to my
father. Tell him that you are going into the
City tomorrow for the first time — to make
your fortune.'

I hate the City,' cried the boy passionately.
It has robbed my father of his fortune and
his good name ; it has robbed my mother
of her happiness ; Avliat will it take from
nee ? '

Come, Allen,' said Claire, ' come to my
father : he will comfort you.'

Despite the philosopher's consolations, it
was with downcast eyes and shameful heart
that Allen went into the City for the first time,
while Will looked as if lie, for his part, must
dance and sing for joy that the time f )r action
had arrived.

'Kemember, Allen,' he said in the train,
'they think that we are just a couple of boys
from school who know nothing but to copy
letters. Wait a bit. Thevv will find us out

after a time, and then we .^liall make our way.
Don't be afraid, old boy.'

All day long Allen went about his work
expecting to hear some allusions to his father's
fall and suicide. Yet no one said anything
about it, for the simple reason that the whole
thing was forgotten, save by one or two. This
forgetting of things is a natural event which
people concerned in events which should be
forgotten do not consider or expect. I met the
other day a clergyman whom I had not seen
since old days at Cambridge. He accosted me
with something like a maidenly blush, saying,
They acknowledged afterwards that it was all
my handwriting.' For some time I could not
understand what he meant. Then I remembered
that he had been ]plucked for Classical
Honours. It was twenty years ago, but the
sight of me recalled the old shame, and he still
imagined that everybody was talking of it.
This was exactly the case uilh Allen Engledew.
Nobody cared any longer to remember the
misfortunes of his father. They were buried,

and will only be exhumed again when, if ever,
Allen is talked about for other things — if, for
instance, he should write a successful book —
and then men will rake up the story and
quote it in order to reduce by a measurable
quantity the greatness of the new man. Who
on earth cares about the father of a boy
clerk, and whether he shot himself or hanged
himself or disposed of himself in any other
fashion ?

What is it, Allen ?' asked Will, when they
were coming home. ' Wliy have you been
looking so blue all day ? I call it jolly. Why,
we are at work at last. Don't you like the
lookout ? I think it is splendid. Once we get
our chance we shall go ahead. Did you seethe
old gentleman who got down from his
carriage ? That is the senior partner. lie lias
got a town house at a place called Lancaster
Gate, and a country house in Hampshire, and
he's a Member of Parliament. We shall have
our carriages and be Members of Parliament
too. Put what's the matter, Allen ? '

VOL. I. u

He saw Allen's eyes were flooded, and lie
was fain to hide this tears in the old schoolboy
fashion — with his knuckles.

'Tell me, Will,* he said, 'do you know —
did anyone ever tell you, how my father died ? '

Poor old boy,' said Will, ' you are thinking
of that;

I only heard last night. My mother told
me.'

Why, Allen, it was nearly fifteen years
ago. Think no more about it. Of course we
know. It was his partner's fault. Everybody
knows that. Cheer up, old chap. Let's go
and tell Claire about the City. You shall tell
her about the golden pavement — that's all in
your line — and I'll tell her about the turtle
soup we had for dinner, all for nine pence, eh ?
at a luncheon-bar, after we'd danced on the
pavement and filled our pockets with nuggets.
That's in my line. Hooray ! Who wouldn't
be in Brimage and Waring's ? What a lucky
pair we are ! I say, Allen, partners always,
man ; no quarrelling between us two. We're

brothers, we are. You and I will go up the
ladder together. Don't you feel as if you were
quite ready for the second rung ? '

They shook hands and Allen cheered up.

And Tommy ? ' he asked.
Tommy shall be only a first cousin,' replied
Will.

H 2

CHAPTEE V.

THE Confessio's OF A nilLOSOPIIER.

TiiEY Still spent their evenings at the cottage,
and they still continued their readings. But
the schoolboy days Avere past ; their guide
began to put serious books into their hands.
Isis library Alas not large, but he could borrow
of a compatriot, a bookseller in Soho. He
therefore introduced the boys to such writers
as Chateaubriand, Prosper Merited, Alexis de
Tocqueville, Victor Hugo, Lamartine, Alfred
de Musset, Beranger, and he made certain
sparing use of the older writers, such as Montaigne,
Eabelais, Moliere, Mart, and the great
tragedians. The boys read tlie^e works before
they read any English literature at all. They
knew, which is strange, ]Wa'anger before they
knew Shakespeare, and Victor Hugo before

^[iltoii. Tliey did a great deal of massive reading
in those years, and acquired a vast quantity
of ideas.

When the boys got promotion, which came
in due course, and when it was found lliat they
knew French and could write it, and were consequently
rewarded with salaries wliicli gave
til em money to spend, Allen began to buy
books. Every boy who loves reading knows the
joy of seeing his shelf fdl up and overflow into
other shelves, until a whole bookcase is filled
up — yea, even a Avhole house, a house of the
largest size. And then he began to plough his
delightful way through the English poets. Yet
the interruption to reading caused by the eight
hours of work at his desk was very grievous to
him. And he made no friends among his fellow-clerks.


Out of the Joy who is always reading,'
said Hector to himself, ' comes, if he is properly
looked after, the man who writes."

lie watched the boy more carefully, lie
saw that Allen now neglected his French books

and read nothing but English, and principally
English poetry.

lie observed that the boy would go away
by himself into the Forest, book in hand. He
followed him and saw him, alone as he thought,
reading aloud and declaiming. He began to
wonder what, if anything, would come of it.
And he congratulated himself on his own teaching
o", because in one thing he was successful —
he had made both boys ambitious.

If you consider, you will find that every
Frenchman knows, what few Englishmen ever
learn, that what one man has done another
can do. He therefore respects himself as much
as he respects the great men of history. The
magnanimity of Scipio, the heroism of Horatius,
the wisdom of Cato, the eloquence of Demosthenes,
the genius of Hannibal — all these qualities
may, he thinks, be united in himself. These
boys had learned the same lesson. They believed
in themselves.

The time passed by. While it improved
the appearance of the young, it played tricks, as

usual, Avitli the middle-aged. Time did not
knock out Hector's teeth, nor make him bald,
nor did it cripple his legs, nor did it put chalk-stones
in his knuckles, as he does to some im-fortunate
; but it turned his once black hair
into a creamy white, beard and all, which made
him resemble one of the Seven Sages, but I do
not know which. They all had white hair,
white beards, and bright eyes ; they also had, I
am sure, deep and sweet voices like this man,
their successor.

Time, also, made Will a great strong fellow
of six feet, with broad shoulders and sturdy
limbs, as comely a lad as one may look to see
anywhere. Allen was of slighter build, and he
had already at eighteen acquired the stoop of
\\\o^Q, who read. His features were regular,
his eyes fill and lustrous. With a young man's
regard for appearance he carried an eye-glass,
but ill his pocket lay the glasses with which he
read and wrote.

On Will's face was wniien the brave resolve
to succeed ; on Allen's a curious, triumphant

look, as of one avIio lias already succeeded.
Will's face was generally grave, because, though
many resolve to succeed, few carry out that
resolution. Many long to travel on the same
road as Dick Whittington, but cannot find their
way. Yet the air of London is charged with
the stories of those who have succeeded : the
pavement is worn with the steps of those who
have succeeded. He would get on, somehow ;
he must find out the wav, some time.

Allen never felt any doubt or despondency
at all. He held his head high, as one who has
already succeeded ; his eyes were triumphant ;
he was a young conqueror, because in imagination
he had already succeeded, and because the
success of which he dreamed can be won at a
single bound, and because it is success in a
line in which there are not many rivals, and
because it is success of a kind not desired by
the practical.

We have not forgotten Olintlius. He had
long since left them, yet he lived in the village
and was still one of tlicm. His future looked

bright ; his uncle lead ah'cady promoted liiiii
to a place of some trust ; he thought the way
was clear before him. In person he had not
attained quite to the proportions of Apollo, his
lines being laid for strength rather than for
grace. Compared with the other two he was
like a Portsmouth wherry laid up in Ilaslar
Creek beside a racing 3'acht ; he was short
and thickset. In order to prevent him from
repining, and by way of compensation — kind
Nature is always dealing out compensation and
making up for things — he was endowed at the
outset with an excellent opinion of his own
beauty, abilities, and attractions. lie ' fancied
himself ' as much as Narcissus, and had there
been anywhere in the Forest a clear fountain,
I am satisfied that he would have imitated that
self-conscious shepherd, perhaps to his own
undoing. Besides this, he was a young man
possessed of great good-humour and natural
amiability. These excellent qualities shone,
visible to all observers, on his large, round,
shiny face, wreathed in perpetual smiles. Few

things conduce to make a man uniformly
cheerful more than a good opinion of himself.
Wives should remember this fact and foster
such an opinion, especially on days when contentment
is wanted for cold mutton and herbs
therewith. Upon his cards was written his
really magnificent name, Mr. Olynthus Galla-way
; but to his friends and all who love him
he will ever remain plain Tommy.

Hector no longer treated them as boys —
they were young men with whom he could
converse as equals. They were men — he could
reveal himself in his true light. He could
even confess his sentiments on the nature of his
occupation.

To-morrow,' he said sorrowfully, one day
towards the end of January, ' tomorrow I return
to my classes. You think, then, perhaps,
that I love them — my classes — //rm? Listen!
I will tell you a tiling. I abhor them.' lie
spread out both his hands in the attitude of
detestation. 'I shrink iron thun. If it were
not for Claire, I would jump out of this frying-pan,

which scorches and broils — eyes, still, after
twenty years and more — into the fire, which
burns. I would cross the Channel. I would
go to the gendarmerie of Calais. I would say
*' Behold me ! it is Pliilipon, the man of the
Barricades ; you would have sent him to
Cayenne. He gives himself up, he surrenders ;
send him, then, to exile." Yes, my friends, but
for Claire, who would weep, I would brave the
danger of the voyage, I would be a convict
with my brethren.'

He forgot that the Empire which would
have sent him there was gone, and that there
was no more any reason why he should go to
Cayenne at all, even if he did land at Calais.
But the habit of regarding himself still as a
refugee was too strong. Everybody knew, of
course, that lie was a French exile ; it was
rumoured that an intense price had been set
upon his head, and it was believed that the
Emperor — while Sedan was yet afar ofT — lead
often declared that he should know no rest
till Hector rhilii)on was in a dungeon.

Behold,' lie went on to the astonished boys,
the irony of fate ! I, who love all women,
because they are women ; I who would believe
them faultless — have to spend my life in finding
out the faults of undeveloped woman —
Girl. I would give them nothing but pleasure,
yet I give them continual pain. It seemed tome,
at first, incredible. Dionysius certainly
became a schoolmaster, but he had alleviations.
He was allowed to teach boys. He could
therefore flog them, whip them, beat them,
reward them with good strokes of foot and
hand. You cannot beat — Girl. You may
not throw books at — Girl. You must not
suffer yourself to grow angry with — Girl. If
you do, she laughs ; she rejoices ; she triumphs.
Such, my friend, is the true disposition of
Girl.'

On the subject of Girl he was eloquent,
even after twenty yeares of teaching. Time,
the great consoler, could not reconcile him
with his occupation.

I was at first,' he said, * unhappy and

Initiated. I felt as if my goddess had been
torn from me. But an inspiration — no doubt
from her — made me separate Woman — whom
I love — from Girl — whom I abhor. I regained
my divinity. Woman smiled and became once
more the giver of love and joy. As for Girl,
she is not Woman at all. Lie is not like her
in any respect. Woman has a figure to ravish
the beholder's eyes ; Girl is bony and makes
her elbows to be felt. Woman thinks always
in kindness ; Girl nourishes hatred. Woman
is confident of herself; Girl is jealous and
suspicious. Woman inspires poetry ; Girl has
no imagination. When Woman puts on dress
she becomes a Parisienne ; Girl puts on dress
and remains — Girl. Woman always tries to
please; Girl, never. E'/i^;?, she is not Woman.
She is, if you please, caterpillar, grub, chrysalis.
Can one love a chrysalis ?

Again, can one love a creature who cannot
learn the verb irregular, who steals her exercises,
copies her translation, and looks over her
neighbour's shoulders at the dicte, who even

makes grimaces — figure to yourself a Venus
making grimaces ; who pinches — yes, pinches —
her companions ? I understand the prudence
of French mothers who confide their girls to
the care of nuns. It is in order that men
should not behold the chrysalis. But I am
unhappy no longer. I have returned to my
old worship. I say, " This is not Woman ; this
is Girl." '

These revolutionary sentiments were not
uttered in the presence of his daughter. Claire
knew that her father regarded his pupils with
feelings which admitted of no favouritism,
except that of the least dislike. But she did
not know, and would not have understood, the
distinction which he drcAv between Girl and
Woman. lie spoke also of graver things, of
the Great Eevolution, and her daughters, and
of what they mean.

I was born,' he said, ' when the Bourbons,
who had learned nothing and forgotten nothing,
had been back for ten years. I have
conversed with many who remembered the

beginning of the devolution. Some of them
had not forgotten its ideas and its phrases ;
they spoke still — though it was not the time for
such Avoids — of the Sovereign People, the
Rights of Man, and oppressed Humanity. To
them a Priest was an accursed hypocrite ; a
King was a sanguinary tyrant ; and the voice
of the People was the voice of God.

'They were phrases — yes, phrases. Yet,
remember, before the Eevolution there wxtc
no people, there was only a mob. Do you
know what La Buyers said ?

" I see certain wild animals scattered over
the fields ; black, livid, burnt by the sun, bound
to the earth. They have an articulate voice,
and when they rise on their feet, they show a
human foiin and are, in fact, men'*

'It was a great thing to have made a
people out of a herd — a flock. When the
people found out themselves they began to
dream greater things. I, too, my friends, being
young and generous, dreamed with the others,
and told my dream.'

His voice sank and lie went on talking, as
if to himself, in deep musical tone.

The world for mankind. Yes — for whom
else should it be ? But they made mistakes.
They talked of the Eights of Man. Yet the
weak must be defeated. Is that a Eight?
There must also be rich and poor. Is it a
Eight — to be poor ? They talked of the Voice
of the People, and the Voice of God. How is
one to recognise that Voice .^ I have sought
for it, but I have never been able to hear it.
Is the utterer of that Voice perchance a priest ?
Or if the people were to speak would they ask
for more than sleep and idleness, with dancing,
and feasting, and love-making? Is that the
Voice of God ?

They told us that the people are full of
generous aspirations. There have been four
Revolutions. I do not remember any generous
deeds or noble thoughts from the crowd. There
have been guillotine and hanging a la lantern,
with pikes and heads upon them and barricades.
But I do not remember to have heard

of mercy or forgiveness, or any virtue at all.
Wherefore I now think that noble thoughts
descend not to the ignorant and the unlearned.'

The young men listened without interrupting.


'When a man gets the idea of humanity
into this head it never leaves him. Never,
never, lie is henceforth doomed to think of
his brother-man. To comprehend, even but a
little, humanity is to till the brain. As for us,
we meant well, but we hoped too much from
governments. That is the mistake we always
make ; the thing we search for lies at our feet,
we may stoop and pick it up, lout we expect
a government to do it for us. The republic
follows the Empire, yet the people remain the
same, for even a llepubhc brings us no nearer
the dream.'

Yet if it is a noble dream,' said Will, ' you
would not have it die.'

It cannot die.'

Will you tell us what it is — the dream ? '
asked Allen.

VOL. I. I

No. There are some things, siicli as this
dream-which cannot be taught and must be
found out. It may be found by both of you,
but it will be in different forms.'

About this time a grievous doubt and perplexity
fell upon the philosopher. He asked
himself Whether he had done right in putting
into the heads of these young men knowledge
of all kinds which might only make them discontented.
He was wrong to doubt. Discontent
hurts no young man unless it is
accompanied by laziness, when it is the Devil.
As for knowledge, there is no position which
is not rendered happier by its possession. I
once knew a man whose business it was to
tramp from office to office selling ]pens and
books ; in the evening he read and taught
himself all kinds of things. His life was
hallowed by his evenings. I have known a
waiter who read the ' Saturday Review '
regularly and was a happy waiter ; and I have
known a policeman who found food for thought

when on his beat by recollections of Herbert
Spencer. He was a contented policeman.

My daughter,' he asked, ' have I done
well?'

Claire did not know exactly what he meant,
and therefore replied, in general terms, ' that
he always did well.'

Have I done well,' he repeated, ' for these
young men ? There is not a better educated
couple of young men in London, yet they are
only clerks, and may remain servants all their
lives unless they get a chance. Fate is sometimes
malignant. They may never get the
chance. Yet I cannot believe that these two
boys, who know so much and can think and
reason, will remain where they are.'

One day a Thought came to him. It wa a
half-holiday, and he was gardening among his
lettuces, clad in the blue blouse which protected
his shirt front and white waistcoat. It was a
Thought so great, so splendid, so magnificent,
that for the moment it intoxicated him and he
reeled to and fro as one who had drunk strong

drink. Wlioii lie partly recovered from this
first shock his Thought flared u}) in his brain
like an electric light, as bright as a little sun
or two, insomuch that he was blinded by its
splendour. It took him half an hour, or thereabouts,
to recover his sight, and then his cabbages
looked every one like a great Koh-i-noor
diamond, so bright was the splendour of this
Thought. Next, the Thought began to bellow
in his ear, like the roar of cannons, or the blast
of brazen trumpets, with the clashing of cymbals,
the beating of big drums, and the musical
roll of mighty organs, and all the lime as bright
as before. Finally, the Thought, still in this
intense light and amid this unearthly instrumental
clang, flew at him, banged him from
side to side, shook him to and fro. thwacked
him on the shoulder, buffeted him ten either
cheek, and finally doubled him up so that he
fell backwards into the wheelbarrow among
the cabbngestalks, and weeds, and dead leaves
an undignified situation for one who never
forgot his dignity.

All really great Thoughts are thus masterful
when they first seek to possess a man. The
history' of great Thoughts is, in feet, one of the
few really important subjects which remain to
he written. The case of Peter the Permit, for
instance, may be compared with that of Elector
Philiponon. Peter's Thought came to him one
night in his cell. He wrongly received it as
if it was a diabolical visitation, or the result of
indigestion, and he wrestled with it all through
the night but met defeat and discomfiture, and
was found in the morning by a brother hermit
who had peacefully slept through the whole
of the combat, dreaming of nothing but lentils,
and beans, and pulse — fairly doubled up, limp
and shattered, a thread paper, all the conceit
knocked out of him, and in the disposition of
this shattered frame Uke unto a cocked hat.
The story was published in the last century by
Mr. Dicey, of Northampton, in a chap book,
illustrated by a curious cut showing the holy
man on a shutter after the chipjK'r-clawing of
the Thought. Christopher Columbus, ou the

Other hand, made no resistance, but obeyed
at once, and allowed the Thought to take possession
Hke a bailiff. In his case it was a voice
which called, a finger which pointed, a hand
which pushed, day and night, so that he could
never rest, never sleep, never sit down, never
speak of anything unless in obedience to the
perpetual admonition of that Thought. As was
Christopher, so was our Hector. He accepted
the Thought after the briefest resistance, and
allowed it henceforth to guide and rule him.

If that Thought had not come to Hector
Philiponon this history would never have been
written. If that Thought had not seized him
one knows not what lives of discontent, unsatisfied
desire, and thwarted ambition might
have been the lot of these two clerks. And yet
they do not know the history of this supreme
moment, this wrestling and defeat. One can
hardly guess in what words, did they know it,
their gratitude could be expressed.

CHAPTER VI.

THE TYRANNY OF THE THOUGHT.

M. Phi LI PON, therefore, as soon as he recovered
consciousness, submitted to the domination of
the Thought. It was, in fact, the wisest thing
he could do, and he was rewarded presently by
filling into an ecstasy or rapture which carried
him out of himself for the space of ten days.
This is a thing which happens to none but the
most exalted souls. During this period he conversed
not at all with any one. It was the last
fortnight of the summer vacation when this
strange thing befell him.

Claire first observed the strangeness of it at
dinner. Her father took the meal without a
word, answering when he WiW addressed, but
advancing no remark or proposition of any

kind. After dinner he went into the garden
and walked up and down the lawn. The boys
came as usual and spoke to him, but he shook
his head, and they joined Claire in lier own
room, wondering.

What is it, Chiire ? ' they asked.

I do not know. He says nothing ; he is
quite silent. I have never known him Uke this
before.'

Then Allen plucked up courage and went
out upon the lawn again.

Are you ill, sir .^ ' he asked.

M. Phihpon stopped. ' Not ill,' he replied,
lifting eyes which were troubled. ' There is
nothing the matter. Do not speak to me just
yet.' Then his Thought overpowered him
again, and he spread out his hands with a
gesture of impatience and resumed his solitary
walk.

The three within spoke in whispers. Night
fell, but he was still walking, and took no heed,
as if it mattered not to him whether it was night
or day. Claire played something, but it did

not seem to rouse liii. At tt'ii the boys event
away, but lie did not return their good-iiiglit.
Tlien Claire cause and took liii by the hand,
and led him into the house unresisting. Presently
she gave him a candle and told him to
go to bed ; and in the middle oF the night she
woke uj) and heard him walking uj) and down
Ills room.

This kind of conduct, repeated the next
day, and for several days afterwards, gave his
daughter and his friends the greatest uneasiness.
lie was not ill ; he took his breakfast and
dinner exactly as usual, but he did not talk,
nor did he read, nor did he work in the garden.
He was not unhappy, because as he walked
about he smiled or laughed, and waved his
hands cheerfully, yet with mystery, because no
one could inter] )ret that gesture.

In fact, he was wholly absorbed and dominated
by the Thought, which, as he now quite
clearly perceived, was not only powerful beyond
all belief, but also full of grace, and like a
goddess for inexpressible beauty, and moreover

a stupendous Thou<flit. So stupendous did it
seem to him, that it loomed before his wondering
eyes as a Thouglit more wonderful than
had ever before been vouchsafed unto men.

It is,' he might have said, enumerating
other great Thoughts for purposes of comparison,
in this communion and silent meditation, in
this rapture of his mind, ' it is a greater Thouglit
than that of Peter the Hermit, who yet did a
considerable stroke of business with his ; it is
greater than that of Christopher Columbus, because
he only doubled mankind, and therefore
multiplied our troubles ; it is greater than the
Thought of him who proposed by means of
steam to divide every kilometre by a thousand ;
greater than the Thought of the man who, with
an electric wire, abolished space altogether, so
that people can go on quarrelling at opiK>site ends
of the world; greater tliau the Thought of the
man who proposed to send letters for a penny ;
greater even than that of him who discovered
how to abolish pain and to let a man sleep
while surgeons saw off his leg — yea, to permit

the martyr to dream of heaven ^vllile they toast
him on a gridiron and perforate him with red-hot
irons. Until I find words to express this
Thouglit I am dumb. I cannot speak of anything
else, and of this I have not yet learned to
speak.'

In fiict, M. Philiponon was looking for words,
and as yet no words came into his mind which
were at all adequate to express the gravity of
the crisis and the nature of the thing which
was in this head. A Thought, however great,
is nothing to the outer world unless it can be
fitly and adequately expressed and presented
in words so that everybody shall understand it.
For instance, I know at this moment a man
who lias, quite unsuspected by his friends, in
his head, and absolutely complete in all its piu'ts,
nothing less than a whole three-volume novel,
and the best work of its kind ever yet presented
to the world, lie says so himself, and it is unlikely
a man should be deceived in so important a
point. Uc says, further, that the characters are
absolutely original, the incidents new — fancy

getting new incidents even from this kaleidoscopic
world — the pathos inimitable, the wit
and the humour quite approached. There
is an immense, a universal, and a deathless
reputation — he says, who ought to know best —
in that novel When once published it Avill be
translated into every language ; it will be the
delight of Eskimo and Patagonia ; it will
civilise the Papuan, who wants civilising very
badly ; it will teach the Veddah how to laugh ;
it will, if anything can, convert the American
Irish to ways of humanity, and will even soften
the heart of the Nihilist. There only wants
one thing — that this incomparable work shall
be written down ; and this, somehow, does not
get done. It is always in his mind ; he has
arranged the situations ; he has grouped the
characters, constructed his plot, prepared the
opening, and ]provided the denouement. ]3ut
he does not write it. He refuses to communicate
the nature of the story, of which he is as
jealous as a traveller who has discovered a new
hike ; he waits, growing moody, for the moment

of inspiration, which never comes. He is getting
old now, and he may some day soon die with
the novel unwritten ; he may even die of that
obscure and obstinate disease — novel ou the
brain.

Something of this kind oppressed M. Philip
His Thought held him fast, and he could
not fid fitting words in which to express it.
It was not until many days of wrestling — not
till he had turned the Thought over and over in
his mind, and looked at it from every point of
view, that he found freedom of speech. Had
it been term-time, one trembles to think of uncorrected
exercises and neglected rude translations.


He will come round some time,' said Claire
to the boys. ' Do not seem to be minding him.'

It mattered very little whether they minded
him or not, because he observed nothing.

It was in the evening, when the boys had
gone, that deliverance came. Claire had gone
as far as the garden gate with them ; then she
returned and laid her hand union lor father's

arm, saying iiotliing. It was a fair moonlight
night ; the air was heavy with the fragrance of
jessamine and honeysuckle ; a still and solemn
air of full but late summer, after a still, hot day.
Claire's hand startled her father. He stopped,
looked round hmi, sighed, and held up his forefinger,
Avhicli meant ' Attention ! '

The girl sat down on the seat within the
porch, and listened. She was now nearly
sixteen years of age, taller already than her
father, a girl remarkable as yet for nothing but
those deep hie eyes and that black hair. But
one expects nothing remarkable from a girl at
fifteen, unless she happens to be a maiden of
Verona, where adventures have been known to
arrive at a still earlier age.

She stood outside in the moonlight. He
spoke gravely, even solemnity ; and he spoke
slowly — in his native tongue, of course.

My cliikl,' lie said, * listen attentively to
mo. You are now nearly sixteen ; you have
the manner and air of a greater age ; you are
grown up ; you are a woman.'

Yes, moil ]pere.' She was rather fright
eiied at this solemn intnxluetioii to the unfold
in £^.

I Avill treat you henceforth as a grown
woman. You are also my daughter.'

Yes, moil pere.'

I will treat you as a daughter who can be
trusted;

She stooped down and took his hand, and
kissed it.

'I have a great thing to tell you. I have
the grandest — the most magnificent scheme to
communicate. I demand your absolute — your
profound secresy. That is necessary. Without
secresy I shall fail ; without your aid success
will be difficult. Understand, Claire, what I
ask of you will be diflicidt : it will require dissimulation
; pretence ; perhaps even we must
do violence to Puritan ideas ; we may have to
invent.'

Claire began to tremble. Secresy, grandeur,
magnificence, with pretence ! WJiat could
these mean but another revolution, with which

lie associated barricades and her father upon
them ?

At least,' lie said, ' I hope I should never
betray any secret intrusted to nie.'

Her father suppressed an epip;rani about
Eve and lie* daughters, and went on —

You will not, Claire, I am sure. Yet I
want more than a mere promise of secresy. I
want a tongue which will not add to suspicion :
I want a clear eye, an open face, a frank smile ;
en effet, if you are a conspirator you must look
as if there is no conspiracy.'

Oh ! ' she cried ; ' do with me what you
please ; but if 3'ou arc killed, and — and — oh !
what a pity to put up btu'iicades in the
Forest ! '

lie laughed. ' Pretty innocent ! ' he said,
be reassured, no one will be killed, there will
be no fighting.'

If there is to be no fighting, and if no one
is to be in any danger '

No one, have no fear ; j^ou shall play sour
]part with smiles on your face and j(.)y in jour

heart, because the object of the conspiracy is
one of your friends.'

'One of the boys'

Yes ; you have ah'cady helped me welland
fai til fully ; help nie again, but this time
follow my instructions in secret.'

Which of them ? ' she asked eagerly,
which of them is it ? '

It is Allen.'

'But what has Allen to do with conspiracies
and revolutions ? '

Nothing — yet. Ikit let us go within, I
have much to say to you.'

She led the way into the house and lit the
lamp. Then he began to unfold his plan,
standing before the empty fireplace while Claire
sat in her chair and listened. A well-bred
Frenchman gesticulates but little, yet more
than an Englishman, and he enforces his points
with hands and fingers both. This was an important
occasion and he gesticulated more
freely than usual.

First, child,' he said, ' forget that I have a

VOL. I. K

\Aw\\ iiiid let u.< coii.<ider the boy, Allen. Fix
your thoughts wholly upon Allen.

He is eighteen years of age ; he has been
for three years a clerk in the City of London.
lie goes there every morning at half-past eight,
and returns every evening at half-past six. He
is away, therefore, for ten hours. During this
long time he sits upon a stool, he copies letters,
he enters figures in a book, he adds up, he
make notes, he carries messages, he goes here,
he goes there — what do I know? He is a
servant. It hurts no man to be a servant fora
time. The discipline of obedience is good.
Yet it must be a service where he will rise to
be a master. In Allen's service he cannot rise
miles by extraordinary chance, because he has
no money. For him there is no future, he
must always be a servant. It is already, for
him, the life of a dog. In ten years it will bethe
life of a thousand dogs.'

But if it is bad for Allen, it is also bad for
Will,' said Claire, the impartial.

I told yoti to consider Allen, only. It is

not, however, so bad for the other. Will must
rise : he is a young man who designs his own
future and ^vill force events ; for such as Will
are the great prizes of a merchant's career. I
do not pity Will at present, I pity him only
because in the end he will be so rich. It is the
misfortune of the English people that they
become so rich.'

'Then, about Allen?'

He will become more and more miserable.
In the City he has no future, he will neglect
whatever chances offer ; he will see no opportunity
; such men as he are blind to opportunity;
if a hundred doors lie open to success he would
see none of them, his thoughts will be elsewhere.
Money is not in his mind, nor is success.
I [propose, therefore, first of all, to rescue
the boy from the fate of the unsuccessful
clerk.'

But if Allen lias no other opening? *

Child, you have [played all your life with
the boy and you know not what he is, you
know nothing about him. To be sure you are

K '1

not yet of the a<ic wliicli looks below the surface.
Know, then, that this boy is one of a
kind not common. Nature makes but few like
Allen EnL'ledew ; of those whom she does make,
most are thrown away and lost for want of f
guide and instructor. They waste their lives ir
regrets, in idle efforts ; they succeed in nothing
because they do not try the one thing for which
they were born ; they never know the satisfaction
of life wlii(.'li comes of doing what the
were intended to do. That, my child, is th(
only happiness. IIow happy, for example, i;
the grocer whom Heaven intended for thai
trade ! IIow enviable the lot of him born foi
a pork butchery, who actually becomes a port
butcher ! lUit such as Allen, without a guide
stray into wrong paths and are lost. I hav
been already — I will continue to be that guide(
to Allen. ]5y my hel[) he shall be what natum
intended him to be.'

15ut what is that's' The girl's curiosity
was now roused. She was to be a conspirator
there was to be a involution ; Inst without those

dreadful barricades with which her fathers
early history was so deeply charged. What
was to be the part destined to be played by
Allen ? Was he to be an Over Cromwell, a
Robespierre, a Marat, or Lamartine, even ? For
none of these positions did Allen seem eminently
fitted.

Her father went on explaining. lie social
to forget that he was talking to his daughter
before setting forth his views so as to make
them clear to himself

Such a boy as Allen is, before all things,
fond of hooks. This means two things — first,
that he is curious about the world, eager to
learn, and, secondly, that he is open to the
influences of form and style. Words and phrases
move him in the silent page as the common
man is novel by the orator. lie has been
seized by the charm of language. You understand
me not, my daughter ; but listen still.
When a boy has once learned to love words,
when he feels how a thing said one way is delightful,
and said another way is intolerable,

that Joy may become a mere rhetorician, pedant,
and precisian ; or an orator, one of those
Alio move the world ; or a poet, one of those
born to be loved.'

And Allen, you think, will be — what? A
rhetorician, or an orator, or a poet P '

It may be the first, but I think he will
not be. For I also observe in the boy the
intuitions, the fire, the impatience, and the
emotion, which belong to the orator who speaks
because he must, and to the ]oct who writes
because he cannot help it. I think — nay, I
am sure — that a lad Avitli these sympathies
cannot be a mere rhetorician or a maker of
phrases.'

Claire listened, trying still to connect this
theory with the conspiracy, but she failed.

He reads, because it is his time for reading
everything. lie has no choice. It is this
nature to read. Wv was born to read, lie
reads by instinct. He reads poetry, and his
brain is filled with significant colours and
splendid women, lie reads romances, and he

(1 reams of knights and stately dames ; lie
reads history, and his heart burns swithin him ;
lie reads biography, and he worships great
heroes ; lie reads tragedy, and he straightway
stalks about the Forest another Tanna ; he
reads idols, and the meadows become peopled
to him with shepherds and shepherdesses ; he
lives two lives. One of these is dull and mean ;
to think of it, while he is living the other,
makes him angry and ashamed, for in the other
he lives in an enchanted world where he is a
magician and can conjure spirits.'

You know all this, mon pere ? But how,
unless Allen has told ?'

'Allen has told jk^ one, but yet I know.
Some day, my child, I will tell you how I
know. Allen is already half a poet ; he must
be made a poet indeed.*

'That will be delightful. Is this, then,
your fine conspiracy ? '

It is, my daughter, the first part only. Of
the second we will speak later.'

But if he is already half a j-^oet '

At every step, my child, in the life of a
man, there arc two ways open, a right way and
a wrong way. Allen must be guided into the
rifiht way.'

'Oh, yes, mon pere!' She clapped her
Lands. ' Allen shall be a great ]poet, and I
will do what you please to tell me. This is a
conspiracy that I shall like.'

It had been a long preamble, and she did not
understand why there was so much mystery.

For your part, my child, Allen has arrived
at a time when he must have a confidant and
a companion. I have studied the symptoms.
I am sure that he has already begun to try
timidly whether he too cannot put thoughts
into rhyme. I know the blush of his cheek,
the flashing of the eye, the outward sign of the
secret thought. Behold him I I can see him
now ' — he stood as if actually watching the lad,
with his forefinger lifted — 'I .'.ee him alone in
his room at night. The door is locked, the
lamp is lit, the desk i> open, the paper is before
him, but he writes not ; he hesitates, he is

ashamed. At last with a bhisli, as a girl who
confesses her love, he timidly sets something
on the paper. Indeed, to write these lines is
more difficult for him than for any girl to confess
her love. Oh, holy modesty! Oh, blush
of virginal youth ! It is only from those Who
feel the sacred awe for written words that
great things can be expected. The written
word remains ; it must not be lightly spoken,
it remains whether it is false or true, whether
it is beautiful or it is ugly ; whether it is
sublime or whether it lifts up or drags down
the heart. Let Allen always tremble when he
translates thought into word.'

I do not understand, mon pere. How do
you know all this?'

Again, my child, I will W\\ you another
day. You know now whit Allen is and what
he may be. First, he is to be a poet. You
must help me — thus.

Allen must have some one in whom he
can confide. Will possesses not the poetic temperament.
The blood of Olynthus is pure

beer. Therefore, Claire, my child, it is you
Alio must be this friend.'

But he tubs me nothing about his poetry.*

'My daughter, a clever girl can make a
young man tell her everything.'

Claire blushed. It is not unpleasant to be
told that one has such great power over other
people. Of course she did not believe the
statement. It is fortunately given to few girls
to understand how great is their power over
men. I do not think they will fid it out
until they have so altered themselves with
political economy and platform oratory that
they have destroyed this power and lost
it all.

'To begin with. Claire, you will lead him
to talk of himself, of poetry, and will nsk him
why he, too, does not write verse.'

Had Claire been some other man's daughter.
Hector would have added to this simple injunction
a few remarks on the wiles of coquetry,
but he refrained.

When the hoy lias become a poet, then —
the next stage — Ask not,' he added in the
deepest tones, ' what this stage may be.'

I do not want to know' lie replied ; ' it
is enough for me that Allen is to be a great
poet.'

Just then a thing happened which at the
moment had a supernatural appearance. Beyond
the cottage garden was the lane which
led to the Forest. As Claire spoke, there
passed before the garden gate, slowly, with
han<xinf:' head, no other than the figure of
Allen Engledew Himself. As he passed he
raised \\\< head and turned as if to look
at the house. The moon fell full upon his
face and lit it with a strange, ghostly light.
His large and lustrous eyes met Claire's, but
they did not seem to see her, and he passed
along like a ghost, or like a dumb actor upon
the stage.

It was nothing supernatural ; it was only
Mien liiinM-lf in the flcvl,. \\v had been

strolling alone in the Forest, to dream away a
summer evening beneath the moonlit branches.
Behold !' said the man with the Thought,
we have seen our poet! His future is in our
hands, and he knows it not.'

CHAPTER VII.

SAMSON AND DELILAH.

Once in the East, a long time ago, when mankind
was still in the enjoyment of lusty youth,
and carrying on as if youth would last for ever,
with continual fighting, feasting, drinking, singing,
plundering, murdering, pillaging, sacking,
burning, hanging, drowning, and torturing,
there was a kinglet who made the personal
acquaintance of two or three gods. Not that
he really was admitted into the very best
circles, but one or other of the more afliible
deities would sometimes call and dine, drink
his best wine, and promise things. Silenus, for
instance, got his pupil Bacchus to let this kinglet
turn everything he touched into gold; but
the gift would not work, as his majesty found

out \vl It'll lie :nul down to breakfast and discovered
lliat not only the plate but also the
bloater on the ]plate became pure goal. It
is related that the hungry and discomfited
monarch immediately traded away the gift for
something in the everlasting-youth hue (which
proved a forgery). Now on one occasion this
friend of the Immortals was asked to hear a
rival performance on the flute by Pan and
Apollo. lie had no ear for music at all, and
so tossed up heads for Pan and tails for Apollo.
It came down heads, and so he gave the decision
for Pan. ' You are an ass,' cried Apollo
in a rage, ' and the son of an ass, and your
ears shall be the cars of an ass.' The king put
up his hand to feel — and so they were. It is
not recorded what Pan said or did, but probably
he only laughed in an unfeeling way,
and went off with his syrinx to frighten the
shepherds of Arcadia. Then this kinglet got a
tall bonnet made, into which he poked both
his long ears, and hoped that nobody would
find out. As people were then, as now, entirely

occupied Avitli their own iifTuirs, nobody
did lind out the fact for a long time. But it
made the king uneasy, lie was afraid to take
this usual allowance at night for fear of getting
tipsy and prattling or letting his long cap) I'll
oll^. One day, however, being alone in the
garden, he could not refrain from removing the
cap as he sat in the shade, and while the wind
played deliciously about those long and hairy
ears, it happened that an under-gardener, a
varlet at six shillings a wi.*uk and his dinner,
who was pretending to be at work in the
bushes, saw this remarkable and wonderful
tiling. Could it be? Was it possible? Did
this eyes deceive him ? Was witchery about ?
The king with two long, very long, completely
famished, perfect donkey's ears ! While he gazed,
motionless, his majesty replaced the bonnet and
walked away with as much dignity as if his
royal ears were human.

When that varlet knocked oil work for the
day it was observed that he was possessed of a
strange manner. lie forgot his slipper beer ;

lie sat apart ; lie was gloomy. The reason
was this dreadful secret. For if he told anybody,
his own head would certainly be off — ina
jiffy, he assured himself; or he would be tied
up in a sack and so go a-fishing or a-shrimp-
ing in the sea by himself ; or he might have
this outlying portions cut off, such as hands,
feet, nose, ears, and tongue ; or he might be
burned ; something dreadful would infallibly
happen to him, unless he could keep that secret
as tight as wax.

He kept it for a week, suffering all the
time tortures as great as the punishment he
wished to escape. He did nut suffer himself to
talk at all, knowing that he was, by gift of the
gods, a babbler. lie could not drink ; he ventured
not into any company, although a youth
of rrrcffarious turn ; he did not dare even to

DO '

sleep, because he talked in his sleep. At last
he felt that he must tell that secret or die.
He went, therefore, into the biggest and most
solitary field he could find, and then, making a
little hole in the Hound, he coufKU'd his secret,

Ciirefiilly wrapped in a i)ig*.s whisper, to the
cartli. TIkmi lie covered up the hole and went
lionie quite happy, and got drunk t])at very
evening, so relieved from fear was lie.

]cut there Alas grass growing beside that
hole, and near the grass there were reeds, and
beside the reeds a l)ro()k. Xow the srrass
whispered the secret to the reeds, and the
reeds to the brook, and the brook to the river,
and the river told the sea. That did not
matter much, because tliongh the sea is credulous
and swallows everything, it never gossips.
But the grass told the flowers as well, and the
flowers told the bushes, and the bushes told the
trees, and the trees told the birds, and they
told everybody; and the under-gardener pretended
to wonder like the rest of the world,
and the king left off his long cmj) and went
back to his old little cap, and let his ears stick
up, and had them gilded, and said they were
beaut ii'iil and an ornament to any crowned
head and the blessed gift of the gods, lie also
ordered them to be represented on his coins

VOL. I. L

mid statues, and prayers were oHlTcd to Apollo
that lie Avould thus nick(; the ears of all the
people. ]jut Apollo refused to hear.

Thus is it shown, by lively ]parallel, after
the manner of the ancients, how one single
secret may embitter and even destroy a life.
But, in fact, it is only at the outset that a secret
is intolerable. When it is in the way of a
man's profession to hear and to guard secrets,
they cease to be a burden. Lawyers who get
to know a prodigious quantity of secrets are
never a bit the worse, and I know at least one
freemason whose knowledge of the craft secrets
has never caused him a moment's ]pang.

Claire, with this secret ii})oii her mind, went
about at first in the most dreadful terror of
letting it out. She dreamed at night that she
had Revealed it to Olynthus, who grinned contemptuously
and pointed fingers of scorn at
Allen and her father, and at herself, and said,
'Gar! lie a poet! AVliy he hasn't got a
penny ! ' And next, she told Will, Who said it
was a thing very likely indeed to be fulfilled,

because Allen ^vns a first rate hollow and capable
of anything ; but that she 'was a silly child for
telling, and that he should never think well of
her any more. And lastly, that lie told ^^ir
Charles Withj'conib and his friends upon the
Green. Sir Charles said that it vas a most presumptuous
and impudent thing of this young mean
even to think of — being a clerk on fifty ]pounds
a year and his father bankrupt for a paltry
sum — and that it vas a most mischievous thing
of Monsieur Philip-on to ]put wild ideas into a
boy's head. Then Mr. Collier said that he felt
it his duty to acquaint Miss Billingsworth with
the fact that slut was nourishing a seditious
viper, who made boys discontented, and turned
away their thoughts from getting money. This
he proceeded to do, and her father was turu((l
out of his place, and in her cretan lie saw liii,
with herself, trudirini^ alone the road, both with
bare feet, and so dreadfully hungry that she
really had to wake up in order to escape those
awful pangs. Then she imitated the Lydian
kiuL^'s under-gardener, because she felt that she

I, '1

iiuist say something about it to somebody But
slice was not so foolish as to tell the grass or to
whisper her secret anywhere in the Forest. She
told the school-girls, and in such a crafty and
cunning manner that they did not understand the
least bit in the world what she was telling them.
By this time Claire had begun to take part
in the teaching work of the school, being half
pupil, half teacher. She learned music, and
she taught everything, including the elements
of French. A great part of this work consists,
as everybody knows, of exercises, which Claire,
instead of giving out of a book, now began to
write upon a blackboard for her pupils to copy
and translate. At this crisis lie used to write
exercises such as the following : ^ The poor boy.
The son of the widow, lie became a poet.
He wrote beautiful verses. The girl helped
him. He became famous. He became a great
man. The girl watched him. Everybody
]<)\e(l him.' She would not possibly help it :
she nnist tell some one. In this way she told
the girls. They were quite young girls, who

mechanically wrote down what lie dictated,
and then, with no more feeling for the 'poor
boy ' than boys llieniselves under siniihir circumstances
have for Pains and Albus, proceeded
to smudge their fingers, write down and
scratch out, pinch each other, whisper and
copy, ask the governess, wish it was twelve
o'clock, wish that the Tower of Isabel lead
never been built, blot llieir books, dog's ear
their dictionaries, make grimy their grammars,
and vie with each other in committing just as
many faults as can possibly be made in a given
number of words.

They finished and landed in their work,
and Claire sent them away to wash oil' the ink,
and to dry the tears of injured vanity which
had been provoked during the lesson. She
never corrected that set of exercises ; she was
afraid lest some of the elder girls might get
hold of them and suspect something, so she
burned them all. But nobody would have
suspected ; what was there to suspect ? Who
in that seminary of useful knowledge dreamed

of poets? The pupils wrote down the words,
but took no heed of them, and her secret was
safe. How fortunate ! For if she lead told the
grass, and the grass lead told the river Eoding,
and the Eoding lead told the Lea, and the Lea
had told the Thames, the secret would have
been all over London in no time.

Claire's opportunity came in a day or two.
Li fact, it was at four o'clock on Saturday
afternoon when Allen appeared at the garden
gate and asked her if she was going into the
Forest that afternoon. Her father was in the
garden hunting slugs. Will was away at Abridge,
or among the Endings, or on the Waltham
road, on his bicycle : they would be quite
alone.

Allen had been reading and lead forgotten
to take oir his glasses ; he walked ]beside her
pensive, dreamy, full of thought, and silent.
Claire, in leur while frock and straw list, tripped
beside the lanky youth, wailing for him to
speak, and wondering how she should introduce
the subject. Whirl she thought of what was

iutendecl lie blushed and t'clt a kind of awe.
Lie was to help make Allen a great man.
When he was already a great man, she thought,
he would be separated entirely from them :
they would watch his rise from the obscurities
of the Forest. This made her feel sad, yet
more resolute to do her part. As for him, he
was to know nothin<]j ; he must ^o on beings
trained without suspicion ; he must never know
that lie was guided and directed by an unseen
hand.

They walked side by side across the meadow,
on which stood two or three gipsy caravans,
and up the long broad walk of grass with
the old trees on either side. Presently they
nnived at the old trysting-place, where lay
the fallen tree, and where they had once,
long ago, run the race for the golden
ai)i)le.

No one had taken away the old fallen trunk.
But gipsies or country people had lopped oft'
the branches bit by bit for firewood ; mosses
had irrown in its chinks and crannies; the bark

lead ftillcii of', and the wood itself was full of
rotten places. Some of the old roots were left,
and these Avere overgrown with ivy — the broad-leaved,
green ivy of which the Forest is so prodigal,
and with which so many startling effects
are produced. The ivy lent to the rugged roots
a touch of beauty. As to the trunk no one
knew, except the woodpecker, what a host of
creatures this old trunk of rotting wood contained
; and beneath and beside it there was
quite a little coppice, a tangled undergrowth of
grasses, ferns, and wild flowers.

Our old tree,' said Claire, ' grows more
beautiful every year. When it was first blown
over do you remember how ugly it was, and
what an eyesore? '

Allen, being still in the first stage of the
poetic development, when the hands are
reached out to Lrrn^i) evervthini^-, thought
grandly how things might here be said about
the decay of life, and the beauty of suffering,
and the picturesqueness of death. But lie found
no words ready at the moment to express

these ideas, which were consequently lost and
wasted.

Is it not a place,' the girl went on, blushing,
because she did not feel what she said, but
only pretended — ' is it not a place full of poetry,
Allen? That is why you love it so much. The
others come here seldom now. Ikit y<ni never
tire of the Forest.'

I come,' he replied, ' because I like to be
alone and to think.'

Yes,' said Claire. ' Your mind is so full of
verses that you come here to remember their
beautiful thoughts.'

Allen blushed. At his age one blushes
easily. It was kind of Claire to credit him
with beinir fill oC beautiful thoughts. No one
else thought of such a thing. And yet it was
quite true, and the only difficulty was that of
separating his own beautiful thoughts from
other men's.

Whom are you reading now, Allen? '

I have got Keats. Oh ! ' — he breathed a
deep sigh — ' Claire, you must read Keats ; he

takes the old Greek stories, you know, and then
lie dresses them up in his own language, and
then— then— uli ! '

I know,' said the <iirl, Avise now, like all
girls when they have been taught, 'I know
what you mean ; he puts life into the old
stories, and the fissures live again, and we feel
that he has taught us to see how beautiful they
are.'

Yes, Claire ; you, too, can feel poetry. I
did not know it.'

'You did not give me your confidence,
Allen. If you had chosen to talk to me about
what you like, you might have found out that I
can understand a little as well as Will.'

Lie spoke with the words and she looked
with the eyes of a coquette. She was, in fact,
makiiiLi" a first tentative attempt to use that
power whirl leur father said a woman lias over
every man. Lie had pondered over that
maxim a great deal, Int as yet she did not
understand its full meaning.

'Claire!' he cried with a Gesture of impatience.

'there is nothing in the world like
poetry ; there is nothing else worth trying for.
Oh I you must read Keats. Listen.' He opened
the volume at hazard almost, and read : —

Lo ! I midst tell a tale of chivalry ;

For large white plumes are dancing in mine eye :

Not like the formal crest of later days,

But bending in a thousand graceful ways.

You see, Claire, he cannot help writing

poetry ; he sees it all plain before him. And

this: —

He was a poet, sure a lover, too,

Who stood on Patmos' top, what time there blew

Soft breeze's from the myrtle vale below.

And brought in faintness, solemn, sweet, and slow,

A hymn from Dean's temple.

Isn't it splendid ? Or listen to this : —

Full on the casement shone the wintry moon,
And threw warm gules on Madeline's fair breast,

As down she knelt for heaven's grace and boon ;
hose bloom fell on her hands, together prest,

And on her silver cross soft amethyst.

And on her hair a glory, like a siiint.

Oh, Claire, it takes away your breath only
to rend it ! What iiui-t it have been to have

"smtteii it?' Why, his secret had escaped him,
but he knew it not.

Allen ! ' cried Claire, becoming, for the
moment, Delilah or Vivian, clasping her hands
to her heart, ' what must it be actually to become
— to be — a Poet ! Oh ! oh ! '

She did not over-act her part a bit. In
fact, she was so much of an artist that she
half-unconsciously under-acted it. There was
enough feelings in her voice, in lier gesture,
and her attitude as she clasped her hands ; but
not too much. There was less emotion than
Allen himself would have put into it if he had
dared to say all he felt, yet more than he
Avould have expected from Claire.

To be a Poet, Allen ! ' she repeated.

The conscious swain made no reply; his
cheek became crimson; he trembled; the tears
even came into his eyes by reason of the great
yearning that possessed him to tell Claire what
she already knew.

She went on, watching him. Surely he
would confide in her ; he would confess.

If I thought,' she said, ' that I lead the
gift of verse, low small everything else Avould
seem to me ! Ikit I would not dream a])OUt
it, as I think some your lieu do. I would
work every day.' This it is to have lead lessons
from your fatlicr in the art of diplomacy. A
week before lie could not have made any part
of this speech.

Claire ! ' cried Allen helplessly.

'I would work by myself; I should be
ashamed, perhaps, to show my work ; everyday
I should feel that I was nearer to being a
Poet : that would make me happy. I should
say to myself that so great a gift must not
make one ]proud, but grateful, and a Poet may
make men so much better. Hit I would have
no other ambition — not one other ambition.'

He was listening with rapt eyes and burning
< leeks. A long, ill-dressed lad, with worn
road and baggy knees, large red hands, and
spectacles. Yet his eyes inadi' him beautiful.
Why, all that Claire described lie had felt — he
was feeling ; the same hopes, the same shame,

the same locking \\\) in this own room, with the
paper spread before liii, the same sacred awe
at seeing words coherent, words this own, flow
from this pen. He gasped, lie choked ; the
temptation was irresistible. He fell. Like
Samson, he parted with his secret to a woman
perhaps, like Samson, to his own undoing.
Certainly from that moment his career was no
longer his own ; it belonged to the Conspiracy.
Had he kept his secret he Avould have continued
the City clerk ; he might have become the
perfect City clerk ; he might even have become
a Partner, or the clerk with a share in the
Concern ; but lie would never have been a poet,
except in ambition. It was a supreme moment,
and he knew it not.

Claire,' he whispered, 'are you a magician ?
Can you read thought? I am — I am — I am
enduring all that you say. Oh, Claire ! Claire !
keep my secret'' He grasped her hand. 'I
am trying to be a poet ; I dream all day that
I am a great poet ; at night I am kept awake
by the splendour of the vision that is before

me. I lliink I <oc the pods passing before my
heir, bidding nic be of i^ood courage, because
I am one of themselves. There are I^yron,
Wordsworth, Keats, Shelley — all of them. And
I am a poet, too, Ashen I see them. They
smile as they pass. Yet not a line written —
that is, ]published ; hardly a single thought
caught out of the thousands in my head and
turned into verse. Yet I dare to dream.'

'Poor Allen I ' Her eyes filled with tears.
Iter father, then, was redit. 'The time will
come; you Avill catch the thought, you will
find the words; be of good courage.'

Yes, yes. I live in h()|)e ; yet it is all to do.'

'Why, you foolish boy, at eighteen what
would you have ? Begin to work. Allen. J)o
not dream any longer. Begin.'

'I have begun,' he said, with more l)lu>hes;
that is, I have already — trir<l to write —
]poetry.'

So all was told ; so Allen fell into the trap);
so his secret became the [property of the Conspiracy.


CHAPTER VIII.

IN THE CHAMBER.

After the confession they walked home in
silence. Claire was ashamed because she pretended
while Allen was so much in earnest ;
yet she rejoiced over her success. The reality
of a man's ambition always frightens a Avoman
at first.

Allen was also ashamed and yet relieved.
It was become almost intolerable to have no
one in wln^m he could confide. At home, in
the family circle, ambition is too often treated
with the wet blanket or the bucket of cold
water: no one believes that Johnny is going to
be a ,irreat man. How ran lie ? None of his
grandfathers, c(nisins, brothers, or sisters have
been great. Of course, he will grow uj) in

obscurity, like the rest of them. To dream of
anything else is like contempt for one's ancestors
— a dreadful inii)ioty. Every house, in
fact, is situated iu the city of Nazareth. Allen
knew that his mother, for instance, could not
have the least sympathy with poetry. She
knew none except the ancient and modern
poems in her hymn-book. Even if he were to
succeed she would have no sympathy. There
is a success more disheartening than any failure
to win the greatness you desire and not to
have it recognised. There was once, I remember,
a respectable pair in a country town.
They had three sons born unto them. One of
these carried on his Other's trade, became rich,
and was much thought of by this fellow-citizens.
The second, who was the dullest of the three,
went to Cambridge, and was fain to take a
degree in Law. Now, in his day this branch
of learning was considered to be reserved for
those who could not take their degree, by
reason of ignorance and thickness of brain,
ill Art!. Then he presently went into holy
VOL. I. M

orders, and is now a country vicar, and more
solemn than the whole bench of bishops. The
third became a painter, and a great painter,
and an Academician, and is held in high
esteem, so that his name is known everywhere.
The venerable parents regard this son even as
the Prodigal. To be sure, he does not live on
husks, nor has he yet returned to ask for the
fatted calf, and from all they can hear he lives
in a good house. But, you see, his greatness
is not of a kind they can understand. Their
eldest son is, in his line, eminent ; he is a warm
man ; he is ex-mayor, and is greatly respected.
They are proud of him. Their next son, who
took the Law degree, and wags an unrelenting
forefinger in a pulpit, dressed in a white surplice
and a hood, is also an intelligible success.
It is not every mother who has a son in the
Church. But how is the painter to be classified,
and with whom compared ?

This might be, in some sort, Allen's portion.
Lis mother s disappointment would be dreadful
if she learned his ambition. When he set forth

Oil that morning when lie was to mount the
desk of the City clerk for the first time, she
took him hi her arms and solemnly kissed lum
with tears. ' Go,' she said, ' go, my son ; retrieve
the disgrace of your father. He failed,
poor man, not through any fault of his own —
no, no — it was his partner's doing — it was all
John Stephens. But work, Allen, work, and
get a good name, and perhaps some day you,
too, will be rich.'

So it seemed to him, as he walked homeward
through the great forest, that there was
no one to trust except Claire. Will, to be
sure, might be trusted to keep a secret. But
he cared nothing at all about poetry ; he regarded
books and literature from the simplest
point of view, namely, as the means of conveying
information. lie had no feeling for
style; did not understand, in spite of instruction,
what it meant, and was careless of the
collocation of words, provided they conveyed
the meaning intended. Allen, on the contrary,
wits quite happy even if there was no meaning

at all, provided the words were musical and
rang melodiously on his ear. Claire would
understand him — nay, she had already understood
him.

You think,' he asked timidly ' you think,
Claire, that I may, some day, succeed ? *

Oh, Allen, I am sure you will ! ' she replied,
with the generous warmth of feminine
sympathy which strengthens a man's courage
and consoles the most despondent. Observe
that Claire pretended no longer ; she was now
quite overpowered by the depth of his ambition.
She believed in him henceforth as
Kadijah believed in the Prophet — because he
said it. Had he never produced a line of
poetry in his life she would have believed in
him to the end.

As for the City,' Allen went on, ' I hate
it, Claire. The same work every day; the
same letters to be written ; the same papers to
be copied ; the same figures to be entered and
added \\\) ; the same chatter of the clerks.
Will doesn't mid it ; he takes an interest in

it. I take none — I hate it ! Why, if I were
to tell the fellows in the office about my — my
verses they would think it the best joke they
had ever heard.'

Patience, Allen,' she said, ' patience, and
keep up your courage.'

I should have courage, and I could endure
a great deal more of the City, if I had only
confidence in myself.'

They parted at the garden-gate. Usually
Claire contented herself with a nod and a goodnight.
This evening she gave Allen her hand.
He understood the act to mean an assurance of
secresy, but lie meant more, though she did
not dare to put it into words. She meant an
act of respect and an appeal for forgiveness.
She started with pretence and play-acting ; she
ended with conquest which brought humiliation
with it.

Allen,* she whispered, * you have only
half trusted me.'

What more is there that I can tell you ? '

You can show me your verses.'

lie blushed to the roots of his hair, and left
lier Without a word. When he got home lie
found his mother waiting supper for him. She
knew that he spent nearly all his evenings at
the Cottage, and she asked no questions.

'Things going on well at the office, Allen?'
she inquired. It was a daily question, just as
the old residents, when they met in the morning,
asked each other what news was stirring
in the City.

Nothing changes at the office, mother,' he
replied wearily. 'We go there every morning,
we come away every evening ; nothing ever
will change.'

She sighed. It was not thus that an ambitious
youth should talk.

There are many things,' she said, ' which
change. Young men become known, they are
promoted, they become heads of departments,
they even become partners, or they go away
and set up for themselves, as your father did
when lie laid saved some money, and was
known to all the friends of the House.'

Yet he failed,' said Allen bitterly.

Yes, he failed.' The widow's eyes filled
with tears.

Forgive me, mother. I will — I will retrieve
the name ; if not in one way, then in
another. There are may ways, believe me, my
dear mother.'

There is only one for you, Allen ; it is to
win a good name, and make money in the City —
where he hoped to make it.'

lie made no reply, but presently finished
his supper, and went to his own room for the
night. There, with a beating heart, he unlocked
his desk and spread out his verses before
him. Many nights had he done this, but this
night it was different ; he was going to read
them to himself for the last time ; tomorrow
he would give them to Claire. The sweet
secresy would be gone ; he would no longer
be sole guardian, so to speak, of his children.
Even for Claire's eyes to rest on them seemed
a profanation. Besides, what would she think
of them ? How would she like them ?

The door was locked, this mother lead gone
to bed ; the house was perfectly silent ; he
was quite alone with his poems. He was not
going to write ; he was going to correct, to
arrange, to read dispassionately. He spread out
his papsi's, placed the light conveniently, and
began his reading critically. Here a very odd
thing happened to him. To-night he felt very
strongly the strangeness of it. It happened to
him, in fact, whenever he sat down to read
his own verses, but it never happened so very
strongly as on that night. The thing was this.
At the first outset, particularly if he had not
looked at the verses for a week or so, a chill
disappointment fell upon him, and he grew
pale with shame ; for he always, on each occasion,
found them cold, weak, and ineffective ;
a dreadful flatness marked them all. Presently,
as he continued reading, a change would come
over his mind — the verses would become
natural, warm, glowing with fiuicy, full of
sacred fire. Now the reason, which he did not
know, was this, and no other. He began his

reading determined to maintain the attitude of
an outsider. He was resolved to read on as if
the leaflets before him were the work of another
man altogether ; as if he had been called upon
by publishers to give an opinion on the literary
merits of the poem. lie began well, but he
could not keep up the mental position. Presently,
little by little, he began to remember
the things which had been in his head, the
effects which he desired to produce, when he
wrote down those lines. These effects were
always ambitious, so that he really read, not
the actual words, but the great and soaring
thoughts which had been in his heart. There
is nothing in the whole of literature so splendid
in shape and colour as the half-defined imagery
of a young man's fancy ; but it has never been
caught. And, while Allen read, it was well
that the door was shut, because he sat with
tears in his eyes, with trembling hand, and
with his heart aglow.

While he read and corrected, this short night
of June passed away, and presently he became

aware that it was already broad day — that the
sun was up and the blackbird singing in the
Forest. He bitterly thought of the morrow;
he would have to go to church, instead of
talking to Claire about his poetry. He threw
himself upon the bed, where he dreamed, not
of sweet verses, as he would have wished, but
of an ignoble day at his desk in the City, and
a dinner at Crosby Hall in the company of
Tommy.

Your face tells me something, Claire,' said
her whither when the girl rem-ned.

Allen has confessed to me,' she replied
gravely. 'You were right. He dreams of
being a poet.'

On Monday evening Allen came again, but
not alone, for Will was With him on his bicycle.
Claire joined them, and they all three went off,
as usual, into the Forest. By this time Will,
nearly six feet high, Alas as handsome a young
fellow as one may wish to see, rejoicing in his
strength and in his youth. The girl could not

avoid observing the difference between his
careless, natural ease, his confident bearing, his
brave eyes, which looked as if he was ready to
meet any reverses which Fate might send, and
fight them all, and the anxious, nervous face of
Allen, with his sharps, thin face, slight figure,
and stooping shoulders. Will managed his iron
horse with dexterity, sometimes careering round
them, sometimes reining in the eager steed to
a walk, sometimes darting swiftly ahead, and as
swiftly returning. In these brief absences the
pair conversed in guilty whispers.

'I sat up all Saturday night,' said Allen,
*and looked over my verses. It seemed as
if I was reading them for the last time. Do
you think you would like to see them, Claire
really P '

Oh ! Allen, of course I would, if you
think you can trust me with them.'

They were both blushing, as if the secret
were the recollection of a crime.

'I want,' he went on hurriedly, because
Will might return at any moment, ' I want

nothing but a candid opinion, Claire — not praise
which I do not deserve.' This is, in fact, what all
young writers want. ' I want your dispassionate
judgment. Tell me what my faults are.*

I shall see no faults, Allen.'

Yes, oh yes ! I am sure there are faults.
Sometimes I think they are full of faults ; but
sometimes — oh I Claire, do not think me vain —
sometimes I think they are really good —
worthy even of being published.'

I am sure they are, Allen.'

Then, Claire ' — his hand stole into the
breast-pocket of his coat — ' I have them here.
Kemember, if I give them to you it must be on
the promise that you are not to flatter me.
Put them into the fire if you find them bad.'
He said this with so rueful a face that Claire
was fain to laugh at him.

You silly boy,' she said ; ' give me the
papers. And what would you say if I were
really to put your poems into the fire ? To be
sure, we have no fire in June.'

He handed her the packet, solemnly and

slowly, almost as an alchemist might hand to a
disciple the secret of the elixir.

Here is my work,' he said. ' Hide the
packet, Claire. Quick, quick ! I see the
bicycle coming back.'

Back, in fact, it came, the face of the rider
glowing in the sunlight.

Oh, you two ! ' he cried, ranging alongside.
His Allen been firing off any more verses,
Claire ? The way he spouts sometimes is
enough to lift off the top of a fellow's head.
Did he tell you what Keats had the good luck
to say about the sunset ? With these fellows
its all what they say about a thing. I don't
believe they really care about anything half so
much as we people who don't make rhymes.'

Ah ! ' said Claire ; ' they care so much
more for beautiful things than we do that they
cannot help putting their thoughts into beautified
words.'

'Don't believe it,' said the lad of prose,
else they wouldn't make so much fuss about
what they say. But I like a rattling good

story ill verse. Give me the tale of the fellow
who kept the bridge ; but I can't see any fun
in bothering one's head about a fellow who
couldn't be happy aboard ship till he'd said
something fie about the sea.'

Claire laughed.

Mostly he throws Keats at my head.
Keats was no end of a fellow ; once he worried
the life out of the west wind, and once he got
hold of a moon, and turned it full into a room ;
you never saw such a sight. He died young,
did Keats — so that Allen had better look out.*

'Why?' asked Claire.

'Well, you see, Allen is getting so full of
the poets that one of these fine days he will besetting
up for a poet himself Next thing,
he'll die young, like Keats ; or he'll leave oQ'
believing anything at all, like Shelley ' — here
he wondered why Claire, as well as Allen,
looked red and guilty — ' or perhaps he'll leave
the City and live here, and write odes on the
buttercups, like Wordsworth. He'll be a lost
Allen, Claire.' Hl' laughed, turned his vehicle.

and was off again along the level road. Will
at least was a lad with no dreams.

You see said Claire, ' there is no great
merit in guessing your secret. But it was my
father who told it to me first.'

Your father?'

Yes ; and now Will half guesses it.
Allen ' — she spoke, the deceitful creature, as if
moved by a sudden thought — ' you want better
advice than I can give you. All I can say is,
that I shall find your verses beautiful and
delightful; I know I shall. You must read
them yourself to my father.'

To your father ? Claire, I could not.'

Wliy, he is not a harsh critic. Besides,
you must have some one to take counsel with,
and I am only a very ignorant girl.'

Xot ignorant, Claire, unless Will and I are
ignorant. You know all that we know.'

Then, come, Allen, come with me to my
father. See, he has guessed your secret'.
already.'

'I am ashamed, Claire.' This tall lad of

eighteen was like a girl for shyness over his
own verses. A man's works are to himself,
when he is a boy, and bashful, even more
than the charms of a maiden are to her.

You are ashamed ? Why ? Because your
verses are your own, Allen? That is all the
more reason for pride. Come.'

They found M. Phihpon in the garden
among the vegetables. Consequently he had
on his working blouse. At their approach he
stood up and straightened his back. ' In this
garden, Allen,' he said, ' there is a slug — not a
common slug, a slug of vast resource and
insatiable appetite. Every night I search for
this slug. I give him no peace ; I have vowed
his destruction. Yet lie is a crafty slug, and
he eludes my hunt. The nature of the slug is
treachery, cowardice, and greediness. For him
I grow the finest peas, the largest lettuces, the
roundest cabbages. He mocks me. He eats
my substance ; he waits till I am in bed ; then
he laughs and comes out. By this time he
must be like a pillow for fatness.'

Father,' said Claire, ' can you leave the
sing this evening? Allen wishes to ask your
counsel

They all went solemnly into the house, and
M. Philiponon sat down, assuming visibly the air
of a Boileau.

Allen has written some verses,' Claire
explained, abruptly plunging at once into the
middle of tidings. Girls have no understanding
of a young man's modesty. ' He wants no one
to know about them as yet, except ourselves,
and he asks you to hear him read them.'

Allen acquiesced by a feeble inclination of
the head and a sickly smile. He could not
have said all this for himself in terms so plain
and direct ; and he felt somehow as if Claire
should have participated, so to speak, in his
own reserve.

Allen has written some verses.' Why,
she might just as well have said, 'Allen has
walked ten miles.' Yet the thing was said,
and her father was in the secret. It seemed
like the letting out of water.

VOL. I. N

You have done well,' said the critic,
folding this arms, ' to entrust your ambitions
to the sympathy of your playfellow and the
experience of your teacher. Eead your works.
Expect, young man, from me a rigid censure.
I look for nothing short of the merits of French
verse : these merits are precision, iiettetc, clearness
of thought ; every where the right word.
Even in English, where there are so many
words, there is always the right word. Claire,
my child, sit beside me. Open your heart to
the noble sentiments of the poet, and leave tome
the coldness of the critic'

This was encouraging : boileau, in his age,
might so have received stranger in his youth.

CHAPTER IX.

POET UNTO POET.

Allen took his papers from Claire's hands and
prepared to read them. ls\. Philiponon made one
more eflbrt towards hardening this features to
the rigidity of the unbending critic, while
Claire became obviously the sympathetic admirer.
1 cannot conceive of any situation
more awkward for a young man of eighteen
than I his — fortunately an unusual one — of
reading his own verses aloud. When a man
has achieved a reputation, when he is sure of
receiving at the end murmurs of thanks and
praise, to read a poem is [part of the greatness.
Ikit in the inception, even before the very
beginning, when one is still a timid, sensitive
lad, conscious that the verses are essays,

tentative, at the best not too good, the ordeal
is terrible.

In this case that dreadful feeling already
alluded to, of chill disappointment and disgust
with this own work, remained with him from
the beginning to the end, and it made him read
badly, so that he did not even do his work
justice. He saw, too, that Claire was disappointed
; he saw it because her eyes, which
should have brightened lead the verses pleased,
and were tell-tale eyes, dropped, and lie
did not lift them again. There was no encouragement
in her drooping head and downcast
eyes. The critic's upper lip was evidently
stiffened to say cruel tidings.

As for the verses, what can one expect of
eighteen? They were skeletons, feeble imitations,
weak in language, Mse in sentiment;
they had every fault. They had, however, one
virtue — they possessed that quality difficult to
define, impossible to describe, which is called
promise. If you go to the Grosvenor Gallery,
for instance, or any other gallery, you will find

plenty of feeble pictures by amateurs and
beginners ; among them, however, you will
discover one or two which have promise.

Claire, who could see that the verses were
stilted, weak, and cold, but could not see the
promise in them, was bitterly disappointed.
Poor Allen ! was this the outcome of all this
reading? Was it with this little bundle of
feeble couplets that he hoped to achieve immortality?
Not an original thought, not one novel
expression, not one happy phrase from beginning
to end. She could not lift her eyes. She would
have cried with vexation had she dared.

When the poet finished his reading he
stood pale, gloomy, almost despairing. For he
was self-convicted ; he felt now for the first
time how really bad his verses were. The
enthusiasm of his conception came not, as usual,
to conceal the feebleness of his execution. He
looked so miserable that Chiire would have
burst into tears, but for a most surprising thing.

Conceive her astonishment when, at this
painful moment, her father sprang to his feet

and seized Allen by both hands, crying, ' Courage,
my pupil ! I congratulate you ; you shall be a
poet.'

It was not out of kindness. Hector, the
critic, saw the promise. Allen gasped.

You think so ? ' he cried, with burning
cheeks and glowing eyes. ' Oh, you think '

I am siu-e,' replied the new Boileau.

I do not suppose that Allen will ever again
experience a moment — it was only one moment
of such unalloyed, such unexpected rapture
as this. He cannot ; such happiness can only
come — once — to a very young man. The
earthly heaven recedes and disappears as one
grows older. It was a momentary glimpse of
paradise. But, the critic who opened the gates
closed them again abruptly.

As for your verses,' he said, with inconceivable
cruelty, ' they are detestable. So far
as I can judge, being a Frenchman, and not an
Englishman, they are detestable.'

Allen dropped the papers out of his hand,
and turned as pale as a girl who is ' going off,'

^vlnlo the verses fluttered helplessly to the
floor.

Allen ! ' Claire sprang forward and caught
his hand. ' My father means — he does not
mean '

I mean,' said her father firmly, ' that they
are detestable. Now, Claire, my dear, play
something that is soft and pleasant to take away
the remembrance of those verses. So — so let
me talk to this young poet if only to forget his
rhymes.'

The young Apollo stood motionless, his
verses lying down on the carpet. lie would
have shed tears had he been alone.

Courage ! ' said his critic, ' courage, my
son ! Did you never before hear of a poet
writing utterly detestable verses at eighteen ?
That is nothing ; they all do it. Tut the rubbish
away and look at it, if you like, in three
years time. That is my first advice ; read this
rigmarole make-believe no more or you will
fall in love with it, and then it will stop your
growth. Do you not know that to love any

below the best of women is fatal to a poet ?
And as your mistress so your verse. Would
you take your Muse from an English institution
hein 1 — a school for young ladies ? Think
no more about the verses. Are you brave ? '

Certainly, at this moment he did not look
brave, but the exact opposite, for the shock of
hearing his verses called detestable was too
much for his nerves, and he was trembling, as
only a lad of extremely nervous and sensitive
temperament can tremble at that age when one
is still a boy, but with some of the instincts of
a man. All this hopes were lying in those verses,
and they were detestable.

Come, Allen,' said Elector kindly, ' do not
be cast down. Detestable as they are, they
have the right ring, they have promise ; they
show that you will, some day, write good verses.
Now, are you brave ? '

I could be if I thought my work would
not always be ' — here he choked — ' detestable.'

It Avill not, believe me. Be prepared,
however, to meet with the disappointment which

belongs to the career of every poet, even the
worst of evils — for a poet — neglect. Yet you
must persevere. Success will seem further off
than ever, yet you must persevere. Give up,
first, what men most care for — wealth.'

I do not desire money,' said Allen grandly.

Then you will be more than a poet ; you
will be a philosopher. But sometimes money
means — love, and to a poet love is a necessity.'

Love ? ' Allen glanced involuntarily at
Claire.

Yes, but women love men who succeed ;
they only pity those who fail. It is sometimes
the fate of a poet to succeed only when he has
one foot in the grave. You may be solitary,
but you must work ; you may be laughed at by
your friends, but you must go on working. Intime
you will have your reward. Yes, a great
reward. The prizes of the world are all for
those who Chin go on working.' Allen was
silent. ' For the present read — read daily, and
practise daily. To write verse easily is the first
thing. That you will learn by practice. I

command you to ^vritc every day something.
And now, if you please, I will tell you, in order
to encourage you, the story of a niijn who tried
to be a poet and failed, because he left off
trying.'

I would rather,' said Allen, feebly smiling,
hear the story of the man who succeeded.'

'You may read plenty of such stories in
books. Listen, Claire, my child ; if you can
listen and make music at the same time, please
to go on playing. If not, leave the piano and
sit on your stool, and give your father both
your hands.'

Claire sat at his feet and gave him her
hands. She knew that he was going to tell
them something about himself.

The young man of whom I speak was a
student — it faisoit son droit — he was studying
law. In the same way began young Arouet
and young Poqueliii. It is not, my friend, that
law produces poets, but that poets quickly
abandon law. This young student, who never
opened a law-book, spent all this time in writing

poetry. At the age when you were wandering
in the woods, he wandered in the streets of
Paris. It Alas nearly thirty years ago. He
was a young man — there were then many such
who had learned the ideas of the Eevolution,
and saw that all was not finished, but, on the
other hand, all was to begin again. You do
not know yet what that means, but you will
some day. This young man, while his fellow-students
went to Auteurs and sang of lilacs and
love, used to spend his time walking about the
streets of Paris, and talking with the men who
wear the blouse. It is through these men, you
see, that revolutions are made. He wanted to
find out what they think and what they want.
If you talk to these men long enough they will
tell you freely what they think. This young
man began to write down the stories he heard
in verse ; he began t<3 write songs for the
people ; he told them what they wanted, and
how they were to work in order to get it — all
in his songs. lie would become — he — this
young man — one of the Poets of Humanity.

That was a noble ambition, was it not, Allen ?
Nothing less than a Poet of the People ! '

Ah ! ' cried Allen, kindling.

When his verses were finished he took
them to a publisher. Do I say one publisher?
lie offered them to all the publishers. Not one
would take them. But he had a brother
engaged in commerce. This good brother,
though a plain bourgeois who abhorred the
Revolution and desired order above all things,
in order that he might become rich, gave him
the money to pubHsh his poems. The book
was printed, it appeared '

lie was silent awhile.

'Then?' asked Allen.

Nothing more, my friend, nothing more.
It appeared from the statement of the publisher
that nobody at all bought a single copy, nobody
noticed the book.'

'Nobody at all? Oh, my poor father!'
cried Claire.

Nobody at all. The poet languished in
absolute neglect. His very brother did not

])iiy a copy. Yet T think that somebody must
have read tliein, I do not know who. For,
mark this strange thing : it was in DecemlxT of
the year 1847 that these poems were published,
and in February, 1848, the Eevolution began.
Yes, the Eevolution. Now when it began, a
coincidence happened. The people acted exactly
as I in my verses had exhorted them to
act. Y''es ; in those verses which nobody
bought.'

Oh ! ' said Allen.

'Yes, there was the spontaneous rising;
there were the barricades ; there was the street-fighting.
I felt, as I stood among the ouvriers
on the Boulevard des Italiens, that every man
in the crowd nest have read my verses. My
children, that wits a proud moment. I was the
Poet of Freedom ! '

And the books? * asked Allen.

Behold another coincidence. The shop
was pillaged ; the people wanted materials for a
barricade. They took the handiest, the books
out of that [publisher's shop. Books, if you get

enough of them, make excellent barricades.
The Eevolution, in fact, devoured the whole
edition of the very book, to which — I do not
say — I do not know — to which, perhaps, it
owed birth.'

And not a single copy left ? ' said Claire.

My daughter, there is not one. Nothing
remains of that unknown volume, unless, indeed,
the memory of the Eevolution.'

Allen's eyes glowed.

Oh ! ' he cried ; ' to think that a poet
could so move the world ! '

And a poet of twenty one ! ' said Claire,
gazing with pride upon her father. She
knew that he had taken no ignoble part iu
the great revolutionary outbreak, but she
had never suspected him of being its prime
author.

Only three years older than myself,' echoed
Allen.

'It may have been,' said this Tartarus of
Eevolution, trying to suppress the external
betrayal of pride, ' that this young man only



caught the ideas of the workmen and the
students, and echoed tlieni '

No said Allen with decision — ' no : the
poet leads.'

Oh, yes,' said Claire, ' the people always
wait for their poet.'

They both spoke as if they knew all about
it, and as if they were quite familiar with the
ways of the people. We, avIio know more of
our brethren, may admit that if the people do
always wait for their poet, they wait with great
patience — ^^ much patience as the mother of the
people waits for that Ship to come home which
is going to bring fortune and happiness. They
wait, in fact, so patiently that they do not even
talk about the advent of the poet.

'Yet,' said Hector, glowing with the
memory of this unknown achievement, and
still endeavouring at modesty, ' yet not one
copy sold ! '

Some of the books must have been lent,'
said Allen. ' I have read of books being
passed round secretly from hand to hand ; and

the printers may have printed for themselves
copies of which they told you nothing.'

'That may have been,' said M. Philiponon.
I lead quite forgotten the printers. Why,
they were red republicans to a man. Yes, that
must be the explanation. That makes all clear.'

I always knew, mon pere,' said Claire,
kissing his hand, ' that you were as clever as
you are good, but I did not know that you
were so glorious.'

Allen gazed upon him with admiration,
amounting to worship.

Oh ! ' he murmured, ' we have been your
pupils all these years and eve never suspected.
Why, Sir Charles is proud because he failed
for a luuidred thousand pounds, and ruined
hundreds of families-and you, who are not
proud, have '

He stopped abruptly, because it suddenly
occurred to liii that two or three parallels, all
equally unlucky, might be followed out on
these lines. As, for instance, that Sir Charles
failed for a hundred thousand pounds, and the

Revolution of 1848 failed for many hundred
millions ; or, that Sir Charles ruined families
by the dozen, and the Revolution ruined
families by the million, and so on ; each one
affording great matter of congratulation to the
obscure and unknown but genuine author of
the great movement.

'My little poems,' said Hector modestly,
merely had the luck to precede the second
convulsion which shook thrones and made
priests tremble — that is all.'

'Your doing, your doing,' repeated Alk*n.

'My friend, I do not claim that honour.
I only remark a simple coincidence. That is
the story I wished to tell you. First, remark
that in spite of the remarkable success of those
verses I did not continue to write poetry.
That was because from being an active director
in modern history I had shortly to become a —
a — what I am now. A mind, narrowed to so
small a thing as the verb irregular, and to so
contemptible a field as the intellect of Girl,
cannot write poetry.'

VOL. I. o

Your country — the world — has lost you
said Allen.

Yet my story should encourage you. One
may not sell one's works, yet they may produce
great, even wonderful results. Therefore,
courage ; and work. Put away that
rubbish, and work. And it was a noble
thought, was it not, to leave love and lilacs in
the age when lilacs and love are most delightful,
and to become the Poet of Humanity ? '

The bright eyes of the man who should
have been a great poet grew humid, and his
musical voice trembled.

Of Humanity ! ' Allen echoed, with glowing
cheeks and brightened eyes.

Charnel X.

Till: TEACHING OF ART.

Allen read no more verfjcs to lii.s guide ; but
lie went on making them in obedience to hiss
advice. If you wish to be a poet, you cannot,
in fact, do better tluui make verses [perpetually.
It is only by the writing of poetry that one
becomes a poet. This seems elementary, but
it is not, because most people believe that a
man is born a poet ready-made, and that verses
drop from his pen like accounts in double
entry from the pens of the less gifted. Besides
writing rhyme, Allen read a great devil aloud
to Claire and Will in the long winter evenings,
while M. riiilipon rolled his cigarettes, and
watched the progress of the experiment, 'i've
bravo Hector Iliad a new interest in life since



the coinmcncemciit of the great Conspiracy.
The idea of his youth had returned to him ;
once more he felt himself a man among men.
He Ava.s still, it is true, a teacher to young
ladies ; but he vas more, lie was nmch more.
He was a man with power in reserve ; he had
still his trump card to islay : because he had
as yet told Claire only half of his great Thought.
And l>y this time Will was also taken into
partial confidence.

I always thought it would come to this,'
he said when Allen told him about the verses.
I believe if you were offered a partnership hi
Brimage and Waring with ten thousand a year,
or the chance of being an author with what
even casual sovereigns you could make, you
would take that chance.'

Of course I would,' Allen replied. ' Why,
Will, who would not ? If you are a merchant,
you live out your life for the sake of making
money. Can lliat be compared with the life
of an author — a ]Het — who shows the better
life, who interprets the thoughts of the people ? '

'I don't know much about the People
said Will. ' If they had any thoughts they
"wouldn't want an interpreter, I take it. As
for your fine contempt for money, it is very
noble, old boy ; but I should like to be rich.
A rich man has respect and power. And why
shouldn't he live the better life — eh ? '

I suppose he might if he chose,' said
Allen.

I dont quite know what the better life
is,' Will continued. ' I don't suppose it's lentils
and cold water, with a hair shirt, and a cowhide
for your own shoulders. Is it ? '

Of course not,' said Allen.

'In that case I see no reason why anyone
in Brimage and Waring's shouldn't lead it
as well as you poets. I dare say lots of the
fellows do, only we don't know. I say, Allen,
what will the mater say?'

What indeed? Allen winced at the question,
and shook his head like Lord Burleigh,
meaning an enormous quantity of expostulation,
tears, and disappointment by that shake.

Yes,' said Will, ' you've got all your
work cut out for you there. I should like to
see my father's face if I were to tell him that
I was going to be a poet. Why, he has got
five-and-twenty projects at least, besides those
which doubled him u}) years also, and he is
only waiting till I have made some money to
take it all away from mc and begin again. He
says I shall inherit a vast fortune.'

Both laughed irreverently, and it must be
owned that Will interpreted the fifth commandment
in a narrow sense. He honoured his
fiithcr as much as he could, but that was not
nuich.

Of course if ever I do make money I shall
take care not to lose it,' he went on. ' But to
make money one must be in the City. Allen,
old boy, I should like to say something, but I
am afraid.'

You cannot oflbnd mc, Will,' said Allen,
not even if you were to call my poor verses
detestable.'

I shouldn't do that, certainly, because I

should always see what you were driving at,
and you couldn't aim at anything detestable.

What I mean is — I sometimes think — well *

he hesitated a good deal, because this was
really a very disagreeable thing to say ; ' I
mean — sometimes it seems — that this desire
for glory may be a pretty selfish kind of thing.
Not that you are selfish, Allen, only there is a
heap of things in the world which are waiting
to be done. Wouldn't it be better for everyone
to take his share of the work and do it,
without caring about being praised while he
is alive and remembered when he is dead?
Let a man do his work as well ass he can, and
have done with it.'

Allen received this admonition meekly.
He confessed that he did think very nulli indeed
about fame ; the crown of laurel seemed
of all things the most desirable. He owned
that it might be selfish, but that he greatly
longed to distinguish himself.

After all,' said Will, thinking, ' if you do
have the admiration of the whole world when

you have got one foot in the grave, low are
you to enjoy it? You don't know it when a
person a thousand miles olT is reading your
verses and admiring ; you don't feel it if that
person is laughing or crying over you. How
much better off are you than the City man
-whom nobody knows ? '

You have the consciousness of your life's
work,' said Allen, with grandeur.

'You don't know,' Will went on, 'how
often you are read and by whom. To be sure,
your portrait will be in the photograph shops,
between the ballet-girls and the Beauties. That
will be grand. And when you die your fame
will do you no good.'

IIow do you know that ? ' asked Allen
sharply.

Should it, more than the memory of a good
life ? Never mind, Allen, you will be a poet.
Jut you must not give up the City. You can
go on working all day in an ollicc and writing
every evening. You know we are going to
have great chances and get partnerships some

day and be ricci — but I don't know low or
when. I don't think, so fur as I know, that
there has ever been yet a City merchant who
was a poet — Rogers, to be sure ; but he was
only a banker. You shall be that phenomenon,
the first i^reat wealthy merchant who ever
wrote poems.'

Allen laughed. A City merchant he felt
very sure he should never be. Slow long he
should have to continue a City clerk was
another question, for the irksomeness of the
Asork became every day more intolerable to
him, and the drudgery more aimless. I believe
that there is no torture worse than that
of setting men to do work which means
nothing. In military prisons they used — perhaps
they do it still — to make the prisoners
carry heavy shot from one place to another
place and then back again — a punishment
which presently brings on either softening of
the brain or an irrepressible desire to kill someone.
When one thinks of the City clerk — the
mechanical clerk — who copies and enters and

adds up all the day long, one is reminded of
the prisoners who carry the shot. The reader
of Lempriere, or any other person of classical
tastes, may also consider the labours of Sisyphus.
Allen felt all day long like the man with the
heavy shot. His labours led to nothing and
were of no importance to him. He would
have been walking in the Forest alone, or
reading with Claire, or meditating some great
design. His mind was filled with books. As
yet he was able to give his daily work sufficient
attention, but he felt as if the burden was everyday
becoming greater.

Now I suppose that no one will believe —
a thing, however, perfectly true — that neither
of these lads had ever been to a theatre, or a
picture gallery, or a museum, or a concert, or
on opera, or a collection of Art of any kind.
To realise the possibility of such destitution
you have to comprehend the East End, which
is, to those of us who live in the West, absolutely
incomprehensible. It is like a theological
dogma : it is beyond man's reason. You

have also to understand how raiicli out of the way
is this village where the boys lived. It is on the
Great Eastern Railway, to begin with, which
isolates and cuts it off from the cultured West ;
and it is five miles from a station. Why, these
boys never went anywhere except to and from
their school until they left it. Then they went
to Liverpool Street, and from that terminus to
Great St. Simon Apostle. They saw nothing.
I doubt if they had ever seen St. Paul's — I
am sure they had not seen Westminster Abbey.
One day Hector, thinking over his great
conspiracy and its progress, suddenly sprang
from his chair with a bound, and with a loud
cry as of one Who has a swift and sudden pain.

Claire ! ' he cried, ' I have forgotten '

What have you forgotten, papa? '

I have forgotten — the Theatre.'
'Forgotten the Theatre?' she repeated,

for the words meant nothing tit all to her.

Heaven forgive me I I have forgotten —
I — ji parisian — have forgotten the Drama!
Can it be possible? This it is to have been

thirty years in exile. My daughter, the education
of a poet must include a knowledge of the
stage, and I had overlooked it.'

'Surely it is not too late.'

'No; we must, however, lose no tune.
And there are pictures, nnisic, sculpture,
architecture — there is the whole Avorld of
Art. Good heavens ! we must indeed lose no
time.'

On the following Saturday the yoimg men
stayed in town and met Claire and her father
in the evening. They all went together to the
pit, where one sees best and pays least. The
joy of children at a pantomime is supposed to
be a pleasant sight for older eyes ; yet no
children at any pantomime ever fell into a
greater rapture than did these two lads of
eighteen — an age when many boys are sated
with such stilts — and the ufirl who sat between
them. They were carried out of themselves
; they were no longer in [\ theatre, hot,
close, and crowded ; they wei'e in the forest,
on the sea, in palaces among great nobles.

Fortunately it was a first night ; the house was
quite full ; the piece was so sweet and poetical
that, though it pleased the critical audience of
the first performance and was full of poetry and
pathos, and tears and laughter, it failed to run.
The author was called, and came to the front
and bowed amid the acclamation of the house.
Allen for his part stood up to shout.

They came away in a dream, Claire's eyes
still wet with the tears of the third act — they
ought to have taken sheets with them instead
of pocket-handkerchiefs, so moving was the
situation.

The walk to the station, however, restored
tlieni. Will became critical about the acting,
Allen about the story. One, you observe, was
himself born to be a meer, the other to be a
recipient of the things made. The poet gives
as well as makes, the rest of us only receive :
we criticise these gifts, we venture to look into
the mouth of the fairest gift-horse.

'But a story acted,' said Will, ' is ton limes
better than a story told.'

Aud there cannot be in the whole world,'
said Allen with a sigh, ' a happier man to-night
than the author of the piece.'

'There Avill be one man as happy some
day,' Claire whispered. ' Do yon know who,
Allen?'

He blushed. Yes, to sit in a theatre to see
your own noble thoughts nobly rendered ; to
witness the faces of a large audience all moved
by the same emotions ; to say to yourself, ipse
feci — it is my handiwork ; this is indeed solid
and substantial reward. The time is coming
again when the best genius of England will be
drawn back to the stage, and the writing of
dramas will be the chosen life's-work of the
future Thackeray. Allen knew what Claire
meant. It would be when lie himself should
so stand before a crowded House and hear
those plaudits ; but he remembered, prudently,
that first he must produce a piece as worthy of
applause. He must work ; he nnist lead ; he
must meditate.

Mrs. Enizledew about this time became uneasy

about lier boy. It wa not only that he
thought so much of books and so little of the
City, but that his Saturdays seemed now devoted,
afternoon and evening alike, to the
pui-suit of pleasure, which to lier was known
only as 'sight-seeing.' What possible use or
delight could it be for a boy to gape in picture-galleries
? Yet that was what her son was
doing. Every Saturday' afternoon he spent in
this manner, accompanied by Will, and sometimes
by Claire. They took kindly to the
world of Art ; it was a new and a wonderful
tiling to wander among the treasures of the
National Gallery. Their minds became filled
with new thoughts and new images. Will, for
his part, speedily assumed a critical attitude,
and pronounced judgment on the execution of
the work ; Allen and Claire considered chiefly
the conception and the thought of it.

Everybody ought, we know, every day to
hear a piece of good music, to see a good
picture, and to read a good poem ; he ought,
also, to eat a good dinner, to drink a good

bottle of ^viiie, to see a good play, listen to a
good song, dance a good dance, flirt With a
pretty girl — this must never be neglected because,
above all tidings, it keeps the heart
young — and tell a good story. We waste our
lives in neglecting this golden rule. Titus
once burst into tears because he had wasted
a day in leaving out one or other of these
precepts — he had forgotten to tell a good story ;
but sometimes we leave them all out. Look
to it, brothers. These unhappy young men
had to waste six days out of the seven.
On the seventh they made up as nmch as
possible, manifesting a Judaic objection to work
beyond what is necessary. They persevered ;
they rested on the seventh day and studied
Art. They got to know all the collections, all
the galleries ; they knew the masters in every
school. Then they haunted the museums,
until they were able to go through the Egyptian
and the Greek rooms without yawning. They
wandered among the great buildings of London ;
they went to concerts and theatres ; they

visited every show in London during this
time.

If there had been an aesthetic or artistic
circle in their village they would all three have
become self-conscious prigs ; but there was
none. They were left entirely to themselves,
and they remained humble, though they were
the three most remarkable young people in
the east of London. Claire, as wise and accomplished
as Lady Jane Grey, continued to
teach the rudiments of knowledge, and was
patronised by the older governesses. The
young men wended their way daily to the
place of business, but talked, going and coming,
of things which raise the soul. The aristocracy
of the village had ceased to take their old
interest in them. Who, among an illustrious
company of eminent bankrupts, regarded a
clerk? Hit more and more Allen's mind was
fled with the thoughts and dreams which come
in crowds to the brain of the boy of books.
He should have been sent to Oxford or Cambridge,
where he might have taken a fellow-vol.

I. Y

ship, and in fulness of time drifted l)aok to
London, and so, by pleasant paths and among
the younger scholars, have fallen into the better
kind of authorship or journalism. But that
could not be. He would have, somehow, to
make his own way by rude and thorny paths.
And he began to inquire, in a tentative fashion,
how a man may best besiege that treasures
of glory and of wealth which is guarded
by the heroic band of publishers and editors.
Of course, like every young man, he looked
upon a book as a copious fountain brimming
over With glory. And though as yet he took
little thought about money, lie had no doubt
that every book brought in large sums to the
fortunate writer. Some da}-, perhaps, among
the lists in that ' special ' column reserved for
new works his own name would be found. lie
read the special column every morning and
used to wonder how it would feel to see your
own name there. Dut no one in thee ofTioe
seemed to know anything about publishing, or
books either.

\\ t* MIL" ^*>iii|^ «)ii We'll, Chill u, >ai<i hin

sallier. ' Our poet knows books, and literature,
and art. There are three things which remain
for him to know. Two of them must be left
for awhile. We cannot give him time and
money for travel ; we cannot take him into the
salons of great ladies ; but we can, my dear,
introduce him to the People.'

CHAPTER XL

THE VOICE OF THE People.

Fortunately, there is nowhere,' said the
philosopher, ' a more excellent situation for the
study of the People, than that which lies almost
close to our hand. In the east of London we
have the People pure and unmixed. It is
better, even, than the Faubourg St. Antoine.
Here there are two millions of the people all
living together ; there is hardly a single gentleman,
or a rich man, or an artist, or a man of
taste, unless it is a Priest or Minister here and
there, among them all. The English are a truly
wonderful nation. What other country can
show a city of two million —larger than all
p^n5 — given over entirely to the ouvrier? To
say that they have no amusements is to say that
they are English. No theatres, no place to

dance, no place for music, no gardens, no cafes
nothing. Or, yes, there are the churches.
If it wen not for the churches, we should have
presented before us a unique example of people
developed without control, and according to the
laws of their creation.'

I think the working men do not go to
church,' said Claire.

'Is that the case?' said her father, doubtfully.
' I thought all English ]people went to
church twice every Sunday. If, however, they
do not, it is fortunate for the observer. Allen's
business is arranged for hint. It is a truly
magnificent opportunity. He will discover the
natural Englishman — two millions of him — the
working man of England as he is, without
education, knowledge, government, or religion.
Yet they give him the vote ; they make him
elector ; they make him their master.'

Allen need not go to Whitechapel to see
working men,' said Claire coldly, because she
saw no necessity for the study of the People
may go to High Beech in Epping Forest

on Sundays. I believe he-will find them
there.'

'Ah! The man who drinks beer and
catches this friends by the arm ; he who pushes
this list to the back of his head and opens his
mouth ; the man who tears the branches from
the trees, and would pull the hawthorns up by
the roots if he were strong enough. Yes, I
have seen that man ; but he is not the People,
Claire.'

Claire smiled. She did not believe in the
People, either with a capital letter or without.

I shall begin,' he said, the map of London
before him, and a ruler and a red lead pencil in
his hand, 'with dividing the East into districts.
We will take each district in turns ; we will
consecrate Saturday afternoon and Sunday
afternoon to our exploration of the People :
thus we shall be among them twice a week. I
estimate, Claire, that there will be one thousand
five hundred miles of streets to be walked over.
If we take ten miles a day, we shall accomplish
the task in a hundred and fifty days, which will

be exactly a year and a half. Expect, therefore,
in a year and a Iialf that Allen will have a
complete knowledge of the People.'

That same evening he partly opened his
mind to Allen on the subject, keeping always
something behind, like a true conspirator.

My disciple,' he said, * for three yeares and
more you have followed my counsels and been
guided by me. Are you satisfied, so far ? '

Quite,' said Allen. ' You have taught me
more, far more, than I ever expected to learn —
more than I had the least right to expect.'

You have, my son, learned to write.
Claire tells me your verses arc no longer detestable
but admirable. You have read a great
quantity of books ; you have begun to form a
style of your own.'

Allen blushed with pleasure. lie was still a
very young man, though between eighteen and
twenty-one there is a great space, almost a
gulf; but still he bhishcd when he was praised.

You have received,' continued the Sago,
Nviih solemnly, ' a j)repaniti()n for your work

^vllicll oiiirlit to fit you for it. A poet should
know the Voice of nature. You were brought
up in trio solitudes among the trees and thu
silence of the forest. A poet should know the
great works of other poets. You have read the
best of French and English poets. A poet
should >h()W himsuir I'cady to struggle against
adverse circumstances. You have served your
apprenticeship in being forced to spend your
days in a City ofTu^c. A ]poet should know the
Voice of Art. You have learned to recognise
that Voice, Allen ; your education is complete,
except one thing.'

What is that I-' ' he asked.

"i'ou have not yet learned to know the
Voice of the People.'

Oh I " said Will, who was also present.
Ikit he s:iid no more, and therefore we are quite
free to guess what he meant ; but I think he
remembered a certain saying of M. Philiponon's
about Tliimaiiily.

I was myself,' Hector continued, ' the poet
of Humanity. Wliat else a poet e.\i>ts for I

know not, unless to sing of love, which is
always pleasant. Go among the people. Read
their heart. Stoutly' them. Make friends among
them. Listen till you hear their Voice.*

Allen nodded his head thoughtfully.

Wlien you know them well, when your
heart beats with them, you will no longer care
to be a poet of love ; you will be a poet of
life;

Of life ? ' echoed Will. ' I.-s that quite the
same thing as to be the Poet of the People ? *

'See,* continued M. Philiponon without replying,
' here is the map of great Tendon. Here
are the great contiguous cities, the beautiful,
picturesque, and unknown, of Whitechapel,
Stepney, Bow, Stratford, Old Ford, Clapton,
Retinal Green, Shadwell, and Wapping. They
are all of them cities of the People. They are
cities of the industrious poor ; they are cities
of the ignorant. If their country is great
they know nothing of her greatness, because
nolx>dy teaches them. You English arc so
proud in your greatness that you do not tbiuk

it worth your while to teach your own people
how great they are. If the country is rich and
glorious, they see nothing of the wealth or the
glor3\ If it is full of Art and treasures it matters
nothing to them ; they know nothing of
Art, they are left to find out Art and everything
else by themselves. They are left entirely to
themselves ; they are the People in naked simplicity
; a more naked simplicity does not exist.
It is wonderful ; it is most wonderful.'

He paused and went on with his rider and
his square.

'Here, Allen, you must wander till you
know the People. I have marked your country
out into districts. The poet must gather
materials for his song ; he must be inspired by
divine indignation ; lie must be angry. Every
Saturday you must take one of my districts and
walk over it slowly, and make your observations.
Every Sunday, also, you must walk
over ; and in this way, in a year and a half, you
will have seen the whole. Then, Allen, and
not till then, your education will be complete.

Your brain will be full, your hand will be
ready, when the inspiration comes.'

Allen accepted the map and considered it.
His commission was a roving one : he was to
wander among streets, and he was to observe,
to watch, to see what there was to be seen. He
was, in short, to learn the People. Simple
directions these. He felt like Columbus setting
forth on a voyage of discovery. One rule only :
keep steering west.

'Come, Allen,' said Will next Saturday, ' let
us begin the pilgrimage.'

Of course, Will went with him. He was not
as yet greatly interested in the People, but he
wanted to see what would happen.

They took one of the districts, almost at
hap-hazard, and they walked up and down its
streets for the whole afternoon, looking about
them.

In the evening they reported, a^ the sum
of their observations, that an Irishman under
the influence of drink had accosted them, and
cursed the Government of the country, from

the Queen to the office-boy ; that he had next
produced a knife, which, he said, lead already
murdered a great many landlords, and threatened
to stick it into them. No other adventure
had happened to them. The streets, they
remarked, Avere almost deserted, except for the
children avIio played in the shutters and made
boats, carts, houses, weapons, armour, out of
broken bottles, bits of ])npor, cabbage stalks,
fish bones, scraps of wood, and such things.
The houses were all exact ly the same, and
seemed the result of a combination among: the
builders to be as mean as they could for the
money. Now and then they came upon a
chapel. There were no trees, no gardens, no
green things at all ; there were not many clean
blinds.

The fu-^jt day, Allen,' said Will, ' hasn't
brought us much nearer the People. Listen!'

Tliey were in a narrow street of small
houses, dirty and ill-kept. Will stocnl still and
held up a finger of attention.

*I hear nolliiuL',' said Allen,

Nor I. Thou let us ^n) home ind report
that we have not yet heard that Voice.'

The next (hiy being JSmiday, they made
another attenii)t. Their district inclined
Whitechapel Eoad, and there was preaching
going on.

Here,' saith Will, ' there seems a good
deal of Voice, and it has got jaws of brass and
lungs of cast-iron. Let us listen with all our
might.'

One man was standing in the centre of a
ring, and proving quite conclusively that there
was no soul, no heaven, no after-life, no Providence,
no Creator, no hoi)o, no right, no wrong,
no rule of life, no reason for anything but self-preservation.


'lie looks,' said Will, 'as if he hadn't
many opportunities in early life of getting to
the bottom of things. Do you thitik his is the
Voice ? '

Isis audience listened to him with languid
interest. They Ind heard the whole thing
before, over and over again. Thevv were, in

fact, borc'cl with a problem which lead nothing
to do, they were now persuaded, with themselves.
But il wanted more than a quarter of
an hour to the opening of the public-houses.

Another stump-orator, also with this little
circle, was loudly demonstrating that the
Government of this country, and of all other
countries, exists only for the purpose of oppressing
the people and of making rich men
richer. There could be no happiness, this
philosopher maintained, until the abolition of
all governments Alas finally and once for all,
carried out. He was listened to by his gi'oui)
with the same languid interest. The East-end
people have no concern in governments. No
one governs them. But they waited for the
opening of the public-houses.

I wonder,' said Will, ' if this is the Voice.'
In the middle of the next group was a man
vehemently gesticulating, and loudly calling
upon his hearers to turn away from their
wickedness and their filthy sin, and to repent.
His hearers stood around him quite as much

iiiunovcd by this as by trio other voices. It
)ret wanted a quarter to one, when the doors
would be opened.

Another man steadied temperance, and
drew the usual appalling pictui-es of misery
and of money wasted which should have been
money saved, and of crime, and death, and
disgrace, tliroiigli drink.

This,' said Will, ' seems the most sensible
Voice of the lot.'

The workmen on the pavement lead heard
it all before ; they knew what was coming.
They stood still and listened, but ]paid no lieeil.
They only smoked their pipes and remarked
to each other that it was ten minutes to
one.

In the side streets the young children were
]playing, but no grown persons were visible at
all. And the houses in this district were more
squalid than any they had seen before.

There is no dcMibt,' said Will, * that we
have got to the lowest level here — the liard
pan, as the Americans say. Do you feel yet

at all like getting a firm grip of the People,
Allen?'

Allen shook his head.

They also made the discovery — made by
many before them — that all the well-dressed
people go to church or chapel, and that those
who are not well-dressed stay away. Therefore
it would seem at first as if religion begins
with a frock-coat, and the man in the workman's
jacket does not feel any necessity for religion.
This is a most truly wonderful outcome
of civilisation. There seems no active hostility
to church or chapel. Religion appears to most
of the people a very harmless thing, but they
don't want it for themselves. And if a man
lacks the religious sense, how shall another man
restore it to him ? Perhaps, when one lives
for ever in a great crowd, one's own personality
is destroyed, and each man thinks only of the
crowd.

Another day their journey took them
among rows of streets where the houses were
as monotonous, but not so mean ; as uirlv, but

not SO squalid ; they had white curtains, and
every house boasted sonietliin;^ ornamental,
such as a big Bible, or a desk, or a vase with
artificial flowers, and nicest of the streets terminated
with the railings of a vast great cemetery,
crowded with stones, wliicli marked for
posterity — who never go to read these stones,
and indeed cannot because they are railed off
the names of the obscure and long-forgotten
dead.

If it is dreadful to live here, it must be
more than dreadful to be buried here,' said
Will. * Come away, Allen. Let us think of
Waltham Abbey or old Chingford Church.'

Another day their district included Lime-louse
and the East India Eoad, and they remarked
the manners and customs of the sailors,
especially the foreign sailors. Also they were
privileged in witnessing a little drama, got up,
perhaps, for their benefit. It was a drama for
two, the principal part being taken by a Maltese
sailor, and the second part by a Greek.
The play opened with tv.o men gambling,

VOL. I. <i

quietly sitting on the pavement. Naturally one
was a winner and the other a loser. The latter —
who, of course, was the Maltese — lost his money
first, his temper next, and his self-control last.
Then he sprang to his feet, and with flashing eyes
and wild gesture accused the Greek of cheating
— in fact they were both cheating, but the
Greek cheated best — and demanded his money
back. The other rose too, and in calm and
mocking tones gave him to understand that the
money was safe in his own pocket and would
remain there. Whereupon the Maltese drew
a knife — a long, glittering knife — and swiftly
plunged it into the body of that Greek, who
fell with a yell, and two policemen bore down
upon the Maltese, and they carried the Greek
to the Foreign Sailors' Home and the Maltese
to the House of Repentance and Little Ease,
and the drama was finished.

There were a good many spectators of this
one-act tragedy, and cjuite a little crowd of
women, who seemed acquainted with sailors
and their ways, and took boundless interest ina

fight and a stabbing. They confronted on
the performance very much as if the place Alas
the loyal Britannia Theatre, Horton, and they
were in the gallery. They lamented that so
fie a tableau as the fallen Greek and the
Maltese with the blood-dripping knife in his
hand had not been led up to With a more
artistic finish. There should have been more
dialogue ; there should have been more of a
fight. The Greek should have had his knife as
well.

It was too sudden, too soon over ; yet delightful
while it lasted, t^o in the amphitheatre
talked the women of Rome, when some gallant
young prisoner, who ought to have made play
for them for half an hour, was done to death
at once and with a single stroke of the tiger's
claw. Too sudden. They love fighting, these
women ; they long for more. They would
restore the bull fight. They would throw the
enemies of their country to the lions ; they
would arm them to fight against cacti other in
the arena. When they had discussed the fight,

<i2

the ladies proceeded to speculate on the trial,
the verdict, and the sentence. Should the
Greek die — but what a thousand pities that
a man can no longer go in public, amid the
acclamations of his friends, to his own hanging !

'I wonder,' said Will, Mf this is the Heart
of the people ? '

They reported discouragement.

Go on,' said Hector, ' you will find, sometime
or other, what you are looking for. Goon.'


He meant that Allen would fid what he
wished him to find. They went on ; they
pursued that tramp week after week, in fine
weather and foul, till the monotony of the
streets seemed intolerable.

'They are brought up in this,' said Will
one day, ' they don't feel it as we do, who have
had the Forest. Do you begin to understand
how they must look on life ? Do you begin to
see why they have no religion ? '

What do you mean, Will?'

'I mean,' said Will, That without some

sense of beautiful things, I'aiili must be impossible.
What beautiful things can be imagined
in these horrible streets ? '

It was Sunday afternoon. They were passing
a little chapel, mean and ugly. There was
a children's service, or school, going on, and,
as if in answer to Will's (question, the fresh
voices of the little ones sang as they passed,
There is a happy land, far, far away.'

'Oh !' cried Will, looking round him, 'what
sort of happiness, what kind of land, can they
expect ? '

]3ut the eyes of his companion filled with
tears.

We have been everywhere,' said Will that
night to the philosopher. 'We have tramped
through Iloxton and Hackney, Whitechapel*!
and Stepney. We know Wapping, Shadwell,
and Limehouse. We have seen the big
breweries and the docks, and the gasworks,
and the cemeteries. We have seen the People,
but we cannot find out I heir Heart, and we
cannot hear their Voice.*

'And you, AlK'ii, can you not liar the
Voice of the people ? '

No ; T am farther than ever from finding
out their Heart or their Voice.'

Often,' said Hector, ' in looking for one
thing Ave find another. Do not forget what
you have seen.'

Tliey did not ^Qi give in. Tliey had
hitherto gone only about the streets ; they
would go to places where the people meet
together. Tliey found there were two or three
music-halls, half a dozen debating societies, and
certain radical clubs.

At the music-halls they heard songs so
unspeakably vulgar, so inexpressively detestable,
that they ignorantly concluded they were a
speciality of the East End. Alas ! even in the
more aesthetic West, lliere is a demand for
similar musical effects. The atmosphere of the
halls was laden with tobacco, gas, and foul air.
'Any was there, with Als and George, and all
their friends. They are the clubs of the lower
clerkdom, the p res nux clercs.

At the debating-club they heard a most
amazing quantity of talk, but no one seemed to
have taken any trouble to master his facts ; no
one knew anything. This ignorance to these
mistaken young men also appeared a speciality
of the East End. ]kit then they had never
attended the debates in the Ilouse.

In the chapels they heard everywhere the
same exhortations and expressions, in the same
"words, addressed to decent people in black
coats, who looked as if they were passing on
the discourse to some one else, because it did
not concern themselves.

They went to the ]public-houses and called
for glasses of beer, and they listened for the
Voice there. They heard a voice, to be sure,
a thick, hoarse voice, full of ugly words, and
certainly not a heavenly voice. Then befell
Allen something of the feeling which possessed
Dante when he gazed upon the souls of the
hapless lost, lie became haunted by crowds
of faces, processions of faces, an ocean of faces.
When he slept at nitdit these faces gazed upon

]\\m ; ^vlK•ll lie walked, or rciul, or sat at work,
these fixccs were always looking upon liii.
There were millions of them-two millions — as
nearly as he could count — and he seemed to
know them all. They were all different, yet all
alike in one respect, that they were all faces
which lacked something. There was no happiness
in them ; they were dull, they had no
sunshine in them; they bore no secret fountains
of joy beneath them, they wanted hope. They
were ignorant faces. As Allen looked on them
he was seized with terror, for he saw before
him the whole of East London — the mighty
City, the neglected City, the joyless City, the
City of the baser sort, and he trembled. If the
vision of the multitudinous face, this troubled
and turbid (^)cean of heavy brows and dull,
disappointed eyes, had continued, I think the
young man would have gone mad ; but presently
there came relief when that thing
happened to him, which has also happened to
Shakespeare, Victor Hugo, Hood, and many
others. Out of the faces, out of the multitudes

which thrones the thoroughfares of the Joyless
City like ants upon an ant-hill, there presently
began to detach themselves, by ones and twos,
singly or in little groups, separate figures ;
while he looked upon them the background of
faces disappeared. These figures, however,
never left him, day after day, but continued
shadows impalpable, yet plain to behold, and
acted and talked before him. He listened and
looked imtil he knew them, knew their very
thoughts, knew why they acted and what they
would do next ; knew their manner of speech,
their hopes, and their anxieties, their very
prejudices ; man and woman they stood before
him, and bared their souls, and were not
ashamed. They were unlovely ; some of them
were like monstrous figments created by a fantastic
artist, so hideous were thu y ; but these were
the old ; some among the young were beautiful,
but it seemed as if while he looked \\\iO\\ them,
invisible fingers were taking the beauty out of
their faces and the sweetness out of their eyes.
Tlicrc were young girls among them, quite

a group of young girls ; and one came forth
timidly and said, ' Take me. I will tell 3'ou
all that is in my heart, all that I do, all
that I hope, all that I know ; I am you's
altogether.' He followed and watched this
girl among her companions ; she was in the
work-room, walking with other fjirls on Sundays
; she was quite young and full of vague
hopes, but she knew nothing. She had her
chapel on Sunday ; and she had her lover.
She played out her little story — a poor and
pitiful one — to the very end, and presently that
story was finished and she vanished, falling
back into the crowd and was no more seen,
though Allen looked everywhere for her among
the most miserable of her sex. There were
children, heaps of children ; presently one of
these children came out and held up its arms,
and became his property ; and he listened to
its story as he walked with it, with saddened
heart ; and presently this child, too, finished its
tale and fell back and was lost in the great
ocean of its fellows.

There vere clothiers and wises — thousands
of them. Presently one came to him, her baby
in her arms, and told her tale, Avliich made his
fingers to clench and his teeth to grind together.
Then she fell back weeping, and was lost among
the waves of faces around her. And another :
and another : and another.

Always sadness, always disappointment,
always unhappiness ; was there then no gladness
in this u[reat City ?

There where lovers — thousands of lovers,
and presently a pair came out, a workgirl and
a workman ; he listened to their tale and
understood that there is one thing always which
remains to us, even in meanness and monotony,
which is love.

As the visions grew, as I lie ]tippets of
his fancy became real, S(^ the young man's
daily task in the City became more intolerable,
and he longed, like a prisoner, for the hour of
his deliverance. For he could now think of
nothing but the figures which moved perpetually
before him, acting and talking before

him as if he had no will in the matter, and as
if the drama of their Ives was not the creation
of his own brain.

You who have never l)een possessed by
such phantoms, you who have never made
acquaintance with any but men and women of
the flesh, cannot understand the strength of
such possession. For they do not leave the
brain in any waking hour ; they are always
present, always acting and talking, always in
some Avay carrying on their lives independently
of your own will ; they know nothing
of time or space ; the longer they stay with you
the better you know them. Some of the men
become your friends : j^ou fall in love with
some of the girls. Some of them you hate :
you weep over the misfortunes of some, you
rejoice with their joy. Yet one thing seems
strange, that there is in every one of them
something of yourself. Tliey aise your own
children ; even in unlikeness they are like you.
These phantoms come only to a few; ;quid of
these few there arc not many, indeed, who can

describe in fitting terms \vliat they have seen.
For the phantoms pay no more respect to
dramatic effect, to grouping, to situation, than
the man and ^voman in real life. They act in
exactly the same way. Every one of them
wants for himself all the joy and happiness that
can be crowded into the twenty-four hours of
the day ; every one desires for himself love,
ease, pleasantness, sunshine, long life, and
health. Now of all these things there is not
enough to go round, by a great deal, and
people have hardly as yet begun to manufacture
more.

Allen, my son,' .said the philosopher, 'have
you, then, found at last the Voice of the
People?'

I do not know,' he replied ; ' I must think.'

The people have no voice,' said Will
bluntly. 'They want to be taught how to
speak ; they want the power of speech, and
they want — not a poet — but a leader.'

You arc right, Will,' said Hector.

'They want,' he repeated, looking at Alk*n,

a leader who nIuiII tell them what else they
want, and what they must ask for. As for
their Voice ' He stopped abruptly.

Oil ! ' cried Claire, ' do not vex yourself
longer about their Voice, Allen. My whither
means that the heart of the people is your own
heart, when you know there. Their Voice is
your own voice, when you have learned them.'

'My daughter,' said Hector, kissing her
forehead, ' you have rightly interpreted. Listen,
Allen, to your own Voice. Your education,
my son, is now complete.'

CHAPTER XII.

THE Great Conspiracy.

*Tell fine, father,' said Claire, ' uow that
Allen's education is complete, the other part of
your great Conspiracy — tluit is, if I may be
told

'You shall be told, my daughter.* Flor
father assumed his most important manner.
When I informed you, my child, that Allen
should be a poet, I meant more than what
you understood. For such a poet as I
designed there is a broader future oikju, a
more glorious ambition.'

Can there be a more noble ambition than
to become a poet?'

'The greatest thing of all, my daughter, is
to lead the-world. There are no longer any

kinizs ; but there are dictators. It is the same
thing, lout with changed name. Every man
who aspires to lead mankind must be ready to
assume the purple, if he succeed.'

Claire began to comprehend ; lout she interrupted
not.

I myself,' her father went on, ' have made
my humble attempt. But for the destruction
of my poems I might now be — Gambetta. I
failed. Yet to have endeavoured makes all
the life illustrious.' lie paused, thinking of the
barricades and of himself a lad of twenty-one,
brandishing a gun and shouting for the Republic,
which was going to do so nulli for the
world and has done so little. ' It was necessary
he went on, 'that Allen should be a poet first,
as I was. The rest will follow. He knows
the people; he knows all that I can teach him.
Wlien the moment arrives he will cease to bea
poet, and will become a prophet. He will
spring to his feet and speak, lie will be the
leader, dictator, rex, imperator, scotus 
— all that there is of most magnificent.*

Claire shook her head and siniicd.

Ilitlierto/ her father continued, ' in speaking
of leaders we have meant generals and
politicians. I suppose there nnist continue to
be generals and politicians. But the people
-will no longer be led by them. I have made
up my mind that the i)eoi)le are concerned with
one thing only.'

What is that thing?' asked Claire.

'Happiness, my daughter. The leader of
the future, the next dictator, will be the man
who will teach the world how to be happy.
Politico, forms of government, are nothing.
That form of government, that ministry which
interferes with the people's happiness must be
abolished. Let it vanish ! ' He swept the air
with a wide and comprehensive gesture, at
which kings might have trembled. 'Everywhere,*
he went on, ' men want to be happy.
They cannot. Why ? They do not know how.
None of their leaders can teach them. A man
must be a ix)et before he can find out for
them.*

VOL. I. R

Claire nodded and smiled again.

Allen shall be such a leader as the world
lias never seen. There have been many leaders,
but they have failed ; partly because they were
themselves led by selfish motives ; partly
because they knew not wither they would lead
the people ; partly because they thought that a
government can do for the people what they
must do for themselves. They look, poor fools,
to the Government, and the Government looks
to them. " Give us," they say, " what we
want." '• Tell us," the Government replies,
what you do Avant." Alas ! they do not know.
And as the leader, so the people. They are
ignorant, they are deaf, they are dumb, they
cannot think, they suffer, and know not why.
They are waiting for the man who will tell
them wIkiI they Avant. And, my dear, directly
the people lind out that, you may be sure that
they will luivc it, whether the Government wish
it, or whether they do not.'

'It seems a great dream,' said Claire.
But still as she spoke and as she listened a

strange and subtle smile lingered upon her
face.

It is a great dream ; it is more than a
dream ; it is prophecy. Allen is already a
poet, and shall shortly be a prophet.'

A vision arose before the girl's mind of a
Treat tall figure clothed in a single robe, Avitli
long lean limbs, and one finger pointing upwards.
In the right hand was a stick. It
was the figure of Elijah as represented in
some book of lier infancy She tried to seethe
features of Allen in this garb, but she
failed.

He must have courage ; lie must have
great courage ; he must not be afniid of rough
crowds, of hard words ; he must fight, if need
be. Yet, ce nest que le premier pas, his Mends
will push him on. As yet, he waits for inspiration.
The momi'Ut will come, doubt it not.
All will go well, Claire ; all will go well with
my disciple.'

As he spoke, the rapture of his great
Thought seized him again ; but this time, he

spoke slowly, and with eyes which saw, looking
out into the night, a vision.

I behold,' he said, ' one who comes. He
is greater than Voltaire ; he is greater than
Shakespeare ; he is the greatest of all who have
taught or led the people. He teaches them
how to make life happy. Xo one has taught
mankind that lesson yet. Allen will do it.
They shall require of the Government nothing
but order and justice : they will rule for themselves
their Savages and their work and their
holidays. Tliey Avill find happiness for themselves.
There shall be no more linger, no
more misery, no more cruelty ; there shall be
enough happiness for all. To the new Humanity
there shall be no talk of Government. The
real leader shall be he who can make them
happy. Once more, my daughter, this idea of
France, the Mother of all ideas, shall be proclaimed.
lUit ill this great Eevolution before
us we shall learn by old and sad experience.
There shall be no bloodshed, because all men
will work with us when tliev understand that

we are at last fulfilling the destiny of man,
which is to be happy' ; else why were we
born ? '

'As for poets,' he went on, 'they are
nothing. They are as plentiful as blackberries.
Do you think I would have taken all this
trouble to produce a poet ? Xo, it was a
nobler thought. I would produce a leader.'

Do you think, mon pere,' said Claire, with
another subtle smile, * that Allen will become —
what you hope ? '

'I think he will,' replied her father. 'I
have watched him with sympathy. He is
gentle, he is ready, he is full of generous sentiments
— enfin he is a poet who has been taught
by me.'

And you believe that he will rise and lead
the people ? '

Hector had the faith in woman's wit which
all Frenchmen entertain. He looked anxiously
at his daughter.

Tell me, Claire,' he said, ' what you
mean.'

I mean, papa,' she replied, ' that there are
two boys, and that you have only thought of
one. There is a strong boy, and there is a
weak boy. If one is to be a leader, it will ])e
the strong and not the weak.'

And Allen ? '

'Allen, mon pere,'she replied with just half
a little laugh, ' is so weak that he is even led —
by me.'

Then her whither's face cleared.

Allan I allons ! ' he said, with a cheerful
light in his eye and in the most musical note
of his voice, ' all is for the best. Yes : it is
a beautiful world. The young poet is led by
you, is he ? Women lead the world. I keep
my hopes.'

CHAPTEE Xii

THREE PROPOSALS.

WiiEX the three young men arrived at the age
of twenty-one tidings began to happen. If
things happen at twenty-one they are almost
always good things. If * anything happens ' at
sixty, it is generally followed by a procession
ill black. Fortune is a woman, and may therefore
only be wooed by the young and comely.

The first thing to happen was that Tommy's
uncle behaved as an uncle should — he admitted
this nephew to a Share. ' It will now be expected
of me,' said Tommy, ' to leave this
deserted hole and live in chambers.'

lie had developed aristocratic leanings.
He had long since discovered the West End and
club-land : lu* iisc^d to neo there and watch the

members walk up and down the steps of their
palaces ; he used to let his imagination loose
over the delicious wickedness that he imagined
to be going on within them — the gambling,
card-playing, champagne-drinking, and bacchanalian
revels which, as everybody knows,
make Tall Mall horrible by day and night
for quiet people. He ardently desired to be
admitted into this fellowship. The first step
must be, certainly, to migrate into fashionable
quarters.

The other two remained still in clerkery.
But they were advanced : they had been discovered
; they now drew substantial pay and
did responsible work — young men who know
foreign languages are not so plentiful in the
City, they conunand a price. This increase of
income brought plenty and comfort to two
houses in the village.

'My son,' said Mr. massey, who was always
sanguine, ' will do well ; lir will go farther even
than his pallium. \\v may even rival you. Col-liber.'


Of course the fiction of glory was still
maintained.

A clear head and a sagacious eye,' said
Sir Charles. ' Tic young man ^vill be a
credit to us, no doubt. I hope, Massey, for
your sake, that he may rival any of us — any
of us.'

'lie certainly ^vill,' said ]\Lr. Collier,
grimly, 'if he takes uj) \\\\\\ any of his father's
projects.'

!N[r. Massey vas not offended, because he
believed in his projects. ' The boy might do
worse,' lie said, ' he might do worse.'

It was somewhere about this time, too, that
Claire became conscious of a change in the behaviour
of the young men. The old camaraderie
disappeared ; they no longer treated her
quite as an ecpial ; little by little they began to
observe a respect and deference towards her
quite unknown in the old days. Olii.thus resumed
his visits and even brought gifts. Allen
seemed to think that hier opinion was worth
asking on the only subjects he cared to talk

about. Will paid her on every occasion the
petits soins which girls like.

Perhaps she Avould not have wondered lead
she realised the change which a few years had
accomplished in herself. She was now eighteen
years of age, and at least three inches taller
than her whither. She had the sloping shoulders
of a Frenchwoman, with the sweet face, delicately
coloured, not pale, of an English girl.
Her hair was black like the hair of a Parisienne ;
her eyes preserved the deep, full, limpid blue
which seems to belong to English eyes ; her
voice was low and full like her father's ; her
features were as sharp and clear-cut as his ; the
grace of her walk, the little quickness of
gesture, the delicacy of her fingers, were altogether
French. No one but a Frenchwoman
could dress so beautifully with materials so
cheap and on an allowance so exiguous.

It was no wonder that the young men fell
in love with her. The old, who are even more
ready to appreciate beauty than the young,
were of course in love with her. Sir Charles

made her pretty compliments, and told her how
he had received a great many most beautiful
young ladies at his Mansion House balls, but
none so beautiful as herself. Even Mr. Collier,
who was believed to have no eyes for anything
but the price lists, congratulated her
father on the girl's beauty and wished himself
forty years younger. The lads would have
been insensate logs had they not fallen in love.

They were not insensate, therefore

Some girls would have recognised the
symptoms — Claire did not. She never thought
about such things as love at all. These young
men had been her companions all her days ;
they were her brothers ; Will and Allen were
part, the greater part, of her life ; of course
they loved her as she loved them.

Her father observed these indications with
discernment. Clearly there was something
coming. He remembered the race for the
orange, and smiled. Which would Claire
accept of the three ? He expected that a formal
proposal would be brought to himself, perhaps

through the respectable parents. But he waited
in vain. The respectable parents did not appear
at all. Nor did the young men speak to him.
He then remembered that the marriage customs
of the Englisli in some respects differ from those
of France. Therefore he sat outside, so to
speak, and watched.

He observed that Olynthus called twice a
week, regularly ; that he evidently wished this
regularity to be marked as meaning intentions ;
that he always brought something, such as
gloves, fruit, neckties, or flowers ; that he laid
his gifts upon the table without a "word and
presently departed after a few attempts at
speech ; also that Claire gathered up the gifts
with a careless hand and tossed them aside Alien
he was gone.

lie perceived, next, that Allen and Will
were rapidly approaching that stage at which
jealousy begins. It was quite customary for
them to meet at the Cottage, but now they
came every night ; sometimes they came together,
but often separately.

In a beautiful map wliicli shows the progress
of the pilgrim of love, there occurs, quite early
in the pilgrimage, Lite des Petits Soins lying
quite close to the Terre d'Adniivation. It is
succeeded by a black and grisly district, horrid
with woods and dreadful mountains, as they
used to say before the taste for the picturesque
was awakened ; it is called the Pays des Jaloux,
Now, all these suitors were engaged among the
gloomy defiles and black forests of this unpromising
country. Tommy was the first to enter
it, and the reason — as it seemed to him, not
knowing that it was part of the pilgrimage —
was the fact that Claire continued the old custom
of walking with Allen iu the Forest, sometimes
in the evening, alone with liii. She had done
this for many years, yet the enormity of the
thing never occurred to Tonnny until he began
to consider the young lady as, in the sweet City
parlance, his own property.

Tommy did not resolve upon pursuing this
affair without great consideration. Before
finally deciding upon paying his addresses to

Claire, he surveyed womankind from China to
Peru, reckoning from east to west, or as much
of til at space as he could command, including
the young ladies of Lough ton, Chingford, Buck-hurst
Hill, Chigwell, Thereon Bois, Epping,
and even Edmonstone, going to church on
Sunday mornings with no other object than the
consideration of the other sex. He stood in
the porch and watched them coming out, seeing
them in this way at their best, with their nicest
frocks on and in their sweetest looks. He came
to the deliberate conclusion that of all the girls
Claire was the prettiest, and the best dressed,
and the nicest. He then informed his mother
of his design, not asking her counsel or permission,
but announcing: his will, like the o-reat
Bashaw.

'Only a governess, my dear?' lie whispered.


'A beautiful woman, mother, in the eyes of
lier lover is the equal of a countess.' He thrust
his hand into his bosom as he uttered this
magnificent sentiment, and wished himself a

duke, in order to illustrate it the more splendidly.


Remember, Olynthus, you are a Galla-away.'


I d(^ not forget it,' he replied grandly.
A man raises this vite to his own position.
As a partner in the Concern, I already enjoy a
position, which I shall confer upon my wife.
You may prepare the girls, mother, for the
news. I hope they will like their sister-in-law.
Tell 'em,' he added, with simplicity, ' if they
don't like her, they may go and live somewhere
else.'

'You might look higher, Olynthus.'

I might,' he replied. ' With manner and
appearance, and a partnership in a steady
Concern, one might look anywhere, lout I am
satisfied. Give me Claire. My tastes are
simple. Of course, as regards her other some
arrangement must be come to. lie may come
to the house once a week or so in the middle
of the day, when I am in the City, or on Sunday
to dinner, or perhaps supper will do. with a bit

of salad and the coll beef — all that can be
easily arranged.'

Allen,' said Will, one morning in the train.

Allen changed colour because he foresaw
that there was going to be an explanation.

How long, Allen, is this kind of thing to
go on ? '

Allen shook his head helplessly.

I've been thinking, old man,' Will went
on, ' how to settle it. We can't afford to
quarrel, we two. If Claire takes either of us,
she must become the other fellow's sister.
See?'

Yes,' said Allen, ' she must be his sister.'

Very well, then. Now I've been watching
Claire.'

So have I,' said Allen.

Let us compare notes, then. I say, for my
part, that she does not suspect anything.'

I don't think she does,' said Allen.

But the time has come for her to be told.
Now I've got a plan. We might toss up who

should speak first ; but it seems hardly fair to
leave such a serious thing to chalice. Let us
both write to her, and let us send the letters by
the same post.'

This was reasonable. Neither, in this way,
could have the least advantage over the other,
and Claire would learn the truth.

Of course,' said Will a little bitterly, ' you
are the cleverer, Allen, and you have been
most with her. She is sure to take you. But
I should like to let her know — just to let her
know — that I'm not such an insensible ass as
not to be in love with her. As for that, I've
been in love with her — and so have you — ever
since we were children together. There is no
one else in the world that I could be in love
with.'

But suppose she won't have either of us ? '
said Allen.

Then we shall go on just the same as now.
Was there ever in poetry a girl with two lovers
who would have neither? '

Remember, we are only two City clerks.'

VOL. I. s

That is notliiiig. Wc are going to be rich
City merchants. I shall change my name to
Whittington You shall be a great poet as well
as a great merchant.'

'When, Will, when?'

Soon, old boy — very soon ; while we are
young and cau enjoy things. Don't you feel
sometimes as if there were ten thousand things
wanting to make you quite happy ? Claire, to
begin with ; and then pictures, music, and books,
and the theatre, and dancing and singing, and
sometimes travelling; but Claire to begin with! *

And without Claire ? '

Will Alas silent awhile. The light went out
of his face.

Without Claire — nothing. Allen, don't
you see how she has been everything to us?
What should we have been without her and her
father? I tremble, sometimes, to think what
we have escaped.'

Can't we wait a little ? ' asked Allen.
Everything is so pleasant. It seems a pity to
disturb pleasant things.'

Will shook his head.

No ; the pleasantness is disturbed. You
glared at me after church last Sunday. That
kind of tiling can't go on.'

As for that, you looked as if you were
going to knock my head off yesterday evening.'

I felt like it; said Will.

They wrote their letters that same day.
First they sat down to the table opposite to
each other and resolutely took pen and paper.
Then they looked at each other, thoughtfully.

What are you going to say, Allen ? ' asked
Will with anxiety.

What shall you say P ' he replied.

If I was a poet — but no, poetry is only for
make-believe. Everything real is prose.'

They applied themselves with determination
to thought. Neither had any experience in
love-letters.

Allen,' said Will, throwing down his pen,
it's no use, I can't write it. I can't find words
to Siiy. Lave you written your letter ? '

Allen shook his head. At such a moment,

8 '1

^vhen he slioiild have found the most glowing
words, his brain was barren ; the reason being
that he was not satisfied with the plain truth,
which was in itself full of poetry, and wanted
no more gilding than the crown of England.

The thing is ridiculous,' cried Will. ' Look
here : we will write one letter and both sign
it.' He seized the pen again and wrote without
fie words the simple truth.
'Dearest Claire, —

We both love you ; that you know already.
We both desire, more than anything in the
world, to be your husband. But you can only
grant that to one of us, and the other must
remain your brother. That one weill go on
loving you as a man loves his sister.

Your lovers,

Allen Engledew,
Will Massey.'

There ! ' said Will. ' We have told her
the truth in plain words. It is better than any
dressing up. We will post this in the City

tomorrow morning, so that she will have it in
the forenoon, and have time to think of her
answer

But neither of us,' said Allen, ' must go to
the Cottage till an answer is received.'

That night Will passed in watchfulness,
because he distrusted the strength of the fraternal
bond. Would the yearning which had of
late possessed him so strongly, to take Claire in
his arms and keep her there, cease, even if she
were to choose Allen ?

His rival slept soundly after thinking how
the situation would fall into verse, and fitting
some beautiful thoughts which could be put on
paper when he found time.

Next morning they met Tommy at the
station. They observed that he was fidgety in
manner, as if he had something to communicate.
He generally went first class, as a Partner
should ; but today he g(^t into a third-class
carriage with them.

I've got to tell you fellows something,' he
said, with a very crimson blush.

Go on, Tommy,' said Will encouragingly.
Neither of them ever paid Tommy the deference
due to a Partner.

It's about Claire.' The other two started
and looked guilty. ' Yes, about Claire. I
think it right to tell you, because you go to the
Cottage so often and seem to consider the place
your own property, that after to-day you will
have to wait till you are invited.'

Indeed, Tommy ! Why?'

Because I've written to Claire — henceforth
Mademoiselle Philiponon to everybody except
myself, if you please. Remember that — I've
written to her, and the letter is in my pocket,
asking her — in fact — to become Mrs. Gallaway.'

'Oho!' cried Will — what did they both
laugh for ? — ' And the letter is in your pocket? '

In my pocket. I've consented to waive
the difference in rank, and have offered her —
my hand.' He held it out, a white, fat hand,
with the same expression upon it as upon his
face. Everybody knows this peculiarity in
hands. It was a carefully groomed hand, too,

with three rings. 'My mother he went on,
is going to break it to the girls, and will, of

course, call upon CI I mean Mademoiselle

Philiponon — as .soon as she has answered my
k'tter/

Upon my word, Tommy,' said Allen, ' you
are very good and generous

A Pinner in such a Concern as ours might
look higher. But never mind. I thought I'd
tell you both, because we are old friends, and
because, you see, when a man's engaged, he
can't have other fellows hanging round his girl.'

I see,' said Will. ' It was very considerate
of you to tell us. And now. Tommy, one good
turn deserves another. So you must know that
Allen and I have both written to her as welland
made precisely the same offer. We all
start fair.'

'You've wriiiLii, lor' Tommy united
tory red.

'We've written, too. Claire — no — for you,
Mademoiselle Philiponon — will get the offers of
all three at the sixmc time.*

I call this,' said Tommy, in a great rage,
confounded sharp practice.'

'Why?'

Because you must have known that I
meant business. Do you think I have been
going there three times a week to have the
pleasure of hearing her father talk French?
You must have seen it. Anybody must have
seen it.'

If,' said Allen, ' I had seen it, I should only
have written or spoken sooner.'

Cheer up, Tommy,' said Will. ' Perhaps
Claire saw it, and that is, you know, the most
important point.'

Tommy sat glum and sulky — his friends, lie
felt, were not afraid of his rivalry — till the
train arrived at Liverpool Street. Then he got
down with dignity and went straight to the
nearest pillar post, into which he dropped his
letter.

He really felt very nuich hurt, and seriously
alarmed, because it never had occurred to him
that the other two should also ' mean business.'

III the course of the day, however, he took
heart, thinking that he was a Partner and they
were only clerks ; also, that Allen might bea
good-looking fellow enough, but he was
lanky and wore glasses, and that Will was
certainly too big a fellow to take any girl's
fancy.

Claire received the letters when she came
home from the school. She read them, and her
heart began to beat and her lips to tremble.
Because she felt, somehow, as if she loved two
of them in exactly the same way. As for the
third, she neither blushed nor trembled when
she read his letter. isle put it down gently,
however, and smiled.

When her father came in from the garden,
she gave him the letters without a word.

Does my daughter wish to leave her father
yet ? ' he said.

She laid her arms about his neck and kissed
him, with a tender love in her eyes.

Wliat answer shall I give, my dear?' he
asked.

I don't know.' She blushed and hid her
face ou his shoulder. ' I have no answer.'

'Allen? Will? Olynthus?'

She made no reply.

Shall I send an answer, Claire ? Shall I
bid them wait ? '

Oh ! yes. Let them wait.'

I mean for a certain period, dear. We
will give them a little time to prove themselves.
Will is certain to succeed if he gets a chance.
Allen will be a poet. Olynthus will be an
alderman. Let them wait.'

He saw two of them and wrote to the third.
To Allen and Will he said that they were
bidden by Claire to supper the next evening,
and at the supper they should have their answer.
To Olynthus he said that no father could receive
an offer of this kind without emotion. Would
he, in person, receive Claire's reply ? If so, a
supper awaited him at nine o'clock, after which
he should learn her decision. Meantime, let him
luring to the supper, which was to be a banquet
worthy of so great an occasion, a heart of joy.

A banquet, and a heart of joy There
could be no doubt, thought Tommy, of the
reply.

I suppose, mother,' he said, showing lier
the letter, ' that we may consider the thing as
good as settled. After all, I doubt whether
I've done the best for myself, eh ? '

It's a ijreat honour for her,' said his
mother. ' And I only lioi)C she will show that
she feels it, and not give herself airs.'

Yet she is, you know, really and truly,
mother, a most beautiful girl. Isn't she now?'

I am not denying her good looks, Olynthus.
But my son should have got something better
than good looks. An heiress, Olynthus, I had
hoped for.'

He smiled and stroked his chin.

It would have been pleasant to have married
an heiress. Yet, what heiress could behalf
»o beautiful as Claire? In love, mother,'
he said grandly, ' we despise fortune, and think
only of beauty. Think of that girl dressed as
she ought to be. Oh ! '

CHAPTEE XIV.

THE B.iNQUET.

If the young men brought to the banquet the
heart of joy which had been recommended
they dissembled. There were no signs of joy
at all among the little group upon Hector's
lawn the next evening, but rather of constraint
and embarrassment. They spoke little, and
nobody seemed to pay attention to what was
said. M. riiilipon wore his whitest waistcoat
and his finest rosebud, and received the three
young men with the cordiality of one who
bestows, as well as receives, honour. lie was,
however, fully alive to the responsibility of the
position, and felt that he had a serious speech
to make, and that it was due to his daughter
that the speech should be expressed in fitting

words. Claire did not appear. Could it be
that they were going to have the banquet without
her? As for the young men, Will and
Allen stood together, Allen with one hand on
Will's shoulder, as if for support. Olynthus
stood apart from the others, wearing a smile of
assurance which now and then gave place to a
look of anxiety. lie was dressed with great
splendour, wore all his rings and chains, and
had the shiniest of hats.

Just when the constraint and the silence
became painful there appeared in the porch a
little serving maid, w'itli a white cap and a
long white apron, very neat, and appropriate to
the Cottage.

My friends,* cried .the host, * supper awaits
us. Permit me to lead the way.'

lie led them into the house. They found
that Claire was waiting them. She was dressed
in some sort of creamy white stuff' with a ribbon
round her neck and a white flower in her black
hair, and she looked so sweet, so dainty, that
Allen choked, and Will turned pale, and

Oliiitlius ]L'(l. >^lic bowed to them without
ofieriiig her hand or raising lier eyes ; and then
lie took, her father's arm.

Gentlemen,' said Hector, ' on this occasion
I lead my daughter to the banquet.' If she
had been a duchess and lie the Regent ; if the
Cottage had been the Palais Eoyal ; if the supper
had been of royal or regent character, he
could not have assumed a more courtly air.
The young men followed in great awe and
expectation.

My dear friends,' said their host, * take
your places ; let there be no jealousies ; Claire
sits beside me. Olynthus, you are nearest-take
the chair next to her. Allen, my pupils
on this side of me, Will, take the opposite
chair. So.'

He sat down and looked about him with a
truly festive countenance, though the occasion
was a grave one. Yet whatever is to come
after supper, let the joy which belongs to that
meal be maintained. The supper was served
on the whitest of table covers and in the

plainest of white china. It took a great number
of dislikes and in the giver's eyes it was
magnificent. Indeed, at first, everybody's
breath was taken away by the mere aspect
of the spread and the profusion of flowers in
which it hiy imbedded. No supper, however
magnificent, could have made a more imposing
appearance.

On the present occasion, there were live
tiny lamb cutlets lying on a white bank of
mashed potatoes ; there was a dish of new
]potatoes, boiled, another of potatoes sautes
another of early peas, another of asparagus,
another of cauliflower ait gratin, another of
spinach served with eggs and butter. There
was a dish of gooseberry fool. There was an
immense bowl of salad, prepared by the hands
of Claire herself, there was bread a discvetioii^
and there was a little plate of cheese. Everything,
in fact, except the cutlets and the cheese
and the bread, had come straight from the
garden.

'My friends,' said Hector joyously, all his

embarrassment gone as he surveyed this royal
supper, ' this is magnificent, it is superb, it
makes the heart rejoice ' — lie looked round the
table — ' where, but where is the wine ? Klein ?
Is it possible? I had forgotten the wine — aha !
the wine to make us merry. Behold the bottle '
he could reach it from the sideboard without
rising from his seat. ' Aha ! the Divine Bottle !
the glow glow of the bottle ! '

He handled the bottle as lovingly as if it
contained a liquid more precious than words
can express. He held it up to the light, held
it carefully, so as not to shake it, and inserted
the screw as an angler sticks on his worm, as if
he loved the cork. Then when, with a voluptuous
pop the cork left the bottle, M. Philiponon
laughed softly, and placed the Divine Bottle
beside him, wagging his head and forefinger at
it as if it, too, were a boon companion. Two
of the young men knew the wine well. They
were perfectly acquainted with the resources
of the cellar, and they both looked straight
before them as if fearing to meet each other's

eyes. Only from Allen,. who was imaginative,
a faint shiver cscai)e(l with a whispered trembling
of the lips as if caused by the rolling of a
few r's.

Supper,' said their Iiost, a spoon in one
hand and a fork in thu' other, * supper, like all
good things, is a French invention. T do not
boast, my friends, I merely state a fact. No
one knew what supper could be before the time
of the Regent — the first mm of modern times
who understood how to live. We will imagine
ourselves — for this evening only — in the time of
the Regent; we will feast like him, we will talk
like him — that is, at a respectful distance ; we
will dismiss the laccpieys and servants ' — he
spoke as if his one little maid was a complete
staff — * and we will wait ui)()n eacji other — that
is, we will wait u])()ii Clair'. My dear, let me
find for you, among all these cutlets, the
sweetest, the best cooked, the most delicious

It would have been impossible for the most
generous of hosts, had his eyes been turned
upon Olynthus at this moment, to escape the

VOL. I.

discovery that lie Alas cementing, Avitli ii 
impossible to bu concealed, the
iiuinber of cutlets iu the dish. There were five
one apiece ; as for the rest, lie had now discovered
that h was iiothiiiir but salad and
flowers. And he had been invited to supper,
and he lead been promised a royal banquet,
and he had taken only a slender meal in the
middle of the day in order' to do justice to that
banquet. One lamb cutlet — with said I The
other two, however, were not disappointed :
they knew wliiit to expect. To M. Philiponon a
cu]) of chocolate was a large early breakfast ; a
cubic inch of beef slewed in a mess of onions,
carrots, and potatoes made a midday dejeuner \
a croire <ia pot with another inch of beef and
a dish of lentils or beans, made a substantial
dinner. This supper, with its festive array of
dishes, its variety of vegetables, and the presence
of his guests, was to him a veritable feast of
15elshaz/.ar. They wondered not, but yet they
trended, because they nuit needs pass through
the ordeal of the wine.

Their livest urged them to i>uperliuinau
efforts, and congratulated them on their prowess,
as if a whole hung cutlet was in itself a
feast worthy of an alderman. The young
men, stimulated by these exhortations, went
on eating until there was not a stalk of
asparagus, or a single potato, or a morsel of
cauliflower.

'Go on, brave boys,' cried their host, with
glowing eyes. ' The English are as valiant at
the table as on the field. They are lusty
fosters. Allen, another potato. Will, more
spinach. Olynthus, you spare the cheese. It
is good to see these young athletes. It is
Achilles, with Ajax and Diomede — brave Dio-niece
; no doubt he greatly resembled Olynthus.
It is a Homeric banquet, or — yes, it is the
Centaurs feasting after a fight ; or, still better,
it is the suitors of Penelope feasting in the
Palace of Ithaca. Desist not; eat as valiantly
his Friar John; drink as deep) as a Franciscan
friar. Allen, the bottle stands by you ; let it
move on — !'•' M hot — It :e'. gallon). (Jlinthn*^.

T '2

fill up, fill up all ; let us drink like the good
folk of Chinon ; let us drink without stopping,
except to eat.'

With these rollicking and Eabelaisian exhortations
did M. Philiponon stimulate the revellers
and astonish his daughter, who saw, to her
amazement, the bottle fly from hand to hand
and the young men pour continually more wine
into their glasses. They poured as Httle as they
could, and it seemed as if the bottle never would
get finished. When you added water to the
proportion of three to one, you practically disguised
the sourness of the wine, though you
made the water thin. At last Allen, who could
bear the thing no longer, and who trembled
lest Tommy should say something that would
annoy their host — indeed he was beginning to
look dangerous — poured out all that was left
into his tumbler, and heroically drank it off at
a gulp. Claire looked in terror to see some of
the signs of intoxication. The young men
might, if her father went on plying them with
strong drink, roll under the tal)le, or have to

catch each other by the shoulders us she had
seen men do in Ei)phig Forest.

So infectious, in fact, was the gaiety assumed
by their host at this imaginary feast
that two of the three guests were ]presently
quite carried away by it, and hushed and
talked as if the potency of the wine had indeed
mounted to their brains and unlocked their
tongues. The gravity of the occasion, the
importance of the decision that was immediately
to be announced to them, seemed forgotten.
Allen, for his part, brandished his glass in
sympathy when this host flourished the bottle
over this head and quoted the old French

songe

ne quitter.ii jamais ma nye
Tandis qu'elle fern glow glow :
Je ne quitterai jamais ma nye
Qu'elle ne soit vide de tout.

As if the wine was of the most rollicking kind,
and charged with mirth and song and revelry.
And Will laughed approvingly.

Claire, for her part, knowing why the
young men were bidden to the feast, and

remembering what was about to be said to
them, and what hopes were to be destroyed or
postponed that evening, felt pained at the exhibition
of gaiety, and wondered how men can
be so light of heart and so careless even when
their own happiness — if they are truthful — is
at stake. Claire was not experienced in the
heart of male man, else she would have known
that the excitement of expectation, of suspense,
of a deed done or yet to do, is strangely akin
to gaiety. When Oliver Cromwell signed the
death-warrant of the King, he fillipped his
neighbour with the ink. Not out of frivolous
light-heartedness, if you please, but as a relief
to the heaviness of his heart. These young
men at least were profoundly anxious, and
"when Allen Enj^leduw brandished his j^lass like
a mad monk of Medmenham, it was because
he was unconsciously seeking refuge from
trouble in merriment.

This explanation is intended only for metaphysicians,
and for the seekers after that wliicli
cannot be found.

Claire wondered, but she said nothing and
was silent, keeping her eyes down and anxious
for the time when she might leave the table.

Olynthus, it may be observed, responded
only partially and with cflbrt. He was too
hungry to laugh, and, besides, he saw nothing
to laugh at. losing asked to drink vinegar and
eat salad when one was raging with hunger
seemed to him like going beyond the limits of
legitimate mirth.

When there was nothing more to eat, and
even the bottle was at length happily empty,
their entertainer began to wink mysteriously
and to shake a finger with a meaning wink.

Good Heaven ! ' thought Tonnny ; ' what
is he going to give us next ? '

But his spirits Avec raised when he remembered
that French people frequently finish tlu'ir
banquets with a gloria or chasse-cafe . 'Brandy,
I hi^pe,' he murmured.

On this occasion,' said M. rhilii)on, ' which
is remarkable, I produce a bottle of remarkable
wine ; a veritable qrainl rin, w ^finyaux of

premier cru. It is as old as Claire, and was
enclosed in this casket of glass the very year in
which she was born.'

He drew forth, from some secret recess, a
small pint bottle covered with dust. This he
corked with immense ceremony.

Claire, my daughter,' he said, his bright
eyes softening, ' we have feasted and we have
laughed in your honour. Woman is the giver
of all joy : therefore we do well to be joyful in
her honour. This day, my dear, you have attained
your majority. You are of age, not
because you are eighteen, but because these
young gentlemen have become your suitors.
We shall drink, my best of daughters, to you ! '

He filled four glasses, which proved to be
exactly the measure of the bottle, and passed
one to each.

Then all stood \\\), glass in hand.

Chiire, my child ! '

'Claire!'

Tliey (li-aincd their glasses and set them
d()v;n ; that is, three of the four men did.

Tommy set his dcnvn unfinished with a gasp
and a shiver ; for, his ! the vaunted wine had
been kept too long, and it was even more sour
than its predecessor.

Claire looked from one to the other with a
smile of thanks, and tlicn, l)liisliing violently,
rose from her seat.

'Yes, child,' said her father, 'I will not
say in your presence what I have to say to
these young men concerning you. Leave us,
my dear.'

He held out both his hands, drew her
towards him, and kissed her gravely on the
forehead. Then, still holding her —

'Gentlemen,' lie said, 'before Claire goes,
you may each of you — yes — her fatlicr permits
80 much — you may kiss her hand.'

Tommy, outraged by the last glass of claret,
thought this permission, being of a hollow and
Barmecide character, was only a natural ending
to a banquet from which he rose more hungry
than when he sat down — one lamb cutlet and
a ]pint of vinegar ! He had no desire to kL^s

Claire's hand ; lie wanted to kiss her lips; as
for a gii-l's fingers, anybody might kiss them
that pleased. Still, to refuse might be misunderstood,
and if he-seas expected to enjoy
the privilege, he must pretend. He therefore
hastened to be the first to lift her hand, and
imprint a kiss with as much fervour as he
could. Allen, for his part, blushing as much
as the girl herself, bent respectfully over and
touched the fingers with his lips, murmuring a
few words. Will did not bend more than was
necessary, but he looked at Claire while he
raised her hand ; and he was rewarded by a
shy and troubled look, as she lifted her eyes
for a moment.

Then she was gone, and the time was arrived
for the speech to be made.

j\r. riiilipon invited his guests to resume
tliL'ir chairs and presently began : —

Gentlemen, you know why I have called
you here. You will appreciate ni}- desire in
proposing that before entering upon the subject,
at once so delicate and so important, we

should all feast together as good friends and
bans camarades' Here Olynthus dropped his
eyes upon this plate, where yet lingered the
bone of the single lamb cutlet. 'Now, then,
that our hearts are glad with old wine ' — nobody
smiled : on such a subject a smile might
have been misinterpreted — 'we will approach
the subject which is in our minds.'

It is the English custom,' he went on, ' in
affairs of the heart, to address one's self first to
the young lady. In France we arrange these
things differently, perhaps more simply, perhaps
with the effect of producing fewer mistakes.
That is nothing ; I bow, gentlemen, to the
Englbh custom ' — he saluted the tlnve with a
• comprehensive sweep. 'You have followed
the moth(Kl adopted by y<»nr compatriots. T
accept it. And I thank you for the honour
you have conferred upon me and upon my
respectable family.'

He paused here, and sat down in order that
these words might produce their full and desired
effect, and they all three bowed. Then

he rose again, and placed this left liaiid in his
bosom, behind his white waistcoat, reserving
his right for gesture. But remark that a well-educated
Frenchman does not greatly gesticulate.
A Frenchman in a rage or a Frenchman
carried away by the passion of indignation or
contempt may use arms and hands in a fine
freedom and frenzy, but not, if you please, a
dignified fere de famille who is calmly discussing
the future of his daughter.

Gentlemen,' the speaker continued, ' it is
my duty to inform you, at the outset, that the
dot of my Claire is — is — in fact — not worth
mentioning.'

Here they all three murmured and spread
out their hands and bowed and blushed, and
Olynthus made some remark about theirs beinir
enough for two.

I know,' the speaker we-nt on, ' the wonderful
English custom of marrying a wife
without i\\\y dot at all. Droll manner! It is
the husband who finds the dot in the shape of
an insurance on his life. The insular prejudice

against economy is nowhere so strongly shown.
You refuse to save anything. You insure.
You trust to your strong arms. It is a vacant
nation indeed, where the fathers give nothing
to the bride, and the bridegroom has nothing,
and both are ricci — in the future. A brave
])eoi)k% truly ! Yet, gentlemen, I love the
French custom best, and I would that it were
in my power to give my Claire the dot which
she merits. Then would her husband be truly
rich. As for myself, you have probably heard
that the events, known to all the world, which
drove me from my country, shut me out from
the honourable career in which I should have
grown rich. I do not accuse my fate. I am
one of the martyrs of France. It is sweet and
decorous for your country 's sake to be a professeur
of French in an institution of demoiselles.'
Here he paused again, and here Will lifted
up his voice and begged him not to let the
(question of the dot weigh upon his mind at all,
because they loved Claire without any thought
of money.

'Brave young men!' said Lier father. 'You
would, perhaps, insure.'

Olynthus said that so lar as a policy of a
thousand might go he should be most happy to
meet M. Philiponon's views.

Gentlemen,' M. Philiponon resumed, ' the
family to which I belong( has \ox\si been honourably
connected with the commerce of my
country. sly brother still controls the vast
establishment formerly directed by my father
and my grandfather. It is a magasin de liveries
a storehouse of — eh — of reddere. In reddere
my ancestors have been for three generations
of the fii-st force. Remark, gentlemen, that I
pretend not to illustrious birth and claim no
great ancestor:. We are of the people — like
yourselves.'

They nodded their heads gravely. They
were not themselves in ' reddere,' but two were
in silk and one was in oil, and there is not
much difference what you are in, provided you
arc deep in it, up to your neck in it ; with room
to plunge about in it ; in it 'in a large way.'

It is not everybody who Cii speak of out
rolling ii vast establishment. Words do not
convey the same significance to all hearers, nor
did the young men sui)i)ose that the vast
establishment was but an ordinary shop.

sly daughter the Frenchman went on,
has received from every one of you, and
almost at the same time, which shows that you
were each anxious to be first in the field and
jealous of the others, an oiler which not only
confers honour upon her, but also upon yourselves.
Because, my tVieiuls, it shows that the
young men who have been my pupils and
friends for so many years are fully sensible to
the charms of a girl who is as good as she is
beautiful. Her mother was an Englishwoman.
When I think of that fact and remember her
virtues, I would have my daughter, too, all
english. You are young men, I confess, of
great worth and of much promise, but, boys,
which on' <»f vo'.i T :i-k — i< yd wortfiv of my
hilt?'

Upon this Tommy remarked, with a little

cough, that lio knew it well and had felt it ; but
lie trusted that, With the income Which he now-hoped
to make, having been lec^'utly admitted
to a partnership) in the Concern, not to speak of
the insurance he was ready to effect, it would
not be long before he couhl prove himself
worthy of the young lady.

Allen said that he desired humbly to acknowledge
his full sense of his own unworthiness.


Will. With a little thickness in his speech,
most certainly not due to the claret, said that
nobody coidd be worthy of her, but he would

do his best for her, if And here he

stopped.

Monsieur Philiponon bowed gravely to each.

It is well spoken,' he said, ' and every one
according to his heart. So that, gentlemen,
you will not be surprised or offended at my
reply on behalf of my dear Claire. You all
love her, 1 suppose. Then, gentlemen, prove it
by wailing and working ibr her. 1 give you
three years. You are all al)out twenty-one

years of age. You shall have Claire's answer
from Claire's own lips, not from mine — when
you are twenty-four. I do not tell you to go
away and see her no more for that space of
time : I do not ask you to desist from your
visits, my dear young friends. I could not
think of inflicting so great a pain upon myself
as to see you no more all this time. Whether
you go or whether you stay, ask again in three
years' time, if you are then in the same mind.
Claire, meantime, will wait. It will be well if
during this time you do not — lien? — talk of
love — make eyes of sheep. You will very
likely forget her. You will go away and forget
lier. You are young. Youth is the time of
hasty loves and quick forgetting.'

Oh ! oh ! ' they all protested.

'Again, by the time you are twenty-four
you will possibly be more awakened to the
blessings of a dois and may repent of an engagement
with a penniless girl.'

Oh ! oh ! ' they all protested.

You live, gentlemen, in a village where

VOL. I. f

the talk is of the money which has been lost ;
you work in a city where the talk is all of the
money which may be made. The atmosphere
everywhere is filled with the perfume of banknotes,
shares, bonds, and coupons. You breathe
this air — it is like a slow poison to some ' — he
looked at Allen — ' like the keen mountain air,
which stimulates, to others ' — he looked at Will
' and like their own native air to others ' —
he looked at Olynthus, who smiled and bowed
and felt that the highest compliment had been
paid to him. ' So, gentlemen, I have finished.
In three years Claire shall, if she then pleases,
bestow her hand upon one of you. I hope that
she will give it to the most worthy among you.
Gentlemen ' — here he became vein grave — ' if
during this period you live well — as young
Englishmen do sometimes live— this child will
remain to you, and become more and more
to you a goddess worthy of all worship and
reverence. If you live not well, she will become
quite a common woman, a wild flower,
of no use except to be plucked and thrown

away. Remember that the chevalier sans reproche
makes the truest lover.'

He finished : he sat down : lie rested his
head upon this hand, and looked gravely u]X)ii
his friends. . Divert : lie had spoken.

Will Massey made reply, simply.

He said, ' We thank you, sir. Perhaps wee
would expect no more. We are young men
with till our work before us. We will respect
your confidence in us and take no advantage.'

'No advantage,' echoed Allen.

Three years ! ' murmured Olynthus.

Then they rose, wished their host goodnight,
and so out into the twilight of June,
where the moon shone on the Forest, turning
greys and browns into blacks and whites, and
in the soft air the foolish cockchafers were
buzzing about and getting into people's whiskers.

I say, you fellows,' said Tommy, when
they were well in the road, ' what do you think
of it? Impudence, I call it. Nothing short of
impudence. For what is ho, after all ? A
common French master. Without a rap.'

u 2

lie leaned against the palings and waited
for a reply.

What do you say, Allen ? ' asked Will.

Three years ! ' Tommy went on grumbling.
Three whole years ! Why, in three years a
man might be in the Bankruptcy Court. Most
likely he would if he stayed on in a hole like
this, which reeks of bankruptcy. Three years ! '

Why,' said Allen ; ' three years is not such
a very long time.'

As for me,' Tommy went on grumbling ;
I want to go away and live as a gentleman
should — in Chambers. But if you two are going
to hang on here, and take advantage behind
my back '

We promised to take no advantage,' said
Will gravely.

Oil ! yes, I know. You won't fall down
on your knees to her. But as for you, Will,
you will be in the garden working for her,
making her tidings, and Allen will be bringing
her books, and unless I am to be out of it
altogether I shall have to stay here too.'

Well, Tommy,' said Will, ' you can't expect
us to go away just because you want to
live ill Chambers.'

A gentleman,* said Tommy, ' cant live
here. It is not possible.'

'Allen and I are only clerks yet,' he replied.
' Time enough, later on, to consider the
manners and customs of gentlemen.'

Just then Allen spoiled what might have
been an interesting discussion on the manners
and characteristics of the British gentleman by
suddenly bursting into an uncontrollable fit of
laughter.

What's the matter, Allen ? ' asked Will.

Did you — did you — ' he gasped, at length
*did you see Tommy's face when he had
eaten up his cutlet ? *

Then Will i)egan to laugh, and Tommy
grew hot and angry.

He had had no dinner — on purpose,' iVllen
went on, ' to enable him to eat more supper,
lo ! Io ! '

I don't see what you are laughing at,' said

Tommy. ' I call it an imposition to promise a
supper and give a man a lamb cutlet and cabbage
with vinegar to drink, and to go on all
the while like a Tom Fool at a fair about feasting
and drinking.'

But the other two continued to laugh.

And as to unworthiness,' Tommy grumbled,
we read stuff like that in novels. But, you
know, it is downright rubbish. That's not the
way that practical people — people in the City —
look at things. A good-looking fellow' — he
held out one foot and his eyes fell complacently
along the leg — ^ with a good position and an
income ' — he hoped his friends would not be
hurt in their feelings by this remark, but he
desired to assert the truth, and he certainly was
a Junior Partner — ' is fit for any girl. Sentiment
does not go down in the City.'

Never mind, Tommy,' said Will. ' I think,
Allen, that we were right in having an explanation.
It wasn't right of us to begin to be
jealous and distrustful of each other ; and we
ought not to have expected M. Philiponon to decide

for any of us. Why, Jacob served seven
years, and seven years more, for Eachel. Can
we not serve three for the chance of Claire ? '

And we are twenty-one, Will. And Jacob,
if you come to tliiuk of it, was seventy-eight
when he began to serve for Eachel.'

Here's more rubbish,' said Tommy ; but
whether he was thinking of Eachel or Lake,
of Jacob the Patriarch, or of Will the Youthful,
did not appear.

CHAPTEE XV.

river's legacy.

Who would have thought, when River began
to take the brandy bottle to bed with him, that
the whole future of two English lads would
have been affected by so simple an act, so common,
too, in thirsty climes ? Such a natural
accompaniment to so many colonial careers I

When River went out to Shanghai as representative
to the House of Brimage and
Waring, he was not a thirsty young man at all;
he was, on the contrary, a young man who held
strong moral objections to hastiness except at
tea-time, and was great in commonplace about
the ruin caused by drink. lie was, in short,
one of those yoimg men who regard speech as
merely a vehicle for the commonplace, and the

brain as devised merely for learning the commonplace.
There are a good many such young
men, not only in the City but outside it. It
was partly because River was so good at commonplace,
both commercial and moral, that he
was sent out. Yet, sad to say, in five or sis
years River had actually arrived at taking the
brandy bottle to bed with him, and the meal
called tea existed for him no longer.

That was the beginning of the end. It
mattered very little so long as River went to
bed cbimk and got up sober ; a man may go on
so for a great many years ; but when River
bogiin to go to bed drunk, and to get up drunk,
and to be drunk all day long, he entered upon
a path which quickly leads to deterioration of
the finer instincts of business.

I do not know exactly what it was that
River did at last ; it was something which not
only broke the camel's back, but made the cup
run over, and, at the same time, i)ut all the fat
in the lire. I believe he sat down and began
to buy right and left all the silk in the nuuket

at five-and-tweiity per cent, above it possible
selling value, just as if he had been representing
the Government of England instead of a mercantile
firm. This magnificence was stopped
by telegraph before he had lost many millions,
and he was deprived of the power to do anymore
lianii to the Firm. River was ordered
home ; he lugged his brandy bottle and went
on board the next mail. But he had either
overrated his own strength or underrated the
strength of the brandy, and when the ship was
still in the Narrow Seas he had to be dropped
overboard, while the passengers stood in a
semicircle and the captain read the service,
and the youngest steward cried aloud, usmg
one of the ship's napkins for a handkerchief,
not because he loved and lamented the deceased
at all, but because it was the first time he had
seen the handiwork of Death the Conqueror.

This is the tragical history of River, and,
indeed, of many a gallant youth who seeks this
fortune abroad.

And this is the reason why Brimage and

Waring wanted a new representative in
Shanghai.

The partners considered their office and its
occupants, and their eyes fell upon the two lads.
They were both of good character ; they both
knew two modern languages ; they were handsome
young men, of good bearing and good
address, presentable anywhere. It does a
house good to be represented abroad by young
gentlemen of pleasing manners.

But they only wanted one, and they hesitated
which to take. For the appointment,
though it led to such risks as that which proved
fatal to River the bibulous, was gi'cat promotion
; a handsome salary was attached to the
]post ; there was no telling what might nut
follow — even partnerships had followed — for
successfully representing the House in Shanghai.

The partners finally decided on Allen. He
was intelligent, though perhaps, they thought,
knowing nothing about the poetry, not so
intelligent as the other lad ; he could be safely
trusted to carry out instructions with discretion,

which means, in commercial matters, with
alacrity in perceiving when disobedience is best
Moreover, which finally decided them, he was
the son of an old servant of the House whose
unmerited disasters and tragic ending had not
yet been quite forgotten.

They sent for Allen : they communicated
with great solemnity the decision they had
arrived at ; the senior partner even began an
exhortation on the responsibilities of the position
; when, to everybody's astonishment, the
young man, who had been blushing painfully,
interrupted him with the astounding information
that he was obliged to decline the osier.

Are you afraid to go ? ' asked the senior
partner bluntly.

Are you unable to leave your mother
alone? ' asked a junior partner kindly.

Are you anxious about the duties ? ' asked
another.

Gentlemen,' said Allen, holding his head
very erect, ' I am not afraid to go, and my
mother will be very angry and disappointed

with lue, at least I fear so, because I refuse the
honour of this poj^t. But I cuunot go.'

You have perhaps formed ties ; yet you are
young,' said the senior.

Come, Engledew,' said the other, ' we
would gladly befriend your father's son ; we
have offered the place to you because we woidd
help you if we cotdd. Do not trifle with your
fortune.'

I cannot go, sir, thank you.'

We give you till tomorrow. Go home at
once ; consult your mother. Such a chance may
never happen to you again. Go now, and meet
us here tomorrow at noon.'

Allen retired. lie went home and told his
mother of the offer which had been made him.
The widow clasped lier hands and bej/an to
shed tears of joy.

I must lose you, Allen,' she said ; * but
that is nothing, for your foot is on the ladder at
last, and all you have to do is to climb. My
dear boy, you will retrieve the name ; you will
wipe out your poor father's disgrace.*

Mother siiid her son, ' that is already
retrieved ; it was never lost. Xot a man who
knew my father but knows that he had nothing
to do with his partner's evil practices. Yon
wish me to wipe out a disgrace which never
took place. What has been done cannot be
undone ; let us cease to make it worse by
supposing the worst.'

But he was bankrupt, Allen, and he
committed '

I know, I know. Yet there was no disgrace.
Mother, I have my own name to
think of, more even than the honourable
name of my father. I must think of that
first.'

Surely, Allen, surely.' She began to
tremble, lx?cause her son looked so determined.
Wliat did he mean ? Wliat was he going to
say ? ' Your success will be your own, my son ;
and yet — oh ! — doubt not that your dead fatlicr
will rejoice in it.'

Yes, mother, if I succeed. But if I do, it
will not be ' — he laid his hand on hers and

looked lier iu the face — ' it will not be in the
City;

Not in the City ? ' She knew of no success
possible out of tie City. AVliat did he
mean ?

'Xo, mother, the time has come — it has
been coming a long time — when I can go to
the City no more. Trio work Jia^ long been
intolerable to me.*

'Oh ! Allen, you mean that you are glad
to go to China.' But she knew very well that
he meant nothing of the sort. ' You mean that
you are rejoiced to have a change. Well,
dear, boys are so. If you are pleased, I am
pleased.'

I mean, mother, that I am going lo give
up my post at Brimage and Waring's and that I
'-hall try another hue of life altogether. I shall
try to Ive by literature.*

She only understood one way in which
money could be made. There were doctors
and clergymen, but they did not seem to make
any money. The City was the only place.

Letters r You mean by writing things ?
But you can't make your fortune by writing.'

Mother, I am not going to try to make a
fortune. I am going to live simply. I shall
probably always be a poor man. But I shall
try to make a name — and — and to do good
work.' His voice trembled a little, because this
kind of work seemed to him so sacred a thing —
which it undoubtedly is.

'A name — without money? Allen, you
are mad. Oh ! your head is turned with your
book-reading and your writing. Allen ! Allen!
I implore you. I will go on my knees to
you.'

Mother ! '

Yes, Allen, if you will only give up this
'\vild design.' She wept, she implored ; but he
was obstinate. ' You are mad — you are mad,'
she repeated. ' You will only starve in such a
Hfe.'

I shall not starve, mother,' he said gently,
'and you have enough for your own wants.
I shall go to London and make, somehow,

enough for my own. Only do not send me
away in anger

If he lead left her that night, she would
certainly have sent liii away in an<a'r and

V J CD

bitterness. Wliat was literature in her eyes?
What was anything compared to the City ?
And her boy Jiad the fairest prospects, and he
was going to throw all away — the dream of
twenty years, that he would ' retrieve ' this
father's name, and be respected in the City, was
suddenly shattered.

In the morning Allen again ]presented himself
before the partners. Isis resolution was
unshaken. He declined the China appointment
and resigned his situation in the House.

May we ask,' said the senior partner, * if
you will give us any reason — what you intend
to do ? '

I iii going to follow literature,' he replied,
with the deepest blush possible.

The senior partner turned his back upon
him, and said no more. His time was invaluable
to be wastal upon a fool — a mere fool.

VOL. I. X

One of the juniors asked him if he knew — if he
had considered — the kind of life he was about
to choose.

Allen said that he supposed it would be a
life of poverty and, perhaps, hardship. But
there would be compensations.

Wliat compensations are there ? ' asked the
]partner, who belonged to three good clubs,
lived in the Cromwell Eoad, dined every day
like Dives, and saw a doctor twice a week, in
order to keep himself and his digestion in good
order. * What possible compensations are therefor
poverty and hardship ? '

-:\j-t,' said Allen proudly, * compensates for
everything.'

Good morning, young man,' said the
partner.

In this way did Allen leave Brimage and
Waring's, and turned his back upon the City.

Then they sent for Will, and made him the
same offer.

He accepted with an eagerness which contrasted
favourably with Allen's hesitation,

'You are not afraid to go?' asked the
senior. ' There arc always dangers in foreign
countries.'

To get promotion, sir,' said Will, ' I would
cheerfully go to the Gold Coast.'

Good. You shall have promotion. If
you do well you shall have more promotion.
But remember River ; we must have no more
drunkards.'

I shall not drink, sir.'

'That is also good. I am informed that
there is a good deal of loo and baccarat and
other games of chance going on out there.
We must have no gamblers.'

I shall not gamble, sir.'

Then they went on to give him instructions,
lie was to start at once — that very week, if
possible ; he was to follow certain lines laid
down for his guidance ; on occasion he was to
act for himself. This indepi'iulcut action would
determine his future.

We can trust you, I think,' said the senior
partner, watching the young man's resolute look

and quick intelligence. ' Go now. Your outfit
will be given you and your passage, of course.
Go and begin your preparations.'

So, young man,' said Sir Charles, ' you
are going to China, I hear. Money lias been
made in China before now, and lost. There
have been several most interesting failures connected
with the China trade.'

You are wrong, Massey,' said Mr. Collier
solemnly. ' You are wrong ; you should stay
where the money is. Never go away from the
money.'

And young Engledew, his mother tells me,*
continued Sir Charles, ' has positively given up
his place at Brimage and Waring's, and means
to become a common writing person — a writing
person ; sad ! sad I '

Deplorable,' murmured Mr. Skantlcbiuy.

He will not listen to reason. Isis mother,
who has been to me about it, is broken-hearted.
Pitiable, indeed,' said Sir Charles. ' A common
writing person ! After enjoying our society

and actually possessing the privilege of knowing
a man of your colossal failure, Collier.
Wonderful ! '

The boy is a fool said Collier ; * let him

go.'

We shall lose all our young men at once
said Sir Charles. ' That will be a blow.
Young Gallaway hinds that he must live nearer
his otiice, in order to push the business. There
is a lad for you— a freeman of the City, member
of a Livery, and an ambitious heart ! Massey,
hold Olynthus Gallaway as a bright example
and pattern. He will be Lord Mayor yet — he
"will — ha ! ha ! ha I A noble young man, indeed
! But, my friends, I fear we shall not
ourselves live to see his bankruptcy.'

Yes, the evening of the banquet was almost
the last that they were to spend together at the
Cottage. The last was the night before Will
went away. Allen was to go too, and they
were all three sad and silent.

Let us go Will said, ' into the Forest.*

They stalked, the three — Claire between the
two voiiiif^ men — alon<:^ the well-known broadway
of grass, between the trees ; they passed
the anapliitlieatre where they had played so
many games together and held so many talks ;
thei' silent footsteps led them into the leafy
lanes where the evening sunlight coloured the
green branches above them and the grey
trunks and the underwood, and made them all
glorious ; they came to the place where the old
sidled tree lay on the ground. And there
Claire sat down and fell a- weeping because both
her friends were wvw^ to leave her.

Allen,' said Will, ' you are going away
too. Say something to Claire.'

No, Will,' Allen replied, * what I have to
say is to you. But I want Claire to hear it.'
He hesitated for a moment, and then went on
with a firm voice. ' I have this to say, Will :
You are going away for a long while, it may be
more than tln-ee years ; it may be bur or five
before you come back. Claire knows that we
both love her ; and that we shall always love

her — all our lives. Jilt I shall never a.'ik hur to
choose between us, till the clay when we eau
stand together before her as we do now, and
say again what we live already said.'

Thanks, Allen.' Will held out his hand,
but he said no more.

You are too good to me,' said Claire ; ' y«»u
think loo much of me. I am only a girl '

Only a girl ! ' sullen repeated.

And you are men — strong men. IIow
could I ever choose between you ? You have
always been in my heart — both of you — from
the beginning. You are always in my thoughts
together. And this is our last evening.
Will— dear Will. . . .' She laid her hand in
his. He stooped and kissed it, and turned
away his head. 'IIow can we live without
you? Write to my father — and to me — and
tell us all that you do. Allen will sometimes
come to see me. You will rejoice when he
succeeds, will you nut, Will? And oh! you
must not let any thought of me bring a shadow
between you. Promise me that.'

Tliey took hands, but neither spoke.

Xow I can do nothing,' slice said, ' nothing
at all but wait and hope and pray. Come, now,
and comfort my father, who will have nobody
to talk to except myself. I think we shall talk
about nothing at all, every evening, except you
two.'

END OF THE FIRST Volume:.

ICXDOX : rUINTKI) TY

erOTTlSWOOUK AXU CO NKXV hTllEKT S ^CAQB

A>'p rAULlAUUA'T Street

^X

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

82.3


v.Z

l5i^^

Y J

'/ ■^.' /:/.:.

/>

%ffc §inxpU stove of '^i)xcc iSopo awb a §ivJ

BY

WALTER BESANT

AUTHOR OF 'all SORTS AND CONDITION'S OF MEN* ' THE REVOLT OF MAN '
THE captains' ROOM ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. n.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[^// ri sits reserved

SP0TTI5^\V00DE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

Part II,— THE WOIIK OF THE MAN.

CnAPTF.K Park

I. THE EMANCIPATION OF Hector . , . , 3

II. WHAT MONEY CAN DO 42

III. TUB DAWN OF GREATNESS . 59

lY. THE DAY OF SMALL THINGS 92

V. A NEW World , .111

YI. A FIRST STEP . • H3

Iii. GERTRUDE HOLT . , , , . . , 1G8

YIIT. AT SHANGHAI , . , . . . , . 195

IX. A CUP OF TEA . 212

X, A SECOND STEP . . . . . . . 238

XI. A DAZZLING SUCCESS . , , , , . 25G

Nit. THE POWER OF SYMPATHY 285

XIII. TELL ME WHAT 295

Xii. IT IS THIS . , , cos

THE WORK OF THE MAN

VOL. II.

THE Emancipation OF HECTOR.

Three years is a pretty fair slice, a large helping,
out of the short span of earthly life. Why,
it covers the whole of an undergraduate's
career ; it converts the newly-entered maiden
of Newnham, the fresh-girl, into a high wrangler,
at mention of whose name the Senior Moderator
raises this cap, and the undergraduates in
the gallery shout. In three years Jack may
become famous, and Jill may go through all
the soft emotions which belong to love and
courtship and a trousseau and a wedding-rinof,
and from a girl become a matron and a mother.
There is not the quietest village in the most
secluded part of England which does not see
changes in tlu-ee years. Even the last century,
p. 2

which seems to us so steadfast and so unchanging,
had its freaks and its frolics, and
could not be trusted for three years together.

As for the village, things were at first
dreadful for flatness. All the lads gone away
Will to Shanghai, Allen to London, Olin-thus
to the glory of Chambers. The weariness
which fell upon Claire could be felt ; it
was like Egyptian darkness or a London fog, a
weariness which could not be shaken off. In
the morning the girl looked at her father with
eyes which confessed the tedium of the day ; in
the evening they looked at each other with a
kind of wonder that it had been got through.

Is it possible,' asked Claire, ' that Will
should have gone to China and Allen to
London ? '

All the young men of this country go to
China or to London,' said Hector, with the air
of one who has made a new epigram, and
thinks it ought to be remembered.

And the girls all wait at home, I suppose ? '
said Claire with a sigh.

The statue of Patience, my daughter,'
replied her father, ' has her lips closed, her
eyes fixed, her head a little on one side, and
one forefinger raised. She does not talk, she
does not grumble ; she waits.'

And we, too, wait, do we not ? ' said
Claire. ' We wait for the boys to succeed.'

We wait for more,' replied the man of
Revolutions, ' than the success of a boy ; we
wait, my child, for the Leader of the People.'

Nothing could persuade Claire that Allen
was ever going to be a Leader of the People,
but yet she waited for great things. Allen
was to become a great poet ; Will, whatever
he con Id in the way of greatness. Somehow,
the two boys, she was perfectly certain, would
achieve distinction.

If you come to consider, it is really a very
bold thing to pat a boy on the back and bid
him to go out into the ^vorld and achieve
greatness ; it is so bold as to seem in the
eyes of a native village presumptuous. Shall
little Billy become Billy the Great ? Ridiculous

! Why, what is his father ? Who was
his mother? Did not his grandfather keep
a draper's shop? Billy presume to entertain
ambition ? As for the lad, aspiring Billy,
whether he succeed or whether he fail, it is a
magnificent thing to have even attempted, and
nothing better could have happened for the
boy. And as for the nation, everybody must
admit that it is a highly important thing for
the nation to get great men, wherever they
come from. At the present juncture, for instance,
when most greatness seem coinlesy
titles, or Brummagem assumptions, we really
do want two or three more great men badly.

Could we not have a School for Great
Men, just as they used to have a School of
Prophets ? They would teach on a large scale
exactly what Hector taught the two boys on
a small, but with the addition of eloquence.
They would be taught to speak ; they would
be taught to study mankind at first hand and
not by reports and journals; they would be
taught to write, to reason, to investigate ; above

all, they would be taught that remarkable history,
the history of Progress ; and in this way
they would learn what mankind have already
got and what they still want. Think of the
interest with which we should reo-ard the
appearance of each newly-finished pupil ! With
wdiat expectations should we gaze upon him ashe
stepped majestically from the Portals of the
College, turned out complete, fitly equipped,
great enough for anything ! Of course he
would begin by being presented at Court, and
wherever he appeared the people woukl crowd
to look upon him and to hooray In fact, he
would occupy exactly the place of a young
king, but with more power than ever young-king
possessed. Of course, too, he would
begin by being created Duke : that is the least
you can do for a great man ; but if he should
happen not to fulfil his promise, he would be
gradually lowered in rank until he reached
plain Mister, after wdiicli he would be invited
to take his seat on the back benches and be
quiet for the future.

Let US found such a School.

They waited, this pair, for events which
certainly could not occur for some time : yet
greatness may be foreshadowed. ' Allen may
not,' said Claire, ' step into the first rank all at
once.'

Before the baton,' said her father, ' comes
the tambour.'

And Will ? ' Claire asked. ' What is Will
to do?'

He will become rich,' said her father.
He will become, like so many of his unfortunate
countrymen, enormously rich.'

Daily work, especially school work, keeps
the thoughts from dwelling too much on hopes
and aspirations. They are not wise because
they lead one to expect too much, and to cause
disappointment where one ought to rejoice.
For instance, it is not every one who can be a
Fielding, but it is possible for many to rival
lesser artists in the same walk. And then — in
nine months after the boys went away — an
event happened — a stupendous event. Not the

kind of event which they were looking for or
hoping. It was not connected with the boys.
It was so great an event that it transformed
Hector in the eyes of the residents from a little
French schoolmaster of no account whatever
into a person whose opinions were extremely
valuable. More than that, Claire herself,
hitherto of no more account than her father, and
less in the eyes of some, although she was pretty,
and therefore dangerous, became a young lady
of great importance. Those who before this
event down cried her beauty and whispered
spiteful things, especially Olynthus's sisters,
now became her most enthusiastic admirers.
You think, perhaps, that Hector Philiponon re-wrote
and published his long-lost poems. JN'o,
my friend. First of all those poems were hopelessly
lost — even the poet had forgotten them.
Secondly, in a suburban village, whose residents
are composed entirely of City people, a reputation
for wisdom is not to be established by a
volume of poems : nay, not by a waggon-load
of original literature. Think you that the good

people of Edmonton ever troubled their heads
about the opinions and habits of Charles Lamb?
Shakespeare would doubtless have been esteemed
on account of his great practical knowledge.
Besides, he made money. There is
only one way by which among these people
a man arrives at greatness — he must have
made money, or he must have lost money.
We have heard that Hector had an elder
brother interested in beds. This brother accumulated,
in the thrifty French fashion, a pretty
considerable fortune. He was a widower, and
childless ; and one day, greatly to his own surprise,
for he was as yet on the sunny side of
sixty, he had to stay in his own bed, and presently
found himself compelled to retire from
business, and change this residence for Pere La
Chaise. Hector knew nothing of this event
until he one morning received a great letter,
on blue paper, which had been blotted after
the manner of the ancients, viz. by the use of
powder. It was from a notary. It informed
him of this lamentable event, and requested

him to repair to Paris as soon as might be
convenient, ^vith a view to taking over the.
inheritance.

He is dead ! ' Hector wiped the tributary
tear. ' Claire, the good brother is dead. You
have lost your uncle, whom you have never
seen. He would have loved you, my child.
The good brother! Bat for him my poems
would never have seen the light. And he is
dead ! In France we have but one brother.
In this country most men have many. Where
there are but two, they love each other. He
printed my poems for me. When I fled the
country' he sent ]ne money. Long ago he
would have me return ; but I was married. I
was im-e de famille : besides, what could I do
in France ? I was too old for the law. I remained.
It is ten years since he wrote to me
that he wished to embrace me, and that whenever
the vast interests of his magasin allowed,
he would brave the perils of the voyage and
come to see me. I expected him from year to
year. He did not come. But the intention,

my daughter, remains. Ce pauvre Achille.
He had not ideas ; lie was not a Eepublican ;
lie loved not the people ! Even he was bourgeois
— Monsieur Prud'homme — but of a good
heart. Ah ! yes, of a good heart. And he is
dead.'

He remembered that he was invited to goto
Paris without delay. The prospect of seeing
Paris once more greatly excited him. Should
he go in disguise ? No : thirty years had disguised
him sufficiently. Besides, the Empire
was succeeded by a Eepublic. Should he take
a false name ? No : the orchards are dispersed,
and Cayenne receives no longer the
deported. He would go boldly under his own
name. Once more he would stand in the
streets of Paris — Philiponon of the Barricades.

He started the same evening. No official
notice, no recognition at all, was taken of
his return : in fact, he felt hurt at the neglect.
After so many years of exile, voluntary or
compulsory, one might have expected something.


lie was detained in Paris three weeks.
When he returned, he informed his daughter,
without exultation, and even with sadness, that
he had become the master of what lie called a
colossal fortune.

In fact, the sale of the magasin che Uterine
and the inheritance of a great many thousand
francs made the French master what is called
by oiu: neighbours a millionaire ; he had, that
is, about a million of francs. It looks a good
big sum, but is not so big when you translate
it into pounds sterling, dien from a million it
becomes forty thousand, and at three per cent,
represents twelve hundred pounds a year.
This is not a colossal income in some men's
eyes. Enough to provide a young man of the
present generation for a few years with champagne
for luncheon, dinner, and supper, stalls
at the theatre, trifling presents for young ladies
on the stage, and light literature. But for this
modest household the wealth was indeed colossal.
Claire's brain reeled. It seemed as if the
possession of an income so immense would bean

intolerable burden. One requires education
for a big fortune. Sit down, brother of mine,
whose income tax remains small, whatever rate
Mr. Gladstone may impose, and consider what
you would do if you were to become the possessor,
say, of twenty thousand pounds a year.
You cannot eat more than you do now ; you
might drink more, but it would not be good for
you ; you do not want to dress yourself any
finer ; you do not wish to dazzle your friends
with the splendour of your wife's dresses ; you
would not desire to give entertainments ; you
do not want to keep a troop of hulking servants.
What would you do, in short, with so
great an income ? Something of this difficulty
presented itself to Hector Philiponon. He
had been living for many years on an income
so small as to be hardly worth naming. His
poverty, had it not been for his extremely
simple and careful habits and his taste for
gardening, would have been intolerable. Now,
he was going to possess an income of no less
than twelve hundred pounds a year.

'Twelve hundred pounds a year!' Claire
cried, ^vitli a feeling of bewilderment at the
impossibility, the sheer impossibility, of having
so much money to spend.

Trente mille francs ! ' said her father.
Mon Dieu ! One reads in Balzac of such a
fortune. Monte Christ, even, I believe, had
more.'

What shall we do with it ? ' asked Claire.
What can we do with such a sum ? '

It is the question which I have put to
myself continually, since I comprehended the
situation. Let us sit down, my daughter, and
consider.'

They sat down with faces full of anxiety.

You were not brought up, my child, to
feel the want of wealth. We were poor ; we
should continue poor. Sometimes I felt that
when I should die there would be the sorrow
that you would be left alone — and poor. But
there are the boys; one of them I thought '

Oh, father ! '

They love you, Claire. Now all is changed.

There is no longer anxiety. We are rich. We
ought to be happy, but I feel sad.'

If it had been only two hundred a year,
now.'

Ah ! with two hundred pounds — ^yq thousand
francs — a year, one can do so much.

One is rich already. But with ' Here

he sighed heavily, and stopped short. He
did not like to contemplate the income in its
hideous vastness.

What shall we do with it ? ' repeated
Claire. ' Can we give some of it to Allen ? '

To Allen ! Would you, child, destroy a
young man's career at the outset by giving him
the means of support ? Never. Never.'

Then he looked round him and said softly,
Let us gradually accustom ourselves to the
possession of wealth. Let us think, Claire,
how rich people live. Li the first place, they
do not live in a cottage. Do you find this
cottage grown suddenly small ? '

Odd, Claire had never felt it before, but the
cottage was small.

I suppose it is small,' she said, with hesitation.


You perceive it for the first time,' her
father replied, gloomily. ' This is the corruption
of simplicity which comes with gold.
We are dissatisfied with our house. And the
furniture, my daughter, does it not appear to
you that it is old and worn ? '

It was. Claire had never remarked the
fact before ; but she now perceived clearly
that there was no longer any possibility of
tracing the pattern of the carpet, that the
curtains were dingy, the coverings of the chairs
faded, the table rickety.

The poor old furniture ! ' said Claire,
'must that go? Yet it is frightfully shabby.'

The poison is eating into our souls,' her
father went on with deeper gloom. 'For
twenty years and more I have thought this
little salon a model of good taste. Claire,
when we go into a large house, we will keep
the old furniture all in a room by itself, whither
wee can go and remind ourselves of the past.

VOL. II. c

If we are to be rich, we must never forget that
we were once poor and happy.' He uttered
this absurd sentiment with great sadness, and,
indeed, his thoughts were gone back to the
days when he was poor and yet really happy,
with a wife and a little girl. The furniture was
fuller of associations to him than it was even
to Claire.

It is where the boys have always sat,' he
went on. ' Claire, will they know us again if
we have a new carpet ? Bah ! we are rich.'
He meant that it was now necessary to crush
sentiment. ' Do rich young ladies,' he asked,
have such a piano as that ? '

Claire could have wept. All the illusions
of her youth were slipping from her. No :
the piano was a very, very old one ; it had
been her mother's ; it required now the most
delicate fingering to keep down the stridency
of age.

My poor piano ! I learned to play upon
it. But I should like a new one.'

And your dress, my child. Your dress !

Ah ! There I am consoled. I would dress
thee in silk, in violet, with lace, with jewels,
can there be, anywhere, stuff too beautiful
for my beautiful daughter ? ' He kissed her
fingers. ' You shall be Parisienne in dress, as
you are Anglaise in goodness.'

'And for yourself, mon pere? Your own
dress. I am sure that coat is threadbare.'

'It is ; like all the friends of poverty, I
will discard it. Yet I have loved this coat for
many years. I know, Claire,' he answered
her eyes, ' I perceive, for the first time, that
it is threadbare, and the cuffs are shiny. Had
we continued poor, I should not have perceived
this for some years to come. Be assured,
I will discard the old friend, the old coat.'

And those two bookshelves — ' Claire went
on-they

contained the library of the cottage.
Two shelves only. A small collection for a
philosopher.

'Yes, Claire,' her father said with a sigh.
There was a time when I dreamed of having

c 2

a library. If T had remained in Paris as an
twocat^ I should have become a bibliophile.
Now I have two rows of books, and I am accustomed
to have no more. It is a scanty library
Enfin 1 ' He shrugged his shoulders.

Enjoins repeated Claire, ' you can buy a
library.'

Marvellous ! ' He had not yet comprehended
half the power of wealth. ' So I can.
Not all at once. I will have catalogues sent tome
: the booksellers shall send me catalogues,
notices of sale, and offers. I will select. I will
collect.'

It will be seen that here was already opened
a door for the spending of the whole income on
one object.

Then,' said Claire, descending to practical
details, ' we shall want a new set of garden
tools.'

And you will want three servants at least,'
said her father. ' It will be one of the anxieties
of wealth to maintain a cook, a bonne and a
femme de chambre.'

And a boy to help you in the garden.'

You will want a conservatory,' said Hector.

And you will want a new dressing-gown.
And, oh ! do you think that rich people wear
a blouse when they work in the garden ? '

The question of the blouse shall be reserved,'
said Hector.

I suppose,' said Claire, ' that we shall not
be expected to eat or driiik any more than
before ? '

'Each men drink sherry, Chambertin, and
champagne, but we will dissemble, Claire ; we
will pretend not to know this.'

Ah ! yes,' she cried. ' Let us pretend,
mon pere. With pretence we can manage to
find very few changes necessary. We will go
into a larger house ; we will have new furniture
; and I will have fine things, and you shall
have books. But we will not give up our
simple life.'

We will not,' said her father. ' You comfort
me, my dear ; I feared we should have to
imitate the manners of the English rich, and

have great dinners every day. But we will
feast at times. Remember the great feast we
had before the boys left us. Perhaps on another
occasion '

And you will take me to London sometimes,
will you not ? '

'You shall go often to London,' said Hector ;
we Avill take a Iwtel garni ; we will see all the
new pieces ; you shall go to the Italian opera ;
there are concerts every day ; and the mass —
I mean the service — at the cathedral on
Sunday. And in the summer we will go to
France.'

Ah ! yes — to France.'

Not to Paris. My old Paris is gone,' he
said sadly. ' It is quite gone ; the old streets
are cleared away; there are broad, straight
boulevards. I love it no more. And the language
is changed. I speak their speech no
longer. Qjiioi done ? Is it that the French of
Voltaire is to be clipped of its syllables, and
to be spoken with half closed lips ? And the
ouvriers use a new argot, and they get drunk

a Anglaise. No : we will go to the Loire ;
we will visit the country of Eabelais and of
Balzac ; we will see Azay-le-Eideau, and
Chinon, and Blois, and Tours, and Saumur and
Amboise. I saw them once, years ago. We
will go there together, Claire

*Yes, mon pere. And — and — and Miss
Billingsworth ? '

Hector sprang to his feet.

The respectable, the honourable Miss Bile
? I had quite forgotten her. Since
the day of my brother's death I had altogether
forgotten her. But I can go to her. I will goat
once. I will tell her I leave her. Ah I I
leave her. At last. Claire, it is good to be
rich, because we need no more of Miss Billings-worth.
We can mock at Miss Billingsworth.'

She was angry,' said Claire, ' because you
went away without asking leave. I have had
to do your work as well as my own.'

She is a slave-driver,' said Hector.

Yesterday she sent for me and said that
she was considering the propriety of dispensing

with your services altogether, as I was now
grown up and could take the elder classes.'

She would dispense with my services ! '
He stamped and jumped about. ' This is the
reward of twenty years' work and more. Ingrate
! Perfidious Miss Billingsworth ! Aha !
No. She would dispense. Grr — r — Tres
lien — tres Men — she can dispense. Claire,
she shall dispense with both of us — both of us
and without delay. Not a day, not an hour
will I consecrate again to Miss Billingsworth
and her pupils. Monster of ingratitude ! '

His first proposal was to go at once — it was
then evening — and demand an interview with
the Lady Principal, in which there should be
enacted a little dramatic sketch or dialogue,
with a declamation against perfidy and ingratitude
from one actor and the shrinking of guilt
from the other. If one or more of the assistants
were also present as supers or chorus, the scene
would be the more effective.

Claire dissuaded him from this course, but
he yielded only on the condition that he was

allowed to go to the school the very next
morning and politely tender the resignation of
both.

Miss Billingsworth, a lady of great dignity
and weight — she must have weighed at least
twice as much as M. Philiponon — expected, when
she gave audience to her Professor of French,
to receive a humble apology and explanation
with a prayer for forgiveness — absence from
duty being a sin of the heaviest in schools.
She hardened herself in reply to pronounce
sentence of dismissal. In fact, Claire was so
good a teacher that she could really do quite as
well as her father, and would. Miss Billings-worth
thought, come a good deal cheaper. To
her astonishment, however, her Professor tendered
no apology, offered no explanation, expressed
no regret for having deserted his duties
for the space of three weeks, and merely announced,
in grave and polite manner, that he
was anxious to tender his resignation.

Miss Bilhngsworth replied that probably
he had his reasons, and that she had already

made up her mind that a three months'
notice

No,' interrupted M. PhiUpon, ' not a three
months' notice. It is to-day — now — on the
spot — that I resign. Accomplished and respectable
mademoiselle,' he added, 'it is with feelings
of profound sorrow that I lay at your
feet so abruptly my resignation. Believe me,
nothing but force majeure., the necessity of
affairs, would allow me to leave you without
finding a more worthy Professor to take my
place.'

What affairs, M. Philiponon ? '

'My own affairs. The events of the last
few days have rendered it impossible for me
or for my daughter to teach French any
longer. I confess that I always abhorred the
"vvork '

Monsieur Philiponon ! You — abhorred — the
work ? '

As much, mademoiselle, as I esteemed and
respected the fair institutions among whom I
worked. I need not assure you, a lady of your

penetration, that I shall always look back to
my friendship with those ladies as a matter of
the greatest pride and honour ; that, personally,
nothing can exceed my respect for yourself,
whether in your dignified position as administrator
of so vast an establishment, or as the
possessor of so many private virtues and graces.
I hope, indeed,' he went on, ' in the future to
continue this friendship and to retain the
respect of all. We propose, mademoiselle, to
reside in the village, principally in order to
remain near this honoured Asykmi of Learning,
and to benefit by the example of yourself and
yoiu- associates.'

What could the man mean ? He was
going away ; he was going to resign immediately.
That would be very inconvenient. He
abhorred the work ; yet he said these most
beautiful things in so charming a manner.
Why was he going ? she asked him again.
I repeat, mademoiselle, my affairs.'
It will be most inconvenient, M. Phihpon.
Indeed, I cannot allow it. Your salary '

Mademoiselle, I hasten to lay it at your
feet, with the salary of my daughter, from the
last quarter. Since we go, we lose the salary.'

While she was mentally calculating the
saving effected by this sacrifice. Hector resumed
his protestations of regret and esteem,
which she heard in a kind of dream. What
did it mean ?

He was so polite ; he flattered with a skill
so surprising ; he was so fluent, so completely
took away her breath, that when he finally
begged permission to deliver a Valedictory
Oration to all the young ladies, Miss Billings -
worth, without thinking what she was doing,
granted that permission.

When he was gone she began to have misgivings.
What would he say ? He had always
behaved with exemplary patience, mildness,
and meekness, as becomes a French master.
Surely he, if any one, might be trusted ; yet he
confessed that he abhorred the work, and he
had just shown an independence beneath his
flatteries which was disquieting. On the other

hand, a Valedictory Oration ! what could sound
better ? Many Professors, in her long experience,
had come and gone, some of them dismissed
for kissing the governesses, and even the
maids ; others for making eyes at the pretty
girls ; some for incompetence, some because
they wanted more money ; some because they
lost their tempers, their patience, their heads,
or their hearts ; others because they fooled
away the time and taught nothing ; others,
again, because they taught more than they were
expected or asked to teach. She had had great
trouble with her foreign Professors, but none of
them, on leaving her, had ever asked permission
to give a Valedictory Oration, or left her
establishment otherwise than with insolent or
insulting language, and with the most lively
appearance and outward signs of joy. A Valedictory
Oration ! It would be a feature in the
history of the half-year which could not fail to
produce an admirable impression on the parents
when they came to hear of it. Once, the
curate had given the girls a lecture ; but a

Valedictory Oration — never before had that
been known.

Hector delivered that Oration in the afternoon.
Claire came with him to say good-bye
to the girls. The scene, and the occasion, and
the appearance of their Professor were effective
and imposing. He stood at the desk in the
largest school-room, his arms folded, his
head thrown back, his eyes gazing steadfastly
before him, but above the heads of the girls,
waiting for the signal to commence. Beside
him on the right were the Lady Principal and
the assistant. On the left was Claire, her
emancipation made evident by her wearing walking
dress and bonnet, while of course the other
teachers were in house dress. To her there was
a certain humiliation in the scene : she woukl
have preferred a few minutes' friendly fore-well
with Miss Billingsworth, and then to have
kissed a few of the girls. Before the desk were
ranged the girls, forty in number. Did you
ever consider a bevy of English school-girls out
for a walk, or in church, or at a concert, in

school gathering, or anywhere ? There are
tall and small, pretty and plain, blue-eyed,
black-eyed, brown-eyed, hazel-eyed, fat and
lean, clever and stupid, clumsy and graceful;
all Englisli girls are rosy-cheeked and blooming
that is, nearly all ; their eyes arc all bright
with health — that is, nearly all ; they are all
well, strong, and full of life — that is, nearly all ;
but the general effect you will observe to be
extremely disappointing ; it is an effect of
plainness rather than one of beauty, which one
would naturally look for. The reason is that
beauty is so much a thing of cultivation : it is
the product of Art, which a girl has little or no
chance of practising until she leaves school.
While in statu pupillari, her Good Looks are so
much raw or rough material — out of Good
Looks Art produces Beauty. There was a
pause of a minute or two, while the girls arranged
themselves before the desk. Then the
orator turned to the Lady Principal.

If you please, Monsieur Philiponon,' said
Miss Billingsworth.

Hector changed his attitude. He bent his
head, and regarded the faces before him with a
tender interest which the girls had never before
witnessed in their Professor. In fact, since he
had made up this mind to resign he had discovered
that Girl was, after all, Woman, only
young, and therefore lacking some of the divine
graces which accompany Womanhood, especially
at that age which Venus made up her
mind should be her permanent time of life.
Those eyes of his, cold, hard, and unrelenting
in the pursuit of the past participle, now beamed
upon them kindly, sympathetic, and — admiring.
Yes, as each girl in turn met that look she
grew at least an inch in self-esteem, because
she perceived that M. Philiponon admired her.
You must not overdo this most effective method
of commencing an oration. I once knew a
French preacher vvdth a great reputation for
eloquence, Who always began in this way.
After gazing at his congregation in silence fora
minute or so, he proceeded to shake his forefinger
encouragingly (yet not without conveying

some sense of terror) towards three, at
least, of the four cardinal points, and then he
said, ' Mes enfant.' The effect produced could
not be equalled by the finest flow of words.

The Professor changed his attitude a second
time. He stood erect ; he raised his head ; he
tennis his left hand into his waistcoat, and laid
his right heavily upon a pile of French grammars,
dictionaries, and exercise books — the
tools of his craft. And then he began, his
voice rolling about the room like the soft low
notes of an organ.

Mesdemoiselles,' he said slowly, as if the
mere utterance of the word afforded him
pleasure. 'Mesdemoiselles,' he repeated, with
a gaze of catholic and universal affection which
sank deep into every heart, even the youngest.
The moment has at length arrived when I am
permitted to resign the principal duties with
which you have hitherto associated my name.
I do not disguise the fact that I regard this
moment as one of supreme happiness. Is it
that I desire to cease from beholding you?

VOL. II. D

Never. It is that I lay clown for ever the
harsh role of the Professor. Mon Dieu ! I
have played it too long. You now behold in
me, for the first time, a son of that glorious
nation which regards gallantry and worship of
the fair sex as the chief duty as well as the
chief solace of human life. Once more I look
upon every woman as a goddess.' Here the
Lady Principal coughed uncomfortably, the
younger teachers blushed, the elder girls looked
with questioning surprise one upon the other.
So the ox-eyed Here might have looked at the
divine Aphrodite and wondered what men
could find to admire in her ; but the younger
girls gazed at their French master with eyes
like saucers for lack of comprehension.

It has been,' Hector resumed, ' a cruel
thing to be your critic when I would rather
have been your admirer.' Miss Billingsworth
began to wish he would stop; but still, the
Valedictory Oration, it would be a really magnificent
thing to speak of. 'But I am your
critic no longer. Behold ! I tear off the robe

magistrate.' He made as if he was pulling off
his coat violently. ' I hasten, I fly, I gallop,
to assure you that while my devotion remains,
my censorship has ceased. Continue, dear and
gracious ladies, without fear of me, to write
French according to your own pleasure. What
you please must be right. Mingle your
genders, exchange your accents, confuse your
participles. As Frenchman, as a student of
a noble tongue, one may grieve ; as a man, I
accept your syntax without reserve, or, as I
accept your smiles, with the gratitude due to
beauty and to youth. Charming angels, whose
happy lot it is to emerge from these walls —
they have all the seclusion with none of the
rigours ' — here he bowed to the right — ' of a
convent — angels entrusted with the task of
tearing the masculine heart from the pursuit of
wealth, let me in your presence take these
engines of discord ' — he seized a French grammar
— 'and destroy them.' Here he tore it
down the back and hurled the fragments on
the floor, so that the astonished girls jumped

D 2

every one right out of lier shoes, and turned
first pale and then red, and first shuddered and
then smiled, and first looked at the Lady Principal
and then at each other, and first their
heads sunk with terror, after the manner of
ends at witnessing a deed of violence, and then
their hearts leaped up with admiration, as is
also their manner in presence of a hero. He
had torn up a French grammar before the very
eyes of the Lady Principal ! Could this be, in
very truth, their meek, their gentle, their much-enduring
French Professor — this Hector, whose
name seemed so much at variance with his
nature ? ' I throw it at your feet,' he said. ' And
this ' — he seized a dictionary and treated it in the
same manner — ' and this ' — a book of exercises
followed. ' And now once more I am a man.'
He folded his arms and looked around him
with the air of Olympian Zeus, or Louis Quatorze
himself. Miss BilhngsAVorth was noah
horribly frightened, but did not dare interfere.
The teachers, observing her terror, endeavoured
to assise a smile of pity or contempt. But

the elder girls saw through the thin disguise,
and they enjoyed the thug.

Henceforth,' said Hector, ' I can abandon
the wretched pretence with which I sought to
console myself. I said — I ask your pardon —
Girl is not Woman. I said that, m correcting
the faults of Girl, I am still free to worship
Woman.' Here Miss BiUingsworth stepped
forward, but he Avaved her back imperiously,
and the elder girls burst into a peal of laughter,
and the teachers would have laughed, but
dared not. ' That was my subterfuge. I renounce
it. I cast it from me. Henceforth I
declare, and will maintain en preux chevalier
that at every age in life, even in the Pension,
woman is without fault.' At this daring statement
Miss BiUingsworth sat down, and for the
first time in the memory of the oldest pupil
burst into a loud, spontaneous, and contagious
fit of laughing. She laughed as merrily as any
of the girls who laughed in chorus ; she
laughed as long as the youngest teacher, who
took the lowest classes; they all laughed

together, young and old, one with another.
Because, if you think of it, the chief work that
goes on in every school, and especially in a
girls' boarding school, is perpetual admonition,
with correction, punishment, censure, reprimand,
nagging, and fault-finding. Wherefore
they laughed long and loud. But the Valedictory
Orator did not laugh. He folded his
arms and looked benignant. When the laughing
had subsided a little. Hector went on, unfolding
and spreading his arms as if he was
ready to embrace the whole school. ' Enjoin.
Behold in me no longer your Professor, but
your lover.'

Oh ! good gracious ! ' cried the Lady Principal.


The lover of the sex adorable.' He
folded his arms again and bowed his head
reverently, as if every girl before him was a
queen. And he looked so comely with this
newly-assumed gallantry, his bright eyes and
neat figure, that, in spite of his white hair, not
one among them all, from the smallest shudder

of copy-books to the Lady Principal herself,
but would willingly have Idssed him there and
then.

There remains,' he said, ' one thing more.
Let me ask, Mademoiselle, one last favour.
It is a priceless favour. Nothing less than, in
leaving you for ever, to kiss your hands ! '

Oh ! good gracious ! ' cried the Lady
Principal a second time. But no one could
refuse so simple a favour. She was, in fact,
the first to extend her hand, feeling that this
was an occasion for a display of Deportment
which did not often occur. Therefore, when
Hector solemnly bent his head and raised those
virginal fingers to his lips, she slid back with a
majestic courtesy and bowed exactly like the
Queen at a Reception, or at least as much like
the Queen as the short time allowed for reflection
would permit. The girls laughed no
longer. They were all going to have their
hands kissed, and some of them blushed,
thinking of the ink upon their fingers. At
such a moment one would wish at least to

have a spotless hand ; and some of them who
had read romances marvelled that Miss Billings-worth,
instead of graciously presenting her
lingers, had not flung the daring aspirant from
her, saying, in the language of the novels,
Unhand me, sir ! '

Well, the whole forty, besides the teachers,
had been kissed, and their French master was
gone, with Claire.

Then Miss Billings worth, a little ashamed,
retreated to her own room ; and the girls,
feeling sad, fell to confessing, each to the
other, how much they had always loved their
French Professor, how vastly superior he was
to their other professors, particularly signor
Altosoprano, their singing master, who stamped
his feet and tore his hair. How they should
always mourn his loss ; by what slight but
unmistakable signs he had always manifested
his preference for herself, the speaker ; what
he had said, how was his manner of saying it,
and how they felt when he said it. No more

work was possible that day. There was a
holiday. They had Sally Luniis and buttered
toast for tea, and most of the girls cried when
they went to bed.

Next day there was reaction. The teachers
were irritable ; all were ashamed of the hand-kissing;
cold water was poured freely down
everybody's back ; wet blankets were applied ;
a vast quantity of girls incurred punishment ;
enthusiasm was killed ; generous sympathy was
quenched ; and in private with her teachers
Miss Billingsworth regretted that she had
allowed the Valedictory Oration, and expressed
a fear that some of the sentiments were libertine
in tone.

A few days later the new French master
came. He was young, but hard of manner
and testy. He began badly, and he kept it upas
he began. So that the girls of that school
continued to lament their Hector.

CHAPTER II,

WHAT MONEY CAN DO.

I DO not suppose that any permanent harm was
clone to the morals or to the happiness of the
young ladies by the Valedictory Oration and the
hand-kissing. But next day a dreadful rumour
was spread abroad in the village. The little
Frenchman, it was said, whom all believed so
innocent and harmless, had been dismissed the
school in disgrace. Some averred (on the best
authority) that he had gone there in the evening,
intoxicated with his own claret, and had
insisted on kissing all the girls, and all the
teachers, and all the maids, in the actual
presence of Miss Billingsworth. Others declared
that he had not kissed all, but only the
prettiest out of the older girls, with the
youngest teacher. Others, again, said that he

had not committed this awfulness openly, but
m secret, or behind doors, curtains, shutters,
and in cupboards, but that the great zeal of an
assistant housemaid witnessed and reported his
doings. Others, again, declared that there was
no kissing at all, but that he had ventured to
offer his hand to the Lady Principal, who indignantly
dismissed him on the spot. Then
grew up, towards the afternoon, a complete
and fully grown romance, in which it was
explained that the offence was the kissing of
one young lady only, but that one a parlour
boarder, and an heiress of surpassing loveliness,
whose father had made large sums in jute.
The mention of jute and of money fired the
imagination of the village, and in an hour or
two a perfect little drama had grown up, with
action and dialogue complete : How the gardener
had observed the crime, and went immediately
to the operator in jute — the young
lady's father — and revealed it, for a large sum
of money. How the indignant parent came to
the school and said, ' Miss BilHngsworth, either

the Frenchman leaves this clay, or your parlour
boarder leaves. I give you this choice.' This
thing with variations was whispered from ear
to ear, or spoken aloud, or proclaimed from
the housetop, until there could be no doubt
whatever upon the subject ; and Sir Charles
asked what was, after all, to be expected of a
Frenchman. Then the butcher, the baker, the
milkman, and the village draper, examined
their books, to find out what, if anything, was
owing. There was nothing. Then they laid
their heads together, and whispered their own
version of the story, which was not so involved,
and did credit to their knowledge of human
nature. And all that day, which was the most
horrible and barefaced thing of all, M. Philiponon
might have been seen walking about with his
daughter, lifting his hat to everybody, smiling,
and as cheerful, to outward appearance, as if
he was not disgraced, ruined, and his character
gone for ever.

And what,' asked Olynthus's sisters, ' wdiat
will our brother say now ? '

Your brother,' said Mrs. Gallaway, ' will no
doubt have the good sense to perceive that the
shameful conduct of the girl's father releases
him from any promise or engagement whatever.
At least, I hope so, though there is no telling
what the infatuation of a young man may lead
him to do.'

But Avhat will they do ? They must starve.'

Unless,' said the British matron severely,
the father goes back to his own country, and
the girl goes out for a governess, if anyone
will have her after what has happened.'

She had already begun to teach, but that
was not exactly the meaning of Mrs. Galloway's
kindly speech. There was, in fact, among the
young ladies resident in this village, a bogey or
spectre, ever visible, and threatening them —
that they would have to ' go out for a
governess,' that is to say, to take a situation in
some family and teach, the profession of teaching
being regarded as in many respects inferior to
that of menial service.

Let us, my dears,' she continued, ' be very

careful to do no more than to bow distantly to
the young person if we meet her.'

A week passed. M. Philiponon walked about,
neat, smiling, and cheerful, observing none of
the glances that were cast upon him by the
elder ladies, the coldness of the gentlemen, and
the down-dropping of eyes by which the
younger ladies spoke their abhorrence of kissing
in all its branches. Indeed, his head was much
too full of other things, and he did not even
notice them. And then happened a most
remarkable thing. Nothing less, if you please,
than a complete reversal of the first story.
They said now, that there never had been any
kissing at all; that M. Philiponon was not
dismissed, but had resigned ; that the reason of
his resignation was neither more nor less than
the fact that he had come into a fortune. How
this second report originated, with whom, from
what information, I have not been able to
ascertain ; but it ran like wild-fire from house
to house, from room to room, from cabin to
kitchen, insomuch that there was not a man.

woman, or cliilcl in the place but was holding
up hands to admire, wonder, believe, disbelieve,
and be astonished.

'I don't believe a word of it,' said Mrs.
Gallaway. ' But, my dears, it may be true.
If you meet the girl, you may smile.'

The rumour did not vanish like the first ;
it was a persistent rumour, it remained ; it
became certain that there was an accession of
wealth. 'Doubtless,' said Sir Charles, 'some
pitiful thousand or two ; not a solid British
fortune. Well, I do not grudge it. He was
always respectful, well-behaved, and sober. He
deserves it, Skantlebury.'

How much was it ? Everybody had it on
the best authority that it was so much ; but
nobody agreed ; it was, however, allowed to
be something more than a pitiful thousand or
two ; and most people believed in the solidity
of the sum. It was now stated that the fortune
was derived from the death of M. Philiponon's
only brother, and that he was a great merchant,
somewhere in France. Great merchants do

not always fail, out of the City, and the report
gained credence.

If it is true,' said Mrs. Gallaway, ' it is
wonderful. My dears, if you meet the young
lady be sure to stop and shake hands with her.'

It presently became certain that the report
was true, because workmen appeared in one of
the best houses of the village, and furniture
began to come from London, and M. Philiponon
with his daughter went to town every day, and
it was learned that they were going to the
large house, which had a better garden and
better conservatories than any other house in
the village.

It must be true,' said Mrs. Gallaway. ' My
dears, this is very good news for Olynthus. He
will be much pleased. Write and tell him.
And if you should meet dear Claire, ask her to
come in and take a friendly cup of tea.'

Quite beautiful it is to mark the rise in
esteem which follows an improvement in
income. The little Frenchman lived in a
cottage : no one cared about the little Frenchman,



no one called upon his daughter. M.
Philiponon was going to take a large house, and
was furnishing it and was buying books and all
sorts of things for it. He was rich. Thereupon
there arose quite a new and most generous
appreciation of M. Philiponon's character, his
wisdom, his benevolence, his virtue.

Again, it is most wonderful to observe how
the rumour of riches flies abroad, so that allover
the country — yea, and in distant isles — a
rich man, or one thought to be rich, becomes
swiftly known. It was not long before all
those, over the length and breadth of England,
who wanted support for societies, hospitals, and
committees sent circulars ; men who supported
schools, aged widows, institutions, orphanages,
free breakfasts, runs into the country, dinners
for the indigent, teas for the intemperate,
coffee for the convivial, savings-banks for the
thriftless, churches for those who stay outside,
funds, subscriptions, donations, needs, wants,
requirements, necessities, clamorous callings and
Great Causes, began with unanimity and

VOL. n. E

universal consent to hurl tracts, send circulars,
forward statements, post letters, write
appeals, despatch invitations, persuade with
eloquence, terrify with threats, exhort with
exhortations, and drive with warnings. He
must send large help, his honour was concerned,
his justice was involved, his religion required it,
his benevolence would be satisfied with nothing
short of substantial help, this sympathies commanded
it, his patriotism, principles, pride, and
prudence, his personal character, gratitude for
the past, duty to his children, and his hopes
for the next world — all loudly commanded,
ordered, and insisted on this help.

Next, every new company who issued a
circular sent it to Hector, so that he was
invited to drop his money in steamship companies,
to throw it away in mines, to give it to
the Americans for bogus railway shares, to
bestow it upon needy directors in trams, flams,
and shams of all kinds, to take shares in the
stock of companies formed to prevent a tradesman
from becoming bankrupt. As the circulars

followed upon one another, Hector
thought the times of the Mississippi shams were
come again, and looked daily to hear of some
great collapse.

After this the tradesman began to have his
turn ; and then came from all parts of London
and the country, circulars and advertisements
of everything known and in use, or possible to
be devised by the wit of man, from a corkscrew
to a torpedo. And every man in England who
was hard up or had a hard-up friend, wrote to
him for money in loan, with or without security.
They wrote from the sweet seclusion of innocent
Arcadia, or from that famous hostelry, the Pig
and Whistle, of Drury Lane ; they all told a
most moving story ; they all showed a dreadful
monotony in the wording.

Claire,' said Hector, ' one understands now
why the poor think better of mankind than the
rich.'

And the village butcher was sympathetic,
expecting that, with larger wealth, there would
be greater consumption of mutton and beef,

E 2

LIBRARY

larger joints and primer cuts ; and the milkman
spoke up boldly concerning cream ; and
the baker thought that more bread would be
Avant ; and one and all began to touch a
respectful forehead with submissive forefinger
when M. Phihpon passed their way.

Who would believe it ? This extraordinary

man made no difference at all in his mode of

living" : he ate no more beef, he continued to

cultivate his lettuces, though in a larger garden,

he went on with his soup and his salad. There

were differences, though of these the butcher

and the baker recked not. Not only was there

a better house, with new furniture, a new piano,

and new books, but there was also a gradual

improvement in the quality of the claret. And

the ladies remarked that while Claire dressed

no better — because nobody could ever dress

better than Claire — she now wore dresses which

cost money, and a great deal of money. Who

will not sympathise with the poor girl?

Hitherto she had designed, cut out, and made

with her own lingers every dress she wore ;

now, for the first time in her life, she was able
not only to design a dress for herself, but also
to have it made, and out of the most becoming
things, Without regard to money. More than
most girls, she loved beautiful raiment ; more
than most, she had all her life ardently desired
things which she saw adorning her richer
sisters because she thought how delightful it
must be to wear them. She bought, now the
softest and the most delightful stuffs ever manufactured,
and had them made up into dresses
which fell in flowing curves — dresses such as
refuse to look well on any but a beautiful girl
dresses which made her father's eyes soften
with parental pride and joy. What better way
of spending her money than to make herself
as beautiful as nature allowed ?

Diverse are the functions of sweet maidenhood
; for there are girls whose work is in the
house — housewifely ; and these, in all generations,
will become wives and mothers ; and
there are others who love the work that lies
outside the house, and these, in the next generation,

will become lawyers, doctors, and
priestesses. Some are born to be nurses, some
to be dressmakers, some to be cooks ; but these
are very few. Some are born to run after the
last new thing, to worship the latest apostle,
and to revere the last new gospel. But some,
among whom was Claire, are born to be beautiful,
gracious, and sympathetic. In the hands
of such women, some men develop noble ambitions,
some show themselves at their best, and a
few recover that ancient virtue which used to
be called goodness. Now to be gracious and
sympathetic, as well as beautiful, you must be
nicely dressed ; a dowdy cannot be gracious.
What is the use of sympathy when your frock
doesn't fit ? Of what worth is beauty badly
dressed ?

Another thing that Claire began to buy in
great quantities was music. Nobody has any
idea how stinted poor girls too often are in the
matter of music. It is really almost as bad as
gloves. Now, at last, Claire could buy what
she wanted, and more than she wanted. She

began at length to learn something of the wealth
of music. Hitherto she had only played, now
she began to study.

Again, she could sometimes leave the dull
village and go to London with her father. She
had not been to town since the boys went
away. There are always shows to see — you
have no idea what a quantity of shows there
are to see in London every day ; some of them
interesting, some curious, some ingenious. They
went to a good many shows in the first days
of their accession to wealth. Li the old days,
when she went with the boys, she used to sit
in the pit, now she went to the dress circle,
which made her enjoy the show very much
more.

And then she had nothing in the world todo.
I have remarked that although many
young ladies moan and lament because they
have nothing to do in the world, and many
will work for themselves and manfully tug a
volunteer oar, those who have no choice but
must needs work or starve presently get an

anxious look, a line across the forehead, a contraction
between the eyes, a setting of the
lips, a cloud across the brow. Sure and certain
I am that whatever be the spread of woman's
education, one thing you will never teach her
to love the earning of her own bread. I
dare say men would rather not work for wage,
but they must ; and those who do not, take to
drinking and mischief.

No one, indeed, could possibly believe what
a great big lump of happiness was conferred
upon Claire with this colossal fortune of twelve
hundred pounds a year.

Even the Philosopher, her father, confessed
that, besides the freedom from Girl, he found
it delightful beyond expectation to be able to
buy whatever his modest habits and simple way
of life desired.

It remains to be told, if it is worth the telling,
how the residents received M. Philiponon
into their own circle on the Village Green, and
how they related — all except Mr. Collier, who
for reasons of his own was now seldom among

them — the story of their failures, and how they
all met with the greatest encouragement to goon
; and one at least among them, Mr. Massey,
senior, felt so much encouraged that he began
to unfold all his secret projects and certain
methods for making a fortune ; how he proved
mathematically that each one was a fortune in
itself, and wanted only a preliminary advance
by way of meeting the expenses of the shove
off; how the good Hector listened with the
greatest apparent interest, and even suggested
branches and developments, not originally perceived
by the projector, which would lead to
wealth incalculable ; how Mr. Massey, whose
heart was young though his head was white,
began once more to build castles in the air, to
kick over the basket of eggs, to spend in imagination
the corn in the blade ; andhoAV, finally,
when it came to the real point, this immense
sympathy was found to have no solid foundation,
and not a penny of backing up could Mr.
Massey obtain for any one of his undertakings.
No Frenchman, Sir Charles,' observed the

Projector, ' deserves to be trusted with a fortune.
His only mean idea is how to keep it.'

I cannot, Massey,' said Sir Charles, ' go sofar
as to say that no Frenchman deserves a
fortune. But doubtless there are few who do,
and oin^ friend Philiponon, though a most worthy
person and sagacious to a certain point, certainly
lacks the spirit of enterprise which has
made us — what we are.'

CHAPTER III.

THE DAWN OF GREATNESS.

Olynthus Gallaway was destined to have
Greatness thrust upon him. The history of his
rise and splendour will be here related, partly
because it belongs to the story, and partly for
the benefit of young City men who may be
inclined to follow his example if they can, and
so arrive at riches as great as the City heart
can desire. In this respect the City is large-hearted.


After the departure of his rivals, Olynthus
lingered for some time in the village, thinking
that perhaps he might, in their absence, make
running for himself. He had an extraordinary
belief in himself; he thought that the mere
aspect and contemplation of him would subdue

the feminine heart ; in a little while a reconsideration
of the judgment in the case would beheld
; this could not but be favourable to himself.
As for the other two, one was gone to
China ; who ever comes back from China ?
The other was a mere literary scrub. Both as
good as clean out of the way. Allen would,
perhaps, turn up to borrow half-crowns. How
can a literary man make position or money ?
Why, said the man of business, he has actually
got to do his own work with his own hands,
just as if in the oil trade money was made by
rolling the casks ashore. ' What gives a man
position,' said Tommy, ' is to make other beggars
do the work and to pocket the dibs yourself.*
The whole of political economy lies in this
maxim.

He made, however, little apparent progress
in his suit. It was discouraging when he called
in the evening to be received always by the
young lady's papa, and it was unkind of Claire
to refuse to let him walk home with her after
church.

He then realised the first part of his ambition
: lie took chambers in town, and he joined
a West-end club — proprietary — quite a new
club, and beautifully furnished : and in those
days he went home from Saturday to Monday,
and called at the Cottage on Sunday afternoon,
in order to let Claire know what a brilliant
position he was acquiring.

Our chairman,' he said, speaking of the
club, ' is a lord. I have several times seen
him in the smoking-room. Last Wednesday I
handed him the evening paper. He thanked
me.'

That must have been gratifying to you,'
said Claire.

Very,' he replied. ' It makes a man feel
that he really is out of this beastly village and
in Society. As for that, a Partner in a really
steady tiling is sought after, mind you.'

I can quite believe that,' said Claire.

Yes : I am asked into tip top circles in the
best wholesale line. As for the girls, Claire,
they just throw themselves at a man. I've

taken private lessons in dancing. Not that I
mean anything serious, you know ; but it's
pleasant, you know, and the girls are pretty,
you know, and that. As for me, all I look
forward to is to have my little fling, and then
to give up the gaieties of London and take a
quiet villa and have a garden.'

That was his simple dream to begin with.
We shall see how it changed.

And to think,' said the sisters of Olynthus
one at a time, and one after the other, ' to think
that a City partner like Olynthus should run
mad after a half-French girl without a penny.
Why, he might have looked as high as he
pleased after awhile.'

And a young man,' sighed his mother,
endowed with every grace ! Yes, my dears,
it is a sad pity.'

Only a governess,' they sighed responsive
like a chorus.

And to think that lie, when he was told,
actually and impudently told, to wait three
years, instead of flinging out of the house,

should meekly sit down and consent ! My
dears, I have not patience with men. He ought
to have more dignity.'

He was so much in love that he had no
dignity left at all, and began to get thin, and
to show other signs of unrequited affection ;
and what would have happened to him I know
not but for a thing which happened, which
effectually turned his thoughts away from love.

Mr. Collier, honourable as so colossal a
failure as his own undoubtedly was, did not
take comfort in his glory. He lamented the
old days. Had he been able to show his face
in the City he would have begun all over again
the game which he had played so well that he
left no successor. Although he was now out of
it altogether, he followed the money market
with as much interest as when he seemed to
control it. He was still in imagination in the
Inner Eine; ; he could read the meaniuo^ of rise
and fall ; he could read between the lines of
company prospectuses, dividends, and statements
made by the chairman ; he saw the most

magnificent chances offering them selves to one
with understanding, and they had to be let
alone. He carried these operations through in
imagination ; he covered acres of paper with
calculations ; he estimated his fancied gain ; he
became once more a millionaire ; and the only
man in the village with whom he cared to talk
was Mr. Massey, the dreamer of dreams and projector
of schemes, whose brain was busy though
his hair was white. Mr. Collier listened to his
ideas, and informed the ingenious projector how
his scheme might be worked into a company
with money — for the promoters.

Presently Mr. Colder formed a project for
himself — quite an innocent and kindly project.
He cast his eyes upon Will Massey, and he considered
that boy with a view to possibilities.
He was a clever lad, quick to comprehend,
with a good memory, a good eye, and a tenacious
purpose. He was also a bold lad, and he
was poor ; he was, further, ambitious, and he
had an excellent manner. Of such as Will
Massey are great speculators and successful

financiers made. How if he were to inoculate
the lad with the true spirit, lead him on, train
him, and launch him upon the City to be a successor
to himself?

He nursed this thought in his brain for two
or three years. Just as he was about to open
the subject. Will was ordered to China, and so
lost his chance of a short road to fortune.

After a time he began to consider Olynthus.
Of comes he never thought of Allen at all.
What have hawks and kites to do with young
men of books? Could he, by temptation,
golden promises, and training, make of young
Gallaway a speculator? He did not look
clever, to be sure ; but he might be taught.
And then he ardently desired to possess money ;
as he had none he wished to appear as if he
had ; he dressed carefully, and had an eye to
appearance and effect. Now appearance and
manners are nowhere so useful as in the City.
Olynthus affected the air of one who hath
great possessions ; he spoke with grandeur of
their House, which Mr. CoUiber knew to be a

VOL. II. r

very little House ; this rings and chains were
solid ; his clothes were well cut ; his hat was
glossy ; his linen soigne ; his boots and gloves
in good condition. Finally, he had an air of
assurance and self-confidence.

He is a snob,' said Mr. CoUiber, thoughtfully,
' but he might pass for a clever snob.
The other young fellow was a gentleman and
might have passed anywhere for an — an —
ah ! — an honest man.' He was quite alone, so
that he allowed the admission. 'He would
have persuaded people. This man will not
easily persuade anybody, but he may dazzle
them. He will not seem clever, but he may
seem solid. After all, it is just as useful
to make people envious as to make them
friends.'

He began to seek out opportunities for
cultivating the young man. This was not at
first easy, because Olynthus was at a stage of
development when he had no sympathy with
the bankrupts of his native village. But Mr.
Collier persevered. He engaged him in conversation

about the oil business, and showed
that he, too. knew the secrets of that mystery.
What trade was there — what business, mystery,
or craft of the whole City that Mr. Collier
did not know completely ? Then he made
Tommy — still artless, for all he was two an d-
twenty, and thought he was fifty in worldly
wisdom — talk about this ambitions. And Mr.
Collier contrived to let him see how very
small and paltry these where. After these conversations,
the young man was astonished to
think how much he had told about himself,
how small he felt, and how little he had got
out of Mr. Collier. He lived, being a widower
without chicken, in one of the large houses of
the place ; he invited no one into his house ;
he went to no other house ; he shut himself up
with his money-market articles, and worked at
his imaginary corps.

One evening he astonished Olynthus by inviting
him to take his cigar in his house. Heled
his guest into a dining-room, plainly furnished
with a table, a sideboard, a cellaret, five

chairs, and nothing else. No pictures, no
books, no sofas, nothing luxurious at all. Mr.
Colhber had parted with all these when he sold
his furniture in Kensington Palace Gardens ;
he never wanted them, or cared about losing
them ; the furniture of a City office was all
that he ever wished to possess. On the mantelshelf
was a box of cigars.

'Take one, Gallaway,' said Mr. Collier;
you will find them better than your own.
They ought to be. They cost seven pounds
a hundred, twelve years ago. I brought my
cigars away with me. Will you take a glass
of wine .^ I saved part of my cellar, too. The
Gladstone claret was sold for the benefit of
the creditors. Would you like a glass of '51
port, or some Palette, or some Chambertin ? '

Port for me,' said Tommy, still under the
impression that port, sherry, and champagne
are the only wines worthy the consideration of
a gentleman.

He took two glasses, and was good enough
to find the wine silky on the palate, but want-iii

in bone, phrases he lead heard, but imperfectly
understood.

Well,' said Mr. Collier, • never mind
about the port. Let us talk business.'

Business, by all means,' said Tommy,
taking a third glass. ' I'm a business man.'

Por some years, Gallaway,' said Mr.
Collier, ' I've had my eyes upon you three
boys.' His eye upon his visitor at the moment
was unpleasantly like the eye of a hawk upon
a Httle bird. ' Young Massey, I confess, appeared
to me the best of you. I always
thought a great deal might be made of Massey.
He is a boy with brains ; yes, if I had got hold
of Massey, I am certain I could have made a
great man of him. But Massey is gone ; gone
away from London, where the money is.
What a fool ! What a fool ! As for you, I
confess I have my doubts, and I am not at all
certain whether the trouble I am going to take
will be made up to me by your success. But
we can try ; if you like we can try. As for
young Engledew, he is a contemptible idiot.'

He is said Olintlius complacently ; ' he
always was. You hardly believe it, but he used
to make verses — actually, verses, in the train
going up to business.'

As for yourself, then ? '

As for myself,' said the young man ; ' I
don't know what you mean by making great
men. I've got into a very good thing already,
but I suppose there is always something better.
And if you've got anything better to offer,
Mr. Collier, that's safe and would not lead
to failure, and not being able to show your
nose in the City, of course I shall be glad to
hear it.'

This was said with dignity, because he resented
the injurious comparison with Will.

You shqjrl hear it ; perhaps you will succeed
in understanding it.'

Look here, Mr. Collier ; none of your
financial rigs, you know. My uncle is a steady
old file. He wouldn't hear of it.'

Don't be a fool, Gallaway, but listen. I
know,' he continued, ' about your partnership.

It is a safe little thing, and you've got a small
share — a fifth, isn't it ? That brings you three
or four hundred a year. In ten years' or so
you may be promoted to a third share, and
then you will draw seven hundred or so ; that
is, I believe, the state of the case.'

Tommy nodded : that was the exact state
of the case.

What I am thinking of,' said Mr. Colhber,
is very different work ; work which, if you
can manage it, will give you as much in one
year as you could save in twenty ; work which
requires no capital ; which you can do secretly,
and which will not interfere with your partnership.'


Of course,' said Olynthus, ' you mean what
you used to do.'

'Not quite' — Mr Collier smiled — 'not
quite what I used to do. Later on you will
perhaps understand. I will tell you, however,
something of what I did. Five-ands thirty
years ago I was a clerk in a wine merchant's
office. I was twenty-four years of age : I had

no friends or family influence to help me. I
was pretty certain to remain a clerk. Then I
had the Good luck to fall in with a man who
began to teach me things, just as you have
fallen in with me.'

What did he teach you ? '

Before I met him I knew nothing. I was
even such a fool' — he looked quickly at his
listener — ' as to imagine that fortunes can still
be made in the City by the profits of a junior
partnership.'

Well,' said Tommy, ' if they are not made
that way, I should like to know '

Precisely ; you are in the same position
that I was. Well, I may possibly — I say I
may — I do not promise, but I may be able to
teach you what my old friend taught me. He
is now, I fear, gone to a place where stocks
and shares are not dealt with.'

Was it any good when you learned it ? '
asked the pupil. ' What did it come to when
you totted it up ? '

Think now ' — he had risen, and was

standing on the hearth-rug and shaking an impressive
forefinger and looking his listener in
the face with his cold, keen eye — ' think : I was
four and twenty when I began. I had nothing
not one farthing had I, At thirty I had a
hundred thousand.'

Oh ! '

At forty I had half a million : at fifty anything
you please, with a splendid office and
troops of clerks. Nothing was started, no
company, or mine, or railway but was brought
to me. That is what it totted up to.'

Yet,' said Tommy, recovering a little, ' at
sixty-five or thereabouts ? ' And he looked
around at the plain furniture, meaning that it
was all gone.

Mr. Collier's face darkened for a moment.
Yet he reflected. There must be a fine quality
of impudence in a young man who could without
hesitation fire such a shot.

'At sixty-five,' he replied softly, 'I have
nothing, you think, and I have failed. Very
good. Never mind how much or how little I

have, let us acknowledge the failure. It was a
failure which means a good deal more than you
can understand. Why, it turned me out of the
City — away from the money — can you understand
what that means ? All the money flows
in one direction, and I was turned away from
the place whither it Hows.'

He looked more like a hawk than ever.
Tommy began to think he had gone too far,
and took another glass of port, murmuring that
it was a generous wine but had perhaps been
kept too long in the wood.

At sixty,' Mr. Collier went on, ' I was
out of it. Well, that is a great misfortune. I
have lost the only thing which makes life
tolerable. I can no longer use my powers ;
they are lost.' Here he was silent again and
sat down.

Kemember 'she "sprang to his feet again
'that I was for thirty years a rich man.
You who want to be rich, what do you know
of riches ? What do you imagine even of the
power of wealth ? It is not only that you live

in a great house and have a troop of servants,
and can give great dinners —-that pleases everybody
naturally — but it is more : you are a
Power. You are made to feel it wherever you
go : in the City where you are watched and
envied ; every post brings you letters assuring
yon of your greatness ; you are reminded of it
by every man you meet at the West-end from
a Duke downwards ; by the great ladies who
run after you and court you for the money you
can help them to get by a judicious interview
with a broker. Good heavens ! sir, I say that
I was a Prince for thirty years

He paused for a moment, and then went on,
speaking in low, measured tones. ' If it were
all to do over again, I would do it all again. If
I knew at thirty that I was to be a pauper at
sixty and have to go into a workhouse, I would
take the intermediate years of wealth and
power contentedly. If I were your age and
the devil were to stand beside me as I stand
beside you ' — he laid his finger on his companion's
shoulder — Tommy jumped and said.

Ob, lioiTor ! ' and then took another glass of

fc^

port, and said there was beeswax — ' and were
to lay before nie a paper offering me thirty years
of such wealth and then poverty and hunger
till the end, I would sign that paper with a
cheerful heart.'

I would rather,' said Olynthus, ' sign a
paper which made me rich until the end of my
life.'

Tut — tut, you can't have everything. You
young men forget that a man can only have
what he can grab.'

It must be such a beastly thing,' said
Olynthus, ' to give it all np just when one is
getting old. Why, at sixty I should like to put
my feet np in a chair and look on.'

So you think now. When you are sixty
you will find that your only happiness is to
work.'

Then he fell into another fit of musing, and
Tommy looked on, wondering why he was invited
to hear all this, and what was coming next.

Not do it again ? ' Mr. Collier presently

went on repeating himself, ' not do it again ?
"Why, I wish to Heaven I had the chance.
Why, is there anything in the work compared
with having money ? Yon get the best of
everything, the hast of everything ; yon can
bny it all. Do yon want respect? Yon can
buy it. Or love ? Yon can bny it. Or friends ?
You can bny them. Or a title ? You can l}uy
it. I bought all but the last, and I would have
bought that too, only I coukl not see how I
should get my money's worth out of it. Not
do it again ? Was it worth doing so much to
foul in the end ? The more I look at it the
more I am satisfied with it. Why, I always
knew Avhat the end would be. I felt exactly
as if I had made that compact we talked about
just now. I knew the smash would come some
day. Yet for ten years of such wealth as was
mine I would give np all my old age to poverty,
even the meanness of such a village as this.
For ten years, sir, and I had thirty.'

I should like to be rich all through,' said
Tommy feebly.

A splendid failure, I dare say. And that
is what they remember. A splendid success.
That is what I remember. From a clerk's desk
to a great house in Palace Gardens ; from a
miserable shilling City dining-room to all the
best clubs in London.'

If you were so rich, then,' said Olynthus,
whose imagination was not easily dazzled, ' why
did you throw away your money ? '

I will teach you, if you like to learn, how
to win money and how to lose it. Would you
like to learn ? Do you want to be rich ? '

Of course.' Tommy grew very red,
Every fellow wants to get rich. But what do
you mean by being rich ? Is it to run a muck
and then fail ? '

'What I mean is to grow rich, solidly rich,
in a very few years ; to grow enormously within
a few more ; to have the respect and envy of all
your contemporaries ; to be — such a Power as I
was myself. That is what I mean, young man.'

Oh ! I say ' Tommy grew red and

white alternately. ' You are joking, you know,

Mr. Collier. Well — I am not good at practical
jokes, and — and — I think ' lie half

rose to go.

Shall I teach you,' repeated Mr. Collier,
slowly and coldly, ' to grow rich, really rich,
substantially rich — not rich as you and your
partisans would call rich, but rolling in gold ? '

You couldn't keep it,' said Tommy, twisting
in his chair like a bird uneasy beneath the
eyes of the snake. ' You couldn't keep yours,
you know.'

Have you saved any money yet ? ' asked
the Tempter.

I've put by a hundred or two.'

A hundred or two ! You have been a
partner for three years. A hundred or two.
In twenty years you may have saved a thousand.
You will then be forty-four, we will say. At
sixty you may have saved ^^^ thousand. Man
alive ! do you think I came out of my failure
with less than twenty thousand ? Do you think
when a man like me fails he loses all, like a
miserable tradesman? '

Oh ! ' Tommy gasped. ' But I don't understand.
Why should you teach me anything ?
What have I done ? What am I to do for you ?
You were a great speculator. My uncle would
turn me out if I were to begin speculating. I
hope you won't be offended, but I couldn't —
really I couldn't — invest my little savings in any
project whatever — particularly if it is a project
of Mr. Massey's.'

Mr. Collier laughed.

You are a cautious young man he said.
I am not going to ask you to invest in any
projects, or to lose anything, or to risk anything
whatever. I am going to teach you.'

Is it — is it — difficult to learn ? '

It is a new language, and very difficult to
learn. Thousands try to learn it ; here and
there one succeeds. Let me see if you are one
of those two or three. If you are, you have a
great career before you. If you are not — why
then ' He shrugged his shoulders.

Then ? ' asked Tommy.

Then you will l)c no worse off than you

are now, and will have gained a little experience
of the world.'

'When, Mr. Collier,' asked Tommy hmn-
ably, ' when will the lesson begin ? '

I shall begin,' he replied, ' with an illustration,
not a lesson, I shall begin by giving
you fifty pounds.'

Fifty pounds ? Give me fifty pounds .^ '

That is the way in which I shall begin.
You understand English, I suppose. Very
good. What is the meaning of these words : I
shall — give — you — fifty — pounds .^ Are you
too proud to accept that sum ? '

Fifty pounds ? '

In the City men do not generally give
money to each other, do they ? Yet I will
present you with the sum of fifty pounds.'

There are some things — not things of science
which cannot possibly be explained. For
instance, why a bald-headed barber offers to
restore your thatch, yet remaineth in his own
baldness. It may certainly be for coolness that
he goeth bald — yet this climate is already too

VOL. II. G

cold. Or why an old greybeard, by means of
alchemy and its kindred arts, offers to restore
your youth, yet remaineth in his age. Or
why a physician troubled with plaguy diseases
offers to cure your ailments, yet abideth with
his own. Or why enthusiastic preachers point
the Way of Life and Love, yet continue in
bitterness to those who see that Way with other
eyes. All these things are remarkable, yet not
so remarkable, perhaps, in a village where
money is vehemently desired, and the want of
it bitterly mourned, as to find a poor man, or
one thought to be poor — everybody is poor
who has not as much as he desires — offering to
make another rich. Why not himself? Olynthus
gazed in wonder, asking this question, but
not daring to put it into words.

'Why not myself?' asked Mr. Collier,
thought-reading like any American. ' If I
wanted money in a small way I could make it
for myself. But I could never become again
the Power which I was ; and without that the
money would be of no use to me.'

What lie did not explain was that not only
was his influence gone, but also his reputation,
and that beyond the power of recovery. There
are still some things which cannot be forgiven ;
there are some men whom the world, though
their eyes sell out with fatness, will not admit
among them.

'Fifty pounds!' Olynthus repeated the
words, thinking what a lot he could do with
fifty pounds if he were to spend it, and where
he would put it if he determined to save it.
Fifty pounds ! And to do nothing for it !
Really, Mr. Collier, I take this very kindly of
you. Really, to do nothing for it ? '

You think I want you to forge somebody's
name, perhaps ? ' Mr. Colhber laughed in his
hard, metallic way. ' I^othiug of the kind.
Perhaps I want to amuse myself. Perhaps I
want to see the stuff you are made of. Young
Massey would not have required fifty pounds to
make him understand what was meant. But
never mind Massey. You shall see by a practical
illustration how money can be made A\'ith-
G 2

out trouble, if one has the knowledge. You
shall begin as I began. If you choose to go on
as I went on, you can do so. If you prefer
sticking to your oil, you can do that.'

He then proceeded to inform his disciple, who
as yet comprehended nothing, that the game of
speculation may be played on a big scale or a
small scale, like whist, ecarte, or any other game.
It is played by an immense number of people
Who knoAV nothing of the ' rules,' so to speak,
that is, have no special knowledge to guide
them ; therefore they gamble like blind men ;
they may win, but the chances are against them,
because their adversaries are players who are
acquainted with wire-pullers, bears, bulls, and
rings, and make the most of their knowledge.
So, in a game of whist, a pair of novices may
win against a pair of players, but the chances
are against them.

'As for me,' said Mr. Collier, ' I have been
out of it for some years, but I still can feel the
pulse of the market. The old knowledge by
which I controlled the Stock Exchange is gone,

I fear, but I can still put my hand on certainties,
and I am going to put you up to one, on a
small scale.'

What is it ? ' asked Tommy eagerly.

You are to go to Edge, in Copthall Lane.
He is my old broker. You will give him a
letter of introduction. You will tell him to
buy 10,000 Russians.'

Buy 10,000 Russians ? What shall I do
with them when I get them ? ' For the moment
he just thought that he was to purchase the
subjects of the Czar — his bond-servants, not his
bonds.

They are just now 4f . In a fortnight you
will call upon him again. You will find they
have gone up to 4-|. He will pay you the difference,
Which will be £50. Of course, the
stock may be 4f , or it may be 5. In that case,
your difference may be forty or sixty.'

But suppose they go down,' said Olynthus.

Don't I tell you, man, that they will go up ? '

The next day Olynthus paid the visit to the
Honourable Edge, and with great trepidation

delivered his letter of introduction, and made
his request for the 10,000 Emissions. Instead
of being asked to show his bank book, state his
income, and give security for so large an order
nominally a million — the order was simply
entered, and he was allowed to depart, as if a
million was nothing more than a ton of coals
or a dozen of sherry. For a fortnight he would
be the owner of a million. And then the
settlement !

For the next fortnight he watched the
money-market article every morning with
feverish anxiety. Suppose the shares were
to go down ! Suppose they where to fall
heavily ! Where was the money to come from
to meet the difference ? He lay awake all
night thinking of this dreadful possibility.
What would his uncle say ? And already he
saw himself kicked out from his partnership
with words of reproach and ignominy. Mr.
CoUiber had made a big mistake when he
failed himself. Why not a small mistake now ?

Don't look anxious, Gallaway,' said his

adviser. Do you think it possible for me to
mistake so simple a thing as this ? '

But how do you know ? '

The old speculator shrugged his shoulders.
How did lie know? How could he explain?
Ask a font-instrument collector how he knows
an ancient spear-head from one of Flint Jack's
manufacture. Ask a coin man how he knows
that an old coin is a forgery, one of many committed
in Alexandria to cheat collectors of the
third century. Ask a man in the picture trade
how he knows a copy from an original. Ask a
man learned in Scarab^ei how he knows the
Birmingham specimen from a Nile native. Ask
a man Who collects old silver how he knows
the fictitious from the genuine. Ask a man
who reads old inscriptions how he knows the
genuine from the false. How did he know?
Of course he knew. How could he tell ? Of
course he could tell. Long practice had given
him the instinct. In fact the stock steadily
rose. They reached on the day of settlement
4|-, and Olynthus had the pleasure of

drawing that fifty pounds, less brokerage commission.


Well,' said Mr. Collier, ' I hope you are
satisfied.'

It is, I am sure,' said Tommy, with the
sunshine of content beaming from his face, ' it
is, I am sure, extremely kind of you, sir, and I
cannot thank you enough.'

This is a beginning, Gallaway. You have
now learned how money may be made without
labour. If that stock had gone down four-eighths
instead of going up you would have lost
fifty pounds. You may, therefore, learn how
to lose money, as well as gain it, without doing
anything for it. A great many people are
playing this game, and most of them lose.
They lose, you see. because they play without
knowing anything about the rules.'

^ The rules ! There are rules, then ? '

Certainly. But these rules are difficult to
learn, and still more difficult to apply. Let us,
however, have another illustration, if you
please, just to show you how these rides maybe

applied by one who knows them. Would
you like to make a hundred this time ? '

Oh ! ' Tommy gasped.

Mr. Collier gave him fresh directions,
which he punctually obeyed. He passed the
next fortnight in a tumult of hope and expectation.
A hundred pounds! This time, however,
he was more confident ; and at the close
of the fortnight he landed his hundred safely,
and paid it to his private account with joy unfeigned.
A hundred and fifty made in a month
by a stroke of the pen.

'At this rate,' he said to Mr. Collier,
what is to prevent my making a hundred
every week, if you will give me the straight
tip ? That is five thousand a year. Oh ! it
costs you nothing. Don't desert me — yet — Mr.
Collier '

Xot yet,' replied his adviser, smiling icily ;
I shall not desert you yet.'

He then proceeded to inform his disciple
that he had seen him through two successful
operations, and was willing to see him through

a third, after which he would have to begin a
serious study if he meant business.

How much would you like to make this
time ? ' asked the great magician, as if it was
merely a question of naming the amount.

Might I say — two hundred ? ' Olynthus
hesitated and blushed at his own boldness.

'Certainly — and fifty,' said Mr. Collier.
It is all I shall do for you for the present.'

In another fortnight the young man had
cleared that two hundred and fifty. In six
weeks he had made four hundred pounds. And
he felt as if he had done it by his own sagacity,
and as if he possessed within himself the capacity
for making ten times, twenty, thirty times
that sum.

How small and miserable seemed the oil
trade compared with results so splendid ! What
a future would be his if he could only learn
the secrets of the trade, or — better still — if Mr.
Colder would go on telling him what to do !
Why, a man with that knowledge was a demigod.
The oil trade ! a poor thing at best, and

to end as this uncle was ending, with a square
house and a one-horse carriage ! Whereas, in
the trade of buying and selHng of shares and
stocks, one might end in Kensington Palace
Gardens, with such glories as Mr. CoUiber had
enjoyed. What a place in which to bestow the
beauteous Claire ! How splendidly would that
goddess become the purple halls and gilded
saloons which might be his, if Mr. Collier continued
propitious !

This was the beginning of all the Greatness
which followed. Everything must have a
beginning, but most things, unhappily, have an
appointed end.

CHAPTER IV.

THE DAY OF SMALL THINGS.

It is always interesting to read in the biographies
of writers, great and small, how at the
outset the candidate for glory is invariably received
with a most prodigious quantity of cuffs,
cours de pied., thwacks, black eyes, snubs, disgraces,
disappointments, down knockings, out
kicking, rebuffs, rudeness, broken promises,
prejudices, cheats, robberies, rejections, wounding
of vanity, palings down of pride, damping
of ambition, and so forth. The most curious
thing is that all these kicks seem in the long run
to be good for a man. They teach him, I believe,
to feel for other people, and so help him
to get a hold of them. And presently his
wounds heal up and you would never think, to

see him now so magnificent and triumphant,
that he was once a mere clown trodden, squirming
worm. Behold him ! He leadeth the people
by the ear, just as in old days they used to lead
their captives by a hook in the nose, or as all-conquering
Venus still di\ags her prisoners by a
single hair.

If one could Write at length the story of
Allen's early struggles, it would form a most
instructive chapter in literary history. Yet
there is little that is original or striking in the
adventures of a young man come to town with
a portfolio full of papers ; he has no friends ;
he begins the battle against unbelief, suspicion,
distrust, dishonesty, greed, and all the other
giants who stand in the way of a young knight-errant
in the field of Letters. Perhaps he
succeeds ; more often he fails. What becomes
of those who fail no man knoweth ; it is whispered
that they become editors of country
papers, or that they go to the colonies and
pretend to have been on the staff of the Saturday
or perhaps they fall back on their friends and

lead for ever afterwards a broken-winged and
disappointed life ; who knows ? The field of
Letters is called a Eepublic ; but I do not know
why, because in a Eepubhc all the men are
equal, whereas in literature they are all unequal.
Perhaps the name is taken from some
fancied resemblance to a South American Republic,
where the President, or Publisher, whatever
he is called, is changed once a quarter with
a new Pronouncement. The so-called Eepublic
lies in a flat country without any hills, streams,
dykes, or eminences ; it is circular in shape,
and it is bounded on all sides by circles of stone
seats rising one above the other to a dizzy
height. The citizens of the Eepublic are always
strutting about on the arena trying to attract
as much attention as possible from the people
in the seats, and hoping to see a great crowd
assemble, with prodigious shouting, directly
they begin to play their parts ; when they are
not playing, they are standing aside and criticising
their fellow actors. Some there are Avhom
no one regarded at all ; when they come on

the seats are swiftly emptied ; these play for
their brethren alone, who look on and jeer ;
and there are a very few — a happy feW' — at
whose appearance the seats are crammed. Yet
all the citizens in this Republic pretend to be
of equal strength and give themselves the same
airs.

When Allen came to town he brought with
him his savings, which, as he had been drawing
a substantial salary, considering his age,
amounted to no less an amount than seventy-five
pounds. He could easily, he thought, live
upon this sum until his poems were sold. Of
course the poems where most beautifully written
out in a legible hand and had received the
author's latest corrections. The poems where,
besides this seventy-five pounds, all his fortune.
Perhaps, when one comes to think of it, any lad
who arrives in London \A\\\ his customary twopence,
is richer than he who has nothing but a
manuscript, because with twopence you can buy
things, whereas With a whole watchful of poems
you can buy nothing — nothing at all. Will a

butcher cut you off a pound of steak, even from
the tougher part of the animal, in return for a
ballade, even a ballad of " Dates Sage and
Green," printed on aesthetic paper ? Twopence,
it is true, will not go far in steak, but think of
the great lumps of pudding it will buy ! A
self-made man, indeed, is he who rises in the
world and makes his way out of nothing at all
but a bundle of poems.

Of course, Allen began in the way common
among young poets, that is to say he sent his
verses to the publishers. When the first House
refused them he felt a little sorry for the House
they were throwing away their chances ;
when the second sent them back he was hurt ;
at the third refusal, he was indignant; at the
fourth, he felt grieved for the world which was
pining for good poetry and being kept out of
it ; at the fifth, a kind of dismay seized him.
Long before they had all refused it seemed as
if the sun was darkened and the moon eclipsed.
For he thought in his ignorance as if he alone
among young poets was treated with such scorn,

Yet he had read history. He lived with the
greatest economy and completely alone ; he had
no friends ; it seemed at first as if he never
would make any friends. Presently, however,
he made certain acquaintances, just as one makes
acquaintances in a club, by constantly meeting
the same men in the same place. He took his
nightly steak at a certain tavern ; it was used
for the same purpose by a good many men
connected with literature, the press, law, and
so forth. By sitting at the same table with
these men every night, he got to know some of
them. In his loneliness and friendlessness it
was something to look forward to, some kind
of conversation even with a man of whose very
name he was ignorant.

The first man who spoke to him was a man
older than himself by seven or eight years ; a
man of nearly thirty, a man w^itli a very wise
and thoughtful face, who might be a great
philosopher, or a great scholar, or a great master
in intellectual athletics, with something of the
responsible look of an earnest student. Possibly

vol II. II

he might be a great prig ; most very thoughtful
persons are ; he had dark hair and
rather a thin face with marked features. His
eyes were dark too and deep-set, and looked
more thoughtful even than the nose, a feature
which marks the existence of thous^lit almost
more than any other. He was a man of middle
height ; he seemed better ' set up ' somehow
than most of the men who frequented the place,
and he knew none of a certain noisy set dio
sat together every night drinking whisky and
water and telling stories. Wlien he had finished
his simple dinner, he used to get up and walk
away.

I do not know how Allen first began to
notice this man more than the rest ; but he
became presently aware that, by accident or
otherwise, they came to sit at the same table
nearly every evening, and one night they spoke
to each other about some topic of the evening
paper.

The next night they talked again, and Allen
delivered himself of his views, which were those

of ingenuous youth, and crude. The other mallet
him talk but said little. The next night,
and the next, they met again and talked more
freely. It was not difficult to win Allen's confidence,
and in the course of a few evenings he
had told most of his story.

I thought it was so, from the beginning,'
said the wise-looking man. ' I knew you came
from the country. The fact is, except myself
nobody at all has been born in London ; everybody
comes from the country and works his
way up. The London-born men, I suppose, go
away into the country, and then their grandchildren
come up. This keeps up a healthy
circulation and gives everybody a chance.'

Allen laughed.

And I thought, too, that 3'ou were come up
with ambitions. Have you tried the publishers
yet'

'All of them.'

Of course. Poetry ? '

Allen blushed.

I see. Still more of course.'
II 2

He said no more that night, but the next he
returned to the subject and asked Allen how
long he had been in London.

Six months.'

*And all this time you have been taking
your manuscript round to the publishers, I
suppose ? '

Allen owned that such was the case.

Have you — if I may ask an impertinent
question — have you any friends among literary
men ? '

Allen confessed that he knew no one connected
with literature ; in fact, that he had no
friends at all in London — or, indeed, anywhere
else, except in the place he came from.

His friend produced a pocket-book and out
of it a card.

Will you,' he said, * if I am not again too
impertinent, allow me to be one of your first
acquaintances ? My name, you see, is Lawrence
Ouvry, and I am a barrister by profession, but
I do not practise.'

He handed his card to Allen, * Lawrence

Ouvry,' with bis address in the corner, '15,
King's Bench Walk.'

Thank you,' fcaid Allen, greatly pleased.
'My name is Engledew, but I have no card.
It is no use having cards when you have no
friends.'

'Will you come to my chambers? I will
make you some coffee, and we can have a pipe.'

Allen accepted, and followed Mr. Lawrence
Ouvry to a second floor in the Temple, furnished
comfortably, and littered with books and
papers. Ouvry cleared away a pile from an
easy-chair, and rolled it to the fire.

Now, Engledew, sit there and let us talk.'
He went on to make preparations for his coffee.
I don't generally dine at that place,' he said,
but I have had some work which kept me in
my chambers in the evening, and it was convenient.
Latterly, I confess, I have been there
every night for the sake of talking with you.'

I am much obliged to you,' said Allen.

Yes ' — he was pouring the water into the
coffee-pot, and spoke slowly and deliberately

' yes. I do think that a man who gets to two-and-twenty,
and believes in things as you do,
and worships heroes, and takes all his ideas
from books, is a man worth talking to.'

He did not explain that this curious and
rare creature appeared to him to be also full of
thoughts and ideas, and to have a touch at least
of genius, and that he was sorry for his friendlessness
and for his ignorance of the world.
No one, it is true, can help a young writer
very much, but he may be helped to help
himself.

It is a mixed lot, the set of men who dine
over there,' said Ouvry. ' They are made up of
men who hope to get high up the ladder, and
men who have got a little way up and there
stick. I believe they are all connected, or
want to be, with journalism or literature in
some shape. And just as in the days of
Smollett, all the Scotchmen are physicians and
all the Irishmen are barristers ; as for the
Englishmen, they are of all professions. When
men do get really up the ladder, of course they

join a club and dine there. Meantime there is
a flavour of Bohemia about the price which
pleases new-comers. To be sure Bohemia
never had any clubs. You will not be very
long among them.'
Why not ? '

Because you will get beyond them.'

'It does not look like it yet,' said Allen.

I have been watching them for five or six

months. I vicar them talking with each other

of finding work, and I suppose they get it ; but

as for me '

As for you, their work is not your fork.'
'But I must find some work before the
money is quite gone.'

There is so much to do in literature,' said
his adviser, ' that the difficulty is chiefly to fid
out what you can do best, and what v/ill pay
you best. The world is continually crjdng out
for new books, for instance : not books which
take up half a man's lifetime and advance
things ; books to be read and tossed aside ;
light books, tales, novels '

I should not like to become a mere
novelist or bookmaker,' said Allen grandly.

Johnson was both,' said Oiivry. ' But a
novelist is not a bookmaker; he is an artist.
He paints in every novel a whole gallery of
portraits and pictures ; sometimes his gallery is
pleasing and sometimes it is not ; sometimes he
is at his best, sometimes not. Then there is
all the periodical literature to be provided, all
the newspapers to be kept going; and there
are the special papers — law, medical, religious,
scientific papers. There is an infinity of work
to be done, and it is continually crying aloud
for recruits.'

I am ready enough to become a recruit
said Allen.

But you can't find the man with the ribbons
and the shilling. Patience. The recruiting
sergeant is always about. You will get
that shilling.'

'There is another difficulty,' continued
Ouvry. ' One may enlist in the wrong corps,
and there is afterwards no end of a bother to get

exchanged. I know a man who now writes
excellent articles on church things — vestments,
you know, and liturgies — who began by writing
burlesques, and is horribly afraid it will
come out some day. Find your own line and
stick to it.'

'I write verse every day,' said Allen, blushing
as usual.

'To be sure. Capital practice. The man
who can write verse can write anything. Only
verse by itself doesn't pay, even if you can get
editors to take it.'

He then began to talk of the depths —
literary depths into which men have been
known to fall ; of degradations in the literary
life, into which men have been forced, which
should make young men tremble. I suppose
Fie spoke of these things purposely, in order to
awaken Allen from the dream of fame and fortune
to be gotten by his poems ; how once, for
instance, there was a young poet who had to
write a book for an umbrella-maker on um-
bella-making, and got five pounds for it ; how

another was fain to construct a story for an
enterprising Seaman, with an affecting plot
and a happy termination, in which the Soap was
worked up and made to take a leading part in
the denouement and how the Seaman published
it with the name of the writer outside,
and an advertisement of the Soap slipped in
between every page ; and how another owned
to having written, for ten pounds, a book of
travels in Borneo — never havens been outside
his native land ; and how that book went
through four editions, and he never a penny
the richer. And low another man, who lived
in the back parlour of a public-house, got ten
pounds for a job of collecting texts for a pious
every-day book. It took him four weeks todo,
with constant confinement to that back
parlour, close to the bar, and it brought on
delirium tremens. And how another man
always owed fifty pounds to a certain firm of
publishers, for whom he was continually working
it off but never quite succeeded.

Next, this young man who knew so much,

pointed out many ways in wliicli a beginning
may be made. The worst way, he said, was to
publish a volume of poems, because no one will
read poetry. Far better is it to send a descriptive
article to a daily paper, or a critical
article, or a tale, or an essay, to a magazine.

If you really want the literary life, Engle-dew,'
lie said, ' make your verse of secondary
consideration ; you may become a Journalist,
you may write novels, you may get up a speciality,
but you must not think of making poetry
pay.'

And yet,' said Allen, ' I must write verse.'
'No one wants to prevent you. Go on
writing verse. But think of other things. As
for me I have been among writing people all
my life. I am one of a family all born with
pens in their hands. My father was an editor
and a writer, my mother was a poet, my sister
writes three-volume novels. I know all the
editors, or all about them ; if advice will be any
good I will advise. But don't ask me to recommend
your work to anybody, because if I

do lie will infallibly drop it into the waste-paper
basket.'

^ And do 3^011 write yourself? '

He hesitated a moment.

I will tell you some day, not to-night, what
I do.'

Lawrence Ouvry, a few days later, found
himself in a certain drawing-room at a small
house in Baysw^ater. It was five o'clock, and
there were two ladies taking tea, one elderly,
with white hair and a beautifully wrinkled face
and very kindly eyes, the other a tall and beautiful
girl of twenty or so.

'I told you, Gertrude,' said Lawrence,
addressing the elder lady, ' that I thought I
had discovered a genius. Well, I have. He
has shown me his poems ; he has come up from
the country to get fame. He is full of ideas,
his verses are full of promise ; he is quite
ignorant of the world, and he knows nothing
except from books.'

Oh ! ' cried the elder lady, clasping lier
hands, ' bring him here, Lawrence.'

I suppose,' said the girl, as if she was a
person of miicli larger experience, ' that he
is a gentleman, Lawrence. I hope he does
not drop his aspirates like the poet from Shropshire
whom Gertrude invited here one night
last year. The best verse in the world could
not make that man tolerable.'

'Everybody is a gentleman, nowadays,'
said Lawrence. * This man's father was something
in the City, and hanged himself because
he lost his money. My new genius told me so,
with a blush. Showed that the poet's father
had the poetic faculty of imagination. He
thought everybody would jeer at him ; if he
hadn't thought so he would have gone on
with brazen front. My man's aspirates are
fully formed, I assure you. I expect, however,
that he has never been in a drawing-room
in his life. He won't be uncouth,
but he will be awkward. You must draw
him out, Isabel. As for you, Gertrude ' —
he addressed the elder lady — ' you will

take an interest in him, and yon will advise
him first, and flatter him next, and spoil him
afterwards. But you will teach him things
he ought to know. Yes, I will bring him to
you

CHAPTER V.

A NEW WORLD.

Everybody has envied the feelings with which
Captain Christopher Cokmibus first gazed upon
the shores of the new world, or those experienced
by the other great explorer who first
surveyed the Pacific Ocean. Each, we are
given to understand, fell into a rapture or
ecstasy in considering the boundless opportunities
thus throw open for the improvement
of humanity and the spread of true religion.
The picture is beautiful, especially dien read
by the light of what afterwards happened.
Such, indeed, were the feelings of Olynthus in
getting a Pisgah view,' of that enchanted land
where money may be had for the picking up.
No doubt, like Columbus, he fell to considering

what an opening the possession of that land
would afford for ' doing good.' Only a far off
view ; with a handful, so to speak, of the sacred
yellow soil, so fertile and so beautiful, just
enough to make him long for more ; just
enough to make him discontented with the
proceeds of his share in the concern, and to
make him lose his respect for his uncle, who
thought so much of his business.

Suppose a country — the country of the
future — in which everybody was equal, and all
had to work in the fields for equal wages.
There would be no professions, no learning, no
law, no books, and only a few necessary trades,
such as hangman, public flogger, custodian of
the drunken, maker of clubs, knuckledusters,
bludgeons, and so forth, pig slaughterer, brewer
of beer, and grinder of grain. The trades
would be paid in equal wages with the labourer
in the field. After a few generations most
people would consider it impossible to live any
other kind of fife. Presently, a fellow would
be born with a brain more irritable than those

of bis fellows — lie would discover while growing
up that form work is disagreeable, and
work at trades burdensome ; he would then
make a further discovery, namely, that in order
to avoid the fardel and fatigue of life, it is a
good plan to go round among the poultry
yards and the barns, and to help one's self to
an egg here, a chicken there, a capon or a
duck, a fat goose at Michaelmas, a turkey at
Christmas, a ham or a side of pig, a saddle of
Welsh mutton, a bottle of cider, a tankard of
October, and so on. That man would be the
founder of a school, and the first of another
long line of philosophers who eat what they
have not sowed, drink what they have not
brewed, sleep on the softest, and dwell in
palaces ; all the time with their hands in their
pockets. Olynthus was one of that school,
that is, he desired above all things to be a disciple.
He had learnt that he might, if he
knew the way, live such a life. But how to
learn that way ? And oh ! the weary round of
the daily toil, and the grinding of a tender and

VOL. II. I

sensitive nose upon the grindstone, and the
slow returns and slender profits, and the discontent
of one who has tasted the joys of
making money for nothing.

It was poetical, it was pitiful, it was tragic.
Consider. Olynthus had made four hundred
pounds — a lump sum of four hundred pounds —
in six weeks, without doing anything whatever
for it at all. It was done by the simple stroke
of a pen, even by simple word of mouth. It
was not, unhappily, done by his own skill and.
craft, but by the help of Mr. Colhber. This
was generous, noble, liberal, and praiseworthy
of Mr. Collier. But the same patron now
refused to do anything more for him. This
was disappointing. More — it was mean, pettifogging,
contemptible in Mr. Collier. Respect
could no longer be entertained for Mr. Collier.
Who would have thought it of Mr. Collier ?
Why — a thing which actually cost hin nothing.
All he had to do was to give him the straight
tip and let him go and buy. Only just to tell
him what to buy. If Olynthus possessed this

magical power he would have been too happy
to exercise it — when he no longer wanted it for
his own benefit — for the benefit of some deserving
young man like himself.

Four hundred pounds in six weeks ! Why,
that was nothing compared with what might
be made if one knew just a fortnight ahead.
Olynthus wanted but little : just a fortnight in
advance of everybody — a modest fourteen days.
Anybody else who pleased might take to prophesying
the disasters of the future ; he would
be satisfied to know what would be up and
what down in fourteen days ; he was quite disinterested
; he cared neither for bull nor bear ;
he wished to exercise no personal influence at
all over the future, but merely to know that
little thing — what was going to happen in the
next fortnight. It was a small things indeed,
to wish for; and yet with all his wishing he
got no nearer to it.

Mean — oh ! mean and disappointing in Mr.
Collier.

lie went about sadly, hanging his head, in

these clays of doubt. Once he met Mr. Col-her,
and involuntarily raised his tearful eyes
in mute appeal.

No, Gallaway,' said his adviser, laughing,
but not merrily. ' Sto ; it won't do. You
would like to go on following instructions, no
doubt. But that will not be possible for you.
Have you thought over the game ? '

Thought ! Oh, Mr, CoUiber, I can think
of nothing else.'

'Is it a game that you think worth playing?'


Worth playing ? Oh, Mr. Colhber. Oh !
Sir. What a truly great man you are ! '

He really could not help it. He had been
all his life rather inclined to be cheeky — after
the fashion of the London gamin — to this fallen
financier ; he was only one of the band of
bankrupts whom he despised. But now, it
was not respect, nor was it gratitude, but it
was Awe that he felt for a man who possessed
such powers. So may one respect the conjurer
who pours ^^'ine out of an empty bottle, and

turns a pocket-liandkercliief into a plum-cake.
His words were compelled by admiration of
such greatness.

Mr. Collier smiled coldly

You know me now, Gallaway. Jot elite
one of the ordinary failures, eli ? Something
unusual and unexpected, eh P A man who
could make your fortune if he pleased, eh ? '

If he pleased — oh ! ' said Olynthus. No
prayer could have been more heartfelt or
plainer than that simple interjection. Wonderful
situation ! To stand before a man and feel
that if that man pleases he can make you rich.
It recalls the good old days when a king was a
king indeed, and could cut off a head, or make
a man wealthy for life, at a single word.
Olintlius knew little about the Caliph Ilaroun
Alraschid, or King Yussuf Ben Eyub — Joseph
Hobson — sometimes called Saladin, or any
other Eastern potentate ; but he did feel
at that moment as if he was standing
before an Autocrat who had his fate in his
hands.

The Autocrat rubbed this hands together
and laughed aujain.

'Is it a lively game, Gallaway ? Is it a
game you would like to be able to play well ?
Is it better fun than the oil trade? Do you
like to feel as if you could make yourself rich
without any trouble ? '

Oh ! Mr. Collier.'

Youth is the time for wealth. It is no
good for an old fogey like me to be rich. One
wants to be young and to enjoy. Why if you
were rich, Gallaway, there is no end to the
glorious things you could pinxhase.'

He proceeded to enumerate some of these
splendours, and, I regret to say, included many
of the things which the wise man called vanity.
But Olynthus smacked his hips, and waggled his
head, and rolled his eyes, and gasped.

Gallaway, you would have all these things
if you were rich. But you are not and you
never will be ; you will go on humdrumming
at the oil trade, and some day your uncle will
die ; then you will think yourself rich enough

to many ; you will many and then you will
have a lot of children, and you will find out
what poverty means ; and you will live here all
your days and never know anything at all of
the things wdiicli wealth can give you. Poor
beggar ! One is sorry for a man who would
enjoy the world so much if he had the means.'

Olynthus groaned.

If you really think you would like to goon
with this game, Gallaway '

Yes, sir ; yes, I should indeed.'

Then, Gallaway — then — you had better
try to learn it by yourself. See what you can
do with it ; one can but try, you know. Good
morning, Gallaway ; good morning, my friend.'

Give up the game? No. Try by himself?
Perhaps. Yet it would not co to play that
game without knowledge. Olynthus was by no
means a fool. He knew very well that without
advice the buying or selling of stock would bethe
merest gambling. Then he thought that he
would sit quiet for a while and study the share
list. Maybe, by daily examination of the

money-market articles lie, too, might arrive at
an intuition of the future. To many minds the
money-article in the morning paper presents a
fearful array of unintelligible figures : to Allen,
for instance, it was nothing but an irritating waste
of valuable space which might have been much
better bestowed on literature. Stow if the six
columns daily given to the money market were
filled with original poetry — his own for example
? Most men, except that very small and
daily decreasing body who have saved or are
saving money, pass by these columns with impatience
and get them quickly to the fires,
murders, robberies with violence, wife beatings,
and chucking over the Embankment, which
make up the real interest of the daily papers.
This had been the practice wide Olynthus, and
it shows how profoundly impressed he was with
the possibilities of ' the game ' that he should
have boldly begun, and resolutely continued
for some months, a daily and careful perusal of
this intelligence. He had not time to do it at
the office, where an unsympathetic chief, like

his native country, expected nothing short of
duty ; but he could take the paper home with
him, read it in the train, and sit over it in the
evening, astonishing his sisters by the unwearying
eagerness with which he followed the pursuit
of this new learning. A City man, he said
grandly, must keep himself posted up in City
news. He therefore read through the whole
of it, beginning at the general information,
wading through the letters and the meetings,
following the figures and lists, and ending up
with the cattle trade. Soothing came amiss to
him, because he had an idea that, by industriously
continuing to read, lie would eventually
find out what was meant by the rise and
fall of stock, and why it rose and fell. Iso
student of history ever paid so much attention
to the "Rise and Fall of the Woman Empire. So
he read, day by day, how there was ease or
tightness in the Money Market, how there was
an anticipated reduction in the reserve at the
Bank, how a fair business was done in Colonial
Bonds, how the Home Railway Market opened

firm, and there was a general recovery in
Americans but inactivity in Russians, how
Egyptian Unified Stock fluctuated all day, how
one bank declared a dividend of 15 per cent. —
happy bank ! — and another of only 7 per cent.
Then he read what were the rates for money
abroad and at home, and he read how cattle
markets were attended, and turnips were firm,
but pig-iron in small demand. He read it all
and was edified, and then he sighed because
the fists which come at the end lay all before
him and they had to be read too. He read
them conscientiously. Every day lie read them.

For three months Olynthus read nothing at
all except this one page in the Times. Oddly
enough, the inspiration which he looked for
did not come. If he met Mr. CoUiber, that
gentleman would look at him with a curious
smile which might mean anything, but did not
mean giving any more straight tips.

'Well, Gallaway?'

I am at work, sir. I am studying everyday.'


Good. Then you have not decided to
give up the game ? '

Xot, certainly, Mr. Colhber, if I can have
your kind assistance.' Olynthus smiled anxiously,
but met with no responsive smile.

Fortune, Gallaway,' said Mr. Collier,
helps those v\dio know how to help themselves.
Fortune is only another name for a quick eye
and a bold hand. We shall see if your sight is
keen and your hand strong.'

Very fine, indeed ; but what one likes best
is to use the keen eyes and the bold hands of
some one else.

Olynthus returned to his studies. They
were really making him thin, these figures. By
this time he knew at least something; of what
they meant ; he could connect the price of
shares with dividend and nominal value of
stock ; he had begun even to remember something
of the prices, and to connect one day with
its predecessor. If the figures had been in
Arabic, he would have learned them by this
time. But merely to connect to-day with yesterday

is, if you please, a long step from connecting
it with the day which is to follow ; and
as yet he could not, by any force of reasoning,
arrive at a forecast of the next day's prices anymore
than he could of the next day's weather.
Why should things go up and down ? Remember
that he was a profoundly ignorant young
man, and had never had the least training in
social and political economy. Of things learned
or serious lie had never read anything ; he did
not know such a simple thing as supply and
demand ; he hardly understood that foreign
news influenced stock. All his knowledge of
the outer world, in flint, was derived from novels
of the third, fifth, tenth-rate kind.

You are getting on, Gallaway ? ' asked Mr.
Collier.

Slowly, sir,' he replied with a sigh ; ' very
slowly as yet.'

Perhaps the time has come when a little
help will be useful. Come over to me this

evening.

Wild hope ! He was going, no doubt, to

give him one more illustration. Olynthus kept
that appointment punctually. No cigars were
offered him, and no wine was produced.

We are going to talk business, Gallaway,'
said Mr. Collier. ' Sit there. Take a pen
and make notes. So you have been trying to
get an insight into the money-market by studying
the money-market article. Very well ; if
you had asked me for help, I could have saved
you a great deal of trouble — no ; don't say
what you were going to say — yoin^ only idea of
help was another little pot of money. Listen.'

Mr. Collier proceeded to explain that to
study the money-market article with intelligence
and profit, many things unexpected by his pupil
were necessary. Very few men besides himself,
he said, attempted more than one or two subjects.
One man, for instance, would take up
railways, and even one railway. After they
have made themselves acquainted with the
whole history of that railway as revealed to-shareholders,
they must find out the secret
strings of that railway ; more than that, they



must find out who pull the strings, and wll3^
Again, the judicious operator would keep himself
acquainted with the efforts of the bulls and
the bears. How to get this knowledge and
arrive at these secrets ? That must be learned
by experience. The money-market article, Mr.
CoUiber went on to explain, records the past ;
as regards the future it is dumb.

Olynthus turned pale. Hove was he to
acquire this information and get this intelligence
?

Oh ! ' he groaned, ' it was cruel to hang
out such hopes.'

'Wait a bit,' said Mr. Collier. 'Perhaps
not so cruel as you think. Nevertheless I am
glad that you have had this trouble. You have
got some good out of it. You know the jargon
of the City article. Next you must learn the
jargon of the Stock Exchange.'

What is the good ? ' asked the despondent
youth. ' I wish I had never heard of the
thing.'

Then—shall we stop ? '

'No, no,' he gasped; 'tell me more — perhaps
'

Perhaps, you think, you may get another
wrinkle. But no, Gallaway, no, my young
friend, not that way.'

Mr. Collier then proceeded to instruct him
in the manners, ways, and terms of the Stock
Exchange, in which, he said, Olynthus must
without delay proceed to make himself acquainted.
The terms seemed familiar to the
young man ; in fact, he had heard them in the
train on the way to and from the City. For
the first evening: ho understood nothings. A
confused babble of words poured from Mr.
Collier, and Olynthus went home with his head
whirling. Contango, backwardation, option,
whether a put or a call, or a put and call, contracts
for account, transfers, taking in and
"livings on, buUinf?, bearing — what on earth did
it all mean ? And he was to understand it all.

Next morniniji; Mr. Collier beo-an all over
again, but with less patience. A week later he
was repeating his instructions with the stimulus

of certain interjections, words of contumely,
shame, and reproach, such as an angry schoolmaster
hurls at a boy. It was a terrible time
for Olynthus, but he endured all in patience,
only he wondered why Mr. Collier took so
much trouble.

The reason was that Mr. Colder, who had
at first conceived the idea of amusing himself
by training and teaching a financier such as
himself, had discovered that his jiroterje was a
fool and could never be taught anything. Then
he conceived a second and more excellent
scheme, which required that the terms, language,
jargon, processes, and outward forms of the
Stock Exchange should be familiar to his pupil.
And this was the reason why he went on teaching
him, though hfty strong words went to force
one fact into that unreceptive brain. At last,
however, his pupil really did know the language
of the Stock Exchange, how things are
done, and how he ought to talk about them.
And he was not an inch nearer knowing why
stocks went up and why they went down. Yet



he thought he must be ; and he made a little
experiment. He bought Egyptians — they had
been steadily going up. Alas ! who can foretell
the effect of telegrams? They went down —
down — down. Poor Olynthus ! unfortunate
Tommy ! By this transaction he lost one hundred
and fifty pounds.

So,' said Mr. Collier— who told him ? -
you have been trying your luck. I thought
you would. Xow, young man, mark my
words. Those who attempt to gamble without
capital and knowledge court certain ruin. Do
you hear ? Certain ruin and bankruptcy. It
is not a pleasant thing, though you have heard
so much about it. How much have you lost ? '

A — a — hundred and fifty pounds,' said
Olynthus, looking horribly guilty.

What would your uncle say if he were to
hear of it?'

Olynthus's knees trembled.

Now, tell me, Gallaway, do you think you
know anything at all about the secrets of the
market ? '

VOL. ir, K

Nothing,' lie replied bitterly. ' How can
I know anything? Who was to teach me
except yourself? and you won't. You led me
on and taught me what the game is like, and
then you throw me over.'

'I am ready to help you still. But this
time, on conditions.'

'Any conditions. Oh, Mr. CoUiber, any
conditions.'

And I really believe that had Mr. Collier
produced a parchment with the usual form of
sale and limitation of time, and smell of sulphur,
and pen to sign in blood, the young man
would have signed that parchment, so eager
was he to begin to get rich without trouble or
labour of his own. But there was no parchment.


Mr. Collier took him to his home and
there, standing on the hearth rug while his pupil
sat humbly at his feet, addressed him in solemn
words. He reminded his pupil that he had, at
great expense of time and trouble, taught him
the various operations of the stock market, and

put him in the way of understanding the whole
business of dealing with shares and stock.
Olynthus had followed his advice on three
separate occasions with success ; and he had
followed his own advice on one occasion only,
and then with disaster. That, although he had
spent many months m learning what he had
learned, he was still confessedly no more advanced
in the real business than when he began.
Further he pointed out to him that he was now
discontented with the slow business and small
returns of the oil trade, and continually
tempted to repeat the little transactions l:)y
which he had already profited ; that he had
no capital with which to play ; that, if his
uncle found out what he was doing, he would
infallibly be turned out of the house ; that,
on the other hand, if Olynthus was willing to
trust him, follow his directions implicitly and
hold his tongue, lie would yet make his fortune.
'But how? how? only tell me hoar ! '
crit Olynthus, quivering with anxiety and
eagerness.

K 2

Mr. Collier, still speaking in the slow and
measured way which best illustrates the possession
or the assumption of power, went on to
point out that for many reasons his own reappearance
in the City was as yet undesirable ;
that if for nothing else, it would not do for one
who had formerly accomplished such magnificent
coups to dabble in little things ; that he
was tired of inaction and wished for work
again ; that he did not intend to work for anybody
but himself; that, however, he might find
it useful to take a partner who should be put
forward as the nominal operator, and appear in
the eyes of the world as the actual and sole
head of the firm. And, in effect, if he could
come to an arrangement with the fortunate
Olynthus, that post might be his.

Mine ! ' Olynthus gasped, ' mine ! you are
not joking, Mr. Collier ? '

Yours. You must understand exactly.
I sit behind and pull the strings. You are to
have no voice or will in the business at alL
You obey. If you disobey, the partnership

ceases ; if you talk about me, or let anyone in
the world know the secret, I turn you out. If
you undertake the very smallest transaction
without my knowledge and instruction, you go.
You will be, in fact, my private secretary, my
silent, confidential clerk, my right hand.'

I see.'

The position was not dignified. On the
other hand, if the profits were large, what
mattered the position ? And nobody would
know.

Outside,' Mr. Collier went on, ' the
position will be very difFerent. You will take
credit for all ; you will be looked upon — you
' 01 in thus thought there was almost too
much contempt in the tone — ' you, even — asa
great financier ! you, who cannot understand
anything, and have learned nothing except the
jargon. You will rise by my help ; you will
acquire a great fortune by my help ; you ^\'ill
live like a fighting cock by my help ; you
will make a great name, always by my help.
It will be your interest to hold your tongue

about the ghost in the office ; you will put on
all the 'side' you please — when you are outside
the office ; and your fortune will go on
piling itself up without sour doing anything
but send your clerks about with my orders and
receive your broker for my instructions, and
spend the money in whatever ducks and drakes
you please.'

Mr. Colhber,' said Olynthus, with effusion,
this is indeed a noble offer ! '

I shall take,' said Mr. Collier, ' seventy-five
per cent, of the profits.'

Oh ! ' Olynthus's face lengthened, ' seventy-five
per cent, of the profits. Seventy — and
what about the losses ? '

Fool ! ' the great financier thundered ; ' I
said the profits.'

And — and will the twenty-five per cent.
merely a fourth part — go far to make a
fortune ? '

'Wait and you shall see. At first I shall
arrange so that you may not immediately give
up your partnership. But soon — very soon —

it will be necessary to fly at higher game. Is
it a bargain, then ? '

It is,' said Olynthus, thinking of his former
gains. 'Twenty-five per cent., that would
have been a hundred in six weeks. That's
eight hundred a year and more.'

Much more,' said Mr. Collier.

Then they shook hands, and Mr. Collier
produced a bottle of the famous port, in which
they drank together success to the firm.
While Olynthus imbibed the precious fluid, his
brain on fire with visions of the future, the
senior partner drew up certain notes and instructions
for him to carry out the very next
morning. They were the first transactions of
the firm, and the executive partner dien he
came to carry out those orders was terrified at
their magnitude.

He went home that evening, carrying with
him, besides the instructions, the best part of a
bottle of port. It was early, and his mother and
sisters were still sitting up. Olynthus took a
chair among them and proceeded, in a voice

thick with emotion, to dilate on the power of
wealth, and the mean, grovelling methods of
acquiring it which please some people. What
had his uncle made ? Twenty thousand, perhaps
a little more, and he was seventy years of
age. As for himself he had much wider views ;
he had looked about him ; he was not satisfied
with the old-fashioned way. Look at the
money which might be made by a man who
knew how to set to work. Why, all the
money in the world came to London ; it only
wanted a steady eye like his own, and a bold
hand, such as he himself possessed, to take
hold of that money as it passed through
London. His mind, in fact, was now made
up ; he should devote himself seriously to the
pursuit of wealth. He intended, and faithfully
promised, to make them all rich ; then they
would leave this confoundedly dull and deserted
place, and take a house at the West End, when
lie would marry Claire, and they would all live
together, give great parties, and receive the
aristocracy of the country ; he should join

several high-class clubs and keep a private
hansom with a tiger in buttons ; he should
have champagne every day ; he should keep a
racehorse or two ; the girls should have silk
dresses and necklaces, and a carriage to drive
m ; lie should, of course, play loo, baccarat,
and Napoleon, all night long with his friends ;
he should, if he chose, go behind the scenes at

the theatre, and

'Olynthus,' said his mother severely, 'you
had better go to bed.'

About this time several important things
were observed by the residents : one was that
young Gallaway spent every evening with
Mi Colhber. \Yhat were they about every
evening ? The next was that the young gentleman,
always given to self-importance, had
now become phenomenally important, with an
air of mysterious reserve infinitely provoking to
his sisters. One evening, however, he was
observed by these anxious girls, who would, if
necessary, have looked through keyhole for

the good of their brother, to be dancing all by
himself in a secluded corner of the garden where
he thought himself unobserved. Yes, he put
down figures in a pocket-book, and he danced,
with a countenance which betokened the
highest satisfaction. Yet that same evening
Mr. Collier had lost his temper and called his
junior partner fool and ass ; and Olynthus,
instead of rending his chief, meekly sighed
and acquiesced, asking for further instructions,
and when he got home and found a secluded
corner he danced.

Claire,' said Olynthus, ' nearly a year has
passed. Already I am in a position which
would astonish you if I could only speak?
Have you heard anything from Will yet ? But,
of course, one can't expect much of a mere
clerk. Allen, according to his mother, is
starving.'

I cannot listen to you,' Claire replied
coldly, ' until the three years are over.'

Another thing happened next which surprised
the residents very much. It was the

disappearance of ]mr. Collier from Monday to
Saturday. He went away by an early train on
Monday morning and lie returned on Saturday
evening. He had during the week a quiet
lodging in the City itself, where no fewer than
forty thousand people do have a quiet lodging.
Hither came Olynthus in the day, at one o'clock,
and in the evening, for instructions.

Well might the executive partner laugh and
dance. The business was going on far more
successfully than he had even dreamed of in his
wildest moments. They had small losses, but
the gains were great.

« . • • •

Let us anticipate.

One day Mr. Collier told his partner that
he was to look out for an office in a leading
on the ground floor. Olynthus found one.
The rent was enormous. His partner told him
to take it, to furnish it handsomely, to have his
name put up on a great brass plate, and to engage
half-a-dozen clerks. He was at the same time
to resign his partnership in the oil business.

Olynthus obeyed blindly : his confidence in his
partner was complete : he took handsome
offices, bought the furniture, and put up the
brass plate.

'And now,' said Mr. Colhber, 'you will
take chambers in Pall Mall ; you will join a
club — I can get you into as good a one as you
have a right to expect ; you will drive in your
own cab to the office every day ; you will lay
yourself out for giving dinners. And mind
how you talk. Don't be clever — but of course
you can't ; be solid ; talk of stocks, but don't
venture to give an opinion or you will be
found out ; and if you have tastes for the
theatre and things don't talk about them.
Keep them dark. Mind ; be solid. Not too
many rings ; one good ring and a heavy gold
chain. No glitter, no pretence ; give the best
wines and the best of plain dinners. And get
as many men with money as you can find to
dine with you.'

Wonderful phenomenon ! In less than two
years Olynthus Gallaway was a power in the

City ; his transactions Avere said to be enormous
; he was credited with pointless resource,
extraordinary knowledge, and remarkable insight.
Since the failure of Mr. Collier there
was nothing like it. He underwrote new
companies, backed up old ones, strengthened
the tottering, undermined the strong, was bull
or bear and always right, and seemed to know
beforehand the dividend that was aoinoj to be
declared. Wonderful young man I Said to be
under five-ands twenty. So cahii and cool in
manner too, and impenetrable. A young
Napoleon of finance.

You know the story of Sinbad and the old
man of the island. How would it have been
if the old man had been invisible to the rest of
the world, and if Sinbad had gone about pretending
to be as free as anybody else, and that
the apparent stoop in his shoulders was a mere
trick caused by too much study as a boy ?

This was exactly Olynthus's position. He
sat in a gorgeous office, yet at his side dangled
a tube, and when no one was in the office

peremptory orders came to him with complimentary
expressions. Also he had every
morning, before the office opened, and every
evening after the clerks were gone, to meet his
partner and take his instructions. Yet he was
happy ; he had his evenings, and besides, he
was not one of those thin skinned folk dio are
greatly moved by being abused. Why, his
uncle had often called him an ass and a fool
when the income was ten limes less.

CHAPTER YI.

A FIRST Step.

Shipwrecked sailors are always at their
hungriest just before a sail heaves in sight.
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.

At this moment, when Allen's fortunes
were really desperate, and it seemed as if in a
very few weeks he would be obliged to go
home or else to starve, he had the good luck
first to make the acquaintance of Lawrence
Ouvry, and secondly, to meet with his first
success. And this came to him in a most
unexpected manner.

Among the regular habitues of the tavern
was an old man of seventy or thereabouts,
who came every night without fail, including
Sundays. New-comers looked at him curiously,

and whispered to each other that he
had never missed a single night for forty
years, save and except in the month of September,
when he took this holiday. He always
sat in the same place, had the same dinner,
and drank a glass of whisky and water with a
slice of lemon after his dinner ; at half-past
eight he rose, put on his hat, and went away.
Where he came from and what he was nobody
knew. His manner was extremely dignified ;
his utterances were measured ; and he surveyed
the room with the air of Dry den in his
coffee-house ; he read the evening paper continuously,
even while he was eating ; he seldom
talked to anybody, and his bald head and full
white whiskers were as much a part of the
furniture every evening as the very chairs and
tables. Those who sat near him observed that
his coat was worn and threadbare, and his cuffs
and collar frayed. The table concealed his
boots. It was a matter of surprise, therefore,
to John the waiter, when this hermit began to
converse with a young gentleman newly arrived

at the tavern, and when lie invited that young
gentleman to sit next to him and put down his
paper in order to receive his remarks. In fact,
the eager looks and fresh cheeks of the young
man attracted the veteran at fn;st, and Allen's
modest deference to age pleased him. He was
old ; he liked respect, which is scarce at such
taverns ; in short, the young man interested
him.

You have but recently joined us, sir,' he
said to Allen, when they had got a little past
the stage of the weather.

'It is not very long ago,' Allen replied,
since I came here first.'

This is the modern home for wits,' lie
said. 'Here you meet the journalists, the
importers, the descriptive writers, even the
editors of the a^fe.'

Yet there is not much wit,' said Allen,
looking round him.

Hush ! You do not listen. I have sat
here a great many years and I have listened.
Not much wit, sir? The place echoes with

VOL IT. L

wit. But to catch it you must listen. They
think I am reading the paper,' he whispered.
No, sir, I am listening. You are privileged,
young gentleman, in coming here. When I
was a young man we resented the appearance
of a new-comer. He was an intruder unless
he was a wit.'

May I ask,' the old man whispered again
across the table, ' if you are also in the Profession
? '

You mean the Profession of Letters ? '
replied Allen. ' I hope to be one of these
days.'

When we say, in this room, the Profession,
we mean no other. Other professions
are trades. Who would sell pills or parchment
? Mere trades. Now we, sir, create ;
we provide, we invent.'

Surely, thought Allen, this man must be
some great author.

I am trying to find work of some sort,'
Allen went on ; ' that is, if I can find any that
will suit me.'

All ! ' replied the man of experience,
I've gone through that myself. I was a
good long time dodging about and picking
np odd jobs. Courage, young man ! Your
turn will come. You will, I make no doubt,
succeed, in the long run, as well as I
myself.'

Thank you,' said Allen gratefully.

Nor was it till the next day that he remembered
frayed cuffs, shiny sleeves, and
other signs which are generally understood to
betoken poverty. To succeed as well as that
illustrious unknown ! That meant apparently
to dine daily for forty years off beefsteak and
beer, to have no friends, to lead the most
monotonous and solitary of lives. But perhaps
there were compensations. There vrcre, in
imagination.

A day or two afterwards the old man
began attain.

You write poems, of course ? So did I,
once. And stories? So did I, once. And
plays, tragedies and the like? So did I, once.

All that is froth and bubbles. You will settle
down like me to something solid.'

He stopped then because his steak was
brought to him.

Could he be an historian ?

Young men will be young,' the distinguished
litterateur went on, after he had
eaten up that steak. 'And they will have
their illusion. One of them is that it is line to
write poetry and fiction. Well, they soon
learn better. In the end they fid out what is
wanted and stick to that.'

Could he be a Quarterly Reviewer ?

Look here, my boy,' the old fellow went
on, ' I like your face. I should like to give
you a lift if I coukL Perhaps you are getting
to the end of the tether.'

I am indeed,' said Allen.

Very well. I've been to the end of the
tether often enough. That's nothing. It only
makes a man the more willing to work. Yes,
you are not rowdy like that young Irishman
over there — though hers a reporter on the

News and draws a handsome screw — and
you're not argumentative like the Scotchman,
nor supercilious like that young fellow you are
so much with. Very well, then. What should
you say if. . , . . Eh .^ . . . . If I was to say
that perhaps I could put you in the way of
doings something; p '

He nodded mysteriously, and for that night
said no more. A day or two afterwards he
informed Allen that the thing he had in his
mind was really coming off.

What are you working at now ? ' he
asked. ' Froth and bubbles, I suppose, as usual.'

As I could not do anything with my
verses,' said Allen, ' I am trying to write some
essays.'

Humph ! Well, they may come in useful.
We shall see. Are you acquainted, young
man' — he asked the question with as much
solemnity as an Oxford examiner — ' with the
literature of your native country ? '

I believe so ; that is, I have read all the
best writers and know them pretty well.'

And I suppose you don't know any other
language ? '

Yes, I know French and German.'

'Do you now? There was a time when I
woukl have given a great deal for a knowledge
of French. It was when I had a chance of
becoming a dramatist. At the time, I very
much regretted my ignorance of that tongue ;
otherwise I have done very well without it.
"Well . . and history now ? '

I believe I know something about history

It is all useful. About manufactures and
arts, now ? '

Allen laughed. ' I am afraid I know
simply nothing of any manufactures or industries.'


But — but — but that is a pity. In the
matter of leather, now ? '

Nothing about leather.'

A pity,' he repeated. ' Well, it can't be
helped. We must fill back on general
knowledge and ability, though how we are
to get over the want of experience I can't

tell. However, we shall see . . we shall
see.'

Again he closed his lips and said nothing
more. But Allen began to feel that something
might really be going to happen. He told this
friend Ouvry.

'It will not be anything very brilliant,'
said Lawrence. 'I know the old fellow by
sight. But it may be worth taking. There
are so many tidings in literature that it is
impossible for you not to find something to
carry on with if you can only get an introduction
or an opening.'

The older came the very next i}ixj.

I have had reason to know,' said the
eminent litterateur, ' for some time past that
an important project was in the wind. Directly
I heard of it, from the very outset, I connected
that project with you — with you, sir.' He
spoke with so much importance that Allen
thought some great honour was about to be
conferred upon him. Was he the editor,
perhaps, of the Quarterly Review? Was he

going to ask Allen to contribute to the pages
of a new Qiiarteii}^ ? Allen's cheek flushed
and his pulse beat faster as he thanked him for
his kindly consideration.

The project,' said his patron, ' is to take
the form of a new paper.'

Oh ! ' said Allen, breathless.

A weekly paper.'

Oh ! and you think '

I am sure that you will be able to carry
it on.'

Carry on a weekly paper? You mean
work on the staff.'

I mean, carry on the paper. The paper
is to be an Organ, sir. You will be editor,
and sub-editor, and staff, and all in one. You
will be yourself that paper.'

An Organ ? '

The Organ, in fact, for the leather trade.'
He lowered his voice and whispered the words.
Allen's heart felt like lead.

There must be for every Organ a trade
editor, who knows the market and can command

confidence. There must also be a
literary editor, whose business it is to fill up
the paper every week. The proprietors will
look after the advertisements.'

To fill a whole paper ? '

Not to write it, of course ; but to make
judicious selections, cuttings, stories, jokes, anything
to make the paper attractive.'

I see,' said Allen, feeling very feeble.

1 was glad on the whole that you disclaimed
any knowledge of leather. Some men
have pretended. You did not. Besides, your
ignorance will help you to keep up your position.
Take care never to know anything about
leather and you won't be put upoii. In our
profession we must despise trade.'

He then began to enlarge upon the nature
of Organs in general ; they were, he explained,
often very paying properties — look at the
advertisements. Every Organ, however, had
to be nursed and carefully managed, and
though the business part was essential, the
literary portion had to be considered with much

delicacy. Experience, lie said, showed what
people like, and in that respect it is found that
trades differ, so that what attracts tallow repels
oil ; and what pleases those who advance the
interests of malt may be quite thrown away
upon the partisans of flax. He would, therefore,
have to feel his way.

Good heavens! To be the editor of the
Organ for leather ! Could there be a more
ignoble entrance into literature ? Could there
be a rung on the ladder of literary success
closer to the mud ?

And you yourself, sir ? ' Allen asked.

'I have myself,' said the great man with
pride, ' edited an Organ for many years. It is
a large and influential organ ; it advocates the
interests of — but hush ! another day. There
are listening: ears.'

But Allen never did learn what was the
great and influential Organ edited by his
friend.

Literature,' the successful man went on,
is a great and glorious profession. You are

nobody's servant. I go to my office as early
as I please and I stay as late. I draw my
salary every week and I bring out my paper
punctually. I am my own master. Why, I
might have been a clerk all my life slaving at a
desk.'

That might have been Allen's fate, too.
But yet, was it exactly promotion to exchange
the service of a City firm for the editorship of a
trade Organ ?

Do you,' he asked, ' write much besides
your paper ? '

I do not,' replied the editor. ' I have had
enough of writings. I have contributed stories
and sketches in my day. But it is all froth —
froth and bubbles. Anybody can write. Give
me the solid work, editorial work — selection
with judgment.'

I hope,' said Allen humbly, ' that I shall
learn in time to select with judgment.'

Xo doubt you will — in time. But not if
you waste yourself in writing. Mind that:

nothing destroys a man's judgment so much as
writhe'. Remember that.'

Not to write ! And yet to belong to the
Profession !

As for the pay,' the editor resumed, ' they
will offer you, I dare say, thirty shillings a
week to begin with. They can't offer less, and
perhaps they will spring it to five and thirty if
they think you will do well.'

Are you sure they will have me at all ? '
I have recommended you,' said the patron,
with decision.

I am sure,' said Allen, trying to be
grateful, 'that I ought to be very much obliged
to you.'

.Not at all, Mr. Engledew. I wish you a
very successful career, and any advice I can
give you I shall be happy to give. John, I
will, to-nights take a second glass of Scotch with
lemon. At your expense, Mr. Engledew ? Well
considering — ahem — thank you — I assure
you, Mr. Engledew,' and here something like a
tear stood in the old man's eye, ' I assure you

that it is more than twenty years since anyone
has invited me to take a glass of Scotch, or of
anything else. Time was, when this room was
filled every night with the wits of the last
generation, and things were said which got into
the papers, that glasses of Scotch were freely
offered — but never mind. I hope it is not the
last glass of whisky I shall drink in your company,
young gentleman, or to your prosperity*
I wish you luck, sir.'

The next day, when Claire was on her way
home from afternoon school, she was surprised
to meet Allen walking quickly along the
road.

Allen ! ' she held out both her hands.

Claire, I came to meet you on your way
home.'

*You have something to tell me, Alien.
Let me look in your face.'

She looked into his eyes. ^ It is something
not altogether pleasant.'

Not altogether Claire, and yet '

Your last letter is two months old. You
ought to write oftener than that. Will writes
by every mail. You ought not to have stayed
away so long '

I have had nothing but disappointment.
Would you have had me come to tell you of
every new attempt and every fresh failure ? '

If you tell me, I can bear half of the disappointment
for you. Now tell me nothing
till we get home. Wliat a cold east wind it
is ! Let us run. You shall tell me everything
over a cup of tea. Are you lonely in
London without my father and Will and me,
Allen?'

There was not the least touch of coquetry
in the question.

Horribly lonely, Claire.'

They ran side by side along the hard road
in the twilight like boy and girl. And something
of the old feeling returned to Allen.

It is like the old time, this, Claire. You
remember how we all used to run home from
the forest, side by side — you in the middle.'

Of course I do. But there is no one to
run with, now.'

The sight of her fresh bright face by itseK*
seemed to soothe Allen. He had come from
town in an irritated condition. The printers,
who were going to run the ' Organ,' had seen
him ; they were kindly folk, but they saw in
the applicant for the editorship merely an
inferior clerk, whose duty had probably lain in
the scissors and paste department. However,
they accepted him on the recommendation, and
they would give him five-and-thirty shillings a
week for the job — hours to suit himself. He
could not afford to throw up the thing, but it
humiliated him. The pay was a wage : the
work was mechanical. Tlien he had seen his
mother, and left her in tears because, after all
the waiting and waste of time, all he could
show was a small post as Editor — a name
which conveyed no thought of grandeur to heron
pay which was less than half of what he
had thrown over in the City. He was horribly
irritated. Yet at the mere sight of Claire

this nerves were soothed. He remembered
that in the old days it had always been
so with her. And then they came to the
cottage (it was two or three months before the
accession to colossal wealth) and were out of
the cold east wind in the little room where
they had spent so many evenings.

It is like a dream to be back here,' said
Allen, ' or else the last six months have been a
long dream.'

It is a pleasant dream, Allen — — '
He had thrown himself upon the rug before
the fire, and she stood over him with her calm
sweet smile, and the tender look which never
left her eyes when they rested upon Allen.
You are changed a little, Allen,' she said.
How am I changed ? '
You shall tell me presently how.'
'At least, you are not changed, Claire. I
knew that, failure or not, you would be the
same.'

Always the same, Allen,' she replied.
There are three people in the world at

least who must be always the same to each
other.'

Always,' he echoed.

While you and Will are fighting your
way, I am waiting for your success.'

Success ! ' he repeated scornfully.

Why, of course, Allen. If not to-day,
then tomorrow. Do not cease to believe in
yourself — and in my father. Do you think
he would have taken so much trouble if he
had not been perfectly certain that you would
succeed ? '

Her words fell upon his thirsty soul like
dew on the dry land.

You always cheer me, Claire. What is
it ? When I am with you I am not anxious or
restless. I don't feel as if I audit to be coins:
something. It is the sound of your voice,
or the look of you — and this dear old room.
Good Heavens ! to think of the evenings we
have spent here ! And listen ! There is the
sound of the wind among the trees of the

VOL. II. M

Forest. Claire, I must come back again and
dream.'

'Come sometimes, Allen. It is good to
dream a little. If it were not for dreams, you
would do nothing.'

It is like the old times. Play me something,
Claire, so that I may feel that the
months have gone backward.'

She sat down and played softly.

'It is the old time,' he went on. ' I have
just come back from the City. Don't you
expect Will to-night ? I have got some new
verses for you. Shall we read Chateaubriand ?
Shall we have a little causerie ? Hark ! I hear
Will's footstep.'

The girl stopped playing and looked round
sharply. Then she blushed, and went on, but
presently stopped again.

Old times are gone, Allen, and never will
come back again. Now tell me, before my
father comes home, exactly what has happened.'


He told his story from the beginning : how

he had experienced nothing but failure and
disappointment ; how he had been taken up by
the queer old fellow at the chop-house ; how he
presently threw out hints of work which might
possibly be offered him, and how Allen had
indulged in the pleasing dream that it would
be good work, such as would help him onwards
; and how the work turned out to be
nothing in the world but the editorship of a
trade Organ — that is to say, the judicious
selection, stealing, cutting out and pasting
together of stories, adventures, jokes, and
paragraphs to fill the columns which were
not occupied l3y the strictly commercial part
of the paper ; and how the Organ was to
represent and defend the best interests 0/
leather.

When Claire fairly understood that Allen's
first step in literature was to edit an Organ of
leather she began to laugh ; the more she
thought of it the more she laughed ; in lier
sentimental way he expected that lie would
sympathise with Inn, and be indignant with

fate. But she laughed, and then he began to
laugh too. And in this mood Hector found
them, and had to be told the whole story over
again.

After all,' said Allen, ' it is something. I
was obliged to tell my mother, who recalled the
fact that at Brimage and Waring's I was drawing
a hundred and fifty, and should have had
two hundred this year, without speaking of the
China business. I left her in tears. She says
she is resigned at last. I Lavish she wasn't.
Resignation is such a hopeless frame of mind.
It seems like a breach of the fifth commandment
to make your mother resigned.'

Do they,' asked Claire anxiously, ' do they
find the paste ? '

I believe so. It would have shown independence
to make it for one's self. And the
scissors also will be office property. And oh !
Claire, I have so much besides to tell you.'

He had indeed ; he had to tell, because he
had been ashamed to write the details in his
letters, the degradation of his visits to publishers,

and how new poetry was a thing regarded
by no man. Tlien he had to talk about
the men he met at his tavern, and how they
talked. It was all new to Claire, and all
delightful; and, lastly, he had to talk about
his friend and adviser-inches, Mr. Lawrence
Ouvry.

'You would like him, Claire, because he is
not like anybody you ever met. He takes
everything for granted. We always thought
it such a splendid tiling to be an artist or a
writer. He talks as if anybody could write if he
pleased. He knows all the great men, and talks
as if they were no greater than the small men.'

Then I should not like him,' said Claire.

Yes, I think you would. But he makes
you feel as if it were all play-acting and he
was taking you behind the scenes. And he
tells stories — little stories, you know — about
the men we have taught ourselves to venerate.
He has been kind to me.'

For that reason, Allen, I will try to like
him,' said Claire.

Thank you, Claire. He lias taught me a
great deal. For instance, I have discovered
that I know next to nothing of the world

Pardon me,' said Hector, ' you know a
great deal of the world. I took care of that.
You know, it is true, nothing of society. But
that is only a very small part of the world.'

Yes,' said Claire, ' we know nothing of
society. How should we ? '

Allen passed on to the next point.

And then he told me what I did not
understand before, how to try a beginning.
The poetry must wait, Claire '

Oh ! Allen.'

Yes ; it must wait for better times. Do
not think that I shall give up writing verse ;
but meantime I must try in a different line.
Publishers and editors are always wanting
what people will read. I must try to find out
what they like best, and write for them.'

Allen, the people must learn to like whatever
you offer them.'

And there is another thing ; no man, he

has taught me. can help a writer beyond the
first introduction. For the rest, he must help
himself. I feel a little humiliated, Claire ; but
I think I am the better for all these lessons.
See in what a fool's paradise I used to live ! '

He was changed by his six or seven months
of this solitary London life.; his cheeks were
thinner and this eyes were sadder — they were
full of his disappointments. And to Claire it
seemed a sad incoming of his lofty aims,
not that he should edit an Organ, but that he
should be prepared to write what people wanted
to read instead of giving nothing but his highest
and his best. ' My daughter,' said Hector, ' you
do not know that it is Necessity, the first Master
of Arts, who draws forth their best from those
who have anything good to give, as well as
their worst from those who have nothing

VII.

Gertrude HOLT.

Engledew,' said Lawrence Ouvry — it was in
his Climbers, and the time was midnight —
I want to take you to a house in Bayswater.'

Who lives in the house ? '

A cousin of mine. Her name is Holt —
Gertrude Holt. She wants to make your
acquaintance. It is not exactly the trumpet of
fame — yet : but she has heard of you.'

Your own doing, in fact.'

Very likely. Perhaps you will say that
you have not any yearning to go to that house.
Wherefore, listen. My cousin is an old lady,
and she has been writing all her life. If you
ever read contemporary literature — which you
don't — you would know her name. She has

written novels, verses, biographies — all kinds
of tliino's.'

' I do know her name,' said Allen. ' But
I have not read her novels. And yet '

Wait a little. She is not much of a cousin,
pretty far removed, in fact. But we belong
to a common stock and we all, somehow, get
our living in the Inky Line. She is a dear old
lady, and lie likes to be called by her Christian
name, which I think is a pretty fancy. There
is a piquancy about calling an old lady by her
Christian name. It is like making love to your
grandmother. When you know her, you shall
call her Gertrude, too.'

Well— but '

Wait a while. She lives at Bayswater
with another cousin who is much younger.
She knows all the literary people, except the
baser sort and the younger sort, and she
receives on Thursday evenings. So, if you go
there with me you will meet the members of
the profession you admire so much, and see
them without their pens in their hands.'

1 should very much like to go,' said Allen.
but '

Hear me out. Gertrude' likes to have
clever people about her, especially young
clever people. These are more difficult to
catch than the old, because young women
want them too. Now a young, with all kinds
of romantic possibilities, is much more interesting
than an old, who has said all he is
going to say. You will find her a charming
old lady : she doesn't run after new fashions,
but has her standards. She knew Wordsworth,
as she will soon tell you. She has an
enormous quantity of beliefs, almost as many as
you have yourself. For instance, she believes
in the greatness, grandeur, and immortality of
literature generally ; and in the glory of the
writing profession ; and in the virtues of her
fellow-creatures ; in the rapid advance of civilisation,
in the perfection of the race, and so
forth. Otherwise, she is quite sensible ; she
doesn't believe in painters who can't draw ; nor
in poets who have got nothing to say ; nor in

novelists who've got no story to tell ; nor in
any beauty except of the old-fashioned kind.
And of such is the kingdom of heaven.'

'It is very good of you,' said Allen,
but '

'I've given you an excellent character,'
Lawrence went on, ' much better than you
deserve, and I've promised to bring you. If
she likes you she will talk about you and give
you the backing up you want to begin with.
It is in your own interest that I want you
to go.'

But you have always been preaching that
no one can help a writer.'

No one can in his writing ; but people
can talk about him when he has begun to
write. Don't you see ? They can force a
man.'

I suppose so, but '

And then, Engledew, it does a man
good to be seen about a little and to have
ladies interested in him. You must i>'o with
me.'

'It seems ridiculous,' said Allen in embarrassment,
' to make objections, but the
fact is, I don't like, as we used to say at
school.'

Why don't you like ? '

Well — because — can't you see ? I have
done nothing yet. I should feel myself a
pretender.'

Why ? You don't pretend to anything.
You are a simple visitor, that is all Only
we have agreed between us that you are clever
and that you are going to get on.'

And — and — and then,' Allen reddened
again, ' I am not even in the position of a
gentleman ; I am nothing at all but the editor
of a Trade Circular.'

Lawrence laughed.

I knew you were working round to that.
My dear fellow, no one will ask how you
earn your daily bread. They will talk' to you ;
if you are seen pretty often at my cousin's
Thursdays, they will remember you ; and when
your first book comes out, they will wonder if

it is the same man they have met, and rush to
read it and tell all the people they know,
outside the literary circle, what a delightful
man you are to talk to, and how handsome
you are, and what great big eyes you've got.
Then the outside people will feel what an
honour and a privilege it is to know j^ou, and
will become green with envying those who have
that privilege.'

There were, in reality two other reasons
why Allen hesitated. He did not advance
these reasons, but he felt them. The first
thing was — the historian himself blushes at
writing down the fact — that he had no dress-clothes.
Think of this, he had come to two-and-twenty
years of age, and he had not even
a dress-coat. Setting aside those who have
been wrecked in a desert island in early
youth, there are really very few who have
never seen any society at all. But this could
be said of Allen. He never had. I use the
word society in its liberal sense, not in that
narrow and idiomatic sense which daily brings

bitterness to so many households. Few,
indeed, are they who can be said to belong to
Society, with the capital letter, But we may
remember that there is social intercourse, if not
society, of a humble kind, even among professional
men, merchants, authors, and so forth.
One hears — so deeply has civilisation permeated
— of dances, music, dinners — they even
take their food together — among these people.
And yet Allen had never once assisted at any
rejoicing, assemblage, or festive gathering of
his fellow-creatures. Nobody rejoiced in the
village. He had never seen dancing except on
the stage. He lead never been in any other
person's house, except the Cottage, which gave
him, outside his books, all the culture and
breeding he possessed. And now that there
came this chance of going into society he
hesitated. Somehow Allen, always reading
about men and women, their doings, and their
attempts and [their ambitions, never thought
about society at all. He was still a lad of
books ; still at the age when bookish yoiuig

men read everything and learn voraciously.
His books were enough for him.

Lawrence's invitation reminded him that
there was a world, an active, talking, gregarious
world, outside his books : the world he
was always reading of: the world of amusement,
recreation, and talk : a world of romance
and fair ladies. And now there was an
opening, and it made him a little nervous.
He saw that he must go ; yet it was a new
thing for him. He knew he should be awkward,
yet it would be foolish indeed to refuse.

You see, Engledew,' said Lawrence carelessly,
'it is just as well to accustom yourself
to the talk and ideas of the people with
whom you are destined to live. Besides, a
man who lives too much by himself loses the
manner of society.'

I've never had any manner to lose,' said
Allen, and he understood that the proposal
was designed by his friend as a part of his
education. He went home that evening with
the uneasy feeling which naturally precedes a

plunge into unknown waters. Besides, it was
humiliating to realise that he knew nothing,
absolutely nothing, of society. How should
he have a 'manner'? And then one ought
to know what they do and say at these
evenings. He had read of French salons,
and he thought (being a very ignorant youth
indeed) that perhaps at Miss Holt's ' At homes '
the men would vie with each other in epigram,
repartee, wit, and anecdote, and the ladies
would encourage the encounter of wits and
smile upon the most successful. As for himself
he perceived that he must stand in the background
and look on. A new-comer would not
be expected to distinguish himself.

I don't promise you a very brilliant evening,'
said Lawrence, 'but perhaps the people
are a little less uninteresting than at some
houses.'

Will you tell me who they are ? It would
be foolish to stand beside a great man and not
know it.'

^ Their names ought to be chalked on their

backs. If there are any great men I will
find them ont. Most of them are the little
great men. They rally round Gertrude inforce.'


Miss Holt lived in one of the few old
houses left of the old suburb of Bayswatering.
It had been a small country residence. There
was a large square hall with two little rooms
on either side ; and the drawing-room, which
had been added on to the original house, was
on the first floor and had a special staircase.
The house stands behind a brick wall with its
back to the road and looks out on a little
garden.

They went upstairs and Allen found himself
in a drawing-room already pretty full of
people, though it was still early ; the walls
were covered with pictures, those at one end
being all portraits ; the furniture, even to
Allen's inexperienced eye, was old-fashioned,
yet not unlovely.

'Wait a moment,' said Lawrence. 'My
cousin is exchanging the usual compliments

VOL. II. K

with one of her old friends. When they have
finished I will introduce you.' Allen saw,
sitting in an arm-chair by the fireside, a lady
with white hair talking with every appearance
of vivacity to a man of her own generation, so
to speak — that is to say, somewhere well on in
the sixties. ' He is an editor,' Lawrence explained
; ' he runs an old-fashioned review.
He comes here every Thursday, and they have
a crack over old times.'

Allen looked with awe upon an editor ; a
man who was able to accept and refuse manuscript
; who could make a man.

Then Lawrence presented him to his
hostess, who received him with a pleasant
smile.

I am very glad to see you here, Mr.
Engledew,' she said, with a little more emphasis
than she would have employed for a
young man not reported to be clever. ' My
cousin Lawrence promised to bring you if you
would come. Young men, nowadays, are not
easily persuaded, except for a dance.'

Her hair was abundant and of the creamy
white ; her grey eyes where clear and bright ;
her face was covered with innumerable wrinkles
and her cheeks worn ; yet it was a beautiful
face still, and must have been beautiful
in every age. She was quite old now, yet her
smile was as sweet, and her eyes as kindly, and
her voice as musical, as when she was a young
girl, and had never Written a single word ; so
sovereign against the bitterness of age and experience
is that old-fashioned medicine called
the Good Heart. ' We will have some talk
presently, Mr. Engledew,' she said. ' Lawrence
has told me about your ambition. You have,
he says, a generous enthusiasm for literature.
To me it is a dreadful thing; to see younir men
taking up literature as a profession with no
more feeling or reverence than if they were
going; into a solicitor's office. Think of Wordsworth
talking of his life's work, as if anybody
could have done it. If ever there was a profession
in which a Vocation was needed '

n2

She stopped and sighed. ' Do not lose your
respect for your work, Mr. Engledew.'

■ ' The least we can do,' said Allen, ' is to
believe in the thing we work for.'

Yes ' — the reply pleased her — ' without
faith, nothing great can be accomplished.'

Then she began to ask him, with a beautiful
sympathy in her voice, about his work and
if he had anything ready, and if he would let
her see some of it — all as if she was quite sure,
beforehand, that he was going to do something
great. And it made Allen feel as if he was
already dressed in silken raiment, and set upon
a cream-white ass with a crown upon his head,
and conducted through the streets of Bagdad
as one whom the Caliph was pleased to honour
a strange and delightful sensation. Yet
Gertrude Holt was not flattering him. She
had lived all her life among those who attempt
and with those who succeed. It was nothing
strange to her that this young man should also
attempt. And Lawrence said he was clever,
and he looked clever*

Then other people came, and Allen had hoi
step aside.

Come,' said Lawrence, ' there is another
cousin I inst introduce you to.' He took
him to the opposite side of the room, where,
beside a piano, stood a young lady, tall and
of graceful figure, talking to the great editor.
Isabel,' said Lawrence, ' let me introduce my
friend, Mr. Engledew.'

The girl turned the sunniest of faces to
Allen, and bowed with a look which betokened
rather more than the usual amount of curiosity
and interest in a new visitor. This, then, she
thought, was the friendless young man ' found '
in a Fleet Street chop-house by Lawrence, just
as a child might be found upon a doorstep.
This was the young man come up to London,
after a spell as a city clerk, will a pocket full
of poems and not a single friend ; the young
man whose enthusiasm her cousin Lawrence
found so wonderful ; the young man whom
they were to receive and to form. Allen observed
the look of curiosity and blushed, but

then lie blushed on very small provocation. It
was a sign of self-consciousness, rawness, inexperience
and vanity. Isabel thought at first
sio'ht that here was a man who looked like a
poet. She knew nearly all of the tribe. There
are only a dozen professional poets in all London
— and only two of them look the part.
For a poet may be grey-headed but he should
not be bald ; he may be short but never fat ;
he may wear a pince-nez but not spectacles ;
he should talk well but not with an obvious
striving after epigram ; he should be sensitive
but not carry his vanity openly on his sleeve
for the days to peck at ; he should not be restless
but should possess his soul in serious tranquillity.
Enfin — Allen did look like a poet,
even more than the two whom Isabel accepted
as equal in appearance to the part. A youth
with high forehead, large and luminous eyes
not hidden by his pince-nez, mobile lips, blushing
cheeks, and tall slender figure, and the
narrow shoulders which seem to belong naturally
to men of books. If appearance means

anything, her cousin Lawrence was right, and
this was a poet.

If appearance means anything, then, Allen
hastily concluded, Miss Isabel Holt must be a
very pleasing young lady. The fashion of
wearing the hair showed her shapely head, and
the fashion of dress showed her shapely figure ;
her hazel eyes were bright and rather ftdl, and
her face was animated and full of expression.
I have heard that there are girls who have the
most astonishingly sweet faces with no corresponding
sweetness of character ; but I have
never yet met any. There are also said to be
girls who have wonderful graces and virtues
without any corresponding sweetness of fiice ;
but I have not met any. And there are perhaps
girls — I do not know, there may be — so
unhappy as to be sweet neither in face nor disposition.
Isabel Holt's face was not classically
beautiful, but a good ftice of the better kind,
full of light and life, sunshine lying in it
always, brightness in her clear eyes, kindness
in her lips, with soft brown hair, and lie was

dressed as some London maidens with good
taste and command of money can dress. She
did not, for instance, dress so well as Claire ;
but yet she dressed with better taste than many
of her acquaintance.

We have heard of you, Mr. Engledew,'
she said, just like the elder lady, ' and we are
very glad you have come to see us. You have
not long been in London, have you ? '

Tell him, Isabel,' said Lawrence, ' who
are here to-night.'

She began to talk about her guests. One
was an art critic of the latest school, and Allen
smiled, thinking of the old old phrases dressed
up with the new new adjectives. There was a
novelist of good repute, and he looked like
none of his characters, which surprised Allen ;
there was another of no repute who wore
double glasses and looked intellectual. There
was a bright-faced young man who had made
some name as a poet, and Allen, listening,
thought that his talk, which was continuous
and clear, and as full of epigram as a fire of

thorns is full of crackles, was better than his
verses, but he didn't say so, because that poet
was as sensitive as an soliman harp ; and
another poet who had made no name outside
the little circle of his own friends, who also
bore himself intellectually. There was a big
man with spectacles who wrote fairy stories,
and a little fat man who wrote the most beautiful
love stories ; and a retired singer, and a
man supposed, like Coll or Tallemant des
Beaux, to be writing malicious Memoirs of the
Nineteenth Century, and a sharp keen-eyed
man from Scotland who was a journalist.

And so on ; nobody in the room who had
not done something. Most of them vv'cre
elderly men and women, but there was a
sprinkling of girls, so that the room was not
without the charm of youth. And Allen observed
the singular and affectionate respect paid
by everybody to Miss Holt, whom they all addressed
by her Christian name. Her chair was
a throne round which little groups continually
formed, melted away, and formed again.

When Isabel left him Allen retired to a
corner and looked on with interest and curiosity.
This, then, was society ; this was such
a gathering of people as he had read of over
and over again, but never understood. And
no straining or effort in the talk ; it was continuous,
ripping, and cheerful talk, but he felt
that it was as yet impossible for him ; they
were talking of books and pictures and poetry,
but all belong to the season, and Allen knew
nothing about them ; nobody, which was remarkable,
tried to show how clever he was.
There was no epigram and no repartee ; they
all talked as if they were quite common people
and as if it did not matter at all what they
said, and as if the man supposed to keep a
diary was not among them taking notes. It
was pleasant to listen, and delightful to watch
from the obscurity of his corner the bright
faces of the girls. But no clever things said
at all !

In these latter days,' said Lawrence, when
Allen afterwards remarked upon this fact, ' we

keep our cleverness — if we have got any — for
our-writings. Among literary people it is
perhaps dangerous to be clever. There was a
clever talker once at the club, and it was wonderful
to notice, until he dried up, how the
same epigrams appeared in the leading articles
of all the journals and reviews. Keep your
good things, Engiedew, to yourself, and make
a note of all the good things that you hear
from other people.'

Allen was introduced to two or tln^ee
people, but they thought him stupid or sly
because he knew nothing ©f the current talk
nor could he respond at all to the usual openings.
And they wondered who this handsome,
return youth might be, and what was his line.
They asked Gertrude, but she only smiled, and
said they might ask her again in six months'
time. It was, then, only another Inky Boy.
But that with Gertrude was to be expected.

Presently Allen thought he saw an opportunity,
and ventured to join a new group
forming round Miss Holt. She smiled and

pointed to a place beside lier chair where ho
could stand. She was talking about a certain
diary which had just been published.

We ought not,' she said, ' to allow the
weaknesses of our great writers to be published.
It is shameful ; of course they have
weaknesses ; they are men, and they grow old
and suffer. Why should we proclaim to the
world that a man, whose words have moved
the whole English-speaking race, was sometimes
peevish and ill-natured ? My dears,' she was
surrounded by the younger people, ' the greatness
of a man is i^i the work of his life, not
in his home circle. We cannot, thank heaven,
lessen that greatness by finding out that he was
not always unselfish. The work remains, and
we ought not to expect great men to be always
saying remarkable things. I knew Wordsworth
very well, but I never heard him say one single
remarkable thing. Yet he must always be tome
the greatest and grandest figure, because he
has moved my heart so deeply and taught me
so much.'

But, Gertrude said one of the girls, ' you
would destroy all the Memoirs.'

They are very impertinent things, my dear,
and are only written to make great men small,
if they can. What I want is that we should
keep the great achievements always before one's
mind and forget the littleness. Dear me ! when
one reads how one great writer was too fojid
of port and another of tobacco, and another
of opium, and another was horribly vain, and
another found fault with his friends, what does
it amount to ? It is, to be sure, dreadful to
think that after saying the most beautiful things
and putting the most beautiful thoughts into our
heads, the poor dear poet should lock himself
up and drink gin-ands water, but think of the
thousands who drink the gin and do not write
the poetry.'

You would have us believe in everybody,
dear Gertrude,' said another of the group, ' even
if he proved contemptible in daily life.'

Why, my dear, all the more in that case.
Because he has fought against his lower nature

SO as to trample it down if only for the time,
and to become noble and great in his thoughts.
But perhaps some men are two men, one of
them great and the other mean. We need
care nothing about the second man, but only
concern ourselves with the first.'

Allen took no part in the talk, but he listened.

Mr. Engledew agrees with me,' said Miss
Holt, looking up at him. He did, he showed
it in his eyes ; but this sudden appeal to him
confused him, and he could only stammer a
few words.

Tlicn a young lady sang a song to Isabel's
accompaniment. It was a German song, full
of emotion and yearning. Allen thought he
would get it for Claire, whose voice was fresher
and stronger than this girl's, and yet, he could
perceive, not half so well trained. And then
they all began to ask Isabel to recite something.
She stood up before them all, and joining her
hands recited Browning's splendid poem of
'Here Eel.' Allen had never before heard
a fine poem recited by a girl. It was wonderful.

His pulse beat, and his cheek glowed.
Isabel had a strong voice, full and musical ;
she possessed a fine instinct for acting ; she had
trained her voice, and cultivated her genius ;
her gestures, her face, the expression in her
eyes, her intonations fitted the words ; they
did more, they interpreted the words. This is
the true power of the actor — to put into the
lifeless words the very soul of the poet, the
very inspiration itself. When Isabel finished
she looked, perhaps by accident, at the strange
guest, who stood beside Gertrude's chair with
flashing eyes and parted lips. Steer before had
she felt so strongly her own power. Do not
laugh at Allen because he was carried out of
himself by a recitation in a drawing-room.
Remember that the piece was ' Here Eel,'
and the artist was — Isabel.

The rest of the evening seemed flat ; presently
the people began to go away, till there
were only left Lawrence and Allen.

You will come again, Mr. Engiedew ? ' said
his hostess. ' I am sure you will like my

Thursdays when you know my friends, and
Isabel, and me. But I want to talk to you
alone. Will you come in the afternoon and
take a cup of tea with us ? We are generally
alone then, and I have such a great deal to
say to you — only the advice of an old woman.
But then, you know, old women are always
wonderful for wisdom. That is why they used
to burn us — jealousy and envy, my dear.'

To go to that house,' said Lawrence, ' and
to talk with that old lady is like going back
forty years— yes, exactly forty years. Think
of it ! Forty years ago all the women — except
Harriet Martineau — were religious, and all the
unmarried ones were submissive.'

Are they not religious still ? '

Engledew,' said Lawrence, stopping short,
you really must not ask such questions. You
have spent your whole life, I believe, in a convent
among nuns. I shall have to take you to
another kind of evening — a Sunday evening with
an Advanced set, who will show you how much
religion is left for some of them. Let me go on



they were submissive ; and they were meek ;
they believed tremendously in the bishop, and
largely in the curate ; they thought the majority
of men were virtuous, courageous, disinterested,
and that they practised all the rest of the now
exploded virtues ; they were brought up in the
old maxim founded on Oriental custom, that
a good woman should not be talked about, but
that she should be known only as the Mother
of the Gracchus ; that a woman must not speak
in public, but sit in the assembly with her veil
drawn closely, hidden from everybody but her
husband ; that for a woman to publish can
only be excused on the ground of great and
singular gifts. Gertrude was brought up in
these beliefs, and she holds them still.'

At all events, they have made her very
charming.'

And Isabel ? '

She also,' said Allen, hesitating, ' if I may
say so, is also charming.'

I think she is,' Lawrence said critically.
Some day, I suppose, I shall marry Isabel.

VOL. II.

She is a pupil of Gertrude's ; she can't write,
but she can worship, and she can act. Lie's
a quiet girl, but she has lier gifts. You will
go there again .^ '

^ r shall go,' said Allen with decision, * as
often as I am asked.'

CHAPTEE VIII.

AT SHANGHAI.

To the stayer at home the lot of the young man
who goes out to the colonies or to foreign parts
appears exciting and adventurous. The very
name of the Rocky Mountains, or California,
or China, or New Zealand, or Australia suggests
adventure, peril, and continual calls for courage,
coolness, presence of mind, bravery, and endurance.
As a matter of fact there are more
adventures, more perils, and more excitements
in a year of London, to those who use their
London aright, than in any average ten years
of any average colony. What could be anywhere
more romantic than the prospect opening
out before Olynthus who stayed where the money
is ? What more picturesque than the promise

oof

starvation which greeted Allen ? What more
dull than the daily life of Will in far Shanghai ?
Will wrote to Claire every month ; he had
little to tell about himself after the first impressions
; his letters were like his talk — practical,
self-reliant, and strong. Allen consulted her,
sought sympathy, and wanted encouragement.
Will, on the other hand, wTut his own way,
understanding what he meant to do. He asked
no sympathy, but rather offered his own. Allen
talked perpetually about himself. Will, of other
people — of Claire, of her whither — hardly ever of
himself. Claire read his letters, as she talked
with Allen, with a strange and absorbing interest.
She was watching the development of
tvv^o characters Which, as she now saw, were
widely different. Both of them had said that
they loved her. She knew that some day she
would hear that said again ; her cheek glowed
when she thought of it ; but of her own answer
she would not think. She loved them both, if
not both in the same way — then — but it would
be foolish yet to think there was any difference.

At present, at least, they were as lier
brothers.

Poets and the writers of sweet love tales
have all made a great mistake in treating, I
think, the emotion and passion called love as
if it was exactly the same in the heart of a girl
as in the heart of her lover. I am sure that
it is not the same. The fierce and passionate
longing that tears the masculine bosom is not
known to the maid : the young man frills in
love — one does not mean the young man who
waits until he can afford the luxury of love,
and then casts a critical eye around when the
people are standing up to sing, but the child
of nature — Loins communis amatory — because
he cannot help it ; then he is seized with a
great ardour of yearning, quite regardless of
his chances of success. Such yearning it was,
such ardour, which the exiled Will had to
endure in silence, and not even to let a glimpse
of it be shown in his letters. But a girl does
not so fall in love ; she gives her heart to whom
she chooses, but she gives it when she pleases.

This, my clears, is a difference indeed. And
those who would confute this opinion must
be fair ladies experienced in the emotions
produced by courting and billing, cooing and
wooing, not young maidens who derive their
ideas of love from the novels of men, and of
women who imitate men ; of poets, and of
women who imitate poets.

Allen brought her his poems — not love
verses ; Will sent her presents. So, each in
his own way, they showed that she was in their
minds. I do not know whether she liked best
to have Allen's verses or Will's presents. It
was delightful to see Allen's touch grow firmer,
his command of language stronger, and his verse
shake off by degrees the shackles of imitation.
It was pleasant to open the little parcels wrapped
up so carefully ; to wonder what was inside ;
to find a packet of tea, fragrant, wonderful,
such as Cometh not to the English market, but
is all reserved for the table of the luxurious
Muscovite or the Sybarite of Siberia ; the
scented boxes in wood cunningly carved and

wrought ; dainty useless wonders in ivory ; or
the roll of delicate web-like silk. Better than
the presents were the letters, which brought
back to her the strong voice, the brave face, and
the courageous bearing of the lad who wanted
neither counsel, nor help, nor sympathy His
letters were her own, but she read them aloud
to her father, and then sent them to Allen ;
and she treasured them up carefully with
Allen's poems.

One of the first things,' Will wrote, ' that
are unexpected after so many strange things
which one has read about is, that the life of the
English residents seems in parenthesis. Into
one seems to be living his own life, but something
else — something temporary ; as if we were
all expecting to go home again in the course of
the afternoon or the next day, and therefore it
does not much matter what we do just for the
few hours which remain ; or as if we were
convicts doing our time ; or as if we were
political exiles, who might be recalled at any
moment ; or as if we were in some way birds

of passage. Many of us, in fact, are, and have
lived in all kinds of places. The next thing
that is strange to such an untravelled man as
myself is the meeting with men who have been
all about the world and had all kinds of experiences.
Yesterday I dined with a man who
knows all the islands in the Pacific, or nearly
all. There was with us another man who knew
the Andes, and another who had gone all across
Siberia. If one could only meet these men at
home ! " But at home," as one of my newly
made friends said, " we should be clerks in the
City, or junior partners at best ; we should live
in a suburb, and never see anybody interesting
at all." That is very true, and I am sure it is
a splendid thing for a man to come abroad fora
while ; yet not for too long, or his life will be
spoiled. I saw the same man the other day
looking at the cemetery. There were tears in
his eyes. "I was thinking," he said, " of the
poor beggars who die out here." " It is not
the being buried in a cemetery in China, but the
spending all your days out of England." That

is the point. One may have to spend all one's
days here. In our House, however, they have
always recalled a man after good service, and
provided for him at home. Claire, do you
remember — but, of course, you do — how we
used to go and look at the little old graveyard,
so deserted and forgotten, on the road to
Abridge? Allen wrote a poem on it, and the
old tombs, their epitaphs illegible, and the long-forgotten
dead. It is strange, but whenever I
see the cemetery here I think of that fair-ofF
lonely graveyard.

Nobody knovrs here what I mean when I
say that I come from Hainault Forest. Xo one
has ever heard of it. They think it is somewhere
in Flanders, and the more learned amorous
connect me with Edward HI. and the Black
Prince and Froissart. It seems odd to belongs
a place so little known. I have never 3'et
come across anybody here who knows the East
End of London at all. When I tell them that
Hainault Forest is at the East End they cry,

Oh, part of Whitechapel ! " And I hear that
my father, instead of being one of a body of
most illustrious bankrupts, is supposed to be
something small in the retail way in the
Whitechapel Eoad.

The people are pleasant. There are a
great number of dinners and dances. I have
learned to waltz ; and there are some pleasant
and lively girls to dance and to talk with. Oh,
Claire, to think that we never waltzed together !
We ought to have taught ourselves ; you should
have danced with Allen while I whistled a tune
for you. We would have pushed the table iu
the corner to make room. A pretty couple
you would have been. And then Allen should
have whistled— no, he should have played on
his lyre while you and I danced. I should
like to have seen Apollo twanging away like
anything while the Muses spun round. It was
a most unfortunate omission in our otherwise
careful education. I am not, you see, pining
for home, though I should like, above and beyond
all things, to live in England and to be near

you again — if the old times could return, which
they never quite do. Otherwise I am perfectly
happy here. I have seen a great quantity of
most interesting things ; many more than ever ,
I looked to see. I am living among; a most
remarkable people, whose ways are not our \
ways. I have learned the manners and customs
of people who have not been drought up in a
village of paupers. Besides dancing, I have
learned to ride, to talk without arguing, to
smoke cigarettes, and to play whist, which is an
immense resource in itself. There are plenty
of books and magazines — a great many more
than I ever had access to before — to read. As
for adventures, there are none as yet ; as for
work, it is as monotonous here as in England.
I dreamed when I came out of doings something'
considerable in the way of a* couj)^ in order to
show them at home what a good man of business
I am, but the routine is almost as unbroken
as at home. I am like a kniu-'ht who
put on all Diis armour and went out in search
of adventures and found none. I midst as

well have looked for them in the Chigwell
Eoad.

I am looking, tell Allen, for his first production.
Tell him he must not hurry it, but
keep up his courage, even if he has to wait for
recognition. I am sure that whatever he does
will be well done and good work, and that he
will become great, as he deserves. Do you
remember how he used to spout poetry and go
mad about Keats? It was a strangely wise
thing of your father to send him about among
the streets and people of London. What things
he learned ! I think of him when I go about
in the native quarter here and watch the people.
They are not in the least like the people among
whom we used to walk and whom we used to
study ; 5-et they remind me of the East End,
somehow. I suppose it is because their lot is
so hard and there are so many of them, and
they are so obscure. I am obscure myself;
but I feel myself possessed of a strong individuality,
which these people cannot have, or

else they would cease to be what they are.
Among so many millions one is like an ant on
an ant-hill I have never forgotten the tidings
we saw, nor your father's teaching. I have
begun to understand what he meant ; the history
of the world is the history of mankind
looking for a king ; they have always desired
to be taught. Tliey have always wanted a
Leader, and they never get one. Or perhaps
they have already had the only Leader they
are going to get. and they won't heed what he
has said. I suppose I have got touched by
what your father calls the sense of Humanity.
He said that if anyone once seized the idea of
Humanity, he would never lose it a^'ain as
long as he lived. I am always thinking of the
things I have seen, and the way wrong could
be set right. I do not see that way yet.
Probably I never shall. But if I, who am not
clever, was so affected, how much more Allen,
with his power of expression and his noble
heart ? Perhaps he will, really, some day
become a great Leader. Do you think he

knows at all low much we think of him and
hope from him ? You must try to let him feel
it. He wants encouragement and sympathy.
But you always gave him both.

• • < • •

It seems to me that one reads a great deal
more here than at home. Certainly at home
one had not access to all the journals and
magazines which one has here. It is astonishing
to consider the immense variety of subjects
which are every month discussed, and wonderful
that we never saw any of their discussion.
A good many of the papers, however, are only
talk, and amount to nothing. Then I have
been reading — all my letters are about myself
books on political economy. They don't,
somehow, seem to have much to do with the
people. Theories and humanity have yet to be
reconciled ; besides, the writers think only of
markets. Some day there will be a new science
of political and social economy, in which supply
and demand will be cut out altogether, and be

replaced by — something not at present known
to the scientific.

• • < • •

And to think, Ckiire, that you are actually
rich ! It is like a beautiful dream. Your
father will leave off teaching, which he never
liked. What will he do now ? Will he read
a great deal, or will he spend all his time in the
garden, or will he constantly invent and say
wise things? Allen told me the great and
good news, and I have been picturing to myself
ever since the change it will make in your
lives. As for you, it is delightful to think that
you will no longer have to go backwards and
forwards to school, and no longer spend your
evenings over French exercises. You will be
able to buy things now—music and books and
everything. Will you leave the cottage ? How
stupid one is ! As if you would not, wherever
you go, carry the cottage with you. When I
come home I shall find you in a great house,
perhaps ; but the cottage will be there just the
same. Because I cannot believe there will ever

be any change in you or your father, except
that he will become wiser every day, and that
you will become every day — more and more
the Claire of our faith. But, indeed, that you
always were.

Allen ought to be here, if only to see what
men can be, if there are too many of them, and
if there is no one to look after them. The
swarming multitudes, their desperate fight for
life, their hopelessness, the absence of religion,
morals, knowledge, or ambition ; the daily uncertainty
of food would move Allen to burning
words. As for the poorest English, they know
that there is a better life possible. That seems
the very first thing ; — a glimpse of a possible
better life. Sometimes I think that the Chinese
are a type of the world of the future, when
everything will have been tried, and tried in
vain, and there will be a few rich — who hows
and make themselves happy — and an immense
mmiber of poor who are kept at starvation
point, because there is neither work, nor food,
nor money to go round.'

In this strain — for the extracts are taken
from many letters — Will wrote. He forced
himself to say no single word which Claire
might not show her father or Allen ; if he was
allowed to write to her it was on the understanding
that there was to be no love message
sent across the seas ; he was to talk as they
always had talked, those three. Claire would
like to hear about himself ; he would like to
write to her ; he would not speak or think
about his old friend as if he was a rival. And
yet he would have liked to write between
every hne and between every word, ' my love
my dear — my love.' And yet always he
remembered that after three years there was
to be another question put and another answer
received.

In these letters he returned again and again
to the things which occupied his mind ; not
for him, as to Allen, did figures emerge from
the crowd, and by their action and speech
typify the condition of the poor. He saw
only the crowds, a confused, inarticulate, badly

VOL. II. p

grouped multitude ; he would never be a poet
for them ; but he might yet do something for
them. He was grown by this time a rather
grave young man, who sometimes said things
which struck the ear and irritated people accustomed
to think in a groove ; read a great
deal ; was keen and steady in business ; led a
simple and blameless life ; was no recluse or
ascetic, yet seemed to know nothing at all
about society at home ; who enjoyed all the
amusements of the place, yet never got talked
about, as happens to most, in connection with
the name of any young lady ; and who came
from the East End of London, from some solace
perhaps a part of Whitechapel — called the
Forest of Hainault.

There is a thing concerning colonial life
which is little comprehended. It is that ideas
change slowly out there. The things which
change ideas are the new discoveries, the new
theories, the new men which are continually
turning up at home. They are talked about
in magazines, so that people abroad may read

them, but that is not the same thing — the cold
page does not give one the ' touch ' of the time.
We who stay at home are borne along, whether
we like it or no, by the current ; we change
our thoughts, our faiths, our standpoint, with
the change that goes on around us. What is
wild Radicalism one day is mild Liberalism the
next. But in the colonies it is not so. One
takes out a stock of ideas and comes home
again with them practically the same, and it is
not till returning home again that one finds how
great is the gulf which a few years have made.
Which things are an allegory, and mean
that, while Will remained the same, Allen was
changing. Xo one but Claire knew that the
Allen who went to London burning for a poetic
fame and full of the old boyish, simple enthusiasms,
was changed already and would
change more day by day, while Will remained
changed. As for her other's dream concerning
Allen, Claire had no kind of belief in
it. Leaders of the pGO})le, she was certain,
are made of sterner stuff.
r2

CHAPTER IX.

A CUP OF TEA.

Allen waited for three days before he presented
himself for that cup of tea. He found
the ladies in their study — one of two small
rooms which opened on each side of the hall.
By daylight he saw what a curious little house
it was — a little two-storied place, with a room
on each side of the door, and, upstairs, a
drawing-room built as a kind of annexe. The
house stood back from the road, and there was
a glass-covered passage. The walls within the
two rooms and the hall and the staircase, and
the bedrooms as well, if he had inquired into
the fact, were covered with books. Gertrude
lived always in a library. This afternoon she
was sitting in a low, deep, leather chair, a

reading-lamp on a small table beside her, and
a book in her lap. The curtains were drawn
though it was yet hardly twilight. Isabel was
writing letters at a study table fitted withdrawers.
Two or three flowers were in a vase.
There was a small pianoforte in the room, and
no other furniture.

Now you are come, Mr. Engledew,' said
Gertrude with a kindly smile, ' we will have a
cup of tea.'

She rang the bell, and they had that cup of
tea, and talked of things indifferent — how the
house was once a small farm-house in the days
when Melbourne Park was Melbourne Green,
and St. Petersburg Place was Green Lane,
and folk came out from London for curds and
whey ; and how Gertrude bought it cheap
because it was haunted, but the dear tenderhearted
ghost never once came near her, and
so on. And presently she said, 'Isabel, my
dear, play something while I talk to Mr.
Engledew and ask his confidence. I know,'
she added, ' that it is a very great thing to ask.'

It is a very kind thing to ask it,' said
Allen.

Lawrence thinks very highly of you.
Now, it is not as if Lawrence was an imaginative
person. He is a hard man of science.
He differs in that respect from the rest of his
family, who all had imagination. He says you
are clever. I like — oh, so very much ! — to
know young clever men. They are full of
possibilities. One can dream all kinds of things
about them. And, my dear, I have quantities
of experience.'

Allen thanked her again. It was very
pleasant to sit within this room and be called
clever, and to have so kind a lady taking an
interest in one, and Isabel was playing. Now
at all times music produced a strange effect
upon Allen. When he was angry and disappointed
and despondent, the playing of Claire
soothed and cheered him. That of Isabel
seemed to stimulate him. It fled him with
courage. When he came to know it better, it
filled him with thoughts.

When I wish to talk or to think seriously,'
said Gertrude, 'Isabel plays to me. Good
music brings fretfulness — you young men must
learn the need of rest — and it brings ideas.
More, it seems to give one wisdom. George
Eliot understood that so well. My dear, hear
a great deal of music — hear it, if you can,
every day. It is better, even, for the images
nation than the noblest verse, because it gives
wings to thought, and sets the fancy free, and
opens the doors of the unreal world.'

While the elder lady spoke the girl played
on, not mechanically, but with some strange,
subtle sympathy, as if she were listening and
setting music to the words of the speaker or
the thoughts of the listener.

I fear that few would read — if I were to
write it down — the homily which this veteran
auditor pronounced for the instruction and
warning of the young man before her.

She spoke of the beauty and glory of
literature and of its responsibilities ; and how
a man should not dare to put forth hasty

utterance or give anything to the world but
his noblest and his best. This is old-fashioned
stuff indeed. And she reminded him that a
man's work should be full of confidence, cheerfulness,
and laughter, with courage, invention,
and hope, while a woman's, necessarily struck
in a lower key, should be filled with consolation,
sympathy, faith, and resignation. Then
she became more old-fashioned still, and bade
Allen remember that everyone dio writes is a
teacher, that he teaches best who knows most,
and that there is a special kind of wisdom,
very useful to the world at all times, possessed
by the man who leads the better life.

Allen listened, sitting opposite to her, without
a word. He was strangely moved. The
music rippled like the soft murmur of a brook
wdnle this gentle preacher admonished him.
When Miss Holt finished what she had to say,
he bowed his head and kissed her hand, and
she saw by the light of the fire that his eyes
vere humid.

Then she began to ask Allen about himself,

and he presently found himself telling his
whole story — how he lead come to London
ignorantly thinking that in his portfolio he
carried fortune and fine ; how he speedily
became aware that his verses would certainly
not bring him fortune because no one would
buy them ; nor fame because no one would
publish them ; how, after hawking them round
among the publishers, he fell into a kind of
despair and began to think that he must return
home humbly, like a prodigal, and confess to
his mother that lie had sinned the sin of presumption,
and that he was, indeed, ht for
nothings but to be and to remain a clerk in the
City, whither he would betake himself once
more with saddened heart and gloomy prospects
; how at this juncture he had the good
fortune to make the acquaintance of her cousin
Lawrence, who found out about his ambitions
and cheered him and gave him good advice ;
and how, when his last sovereign was distinctly
visible, there came to him literary employment
of the humblest kind ; and how, in spite of

these discouragements, he kept on working
every clay at his verses, such as they were.

And all the time the music went on, and
helped to draw his story from him.

Oh,' said Gertrude, ' it is one more of the
beautiful stories. There should be an allegory
made — I will make it — of a princess, living ina
splendid palace on a mountain, offering such
rewards as pass understanding to such brave
and generous souls who will win their way
to her over deep ravines and up steep and
dangerous rocks. Tell me more, Mr. Eno^ledew.'

I have no more to tell. I am still at the
bottom of that hill. The rocks are so steep
that I cannot even begin to climb. But yet,'
he added softly, ' yet I dare to hope.'

Will you bring me your verses and read
them to me ? '

Allen shook his head. He had already, he
said, read his early verses to Claire, and the
result was too wretched.

Who is Claire ? ' asked Gertrude.

Isabel played her softest while Allen,

blushing in the firelight, began to explain
who was Claire. He told how there were
three schoolboys living near a great forest,
and one schoolgirl. How they all tlu'ce were
jn love with that girl ; how the girl's hither,
who was a French teacher, took two of the
boys, taught them first French — perfectly, so
that they became as bilingual as any Russian
and then all kinds of things which they read
with him in books ; and how he sent those
two boys, when they grew older, to walk the
streets of London and watch men and women
and their ways ; and how he went with them
to picture-galleries and theatres and museums,
and taught them the meaning of art ; how,
when one began timidly to write, the Frenchman
gave him instruction in form and style ;
and how, enjoins through this Frenchman and
his daughter, the two boys were lifted above
the level of their companions and became filled
with thoughts and vague ambition.

It is truly wonderful,' said Gertrude.

Then Allen told how the three boys, arrived

at the age of twenty-one, proposed to Claire,
all in the same day, and how they were bidden
to wait for three years more.

And the other boys ? ' asked Gertrude.
Does Will, too, write poetry P '

No, Will is practical. He has gone to
China for his firm. He is the best fellow
that ever lived,' said Allen, ' and the handsomest.
Of course, I have not a chance beside
Will.'

Then he must, indeed, be a good fellow.
And the third ? '

Allen laughed.

Olynthus — wee always called him Tommy
• — is a partner in the City, and he does not care
much about books. I don't think either Will
or I am much afraid of his rivalry. But he
will be much better off than either of us.'

I think,' said Gertrude, ' that this is a
most beautiful story. I am in love with your
Frenchman and his daughter, who has such
a pretty name. And she is sympathetic ? '

She is full of sympathy. I write to her —

SO does Will, because we must not take disadvantage
one over the other. And I tell her
everything. I shall tell her of your kindness
to me, if I may.'

Of course you may, if you wish. My
dear, I hope your verses are as good as your
history. Then, indeed, you shall succeed.
We looked for a poet, and we have found a
lover as well. We women always take such
an interest in a love story. And particularly
we poor old women who have had no love
story of our own.'

Everybody loves you,' said Allen simply.
Yet he blushed, as usual.

When I was a girl I suppose I was always
splashed with ink, which kept lovers off.
Never mind, I have written lots of love stories
and heard lots told. I have had my fill
share of love that way. I am so much obliged
to you, Mr. Engledew, for telling me yours.
There was a most lovely and beautiful shepherdess,
and three swains loved her, and she
sent them away to make their fortunes. One

went to Tom Tiller's ground to try and pickup
the gold ; and one went to the Island of
Sweet Fancies, where the brooks are running
ink, and the meadows white parchment, and
the reeds are quill pens ; and one went to a
far-ofr country. And the shepherdess sat down
to wait.'

Allen laughed.

We will not talk about it,' she went on,
not even among ourselves.' She spoke as
if they were already the oldest and most intimate
friends. ' Do you think the boys will all
love her for three years ? '

Of course they will,' said Allen. ' Why
who could help -'

He stopped, but Gertrude finished his sentence
for him — ' Help loving her ? No one,
my dear, I am sure. And now that I know
all about you I shall take much n.iore interest
in your work.'

My work ! But you forget I have done
no work.'

You have your verses. Now, if you will

not read them to me yourself, ^vill 3-011 let
Isabel read them to me ? She reads very
well. And patience ; work your hardest.
Don't forget to hear music ; give your best ' —
Isabel played a louder, bolder piece — ' your
best and highest, and you will succeed. You
will become one of our teachers ; your words
will sink into men's hearts. What better, my
dear, can a man desire ? What better has the
world to give .^ ' Lie gave hnu her hand
again, and Awhile he held it Isabel burst into
a triumphal march.

Happy boy ! ' said Gertrude. ' You have
forty years of work before you. What cannot
be done — in forty years ? '

We do not know, dear,' said Isabel
thoughtfully, when Allen was gone, ' that lie
will get on. Arc you not making him too
confident ? '

'My child, I do know, I cannot mistake
the symptoms. But we shall sec. It is a
pretty story, this half-French girl. I hope

lie is a good girl and worthy of so much
love. And of her three lovers, I wonder which
she will take.'

I suppose,' said Isabel, ' that there cannot
be a doubt. If Mr. Engledew succeeds, she
must i^^Q\\im. Who would hesitate between
a mere City man and a poet ? '

My dear,' Gertrude replied, ' all girls
would like a man of distinction ; but when it
comes to money — well, we shall see.'

In the school to which Isabel belonged,
distinction was the only thing worth having.
Most of their friends had distinguished themselves
— more or less ; all of them had tried
to distinguish themselves. To be sure the
number of men and women nowadays who do
consider themselves distinguished is surprising.


I like him very much, Gertrude,' Isabel
went on. 'I like his eagerness and his mixture
of modesty and confidence. I think he
is real. I wonder what she is like — this girl
he loves.'

'My dear,' said Gertrude, 'a poet always
loves beneath himself. Sto doubt a commonplace
girl whom this poor boy has endowed, in
imagination, with all the virtues. He Avill
find out after he has married. Do you think
Beatrice was faultless, or even Laura? And
think of Prior and his Chloe, and Johnson and
his old wife, and '

'It is a pity,' said Isabel ; ' we could have
found him a mistress who would have appreciated
his soul.'

Both ladies sighed. They would have
enjoyed, above all things, the spiritual direction
of such a soul in matters of love. And
what a mess they would have made of it ! It
is a part of the curiousness that neither of
them reflected that one of the two was young
and pretty and with gifts of her own ; and
that love seemed to both a thing; outside themselves.


Allen made haste to select from his verses
those which he thought the best. He made

o

them up into a packet and sent them off by

VOL. II. Q

post. He took them from the beautifully
written copy which had gone the round of all
the publishers, but they were still free from
stain or soil or dog's ear, because nobody had
taken the trouble to read them. On the next
Thursday he expected that Gertrude would
make some mention of them, but neither of the
ladies said anything about them at all. On
the Thursday following he went early, and
was, in fact, among the first arrivals. And
then he learned, to his great joy and confusion,
that a surprise had been arranged for him.
The evening was, in fact, to be consecrated,
as the French say, to his poems. People were
specially invited to hear some of them.

We have read them all,' Gertrude whispered.
' I will not flatter you ; some are
very bad, and some are weak, and some are
copies ; but they have the true ring. You
must never give up writing poetry, though
you may write other things. Some day
perhaps you will get your reward, and write
a thing which shall never be forgotten. And

now that I have your confidence and that
we are friends, you must call me by my
Christian name. All my life I have been
called Gertrude by everybody whom I love.
Courage, my dear ; your verses are sure to
please.'

The highest, noblest, purest, most complete,
most satisfying, most enduring, and
most intellectual joy attainable in this world
is certainly to see your own piece on the
stage, beautifully acted, beautifully mounted,
compelling tears and laughter. Then you
may look round and proudly says with a
tear of grateful joy, ' 7/>.S'^ feci! But this
is a joy that is vouchsafed to few. Some of
us get goosed.

The next highest, noblest, purest, most
satisfying, and most intellectual happiness is
that derived from hearing your own poems
read or recited with feeling and truth of expression.
This also happens to few of us,
most people selfishly preferring to read and
recite their own poems.

a2

But this joy was actually experienced by
Allen. The two ladies had invited for the
reading all those of their friends most likely
to appreciate the reading, together with those
who would be likely to talk about it. For to
raise public opinion about a new poet is to give
him a kind of fame in advance.

They made choice of three pieces which
Isabel undertook to recite. This young lady
had developed none of the literary gifts which
belonged to nearly all her people ; she wrote
nothing at all, but to make up, she was gifted,
as has been already stated, with a natural
talent for acting. Her face was capable of
almost any expression ; she coidd assume a
character and look like it ; her voice was full,
her figure was good. And, above all, she was
not afraid. None of the people among whom
she had been brought up were ever afraid ;
they were ready at all times, and before any
audience, to act, to recite, to sing, to speak, to
write, to paint, — anything that they could do.
There is, in fact, growing up among us, a class

who belong to the piibHc as much as do professional
actors, jugglers, circus people, and
saltimbanques. With them the question is not
if anything is to be attempted, but what is being
done.

The first of the three pieces was a quiet
poem, a musing in the Forest, inspired by
Wordsworth — the communing of the soul
with herself Somebody played a prelude, and
Isabel stood up with folded hands and fixed
eyes, rapt in meditation. She stood before
them all silent for a moment. Then, slowly,
calmly, she spoke the first lines. As she spoke
them, as she went on with them, Allen's heart
fell within him. They were his lines ; but the
thought, the soul of them seemed put into
them, not by him at all, but by the girl who
spoke them. Yet she altered in them nothing.
There was a little murmur of applause adieu
she finished, but few of the faces among the
rows of listeners lit up with any response. Sofar
he had failed, and he felt it. Then the
musician played again. Isabel stood up, and

told tins time a little love story. It was the
merest thread and indication of a story. She
filled it np and pnt life into it by lier eyes, her
voice, her features. This time the people applauded
in earnest, and all their faces were lit
up. Love, you see, is a common emotion, but
meditation attracts comparatively few. Once
more the music played, and then Isabel stood
up to declaim the third piece. Allen knew it
to be the strongest and best among the manuscripts.
Whatever the faults of the composition
the situation was strong and tragic. It
was so strong that it held the audience from
the beginning. And when it was finished,

DO '

Gertrude, beside whom AUeu had been standing,
pressed his hand, saying aloud, ' We all
thank you ; ' and Isabel brought him the manuscript
and gave it him, with the thanks of the
congregation, and all the people shouted ; that
is to say, they murmured, ' Oh ! ah ! yes !' and
Indeed.' And one old lady who was stone
deaf and had been brought by mistake, laughed
long and loud, and said it was capital indeed.

and that the last lines were quite irresistibly
funny, and then all the rest laughed too, and
Allen-wished that old lady at the bottom of the
Need Sea. But it was a great and triumphant
success, and it was not until the next morning
that Allen remembered that the applause of a
drawing-room is not exactly the same thing as
the acceptance of a publisher.

There was more playing and singing after
this, but this part of the entertainment seemed
flat to Allen after the music of his own words.
He found an opportunity of thanking Isabel
for the beautiful way in which she recited his
verses.

Do you wish,' she asked, ' that Claire had
been here ? '

Then he was introduced to some of the
people, and they paid him compliments ; and
one man beizsfed to introduce himself, and

Co '

said that he was the editor of a maizazinc,
and that he should very much like to sec a
copy of the third piece which had been recited,
because he thoup^'ht that if Allen would

give his consent, he could see his way to
iisnig it.

This seemed a delightful and practical outcome
of the evening, and Allen very readily
and even joyfully hastened to give the required
consent, and promised to send a copy of the
verses the very next day. Something would,
no doubt, have come of this invitation but for
an unlucky accident. The editor was a very,
very busy man ; he edited a magazine, wrote
novels, read for a publisher, played whist for
three hours every day, insisted on going to bed
at ten, and sometimes, though he would rather
have stayed at home, went out to dinner.
When he hcaixl the verses read he rubbed his
hands and nodded this head, because he thought
he had caught a New Man, which is a rare fish
after which all editors are continually hunting
and fishing and asking for ; first, because the
New Man, if he is unlike all previous New Men,
runs up a magazine ; and next, because a New
Man, although he is so rare a fish and so valuable,
is, oddly enough the cheapest fish in the

market. There are several kinds of New Men,
and one kind is not always so valuable as
another. For example, a new poet is not so
good as a new novelist ; but he is something.

Xow when the editor who made this proposal
received the verses, which was the very
next morning, he began by running his eye
hastily over them, and he saw that they would
do. He then laid them on the table before
him and went on with a manuscript novel
which he had to read. The novel was offered
to the magazine by a young lady ; she stated
in a very pathetic letter which accompanied
it, that she had never tried a novel before —
indeed, the reader very soon discovered that
she was entirely ignorant of construction, character,
or plot. But she was, she said, with
her family, in the deepest distress for want of
money, and she thought to make a little, as a
good many other people do, by writing a story,
Therefore she sat down and wrote away as
hard as ever she could pelt, thinking that anybody
coiik] write a story, and whgu it was

finished she sent it, with the heart-rending
letter abbacy mentioned, in hopes that it would
stave off ruin. The editor had the softest of
hearts, but the manuscript was dreadful, dreadful
rubbish, and he was bound to return it.
And so grieved was he at the badness of the
girl's story and the misery of her letter, that
he quite forgot all about Allen's verses, and
rolled them up with the manuscript story,
which went back to the young lady. But an
execution was already in the house, and she
tore up and burned the whole thing in despair,
Allen's verses and all. And what became of
her I do not exactly know, but I think that
the execution was stopped somehow, and that
her lover came to her assistance and things
where squared. Then she was married, and
noW' she thinks no more about the manuscript
novel, being continually occupied with the
baby.

Meanwhile Allen went home after that
recitation of his poems, with his heart aglow.
Yes, they were beautiful. Could he have meant

but if not, then this girl was a greater than he.
Allen (lid not consider that one art inspires
another, so that the actor may teach the poet
unconsciously things which he knew not were
in his verse, and the poet may all unknowingly
teach the actor things of which he had never
dreamed. But Isabel ! The memory of the
girl's attitude remained with him ; he heard
lier voice still ; he saw her eyes, rapt, inspired,
like the eyes of a Muse ; for the first time in
his life he was completely contented with himself.
With this dow of satisfaction was mingled
the image of the girl. ' What will you do with
him, Gertrude?' asked Lawrence.

'I know what I will do with him,' she
replied.

I am afraid he will never make a journalist,'
he said ; ' he is too sensitive, and knows
absolutely nothing of affairs. Else one might
run him for a leader writer. But journalists
must be made of sterner stuff.'

Journalist ! nonsense, Lawrence. His work

will be of a far higher kind. The joiirnahst is
the scene-painter of literature. Allen's way is
so plain before him that nothing can be plainer.
He will write something or other, it matters
nothing what, to begin with. Then he will
write tales ; then he will write a three-volume
novel ; then he will write a play : and then he
shall publish his poems, but not till then.'

You have planned all for him, already.'

The ready tear ran to her eyes.

Lawrence,' she said, ' the boy has the most
sincere soul I have ever met. Not calm, not
self-reliant, not strong, not always wise, I
should say, but receptive ; full of generous
thoughts and burning ideas. What can such a
man become except a novelist and a poet ? To
make him a journalist would be like taking a
razor to cut bread-and-butter ! Happy young
man ! The noblest career in the world lies
open to him. Aud it is given to me to help
him.'

And in the distant village there sat a philosopher
with white hair-vybo said, ' The despair

which follows neglect will fall upon him. Then
he will remember his old dreams ' — he forgot
that they were not Allen's dreams, but his own
■ — 'and he will return to them. The poetry
he has written will give him command of
language ; lie will then cease to be a poet,
he will become an orator. By help of the
knowledge which I have taught him, he will
have learned things to tell the people which
the people of no country have ever heard
before.'

CHAPTER X.

A SECOND STEP.

In the spring of that year, being still the first
year of the probation, Allen took his next step.
This was not a very important step, but it was
a distinct step in advance.

Everybody knows that men who labour are
divided into those who do as much as they can
for the money — a small minority, these are — ■
and those who do as little as they possibly canso
as just not to get out-kicked. This division
is very important, because all the prizes are
unfairly given to the men of the first division.
Surely medals, crosses, titles, pensions, honours,
ought to be open to all, and at least a C. B.-ship
for a lifetime of perseverance in doing nothing
ought to be within the ambition of the laziest.

Just as mathematicians take a simple case first
as a test for a theory, so we may illustrate the
position for the instruction of economists by a
single example.

If you walk along the roads belonging to
the parish of Darlington, you will observe
among the Eaters — that dignified and useful
body who sweep the roads for the omnibus
horses — the greatest difference in zeal. Some
are careless and slothful in their sweeping ;
some handle the broom as if they were ashamed
of it ; some as if they disliked it ; some as if
they were born to better things, and had once
stood behind counters. Some, again, are forever
stopping to exchange ideas ; some shed
tears at sight of a public-house ; and some love
to meditate awhile, leaning on the broom.
Among them is a man, small of stature — in fact
he is only three feet two or thereabouts, and
his legs are curly — but he has a great and
determined head, and he carries the long-est
broom of any. Tins man is the Prince of
Eaters. For eighteen pence a day he throws

the whole strength, heart, and soul of him
into sweeping ; he sweeps with zeal ; he sweeps
continually, he sweeps with conscience and feeling.
The work is full of responsibility for him,
he magnifies his office ; the eye of the policeman
is upon him, he is an example to his fellows ;
he loveth not the narrow streets where he feels
that he is losing time ; he longs to be back to
the breadth and generous depth of the mud in
the Edward Eoad ; on Sundays he saunters
on the pavement between services and joyously
thinks of the morrow.

I have been led to think of this great man
while considering the labours of Allen upon
his despised Organ.

Being told that he was to provide, somehow,
an attractive paper every week, he set to work
with great zeal and produced a sheet which
ought to have amazed and edified every person
connected with leather, from the Master and
Warden and Clerk of the Leather Sellers' Company
to the ' translators ' of Seven Dials. He
cut out stories from American papers, he also

found very good verses in the same rich mines ;
and from the stores of English literature he cut
and copied all kinds of interesting paragraphs.
Finally, he began to put in things of his own,
little etudes, essays, and sketches. Nobody,
really, ought to be allowed to write essays
before he is sixty. The best I know, also the
shortest, are those pithy ones compiled by King
Solomon when about that age.

Allen found, after a time, that he had one
critic and one admirer. There was an old greybeard
in the office, a foreman ; the Organ was in
his department ; from the first he read it critically.
In the earliest number he recognised a
master-hand. He looked to see a falling off in
the second, the third, and the fourth numbers.
On the contrary, there was improvement. This
foreman had experience of Organs, he knew
that as a rule they are badly edited ; but this
young gentleman was a conscientious young
gentleman ; he spent long hours in his office ;
he used the scissors with discrimination and the
paste with judgment ; he ' made up' with an

VOL. u. IJ

artistic eye ; he did not pitchfork things into
the paper ; he did not consider that anything
would do for the subscribers ; he even seemed

but this might be flmcy — to have a feeing

for leather. Other gentlemen connected with
the press, again, sometimes came to their work
in the morning With a little thickness in speech,
and fell asleep in the afternoon. This young
man not only was always sober, but never
wanted to drink anything. And, when these
original articles began the old man's admiration
became irrepressible. He must needs speak if
only to show his own taste and appreciation of
style.

Young gentleman,' he said, ' your tales '
alluding to the paste and scissors department
• — ' are Shakespearian, quite Shakespearian. It
is a marvel to all the world ' — he spoke as if
the Organ was thus largely disseminated —
where you find them and how you keep it up.
As for the poetry '—-which also belonged to the
same department — ^ I essay to them who likes
verses that it is pleasing. But what charms

me, Mr. Engledew, is your own articles. There
isn't an Organ in all London wliicli gets such
writing. But we shall lose you, that's where
the shoe pinches. It isn't two quid a week that
will keep a young gentleman of your powers.'

Praise, even from a foreman, is pleasing to
a young writer.

On the magazines, Mr. Engledew,' the old
man went on, ' they pay, I believe, a pound a
page. It would be nothing to you to dash off
twenty pages a day. There is a hundred and
twenty pounds a week. Think of that ! '

Stimulated by this encouragement, Allen
consulted Lawrence Ouvry about attacking the
magazines a second time. They held a solemn
counsel or Parliament upon the subject.

I've expected you a long time,' said Lawrence.
' Xow let us talk. As for journalism,
Gertrude Avon't hear of it. And I think it
would be a mistake. They want harder men.
You would only become a prig, and belittle
your subjects and yourself. Let us consider.
As for this little paper ' — it eras a short paper

on a French poet — ' it strikes me that it is
pretty good. Let me cut it out. Whatever
you are writing,' he went on meditatively, ' you
must consider your editor. One editor only
cares for politics; another, only for burning
questions ; another, for practical things ; another,
for art ; and another, for literature.' He proceeded
to tick off the magazines one after the
other, and to give the character of each important
editor. ' As for verses, none of them
want verses ; most of them hate verses, to begin
with ; one man funks them, sends them round
among his friends for advice, and goes by the
weight of opinion. Most likely, if you were
to go with a string of sonnets as good as
Petrarch's, they would all be returned to you,
unless you had made your name as a poet first.'

Well,' Allen sighed — would his verses
never get a chance ? ' What about an
essay ? '

Humph ! ' The wise young man shook his
suggestive head. ' You see it is almost as easy
to write a bad essay as a bad poem, and, worse

still, all the editors know when au essay is bad.
Can't you strike upon something novel ? '

You shall tell me,' said Allen, ' how it is
that you are so learned in all the secrets of
literature.'

Lawrence laughed.

Did I not tell you that my father was an
editor, and my mother a poet, and that one of
my sisters writes three-volume novels, and that
I wish she wouldn't ? and that Gertrude Holt
is my cousin ? and that all my relations go
about with inky fingers ? '

All that does not account for what you
know. IIow did you learn the names of all
the editors and their characteristics, and what
the magazines circulate, and what they pay, and
all about it ? '

I hear it partly at the club, and partly
hush I '

He rose, and with an air of the greatest
mystery closed the outer oak.

Tell me,' he whispered, * what my people
have told you about me

They say that you have taken a hue different
from that of the rest ; you are a man of
science; a cold mathematician.'

It is the traditional belief,' said Lawrence
gloomily. ' I was told at the beginning that,
as everybody else hi my family went in for
literature, and it was becoming monotonous, I
had better take up something else. They shoved
me out. I wasn't allowed to be a rival to the
rest of the family.'

Well .^ '

They sent me to Cambridge, and told me
to read mathematics. Then they sat down and
went on with their verses and their stories. I
had no great objection, because the science of
mathematics, if you happen to like it, is a
pleasing pursuit, up to a certain point. After
that it becomes tedious. I even took honours,
and they made me a Fellow. I am now, in
addition, a barrister. But I know no law,
and I have no practice, and I do no mathematics.
And, in point of fact, though noo ne
knows anything about it, I am a humbug. I

have gone back to the family profession. I — ■
in point of fact — I write.'

This young man was long past blushing,
but there was a certain pleasing confusion in
his mind when he made this confession.

What do you write ? ' asked Allen eagerly.
I am so glad. Xow I understand your sympathy
with me. Tell me what you write.'

I write frivolities. Tliey are sometimes
comediettas in one act, which people will call
stories ; sometimes they are vers de societe; sometimes
they are ballades on a blue mug or a milk-jug,
you know ; sometimes they are articles of
the kind called light — in fact, I am one of the
frothiest and most frivolous of writers ; my
cousin Isabel is fond of my productions, and
reads them, and never even suspects '

That is because you look so wise.'

So did Lord Thurlow. Nature audit to
pay some regard to the fitness of things. But
it's rather disappointing when you have done
rather a smart thing to find that nobody thinks
you capable of doing it.'

But why not tell them ? '

Picture to yourself Gertrude's sorrow and
Isabel's disgust. I am not even a serious
writer. As for you, you will be as serious asa
sexton, unless you take care. They will have
to give up their cold and critical man of
science, too. No, Engledew, do not ask me to
tell Isabel — yet.'

'I under staid,' said Allen. And then he
was seized with one of those fits of uncontrollable
laughter which only come to the young.
So had he laughed at thinking of Tommy's
countenance at the famous supper.

The new departure of the family greatness
! ' said Lawrence. ' That will have to go,
too. Dreadful ! How shall I tell them ? '

But why not ? '

Lawrence shook his head.

You don't know Well — about yourself

now. When first I made your acquaintance,
in a happy hour, I thought you where the most
ignorant 'young man ever raised. When I got
to know you better, and found out what your

ambitions were, and guessed your powers, I
was in rather a fix. Because, you see, I
wanted to help you, and I could help you —
that is to say, I could take anything to an
editor and ask him to consider it. But you
were so raw that I thought it best to let you
learn a little experience. It wouldn't hurt you
to have your verses sent back, and to find
things out for yourself So I left you alone.
You have been learning all this thine a quantity
of most valuable things.'

I begin to see,' said Allen. ' Yes ; I must
have seemed extraordinarily raw.'

After six months of Gertrude and her
salon and your own observations and the experience
of that most blessed of all Organs,
you ought to write ten times as well. And, of
course, you can. Remains, however, to find
out a promising line.'

He then went on to point out that, in
writing for a magazine, the safest and best
method is to begin with a subject about which
people arc perfectly ignorant, and Which is at

the same time attractive. Great names, he
explained, have been made by going to fundamental
things, such as the questions, whether
it is not better never to have been born ;
whether it is right to honour your parents ;
whether religion is worth having ; whether
the fittest rulers of a country are not the most
ignorant classes in that country, and so forth.
Also reputations have been made by writing in
affected and uncouth language — of course only
very superior persons can use jargon. Could
not, however, some subject be found which
was a little out of the way and yet attractive ?
Next to getting a good subject, he explained
that it is highly important that every paper
should be signed ; people soon get accustomed
to a new name. By degrees a clientele is
established, and a man's things are looked for.
At last he is in a position to ask admission into
any journal, magazine, or review that he pleases.

All this seemed sound advice.

I am glad you think so,' said Lawrence.
stow for a subject. Do you know languages ? '

I know French and German.'

Why,' cried Lawrence, ' we are both fools
together. Here,' he posted to the articles in
the Organ, 'is an endless mine of subjects.
Go, find a picturesque French poet — they are
all picturesque except Boileau — and dress him
up and translate him, and the thing is done. I
charge myself with the rest.'

Allen found such a poet and worked upon
him. He translated some of his poems With
great care ; then he constructed a portrait
of him, so that he became, to all who read, a
living man. He worked at it assiduously ; he
grudged no time upon his paper. At last he
brought it to his friend — finished.

Lawrence tossed it carelessly on his table,
and began cruelly to talk about something else.
Why, Allen wanted him to read the paper and
discuss the subject.

Oh ! happy day which brought the young
writer the first proofs of his first accepted
paper.

It is a 'solemn moment. I know none

more solemn — when one gets his first proofs.
The young man — of course I do not mean the
young man Who has been brought up among
proofs, and whose family all belong to the
profession, like Lawrence, but the young man
from the country — feels a clinking at the
throat and a beating of the heart ; lie is
ashamed of himself. I do not know wdiy, but
lie is ; he feels sure the work will turn out
badly ; he has been a fool, he thinks, to believe
that he can write. Then he falls to work
nervously and eagerly. He reads his proof
first critically to see if the sentences are
balanced ; then he reads it coldly, as if he
were a reader for the press, and only cared for
the right spelling, the proper stops, or the
wrong founts ; then he reads it a third time,
and begins to alter adjectives, displace adverbs,
and change semicolons into colons — printers
are all in a conspiracy to abolish the old-fashioned
stop called the colon — to put capital
letters where they ought to be — printers are
also leagued together to abolish capital letters.

Next lie reads it a fourth time in order to put
then for thus thus for then ; then for there,, and
there for then ; these for those and those for
/A/'5^, with other such corrections of errors
which the printers make out of pure gaiety
and for the fun and joke of it. Then he reads
it suspiciously, because, perhaps, some date is
wrong, or there is some small error of fact.
Lastly, with infinite ]pains, he writes up the
proof a little here and there. At last, reluctantly,
he lets it go, but asks for a revise ;
when the revise comes lie makes more corrections
and asks for another.

The next number of the magazine appeared,
but without Allen's paper ! This was a dreadful
disappointment. Four weary weeks passed,
and then — ah ! then — his paper appeared. He
had made his appearance in public at last. He
sent one copy to Claire, and another to his
mother, and another to Gertrude ; and when,
next day, he went to Bayswater for afternoon
teo,, Isabel was reading his article aloud,

and Gertrude greeted him with appreciative
praise.

My dear,' lie said, taking his hand,
you will work in other lines and do more
original work. But this is good work. The
translations are admirable, and your study of
the poet is life-like. As a first step it is all
that is to be wished.'

Thank you, Gertrude. And you, Isabel? '
For all writers — even the hardened, review-battered
old writers — are insatiate of praise.
It makes them write better. ' Surely the
churning of milk bringeth forth butter, and
wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood.'
And you, Isabel ? '

It is truly delightful, Allen. What does
Claire think of it ? '

Claire has not written yet.' Perhaps he
thought Claire might have written by return
post. '

And then they talked over the article, discussing
it from, every point of view, until
Allen almost believed that it was a matter of

national importance. So that it was with a
thrill of indignation that he read in a weekly-paper
the following abominable notice : ' The
two serial novels in maintain their interest.
The current number also contains
the usual allowance of essays and biographical
papers, pretty well up to the general standard
of this popular magazine.' ' Pretty well upto
the general standard ! ' He was greatly
dejected to think that his paper could only be
considered as ' pretty well ' up to the general
standard. And then, on looking through the
paper again, he discovered — a thing which
disheartened and dismissed him — that he had
passed over three most glaring errors — viz.,
two semicolons which ought to have been
colons, and a thus for a tum. Horrible carelessness
! Would the editor find it out ?

CHAPTEE XL

A DAZZLING SUCCESS.

There lies, not far from Capel Court, a
mysterious world, the world of Finance. It
is a world inhabited by a race resembling men,
who spend their lives in whispering, chattering
in corners, winking at each other, making
signs, buying nothing at all without money,
and making great profit thereat ; selling for
nothing what they have not got and going
bankrupt over the transaction ; building up
great edifices for other people out of rotten
eggs ; knocking these down again and with
the profits buying marble palaces ; stealing the
slender fortunes of widows, orphans, clergymen,
and all who are poor and defenceless ;
promising what they will never perform.

stating what they know to be false, and
prophesying things which will never happen.
Their language among themselves is barbarous
and impossible to understand. Outside, however,
they can talk English. Now among this
world it presently began to be whispered that
there had arisen an operator of extraordinary
sagacity and boldness.

The first step in the direction of greatness
is to attract attention ; the next is to become
the subject of conversation ; the third to have
stories, mostly false, told about you ; after this,
if you keep it up, you become the object of
everybody's envy and hatred. This is true
greatness, at which we should all aim.

Olynthus Gallaway advanced quickly from
the first to the second step. He got talked
about ; his transactions were magnified and his
successes exaggerated, and his origin and first
beginnings were put back, so to speak, in order
to bring his sudden rise into better relief — he
was reported, for instance, to have been an
errand-boy to begin with ; and everybody
YOL. II. S

asked how and by what methods he had acquired
the greater natural insight with which
he besfan to be credited.

'As he has gone up,' said his uncle, that
steady old man of business, who did not believe
in sudden success, ' as he has gone up, so he
will come down — a rocket, sir.'

Young men in the City, however, admire
rockets. The rocket not only goes up very
high, but it is a most splendid and beautiful
thintr, leaving: a bright track behind it, and
when it bursts it scatters about showers of
golden rain. True it then comes down, an
obscure and useless stick with an empty case
tied on to it. But, among financial rockets,
there has been found out a way of coming
down soft.

Olynthus, for his own part, found his greatness
a tiling eminently enjoyable. There were
drawbacks — most serious drawbacks to be
sure : the man who gave him his daily orders
was a horribly irritable and peevish old man :
his tongue was as sharp as a knife ; he was

overbearing, lirirsli, exacting, and insisted on
his orders being carried out to the letter. He
frequently informed his partner that he was far
more stupid than could have been believed
possible, even in fallen humanity. If he found,
as often happened, some difficulty in getting
his plans understood, he would apply without
stint or moderation the stimulus of the strongest
and most abusive language. If he had been a
younger man I believe he would have stimulated
and encouraged his partner's somewhat
sluggish intellect by the exhibition of Father
Stick, that eminent persuader. It was hard,
indeed, for the young man to lear these things ;
but he reflected that the walls were thick, and
that no one knew or suspected. And then,
he had the opportunity almost every day
of observing how obedience led to golden
results, even though three-fourths, which was
shameful, went to the man who wanted the
money least. As for the false position which
he occupied, that gave him no shame at all.
When — outside the office — he was congruous

2

lated and flattered for his extraordinary acumen
he only smoothed his chin, smiled, and looked
as wise as Nature would allow. Sometimes it
certainly did occur to him that if his partner
should happen to fall ill, or die, or should take
it into his head to retire from the firm, or
should turn him out and carry on the business
openly, it might be awkward for him ; because
in that case he would have to abandon the
business of speculation altogether, and if his
little pile was not already made it might be
very disagreeable for him. On the other
hand, if the old man should only go on for
another year or two, he would make that little
pile, and a very comfortable little pile it
would be. At first, he used to wonder what
were the secret sources of information possessed
by his wonderful partner ; but as he
never found out anything nor advanced one
single step towards understanding the business
in which he was supposed outside to be so
great a proficient, he ceased to trouble his
mind about it and endeavoured only to perform

his own part as executive partner so as to
keep Mr. Collier in good temper and prevent
his thinking of a retirement or a change in
partners. For oh ! how the men he knew,
the young City men, wouki jump at such a
chance ! Who would not endure, provided it
was kept secret, the contumely and ill-treatment
of such a ghost, such a substantial ghost,
who was building up for him such a fortune,
and bestowing upon him so great a reputation ?
Why seek for reasons He was ordered,
blindly and without asking questions, to buy
with the right hand, and with the left hand to
sell, the same stock at the same time ; he was
to bull or to bear, or both — why ? The thing
was inexplicable. The result was without any
doubt : if he continued a mere machine ; if
the ' executive partner ' was only a puppet,
whose strings were pulled by a man in a back
office, and whose limbs were worked without
his knowing why ; and a mouthpiece speaking
words which he did not understand, what
mattered it provided the money kept rolling up ?

The orders wliicli Mr. Collier gave him
extended even to the details of his private life.
Above all, he was to practise, diligently, the
art of silence.

You will not say a word, or drop a hint,'
said Collier, ' not the least hint of what you
have done or are doiiig. As for what you are
S^oinsr to do ' he sneered, showing his teeth in a
most disagreeable manner, ' you can't drop a
hint, because you don't know. Do you hear
me .^ Not a word must be said about my
operations. If you talk, I shall fid out ; and
then — you know what.'

I am perfectly secret, sir,' said Olynthus
trembling. ' I hope you can at least trust
that I '

'They'll get round yon,' interrupted the
senior partner. ' The women will try to get
round you. You will be asked to dinner ;
they will give you dry champagne and put
flowers on the table and tell you that you are
the wisest of men. I kno^v their tricks and
their trumperies. Tliey used to try it on with

me. They will say, " Hush ! " when you are
gohig to speak, and look at you across the
table and make great eyes at you. I know
'em — I know their tricks and trinnperies.
After dinner they will make you sit beside
them and then more great eyes, till your silly
brain will reel ; very likely they will say that
you are as handsome as you are clever.' Olin-thus
blushed because there, indeed, was struck
a weak spot. He certainly thought he was
remarkable for being at once so handsome and
so clever. ' Yes ; they'll say anything to get
round you' — Mr. Colhber really could put
things in the most disagreeable way — ' and
then they'll ask in a whisper what they should
buy. They will say that so great a financier
can afford to be generous. And your
knees will knock together ; but still you —
mustn't — tell them. Do you understand
that? Your partnership depends upon your
silence.'

Yes,' said Olynthus, ' oh yes, I quite
understand.'

You have got to be adamant. Do you
hear ? '

Certainly, sir ; certainly, adamant.'

*You can't look wise if you try ever so
hard,' his pleasant partner went on, ' but you
might look knowing perhaps. Endeavour to
look knowing when they pump you ; shut up
tight ; say nothing : when they sniggle up and
make eyes, look the other way ; when they
talk about the great financier, change the
subject ; say you have left the City behind.
That's an easy thing to say. You can get out
of it that way, even though they leave off
asking you to dinner. And, besides, you can
do that without letting one find out what a
stupendous ass you are.'

Yes, sir,' said Olynthus, without betraying
the least resentment at this arbitrary treatment.
'At the same time, sir, I would observe that
my friends, when they ask me to dinner, do so
for the pleasure of my '

If I only lead caught young Massey intime,
he would have been of real use. I

could have tangle him, while — as for you — if
it wasn't that I wanted a dummy — well ! '

And this was only one of many disagreeable
conversations conducted in this tone.

The junior partner retired, and drove home
in his nice cab to his new chambers. They
were beautiful chambers in Piccadilly, furnished
with less splendour, it is true, than
their owner could have desired ; but then they
were furnished in the fashion, and the bill was
really stupendous.

On the table there lay a note addressed ina
lady's handwriting. Olynthus tore it open
and read it with a smile of satisfaction.

'I'm an ass and a fool, am I?' he said,
after reading the note twice over. ' Yet a
Countess asks me to dinner — the young and
beautiful widow of an Earl asks such an ass
and such a fool to dinner. She doesn't
operate, she doesn't want information. She
has never asked me to recommend a buyer
to a safe thing. Why does she ask me,
then ? ' He looked in the glass and smiled

again. ' Claire,' lie said, ' is a very pretty girl,
and all that. But a young Countess ! and a
widow ! ' he looked in the glass again.

The cause of Mr. Collier's contempt and
wrath was the difficulty he found in coaching
his partner for a certain difficult and delicate
piece of business which he was just then
working up. It was a big thing, a very big
thing, and it required to be carried through
with great delicacy and coolness ; in fact, it
was of such great importance that Mr. Collier
made his partner rehearse two scenes at least
in his presence, and to rehearse them till he
was word-perfect and had been taught the byplay.
And yet he knew nothing at all of what
was meant.

The business Alas this. There was once a
young Englishman who had a few thousands
a very few. He had also a great aversion
to the confinement of an office, and a great
love of riding, shooting, fishing, and so forth.
There are many such young Englishmen.
This young man tried many tidings ; but as

everything begins with an exam., and as he
was always picked, he could find no opening
for himself at home, therefore he turned his
eyes upon the colonies, which seem to exist
especially to meet such cases as his. After
consideration, he thought that coffee-planting
in Sindbad's Island — named after the discoverer
would afford him a reasonable amount of
open air, riding, shooting, fishing, cards, brandy
and soda, and cigarettes, combined with business,
and he laid out his capital in the purchase
of a small coffee estate in that colony, and
went out there and began to operate.

Now the planting of coffee is not what it
used to be in this colony. For the soil, which
was once rich, is now poor and only kept
going with guano, and hurricanes are more
frequent than they were, and the cost of labour
has gone up on the one hand while the price
of coffee has gone down on the other. Therefore
this young man, who began by paying
three times as much for his estate as it was
worth, sorrowfully beheld his good money

going after his bad, and his abilities increase
while his crops grew worse. He therefore
began to contemplate the possibilities of bankruptcy,
and to realise that unless a miracle
happened even brandy and soda would become
an unattainable article.

Then a miracle did happen. Gold was
found in that island — that is to say, gold had
always been known to exist, but a speculative
and ingenious man turned up who maintained
that gold was plentiful enough to be worked
for profit.

Delightful 1 His own estate lay in the
auriferous region. He made izreat haste, filled
a sack with ore dug out of his fields, packed in
it all the bits which looked most like containing
gold, and took his passage home,
carrying the precious sack with him. He was
not a remarkably clever young man, but he
was prudent enough to see that here was a
chance — his one chance — such a chance as
would never occur ao*ain — of selling his estate.
And in some way or other — how did he always

iiiid out these things ?— Mr. CoUiber found out
before this young man landed in England what
was his errand and what he hoped to do.

It was the coffee planter with the sack of
ore and the estate in the rich auriferous
]region whom the executive partner was ordered
to receive.

The planter kept his appointment, having
in his hand a small bag full of stuff which
looked like nuggets gone brown. He expected
to find a sharp man of business in a dingy-office.
He found a large, light, and 
room, and a young man,
younger than himself, looking the reverse of
sharp, with fat cheeks and rather fishy eyes.
Never did the appearance of a man so belie
his reputation. Yet he had heard such
splendid accounts of Mr. Gallaway's ability
if once he could be persuaded to take up a
thing.

Now, sir,' said the great financier, with
some approach to sharpness, ' let us talk
business.' He took out his watch and looked

at it — this was part of the by-plays ' Take
that chau\ I have got just ten minutes for
you. You Jive an estate to sell I understand —
a coffee estate, in which you have lost money.'

I have — in Sindbad Island.'

Just so ; and luckily for you it is supposed
to lie in the auriferous district.'

It is in the very heart of the rich auriferous
district. The ore has been analyzed,
and is said to contain '

Just so. What will you take for it ? '

I will take,' said the planter, looking his
man straight in the face, ' I will take twenty
thousand pounds for it

He expected to be invited to go away at
once, or at least to reconsider his proposal.
Quite the contrary, Mr. Gallaway laughed
pleasantly.

Twenty thousand ! If I take up the
business, we can do better than that for you.
Supposing, for instance, that I get you a
purchaser for fifty thousand, would you object
tp my taking fifteen for myself ? '

Of course said the vendor, puzzled.
'But — but — then — why don't you buy it
yourself, and sell it for what you can get ? I
offered it to you for twenty thousands'

'You did. But I do not buy estates,'
said Mr. Gallaway. ' That is not my business.
Come. Shall I repeat what I said ? or do you
agree ? If I get a purchaser for fifty, you will
give me fifteen ? '

Certainly ; I agree. It will still be fifteen
thousand more than I expected.'

Considering that the estate only cost you
six thousand, you will have done very well.
Tlien that will do. You will hear from me
tomorrow. Good morning. I have another
appointment immediately.'

This was the first scene of the drama. Mr.
Collier was pleased to approve of his conduct
of the affair, so far. Olynthus was next instructed
to visit a certain firm with whom he
had already had transactions. To this firm,
after certain preliminaries, all of them carefully
studied beforehand, he offered the estate for

po,ooo/.

You shall buy this estate,' he said. * You
will leave it to me to get a purchaser for you.
If I get you 150,000/. for it, you will give meas
commission 30,000/. for myself. That is
business.'

The firm bought that estate ; the firm sold
it the following week to the Sindbad Island
Gold Mining Company (Limited), capital,
200,000/. in 200,000 1/. shares. And how
the great Mr. Gallaway — never so great as
when he was operating with a newly-formed
company — manipulated the shares and ran
them up, and how much this firm made out of
that one transaction alone would require a
volume in itself to relate. But it was terrible
to Olynthus, in the glory which followed the
coup., to remember that seventy-five per cent,
went to the other man.

This was the first great coup. I am happy
to relate that Olynthus, who was a good son,
bought his mother's house for her out of the
proceeds, gave her a thousand pounds, and to
each of his three sisters a thousand pounds, so

that they all became heiresses on the spot, and
shortly afterwards married men in a Steady
Way. This was kind of him. He was also
extremely benevolent to himself at this period,
and never allowed himself to desire anything
which he did not immediately buy. Think of
buying all you want ! The work of promoting
companies and dealing with their shares is
even more delicate and unintelligible than
speculating in stock, but Olynthus found that it
was much more lucrative. The British public
is never tired of companies ; sometimes there is
a lull, but only for a short time, and then the
game goes on again with undiminished vigour.
Mr. Gallaway for his part was instrumental in
floating a great many, although people now
say that he never promoted a single sound
concern. There was the great South American
Silver Mine, called the Dona Mercedes. It
lies in the Andes and was formerly worked by
the Incas of Peru, who abandoned it when
they thought they had come to the hard pan ;
it became a gold mine to Mr. Olynthus Galla-vol.

II. T

way. Then there was the North Australian
Copper Mine ; it is the richest copper mine
in the world ; it is fall of copper, bristling with
copper. You can pick up enough copper off
the ground to make an antique coal-scuttle ;
but there is no fuel, and there are no roads,
and there is no labour. To Mr. Gallaway that
copper mine was also a gold mine. Then there
was the Arctic Steam Navigation Company,
which bought up a most beautiful fleet of
steamers, out of which the owners had already
made immense fortunes. In fact they only
parted with their steamers because they were
grown old and worn out, and generously asked
no more for them than they had cost when
new, and only received for themselves the
posts of managing directors with a percentage
on freight in the gross — yet people call Olynthus
hard names in connection with this line of
steamers. Then there was the company for
purchasing and carrying on a most noble business
out of which three generations of partners
had made fortunes ; the present partners only

consented to form the house into a company
when it had begun to fall into a rapid decline,
for which there was no cure and failure was
imminent. They nobly took, when they went
out of it, not a penny more than the value of the
business when it had been at its best. There
was also the railway across the Romney marsh
connecting Lydd with Romney, Hythe, and
Eye. There was also the Company for developing
the trade of the Norfolk Broads. And there
were other companies for electric lights, for
packet-boats, for tramways, for torpedoes, for
telephones, for hotels, for newspapers, and a
hundred other thiuo-s. All these were started,
promoted, shoved off by Mr. Gallaway ; he
underwrote them, he bought and sold their
shares, he created a demand for them and o;ot
them quoted. One thing Mr. Gallaway never
did : he did not become a director, nor did he
buy anything, estate, business, or steamers ;
nor did he in any way at all associate his name
publicly with the company, nor was he in the
least degree responsible fur the statements
X 2

made in the prospectus. The sudden acquisition
of money made him horribly extravagant
in his personal expenditure. This is a very
usual result when one has had no money in
early life ; it comes, I believe, from an exaggerated
idea of the pleasure of spending money.
Girls, for instance, who seldom have much
money of their own, regard the abstract process
of buying as one of the most enjoyable things
in the world. Fortunately the pleasure does
not depend on the amount spent, so that it
may be enjoyed as much by the workman's
wife when she goes out with her basket on a
Saturday evening as by her richer sister driving
in her carriage to Swan and Edgar's. As for
Olynthus, he enjoyed buying things as much as
any girl might do. And he bought continuously,
and bought everything that was
worthless and costly.

The Village watched his career with interest
almost breathless. It was wonderful to believe
that one of themselves should become so
illustrious. Unfortunately Mr. CoUiber, whose

experience and criticism at this juncture would
have been of great value, was only at home on
Sundays, and came no more to the village-green.
And nobody could guess at all what
he went to town for. Probably on business
connected with his failure.

I always thought well of the boy,' said
Sir Charles, 'ever since the day when he
declared that he should imitate my example.
It was nobly sud. My example! One has
not lived in vain.'

A wise example indeed,' said Mr. Skantlc-
bury.

I should say he was imitating Mr. Collier's
example,' said Mr. Massey. 'I once
hoped that my own son might distinguish
himself in the higher walks of finance. OIi,
Heaven ! What a thing it is ! I heard on
good authority in the City the other day that
Olynthus Gallaway must have made a hundred
thousand already.' A waiter in a City diningroom
had told him. ' Everything he touches
turns to gold. Ko one knows what a promoter

of companies may make. If my son — •
but lie is gone. Why did lie go away from
London? Why did he leave the place where
all the money is ? If he had gone to New York,
it would have been something. But to go all
the way to China ! '

'It sometimes occurs to me,' said Mr.
Skantlebury softly, 'that perhaps Olynthus — I
should say Mr. Olynthus — might put one on to
a good thing now and then if he were asked.
What do you say, Massey ? '

A gleam of light flashed from \\\q eyes of
the ingenious Mr. Massey.

The three sisters of Olynthus regarded him
with a kind of bewildered awe. IIow could
he have become so clever ? Asa boy he had
bullied them ; he was selfish, domineering,
dogmatic ; he always took the best of everything
; he made himself the master of the
house. In those days they used to rebel ;
they used to cry, to call him names, to wish he
was gone into the City for good. But how
could he have become so clever? Why, he

was a dull boy; lie cared nothing about
books ; he seemed stupid. Now, however,
they found it quite natural that one who was
going to be so great should in his youth
bully his sisters. His stupidity was not real ;
it was only that he had not found out his
line. He conferred honour upon them by
coming to visit them ; they sat round him
and heard him talk of the dinners he gave,
the men he invited, the houses he went to,
the chambers he lived in, the money he was
making. And did he not give them each a
dot which meant a sweetheart as well ? And
did he not buy the house for them ? And all
of it made out of nothing, by buying what had
no existence and selling what he had not got.
Was there ever such a brother? And he
dined with countesses.

'It is a pity,' said his mother, ' that he
will marry Claire. I say nothing against her ;
and, to be sure, even for the richest man,
what she will have when her father dies will
come in comfortably. But, my dear, if Olin

thus were to marry the dear Countess! I
should really feel bis success more — sometimes
I think I don't feel it enough — if I
were actually to see him drive up to the door
with a countess on his arm ! Mr. Olynthus
Gallaway and the Countess ! How well it
would sound ! '

Perhaps,' said the eldest, ' Olynthus will
not ask Claire any more. You know he is
not obliged to.'

Let us hope he will not,' said his mother.

'Perhaps,' said the youngest, who was a
Fool, and was often told so, ' Claire will take
one of the others.'

They took all their news to Claire. She
heard it with a smile which meant nothing.
A strange girl ! She knew that he was in
love with her, but she never blushed or made
any outward signs of confusion when his
name was mentioned. Yet she owned that
the gift of the dot to each of the girls was
a kid and generous action. And when they
began to hint at the superiority of Olin-thus

over the other two boys she instantly
froze.

From time to time Olynthus himself called
upon her, and talked of his own surpassing
achievements.

You see, Claire,' he would say, repeating
himself, ' I really have done most wonderfully
well.'

You have, indeed, Olynthus.'

Everybody says there isn't a cleverer man
in the City. They do, indeed ! I don't tell
3'ou that out of boastfulness, but because you
don't hear — of course you can't — what goes
on in the City, and I want you to know.'

Your sisters tell me.'

As for other fellows — fellows of my own
standing — there isn't one to show a candle
to me ; not one, even among Stock Exchange
fellows who started with lots of money. If
you only knew how much we — I mean — I —
made last week.'

'Please do not tell me that. You might
turn my head ! '

And, I say, Claire ' — lie turned very red —
'yon know, more than a whole year has gone.
I promised to wait for three years, I know.
But if you could shorten the time '

I cannot even talk about it,' Claire said.

As for that, I believe the Countess would
take me — I do, indeed.'

Then, Olynthus, pray ask the Countess.'

Now, Claire, don't get up. I did not mean
I assure you I do not really care for -'

She burst out laughing.

'You may laugh if you like. But, now,
do listen for a moment. If you come to compare
me with the other fellows, where are they ?
One is a clerk on two or three hundred a
year in China. You'll never see him again.
And the other's a pauper fellow who writes.
By Jove ! I saw him the other day going
down Piccadilly with a book in his hand,
like a showman, and a shabby old hat. I
almost felt inclined to stop my horse and ask
him if I could lend him a sovereign, I did
indeed.'

At any rate, I am glad you resisted the
temptation,' Claire replied with impatience.

'Oh, 3'es, of course, it was only a passing
thought, you know — poor beggar I Shorten the
time, Claire. You're just the age to marry,
and just the kind of girl for a rich man.
Look here, I'll give you a house in the Cromwell
Eoad, or Lancaster Gate, if you like that
better. You shall have your carriage, and your
footman and all, you shall, indeed.'

Finish what you have to say, Olynthus.'

'The Countess will call upon you. She
will do anything I tell her. The other day I
whispered to her, '• Buy Turks ; " she did — she
bought a lot ; and she made a little sweep.' —
It will be seen that the Countess had, after
all, begun to operate. — 'She's truly grateful.
When I dined with her the other night there
was a lord, and an honourable, and a major,
and a couple of real ladies. After dinner wee
had a little JSTap, and then a little baccarat. I
lost seventy pounds. What's that? But it is

just to show you, Claire, that you shall go into
tip top society.'

'Thank you very much.' — What did she
Laugh again for .^ — ' And, Olynthus, if you feel
tempted, you know, at any time to ask the
Countess?, don't let me stand in the way.'

CHAPTER XII.

THE POWER OF SYMPATHY.

Allen continued to go to the little house at
Bayswater. He "event there daily on some
pretext — because he had an idea ; because
he thought Gertrude might have one ; to take
them somewhere — there are plenty of shows
in the early spring ; to read with them ; simply
to sit and talk with them.

When they went to Eichmond for the
summer, he went too, and lived under the
same roof.

There are great possibilities about Richmond
even yet, although it is built over, and
approached by a dozen lines. You may, with
a girl so young and so strong as Isabel, tramp
undisturbed over miles of wild park, where the

heron and the wild duck fly over the broad
mere, and the rabbits scuttle away through the
fern, and the deer look up with suspicion, as
you pass. It is a place where you may read
poetry or make love — Allen read poetry ; where
you may sit dreaming while the silence and the
sunshine make your heart calm and restful ;
where you may talk of vast, shadowy, gigantic
plans for the future — the conquest of the world
if you are young and your companion be
sympatJiique^ as Isabel was. Beyond the park
are great barren commons, which give one a
sense of freedom delightful to feel after months
among the houses ; they are covered with yellow
gorse, among whose flowers there is kept up a
continual and restful humming caused by the
great fat bumble bees and the heavy drones,
who roll in and out among the spikes. A delightful
place and a delightful time ! It is not
so Avild as Hainault, but it seems so much
farther off from the City and from money. Or
there is the river. Isabel could row, and taught
Allen. They spent long summer evenings on

the water among the swans and the midges and
the hies, floating along: m the twiho;ht, stentor
to the plash of the current in the leaves and
the leap of a fish. It was best when the sun
went down and they floated down the river
in the twilight. Sometimes they sat in silence,
sometimes Allen followed aloud the current of
his thoughts. He was still a very young man,
although he was three-and twenty ; he was still
full of thoughts, speculations, and wonder.
Such a mind as his never passes out of Sunderland
into the region where people go about
their business, each wrapped in his own concerns,
with never a thought of the things
around them ; he told all his thoughts to
Isabel, just as he had told them all to Claire.
And there came upon the spirit of the girl a
feeling that she was the support and stay of
Allen, and a jealousy of that other woman Vvdio
would take him from her, and have no support
or stimulus to give him.

In those days Claire was forgotten — she
seemed so far away. Yet to Isabel she Alas

SO near, because she stood between Allen and
herself. Of love and its first beginnings, of
love's decay and death, of changed heart,
which had promised to be so loyal — who can
fitly speak ?

The summer passed away ; Allen went not
once to Hainault. He wrote, it is true. Was
it Claire's quick fancy, or were the letters constrained
and forced ?

'Isabel, I have had a blissful time,' said
Allen, when the day came for their return. 'It
has been one \ow^ basking in the sunshine —
save for the confounded Organ. How can I
thank you for making me so happy ? '

It is enough,' she said, with a slight blush
in her cheek and a quickened light in her
eye ; ' it is enough, for us, that you have been
happy.'

I go back,' lie went on, * to carry out some
of our plans.'

Your plans, Allen, not mine.'

Yes, yours ; we have talked them over
together. Our plans, Isabel. Let me associate

the work, if it is done worthily, with the memory
of our summer hohclay together.'

He spoke loftily, as if the plans were the
concern of the universal world. They were,
indeed, vast enough ; but they were, unfortunately,
vague. Yet he was not making love.
He was simply happy with his new-made
friends. He was so far true to Claire that he
had no thought of love. He was also, so far,
stupid and inexperienced.

You spoil me, Gertrude,' he said one day.
You make me continually talk about my own
work and myself. It is your fault if I am an
egoist. I will write a poem about the man
who was spoiled by kindness. Do you remember
Copper's poem about the child who
was picked up by two old men, and killed by
their excessive love and kindness ? You picked
me up, you see, and you have been so kind
that I have become full of my own importance.
Yet I am only a bladder blown out with
wind.'

VOL. II. u

Every poet is an egoist, my dear,' said
Gertrude. ' It is allowed him, and we think it
is admirable.'

But the holiday came to an end, and Allen
returned to his own lodgings, and began to
think about those vast schemes of work which
were to be accomplished.

Has it been wise, Gertrude ? ' asked Lawrence,
concerning this holiday. He thought of
Isabel ; but she thought of Allen.

I think so, Lawrence. He has learned
a great deal ; indeed, he learns with great
quickness ; he can talk well now — seven brilliantly
; he knows the small change of conversation
; he represses his enthusiasms, and yet
he has not lost them.'

He is not likely to lose them, with you.'

Take him now, Lawrence, and make him
work. He wants your stimulus after our sympathy
; he dreams too much. Isabel could
give him both stimulus and sympathy. But
then, you see, we must consider that she could

not be always o'ivins^ them to a man already
ens^acj^ed.'

Is Enoiedew em^ai^ed ? '

As good as engaged.'

Which is, perhaps, another reason,' said
Lawrence, ' why he shoidd not be allowed to
go about quite so much with Isabel.'

The child has no thought,' Gertrude replied,
' of such a thing. Indeed, Lawrence, you
do her wrong.'

He shook his head with preternatural
wisdom and went his y\'ay. But he waited
an opportunity to fid Isabel alone, and then
he spoke to her cautiously. He talked of their
summer holiday and of Allen. She answered
him, without any blushing or confusion, in her
quiet way. Allen stayed with them, she said ;
they were together all day long ; they read
poetry and talked over all kinds of literary
plans. They had a very delightful time.

Is he really engaged, Isabel ? ' he asked.
If so, do you thhik she would like it P '

Lie blushed at this unexpected thrust.

He has proposed to a young lady who will
give him an answer in a year or two. Why
do you ask, Lawrence ? '

There was a time, Isabel,' he replied,
when there was another young man who
might have asked for sympathy.'

You, Lawrence ? ' she laughed, but not
freely. ' But one cannot give sympathy to a
mathematician.'

But you can to men who make literature.'

Of course.'

Then, Isabel, you may give it to me, if
you can. I am also — even I — of the literary
trade. Yes ; do not look astonished. Listen.
My science is a sham and a flam and a humbug.
I am a writer of tales and things, as my
father and my mother and all the rest of them
were before me.'

You, Lawrence ? '

Even I. What will Gertrude say ? '

You to write stories, Lawrence ? You,
the only man of clear head in the family ?
Oh ! it is impossible.'

Stories in prose and verse, Isabel. I have
even sent things to a comic paper. Comedies
feuilletons, vers de societe, all, I produce.
It has been on my conscience for a long time,
but I never before had so good an opportunity
of telling my secret.'

Oh ! ' she gasped, ' you — too ! '

It is like gout or early baldness. You
can't get it out of the blood. Now, Isabel, for
some of that sympathy which you give this
fellow Engledew.'

She laureled and blushed.

'Shall I row you in the evening in the
Serpentine ? Shall we walk together in the
Gardens ? Shall we sit on a pair of penny
chairs side by side beneath the trees? I have
many plans to tell you. I am full of thoughts.
I can even read you my poetry.'

She blushed again. Mephistopheles himself
could not more artfully have conveyed to
Isabel the plain truth, which she would have
hidden,

Sympathy can only be given to a sympathetic
subject,' said the girl.

'I have been a great fool, Isabel,' said
Lawrence, ' I thought any time would do.'
Here Isabel blushed again. ' I thought it was
safe to wait. Now you may rest easy, Isabel.
I shall say no more about it unless, in a year
or two, this shadowy young lady — whom
Allen once thought he loved — says yes.'
Isabel gave him her hand.
You are always considerate, Lawrence,'
she said. ' Please never say anything more
about it at all, because it will be impossible,
even though that young lady should say yes — ■
which, of course, she is sure to do.'
Why is she sure ? '

Why ? Oh ! Lawrence. The other two
who proposed at the same time are City men.
Would any girl take a City man ? Think of
it — a money-making man, a man who buys
and sells, when she might have a poet — like
Allen?'

CHAPTER XIII.

TELL ME That.

'ExGLEDEW,' said Lawrence, that very same
day, ' let his have it out. You have been
wasting your time all the summer

I know I have,' Allen replied. ' But I
have come back to work.'

Gertrude is sentimental ; if you go there
too much you will become flabby. Man's
work and woman's work are different. You
must keep your work out of that house.
Come to my club and see the men who work.
They do not hang about apron-strings.'

There is a table d'hote at that club every
evening. The tables on this evening were full.

Look round you,' said Lawrence, who
knew them all. ' Three-fourths of tlicse men

are writing-men. Most of them are journalists.
Til ere are one or two novelists among them,
and some are specialists. If you listen to their
talk you will hear nothing about the glory of
their work, and they are mere Sadducees about
its immortality.'

If you think of it you cannot draw any
face which shall immediately be recognised as
that of the litterateur. Perhaps his characteristic
face has not yet been determined by long
generations of work. The profession is the
youngest of the learned callings. One can
draw for one's self the typical solicitor, the
typical barrister, the typical clerk, the typical
physician, the typical Eitualist even ; but the
typical literary man lias not yet been figured.
Mostly, however, he wears spectacles or pinckney.


There are,' said Lawrence, presently,
fourteen thousand persons who live by literature
in London. Fourteen thousand ! How
many of them succeed in the way you would
call success ? '

Why this preamble ? ' asked Allen.

'Because the time has come when you
must make your spoon or spoil that horn.
You have got to do as well as the half-dozen
best of those fourteen thousand men and
women. That seems a considerable ambition,
doesn't it.^ Because, you see, you take it
seriously. As for me, I take it carelessly. I
write my little comedies, and they get printed,
and I am paid. I am content. Life should
be made up of a little light comedy, a little
love-making, a few epigrams, a little champagne,
and a little verse-making. That is
enough for me. You, glutton that you are,
want to do good work and get what you call
fame. You won't get much by magazine
articles on French poets.'

Allen replied not.

You must be a dramatist, or a novelist, or
both. Go at it, therefore, hard, as if you were
going at physic or the law. Gertrude has
done a good deal for you, now go and do the
rest yourself,'

It was true. Lawrence's words implied a
great deal more than appeared on the surface.


'I know,' said Allen, humbly, 'what you
and your friends have done for me. It seems
incredible to me that I could have dared, being
so ignorant of the world, even to dream of

success. I know more now, but ' he

sighed, ' what is the use of knowledge if
it is only to make one feel one's insignificance
? '

No man,' said Lawrence, as wise as Solomon,
' is insignificant who can write, and has
ideas. As for knowledge, you know everything
that was to be learned, except what your
friend, the Frenchman, could not teach you —
the ways of the social world. Isabel has told
me something of your plans. Was it pleasant
to dream away a summer on the river with a
pretty girl ? You poets get the best of everything.
Up, dreamer.' He laid his hand upon
Allen's shoulder. ' Go and work.'

He went away uneasy, dissatisfied, waiting

for inspiration, his brain filled with vast fabrics
which crumbled to dust when they were
touched — a romance, which should be a joy
for ever ; a great and magnificent play, which
should never leave the stage — do we not know
the poet who wants a great subject, the painter
who has got a beautiful piece of canvas on
his easel but cannot decide what to fill it
with ?

He was so restless that he found the house
at Bayswater intolerable. Gertrude's reverence
for literature made him feel like an arrogant
pretender. Isabel's questioning eyes seemed to
reproach him for having done nothing, whereas
she only Wondered what was troubling him.
Ho was so restless that he was fain to the
Forest and seek consolation of Lake.

She might have had a great deal to tell
him, but he asked for no news of herself; she
mio^ht have shown him her new house and all
her pretty new things, but he regarded them
not, being full of his own trouble. She was
more beautiful than before, but lie paid no heed

to her beauty ; the sunshine of good fortune
lay upon her face, it had lost the Ime of care
which always settles on the forehead of women
who do daily work, but he saw it not ; she was
sympathetic, and he took, without returning,
all the sympathy which she had to give. In
such a frame of mind a poet is sublimely
selfish. Perhaps, as Gertrude said, it is allowed
to him.

Tell me, Allen,' she said, ' what it is.'
He had come for consolation, but it was
necessary to explain why, and he could not
explain. How tell anybody, even Claire, that
he was burning to write a splendid thing, and
was miserable because the way was not yet
clear? The sunshine of September lay upon
the gentle slopes and the old trees of the Forest,
but it might as well have been a day in November
: Claire was holding his hand and looking:
into his face with her sweet, frank eyes, but he
saw and felt nothing.

Are you not satisfied with what you have

done, Allen ? ' she asked. ' Yet it seems to me
so good a beginning.'

I believe there is nothing more wretched,
more humiliating, than the feeling that you are
not, and never can be, the one thing in the
world you ardently desire to be.

I am not satisfied,' he broke out. ' Oh,
Claire, what things I hoped to do ! And see

Nothing. Half-a-dozen papers. That —

and the confounded Leather Groan.'

He left her abruptly without another word,
and strode off through the Forest.

Claire looked to see him return in the evening,
and made a little feast for him, and her
father promised sympathy with the work.
Tliey waited dinner till the sun went down at
eight, but he came not ; for he was walking,
dinnerless, full of a kind of rage as of one who
possesses a great art yet cannot exercise it, along
the road to Abridge, and from there along the
north of Epping Forest to Copt Hall, and so
by a long round to Chingford, where he took

the train to London, and went home and to
bed, tired, angry, and horribly hungry.

For Claire could not help him. Sympathy
will not make a man succeed ; he must work,
he repeated. And what to do? He must
work, or he must creep back to his own place
and die in obscurity.

CHAPTER XIV.

IT IS THIS.

Eeliep came to him after many days. One evening
it chanced that his restless feet carried him
to that broad thoroughfare which runs through
Islington. It reminded him of Whitechapel ; it
was a busy and crowded time, between nine
and ten. The day had been hot, it was in
early autumn ; the people streamed along the
pavement in a never-ending procession ; the
workmen lounging with pipes in their mouths,
the work girls hastening as if there was not a
moment to be lost, and talking to each other as
they went in voices of exasperation ; the married
women carried baskets ; there was the
bustle, turmoil, toil, and roll of the streets,
which he remembered of those days ^vhen with

Will he roamed about the place. The years
rolled backwards, the old thoughts returned to
him : if one could only keep the magnificent
thoughts which come to boys and to early
manhood ! if one could only remember them
in part ! To Allen it seemed suddenly as if
he had been forgetting or neglecting the only
thing worth following. His brained reeled, he
was fain to stop and lean beside a lamp-post.
Then he stood still and watched. And then
there befell him, again, a strange and wondrous
thing ; the crowds of people became a long and
never ending procession of human faces. He
gazed upon each as they passed him by ; there
were faces worn, faces sad, faces eager, faces
anxious, faces sensual, faces pure, faces young,
faces old, faces animal-like, vulture-like, snakelike,
ape-like, leonine ; faces remorseful, faces
expectant, faces conscious, faces doomed —
where were the happy faces gone .^

Then there fell upon him a strange feeling,
which seemed as if it was an old feeling, and
that he must have felt it once before — of



trouble and sympathy ; each face in the long
procession was alone ; it looked neither to the
right nor to the left, it looked straight before
as it went past him. And while he looked and
felt no surprise or wonder, save that he should
have waited so long for this thing to happen to
him, he saw among the multitude one face that
he knew and remembered. Alas ! he had forgotten
that face too long. This face turned and
looked straight in his eyes ; lie saw the rest no
more, but followed, walking side by side.

It was the face of the girl whom he had
seen so long ago and forgotten ; but then she
was younger, and her features — like those of a
girl at fifteen — hardly formed ; and her figure
was then indistinct, a thing of sun and shadow.
Now, she was fully grown and shapely ; he saw
that she had sweet eyes, large and beautiful,
but they were full of tears and wonder and
reproach. She asked him why he had neglected
her so long ; she said that she had been
waiting and looking for him ; then she took
him by the hand and led him along the road
VOL. II. X

among the passengers, who made way for her
though she was but a spectre of Allen's brain ;
and she talked with him ; her voice was low,
yet he heard it above the roll of the carriages.
He listened as lie spoke ; he had heard her
story before ; but never before had he realised
the strength of it, the sorrow of it, the splendour
of it. While she told it, with details
which before he knew not of, with surroundings
which before he had not understood, he
heard another voice which said, 'All your
verses, all your essays, are foolish things.
Listen to this girl's story.' He listened — he
heard that story told all over again from the
beginning ; he saw that when he heard it before
he could not wholly comprehend it ; now he
understood all. And he knew that he was
going to do a splendid thing, because he felt
and sav that it would be a real thing. How
simple it seems and yet how hard it is — to seethe
truth !

He went home ; he could not rest ; the
story of that girl fired his brain. It lead been

lying there, forgotten, for three years ; it had
grown without his knowledge ; it had been
fed and nourished by every walk he took in the
streets of London, by every conversation which
took him out of books and taught him something
of life. And suddenly it had sprung up
fully grown ; it was a tale now of genuine flesh
and blood, warm, natural, full of love and
passion, hope and fear. Oh ! wise Hector !
Oh ! great philosopher ! thus to discern that
the best part of education lies outside the
wisdom of books !

Yes ; it was a great thing he was going todo.
As he paced his room the story unrolled
itself: he seemed to see, actually before his
eyes, the scenes he was going to describe ; he
heard the voices of his characters ; he laughed
and wept ; he threw his arms about and acted
the story ; in dumb show he played it, without
words he constructed it.

Happy the man who thus beholds, almost
in the flesh, the creatures of his imagination ;
happy he who is possessed by a story. Allen

had found among the meanest streets of the
meanest part of London a rose of maidenhood,
as tender, as true, as sweet as if she had been
the descendant of a hundred earls. It was not
to be a story with the false, old, foolish ring of
the wicked duke and the virtuous dressmaker,
but a real story, with human life and love and
shattered hopes, and the suffering of the innocent
for the sins of the fathers and mothers, of
women for the sins of men.

But, as yet, it was not written. In fact,
Allen discovered — a great many people have
made this discovery — that it is not enough to
conceive a story, enough even to work it all out
in your own mind, so that you know perfectly
all your characters, with their faces and
figures and secret thoughts : the difficulty is to
shape it in dramatic form, and, above all, to
begin it. You know how Hector Philiponon was
seized with that great thought of his which
so mightily buffeted him. As were Hector's
struggles, so were Allen's. The babe was
ready for the birth, but the hour of travail was

not yet come. In the telling of a tale, well
begun is half done. You may be dull in
your second chapter — in fact, you are pretty
sure to be dull, because things have got to be
explained — but to be dull in the first chapter
is, indeed, a fatal thing.

Allen made a hundred different attempts to
begin his story — a hundred times he tore up
his work disgusted ; it was as if his heroine
was imploring him, with entreaties which could
not be denied, to tell her story, yet he could
not.

There was once a man who, like Allen, had
conceived a story ; like him, he could not begin
it. I think he could never fit a name to his
leading character, which was the principal
reason why he did not begin it. Now, by
reason of long waiting, his story dried up in
that man's brain, and as it dried it killed, somehow,
all the firm qualities of that brain, so that
it became incapable of any more good work at
all, and finally went soft. And the poor man
had to be locked in a little room of a great

house. They said it was liard work, but that
was not the case — it was Suppressed Story,
which is as fatal as Suppressed Gout

Allen reached that point when his story
must be told or else it would begin to dry up
and so destroy his brain. If that had happened,
I suppose he would have presently
returned to the Forest and wandered about
fc r the rest of his days playing a melancholy
strain upon an oaten pipe, a blighted shepherd.
Fortunately, the moment came when the
struggle ceased and the tale could be told. He
wrote it in a kind of rapture, working without
pause or rest, even neglecting the Organ. He
wrote, without correction or revision, chapter
b}^ chapter, until it was finished. And then he
put his manuscript away and returned to the
streets, as one might seek the fountains of
Helicon. He V\^alked about, now, watching
the people with a purpose — he wanted to know
more exactly how they talked, what they said,
what they thought, what they did, even how
t'ley were dressed. There is no detail in the

comedy of Humanity too small to be noted ;
nothing, hardly, that cannot be quoted, described,
or suggested.

After a week or so he returned to his story
and wrote it all over again, every word. Before,
it had been an outline sketch ; now, he made
it a picture. He might add touches here and
there, but it was finished ; he could do but little
more to improve it. He put it away, this mind
at rest, and began, with interest, the study of
another French poet.

A strange thing happened to him then.
The girl whose story lie had written, who had
been living in his brain so long, suddenly
vanished clean away and died completely out
of his mind ; if he thought of her at all it was
as of a person in some far-off country whom
in olden time he had known, much as an honest
tar, all of the olden time, with a wife in every
port, might while at Wapping think of his wife
at Calcutta. Nor did he, for the time, even
look at his manuscript again.

I do not think that Allen will ever know a

happiness greater than that which he enjoyed
during this time when the fountain lie had
opened ran with a swift and steady stream full
and clear. Other writers have shown us the
rustic life with the rustic speech ; others have
shown sailor's life, soldier's life, artist life,
society life, clerical life, all kinds of life. Allen
was the first to portray the life which seems
so monotonous and so mean, yet is so full of
possibilities, so varied in its types. Not for
nothing had Allen tramped those thousands of
miles wutli Will and listened everywhere for
the voice of the People. He had found it at
last.

Allen kept his story a secret. He would
tell nobody, not even Isabel. After a time he
took it to his friendly editor, who received it
without any enthusiasm and with obvious distrust.
He said that such tliinn^s are a drus? in
the market — which is only true of bad stories
■ — and he told Allen that really he had better
stick to his own line of light and appreciative
criticism. So great a pity for a man to go

outside this line ! And he presently sent the
story back, and Allen was perfectly certain
that he had not taken the trouble to turn over
the pages. Now he knew very well that this
monthly magazine was always wanting good
tales, and he knew that his own was good, and
that if his editor could only be got to read it
dispassionately he would take it with joy. lie
therefore invented a little plot, for the carrying
out of which he secured the services and secrecy
of his old friend, the foreman.

He had the story set up in type, the same
type as that used for the magazine, and when
the next packet of proof was sent to the editor
he contrived that his story should be sent by
mistake with them. The editor received his
proofs and presently read the story. Now,
when it was read, that editor fell into a strange
doubt and trouble of soul ; for he could not
remember, for the life of him, that he had ever
read the MS. of that story. Yet it was a good
story, an excellent story, one of the best stories
he had ever read. The more he read it the

more he was struck with its power. He took
it home with him and showed it to his wife.
The influence of woman in editorial is as great
as in political circles — only it is not yet suspected.
His wife said it really was a most
powerful and real story.

He then sent to the printer for the manuscript
and name of the author. The foreman
came himself to explain that it was the work
of Mr. Engledew, dio had had the tale setup
for himself, and that it was, he added tenaciously,
a mistake of his own, which he
deeply deplored.

Then the editor saw that he had been the
victim of a heartless deception, and would have
wept had he not been too busy. He therefore
wrote to Allen asking for the use of that story ;
and when, a few days afterwards, he gave Allen
an excellent dinner at the club, he refrained
from any words which might lead his guest
to guess that he was discovered.

This was the beginning ; this the way in
which Allen found — himself The rest was

easy, though it might take time, because, with
a short story of twenty or thirty pages, one
does not advance at once to that enviable level
at which one finds editors holding out their
hands and asking — positively asking— for contributions.


Allen,' cried Gertrude with effusion, ' I
congratulate you. My dear, you have made
a noble beginning in the best of all ways. Weare
proud of you.'

I kept it a secret,' said Allen, ' because I
was resolved that if I failed I would go away
and never come near you any more. I would
treat myself as an impostor.'

Never come near us again ! Why, Allen,
my first three novels all failed, but yet I
persevered. And you — oli ! my dear, mine
were poor things, indeed, compared with what
yours will be. Go away .^ Why, what little
faith is here ! '

What does Claire say ? ' asked Isabel
quickly.

I have not seen her yet,' said Allen. * I
am going to see her tomorrow.'

As a beginning,' said Hector, ' you have
written verses. All men of genius write verses.
Most abandon them. You have studied human
life ; you, therefore, in the next place tell a
story. Most men of genius tell stories. You
may next advance to the better work.'

Better work ? ' asked Allen blankly.
What better work ? '

You ask?' Hector replied. 'You who
know what the people want ? '

How should I know what they want ? '
said Allen impatiently.

How else could you write this story ? '

This question ought to have afforded the
young writer boundless satisfaction. There
is this quality in a good work of art, that it
tells more to those who study it than to him
who made it Hector read this story, and
forthwith began to consider it from points of
view not contemplated by the writer, and

especially as if it was designed with a view to
things practical.

Why,' he replied, ' I was telling the story
of a girl. What else was I doing ? '

You had no purpose, no design in studying
this — model ? '

I told her story. What more ? When I
had told it she — she went away.'

He appealed to Claire with a puzzled look
of disappointment. What did her father mean ?

Tell Allen, mon ptV^,' said Claire, ' that
you are proud of him.'

'I am — proud,' said Hector with a gulp.
You are satisfied with your art, Allen ? '

I am more than satisfied,' he replied.

Hector sat down. He had then failed.
Claire looked at him with imploring eyes.
Allen, alone, of the three understood nothing.
Then Hector rose again and began to speak,
addressing the whole world.

Is it,' he asked, ' that the artist thinks of
nothing but his work ? When Raphael painted
a beautiful woman, did he not fall in love with

her? When Dante wrote the " Inferno," did
he drop no tears for the unhappy, or did he
think of rhyme and phrase ? It is a magnificent
world — for the artist. Allen, you have a
splendid chance before you. For you know
the voltaire. He is at your feet. You have
heard his cries ; you know his voice ; you know
his ]mins. Take your sketch-book with you.
Behold ! There is a boy in rags — ah, pretty
boy with rags and dirt, and uncombed hair,
and hungry eyes. You paint him. Ah! What
genius ! What a portrait ! Let us go on,
wee are artists — all the Levite followed that
profession — let us go on. Is that not the girl
you have already drawn? You have forgotten
her already? Yet you painted her only a
week ago. Her eyes are as full of tears, and
her heart is as heavy as then. The poor girl !
The poor girl ! Here they come, all of them —
the thin man who asks questions — a dangerous
man ; the brute man who drinks rum and
kicks his wife — you can easily draw him ; enjoins
the whole procession of those who toil. Make

your sketches, listen to their talk. Let your
work be faithful. Oh, it is great ! It is noble !
Art is the only thing worth following.'

My master ! ' cried Allen, overwhelmed.

Claire breathed freely. Allen had not seen
the delicate satire of the words. Afterwards
he might remember, but now he was too full
of his story and its success.

Allen,' Hector added, ' I have made a
mistake. I dreamed that' you might become
a Luther. Happy boy! You have become,
instead — a Lamartine.'

Ei\D OF THE Second VOLUME.

LONDON* : Printed BY

BPOTTISWOODK And CO., New-street BQUAKB

A:?D PAELIAIIEXT STREET

LI B R.AFIY

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS



yea

kM

•/ .//. 6/rr.]^r

f ^c simple gfovn of ^^rce ^.5oys aix5 a girl

BY

WALTER BESANT

AUTHOR OF ' ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN ' ' THE REVOLT OF MAN
*THE CAPTAINS* ROOM* ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. in.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[AH rights reserved

SrOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OP

THE Tried VOLUME.
Fait III.— the reward of THE MAN.

CHArTER PAGE

I. A wo:yIA^''s reasons 3

II. niS FIRST BOOK 32

III. Olynthus 54

IV. FOR Allen's sake 69

V. Frail WILL 95

TI. WITH ALLEN 109

Til. A SECOND VICTOR HUGO 138

Visit. will's RETURN 1C3

IX. THE OPINIONS OF A CHINAMAN . . . .185

X. JOHN STEPHENS 2U4

XI. A GLORIOUS FAILURE . . . . .222

XII. THE PRIZE OF TEE GOLDEN APPLE . . . . 244

THE REWARD OF THE MAN

VOL. III.

I WISH to tell, ill my own words, low I chose
between the three men who had done me the
greatest honour that a man can confer upon a
woman — the offer of his love and service. It
is, I know, just as true that no greater honour
can happen to a man than the confidence and
love of a woman. And yet — to me — because
I am a woman, I suppose, it docs not seem
quite so great a thing. My father, in the gallant
and old-fashioned way with which he always
talks of women, reminding one of old books,
powdered wigs, patches, and Jioop petticoats,
says, that the highest distinction and glory fora
man is to have it recorded that lie was loved
by many women. I suppose, however, that any

man would be more than contented with the
love of one, if he loved her in return.

At the age of eighteen I was told by these
three young men that they were in love with
me. I was myself too young at the time to
comprehend all that this meant. Perhaps, too,
my lovers were themselves too young and too
ignorant of the world to understand the importance
of what they offered. If my mother
had been living she would have taught me that
these young men proposed to give me nothing
less than their whole lives, with the fruits of all
the work they would ever do. Can any man
offer more ? But my father did not teach me
this : he spoke a little about the favour of my
smiles and the great happiness which awaited
the one whom I should accept — things which, I
dare say, turned my head — and then he said no
more about the matter, but carefully avoided it,
until the time was close at hand, ^vhen the
decision had to be made. I do not say that I
never thought about it : there was not a single
day, to tell the truth, in which I did not have

it on my mind. But always, until near the
end, as of a thing far off, which need not disturb
my mind.

No one must think that I made, consciously
at least, any difference between two of the boys.
As for the third, I knew very well, even at the
beg-innings, what answer I should have for him.
But I speak of the two in whose delightful
society I lead spent always, in all seasons and
in all weathers, some part of every day. Yes ;
every day ; for on half-holidays, if it was fine,
we walked or ran in the Forest ; and if it was
wet they came to the Cottage and we read or
played ; and in the evenings they came to talk
French ; and on Sunday afternoons they came
to talk or to walk. Every day I saw them ;
they were my brothers ; I could not love one
more or one less ; both were kind and thoughtful
; both were as dear to me as one human
soul can be to another. I have made my decision,
now, and made one contented, I hope, for
life — yea, and for the after-life as well, through
all the ages, when we shall together, and side

by side, grow more and more in the spiritual
life. Yet, still, when I think of the other my
heart goes out to him, and I wish that he, too,
were with us in the house, as in the old times.
I could never refrain or cease from loving both
these boys.

Their own homes were not happy. Their
parents were dreadfully poor. I do think
that there is nothing worse for a boy than the
continual pressure of grinding poverty. I have
seen Will clench his hands as he spoke of the
shifts to which he was put in order to make a
decent appearance at school. I have seen Allen
weep with bitterness for the same cause. Allen,
at least, had the satisfaction of knowing that
his own poverty was due to no fault of his
father, unless it be a fault to trust an old friend,
your partner. Poor Will had not that consolation
; he knew that his father had ruined himself
and thrown away a fortune in the pursuit of
mad-brained schemes ; it was difficult for him,
remembering his father's folly, to keep the fifth
commandment in spirit as well as in letter.

We, to be sure, were poor enough, but then we
had the French thrift, and so we seemed richer.
At all events, we lived contented with quite
simple things, and did not repine at what we
could not prevent. Mr. Massey, on the other
hand, continually lamented the ill-fortune which
had robbed him of the vast wealth he looked to
make, grumbled daily over the plainness of his
food, and spent his evenings in examining the
papers relating to each scheme and its failure.
Allen's mother, for her part, could never recover
from the shock of her husband's dreadful
death, brooded over his calamities, and lost no
opportunity of exhorting her son to wipe out
the disgrace of his father's misfortunes by
making money for himself. Poor woman !
She was brought up to consider poverty a sin,
and failure as the greatest offence against her
fellow creatures and himself that a man can
commit. So poor Allen's boyhood was made
wretched, save for the happiness which he enjoyed
with my father and myself. And so, in
this Avay, from the very first, the boy was led to

conceive a deadly hatred of the City and all that
belongs to money and money making.

Never any boy, I should think, was so fond
of books as Allen. He read all that he could
lay his hands upon, in French and English.
When he first went into the City he used to
save half, out of the shilling which was meant
for dinner, in order to buy books. He read all
that we had, all he could borrow from everybody
in the village ; though I suspected nothing
at the time, it seems to me now to have been
quite certain from the beginning that he must
become a man of letters, and I can never sufficiently
thank my father for finding this out and
for training him in literature and style, and afterwards
in Art, and in the knowledge of actual
life, which fitted him for the work he was todo.
Of course I knew very well that Allen
could never, never take up the active political
life of which my father dreamed.

When first he read us his verses I thought
that I had never heard anything so bad as they
were. But my father saw promise, and encouraged

him and led him on step by step to love
letters and books more and more. He waited
till he was past twenty-one before he could
follow the profession of letters, and then lie
tore himself from the City and plunged into the
new world of print and ink with a heart full of
courage.

When he refused the appointment in China
and told his mother of his resolution, she first
implored him to accept the post and then upbraided
him, and Ashen she could not alter his
purpose she came to my father and begged him
to use his influence. When he refused, and
assured her that her son was taking the best
step to insure his happiness and success, she
flew into the most violent passion that I had
ever seen. I would not repeat words used in
wrath by an angry woman. My father listened
without chanofinfT his countenance or losing his

DO O

politeness, though she reproached him for his
poverty, for his country, for his profession, for
having led Allen away from the business of his
life, and even for making him think of love

when lie ought to have been thinking of money,
and for throwing his penniless and designing
daughter in the boy's way.

When she went away, with white cheeks
and quivering lips, my father shuddered.

Against the words of an angry woman,'
he said, ' there is no reply but silence. Do not
cry, Claire, my chill. Play music for the peace
oF our souls. Poor woman ! Yet she must
have been beautiful once. It is only the happy
woman who remains beautiful.'

A few days later I met her in the village ;
she begged to be forgiven, saying, humbly, that
all her hopes had been for her boy to follow in
the footsteps of his father, and by his own success
to make that disgrace to be forgotten. I
told her that, as for the anger, it was forgotten
already ; and as to the disgrace of which she
spoke, that was long since forgotten and only the
pity of it left, because everybody knew how good
and honourable a man was her husband. She
shook her head and said I was a girl and did
not know all. Then I told her what we hoped

of Allen, and how bright and clever he was,
and what great prizes in reputation as well as
in money await those who write beautiful things
in prose and yioA^^^. But this she could not
understand.

Allen did not come back to us for six
months, but he wrote telling of the bad luck
which his poems encountered everywhere, and
the unanimous opinion of publishers about their
merits. When, at last, he came, it was to tellus
that he had actually got work of a humble
kind, yet better than nothing.

And soon after this he told me of his new
friends, to whom he owed all the success which
he has since obtained. I was very curious about
them. There was his friend, Mr. Lawrence
Ouvry, who was so wise and knew everything,
and especially everything about literature,
whose father and mother and all his relations
had been poets, editors, novelists. How strange
to hear of such a family ! And then there was
Miss Gertrude Holt, the best and kindest of
ladies. It seemed as if our boy was actually

on the road to success when he was invited to
At Homes ' crowded with literary people, and
it looked like real success when Isabel recited
his poems before them all. Then came his
first paper in the magazine, which gave him a
chance, and this was success ! Yet still we where
not satisfied ; it was not for papers of criticism
that Allen entered the profession of letters ;
nor was it until his first tale appeared that we
knew for certain that he was in the right line at
last — the line for which his genius was fitted.

He was always the same Allen to me, yet
he changed — oh ! how much he changed. We
lost our eager boy, ignorant of the world, full
of enthusiasms and rages, his large eyes aflame
with hope or indignation — lie was gone. Gertrude
— let me call her at once by her name — ■
and Isabel, between them, changed him. They
calmed him ; they made him fitted for work by
praising some of his enthusiasms and cultivating
others ; they introduced him into society ; they
led him on, developed him, kept him from trying
impossible things, and advised him wisely.

It was what most he wanted, the society of
ladies who could advise him and ij;ive the
kind of sympathy which helps a young man.
Nothing could be greater than his gratitude.
His letters were full of his friends. He was
always making excuses to be with them ; he was
always trying to do something for them ; and
when he called upon me it was, after he had
told me of his own affairs, to talk about Gertrude
and Isabel.

Claire,' he would say, ' we must make up
a plot to bring them here. I want you to know
them, you will like them as well as I do, and
better, if that is possible. Of course, everybody
falls in love With Gertrude at once, but you
must know both of them.'

I promised I would do what I could to help
him in brinmno' them to the Forest.

Isabel, I could understand, encouraged and
pushed him on, while Gertrude kept him back.
Now I knew that Gertrude was an old lady, and
I always, until I saw her, thought that Isabel
was old too, but not tho old. This was, perhaps,

the reason — thoiigli I would fain think otherwise
why I was not in the least jealous of either of
them. It is true that I thought little about the
decision before me, but yet — when a man has
said that he is in love with you — to hear him
praise continually another girl might make any
woman jealous.

Isabel encouraged him to work, pointing
out how this man or that man, without half
this abilities, was pushing his way into notice.
Gertrude encouraged him to wait, urging him
to give nothing but his best, and letting him
understand that his work, as yet, was immature.
It was delightful to think that he was so carefully
looked after. When I heard that Isabel
recited his poems I ought to have known that
she was young ; a sense of incongruity came over
me as I read his letter — one vv^ould not like to
think of elderly ladies reciting ; yet actresses,
I suppose, like other women, become old.

^s for Will, he, too, wrote to me once a
month — long and beatific letters, telling me
everything that he thought I should like best

IS

to hear and that would interest me : all about
the strange people of China, and the colony of
English, Germans, and Americans among whom
he lived, so that I seemed to know them all.
Then he told me — if this would interest me —
what he read, and ^,vhat Its thoughts were upon
all kinds of things — nothing, I am sm^e, improves
a man more than to go away and be made todo
responsible work by himself. And of the
parties that went on, how he had learnt to dance
and to ride, and of the dinners and picnics —
why, what a life of pleasure and excitement he
was leading compared with what he had left
behind ! And he used to send me presents, such
as silk, and tidings in carved wood of strange
fragrance, and chests of choice tea, all with a
chivalrous resolution not to say or do anything
which might perchance prejudice Allen, which
made Will keep praising him and prophesying
greatness for him, as if he would rather — though
I kiiCAV he never really wished — that I would
accept Allen than himself. I thought a gi-eat
deal of AVill, almost as much as I did of Allen.

And oil ! it is so great a pleasure to think of a
man as strong, self-reliant, and full of good
principles. I pictured to myself the tall, handsome
lad becoming a tall and handsome man,
stronger than most, braver than any, honest as
the day. It would be a cruel thing to wound
that noble heart.

I am sorry to say that, when these two went
away and Olynthus remained for awhile, he
endeavoured to take advantage of his position
and presumed to talk to me about abridging
the period of waiting. This was ungenerous
in him, and when he found that I thought so he
desisted and presently went to London, where
he took chambers and lived alone. I saw him
very little after this for some time. Isis sisters
did not, in those days, call upon me, and, I
think, were greatly displeased that their brother's
affections were bestowed ' beneath him.' To be
sure I was only a teacher of French — and of
everything else — in a girls' school. I had
never thought of being called upon or recognised
by the ladies in the village. In time one

lives down even the sense of social inferiority.
My father, for his part, never felt that he could
possibly be considered as socially inferior to
any one, especially in a village full of bankrupt
bourgeois.

Presently we heard, to our great surprise,
that Olynthus was making Great fortune. It
seemed quite true. He actually became suddenly
clever, he who had been always thought
so stupid.

He even came himself to tell me so, puffing
and swelling his cheeks like a turkey.

'It is really true, Claire,' he sake. ' Where
is your clever Allen .^ Starving in a garret.
Where is Will Massey ? Clerk in a silk house.
Where am I? In West-end chambers. I've
got a cab and a tiger ; I drive into the City
every day ; I've got a club ; I buy the best
cigars and drink the best champagne. When
I choose to say the word there is the best society
in London open to me.'

We are very glad to hear it,' I said.

'What has done this?' he asked grandly.

VOL. III. c

Reading books ? Eidiiig on bicycles ? Walking
about the streets ? Brains, Claire. Brains.
Seem ember that.'

I believe that when he visited his mother
and sisters plainness of speech was used as
regards the daughters of French masters, and
he was given to understand that young menin
his position should look higher — very much
higher. But he had always been a headstrong
boy, and opposition only made him more obstinate.
Besides — yes — I am sure that Olynthus
was always fond of me, after his fashion.

I did not quite know, then, how he was
growing so rich. I was told, lout one does not
easily understand these things, that it was by
buying with nothing and selling for a great deal,
or by buying what did not exist and selling
what there was none of; which seems absurd.
Perhaps it was by pretending to buy of one
man and making somebody else believe he was
selling ; and this, too, seems a strange way of
making money. However that may be, he was
greatly envied, and Sir Charles, with tears in

his eyes, prayed that he might Hve to see a
failure which promised to be greater even than
Mr, Colder's.

It was somewhat less than a year after the
boys went away that our good fortune came
to us.

I suppose it is ridiculous to confess the thing,
but, in truth, we did not at first understand how
such an enormous income could possibly be
spent. I know by this time that the income
is not large at all, compared with what English
people generally call large ; yet to us it was a
great and splendid fortune, and our eyes where
dazzled.

Remember that all we had in the world to
live upon was the cottage, Avhicli was our own,
and some thirty or forty pounds a year, which
I believe was mine, and had come to me from
my mother. Then my whither received seventy
five pounds a year from the school, and I had
twenty-five. Altogether a hundred and forty
pounds a year. We lived with the greatest

c 2

simplicity. My father had no expensive tastes
at all. Our garden provided us with fruit,
vegetables, and flowers. I made my own dresses
and trimmed my own hats. I should have
made my own boots, too, if I had known how
to get inside them in order to sew on the
soles. It is dreadful to think so much about
such things as boots ; and I wore out an immense
quantity.

Fancy, if you can, the change from a hundred
and forty pounds a year, which means calculation
by pence, to twelve hundred pounds a year,
wliicli means calculation by sovereigns !

The magnitude of the thing once over, we
began to feel how, in a hundred different ways,
we might expand our mode of living without
changing the simplicity to which we ' were
accustomed. We first resigned our work at
the school — I am ashamed to think of the
happiness With which I looked forward to
doing no more work for money — then we
moved into a larger house, a pretty house, too,
with gables and a porch, and a great garden.

I found one room into ^vhicli I moved all the
dear old shabby furniture of m}^ old room.
And then we went up to London and saw all
the sights which I had last seen in company
with the boys ; also, I was able, for the first
time in my life, to buy music, books, ribbons,
lace, and all the gloves and pretty things I desired.
It is such a happiness to buy pretty things !
I wished to publish Allen's verses for him, now
that we were rich, but my father would not
permit it. He would have Allen owe to himself
the whole of his success, if he had any ; and this
my father, full of his own project, refused to
consider possible. I think uoav that he was
right. It was certainly better for Allen to
acquire hardness by lighting and temporary
defeat. And then all the ladies of the village.
Lady Withycomb, Mrs. Massey — she was a very
stately person, and always looked forward to the
time when her son would hind money enough
to start some more of her husband's schemes
again — Mrs. Gallaway, and the rest, called upon
me. They came and made pretence as if I had

only just come into residence, and were kind
as to a stranger, and spoke of my follies as an
interesting foreigner whom they should study
with pleasure and advantage, and of whom they
had just heard for the first time. When they
went away they shook hands warmly, and said
they hoped that they would be able to see a
great deal of us, and that we would call often.
It really was delightful ! My father shrugged
his shoulders and asked if we were really more
virtuous to-day than we had been yesterday ;
and I laughed. Yet I was pleased. Whether
people have small minds or not, one likes being
recognised. They only treated me as they
treated each other. Xo one called on Mrs.
Skantlebury because her husband had made
money in the retail way, but they all called on
Mrs. Massey because her husband had failed
in the wholesale way.

I was especially pleased with the behaviour
of Olynthus's sisters. Before the arrival of the
fortune they always got out of my way if they
met me, to avoid speaking. As soon as the

knowledge of our accession to wealth was
established they all three called together, and
were most friendly, and begged that I would
consider their home my own — for the sake of
dear Olynthus.

When we were fully established in our new
house, and had received the calls of our neighbours,
my other opened a subject of considerable
importance. He began one morning by
remarking that in France, even in the provincial
towns, ladies have their evenings, and
there is society. Again, that in some parts of
London, as lie was credibly informed, there
were clubs or societies for singing, and young
people danced, and the evening was not considered
as a dull three hours of preparation fora
long night of bed.

In this village, my daughter,' he said,
I observe with regret ' — he had got into the
habit of speaking about himself as Sir Charles,
and everybody else spoke about him, namely,
as a new comer — ' with great regret, that there
is no society at all ; no lady has an evening.

Claire, it is for you to reform this state of
things.'

What can I do ?' I asked.

You will, my child,' he said with solemnity,
create a salon!

I was to create a salon. Alas ! where were
the materials? My father left me to think
over the idea. Of course, I thought about it.
By this time I had heard of Gertrude's ' At
Homes.' Could I not create a salon in the
same manner ? But then I should have to
make my evenings pleasant, and we knew no
interesting people at all.

Can I ' — it was after a sleepless night — -
can I be at home on Saturday evenings ? '

Nothing more easy,' said ni}^ father. ' In
fact, you are always at home on that and on
every other evening, except when we go to
the pit — I beg your pardon, Claire — since
our inheritance — to the dress-circle, of the
theatre.'
' And could we get any one to come ? '

'Nothing, again, more easy,' he replied, just

as if he had been in English society all his life.
• You will attract the elder people with a little
supper, and the younger ' — he paused in order
to give point to the advice, but then he loves
an epigram so much — ' with a little love.'

The supper is easy ; but who is to make
the love ? '

That, my child, they will make for themselves.'
And then he spread his hands, and
smiled as if he had said something happy.

These general maxims in which my father
delights are very well, but they do not help
much. For instance, how can the girls make
love if there are no young men ? Now there
were no young men in the village at all, since
the boys went away.

Nevertheless, I thought it would be delightful
to have an evening if people would come.
What could we do ?

I remembered how Isabel recited Allen's
verses, and I made up a little plan for an
evening's amusement.

It was difficult, because, though everybody

came, they were awkward and not accustomed
to be amused. You may very easily get quite
out of the habit of being happy, if you like.
I got some of the elder girls from the school,
with Miss Billingsworth's permission, to act a
little comedy, which the girls played with a
great deal of spirit. This made everybody
laugh ; I really do think that some of those
poor girls had not laughed for years. Then
we had some singeing: ; and then, though there
were no young men, we cleared the room and
danced, and Sir Charles said it reminded him
of the famous Calico Ball he gave at the
Mansion House in the year when he was Lord
Mayor. Then there was a little supper, and
claret-cup, and they all went away well
pleased.

That was the beginning of my evenings,
and in this way we introduced society into the
village.

They only wanted somebody to start them.
Once started we went on easily. Every week
we invented something for the evening's entertainment,

and on every occasion we ended with
a dance.

Then my father's wise sentence proved true.
We did not find the love-making, which was
found by the girls for themselves. For they
brought young men from far-off places, such as
Chigwell, Lough ton, and Bucklers Hill. It
appeared that there are everywhere quantities,
really large numbers, of young men who are
always ardently desirous of a dance, and
respond with the greatest alacrity to the chance
of getting one every week, summer and winter.
Naturally, therefore, flirtations began, and
though the peace of the village vanished, the
anxieties and fluttering, the whisperings and
confidences, the anticipations of the evening,
and the pleasure of wearing one's best frock,
being in one's sweetest temper, and, better
still, living in that delightful sun-lit haze which
precedes an engagement — all these things together
fully compensated. Besides, the peace
of the village had been only a monotonous
and sluggish calm, live the smooth surface

of a (luck-pond, which the guns regretted
not.

Ill this creation of a salon in receiving and
reading the letters from Will and Allen, in
visits to London, where we saw all the best
pieces at the theatre and all the pictures, and
in reading and music, the weeks passed swiftly
away. At the end of the first year we were
in our new house, the richest people in the
village ; at the end of our second year Allen
had already struck the vein by which he has
won recognition, and Olynthus was at the height
of his success. It was in the beginning of the
third year that my father took me for the first
time to France. It was a delightful time, if
only the boys had been with us ; but I could
not at all feel as if I was French by birth.
We stopped a day or two in Paris, and I saw
the spot where the shop had stood which supplied
the barricade with my whither's poems.
Oh, those unlucky poems ! There had been
the long period of the Second Empire since
then, and another revolution ; but my father

folded his arms as he stood upon the sacred
place, and was once more in imagination
rhilipon of the Barricades— Philiponon, the Poet
of Revolution. He is the kindest-hearted man
in the world, and the most forgiving. Yet I
am sure that at the moment the fierce desire
of battle was upon him, and he felt that strange
joy of the fight which we women read about
but cannot understand.

Then we took the train and went to
Orleans, and from Orleans to Tours, where
we stayed, and whence we wandered about in
the pleasant country of Touraine — wliy were
the dear old provinces ever turned into departments
? We saw Chambord and Chenonceux,
Loches and Amboise, Chinon and Saumur,
Away le Eideau, and Blois. We went on to
Poitiers and to Angouleme, where one could
dream away a life on the terrace overlooking
the sweet and sunny plains, and to La Rochelle,
the strange okl town with the stone arcades in
the streets and the sliiekls of the IIni][uenot
gentlemen. We were three months on our

holiday — the first I had ever had. I learned, at
least, to understand one reason why a Frenchman
loves his country.

Then we returned, when the autumn colouring
was on the Forest, and the sad, rainy English
summer, which promises so much and gives
so little, was over.

Allen had spent his summer at Eichmond
with Gertrude and Isabel, writing stories and
poems, and getting daily better known ; Will
had done something, the nature of Vvdiich I do
not know, which greatly pleased his seniors ;
and Olynthus was simply dazzling. I forgot,
because it i3 a little detail which really does
not matter, and is not a part of the story, that
several of the young men vrlio came to my
evenings made the mistake of falling; in love
with me, and I had the very disagreeable duty
of advising them to think about it no longer.
I dare say they are cured by this time ; but
one or two of them, I remember, gave me a
great deal of trouble.

Then the autumn slowly passed away, and
when Christmas came and the new year, tlierc
remained less than six months to the time vrlien
I must make my decision. It is the story of
that six months which I have to tell.

CHAPTEE 11.

niS FIRST BOOK.

Allen's first book of collected tales appeared
in February of that year.

Nothing that a writer ever does seems to me
quite to come up to his earliest and freshest
work. Yet one could see that his touch was
becoming firmer, the grasp of his art stronger,
and his powers more developed. As yet, he
confined himself wisely to short studies. They
were not sketches at all, but careful and
finished pictures. Some of these stories were
sad, some humorous, some satirical ; but they
were all, one felt, true. Like all true stories,
they suggested things which were not in the
pages. They reminded me of what Allen
once said about the theatre.

'The actors on the store, if you can foruct
their acting and see only the story, tell a
hundred tales besides the one which they
represent. The study of Mercuric is a tragedy
in itself. The story of Tybalt is as touching
as the story of Romeo. What of Borneo's first
mistress ? Do you not think that she, too,
sometimes came to Aveep over the grave of the
lover who had been faithless to her, but whom
she loved still, remembering the days when he
eat at her feet and played vrith her golden
tresses ? Even the nurse and the apothecary
and Friar Lawrence, especially the apothecary,
could tell their tale.'

And thus he sketched the story of the
apothecary. He was a student, Allen said, of
Salerno, the great school for medicine : he
went from Salerno to Montpellier, in order to
attend the lectures on anatomy of Eabelais,
the great anatomist and physician : lie knew
Servetus, that other great physician, and had
talked with him. He "was a poet and an
enthusiast. But lie failed, somehow. It was

VOL. iir. D

probably throiigli lack of common-sense, a
thing which lias caused many to lag behind or
go out of the way : and because he was too
often running after the shadow instead of
picking up the substance ; for instance, he
used to read books on alchemy, and sought
the Great Projection ; he wrote poetry Which
nobody read ; he dangled after patrons who
neglected him and gave him nodding ; finally,
he became a lean and Imuo-ry seller of drug's
and misanthropic. As for poisons, he would
gladly have poisoned the whole of mankind,
could he, by a potent draught, have made an
end of all. He went on to sketch the end of
that apothecary's career : hovv^ he hit upon a
cosmetic which all the ladies of Verona rushed
to buy ; how he grew rich and sleek, forgot
his old misanthropy, married the daughter of a
wealthy merchant, burned his poetry, put his
books on alchemy into the hands of the Inquisition,
said nothing at all about that little
transaction with Romeo, and, when he died,
left money — to the disgust of his heirs — for

the erection of the most beautiful tomb, all
jasper, a miracle of marble, with a lovely
little chapel, to be placed over the bodies of
the unfortunate lovers. Thus, no one but
Shakespeare knowing his history, he showed,
in the end, his repentance. I always thought
of this story when I read one of Allen's, because
he had the ait of fnidinir materials fora
human comedy where most people would
see nothing at all but a squalid street with
mean houses and cabbage-stalks. He was like
a child who can play with two bits of stick
and pretend everything. His vrork was a
collection of all his stories. It was published
in two volumes, first, tliougli now you can get
it much more cheaply in one. He sent me a
copy, but I had read the contents already in
the magazines. Yet I read them ao^ain.

Then Allen sent me the criticisms. How
hard and unappreciative they seemed to me !
but then I could read between the lines, and I
saw Allen's soul in the book, and that he had
put into it his noblest and best. Yet I believe

D 2

they were really kind and helped the book
greatly. One or two spoke slightingly of the
new writer. I was indignant. The men who
wrote such things were unworthy, I thought,
of the name of critic.

Isabel, afterwards, told me all about the
reviews and the reviewers. She knew the
names of the writers, even the unsigned reviews.
This one, she told me, was the work
of a man born to be a critic ; not an unkind
or harsh critic, but a just man, though sometimes
hard in his judgments. Another was
the work of an unsympathetic and unimaginative
writer, on whom the pearls of fancy
were thrown away Another Alas written by
a well-knoAvn novelist, and this was the most
generous of all. So it is pleasant to think
that there is no envy among novelists. Another
was written by a man Who Avrote a leading
article every day of his life for a daily, and
two every week for a weekly, and one article
at least every month for a monthly, and one
long paper every quarter for the Quarterly

and brought out a book or two every year,
aud was suspected of being a London correspondent
to a colonial paper : and yet found
time to read novels and to review them.
What a wonderful thing is the world of letters !
Some day writers will insist on signing all
their articles in newspapers and everywhere
else. Then, at last, we shall see them take
their right position in the world. As for the
notices in half-a-dozen lines, Isabel told me
that it was absurd to look at them, or to
consider them, because at a guinea or two fora
column, who can afford to read the half-dozen
books with which they have to fill up
that column ? Yet an injury may be done to
a writer even in half-a-dozeu lines.

'You are proud of him, then, Claire?'
said my father, as I stood with the book in my
hands.

'Yes-but '

The drop of bitterness which is in everything.
What is it, Claire P '

I should like the book better, if he had

not told US — if I thought that he loved his
character.'

The girl told him her story and went away,
and he remembered her no more.'

'He makes us love her so much that we
feel we ought to love her still.'

There was an artist once,' said my father,
who tortured a slave in order to paint the
agony. Do you think he felt those pains
himself? '

'No — but yet And he was a

Wretch!'

'Many artists paint beautiful women. Do
they love them all? My child, be reasonable.
Our boy is an artist — only an artist,' he sighed,
who might have been a lather.'

Allen wrote so truthfully and so tenderly
that we outfit to have been satisfied. Yet —
I suppose because my father had talked so
much about it — it seemed to me a smaller
thing to set forth the life of the people than to
study it, and to learn what they want to make
them happier. Yet it was a beautiful thing

that he had done. The volume, daintily
bound, stood before me in mute reproach.
When I opened it, the pages reproached
me still more. It was Allen himself who
seemed to say, ' Claire ! did you believe that I
could do this — even when you encouraged me
most ? Are you not proud of me ? Did you
think your old playfellow would ever write so
well ? If I move your heart and compel your
tears, and force you to love these puppets of
my brain as if they were living creatures —
more, because if they where living, you, with
your small imagination, would see only common
working girls and working men, and you
would not love them at all ; — if I have this
mastery, will you still look for more, and waste
regrets upon an idle dream ? ' It was ungrateful
: and yet the thought possessed me
that there was something nobler in my father's
dream. It is very good to write of men and
women truthfully, and with love and compassion
; but, perhaps, better to work for them.
One thinks more of the poor soldiers who rush

into the fight than of the piper who keeps up
their spirits.

I have not yet,' said Allen, ' sent my
mother a copy. Gertrude is going to take
one. Will you, too, dear Claire, be with ray
mother when Gertrude calls ? 1 cannot tell
you how much I want you to know Gertrude
and to love her.'

The house occupied by Mrs. Engledew was
one of the smallest in the village ; a house of
white boards with a porch covered over with
honeysuckle and jessamine. There was a
flower-garden in front, yet with few flowers.
Outside, the house was clean and trim as
becomes the house of a widow lady ; within,
its silence and sadness fell into one's heart.
You wished to whisper — to laugh would have
been wicked — the very furniture seemed to
have caught the sadness of the poor woman,
who had no hope left at all, since her son had
left the City. I used to take her all the things
that Allen wrote — but she read none of them.
As for his papers on French literature, they

might please some, she said, but she did not
want to know about foreigners ; and when the
stories began and I tried to interest her in
them, she said that there was quite enough
misery in the world without inventing more ;
and as for making people laugh, Allen was not
brought up to become a Tomfool at a fair, but
to make money in a proper and becoming
manner in the City It was wonderful that a
woman could be so fixed in her ideas.

I think that when she was young she must
have been beautiful ; one afternoon in summer
when I called I found her sleeping in her chair
her head lay back and the reflection of the
sunlight fell upon her cheeks from the open
window. I stood looking at the face on which
I had never seen sunshine before, and I understood
how the thin cheek and wasted features
might have looked when, four-and-twenty years
before, she was a young a beautiful bride.
Four-and-twentv years ac^o ! and for three-and-twenty
of them she had been a widow, with
the dreadful recollection of a ruined luisb:uid,

bidding lier go home, kissing her for the last
time and then then the suicide.
And after that the long struggle with poverty,
made tolerable only by her hopes — poor
woman ! — of the boy who would redeem the
family honour.

I went to see her on the day of the visit,
thinking I would prepare her mind. I told
her how Allen's tales were now collected into
a volume, wliicli was so well received that it
seemed as if his future was assured.

She heard me coldly. She seemed to take
no kind of interest in the subject.

'As for the boy's future,' she said, 'that
cannot be assured by writing books. I am
glad to hear that he is not starving. It is not
the life for which he was brought up, and I
can never think of it without disappointment.'


Oh ! ' I said ; ' try to think of it with
pride.'

No. I cannot. I looked to see him
winning good opinions in the City ; he came

of a business family ; all his relations have
always been in the City, none of them ever
ran away to sea, or — or anything. Why
should he want to be anything different ? If
he was in a line which leads to money I should
not mind so much. But he is not.'

I told her, next, of the ladies who had been
kind to Allen, and were coming to see her and
bring her the book that very afternoon.

They must come, I suppose, if they like,'
she replied ungraciously, and then went on as
if defending herself, ' I do not blame you,
Claire ; I blame nobody any more ; not even
your father, who encouraged Allen most.
Because he is a foreigner, and cannot know
the mischief he was doing when he filled the
boy's head with nonsense.'

While we talked there was the sound of
carriage wheels, and our visitors came. They
were two ladies ; one of them — I knew her at
once — must be Gertrude ; an old lady with
white hair and the kindest face imaginable.
With her was a young lady — who could the

young lady be ? Then I suddenly remembered
that Allen had never told me what Isabel was
like. Could Isabel be young ? Could this be
Isabel ? It must be — it could be no other ;
and instantly I felt the truth. This beautiful
girl, with the indefinable cachet of London,
beautifully dressed, was the reader of Allen's
poems ; she it was who rowed with him, walked
with him, talked with him, encouraged him ;
of whom he spoke and thought continually.
Should I not be more than woman if a pang of
jealousy had not caught my heart and held it
still for a moment ?

The elder lady — Gertrude — it was who
spoke :

I am a friend of your son's, Mrs. Engle-dew
' — the widow bowed stiffly — 'I am a great
friend of this. I love him as if he Avere my
own son. Is that a sufficient excuse for my
calling upon you ? '

She held out lier hand, which Mrs. Engle-dew
took coldly.

My son,' she said, ' has made many friends

ill his new profession ^vliom I do not know.
Will 3'ou take a chair ? '

We sat down, the widow in her arm-chair
beside the fire. Do yon know low, in very
quiet houses, the fire is always dull, never goes
out, never flames or cracks or burns cheerfully?
That was the kind of fire that Mrs.
Engledew always had. I sat behind her. The
two ladies sat on the opposite side, and I
became conscious that the younger one was
looking more curiously at me than at Mrs.
Engledew.

You do not know my name, perhaps ? '

Claire — Miss Philiponon — this young lady — -
has told me you were coming.'

Thank you, Miss Philiponon,' said Gertrude.
I made Allen's acquaintance nearly two years
ago. He is so bright and clever, so certain of
distinction, that it has been the greatest joy tome,
I assume you, to know him.' She paused,
and looked for some word or smile of response,
but there was none. ' I have never before
known a young man with so much promise.'

Oh,' I said, taking the widow's hand, ' does
it not make you proud to hear this ? '

When my son,' she reeked, ' was in the
City, he showed so much promise that they
offered him a post of the greatest responsibility
in China. This woukl have led to a partnership
in one of the best Houses. Yes, he is
a boy of great promise, which makes my disappointment
the worse.'

'But, my dear tidy,' Gertrude continued,
it must be pride and thankfulness, not disappointment,
that you should feel. He may
become — he shall become — one of the best
writers of his age. You could not pray for a
better son.'

He should have become one of the leading
merchants in London ; a grave and serious
man, with a character. Not a play actor, to
make the people laugh and cry.'

Gertrude sighed.

I have brought you his book ; we have
had it bound for you. See ! Allen has written
in it : — " For my mother. The first copy of my

first book." ' Mrs. Engledew received it passively.
' We brou£rlit it ourselves, in order to
tell you, what he cannot, how good and clever
it is, and how much it is already praised.'

I do not read what is called light literature,'
the mother said. ' I am no Ioniser young
think of my soul and my husband in heaven,
where I wish to join him. I have no desire to
laugh. There are sorrows enough of my own
to cry over. Tell Allen, if you please, that I
thank him for his book. Claire has tried to read
me some of his things, but they do not interest
me. The boy's business in life was in Silk, not
in story telling ; lie had excellent chances in
Silk ; he has thrown them away in order to
write stories. lie will never make any money
now. Do not ask me to read his foolish books.'

My dear lady,' Gertrude pleaded, ' it is
not, believe me, a question of money. Yet
your son will make an income which will enable
him to live comfortable Do not doubt it.'

I think of what he has thrown away,' said
his mother.

Tliiiik rather of what your son lias gained.
Oil ! Mrs. Eno^ledew ' — she leaned forward and
took both of the cold reluctant hands — ' such
a writer as your son will be is a gift of God ;
he teaches while he touches the springs of tears
and laughter ; he shows the world what it is,
and makes us discontented with ourselves. Can
you doubt that it is better to be such a teacher
than only one who buys and sells ? '

I felt myself guilty while this enthusiast for
literature pleaded Allen's cause. Yes ; it was
not only a story that he would tell, but lessons,
exhortations, example, admonitions that each
reader might draw from his page. Only a storyteller!
Only an artist! Why, how ignorant
was I even in thought, to underrate the power
of Art !

Mrs. Engledew^ replied, unmoved by this
appeal, that as for teaching, there were schoolmasters
for the young and clergymen for the
grown up. Allen was neither a schoolmaster
nor a clergyman.

But your son will be loved by everybody,'
said Gertrude.

'His father did not want to be loved by
everybody, nor his grandfather, who was also
in Silk. They desired to do their duty, have
the approval of their conscience, to increase
their credit and their balance, and to find
safe investments. What more should a man
desire ? As for people's love, I do not see why
a serious man should care whether he is loved
or not.'

This was very discouraging, and presently
after a few more vain attempts to make the
poor frozen woman understand, Gertrude rose.

You will not read Allen's book, perhaps,'
she said. ' Yet it will remain here for you to
look at. It will remind you that he is a man
now who has done something already, and will
do a OTcat deal more. You will beojin to feel
differently about his work.'

Never,' said the mother, bitterly. ' His
work is not his father's work. His friends are
not his father's friends. If he gets talked about

VOL. III. E

in all the papers, which you call getting honour,
I shall feel no pride in him ; not any. I should
have been proud of liii had he never been
mentioned in any paper at all, but had risen in
the City and become a partner in his House.
But now — never ! '

So Gertrude said no more, but left her. I
went with them.

My dear,' she said outside, ' Allen told me
you would be here. I know all about you —
you are Claire. Claire,' she repeated, taking
both my hands in hers, ' take us to your house.
Let us call upon you. Allen has told you
about us, I know. Isabel wants to know you
as much as I do.'

It was Isabel, then. But, of course, I
knew it could be no other. And how stupid
I was ! How could I have gone on thinking
that Isabel was not young? My little jealousy
had nearly vanished by that time, and I could
think to myself how good and true she looked,
and worthy to be loved by such a man as
Allen ; while, as for myself — oh ! it was only

schoolboy and schoolgirl. Of course, Allen
could never think of me beside this girl, whom
I knew already so well, because he had told
me so much. We shook hands and became
friends at once — and if one was unworthy and
jealous, she felt ashamed of her meanness, when
the other two Avere thinking, not of themselves
at all, but of the boy Avhom all three
loved. They came with me, and I showed
them all the treasures of the bygone time, of
which they wanted to know so much. There
were the photographs of the two boys when
they were fourteen. ' Oh, look ! ' said Isabel,
at Allen's great eager eyes ' — and when they
were eighteen and when they were twenty one,
just before they went avv^ay. There were Allen's
first verses — I gave some to Gertrude. There
were Will's drawings ; there were the books
Ave used to read in, the Lamartine and Chateaubriand,
the Montaigne, the old Plutarch, in
Amyot's French, Beranger, one or two of Victor
Hugo's novels, Moliere, and Racine, Boileau,
and our English Milton, Shakespeare, and Pope.
E 2

U3RARY

There was Allen's own copy of Keats, which he
gave me when he went away, because he loved
it so much. Then there were the presents which
Will had sent me from China, and the drawings
of the people and the places which he
made for me, and his letters. I showed them
all the things belonging to the boys, kept
with the shabby old furniture of the dear old
room.

When the summer comes,' I said, ' I will
show you the Forest. Come with Allen. We
will walk where wee used to play together under
the trees and among the hawthorns. I have
no heart to go there by myself.'

My dear,' said Gertrude, 'it is a truly
beautiful thing for a girl to have the love of
two such men. I say so who never had the
love of one.'

Her eyes glistened. One could not choose
but kiss her.

It is an idol,' she said. ' It is like Paul
and Virginia, but Virginia remains behind,'

And it is Paul who goes away into a far
country,' said Isabel ; and afterwards I wondered
if she quite knew what her words might
mean.

CHAPTER III.

Olynthus.

I SUPPOSE that it must have been early in
this year that Mr. Massey and Mr. Skantle-
bury yielded to temptation, and went up to
town to make money in the easy way which
Olynthus had adopted. Mr. CoUil^er had been
gone nearly two years ; he began to go regularly
to London about the time when Olynthus
had entered upon his career of greatness. First
he went in the morning and returned at night ;
then he went on Monday morning and returned
on Friday evening. The little party which
met daily on the Green was then reduced to
three. Now Sir Charles alone was left. My
father, for his part, seldom joined a parliament
which talked of things whereof he was profoundly
ignorant.

One morning in March I was crossing the
Green and passed Sir Charles, who looked
so lonely that I stopped to talk with him.
Where, I asked him, were his friends ?

'They are gone to town,' he replied
gloomily. ' They are gone to make their
fortunes. — Ho ! '

I begged him to explain.

Collier,' he said, ' has left lis a long time.
I don't know where he is, and Massey tells me
that he isn't seen about the City. But he is
doing something, Colhber is. He is puling
strings in a corner, I expect, and raking in the
money. I knew he Avould go back to it. Men
like him can't keep away. Then, you see,
none of us except Massey, who doesn't care,
like to be seen much in the City ; so that
Collier keeps in the background. There are
always, my dear young lady, disagreeable
people in the world who won't take the right
view of — of the pluck and enterprise which led
to their losing money. I was myself, you
know, so full of enterprise that I lost an

immense sum of money — other people's money
it was chiefly.'

Yes, Sir Charles.' I was afraid he would
go on to dilate on the glory of his failure.

So,' he went on, ' none of us can very well
walk about the City. Now Colhber's case is
worse than mine, because he, too, let in so many
I mean lost so much more money. He is
pulling the strings — I know he is pulling the
strings somewhere. He is up to devilry.
There was always something unnatural in a
man who failed for so much and took so little
pride in it. But as for Massey and Skantle-
bury, especially Skantlebury, I must say '

Nothing in the lano^uaofc means more than
this little phrase, ' I must say,' unless, perhaps,
it is the corresponding expression, ' I do think.'
It is, in itself, an interjection, meaning quantities
of things.

What have they done, then ? '

They have gone off, my dear young lady,
actually gone off, at their time of life, to
speculate in Stocks. Massey has got nothing

at all to lose, because what little there is was
settled on his wife. Skantlebiiry has got about
twelve thousand pounds. He says that when
he has doubled it he will rest content. Ho,
ho ! And they've gone — being as ignorant as
mice about the ways of Capel Court — they've
gone in a mean and sneaking' manner to young
Gallaway.'

Gone to Olynthus ? '

They've gone to young Gallaway. There's
a man for you ! For that matter, Claire, I hope
he is for you. Bless you, my dear ! I know
all about the three lovers. Will Massey is the
best set up, but he is in China. Young
Engledew may be clever with books, but he
is only a literary scrub after all ; and his
stories, which I have tried to read, are, I must
say, desperately low. Whereas, with Olynthus
Gallaway, you will be a happy woman if money
can make you happy. And a good-looking
young fellow, too, though a little coarse in the
gills, from too much champagne. You will
cure him of that, my dear, and any other

faults lie may now possess. He has champagne
for lunch and champagne for dinner ; and on
Sundays, I am told, he does not go to church,
which is wrong, but has champagne for
breakfast. Well, youth must sow wild oats;
and he makes a splendid income ; and no one,
not even Collier in his best days, ever had
such a head for finance. With him, my dear,
you will be happy.'

Thank you, Sir Charles. And about Mr.
Massey ? '

What Massey has done is this. He talked
it over With Skantlebury, and they made up a
little 'plot together. First one was to call on
young Gallaway, and then the other. They
would communicate to each other their information,
and so double their gains. I didn't
think Skantlebury had it in him. Well, they
went up. First Massey went. Gallaway told
him he had five minutes and no more, pulled
out his watch and kept looking at it. Massey
said that he was come as an old friend to ask a
favour. '• I never grant favours," said Gallaway

To me you will," said Massey. '' Why, I've
known you since you were a boy. Come,
Olynthus — I still say Olynthus for old times'
sake, you know, but one ought to say Mr.
Gallaway, or Lord GallaAvay, or Duke Gallaway
■ — hang it ! to such a fellow as you. You
know Massey 's manner. If he'd got a hundred
thousand to his name he couldn't be more so.
Well, he shifted young Gallaway out of a
straight tip. He did, indeed. Gallaway just
turned red — I don't know why — and whispered,
" Will you promise not to tell Mr.
Collier.? Sell Egyptians." '

And did Mr. Massey sell Egyptians P '
'He did. He told Skantlebury ; they
both sold Egyptians. And Egyptians turned
up trumps. Very well then. It is Skantle-
bury's turn next. He goes humble — you
know his Avay — and asked the favour, if so
small a man as himself may ask a favour of Mr.
Gallaway, who has always been as generous ashe
is brilliant. And it would be the making
of him, it would. And so on. Well, he gels

his favour, too. Oddly, too, on the same promise
not to tell Collier. Why shouldn't he
tell Collier ? Professional jealousy, I say.
Collier was in the same line, and greatly distinguished
himself, but not a patch on Gallaway.'
Did Skantlebury, too, sell Egyptians ? '
I don't know what he bought or sold.
But he told Massey, and they both made
money. Massey made quite a sum, but
Skantlebury is cautious. Massey talks of reviving
his projects ; nothing short of millions
will satisfy him. Well, we shall see ; meantime,
my dear, it is very hard on me, m my
old age, to lose all my companions — first the
boys, though we saw little of them. Yet it was
pleasant to watch them going off to town every
morning; — their future all before them — what
was it to be ? The City is a wonderful place :
there's a fortune for everybody who will work,
and a splendid failure in store for the most
lucky. Dear me ! and then Collier went.
Collier is short in his temper, and he's got a
sharp tongue, but we missed him very much.

He never seemed to understand his own
greatness ; he wasn't proud of his failure. I
think he would rather not have failed at all.
But Collier was full of information. Well,
he must needs go to the City — he knows why,'
the garrulous old man went on talking. ' Then
Massey and Skantlebury went. Massey is a
conceited sort of a man, but he failed well ; and
he has ideas, though he is wanting in the
respect due to rank and position. Skantlebury
is a great loss to me ; a most obliging creature,
and deferential to his betters. I miss Skantle-
bury greatly.'

Do they go every day to London?'
'Every day. They can't keep away.
When men go off iu that line they must
always be in the City. I knew a man once,
a clergyman he vas, who used to speculate
on the changes every hour, and stood at the
window to see that his broker ran. Walking
was too slow for him. Massey and
Skantlebury go every day too ; they sit and
watch ; they sneak one after the other to

young Gallaway, and sometimes lie swears at
them, and sometimes lie whispers a word.
It is a gambling game, and it will end badly
It is tossing for sovereigns. It is a game which
a respectable man like Skantlebury, who knows
what saving means, ought not to take np.
A bad business, my dear, a bad business.'

I saw Olynthus very seldom. He came,
however, one Saturday afternoon early in the
spring of that year. He had only come to
see me, he said ; his mother and the girls
could wait. I observed that he vv^as looking
ill at ease ; his cheeks Avere flabby and pale ;
his eyes were red ; his face was gloomy. I
asked him Avhat was the matter.

Nothing that you can do any good for,'
he replied roughly, but not rudely.

I asked no more, and he went on sucking
the knob of his stick moodily

I did think, Claire,' he presently remarked,
'that I should have some sjmipatliy
from you at least. You see I am dovrn in
the mouth, and yet you don't even ask me why.'

'I did ask you, but you refused to tell
me.'

I caixt tell you, Claire,' lie groaned.
That is what makes me low. If I could tell
you — if I could tell anybody — I should be
better. But I can't. I can only wait till I
am in my own rooms, and then swear at him.'

If you want to tell me about it in order to
swear at him — whoever he may be — I would
rather you did not tell me anything.'

I can't tell you anything,' he repeated.
I'm like aman in a prison. Ah ! you think
it is all skittles, I suppose. Much you know !
Look here, Claire,' he said with a sudden burst,
I lead the life of a dog, I do, and aren't bite,

because if I did ' Here he stopped

suddenly, and turned ghastly pale. We were
standing in the garden, and just then Mr.
Collier passed slowly by. He looked round,
raised his hat to me, and nodded to Olynthus.

'What is the matter, Olynthus ? ' I asked,
for he was quite white, and trembling. I
(thought he would faint.

Nothing,' he replied, ' nothing at all Do
you think,' he whispered, ' do you think, Claire,
that he heard me when I said — when I said —
that I led the life of a dog ? '

Mr. Colhber ? No, I should think not.'
' I don't want him to hear such words as
these. He might — he might — put some wrong
construction on them, you know. In the City
credit is everything —yes, everything.'

Your great fortune does not seem to bring
you happiness,' I said.

No, not yet ; but it will. I say to myself
that when you consent — — '

Olynthus ! '

'Well, then, if you consent — you know — I
can then tell you everything, and it will be
easier to bear. It's the dreadful loneliness of
the thing that preys upon me. Other men
can talk to each other ; I've got to shut up as
tight as wax. Other men can drink and be
jolly ; I've got to keep sober, except in my
own chambers and by myself. Oh ! its dreadful.
But the money^comes in — yes, the money

keeps coming in. Perhaps some day there will
be the enjoyment of it.'

And how is the Countess ? ' I asked.

There again. Oh, Claire ! I've been most
cruelly deceived by the Countess. I thought
she vv^anted my society ; she only wanted my
tips after all. I gave her one or two, and she
plunged and made a little pile ; and then she
went on without me, and lost it all. Then she
came to me again, and asked for more, but I
couldn't give her any more. I dared not. It
was as much as my berth — I mean — well — I
couldn't — that's flat — and I told her so. And
then she went on her knees — she did indeed.
I never thought to have a Countess on her
knees to me. But I couldn't do it ; I'd been
warned not to ; and I refused. When she
found that crying did no good, she sprang up
in a rage — you never saw a real Countess in a
rage ; Claire, it's truly awful — she boxed my
ears, she did indeed — who would have thought
I should live to have my ears boxed by a
Countess? — and called me a contemptible City

VOL. III. F

cad — but of course her ladyship could say what
she liked, and words don't break bones — and
said her brother-in-law, the Honourable James,
should come to the office With a horsewhip and
cowhide me ; and then she tung out of the
office, and left word among the clerks that they
had better not go away early, because a gentleman
was coming with a cowhide for the contemptible
cad within — meaning me. They
grinned — the clerks. Hang 'em ! I pay them
their salaries, and don't order them about half
so much as I am — never mind — and yet they
grinned. I wish I lead given them all the sack
there and then.'

And has the Honourable James called ? '
No ; I sent him a letter. You see, Claire,
when a Countess boxes your ears you can only
grin and bear it. But as for her brother,
whether he is an Honourable or not, if he
comes with a horsewhip you can meet him with
another. So I wrote to him and tossed the
letter into the basket open for the clerks to
read it. I told him first that he owed me

seventy-five pounds, and I should be obliged by
a cheque at once. Next, I was informed by
his sister-in-law, the Countess, that he was
going to cowhide me. I was going to lay in a
gutta percha cane and a bludgeon, and was
ready to accommodate him with either. He
didn't call, and he hasn't sent that cheque.'

It seems to me, then, that you have got
rid of a very bad set of people.'

And to think of the money they've won
of me. Nidit after nidit it was baccarat,
euchre, nap, ecarte, poker, through the pack
for sovereigns — every kind of game. I knev/
her ladyship was a gambler, well enough. But
then' — he sighed heavily—' she could be very
charming to a fellow, Claire. She was the only
woman who ever made me feel that I could
forget you. She had a way of pleasing a man
and looking at him. Ah ! those eyes of hers ! '
He sighed heavily. ' Then there are those two
old idiots, Massey and Skantlebury. They keep
coming to me. Sometimes I send them away.
But if one goes the other comes. As for
p2

Massey, he won't go. He sits down and
crosses his legs and says he will wait as long as
I like. But he won't go. They'll get me into
an awful row one of these days. Why, if lie
should meet them this afternoon — any day —
and they should tell him.'

Always this mysterious person in the background,
of whom he was so much afraid.
However, he said it had cheered him to let me
know how miserable he was, and he presently
went away. One thought of the copy-book
moral maxims, and reflected that riches will
not always make a man happy.

CHAPTER IV.

i'OR Allen's sake

When Gertrude — you must now let me speak
of her by her Christian name — asked me, a
few days later, to pay her a visit, I took it as
another act of kindness to Allen, and accepted
with the anticipation of going into a world
quite new to me. If, however, it had been
intended to confer a kindness on myself rather
than on Allen, I could not have met with a
more cordial welcome.

Above all, my dear,' said Gertrude, ' call
me by my Christian name. Let me still feel
young — among the young ; and recall my
youth among the old. Nothing helps so much
as to retain your Christian name. And now,
my dear, how shall we amuse you ?'

'We can get a box for any theatre you
would like to see,' said Isabel, ' or tickets for
any concert ; and there are a few galleries
open, and there are always the streets if the
weather is fine.'

I like the streets best,' I said. ' But,
indeed, I do not want amusement. Let me
watch your kind of life and learn why Allen
loves it so much.'

It was easy to understand that, at any rate.
After such a youth as the poor boy had passed,
which made him loathe the name of money,
he would love any kind of life which seemed
free from the desire of making money or the
fear of losing it, or the irksomeness of not
having enough. The very last topic of conversation
with Gertrude would be that of
money. And then Gertrude's was a life spent
among books and the talk was about books :
and it was a life with many sides and sympathies,
and keen for culture of many kinds. In
this house Allen met with the appreciation and
encouragement which I could not give him.

because I never understood that worship of
form and expression wbicli to some makes a
poem beautiful and delightful though it contains
not a single new thought or a happy idea.

The first evenings was Gertrude's evening
at home. The rooms were very full, and most
of the guests were men and women of some
distinction, however small. It was exactly
what Allen told me ; all of them could do
something ; in the talk and instruction and
discussions of the day they all took some part.
What a difference — oh ! what a great gulf
between the world of Art and Letters, with its
cleverness and brightness and apparent sinking
of selfish interest, and the world of the City.

Allen,' I whispered, ' can you picture to
yourself Sir Charles set down in this drawing-room
? '

And his consternation when no one recognised
the greatness of his colossal failure?
Think of the universal stare ! Tell me, Claire,
do you like it ? '

It interests me very much. It seems so

bright and clever. Oli ! Allen, tins is indeed
better for you than the City.'

He answered with his quick bright smile.

They all seemed to know each other and
talked freely, and they all knew what was
going on and what everybody was doing.
Some of the ladies were dressed in aesthetic
extravagances — I thank heaven, sometimes, that
I am half a Parisienne — but many were dressed
quite poorly, because, as I learned afterwards,
the following of Art in its various branches is
1.0': always lucrative, and many of Gertrude's
friends have to continue in poverty all their
lives. As for the men, they were mostly
middle-aged or old men who had done their
work and made their mark. If you listened to
them you would hear them talking of Lady
Blessings and Disraeli and the Count Doorway
and Lord Palmerston, when he was still a
gay young fellow of sixty, and Taglioni
and Madame Celeste and other people who
flourished in the theatres and the forties. I
think it is delightful to get old people who can

talk and who have played a part in the things
we read about, especially in the impossible
time, the time just before one was born. When
we were in France we went to see a certain
Marquis of the ancient time, who had been a
page in Napoleon's court. I expected to find
a man who would remind me of Beranger. I
found an old old gentleman sitting beside a
stream fishing for gudgeon, and he could
remember nothing at all. As for young mei],
the promise of the future was represented only
by Allen and one or two others.

All the girls, for their part, seemed ready
to contribute something to make the evening
pleasant. I suppose there were some among
them who only had the ordinary accomplishments,
but those who performed for us exhibited
a skill which was very far indeed beyond
the amateur displays which one heard at my
evenings, where some of us, including myself,
could play prettily. For instance, there was
one young lady of eighteen dio played the
vioHn in a duet with her sister. What would

they tliiiik iii the village of ca girl playing the
violin ? It would be considered ' unladylike.'
Yet she played very beautifully, and looked as
graceful as the Muse of Music. And another
played the either (which I at once resolved to
learn), while two more sang a Tyrolean song.
And another played a brilliant piece on the
piano, and another sang a most difficult song,
with a sweet voice and highly trained. Whatever
they did was done well. At my evenings
everything was done only tolerably. It was as
if they lead resolved on the mastery of the art,
not the mere acquisition of an accomplishment.
The violinist, for instance, presently told me,
that it was her one occupation and the work of
her life, so far, to play the violin well. There
was a portfolio of drawings — finished, beautiful
drawings — lying on the table. They were the
fruits of a journey made by a young lady
present. This, too, was the chosen work of her
life. I am quite sure that there used to be,
and still remains in some circles, a kind of
prejudice that to do a thing well is below the

dignity of a ' lady,' and savours of the ' professional.'
But here, those who were not
professional wished to be ; and I am quite sure
that the lady who played the violin, the lady
who painted the water-colour sketches, and
the lady who sang, would have liked nothing
better than a public exhibition. Why not ?
Art should belong to all,' said Gertrude ; ' it is
treason to your genius to keep things hidden.'

It pleased me to observe how everybody
knew and seemed to like Allen, and how my
dear, shy, sensitive boy had developed into a
young man who bore himself with confidence
if not with assurance, and could hold this own
with any, and was accepted as a man who was
sure to rise.

I am going to recite presently,' Isabel
whispered to me. 'I always do, you know.
It is my one poor talent. I cannot sing, nor
can I write, nor paint ; but I can recite. I
have taken one of Allen's poems, which I
hope will please you. But first I want you
to sing

Indeed,' I replied, ' I would rather not

Allen tells me you have got the sweetest
voice in the world and the most beautiful
collection of French songs. Do sing one for
us, only one.'

Perhaps the sweetness and novelty of the
old French melody would make the people
forget the want of training in the singer. I
sang then, to my own accompaniment, because
I could not stand up before everybody with
the music in my hand, first one and then
another of my French songs. One of them
was set to an air taken by Clement Mart,
when he translated the Psalms. I have heard
it sung in the Protestant Temple at La Rochelle ;
it is a strange, unexpected air, with a sad
yearning in it, which suggests thoughts and
brings tears to your eyes. Will always loved
it, and Allen used to walk about the room
when I sang it, silent, dreaming, his eyes far
off. I sang it to-night to please him. Happily,
it pleased everybody.

Claire,' said Allen, ' your voice was

never sweeter, and you never sang that song
better.'

Amid the talk of the room I heard a voice,
it was Gertrude's, saying — ' and for once,
believe me, nothing to do with literature or art
at all. Yes ; she is, indeed, very beautiful and
sweet.'

Was she talking; about me ? Well : it is
very pleasant to think that people call one
beautiful and sweet. Yet it was all for Allen's
sake.

Then Isabel stood up to recite. Surely
the power of acting is a most wonderful gift.
Isabel could act so well that we forgot a lovely
and graceful girl was standing before us — at
least, I did. I thought only of the words she
uttered and the characters she assumed. As
she stood before us, her slight figure swayed
gently as if in rhythm with the verse ; her
hands were sometimes clasped and still, but
sometimes lifted with quick, sharp gesture ;
her clear hazel eyes gazed through us and
beyond us, as if she was, indeed, inspired, and

saw nothing but the scenes of which she spoke,
heard nothing but the words of the poem. She
endowed the verse with an intensity of meaning,
a fulness of purpose, a directness which I,
who thought I knew all Allen's poetry so well,
had never even suspected or felt.

When she finished there was again a
murmur of applause, and the talk began
assail. And ac^ain I heard a voice — this time
not Gertrude's, but the voice of a girl sitting
beside me.

Whose poem is it ? Whose should it be ?
Of whom does Isabel think all day except of
him?'

Yes. I had seen it already : in her eyes
when they rested upon him ; in her voice
when she spoke to him ; in the brightening of
her colour when he approached her ; in the
jealous inquiring glance when she looked at
him ; in the very attentions which she lavished
upon me, who had robbed her, she thought, of
Allen's heart. Poor Isabel ! Yet, who could

live with Allen so miicli and not love him ?
Of course lie loved lira.

Sometimes I think, considering how many
men have to wait till they are far on in their
thirties before they marry, whether the women
who were young with them, and must have
loved them, ever forget them. Could I, for
instance, ever forget Will and Allen, even if
the time had gone by and they could not offer
to marry me, and I had accepted — if that were
possible — another man ? I think there must
always, where there is a man Who marries at
thirty or later, be some woman — perhaps more
than one — who loved him in his youth, whenas
yet he had all the world before him, and
was unformed, and will never forget him as he
was then — young, ardent, full of life and
laughter and belief in the world, and love and
hope. I shall always remember Allen as he
was in those days : and so ivill Isabel.

You know those verses, my dear ? ' asked
Gertrude.

I tlioiiglit I knew them well,' I said, ' but
now I see very clearly that I did not know
them at all.'

There is no test,' she said, ' of good work
so certain as the test of reading aloud or reciting.
Always read your verses aloud, my
dear. But I forget. You do not write. Oh !
what a pity ! I should like everybody whom
I know to write. Let me tell Isabel what you
have said.'

It is quite true,' said Allen, who had
joined us. ' Isabel has given the words
stronger life and more reality than I could put
into them. She knows that I can never thank
her enough.'

Isabel smiled, and said that she was glad to
interpret Allen's verses for me.

Then Gertrude, between the talk around
her, began to speak of Allen.

He is sure to succeed,' she said. ' He will
become famous, if you care for fame, but of
course you do.'

Yes,' I replied ; ' I suppose every woman
must desire honour for her friends.'

And he will do good work, lasting work.
Is not that better still ? My dear, tell me, do
you think wee have improved Allen for you ? '

This assumption that it was all for me — the
fame, and the good work, and the change in
Allen — vexed me. Why should it be assumed
that one does not like to finish the question
even in thought.

You must not say for me,' I whispered
low. ' And besides, if it were for me, would it
not be too much ? What could I give him in
return for so much ? '

You will give him what you have always
given him — sympathy and encouragement, and
and love, my dear. He will want no more.
Besides, you give him your beauty. Do not
undervalue woman's most precious gift.'

Gertrude, look at Allen, now.' Allen and
Isabel were talking together earnestly. ' Can
I — tell me — can I give him more than Isabel
pan give him ? Can I give him half so much .?

VOL. III. G

Her beauty is better than mine, and lie knows
■ — what I do not — what he wants.'

My dear, my dear,' she laid her hand in
mine ; ' do not say such things. You must not
say them. Indeed you must not ; do not
think them, even. We have always thought
of Allen as your own. Isabel can have no
such thought, believe me.'

Yet, if I were to put such a thought into
her head '

And Allen has no such thought.'

Perhaps not ; yet.'

Gertrude's face was troubled. She looked
again at Isabel. No thought as yet. Her
sweet face calm and untroubled.

Tell me, my dear,' she said ; ' is — the
other — Will — is he, too, clever ? '

Not clever, as you count cleverness. But
others would call him full of cleverness. He is
not a man of books but of active work.'

Then we were interrupted, because Allen
brought his friend Lawrence to me, and our
talk for that evening was stopped. Nor did

Gertrude speak about it to me again for sometime.


I found Mr. Lawrence Ouvry a very pleasant
fellow, and quite as Allen had described
him. He could not possibly be so wise as he
looked, and beneath his thoughtful brow there
dwelt a pair of eyes which seemed perpetually
twinkling. He, too, began to talk about
Allen, and seemed to regard him as already
belonging to me. But one could not very well
explain to a young man the exact situation.
No one, among them all, I believe, conceived it
possible that a mere country girl could refuse a
man who had achieved literary distinction.

We have done Avliat we could for the
illustrious poet and Maker,' said Lawrence.
We have dragged him out of his solitude
and made him go into the world. It was a
recluse you sent to us, Miss PhiUpon, the hermit
of Hainault. Have you preserved the original
hermitage ? '

'All Allen's friends ought to be very grateful
to you, Mr. Ouvry.'

G 2

Well ; it is not Every day that we get such
a chance as a man with the real ring. Anybody
can write ; that is nothing — the current
literature of the next generation will, I am
quite certain, be written by the Board Schoolboy
— but only a few can write as Engledew
writes.'

You write, too, he tells me. Scientific
papers — and — and '

Here I laughed, because his eyes began to
twinkle.

You mean to say,' he whispered, ' that he
has betrayed me ? '

Yes. He has told me alL I know your
secret. But I will not reveal it.'

The malady is hereditary,' he said. ' Sons
take after their mothers. My mother wrote
novels. That is the reason why I write —
scientific papers.'

Then he began to tell me how he met Allen
at a restaurant and how he began to talk with
him, and how — well, I knew it all, but it wag
pleasant to be told it over again

It seemed as if a great many people wanted
to be introduced to me that evening. Could
they all know that I was such an old friend of
Allen ? That was impossible.

My dear,' said Gertrude to me next day,
do you think that the beaux yeux had something
to do with it ? As if the men — selfish
creatures — were thinking about Allen ! '

Somehow it had not occurred to me that
men of letters and art should bestow a thought
upon the face of a strange girl.

'It is strange, is it not?' said Gertrude.
But men are wonderful, my dear. At every
age, every man is ready to leave the most important
things, put by the most wonderful
work, in order to talk with a pretty girl. And
the more nonsense they find to talk, the better
they like it. The only chance for them is to
lock themselves up in a study.' And then she
began to say kind things about my face and
figure, I suppose, to console me for not being
an artist.

The next day we went to some studios and

saw unfinished pictures on the easels. As for
the pictures one can say nothing. They are
finished by this time and have been exhibited
and bought, and are scattered over the whole
world. The studios were charming, hung
about with tapestry, bits of armour, trophies,
weapons, brass things, old glass, mirrors, and
all kinds of wonderful things. There were
costumes lying about, and the artists seemed
not at all disinclined to stop work and talk a
little. As for the talk it was all about their
Avork and their friends — artists seem to care for
nothing' else. One of them made a sketch of
my head and face for me, and said it should be
used for Helen of Troy — men talk nonsense,
yet one likes these extravagancies. And always,
everywhere, the same respect and deference
shown to Gertrude, and the same camaraderie
with Allen and Isabel.

One evening we went to the theatre and
Lawrence Ouvry gave a little supper in his
rooms after the performance. A young actor
was one of the guests — we had seen him

playing in the first piece. He had the most
delightful manners, and kept us amused while
he made me understand for the first time how
his profession, like every other, wants hardwork
and constant study, and is a very serious
profession indeed.

It has got nothing whatever to do with the
story — except that Lawrence Ouvry had been
so extraordinarily good to Allen that one likes
to talk about him — but I cannot forbear to
mention with what respect he was spoken of
by his cousin as a man who had departed from
the traditions of his family and gone off in
quite another direction, as a cold, hard man of
science who had no sympathy with Art.

My dear,' said Gertrude, ' in all the practical
concerns of life, and in every question
connected with science, the calm judgment of
that balanced mind is invaluable to us all — we
greatly depend upon Lawrence. Yet it is a
most surprising thing that a scientific man
should come from among us. I suppose that
he has by this time made a great name in

science. Have you heard, Isabel, of anything
that he has clone ? '

Lawrence told me,' she replied, ' about a
year ago, that he was thinking of a paper
on the Variation of the Higher Kinetics —
I remember the title because I made him
write it down. But I have heard no more of
it.'

I stayed with them for three or four days.
Allen came every day, and of one thing I
became daily more certain. What that was I
will tell you presently. We talked on two
subjects only. When Allen was with us we
talked of literature, and of men and women of
letters. When he was not with us, we talked
of him.

I found, as I already suspected, that Allen's
views on the subject of his profession were
greatly modified. He thought more highly of
his art and less highly of its followers. But to
him, as to his friends, there were no interests
worth consideration except those of literature.
It was a new world to me, and it seemed as

if, art being only one form of work, too much
importance was given to one kind of work.
But it was a congenial atmosphere for Allen ;
though it developed in him a spirit of separation
which might do harm to his work. The
world for such a man exists in order to supply
him with materials. Men and women do all
kinds of things ; they live, love, work, quarrel,
fight, hope, suffer, die — without any regard it
is true to artistic grouping, yet in order to provide
subjects and models for the painter. It
was pleasant to hear this old lady, so kind of
heart, speak of people as if they were all lay
figures and puppets for the artist.

Allen must never give up his acquaintance
with the people ; he must always go about
among them and learn their manner of life.
Remember that, my dear ' — always as if the
future of Allen lay in my hands — ' mankind
affords an inexhaustible study ; you can find a
picturesque bit of life in every street. I have
always lamented that women cannot get about
like men ; if we had greater freedom in this

respect we should show greater breadth of
treatment and more firmness of handing. If I
where young I would go as nurse to the London
Hospital for six months. Oh ! what chances a
nurse must have ! Yet, my dear, I do not
remember hearing of any nurse becoming a
novelist. To be sure the profession of nursing
is only thirty years old.'

Do you not think the life a pleasant one,
Claire .^ ' Allen asked.

It is very pleasant, Allen. And it suits
you as no other life would. And you really
think that your position is assured ? '

That I cannot say, but I hope so. What
other hope have I ? What other hope can I
have ? I am afraid to go on with the tales.
Isabel wants me to undertake a three volume
novel ; but I doubt my strength, — yet — to
write a good novel. And then, then — the
Play.'

Oh ! The Play ! '

Gertrude does not know of it yet. We
shall show it to her, when it is finished.'

'You have arranged it with Isabel, I
suppose.'

Yes. Isabel knows all my plans — Isabel
and you, Claire. Tell me if you like her.'

Lie is a little reserved with me. But yet
I like her. She is clever, is she not ? '

Yes ; she is very clever.'

And I am sure she is sympathetic'

Yes ; she has been a great help to me,
Claire ; I cannot tell you what I owe to these
two ladies.'

Shall I tell you, Allen, low to repay their
kindness ? '

That is impossible.'

!Neo ; it is very possible. And I will
show you the way, Allen, but not this morning.'


I thought continually of Isabel and her
secret ; which she hardly knew herself. Allen
filled so large a part of her thoughts and yet
she did not know — I am sure she did not
know — how much she thought about iii.
And if she considered me with curiosity and a

little jealousy, it was only because she felt as if
no one could be good enough for Allen.

My dear,' said Gertrude, ' we grudge you
our poet : not because you will not make him
happy, but because a grande secession disturbs
and hinders the current of his work. Allen
has not yet caught that mysterious faculty
which brings a man the best success — the love
of the world. It is better, far better than
success in a literary circle. We hope it for
him. I am sure he will get it — some day.
Strange quality ! Many of the greatest artists
have never arrived at it. What can we call
it? I think it is touch.'

Then she began to talk about a poet's
wife.

She must,' said Gertrude, ' be content to
become his shadow. She must remember that
every help she gives her husband is sympathy
and apprehension. She must receive his first
thoughts.'

His first thoughts,' Isabel repeated.
They are the best and most beautiful.'

'Yes,' Gertrude went on very seriously,
the most beautiful because they are the first
fresh conceptions, the very inspiration. His
wife has, therefore, her reward, if she wants
any. It ought to be reward enough to see the
work growing with the fame and honour,
and to know that he will live long after her life
is gone. My dear ! It is a great thing : it is
the greatest thing for a woman. It is better
than to be a poet one's self, because in all
woman's work in any art, there is none which
touches the highest point And there never
will be.'

On the last morning of my stay, Isabel
spoke more freely to me. Of course she
began on Allen.

I am glad,' she said, ' that you think
him improved. We see him so often that
we are not conscious of the change which you
find in him.'

I said what I thought best to say about her
own share in the work of improvement, and she
blushed very prettily as she hastened to explain

that Allen was like a brother, or a son of the
house. ' And oh ! ' she said, ' I have wanted
to say it ever since you came ; but I dared not,
until now.'

'What is it, Isabel?'

I understand now why Allen loves you.'

Are you quite sure that he does ? '

'Of course he does. And I am glad, too,
that you are rich, because now he will not have
to trouble his mind about money.'

'But, Isabel — do you not know? Has lie
not told you all the story? '

A gambler in stocks and shares : and a
merchant in China : — and Allen,' she replied,,
with a little laugh of contempt at the contrast.

'Does Allen ever talk to you about the
merchant in China ? Ask him, Isabel, to tell
you about Will.'

CHAPTEE V.

FROM WILL.

AxD now the days lengthened apace ; the first
spring flowers were over, the primrose angered
yet in shady hedges, but the crocus and the
daffodil were gone : the spring was ready to
come upon us as soon as the east winds should
cease to blow ; already the lilac was in leaf
and the blackthorn in flower, and the hawthorn
ready to follow, and the great buds of the horse-chestnut
were swelling. It was April, the month
of Which we expect so much and get so little.
It wanted only two montis more to the day
when I should be asked to make my choice.
Later in the month I received a letter from
Will. He was coming home. ' I have asked
and obtained a furlough. Another man has

been sent out who will can on my work while
I am at home. There are many other reasons
besides the chief one which fills my heart day
and night, and has filled it for three years.' This
was the only time that he had ever alluded to
his ' chief reason.' Poor boy ! His heart was
filled with the thought of a simple girl. How
can men so think of girls, when they have all
the splendid work of the world before them ?
I thought when he went away to China that he
would carry with him a kind memory of his old
friend and playfellow, but not that he would
always think of her. What a strong and constant
heart ! ' There are many other reasons,'
said the letter. 'First, I hear privately from
one of the junior partners that I may be more
useful to the House at home, and that my work
here has been appreciated. Next, I want to
know what my father means. He writes that
he is now on the eve of repairing his fortunes ;
that a great future awaits him ; that he shall
be able to die happy when his time comes,
because he will leave me a colossal fortune.

I know that every one of his schemes was

going to lead to boundless fortune, and I

tremble. But my mother's money is held intrust.

He cannot lose that. My poor father,

with his imagination and ingenuity, might have

made an excellent novelist, but in the City he

was thrown away. Perhaps in a better ordered

society men who are failures will be treated with

the pity which should attach to those who have

got into wrong grooves. A grocer who has

compounded with his creditors, for instance,

should be examined in order to find out

whether he should not have been made a

statesman or a divine, or a cobbler, perhaps;

and so be instructed in the line for which

nature intended him. Then everybody would

be happy. Good-bye, Claire. Good-bye, Claire.

Good-bye, Claire. It is nearly three years since

I said that last, with Allen, in the dear old

Forest. In four weeks more I shall be onboard

the mail. In ten weeks more I shall

be in England again. Will.'

I showed the letter to my father, who read

VOL. III. H

it with a serious face. ' Will is a brave and
gallant lad,' he said. ' He is stronger than the
artist. Yet Allen has a quick eye and a ready
brain. And the third? He is very rich. He
devotes himself to the robbery of the greedy,
the credulous, and the ignorant. Admirable
trade ! Thus nature, who neglects nothing, finds
pirates to pillage thieves and fools. Worthy
Olynthus ! Thus he gains the admiration and
respect of the world. My daughter, will this
illustrious maker of money join the other two
in June .^ '

I do not know, but I think he will.'
He does us infinite honour. Claire, child.'
My father took my head in his hands and kissed
me, with soft eyes. ' Is it possible that in two
or three months — only two or three months —
my daughter will belong to some one else?
Alas ! why do we have daughters who go away
when they are loveliest and best, and desert
their old fathers for their young lovers ? In a
better world a woman's beauty will last her life,
so that there shall be no excuse for falling in

love while their fathers are living, unless they
are not only old but also foolish and — and —
massacres, and not worthy of a good daughter.
Then they might go away and rejoice their
husbands.'

He was always the kindest and most
thoughtful of fathers, but in those days it
seemed as if he anticipated every wish, even
the slightest, and was continually devising
some little surprise, some new gift for me.
It rained gloves ; there were showers of pretty
trifles ; he went to town and came back loaded
with books and music ; he would have ruined
himself had I not begged him to give me
nothing more. And I knew that he was
counting the days left to him of his daughter's
undivided heart. The jealous, fond father !
As if there does not always remain as much
love in a woman's heart as ever was taken out
of it ! ' With each child,' said once to me a
poor woman of the village who had twelve,
with each child I felt as if there was no more
love left.' But the love came — yes — the love
H 2

came ! Love is a fountain which can never
dry.

Will was coming home in order to ask that
question again. Will and Allen would both
ask that question. Did ever before a girl
have to choose between two men, both of
whom she loved alike? But then this girl
was presently to discover that she did not love
both these men alike but very differently.
And how that came about she does not quite
know, even now, and does not care to question
herself too minutely.

In those days, with Will's letter in my
hand, I used to wander alone in the recesses
of the Forest, those places known only to
the boys and myself, and try to take counsel
of my heart, which would give no advice
or counsel at all and remained obstinately
silent.

Allen wrote to me as usual and told me of
his work, how the play was advancing and
would soon be finished, and how he was
planning that three volume novel, and how he

was asked to write for a new magazine. At
all events, he had the desire of his heart : he
was successful in the only way in which he
desired success. Poor Allen ! one remembered
his early enthusiasm, his hero worship, his
first poor, thin attempts, his eagerness to work
in the way ray father pointed out to him, his
enthusiasm and his early disappointments. He
was changed, indeed. The eagerness remained
and the industry, but the old enthusiasms
which were the golden haze of morning, the
splendid dreams and illusions of youth, these
were gone ; to the imagination of a boy the
round world and all that therein is seems so
much more splendid than they are. He sees
the type, the perfect model, and thinks that
each individual example reaches perfection.
As for me, I remembered also my father's
illusions and designs. Allen was to have such
a teaching as never any poet had before ; he
was to learn the unknown wants and wishes of
the People ; he was to lead the People — dream
of an enthusiast who had never grown beyond

the age of barricades. To lead the People ! a
noble dream, indeed, but not for Allen. Never
at any time could it be possible for such as
Allen.

It was in this month, I think, that in my
daily walks and wanderings I became aware of
a strange man. Even in the village, quiet as
it is, the presence of a stranger does not excite
universal interest ; but this stranger came so
often, and prowled about so mysteriously, that
one got to suspect him of some design. He
was about fifty five years of age, rather a short
man, with broad shoulders and a large greybeard
; he wore coloured spectacles and a
broad soft felt hat, rather like a clergyman's
hat. He always smoked a cigar, and he sat
about a great deal on stiles and gates looking
always up and down the road as if lie expected
somebody. He seemed to come every fine
day to the village, but I knew not where he
came from.

One day as I passed him he took the cigar
from his lips and addressed me.

'I beg your parthia, miss. May I ask a
question ? '

I permitted him to put this question.

You know, I suppose, the names of most
all the people who live in this village, now ? '

I said that I knew them all, or nearly all.
He had, I noticed, some touch of the American
in his voice.

Do you, now, happen to know a lady
named Engledew ? She would be a widow,
and about five-and-forty by this time.'

Yes, certainly, I know Mrs. Engledew.
Do you want to see her ? I can take you to
her house. It is close by.'

I should like to see her house, thank

you. As for seeing her ' here he stopped

short.

The Mrs. Engledew I mean,' he went on,
had a baby, I am told.'

She has a son, now grown up.'

Yes ; it's four-and-tAventy years ago. That
seems a long time to you, no doubt, because
you are young. It is a long time, whether to

work out or look back upon, for people who
have done things. But it isn't a long time
for people who haven't done anything, and
are consequently happy. For such it passes
free and quick. Mrs. Engledew, now, is
pretty happy, I dare say, being one of that
sort ? '

Ko ; she is not a happy woman. She has
cause to be very unhappy. If you know her
you know why.'

I don't know her myself. But I am
asked by one who does to come and make a
few inquiries on the spot — cautiously, you
know.'

Cautiously ? What is the need of caution ?
Mrs. Engledew lives here. You may see her
any day. What do you mean by caution ? '
He avoided the question and made answer by
another.

Is her son, may I ask, in the Silk Line ? '

No ; he is a man of Letters.'

The stranger whistled.

Then I suppose they must want money,

both of them, pretty badly? A man of
Letters ! '

Neither of them wants any money. Comedown
this Lane and I will show yon the house.'

He walked at my side in silence.

There,' I said, when we came in sight of
the cottage where Lies. Engledew lived, ' that
is her house, and there you will find her if yon
want to see her.'

I don't think I want to see her to day,' he
said. 'Not to-day. No. I think I shall just
look at the house and then go. That will be
enough for once. Another time I can call.
When you know where to call there's a great
deal done already. No hurry about the rest.
Not any hurry, you know.'

There is Mrs. Engledew. You can go and
speak to her.'

The widow stood at the door. She was
going to tidy up her garden, and stood in the
porch for a few minutes as one stands who is
irresolute where to begin. The man with me
began to tremble, and he dropped the stick

he was carrying. He really was a most
mysterious stranger.

There is Mrs. Engledew.'

She is thinner than she was, but then she
is older. Many people get thin as they grow
older.'

She has grown thin from suffering and
sorrow.'

I did not think,' he said, ' that she would
age so much.'

If a woman's husband commits suicide on
the eve of bankruptcy, caused by his partner's
villainy, do you think that she is not likely to
suffer?'

No, no, of course 'she cleared his throat
' of course she must suffer in such a case.
No one can blame a woman under these circumstances
for getting thin. Through a partner's
villainy. That's sad, now, isn't it ? '

You seem to know something about her.'
I looked at him with increased wonder and
suspicion.

Yes but she would not know me. It is

no use my speaking to her, not a bit of use.
I am only sent by another man to find out
about her. Now that I have seen her I think
I will ao.'

This is very strange,' I said.

You say that she is in no need of money.'

I believe not.'

Nor her son either.'

I believe not.'

Is she hard and unforgiving, now .^ Does
she still feel bad — about that business we were
speaking of — the partner, you know .^ '

Do you come from the man Stephens .^ '

Maybe I do, maybe not. Does she feel
bad about it still P '

What can you think ? '

To be sure, to be sure ; not a doubt of it.
You would yourself — naturally — aud yet she
does not want money ? No. And so, even if
she had all the money that the partner ran off
with, it wouldn't help her, would it ? No, certainly
not. Wherefore, I may as well go.'

He left me abruptly and walked away.

Two days afterwards I saw him again,
sitting on a gate in sight of Mrs. Engledew s
cottage. He was looking as if he waited on
the chance of her coming ont again. When
he saw me he got off and walked away. Yet
a week later I saw him again — and again after
that. He was always sitting on the gate
gazing steadily at the cottage, or he was walking
backwards and forwards in an uncertain
way, as if he was hesitating whether to go to
the cottage door or not. He always came
in the morning : in the afternoon he was
gone.

What did it mean ? I was so full of my
own affairs at this time that I thought little
about this strange visitor. Yet he gave me
some anxiety. What did he watch the cottage
for ? Who was this man, who knew Mrs.
Engledew and remembered her as she was
twenty-five years ago? Why did he lurk
about the placer And had I done right
to tell a strange man where this poor widow
lived?

CHAPTEE VI.

WITH ALLEN.

In those last weeks I was grievously troubled
in my own mind about Allen. Let us not ask
too carefully whether there was jealousy.
Why should not these ladies love Allen ? To
be sure one of them was young and beautiful.
They had done far more for him than I could
do ; he was right in loving them in return.
Who (not being in the City) could choose but
love a young man so full of genius, so handsome,
so modest, so free from affectation?
And they began with what seemed perfect
safety, because Allen Alas already in love with
another girl. Brother and sister from the
beginning ; and so — and so — they went on
without fear or caution, reading, talking.

advising, planning, taking counsel together, till
the heart of one was gone.

And the heart of the other ? It Alas this
that I wanted to find out. In order to do so
I asked Allen if he would give me a whole
day. It was already early May ; the east wind
had gone, and the showers of spring had
begun. I contrived a little plot. I would
make Allen feel exactly what coming back tome
might mean. There was a broad gulf
indeed between the Allen of the present and
the Allen of three years before. I would make
him step back and realise what life in the
village would mean for him. Perhaps he still
thought that he loved me ; indeed, I am sure
he did ; he had been thinking so for a good
many years ; you do not easily break off such
a habit of thought. Very well ; then he should
understand, without my telling him, how it
would be to him were he to become my husband.


He came about noon. He brought with
him his still unfinished play. He proposed

to read it to me — always, he knew that I
should like to hear what he was doing — and
began at once upon the plot and the dialogue.
But I put it aside, and talked of the village
and its affairs. First, we must go and call
upon his mother, a duty which he was perfectly
willing to defer until the play had been discussed.


I think there is nothing more miserable
than such a visit when confidence has been
lost between mother and son. Mrs. Engledew
asked no question about his prospects or his
work, nor did she ask after his friends, she only
said that he was looking well.

And you, mother ? '

I am as well as I can now expect to be,'
she replied ; and one really felt quite certain
that if her son had remained in the Silk trade
she would have been quite well.

The visit was constrained, and short. When
we came away, Allen gave a sigh of relief.

It is too late now,' said Allen afterwards,
to hope that things will ever be different ; but I

wish my mother could see thugs in a different
light. If one were to become another Shakespeare,
I suppose it would be the same thing.
Oh ! the City ! the City ! '

He shook himself impatiently.
We passed the green, where Sir Charles
was basking in the sun.

You must go and speak to him, Allen,' I
said.

Sir Charles received him kindly. He said
that he was glad to hear that Allen was getting
on, so far as people in his line can be said to
get on, considering that the profits, if any, goto
the publishers. It was consoling to his
friends to feel that, though he lead left the
plough after putting his hand to it, he was
earning an honourable pittance. Allen smiled
feebly. Sir Charles went on to say that he had
not read the book called ' With the People,'
and that he did not mean to read it, because
he did not like the people, and found them low
contemptibly low. One of them at a Lord
Mayor's Show once broke his carriage window

with the neck of a bottle ; they were a very
low class ; but if Allen would write a book on
the Lord Mayors, or on knights, baronets, great
merchants who have failed, and, generally, on
the lives of gentlemen of exalted rank, he
would promise to give it his very best attention.

When we left him, Allen seemed to me —
but I may have been mistaken — to murmur
strong words, as if he was choking. !

And then we met Mr. Massey, ponderous
and important. He was on his way to the
City, but stopped to give Allen a condescending
salute.

You are looking thin, my boy,' he said.
*If you had remained in the City you would
now be looking fat, like Castaway. You should
see young Castaway. Well, it can't be helped,
and I hope you won't fret over it. Perhaps —
but I suppose it is now too late. Literature is
but a poor trade, a poor trade.'

Each or poor,' said Allen, ' it is all I have.'

All you have ; very true. Tut — tut — tut.
Dear ! dear ! All you have. Your poor mother

VOL. III. 1

feels it very much. I assure you, Allen. I
tell her, whenever I find an opportunity, that
literature is not generally regarded as disgraceful,
though a sad falling off from the City. No
literary man ever has a position, you know.
If he goes to a City dinner, where is he to sit ?
Below the sheriffs, of course ; below the aldermen
; below the Common Council.'

Of course,' said Allen, with a grin.

I have now, myself, returned to the City.
For some years I have been resting. I am,
however, engaged in retrieving my fortunes.
My son, I am happy to say, will, after all, be
enriched by his father's exertions. I shall,
on his return from China, buy him a partnership
in one of the best Houses. Perhaps
Brimage and Walton's. Good morning, Allen,
good morning to you.'

Venerable old jackass ! ' Allen murmured.
Claire, let us get into the Forest quickly.
Ugh ! what a place it is ! '

In the Forest I heard all about the play,
and we decided that it would be a delightful

thing to have it read in the old place where
we used to run as children.

Isabel shall read it,' cried Allen, kindling
at the thought. ' Gertrude shall sit on the old
trunk with your father.' Here a look of doubt
fell upon his face. ' Do you think, Claire,
that your father will like Gertrude ? '

You mean, Allen, will Gertrude like my
father P I think she will.'

'Well, we will choose a fine day. What
time of the day will be best, Claire ? Shall
we read it in the morning ? '

You will all dine with us, and after dinner
we will walk into the Forest, and there Isabel
shall read it. Will that do?'

He stayed all that day with us. I was
curious to observe how my father and lie would
get on together. In the old days, when the
boy was ignorant, he accepted his master's
maxims as words of wisdom. Now, however,
how would it be ?

What actually happened was that Allen
showed, involuntarily, how far he had drifted

t2

from the path in which he was designed to
go.

My father began to talk of the things which
were in his mind.

For thirty years and more,' he said * I
have been as one who sits upon the bank and
watches the current of the river. It is not
without its charm, the life of contemplation,
though I own that the active Hfe would be my
choice had I the power to begin again and to
choose again.'

'It would be a very good subject,' said
Allen, ' the man who could begin again if he
chose, and at any time he chose.'

In these thirty years, what a change !
How great the work achieved for the people I
How stupendous the work that is to be done by
the people ! '

And how monotonous the effect when the
general level has been complete ! ' said Allen.
Art is made up of contrasts.'

I forgot,' said may father coldly, * I forgot
that you are now an artist.'

He proceeded to ask Allen about himself
and his progress, but made no more remarks
about the People ; and after dinner he left, and
went to smoke cigarettes in the garden.

How does the village strike you, Allen,
when you come back to it ? '

It is detestable.'

But there is the Forest.'

True, the Forest. Yet it seems so much
smaller than of old.'

That is because you have grown so much
bigger, Allen.'

Is it better, for instance, than Burnham
Beeches, or Windsor, or even the Lake of
Eichmond Park ? '

I do not know. It is good enough for me,
even now.'

To me,' he said, ' the memory of the
Forest will always be dear. It seems a pity,
almost, to disturb the old recollections by
coming back at all.'

Your new life, Allen, has made the old
impossible. You would never return herewith

any pleasure. The talk of the residents
would be intolerable to you.'

He shuddered.

You would not live happily so near your
mother, unless, which seems unlikely, she
would change her point of view.'

No, I could not.'

'Even my whither, Allen, whom you used
to respect so much '

Oh, Claire ! to him, at least, I have not
changed. I respect him as much as I ever did.
I am as grateful to him as I ever was. Believe
me, there is no man whom I love and respect
more.'

Yet, Allen '

Yet we have so little in common. His
views are not mine. That is all.'

And Allen,' I went on, ' you could never
give up, for the sake of anyone in the world,
your new life, your club, your new friends,
your new talk, to come back and live among
your old friends in the old way.'

He turned pale : he shuddered.

Ah, Claire,' he said, * some things are
worth life itself. This, my new life, is all the
life I desire ; yet I would give that up even
at your bidding.'

Poor boy ! What would you have left if
that were gone ? What if I were to bid ^o\\
say farewell to Gertrude, and to see Isabel no
more ? '

He blushed, and raised his eyes with a
guilty look of suspicion.

Isabel ? ' he asked. ' Isabel is a part
of the life I would resign. She is my sister,
Claire, my very dear sister. That is settled
between us. You do not think — oli, Claire !
you must not think — that there can be between
Isabel and me anything '

Allen, I will always believe every word
that you say ; but the time for saying that has
not quite come. It will soon be here — and,
Allen, I asked you to come here to-day with
a serious purpose. I want you, before Will
comes heme, to look round the old place again,
to think of what you were three years ago, and

of what you are. It will be good for you to
think of this very seriously.'

He looked about him : he blushed and
stammered.

I cannot say what I should like to say,
Claire. It is not quite time. You are always
thoughtful for me. It was kind of you. Yes,
I am changed, indeed, or else the place is
changed. But you have not changed, except
'

The place is so small. Is it not ? '

Yes, small, and its thoughts are mean.
Yet there is the memory of the Forest and the
place where we two dreamed away the summer
evenings, while the bees droned and the
late cuckoo called and the blackbird sang. Oh,
happy time ! '

Go, make a poem of it, Allen. It will
make a charming poem. Put in it your best
and highest thoughts ; then it will be a great
poem. Isabel will recite it for you at one of
the evenings.'

I will, Claire,' he said quickly, ' I will.

Gil ' — why, he seemed to begun the poem
already — ' do you feel the warm soft air, as it
used to fan our cheeks ? Do you hear the buzz
of the insects, which was all our music ? Do
you catch the fragrance of the Forest, which
kept our souls sweet and pure ? Do you seethe
shadows lying across the glades, as they
used to lie in the evenings, sinking into our
hearts and filling us with thoughts ? Do you
see the boy and girl — such an eager boy,
Claire, so eager to do for, far greater things
than ever he will be able to do ? I think of
him sometimes with a kind of awe that he
should have grown into so small a man. And
the girl, too, so sweet a girl, so full of sympathy
— the sweetest friend that ever boy had ! '

Allen,' I interrupted, ' write the poem,
and I will come when Isabel recites it. Go
now and think — think of what I have ventured
to say.'

I go, Claire ; but in a few weeks '

Go, Allen. Good-night.'

Art,' said my father, presently, ' should

be represented as a sorceress, who takes the
strength from the hands of her lover, so that
he can do nothing by himself but leaves him
his eyes and ears. Then he watches and
listens, and presently he imitates, groups, and
copies. She is a beautiful sorceress, or else no
one would fall in love with her. Yes, she
takes away their strength ; they can work no
longer, and they have no heart for fighting.'

'They can sing and paint, and write romances
and plays.'

That is their reward, my child ; but it is
better to fidit than to make sonsfs of battle.
Allen does not think so. Well, he has his
reward.'

And you yours,' I said. ' Why, who
made the boy a poet ? '

He lifted his shoulders and spread his
hands.

The very next evening I had a visit from
Olynthus. He came through the garden and
walked through the open window, I did not
see him at first ; and, when I did, instead of

offering me his hand, he began to groan in a
most heartrending manner.

What is the matter, Olynthus ? '

Nothing — that is, everything. But it
doesn't matter. You will only say it's a pity ;
and the girls are provided for, and so is the
old lady. It won't really matter to anyone.'

But what is it ? I suppose you are come
here on purpose to tell me, are you not ? '

I have come to tell you, Claire, because
you are the only person in all the Avorld who
will not jeer and sneer and grin. Even the
girls will sniff. Oh ! I know I should have
grinned myself and sniffed, very likely, if it
had happened to anybody else except me.
Everybody in the City always grins when a
man goes wrong.'

Have you gone wrong, then ? '

Hush ! ' — he stole like a conspirator to
the door and looked into the hall — 'hush!
Where is your father, Claire ? '

He is in the garden with Sir Charles. Weare
quite alone.'

^ It's a dreadful thing. After two years
and more of such success, it's a cruel thing
and I told him so — and a wicked thing.
The man must be a devil. Yes, that's it. He
can't be a man, he must be a devil ; and he
looks it.'

If you will explain a little '

He went on incoherently rambling.

He led me into it ; he gave me the taste

for it, and made me feel the pride of it, and

to seem clever and all ; and then he wouldn't

teach me how to do it, and I couldn't find out

for all the trying in the world. Then he taught

me to pretend. Ah! Claire, there's the sting

when they find out that it was all pretence.

The smash I could bear — anybody may smash

■ — but it is the pretence that I can't stand up

against. I shall go away to some place where

they never heard my name, and live therefor

the rest of my life. I must. Why, they

would laugh at me in the very streets if I were

to go about. Oh, he's a devil ! He must be.'

What is pretence ? '

'I will tell you all, Claire, just exactly as it
happened, because you won't laugh. Besides,
it was all done for your sake, every bit.'

'Every bit? Oh, Olynthus ! And the
Countess and the baccarat ? '

'Very nearly all. The baccarat doesn't
count. But I will tell you all, though I
know very well what the consequence will be.
I looked to coming here in two or three weeks
with a diamond spray and an emerald ring.
Yes ! I've had my eye on the spray and the
ring for a long time. And I've been looking
for a house. None of your common four
hundred a year Cromwell Eoad houses, but a
palace in Kensington Palace Gardens. There
is one to let now ; a marble palace fit for a
queen, or even for you, Claire. I was just
going to close with the agent when I found
that the place was let, and let to that — that
man. Yes, I know what you were going to
say, Claire, and it is like yourself to say it, but
love in a palace is ten times as good as love ina
measly villa.'

I was not going to say that at all, Olynthus.
I was going to say that it would have been a
great pity for you to have built upon any hopes
that — that '

Why, the other fellows are nothing at all :
one of them only a literary scrub ; and the
other '

Will you please go on with your story ? '

'And now it's all over. It's just as well
that I did not take the house and order that
spray, because now you won't even think of
me. And yet I shall not be a pauper like
Allen, or a clerk like Will. Perhaps you will
consider that. Look here, Claire,' his voice
sank to a whisper, ' I may be smashed, but it
won't all go. There's a snug little sum in my
mother's hands ; I gave it to her to keep foe me
three months ago, when we had our last great
shindy. And besides, you've got plenty of your
own, and perhaps your father might live with
us. I should not mind it much, if I had the
buying of the claret.'

Do pray get on with the story, or I will
get up and go away.'

No, no, I will go on. Listen then. I ama
ruined man. That is the first thing.'

'But I thought you were so rich and so
successful.'

So I was. Now I am ruined.' His voice
broke down, and he began to cry like a schoolboy.
It was undignified, but he could not help
it, and indeed it was a very pitiful thing after
so much greatness. I could think of nothing;
in the way of comfort. However, presently he
recovered a little, and went on to tell me all.

It was a truly Wonderful story that he had
to tell. The boy whom we had first thought
dull and stupid, and had afterwards been compelled
to consider a miracle of cleverness, had
never really done anything at all to make the
world change its opinion. He was, indeed, so
dull that he was persuaded to lend himself to
a most extraordinary deception, entirely for the
advantage of the contriver. He was believed
by everybody to have a wonderful genius and

insight into finance ; lie knew nothing whatever
about it ; while he was making thousands he
knew no more of the science than any schoolgirl
; he would not even learn it. He knew only
the talk or jargon of it. I looked with a sort
of amazement at a man who had so little dignity
and self-respect as to play the part which he
had played.

I've made for Collier,' he said, with conviction,
as if he really had made the money by
his own sagacity and wisdom, ' I've made for
Collier over a hundred and fifty thousand
pounds in two years. Why, my own share
came to fifty thousand.'

And where is it — all this money ? '

Some of it is spent ; some of it is — where
I told you,' he jerked his thumb in the direction
of his mother's house. ' Some of it the
creditors will get.'

But even now,' I said, ' you have not told
me how it is that you are ruined.'

He then proceeded to explain with a great
fulness how there was a rascally company

established through the wicked cleverness of
Mr. Collier first, and next by himself, acting
under Mr. Collier's directions, and thirdly, by
a selection of modern brigands, for the purpose
of plundering English investors. The company
was rotten, he said, from the beginning ; it had
not the slightest chance of success as soon as
the real facts were known. But in order to
get the shares taken up it was necessary to
hide these facts very carefully. So the prospectus
was drawn up by Mr. Collier himself,
and was a masterpiece of suppression. Also
in heightening and brinmnf:^ out the few facts
which could be of use to the new company the
prospectus was unrivalled. The effect of this
prospectus was that a great many of the shares
were taken up and the company floated. And
then began Mr. Collier's usual game, which
was to keep on forcing the shares by creating a
demand and making a clatter about the company
More shares were taken up. But the facts came
out. Then the shares went down to nothing at
all, and the shareholders began to clamour.

VOL. III. K

There is always some one,' said Olynthus,
who won't lose his money without a light for
it. No one can deny that the prospectus was
a bundle of lies. Collier drew it up, so it
must have been. All the ^prospectuses came out
of my office, but at first nobody knew it. And
nov they've found it out, and they charge it
upon me, and I've got to stand the racket.'

What does that mean ? '

It appeared that it meant this. He would
have to take up the whole of the worthless
stock. Now all his available money would
not suffice to take up a fourth part of the stock.
Therefore he must go bankrupt, unless Mr.
Collier stood by him. And at this juncture
Mr. Collier deserted him ; told Olynthus that
he had given him every opportunity for making
his fortune ; that for his own part no one could
come upon him, because he was not mixed up in
the business at all, and, in fact, he was not known
to be concerned in any part of the business ;
but he had for some time been satisfied with
the results of the partnership, and was, in fact.

about to retire. He wished his partner success
in the future ; if he had to go bankrupt over
this unlucky company it was only what he,
Colder, had done several years before ; and
that Olynthus, like himself, would be able to
reflect with pride on his by-gone greatness.
Doubtless, too, he added with a sneer, Galla-way
would before long return to the work,
bringing with him his old experience and the
extraordinary sagacity which had astonished the
whole world. He really was a most wonderful
man, Mr. Collier.

When I began to understand the story, I
perceived that one was as much a robber as
the other. I told Olynthus so. His sister's
dowries, the gift of a house to his mother, the
money he had placed in her hands — all these
ought to be restored and given to the creditors

As for my sisters,' said Olynthus, ' if I
know the dear girls, they will see the creditors
farther livest ; as for my mother, she won't give
up her house unless she knows the reason wJiy,
nor the money, so long as she can stick to it.

And as for nie, I mean to stick to every penny
that I can,'

He could not understand the iniquity of his
own share in the matter. That Mr. CoUiber
was a clever rogue he knew, and greatly
admired his cleverness ; but that he himself
was anything but a deeply injured man he did
not know or understand.

If I had refused to put out that prospectus,'
he moaned, 'he would have dissolved
partnership at once ; if ever I refused to do
blindly what he ordered, he threatened that
And he was so greedy, and took three-fourths.
And after all to make me liable ! '

Mr. Collier had then gone away. ' He
has gone,' said his partner, ' with a hundred and
fifty thousand in his pocket, and I have got to
go bankrupt. As for consideration from the
shareholders, not a bit, if you please. They'd
tear me to pieces if they could. And if they
did Collier would look on with a grin.'

Well, it is all over then.'

All but the bankruptcy. That will happen

in a few days, I suppose — or weeks — or something.
I don't know. I've been to a solicitor,
and put my affairs in his hands. There's
enough for him at any rate.'

Then, now, Olynthus, you can return to
honest work.'

Oh ! the okl trade again. No, thank you,
Claire. I've got enough to live on, and I shall
do no more work, honest or not.'

He was resolute upon this point. As for
dishonest work, he could do it no longer,
because he did not know how to do it. And
as for honest work and drudgery, his three
years of riotous living and easy gains made it
impossible to take up again the monotony of
steady Avork and slow thrift.

It really was no use telling him that he
might now turn his attention to honest work.

There's one good thing I've done ' — he
began to laugh, and the effect was like a gleam
of sunshine on a rainy day. ' This morning,
while I was sitting in my office, pretty miserable,
wishing Mr. Collier would come back if

only to call me an ass and a fool, who should
call but the Countess ? She pranced in, smiling
sweetly, and she said she came to apologise for
her bad temper six months ago. But I knew
what she wanted. She had never forgiven
herself, she said, after my kindness to her, and
that she couldn't sleep at night for thinking
of her ingratitude, and would I forgive her ?
Nobody can tell lies so sweetly as the Countess.
Well : I said I would — I knew what she wanted
very well ; and would I forgive her brother, who,
she heard with pain, had written an intemperate
letter. I said I would — I knew, of course,
what she was driving at — if he would pay his
debt of honour, which was seventy-live pounds.
Would I then shake hands? I did shake
hands with her, Claire, knowing what would
come next. So then her ladyship sighed and
looked friendly — she's got the most beautiful
eyes, I must say — eyes that go straight through
a fellow and make him feel groggy in the
knees — and said that as we were now good
friends again, and she meant never, never, never

to lose her temper any more, she wanted to
consult me about a little transaction. She had
been recommended to buy Argentine or brazilians.
Which could I recommend ? Now
it was only two days before that Mr. CoHiber
told me Brazilians would fall rapidly — he knew
why, but did not tell me the reason. So I saw
my chance. I was a cad, when she quarrelled
with me : I was her dear friend, when she
wanted me. And so I told her to go away at
once and buy as much Brazilian stock as she
could get. She sailed away with the liveliest
smile, I do assure you. I wish I had asked
her to give me a kiss. And both she and her
brother have put on a pot for Brazilians and
are telling all their friends ; and won't there bea
row in a fortnight ? '

Then I asked him if anybody else had been
told the whole story.

He said no one.

Would Mr. Collier talk about it ?

He said that he supposed Mr. CoUiber's
interests lay rather in keeping dark.

In that case I advised him to tell nobody
else, unless, which perhaps might be best and
yet would be a hard thing to do, he made a
clean breast of the whole business.

It gave him great consolation to think that
he might perhaps still, though bound to future
obscurity, pass honourably for having been
once a great financier. In the first dismay
caused by the disaster, he felt as if all must
be found out.

I suppose,' he said, ' that it will take two
or three months to get through the Court. —
Oh ! they are a vindictive crew. There's one
man, a clergyman, who ought to be a Christian,
and because he's lost a paltry five thousand
pounds he heads the lot— says I made false
representations. There's a pretty Christian for
you ! Well, Claire, I am glad I told you.
Will that ten thousand make any difference in
your views ? '

No, Olynthus. None.'

And we might have been so happy together.
We were made for each other. My"

mother says so, ever since you got your money.
Before that, she said it was marrying beneath,
and I ought to look hither.'

Well — never mind. Thank you for thinking
so much of me, Olynthus. I could never
have married you, not if you had continued in
your great success.'

Never married me ? '

No ; never.

'Not if I'd got the house in Palace Gardens
? '

'Not even then. Oh! Olynthus, can't
you understand that I would rather marry
you in your poverty than when you were
heaping up riches by defrauding and plundering
widows and children and credulous
persons .^ '

But that he could not understand.

CHAPTER Iii.

A SECOND VICTOR HUGO.

Then the time began to pass swiftly towards
the end. If you watch the flow .of a river
over a weir you will see that the water seems
to linger and go slow a little before the point
where it leaps the little cataract ; then with a
rush it sweeps forward, and is gone. For
three long years I had waited in patience, yet
never forgetting what was before me ; at last the
time seemed to move more slowly ; to others,
no doubt, it hastened forward, hurrying the
old towards their end, the dying towards their
death ; but to me it seemed to linger so that
every hour could be felt and remembered.
Outside was the promise of the early summer
in the gardens, and in the Forest the first

fluttering foliage, on which the sunshine always,
year after year, seems to lie like the bloom
upon a peach.

I remembered a day long gone by, when
we made a little picnic, one of many little
picnics, in the Forest, and played about the
glades, and the boys ran a race for wdiat my
father called the Prize of the Golden Apple,
which was only an orange after all ; and I
held it for the victor. Now, after ten years,
and more, the boys were to stand before me
again. Why, just as before, one of them was
out of the race altogether ; and of the other
two, just as before, no one could say which
of the two came in first. I knew not who was
the appointed judge ; and yet the prize was no
longer a golden apple, but a life's happiness.
Xot so much my own, but that of two men.
Yet — the happiness of both? Of one there
could be no doubt. He Alas so loyal, so steadfast,
so true. Though he said no single word
of love in his letters, it was clear of what his
mind was full. And he was coming!: home —

all that long way! — on purpose to keep his
appointment. Poor Will ! could one send him
empty away, and with a bleeding heart ?

It was of Allen that I doubted. I am
quite sure by this time that poets and men of
imagination, who are always creating another
world of their own filled with imaginary people,
who are always studying those people, and
watching them, and thinking about them, take
less real hold upon things of actual life than
men of action. They dwell continually in the
unreal, so that things actual may grow to look
like things imagined. They think much less
about themselves than ordinary folk ; they
desire for themselves little beyond the success
of their work ; they are not troubled with the
ambitions of ordinary men, except as on-lookers
who are sometimes angered by the badness
of a performance ; the world is a stage to them,
and men and women players. This is the
reason, I suppose, why they do not grow old
like their friends, but remain young in heart,
and at fifty are still full of youthful thoughts.

All their waking hours they spend in dreams,
among ghosts and shadows. When another
man is in love he thinks all day long, and
perpetually, of the girl he loves ; but he who
writes romances is always thinking of another
woman as well, as well as of her whom he
has married or is about to marry. She who
marries such a man must be content to take
a second place in her lover's heart without
jealousy, because the first is occupied by
the girl of his story, much lovelier, younger,
cleverer than herself, and quite as real to
him as the wife of his bosom. Again, a man
dio does not write can give all his best
thoughts, if lie is capable of fine thought,
and his sweetest words, if he knows any
sweetness of speech, to the girl he loves ; but
the man who does, keeps them for his owu
pages. He is a man of a thousand amourettes ;
he coquettes with every little insignificant girl
who crosses the state in his dramas : he
secretly entertains, and continually feeds and
fosters, for his heroines, grandes passions : lie

is never out of love so long as he writes.
What spare love can such an one find for his
wife ? It is a strange life. Does, one wonders,
the man who has written many stories ever
sit down to think of the long procession of
beautiful girls, tender, sweet, and true, with
their brave and gallant lovers whom he has
created for the world's delight? Do they
delight him only to think of them ? Does he
raise his own heart by repeating to himself the
wise and noble things which his puppets have
said ? or is he ashamed in meditating on the
foolish things he has allowed them to say ? or
does he — it makes one sad to think that he
may do this — does he go away when his work
is finished and straightway forget it all — the
characters and their story, the lovers and the
maidens, the sadness and the joy ; and put
them out of his mind lest they interfere with
the grouping and the dialogue of the next
story ? T thought of all this, and perhaps
thought too much of it. I remembered how
Allen forgot and put out of his mind the girl

whom he had made to hive for ever in the
memories of those who .read his story. He
must have loved Tier, while he wrote her life ;
yet he forgot her. Would he uot forget me,
too, if I were to go away out of his sight?
And yet, on the other hand, why shoidd one
think of Allen in this way ? There have been
many poets, artists, and writers of fiction
married happily for all that the world could
see ; and, after all, a mistress of flesh and blood
must always be a very different thing from a
mistress of the imagination. There was no
change in Allen. He came to me for advice
and help as he always had done — a man who
must always lean on some one, and be encouraged
by praise and pleasant words. Sever
for a moment had I suspected the least change
in Allen's feelings. To niake those eager eyes
sad would be indeed a dreadful thing.

Yet there was Isabel. Should not one
think of her ? For I had learned her secret,
and she was born to be the wife of such a
man. She would live for him, divine his

thoughts, lead him on, console and sympathise
with him in the way that only one who knows
the mystery and craft of literature can do.
What could I do for Allen compared with
what she could do ?

Then it occurred to me that a way was
possible in which the true state of Allen's
mind might be discovered by him as well as
by myself. It was simply that Gertrude
should pay her long-promised visit to us before
the day of Fate instead of after it. I wanted
to watch Allen with Isabel again — even to
question him, because it is difficult for a woman
to read the mind of a man.

There wanted only a week of that day. I
declare that I knew not, even so late, on
whom the choice would fall ; nor did I suspect
in the least that there would be no choice
to make. Only a week ! Why Will must be
through the canal. The ship must be driving
through the water day and night to land him
on the Italian shores. Only three days and he

would be rolling across the Continent ; only-six
and he would be among us again !

Gertrude was so good as to give up her
evenings and her engagements, though it was
the middle of the season, and the talk about
the pictures and the concerts and all still in
its freshness. It seems terrible to think that
for the finest pictures, on which men have
spent, it may be, years of work, there cannot
be found more than a week or two of talk,
even among people like Gertrude and her
friends, who do not waste their time in society
and scandal, and to whom the fashionable
world is merely a spectacle when they choose
to look at it for awhile. Only a week or two !
And it is the same with the most beautiful
book, the bravest deed, the finest work of
music — only a week or two of talk, and then
it is forgotten ! But still it lives. In the
world of London where new thinij^s follow
each other so quickly needs must that to-day's
event drives out the recollection of yesterday :
but there is a world outside where new things

VOL. Ill, I4

last longer. Isabel broglie with her Allen's
manuscript play, now completed and intended
to be read as a sm-prise for Gertrude. I was
so foolish as to feel a little jealousy that she,
and Allen with her, should be so eager about
the play when a matter of so much importance
was awaiting to be decided.

You are wrong, my child,' my father said,
reading my thoughts. ' To the artist his work
is of more importance than his love. Let us
read the play.'

Perhaps Allen had forgotten the nearness of
the day. Gertrude, at all events, had not forgotten.
She took both my hands in hers and
pressed them as soon as we were alone.

My dear,' she said in her sweet soft voice,
I think it is wonderfully good of you to ask
us at such a time. I thought you would wait
until — until we had sent Allen to learn his fate.'

Has Allen forgotten the day ? ' I asked,
with a little jealousy.

We talked of it yesterday,' she replied.

I suppose I looked surprised. Could Isabel

have discussed the subject? There is sometimes
in women a courage greater than the
courage of man.

My dear,' lie added, ' you were quite
wrong. Indeed you were. Isabel looks on
Allen as her brother. "We talked of you in
the twilight. I think the twilight in a London
house at this time of the year is delightful.
There is the scent of the lime blossoms — of
course I don't mean a house when there are
no trees and flowers — in the air, there are
flowers in the open windows, and as you sit in
the dusk, strange thoughts come upon one.
Yes, even to me, my dear, old as I am. And
then outside there are the mysterious voices
and steps of the people. What are they talking
about ? Whither are they going ? Are
they spirits or are they real .^ Yes, wee sat
beside the window and talked of you, my
dear. Allen told us over again the story of
his childhood and your early loves, and your
sweet sympathy with him. Oh, Claire, it is an
idol of love.'

t,'2

Gertrude, you would not care for it unless
you could dress it up and make it in your
mind romantic'

It wants no dressing. There are some
things which the imagination cannot improve.
Why, you are a part of his life, CLaire.'

'Yes, Allen loves me, I know that well
enough. But yet '

But yet ? '

Will he not love me just as well and just
the same if '

No, Claire — no, my dear ; you must not
think so.'

Oh ! Gertrude, can you not see ? Are
you blind P But listen, I have asked you herein
order that Allen may find out for Himself
the difference. Gertrude, I could never make
Allen so happy as Isabel will. And she loves
him ; I am jealous for Allen's happiness. I
know that she loves him, even if she has never
dared to let herself know the truth.'

Gertrude made no reply for a few moments ;
then she said, thoughtfully:

Poor Isabel ! and I never guessed. And
you would let him go ? My dear, it seems
impossible. You would let this genius — this
poet — go to another woman ? '

1 would not, if I were Isabel ; but I am
not — and besides '

Besides, there is the other ; but what is
he like, then, the young hero ? Is he an Apollo?
Is he the Sun God? How does he outshine
my poet ? '

You shall see him ; he will arrive now ina
day or two.'

Before I knew you, my dear,' Gertrude
went on, 'I was curious to find out who and
what the girl was who drew all hearts. Now
I know ; yes, my dear,' she took my hands in
hers, ' now I know very well indeed. But this
Will, I cannot understand him yet.'

You shall see him, Gertrude ; but even
then you may not understand him. Perhaps
he will not be interesting to you, imtil you
know him as Allen and I know him.'

Then my father came with Isabel and
Allen, and our talk vas stopped.

Naturally, we began with the Forest. There
is one fault, and only one, which can be alleged
against ray Forest. It is sometimes undoubtedly
wet under foot. The soil is clay, and the
water lies in little pools. One cannot deny the
charge. This day, fortunately, it was dry ;
there had been sunshine for nearly a week, a
most wonderful thing for this rain-plagued
climate of England. We could walk anywhere
; through the narrow lanes arched over
with the tender foliage of the spring, among
the old trunks where there were no lanes at
all, and over the broad stretches of turf Which
once had been our playground, our race-course,
our theatre.

This is the Forest,' said Gertrude, looking
round her, ' which made Allen — what he is.'

Kay,' said Allen, ' not the Forest only, my
Master is here.'

Said my father —

'He who teaches a young man sows an
unknown seed in an unknown soil. He
knows not what may spring up. I thought to
make a statesman, and behold ! I make a poet.'

You could not,' said Gertrude, ' oh ! you
could not make a greater than a poet. To bea
statesman ! to make large promises and not
to be able to do the smallest things ; to be
continually reviled and held up to ridicule ; to
sacrifice truth and honour for the sake of Party
you would not, M. Philiponon, desire such a
life for Allen?'

I did, mademoiselle, and still I would
desire such a life. To a strong man blame
would be nothing. But the strong man will not
get blame, because he can perform what he promises.
Do you know why your statesmen are
continually reviled and ridiculed, and why they
have to go out every three years ? It is
because they pretend to be, but are not, strong.
The statesman of my hopes was one who
would draw his strength from his own knowledge,
not from the ignorant people who would

send him to power. I dreamed of the strongman
whom we all look for, but who never
comes.'

'And then — and then,' said Gertrude,
'literature is the natural ladder by which
young men may climb.'

That is, pardon a thousand times, perhaps
the least suspicion of prejudice. It shows that
the Eepublican idea has not yet touched the
heart of mademoiselle. Why not a boy from a
quiet and obscure village, taught by a Frenchman,
as well as a young earl or the son of a
cotton man ? '

What my father said was true. Gertrude
would have thought it a laudable ambition in a
rich man to train his son for a political career.
Yet it seemed to her absurd in the case of a
poor lad born to be a city clerk. We know
so little of the depth and reality of the Republican
spirit which is abroad, outside our little
island. It did not seem absurd to my father
this ambitious project.

All statesmen,' said Isabel, ' seem to me

false and treacherous. Better the smallest
ballad, if it is good, than the longest speech.'

However,' said Gertrude, ' it was a noble
dream, and this is a beautiful place. If you
had not lived here, M. Philiponon, Allen might
have realised your hopes, and made speeches
to the people. Let us sit a little and feel the
silence. This is better than Eichmond Park.'

It was so silent that afternoon, that we
might have been fifty miles from any dwelling-place
of man. Xo one was in the Forest
except ourselves. We sat upon the fallen
trunk which had been our friend so honos, and
were silent. There was a lark overhead, and
there was a twitter of birds from the trees ;
a blackbird and a thrush were not far off, a
cuckoo was close beside us ; a long way off
we heard the tinkle of a bell. I had never
known the Forest more silent or sweeter. As
we sat, the lark suddenly dropped straight
down ; the twitter of the birds ceased ; there
was a stillness which made itself felt, while
overhead there hovered, motionless, a hawk.

Presently it darted away, and the birds began
again.

In this price,' said Gertrude, breaking the
silence, ' one might dream away a lifetime. Of
course Allen became a poet. Why did you
not all dream in sweet verse? We must
come, Isabel, and stay here a long summer
through.'

The Forest is not always so gracious,' I
said ; ' sometimes it is wet and muddy ; sometimes,
in cloudy weather, it loses its colour,
and in cold east winds it loses its perfume.'

'A forest is like the sea,' said Gertrude.
Its moods are many ; they are never quite the
same ; and one never tires of it, and one is
always tempted to say something about it ;
something which shall be new, a thing never
said before. Like the sea, it satisfies ; it is
sympathetic ; it responds to every thought.'

^ And yet,' I said, ' you would long for
London and your evenings after you had been
here a month.'

She laughed. 'I believe I should. That

is my punishment, to love nature much, but
society more. After all we are gregarious.'

Then it carew time to leave the Forest, and
we came slowly back. I lagged behind With
Gertrude, and Isabel between my father and
Allen.

Does your father never desire more society
a more active life ? '

'Xot now. I think he did at one time.
When we became ricci — that is, what we call
rich — his habits were formed ; he desired
nothing more than to bask in the sunshine and
to work in his garden. So we remained here.'

But you will not remain here now '

I do not know.'

You would not — oh ! Claire, you could
not take Allen away ; yes, I know you have
told me, but I cannot believe.'

Could I take him from you, and from his
present life, and from Isabel ? Do you think
I could if I were to try ? '

I think you can do with him what you
please.'

I can do a great deal, but not quite that.
Without you, dear Gertrude — and Isabel — he
would have no life.'

Ah, Claire ! do not make him unhappy.'

Perhaps I will make him the happiest
man in the world. Is he not a man who wants
constant encouragement and sympathy ? '

Yes ; more than any man I have ever
knoAvn. And he seeks it of you.'

Yes ; he tells me of his anxieties, but he
fmds his encouragement — from Isabel.'

After dinner, we had arranged for Isabel
to read Allen's play, of which Gertrude knew
nothing. It was a three-act drama — a tale of
the present day. We converted the drawing-room
into a little theatre, of which the stage
was one end. I was the orchestra at the
piano, and we placed three chairs for the
audience, consisting of Gertrude, my father,
and Allen. My whither was as yet not advanced
much beyond the stage of compliment ;
he had made a great many of the dear old-fashioned
kind about wit and beauty, and

Venus and the Muse, but I have suppressed
them. Gertrude, however, liked them, and
said that a woman never became too old to
value a compliment, and that in the dear old
days of the salons it was a man's chief study
how best to turn a compliment. I think,
indeed, that my father would have been better
pleased if we had proposed to spend the
evening in these harmless gallantries, especially
with Isabel. But we gave him no choice, and
he had to sit down and listen. I remembered
a former occasion when Allen read his first
verses, which were so execrable that I could
have cried. My father assumed exactly the
same critical attitude with a certain benevolent
kindliness, as if he was prepared to sacrifice
truth to compliment, because Englishmen, as
is well known, cannot write plays, but must
needs steal them from the French. Allen,
doubtless, would be no exception ; still, he must
be heard.

Then Isabel began. I suppose it was an
easy thing for her to do, but to mc it certainly

seemed a very great thing. She had
actually learned the whole drama ; she rolled
lip the manuscript, holding it in her hand as
an aid to gesture, and began to act the play.
She acted it so well that my father quite forgot
his critical attitude and his benevolent expression,
and became, naturally, the Frenchman at
a play ; in other words, he sat with parted lips
and wonder-stricken eyes, drinking in the scene.
To see an actress on the stage among the
painted scenes, dressed for her part, among the
rest of the company, is one thing. To see her
acting in ordinary evening dress, in a drawing-room,
is another and a far greater thing. For
to be carried away by the illusion of a stage is
easy, but it is only a real actress who can carry
her hearers out of themselves, with no scenic
effects, no dress, no assistance of any kind.

This Isabel did ; she played the parts each
in turn herself ; she became all the parts, one
after the other ; we did not want to be told
who was speaking ; by quick gesture, by sudden
change of voice and manner, she sustained the

whole. And I alone knew that she played it
for one of her audience. Only my eye saw her
quick glance at Allen, which said, although he
saw it not, ' Is this the true interpretation of
your thought ? Poet, is this justice to your
work ? ' No ; Allen seemed not to see it. He
looked nervously from Gertrude to me as if ho
read our verdict. Isabel had taken all this
trouble for him ; she was interpreting his
thought ; she was giving life to his puppets.
He took her labour as if it was a gift of no
consequence. Poor Isabel !

When she finished, at the very last words
of the third act, her voice broke down, she
stopped suddenly, and she fled. To the
others it seemed an artistic finish : the drama
ended, the actress disappeared. It was like
the dropping of the curtain. I, who knew
better, followed her. She had rushed to her
own room, where I found her weeping and
crying.

Isabel,' I threw my arms round her and
kissed her. ' Isabel, I have learned all.'

There was nothing to learn, she declared.
It was the exertion ; she was foolish ; she
would be better directly, she was better
already.

She rose at once ; she bathed her eyes
and met my look with a calm and steady gaze.
Yet she knew that I possessed her secret.

Oh, Isabel ' I whispered, ' can you think
that I would take him from you ? '

'But he loves you— you — you,' she replied
passionately. ' We must make him happy.
That is the first thing. We must make him
happy. Come, Claire, what does it matter
about ourselves ? We have got to make him
happy.'

We went back. Gertrude and my father
were waiting for us. Then my other rose and
solemnly bowed low to Allen.

Poet and dramatist,' he said, ' I salute
thee. Thou shalt be a Master, another Victor
Hugo, a Chateaubriand.'

Allen blushed and trembled with pleasure.

Then he turned to Isabel. ' Mademoiselle,'

he said, ' it is the province of your art to interpret
the art of the poet. Permit me to lay at
your feet the assurance of my most profound
admiration. Eachel could not have acted
better.'

You played it so well, Isabel,' I said,
because no one knows Allen so well as
yourself.'

It is a great play,' said Gertrude. ' Give
me the manuscript tomorrow. l!To, Allen, I
will not dare to alter a single word. But I
will suggest perhaps. Isabel, my dear, you
played better to-night then you have ever
played before.'

What can I say to thank you enough,
Isabel ? ' asked Allen.

Oh ! ' she shook her head, ' I want no
thanks. If Claire thinks that the play is good
and worthy of you, that is enough.'

Tell Allen, mon pure,' I said, ' what we
think of his play.'

It is a play so good, my son,' he replied,
that Claire shall translate it into French and

VOL. HI. M

Yv^e will offer it to the Francis. Can I say
more, ray dear ? '

Allen's face was soft and this eyes luminous
with the joy of his work. I laughed m my
heart to think that this man was to be judged
as an ordinary lover. There was a mathematician
once who forgot his wedding-day ; there
was a German scholar who so far observed that
festival that he only read for twelve hours
instead of fourteen ; there was the case of Sir
Isaac Newton, who used his mistress's finger asa
tobacco-stopper ; but I think I cannot remember
any instance in history of a poet three
or four days before the question which is supposed
to mean a life's happiness has to be
answered, who yet was carried away and
absorbed in his own poem.

Isabel's eyes met mine, and made answer,
What does it matter about ourselves ? We
have first to make them happy.'

CHAPTEE will.
will's return.

The next day and the day after, and the day
after that, we showed our guests all our beautiful
places ; we drove about through leafy lanes
and past picturesque cottages standing in the
midst of flowers ; we went to the quiet little
town of Abridge, on the river Eoding, standing
in a circle as if it had once been within a round
wall ; we showed them the wild parts of Epping
Forest and Copped Hall Park, and the burial
place among the quiet trees of Harold and his
brothers ; we took them to Chigwell with its
great trees and solemn churchyard, and to old
Chingford Church, falling slowly and sadly to
pieces, with shattered windows and bending
roof and bare interior, and quiet old place of

M 2

graves, which looks out upon the broad valley
of the Lea. Everywhere there were trees with
sunshine, flowers, and the singing of birds and
a sweet calm.

My dear,' said Gertrude, ' this is the true
birthplace of a poet.'

Yet at the West-end you know nothing
of it.'

I thought that Epping and all about it
was given over to the mob who drink beer and
break branches and shout,' she said.

Only a little of the forest. Beyond High
Beech you have solitude and quiet. At
Hainault we are nearly always left in peace.
And the quiet lanes beyond are never
visited.'

I am Q;lad to have come here,' she said.
Isabel, do you feel that we understand Allen
better from seeing the place where he was
brought up ? '

Isabel was thinking about him, I suppose,
because she started and blushed.

To-night,' I said, ' you will meet some of

the people among whom Allen lived. They, at
least, did not help to make him a poet.'

It was my evening. They all came : Sir
Charles and Lady Withycomb, and Mr. and
Mrs. Massey, and Mrs. Gallaway with her three
daughters, and some of the girls from the
school and some from the village, and half-a
dozen young men. I was very careful that
Gertrude should talk to most of them. It was
delightful to witness her bewildered look when
the good old City knight told her of the
glorious failures of the leading residents and
related his story about the Prince of Wales. I
wanted her to understand perfectly, that in this
talk of money and of the City there was no
place for the lofty thoughts and splendid verse
on which Allen's soul had been nourished. I
wanted to make her feel that the only house in
the village where such things could be encouraged
or comprehended was our own, and the
only man who coukl encourage them was my
father. He it was, and none other, who had
made a poet out of a City clerk. As for my

evening, it was not, to be sure, like Gertrude's.
We had no people who had done anything, but
we amused ourselves. The school-girls played
a Proverb of De Musset's, and Sir Charles went
sound asleep and snored ; one or two of us
played and sang ; and presently we cleared
away the chairs and began as usual to dance ;
and while I played the first waltz, I heard Mr.
Massey explaining to Gertrude the folly and
wickedness of Allen in giving up his place and
prospects in the City for the penniless and
despised profession of letters. This annoyed
me for the moment, because I thought she
might be set against Will, since he had a father
of mind so narrow. He also told Gertrude,
but this I learned afterwards, that Allen had
no chance with me at all, and his own son very
little, because the third suitor, Olynthus Galla-way,
had risen to so amazing a pitch of greatness
that it was impossible for a dazzled maid
to resist his attractions. Altogether Gertrude
passed a very astonished evening.

It was eleven o'clock and our friends were

beginning to separate, some of the elder ones
had already gone, we were dancing the last
waltz, Isabel and Allen together, and I was
sitting out.

Do you know that there are some sounds
which you can hear above and among all
others, however loud they may be ? The sound
I heard, above the music and the laughter and
the talk, was the sound of a footstep on the
gravel of the garden Avalk. I had not heard
that step for three years. But yet I knew and
heard it amid the buzz of talk, the sound of
the piano and the laughter of the girls. It
surprised me for the moment to think that
Allen did not hear it. But he was dancing
with Isabel. His arm was round her waist ;
her face was lying on his shoulder. How
should he hear ?

I sprang to my feet and stepped quickly
through the window, which was open to the
lawn. The night was dark, but I saw his figure
standing within the garden rails as if in hesitation,
and I ran across the lawn to meet him.

He seized me as I crime by both hands and
held them in his strong firm grasp, though his
voice trembled.

Claire ! ' was all he said. And I said nothing
because I could not speak, and because
at that moment I felt that there was no longer
any doubt or hesitation possible, and that forme
there was only one man in the world whom
I could love, as Will wished me to love him.

Had he taken me in his arms that moment
I should have told him all ; but he did not.
He only held my hands for a minute and let
me go.

Come, Will,' I said, ' and see my father.'

I have not seen my own yet,' he replied.
I came here straight from the station, where
I have left everything till tomorrow. But you
have a party, Claire.'

It is only my evening. Come, Will, I
have told you about my evenings.'

One moment, Claire. You are well ? Let
me look at you.'

We were on the lawn, and by the light

of the room he looked in my face, and I in
his. My heart sank, and I felt humbled and
ashamed because of the great love which I saw
in those brave eyes of his. Never girl had
braver lover.

Then I turned away, confused, and led him
by the hand into the room ; and my father
sprang to his feet and cried ' Will ! ' and the
dancers stopped, and Allen left Isabel, and the
girls of the village all ran to shake him by the
hand ; and the school-girls caught hold of each
other and looked at me, because they knew —
dear me ! everybody knew — my love-story, and
gazed upon the suitor whom they had never
seen, and whispered to each other that he
was the tallest and properest of the three.
Isabel stood by Gertrude's chair watching him
curiously.

He was only a handsome lad when he went
away ; he returned to us a handsome man
now, firm and well set up, his cheek a little
bronzed with the sea-breezes ; a strong man,
his head erect, his bearing confident, his voice

firm. He shook hands with all the girls, laughing,
and then with my father, and, last of all,
with Allen.

I knew, Allen,' he said, ' what would
happen. Tell me, Claire, does he know how
proud we are of him ? '

There was always a great contrast between
the two ; the one so eager, restless, and nervous,
and the other so self-reliant, so calm and
strong ; but it seemed intensified. Allen's eyes
had, more than ever, the far-off, expectant look
of one who lives in imagination. Will's more
than ever the steady, watchful look of one who
works. His eyes were like the eyes of a pilot
for trusty watch and ward. For him, the
world was full of work to be done, and it
was no place for dreams. To Allen, the only
work was in dreams. Then I led him to
Gertrude.

Gertrude,' I said, ' this is Will ; he landed
this very day, and has come straight to see
us. Will, this is Miss Gertrude Holt, and this
is Miss Isabel Holt. They are Allen's very best

and dearest friends, and have helped him to
make the splendid beginning of which we are
all so proud

Gertrude shook hands with him, saying
something kind. After that, the evening was
broken up. Everybody felt that we should
like to be left alone, and they kindly went
away. But the eldest Miss Gallaway whispered
to me, with meaning, that Olynthus would be
jealous if it was not for the fact that there
were only three days left. She also said that
Allen's disappointment would be easily consoled,
and that something must be done in the
village for the consolation of Fill. Olynthus,
she said, was talking* of a house in Kensiuo-toii
Palace Gardens ; of course, it mattered nothing
to him what the rent would be ; and he had
let fall something about a carriage and pair;
but that his wife would have every reason to
expect, and it was, in fact, due to his position.
Then she went away. Poor girls I They little
knew that the greatness they thought so much
of was destroyed already irrecoverably.

So they were all gone and we were left to
talk.

At midnight Gertrude left us, and soon
after my father. I made Isabel stay ; I wanted
to make her feel, somehow, as if Will belonged
to her, as well, already, because he would ina
way belong to her in the future. One could
not look forward to any severance of the sweet
ties of love and friendship between us all. We
went into the garden and sat with shawls about
our heads, talking through the short summer
night.

First we made Will tell us all his adventures,
or as many of them as he could think
of, because it was absurd to suppose that a
man had been away for three long years, and
among Chinamen with pigtails and Chinamen
with flat faces and pinched-up feet, without
having more adventures than he could tell ina
summer night. Ridiculous to tell us that
residence in Shanghai is as dull almost as
residence in our village by the Forest.

It is, indeed,' he said, as monotonous as

life in the City but for the people you meet,
the people from all over the world, the people
with stories of adventure to tell. You come
across them on board the steamers ; they are
going no one knows whither and coming no
one knows whence, and they live no one
knows how. They are always ready to goon
to Fiji, or to land on Borneo, or to take a
place at Shanghai ; only to talk with these men
is worth going all the way to China.'

And no adventures, Will, among the
Chinese ? '

None at all, Claire. But a good many talks
among them. Never believe that the Chinese
are a worn-out race or the Chinese Empire
rotten. They are as vigorous a people as any
in the world. Wait till the tug comes of Cossack
versus China.'

We all agreed that we would wait, and
presently he began to tell us long stories of
the places he had seen, the narrow seas, the
beautiful islands of the Malay Archipelago,
Singapore upon its hills, and green Penang.

You have heard enough about myself he
said.

Just then the church clock struck one, but
nobody took any notice. As if we were going
to be ruled by clocks on the night when Will
came home !

Come, Allen, you have done something for
yourself worth doing. Tell me about yourself
and how you have got on ? '

Then Allen with much hesitation began to
tell his story, all of which you know perfectly
well already, and how he had made no money
yet but plenty of hope, that is to say, no longer
the vague hope of a boy but the hope grounded
on work done and praise gained. Isabel helped
him with a word or two. All the night she was
considering Will curiously, as if wondering how
sucji a splendid man could come from so mean
a place. Why, it was all my father's doing.
He made a man of action and ambition out of
Will and a poet out of Allen, and both by the
same method; but then there could never be
another man like my father.

And then we had to tell about Olynthus and
his surprising rise, so that he alone out of the
three who went into the City resolved to emulate
Whittington seemed to have succeeded. I, for
my own part, felt horribly, dreadfully guilty,
because I knew the shameful, foolish secret of
it all, and could have foretold the conclusion.
If a man has been away for three years, there
is so much to be told that can never be told
by letter. We had become rich. Will had been
told that by letter, and he rejoiced ; we had
left our little cottage and taken a large house.
Will was told that ; we got together the people
of the place and had a weekly evening, he was
told that ; he was told everything, and yet until
he saw for himself, he did not understand the
difference all these things made.

When I went away,' he explained to Isabel,
nobody ever met ; there was no dancing or
singing or any pleasant things at all, only talk
about money and the horrible stories about the
bankruptcies.' Allen shuddered. ' And Claire
lived in a pretty little cottage with rooms about

as big as cupboards, like a doll's house, didn't
you, Claire ? '

I have shown Isabel the furniture we had,'
I said. ' We have kept it all and put it into
the smallest room of the house.'

And then I come home and find a dance,
actually a dance going on, in the village, and
the girls looking as if they enjoyed it, and my
dear old friend like a nobleman of the ancien
regime. To be sure, he always had that air,
but not so much.'

And yet a Eepublican, Will.'

I know, or rather a man filled with the
enthusiasm of humanity.

Oh ! the dream — the dream,' Allen said
impatiently. ' It was fortunate for me that I
never knew, until too late, about that dream.'

A noble dream,' Will said, ' the noblest of
all dreams. Yet, Allen, you always longed
for what you have. Are you happy at last,
Allen?'

He laid his hand on Allen's shoulder in the
old familiar way. When girls kiss each other.

young men lay heavy hands on each other's
shoulders.

I am as happy as I can be,' Allen replied.
'Am I not, Isabel?'

How can I tell ? ' she replied quickly.
Then she added gently. ' If to have succeeded
in what you most desired makes one happy,
you ought to be happy, Allen. For you have
already succeeded.'

Will looked at his old friend with a quick,
involuntary glance of surprise, first at him and
then at Isabel. I knew, very well, what he
meant. Could Allen be happy, he thought,
with that question still to be answered .^ And
who was this o'irl who sat with us as if she were
one of us, one of the little band of friends?
Why did Allen turn to her ? Next day, when
an opportunity came, he asked me what these
things meant. I told him — well, the convenient
half truth which left him even more puzzled
than before. In no society of which he had any
experience did the young men and the maidens,
who were neither brothers and sisters nor cousins

VOL. III. N

nor lovers, call each other by the Christian name
and talk with an absence of reserve so complete.
Can a man be in love with two gals at once ? '
he asked.

I think not, Will. Perhaps these are the
manners and customs of the literary world, of
which, you see, you know nothing. It is a
pretty custom, is it not ? '

For a girl to be called by her Christian
name by all the men ? I am only a Chinaman,
Claire, and know nothing, but I shouldn't
like to see you, for example, called by your
name.'

Perhaps it is only a custom of the house,
Will.'

He shook his head and laughed. ' Perhaps
it is only Allen's playful way,' he said.
Poets must do what they please. They are
privileged. What does it matter if Allen is
happy?'

Why, here was Will, like all the rest, falling
into the universal plot and conspiracy to
make Allen happy !

So we talked, and the short night drew onto
daylight. It was nearly three o'clock in
the morning, and the sun rises, in June, before
four.

No one wants to go to bed,' I said.
Let us all go into the Forest and see the sunrise.'


Isabel and I changed oiu' dresses for short
walking frocks and stout boots, and we sallied
forth into the still and quiet morning. We
crossed the dewy meadow and plunged into
the Forest, where beneath the trees there
were hanging about some shadows of twilight.
I told Will to lead the way, if he remembered.


As if I could forget ! ' he said, and led
the way.

I went next, and Isabel followed. Allen
came last, as Will led us from the open glade
by a wet and narrow lane — but no one cared
for the long wet grass — among low overhanging
branches to where on a high ground we could
stand and see the rising of the sun.

Did you ever see the sun rise ? You may
see it, if you are awake, on an average, I suppose,
about one day in six ; and in June, when
the mornings are mostly fine, about every other
day. In order to see it in the summer you
must sit up all night, as we did ; or you must
get up very early indeed when you are in the
middle of your sleep. I had seen it from my
bed-room window in the old days, and especially
those sad days when the boys first went
away, and I used to lie awake at night wondering
how one could live three years without
them. Then I used to sit at the window and
watch the east for the first streak of day,
though when it came it very often found me
sleeping in the chair. But it is best to see it in
the Forest with the trees behind you, the grand
old trees which seem like yourself to be waiting
for the sunrise, and trees beside you and trees
sloping away before you, and far away in the
distance the country dark, silent and mysterious.
But in the trees there is the twitter of
the birds, they are only half awake and they

are dreaming. And in the branches there is
the rusting of the leaves, as if the morning
breeze was waking them from their slumbers.
Then in the east the grey light which les all
round the horizon on a summer night begins to
put on colour ; and faint beautiful shades of
opal, sapphire, and colours which have no
name, and have never yet been caught by
painter, lie in broad belts one above the other,
each for a few moments only, and then long
fingers of light shoot upwards into the sky, and
the belts of colour melt and blend together,
and all the birds wake up together and break
into the morning hymn of praise, and the sun
rolls upwards and warms the cold bosom of the
earth. And who am I that I should try in
feeble words to speak of this grand pageant of
the dawn ?

Suddenly a lark began to sing high over
our heads, and we started and looked at each
other.

Claire,' whispered Isabel, catching my
hand, her eyes filling with tears, ' I shall never

forget this night, never — never. Oh ! my
dear. I know not what to think or say.'

'It is a fitting end to our talk,' I said.
Will has come back, and Allen has succeeded,
and we are at another dawn of a better day.
Come, Isabel, let us go home.'

We left the boys and went back together,
hand in hand, but silent.

I have suffered, dear Isabel,' I said,
because I did not know ; but now I know
and I am happy. It is the dawn of a happy
day for you, dear Isabel, who love one of the
two so much, and for me, because I love —
the other. Kiss me, dear. Let us always be
sisters. You have taken Allen's heart from
me, and you have only made me happier for
the loss. Remember what you said, " Above
all things "w j must make him happy." '

Oh, Claire ! ' the tears came again into
her eyes. ' Can you, can any girl, give up
Allen ? And besides, you do not know '

Hush, Isabel ! I know very well ; but
let us keep our secret.'

It was half-past four by this time. I suppose
we ought to have gone to bed and lain
awake thinking of our lovers. Alas ! we were
both outrageously hungry, and we went to the
supper-room and ate cold chicken and drank
claret-cup, and went to bed laughing as if
there were no such thing as love in the world.

As for our lovers, I believe they had cigars
and did not go to bed at all. And I know for
certain that temper was exhibited in certain
quarters when it became known that Will,
after three years' absence, actually went first
of all to see Claire, with whom and Allen
Engledew he sat up all the night, only calling
upon his own mother in the morning. I went
to bed and to sleep, and perhaps I dreamed
the thing and perhaps I heard it, but when I
awoke a voice was in my ears — the voice of my
father — and words saying, ' She will choose
between the two, the man who acts and the
man who writes, and I think that she will surprise
us both. But let us wait, and find consolation
for the others.'

Could Gertrude and my father have talked
together in the garden while I was still asleep ?
and could I, in half-waking dreams, have heard
them ?

The man who acts. Surely it is best for a
man to act. Men have to do the work of the
world. That man who does it carries out the
purpose for which he was born better than the
man who talks about the worker. My choice ?
Why I never had any choice. Although I
thought I was going to sit down and exercise a
deliberate judgment, I could not do otherwise,
when the time should come, but hold out both
my hands and say, ' Take me, Will, I am your
own.' I believe, if you rightly consider it, that
this is the case with every woman. She does
not choose, but she gives her love — because
she cannot choose but give it.

CHAPTEE IX.

THE Opinions OF A CHINAMAN.

The return of one native is, I suppose, a great
event in a quiet village, and here were two
natives returned, one at least, carrying this
sheaves with him, although to the general eye
he seemed as if he was laden with straw
and chaff and stubble and tares, instead of
golden grain. So that the return of Will, Who
had certainly ' got on ' in a material way,
created more general interest. Besides, Allen
had never been really away, and rumours were
always afloat of his starving agonies and mad
ambitions. Most of the residents pictured him
as sitting with a tight belt round his waist, to
keep down the pangs of hunger while he wrote

poems which nobody would buy, or paragraphs
for daily papers at a penny a line — they were
very eloquent on that penny a line — Mr.
Skantlebury especially, knew all about it ; or
else he was imagined as forming one of a madcap
crowd of restorers, singing and drinking
with the accompaniment of tobacco. Mr.
Massey it was who knew how literary men
always sit up o' nights together, and get drunk
and sing and smoke pipes. It was, I think,
rather a disappointment to most of us when
Allen came back, certainly well fed, well
dressed, and not, so far as could be seen, greatly
given to drink.

I have been talking to Sir Charles, Claire,'
said Will to me, ' and I have been having it
out with my father. I have received the congratulations
of Mr. Skantlebury on my arrival.
I have been wept over by Allen's mother, who
said that I was the supplanter of her son ; but
she did not blame me. I have been warned by
Mrs. Gallaway' — here I believe I blushed —
and I have been to town and called upon

Tommy — Tommy the Great — Trismegistus —
thrice greatest Tommy ! '

Did you call at his office ? '

'Yes, I did, at eleven in the morning.
Claire, there is something wrong with His
Greatness. He looks pale. He pulled out a
pint of champagne while I was with him, and
because I would have none he drank it all
himself. He grinned in a ghastly way when I
congratulated him on his success. There is
something wrong with Olynthus.'

I knew very well indeed what was wrong
with him, but I would not tell him.

Tommy did not pretend the ordinary
polite rejoicing at my return ; did not say he
was glad to see me ; did not ask me to dine
with him at his club or anywhere else ; did
not show, or pretend, the least interest in my
movements, and he seemed mightily relieved
when I came away. But perhaps he had his
work upon his mind — another fortune to make
before noon, I dare say.'

This was just what one would have expected

of the poor man. With ruin staring him in
the face, the visit of his old schoolfellow
would only distract him.

His cheeks are flabby and his hand shakes,
and his eyes are blood-shot. On the whole,
Claire, I would rather not be in poor old
Tommy's shoes. But what a fellow he is !
Fancy his hiding away those wonderful powers
of his ! And fancy ourselves being such
donkeys as to call him stupid ! We used to
laugh at him, Allen and I, because he couldn't
understand things at school. He was stupid,
was he ? Why, this finance business, which I
take to be pure plundering and robbery, is a
thing which wants a quicker brain and wider
knowledge than any other trade in the world.
Where did he pick up his knowledge ? '

I knew that as well, but I could not tell
him.

When I asked him he sighed and said that
he didst know whether the thing was worth the
trouble it had cost him. Trouble! it must
have been downright, resolute work of the

hardest kind, coupled with the most extraordinary
sagacity. You see it means nothing
more or less than to find out for certainty the
things which are kept in the background. You
must know all the secrets and all the motives.
Perhaps he kept a detective branch in his own
service. I asked him what he had made in
the three years ; but he refused to tell me, and
altogether looked so glum that I came away.
I expected to find him swaggering over his
money after the old fashion. What does it
mean ? '

It meant that the great financier was going
to be horribly punished, and perhaps held upto
ridicule. But that I could not reveal. Will
went on.

Coming home in the train I heard some
talk which adds to my presentiments about
]him. There where two men talking about some
company or other. I heard the name of Galla-way
mentioned, and one of them began to tell
a long story about the way in which Mr. Olin-thus
Gallaway has been making money. I

partly suspected it before. It seems that he
has been following the same game as that
carried on ten years ago or so by CoHiber.
This man seemed to know something about it.
There is a row impending, it appears. They
are going to make an attempt at fixing a certain
prospectus on Olynthus. If he can be proved
to have framed this prospectus, an action will
be brought against him. It is quite certain
that he took up and sold the shares. I
wonder if that is the reason why Tommy
looked so glum. The man in the train said
that if such an action could be brought, and
was successful, the result would make one of
the richest men in the City a bankrupt. Another
man, who seemed vindictive, remarked that for
his own part he should like nothing better than
to see him and all such fellows on the treadmill.
I suppose he vas a shareholder in one
of the illustrious Tommy's companies.'

I changed the subject.

You have not told me, Will, how you find
the place and all the people in it. Allen says

it lias grown so small. The Forest is only a
wood of very limited extent ; lie can no longer
feel lost in it, and he has ceased to feel any awe
for the glorious bankrupts.'

I do not find the place any other than it
used to be, but the people are changed. Mr.
Collier is gone, which seems a good thing for
everybody. The man used to remind me of a
hawk, with his hooked nose and sharp eyes
and quick savage manner. I never think of
a financier without supposing him greatly to
resemble Mr. Collier ; when I called upon
Tommy I fully expected to find that his features
were changed, and I am disappointed. He
might be thought to look a little like an owl,
with his fat cheeks, but not at all a hawk.'

Yes, Mr. Collier went away without telling
any one he was going.'

As for the Galhiways, I suppose it is quite
natural that they should be proud of their
brother ; but perhaps they are a little more
inflated than one would like to see. And they
did dwell upon the contrast between my position

and Tommy's. I wonder if they understand
at all what it means. Do you think
they can understand H Why, if they could,
the reading of the eighth commandment every
Sunday would strike them dumb with terror
and shame.'

He could not forget the story of the company
which he had heard in the train.

'Arid I've been to see Allen's mother. The
poor lady told her tale of woe ; her son is no
richer, she says, and has no prospect whatever
before him of making any money. It is a
dreadful thing to her. She looks upon these
ladies as his most mischievous friends. As for
his book it is only a proof and visible sign of
degradation. How can a book make money,
or even a bare living ? Only one thing would
reconcile her.'

What thing ? '

If they Avere to elect Allen, Lord Mayor of
London, and she were to sec him in his coach
of state with chaplain and swordbearer.'

Poor Mrs. Engledew ! And the rest. Will .^ '

I found Sir Charles as well as ever. He
flourished about Olynthus, of course, and regrets
that he is not likely to live long enough to see
his failure. This, he says, is sure to be colossal.
He also expressed his hope that I had brought
back from China the true spirit of British enterprise,
for which my father is so distinguished.'

Oh, Will ! but you know '

'Yes, Claire, I know.' His face 'fell. 'I
know, and I am ashamed. My father, at the
age of sixty-five, has gone back to the City
with that old donkey Skantlebury, and is
gambling, with nothing to lose, and no chance
of getting any scraps of information, except
what Tommy throws him. I am ashamed, I
say, when I think of those two old men going
one after the other and humbly begging for
advice and instructions.'

Will,' I cried, ' please tell your father to
take no more advice from him. No, it is not
on account of the shame, but the danger. Tell
him at once.'

I have no influence with him. I have

VOL. III. o

tried to represent the danger to him, but he
has made a little money by his transactions,
and is full of his former ardour for making a
fortune. The old projects are brought out ;
the money he is to make by his new speculations
is to be applied to the revival of the old.
I am an unnatural son because I will advance
no money to push off the scheme at once.'

Then the end is certain,' I said, thinking
of what I knew.

'I suppose it is very certain,' he replied,
from his own knowledge. 'And there will
be the glory of a second bankruptcy in which
there Avill be nothing' to lose.'

And jiow tell me if you think my father
much altered.'

Nothing will ever alter him,' said Will.
*You know that I was not his favourite
pupil. Therefore, I have not disappointed
him, as Allen has. He expected nothing from
me.'

'Yes; and yet, it was but a dream — an
impossible dream.'

Impossible — perhaps, But a noble dream.
Do you know, Claire, that the things he put
into our heads, the things he made us see and
hear, have always been with me ? So they
have with Allen. I see in every one of his
stories the presence of these ideas. I am not
clever in his wav. I cannot create a figure
and make her represent a multitude. Where
Allen sees one girl, I see half a minion. Where
he sees one couple, I see a million. And I
have been thinking about them ever since.'

I know you have. Will. I found you
out from your letters. Does my father know
too?'

I do not suppose he does. How should
he know ? '

'He read all your letters, Will.' But it
occurred to me that he had not perhaps read
them so carefully as I had done, and I was
confused.'

He seems happier in being rich,' Will
said. ' This house and his large garden
are more pleasant to him than the little


cottage. He is proud of his library, and it
pleases him to have no work, especially no
distasteful work, to do. I think Frenchmen
become idle more gracefully than we restless
Englishmen. Look at my father and Skantle-
bury.'

In the evening we had a great talk. It
began with Gertrude, who could see the artistic
merit of a picture or a romance whatever the
subject, but had, I think, little sympathy with
the inartistic and ignorant multitude who get
through their lives somehow with so little joy.
Perhaps she was too old for the sentiment
of the sympathy, which seems to me quite a
modern thing in England and an importation
from France, Who is the mother of all ideas.
She was speaking of the separation from the
ordinary world which belongs to the literary
and artistic life. ' What,' she said, ' is to other,
people the earnest business of a life is to the
literary and artistic life only a curious subject
of study. This is the reason why such men are
bad at business. They look on from the outside

and draw their pictures. If they have to
go into the fight they get struck down and
come off badly. Their work is outside.'

'Yet; said Will, with diffidence, 'they
cannot cease to be human. Art without sympathy
is like a picture without atmosphere.'

It is well said,' observed my father.

'The sympathy,' said Isabel, 'comes from
the real humanity of the artist. He would not,
if he could, cease to be human.'

How can a man,' said Will, 'look on
without longing to engage in the struggle?
We are fighting animals.'

You are not an artist, Mr. Massey,' said
Gertrude. ' The artist is not a fighting mal.
He wants an atmosphere of calm '

'Yet Benevento Cenini— ' Will interrupted.


You cannot,' Gertrude went on, ' act' as
well as observe and meditate. The artist must
keep a steady hand and a clear eye. He
must be superior to the ignoble struggles and
ambitions of the common life.'

These 'were the ideas in which the dear
lady had been brought up. A poet or an
artist was a sacred creature who watched
the movements of mankind, but had no part
in them. Allen murmured approval. Will
knocked the proposition all to pieces.

A great many poets and writers,' he said,
have been men of action, and even excellent
men of business. Shakespeare, for instance ;
Lamartine tried statesmanship ; Cervantes was
a soldier ; Byron, Pope, and Dryden were all
able to look after their own affairs. And, then,
why should not a man join in the ambitions of
other men ? '

Because it is so much more noble to look
on than to struggle in the ignoble fight,' said
Allen grandly.

I don't know that. But even if it were,
I do not see that the fight is ignoble. The
people Avork to keep wife and children. Work
therefore means love, which is not ignoble.
The first desire is to improve the material condition.
That is not ignoble. There is not

much art among the mob, it is true, and no
desire for art. Art is imitation and representation,
and means some kind of ease. As for
the people, I think that the spectacle of the
whole world from the very beginning, looking
for some one who will tell them how equal
justice may be had, is not ignoble.'

There spoke my pupil,' said my father.
But Gertrude shook her head.

We live in a land where there is equal
justice,' she said. Indeed, she had always been
told so, and was now too old to learn anything
different.

You should ask the better-class workman
what he thinks about equal justice,' said
Will. ' You remember the old walks and talks,
Allen?'

Oh ! yes,' Allen replied, going without a
blush straight over to the opposite side. 'I
remember, of course I remember now. The
people are always asking how things are to beset
right. There are a thousand wrongs of
which we feel hardly any, and they feel all. I

had forgotten. Do you remember, Will, the
shoemaker we met one Sunday afternoon at
Walthamstow, and how he spoke of rich men's
law and poor men's law ? I should have gone
with him and learned how he lived. We miss
our best chances. He was a splendid subject
and I let him go.'

But— ignoble, Allen ? '

No, not ignoble ; I was wrong. The life
of the man who works is not ignoble. The
ignoble life begins a little higher up — or lower
down — with the small trader.'

Allen does well,' said Gertrude, ' to study
the common people. They are splendid material
for him ; they are his workshop. As
for me, I find them coarse in manner and rough
in speech. I prefer my own kind.'

'Allen might have done better for himself,'
said Will, ' if he had studied the people
a little longer. He observed and made pictures.
I suppose, Allen ' — he laid his hand on
Allen's shoulder, the familiar trick—' I suppose
that nature made you an artist, so that you

see picturesque situations where I saw only
things ugly and mean. Perhaps the more you
study the people the more picturesque things
you will see. Let us begin the old walks
again.'

We will,' said Allen ; ' we will have a
thousand walks together. I shall get new
ideas just as I used to get them when we were
boys together, and every walk brought a flood
of thoughts.'

There are two ways,' Will went on, ' of
watching things. One is, yours, to study the
effect ; the other is, perhaps, mine, to look for
the cause.'

After all,' said my father, ' it was Will who
learned my lesson aright. Then my life has
not been thrown away.'

Yes,' Will went on, ' I have not Allen's
genius : but still I have ambitions. I do not
know yet how I shall begin or what may be
attempted. When one lives abroad, far away
from the things which at home distract the
thoughts, one can sit down and think. Then

the memory of om old walks and talks came
back, and I began to wonder if it was possible
to find out a way.'

Always for the people ? ' my father asked.

Always for the people. It may be that
I have found out some of their wants. I do
not say ; only I hope that I have found something.'


He hopes,' repeated my father. ' It is
modestly said. For he who leads the people
must not expect to be taught by the people,
because the people have no voice or power of
speech, but wait for him who can speak for
them. Yet, my son, he who works for the
people, must trust the people.'

There is nothing else to trust,' Will
replied. ' Everything else has been tried and
has broken down. If this, too, fails, there will
be no more hope. Trust them? Why, is
there not the safety of that divine instinct
in their hearts which cries continually for
justice ? '

Will,' — my father sprang to his feet and

ganglia his pupil by both hands, — 'you, too,
have heard it. Listen!' — he hell up his
finger. * You too can hear it. It is the
breaking of the wave which will overwhelm
the world.

Oh ! ' said Gertrude half laughing, half in
complaint. ' Then there will be no stalls, but
all pit ; no half-crown days, but all shilling
days ; no beautiful books, but all cheap literature
; no place at all, my poor Allen, for you
and me ! '

CHAPTEE X.

JOHN STEPHENS.

I WAS walking across the green in the morning
on some household business, when I saw in the
lane, where stood Mrs. Engledew's cottage, the
strange man of whom I have already spoken.
He was a long way off, but my eyes were good.
Besides, it was impossible to mistake his broad
felt hat and his i^reat beard. He was sitting on
a rail as usual, and had a cigar in his mouth.

I went on to the shop without thinking
much about the man. On my way back,
seeing him still sittings there and in an attitude
so observant, I reflected that it was a
favourable opportunity, now that Allen was
at home, to ask him why he came there and
what he wanted.

He did not hear my step until I was quite
close to him. When he saw me, he made as
if he would get down and walk away. But
when I spoke to him he put his hands in his
pockets and remained sitting on the rail.

This is the fourth time,' I said, ' that I
have seen you watching Mrs. Engledew's house.
What do you want with her? Why do you
perpetually sit and look at her door ? '

The party,' he replied, without looking mein
the face, ' who takes an interest in the lady
has sent me to inquire.'

To inquire what ? To sit on a gate all day
and look at the house ? '

'I told you about that party,' he replied,
'at the beginning.'

'What can you learn by looking at the
house ? Why do you not go and see her for
yourself ? Wliat do you mean ? '

He said that by standing where he was he
could see very well, and sometimes the lady sat
working at the window, and sometimes she came
out into the garden. Very well indeed he could

see her. That was what he did for the party
who took an interest in the lady. The manner
of the ran was rough but not offensive. He
did not seem to resent my questions.

But why do you not go and tell her of this
person who takes an interest in her ? '

Because,' he replied, ' there are reasons. If
this person knows that the lady is comfortably
off and wants for nothing and that she is happy
that is, as happy as most people can expect to
be at her time of life, and widows of bankrupts
and all — that person is satisfied. If she was
hard up now '

'Who is the person, thence Who can bethe
man who sends a stranger to hand: about
the house and ask questions of the people .^
Mrs. Engledew's cousins and relations do not
hide themselves. Your employer must have
some good reason for hiding himself.'

Perhaps he has,' the man laughed, a low
chuckle without any mirth in it. ' Perhaps he
has excellent reasons. Oh ! yes, he doesn't want
to show at all'

The only man who can have such reasons
is her husband's late partner, the wicked wretch
who stole his money and ruined his credit — and
murdered him.'

Which he certainly did, Amen. Of course
you mean Stephens, John Stephens, Stephens
is the man,' his voice became husky, ' who stole
and spent and ruined all. If it had not been
for Stephens, her husband would have been a
rich man this day. If it had not been for him,
all this grief would never have been. As forme
I always say that John Stephens is nothing-better
than a murderer. Very good reasons why
Stephens should keep out of the way ; murderers
must lie snug. He was a forger, too, and it
might be proved after all these years — forgers
must sit in the dark ; he falsified the accounts ;
he stole the money ; he ran away with all that
was left. Thieves, embezzled, falsities, and
such must at all times lay low, mustn't they ?
You bet, John Stephens has got very good
reasons.'

Then you are employed by this man .^ '

Put it, if you like, that I am. Put it this
way, young lady. You say to yourself this. If
Stephens has got money, it's Stephens's bounden
duty, being a forger and a thief, to give that
money up. But if the lady doesn't want the
money and Stephens does, why give up that
money ? Why give it up ? What's the good
of giving it up ? It won't bring back the past ;
it won't prevent Engledew being bankrupt. It
won't prevent him— look here, young lady, John
Stephens couldn't know he would kill himself.
Now, could he ? '

I suppose it was just then that I began to
suspect who the man might be. I remembered,
too, the strange knowledge he had shown of
Mrs. Engledew's early appearance. He went
on talking in an incoherent way, repeating himself
as if his mind was oppressed.

Stephens, you see, young lady, considering
all things, does well to lay low. But perhaps
you are quite right. Very likely it may be
John Stephens himself — no other — who put me
on this job.'

I was quite certain now that it was
Stephens. What could he want with the poor
lady ? You may tell him, then,' I said, ' that
he has ruined two lives and done his best to
ruin a third. Good heavens ! that such a
wretch should live ! '

It is no use telling him what he knows.
As for his living with the knowledge of that
behind him, he thinks he'd better go on living
as long as he can.'

He got down from his gate, when he had
made this grim reply, and leaned against it,
with his hands in his pockets, as if he was
disposed to carry on the conversation as long
as I pleased.

Does he repent then, this man .^ ' I asked.
You know him well ; that is clear. Does he
repent ? '

As for repentance, now, that is according
as you read the word. Stephens is sorry — he
is always sorry that he did it. Sometimes he
gets mad just in thinking about it. But as

VOL. III. p

for repentance, young lady, when I was young
I used to go to cliurcli. When I think of
that I hugh. I just laugh. Now repentance
in church meant being sorry and hoping for
forgiveness. I don't think Stephens ever
thought, even when he was as mad as a hatter,
that anybody would forgive him.'

I see. But he is sorry ? '

'That is so. It is close upon five-and-twenty
years since he did it. What he claims
is this, tliougli perhaps you won't believe it:
most every night for all these years he has
seen the face of the man he murdered — yes — ■
murdered. And it looks upon him with anger.
Sometimes, too, there comes the face of his
wife ; but not so often.'

He stopped, looking before him as if he
saw that face still.

It does one good to talk to some one.
I've talked to no one since — well — a long time.
Nobody to talk to — that is the very devil.
Then you get to see faces and to hear voices ;
when the voices go on too long people take

and lock a man up, and say lie's gone off his
chump for a spell.'

He stopped again.

Five-and-twenty years at three hundred
and sixty-five days in the year. That makes
about nine thousands ghosts ; doesn't it ? ' The
man ticked off the amount on his fingers as
if he was adding up an account. 'Nine
thousand one hundred and twenty-five ghosts
it is exactly. I counted up this morning.
Wherever Stephens goes the face goes too.
Every night when he blows his candle out the
face comes back. If he leaves the candle
alight, the face gets between him and the
candle. You can't dodge a ghost, anyhow, if
you try all the time. Stephens has tried going
to bed drunk — but that's no good, bless you !
and sitting up all night, but that's no good
either. Always that face ; sometimes, that
other face. There's a curious thing about the
other face. Before Carry lost her husband she
was as pretty a woman as you wished to
see. You would have thought that Stephens

would have seen that pretty face. Not at all.
What he sees is a sharp and worn face — see
there.'

I looked. The widow at the moment
threw open the window and looked out into
the sunshine. I thought that, set as the face
seemed in sunlight, flowers, and bright leaves, it
ought to have been a happy face, contented with
fortune and glad to live. A foolish thought.

That is the face he has always seen, growing
older and thinner too. Strange, isn't it ? '
Very strange — go on.'
'There are lots more things as strange as
you ever heard. When Stephens bolted there
was very little money left for him to take,
because he had lost it all. But what there
was he took — say, two hundred pounds, not
more ; and he went to America by a French
steamer from Havre. You would think that
such a man would spend a couple of hundred
in no time. Well, he did: some of it he
gambled ; some of it he drank ; some of it he
fooled ; he kept on throwing it away. Yet, as

fast as lie threw away, the money came back
to him. Never any more. Then, what with
the faces at night and the voices, and the way
in which that money behaved just as if it
meant to remain with him, Stephens's head got
a little queer and they locked him up. I
think he was locked up for twenty years or
thereabouts. When he came out they gave
him back his two hundred pounds. And that
money has stuck to him and grown more.
Yes, it's now just exactly enough to pay back
all, at compound interest. Seems strange,
doesn't it ? '

Very strange.'

He has been working and saving ; and it
occurred to him that if he were to go and crew
rid of this money by giving it back to Carry,
he might get rid of the faces, too.'

Very likely he would.'

The man pulled a bit of paper with figures
on it from his pocket, and he looked at it.

If you write out that sum at three and a
half per cent, interest, which is a fair rate, you

will find that two hundred pounds in twenty-five
years, becomes five hundred and thirty
pounds, two shillings and a penny. I've
worked it out, though it's a longish sum. The
dollars came in then, and Stephens put them
away till they had got up to what he wanted.'

Why did he not send the money over ? '

No ; that wouldn't do. He must bring it
himself.'

And so, Mr. Stephens,' I said, ' you have
got the money in your pocket now ? '

He made no reply, and seemed not at all
surprised that I knew him.

Why do you not go and give it to her ? '

'It is always in my pocket. If she was
poor '

Come with me and give it to her.'

To-morrow I will go. I can stand one
night more. To-morrow.'

No ; come to-day.'

It is all I have got in the world,' he replied,
with a strange eagerness. ' All I have in
the world. She does not want it. The money

would make her no happier. She lives in a
beautiful little cottage covered with flowers.
Why should I make myself a beggar? The
past is gone ; it can't be brought back.'

You owe her the money — come with
me.'

I took him by the hand, but he pushed me
back and turned to walk away. In another
moment he would have gone, but just then I
heard steps on the road. Thank heaven, it
was Allen.

Stop,' I said. ' Do you know that young-man
? It is Allen Engledew — her son.'

He made no more hesitation. He stood
still until Allen reached us.

Allen,' I said, ' this man wishes to see your
mother. Will you come with us ? He has an
important thing to say.'

Who is he .^ ' Allen asked. ' Who are you,
and what do you want with my mother ? '

You have got her face,' Stephens replied.

Xo more was said. We walked down the
lane, the man between us like a criminal, and

entered the cottage, the door of which was
open. The widow looked up surprised.

Mother,' said Allen, ' this stranger wishes
to make some communication to you.'

First,' I said, ' let him pull off his spectacles
and his hat.'

He took them off, without a word, looking
with strange and curious eyes at Mrs. Engledew.
Suddenly she recognised him and sprang to her
feet and seized him by the collar, crying :

It is the robber and the forger ! It is
John Stephens.'

It is,' he replied, quietly. ' You have not
forgotten me.'

Allen, hold him tight. Do not let him
escape, while I run for the police. Claire, you
are younger, do you run, my child. Allen and
I will hold him.*

Stay, mother,' said Allen, gently taking
her hand from the man's coat collar, 'let us
hear first what he has to say.'

He is the forger and the thief, Allen, do I
not tell you? Quick, villain, say what you

please, and then the police. Oh ! At last, at
last ! '

'I carried off,' said Stephens, apparently
unmoved, ' a couple of hundred pounds. Here
it is.' He hugged out of his pocket a little
bag with bank notes and gold in it. 'The
debt has been mounting at compound interest.
Now it has come to 530/. 2^. \d. Count it,
YOU will find it correct.'

The money, Allen,' said the widow, coldly,
can be placed in the hands of the Court. It
is, I suppose, evidence of confession.'

Have you anything more to say .^ ' asked
Allen.

Well, yes, I should like to say in your
presence, young gentleman, that it is all true.
I am everything that your mother says. If it
had not been for me, you' father would have
become rich and lived long ; your mother
would have been a contented and happy
woman ; you, well, I don't know much about
you. If you like I will go to prison. Prison
or mad-house makes very little odds. That

won't give you back your father. If it is any
satisfaction to you I will confess and give
no trouble to anybody and work out tiny
sentence.'

He addressed Allen, but he spoke to the
woman whom he had wronged. He could not
take his eyes from her.

Carry,' he added, ' I say that nothing can
ever restore what has been destroyed. Do
you think that the man who has done the
mischief has ever been happy, either, for a
single day ? '

Allen,' said his mother, ' we waste time.
Let us rid ourselves of this monster. Let him
be locked up.'

'You have suffered through my doing,' he
went on, not as if pleading for pardon but as
stating a plain fact. ' I have suffered through
my own. Which do you think has been the
more miserable ? '

Allen,' she repeated. ' Quick, let him go
with you to the police office. If he attempts
to escape, knock him down — kill him. I will

get you, if you like, your father's gold-headed
stick.'

I will go with your son if he wishes. I
will not try to escape. Why should I.^ I
have seen you. I have given you the money.
I have told you what I came to say. What
matter for the rest .^ '

Allen gave him his hat and pointed to the
door.

Go,' he said, ' you are free. Mother, tell
him that you forgive him. We are Christians,
mother. Forgive him. We must all forgive.'

I cannot,' she cried, bursting into tears.
Oh, Allen ! 1 cannot, I cannot. The sight of
him makes me remember all — how happy I
should have been. It is easy for you to say
forgive ; but you never knew you' father,
Allen. There was no one like hUn in all the
city, no one. Forgive this man .^ Wliy I
have cursed him every day since he ran away.'

'I have been cursed,' the man said. 'I
have had nothing but bad luck. I've been in
prison for what another man did. I have lead

agues and fevers and pains. I have been in a
mad-house most all the time '

Forgive him, mother,' said Allen. ' Forgive
him. Let him go.'

Say it for me, then, Allen. I cannot say
that I forgive him.'

My mother freely and fully forgives you,'
said Allen. ' I forgive you as well ; you can
go. As for the money, you had better take it
with you. We do not want it.'

The man shook his head. He would not
have the money, he said. Then he turned to
the widow, ' Do you mean it. Carry .^ ' he said.
Do you mean it, from your heart .^ '

She made no reply.

Carry ! ' the man held out his hands in a
helpless way. ' Carry, I don't know what I
shall do or where I shall go. I think my life
is ended. But I have given back the money.
That is done. The feces will go now, perhaps,
and the voices. If ever you think of me again.
Carry, try to think of me as in the old, old
days, before I became — what I am. Yes, I

will go.' He turned to go, hesitated, turned
again, and threw himself at the feet of the
woman he had wronged with a cry,

Carry — Carry — oh ! Carry. We were
boys and girls together. I used to love you.
I have ruined you forgive me.'

She put out her hand ; he touched it with
his lips, rose and left the house. Then I went
too, leaving Allen alone with his mother.

CHAPTER XI.

A GLORIOUS FAILURE,

The storm broke upon poor Olynthus sooner
than lie expected. But as there was no escaping
from it, the sooner it fell the better.

The first sign of the coming disturbance
which came to us was in an excited and noisy-meeting
of the village Parliament upon the
Green. There were gathered together, Sir
Charles, Mr. Massey, and Mr. Skantlebury.
My father was with them too, though he took
no part in the talk.

As for me,' cried Mr. Skantlebury, waving
his arms, ' I will have justice, if there is justice
to be had I will have it — Gallaway or no
Gallaway. What ? Do you think I am going
to sit down and be robbed ? '

.patience, Skantlebuiy,' said Sir Charles.
You don't know yet that you have lost your
money. The shares may go up again.'

Never ; they never can. I knew from
the first that it was a hollow thing,' said the
victim.

Then what did you buy the shares for .^ '
Sir Charles asked.

I bought them to sell, of course. He told
me to ; he said he held twenty thousand ; but
we will have justice.'

'In this country everybody can get justice,'
said the ex-Lord Mayor. ' I have myself sat
on the bench, and I ought to know. Fine
with costs, or imprisonment in case you can't
pay. I have meted out with impartiality to
all alike — rich and poor. The rich pay up,
and the poor go to prison. This is the country
for justice, Skantlebury, so long as a Lord
Mayor sits to administrate it.'

It was Gallaway who started the company
— that shall be proved. It was Galla-way
who wrote the prospectus — that shall be

proved; he dictated it, and we have got. the
boy who took it down in shorthand. We will
make him give back the money in full.'

How much will it be, do you think,
Massey ? ' asked Sir Charles.

Fifty thousand shares at five pounds each.
One pound on deposit, one pound ten on allotment,
the rest at call. But the directors confidently
anticipated '

I asked for two thousand shares ; I sent
up two thousand pounds ; they allotted ail ;
I sent up three thousand more. If I could
get the money back. I've lost five thousand.
Oh ! it's hard ; it's a dreadful hard thing, after
working and slaving, to think that it may begone.
Five thousand pounds ! '

His voice rose to a shriek, and he threw up
his hands in a kind of bewilderment. He could
not understand how the money he had so slowly
accumulated should melt away so suddenly.
He told me to buy the shares ; he said he
had twenty thousand ; he told me to hold on,
and I held ; and they went up, and I might hav

sold ; and where are they now ? At nothing
anything — you can't sell them ; nobody
will buy ; they won't even speculate with 'em.
And he's sold all he had, and I've lost my
money.'

But you've got some money left, Skin tie-bury?'
said Sir Charles anxiously. 'You
wouldn't, surely, fail for so pitiful a sum as
five thousand .P Why, think of the discredit
you would bring upon the village.'

Mr. Skantlebury turned away with an angry
gesture.

It really would be nothing short of disgrace
to all of us,' Sir Charles went on. ' And you,
Massey, are you hard hit too ? '

• I took up all I could afford,' replied the
sanguine speculator. ' But, Lord ! it's nothing.
Gallaway's a man of a million. A man of his
resource is equal to anything. If we lose our
money, he will make it up to us, only Skantle-
bury has no faith. And suppose they bring it
home to him — what is it? Fifty thousand, we
:will say, allotted at two pounds ten. It is not

VOL, III, (J

niucli more than a hundred thousand after alL
Gallaway can meet the bill and laugh.'

Some of them sold at a premium, though,'
said Sir Charles. ' I dare say it would run upto
a hundred and thirty thousand. That would
be a very creditable failure.'

'Don't,' groaned Mr. Skantlebur}^, 'don't.
Sir Charles. Please don't speak of failure. You
heard what they said at the meeting, Massey.'

There had been an excited meeting of the
unhappy shareholders, nearly all of whom, I
believe, were in the same position as Mr.
Skantlebury ; that is to say, they held shares
in the hope of selling at a premium, and not
with any belief in the company or the soundness
of the scheme. One of the victims made
a very strong speech, charging Mr. Gallaway
with dreadful things, and especially with fraud,
robbery, and dishonest representations. Of course
the unhappy Olynthus was legally responsible
and guilty of everything, and only I knew how
he had done nothing except at the dictation of
his partner, who was now furnishing a great

house with the proceeds of this three years'
pander. The speaker, Who was a clergyman,
the very clergyman of whom I had heard,
certainly showed a most astonishing energy
and vigour in action as well as in speech. It
was he who had traced this prospectus to the
office ; who had got hold of the hand which
wrote it out at Olynthus's dictation, and it was
by his exertions that the great promoter, Vires
financier, and operator could be made
responsible for statements by which people had
been robbed of thousands. He had got the
opinion of counsel ; Mr. Gallaway was, tljat
opinion stated, legally responsible ; a test action
could be brought ; if that was successful he
might be made to disgorge all.

And I make no doubt, Skantlebury,' said
Mr. Massey cheerfully, ' that lie will have to pay
up. But wdiat is it ? Say a hundred thousand.
Very good ; do you suppose that Gallaway is
not worth a good deal more than that ? Why,
they say he lives in simple chambers ; he's got
neither wife nor child ; he can't spend more thana

thousand a year ; and he has been making
money hand over hand — hundreds of thousands.
Keep up your courage, Skantlebury ; you shall
get your money paid back.'

My father told me all this, and how they
fortified each other's opinion, though Mr. Massey,
strong in his belief, pointed out that action or
no action, young Gallaway would certainly see
them through. Alas ! what would be their
despair when they knew what I already
knew ?

Nobody knows,' said Mr. Massey, ' the
money that young man has made. A temporary
check : that is what it is. Consider,
Skantlebury, three years of such success as
the world has never seen.'

Ah ! ' said Mr. Skantlebury.

Did he ever tell you what he lost ? ' asked
Sir Charles.

I don't believe he ever lost anything. All
he touched turned to gold. There never was
and there never will be a man in the City to
compare with him.'

Xot Collier ? his failure was a quarter of
a million.'

Xot even Collier,' said Mr. Massey. ' When
I think of the companies he has floated. Why,
between ourselves, don't we know that he wrote
all the prospectuses himself, got the directors,
and floated the shares, all by himselfe And
has any one of those companies ever paid any
dividend ; or, will one of them pay a dividend ?
Come, Sir Charles, as an old City man you
know that.'

'If all the shareholders,' said Sir Charles,
thoughtfully, ' were to bring home all those
prospectuses against him, they might make
him a bankrupt for millions ! And only five-and
twenty ! ! For millions ! ! ! What an
honour, what a guide and example for the
young people of the village ! what a joy to
his widowed mother ! Glorious ! Glorious,
indeed ! '

He rubbed his hands and chuckled, but
Mr. Skantlebury shuddered.

And now I must anticipate, because the

circumstances of Oliiitluis's fall belongs to a
somewhat later time.

The case created a very great interest.
There were reports and rumours in the City
which, so far as a woman can learn, seems
as much given to gossip as a country town ;
some said that Gallaway would be tried by
the Public Prosecutor, others that he Avould
get clear off, and float dozens more companies
; some said that he would have to go
bankrupt, and others that he could face half-a-dozen
storms such as these. Some said
that he would be put into the box, when
extraordinary revelations would be forced from
his reluctant lips : and others, that he would
square the action, and that nothing more
would be heard of it. But the clergyman
Alas conscientious ; he had a public duty to
perform, and he did it.

On the day — the appointed day — when
Olynthus should have come with the other
two, he did not appear, but he sent me a
letter. He said in it, first, that I was to consider

his communication as strictly private,
confidential, and privileged. The game, in
fact, was now up, and it only remained to get
out of the mess as comfortably as possible.
Since his partner had deserted him he had
been speculating heavily, but somehow, not
wisely. In short, he had lost great sums of
money. Then the action would most certainly
proceed, and he was hopelessly ruined.
There was one gleam of comfort — the Countess,
with all her brothers, sisters, cousins,
and friends, had followed his advice and
'gone in,' with most disastrous results. The
worst of it was the want of credit, because
people would expect the estate to cut upwell.
In fact, they all thought him worth
hundreds of thousands, and there would be,
in fact, no more than enough to pay the
lawyers and accountants, while as for creditors
and shareholders they would have to go
whistle. Yet, he added, all might yet be
retrieved if Mr. Collier Avould only come
back ; but he made no siirn and answered

no letters — from which we perceived that
poor Tommy had been humbling himself.
As for the City it would be closed to him
for a good while, and, of course, under the circumstances,
he should cease his financial
operations. He went on to add very kindly,
that he knew the tenderness of my heart, and
he was quite sure that his misfortunes would
make no difference at all in my feelings
towards him. The ten thousand pounds
which he had had the forethought to deposit
with his mother would produce four hundred
a year, and with what my father would give
me, there would be plenty to live upon in a
quiet way. Therefore, he still laid himself,
as he had always promised to do, with the
wreck of his fortunes at my feet, and so on,
with many protestations of earnest affection.
It was a very humble letter and pitiful to read,
if only for the contrast of his former talk and
his strange inability to discern the infamy of
his conduct, both as regards his fraudulent

companies and his robbery of the ten thousand
pounds.

Of course the thing was not settled in a
day. The action was brought, the great
Olynthus Gallaway was put in the witness box
and examined, but he had very little to say.
He acknowledged that the prospectus was
drawn up by himself; he admitted, in fact,
that he was responsible for the formation of
the company ; he hoped to make a very good
stroke of business out of the company ; he had
done his best to give the company a good shove
off; he had done his best also to run up the
shares ; and he had done it all, he declared on
oath, in full confidence that the company was
founded on the soundest possible principles, in
ignorance of the damaging circumstances which
afterwards came to light, and in certainty that
it would succeed if managed well. They cross-examined
him at great length ; he had to confess
all sorts of damaoincf things — as t]iat he
knew nothing at all concerning points about
which the prospectus went into elaborate

details, and had consulted nobody who did ;
that he accepted important statements made
by interested persons without question ; and
that he accidentally forgot to consider one or
two very important facts Which he was proved
to have learned. This he regretted, but confessed
the fact manfully, and after all he adhered
to his statement, which was, no doubt,
perfectly true, that he had no reason to doubt
the substantial truth of the prospectus put forth.
The judge summed up dead against him:
the jury had no hesitation ; he lost his case ;
and the result was what Mr. Skantlebury predicted
— that he had to take up the worthless
shares on account of which the action was
brought. This meant that he had to take up
all the fifty thousand at the price for which
they were issued, namely, two pounds ten a
share. So that here was a debt of a hundred
and twenty five thousand pounds to begin
with. Mr. Skantlebury came home jubilant
that evening.

'We've nailed him,' he said, rubbing his

hands. ' We've got him at last. A hundred
and twenty-five thousand pounds he'll have to
pay. Tliey say he's worth twice that money
and more.'

But when in the course of a few days it
was announced that Mr. Olynthus Gallaway
had suspended payment, a nervous qualm
seized Mr. Skantlebury and he only partly
recovered confidence when Mr. Massey assured
him that the estate woidd fully meet the
liabilities.

And if it doesn't,' he added, ' do you
think young Gallaway will not make it good
for us ? '

This confidence bore Mr. Massey through
another trouble. In fact, following advice
given after the withdrawal of Mr. Collier, he
had ozone in for a certain stock, I forget
whether it was a bull or a bear, but he came
out. Sir Charles said, a lame duck — afterwards
I learned the nature of the joke. As Mr.
Massey 's gains were all invested in the unlucky

company, lie had no means of meeting
the day of settlement.

The broker found that he had nothing at
all, and that it was of no use making the man a
bankrupt, so that after all Mr. Massey was no
worse off after the catastrophe than before it.
He returned, therefore, to the contemplation of
h's former projects and his lamentations over
the undutiful character of his son who will
advance him nothing.

Alas ! when the estate came to be examined,
it was found to consist of a few
hundreds, which the lawyers and the accountants
got together, with a great quantity of
worthless scrip. Several theories were advanced
to account for the wretched sum which
represented the estate. One was that the
bankrupt had spent his money in the most
shameless extravagance and profligacy. This
theory prevailed for some time till the question
was asked what ground there was for supposing
Mr. Gallaway to have made such immense
sums. Then everybody went straight round in

the opposite direction, and said, ' Oh ! of
course. It was all exaggeration. His transactions,
after all, were not so out of the
common,' and poor Tommy's reputation was
quite snuffed out. I do not know how much
in the pound was paid, but I am sure that it
was only a few pence, and the name of Gall-away
now takes the place of Collier as a
proverb and byword of execration. Most of
the victims were men like Mr. Skantlebury,
who had retired from business with their few
thousands, the savings of a life's work, and
thought four per cent, a miserable retiu'u for
their money, remembering the large profits
they had made in trade. It seems to me a
most dreadful thing when a man like this loses
his money. All his life he has been thinking
of nothing else than how to save it : his only
idea of success is to save a great deal : his chief
hope is to retire in his old age and lead a
tranquil life on the money he has saved. And
then to lose it ! I believe that the unfortunate
Mr. Skantlebury had saved no more than seven

or eight thousand pounds ; eiiongh, however,
to afford him all that he wanted. Now five
thousand was gone, and he Alas left with an
income of about a hundred and listy pounds a
year. He went away : where he went to I do
not know; or why he went; but we saw him
no more. And then the great Bankrupt
returned to his native village. His sisters
re used to give back the little fortunes with
which he had endowed them, and said strong
things about the folly which had thrown away
such splendid chances. And until they married
and went away, they reproached him continually
with eating the bread of idleness, and
asked him why he did not go back to the City
and make another fortune ; and what was the
use of beings clever if lie did not use his cleverness
; and was it not a flying in the face of
Providence to do nothing when he had shown
such extraordinary power of doing anything he
pleased? I think that it was not, in those
days, a happy household : the daily papers
were full of articles which said most unkind

things about the operations conducted by Mr.
Gallaway : the system which he lead so successfully
pursued was laid bare, and all could see
for themselves with what ease and yet with
what dexterity they had been fooled : it was
shown to be no new system, but one which he
must have been taught by an older band.
Who was this older hand ? It was dreadful to
read these things : the poor girls put the newspapers
out of sight and refused to look at
them. Somehow their brother did not mind
so much. He cut out all the articles and preserved
them in a portfolio, just as an author
might cut out and preserve laudatory reviews
of his last book. He read them through over
and over again. He rubbed his hands over
them : and when he came to any passage
which acknowledged the extraordinary audacity
and cleverness of the whole history, he
scored this passage with a red pencil. ' You
see, Claire,' he said to me, once, ' they know
nothing, and they do not suspect. Collier
can't let out now, because no one Avould

believe him. And they will go on believing
in my cleverness. That's a comfort to a man,
isn't it ? And nobody knows except yourself.'
It is, in fact, a secret which I have kept. I
am quite sure that as Olynthus grows old he
will forget Mr. CoUiber's part in this business
altogether, and believe firmly that he alone did
it all with his own wonderful brain and his
own strong right hand.

He has not yet gone back to the City. I
think he never will. He is perfectly idle and
would be happy but for his mother's rule,
which is despotic. First of all she refused to
give up any part of the ten thousand pounds,
saying that a man who had let a hundred thousand
slip through his fingers was not to be
trusted with money at all. If, she added, she
had insisted on living with him all the time,
she would have known how to keep the money
action or no action, there should have been
nothing lost. And for a long time she incessantly
demanded of him an account of the
various \yays in which he had contrived to

waste so great a fortune. She allows him a
pound a week for pocket money and dress, and
makes him go to church three times every
Sunday — I suppose for penance.

At first, Olynthus was visited by a good
many persons who hoped to suck advantage
from his wonderful knowledge. ^N'o one, I
have reason to believe, has ever gone away the
wiser for the interview. And to 'Mi Massey's
entreaties and prayers he has remained obdurate.
One man, he told me, actually proposed
the same kind of partnership as that which
existed between himself and Mr. Corner. This
greatly pleased him, and nothing, I am sure,
would delight him more than to enact Mr.
Collier's part again, especially the last magnificent
passage, the timely retirement with all
the spoil in the hour of danger.

A brilliant failure, indeed, Gallaway,' said
Sir Charles, ' at your age, with the promise of
your life before you, truly brilliant. Not so
colossal as Collier's, but very solid and sub-vol.

iir. R

statical. And who knows what you may do
the second time ? '

'As for that, Sir Charles — — ,' Olynthus
began.

As for that, my dear boy ; think of the
leading articles in all the papers. How many
young men of five-ands twenty have achieved
such a reputation as your own ? '

Olynthus folded his arms and frowned.

Or ruined so many people ? ' added my
father.

Olynthus put his hands in his pockets and
smiled.

We shall have him with us,' said the ex-lord
Mayor, regarding him wdtli thoughtful
admiration, ' for a short time only. Tien eve
shall lose him.'

'What's' cried Olynthus, turning pale.
Why do you think I am going to die .^ '

Not die, Galway. Not yet for a great
many years, I trust. No ; but you will leave
us. You will rise to greater glories. You
have settled here for a little rest, like a tired

eagle after a long flight. You now plume your
feathers ' — Olynthus agitated an elbow. ' Soon,
you will soar aloft once more, and we shall
gaze upon you in the clouds.'

Olynthus shook both elbows.

'If you come down again,' continued the
garrulous old man, ' let it be for millions. But
I shall not live to see it. I remember — '
Sir Charles wiped away a tear — ' I remember
as if it was but yesterday, when you were buta
little boy, how you said your only ambition
was to make money, to become Lord Mayor,
and to fail for millions. A promising lad ! A
bright and hopeful boy ! See what you have
done — and Allen after all nothing but a common
writing person.'

If the respectable Skantlebury were here,'
said my father, ' he would say — deplorable ! '

R -2

CHAPTEE XII.

THE PRIZE OF THE GOLDEN APPLE.

So my last words, like the first, tell how a prize
was won, if, in truth, I may call myself a prize.
If Will thought I was, cannot I think so too ?
And if it was the heart's desire of my lover, was
it not the fulness and completion of my life tome
? Great as is the love of man for a woman,
there is one thing which is greater, the happiness
and contentment of the woman who possesses
that love. For whoso finder love finder
life, and hath obtained favour of the Lord.

On the eve of the appointed day neither
of the boys came to the house. I believe
that they walked away together somewhere,
and spent a day walking side by side in silence
absolute. We passed a quiet evening; my

father wrapt in a profound dejection. Isabel
played to us ; Gertrude and I sat side by side
and whispered.

'Your mind is quite made up, my dear? '
she asked.

Quite. I see now that it could never be
otherwise. Isabel will make him far, far happier
than I coukl ever hope to do. And besides,
oh ! Gertrude, you will understand me. You
know I love Allen as much as you do ; yet — I
do not know why — there would always be in
my heart, if I were to marry him, the sense of
something wanting.'

'And with Will?'

I could not answer. But with Will there
would be nothing wanting. I know now what
it is — the one thing lacking. But Gertrude
knew it not. It was the helplessness of Allen's
nature. He wants continually the encouragement,
praise, and sympathy which a woman
looks for from her husband. Without this
support he would droop, and fall into melancholy
and distrust,

'He is a strong man, my dear,' Gertrude
whispered after a silence. ' He Las great ambition,
and he is clever, though not in our way.
Can it be that Art is, after all, not so great a
thing as administration ? Yet Art will always
much more fire the imagination and. touch the
heart. My dear, I would rather — if I were
young again and beautiful — I would rather
marry Allen than Will.'

I exchanged no more confidences with
Isabel. We had said enough. She trusted me
now, though, with a woman's doubts and fears,
she could not understand that Allen could love
her more than he loved me, and, for her sake,
be ready to give up the hope in which he had
seemed to live for three years. Now, I know
not whether the words I had said to Allen
awakened him to a sense of his own feeling, or
whether he began to understand that he might
have to live apart from the two ladies who had
become necessary to his life. Certainly one
could observe in him signs of doubt and trouble.
These were shoAvn in a nervous and restless

manner, and in the way in Avhicli this eyes fell
now on Isabel and now on myself. As if I
could not read the thoughts of Allen whom I
had studied so long ! They were thoughts
which he did not put into words. They were
contrasts which he dared not face between a
life with me and my father — with whom he no
longer had any kind of common interest — and
a life with Isabel, and Gertrude, and Art, and
the followers of Art : they were reproaches —
that I know full well : they were temptations
to resign his pretensions: they were jealousies.
But the time was come and the thing, with all
its consequences, was before him. Like the
ghd with the thistle-down he might have tried
his fortune, saying, ' I love her — love her not.'

When the others were gone to bed, I went
into the garden, where my father was walking
backwards and forwards alone. He threw
away his cigarette and drew me into Ins arms
and kissed me twice.

My daughter,' he said, ' my dear daughter
my best of daughters — it is the last time.

To-morrow, your cheek, and your lips, and
your forehead, and your hand will belong to
one of the boys. One of the boys ! I hoped
it, always. Yet, now — you will go away —
this house will be empty — there will be no
more sunshine in it, no more music, no more
laughter. What am I to do, my child, when
you are gone ? '

But, mon pere I am not going to leave
you.'

You must, Claire. Between Allen and
myself there is no more confidence. We are
not sympathies. I know it not, his world of
art.'

But oh ! mon pere, suppose I do not —
suppose it is not — Allen after all ! '

He held me at arm's length and looked into
my face as if he could read my secret there ;
yet we were standing in the shadow of a cherry-tree,
and it was past ten o'clock and a cloudy
night.

Claire,' he whispered, ' you will give up
the boy of books r '

'Yes.'

Remember, he is a poet — he is a romancier
he writes things which make people cry. To
be his wife is to be the wife of a great man, as
people think *

It is not Allen,' I replied.

Then it is Will'

He kissed me again, and then began to talk
in his old, quick, impatient way.

Quoi done? I am stupid. I grow old.
I have no more eyes than a pig. You love not
Allen, yet he is a poet. One thinks that a poet
makes all girls to fall in love with him. He
captures hearts. Yes, he is clever. He has a
quick eye, and he knows words. He is of the
first force in words. He is a maker of phrases,
like Malherbe. For me, the maker of phrases
is not the great man. I love better the man
who acts than the man who talks. And I
thought he had your heart. Que je suis
bete. For you are my daughter. Tlien comes
the other. Yes, the other. Ah ! I did not
know him. I thought he was stupid — an

Englisli boy with a brain of beer — a boy for
the shop. But he is not stupid — not stupid at
alL He remembers what I have taught him.
He knows things ; he is wise ; he is not afraid.
And — yes — it is where the Enghsli are better
than the French — he is good. My daughter, if
Will, this young Prince from China, gives you
his word, it will be true parole honneur. You
will not have cause for jealousy. What do I
say? It is not in England that wives are
jealous of their husbands. This young man is
like the Chevalier Bayard for honour. It is
strange. His father is a fool, who would be a
rogue, like the Honourable Gallaway, if he
were not so great a fool. Perhaps it is his
mother who is wise. Perhaps the example of
his father has driven the boy into wisdom. He
is gentilhomme. Everybody is gentleman now,
but everybody is not gentilhomme. But I have
one fear, my daughter. Yes, one anxiety tears
my heart. I fear, Claire, that he will become
rich. It is an instinct with the English ; they
are the only people who can grow rich without

cheating and stealing and lying. It is a great
virtue with tliera. Will, no doubt, must become
rich. Well, no man is without faults.
We must forgive him, and pretend that we are
poor.'

We have enough,' I said, ' if he does not.
Why, we are quite rich ourselves.'

we have enough,' he repeated gravely.
Thanks to the good brother, who also became
rich, with his vast Reddere. I find that I
made a mistake. You were always right — can
Woman ever be wrongs? I thought that
because a boy was fond of books and open to
ideas I could make of Allen a great man. It
is of such stuff that artists are made. Boys
who become great men must have the clear
head and the brave heart. Kiss me again, my
daughter. In your marriage, as well as in all
your life before, you will make your father
happy.'

And so the morning came at last. But I
no longer felt any trouble or anxiety, except

that kind of fear with which one meets new
happiness. It is as if no joy was to be granted
to men and women without some pains which
shall go before. This is part of the mystery of
life ; it begins, so joyful and happy a thing as
it is for some, with helplessness and pain : it
ends, so joyful a resurrection awaiting us, with
helplessness and pain. There is no happiness
in it which is not preceded by suffering. So,
to me, the contemplation and thought of this
great gift of a man's whole heart and soul, the
endowment of his brain and his labour, the
honour of his honour, the joy of his joy, the
pain of his pain, the faith in his faith, tilled my
heart with a tumult of fear and shame as of my
own unworthiness. Is that not a strange
thing that we should ardently desire the best
things that heaven can give, yet should feel,
when they are granted, so unworthy to possess
them ?

The boys would come, I was sure, to the
Forest in the evening, to the place where we
parted, and at the time. But there were many

things to be said, first, to Allen. In the afternoon
I sent him a note, begging him to come
and see me in my own room. He came at
once. He was very pale, and trembled, and
his eyes were downcast. These were signs of
a guilty conscience, and made me rejoice. My
task would be the easier ; yet it was not very
easy. It is always hard to explain dien one is
on the brink of a great mistake. First, I
begged him to consider again the very great
difference there was between the Allen of today
and the Allen of three years ago : how he
had made new friends and got into new lines
of thought ; how the old ways, mine still, were
no longer his ; how I was hardly able to understand
and appreciate his life, so that my counsel
would no longer be of use to him, nor my sympathy
intelligent, and how, as this wife, I should
only be a hindrance and an encumbrance to
him.

No, no,' he said hoarsely, ' never an encumbrance,
Claire.'

In the old days, when eve were both ignorant

together, Allen, you could come to me
and could tell me of what you were doing, and
I could encourage you. That is no longer
possible unless you are satisfied with my saying,
"Well done, Allen," when you succeed,
and " Poor Allen," when you fail.'

But I have loved you always, Claire,' he
said.

So he had, I knew that, and he loved me
still in exactly the same way and as much ashe
had ever loved me. I told him so.

And what has Will done, then ? ' he asked,
stung with a momentary pang of jealousy.
There was no need to answer that question.

'You must marry, Allen.' I said, 'when
you find a woman who has become a part of
your daily life — the daily life that you desire
most ; who will enter into your thoughts, and
understand your work, the manner and meaning
and technique of it. The woman who will
make you happy, Allen, must be like yourself,
an artist. I desire only the practical and real
world.*

He changed colour, but made no reply.

In your world,' I went on, • you and your
friends are happiest when they live apart from
the rest of us. They regard every thug from
another point of view. Your wife must be one
of them. Allen, let me save you from disappointment
and unhappiness.'

He had been sitting at the table, his
head upon this hand. He sprang to his feet,
crying —

Claire, your way would become my way,
or else mine should become yours. Unhappiness
? With you ? Claire, let what you have
said be as if it never had been said. Let me
remember the hopes of three years ago.'

Oh, Allen ! ask your heart again. It is
not a question of consistency. How could you
know three years ago ? I told you long ago
to think well what you would do.'

He made no reply, but he sat down again.

You must not bring your wife a divided
love, Allen. You most not leave a door open
for regret and repentance. You must never be

able to say, " Had I not married her — but the
other — all would have been well with me."
Have you considered ? '

Still he made no reply. He was of so
truthful a nature that his silence replied for
him.

My poor Allen ! ' I gave him my hand.
I have never loved you otherwise, or more,
than I love you now. I think I could never
have married you, even if there had been no
Will in the case at all. I have loved you so
long that I have watched every one of your
moods. I know you so well that I think I
can read your thoughts.'

'Eead them now,' he said, with down-dropped
eyes. ' Eead them, Claire, so that I
need not speak.'

You think that the offer of three years
ago binds you to me in honour — it does not,
Allen, it never did. You think that it is shameful
to come to me and say, " Claire, I love you
as touch as I always did ; but I love another
yeoman more." It is not shameful, Allen. You

think that in honour j^ou are bound to endeavour
to make one woman miserable though
you cannot make the other woman happy.
You must think so no longer. Have I read
sour thoughts, Allen ? '

Forgive me, Claire, you have.' He bowed
his head as he replied almost in a whisper.

There is nothing to forgive, dear Allen.
Kiss me and tell me what you please about
it. You know you always used to tell me
all.'

He kissed my hand — the foolish, softhearted
boy. He let a tear fall upon it.

Who could help loving you always ? Oh !
Claire, I am, indeed, not worthy of you.'

Tell me about it, Allen. I want to
have your confidence in this as in all other
things.'

They were so kind to me, both of them.
We used to talk together about you, Claire.'

But you talk about me no longer, do

you ? '

No, we talk very little to each other. A
VOL. III. s

constraint has grown up between us, now ; it
is because I have found out — yes, Claire, you
have always had my secret thoughts — I have
found out that I love her. She is always in my
mind night and day.'

I have seen it, Allen. And I ? Am I
never in your mind ? '

It is strange ; you are with me as much as
you ever were. You are a part of myself. If
I think of Isabel it is as if I ought to go straight
to you and tell my thought.'

That is not strange at all. It proves only
that you love me just as you always have done.
You shall make her happy, Allen. Go, I refuse
your offer, sir, I cannot marry you.'

I made him as grand a curtesy as I knew,
one of those magnificent sweeping reverences
which ladies make on the stage, after they have
first thoughtfully swept their trains out of the
way.

Are you content, my dear old playfellow
? '

Could I ever have thought,' said Allen,

his face like a boy's face still for smiles and
tears, ' could I ever have believed that the day
would arrive when you would make me happy
by refusing to marry me ? '

You foolish boy ! oh, Allen, I love you so
much that I am jealous for your happiness.
But Isabel loves you more because she will
make you happy. Go and find her ; she is
somewhere in the house or garden. Go, Allen,
take her, too, into your confidence.'

He stooped again and kissed my fingers.

There is no one — there never will be anyone
— like you, Claire. And now that I have
made you cry. Forgive me.'

So he left me. Presently I joined Gertrude,
who was in the drawing-room.

Gertrude,' I said, ' congratulate me. I
have made a man happy.'

Which one ! Oh ! Claire, my dear Claire,
which is it ? '

It is Allen,' I replied.

Her face showed her disappointment.

I must go to congratulate him,' she said

slowly. ' After all, what chance had poor
Will against our poet ? I knew how it must
end.'

None,' I said ; ' I sincerely hope and pray
she will accept him.'

Claire ! ' she caught me by both hands.
Tell me at once, you wicked woman ; I am
so anxious, and you are laughing at me.'

'I have made Allen happy — by refusing
him. He has gone to find Isabel. Poor Will !
I think he will indeed have a poor chance
against our poet.'

Kiss me, my dear, you are a dear, delightful,
beautiful, kind-hearted girl. Are you
quite, quite sure, my dear, that you do not love
Allen ? '

I whispered, because although no one was
in the room, there are some things which must
not be said aloud.

Gertrude, J^I found out, three days ago,
that there is only one man in all the world
for me ; and I am o-oino- now to tell him so.'

DO

She threw her kindly arms round my neck

and prayed that I might be happy. This
dear lady had spent her life in writing love .
stories — think of that ! — her whole life witling
any love story of her own, and yet her heart
was as fresh as when she first began, and her
interest as strong in every pair of lovers. This
is what comes of the dreaming life. Perhaps
it is the best.

I went, with beating heart, to the old
trysting-place beside the fliUen tree in the
Forest. No girl ever had a sweeter evening
or a more delightful retreat to hear the tale
of love. And yet no talc of love was poured
into my ears at all. To be sure I did not
want it at the time, but afterwards it seemed
as if something should have been said. It
is too bad to take a poor girl's heart by storm.
Will was before me. Of course, I knew he
would be ; and he came to meet me. Oh,
the impatient boy ! lie could not even wait
for me to reach the appointed spot. He threw
down his hat and walked across the turf.

Claire ! ' he said.

'Wiiir

And that was all, except that he took mein
his arras in the open Forest, though no one
was there to see except the larks above our
heads, and showered kisses upon me with never
a word ; and every kiss a holy sacrament of
love. When we walked back, hand-in-hand,
the sun was set and the twilight was upon us.
Then a strange old feeling came upon me. It
was as if I was a child again, and once more
walked through the Forest in the summer
twilight holding Will by the hand, and half
afraid. I was half afraid again, yet full of faith
and hope and joy. Just as they had done
when we were children together, the trees of
the Forest threw up tall arches above our
heads, and made a great cathedral in which we
could lift up our hearts and sing praises ;
again the black shadows lay on either hand fill
of possible dragons for my brave boy to slay ;
again the sweet fragrance of the early summer
filled the air and the soft breath of the west
wind played upon our cheeks. Again I was a

little child going out into the unknown world
with Will's strong hand to support me.

My dear — my dear,' it was the first time
Will called mee by that sweet and simple name.
The life of which Allen writes so well, the
better life, the nobler life ; we will teach each
other how to lead it.'

Nay, Will, I shall learn from you.'

When we got home we found that my
father had spread a most beautiful supper for
us. It was in memory he said, of the evening,
three years before, when he bade the three
young men wait for three years more. It was
a supper just like that memorable feast ; all
flowers, fruit, vegetables, and little things. I
would tell you all about that supper, but, in
fact, it was a failure. My father tried to make
a speech but broke down and shed tears, and
so did some others. Isabel sat with blushing
cheeks, and Allen looked guiltily happy, as if
he had climbed into the Garden of Eden over
the wall, as indeed he had.

Will is still young and his work lies

before him. If you should sometime hear
something of him, as of a man who is doing
good work and true, I pray you all remember
that he learned how to do it of my father.

THE END.

LOXtOX : rillXTED BY

BPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street BQUABH

And rAULIAMEXT STltEET

CHATTO & Winds's

List of Books.

About. — The Fellah : An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
PostSvo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works

by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. \ln preparation.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870, Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Claw.
Post 8vo, cloth lin-ip, 2s. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Carr of Carrion. Post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 28.
Confidences. Post
boards, 28.

8vo. illustrated

Alexander (Mrs.).— Maid, Wife,

or Widow ? A Romance. By Mrs.
Alexander, Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Colin Clout's Calendar. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.
The Evolutionist at Large. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Vignettes from Nature. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook
of. Translated from the German
of A. RosENGARTEN, by VV. Collects
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with
639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Art (The) of Amusing : A Collection
of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Pales, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Artemus Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farmer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the
Mormons. With 32 Illustrations.
Edited, with Preface, by Edward P.
Kingston. Crown 8vo, 6d

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Kingston. With c»
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
38. Od.

Ashton (John), Works by :

A History of the Chap-Books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile
of tlieorig.nals. Crown 8 vo,
cloth extra, 7s. dissocial

Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne. Taken from Original Sources.
With nearly One Hundred Illustrations.
New and cheaper Edition,
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6(3

Humour, Wit, and Satirise of the
Seventeenth Century. With nearly
100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Balzac's " Comedie Humaine '

and its Author, With Translations by
H. H. Walker. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London
; together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Prise.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d

Barley (Rev. C.W.),Works by :

English Surnames: Their Sources
and Significations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 73. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry MoRLEY. A New Edition,
with One Hundred Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beau oh am p. — Grant ley

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists: A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. In Two
Series. All engraved on Steel in the
highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney
Armytage, M.A. Imperial 4to, cloth
extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per Vol.

Bernstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green ?^d gold, 6s. 6d. ;
r'^i edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm. — Wanderings in

Patagonia ; or, Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1883. One

Shilling Monthly, Illustrated—" Maid
of Athens," Justin McCarthy's New
Serial Story, Illustrated by Fred.
Barnard, was begun in the January
Number of Belgravia, which Number
contained also the First Portion of a
Story in 'three Parts, by Ouida, entitled
" Frescoes ; " the continuation of
Wilkie Collins's Novel, " Heart and
Science ; " a further instalment of Mrs.
Alexander's Novel, "The Admiral's
Ward ; " and other Matters of Interest.
*-^ Now ready, the Volume for July
to October, 1883, cloth extra, gilt edges,
7s. 6d. ; Cases for binding Vols., 23. each,

Belgravia Anna! : Christmas,

1883. With Stories by James Pain,
F. W. Robinson, Button Cook, J.
Arbuthnot Wilson, and others.
Demy Svo, with Illustrations, Is.

[In preparation.

Bennett (w!a^.D.)|Works by :

A Ballad History of England. Post

8vo, cloth limp, 23.
Songs for Sailors. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s.

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Each in post Svo,
illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
or crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Ready-money Mortify.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Tvvas in Trafalgar's Bay

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

All Sorts and Conditions of Men:

An Impossible Story. With Illustra .

tions by Fred. Barnard. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The Captains' Room, &c. With

Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
All in a Garden Fair. Three Vols,,

crown Svo, 31s. 61,. [Shortly,

Birthday Books: —

The Starry Heavens : A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Legends. By W. J. Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton. In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 6s.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
Illusts., small 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform
in size ior binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1882, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1883. With Illustrations.
Is.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Volume, with nearly coo
Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy
8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1882, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1883. With Illustrations.
Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illustrations. Is.

The English Pictures the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the Nation.
Gallery. 12S Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3s.

The Paris Salon, 1883. With over
300 Illustrations. Edited by F, G.
Dumas. (English Edition.) Demy
8vo, 3s.

At the Paris Salon. Sixteen large
Plates, printed in facsimile of the
Artists' Drawings, in two tints. Edited
by F. G. Dumas. Large folio, Is.

The Art Annual, 1882-3. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy 8vo, 3s. 6d.

The Art Annual, 1883-4. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. With 300 full-page
Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 5s.

Blake (William) : Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or.

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr, 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Canters in Hampshire. Oblong 4to,

halt-bound boards, 21s.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.

Coloured in facsimile of the originals.
Oblong 4to, half-bound, 21s.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; posts, illustrated bds.,2s.

Savage Life. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 23.

Brand's Observations on Popular
Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with
numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel
Plate Portrait, and an Introduction
by the Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
—Bohemian Papers — Spanish
AND American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts

Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Conrov.
Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Gabriel Convoy: A Novel. Post Svo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other
Sto ries. Post Svo, illustrated boards,
2S. ; cloth limp. 2s. 6d.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.
Svo. picture cover. Is. ; crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The Luck of Roaring Camp, and
other Sketches. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23.
JefF Briggs's Love Story. Fcap Svo,
picture cover. Is. ; cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
Flip. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.
Third Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [/;t preparation.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works :

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
With a Frontispiece by Arthur
Hughes. Crown-svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.
With Frontispiece by T. Daniel.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Undertones. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
6s.

London Poems. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

The Book of Form. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

St. Abe and his Seven Wives : A Tale
of Salt Lake City. With a Frontispiece
by A. B. Houghton. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by W.
Small. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 6s.

Robert Buchanan's Complete Poetical
Works. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

The Shadow of the Sword : A Romance.
Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

A Child of Nature: A Romance. With
a Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

God and the Man : A Romance. With
Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The Martyrdom of Madeline: A
Romance. With a Frontispiece by
A. W. Cooper. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Anna Water: A Romance. Three
Vols., cr. Svo, 31s. 6d. [Immediately.

Brewster(SirDavid),Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post Svo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, byJ.A.
Smith. Post Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

B ri 1 1 at Savor in. —Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Browning. — The Pied Piper of

Hamelin. By Robert Browning.
Illust. by George Carline. Large
4to, ilium, cover. Is. [/« preparation.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post

Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Kathleen Mavourneen. Fcap. Svo,

picture cover, Is.
Lindsay's Luck. Fcap. Svo, picture

cover, Is.
Pretty Polly Pemberton. Fcap. Svo,

picture cover, Is.

Burton (Robert):
The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomise: Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Varney Loveth Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 21s.

The Book of the Sword: Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
Svo, cloth extra a, 32s. [In preparation.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard, engraved
by GooDALL, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown Svo. cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Chapman's (George) Works

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.
the Poems and Minor Translations
with an Introductory Essay by Alger
NON Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 183. ; or separately, 63. each.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Cameron (Commander) and

Captain Burton.— To the Gold Coast
for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By
Richard F. Burton and Varney
Loveth Cameron. With Frontispiece
and Maps. Two Vols., crown Svo,
cloth extra, 2l3.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Loveth),

Novels by:

Juliet's Guardian. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23. ; crown Svo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d.

Deceivers Ever. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

Campbell.— White and Black:

Travels in the United States. By Sir
George Campbell, M.P. Demy Svo,
cloth extra, 143.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

Thomas Carlyle: Letters and Recollections.
By Concur D. Conway,
M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
with Illustrations, 63.

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post Svo, cloth extra.
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1S34 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 24s.

Century (A) of Dishonour: A

Sketch of the United States Government's
Dealings with some of the
Indian Tribes. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Chatty & Jackson. —Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition, Large
4to, half-bound, 283.

Chaucer :

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 2s.6d.

Cobban. — The Cure of Souls:

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins. Post Svo, illustrated boards,

23.

Collins (Mortimer & Frances),

Novels by:

Sweet and Twenty. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frances. Post Svo, illust. bds., 23,

Blacksmith and Scholar. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The Village Comedy. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cr. Svo, cloth extra, Ss. 6d.

You Play Me False. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 23.; cr. Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by .

Sweet Anne Page. Post Svo, illus

treated boards, 23. ; crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
Transmigration. Post Svo, illustrate

boards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth extra

3s. 6d.
From Midnight to Midnight. Poor

Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown

Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
A Fight with Fortune. Post Svo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 73. 6d.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by.

Each post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ; or crown 8vo,
cloth extra, Illustrated, 3s. 6d.

Antonina. Illust. by A. Concave.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

Queen of Hearts Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

My miscellanies. With Illustrations
by A. Concave, and a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Ironstone, With Illustrations

by G. Du Maurier and F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs.? With Illustrations by

S. L. Files and Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and C. S. Rants.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.

Heart and Science: A Story of the
Present Time. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3S. 6d. fin preparation.

Convalescent Cookery : A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:
Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal 8vo, with e^- '.Uusts.,28s.

A Necklace of Stories illustrated
by W. J. Hennessy. quare 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Wandering Jew. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Thomas Carlyle: Letters and Recollections.
With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Cook (Dutton), Works by :

Hours with the Players. With a
Steel Plate Frontispiece. New and
Cheaper Edit., cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Nights at the Play: A View of the
English Stage. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Leo: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
I ^

Copyright. — A Handbook of

I English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By

Sidney Jerrold, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-Law. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall. — Popular Romances

of the West of England; or. The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Creasy.— Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians: with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 73. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
HuMOURof Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Jerrold, Author of
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson Crusoe. A choicely-printed
Edition, with 37 Woodcuts and Two
Steel Plates, by George Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s.6d.
100 Large Paper copies, carefully
printed on hand made paper, with
India proofs o the Illustrations,
price 36s. [/« preparation.

Daniel. — Merrier England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik.
SHANK. Crown 6vo, cloth extra, 3s 61

Daudet.— Port Salvation ; or,

The Evangelist. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. New and Cheaper Edition.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s.6d. [Shortly

Covenant. — What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Covenant,
M.A. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, inciting Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maistre.— A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Gumming — In the Hebrides.

By C. F. Gordon Gumming, Author
of "At Home in Fiji'' With Autotype
Facsimile and Illustrations. Demy
bvo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing

Pedigrees and Decipnenng Ancient j

MSS., &c. By John E. Russians. '

Entirely New and Revised Edition, |

illustrated vv-ith over 400 Woodcut s I

and Coloured Plates. Crown Svo, ,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d. j

Cycles.— Hearts of Gold : A |

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Dickens (Charles continued —
The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Our Lady of Tears. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Circe's Lovers. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. [In preparation.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. !
Sketches by Boz.
The Pickwick Papers.
Oliver Twist.
Nicholas Nickleby.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,

1841-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Kerne Shepherd.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

About England with Dickens. By

Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. Svo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Dictionaries ;

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [Preparing.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights. Players, an-^ Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams,
A thick volume, crown 8vo, ha'^-
bound, 12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A; Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Third Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown Svo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men. With
Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Pent, M.A. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological.
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
ot Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Believer
Edwards. Crown Svo, half-bound,
-12s. 6d,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies
and Frolics. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
23. 6d.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Dora. — Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
"Reader's Handbook") Crown Svo,
half-bound, 123. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits,
63. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by \Vm. Gifford.
Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including the doubtful
ones; Vol. II., the Poems and
Minor Translations, with an Introductory
Essay by Algerian Chas.
Swinburne ; Vol. III., the Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. — The Folk - Lore of

Plants. By T. F. Thiselton Dyer,

M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

[In preparation.

Edwards, Bethany Felicia:

A Novel. By M. Bentham-edwards.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 28. ;
crown Svo, cloth extra, 33 61.

Edwards (Mrs. A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Archie Lovell. Post Svo, illust. feds.,
23. ; crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s €d.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Crown
Svo, cloth boards, 63. per Volume.
fletchers (Giles, B.D.J Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Merrick's Robert") Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert ( Lord) of Carbury's Poems.
Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Wharton Collins. Crown 8vo,
parchment, 83.

Eggieston.— Roxy: Novel. By

Edward Eggleston. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and

Precious stones: their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

Englishman's House, The : A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition.
With nearly 600 Illustrations. Crown
Svo , cloth extra, 7 s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles. F.S. A.),

Works by :
Stories from the State Papers

With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown Svo,
cloth extra. 7s. 6d.

Eyes, The.— How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them By
John Browning, F.R.A.S., &c. With
37 Illustrations. Crown Svo, Is.; cloth,

J3^6d^ ^

Fairholt.— Tobacco : Its History
and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S. A. With Coloured Frontispiece
and upwards of 100 Illustrations
by the Author. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

The Chemical History of a Candle :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.
On the Various Forces of Nature,
and their Relations to each other:
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Fin Bee. — The Cupboard

Papers: Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Beg. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Man ;
or, Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s, each.
Bella Donna.
Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.
Seventy-five Brooke Street.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems: Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev. A.
B. Grosart, D.D. Crown Svo, cloth
boards, 6s.

Fonblanque. — Filthy Lucre : A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Francisco (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

Olympia.

Queen Cophetua.

One by One.

Esther's Glove. Fcap, Svo, picture
cover, Is.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vol s., demy Svo, cl. bds., 7s. 6d. each.

Frost (Thomas), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry.— Royal Guide to the London
Charities, 1883-4. By Herbert
Fry. Showing, in alphabetical order,
their Name, Date of Foundation, Address,
Objects, Annual Income, Chief
Officials, &c. Published Annually.
Crown Svo, cl both, Is 6d.

Gardening Books:

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Glenny. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The
Garden that Paid the Rent," &c.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By ToM Jerrold. Fcap. Svo, illustrated
cover, Is.; cloth limn, Is. 6d.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. By Francis George Heath.
Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, 68.

Gentleman s Magazine (The)

for 1883. One Shilling Monthly.
"The New Abelard," Robert Buchanan's
New Serial Story, was begun
in the January Number. "Science
Notes," by W. Mattie Williams,
F.R.A.S. , is also continued monthly,
•** A'^o-ct' ready, the Volume for January

to June, 1SS3, cloth extra, price 83. 6d. ;

Cases for binding, 2s. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The).

I Christmas, 1883. Containing Two

I Complete Novels by Percy Fits

GERALD and Mrs. Alexander. Demy

Svo, illuminated cover, is. [Preparing.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Garrett.— The Capel Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Post
8vc illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown bvo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, and
translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by :

Each in crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.;
or p ost Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
What will the World Say?
In Honour Bound.
In Love and War.
For the King.
Queen of the Meadow
In Pastures Green.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Dead Heart.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.

Fancy-free. Three Vols., crown
8vo, 31s. 6d. fin the press.

Gilbert (William), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each. First Series
contains The Wicked World— Pygmalion
and G galatea — Charity — The
Princess— The Palace of Truth— Trial
by Jury. The Second Series contains
Broken Hearts — Engaged —
Sweethearts— Gretchen—Dan'l Bruce
—Tom Cobb— H. Mss. Pinafore— The
Sorcerer— The Pirates of Penzance.

Glenny. — A Year's Work in

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Glenny. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Godwin. — Lives of the Necromancers.

By William Godwin.
Post 8vo, cloth him p, 2s.

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr. V^. C.) Songs foi'
Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of the
Al ham bra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Eiia. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes,byT.M'CRiE,D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems: Lion and
Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the
Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including A
Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi, St
Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel-borne.
Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

II

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The: An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown Svo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gordon Gumming. — In the

Hebrides. By C. F. Gordon Gumming,
Author of " At Home in Fiji." With
Autotype Facsimile and numerous
full-page Illustrations. Demy Svo,
cloth extra, 8s. 6d.

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. Svo, picture cover, Is. ; cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.
New and Cheaper Edition, demy Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Greenwood (James), Works by:

The Wilds of London. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 33. 6d.
Low-life Deeps : An Account of the

Strange Fish to be Found There.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d,
Dick Temple: A Novel. Post Svo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot.— The Earth and Man ;

or. Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. 6d.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth, ls.6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by :
Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth

extra, 8s.
New Symbols. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 6s.
Legends of the Morrow. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 6s.
The Serpent Play. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 6s.

Half-hours with Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives
and Writings. By Helen and Alice
Simmer. a New Edition. Two Vols.,
crown Svo, cloth extra, 12s.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character.

By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium Svo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Holiday.— Every-day Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of

Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

i-iardy (Lady Duffus). — Paul

Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas). — Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of "Far from the Madding
Crowd." Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by :

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small Svo, illustrated
cover. Is. ; cloth limp. Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
with Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.). — American

Humorists. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward,Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hawthorne (Julian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Garth.

Ellice Question.

Sebastian Stroke.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.

Fcap. 8vo, illustrated cover, Is. ;

cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
Prince Saroni's Wife. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 33. 6d.
Dust: A Novel. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
Fortune's Fool. Three Vols., crown

Svo, 31s. 6d. Shortly.

Heath (F. G.). — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; cloth gilt, and gilt
edges, 6s.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Animals and their Masters. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Social Pressure. PostSvo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Ivan de Biron: A Novel. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 61.; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Heptalogia (The); or, The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
an Introduction, by J. Wharton
Collins. Crown Svo, bound in parchment,
8s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth
boards, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and 3
Maps. Demy Svo, cloth extra,
143, [/m preparation.

Handley (Charles), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings: Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hinder.

Holmes(OliverWendell),Works
by:

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d. ; another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Holmes. — The Science of

Voice Production and Voice Preservation
: A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. Crown Svo,
cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by :

From Nowhere to the North Pole:
A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.

A Golden Heart : A Novel. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures, Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
gilt, 7s. 6d.

Home.— Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 78.



Howell.— Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in
their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George
Howell. Crown bvo, cloth extra,
78. 6d.

Hugo. — The Hunchback of
Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s^^

Hunt.— Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by :

Thornicroft's Model. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Leaden Casket. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Self-condemned. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d^^ \ Shortly.

Angelo.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irving (Henry). — The Paradox

of Acting. Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe
sur le Comedies," by Walter series
Pollock. With a Preface by
Henry Irving. Crown 8vo, in parchment,
4s. 6d.

Irving (Washington),Worl<s by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
Tales of a Traveller.
Tales of the Alhambra.

James. — Confidence : A Novel.

By Henry James, Jun. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Janvier.— Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvi er. C own 8vo, cloth extra, 6s^

Jay (Harriet), Novels by. Each

crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; or post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

The Dark Colleen.

The Queen of Connaught.

Jefferies. — Nature near London.
By Richard Jefferies, Author
of "The Gamekeeper at Home''
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 62.

Jennings (H. J.).— Curiosities

of Criticism. By Henry J. Jennings.
Post avo, cloth limp, 28. 61I.

Jennings (Hargrave). — The

Rosicrucians: Their Rites and Mysteries.
With Chapters on the Ancient
Fire and Serpent Worshippers. By
Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 500 Illustrations.
A New Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by :

The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants
we Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Jerrold. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Jesse. — Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Jones (William, F.S.A.), Works

by:
Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred Illustrations.
Crown £vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. per
Volume.

Joseph us.The Com pieteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both "The Antiquities of the
Jews" and "The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra>^ilt, 14s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Kavanagh.— The Pearl Fountain,
and other Fairy Stories. By
Bridget and Julia Kavanagh. With
Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.
Small 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

Kempt.— Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By
Robert Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by:

Each crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d ;
QX post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s,

Oakshott Castle.
Number Seventeen.

Lamb (Charles) :

Mary and Charles Lamb: Their
Poems, Letters, and Remains. With
Reminiscences and Notes by W.
Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles
of the Title-pages of the rare First
Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's
Works, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 103. 61.

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of a Page of the " Essay
on Roast Pig'' Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Essays of Elia. Complete Edition.
Post Svo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
Reprinted from unique copies.
Small Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Lares and Penates ; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6^. each,

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

Arabian Society in the Middle Ages:

Studies from "The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Crown Svo, cloth extra.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by :

The Story of the London Parks

With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
Clerical Anecdotes. Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s. cii.
Forensic Anecdotes Post Svo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.
Theatrical Anecdotes. Post Svo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.

Leigh (Henry S.), Works by:

Carols of Cockayne. With numerous

Illustrations. Post Svo, cloth limp,

.2s. 6d.
Jeux esprit. Collected and Edited

by Henry Sleigh. Post Svo, cloth

limp 23. 61.

Life in London ; or. The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by :
Witch Stories. Post Svo, cloth limp,

23. 6d.
The True Story of Joshua Davidson

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! "

lone. Three Vols., crown Svo, 31s. 6d.
Shortly.

Locks and Keys. — On the Development
and D distribution of Primitive
Locks and Keys. By Lieut-gen.
Pitt-Rivers, F.R.'s. With numerous
Illustrations. Demy 4to, half Roxburgh,
16s.

II

Longfellow:

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works,

Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
"Kavanagh," "The Poets and
Poetry of Europe," and "Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d^

Lucy. — Gideon Fleece: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d^

Lunatic Asylum, Ivy Experiences
in a. By A Sane Patient.
Crown hvo, cloth extra, 5s^

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy Svo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, Ribs.

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works
by:

A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of iso. Four
Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. — Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols, town Svo, cloth extra,
6s each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Volume, crown Svo, cloth extra,
6S. " [Shortly.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each, [In preparation.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterfall Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Maid of Athens. With 12 Illustrations
by F. Barnard. 3 vols., crown
8vo, 315. 6d. [^'j^llhL'

McCarthy (Justin H.), Works

by:
S2rap'on, and other Poems. Crown

hvo, cloth extra, 6s.
An Outline of the History of Ireland.

from the Earliest Times to the Pre -
sent Day. Cr. bvo.ls. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :
The Princess and Curdle. With 11

Illustrations by James Allen. Small
crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Gutta-Percha Willie, the Working
Genius. With 9 Illustrations by
Arthur Hughes. Square Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. MiLLAis. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomas Wingfold, Curate. With a
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macdonald.— Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown Svo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;

with Memoirs— Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal— illustrative
of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, Bea. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d^ ^

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by: -

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.
Square Svo, cloth extra, 103. 6d.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid. Square Svo, cloth gilt,
10s. 6d.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid. Square
Bvo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.
Square Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. RTAC3UOID, Engraved
by Swain. Squ.uc Svo, cloth extra,
103. 6d.

The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Lost Rose, and other Stories. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mackay— Interludes and Undertones:
Poems of the End of Life.
By Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [/» the press.

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Cards, Dice, Balls. &c., with fully
descriptive Directions; the Art of
Secret Writing ; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and marly Illustrations,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Fac |

simile of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

Matlock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic ; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, bound in parchment,
8s.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mailopy's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; or,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Open ! Sesame !
Written in Fire.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With 100 Illustrations. Small 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
illust rated boards, 2s.

An Idle Excursion,and other Sketches.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. W th
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or. The Nev
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition (under
the title of " Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "), post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Massinger's Plays. From the
Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mathew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per \ olunip.
A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maistre. Translated

by Henry Attwell.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.

Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an

Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Balzac's "Comedie Humaine" and

its Author. With Translations by

H. H. Walker.
Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular

Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy

of Melancholy."
Gastronomy as a Fine .Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.



Mayfair Library, continued—

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By VV. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.
Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec,

Original Plays by W, S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea — Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts — Engaged— Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce— Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
The Pirates ot Penzance.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir Arthur
Helps.

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Clerical Anecdotes. By Jacob Lar-wood.



Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and

Curiosities of the Law and Men of

Law. By Jacob Haywood.
Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob

Haywood.
Carols of Cockayne. By Henry S.

Leigh.
Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry S.

Leigh.
True History of Joshua Davidson.

By E. Lynn Linton.
Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.
Pastimes and Players. By Robert

Macgregor.
The New Paul and Virginia. By

VV. H. Matlock.
The New Republic. By W. H. Mal-lock.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By

H. A. Page.
Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-

lev-penned.
Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.
More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh

Rowley.
The Philosophy of Handwriting. By

Don Felix de Salamanca,

Mayfair Library, continued—
By Stream and Sea. By William

Senior.
Old Stories Retold. By Walter

Thornbury.
Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Bv Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
Licentiate of the Royal College of
Physicians of London. Crown 8vo,
Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Touch and Go. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Mr. Dorillion. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations By Mrs.
F. Fenwick Miller. Small Svo, cloth
limp , 2s. 6d.

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise
Set of Rules for the Management ot
the Skin; with Directions for Diet,
Wines. Soaps, Baths, &c. Small Svo,
Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.
Small 8vo, Is. ; cloth extra. Is. 6d.

The Laws of Life, and their Relation
to Diseases of the Skin. Small Svo,
Is. ; cloth extra . Is. 6d.

MoncriefT. — The Abdication;

or, Time Tries All. An Historical
Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff.
With Seven Etchings by John Petrie,
R A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirter, a R.A , Colin Hunter,
R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham. Large
4to, bound in buckram, 21s.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by:
A Life's Atonement. Crown Svo, cloth

extra. 3s 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated

boards, 23.
Joseph's Coat. With Illustrations by

F. Barnard. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

33. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

D. C Murray's Novels, continued —
Coals of Fire. With Illustrations by

Arthur Hopkins and others. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 33 6d.
A Model Father, and other Stories.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 23.
Val Strange : A Story of the Primrose

Way, Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d
Hearts. New and Cheaper Edition.

Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly.
By the Gate of the Sea. Two Vols.,

post 8vo, 12s.
The Way of the World. Three Vols.,

crown Svo, 3l3. 6d. [Shortly.

Reilly.— Phoebe's Fortunes :

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

O'SThaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. Svo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. Svo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 103. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. each ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23. each.
Held in Bondage.
Strath more.
Chances.
Under Two Flags,
italia.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.
Two Little Wooden Shoes.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs. !

Commons Carr. Illust. by Randolph '
Caldecott. Sq. Svo, cloth extracts. 6d. ;

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by VV.^lter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J.
Moor Smith. Post Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Oliphant. — Whiteladies : A

Novel. With Illustrations by Arthur
Hopkins and Henry Woods. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Ouida's Novels, continued-signa.


In a Winter City
Ariadne.
Friendship.
Moths
Pipistrello.
A Village Commune.

In Maremma. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 5s.
Bimbi : Stories for Children. Square

Svo, cloth gilt, cinnamon e dges,7s.6d.
Wands: A Novel. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 53. [Shortly.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos. Selected

from the Works of Ouida, by F.

Sydney Morris. Small crown Svo,

cloth extra, 5s. [In the press.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life aid Aims : A Studs
a Portrait. Post Svo, cloiu
limp, 23 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
Bea. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Pascals Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post Svo cloth limp, 2s.

Paul Ferrol :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Ferrol : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrol Killed His Wife.

Pain (James), Novels by :

Each crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s. Gd. ; o
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2.!.

Lost Sir Massinger.

The Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than We're Painted

By Proxy.

Under One Roof.

High Spirits.

Carlyon's Year.

A Confidential Agent

Some Private Views.

From Exile.



James Pawn's Novels, continued—
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.each.
A Perfect Treasure.
Bentinck's Tutor.
Murphy's Master.
A County Family.
At Her Mercy.
A Woman's Vengeance
Cecil's Tryst
The CiyflFards of Clyffa.
The Family Scapegrace.
The Foster Brothers.
Found Dead.
Gwendolen's Harvest.
Humorous Stories.
Lille Father, Like Son,
A Marine Residence.
Married Beneath Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but Won.
Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d each.
A Grape from a Thorn. With Illustrations

by \V. Small.
For Cash Only. Kit: A Memory.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by : Post 8vo, cloth limp,

2S. 6d. each.
Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.
The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de

Societe, Selected and Edited by H.

C. Penn-ell.

Phelps.— Beyond the Gates.

By Elizabeth Stuart Phelps,
Author of " The Gates Ajar." Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s 6d Published by
special arrangement with the Author,
and Copyright in England and its
Dependencies. shortly.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:
I he Encyclopaedia of Costume ; or,

A Dictionary of Dress— Regal, Ecclesiastical.
Civil, and Military — from
the Earliest Period in England to the
Reign of George the Third. Including
Notices of Contemporaneous
Fashions on the Continent, and a
General History of the Costumes of
the Principal Country es of Europe.
Two Vols., demy 410, half morocco,
profusely Illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts,
£7 7s. The Vols may also be had
separate' (each complete in itself)
at £3 13s. 6d. each : Vol. I. The
Dictionary. Vol. II. A General
History of Costume in Europe.

Planche's Works, continued—
The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. VVith
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Songs and Poems, from iSrg to 1S79.
Suited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter. Mrs. Ma.-k.\rness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra. 6s.

Pipkin.— Trooping with Crows:

A Story. By Catherine Firkin. Fcap
8vo, p c ture cover. l3

Play-time : Sayings and Doings
of Babylon. By Edward Stanford.
Large 4to, handsomely printed in
Colours. 5s. ^

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, lOs. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan): —

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Esi?.y by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post Svo, illustrated
boards. 2s.

Popes Poetical Works. Complete
in One Volume, Post Svo, cloth
limp, 23.

Price (E.G.), Novels by:

Valentine: A Sketch. With a Frontispiece
by Hal Ludlow. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6(1. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

The Foreigners. Three Vols., crown
Svo, 31s. 6d. shortly.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by;

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illustrations.
Small crown Svo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Myths and Marvels of Astronomy.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Pleasant Ways in Science. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Rough Ways made Smooth : A
Series of Familiar Essays on Scientific
Subjects. Cr. Svo, cloth extracts.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

R. A. Proctor's Works, continued —

Our Place among Infinities: A Series
of Essays contrasting our Little
Abode in Space and Time with the
Infinities Around us. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Expanse of Heaven : A Series
of Essays on the Wonders of the
Firmament. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6(1.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown 8vo, Is. 6d,

Pyrotechnist's Treasury (The);

or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
DoRE. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson.— Popular Astronomy.

By J. Rambosson, Laureate
of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo,
cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations,
and a beautifully executed Chart of
Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Third Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles, D.C.L.), Novels

by. Each post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.; or crown 8vo, cloth
extra. Illustrated, 3s. 6d.

Peg Woffington. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A.

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
William Small.

It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. PiNWELL.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Pater SON.

Charles Reade's Novels, continued—

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of ail Trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illustrated
by Sir John Gilbert, R.A., and
Charles Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illustrated by F. W.
Lawson,

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illustrated by George
Du Maurier.

Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edward Hughes and A. W.
Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated
by Helen Paterson, S. L. Fildes,
A.R.A. , Charles Green, and Henry
Woods, A.R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Woman-hater. Illustrated by
Thos. Coulter.

Read i an a. With a Steel Plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

A New Collection of Stories. In
Three Vols., crown 8vo. [Preparing.

Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Her Mother's Darling. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Prince of Wales's Garden Party,
and other Stories. With a Frontispiece
by M. Ellen Edwards. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old CountryTowns. By Alfred

Rimmer. With over 50 Illustrations
by the Author. Square 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 10s. 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.
By Alfred Rimmer. With 50 Illustrations
by the Author. Square 8vo,
cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.

About England with Dickens. With
58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmep
and C. A Vanderhoof. Square 8vo,
cloth gilt, lOs. 6(J.



Robinson (F. W.), Novels by :

Women are Strange. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The hands of Justice. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

The Poets' Birds. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
The Poets' Beasts. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d. \ In preparation.

Robinson Crusoe A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Wood cuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crov:n 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. lOo
Large Paper copies, printed on hand-made
proper, with India proofs of the
Illustrations, price 363.

Rochefoucauld s Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, ^fheT^!

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed,
price 5s.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Russell (Clark.— Round the

Galley-Fire. Fey W. Clark Russell,
Author of "The Wreck of the
Grosvenor." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Pos
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family {16S8 to 1847). Edited
by Henry Samson. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; or
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman
The Lion In the Path.
The Tw9 Refiners,

Science Gossip: An Illustrated

Medium of Interchange and Gossip
for Students and Lovers of Nature.
Edited by J. E. Taylor, Ph.D., F.L.S.,
F.G.S. Monthly, price 4d ; Annual
Subscription 5s. (including Postage).
Vols. I. to XIV. may be had
at 7s. 6d. each ; and Vols. XV. to
XVIII. (1882), at 5s. each. Among the
subjects included in its pages will be
found : Aquaria, Bees, Beetles, Birds,
Butterflies, Ferns, Fish, Flies, Fossils,
Fungi, Geology, Lichens, Microscopes,
Mosses, Moths, Reptiles, Seaweeds,
Spiders, Telescopes, Wild Flowers,
Worms, Sec.

Secret Out " Series, The :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, profusely
Illustrated, 4s. 6d. each.

The Secret Out: One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other recreation
ns ; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or.
Complete Art of Making Fireworks
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Graceful Arts, Ganies,Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww,
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky : Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic,
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements
By Clara Belleww. With many
Illustrations.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Magic No Mystery : Tricks with
Cards, Dice, Balls, &c., with fully
descriptive Directions ; the Art of
Secret Writing ; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.


Senior (William), Works by :

Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
By Stream and Sea, Post Svo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d,

Shakespeare :

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. — A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. ci.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moor Smith. Crown 4to, cloth
gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 83.

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s. ;
or separately, 2s. each. Vol. I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c., with an Introduction by Leigh i
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems, the Shelley Papers,
&c. ; Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi, St. Irvine, &c.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including
his Dramatic Writings, printed from
the Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A,
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
"Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Essay on the Poetry of
Sidney, and Notes, by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Three Vols., crown
8vo, cloth boards, Ribs.

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Hotel. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sketches. — A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Slang Dictionary, The : Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d,

Smith (J. Moyr), Works by :

The Prince of Argolis : A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moyr
Smith. Small 8vo, cloth extra, with
130 Illustrations, 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. Collected and
Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated,
6s.

The Wooing of the Water Witch:

A Northern Oddity. By Evan Dal-done.
Illustrated by J. Moyr
Smith. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

South-West, The New: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New
Mexico.Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
By Ernst von Hesse Wartegg.
With 100 fine Illustrations and 3 Maps.
8vo, cloth extra, 14s. [hi preparation.

Spalding.-Eiizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of
the Belief in the Existence of Devils,
and the Powers possessed by Them.
By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Speight. — The Mysteries of

Heron Dyke. By T. W. Speight.
With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.



Staunton. — Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B. World. A
New Edition, small crown 8vo, cloth
ext ra, 5s.

Seaman. — Victorian Poets :

Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence
Seaman. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 9s.

Sterndale.— The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
F.R.G.S. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
33. 6d.; post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by:

Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
New Arabian Nights. New and

Cheaper Edit. Cr.8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Silvered Squatters. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s. [ In the press,

St. John.— A Levantine Family

By Bayle St. John. Post 6vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Standard. — Summer Cruising

In the South Seas. Ry Charles
Warren Standard. Illustrated by
Wallis Mackay. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

St. Pierre. — Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
de St. Pierre. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Strain. — Twenty Years of a

Publisher's Life. By Alexander
Strain. Two Vols., crown Svo,
with numerous Portraits and Illustrations,
24s. [In preparation.

Struts Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions,
Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period
to the Present Time. With 140 Illustrations.
Edited by William Hone.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With a Map
of Suburban London. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian, C),

Works by:
The Queen Mother and Rosamond.

Fcap. Svo, 5s.
Atlantic Corydon. Crown Svo, 6s.
Chastened. A Tragedy. Crown Svo,

7S.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. Svo, 9s. Also in crown Svo,

at same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. Svo, 9s. Also in crown Svo, at

same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. Svo,

Is.
William Blake: A Critical Essay.

With Facsimile Paintings. Demy

Svo, 16s.
Songs before Sunrise. Crown Svo,

lOs. 6d.
Bothwell : A Tragedy. Crown Svo,

12s. 6d.
George Chapman: An Essay. Crown

Svo, 7s.
Songs of Two Nations. Crown Svo,

6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown Svo,

12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Crown 8\-d,

6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, Is.
A Note on Charlotte Bronze. Crown

Svo, 6s.
A Study of Shakespeare. Crown

Svo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide. Crown

Svo, 6s.
Studies in Song. Crown Svo, 7s.
Mary Stuart: A Tragedy. Crown

Svo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 9s.
A Century of Roundels. Small 4to,

cloth extra, 8s.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Rotten. Medium Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, 303.— Popular Edition,
in Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra,
15s.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo ClJib: Burlesques of
Modern Writers Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: ' Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," "twixt Axe and Crown,"
"The Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's
Wife," "Anne Boleyn," " Plot and
Passion." One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

'*^* The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by :

Each crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; or
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.
Cressida.
Proud Maisie.
The Violin-Player.

Thomson's Season sand Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works

by:

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illustrations in
Colours, facsimile from Turner's
Original Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Times (John), Works by:
The History of Clubs and Club Life
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With numerous Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.
Crown Svo, cloth extra , 7s. 6d.

Torrens. — The Marquess

Wellesley, Architect of Empire. An
Historic Portrait. By W. M. .
Demy Svo, cloth extra, 14s.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

The Way We Live Now. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

The American Senator. Cr Svo, cl.
extra, 3s. 6d ; post Svo, illust. bds, , 2s.

Kept in the Dark. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. MiLLAis, R.A. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Frau Frohmann, &c. With Frontispiece.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Marion Fay. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Mr. Scarborough's Family. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The Land • Leaguers. Three Vols.,
crown Svo, 31s. 6d. [Shortly.

Trollope(FrancesE.),Worksby:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Mabel's Progress.
Anne Furness. ^

Trollope (T. A.).— Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
Thomas Adolphus Trollope. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post Svo,
illustrated boards. 2s.

Tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

What She Came Through. Crown
Svo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

The Bride's Pass. With a Frontispiece
by P. MacNab. Crown Svo,
cloth extra. 35. 6d.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By Henry Van Laun.
Complete in Three Vols., demy Svo,
cloth board s, 7s. 6d. each.

Villars. — A Double Bond? A

Story. By Linda Villa Fcap.

8yo, picture cover, 1^



Walcott.— Church Work and

Life in English Spinsters; and the

English Student's Monastic. By the
Rev, Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, Bed.
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Map and Ground-Plans, 14s.

Walford (Ed w., M.A.),Works by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. The Twenty-third Annual Edition,
for 18S3, cloth, full gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1883). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth, Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1883).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
Short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, Is. Published annually.

The Shilling Knightage (1883). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. szmo,
cloth, Is. Published annually.

The Shilling House of Commons
(1883). Containing a List of all the
Members of the British Parliament,
their Town and Country Addresses,
&c. 32mo, cloth. Is. Published
annually.

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1883). In One Volume,
royal 32mo, cloth extra, gilt edges,
5s. Published annually.

Haunted London. By Walter

Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete i

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's 1
Recreation ; being a Discourse of j
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, j
written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and ,
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large I
crown 8vo, cloth antique, 7s. 6d.

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Sd. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle,

Merrier England in the Olden Time.
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Root. Cruikshank,

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Handley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Handley. With Illusts.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Memoirs of the Sanson Family
(1688 to 1847). Edited by Henry
Sanson.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By Charles Warren Standard.
Illust. by Wallis Mackay,

Warner. — A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Tn prep oration .

Warrants, &c. :—

Warrant to Execute Charles I. An
exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Warrants, &c., continued—
Wai-rant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsin-ile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.

IVIagna Charta. An Exact Facsimile
of the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Price 5s.

Westpopp.— Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain ; or. History oi
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Holder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. 6(1.

Whistler v. Ruskin : Art and

Art Critics. By J. A. Macneill
Whistler. Seventh Edition, square
8vo, Is.

White's Natural History of

Melbourne. Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),

Works by:
Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Second Edition. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),

Works by :
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

Svo, cloth limp, with Illustrations,

2s. 6d.

Wilson (C.E.). — Persian Wit and

Humour: Being the Sixth Book of
the Samaritan of Jamie, Translated
for the first time from the Original
Persian into English Prose and Verse.
With Notes by C. E. Wilson, Mer. Ass.,
Assistant Librarian Royal Academy
of Arts. Crown Svo, parchment binding,
4s.

\/Vinter (J. S.), Stories by:

Cavalry Life. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

3s. 6d.
Regimental Legends. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Wood. — Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. Crown Svo, half-bound,
12s. 6d.

Wright (Thomas), Works by ■-

Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt,
F.S.A. Large post Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Castaway.
The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.



NOVELS BY THE BEST AUTHORS.

NEW NOVELS at every Library.

Ail In a Garden Fair. By Walter

Besant. Three Vols. [Shortly.

Anna Water. By Robert Buchanan.
Three Vols. [Shortly.

Fancy-free, See. By Charles Gibbon,
Three Vols. [Shortly.

Fortune's Fool. By Julian Hawthorne.
Three Vols.

lone. By E. Lynn Linton. Three
Vols. [Shortly.

The Way of the World. By D. Christie
Murray. Three Vols. [Shortly,

The Foreigners. By E. C. Price.
Thre Vos. Shortly.

Maid of Athens. By Justin Mccarthy,
M.P. With 12 Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard. Three Vols.

[Shortly.

By the Gate of the Sea. By David
Christie murray. Two Vols., post
8vo, 12s.

The Canon's Ward. By James Pain.
Three Vols, [Jan., 1S84.

A New Collection of Stories by

Charles Reade is now in preparation,
in Three Vols,

The Land-Leaguers, By Anthony
Trollope, Three Vols. [Shortly.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors, Library Editions, many Illustrated,
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s, 6d. each.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow?
BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify,
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft,
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay,
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant,
The Chaplain of the Fleet,

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword,
The Martyrdom of Madeline'
Love Me for Ever,

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page,
Transmigration,
From Midnight to Midnight,

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS,
Blacksmith and Scholar,
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch,
Miss or Mrs ?

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter,

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY y. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circles Lovers.

New Magdalen,
The Frozen Deep,
The Law and the

Lady,
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter*
The Black Robe,
Heart and Science

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia, | Queen Cophetua.

One by One.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
Tine Capel Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lactic of Gold.
In Love and War.
What will the World Say?
For the King.
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust.

BY SIR A. Helps.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jun.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Lean Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! "

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleece.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

The Watergate Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

Linley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD, LL.D.
Pau Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
Lost Rose. I The Evil Eye,

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. '■ Val Strange.

A Model Father.

Hearts.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir massinger.


Best of Husbands '
Fallen Fortunes.
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Her
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.

High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from e

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Kit : A Memory.



Piccadilly Nov els, continued—
BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentine.
BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash. | Peg Woffington.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long,
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir, r A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. | Reading.

BY MRS. y. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden-party.

BY F. IV. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path.
The Two Dreamers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Aisle. 1 Cressida,
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPS.
The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.

BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE,
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY T. A. TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY SARAH Tatler
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF POPULAR NOVELS.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

[WiLKiE CoLLiNs's NovELS and Besant and Rice's Novels may also be had in
cloth limp at 2s. 6d. See, too, the Piccadilly Novels, for Library Editions']

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Carp of Carrion. j Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.

By Besant and Rice— continued.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
Gabriel Convoy.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Flip.

BOOKS PUBLISHED By

Cheap Popular Novels, continued —
BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
The Shadow of the Sword.
A Child of Nature.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
The Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?
The New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the Lady.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty,
Frances.

Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY y. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued —
BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz.
The Pickwick Papers.
Oliver Twist.
Nicholas Nickleby.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour.
Archie Lovell.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna.
Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.
Seventy-five Brooke Street.

BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia.
Queen Cophetua.
One by One.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Cape! Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
What will the World Say?
In Honour Bound.
The Dead Heart.
In Love and War.
For the King.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY.
EveryDay Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY,
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.



Cheap Popular Novels, continued —
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth,

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Stroke.

BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame,

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, J tin.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Oakshott Castle.
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"inly Love I"

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

Dear Lady Disdain.

The Watergate Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford.

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame !
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.
Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion.
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A Life's Atonement.
A Model Father.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.
BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
t'hcebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.
Library Editions of Guida's Novels
may be had in crown 8vo, cloth extra, at

5s. each.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine.


Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massing Gwendolen's Ha

Pascal.

TwoLittleWooden
Shoes.

Sign a.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Treated.



A Perfect
sure.

Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.
ClyfFards of ClyfFe
The Family Scapegrace.

Foster Brothers.
Found Dead.
Best of Husbands
Walter's Word.
Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.
What He Cost Her
Humorous Stories

vest.
Like Father, Like

Son.
A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
£200 Reward.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO &> W INDUS.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY EDGAR A. FOE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentine.

BY CHARLES READE.
it is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Woffington.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton.
A WomanHater.
Reading.

BY MRS. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.

BY BAYLE ST. John.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SAL A,
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
The Two Dreamers.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match In the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Maisie.

The Violin-Player.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.

BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPS.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
An Idle Excursion.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent
of Europe.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway.
The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS
Paul Ferrol.
Why Paul Ferrol Killed his Wife.

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers. Is. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

PiRKIS.

The Professor's Wife. By Leonard

Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Jerrold.

J. OGDEN AND CO PRINTERS, I72, ST. JOHN STREET, E.C.
