LI B Mary

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

vel

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

WELL THEN
I.

BY

WALTER BESANT AND JAMES RICE.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 2^- each ; post 8vo. illus,
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Ready-money Mortify.

WITH HARP AND CROWN.

THIS SON OF VULCAN.

MY LITTLE GIRL.

THE CASE OF MR. Craft.

THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY.

BY CELIA'S ARBOUR.

THE MONKS OF Helena.

'TWAS IN TRAFALGAR'S BAY.

THE SEAMY SIDE.

THE TEN YEARS' TENANT.

THE CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

NOVELS BY WALTER BESANT.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3^-. 6d. each ; post 8vo. illus.
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN : an

Impossible Story. With Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

THE CAPTAINS' ROOM, &c. With Frontispiece
by E. J. Wheeler.

ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR. With 6 Illustrations
by H. Furnish.

DOROTHY FORSTER. With Frontispiece by
Charles Green.

UNCLE JACK, and other Stories.

CHILDREN OF GIBEON. Three Vols.

THE WORLD WENT VERY WELL THEN.

Three Vols.

THE ART OF FICTION. Demy 8vo. i^.

London : CHATTO & WIND US, Piccadilly, W.

BY

WALTER BESANT

AUTHOR OF

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN' 'DOROTHY FORSTER'

CHILDREN OF GIBEON ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

WITH A PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR BY JOHN PETTIE, R.A.
AND ILLUSTRATIONS BY A. FORESTIER

ITonboit
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



{.The right of translation is reserved]

5POTTISW0ODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

TO

JOHN PETTIE, Bea.

I dedicate this hook, m memory of certain pleasant

Jours passed in Fit z John's Avenue in November

1886, of which the frontispiece is the outcome, and

in acknowledgement of the patience and skill of the

Artist.

WALTER BE S ANT.

United University Club,

Feb. 1887.

I BEG to express my best thanks to Mr. William
Ingram, who has most generously placed at my
disposal, for reproduction, the drawings of Mr.
Forestier, made originally for the ' Illustrated
London News,' where this story first appeared.
I have also to thank Mr. Charles Eden for
kindly pointing out and correcting for me certain
slips due to the fact that the writer of
this narrative, Luke Anguish, was a landsman,
though a painter of ships.

Those who wish to know the foundation
of the story will find it in the Chronicles of
Deptford, and on a tombstone in the Church
of St. Nicholas.

I desire also to be allowed a word of
personal explanation. Many people have
written to me asking how I can write two
novels at once, because during the time that
this tale was running in the ' Illustrated
London News,' the ' Children of Gibeon ' was
concluding in 'Hangman's Magazine.' I cannot,
as a matter of fact, write two novels at
once, and I should be very much afraid to try
such an experiment. The following are the
facts and dates :

In October 1883, I finished the story of
Dorothy Forster,' which was published in
the ' Graphic,' January-June 1884, and by
Messrs. Chatty & Winds in May 1884.

On the completion of ' Dorothy Forster,' I
began the 'Children of Gibeon,' which occupied
me until May 1885. In the summer of 1885
I began ' The World went very Well Then.'
The first half of this was sent in to Mr. Ingram
in April of 1886, and the rest in June. Sofar,

therefore, from writing two novels at once,
the two which ran partly at the same time
were written quite separately, the first taking
eighteen months and the second about thirteen
months.

W. B.

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHA.PTKU Take

I. HOW JACK HEARD TALK OP LANDS DEYDND THE SEA 1

II. HOW JACK CAME TO Hertford

III. HOW JACK LEARNED OF THE PENMAN .

IV. HOW JACK FIRST WENT TO SEA . . . . 96
V. MIDSHIPMAN JACK 112

VI. THE 'COUNTESS OF DORSET' " 132

Iii. MR. BRINJES Concludes THE STORY OF HIS VOYAGE 145

VIII. THE ' COUNTESS OF DORSET ' SAILS

IX. AARON FLETCHER

X. HOW JACK CAME HOME AGAIN

XI. THE VOYAGE OF THE ' COUNTESS OF DORSET

XII. HOW JACK THANKED BESS

XIII. JACK ASHORE



i:04



24 9



PAGE

Portrait OP THE AUTHOR Frontispiece

A SMALL BACK PARLOUR BEHIND Als APOTHECARY'S SHOP ' 1
'GOOD-BTE, BESs!' 108

THEY STOPPED OJfLY TO DRINK, AS"D THEN E0T7GH1

again' viz

SHE FELL ON HER KNEES UPON THE MUDDY GROUND' . 247

CHAPTER I.

now JACK HEARD TALK OF LANDS Beyond
THE SEA.

N a small back parlour,
behind an
apothecary's shop,

boys and a gul. The boys

B

were aged respectively twelve years and ten ;
the elder of them was a tall and strongly-built
lad, with curling hair of a dark brown, and
eyes of mncli the same colour; the younger,
fair-haired, and of slighter proportions. The
girl was nine ; but she looked more, being tall
for her age. Her hair was so dark that it
looked almost black. It hung loose, in long
curls or ripples, not being coarse and thick,
as happens, generally, with hair that is quite
black, but fine in texture and lustrous to look
upon. Her eyes, too, were black and large.
The elder boy and the girl sat side-beside in
the window-seat, while the other boy sat at the
table, having a pencil in his hand and a piece
of paper before him, on which he was drawing,
idly, whatever came into his head. All three
were silent, save that the elder boy from time
to time whispered the girl, or pinched lier ear,
or pulled her hair, when she would shake her
neat and smile, and point to the great chair
beside the fire, as much as to say, ' If it were
not for that chair, Jack, and the person in it,
I would box thy ears.'

It was not a cold day. The sun shone
through the lattice window, and fell upon the
heads of the two who sat together, and motes
innumerable danced merrily in the light ; yet
there was a coal fire burning in the grate. On
one lib simmered a saucepan, with some broth
in it or compound of simples (while the children
sat waiting, the apothecary's assistant stepped
in noiselessly, lifted the lid, took out a spoonful,
sighed, tasted it, shook his head for the nastiness
of it, and went back into the slip). On
the other hob stood a kettle, singing comfortably
— kept there always, day and night, but
not for making tea, I promise you. As for the
room itself, it was exactly like a ship's cabin,
being narrow and low, and fitted with shelves
and drawers. On one side was a pallet, something
like a bunk in an officer's cabin, with a
flock mattress upon it, and a pair of blankets
rolled up snug. Here the apothecary slept
when the Aveathei was cold —that is to say,
nearly all the year round. Herbs and drugs
tied in bundles hung from the rafters, as onions
hang in a farm-house ; the window was a lattice,

B 2

with small diamond panes set in lead ; above
the mantel shelf hung a silver watch ; on the
shelf itself stood a pair of brass candlesticks,
the model of a ship full rigged — her name
written in red ink on a wooden stand, ' The
King Solomon, of Bristol ' — a pair of ship's
pistols, a tobacco jar, and two or three long
pipes. The apothecary's great wig, which he
wore every evening at the club, hung from a
peg on the Avail behind the elbow chair ; and
in the corner of the room opposite the chair
there was a very fearful and terrible thing,
imtil you grew accustomed to it, when you
ceased to fear it. This was nothing less than a
stick painted red and black, with bright coloured
feathers tied round it, and surmounted by a
grinning human skull. It was a mastic stick,
called, we were told, the Ekpenyong, or skull
stick, by the Mandingo sorcerers — a thing only
to be handled by an Obeah man, the possession
of which is supposed by negroes either to
confer or to proclaim wonderful powders, and
cut from a juju or holy tree. Beside it lay two
musical instruments, also from Africa — sone a

hollow block of wood covered with a sheepskin,
and the other a kind of rude guitar. This
stick it was which caused the apothecary to be
greatly respected by the Admiral's negroes, as
you will presently hear. He who has such a
stick can catch the shadow, as the' say — that
is, the soul of a man ; and set Obi upon him
that is to say, bring suffering, sorrow, and
shame upon him. So that the possessor of a
skull-stick is a person greatly to be feared and
envied.

There was an open cupboard beside the
fire, in which were household stores, such as
bacon, cheese, butter, bread, strings of onions,
a two-gallon jar or firkin of rum, plates and
knives, for the room was a kitchen as well as
an eating-room and a sleeping-room. Once a
week or so, if business was slack and there was
nothing else to do, the assistant might, if he
thought of it, come with a broom, and sweep
the dust out into the street. But I do not
remember that the room was ever washed.
And what with the tobacco, the stores in the
cupboard, the rum, the drugs hanging from

the rafters, and the contents of the shelves, the
place had, to a sailor, exactly the smell of the
cockpit or orlop deck after a long voyage ; for
in that part of the ship are kept the purser's
stores, the bo's'n's stores, the spirit-room, the
surgeon's store-room, the midshipmen's berths
and their mess. For this reason, perhaps, its
owner, who had been a sailor, would never
open the window ; and always, on returning
home, sniffed the air of the room with a
peculiar satisfaction.

The great chair — which might have served
for the chair of a hall-porter, having a broad,
low seat and a hi oh back with arms — was
stuffed or padded with three or four pillows,
and in the midst of the pillows lay an old man
sleeping. This was Mr. Brings, the famous
apothecary of Deptford. He was small of
stature and thin ; his face (over one eye was a
black patch) was creased and lined like a russet
apple, which shrinks before it rots ; his chin
was hollow ; his head, covered with a padded
silk night-cap, was sunk deep in the pillows
like a child's ; he lay upon his side ; his feet,

stretched out, were propped on a footstool ; one
hand was under his cheek, and the other hanover
the arm of the clair (you might have
noticed that the skin of his hand was wrinkled
and loose, as if the bones belonged to an
occupant smaller than was at first intended).
As he lay asleep there, he looked like one in
extreme old age, such as may be seen in
country villages, where they take a pride in
showing the visitor, in proof of the healthiness
of the country air, some old gaffer of a hundred
years and more sitting before a fire.

Through the open door could be seen the
shop. It was small, like the parlour behind it.
The rafters were hung with dried herbs ; the
shelves were full of bottles. There was a chair
for the reception of those patients who could
not stand ; there was a counter, with scales
great and small ; a pestle and mortar ; a box
containing surgical instruments — the pincers
for pulling out teeth, the cup, the basin, the
blister, and the other horrid tools of the surgeon's
craft. The apothecary's assistant stood
at the counter, rolling pills and mixing medicines

— a sallow, pasty-faced youth with a pair
of swivel eyes, which moved with independent
action ; a young man who walked about
without noise, and worked all day without
stopping, yet looked discontented, perhaps
because he was compelled to taste the medicines,
and his stomach kicked thereat. The
shop door was always open, for the window
gave little light, partly because it was never
cleaned, partly because there was a shelf with
bottles before it, and partly because the glass
was full of bell's-eyes, which gave strength, no
doubt, yet kept the room obscure. At the
end of the counter was the stool on which Mr.
Brings sat every morning, in his gown and
night-cap, from eight o'clock until half-past
twelve, receiving patients. Before him, on the
counter, was a great book containing, I now
suppose, a Repertory or Collection of Instructions
concerning Symptoms of Diseases and
Methods of Treatment ; but the common sort
always supposed that it was a book of Spells,
and the means by which Mr. Brings was
enabled to communicate with a Certain Potentate,

who helped him and did his bidding, at
what price and for what reward these people
freely whispered to each other. On Sunday
morning (this must have been a bitter Bolus to
the Evil one) Mr. Brings and his assistant let
blood gratis to whoever wished for that wholesome
refreshment ; and every morning he
pulled out teeth at a shilling or half a crown
(according to the means of the customer), his
assistant holding the patient in his chair, and
receiving those kicks and culls which in the
extremity of his agony the sufferer too often
deals out.

In such a town as Deptford it is natural
that the common people should resort to the
herb-woman for the cure of their ailments. It
was not until she had failed that they came to
Mr. Brings, and then with doubt whether he
would choose to treat them. As for his power
to cure, if he pleased, there was no doubt
about that. It was whispered that he knew of
charms by which he could constrain a person,
even in the misery of toothache, to fall sound
asleep, and continue asleep while Mr. Brings

would take out a tooth without causing him to
awaken, or to feel any pain whatever ; but
these things we may not believe, however well
authenticated, unless we would seriously accuse
him of magic. As for fevers, rheumatism,
difficulty of breathing, coughs, scurvy, and the
other afflictions by which wee are reminded
that this is but a transitory world, it was believed,
even by the better sort of Deptford,that
there was no physician in London itself more
skilful than Mr. Brings, and that by certain
preparations, the secret of which he alone
knew, and had learned in his voyages in
foreign parts, especially on the West Coast of
Africa, where the negroes possess many strange
secrets of nature, he had acquired a singular
mastery over every kind of disease. He has
been known, as I myself who write this history
can testify (it Alas in the case of Admiral
Sayer's great toe), to relieve a man in one hour
of the gout, though he had been roaring fora
fortnight with his foot tied up in flannel. It
was also whispered of Mr. Brings that by
maiiic or witchcraft he could brings diseases

upon those who offended him, and that he
could avert all the misfortunes to which
mankind are liable in shipwreck, drowning,
wounds and death. But it is idle to repeat
the things which where said of him. Certain
it is that he possessed wonderful secrets for
the cure of disease, however he came by
them. Warts he removed merely by looking
at them, and by a prophecy that they would
be gone in so many days ; a sprained ankle he
would set at ease by simply rubbing the part
with his open hand ; sciatica, lumbago, pleurisy,
and other such disorders he healed in the same
way, foretelling on each occasion how long
it would be before the malady would cease.
Those dio were so treated declared that the
apothecary's hand became like a red-hot iron
in the rubbing. Rheumatism, it was certain,
he cured by making the patient carry a potato
in his pocket ; though what he did, if he did
anything, to the potato first, in order to endow
it with this virtue, is not known. As for earache,
faceache, toothache, tic, and such disorders,
it was believed that he could order their removal

at will. Further, it was said of him, that he
could, also at will, command these diseases to
seize upon a man and torture him. How he
did this, no one can explain ; but the testimony
of many, still living, proves that he did it. I
pass over the report that, in calling these pains
to seize upon a man, his one eye glowed like a
red-hot coal, and sent forth flashes of fire.
Such rumours show only how much he was
feared and respected by the people. They came
to him also for amulets and charms, which he
did not always refuse to give, for protecting
those who carried them from drowning, hanging,
burning, the shot of cannon, and the stroke of
steel. It is true that his amulets where simple
things : wee cannot understand how the tooth of
a snake, even with the poison in it, can avail
against drowning if one dio cannot swim should
tumble into deep water ; nor how the head of a
frog, wrapped in silk, can, without any other
magic, protect a man against the gallows. But
there are many other things, which everybody
believes, quite as difficult to explain : as, for
instance, why the gall of the barbel cause

blindness ; why cock ale corelli consumption ;
why an onion hung round the neck of a beast,
and the next day boiled and buried, cureth
distemper in cattle ; or why the finger cut from
the hand of a hanged man taketh away a wen.
Yet these are in the nature of amulets, as much
as any of those prepared by Mr. Brings. At
this time he had been in the town some fifteen
years, having appeared one day about the year
1725. Nobody knew who he was or whence
he came ; his parentage, his christian name, his
birthplace were all unknown. He never spoke
of any relations ; and at his first coming he
seemed to be as old as now, so that some, when
they saw the sign of the Silver Mortar put up,
and the galli pots ranged in the slip, laughed
to think of so old and decrepit a man beginning
trade as an apothecary.

Whatever his age, he was not decrepit ; but
strong and hale, though shrunken in figure,
with a wrinkled skin and a face covered with
lines and crow's-feet. He suffered from no ailments,
was always brisk and active, and had,
in his talk and understanding, no apparent touch

of age. Farther, it soon became known that
here was a man who could effect marvellous
cures, so that the people began to flock to him,
not only from Deptford and the riverside, where
he first courted custom, but also from Greenwich,
on the one hand, and Eedriff, Bermondsey,
and Southwark, on the other.

He received these people every day —from
eight in the morning until half-past twelve —
dressed in a ragged old gown, gone into holes
at the elbows, and well-nigh dropping to
pieces ; on his head, an old night-cap ; and on
his feet, slippers tied with tape. But slovenly
as was his dress, and unworthy the dignity of
a physician, he was sharp and quick with the
patients, telling them plainly, while he gave
them medicine, whether they would recover or
when they would die, and whether he could
help them or no. At the stroke of half-past
twelve, he got off his stool and retired to his
parlour, where, with his own hand, he everyday
fried or riddled a great piece of beefsteak,
with a mess of onions, carrots, and other vegetables,
and presently devoured it, with a tankard



of black beer, choosing to do everything with
his own hand, even to the filing of his kettle
and the washing of his dishes, rather than have
a woman-servant in the place. This done, lie
made up the fire, put away his plates, settled
himself among his pillows, and fell fast asleep.
Thus he continued for two or three hours, no
one daring to disturb him or to make the least
noise. When, on this day, he began to move,
stretching out first one leg, and then the other,
turning over on his back, and fidgeting with
his hands, the elder boy nodded to the younger,
who reached a bundle of papers from the topmost
shelf, and laid them on the table as if in
readiness. This done, they waited.

The old man yawned, sighed, and opened
his remaining eye — 'twas a pale blue eye of
amazing keenness and brightness. Then he
sat up suddenly with a start, and looked about
him with a quick suspicious glance, as if he
had been sleeping in some place where there
were wild animals to fear, or savage men.
You could then perceive that his features were
sharp, and apparently not much altered by his

years ; his clin being long and pointed, his hips
firm, and his nose straight, as if lie was a
masterful man, who would have his way. As
for his remaining eye (no one ever learned
where the sight of the other had been lost),
tliougli it was so bright, it had a quick and
watchful expression, such as may be perceived
in the eyes of those creatures who both hunt
and are hunted. You will not see this look in
the eyes of Dido the Lioness of the Tower,
because the lion hunts but is never hunted.
Being reassured as to tigers or fierce Indians,
Mr. Brings rose from the chair, and as if not
yet wholly awake, yet already conscious, he
took a glass and half filled it with rum ; then,
with the utmost care and nicety (your drinkers
of rum-punch care very little how much rum is
in the glass, but are greatly afraid of putting
in too much of the other components), added
sugar, lemon, and water ; this done, he stirred
the contents, rolled it about in the glass, and
drank half of it.

I have again returned,' he said, ' to the
world of life. To all of us who are old,

when we close our eyes in sleep we know not
whether we shall not keep them closed in
death, which sometimes tins surprises those
who have lived long. But I have returned —
aha ! — and with reasonable prospect of another
evening of tobacco and punch.' Here he
sipped his liquor. ' I take this glass of punch,
boys,' he explained, 'for the good of the
stomach, and the prevention of ill-humours
and vapours ; otherwise these might rise to
the brain, which is a part of man's mechanism
more delicate than any other, and as easily put
oil the balance as the mainspring of a watch.'
Here he drank again, but slowly, and by sips,
as becomes one who loves his drink. ' I am
now old ; when a man is old he is fortunate if
he can breathe free, sleep sound, walk upright,
eat his dinner, and still drink his punch. Some
men there are, not so old as myself — no, not by
ten years — who fetch their breath with difficulty,
whereas I breathe freely; others are
troubled and cannot sleep for racking pains,
whereas I have none ; and others cannot eat
strong meats, and would die — poor devils! —
VOL. I. c

of a bowl of punch. Better be dead than live
like that ; better lie buried with a mile of blue
water over your head, and the whales flopping
around your grave on the seaweed. There can
be no more comfortable and quiet lying than
the bottom of the sea.' He shook his head
solemnly. ' When a man cannot any longer
fiofht and make love, there is but one things left
to rejoice his heart.' He finished the glass.
And when he cannot drink, let him die.'

He sat down again in his great chair ; but
he sat upright, looking about him, now
thoroughly awake and alert.

In sleep,' he said, ' it is as if one were
already dead ; awake, it is as if one could not
die. Ha ! Death is impossible. The blood it
runs as strong, the pulse it beats as steady, as
when I was a boy of thirty. Why, I am young
still ! I am full of life ! Give me fifty years
more — only a poor, short fifty years — what is
it when the time is gone ? — and I will make,
look you, such a medicine as shall keep a man
alive for ever ! It weill be done some day, alas !
when I am gone. It will be too late for me,

and I must die. But not yet — not yet. Oh !
we are born too soon — a hundred years and
more too soon. When a man is old he is apt
to feel the near presence of Death. Not, mind
you, when he is asleep, or when he is awake,
but when he is between the two. Then he
sees the dart aimed at his heart, and the scythe
ready to cut him down, and the bony fingers
clutching at his throat. It is as if life were
slipping from him, just as the pirate's planlv
slips under the weight of the prisoner who has
to walk upon it.'

When a man's time comes,' said Jack, with
wisdom borrowed from his friends at Trinity
Hospital ; ' when a man's time comes, down he
goes.'

Ay. It's easy talking when you are
young ; and your time hasn't come by many
a day ; the words drop out glib, and seem to
mean nothing. Wait, my lad ; wait till you
have had your day. To every man his day.
First the fat time, then the lean time ; or else
it's first the lean time, then the fat time. For
most, old age is the lean time. But the world

c 2

is full of justice, and there is always a fat time
in every man's life. When there's peace upon
the seas, the merchantman sails free and happy,
buying skins and ivory, spices and precious
woods, for glass beads and cotton. So trade
prospers. And then the King's sailors and
marines and the privateers must needs turn
smugglers; and so find their Away to the
gallows. Then cometh war again, and the
honest fellows have another turn with fighting
and taking of prizes and cutting out of convoys.
Yes, boys; the world is full of justice, did we
but rightly consider; and everyone doth get
his chance. As for you, Bess, my girl, it shall
be a brave lover, in the days when thou shalt
be a lovely girl and a goddess. As for you,
boys — well — and presently you will become
old men like unto me.' He sighed heavily.
And then ' — he took the saucepan from the
hob, stirred it about, and smelled the stuff
that was simmering in it — ' I doubt if this mixture
Children, we are all born a hundred

years too soon — a hundred years, at least. Yet,
if I had but fifty years before me, I think I

could find the secret to stay old age and put off
natural decay. The Coromantyns are said to
have the secret, but they keep it to themselves;
and I have questioned Philadelphy, who is a
Mandingo, in vain. Well ' — again he sighed, ashe
put back his saucepan — ' I have slept, and I
am alive again, with another evening before mc,
and more punch. Let us be thankful. Jack,
unroll the charts, and let me look upon the
world again.'

The charts, wdiicli the younger boy had
already laid upon the table, were stained and
thumb-marked parchments, originally drawn
by some Spanish hand, for the names were all in
Spanish ; but they had been much altered and
corrected by a later hand — perhaps that of Mr.
Brings himself. They showed the Atlantic and
the Indian Oceans, together with a map of the
Eastern Islands and the unknown Magellanica
or Terra Australis. The last named was traversed
by several lines in blue ink, showing the
routes of voyagers both early and recent, each
with a name written above it ; as Magellan,
1520; Francis D'Ovalle, 1582; Montana,

1595 ; Drake, 1577 ; Candid, 1586 ; Oliver
Noort, 1599; Le Maire, 1615; Tasman, 1642;
John Cook, 1683 ; Woods Lodgers, 1708 ;
Clipperton, 1719 ; Slielvocke, at the same tune.
There was another route laid down across the
ocean, much more devious than any of the
others, and without name, and marked in red
ink.

When these maps were spread out upon the
table, Mr. Brings rose and stood gazing upon
them, as if, by the mere contemplation of the
coast lines, he was enabled actually to see the
places which he had visited or heard of. There
was no place in the whole world that is visited
by ships (because I do not pretend that Mr.
Brings knew the interior of the great continents)
whereof he could not speak as from
personal knowledge, describing its appearance,
the character of the people, the soundings, and
the nature of the port or roadstead.

But mostly Mr. Brings loved to talk of
pirates, rovers, or adventurers, whether of
Queen Elizabeth's reign, when they had a
golden time indeed, or of our own time, which

has seen many of these gentry ; though now,
instead of receiving knighthood, as was
formerly the custom, they are generally taken
ashore and hoisted on a gibbet. Thus, Mr.
Brings would lay his forefinger on the island
of Madagascar, and tell us of Captain Avery
and his settlement on the north of this great
island, where every one of his men became like
a little "sultan or King, each with a troop of
slaves, and being no better than Pagans, every
man with a seraglio of black wives. For
aught anybody knows to the contrary, they or
their sons are living on the island in splendour
to this day, though their famous captain hath
long since been dead. Or he would point out
the island of Providence, in the Bahamas, where
there was formerly a rendezvous, which continued
for many years, of those who combined
together to prey upon the Spanish commerce.
'And think not, boys,' said Mr. Brings,
solemnly, ' that to sail in search of the great
Plate ships can be called piracy, for pirates are
the common enemies of all flags, and must be
hanged when they are taken prisoners ; whereas,

he who takes or sinks a Spanish vessel
performs a meritorious action, and one that he
will remember with gratitude upon his deathbed,
since they are a nation more bloodthirsty,
cruel, and avaricious than any other-and
Papists to boot. It is true that there were
some of those who sailed from Providence, that
took other ships, of whom Major Bonnet was
one. Boys, I knew the Major well. He was
a gentleman of good family from Barbadoes,
and I cannot but think that he was unlawfully
hanged, the evidence being suborned. A man
of kindly and pleasing manners, who loved the
bowl and a song, and was greatly loved by all
his crew and those who knew him. But he is
gone now, and those like unto him as well, so
that the Spaniard sails the Atlantic in peace,
though we have robbed him of some of his
dominions. Alas ! what things the Spanish
Main hath witnessed ! what deeds of daring,
and what sufferings ! '

Then he pushed this chart aside, and considered
that which showed the West Coast of
Africa, a part of the world which he regarded

with a particular admiration, though I have
always understood that it is full of fevers and
diseases of a deadly kind. He knew, indeed,
all the harbours, creeks, river mouths, and
other places from Old Calabar to the Gambia,
where such notorious desperadoes as Captain
Teach, otherwise called Blackbeard, or as
Captain Bartholomew Roberts, made their
rendezvous, where they refitted, and whence
they sailed to plunder the merchantmen of all
countries. These men Mr. Brings knew welland
spoke of them as if they had been friends
of his own, and especially the latter. I know
not in what manner he acquired this knowledges
of a man who was certainly a most profligate
villain. He it was whose squadron of three
ships was destroyed by Captain Sir Chaloner
Ogle, of the ' Swallow,' in the year 172l^ the
pirate himself being killed in the first broadside,
and fifty-two of his men afterwards hung in
chains along the coast near Cape Coast Castle.

'Boys,' said Mr. Brings, 'those who know
not the West Coast of Africa know not what
it is to live. What? Here, there are magistrates

and laws ; there., every man does what
he pleases. Here, the rich take all ; there, allis
divided. Here, men go to law ; there, men
fight it out. What do they know here of the
fierce passions which burn in men's hearts
under the African sun ? There is summer all
the year round ; there are fruits which you

can never taste ; there are but you would

not understand. How long ago slice I have
seen those green shores and wooded hills, and
watched the black girls lying in the sun, and
took my punch with the merry blades who
now are dead and gone? Strange that the
world should be so full of fine places, and wee
should be content to live in this land of fog
and cold ! '

Then he pushed this chart away also, and
took another, that of the great Pacific Ocean,
marked, as I have said, with half a dozen
routes, and especially by a broad red line,
without a name or date. When Mr. Brings
laid his finger on this route he became serious
and thoughtful.

It is forty years,' he began, ' forty years

since I sailed upon these seas. Of all the
crew, doth any survive save me alone ? Forty
years ! The men were not so fierce as those on
the West Coast — the air is milder — they would
rest and sleep in the shade rather than fight.
Forty years a<j;o ! '

The boys were silent till he should choose
to tell us more.

'On board that ship I was rated as surgeon,
and at first had plenty to do, sewing up wounds
and healing broken heads ; for, though there
was a rule against fighting, it was a reckless
company of rum drinking, quarrelsome, 
devils as ever trod the deck. We had
music on board : two horns, till one fell overboard
; two violins, and a Welsh harp. In the
evening, when there was no fighting, there
was music and dancing. 'Twas a happy
bark. It was a merchantman, and we
shipped our crew and fitted out at Kingston
first and Providence next.'

Where the pirates used to assemble ? '
said Jack.

'True. The crew were mostly rovers.

What then? If you venture ito the Pacific
you must needs carry a fighting crew. We
had plenty of arms and ammunition ; and nota
man on board but had been in a dozen
actions by sea and land. But only a merchantman.'


Jack shook his head, as if there were
doubts in his mind ; then he laughed. Mr.
Brings laid his hand on the red line where it
began at Providence Island.

Forty years ago ! It was a voyage among
seas where there's never a chart ; among reefs
and rocks not laid down, and along shores no
sailors knew. The end of the voyage was
disastrous, but the beginning promised well,
for the men were full of heart if ever men
were, and the prize we were after was worth
taking.'

Prize ? ' said Jack, ' for a merchantman ? '

Merchantman she was, this side Cape
Horn. I only meant this side. When you
double the Cape that is another matter. A
man in those seas sails as happy under the
Jolly Eoger as under the Union Jack. A

mercliantniaii she was, built at Bristol, christened
the ' King Solomon,' 400 tons ; and when
we sailed she carried twenty-two long nine-pounders,
and two three-pounders, with a crew
of 170 men, besides a dozen or so of negro
slaves. Don't you forget, my lad, there's only
two flags in those seas — the Spaniard and the
Jolly Eoger. Take your choice, therefore.'
He paused, to let that choice be taken. ' We
sailed through Magellan's Straits, taking six
weeks over the job, what with contrary winds
and storms. When we got out of that place —
which, I take it, is the worst navigation in the
world — we steered nearly due north for Juan
Fernandez, where the Spaniards go from the
South American ports to fish. Here it is on the
chart.' His finger was following the red track.
A mighty pretty place it is. This is where
Woods Lodgers set ashore one of his men and
left him alone. After watering, we sailed away,
still north, to the Galapagos Islands, where the
pirates rendezvous.'

They were pirates, then, after all ? ' Jack
interrupted.

The Spaniards call them such ; whereas, if
they do fly the black flag, it is only to strike
more terror into the enemy and make them
quicker to cry for quarter. Pirates, were wee ?
Well ; pirates or not, there was no man onboard
that craft but was an honest Englishman
by birth. At Galapagos Islands we laid up to
scrape and tallow the vessel, and to cure the
scurvy, which had already broken out, with the
limes and oranges and bananas which grow wild
there, as well as the tobacco plant. The pigs
run wild there, too ; and if the wells only ran
rum as well as water, one might as well be in
Heaven at once ; and there would be no need
for the sailor to put to sea any more, nor any
wisdom in leaving those islands.' He sighed,
thinking of pleasant days in the Galapagos.
But we were not cruising in these seas for
pleasure, and we had our work to do. Wherefore,
we made haste and e^ot to sea ae^ain.
What were we cruising for? Why, my lads, in
hopes of coming across the great Spanish galleon,
which goes twice every year from Manilla to
Acapulco and back laden with treasure, so that

every man on board, could we take that slip,
would be made for life.

When we left the Galapagos, every man's
heart was light, and there was nothing on board
but drinking, singing, and gambling, with a fair
wind, and the ship taut and trim, and within a
few days of the Spaniard's course. He sails
these seas as if they were his own, with never a
thought of trouble or meeting an enemy. We
had fair weather for ten days, making; at a
guess, a hundred and eighty knots a day on a
nor-west course ; so that, after a week or so,
we were in the latitude of Acapulco, and,
according to my observations, t^v^o hundred
miles west of that port — that is to say, almost
in the track of the galleons, which sail, as is well
known, in an even course about ]at. 13° I^.
And for why ? If you set sail from Manilla —
here,' he pointed out that distant island on the
chart, ' through the Strait of ffindovo, and past
Cape Spirit Santo, you have got, between the
Ladrone and Acapulco, which is close upon two
thousand knots, nothing but blue water. If any
other nation beside the Spanish held these 'seas.

they would have been everywhere navigated
lonir Hixo. But these lubbers care for nothing
to keep out of danger ; wherefore
they sail where there are no islands. Sometimes,
by reason of contrary winds and the
compass, which veers about in these waters as if
the Devil had it, these ships are blown north
and south. I have conversed with Spanish
sailors who had been thus driven north, and they
reported open seas, though the charts and maps
do still lay down a continent between Asia and
America.

It is a most terrible voyage, full of dangers
on account of the tempests which blow there,
and because the (crews have to live so long on
salted provisions and bad water, whereby many
grievous diseases are engendered, of which I
learned something. There is, for instance, that
disease which the Spaniards call the Lobillo,
which doth commonly fall upon men who have
been living at sea for many weeks upon this diet.
I do not know the remedies, if any there befor
this affliction, whereby the body swells u])
like a bladder which is blown out, and the

patient falls to prattling and babbling, until he
dies. There is also what they call the Dutch
Disease, which attacks the gums, and is, I take
it, nothing but scurvy, and can only be cured
by being set ashore. Then there is an intolerable
itching of the whole body, caused by the
saltness the of beef and of the air. For this there
is no remedy but patience and limes, when these
can be procured. There are insects also, which,
the Spaniards call Gorgojos, which are said to
be bred in the biscuit, and creep into the body,
under the skin, whence they are difficult to
dislodge, and do itch intolerably, day and night ;
so that some have been known to go mad with
the discomfort of it and have leaped overboard.

When, therefore, we were in the latitude
where we might expect any day to see a sail
every sail being a Spanish ship, and every
Spanish ship a rich galleon — a reward was
offered to him who could first spy a sail. But
here we were unlucky, for a hurricane fell upon
us, drove us off our course, and for four days
we scudded, looking for nothing else but destruction,
being too low in the waist and too

VOL. I. D

\\YJ\\ in the stern for such weather. However,
by the Lord's help, the storm at length abated ;
but not before we were driven a long way north
of our course, and in sight of the great island
named California.' He covered it with his
thumb. ' Nobody hath yet circumnavigated
this island ; but it is reported mountainous and
sterile. Yet — Lord ! what a place for rovers
when they get the sense to make here a settlement
for the annoyance of the Spaniard !
Madagascar itself was not more plainly marked
out by Providence for the use of rovers. I am
old now, or else would I plant a colony myself,
with a fleet of half a dozen frigates and a few
lust sailing-sloops, and so destroy the Spanish
trade of the Pacific. No European sail, I take
it, hath gone further north.'

Licked, the coast line at this point was
dotted to slow that it was conjectural ; it ran
straight across the Pacific, in the line of latitude

35 N., to join the coast of China.

The storm then abating, we repaired
damages, and set sail again, designing to shape
our course southward, with the view of getting

once more into the enemy's course. That night,
I remember J the light of Saint Ehno showed
upon the foretop, at which we greatly rejoiced,
as a certain sign and promise of fair weather,
and every man saluted it mannerly as they use
in the Mediterranean. On the sixth day after
the storm, we sighted an island not laid down
on any chart ; but we touched not at it.
Three days later, the sea having been as smooth
as the Pool of the Thames, we made land
again. This time it was the island of Donna
Maria Laxara, so called after a Spanish lady,
who here leaped overboard and drowned herself
for love. But mark the ways of Providence
! If it had not been for that tempest,
which drove us off om course — Avhat happened
afterwards never would have happened.'

What did happen ? '

A strange think. The strangest tlnno; that
ever you heard of. If you want to be rich,
Jack, my lad, I will some day teach you how ;
and that in the easiest way you can imagine.
If I live— alas ! '

What way ? Tell me now.'

D 2

But Mr. Brings would tell no more. He
continued gazing at the chart, and following an
imaginary course with his forefinger, as if he
loved the recollection of that voyage, even
though the end of it had been disastrous. Then
he pushed it from him with a sigh.

Forty years ago, it was, boys. Forty years
ago.'

It was in this way, among others, that Jack
acquired the knowledge of geography and the
thirst which continually grew greater for voyaging
among the strange and unknown parts of
the habitable world. In the end, as you shall
near, no one went farther afield or had more
adventures.

CHAPTER II.

HOW JACK CAME TO Hertford.

F these two boys, one — namely, Jack

Easterbrook — was not a native born

of Deptford, but of Gosport. And

since it is his history that has to

be related, it is well that the manner of his

coming, and the nature of his early life, should

be first set forth.

On a certain warm summer afternoon, in
the year of grace seventeen hundred and forty-four,
when I, who write this history, was but a
child of seven, and Castilla six (we are now
nearing three score years, and on the downward
slope of life), there sat beneath the shade
of a great walnut-tree, on a smooth bowling-greens
two gentlemen and a lady ; the former
on a rustic bench of twisted and misshapen
branches, or roots, and the latter in an elbow-chair.

The lady, who had a small lace cap on
her head and wore a laced apron, held a book
in her hands ; but the hands and book lay in
her lap, and her eyes were closed. The two
gentlemen were taking an afternoon pipe of
tobacco. One of them — this was Eear- Admiral
Sayer — was at this time some fifty-five years of
age. He wore a blue coat with gold buttons,
but it was without the famous white facings
which His Majesty King George the Second
afterwards commanded for the uniform of his
naval officers ; his right leg had been lost inaction,
and was replaced by a wooden leg, now
stuck out straight before him, as he sat on the
bench. He had also lost his left arm, and one
sleeve of his coat was empty. He wore a full
wig of George the First's time ; his face was
full, his cheeks red, and his eyebrows thick and
fierce, yet his eyes were kindly. There was
a scar across his forehead, which a Moorish
scimitar had laid bare.

His companion wore the wig and cassock of
a clergyman ; he was, in fact, the Yicar of St.
Paul's, Deptford. At the back of the bowing

stood the house — of modern erection —
with a pediment of stone, and pilasters, and a
stone porch, very fine ; on either side of the
house was the garden, filled with fruit-trees and
beds for vegetables. The garden was surrounded
by a brick wall, older than the house,
covered with lichen, stonecrop, wall-pellitory,
yellow wallflovv^ers and long grasses. The
house and garden were protected by great iron
gates, within which marched, all day long, an
old negro in the Admiral's livery, and wearing
a cockade, armed with a cutlass. A small
carronade stood beside the gates, for the
purpose of announcing sunrise and sunset ; and
there was a mast, with standing gear and yards
complete, at the head of which floated the
Union Jack. Two children were playing with
the bowls on the grass ; and in a chair, so
placed that the hot sunshine could fall with the
greatest effect upon her face, there sat a negress,
already old, a red cotton handkerchief twisted
round her head, and in her lap lay some knitting.
But Philadelphy, like her mistress, was sound
asleep.

It was a sleepy afternoon. The drones and
the bumble-bees — ' dumbledores,' we called
them — buzzed lazily about the flowers ; the
doves cooed sleepily from the dovecot; there
was a hen not far off which expressed her satisfaction
with the weather, and her brood, by a
continual and comfortable ' took — took — took ' ;
the great dog lay asleep at the Admiral's foot,
the cat was asleep beside it ; from the trees
there came, now and then, the contented note
of a blackbird ; and the flag at the mast, which
was rigged within the iron gates, hung in folds,
flapping lazily in the light air. The taro
children played, for the most part, in silence, or
else in whispers, so as not to awaken Philadelphy.
The two gentlemen smoked their
tobacco in silence — it was not a day for talking
; besides, they saw each other nearly
every day, and therefore each knew the other's
sentiments, and there was no room for discussion.


Suddenly, there were heard footsteps outside,
and, just as one awakes out of a dream, so
all started and became instantly wide-awake.

Madame took up lier book, the Admiral
straightened his back, the Vicar knocked the
ashes out of his pipe, and the children ran to the
gates which Cudjo, the negro, threw wide open,
a grin of welcome on his lips. Then there
appeared a boy, dressed in a blue coat, not
made for him, and too long in the sleeves, worn
and shabby, dusty with travel, with brass
buttons ; his knitted stockings were torn,
showing his bare leo-s ; he wore a common
speckled shirt like the watermen's children ; on
his head was a little three-cornered hat, cocked
in nautical fashion. He strutted proudly across
the grass, regardless of his rags, with as much
importance as if he had been a full-blown
Midshipman. For my own part, I have never
lost, to this day, the sense of his superiority
to myself and the rest of mankind. Castilla
makes the same confession. Like myself, she
owns that, child as she then was, she felt her
inferiority to a boy so masterful. He was at
this time, and always, a singularly handsome
boy — tall and big for his age, his head thrown
back, his brown eyes full of fire, and his hand

at all times ready to become a fist. His hair
was long, and lay in curls, and untied, upon
his shoulders. After him walked the negro
who had brought him from Gosport, and nov
carried on his shoulder a box containing all the
boy's worldly goods. They consisted of a toy-ship,
carved for him by some sailor at Gosport ;
a pistol which had been his father's ; his
mother's Bible, a Church prayer-book, and a
knife. This was all the inheritance of the poor
boy. As the servant bore this precious box
through the gates, he knocked the corner
against the rails.

'Steady,' said the boy, turning sharply
round, ' steady with the kit, ye lubber ! '

The First Lieutenant himself could not
have admonished a man more haughtily. Then
he halted, and took a leisurely observation of
the scene. Presently he espied the Admiral,
and, recognising in his appearance and dress
something nautical — it would have been difficult
to mistake the Admiral for anything but a
sailor— Jack stepped across the lawn, lugged
off his hat with a duck and a bend, and said,

Come aboard, Sir. With submission and
dutiful respect, Admiral.'

The Admiral laid down his pipe and leaned
forward, hand on knee, his wooden leg sticking
out before him.

So,' he said, ' this looks like the son of my
old friend. What is thy name, child P '

Jack Easterbrook, Sir.'

The son of my old shipmate ? '

The same, Sir.'

'Parson,' said the Admiral, 'forty-live years
ago I was just such a little shaver as this, and
so was his other. Hang me, if the boy isn't a
sailor already. Thy father, boy, was carried
off by a sunstroke, while his ship was lying in
Kingston Harbour.'

Yes, Sir.'

In command of His Majesty's frigate,
Racehorse," forty-four.'

The same. Sir.'

And thy mother, poor soul ! is dead and
gone too.'

Yes, Sir,' said the boy, looking for a
moment as if he would cry. But it passed.

The Admiral took his stick, and rose from his
chair.

Let us,' he said, gravely, ' overhaul the
boy a bit. Thy father. Jack, was the best
officer in His Majesty's service — the very best
officer, whether for navigation or for fighting,
which is the reason why they kept him back,
and promoted the reptiles who crawl up the
back-stairs. He was with me when I planted
the Union Jack on the island of Tobago. Look
me in the face, sirrah — so. A tall and proper
lad. A brave and gallant lad. What shall we
make of him ? '

Jack's face became a lively crimson at this
question. We were now all gathered round
him — Castilla looking shyly, and with admiring
eyes ; and I, for my own part, thinking that
here was the finest and bravest boy I had ever
set eyes on.

Well, now,' said the Admiral, holding the
boy's chin in his hand, and looking at him
steadily, ' I warrant. Parson, this boy will be
all for book-learning, and we must make him a
scholar, eh ? Then, some day, he shall rise to

be a Reverend Doctor of Divinity, a Dean, or
even a Bishop in lawn sleeves. What mayest
thou, Jack ? ' Here the Admiral took his hand
from the boy's chin, shut one eye, and looked
mighty cunning.

Jack shook his head dolefully, and then
laughed, looking up as if he knew very well
that this was a joke.

Well, well, there are other things. We
can make thee a compounder of boluses, and so
thou shalt ride in a coach and wear a great
wig, and call thyself physician. 'Tis a fie
trade, and a fat, when fevers are abroad.'

But Jack again shook this head, and
laughed. This was a really fine joke, one
that can be carried en a honos time.

He will not be a physician. The boy is
hard to please. Well, lie can, if he likes,
become a laws-er, and wear a black gown,
and argue a poor fellow to the gallows. Of
such they make Lord Chancellors. At sea
their name is Shark.'

No, Sir,' said Jack with decision, because
every joke hath its due limits. ' No, Sir, I

thank you. With submission, Sir, I cannot bea
lawyer.'

Here is a boy for you. One would think he
was too good for this world. Perhaps he would
like to wear His Majesty's scarlet, and follow
the drum and fife, and fight the King's enemies
on land. It is as orreat an honour to bear the
King's commission by land as by sea. It is a
good service, too, when wars are going : though
in times of peace there is too much disbanding
by half. But a lad might do worse. Think
of it. Jack ! '

Oh ! Sir,' said Jack, colouring again, ' I
would not be a soldier.'

Then, Jack, Jack, do thy looks belie thee?
What? Would'st not surely choose to be a
sneaking' snivelling quill-driver in a merchant's
office ? '

No, Sir ; I would rather starve ! Sir,'
said Jack, his eyes flashing, ' I would be a
sailor, if only before the mast ! '

Why, there ! ' cried the Admiral, laying
his hand on the boy's head. ' What else could
the boy be ? He is salt all through. Hark ye,

my lad : do thy duty and thou shalt be a sailor,
as thy father was before thee. Ay, and shalt
stand in good time upon thy own quarter-deck
and carry thy ship into action, as bravely as
thy fjithcr, or even good old Benbow himself.'

Thus came Jack to Deptford, being then
nine years of age.

Some things there are — I mean not travellers'
tales of one-legged men, and such as have
their heads between their shoulders, and griffins
and such monsters ; but things which happen
among ourselves and in our midst, which are
so strange that the narration of them must
be supported by whatever character of truth,
honesty, and soberness of mind mays be possessed
by the narrator, and those who pretend
to have been eye-witnesses. As regards the
history which follows it is proper to explain
that there is, besides myself, only one other
person who knows all the particulars. Mr.
Brings, it is true, knew them ; but he has gone
away long since, and must now, I think, certainly
be dead. The Admiral, before his death, was

told the truth, which greatly comforted him in
his last moments ; and I thought it right to tell
all I knew to my father, who was much moved
by the strangeness of the circumstances, and
quoted certain passages from Holy Writ as
regards the practice of witchcraft and magic.
Perhaps the man, Aaron Fletcher, knew something
of the truth, but in the end he was convicted
as a notorious smuggler, and sentenced
to transportation to His Majesty's plantations,
where he died of a calenture, being unable to
endure the excessive and scorching heat of the
sun, and his spirit broken by the overseer's
whip. Everybody, it is true, knows how
Captain Easterbrook brought his ship home
and what followed. This is a matter of
notoriety. There is not a man, woman, or
child but can tell you the astonishing and
wonderful story, the like of which has never
been in the history of the British Navy. They
have even made a ballad of it, very moving,
which is sung in the sailors' mug-houses, not
only in Deptford itself, but in Portsmouth,
Woolwich, Sheerness, Chatham, and Plymouth.

But to know one fact is not to know the whole
history.

As for me, who design to write the truth
concerning this strange history, it is well that
you who read it should know that I take
myself to be a person of reputable life and
of sober judgment, and one who has the fear
of God in his mind, and would not willingly
give circulation to lying fables. My father, the
Rev. Luke Anguish, Artium Magister, formerly
of St. John's College, Cambridge, of which
society he was a Fellow, Alas the first Yicar of
St. Paul's Church, Deptford ; the new church,
that is, in the upper part of the town, which
was completed in the year 1736. By calling,
I am a painter in oil colours ; not, I dare say,
a Sir Joshua Reynolds or a Gainsborough, yet
of no mean repute as a painter of ships. It
were unworthy of me to say more than that
my pictures have met with approbation
from persons of rank, and that I have been
honoured by the highest patronage, even by
members of the House of Lords, not to
speak of the Lord Mayor and Aldermen. As

VOL. I. E

for the contention of Castilla, that her husband
is the finest painter of ships ever known, that
may be the partiality of a jealous and tender
spouse. I am contented to leave the judgment
of my work to those who shall follow after me.
I do not paint ships upon the ocean, because I
have never yet gazed upon the ocean, and know
not, except from pictures, how the sea should
be painted, or a ship rolling upon the sea. My
subjects are slips in harbour, ships lying oil
Deptford Creek, ships in dock, ships in building,
ships in ordinary, ships ashore, ships in the
Pool, ships sailing up and down the river, and
especially with the sun in the west shining on
the sails, and painting all the cordage as of
gold, just as happened when Jack brought
home his prize ; also ships lying in an autumnal
fog, and great barges sunk down to an inch of
freeboard with their cargoes of hay. Nothing
finer can be painted, to my mind, than the
picture of such a barge lying on a still and
misty clay, with the sun overhead like a plate
of copper, the brown sails half lowered, and
the ropes hanging loose.

I suppose that the best place in the world
for a boy who is about to become a sailor, as
well as for one who loves to paint ships, must
be Deptford, which seems to many so mean
and despicable a town. Mean and despicable
to Jack and to myself it Would never be,
because here our boyhood was spent, and here
eve played with Castilla ; here we first learned
to sit by the river-side and watch the craft go
up and down, with those at anchor, and those
in dock. At Deptford, where the water is
never rough enough to capsize a tilt-boat, weare
at the very gates of London, we can actually
see the Pool ; we are, in a word, on the Thames.

The Thames is not, I believe, the largest
river in the world. The great Oroonoko is
broader, and, I dare say, longer ; the Nile is
certainly a neater stream. Yet there is no
other river which is so majestic by reason of
its shipping and its trade. For hither come
ships, laden with palm-oil and ivory, from the
Guinea Coast ; from Norway and Erga, with
wood and tallow ; from Holland, with stuffs
and spices and provisions of all kind ; from the

E 2
LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY Of ILLINOIS

West Indies, with rum and sugar ; from the
East Indies with rice ; from China with tea and
silk ; from Arabia, with coffee ; from Newcastle,
with coaL There is no kind of merchandise
produced in the world which is not
carried up the Thames to the Port of London.
And there is no kind of ship or boat, built to
swim in the sea, except, I suppose, the Chinese
junk, the Morisco galley, or the piratical craft of
the Eastern Seas, which does not lie at anchor
in the Thames, somewhere between Greenwich
Eeach and London Bridge. East Indiamen,
brigs, brigantines, schooners, yachts, sloops,
galliots, tenders, colliers, boys, barges, smacks,
herring-busses, or hog-boats — all are here.
And not only these, which are peaceful ships,
only armed with carronades and muskets for
defence against pirates, but also His Majesty's
men-of-war — frigates, sloops-of-Avar, cutters,
fire-ships, and every kind of vessel employed
to beat off the enemies of the country, who
wouki prey upon our commerce and destroy
our merchantmen. On that very day when
Jack came, was there not, lying off Deptford



Creek, the ' Redoubtable,' having received her
stores, provisions, and ammunition, and nov
waiting her captain and her crew? — and I
warrant the press-gang were busy at Tapping
and at EatchfTe. Beside her lay the 
' Venus,' and the pink ' Lively ' ; and, off the
dock-mouth, was the ' Hector'* lying in ordinary,
a broad canvas tilt or awning rigged up from
stem to stern. So that those who look up
and down the river from Deptford Stairs see
not only the outward and visible proofs of
England's trade, but also those of England's
greatness. Or, again — which may be useful to
the painter — one may see, not only at Deptford
and at Eedriff, but above the river — at Tapping,
Shadwell, and Blackwell — every kind of
sailor ; they are mostly alike in manners and
in morals, and one hopes that to sailors much
is pardoned, and that from them little is expected
; but they differ in their speech and in
their dress. There is the phlegmatic Hollander,
never without his pipe ; the mild Norwegian ;
the fiery Spaniard, ready with his dagger ; the
fierce Italian equally ready with his knife ; the

treacherous Greek; and the Frenchman. But
the last we generally see — since it is our lot to
be often at war with his nation — as a prisoner,
when he comes to us half-starved, ragged, and
in very evil plight. Yet, give these poor
French prisoners only warmth, light, and food,
and they will turn out to be most light-hearted
and merry blades, always cheerful and ready
to talk, sing, and dance, and always making
ingenious things with a knife and a piece of
wood. Perhaps, if we knew this people better,
and they knew us better, we should be less
ready to go to war with each other.

Those who live in such a town as Deptford,
and continually witness this procession of ships,
cannot choose but be sensible of the greatness
of the country, and must perforce talk continually
with each other of foreign ports and
places beyond the ocean. Also because they
witness the coming and going of the King's
ships (some of them pretty well battered on
their return, I promise you) ; and because they
hear, all day long, and never ending, save on
Sunday, the sound of hammer and of saw, the

wliistliiiG; of the bo's'ns and foremen, the rolling
of casks, the ringing of bells, and all the noise
which accompanies the building and the fitting
of ships ; and smell perpetually the tar and the
pitch (which some love better than the smell of
roses and of violets), they cannot refrain from
talking continually of actions at sea, feats of
bravery, and the like. All the townspeople
talk of these things, and of little else. And,
besides, in these years there was the more
reason for this kind of conversation, because
we were always at war with France and Spahi ;
fighting, among other things, to drive the
French out of America, and so to enable the
ungrateful colonies to make us, shortly afterwards,
follow the lead of the French. Everyday
there came fresh news of actions, skirmishes,
captures, wrecks, burnings. The Channel
and the Bay of Biscay swarmed with
French privateers as thick as wasps in an
orchard. There was not a lugger on the coast
of Normandy but stole out of a night to pickup
some English craft ; every licet of merchantmen
sailed under convoy, and every sailor

looked for death or a French prison unless he
would fight it out unto the end.

The people of London are strangely incurious
— many there are who know nothing
about the very monuments standing in their
midst — and so that they can read every day
the news from France and Spain, they care little
about their own country. Therefore Deptford,
which lies at their very gates, is as little known
to them as if it were in Wales. Some, it is
true, come every year on St. Luke's Day, to
join the rabble at Horn Fair, landing at Others
and walking to Charlton with the procession
of mad wags who carry horns on their
heads to that scene of debauchery and riot ;
and once a year, on Trinity Monday, the Elders
of the Trinity House assemble at the Great
Hall behind St. Nicolas', and after business goto
church, and after church dinner at the Gun
Tavern on the Green. And the ships of the
Eoyal Navy come and go at the Eoyal Yard
almost daily. Some, again, and those fine
ladies, come to Barnes Alley, where they can
buy the run tea, at ten shillings a pound, of the

smugglers who swarm in that evil-smelling
street. Otherwise Deptford hath few visitors.
I do not say that it is a beautiful city, though,
as for streets, we have the Green and Church
Street ; and as for monuments, until late years
there were the great House and gardens of
Saye's Court, now lying desolate and miserable,
partly inclosed in the King's Yard and partly
given over to rank weeds and puddles. Here
it was that the great Peter, Czar of Muscovy,
once lived. There are also the two churches
of St. Nicolas and St. Paul, both stately buildings,
and temples fit for worship, the latter
especially, which is — like its sister churches
built about the same time, of Limehouse,
St. George's EatchfTe, Retinal Green, Hackney,
St. Martin's-in-the Fields, and many others —
majestic with its vast round portico of stone,
and its commanding terrace. Then there are
the two hospitals or almshouses, both named
after the Holy Trinity, for decayed mariners
and their widows. To my own mind these
monuments of benevolence, which stand so
thickly all round London, are fairer than the

most magnificent King's palace of which we
can read. Let the Great Bashaw have as many
gilded palaces as he pleases for himself and his
seraglio ; let our palaces be those which are
worthy of a free people — namely, homes and
places of refuge for the aged, and deserving
poor, and those who are quite spent and now
past work.

I suppose there are few places richer and
more fortunate thanDeptford audits neighbour,
Greenwich, in these foundations. At the latter
place, there is the great and noble Naval
Hospital, now inhabited by nearly two thousand
honest veterans — they will never, be sure, be
turned out of this, their stately home, until
England hath lost her pride in her sailors.
There is Mordent College for decayed merchants ;
there is Norfolk, also called Trinity, College,
for the poor of Greenwich, and of Birmingham,
in Norfolk ; and there is Queen Elizabeth's
Hospital for poor women. So, at Deptford, we
have those two noble foundations, both named
after the Holy Trinity, one behind St. Nicolas',
and the other behind St. Paul's, the latter

especially being a goodly structure, ^vitli a fair
quadrangular court, a commodious hall, and
gardens fitted for quiet meditation and for rest
in the sunshine during the latest trembling years
of life. I do not think that even Mordent College
itself, with its canal in front, and its stately
alleys of trees ; or Norfolk College, with its
convenient stone terrace overlooking the river,
and its spacious garden, is more beautiful than
the Hospital of the Holy Trinity beside St.
Paul's Church, Deptford, especially if one considers
the stormy, anxious, and harassed lives to
which it offers rest and repose. They have been
lives spent on the sea ; not in the pursuit of
honour won at the cannon's mouth and by boardinghouse
in fighting the King's enemies, but in
the gathering of wealth for others to enjoy,
none of their brains coming; to themselves. The
merchant captain brings home his cargo safe
after perils many and hardships great ; but the
cargo is not for him. His owners, or those who
have chartered the ship, receive the freight ; it
is bought with their money and sold for their
profit. For the captain and the crew there is

their bare wage, and Alien they can work no
longer, perhaps, if they are fortunate, a room
in a hospital or almshouse, with the weekly
dole of loaves and shillings.

The tract of land (it is not great) lying at
the back of Trinity Almshouses and the Stowage,
contained by the last bend of the Creek
before it runs into the river, is rented by two
or three market-gardeners, and laid out by them
for the production of fruit and vegetables.

As these gardens lay retired and behind the
houses, no one ever came to them except the
gardeners themselves, who are quiet peaceful
folk. About the orchards here and the beds of
asparagus, peas, endive, skirrett, and the rest of
the vegetables grown for the London market,
lies ever an abiding sense of peace ; and this,
although one cannot but hear the continual
hammering of the dockyard, the firing of
salutes, and the echoing and roaring of voices
which all day long come up from the ships upon
the river. I know not how we came to know
these gardens, or to find them out. I used to
wander in them with Castilla, when we were

little children, with Philadelphia for nurse ; we
took Jack Easterbrook to show him the place
as soon as he came to us ; we thought, I believe
as children love to think of anything — that
the gardens were our own ; though, of course,
we were only there on sufferance, and because
the gardeners knew we should neither destroy
nor steal.

Perhaps the chief reason why we sought
the place (because we lead gardens of our own
at home) was that, just beyond the last bend of
the Creek, there stood, on the very edge of the
steep bank — here twenty feet above low-water
mark — an old summer-house, built of wood.
It was octagonal in shape, having a pointed
roof of shingle, with a gilded weathercock upon
it. Three sides contained windows, all looking
upon the river ; another side consisted of a
door ; and a bench ran round the room, except
on the side of the door. It had once been
painted green, but the paint was now for the
most part fallen off; the shingle roof was leaky
and let in the rain ; the weathercock was rusty,
and stuck at due east ; the planks of the wall

THE WORLD WENT

had started ; the door hardly hung upon its
hinges ; the glass of the windows was broken ;

and the whole structure was so crazy that I

wonder it kept together, and did not either
tumble to pieces or slip down the steep bank
into the ooze of the Creek. In this summerhouse
the great Czar Peter, when he was learning
how to build ships in Deptford Yard, would,
it was said, sometimes come to sit with his
princes or heyducs, on a summer evening, to
drink brandy, to look at the ships, and to
meditate how best to convert this enslaved Muscovites
into the" likeness of free and honest
English sailors. We had small respect for the
memory of the Czar, but as for the old summerhouse
it was all our own, because no one used
it except ourselves. For us it was a fortress
or castle, where we could play at being-besieged,
the ships in the river representing the
enemy's fleet. Jack would sally forth and perform
prodigies of valour in bringing in provisions
for the garrison. Or it was our ship, in which
we sustained imaginary broadsides, and encountered
shipwreck, and were cast away, Jack
being captain and Castilla the passenger, while
I was alternately bo's'n, first lieutenant, or cook,
according to the exigencies of the situation.

But very soon Jack grew too big for these
games, and left us to ourselves. Then we fell
to more quiet sport. It was pleasant to watch
the ships go up and down the river, and fine
to see how the tide rushed up the Creek below
us, making whirlpools and eddies, and setting
upright the boats lying on their sides in the
mud, and trying to tear down the bank on
Avliich stood our rickety palace. We seemed
to know every craft, from the great East India
man to the Margate boys or the Gravesend tilt-boats,
by face, so to speak, just as we knew the
faces of the naval officers who walked about
the town. And, thanks to Jack, we knew the
history of every ship of the King's Navy which
came to Deptford, and all the engagements and
actions in which she had ever taken part.

Across the Creek, and as far as the woods
and slopes of Greenwich, there are more
gardens, so that at spring-time it was a beautiful
thir to sit in the summer-house and look
forth upon a great forest — it seemed nothing
less to our young eyes — covered with sweet
blossoms, and tender green leaves, which formed

a strange and beautiful setting for the slips in
the river. I have painted this picture several
times, and always with a new pleasure, so sweet
and charming; it is. When I bes^an first to
draw, it was in this place ; but it was when
Jack had ceased to play with us, because he
would only have laughed at me. I drew the
ships with trembling pencil, Castilla standing
over me the while. The dear girl could never
hold a pencil in her hand ; but she could tell
me if my drawings were like. Now, to draw
ships that are like real ships is the most important
thing of all. The time soon came when I
was never without a pencil in my hand and
paper to draw upon. I drew everything, just
as some boys will read everything. I drew the
ships and the boats, the Creek and the bridge,
the sailors, the skeletons of half-built ships in
the great sheds, and the girl who stood beside
me.

The picture of a lad who draws while a instants
beside him — that might stand for the
picture of my life. It is a life which has been,
I thank God, free from anxiety, trouble, or

VOL. I. p

calamity. Once I painted such a picture (having
Castilla and myself in my mind). I drew a
youth of eighteen seated before a window, just
such a window as that of the old summer-house.
The window showed a merchantman, or part
of a merchantman, slowly making her way up
the river with wind and tide. Her fore-mast
and main-mast were gone, and in their place
two jury-masts rigged with a stay-sail ; her
bowsprit was gone, and her figure-head carried
away and lost; her bulwarks were broken
down. Yet she was safe, and her crew and
cargo where safe, and the evening sun was upon
her, so that she showed glorious in spite of her
battered condition, and seemed like some poor
human soul which, after many troubles, gets at
last into the haven where she may lie at rest
for ever. The boy in my picture was gazing
upon his sketch as if comparing it with the
original. Beside him stood a girl of the same
age — be sure that she was a very beautiful girl,
gentle and composed, full of holy thoughts —
who looked down upon the lad. Thus it is
always. The man considers his work, and the

woman considers the man, loving his work
because she loves the worker, yet not, like the
man, carried away by admiration for the work,
as knowing that all man's work is perishable and
transitory, and that the breath of fame is fleeting.
The picture of the girl is the true portrait of
Castilla as she appeared at the age of eighteen,
taken from the many drawings which I made of
her at that time, her hair a light brown, falling
in waves artlessly upon her shoulders, and her
eyes a clear deep blue, to present which, upon
the canvas, would want a Reynolds or a Raphael.
Alas ! if Sir Joshua had painted this picture,
then, indeed, would you have caught in those
eyes the light of virtue and goodness, and you
would have seen about that brow a divine halo,
which I have always seen there, but have not
the art to represent. This it was which the
ancients meant when they figured their goddesses
wrapt about with a cloud.

And beside our quiet lives there ran the
tumultuous course of a life whose parallel I
knov/ not anywhere.

We did not, it may be supposed, stay

^2

always in the old summer-house. As we grew
older, we roamed about the country, Jack
sometimes condescending to lead the way
(though he would rather have spent his whole
time in the Yard among the ships). There is a
pleasant country lying south and east of Dept-ford.
You may, for instance, cross the bridge
over the Creek, pass the toll-gate, and so by
Limekiln Lane and London Street, a pleasant
road among the orchards, you will reach the
town of Greenwich], with its great hospital;
and, if you please to leave this unvisited, you
may turn to the right, and so up the hill by
Brazenface Avenue, and into the Wilderness.
Beyond the Wilderness is Blockhead, a wild
and desolate spot, With never a house upon it,
covered with furze-bushes. Gipsies camp here,
and it is said that footpads and highwaymen
lurk among the caves ; but we never met any.
One can come home, by way of Watersplash,
aloncj the stream, which is here no looser
Deptford Creek, but the Eavensbourne— a
pretty brook of pure Vater with deep holes
loiter trees, and babbhnc: shallows, running

between high banks, where the primroses, in
March and April, he in thousands. The holes
are full of jack, which we sometimes caught
with float and hook ; and here in spring we
went bird-nesting, and in summer we picked
the wild roses, and in autumn gathered nuts,
shoes, and blackberries. Farther afield, there
is Woolwich Common ; or Eltham, with the
ruins of King Jolni's Palace, the walls of
which still stand, and the moat may still be
seen, now dry ; and the King's banqueting-hall,
which is used for a barn, stands stately with its
Gothic windows. And if one follows up the
windings of the Eavensbourne, there are
presently the swelling uplands ot Pence, with
their hanging woods ; and Wormwood, Westwood
Common, Sydenham Wells, and many
other rural places, pleasant for those who love
the haunts of sinc^ino; birds and wild flowers
and the babble of brooks, and remoteness from
the walks of men.

But for such a boy as Jack, what are all
the charms of Nature compared with the ships,
and the docks, and the river ? You can get

orchards everywhere, but not a seaport and a
dockyard. You can find rustics, and you may
meditate in woods all over the country, but you
cannot talk everywhere, as you can at Deptford
and Greenwich, with sailors, old and young, of
the merchant service and the King's Navy.
The sailors are rough of speech and rude of
manners ; they live in mean houses ; but in
every house there is something strange and
wonderful brought from foreign parts. The
very landsmen and those who work at mechanical
trades are half sailors, though they do
not wear the sailors' petticoats ; for they are
shipwrights, boat-builders, fitters of state-cabins,
carvers who decorate figure-heads and ships'
sterns, or are employed in the Victualling Yard
or in the carpenters' shop, or they are ships
rope-makers, or are employed to
scrape clean and caulk ships' bottoms ; so that
the whole town makes its living by the sea.
No one speaks or thinks of anything but the
sea and the things which are concerned with
the sea. What, for instance, did the people of
Deptford know about the conduct of the Allies

and the King's land forces during the late war ?
Yet they knew of every naval action that was
fought, and the name of every ship engaged ;
and there were men of Deptford, both pressed
and volunteers, with every fleet and squadron.
The streets were always full of sailors ; the
officers of the ships in commission and fitting-out
were always passing in and out of the
Dockyard gates ; and in sunny weather the
benches by the stairs, at the Upper and Lover
Water Gates, were crowded with the old
fellows watching the craft go up and down,
and listening to the ribald jests of the watermen,
and ready to talk all day long with a
certain lad of bright eyes and brave face, who
was never tired of listening to them.

What with the old men of Trinity and the
pensioners of Greenwich, the boy heard stories
enough of the sea and the ships and those who
sail therein. Some of the men were so old
that they could remember Admiral Benbaw
and his cowardly captains. There was nota
since action fought in the first half of this
century but was represented among the Greenwich

pensioners, some of whom were in it, and
had lost an arm, a leg, an eye, or anything else
that can be shot away and leave the trunk still
living. I can still see Jack standing before
some old veteran, with a hook for a hand, his
eye kindling, his cheek aflame, his fists clenched,
his lips parted, because in imagination he saw
the deck knee-deep in blood, the boarders
leaping upon the enemy like tigers upon their
prey, the ship capsized or sinking, the French
flag struck, and because he heard the roaring
of the great guns, the rattle of the muskets, the
clash of cutlasses, and the groans of the
wounded.

There are many other things at sea besides
fighting, chasing, and boarding. Jack learned
the daily life, for example, from these old
fellows, with the duties and the discipline. He
heard about foreign ports and strange lands :
certainly, one would never be tired of visiting
wild and unknown countries, where there may
remain yet to be discovered strange races of
men, with fruits and flowers as yet unseen and
undreamed. But there are also, alas ! storms

and hurricanes, wrecks in mid-ocean, with, as
the austen could tell us, boats laden to the
gunwale with sailors who have escaped the
sinking ship only to be tossed helpless on the
sea with never a drop of water to drink or a
mouthful of biscuit to eat. Or there are those
who are cast away upon some desolate rock or
unknown island, where they live on sea-birds,
fish, mussels, and the like, till they die or are
taken off. And some are thrown upon cold
and inhospitable coasts, such as that of
Labrador, where the cruel cold causes their
hands and feet, their noses and ears, to fall off
there was one poor wretch in the hospital
thus mutilated — and where the I^orth American
Indians (the most savage and the most ruthless
race in the world) take them prisoners, and
torture them before slow fires. Or there are
treacherous pirates, who steal aboard, murder
the crew, and pillage the ship. Or there are
Moors, who make slaves of honest English
sailors, and constrain them to row in their
galleys bare-backed, with the master or bo's'n
walking above them on a kind of bridge, armed

with a whip to scourge the bare backs of those
who seem to shirk their work. Or there are
French prisons, where the captives are starved
on thin soup and bread for all their diet. Or
there is the accursed Inquisition, into whose
clutches many sailors have been known to fall,
and, for their endurance in the Protestant faith,
have suffered the torture of the rack, and even
martyrdom at the stake. And, again, there
are such perils as falling overboard, fire at sea,
scurvy, yellow jack, and mutiny. And there
is the evil — intolerable it would be to landsmen
of the Captain's tyranny, or, which often
happens, the malice, envy, or jealousy of a First
Lieutenant, with endless flogging and representing
all day long. And, again, there is the
danger that, after showing the greatest zeal,
bravery and activity in service, a man may be
passed over by the favouritism which prevails
in high quarters and the want of friends to
help him. Is it not a dreadful and a shameful
thincj that there should be men town old as
lieutenants — nay, even as midshipmen — who
have fought in a hundred battles and spent

their lives upon salt water, only to feel a new
mortification every voyage in serving under
men young enough to be their own sons ?

As for myself, the talk of these old men
filled me with a kind of contempt for the
seaman's lot. One cannot choose but admire
the intrepidity, worthy of a stoical philosopher,
with which these men face, every day, possible
death ; yea, and exhibit the most wonderful
constancy under pain, and the strangest
insensibility to danger. This, I say, commands
our admiration. Yet the lot of the meanest
landsman seems to me easier than that of a
sailor, and I would rather be a hedger and a
ditcher upon a farm than even a commissioned
officer aboard the finest ship that ever floated.
But we landsmen know not the strength of that
longing for the sea which possesses some lads,
and drags them as by chains or ropes to the
nearest port (thus was Jack drawn irresistibly
by the hand of fate) and so aboard' — and once
on the ship's books there is no other way
possible — and the lad becomes for life a sailor,
to spend Lis days rolling about on a wet and

slippery deck, yet happier than if he were
ashore — like unto those rovers of old, the
north-country men, who could stays long in no
place, but roved from port to port, landing
here and there, and devouring the substance of
the people, even to the southern coasts of Italy
and the islands of Greece.

CHAPTEE III.

HOW JACK LEARNED OF THE Penman.

EEE were materials enono-li to fire the
imagination and awaken the ardour
of a boy about to become a sailor.
But these were not alL For at
home — the Admiral's house having become this
orphan's home — there was talk all day long of
fiirhtinc^ and foreign seas and things nautical.
Jack's patron or guardian had been engaged in
many of the actions fought during the eleven
years' war between the years 1702 and 1713.
He was on board the 'Resolution,' which carried
Lord Peterborough when she was intercepted
by a French squadron, and was forced to run
ashore in order to save her from filling into the
hands of the cnemv. He was in the West

Indies, and was the British Captain who planted
our flag on Tobago. He was on Sir George
Byng's ship, the ' Eoyal Anne,' in Sir Cloudesley
Shovel's fleet, when that hero perished off the
Scilly Isles ; he was a Lieutenant on board the
Assurance ' in that gallant action with the French
Commander Du Guam Trouin, of the ' Achille.'
In this battle he lost his arm ; his leg he lost
in the capture of a Moorish corsair during the
reduction of Morocco, in the year 1734. After
this he retired, receiving the rank of Eear-
Admiral, and settled at Deptford, then about
forty-two years of age. He presently discovered
that it is not good for man to live alone, and
therefore took a wife, who in due time bore
him a child, Castilla. His daughter, who, if
anybody, ought to know, says that her father
possessed in an eminent degree, and daily in his
lifetime exhibited most, if not all of, the virtues
which should adorn the Christian who is also
an officer of high rank in His Majesty's Navy.
The Christian virtues, it is sure, vary according
to a man's station in life. We do not expect
certain things from Princes which are indispensable

to those of lowly and humble lot ;
from an Admiral of the Fleet we do not look
for meekness, patience, humility or resignation ;
a choleric disposition is allowed to him ; the
habit of applying sacred names to things profane
is excused in him ; and if he who has commanded
a man-of-war is not to have his own
way in everything, who should ? As for obedience
to the Commandments, it may be shown
that the Admiral followed them all. Thus, for
honouring his parents, he did more — he was
proud of them, because they came of a good
stock — and honoured himself on their account ;
he killed nobody save in battle, though he
drubbed and belaboured his servants every day ;
he robbed nobody, except in an honourable way
as in taking a prize ; he was envious of nothing
but the Frenchman's ships ; he freely forgave
everybody, even those who transgressed
his orders on board ship and sinned against his
patience, as soon as he had soundly flogged
them. To bear malice when a man had paid
for his fault with three dozen was not in the
Admiral's nature. And that he was of a truly

good heart and a benevolent disposition was
clearly shown by his treatment of Jack Easter-brook.


There were also many others, formerly of
the naval service, who were contented to spend
the evening of their days in this town of Dept-ford,
which is not on the sea, yet lives by the
sea. Among them was that famous traveller,
George Shelvocke the younger, who accompanied
his father in the circumnavigation of the
globe in the year 1720, and was never tired of
relating the perils, sufferings, and adventures of
that voyage, and the wonders of the South Seas :
an account of the voyage hath been published
for the curious. There were also Captain
Mayne, who commanded the ' Worcester ' in Admiral
Vernon's expedition ; Captain Petherick,
Eesident Commissioner of the Yard, who had
a. goodly collection of books of voyages, which
he suffered Jack to borrow and to read ;
Mr. Peter Mostyn, formerly Cocket-writerinllis
Majesty's Custom House, and an ingenious,
well-informed gentleman ; Lieutenant Hepworth,
late of General Poulet's Marines; and

Mr. Unclerhill, retired purser of the King's
Navy.

To be a purser is to hold a thankless office :
it is he who is blamed for every barrel of
damaged pork and for every box of weevil
biscuit ; he can please none ; wherefore it is
best for him not to try. As for the pleasures
of a purser's life, I know not what they are.
He must face the dangers of the deep with the
rest ; he must endure tempest and shipwreck ;
cannon-ball and grape-shot spare the purser no
more than the first lieutenant, if he be on
deck ; and when the ship is cast away the
purser drowns with the captain. Yet for all
these perils he gets neither promotion nor
honour. Would any man boast of having been
purser, and therefore kept below in the cockpit
with the surgeons and the wounded men
during the most gallant action ever fought?
Yet there is one consolation for the purser.
He can, and does continually, by his accounts,
his purchases, his bribes, and percentages, suck
so much profit out of every voyage that he is
presently able to leave the service and pur-vol.

I. G

chase a cottage, where, with a patch of garden
to cultivate, perhaps a wife and children to
cheer him, a few companions, a pipe of tobacco,
and a glass of punch, he may forget the darkness
of the orlop deck, the stink of his store-rooms,
the great tallow-candle in the glass
lantern, by the light of which he had to keep
his accounts and inspect his stores ; the rolling
of the ship, the thunder of the cannon in a
battle, the cries of the wounded, the crash and
wreck of the great ship on a rock, or the alarm
of fire ; yea, and even the daily purgatory
caused by the tricks of the midshipmen and
the gibes of the gun-room.

These gentlemen met nearly every night at
the ' Sir John FalstafF,' by the Upper Water
Gate, for punch and conversation ; they also
came often to the Admiral's house, and were,
one and all, kind to the lad who was thus
'brought among them, and freely talked with
him ; so that, being of an inquiring mind, and
thus running about in the Dockyard, and talking
with old officers, common sailors and
pensioners, and with the help of the apothecary,

who from the first loved the boys I think there
was no part of the world, as there was no
action of recent times, with which Jack was
not as well acquainted as if he had been there.
At the beginning he was placed under my
father, who made him begin the study of the
Latin language, which he could not stomach,
and would never willingly look into any books,
except those which are concerned with the sea,
such as Captain Park's ' Defensive Wars by Sea,'
a very instructive work ; 'The Practical Sea-gunner's
Companion,' ' Gordon's Geography,'
and even the ' Rigging Tables,' over which he
would pore contentedly for hours. He was
also fond of reading voyages, and especially
those volumes of Harris's and Purchas's collections
— the first of the former, and the first and
fourth of the latter — which are concerned with
the South Seas, towards which his imagination
was greatly drawn by his conversation with
Mr. Brings and Mr. Shelvocke. That he was
always fighting . other boys, especially the
rough river-side lads, and was seldom without
some external sign of combat, such as a black

G 2

eye, cut lip, and swollen nose, certainly did not
lessen him in his citron's regard, because,
when all is told, the most valuable quality in a
sailor is the love of fighting.

So strong and courageous was he, so ready
to fight, and so uncommonly backward in
owning himself beaten, that none of his age
and stature dared to contend with him — save
at stone-throwing and at a distance — except
one, of whom mention is here made ; not
because a boy's fights are matters of serious
history, but because the fighting between these
two, thus begun, was continued after both
became men, and with consequences most
important. This boy was the son of a boat-builder
in the toAvn ; his name was Aaron
Fletcher. In strength, age, and stature nearly
the same as Jack ; in bravery and spirit, equal
to him. Yet, whenever they fought — which
was often — Aaron was defeated, because he
lacked the dexterity and quickness of eye
which beat down mere strength, and render
courage useless. Yet Aaron would not own to
inferiority ; and, whenever the boys met, they

began to snarl at each other like a pair of
terriers, and the first stone was thrown, the
first taunt uttered, the first blow delivered, and
then, at it again, like French and English.

Further, that he neglected his Latin, went
to sleep in church, put powder in the negroes'
tobacco, tied ropes across the road to throw
down belated wayfarers, and played a thousand
pranks daily may be admitted. These things
only cost him a flogging when he was found
out, and endeared him more and more to his
guardian.

When Jack was eleven years of age, the
Admiral, regardless of my father's protestations
of the perils encountered by those who are
ignorant of the classics, placed him wholly in
the charge of Mr. Westmoreland, who, although
only a penman by trade, had acquired so great
a proficiency in arithmetic, the rudiments of
navigation, the taking of observations, and the
working of logarithms, that he had no equal in
the town, and was perfectly able to instruct a
young gentleman before he went on board. In
all these branches the boy showed and displayed

an uncommon zeal and quickness. But,
I verily believe, if lie had thought that the
study of Hebrew or Chaldean would have
helped him forward in his profession, he would
have entreated my father to teach him.

Mr. Westmoreland, his master, was a mild
and gentle creature, who loved nothing but the
study of mathematics and the art of fine
writing, so that, though lie wrote letters for
any who came to him, and copied deeds for
the attorney, and wrote out his sermon large
and fair for the Vicar of St. Paul's, he always
turned from these labours with joy to his books
and his calculations. He was, in appearance,
short and bent, with rounded shoulders, and
with a hump (which made the boys call him
My Lord). His voice was high and squeaky ;
he wore round horn spectacles ; when these
were off you perceived that his eyes were soft
and affectionate ; his forehead was hide and
square, and he wore a plain scratch wig. He
was a patient teacher, and bore an excellent
character for uprightness and piety, though he
was despised by the rougher sort because,

although he was now no more than forty, or
thereabouts, he could not light, or even defend
himself.

He lived next door to the apothecary, in
that row of houses on the north side of the
Trinity Almshouses where reside the better
sort of tradesmen, such as the sexton of St.
Nicolas ; Mr. Skipworth, the principal barber
and wigmaker, who shaved all the gentry in
the place, and kept four assistants continually
employed in dressing and flouring their wigs
for them ; the master measurer's assistant, and
the master shipwright's assistant. But these
honest folk did not call Mr. Brings their equal.
He, for his part, took his pipe nightly at the
Sir John FalstafF' with the gentlemen, while
they used the ' Plume of Feathers.'

Under Mr. Westmoreland's instruction.
Jack learned all that the ingenious penman had
to teach him, except his fine handwriting and
the beautiful flourishes with which a dexterous
pen can adorn a page ; and by the time he was
twelve years of age he understood the use of
the compass, the sextant, the ship's charts, all

trio vnrioiis parts of ;i slip sind lier riii;i;in<^,
tint ;i givat (k'ul of ^^co^rai))!)' and naval
history.

As lor Ihu parts of a sliij) hu luariicd IIkmu
chilly ill the Yard, wlicru lie would wander
ninoiig the sheds mid water the l)iiildiii<^ of the
ships, Ie repair of those in the dry does, and
the hitting out of those in the wet (h)ek, the
lending;" of the j^'reat i)eaiu8 by steam, which
is made to phil iij)on them until they heeonie
soft, the Tuakini;- of rope, the euttin<4" and
shaping oF pulleys and blocks, the forging of
anchors, and every part of the business belonging
to the construction of ships. Then,
again, he learned the names and purposes of
all the ropes, running and standing gear, sails,
lings, signals, sailing rules, and rules for action,
and his natural curiosity made him inquire
into, and acquaint himself with, llu' way in
which everything is made, and may be repaired
or replaced. lie learned all these things from
natural eagerness and interest in every tiling
concerning a ship ; but in the end this knowledge
stood him in good stead, because there is

no detail in the conduct and construction of a
ship wliicli ouiilit to be below the notice of the
officers, a fact which many commanders forget,
leavings the navigation of the ship to the
master, her seaworthiness to the carpenter, and
the health of the crew to the purser. Surely
if, as hath been advanced by some, every boy
is born with a clear vocation for some trade or
profession, just as Tail, though an Apostle, was
also a tent-maker, and Luke, at first a physician,
and Peter a fisherman (afterwards of
men) ; then, most certainly. Jack, by right
divine and special calling of Providence, was
a sailor.

While he sat every morning at Avork with
his mild instructor, Mr. Westmoreland, there
was always present a little girl, three years
younger than himself, a child with lack hair,
rosy cheeks, and big black eyes. When it was
winter weather this child sat in a little chair
beside the fire ; when it was warm and sunny,
she sat in the open doorway. She was a grave
child, who seldom played with other children ;
lie had no dolls or toys ; she took great pleasure

in household tidings, and from a very early age
was her father's housekeeper ; when she grew
older she became his ruler as well, ordering
things as seemed her best. And though her
father was so fond of books and learning, this
girl would never so much as learn to read.
One does not, to be sure, expect girls in her
station to acquire the arts of reading and
writing, if only because they have no books,
and never have occasion to write. These arts
would be as useless to them as the Knowledge
of riding; or dancing the minuet. But it was
stranii^e that Bess should be so different in disposition
as well as in appearance to her father ;
and stranger still, that so rickety a man should
be the father of so strong and stout a girl. As
for her mother, no one knew whither she had
gone, or what had become of her ; it was said
by those who remembered her that she was as
comely as her daughter, but a termagant and a
shrew in temper, who led her mild husband a
terrible life, even sometimes taking the broomstick
to him, and beating him over the head
with it, poor man ! — or laying about her with

the frying-pan, as ungoverned women use
towards those husbands Who, like Mr. Westmoreland,
are afraid, or too weak of arm, to
keep tlieni in submission b}^ the same methods.
She left her husband (he bore the loss With
Christian submission) a year or two after
marriage, and was reported to have been
afterwards seen at Eanelagh, among the ladies'
and gentlemen there, dressed in a hoop, all in
silk and satin, patches and paint, and fan in
hand — very fine, and carrying a domino, just
for all the world as if a penman's wife could
become a gentlewoman.

From the very first, a singular friendship
existed between Jack and this girl. He brought
her apples, comfits, and cakes, Which Philadelphia,
Castilla's black nurse, made for hin ;
he played with her, and made her laugh ; then
he teased her, and made her cry ; then he
coaxed her into good temper again. She was
a child dio fell into the most violent storms of
passion, which none but Jack could subdue ;
he took a pleasure both in exciting her wrath
and appeasing it. On the other hand, he never

tried to enrage or to tease Castilla — perhaps
because she was possessed of such extraordinary
calmness and sweetness that it was impossible
to provoke her, and it was waste of time,
even for a boy Who loves teasing, to practise
upon one who regards it not. Bess, for her
part, was one of those who would rather be
teased into answer than neglected. It was
pretty to see how she would sit when he was
at his lessons with her father, watching him
silently, and how she would follow him, when
he suffered her, submissive and obedient ;
though there was nobody else in the world,
not even her father, to whom this wilful girl
would submit. There are some men to whom
women willingly and joyfully submit themselves,
and become their slaves with a kind of
pride ; but there are others to whom no
woman will submit. Of the latter kind was
Mr. Westmoreland, Bess's father, who was born
to be ruled by his wife. Of the former, Jack
was one ; when he was only a boy, the sailors'
waves and daughters in the street would call
after him for a pretty lad, and bid him come

and be kissed ; and when he was a man grown,
the maids would look at him as he passed
along the street, and would follow him with
longing eyes. But if a woman becomes the
slave of a man, she will have him to be lier
slave in return ; for where there is great love
there is also great jealousy ; and also where
there is great love there is also the possibility
of great wrath and great revenge — as you Avill
presently discover.

In one word, long before he Vv^ent on board
as a volunteer, young Jack Easterbrook was
eager to feel the deck rolling under his feet,
and to hear the first shot of his first action ; he
was also well advanced in all the knowledge of
ropes and rigging that the gunner has to teach
the youngsters aboard. It is further to be noted
that at this early age, and before he went to
sea, the boy had already acquired the settled
conviction that all things which the round
world contains, and the kindly earth produces,
belong especially to the sailor by right divine,
and were intended by Providence for this solace
when ashore ; that to provide for him, and for

his comfort, landsmen toil perpetually ; that
while he is fio'htinc^ our battles for us, we are
gratefully devising, contriving, making, compounding,
and inventing all kinds of things for
his enjoyment when he comes back to us ; such,
for instance, as strong wine and old rum, music
and fiddles, songs and dances, tobacco and snug
taverns ; he is to have the best of all ; for him
the most beautiful women reserve their favours,
and desire to win his affections before those of
any landsman whatever. Young and old, man,
woman, boy, and girl, we all loved the boy.
There was not in Deptford or in Greenwich a
more gallant lad, one more brave and resolute,
nor one more handsome. For all his fortune
he had but his resolution and his sword. And
he went forth to conquer the world with so
brave a heart and a carriage so sprightly that
the men laughed only for the pleasure of looking
upon him, and the women cried. I am sure
that the true soldier of fortune hath always made
the women cry.

At the age of eleven, also, the Admiral, by
permission of the Captain, was enabled to place

the name of the boy on the books of the ' Lenox '
as a vokniteer, although he did not send him
3'et to sea, considerately holding that this age is
too tender for the rough usage of boys aboard
ship, though many boys are sent away so early.
But, by entering him on the ship's company he
secured that his rating as midshipman should
begin at thirteen and his commission as lieutenant
be obtained at nineteen. So that,
although the boy was still working with Mr.
Westmoreland, he was supposed to be cruising
with Captain Holmes aboard the ' Lenox.'

CHAPTER IV.

now JACK FIRST Avert TO SEA.

N" the autumn of the year 1747 — the
last but one of the war then raging
the Admiral judged that the time
was now arrived when the boy
should join his ship. ' For,' he said, ' the lad is
already nearly thirteen, and tall for his age ; and
he knows more than most youngsters have
learned after twelve months at sea. He grows
masterful, too, and will be all the better for the
rope's-end which the gunner hath in store for
him, and for the mast-head, where he will spend
many pleasant hours. And as for the Captain
Dick Holmes is not one who will skulk, or
suffer his crew to skulk. What better can
happen for a boy than to sail with a fighting

'Tis a brave lad, Admiral,' said my father
'twas at the club or nightly assemblage at the
Sir Joliii Falstaff.' ' By such stuff as this let us
pray that England's fleets will always be manned.
They have never heard of Selden's "Mare
clausum," and know not his argument, which is,
to my mind, conclusive. nevertheless, they go
forth to support those arguments by a kind of
blind instinct, which I take to be in itself
a clear proof of his sound reasoning.'

I have never met any Mary Clausum,' said
the Admiral, ' to my knowledge. Polly Collins,
there Alas in my time, at Point — a black-eyed
jade. But Jack is, as yet, full young to think
of any Polly of them all.'

Xay, 'tis the title of a learned work. I
meant only that if England is to be Queen of
the Seas, which France and Spain still dispute
with us, and are likely to dispute for a long
while, it is well that we have such boys, and
plenty of them. There can never be too many
Britons born in the world.'

True, Doctor ; especially if we go on
expending them in this fashion.'

VOL. I. H

We send forth this tender child, Sir,' continued
the Yicar of St. Paul's, ' to a hard and
rough life. He may be wrecked ; he may be
killed in action ; he may lose his limbs ; there
are a thousand perils in his way. Yet we do
not pity him, because, if his life must needs be
short, it will be honourable. And he is in the
hands of Providence.'

That is true, Doctor. Though as to danger,
hang me if I think he is worse off aboard ship
than he would be ashore, what with sharks and
lawyers, rogues and murderers, robbers and
cheats, to say nothing of the women. And onboard
ship they cannot get at a man. And
as for hardships — why, every youngster looks
forward to being an Admiral at least, and to
lead his squadron into a victorious engagement
and sometimes he does it, too.'

As for me, Admiral,' said Mr. Brings, ' I
shall bid good-bye to the lad with a vast deal
of pleasure. He will go never a day too soon.
Keep a lad too long and he gets stale. As for
dangers, I think you are right. But there are
dangers afloat which the landsman does not



know, and more dangers than the enemy's shot
or a gale of wind. A boy may have a bully
for first lieutenant, or a tyrant for captain.'
Here his only eye flashed fire, from which one
may conjecture that he had himself experienced
this accident, and still cherished the memory ;
or a skin flint and a cheese-scraper for a
purser.'

'Nay, nay,' said Mr. Underhill, ' the purser
is for ever in fault.'

'Or a lickspittle for a Master; there are
rogues and scoundrels afloat as well as ashore.
Mark you, if it is bad for the midshipmen, 'tis
worse for the crew ; in such ships are flogging
daily, and mutinous words whispered 'tween
deck, with representing and continual flogging,
no matter how smart a man may be ; and yet
they wonder why men rise sometimes and murder
their officers and carry off the ship under
the black flag. Pirates Why, even if they
knew that the gibbet was already built whereon
they were to hang in chains till they dropped
to pieces, do you think they would not have
their revenge, and then a free and a merry life,

H 2

if only for a short year or two before they die ? '
and with that Mr. Brings looked about him so
fiercely that for a while no one spoke.

These words are better said ashore than
afloat,' said the Admiral presently. ' I've tied
up a man and given him six dozen — ay, or
hanged him for mutiny, for less than that, Mr.
Brings.'

Very like, very like,' returned Mr. Brings,
recovering his good temper. ' I will remember
it. Admiral, if ever I ship with you. As for the
boy now — this boy of ours — he will do welland
will turn out a credit to us all. Admiral.
I have never known a more resolute lad or one
better fitted for the work before him. I have
taught him, for my own part, how the land lays
as regards the wickedness of men, both ashore
and afloat. He is prepared for a good deal ;
and so far, I think, never was a lad sent abroad
better prepared. He knows as much. Doctor, not
to speak boastfully, as a Eoman Catholic confessor.
Now, when a boy is fully acquainted with
devilry, he need fear no devils, male or female.'

The ship on whose books he was borne —
namely, the ' Lenox,' Captain Eichard Holes —
was now refitting at Sheerness, being under
orders to join the \yest Indian squadron of
seven ships under Dear-Admiral Knowles, at
Port Eoyal, Jamaica. A beautiful ship she was,
nearly new, a third-rate, of seventy guns, though
at this time lie carried no more than fifty-six,
and a complement of six hundred men. You
shall hear, presently, with what singular good
fortune the boy began his course. This good
fortune continued with him unbroken until the
event which I have to relate, so that, in thinking
of Jack, I am reminded of that Lydian
King who was told by the philosopher to count
no man happy until the end. Always, in every
ship, he gained the good opinion of the superior
officers ; always the actions in which he
fought were victorious ; promotion and distinction,
prize-money, and escape from shot and
cutlass wound — what more could a sailor
desire ? To be sure, there was one voyage
which proved disastrous. Even here he escaped

drowning when so many perished. Besides,
this was in time of peace.

It is generally believed that boys are shipped
ofF to sea because they are too loutish and
stupid for the arts by which landsmen rise.
But we do not hear that such lads rise to distinction
by reason of loutishness. This is not the
way wide those who live in a dockyard town.
There the flower of the youth flock to the
service, and there is no lack of volunteers, even
for ordinary seamen, in time of war. There
are skulkers, it is true ; but they are more common
at Wapping than at Deptford. As for
officers, happy that boy who wears the King's
uniform ; envied is he among this companions.
You may judge he vv^ants but little admonition
to encourage him in zeal.

Boy,' said the Admiral, catechising the lad
before he joined his ship, ' what is thy hast
duty?'

Respect for superiors, Sir,' said Jack.

Eight ; and the next ? No argument, onboard.
And when fighting begins don't gape
about the ship to duck for any cannon-shot

that flies over head ; but stand steady at
quarters, eyes open, and hands ready. What?
Many a chance comes of showing your mettle
when least expected, as Avhen a boarding
attack is repelled, or the word is given to leap
on board and at 'em. Be ever ready, yet not
too forward, lest it seem a reflection upon thy
betters. Wait till thy time comes ; when it
does come — but, by the Lord, Jack, I have no
fear of thee ! '

Other directions the Admiral gave the boy,
which, may be here omitted, the more particularly
as they referred to the conduct which
a boy should observe in port and on shore ;
and the Admiral's warnings were plain and
clear, and such as may be read in the Book
of Proverbs. My father also admonished the
boy, particularly on the wickedness of profane
swearing. Of this he was likely to hear only
too much, and, indeed, his captain was reported
to be one who enforced his orders with a great
deal of hard swearing. My father also addressed
a few words to this young sailor on the
evils of immoderate drinking, too common on

land, tlioiigli restricted by wholesome discipline
at sea. And he instructed the boy how he
should govern himself, keep his temper in control,
guard his tongue, fight his shipmates no
more than was necessary for self-respect and
honour ; and how, when the time should come
when he himself was to be put in authority, he
should be merciful in punishment, and err on
the side of leniency, remembering that though
a man's back must salter for his sins, he should
not be torn to pieces and cruelly lacerated —
as is the practice on board some ships — save
for the most heinous offences against order,
morality, and discipline. ' The ancient Romans,'
added my father, ' could, if they chose, flog a
slave to death. Yet it was counted infamous
to use this power. The captain of a Kingship
has this power also, seeing that he may,
if he so please, order a man as many as five
hundred lashes — a truly dreadful punishment,
under which the strongest man may succumb.
Reserve this power when thou hast it. Jack.
Three dozen, or even one, in the case of young
sailors, may be as efficacious as six dozen : a

Wholesome discipline is better served by moderation
than by cruelty.'

I know not how fanny father's admonitions
produced good fruit. In after time Jack was
ready enough to rap out a profane word ; on
the other hand, he was beloved by the men on
account of his punishments, which were ascertain
after offence as the stroke of the ship's
bell, but never cruel. It were to be wished
some captains on land as well as at sea would
remember that three dozen may be sometimes
as good as six dozen I It was but yesterday
that a poor fellow, a Grenadier, under sentence
to be shot for desertion, lead his punishment
commuted, as they call it, to five hundred
lashes. He appealed, and the previous sentence
was confirmed ; therefore he went boldly to
his death, thinking it better to be shot than
to be tortured by the lash until he died.

Then we all engaged upon Jack's sea-chest ;
and I suppose no bride ever contemplated her
new furniture and house-linen with more pride
and satisfaction than Jack bestowed upon his
chest. It was strong and stoutly made, with a

till and two trays. It contained his uniform
coat, his Witch coat, a glazed hat for night
watch in bad weather, two hats each with a
gold loop and a cockade, his stockings, shirts
(they were of the finest kind, fit for a young
gentleman, with lace ruffles), his boots, handkerchief,
crimson sash, and his hanger. Besides
these things there were his loot-books, ruled
and [prepared for him by Mr. Westmoreland
; pens cut for him l:)y the same hand ; a
quadrant, with a day and a night glass ; the
Elements of Navigation,' the ' Sailor's Vade-mecum,'
the ' Sea Gunner's Companion,' and a
book on the 'Method of Computing Observations,'
so that he was amply provided with his
favourite reading. To these were added, by
my father, a copy of the Holy Bible, with the
Book of Common Prayer*. These things, with
a pocket compass and a tin pannikin or two, a
book of songs, and a few other trifles, made up
Jack's outfit.

When all was ready and the time of departure
was come, the Admiral put into Iiis hand
a purse full of guineas, and told him that until

such time as he should be rated midshipman,
an allowance of thirty guineas a year should be
given to him. This is a liberal addition to a
boy's pay, and I doubt whether any other
youngster on board the ' Lenox ' possessed so
splendid an addition to this two pounds a
month.

On the morning of his departure our young
hero appeared dressed for the first time in his
blue uniform coat, with the gold loop in his
hat, and his hanger at his side, trying to look
as if he had worn it for years, and was unconcerned
about his personal appearance. He
was going down to Sheerness in a tilt-boat,
accompanied by two of the Admiral's negroes,
to get his sea-chest aboard, and provided with
a letter for the captain. We all went down to
the Stairs with him — the Admiral, my father,
Castilla and myself, with Philadelphy. We
found, also waiting on the Stairs, Mr. Westmoreland
and Bess, Mr. Brings, and the boy
Aaron Fletcher.

'Farewell, Master Jack,' said Mr. Westmoreland,
in his cracked and squeaky voice,

farewell ; I shall never have so good a pupil
again. Forget not the rules for the right placing
of the decimal point, and do not neglect
practice in the Tables of Logarithms.'

Good-bye,' said Jack, shaking his hand.
I will remember. Good-bye, Bess.' He laid
his arm round the girl's neck — lie was now
ten years of age, and as tall as Castilla, though
a year younger — and kissed her on both
cheeks. ' Good-bye, my girl — give me another.'
He kissed her ac^ain. Bess said nothing;
but the tears rolled down her cheeks,
and her father drew her away to make room
for his betters.

Then Jack saw Aaron, and he laughed
aloud.

Ho ! ho ! Aaron Fletcher. There isn't
time for a fight this morning, Aaron,' he said ;
give us your hand.'

Aaron took the proffered hand, but doubtfully.


I thought I'd come to see the start. Master
Jack.' he said ; ' and I wanted to say '

Well ? ' asked Jack ; for the lad hesitated.

To say when you come back — if it's next
year or next ten years — I'll fight you again, for
all your gold loop.'

So you shall, Aaron — so you shall,' said
Jack, with another laugh. ' That's a bargain.'

And so, with a kiss to Castilla, and a shake
of the hand to me, and after receiving the
blessing of the Admiral, who needed not to
spoil its solemnity by a profane oath, he leaped
into the boat, took the strings, and ordered the
men to give way. But he looked back once,
and waved his hand, crying out, ' Good-bye,
Bess.' So his last thought was of the Penman's
girl.

When he comes home, Aaron'" said Bess,
wiping away her tears, 'Jack shall beat you
into a jelly.'

I'll break every bone in his body for him,'
said Aaron. ' Oh ! I wish he would come back
tomorrow. And you may be there to see, if
you like.'

I shall tell him the first thing when he
comes back. What? You dare ask him to
fight ? You .^ I wonder, for my part, that a

Midshipman should dirty his fist upon your
face.'

The Admiral looked after the receding boat,
his red face full of affection and emotion.
Beside him stood my father, in wig and cassock,
as becomes a Doctor of Divinity. Mr. Brings,
in his brown morning coat and scratch wig,
looked a strange companion to them. But the
watermen on the Stairs stood aside even more
respectfully for him than for the Admiral. He
mio'ht, indeed, knock them over the head with
his gold-headed stick, but he could not, like
Mr. Brings, scatter rheumatic pains and toothache
among them.

And here a singular thing happened.
There is no man more free from superstitious
terrors, I think, than myself. Yet I cannot but
remember that while Castilla cried, and I
myself should have liked nothing better than
to cry, but for the unmanliness of the thing,
the old witch-woman — she was nothing less —
this Mandingo prophetess, whose powers were
as real as those believed to belong to Mr.
Brings — began to shiver and to shake and her

teeth to chatter. To be sure, it was a morning
in December, but mill for the time of year,
and the sun shining:. Xo doubt some cold
breath struck her face and made lier shiver.
But, to rhiiadelphy, everything unexpected
was full of prophetic warning, coidd she read
it aright.

'What does it mean?' lie murmured.
What in the world can it mean .^ I dun knoAV
what this shiver means : Mas'r Jack come home
again, I think, and play mischief with some of
us. There's trouble sure, for somebody —
trouble and crying. Dun you be afraid. Miss
Castel, ole Philadelphy knoAV plenty words to
keep off the Devil.'

She meant that she had plenty of incantations
or charms by which to avert and ward off
evil. I am sure there was never a Avitch-
woman or Obeah man on the African coast orin
Jamaica had more spells and secrets of magic
and unholy craft than this old negress.

CHAPTER V.

Midshipman JACK.

thus was Jack fairly launched and
started upon his profession. As
regards a boy's first days at sea,
they are reported by all to be the
most miserable in his Avhole life. For the
Quarters of the youngsters, volunteers and
midshipmen, on a ship of the line, are beneath
the lower gun-deck on what they call the cockpit
or the orlop. This is a dark and gloomy
place, below the level of the water ; no daylight
can ever come to it, and there can be little
access of pure air. Here the purser has his
stores, the surgeon keeps his drugs, the bo's'n
and carpenter their ropes and spare gear, so
that the place smells continually of tallow, beef,
pork, tar, and bilge-water. It swarms with

rats and cockroaches ; in time of battle the
wounded are brought here, near the after hatchway,
as to the safest part of the vessel. Here
the youngsters hang their hammocks and stow
their chests. As for their mess, it is with the
surgeon's mate, the master's mate, the purser's
mate, and the captain's clerk. To boys brought
up delicately, the food is coarse ; new-comers
have to run the gauntlet of rough jokes, and the
horseplay which among these lads passes for wit :
it is that kind of wit to which the only answer
is by force of fist. The young sea-lions' islay is
always like a fight, and generally ends in one.
Therefore, if a boy on board ship love not fighting,
he lead better tie a kedge-anchor round his
neck and drop overboard. But if, like Jack,
he loves and is always ready for a fight, and
will engage with the first who osiers, however
big and strong he may be, then the society of
the midshipmen's mess may become delightful
to that boy ; for the wish of his heart will be
gratified. I believe this was Jack's case ; he
hath told me how for a week or two he fought
every day, and how, at the termination of each

VOL. I. I

encounter, he found reason to thank Aaron
Fletcher for his toughness and obstinacy, which
had taught him useful lessons. Further, there
are tricks to be endured, such as the stealing of
a boy's breeches when he is dressing, so that
he is late on deck, and is consequently mast-headed
: or the greasing of this head with tallow
while he is asleep ; with many other nauseous
jokes, all of which have to be borne with good
humour until an opportunity occurs of revenge ;
or the little tyranny of one Who, because he is a
head taller, thinks he can do as he pleases ; one
such did Jack fight every day — getting, to be
sure, the worst of it — until the big fellow had
no more stomach for the fight, and left this
adversary in peace. As for the gloom of his
quarters, and their narrowness and discomfort
why. Jack had seen them often enough, and
knew what to expect, and cared not two pins
for them. As for sea-sickness. Jack never felt
it. The rough sea fare he liked ; and as for
the daily duty and the sharp discipline, these
were part of the profession, and designed for
the safety and government of some hundreds of

lives and the accomplishment of the ship's purpose.
If a sailor would be happy, he must, I
take it, acquire, as soon as possible, the feeling
of association. Everything has to be shared ;
if he take on board with him and nourish the
desire, common to all landsmen, of getting as
much comfort for himself as he can seize, he
will never be easy. Comfort, I suppose, and
ease of body, are served out, on board a
man-o'-war, in rations and pannikins — like the
rum.

Jack's good luck began, as I have mentioned,
with his first voyage — that is to say, whatever
good fortune can come to one so young fell to
him, as you shall see.

The 'Lenox' sailed on Dec. 5, 1747, and,
meeting with none of the enemy on her voyage,
joined Admiral Knowles at Port Eoyal, in
Jamaica, on Feb. 8 — a short passage — the ship
being a fast sailer and ably handled.

As this war took place when I was a child,
coming happily to an end when I was but
twelve years of age, I know little about it, save
that my early recollections are all of activity

I 2

in the Yard, the going and coming of ships,
the building and launching of ships, the
hurry and the business of war. There were
some very fine engagements at sea, I believe,
of which I know only one or two — those,
namely, in which Jack was engaged ; and there
were some memorable actions fought on land,
of which that of Getting-en was one. There are
in every century so many wars ; there are in
every var so many actions, every one of which
in the eyes of those who have fought on the
victorious side, and especially in tlje eyes of the
Admiral or General, is so memorable that it
will remain for ever in the history of the world
as a feat of arms never to be forgotten. This
vanity is like that of the poet, who thinks that
for an ode to ' Fame,' or to ' Victory,' pu Wished
in the ' European ' or the ' Lady's Magazine,'
he is covered with glory and crowned with
an everlasting wreath of bays. One immortal
victory is succeeded by another ; one General
causes his predecessor to be forgotten ; one
poem is followed by another ; then both are
suffered to repose between the leather binding

of the volumes which contain them. It is only
the work of the painter which lives on the walls
for all men to admire in all ages to come.

I say, then, that whatever imperishable
glory surrounds the names of those who conducted
for the Allies this war, I know of none
except that which belongs to one squadron in
the last year of the war. An account of it maybe
read in Mr. John Hill's ' History of the
British Navy,' itself compiled from the papers of
the late Honourable Captain George Berkeley,
En., which stops short at this chapter, the
book having been published at the beginning of
the next war. What I know of it is taken from
the description of these affairs given me by Jack
himself.

The ' Lenox,' then, arrived at Port Eoyal on
Feb. 8, 1748. The captain was heartily welcomed
by Admiral Knowles, who was on the
point of sailing on an expedition from which
the best was hoped. By the greatest exertions,
the ship was provisioned in readiness to join,
and the squadron. Governor Trelawny accompanying
the Admiral, left Port Eoyal on the 13th

with design to attack Santiago, or Saint Jago, the
most important town and port of Cuba, next to
Havana. The squadron was strengthened by
a detachment of 240 men of the Governor's
regiment. The fleet unhappily met with contrary
winds, which were so long and persistent that
the Admiral resolved upon changing the plan
of the expedition. It was, therefore, decided
to make an attack upon Port Louis, on the
south side of Hispaniola. Thither, therefore,
the wind being favourable, they sailed, and
arrived in good order. On the 8th of March,
the ships being then almost within pistol-shot
of the walls, the attack was commenced ; the
cannonade lasted three hours, at the end of
which time the enemy's guns were silenced,
and the Governor proposed to capitulate. He
sent an officer off with propositions, which the
Admiral refused, and sent back his own, giving
an hour for consideration. Before the end of
that time they were accepted, and the place
was taken. ' I believed,' said Jack, telling me
of this, his first action, ' that every cannon-shot
that struck the ship or flew through the rigging

was going to knock my head off, not thinking
that, by the time I heard the noise of it, the
danger was over. Yet I was resolved to stand
at my quarters, and do my duty as well as I
could ; but for the life of me I could not help
ducking my head, till the gunner spied me and
found time to fetch me a clout on the head,
saying, " You fool, that cannon-ball was half
a mile beyond the ship before you ducked.
Hold up your head, and remember that when
it is knocked off, you will have no time to duck
out of its way." So, with that I plucked up,
and was comforted to see the men at the guns,
none of them killed, and none of them ducking.
So I was highly ashamed of myself till they
told me afterwards that, at the first enhancement,
most everybody ducks. As for the
Captain, he was on the quarter-deck, and
scorned to show the least fear ; and the men
at diei quarters only laughed, even when a
shot struck the ship and fragments of the
timbers went flying about. But it was fine to
see how, one by one, we silenced the guns.
Only I should like to see fighting at close

quarters. This pounding with the big guns at
long range is not to my taste.'

There was some work for the boats as well ;
for the enemy set fire to one of their ships,
and endeavoured to send her alongside the
Admiral's ship ; but boats were sent off, which
towed her clear, and took possession of two
more designed for the same purpose, though
the enemy's musketry fired smartly on them
all the time. Our loss in the whole action was
only ten men killed, among whom were
Captain Fenton, of the ' Stafford,' and Captain
Cast, a volunteer, with sixty wounded. The
loss of the enemy was a hundred and twenty-eight
killed. The fort contained seventy-eight
cannon and a vast quantity of ammunition and
stores, the whole of which was taken possession
of and the fort blown up.

I dare say it was a small business, but it
seemed a great one to the boy, who thus took
part in an action for the first time.

This affair concluded, the Admiral proceeded
to put into execution his design upon
Saint Jago.

The attack, however, failed, because they
found a chain across with two large ships and
two small ones filled with combustibles and
ready to be set on fire at the first attempt to
break the chain. This was mortifying, and
added nothing to the Admiral's reputation.
But six months later, it was Jack's good
fortune to take part in a spirited action with
the Spanish squadron between Havana and
Portugal. It was in October, and I believe
after the peace had been signed ; but this they
knew not. The Spanish fleet consisted of the
same number of ships as our own, but larger,
and with double the number of men. There
was a court-martial afterwards, and the Admiral
was reprimanded for not shifting his flag when
his own ship was disabled. Therefore the
action is not one of those in which the country
can take the most pride. But this had nothing
to do with a young midshipman, and no one
ever denied that the ' Lenox,' for her part, was
admirably fought and handled, seeing that
when the ' Cornwall,' the Admiral's ship, was
disabled, the ' Lenox ' had to sustain the fire of

the whole of the squadron until the arrival of
the ' Canterbury ' and the ' Warwick.' At sundown
the ' Spaniard ' began to retreat, but not
before their great ship the ' Conquestador ' was
taken. Admiral Knowles has been further
reproached with not prosecuting the pursuit
with greater vigour. However that may be,
he fell in, two days afterwards, with the
Spanish Admiral's ship, the ' Africa,' and blew
her up. Whatever might have been our
success it cannot, therefore, be denied that we
took two out of seven ships, and compelled the
rest to run away. As for Jack, he had learned
now to receive the enemj^'s broadsides without
ducking ; ' but what amazed me most,' he told
us, ' was that there was no shouting or crying
among the men. They were all as cool as if
they were firing a salute at Spithead. When
a man was wounded and fell, he was carried
below, so there was not much of the groaning
and shrieking that landsmen talk about. Why,
those fellows of ours will have a leg sawn off
and never groan. Whereas, if a man is killed,
you can't expect him to groan afterwards. To

be sure, I've never seen a fight with a boarding
party. And I sny, Luke, the first time you see
a man killed, when he foils down in a heap on
the deck, and his face turns quite white, and
his arms and legs lying out anyway, as if he
didn't care wdiat was going to happen — it
makes you feel sick and dizzy. But the men
only laugh, because everyone takes his turn ;
and you can't escape the bullet that is bound
to kill you. If it wasn't for knowing that,
nobody would be able to feel happy, and work
with a will, Awhile the shots are flying about.
Luke, there's another thing; ' — here his voice
dropped to a whisper — ' there's a thing I never
knew before, nor suspected. There's cowardly
captains, even in the King's Navy — captains
who won't crows on the canvas in pursuit, and
drop out of action, pretending to be disabled.
They never told me that — not even Mr.
lirinjes told me. And half-hearted captains.
Wh}^, if all they say is true, we should
have been inside Saint Jago, instead of sheering
off after a broadside or two. But
there's more brave captains than the other

sort ; and so you'll see when next we have
a brush.'

For the ' Lenox,' with Admiral Knowles's
squadron, had now returned and the ship was
paid off, and Jack had made his way home
again, when you may Le sure we killed the
fatted calf and gave him welcome. He was
gone, on that voyage, for the best part of two
years, and was now fifteen years of age, and
looked eighteen, being so big and strong. The
sun and the wind had painted his cheeks a
lively colour, his hands were brown, his speech
was rough, and his bearing was manly.
Wonderful it was to see the confidence and the
manliness of one so young, to say nothing of the
pride he took in the exploits of his ship. These,
we presently discovered, lost nothing in the
tellini]^. He brought home a most beautiful
necklace of red coral which had been found in
the fort of Port Louis, belonging, no doubt, to
one of the mulatto or half-caste women, who
were both the slaves and the mistresses of the
Spaniards in those parts. He showed it to me
one day, and I expected he would give it to

Castilla. Fortunately, I told her nothing about
it, and presently I saw it round the neck of
Bess Westmoreland. It is so common at
Deptford to see girls of her class decorated with
gold chains, coral necklaces, jewelled brooches,
and all kinds of finery (for a few days onh%
because they speedily send the things to
London to be sold), that no one asked who had
given the child an ornament so unsuitable for
her position. As for Castilla and myself, if
Jack before he went away was going to be a
hero, he was now actually become one ; we
were fully persuaded that when at Port Louis
the boats towed off the fire-ship with the
musket-balls spattering in the water, it must
have been Jack Who sat in the stern ; and
Avhen the ' Conquestador ' surrendered it must
have been in terror at the sight of this youthful
conqueror, terrible with his sword in his hand ;
and when the ' Africa ' blew up it was because
the Spanish Admiral perceived that he could
not hope to contend any longer with this young
sea-lion ; and, considering the Admiral's want
of spirit, it was nothing but the presence of

Jack that saved the fleet from disaster. I
began to draw pictures, representing episodes
in the three actions in which our hero had taken
part, such as Jack repelling boarders, laying
about him with such an intrepid air as commanded
terror and admiration in all who
beheld it. Behind him stood the British tars,
ready to back him up with cutlass, pistol, and
pike. Or another, in which I displayed the
two ships at close quarters, with grappling-irons,
and Jack leaping singly upon the enemy's
deck, a pike in one hand and a cutlass in the
other ; and there Was Jack laying the gin that
was to hit the enemy between wind and water,
and so sink her : he performed the operation
with thoughtful face, the captain standing by,
wrapt in admiration. They were wonderful
pictures. Jack laughed at them, but did not
deny that, perhaps, there might be truth in the
subjects. I gave them to Castilla, who put
them away. She hath since assured me that
she hath kept them out of regard for the
hand which drew them. That is doubtless
true, since she says so. But I think there

must have been, at the same time, some
admiration for the hero of those designs.

I do not describe the joy with which the
Admiral received the boy, nor the pleasure
with which he listened to his account of the
actions he lead witnessed. As for the manner
in which Jack sought out Mr. Brings, everybody
knows the contempt with which the combatant
branch regards the civil branch, though
the surgeon's mate, by order of the Xavy Office,
is considered a gentleman, and messes with the
midshipmen ; so that there was condescension
in a midshipman visiting an apothecary. Yet,
as Mr. Brings was an old friend. Jack could
not but treat him with kindliness mingled with
superiority. Moreover, he had by this time
himself visited the places of which Mr. Brings
loved most to speak. He had seen the negroes
of Port Eoyal and Spanish Town, and those
of Bridgetown, Barbadoes ; and of St. Pitt's ;
though as yet he had never seen the Guinea
Coast. One is not afloat for nearly two years
without learning and hearing things. So that
for every tale which Mr. Brings had to tell. Jack

had now half a dozen. And I remarked that,
like the apothecary, Jack loved to figure as the
hero in his own stories. This is a temptation
to which men are all liable, and especially
sailors ; because, I suppose, they are looked
upon by the world as certain to have had adventures
; and there is no man in Greenwich
Hospital who has never been wrecked, or castaway,
or been attacked by savages and by
sharks, or had a brush with pirates.

As regards the quality of these stories and
the art of making and telling them, if there is
any art in so simple a thing as the telling of
a sailor's yarn, it must be owned that the
apothecary showed himself the superior. For
it is required of such a tale that there must be
liijfhtino' in it, with much bloodshed, narrow
escapes, starvation in boats, pirates, and desert
islands. All of these were supplied by Mr.
Brings, whereas poor Jack had as yet nothing
bnt his three battles. Bess, you may be sure,
came to sit with us in the room behind the
shop, and to hear Jack talk. She sat in the
window-seat, her hands folded in her lap, gazing



at her hero all the time, and speaking not a
word save when Mr. Brings or I ventured to
interrupt the flow of Jack's manly conversation.


Two days after Jack returned, the promised
fight with Aaron Fletcher came off in my
presence, and that of Bess, who, I believe, was
the chief instigator of the combat — having a
vehement desire to see Aaron punished for
certain disrespectful words spoken in Jack's
absence.

He was a little older than his adversary, and
now bigger of frame, and as hard as was to be
expected of a young man who spent his days
and nights chiefly in a fishing-smack — he called
it a fishing-smack — between Ramsgate, or Leigh
in Essex, and the coast of Holland or of
France.

They fought in the gardens behind the
Stowage. It is beneath the dignity of history
to describe an encounter with fists between two
boys. Sufficient it is to say that Jack took off
his coat laughing, and the other scowling ; that
they fought for an hour, with some vicissitudes

VOL. I. K

Aaron, so to speak, carrying heavier metal,
but Jack handling his guns with more dexterity
; that Bess stood by, clapping her hands
when Jack's fist went home, and taunting Aaron
when he fell — which made both combatants the
fiercer ; that, finally, Aaron was disabled, and
had to retire from the conflict by the dislocation
of a finger, which gave Jack the victory.
But both were so mauled and bruised, their
faces so covered with blood and swollen, that
the battle must have ended in neither being
able to see.

I'll fight you again — and again after that,'
said Aaron, mopping his face, with dark and
savage looks.

What did they fight for ? Well : one was
a gentleman, and the other a mechanic ; one
was a midshipman in the King's service, and
the other was a smuggler. Surely, these things
were enough. If you want more, remember
that even at sixteen a youngster may fall in
love and be jealous. Aaron was already in love
with the black eyes of Bess, w^io was now

nearly twelve, but like a Spanish girl in this
respect, that at twelve she might have passed
for fifteen at least. And Bess, who would have
none of him, thought of nobody but our handsome
Jack.

K §

THE WORLD WENT

CHAPTEE VI,

THE ' COUNTESS OF DORSET,'

With the return of the fleets, and the
signing of the Peace of Aix-la-

Chapelle, came a great reduction
of the Naval Estimates which, in
the year 1750, provided for no more than ten
thousand men, instead of fifty thousand. This
step, although it returned thousands of men
to the merchant service, the coast service, the
colliers, the fishing trade, and the river, sent
back more than were wanted, so there was
great distress with men out of work all round
the coast, and a large increase of smuggling.
Many regiments of marines were disbanded at
the same time, and so men who, having been
long engaged in active service, had lost the arts
of peace and forgotten their former trades, were

thrown upon the country seeking employment,
and, for the most part, finding none. Again,
from the dockyards were dismissed an immense
number of artificers, such as skilled shipwrights,
carpenters, figurehead-carvers, painters, decorators,
and the like, besides a host of unskilled
labourers, who had been receiving good wages,
and now found themselves without work and
for the most part without money. Add to this
that the trade of those who get their living out
of the ships and the sailors, and by navy contracts,
was suddenly shrunk into nothing, like a
bladder which is pricked, and you will understand
why, though the country breathed and
the merchants of London and Bristol rejoiced,
the seaports and dockyard towns groaned and
lamented. As for the shipwrights, there is
always employment for some in one or other of
the private building-yards — such as Pettt's or
Taylor's, or in the repairing-docks, as the Acorn
and the Lavender ; but what are these even
when working their utmost compared with the
King's yards and their continual demand intime
of war ? It is true that a large number

of disbanded soldiers, marines, and artificers
received grants of land in ISTova Scotia, and
were transported thither. But there are never
many in proportion to the whole number who
can suddenly become farmers, and who fear not
the cold of that inhospitable place. As for the
unfortunate sailors, there were, to be sure,
always new hands wanted for the merchant
ships ; but a man cannot look to get a berth as
soon as he desires ; and other work they can do
none. No one ever heard of a sailor following
the plough, or becoming a shoemaker, or
working in a carpenter's shop. It seems as if
keeping the watch, bending the sails, and working
the puns, make a man unfit for other kinds
of work. The disbanded soldier may turn his
hand to anything, but not the sailor. So that
when his pay and prize-money are all spent —
which never takes the honest fellow long, so
ready is the assistance of his friends — lie has
nothing to do but to lean against the posts, or
to stand about the riverside, waiting for a
chance. Often for a lodging he is reduced to
sleeping on the bulks in the open street, and,

for his food, to take whatever may be given him
by the charity of his fellows. And, at last,
when this fails, if he cannot ship even on a hoy
or a hay-barge, what wonder if he takes to
running; a fishing smack over to France for
brandy ? And then one hears of a desperate
affray with the King's officers on the Sussex
coast ; and these are the times when the roads
become infested with footpads — men driven
desperate by poverty, who might have remained
honest fellows had they been kept to
their colours, or to their ships ; and in the
houses of Deptford, where there had been
plenty, and the laughter of little children, Averse
now crying women and hungry babes, with the
dreadful temptations of poverty and hunger.
I am sure there is no more terrible temptation
than this ; let us never cease, rich and poor together,
to pray in the words commanded, ' Give
us this day our daily bread.'

There are some who think that the custom
of disbanding the troops and paying off the
men is an evil one, because, they argue, first,
if you would secure peace be prepared for war.

as is shown in lively fashion by the fable of
-^sop ; and if you are always ready to fight,
the enemy will be less ready to give provocation
; and, next, a better plan, if the forces
must be reduced, would be to diminish them
gradually, by suffering those to go who wished,
and enlisting no more, so that speedily, and
without injustice, an establishment on a peace
footing could be secured. But in the Navy
Office prudent counsels have never yet prevailed
(I say this not of my own wisdom, but from
general consent of those who have had opportunity
of studying things naval), and I suppose
will not, until some great calamity befall our
country, and makes us call for neither Whig nor
Tory, but for those who desire the greatness
and the prosperity of these islands.

Sad, indeed, was the case of the younger
officers — the midshipmen, like Jack — who had
little interest, and now feared that they might
never become lieutenants. The more choking
it was, because everybody had been looking fora
long war, with plenty of prize-money and
quick promotion. And now, in the estimation

of many, not only was peace signed, but it was
assured and would be lasting ; because, these
sagacious politicians of the coffee-house asked,
why should France wish to make war again,
having received not only so severe a lesson,
but also terms of peace far more honourable
than she could have expected ? The events of
the next few years have shown very plainly
how anxious France has been to keep her word
and to maintain peace. Perhaps, now that we
have at last happily turned her out of Canada
and the East Indies, and reduced her powder in
the West Indies, her turbulence may abate fora
time. But one knows not ; we are nearing
the end of the eighteenth century, and we cannot
tell what may happen before that end
arrives. However, the merchant adventurer
naturally desires peace, and therefore is ready
to prophesy that peace will be lasting, because
we are always glad to believe wdiat we desire.
I have heard that the activity of the French
yards was never relaxed during these years of
peace ; certainly, they never commenced any
war with more magnificent fleets than those

vdiicli they sent to sea a few years later in the
year 1756.

As for Jack, after being ashore for two or
three months, and finding no prospect of employment,
he began to hang his head, and to
be despondent, longing to be afloat again, and
seeing no chance. In truth, there was little ina
landsman's life that he cared for, being, at
this period, not much better than a sea cub, a
species of animal little loved by any except
those who know that he will grow into a lion.
That is to say, he took no joy in reading, unless
it was the description of a sea action — always,
to my thinking, tedious to read. Jack, who
did not think so, used to illustrate the history
with the aid of walnuts placed in position, and
showing, to his imagination, better than any
drawing, how the fiopht was conducted. The
gentle arts of poetry, music, painting, and dancing
had no charms for him. He liked not the
society of ladies, old or young, nor the polite
conversation which pleases them ; and as yet he
had not felt the passion of love. I believe he
was set against the sex by Mr. Brings, who

loved no woman except such as had a black
and shining skin, and lived somewhere about
Old Calabar. As for Bess, she was the most
congenial companion to him at this time, because
she never tired of listening to his talk
about the sea, and what he was going to do.
But as for love, he had none for her at this time.
Of this I am assured.

Everybody has heard of the 'Countess of
Dorset ' ; how she set sail in order to navigate
the great Pacific Ocean and never returned, and
how for many years nothing was known of her
fate any more than is known of the fate of Sir
Cloudesley Shovel. It is matter for regret that
the single officer who was saved out of that
wreck and survived the incredible sufferings
which followed should not have been able to
narrate in lively and moving fashion the particulars
of this grievous disaster. Surely, a
history as instructive as that of Commodore
Anson might be made of this voyage. But
now, I suppose, it will never be written.

Soon after the peace, the ' Countess of

Dorset,' which was lying up in ordinary, was
fitted out in Deptford Yard. She carried an
armament of forty-four guns, and was a frigate
well reported as a sailer and for behaving well
in heavy weather ; ships being, as is well
known, capricious in this respect ; so that you
may construct two vessels of exactly the same
measurements, on the same lines, and yet, while
one is easily handled and is obedient to her
helm, the other shall be lubberly and difficult
to steer ; and one shall sail fast and the other
slow : so that when any vessel is launched, it is
impossible to tell beforehand what she will belike,
and one cannot judge by the behaviour of
a sister ship. As for her destination, it was as
yet unknown ; but some thought she was to
form part of the Jamaica fleet.

One afternoon, however, the Admiral called
Jack, and held a serious conversation with
him.

'Thou art now, my lad,' he said, 'truly
becalmed, and in the Doldrums ; or, worse
still, in a leeward tide, and drifting on the
rocks. In a word, if a berth be not found

before long, thou may'st give up all further
hopes of the King's Navy. I am sorry for
thee, lad. There is John Company, to be sure
—they have a hundred vessels, they say — but
their commanders are fond of their ease ; and,
besides, without interest in the India House,
how can one hope for promotion? It would
grieve me to see thee mate of a merchantman.
Yet, what help ? '

I can ship as an able seaman. Sir, as soon
as I am old enough.'

Ay, ay ! But we must hope for something
better. Listen, my boy. I have this morning
conversed With the Commissioner of the Yard,
Captain Petherick, who has imparted to me a
secret. The ^ Countess of Dorset ' is bound for a
cruise in the Southern Seas. I have therefore
sent an application in thy name to the Navy
Office. Because, Jack, though it is not the
service I could have wished for thee, yet, seeing
that there is little chance of anything better,
we must e'en make the best of it, and if we
get thee billeted on her as midshipman we
shall be fortunate. The voyage will be long

and tedious. There will be no fighting, unless
which I doubt — the captain judges it well to
seek out and capture the Manila galleon. They
say there are islands out there filled with black
pirates and cannibals ; but I never heard of
any honour to be obtained in fighting these
poor devils. When you have gotten across the
Pacific Ocean, there may be engagements with
Chinese and Malay fellows. They have stink-pots
and poisoned arrows. You will have to
fight them at close quarters with pike and
cutlass and boiling pitch, as well as with guns.
But where is the glory of such an action compared
with an engagement, yard-arm to yard-arm,
with a Frenchman or a Spaniard of equal
weight ? '

I should like to go, Sir,' said Jack, his eyes
kindling.

The Lord knows,' continued the Admiral,
when you would come back again ! And
meantime, while you and your company were
cruising in unknown waters, another war might
break out, and you would lose your chance,
which, indeed, would be the Devil.'

But if no war break out, then my chance
may be lost the other way.'

It would so, Jack. Perhaps we might get
thee a berth — but of midshipmen there are
plenty, and of ships in commission there are
few. Yet the Commissioner tells me they
have secret intelligence that the French are
busy in Toulon and Eochelle. What doth this
mean if peace is to continue ? And complaints
have been received from New England of
infractions by the French. Is this a sign of
peace? However, we know not. The King-grows
old ; the young Prince is reported to be
of a pacific disposition — but talking is vain.'

Briefly, the Admiral's application proved
successful. Jack was appointed to the ' Countess
of Dorset.'

When Mr. Brings heard of this appointment
and the saihug orders of the ship, he
showed a strange emotion.

What ? ' he asked. ' Thou, too, art going
to the South Seas, Jack ? Why, it may be that
the ship — but I know not — 'tis unlikely, or —
which I doubt. Thou art young yet. Jack;

but if I tell thee my secret, tliougli without
imparting, yet, the latitude and longitude, while
in those seas, thinking of what I shall tell thee,
and mindful of the future, thou mayest take
observations, and when the ship comes home
we will talk further of the matter. For look
ye, my boy, I am sure that I shall not die
before I have seen again that place — but wait
until I have told thee. What ? You think I
am but a poor apothecary, admitted to sit
among gentlemen because I can cure their gout
for them, and feared by the common sort because
I can bring rheumatism upon them ?
You shall see. You think I have nothing but
the few guineas in my till. Why, then, listen,
and keep the secret for me ; though if all the
world knew, no one would be one whit the
forwarder. Yet keep the secret ; and now, boy,
reach me down the chart.'

CHAPTEE VII.

Mil. Bridles CONCLUDES THE STORY OF HIS
VOYAGE.

those who will read this history
through, and then consider the
various parts of it, will not fail
to be amazed with the manner in
which Jack was prepared for the fulfilment
of his fate and for the close of his life (if that
hath yet happened) by a crowd of circumstances
Which seem to have indicated it and led him
irresistibly. For, first, it was permitted to
him — a rare thing — to make the acquaintance
of two who had voyaged upon the South Seas
I mean as officers, and of the better sort;
for of those who had set foot on Juan Hernandez
fought the Cretan Spaniards at Payta, Guayaquil,
and Panama, and insulted their settlements

VOL. I. L

in the Philippine Islands, there were many in
Greenwich Hospital and the Trinity Almshouses
of Deptford. Of these two, one, the
apothecary, would relate his adventures in a
moving manner, so as to make a boy's cheek
burn and his pulses beat. The other, it is true,
was a phlegmatic man, but there were parts
even of his narrative — as, for example, when
the castaways built a crazy boat, thirty feet
long, and put to sea only forty strong, yet
resolved to attack the first Spanish vessel they
sighted, though they had but three cutlasses
and half a dozen muskets and a small cannon,
for which there was no stand, so that it had to
be fired from the deck ; and for all their provisions
nothing but stinking conger-eel, dried
in the sun, and one cask of water, fitted with a
musket-barrel, by which each man drank in
turn — I say that there were parts of his narrative
which would fire the boy, and make his
eyes bright. For the hearing of such sufferings
only stimulates a boy who is intended by
nature for a sailor. Next, there were the books
lent to him by Captain Petherick, all of voyages,

especially in Oceanus Australis, and Magel-
lanica. And, thirdly, he was, while yet a boy,
to sail across the great Pacific Ocean, which is
said to fill those who have once voyaged on its
waters with a strange love and desire to return
thither, if only to meet with shipwreck and
starvation. What follows, however, was the
story which Mr. Brings now completed — a
strange story, truly.

I told you,' he began, ' that we were
driven off our course north of the latitude in
which we hoped to sight the great Manila ship.
She carried I know not how many cannon, and
I know not how many hundreds of men. But
we were a hundred and twenty strong, all
well-armed resolute men ; and they were Aeolian
Spaniards, a cowardly crew, who when
they have fired their small-arms can do no more,
and when the English lads board the craft fall
to bawling for Quarter, and strike their flag.
There is but one rule in these waters : it is to
attack the Spanish flag whenever you find it,
and to look for no resistance once you come to
close quarters, unless the officers, which some

2

times happens, are French ; then they will fight,
Now mark what happened to us. The same
tempest which drove his so far north caught
the Manila ship as well, of which we were in
search, and drove her also out of her course,
treating her even more roughly than ourselves.
We sighted her one morning at daybreak.
There could be no doubt about her ; there are
not many ships of her build in the North
Pacific. As soon as we were near enough to
make her out all hands were called to quarters,
and ,we prepared for action with joyful hearts
loading the guns and small-arms, and sharpening
cutlasses and pikes. As we drew nearer,
and the daylight stronger, the sea being now
quite smooth, save for a gentle swell, we perceived
a strange thing — namely, that her mainmast
and her foremast were gone by the board,
only her mizen standing ; her bows and bulwarks
were stove in, and her rudder was lost.
She was drifting about upon the water, helpless
as a log. She had no sails set ; most of her
rigging was cut away. We fired a shot byway
of signal, but received no reply ; then we

drew nearer. Not a man could be seen. Were
they all hiding down below, or were they
hatching some treachery? We ranged presently
alongside, cautiously standing to our guns, and
expecting nothing less than a broadside. But
the guns, on the upper-deck, at least, were not
manned ; nor was there a soul to be seen, or
the least sign of life. However, our boarding
party leaped aboard, with a shout, expecting
some trick of the enemy. Boys, there was nota
man left in all that great ship. How they
got off — by what boats, or on what raft — I
know not, nor did I ever learn. She was
deserted ; she Alas floating about these lonely
seas, a great treasure-ship, with all her treasure
still on board ! Why, she was not ours by
right of conquest ; she was ours by the law of
the sea, because she was a derelict. We were
pirates, if you please, or rovers, or adventurers.
Whatever we were, that ship was our own
because we picked her up.'

What ! ' cried Jack, ' no fighting ? '
None, my lad. On that voyage there was
no fighting with the Spaniards from beginning

to end. As for this great inheritance, into
which we came without a question or a blow,
'twas all left undisturbed on board with the
precious cargo of which it formed a part.
Strange it was to walk 'tween decks, and see
them filled with the bales of silks, the spices,
the rich stuffs, that the galleon was carrying to
Acapulco. There was also a beautiful collection
of small-arms; and swords with jewelled hilts,
pistols with carved stocks, brass carronades,
and such carved work in wood, for the staterooms
and the captain's cabin, as one could sell
in London for its weight in silver, at least.
There was also a great quantity of wine, which
was seasonable, for our spirits were well-nigh
drunk out, and there was no probability of our
getting more. We took all the wine and the
arms, and as much of the silks and embroidered
stuff as every man pleased ; so that we went
about as fine as so many princes, with purple
and crimson sashes. The spices we mostly left
on the ship ; but the powder we took out of
her, and all her provisions. And then we

found the treasure. It was packed in small
iron-bound chests, in gold pieces-freight and
other coins, worth, as near as I could calculate,
judging from the weight, about two hundred
and fifty thousand pounds of our money.
Think of two hundred and fifty thousand
pounds, to be divided among a crew of simple
rovers ! When we first found this treasure, and
understood how much it was worth — namely,
allowing eight shares for the Captain, and
eighteen for the officers, nearly two thousand
pounds apiece for every man, we were amazed
at our wonderful fortune, and looked at each
other like stuck pigs. However, we got the
boxes on board, and laid them safe in the
Captain's cabin, and set fire to the galleon,
which blazed furiously, and presently blew up,
and so an end of her And as for us, we sailed
away, and began to feast and to drink, and to
make merry. And for the first few hours, I
think there was never so happy a crew in the
world.'

Well,' said Jack, ' if prize-money were all

they wanted. But to have no fighting with the
Spaniards — why, one would as have take the
money out of a till.'

There was a great deal of fighting. I said
only that there was no fighting with the
Spaniard.'

What other fishy was there, then ? '
'That evening we made a great feast on
deck, all the ship's company sitting down
together to as noble a sal mag undy, onions
being still plentiful, as one would wish to see.
And with the sal mag undy — which is sailor's
food, truly, yet I want no other as long as I
live, unless it be lobscouse and sea-pie — we
drank the finest wine, designed for His Excellency
the Governor-general of the Manila,
that was ever drawn from cask. Such wine
one may never hope to taste again. What ?
Topers who drink strong black port and
Jamaica rum (which yet I love), what know
they of the soft and luscious drink which these
Papistical Spaniards enjoy daily, sitting in their
cool and shady houses, while the negroes and
the Indians work for them in the sun ? But

when the drink got into us, the quarrelling
began. When rovers quarrel, they fight. The
men were hglit-heacled, to begin with, thinking
of their great windfall ; and the Spanish wine
is heady when yon have taken much more thana
quart or two, and they very soon began to
quarrel over the division of the money. For
some wanted to tear up the articles, whereby
the Captain took eight shares and the officers
eighteen, and all to share-and-share alike. And
then swords were drawn and pistols cocked ;
and those of us who had kept reasonably sober
went hastily below. Among these were the
first and second mates, and the bo's'n, and
myself. But the Captain was mad with drink.
We kept below, while the trampling and the
fighting went on all night long, for they stopped
only to drink, and then fought again like so
many devils, not caring with whom they fought,
still less for what cause. The men were resolute
fellows, but they never showed half so
much courage against the enemy as they did
against each other ; and those who had been in
the morning the heartiest friends and brothers

were at night murdering each other with the
utmost ferocity.

They stopped at last ; not because they
were appeased, but because they were tired ;
and all slept on deck, some lying across the
dead and wounded. It was a strange sight
when we ventured on deck, the work of fighting
being over, and saw them in the moonlight
all lying about among the cannon, mostly in the
waist, dead and living together, the blood still
running out of the scuppers. The man at the
helm was killed, and lying over his wheel.
There was no watch ; there were no lights ; all
sails were set, and the ship was swiftly sailing
over the smooth waters with no one to lookout,
no lights in the bows, and no one to care
whether we struck on a rock or not. There
were thirty wounded men, whom we carried
below and dressed their wounds ; but fifteen of
them died, their blood being heated by the
wine and the salt provisions.

At sunrise most of the men woke up and
shook off their drunkenness, and ashamed they
were to find the Captain and twenty men killed

by the night's quarrel First they sat and
looked at each other, sorry and angry. Then
they took consolation, thinking there were still
enough men to navigate the ship, and fight her,
if necessary, and then someone whispered that
there were fewer by twenty to share the treasure.


So we threw the bodies overboard without
any funeral service, and I dressed the hurts of
those Who were wounded, the men resolved to
quarrel no more, and all shook hands together.

I suppose the thought of the money filled
all the men's minds, because in the afternoon,
when the drinking began again, the quarrelling
began. The Captain being dead, they could
no longer quarrel over his eight shares ; but
the officers were left, and they began about
their shares. Now, I am sorry to say that both
mates, instead of running down below again
with the bo's'n and me, stayed on deck and
took part in the quarrel. That was a worse
night than the other, because it began earlier.
Ten more were killed that night, and a great
many wounded. What was worse, the morning

brought no cessation, but they fought all
day long, and for three days and three nights,
drinking all the time like devils, as if they
desired that as many should be killed as possible,
and as few left to divide the treasure.
In the end, when they desisted, we were reduced
to sixty men, most of whom had wounds
of some kind, and some died afterwards of
fever, so that we numbered no more than listy.
I suppose that such a thing hath never before
happened, that a ship for four days and four
nights should sail any course she pleased, being
without a steersman, or a captain, or a watch,
having all sails set, and yawing about as she
pleased, just as the breeze changed, and so
sailing all the time before the wind. It was
surely a miracle that we were not all cast away
and destroyed. At last, however, the men
grew tired and sobered, frightened by the
deaths of so many, and now awakened to the
new danger that if we met the Spaniard we
might not be able to light him nor to protect
our huge treasure.

So we held a serious council. First, we

were now all ricci men, and it believed us to
think of getting home safely with our money,
and to run no risks more than we could help,
and not to go in search of other shijDS, but to
keep out of the enemy's way.

Did one ever hear before of an English crew
keeping out of the Spaniard's way? But the
treasure made cowards of us all. Every man
valued his own skin because he was now the
owner of so much weahh. Why, what had been
before the fighting; a share worth two thousand
was now worth four, at least. Not a man
among us but was worth four thousand pounds
and more. Even if we had sighted another
galleon I doubt whether we should have ventured
to attack her. And the men grew moody
and scowling, everyone sitting apart, counting
his gains and wishing his shipmates dead, so that
his own share should be greater. Never was a
ship's crew fuller of murderous thoughts and
evil jealousies. Even the wounded men dying
of fever could not die quietly, but must shriek
and cry out for life, because they where now all
made men.'

Better have tossed the treasure overboard,'
said Jack,

'As for our course, we had now sailed a
good bit to the south, but we knew not, and
we never knew where we were. Look at the
chart. Here is the island of Donna Maria
Laxara. We were driven north from that
island, and we presently sailed south, no man
regarding the navigation. The latitude I was
able to calculate ; but as for the longitude, that
was lost, and we knew not how to recover it,
there being no one on board except myself Who
could so much as read.

After our council, however, we appointed
watches, and attended somewhat to the sailing,
keeping her course south, in hopes of fetching
Juan Fernandez or Mass Funera. But, Lord ! we
were hundreds of miles to the west, though we
knew it not ; and as for Juan Fernandez, we
should none of us ever see that island again.
So we sailed day after day, but slowly, because
the winds were light. The sun now grew hot ;
we were within the Tropics. The men had somewhat
recovered their spirits, and bragged what

they would do when we got home, and how
they would flag the money about. Some were
for Kingston, but some for Portsmouth ; and
I have always felt compassion for the his of
Point that they never had the spending of this
great haul. For my own part, I always knew
that something was going to happen, for surely
such a crew of murderers would never be suffered
to get safely to port with so much wealth.
The first thing that happened was that we
were becalmed. I know not where, but I think
somewhere hereabouts.' Mr. Brings pointed to
a spot near the middle of the Pacific, far from
any other track. ' We were becalmed so long
that we drank out all the Spaniard's wine, and
now had nothing to drink except water, and that
so long in the casks that it was, so to speak,
rusty. Also, we soon found that we had not a
great quantity of provisions left ; and that scurvy,
called the Lobillo, showed itself, of which we
lost two or three men. And now, if there was
no more fighting; there was no more sinc^inoj and
making merry. The men amused themselves
with gambling ; some of them played away all

their shares, but presently won them back, and
then lost them again ; or they passed the days,
which were tedious, in fishing for sharks — the sea
was full of them — sometimes they killed them for
food, but one soon gets tired of eating shark ;
sometimes they played with them, for they would
catch two, and put out the eyes of one, and tie
their tails together, and so drop them into the
sea, when it was pretty to see them pull different
ways, and fight and bite at each other just like
Christians. Or they would catch one and tie a
plank to his tail, so that he could not dive underwater
or swim away without dragging the plank
with him, and so went mad, and lashed the water
in his rage. And strange things happened.
One day, while we were still becalmed, the
needle began to turn all ways, as if the witches
had got hold of it— the Jamaica Obeah men
knoAv that secret — and another day the sky
turned violet colour, with green clouds, very
terrifying, and in the night the sea was a blaze
of light, so that we were all alarmed, and one
young fellow went mad, and cried out that the
Day of Judgment was come, and called upon the

sea to hide him from the face of an offended
God, and so jmnped overboard and was
drowned. I think we inst have been becalmed
for six weeks. At last, however, a breeze
sprung up from the nor-west, and so we continued
our course, if that can be called a
course which was sailing blindly, on an unknown
sea.

'Jack,' Mr. Brings cried, 'it will be thy
lot — wherefore I tell thee this history — to cruise
upon these waters, sot upon the course which
the Spaniards take, but west and south of their
route. There wilt thou meet, as we did, with
strange and. beautiful islands filled v/ith kindly
people, who paddle in canoes and swim like
fishes, and hold all things in common, and live
naked. In those latitudes it is always summer
all the year round, with warm balmy air ; and
nobody heeds the time, and there are always
rich fruits to eat and delightful fish to catch.
They have no religion, and therefore are not
afraid ; they have no knowledge of the ten
commandments, and therefore know not the
nature of sin, and have no conscience to trouble

VOL. \, M

them : they have learned nothing of any future
world, and therefore are not anxious ; they have
no property, and therefore know not envy ; they
have no diseases, except the incurable disease of
age ; although their lives are happy, they fear
not death, upon which they never think ; they
neither murder nor rob. What is our modern
civilisation, what is the politeness of the age,
compared with such happiness as theirs ? What
is there a man can hope for better than warmth
and plenty, the love of women, and the friend -
ship of men, with constant health, sunshine and
joy? Do they murder each other? Do they
fight duels with each other ? Do they gamble
away their fortunes ? Do they steal and rob ?
Do they entice away another's wife ? Are they
clapped into prison for debt, and kept there
until they die ? Are they hanged for forging,
coining, and shop-lifting? Are they flogged at
the cart-wheel for anything they do ? Are they
made to work all day so that another man may
grow rich ? Are they teased with wars ?
Must they be starved so that priests may get fat ?
Do they go in misery and anxiety all their days

for fear of the Bottomless Pit?' — Mr. Brings
enumerated many other things, which are not
the blessings of civilisation, yet exist among us,
and not among these savages. ' Why, for the
mere joy of living among this people, and
breathing their soft air, our men forgot even
their great treasure and their jealousies, and
became, as it were, foolish ; they quarrelled
no longer ; they rejoiced to go ashore and court
the friendship of these soft savages, and to give
them beads, knives, fish-hooks, or any little thing,
in return for which the people gave them everything
they had ; for a string of beads, or a piece
of bright-coloured silk they would bring out all
they possessed ; for a bottle of rum, they would,
I verily believe, have sold their island. Ah ! '
Mr. Brings heaved a deep sigh. ' I have known
true happiness on the African coast ; but there
the air is hotter and men's passions are fiercer
well, I love the fierce passion and the temperament
which breaks suddenly into llanie ;
but I have never seen or heard, anywhere, of
any place where the folk are so gentle as in
these seas and life is so easy and so sweet.

M 2

Heaven keep them long from the accursed
Spaniard.

And as for wonders, I have seen strange
things, indeed, which men would not believe.
Boys, I do not lie ; I have seen bats as big as
rabbits, and terrible great serpents which hang
from the trees head downwards, and have
power by their breath — I know not how — by
their breath alone, to draw wild beasts — nay,
and man as well — towards them, and so to break
their bones and devour them ; calamities, or
squids, are there with arms ninety feet long —
many have seen them, and avow the truth —
which can clutch a whole ship and dung it
under water ; there are springs of water which
have virtue to turn wish into stones ; there are
Hying cats and women fish — yea, fish with heads
and breasts like unto women, and tails like the
mermaids' ; there are shell fish big enough,
each one, to dine a boat's crew, and yet leave
meat to spare ; there are birds-nests so big
that six men cannot span even one ; there are
beautiful lizards, of all colours, as big as calves.
Am I lying to you ? No, boys There was an

island where we gathered a pannier of earth for
the cook's galley to lay under his fire. Would
you believe that, six months afterwards, we
found a bar of gold beneath it, melted out of
this little bucket-fall of earth ? But we could
never find that island again. As for the people,
the men mostly go naked or nearly naked, and
the women have a kind of petticoat made sometimes
of feathers, and sometimes of skins, and
they have hair so long that it trails upon the
ground ; their language is a jargon that no one
can understand ; and if they worship anything,
which I doubt, they worship wooden images.
Tasman found some of these islands, but he
has never been where I have been. No living
man — the rest being dead — has been where I
have been. Tell me not of Captain Shelvocke !
He only followed the Spaniard's track.

'We cruised about contentedly, leading a
Rfe like that of King Solomon himself, among
these islands, how long, I know not, for we
stayed sometimes for whole months off one
island. Perhaps it was fifty years, but I think
it was no more than two or three. There was

no more talk of the treasure. Some of our
crew died, some refused to leave the islands
even for their share of the treasure, and preferred
a black wife and a life of ease under a warm
sun with palm-wine and panting (which is their
kind of food), to any more dangers upon the
water. So at length, out of our company of
a hundred and twenty there were but five-and-twenty
left, among whom to divide the great
sum of money. This would give ten thousand
pieces each. But by this time the ship, poor
thing, was fcdlen into disrepair, and most of our
stores were now expended, so that what with
rotten cordage, which would hardly hold a sail,
and a leak which she had sprung somewhere,
which gained daily, and planks now so soft that
you could put a knife into them as into a rotten
apple, and her bottom covered with green
weeds, like a ditch beside a hedgerow at home,
I for one doubted whether she would hold together
at all if bad weather came. But in
these islands we never found any bad weather.

By this time all our clothes were worn out.
Stockings and shoes we had none, but no one

wanted them. For coat and shirt and all, we
had the bales of silk which we found on the
galleon ; and let me tell you that, in a warm
climate, there is no wear like silk, being both
soft and cool. We had suffered our beards to
grow ; we had left off carrying arms, and nobody
quarrelled or fought. Our provisions were
long since gone, but wee had palm-wine, such
as the islanders make, and panting, and we
where dexterous at fishing. If we left one island
and sailed to another, it was only for the sake
of change, for sailors are always a restless folk ;
and we thought of nothing but to continue the
joyful, easy and happy life that we where leading.


It was I, there being no officers left, who
broke up this contentment, and called the men
together to speak seriously. I pointed out to
them very earnestly that we must resolve, and
that immediately, whether we would settle
upon some friendly island and break up the old
ship, or whether we would without more delay
attempt the voyage home. I told them that
we were all rich men, and coidd take our ease

for life, if only we succeeded in getting home ;
but that we had a leaky and crazy ship, with
rotten cordage, worm-eaten planks, and foul
bottom, and that we must first put her in some
kind of repair before we could think of getting
round Cape Horn, and if we did not
speedily attempt these repairs the poor old
bark would founder beneath us. The men
lazily replied they cared nothing whether the
ship fell to pieces or no, and were content to
live for ever upon one of these islands among
the blacks, of whose soft manner of life they
were enamoured, and wanted no more fighting
or tempests. Such softness stealth over the
souls of all who dwell iu these latitudes. This
is the reason why the Creolian Spaniard — he of
Mexico, Cuba, or Acapulco — is so poor a creature
as compared with the Englishman, for the
heat and softness of the air have sapped his
courage, and made him a coward. One or two
among us, however, having still something left
of courage, and some recollection of home, persuaded
them to consent that we should, when
we could find a convenient place, endeavour to

Feel the ship over and scrape her, stop the leak
if we could, and make her shipshape for rougher
weather.

A few days afterwards, we came to a small
archipelago, or collection of small islands. They
were not the coral islands, which lie low, and
are surrounded by a reef of coral, but were alp
like hill-tops, rising sheer and steep out of
the water, green and wooded to the top, and
apparently uninhabited. In one of these we
found a curious natural dock or basin, deep and
narrow, for all the world like the Greenland
Dock at EedrifF, and as suitable for our purpose
as if we had made it ourselves. Here we
resolved to make our dockyard, and to begin
by heeling over the ship to get at her bottom.
Wherefore, in case of accident, it was first
agreed that we should put the treasure ashore
in the only boat we possessed, the great storm
having stove in the others. We lowered the
boxes, and put in the boat five men, of whom
I was one, with intent to row ashore, lay the
gold in some safe place, and then return to
tow the ship into this creek, or rocky natural

dock. So we put off, thinking no danger, and
rowed to land.

Now, mark what happened. The ship was
lying, when we left her, in smooth water, all
sails furled. There was no wind, not a breath
of air ; if we had dropped our kedge, which we
could not, because there was no bottom, the
ship would have ridden anchor apeak. The
time of day was afternoon, when air and water
are at their stillest ; and she was in a kind of
channel or narrow sea, with these islands all
around, which I should say were quite desolate
and uninhabited, yet full of trees and fruits, with
plenty of fresh water. We had no more than
the length of a furlong to row, the water being
deep and the shore of our island shelving steep
down into the sea. We landed, hauled up the
boat for fear of accident, and began to carry
ashore the boxes, in order to lay them together
under the trees. You think, perhaps, that a
treasure of two hundred and fifty thousand
pieces of-eight is a mighty great matter. So it
is, yet they may all be stowed in a few small
boxes. We laid them down, then, and left

them (no one being on the iskind except ourselves)
at the foot of a pain.

And there, my lads,' Mr. Brings added
slowly, ' there they are to this dav. For sure
and certain I am that no ship hath been among
these islands since. And I know that I could
find the place again.'

Why did you leave the treasure there ? '
You shall hear. When we got down to
the shore again, a strano-c thing; — nav, a miracle
had happened. The ship, which we left, as
I said, only a furious from the land, was now
as near as we could guess — two miles. She
had none of her canvas spread ; there was no
breeze to speak of, and yet she was slipping
tlu'oiigh the water away from us at six knots
an hour, as near as we could guess. Wonder-fill
it was to see a ship, without wind or sails,
moving so fast. Whether it was witchcraft —
which I sometimes think — or a strong current,
which may have been the cause, I cannot tell ;
but our ship had slipped away, and left us
behind. We rowed after her; but a little
boat, with one pair of oars, cannot overtake

a vessel going six knots an hour, with two
miles and more between. Then we thought
to make the crew put the ship about, if they
could. We shouted and made signals ; but, sofar
as we could discern, no one on board
noticed. Perhaps the men where all bewitched,
as, I think, must have happened ; perhaps they
were drinking or sleeping, because in those
days they generally spent the time in sleep,
whenever they were not drinking or fishing.
She seemed to move faster and faster, and the
evening was coming on. The sun got low ;
wee had only time to row ashore before the
darkness was upon us ; and the last we saw of
the poor old ship was the sight of her spars
with the sinking sun behind them, and the red
sky above, and the water spread out before us
like a sheet of copper.

'What became of that ship and her company,
I know not. But I doubt not that the
craft is broken up, and the crew are all dead
long ago. For either she struck a reef and
Alas wrecked, and the crew drowned, having
no boat ; or — which may very well have happened

— the leak grew upon her, and she made
so much water that she foundered ; or they
may have made a raft and hmded on some
island, where they lived, and, in due course,
died of too much palm wine. And this was
the best that could happen to them.

'As for us five men who were left upon
the island, we hoped at first that the ship
would come back for us, but she did not ; then
we made up our minds to stay there, and we
built a kind of house, and made ourselves easy,
and fished, and made panting. Ko man need
starve upon these islands. But, after a while,
we grew th^ed of the life, and so resolved to
attempt escape. So we buried the treasure at
the foot of the palm where we had first laid
it, and on the trunk we cut a mark ; then Ave
rigged a sail of palm leaves, caulked the boat
with cocoa-fibre, took some water and such
provisions as we could lay up in store, and so
left our island and sailed eastward. We were still
among islands, and we sailed among them for
many weeks — I know not how long. For still,
when we were out of sight of one island, we

THE WORLD WENT

would sight another and yet another, but not
all friendly, nor all so soft and affectionate as

those we had left behind ns. So we crept on,
from shore to shore and from cape to cape.

until at last we readied the open sea, and no
land in sight at all, and presently no provisions.'


And what happened then ? '

My lads,' said Mr. Brings, ' it is a terrible
thing to be at sea with no provisions either to
eat or to drink. Those who have water may
go on for a long time ; though I have been
told that the body presently swells up and
grows restless, and one must move about —
which, in a small boat, is difficult. But to
have neither food nor water ! Then the men's
eyes grow fierce and eager : horrible gnawing
pains tear them to pieces. All day long they
gaze upon the water for a sail, though they
know, as we knew, that there can be no sail in
those parts. At night, they sleep not ; but
groan and wish it Avere day. Then the pains
increase, and one would willingly die but for
the agony of death : and then the men cease
looking upon the ocean, but look in each
other's faces — none daring to say what is in
every man's mind.'

Here he was silent for awhile.

All this time we had a steady gentle breeze,
so that we sailed easily over smooth water, and
all the time we were followed by a shark, which
never left us, and was a certain prognostication
of death — which we knew and understood. My
lads, when that boat was picked up — which was
by a Spanish brig, sailing for the port of Acapulco
— there was but one man left. All the
rest had parted their cable, and the shark had
eaten them — that is, some parts of them. The
survivor hath never told anyone how he kept
himself alive. Perhaps he was able to catch a
few fish ; perhaps he caught a wild bird ; perhaps
it rained, and he caught the water as it
fell. If ever you do pray for yourself, Jack —
but it is best to take your own luck and to
pray for others — pray that you be never condemned
to sail in an open boat without provisions.'
I have read, in some book of shipwrecks,
that sailors have been known, in the
extremity of their hunger, to kill each other for
food. Did Mr. Brings and his boat's crew
resort to this dreadful method ?

As for the treasure,' he concluded,

solemnly, ' I have Bequeathed it. Jack, to thee
and to Bess Westmoreland, here, in equal parts.
We will sail together, some day, and dig it up.
I am old ; but I shall not die until I have seen
those seas again. We will go together. Jack,
and thou shalt be rich. But even now thou
art going thither, happy lad ! When thy ship
comes home, we will get a brig, somehow, and
sail away together — Captain Easterbrook in
command —-and steer for those islands. I know
not their longitude, but as to latitude, I am
very sure they are about the parallel of 20° S.
Oh ! I shall find that archipelago. I cannot
die until I have breathed those airs again and
found the treasure ! Jack, thou art heir to a
greater estate than any man in England can
boast. There is no Earl or Duke who shall
hold up his head beside thee. Thou shalt be a
Prince, and Bess shall be a Princess.'

He rolled up his chart, and returned to his
chair and his pillows, sinking into them with
the exhausted air which made one perceive
that he was already arrived at extreme old
a^e.

VOL. I. N

Forty years ago ! ' he groaned. ' Where
are they gone, those forty years which have
taken away my strength ? They made me a
slave in Acapulco — a slave to a Creolian
Spanish devil, who daily flogged and kicked
me. Jack,' he sat upright, and his eye flashed
fire, ' when we have recovered the treasure we
well burn the town of Acapulco, and roast alive
every Spaniard in it. Oh, that I could have
then got back to the island ! But that I could
not ; and very soon I perceived that I must
somehow escape, unless I was to be a slave for
life, worse than a negro slave, and made to
change my religion or burn. This, though I
had lived among the islands like a Pagan, I was
unwilling to do. I therefore ran away, and
committed myself to the Indians, by whom I
was taken across the Isthmus of Panama,
where I lived in the woods among my friends
the savages for two years and more, before I
could find an English ship among those which
came trading for mahogany to the coast of
Yucatan which would take me off. So that of
all that long journey I brought back to Jamaica

with fine but one thing — ray brie stone for the
cure of snake bites.' He pulled it out of his
pocket. 'When you are bitten by any of the
reptiles and insects of the forest, even by the
most venomous, you may apply this stone (I
have tried it on myself after a deadly snake-bite),
which sticks on the place, and doth not
fall off till it hath sucked up all the poison'
when it drops of its own weight, and must be
put into milk before you can use it again.
Forty years ago I When I was young and could
enjoy ! Life mocks us, Jack. Sometimes I
think that we are the sport and the laughter of
the gods ; but we know nothing. It flies before
you have more than tasted of its joys. Give
me fifty years more — only fifty years — and set
me on the African coast among the Corol
and I will find the secret which their
wise women know. It is in the African forests
that the herb grows which can cure all disease,
even the disease of old age. With my treasure
I could buy it, or find it, or compel them to
yield it up. Happy boy ! happy boy ! Go
breathe those airs of heaven, and gaze upon

N 2

those purple islands! If thou lightest upon
an archipelago somewhere in latitude 20° S.,
where the islands are like hilltops covered with
wood, search for one which has on its north
side a creek like a natural dock, then look fora
palm-tree marked with a cross, and dig
beneath it for a treasure. But if thou dost not
find that island, then when thy ship comes
home we will go together and seek for it, and
find the treasure — thine inheritance ! '

iSi

CHAPTER VIII.

THE ' Countess OF DORSET SAILS.

ALWAYS knew,' said Jack,
that Mr. Brings had been
II a pirate. I believe he was

surgeon to Bartholomew Roberts, who was
killed by Captain Sir Ogle Chaloner in the
Swallow.' Wherefore he ought, if he had his
deserts, to be now hanging in chains with his
brother pirates on the Cape Coast. Fifty of
them there are dangling in a row. Now we
know that he is a cannibal as well, because
it is certain he must have eaten up the other
four men in the boat. I wonder how the
last two determined the matter. And we
know that he is the possessor of a great fortune
buried under a palm-tree, on an undiscovered
island in the South Seas. It is as
useful to him as a bag of diamonds in the
moon.'

But he says that he shall sail with you in
search of it.'

Likely, likely,' said Jack. ' Who knows
what may happen? He is, I take it, now a
hundred years old. He keeps himself alive by
his craft. If he was going to die I suppose
he would begin to repent. As for his treasure,
what do I care for his pieces-freight, unless
it were to buy a frigate and man her with a

gallant crew, and go fighting the Spaniards and
the French ? '

They were prophetic words, but this we
knew not. Yet you shall hear.

Then the ' Countess of Dorset ' sailed away
with Jack as one of her midshipmen, upon her
long and perilous voyage. She was under
orders to sail by way of the Cape of Good
Hope, and to survey the coast of that vast
unknown continent or island called in part
New Holland and in another New Guinea.
This accomplished, as far as might be possible,
her captain was instructed to cross the ocean
and explore that other great island called New
Zealand. She was to search after and report
upon places which might be of advantage to
the British flag. After this she was to continue
her voyage of discovery even into the antarctic
fields of ice ; to penetrate as near to the South
Pole as possible, and she was to return by
doubling Cape Horn. So that, had she come
home in safety, her crew would have circumnavigated
the globe.

It would seem, I venture to think, consistent

with the dignity as well as with the
interest of a great maritime people, such as the
English, were such voyages as this always afoot,
so that, when one exploring ship returned,
another might be despatched ; undertaken not
only for the discovery of unknown continents
and islands, but also for the enlargement of
commerce and the enriching; of this realm. In
the old days the world was nothing but the
Mediterranean with the lands lying around that
great sea. Man has extended it east and west,
north and south, so that we can now boast that
we know all the islands of the Atlantic and the
Indian Ocean — navigators say that in those seas
there remains no more to be found — with the
countries of Asia (even China and Japan have
been described and exactly mapped by tie
Roman Catholic missionaries). We know the
eastern coast of North and South America from
Labrador to Cape Horn, and we are able to lay
down the harbours and river mouths of Africa,
though of its interior little lias yet been visited.
There will perhaps come a time, if the
English take the matter in hand without fear of

Spain, ^vlicn the whole world shall be fully
explored, so that there will be nothing left to
discover, neither strange races nor strange
creatures, nor wonderful plants. My father,
who had in his library a copy of the great
Kappa Mundi,' or Atlas of the late learned
Mr. Senex, woidd often converse seriously on
the possibility of finding, in some hitherto unexplored
part of the world, the long-lost Ten
Tribes, still, he would fondly imagine, practising
the Levitical Law in its Mosaic integrity, without
adding; to it or subtracting; from it, and in
ignorance of the losses introduced by Rabbinical
and Talmudic doctors. He looked to find
this people in vast numbers (in conformity with
Prophecy) somewhere between the springs of
Tigris and Euphrates, or, perhaps, more to the
north, and even on the slopes and among the
valleys of the mountains called Caucasus ; but,
he Avould confess, without crediting the idle
legend of the Sambatyon river, Avliich seems
a monstrous story, they may have wandered
farther afield, and perhaps are now on some
remote island of the Black Sea, the Need Sea,

or even the Indian Ocean. ' The recovery of
these tribes,' he said, ' would be a great consolation
to pious persons, and would doubtless
prove a mighty weapon in the hands of the
faithful ; or, apart from the Israelites, though
this people must be ever foremost in our
thoughts, it may very well be that there exist
in some remote countries, which have had no
intercourse with the outer world for many
centuries, some people who were once a branch
of the Eoman Empire, and have never heard of
its decline and fall, who knew nothing of Christ
or Mohammed, or of the Hindoo superstitions,
but still worship after the manner of the Greeks
and Romans. ' Twould be strange, indeed, to
witness the rites of Jove and Venus ; those of
the great Sun god ; of Ceres, the goddess of
fertility ; of Bacchus, the god of joy and wine ;
and of Pan, of whose death these people
perhaps know not : or it would be strange to
see them flocking to consult the oracles : and
one would willingly, if it were allowed to a
Christian, be initiated into the mysteries of
Eleusis, long since lost, though some have pretended

that they are concealed in the Sixth
Book of Virgil's " ^neid," and some still look
for them in Apuleius' " Golden Ass." Again,
there must be somewhere on earth the wandering
Jew, named Cartaphilus, Ahasuerus, or,
according to others, Isaac Laquedem, who is
credibly reported to have been last seen, and
that not so very long ago, in Paris. To sit
down and talk with him, if his memory is still
good, would be like finding a Fifth Gospel.
Or there may be in the interior of that great
southern continent which they call New
Holland great and powerful nations, with
another civilisation than our own, and arts of
which we know nothing. We have, it is true,
invented gunpowder, the use of which, to rude
people, appears a kind of magic ; and we have
contrived by our wit many ingenious mechanical
devices. But there are, surely, many other
secrets which man can compel Nature to
surrender ; and there may be tribes which
possess these secrets — as, for example, if one
may so speak without blasphemy, the command
and control of lightning, which now strikes

here and there at random, as we say, if anything
in this world is suffered to be at random ;
and the mastery over the other elements of the
earth — the wind, the storm, the ice, the snow,
Which now only obey the word and will of the
Lord. Or there may have been discovered in
these countries — who knows ? — a universal
medicine for all diseases ; for, since death is the
necessary result of decay or disease, when it is
not accident, there may be races who have discovered
some herb or simple by virtue of which
natural decay may be prevented, and so man
may continue to live as \ow^ as he please ;
which, for the devout Christian, who looks
forward to his eternal rest, would not be long.
Or there may even be found offshoots or colonies
of such ancient races as the Phoenicians, of
which stock came the Carthaginian ; and so we
may, perhaps, at length learn by what accident
this branch of the Semitic race — a most civilised
and cultivated branch — hath left no literature
at all, either of poetry or history ; or of the
Ethiopians, called by Homer, for some reason
unknown to us, blameless. They were expelled

from Egypt by the people whose clesceiidaDts
are now called Copts. Without doubt, they
where an interesting people, and remarkable for
their primitive virtue, which may have survived.
I would look for them on the western shores
of the Need Sea. Or somewhere in the world,
perhaps in the Pacific Isles, or in the unknown
heart of Africa, or the great continent of the
Southern Seas, there may be races of giants,
dwarfs, and amazons, for there must certainly
be some foundation for the stories of such
people. There is also the far-famed kingdom
of Prester John, which some will have to be the
Empire of Abyssinia, whose King and people
are known to form a branch of the Christian
Church. They boast themselves to be descended
from Prince Menelek, son of King Solomon and
the Queen of Sheba, which may possibly be the
case, although Holy Writ affords no warrant
for the belief One wx)uld be pleased to learn
also, if the many strange stories narrated by
the Venetian traveller, Marco Polo, be true, or
whether he hath repeated things which were
merely related to him, as is done by Herodotus.

And again, there is the journey of Mandeville, m
which are described men with but one leg, and
hippotains, or creatures half horse, half man ;
so that there may be truth in the legends of
Centaurs, though some have thought them to
have been merely a people loving horses and
addicted to riding.

Then to descend to creatures : there are
existing somewhere, perhaps, whether in the
hot and burning forests of South America,
through which the great river Oroonoko
flows, or in the African deserts, creatures like
the winged dragons of which so many stories
have been told, with salamanders and other
monsters ; and in the sea, hideous monsters
with bodies many fathoms long, the vast mass
floating like an island on the ocean : and great
calamities, of which sailors have reported some
with long arms capable of seizing and dragging
down to the bottom of the sea, ship, cargo,
crew, and all.'

Thus my father would discourse at length ;
but Jack hath assured us that in this terrible
voyage of his, they encountered nothing bigger

than a whale or more terrible than a shark ; nor
any winged dragon, or serpent more dreadful
than the kinds already known ; while as for Ten
Tribes, or for any men who know more than
the Europeans, or have acquired a form of
civilisation worthy our attention, he does not
believe that there nre any such.

We looked not for any news of the
'Countess of Dorset' for three years at least;
because, on the voyage on which she was
bound, there are no friendly ports where a
vessel may receive or send home despatches,
though, doubtless, many where fruit and water
may be obtained. We did not expect, therefore,
to hear any tidings of her until she should
return. It was not until fully three years had
passed away that we first began to ask ourselves
when the ship might be expected to return.

But no news came of the ship, and no
letters from those aboard her. The fourth
year passed, and still there came no news ; and
so the fifth, and still no news.

Then those who remembered Jack Easter-brook,
and loved him, began to misdoubt that

something had happened to the ship ; and,
when the sixth year had almost gone Without
a word, there were few who kept up heart, or
had any hope in them. As for the Admiral, he
mourned for Jack as for his own son, believing
that he must have been cast away with all the
ship's company. 'For,' he said, 'had they not
all miserably perished, some intelligence would,
ere now, have reached us. At the Navy Office
they have written off the ship as wrecked, and
the officers and crew as dead men, and the
clerks have told the Avomen who came to ask
after their husbands that they may e'en look
after fresh husbands ; though this i proves
nothing. And, though ships have been known
to be delayed and forced back by continual and
contrary winds, or caught by storms and losing
their masts, yet did I never hear of a ship
overdue for three years, and then arriving safe.
Lone[ ao'o the underwriters, had she been a
merchant-vessel, would have paid off the
insurances. No, gentlemen, there is no hope.
Our boy is drowned ! '

We were wrecked upon the island of Juan

Fernandez,' said Mr. Shelvocke, ' where we
lived, in great misery, on eels, the entrails of
seals, and such like for many months ; and should
still be living there but for the armourer and
carpenter, who built for us a craft, thirty feet
long, in which we embarked, having no other
provision than conger eel, cut into strips, each
strip dipped into the sea and dried in the sun.
A more loathsome food 'twere difficult to find.
Yet we escaped, taking the Spanish ship ^' The
Santo Jesu," and so came safe home again.'

Then,' said the Admiral, to whom this
story was not new, ' the boy may still live, or,
at best, he may linger on some island among
the savages, living on shell fish and the like ;
and so is as good as dead, since we shall never
see him more — poor lad ! poor lad ! a braver
boy never stepped.'

With submission. Admiral,' said Mr.
Brings. ' That something must have befallen
the ship I do not doubt. It is a sea full of
coral reefs, sunken rocks, strange currents, and,
in the northern and southern parts, there are,
it is certain, sudden storms. We cannot guess

VOL. I.

v/hat has happened ; still, I am sure that the
boy will come back to us. Ask your old
negress, Admiral, who is a witch ; ask Philadelphy
if that boy's eyes when he sailed away
were the eyes of one who is going to his death.
She can read the eyes of men — ay, and has
often read for me, sitting in my shop, in the
eyes of those going forth to sea whether they
will come back or no — and never once has
she proved wrong. Now, Admiral, I have examined
the chart over and over again ; but can
get no comfort from it, nor any clue to what
may have happened. An ocean where there
are no ports, and where there is but one vessel
sailing across it, like the South Pacific, where
the " Countess of Dorset " sailed upon — those
waters can give no help. But that boy.
Admiral, has not been drowned. And he will
return to us. His fortune is long and stormy,
as Philadelphy, at my request, hath proved in
many ways ; by the bowl, by the cards, by the
mirror, and by the glass ball. I have also had
his nativity calculated, and I learn the same
story. And, by what small arts and knowledge

I possess, I licive learned that his life will not
be cut off untimely. What, gentlemen ? Do
the stars lie ? Is there no truth in the magic
of the Mandimxo woman ? '

It is a consolation to know that a happy
end to anxiety is certain, even by witchcraft.
Yet Jack did not return, and no news concerning
his ship.

Many of the crew were Deptford men —
volunteers after the peace. Their wives, or
widows, on the advice of the clerks in the
Navy Office — who were now without hope concerning
the ship — married again. This, however,
is common among seafaring folk, and the
worst that happens, should the husband come
home again, is generally no more than a fight
and a cracked skull, with forgiveness over a
bowl. Nay, there have been known cases in
which the true husband has contentedly renounced
his wife, and either married another
woman or gone away to sea again ; perhaps to
seek out a new wife in some other port.

These six years, as you may suppose, were
not spent at home without changes. The elders



seem to stand still and suffer no change during
six years, aimless it is that their locks, if they
had any to show, would grow grey ; but in
these days of wigs and shaven cheek there is
nothing (happily) to mark the approach of age,
save trembling limb and crows feet round the eyes,
which cannot be concealed. As for me, I was
fourteen, or thereabouts, when the ' Countess of
Dorset ' sailed away ; and therefore, after six
years, I was twenty, and a man grown, though
not to the robust stature promised by Jack
when he left us. Castilla was now past seventeen,
and, in my eyes, more beautiful, as they
say, than the flowers in May. Nothing surprised
me more when Jack returned (for I
promise you that the black witch was right,
and Jack did return) than his coldness towards
this nymph. If a hue complexion, eyes of
heavenly blue, melting lips, rosy cheeks and
smiling mouth, with light hair curing naturally
about her forehead, and a figure slight and tall:
in short, if Hebe herself — who was the goddess
of youthful and virginal beauty, as Venus is the
goddess of that riper beauty which is no longer

ignorant of love — was lovely, then was Castilla
lovely at that time, and as sweet, gracious, and
obliging as ever was Hebe, the cup-bearer to the
gods. Why, when Jack came home, I looked
to see him fall at her feet at the mere contemplation
of so much beauty. But no ; he was
stark insensible. Castilla moved him not ; and
this for a reason that you shall shortly learn.

It was during this six years, to speak for a
moment of myself, that I passed through the
greatest trouble of my life, and touched the
highest happiness that I could hope or pray for.
My father had, as he thought, set me apart for
God's sacred ministry, as Samuel was set apart,
from childhood. He had taught me from the
first to consider this the holiest vocation for
man, as, doubtless, it must bo confessed by all ;
and he had taught me as nuicli Latin and Greek,
with the composition of Latin verses, as I was
permitted by my natural parts, which are not
great, to acquire. And while he perceived very
well that it was not in my power to become a
great scholar like himself, he comforted and encouraged
me by the consideration that piety and

virtue are within the power of every Christian
man, together with the other qualities which
adorn the sacred profession of priest or minister.

When I grew to the age of sixteen or
thereabouts, the time at which a boy generally
begins to bethink himself of the future, I
found, first, that I could not look forward to
the cassock without a feeling of repugnance ;
and, secondly, that there was no other manner
of Avork in which I took any interest, save one,
which for a while was not to be thought of.
Indeed, I did not myself consider it possible,
though I knew very well that there were some
nay, a good number — who live creditably
by exercising the art of painting, which was
the only thing I loved.

By this time I vas arrived, by continual
daily practice, and by some natural aptitude,
at a certain proficiency, so that my drawings of
ships and boats and the like were, if one may
say so, creditable and fit to be shown to any
judge of such matters. But when I ventured
to hint, in my father's hearing, that a life spent
in this occupation, which he considered frivolous,

miiyht be full of clelidit to one who
loved drawing, the thing was received with so
inch displeasure that I dared not for sometime
to open the subject again, but went on,
under his directions, making bad Latin verses
and reading Cicero and Virgil.

I then began to consider my destined profession
with such a distaste as amounted to
abhorrence, insomuch that, had I persisted intaking
those vows which my father intended
and designed for me, I should have committed
a most deadly sin, if not the sin which is unpardonable.
And yet I ventured not to open
my conscience to my father, fearing his displeasure,
and knowing very well how much he
had set his heart upon my following in his
footsteps. I was at length encouraged to do
so, however, partly because it smote my soul
with contrition to go on pretending acquiescence
in my father's Lavishes, and partly by a thing
which made my project appear more likely of
success, or, at least, less likely to end in disastrous
failure.

There was a certain John Brookiiio- of

Deptford, now very well known to painters,
and to such fame as belongs to modern painters.
He was about ten years older than myself, and
at first was but a shipwright's assistant in the
Yard ; but had no heart for his work, and
wasted his time in drawing the workshops, the
docks, the timbers, bulkheads, anchors — everything
that there is to be drawn in the Yard,
even giving up to his Art the whole of his
Sundays. He was a good-natured, harmless
kind of man, who cared little for himself, and
had no ambition except to paint all day, to earn
enough for his daily wants, and to spend the
evenings drinking with his friends. He presently
left the Yard, and went away to London,
designing to sell his drawings. But, before he
went, he gave me great help in teaching me,
so far as he himself knew them, the elements
of perspective, with certain simple rules of
geometry, and the arrangement of lights ; and
showed me how to lay on water-colours, and
how to get the proper tints, and how to produce
the effects I desired. I know not how he
lived for a while ; but, one day, I meet him in

the streets of Deptford, and lie told me, with
glee, that he had found a man — a dealer in pictures
— in Leicester Fields, who would buy his
drawings of ships, as many as he chose to paint
at a guinea a-piece (N.B. — He afterwards found
that this honest dealer sold the same pictures
for ten guineas a-piece), and that therefore he
was now a made man, and had nothing to do
but to go on with the work he loved, and
paint every day. Which he did, until he died
of a consumption, brought on, I suspect, by
much strong drink. However, I went to
London and visited him one day at his lodging.
He had a single room at the top of a house ina
court close to the Fields, where his friend the
dealer had his shop ; it was a good sized room
with a large window looking; north, which is
the best direction for light. This was his 
and his living room, bedroom and
kitchen — all in one. Never was a room
so littered and untidy and dirty. But John
Brooking cared nothing for dirt. He worked
there all day long, so long as the light lasted ;
or he made sketches and studies by the riverside,

which he afterwards made into finished
pictures in this simple studio, where lie stood
at his easel, never tired, a knitted night capon
his head, and in his shirt-sleeves, and a ,
broken short off, between his hips,
for he loved tobacco as much as any old gipsy
woman.

Well, his success, such as it was (but indeed
I thought of nothing, then, except how just to
live by my work so only that I could do the
work I desired to do), inflamed me, and I resolved
to tell all to my father ; which, to make
a long story short, I did, though with many
misgivings.

He is dead now ; and, I doubt not, hath
gone to the rest provided for the faithful. It is
a place where my love and gratitude may not
reach him. I have never passed so unhappy
a time as that when it seemed as if I must continue
my preparation for the University, in order
to perjure my soul by declaring falsely that I
was singled out by Heaven to follow the holy
calling of a minister ; and I have never felt so
truly happy as on that day when my father,

with tears in his eyes, bade me vex my soul no
longer, for it should be with me as I wished.

So I left Deptford, and went to london, to
become a pupil of the celebrated Mr. Hay man ;
and I hope that I have since done justice to the
instructions of that great painter. But I came
home often — partly to sketch among the ships,
and partly to see Castilla.

Enough of my affairs, which concern this
story but little.

CHAPTER IX.

AARON FLETCIIEE.

she sixth year came — nay, it had run
half its course and more ; yet no
news of the ' Countess of Dorset.'
And there was no longer any doubt
that the ship was cast away, and all the crew
long since dead. As for Jack, who had been
our hojDC and our pride, of whom we had said
that a youth so brave and so masterful must
needs rise to greatness, and bring credit upon
himself and those who had been his friends,
none now ever spoke a Avoid. Or if they did,
it was but to say that the loss of the boy had
brought age upon the Admiral, and that 'twas
great pity a youth of such goodly pi'omisc
should thus untimely perish. The stars had
lied ; witchcraft and magic were proved of no
avail.

Jack was dead. In the club at the ' Sir
John Falstaff ' his ship was never talked of, nor
was there any further speculation as to her
course, for the Admiral's sake, even by Mr.
Brings. And, by all the world, the boy was
well-nigh forgotten. When the greatest of
living men, he whose name is most in men's
mouths, dies, the daily life of the world is no
whit changed ; and this place, even in his own
work, whatever that may be, is speedily filled
up. What then can one expect in the case of
a boy .^

But in Mr. Brings' parlour, where now Bess
Westmoreland sat every afternoon, for company,
and to cheer the old man's heart. Jack was not
forgotten. These two talked about him still.
More than this — superstitiously trusting to the
negress's magical practices — they confidently
expected that he would return again. Well, in
the event the forecast proved true ; but, if weare
to trust to such an oracle, where is religion ?
If an ignorant negro woman is permitted to find
out, by her witchcraft, the secrets of the future,
and to foretell them, what shall become of religion

? Then, farewell, faith ; farewell, prayer ;
farewell, trust in Divine Providence ; farewell,
learning, since ignorance succeeds wlierc wisdom
fails !

In six years Bess had, like Castilla, grown
from a child to a woman. She was now in lier
seventeenth year, not yet filled out to the fulness
of her figure, but already tall and shapely.
If she had been dressed in rags, she would have
commanded attention ; but she was careful of
her dress, and went always becomingly attired,
though not above her station (the coral beads
that we know of were placed away in sone
drawer or box out of sight). She was so tall
that she topped her father (but he was round-shouldered)
by a head and neck, and there was
no girl in all the town within her height by an
inch and more ; she bore herself like a lance, so
straight and upright was she. Her nose and
chin looked as if they had been carved by a
skilful sculptor out of marble, so clear and
delicate were they ; her eyes were black, as washer
hair ; but rosy red her lips, and nearly
white her teeth. Like many black-haired

women, her cheek was full, but somewhat pale
iu colour, aud her throat was white, not with
such a whiteness as lent another charm to the
complexion of Castilla, which, although of a
sweet and delicate white, yet glowed with a
rosy warmth. The whiteness of Bess was a
colder or deeper white — a white that docs not
reflect the light, such as some Italian painters
have delighted to portray ; her hands where
small, and her forehead low, as the Greeks loved
it ; as for her eyes, they were soft and deep,
save when she was roused, and then, indeed,
they flashed fire and flame. As became her
station, she wore no hoop, and dressed her hair
in a simple knot ; but she walked as if her
limbs vere of springing steel ; and I am sure
no Princess in a hoop and patches could have
walked more like a goddess ; her arms, when
she was at work, were the whitest ever seen,
and the best shaped.

I have never disguised, and shall never disguise,
my belief, though Castilla will not agree
with me — that is, she assents, but without
warmth — that Bess was the most beautiful molten

living ; and this I can the more fairly say,
because I was never in love with her, any more
than a painter is in love with his model. As
for love between Bess Westmoreland and myself,
that was always impossible. Yet, for
suitors, she never lacked any, though she sent
all away, not with discourtesy, or with mockery,
or with mirth, as some girls will — as if it is a
line thing to dash the hopes of an honest lad,
and as if lovers can be had for the trouble of
picking them up — but with firmness and with
dignity, being too proud to encourage them, or
to suffer them to believe that she wanted their
wooing. Some of them were substantial and
reputable men, whom the daughter of a mere
Penman might have been proud to marry.
Why, it he had died, what would she have
done for her daily bread ? To my own knowledge,
one of her wooers was gunner's mate in
the King's Navy ; another was a master wheelwright
in the King's Yard ; a third was foreman
in the Greenland Dock ; and, I dare say,
there were more of equally respectable place.
It became a proverb that there was no man



good enough for Bess Westmoreland ; and the
other girls, who might otherwise have been
envious of her charms, regarded her with open
admiration, because she was not only much
more beautiful than themselves, yet wished to
carry away none of their sweethearts.

One lover alone, out oF all, stuck by her,
and refused to take her 'Xo' for an answer.
This was Aaron Fletcher, now grown into
a young giant, who carried on his lather's
business of boat-buckler, yet was of roving-disposition,
and kept his smack at Gravesend,
or at Leigh, in which he went fishing. Those,
however, who spoke of those fishing voyages,
were apt to laugh, and to ask why that fishing-boat
never came back by daylight.

1 have told you,' said Bess, * I have toil
you a hundred times, Aaron, that I will not
listen to you. Wherefore, go away in peace,
and trouble me no longer. Why. there are
dozens of other girls in Deptford, and plenty
better-looking than me would take you, and
that joyfully.'

'There are not plenty for me,' he replied.

VOL. I. 1^

I want but one. And, Bess, I shall never
give up asking. There's nobody in the world
loves you better, or would do more for thee.
Why am I not good enough ? There's money
in the stocking, Bess, now father is dead — ay !
and more than you think — and more to come.
There's as good business doing in my yard as
in any boat-builder's on the river, not to speak
of the smack, which does a tidy stroke, take
year and year about. I am not a drunkard,
though once a week or so I may take my glass
with the rest. I am strong, and I am young.
I wouldn't strike a woman nor treat her cruel.
I'd be true and faithful. Come, Bess, what is
the matter With me, that thou canst not say
"Yea?'

Well would it have been for her, and for
another, too, if she could have said ' Yea,' and
taken him. Why did she not? He was tall
and strong, and handsome of his kind ; he was
not esteemed to be ill-tempered ; he was not at
that time a drinker, save of a cheerful glass ;
he had a good character, save for the reputation
of these fishing voyages of his, which did him

no hurt with anyone. Did not the Admiral
himself put Aaron's Nantes upon his own table ?
He would have made Bess a good husband, if
any could, because such a woman, if she is to
be happy, must needs have a strong man fora
husband, and one who will rule her and
make her respect him. Well, indeed, it would
have been for her if she had taken this brave
fellow ; but she could not.

Bess,' he said, ' you can't be thinking still
upon that midshipman ? Why, he was but a
boy, and you Avere a child. He's cast away
and dead long ago ; and if he was not, he
wouldn't remember you.'
But she made no reply.
'Isn't for love of him, Bess, is it? Why,
I fought him half a dozen times; and, if he
were to come back, I would light him again.'

She laughed scornfully. ' 'Tis true, Aaron,
the last fight I saw ; and where were you at
the end of it ? Ebbing your head, and looking
ruefully at your broken finger. And
where was Jack ? Walking away with a laugh.
But don't talk to me about Jack, Perhaps hep

2

is dead. Living or dead, I don't suppose he
Avould remember or care for a poor girl like
me. But I can't marry you, Aaron.'

You shall,' he said with an oath. ' You
shall. I will make you promise to marry
me.'

This was a prophecy not made by an oracle.
Yet, strange to say, it came true — in a sense.
To be sure, it was not the sense that Aaron
intended. It has been observed that such
prophecies, together with all the prophecies of
witches and magicians, when they do come
true, never happen in the way hoped for when
the prophecy is uttered. Certainly, as you
shall see, Aaron's prophecy did turn out true —
but the result was not what he had expected
and desired. In the same way, Mr. Brings'
prediction about the South Seas also proved
true — yet not in the sense desired and expected
by him. As you shall also discover.

Very well,' said Bess, ' I will promise to
marry 3'ou, Aaron — when I love you. Cana
girl say fairer ? Go away now, Aaron ; go
away and find some other woman \\\\o wants

to go marrying, and take pity on her, if you
can. But as for me, I will marry no man.'

However, he renewed his importunity :
offering her presents, which she refused — such
as parcels of lace, flasks of Nantes for her father,
rolls of silk, and so forth, all got, I doubt not,
in the way of his fishing — and always declaring,
in his masterful way, that sooner or later she
should promise to marry him.

CHAPTEE X.

HOW JACK CAME HOME AGAIN.

ND now I have to tell how Jack was
joyfully restored to us. It was m
sorry plight, and after many disasters
and sore privations, which
killed his companions, but left him — to look
upon — none the worse, when he came back to
good food and decent clothes again. I think
that no one had ever a more wonderful story
to tell, and yet there Alas never a worse hand
at telling his adventures. Lucky it was for
Ulysses, and for eneas, that they found poets
to sing their sufferings and their wanderings,
for, I dare say, the former, at least, would have
made a poor hand at telling them himself. A
greater than Ulysses was here ; and no one,
until now, has ever told, save imperfectly, the
story of his voyage. It will never be narrated

as it ought to be, movingly, and to the life ;
and the sailing of the ' Countess of Dorset '
among the Pacific Islands, and the discoveries
which she made, and the dreadful calamities
which befell the ship and the crew will no
more be remembered than if she had been
some poor and insignificant collier, cast away
with her crew of half a dozen men and a boy,
on the Goodwin Sands.

It is also a strange circumstance that his
life should have been saved by the man who,
man and boy, was his steady and constant
enemy. Nay, as you will see in the sequel, his
life was once more saved by the same hand — a
thing which clearly shows the hand of Providence,
if it were only designed in mercy as a
rebuke to the man who desired and even endeavoured
to compass the death of his enemy
and rival. Yet I never heard tell that Aaron
Fletcher repented of the hatred which he
always bore to Jack.

One night in the month of September, and
the year seventeen hundred and fifty-six — a
dark and cloudy night, the stars hidden and no

moon, a light breeze flying, but only in puffs,
and hardly enough to fill the canvas, and a soft
and soaking rain falling — a small vessel, rigged
with fore-sail, sprit-sail, main-sail, and top-sail,
was slowly making her way across the German
Ocean. Her name was the ' Willing Mind,' of
Sheerness ; she was manned by a crew of five,
two more than are generally taken on board a
fishing-craft of her dimensions. Of these menthe
skipper sat in the stern, the ropes in his
hand, two were lying asleep beside the skipper,
covered with a tarpaulin, and two were in the
bows keeping watch. She carried no light, but
she was sailing well north of the track of 
vessels, and was by this time too
close to the Essex coast to fear being ran down
by colliers. Perhaps the watch was on the
look-out for lights on the coast, or for a King's
revenue cutter, of which there are many along
the east coast, and they greatly molest this
kind of craft, overhauling them suspiciously,
and searching for brandy and the like, impressing
the honest fishermen on board, and
sometimes even imprisoning them, haling them

before a magistrate, and bringing them to trial ;
and even, if they show much resistance, hanging
them ; and by their very appearance always
obliging the crew to throw overboard, if they
have time, the whole of their cargo. It
generally consists of a strange kind of fish, in
the shape of kegs, runlets, and jars, with bungs
and corks in their mouths. Perhaps the
Willinj]^ Mind ' showed no li^^ht because the
skipper and his crew dreaded being captured
by a French privateer, for we were again at
war with France, and the Channel was crowded
with these hornets, though, as a rule, they
hardly ventured north of the Goodwin Sands,
or off the More.

The boat slipped through the water slowly
and silently, save for a gentle ripple in the
bows. There was little way on her, but she
kept moving.

I take it,' said the skipper, grumbling,
that it is already past midnight ; we ought
to have made Shoeburyness by now. In three
hours it will be daylight, and perhaps the dogs
upon us — and with such a cargo ! '

The breeze will freshen with the dawn.
Master,' said one of the men in the bow.

And then it may be too late. And we
haven't had such a cargo for a twelvemonth.
What is that off the starboard bow ? '

It looks like a buoy. But it can't be a
buoy ! ' It Alas a black object, indistinct as
yet, but they were nearing it. Presently, a
hoarse cry of ' Sail ahoy ! ' came across the
water. It was repeated twice.

It is a boat with four men in her,' said the
watch, making her out. ' A little dingy she is.
Now, what the plague is she doing out here ? '

Sail ahoy ! ' came across the water again.
And now they could distinguish the figures of
three or four men standing up in the boat.

The skipper cursed and swore, and put up
his helm.

Sail ahoy ! for Jesus' sake ! We are sinking
! ' cried the men.

The skipper cursed and swore again, louder
and deeper ; but he altered his course, and bore
down upon the boat.

There were five men in her, but one of



them lay in the stern with his head upon his
arms, motionless. The boat had neither oars,

mast, or sails ; she was half full of water, and
the men were baling her with their hats.

For God's sake, take us aboard ! ' they
cried. 'It is as much as we can do to keep
afloat, and we are starving ! '

Wlio are you ? ' asked the skipper.

'We have broke from a French prison,'
they toil him ; ' and four days out, and nothing
to eat.'

Still the skipper hesitated.

Careen,' said one of the men, ' we can
guess, pretty easy, dio you are, and Avhat is
your business. That is nothing to us. Take
us on board. You shan't regret it. Only take
us on board and give us something to eat, and
set us ashore on English soil ; and if you were
laden with all the brandy there is in the world,
you should never be sorry for coming to our
help.'

The skipper cursed them again for interrupting
his run. But it would have been the
most shocking inhumanity to refuse ; therefore,
with a bad grace, and sulkily, he ordered them
to get on board as quickly as they could. This
they did ; but they had to help the man in the
stern, because he had got an open wound in his

head and had lost much blood, besides being
nearly starved. So they lifted him in and laid
him on a tarpaulin, and cast off their crazy little
boat, and the smack went on her course again.

Then the skipper, who was not wanting in
generosity, though he cursed them for stopping
him, pulled out of the locker such provisions as
might be expected in such a craft — consisting
only of bread, mouldy Dutch cheese, and some
onions. But, Lord! if these had been the
greatest dainties ever set before an Alderman
the men could not have devoured the food
more greedily ; even the wounded man lifting
his head and eating ravenously. When
there was nothing at all left to be eaten,
the skipper passed round a bottle of ]brandy
and a pannikin, which were received with
heartfelt gratitude too deep for power of speech.
For cold and starving men bread and cheese
and onions make a banquet, but brandy in
addition — oh ! 'twas too much !

When they had eaten up everything, therefore,
and drunk as much brandy as their rescuer
would give them, they began, as sailors will,

through a spokesman, to relate the story.
Everybody knows, that at the outbreak of the
war the French fleet put so many privateers to
sea, and eve had so few, that there was nothing
but the capture of English merchantmen going
up and down the Channel, and the French
prisons were soon choked with poor devils laid
up by the heels, and Awaiting for a general
exchange, or for the close of the war, to be
released. Three of the men had been taken
by a privateer out of a West Indiaman, and
conveyed with others up the country to a place
called St. Omer, which is a fortified town some
twenty miles from Dunquerque, and about the
same distance from Calais, and were then clapped
into prison in the citadel, or the barracks, or the
town jail, I know not which. Wherever it was,
they found there, among the other prisoners,
the man who lay wounded on the tarpaulin, notable
to sit up, and saying nothing. And he it
was, they said, who had devised the plan of their
escape. There where a dozen more who were
in the plot, and should have meade the attempt,
but at the last moment they lost heart, as always

happens in an adventure so desperate and remained
behind. As things turned out. it was
hicks that there were no more of them, because
there was certainly no room for any more in
their rickety little boat.

I do not rightly understand how the escape
was effected, because in the subject of fortifications
I am ignorant, though Jack hath often
endeavoured to explain to me the nature of
scarp, counterscarp, bastion, and so forth.
However, they surmounted all these difficulties,
and in the dead of night they found themselves
on the right side of the ramparts — that is, on
the outside — and with open country all round
them. Then, steering by the stars, they made
due north. Before they got half way on their
journey they where surprised by dawn, and
forced to seek a hiding-place, which they found
in a wood or coppice beside a river, where the
shelter was good, though the lying was wet and
swampy. Here they stayed all day, w^itli
nothing to eat except a few berries, then happily
ripe. At nightfall they started again, and, as
they judged, soon after midnight found themselves

on a sandy coast somewhere between
Calais and Dunquerque, near a place called
Gravestones. But there was no boat on this
open and deserted coast, and they wandered up
and down for a honos time seeking for one, and
fearing lest they might again have to seek a
night's shelter. When, at last, they found one,
it was hauled up high and dry on the sand.
This would have mattered little ; but, unluckily,
her owner, or a man who behaved like her
owner, was sleeping on the sand beside her.
There was no choice, but they nnist needs have
her, and while they dragged her down to the
sea, the Frenchman woke up, and perceiving
that he was being robbed of his boat, he lugged
out a knife and made at them, and, before lie
could be fairly knocked on the head, gave their
leader a desperate cut across the face, from
which he lost a great deal of blood, and was
much weakened. They got him safely into the
boat, however, though he was fainting from the
wound, and so put to sea, and hoped to be able
to row across the Channel, if they should have
the good luck to 'scape the privateers, and make

the port of Dover, in eight or ten hours ; or,
perhaps, they might be picked up by some
English ship, if they were hicks. They had
neither mast nor sail in the boat, and there
were no provisions in it of any kind. Also, as
they quickly discovered, she very soon sprung
a leak, and had to be baled out continually.
They rowed on, however, taking turns, for
three or four hours. Then a most unfortunate
thing happened. For, while two of them were
rowing lustily, in their eagerness to lose no
time, and to get across and land on English soil
again, and the oars being not only small but
old and rotten, they both snapped short off
close to the rowlock, at the same time. This
accident dashed all their hopes, for, though
they tore up two of the boat's planks, thinking
to row with them, it was slow work ; then they
tried to make a sail with a shirt and one of
these planks, there being a light breeze from
the sour-west, and they got, as they supposed,
into the current. They were carried, certainly,
as they discovered at daybreak, out of sight of
the French coast, but also, which was another
VOL. I. Q

misfortune, outside the track of slips, and so,
though they saw many sail in the distance, they
passed none near enough to be picked up, and
in this miserable condition tossed and drifted
for four days and four nights, and were now
well-nigh spent, and the leak in the boat growing
every moment worse, so that she threatened
to fill with water and to sink under them unless
they baled continually.

It's easy guessing,' they reseated, after
they had told their story, ' what you've got onboard
: that's no concern of ours. Only you
put us ashore. Without making bold to inquire
further, tell us where we are, and how
far from shore.'

As to where we are,' said the skipper, ' the
night is dark, and I don't rightly know. But
to the best of my guessing, we are not far from
Shoeburyness, which should lay right ahead ;
but the shore is low, and difficult to make out.'

Mate,' said the spokesman, ' land us as far
from any port as you can. I guess the press is
hot up the river.'

The skipper said that there was a very hot

press ; that as to himself, he was gong to land
at Shoeburyness, where he could put them
ashore, and they could then shift for themselves,
and make their way inland, if so be they had
friends anywhere,

'As for this poor fellow,' said the man,
pointing to the one Who was lying doAvn, ' he
says he's an officer, though he doesn't look
like one in those rags of his. So he's got nothing
to fear from a press. Don't put him
ashore, skipper. Take him to some place
where he will get his wound dressed. If what
he says is true, he will be able to pay you for
the service.'

I will take him,' said the skipper, ' to
Gravesend. That is all I can do for him.
After that, he must shift for himself.'

Shortly after this, and before daybreak,
they made the land between the village of
Southern and Shoeburyness. Here they landed
the four men, who, with many vows of gratitude,
expressed in sailor-ike fashion — namely, with
appeals to the Divine Power to blast them and
sink them if they ever forgot this service —

Q 2

quickly vanished inland. It matters nothing
what became of these poor fellows ; but intelligence
came from Maldon, shortly afterwards,
that a gang of four men, dressed like sailors,
had been apprehended stealing a sheep. They
made a desperate fight, and one of the posse
comitatus was dangerously wounded. In the
end, they were overpowered, and taken to
Chelmsford Jail, where, in due course, they
were all hanged. If these where the men landed
from the ' Willing Mind,' the poor wretches had
better have remained in their prison at St.
Omer, where, at least, they were having a life
of innocency, although half-starved with their
meagre soup and sour bread. But perhaps the
men who were hanged were another gang.

Now, as regards the cargo of the ' Willing
]\/[ind ' — I mean that load of fish, all with corks
and bungs in their mouths — it would be a
shame for me to disclose where it was landed,
and by whom it was received, though one may
know very well. I am not a spy and an informer
; the revenue officers may find out for
themselves the secrets of the trade which they

have to stop, if they can. I say not whether
it is such a trade as a person of tender conscience
may undertake ; but, at least, this much
may be said for it — that those who practise it
know beforehand the risks they run, and the
punishment which awaits them if they are
captured.

Enough to say, that the landing was successful,
and that about noon that day the
Wilhng Mind,' now in ballast, was running up
the Thames with full sail, wind and tide favourable,
bound for Gravesend ; and the wounded
man was so far recovered, that he was now
sitting up and looking about him. He was a
wild creature to look at, being, to begin with,
horribly thin, as if he had had no food for
months ; he had suffered his beard to grow,
and it now covered his whole face, so that he
looked like a Turk, with his hair long and uncombed
; his head was bound up with a dirty
and bloody clout, which hid one eye ; there
was blood upon his cheek. Presently, while
he looked about him with lack-lustre gaze, the
pain of his wound being great, his eye fell upon

the skipper, and lie started and became suddenly
alive and alert.

Aaron Fletclier, by the Lord ! ' he cried.

That is my name,' replied the skipper.
I am not ashamed of it. But I don't know
you, mate.'

You have forgotten me, Aaron. If you
had known me, you would have been all the
more anxious to save my life. Of that I am
well assured. We should have foundered in
five minutes. As for me, I cared nothing
whether we sank or swam. All is one to a
starving man. Give me another tot of brandy,
Aaron. Don't you recognise me now ? '

Man ! I never clapped eyes on you before
to my knowledge. But since you know mj^
name, and therefore, likely, where I live, so
that you might do mischief, let me tell you ' —
here he insisted or emphasised the assurance by
a dozen or two of round oaths, such as he and
his kind have always ready to hand for all
purposes — ' that if you are going to turn informer,
after all you have seen, it would be
better for you if we had thrown you overboard

at once with a shot to your heels. One or
other of us, my lad, will have your blood.'

The other men of the crew murmured
approval of this sentiment with additions of
their own invention, about cutting the weasand,
breaking bones and limbs, gouging out eyes,
and so forth.

The same old Aaron,' said the man.
Why, you have not changed, save that you
are stouter and bigger. The same sweet and
unsuspicious temper. I wonder if there is
another such treat in store for us both as we
had when last we met ? '

Wlio the devil are you ? ' asked Aaron,
staring, partly because the man knew him, and
because so ragged a fellow should talk with
such boldness. But as yet quite unsuspecting.

That, my friend, if you cannot guess, I
shall not tell you. As for your kegs, fear not.
I care nothing where they were bestowed nor
to whom they were consigned, nor where they
came from. So far as I am concerned, you are
safe. Besides, you have saved my life. This
cut in the head, d'ye see, cost me so much

blood that I do not think I could Ive endured
another night of starvation. Why, man, I
have had to hive for weeks with nothing but a
taste now and again, when the chance came, of
putrid seal or rotten fish ! I'm downright tired
of starving.'

Who are you, then ? ' Aaron looked at him
hard, but could make nothing of him.

Yet it was strange that he did not begin to
suspect. This, I take it, was because, like
everybody else, he had quite made up his mind
that Jack was honos since dead, and so he was
gone clean out of his mind. This is so, when
a man is dead. His face goes out of our
mind because we never think to meet him

adam,

Well,' he said at length, ' it don't signify
a button who you are. You've got nothing
against me, even should you lay information.
But you're down on your luck, whoever you
be. And you've the cut of a sailor about you.
Wherefore, mate, take my advice and keep well
in shore, for the press is hot all the way from
Margate to Chelsea, and, wounded or not,

they'll have you if they can, and three dozen
or more for skulking, if you are not fit for duty
in four-and-twenty hours.'

Thank you, Aaron,' the man replied, and
so lay down again and went to sleep. But
Aaron kept looking at him, uneasy, yet notable
to remember him.

So they made their way to Gravesend, and
arrived off that port in the afternoon.

I thank you, Aaron,' said the passenger,
waking up, and getting to his feet. ' The food
and the brandy and the sleep have set me up
again. I believe I shall be able to walk the
rest of the journey. One more favour, Aaron.
After saving my life, it is a small thing for you
to do. I am without a single penny. Lend
me a shilling, which I will bring myself to the
boat-house, and repay you when you come
home. You don't know me, Aaron ! Why,
man, how goes the boat-building .^ '

Aaron produced the money, still staring
with all his eyes, as the children say.

A shilling, Aaron, is not much. If it was
six years ago, I should say we would fight for

it.' So lie dashed back the hair that hung
about his face, and looked Aaron full in the
face with a laugh.

Good Lord ! ' cried Aaron. ' It's Jack
Easterbrook ! '

Mr. Easterbrook, ye dog. I am in rags,
but I am a King's officer still, and you are nothing
but a common smuggler.'

It's Mr. Jack Easterbrook,' Aaron repeated.
He's come back again ! '

As for this shilling, Aaron, shall we fight
for it now ? '

'But— Oh, Lord 1 How in the world did
you get in such rags as this ? And where's the
'countess of Dorset?'

As for the rags, where I got them was in
the Isle of Chiloe, off the Patagonia coast, and
if I had not got them I should have come home
as naked as Adam in his innocency. And as
for the " Countess of Dorset," her timbers are
where I got my rags, on the coast of South
America, and her crew are mostly beside her
timbers, such parts of them, that is, as the
crabs have not been able to devour.'

Oh, Lord ! ' Aaron gazed as if at a ghost,
and could say no more.

Do they think me dead, Aaron ? '

All of them ; except, I am told, Mr.
Brings.'

'Oh! andthe Admiral?'

It isn't for the likes of me to know Avhat
his honour thinks, sir,' said Aaron. ' But he's
been going heavy for a good time past, and
they do say as how he frets more than a bit
about your drowning.'

Jack was silent for a bit.

And Bess Westmoreland P ' he asked.

What has she got to think about you for ?
You are a gentleman, though in rags at this
present moment. As for Bess, she is but the
daughter of a Penman. She belongs to the
likes of us, not to gentlemen officers

She must be grown a big girl now. Well,
Aaron, and Mr. Brings? '

He's a devil. He's worse than ever. He
gave Lance Egg, of Anchor Alley, the rheumatics
last week, and threatens her with worse
for rope's-end that girl of hers. He's a devil!

and never a day older since your honour went
away.'

So, Aaron, you have saved my life, though
you did not intend it. Yet I take it kindly. I
do not think you would have suffered your old
townsman and your old crony, whom you used
to fight whenever you met him, to drown, if
you had known who was in the boat.'

1 would not, sir,' said Aaron, stoutly.
Yet, to tell the truth, I'd as lief, you were at
the bottom of the sea, in Davy's locker, where
we all thought you were, and Avhere you ought
to be by rights, your ship and the crew all
being there except you.'

Give me thy hand, Aaron.'

So they shook hands.

As for the shilling, sir,' said Aaron, ' let
me make it a guinea, and if your honour will
let me pay for a decent suit of clothes, or shoes,
at least '

Nay, Aaron. As you found me, so shall
they find me. The shilling will be enough to
pay for all I want ; and I have gone so long
barefooted that my feet are as hard as leather,

and feel not the road. As for the shilling, we
will, perhaps, fight for it. But not yet. You
would not, I am sure, being an honourable
man, wish me to fight until I have recovered
my strength. Farewell, Aaron.'

So he stepped ashore, and with such lightness
of step as reminded Aaron of the old days
when Jack stepped down the street in his midshipman's
uniform, free and careless. He was
light of step because of the joy of returning
home, yet he was still somewhat dizzy and
weak. However, he had a shilling to pay for
supper, and he had but twenty miles to walk, or
thereabouts. A short distance for those who
are strong and well, but a long journey to be
done on foot by a man with an open wound on
his forehead, and half-starved to boot, so that it
is not surprising that he did not reach Deptford
till noon next day.

The next day was Sunday.

At half-past twelve, the Vicar of St. Paul's
finished a most learned discourse upon certain
philosophical systems of the Phoenicians, the
Chaldeans, the Greeks, and the Egyptians, deducing

Christian truths, by the method known
as analogy, from each. Castilla, I remember,
sat with folded hands, and eyes fixed upon the
preacher, as if she understood every word. And
the Admiral slept. The poorer part of the congregation
behaved after their kind ;-that is to
say, the men slept, the women sat perfectly
still, and the boys fidgeted. When one became
too noisy, he was taken out by the beadle
and caned in the churchyard among the tombs,
the other boys all listening, and counting the
strokes, as if the number administered was in
itself a fine moral lesson (the same thing maybe
observed both in the Army and the Navy).
When I read that the Papists attach a particular
merit to mere attendance or presence during
the performance of their mass, I cannot but
think that the same indulgence might be extended
to our poor ignorant rustics and servants
for their patient attendance at the sermons of
which they understand nothing.

When morning service was ended, the Vicar
came down from the pulpit and walked into
the vestry, preceded by the beadle, carrying his

stick of office, aucl followed by the clerk. Then
the people all stood up in respect to the Quality,
who led the way out of the church. First there
walked down the aisle the Admiral, his wig
that morning combed, curled, and powdered,
and with him his lady in hoop and satin, and
his daughter Castilla in hoop and baronet, very
beautiful to behold. After them came Mr.
Pettt, the shipbuilder, with his wife and family ;
Mr. Underhill, the retired purser, who was a
bachelor ; Mr. Mostyn, the Pockets writer of the
Customs ; Mr. Shelvocke with his family, and
others who lived in the genteel houses beside
the Bridge ; and with them I walked down the
aisle, though only a painter, and an apprentice
at that. When we had passed down the aisle,
and conversed for a few minutes standing on
the great stone terrace which makes St. Paul's
Church so stately, we separated, some taking
the pathway through the churchyard to the
right into Church Lane, and others to the left
into Bridge Street. I walked beside Castilla,
who carried her Book of Common Prayer, and
vas silent, doubtless meditating on the spiritual

truths of the Vicar's sermon. Behind us came
three out of the Admiral's four negroes, and
Philadelphy, splendid in her red silk handkerchief
and a blue speckled frock. And after us
came the common sort flocking out together,
the boys, for their part, glad that the sermon was
finished, and all of them longing for the Sunday's
beef and pudding. The poor do certainly
exercise the virtue of patience more than the
rich, especially at a sermon, of which, when a
learned Divine, like my father, preaches it, they
can understand not one Avoid. So that one
may forgive them for the unrestrained joy
which, on every Sunday, the faces in the side
aisles manifest at the conclusion of the discourse,
not only of the boys and girls, but of the
grown-up people as well. Among those who
followed after the better sort were Mr. Westmoreland,
the Penman, and his daughter — he
bent and feeble, round-shouldered and meek,
leaning on his stick ; and by his side, Bess, tall
and upright as a lance, dressed somewhat finer
than those of her condition are wont to go, and
holding her head in the air as if she was a

Queen. Strange that her father should be so
meek and humble, and that no learning of
the Catechism could teach Bess meekness or
humility. There is, I now understand, a certain
quality in beauty which prevents its owner from
lowliness, however humble be her station. The
young fellows looked after Bess as she came
forth from the church ; but she regarded them
with proud eyes, and passed on disdainful, as if
she was too high and good for any of them.
Therefore they followed after the other girls,
who were as willing as Bess was proud, and
perhaps, in these honest fellows' eyes, not much
less beautiful.

Just opposite the churchyard gate, close to
the principal entrance of Trinity Hospital, we
observed, as we passed into Church Lane and
turned to the right, a fellow leaning against the
posts. He was tall and big-limbed, but thin
and wasted, as if he had been suffering from
some disease or dreadful privations. One could
very well see that he was a sailor, though in
his dress, such as it was, there was little to show
it. He wore a common sailor's petticoat or

VOL. I. R

slop, he had a ragged waistcoat, buttoned upto
the neck, because he had neither shirt nor
cravat ; he was bareheaded and barefooted ;
his hair was long and matted ; round his
forehead was tied a dirty clout or handkerchief,
red with streaks of blood, so that he
seemed to have but one eye.

As we came out of the churchyard, I
caught sight of him, and thought, naturally,
how he would look if he were drawn just soin
those rags, and put into a picture, making
one of a group. And I saw, but suspected
nothing — how could Ave be all so foolish and
blind as not to see, with half an eye, who it
was? — how he started when we came forth
from the churchyard, and made as if he would
move towards us, perhaps to beg, but checked
himself, and waited where he was.

But the Admiral stopped, and surveyed him
leisurely from head to foot. Then he lugged
out his purse, and found a crown-piece, which
he bestowed upon the man.

My lad,' he said, ' thou art a sailor, and
thou hast fallen among thieves, belike. I will

not ask where thy wound was gotten, nor
in what company ; nor how thou art in such
ragged plight. Take this crown-piece. Go into
dock and refit. When this is spent, come tome
for another. And when all is well ao-ain,
volunteer and serve the King, and so keep out
of mischief.'

He shook his gold stick with admonition,
and stumped away. But the man took the
coin and held it in his hand, without saying a
word of thanks. I, still watching him in my
foolish way, because so picturesque a rogue had
I never seen, most of our ragged vagabonds
spoiling their beauty, so to speak, by going in
an old wig, torn in half, burned, uncombed,
and dirty, that hath, perhaps, been used by a
shoeblack to rub the shoes in his trade. There
is no picturesqueness possible in an old wig.
Yet, I was not so stupid but I saw in the man's
eye a look which was both wistful and sorrowful,
though I did not then interpret it in that
manner.

So the Admiral went on, followed by his
good lady, who held lier skirts in her hand,

and stared at the man in her turn, as ladies
sometimes look at such poor wretches — namely,
as if they were of a different clay, and had
another kind of Adam for their father. But
one must not expect a gentlewoman, such as
the Admiral's lady (she was by birth distantly
connected with the Eight Honourable the Earl
of Bute, and a Scotswoman) to understand
how, beneath the most rugged exterior, there
may be found admirable qualities of courage
and fidelity. So she gazed upon him, turned
her head, and went her way after the Admiral.
After her came Castilla. ' Poor man ! ' she
said, in her sweet way, ' I would I had some
money to give thee ; but I have none. Truly
thou art to be pitied. I wish thee better
fortune and a ship.'

She had been taught by lier father, and
fully believed it, that the only place where
these rough tarpaulins were happy and out of
mischief was on board ship. Seeing that they
are so often drunk and fighting, and in trouble
on shore, perhaps she was right, But then
ashore there is no bo's'n, and there is no cat~o'-

nine-tails, save for pickpockets. So lie looked
at liii compassionately, and he moved his lips
as if he would have spoken, but did not. And
so she passed on her way.

Then came I myself. I said nothing, but
he looked at me with a kind of sorrowful
wonder. I remembered, directly afterwards,
what that eye of his said as plain as it could
speak ; but at the moment I was deaf to its
voice, and blind and stupid, thinking only of
a bundle of rags on a tall figure, and how the
man and the rags would look in a picture.
After ourselves came the negroes and Philadelphia.
The men rolled their eyes at this
poor fellow with the contempt that a fat and
well-fed negro always feels, forgetful of his skin,
for a starving white man, and if their master
had been out of hearing they would have
laughed aloud and even rolled on the ground
in the enjoyment of his suffering. Nothing
makes a negro laugh more joyfully than to see
somebody hurt. That is, perhaps, why some
of their kings celebrate their most joyful festivals
with horrid murders and rivers of blood.

Philadelphia followed her young mistress, and
had no eyes for anyone else, being, though a
witch and a sorceress, and an Obeah woman,
faithful to Miss Castilla.

When we had passed, the Vicar came out
of the vestry and so into Church Lane.

Why, my friend,' lie said, stopping to
contemplate the scarecrow, 'where hast thou
gotten these rags and this wound ? '

I have escaped, sir, from a French prison,
and have received a hurt on the forehead.'

Something in his manner touched the
Vicar.

Are you a common sailor ? ' he asked.

'Do I look like aught else, sir? Heard
one ever of an officer in such rags as mine ? '

'Yet you speak like an educated man.
And your voice seems familiar to me. Follow
me to the vicarage, my poor man, where you
shall have a plate of victuals and a tankard
of ale, and we will see what can be done to
replace some of these rags, which are not
proper for a Christian man and an honest man
to wear.'

How doth your Eeverence know that I
am an honest man ? '

Nay, that I know not, and there are many
rogues abroad. But it is not for me — God
forbid ! — to attempt to separate the sheep from
the goats. Therefore, sheep or goat, follow me
and be welcome, in the name of our Saviour.'

The Yicar left him, and he turned and
would have followed, but for one thing;.

We who were a few yards in advance,
unthinking and unsuspecting, heard a cry
which stopped the very beating of our hearts.

The cry was from Bess Westmoreland.

She, too, saw the ragged sailor when lie
passed through the churchyard gate. But she
did not, like the rest of us, pass on, and think
no more. She suddenly broke from her father,
pushed the crowd away to right and left, and
fell on her knees upon the muddy ground,
catching the man by both hands, like a mad
thing, and crying :

Oh, Jack ! Jack ! Jack ! He is home
again ! Jack Easterbrook has come home
again ! '

Then, as we crowded round, we saw the
tears run down his face. It was the first time,
and the last, that ever any man sav Jack weep ;
yet he had plenty to cry for, both before this
and after. He caught the girl by both hands,
and bent over her, saying, as we all heard :

Oh ! Bess, Bess, none of them remembered
me — not even Luke ; none of them thought of
me ! But you remembered me, Bess ! Oh !
Bess, 3'ou remembered me ! '

CHAPTER XL

THE VOYAGE OF THE 'COUNTESS OF DORSET.'

then" we all crowded round him,
shaking his hand and rejoicing; and
the Admiral first swore at Jack for
playing a trick upon us (but, alas !
it proved to be no trick), and then at himself
for his stupidity, and then could say nothing
for the tears which drowned his voice and ran
down his cheeks. And Jack declared first that
he would never part with the Admiral's crownpiece,
and next that he would not put off his
rags until he had first eaten the Vicar's plate of
victuals and drank his tankard. This he did ;
and the Vicar said grace solemnly, with thanks
for the safe return of the long-lost sailor ; and
we all flocked round him to see him eat and
drink. A pretty sight it was, for he had not

tasted honest roast beef for six long years.
Then, though it was Sunday, nothing would do
but they must ring the church bells, as if they
would bring down the tower about their heads.
And Mr. Brings came running in shirt-sleeves,
waistcoat, and night-cap, just as he left his shop,
the lancet still in his hand with which he had
been bleeding people all the morning.

Thus we carried home our poor ragged
prodigal. After the first confusion was over I
looked for Bess, but she had slipped away,
unheeded.

Then came the barber, and cut off his
frightful beard, trimmed and powdered his hair,
and tied it behind with black ribbon, so that he
looked now like a Christian. More suitable
clothes were found for him, and as for his wound,
Mr. Brings dressed it for him, and covered it
with plaister, telling him that it was an ugly
gash, but in a few days would be healed, save
for the scar across his forehead, a thing which
no sailor heeds ; and then he stood before us, a
proper and handsome fellow indeed. He had
left us a lad, and he came back to us a man,

over six feet in height, and with broad shoulders
and stout legs to match. His cheeks, 'tis true,
were somewhat hollow and pale, because he had
been on short commons for four years, as you
will presently learn.

Stow, you will believe that we were eager
to know what had befallen him ; but we could
at first get little talk with him, for all that
afternoon there came to the house people of
every kind anxious to see and converse with this
young hero, who had, it was reported in the
town, escaped from the French after six years
of captivity. The Church Service in both
churches was that afternoon read to empty pews,
because all the worshippers were in the Admiral's
garden. Among them came the widows of those
Deptford men who had sailed with Jack in the
Countess of Dorset ' ; many of them had long
before this married again, and all were anxious
to hear of their late husbands, inquiring particularly
into the circumstances of their death,
and appearing to find consolation in considering
the dreadful nature of their sufferings. There
came all Jack's former friends, who had not

forgotten him, such as albumen from Trinity
Hospital, and pensioners from Greenwich, old
sailors from Deptford and Eotherhithe, and even
shipwrights and dockyard carpenters. Mr.
Westmoreland came, but without his daughter ;
and even, though this seems incredible, some of
the Thames watermen, who had the grace to
remember Jack Easterbrook. All the afternoon
Cudjoe and Snowball, who ought to have been
at church, trudged about with foaming tankards
and mugs, giving everybody who desired an
honest glass to drink the Lieutenant's health (he
was still only a midshipman, but they gave him
promotion). And there were a thousand questions
asked one after the other, so that long
before the evening, when we were to have an
account of the voyage, we knew pretty well
what had happened. And, though it was
Sunday, there was brewed a great bowl of punch
for the evening ; and in the end the Admira
was carried to bed, and many of the guests
retired with a rolling gait and thick voice;
while, as for me, the next morning showed, by
trembhnsj fingers and headache, besides the

memory of uncertain steps, that I, too, had
rejoiced among the rest beyond the limits of
soberness. Among the company were, first,
my father, the Vicar of St. Paul's ; then Captain
Petherick, the commissioner of the King's Yard ;
Mr. Stephen Pettt, who hath a shipbuilding yard
of his own, where many fair vessels have been
built ; Mr. Mostyn, Pocket-writer in His Majesty's
Custom House ; Lieutenant Hepworth, formerly
of General Poulet's Regiment of Marines ;
Mr. Underhill; Mr. Shelvocke (the younger),
who had himself been round the world in the
year 1720, as everybody knows who has read
the account of his father's voyage, and the
malicious book concerning the same voyage
written by Mr. Betagh, his Captain of Marines.
There was also Mr. Brings. And I, for one,
presently observed with pride that we had here
assembled together in one room — a thinoj which
could hardly be compassed in any other town,
except Portsmouth, Plymouth, and Chatham —
three men who had at three separate times sailed
upon the great unknown Pacific ; and of these,
two had actually circumnavigated the globe.

I have observed, Irving been born and
broiigiit up among men who delight in telling
and hearing stories of battle, escapes, shipwreck,
and the like, that the hero of a hundred adventures
is seldom as ready to tell them as he who
hath in all his life experienced but one ; and
that, often enough, not of his own seeking, but
against his own desire, and even entered upon
in bodily fear. Yet Virgil makes-eneas relate
his wanderings movingly and in the finest verse ;
and Shakespeare tells how Othello would, in the
hearing of Desdemona, fight his battles over
again. As for Jack, he had encountered so
many perils and met with so many adventures,
and those of so extraordinary a kind, that one
would not expect the hundredth part of them
to be told in one evening. They were enough
to fill a dozen books of travel, such as are
generally written, most of them with no adventures
more terrible than the upsetting of a coach
or the appearance of a footpad ; nay, I have
never seen any books which contained such
wonders as Jack had witnessed, if we except
the voyages of Captain Clipperton, Captain

Slielvocke, and Commodore Anson ; and none
of these commanders ever sailed antonio the
islands which the ' Countess of Dorset ' visited.
Yet he was not able, at first, to tell us much
about them ; and it was only by continual
questioning and persuading him to talk, with
the map lying open before him, that we could
get him to unburden his mind of some of the
things he had seen and undergone. Some men
of whom Jack was one — are so constituted
that they do not seem to understand what
people want to know, or what they should tell
them. Our hero Alas not reticent, I am sure,
from any fear of appearing boastful, because
sailors love above all things to speak of their
own adventures ; but because, first, he felt, on
this the first day of his return, new and strange
to us, after six years of absence ; and next, he
was never good at narrating, save stories of
fight ; and, further, it is not easy for anyone to
gather up immediately, and at short notice, all
the recollections of the past six years. When
a man has been two years with savages, or two
years in a Spanish or French prison, he is apt

to forget some of the things which happened
before, even though they passed among the unknown
islands of the Pacific Ocean.

'As for her course, now,' he began, doubtfully.
He had before him the map of the
world, on Mercator's projection, by John Senex.
It was my father's copy, and although the map
is not on so large a scale as a ship's chart, yet
it was big enough to serve. Deptford is too
insignificant to be marked, and Jack's finger,
when he would indicate the ship's starting-point,
covered the whole of Kent, Middlesex, Essex,
and Surrey. ' As for her course, now,' he repeated,
looking at the map doubtfully, considering
how best to begin. Perhaps he had
forgotten how to use a map, since he had not
seen one for four years. Castilla was standing
on one side, looking over his shoulder, I at the
other side. The Admiral sat opposite, his red
face filled with benevolence and affection.
Surely, there never was a kinder face in the
world. Behind him and beside the fireplace
was his lady, not carried away so greatly by
the general emotion, partly because she never



entertained the same love for Jack that filled
her husband's breast, and partly because, like
most women, she was not in the least degree

interested in foreign lands and savage races, and

partly because she knew not the bottom of a

map from the top. The gentlemen sat round

VOL. I. s

the table as they chose, and at the sideboard
the two negroes had charge of the smiling
bowL I love negroes for one thing : that is,
for thcK fellow-feeling when any occasion for
rejoicing and feasting arises. They would like
the whole of their lives to be spent in feasting,
drinking, and laughing. For instance, I do not
suppose that these two rascals had given one
single thought to Jack during the whole of his
six years' absence, yet here they were, their
mouths broad grinning, their faces shining, their
eyes twinkling and dancing, moving nimbly
about with the glasses, taking care, with the
greatest zeal, that the Admiral's was kept
always full, and that none of the gentlemen
should be allowed so much as to glance inquiringly
in the direction of the bowl. Had it been
the return of their own son they could not have
shown a livelier joy. N.B. — Later in the
evening, when the Admiral was in bed and the
guests gone, they finished the bowl themselves ;
and had it not been for Jack, who in the morning
was so good as to pump upon them, they
certainly would have incurred the wrath of the

Admiral, for they were even at eight o'clock in
the morning, and after a night's sleep, still more
than half seas over.

Oh, Jack,' said Castilla, ' to think that you
should remember her course after all these
years ! '

Easy a bit, my lad,' said the Admiral.
Take another glass before we begin. Gentlemen,
fill up. Fill up the gentlemen's glasses,
ye black rogues ! This is a joyfid evening — an
evening out of ten thousand. And to think
that none of us knew him except Bess, the
Penman's girl ! Castilla, my dear, where were
your eyes ? '

Indeed, Sir, I was thinking of the Vicar's
discourse. Else, I am sure I should have
known Jack.'

And where were ycius, Luke, and where
were mine — to treat him like a raij^amuffin
tarpaulin? Well, well! Fill up Mr. Jack's
glass. Snowball. Drink, my lad ; Castilla loves
a sailor who can take his whack. Drink her
health as I drink thine, dear lad.'

Castilla lashed. She loved soberness and

temperance ; but Jack did not come home
every day.

As for her course, now,' said the Admiral.

We sailed from Deptford '

You did, my boy, and I well remember
the day, six years ago, when the " Countess of
Dorset " dipped her ensign and fired her salute.
The boy tells me, gentlemen, that for four years
he has never tasted punch — poor lad ; nor
quaffed a tankard of ale — think of it ; nor sat
down to a comfortable pipe of tobacco ; nor
known the comforts of a hammock in a seaworthy
and weather-tight vessel. For four
years ! Your Eeverence, it is Sunday evening ;
but, with respect to the cloth,' the Admiral
turned his face, rosy and beaming as the setting
sun, to my father, ' when the prodigal son came
home did his father ask the Chaplain, who, I
suppose, was a Levite, whether it was the
Sabbath Day, before he ordered the flitted calf
to be killed and roasted ? '

We do not learn that he did so,' replied
my father. ' Though doubtless '

'Then, Sir, suffer us to believe, for our

satisfaction at the present juncture, that the
event, like another one of later occurrence,
happened on the Sabbath Day. Then have we
authority of Holy Writ for making merry on
the Sabbath Day.'

At this display of wit they all laughed
without rebuke from the Vicar.

Go on, Jack ; go on, my lad. I must
still be talking, when it is Jack we want to
hear. Your health, my lad, your health. I
never thought to see thy honest phiz again.
Thy hand again. Jack. This is a joyful
evening, gentlemen. Damme, I say again,
a joyful evening.' Yet the tears stood in his
eyes.

We were all moved, and the Admiral more
than any. But Mr. Brings sat in his place, his
one eye, like a ball of lire, fixed on Jack. I
knew that he was recalling his own voyage in
the Southern Seas, and thinking of his treasure.
It was as if some scent or fragrance of the
islands which he loved to talk about was clinging
to Jack.

Then our returned prodigal went on with

this narrative, and if the interruptions of the
Admiral are not set down, with his ejaculations
and oaths, it is because, were everything to be
told, no history would ever come to an end.
Wherefore they are omitted ; nor have I tried
to set down all that Jack said, nor a tenth parton
this evening, because half the time he was
answering questions from Mr. Shelvocke, dio
must needs show his knowledge of those seas,
and from Mr. Brings, who had also sailed upon
them, and from Captain Petherick, who was a
great lover of geography. I have also ventured
to omit that part of his narrative which
related to the behaviour of the crew, the sailing
qualities of the ship, and those matters generally
which concern sailors, and which would
only be understood by them. ' We sailed, as
you remember. Admiral, carrying with us
twenty-five guns, with a crew of 120 men all
told, and provisions for twenty-four months.
Gentlemen, with submission, I venture to remark
that no navy provision exists which will
last twenty-four months, for the biscuit becomes
weevil, and the pork and beef rancid ; and

as to the cheese and the salt butter — but

there ! '

He is right,' said Mr. Undersell
We were fortunate, however, and fell in,
before we suffered much from this cause, with
provisions of another kind. The last land
that we saw was the Start, and the next was
Cape Finisterre. We then stood away for the
island of Teneriffe, where we designed to take
in wine, rum, and brandy, the Captain being
of opinion that to keep a merry heart in the
crew — which is, above all things, desirable on
a long voyage — a double ration is often necessary
; wherefore, we laid in at the town of
Santa Cruz a great store of malmsey, canary,
and verdant, which is a greenish-coloured wine
and strong bodied, but keeps well in hot
climates.

After leaving Teneriffe, we were becalmed
for three weeks, during which, I remember, we
caught two very fine sharks, off which the men
regaled. Then we touched at St. Helena.
After this we were driven off our course by
the trade-wind, and sighted Tristan dAcunha ;

WG put la at the Cape, and, after leaving Alloa
Bay, we steered north-north-east, passing the
southern point of Madagascar, where we expected
to meet with pirates.'

'I fear they are all dead,' said Mr. Brings.
Their settlement was on the north-east
coast, which is not so full of fever as the
south-west. Dead now, they must be, every
man. And I doubt if their children, carries
all, would have the spirit to carry on the
business.'

Our course was now to the coast of New
Holland, the object of the voyage being, as the
Captain told us, to discover new lands, and, if
possible, countries where British settlements
might rival those of Spain in the Manillass and
the Ladrone.'

You did not visit the Manillass, then ? ' said
Mr. Shelvocke. ' There is nothing in those seas
which can surpass the Manillass in beauty and
fertility.'

The Pope,' said my father, ' pretended, in
his pride, to confer upon the Spaniards all the
lands beyond the Atlantic, including, I suppose.

Magellanica or the Pacific Ocean, which was
not then discovered.'

We had bad weather crossing this great
ocean, whereon we sailed for two months, or
thereabout, with never a sight of land. Then
wee began to find seaweed, with cuttle bones
and bonitos, and after two or three days we
sighted land ; but finding nothing except rocks
and foul ground, wee stood off again His
finger was now on the coast of the great unknown
southern island called New Holland.
On the third or fourth day we found an opening
in the land, and anchored in two fathoms
and a half of water. We called the place
Shark's Bay, and wee stayed here a week. The
shore is shelving to the sea, and wee sav there a
kind of animal like the West Indian maccaroon,
save that it has lon^r hind less on w-hicli it
jumps ; and I think it was there that wee found
an ugly kind of guiana which stinks. The
natives were naked black men, some of them
painted with a kind of pigment, and their hair
frizzled. They seem to live on shell-fish, and
carry lances with heads of flint.'

I had hoped,' said my father, ' to hear of
some polite and civilised nation with arts and
sciences, and traditions of the patriarchal region,
and of gentle manners.'

Their manners,' Jack continued, ' are
beastly, and their ways are treacherous ; and
as for religion, we saw no sign of any. How
can savages have any religion who live on
mussels ? I have lived on them myself, and felt
no promptings of religion all the time, but only
discontent and swearing. Well, gentlemen,
we continued our voyage, and I dare say we
carried the coast line a good bit farther than
this map shows ; but my memory serves me not
on this point, and my own as well as the ship's
log was lost when the ship was cast away.'

Our course,' said Mr. Shelvocke, ' was
north of these latitudes. Wherefore, I have
never visited the shores of New Holland. This
I regret the less, having seen the Manillass.'

When Ave reached the most southerly
point, which, I dare say, may be somewhere
near to this place on the map, the Captain
called together his Lieutenants, the Master and

the Captain of Marines, and, over a cheerful
glass, opened his mind to them, as we presently
heard in the gun-room. He said that
his orders were general, and that it was reported
by those who had sailed on those seas,
particularly by those who thought it no sin to
hoist the Jolly Eoger ''

It is not,' said Mr. Brings, stoutly, ' provided
that it is in Spanish waters only. I have
myself sailed under the crossbones and skull.
Sin ? Why, it is a commendable action to
maul and harass the Spaniards.'

The Captain said that it was reported,'
Jack continued, ' that there are islands in those
seas of incredible wealth, compared with which
Mr. Shelvocke's Manillass are poor ; but that the
Spaniards either endeavour to keep the secret
of these islands to themselves, or they have not
the curiosity to seek them out. His design was,
therefore, to seek for these islands, even though
we might have to fight the Spaniards should we
meet them ; and if any place should be found
to possess the wealth they are supposed to contain,
then, Spaniard or no Spaniard, to plant

the flag of Great Britain upon them ; and, if
Heaven should prosper our enterprise, presently
to return by the Straits of Magellan.

So we steered a course north-west by
north, across an open sea, with fair winds,
sio-htinfij no land at all until we were in latitude
20° south, or thereabout, when we came to a
great island ; indeed, if it be not a part of the

great Southern Continent. Gentlemen '

Jack broke off here. ' I cannot tell you all,
nor a tenth part, of what we saw in these seas.
There are thousands of islands, all much finer
than you can imagine.'

They are — they are,' said Mr. Brings. ' I
have seen them myself.'

Our own course,' said Mr. Shelvocke,
jealously, ' was in the northern latitude, the
islands of which are incomparable.'

And of what kind are the people ? '

For the most part we found them gentle
and generous. No travellers have ever visited
these islands that we could learn ; they know
nothing of the Spaniards ; they are black, and
go naked, and they can all swim like fishes.'

'They can,' said Mr. Brings, 'especially
the young women.'

Of what kind is their religion ? ' asked the
Vicar.

I think, Sir, that they have none ' — Mr.
Brings shook his head — ' at least, we saw no
signs of any, though, of course, we could not
talk to them in their own language. The
islands are so close together that it is impossible
to sail more than a day or two without coming
in sight of a new archipelago ; some there are
which we judged as big as Ireland, perhaps,
and others not more than half an acre ; some
there are which are only coral reefs lying in a
circle round smooth water, no bigger than some
of the West Indian Keys ; and some there are
which are covered with great mountains and
volcanoes.'

'It is true — it is quite true,' said Mr.
Brings.

And as for the riches of them ? ' asked one
of the company.

I know not if there be any. We made
such signs as we thought would make them

understand that we wanted gold and precious
stones ; but they produced none, and we
believed that they have no knowledge of gold,
even if there be gold in their mountains. Of
pearls there must needs be plenty, seeing that
there are oysters in abundance. But we saw
none.'

No gold and no jewels ! ' said my father.
Happy islanders ! '

'And they seem to have all things in
common.'

Wherefore the main temptations to sin,'
said my father, ' are removed. Where there is
no private property there can be no robbery,
no envying, no jealousies, no overreaching.
Oh, thrice happy people, if they knew their
own happiness ! '

If we had not lost the log,' Jack continued,
we should have covered these seas with
islands never before seen, even by Dampier,
Magellan, Drake, or Rogers. Xow, no one
knows where they are, and I alone of all living
men, unless it be Mr. Brings, have seen them.
As for our gallant company ' — here he paused

and looked around lion solemnly. I have
noticed many sailors do the same thing ; it is
as if they were counting those present to be
sure that they, too, are not shipwrecked men —
they are all dead by now, I doubt not.
Unless some escaped, of whom I know nothing,
who may be living yet among the Indians.'

Fill his glass,' said the Admiral. ' Gentlemen,
let us drink to the memory of these poor
fellows, cast away, and now dead.'

There is no such sailing,' Jack continued,
anywhere in the world '

There is not,' Mr. Brings interrupted.

Save for the constant temptation for the
men to desert, and live in indolence amonix
these people. Better would it have been, save
for one who now sits here among you all, had
the Avhole ship's company gone ashore and
stayed there, to live in the Alarm air and
sunshine of that climate.'

'Better to die a Christian than live a
heathen,' said the Vicar.

Well, we had the Church Service read
every Sunday morning,' said Jack, ' which was

no doubt a comfortable thing for the poor
fellows to think upon when the rocks were
cracking their skulls like eggshells. But as
for the sailing, so long as we were among the
islands, it was like cruising upon a pond, with
fresh fruit, and fish of all kinds, and wild birds
in plenty to be shot. Sir ' — he addressed the
Vicar — ' this place is surely the Garden of
Eden, though there is in Scripture no mention
made of any seas. Of this, the Captain, who
was a sober and religious man, was well
assured.'

The site of the garden,' said my father,
hath been Placed in Mesopotamia, between
the Tigris and Euphrates, or in Arabia Felix,
or at the foot of the Caucasus, or near Damascus,
but never, that I know of, in Magellanica
or Oceanus Australis. And I know not how
it could be there, unless the Euphrates and the
Nile have greatly changed their course.'

It cannot be anything else but the Garden
of Eden,' said Jack; ' though, perhaps, in the
Deluge much of it was swallowed up, and only
the tops of the mountains left above water,'

Should we ever,' said the Vicar, ' find that
garden, which doubtless exists somewhere upon
the earth — nay, some have pretended to ha^■e
seen it — we shall also find the gate, and at the
cate the cano-el with a fiamiuo- sword turning; in
every direction to keep the way of the Tree of
Life. But it may very well be that, when the
curse of labour was imposed upon man for the
sin of Adam — in consequence of which some
parts of the world were afflicted with aridity
and sand, other parts were covered with ice
and snow", others, again, became marshes, and
others became hard and unprofitable for the
toilers — that some parts were left by merciful
design in their virginal and pristine beauty,
just as they left the hand of the Creator at the
dawn of the first Sabbath, being reserved for
this generation to discover, so that faith might
be strengthened, and true religion revived in
the world, by so striking a proof of the Divine
Narrative. But let us go on, for the hour
groweth late.'

Alas ! gentlemen, there is very little more
to tell, and the rest of the history of the ill-fated

VOL. I. T

'' Countess of Dorset " is all misfortune. We
came, at length, to an end of these islands,
which we parted with to our great regret ; and
so, with open sea, steering now east or southeast,
with design to make Juan Fernandez or
the Island of Masafuera. When we were
within thirty or forty leagues, according to our
reckoning, of these islands, there fell upon usa
dreadful gale, or succession of gales, which
lasted a week or more, so far as I remember,
the ship driving before the wind under bare
poles. Then we lost our foremast, and presently
both mainmast and mizenmast went by
the board ; and for great waves and the force
of the wind, I never experienced the like. We
rigged a jury-mast with difficulty, and a foresail
to steady her head. By this time our
bulwarks were broken, and our boats stove in,
so that there was very little hope left us, except
that the gale might abate, in which case we
might keep her afloat — for now she had sprung
a leak, and the men were kept day and night to
the pump — until we could make some kind of
raft. As for our guns, we heaved them overboard,

with everything else that would lighten
the ship. Gentlemen, the gale did not abate ;
on the contrary, it blew harder, if that where
possible ; and I think everybody on board had
given up hope. As for the men, some of them
did their duty to the last : but some of them
became mutinous, and wanted to get to the
spirit store, and go down happy. Which is, I
take it, a fool's way of dying.'

It is,' said the Vicar.

I have seen them die that way,' said Mr.
Brings. ' Some men have even walked the
plank, after drinking a pint or so of rum,
dancing and laucfhini]^, and with the end of a
song on their lips. But, no doubt, 'tis better
to go down sober. Besides, there is always
some hope for a sober man, but none for a
drunken one.'

I do not know, gentlemen, how long this
lasted. We unshipped orr rudder, I remember,
which finished our misfortunes, for now
the ship lay like a log in the trough of v\'aves,
which rolled her about as they pleased. And
how many were washed overboard I know not ;

nor low many Avere left in the ship when at
last she struck the rocks, and was beaten to
pieces. I would rather flxce a dozen broadsides
than wait again, for a week or more, with
Death almost certain at the end of it. To
judge from the haggard faces of those who
waited with me, and to remember my own
mind — why, we died a hundred deaths in the
mere apprehension and waiting for it. Most of
us died in earnest before long. For one morning,
when the daylight came, we saw before usa
most dreadful sight — namely, the coast of
Patagonia, which is the most inhospitable, I
suppose, in the whole world, and the most
terrible, by reason of its rocks and precipices.
We were driving right upon the coast. Then,
indeed, wee gave ourselves up for lost. When
we struck, the sea lifted her and beat her
against the rocks, breaking and grinding her
timbers as if she had been nothing bii?£rer thana
Portsmouth wherry; and the waves broke
over her at the same time, washing the men
from the places where they were clinging. As
for me, I was carried off, and what happened

to me afterwards I know not, save that I lost
consciousness, and when I recovered I found
myself lying on a ledge of rock, but low I got
there, whether carried thither by some great
wave or upon some piece of wreck, I know
not. The first thing I did was to make sure
that I had no bones broken. I was not indeed
hurt in any way, save that from head to foot I
was covered with bruises, which were of small
account. And then I turned to look at the
wreck. We were surely landed in the worst
place in the world ; it was a narrow creek or
bay between high cliffs, into which the sea
rushed with violence inexpressible. Already
the ship was broken up save for the after part,
where there were still clinging two or three
poor wretches ; below my feet in the boiling
water, grinding against each other, were pieces
of wreck, and, most terrible to see, there were
mangled bodies of our poor fellows, dashed
against the rocks and among the broken
timbers. It is wonderful to think that any
of us escaped.

At first I thought that I was alone, the

only man saved. But there were others, and I
found that most of them, like myself, could not
tell how they had got ashore, and why they
were not, like their shipmates, dashed to pieces.
There were fourteen of us in number, and no
more came ashore ; wherefore, seeing the violence
of the waves and the impossibility of
swimming in such a sea, we concluded that the
rest were all drowned. When the wind abated,
which was the next day, we managed to getup
to the rocks some of the timber and wreck
washed ashore, and made some kind of shelter ;
but we could not light a lire, and it was now
the winter season hi these latitudes, and cold.
There were one or two casks of provisions
which reached the shore unbroken and not
touched by the sea ; we lived upon them while
they lasted, our drink being rain-water, of
which there was plenty. When this supply
ceased we had nothing to subsist upon at all
but shell-fish, of which there were at first great
quantities, but we presently exhausted them,
and then we had to leave our hut, such as it
was, and to move on along the coast in order

to find more. We were all the time as menin
a dream, not knowing where we were nor
what to do ; all day we gazed stupidly at each
other, and all night we crouched together for
warmth. But when the time came that we
must leave our rocks we began to take counsel.
My companions were common sailors, rude
and ignorant fellows ; and as for me, I knew
nothing except that I was certain that we must
be somewhere upon the western shore of South
America, that part of it which is called Patagonia.
Now, if we marched south, we should
in time come to the Straits of Magellan, through
which there might pass some ship ; but how
long we should wait, or how great the distance
might be, we knew nothing. And every day's
march would bring us into colder and more
desolate regions. On the other hand, if we
marched north, we might, in the long run,
reach the Spanish settlements, which are reported
to stretch southward very far. But,
again, should we reach them, it was most likely
that they would murder us, or hand us over to
the Inquisition to be burned alive for heretics.

However, we decided in the end to march
north, which we did, leaving behind four of
our number who had died, partly of cold and
partly of flux, brought on by the shell-fish diet,
which afflicted us all in various ways. As for
myself, it covered my whole body with an
intolerable itching, which flew from one part
to another, so that I got no rest day or night.'

It is a prurigo,' said Mr. Bribes. ' There
is no cure for it but a change of diet.'

'We were by this time in as miserable a
plight as ever befell shipwrecked sailors, for
the weather was continually wet and cold ; as
for our clothes, they were rags, wet through
day and night ; we were pinched with hunger ;
we had not a shoe to our feet ; there was not a
single tool or weapon, not even a knife among
us. A man, gentlemen, without tools is in
sorry case. So we began our way along the
coast, which we durst not leave, partly for fear
of wild beasts and natives, and partly because
while we kept near the sea we should not
starve. We wandered in this way, seeking
such shelter as we could find, and always wet.



cold, nncl half starved, for a month or two — I
know not how long. But one day-we fell in
with a tribe of Indians. By this time, I remember,
there were only eight of us left.
These men came to meet us, brandishing spears
and threatening to kill us ; while we, for our
part, had nothing to do except to make signs
showing how helpless and harmless we were.
So they took us with them : and I think I
never spent a happier evening than the first,
when we lay upon the ground about a great
fire, with broiled fish to eat and sealskin to
cover us. We had not been warm or dry fora
matter of three months. As for having with
them, we soon got tired of that life, except two
of our company, who took Indian wives, and
resolved to continue among them. For, like
us, they lived by the seashore, having no
knowledge of any agriculture, and devoured
fish and mussels, oysters, and so forth, all of
which were collected for them by their wives.
I have never seen any more dexterous than
these poor women in diving and catching fish,
which they would drive, by frightening, into

some small creek or inlet of the sea, whence
they could not escape and were easily captured.
They also collected and eat certain berries,
which were nauseous at first, but which we
presently grew to consider as useful against the
disorders caused by a fish diet. But as for the
dirt and the vermin, and the savage nature of
the life we led, I cannot so much as speak of
these things. Sometimes when, by reason of
storm and gales, fish was scarce, we were driven
to live on the flesh of seals, and that putrid and
stinking. And because we depended so much
upon the mussels and oysters, we were obliged
continually to shift our quarters, and slowly
drew more and more northwards, until at last
we arrived at the most southerly of the Spanish
settlements, which consisted of nothing else thana
kind of convent and a church with four priests.
For my own part, I approached the place with
terror, thinking that the stake would be set up,
and the flames would be consuming us as soon
as the priests should understand that we were
Englishmen and Protestants. Well, gentlemen,
they never so much as asked us of what religion

we were. But these good priests — your
Eeverence will forgive me '

There are charitable hearts in every country
and in every religion,' said the Vicar. ' Why
not in Mai]jellanica ? '

They gave us clothes to put on ; they
washed and dressed our wounds, because by
this time we were covered all over with sores
and bad places. They gave us good food and
wine to drink, and they heard our story — one
of them could speak English — with tears and
pity. They told us that we must be sent to the
nearest Spanish port as prisoners ; but bade us
be of good courage, because we should be
treated well.'

In these remote parts,' said the Vicar, ' the
Pope and the Inquisition being so far off, there
is room for the growth of human feelings, even
with priests.'

After six months of living among them — a
better and a more charitable brotherhood I
never hope to meet — there came an opportunity
of conveying us to the island of Chiloe, where
there is a Spanish Governor. Now, I reckon

that the ship was cast away two years and a half
after we sailed, it being then midwinter, which,
on the coast of Patagonia, is in the month of
July ; and I think that we lived with the Indians
for the space of two years — it was time enough
to wear out all that were left of our rags, so
that we went into the convent with nothing but
sealskin over our shoulders, tied round the waist
with a thong of sealskin leather. We stayed at
Chiloe, where we were treated more hardly than
with the priests, yet not cruelly, for three or
four months, when the Governor was able to
send us on to the port of Callao.'

He is now,' said the Admiral, ' prisoner of
the Spanish, and within reach of the Bloody
Inquisition . Snowball, fill up Mr. Easterbrook's
glass. Keep it full, ye lubber ! at such a time
he needs all the punch he can swallow.'

'Out of the whole ship's company, there
remained now but six. They put us in prison,
but they gave us wine and food, chiefly beans,
bread, and onions, as good as they had themselves,
and sometimes chocolate. Presently
there came a priest, and began to talk about our

heretical condition, and the dangers we ran
should we continue in obstinacy. This made us
mighty uneasy, as you may imagine ; because
the Inquisition — the Holy Inquisition, as they
call it — is established at Lima, whither, the
Padre informed us, we should shortly be taken.
It seemed likely that we had only escaped
drowning to suffer the rack and the stake. I
hope, gentlemen, that I should have done my
duty even to the end, had there been no escape.
Meantime, I cast about how to get out of their
clutches. We had a good deal of liberty within
the prison, and many visitors came there bringing
cigarettes, which are rolls of paper containing
tobacco, to the prisoners, who were mostly half-caste,
in prison for stabbing, or sailors for mutiny,
the authorities caring little how their prisoners
pass the time so long as they are kept in limbo.
In this way, I made the acquaintance of an
honest Frenchman, captain of a trading brig,
who, I found, hated the priests and all their
works and took pity on me, seeing that I must
either become a convert or look to be burned.
He, therefore, brought me a disguise, and

conveyed me safely out of prison on board his
own ship, where I remained stowed away in
the hold until he sailed out of harbour. As
for the other men, three of them recanted their
errors, as they called it, and walked in the procession
at an Auto da Fe at Lima, where the
other poor fellows, who stuck by their guns,
were burned alive.'

'Tis a damnable nation,' said Mr. Brings.

Say rather,' said the Yicar, ' that it is a
nation under the curse of a gloomy superstition,
which prompts them to commit these cruelties.'

As for me, I worked before the mast, and
found the French sailors, when I could talk their
lino'o, an honest set of fellows. But when we
got to Brest, we learned that war had broken
out ; and so I was a prisoner again, and marched
as a common sailor, with others in the same
plight, from one strong place to another, till we
came to St. Omer.'



CHAPTEE XII.

HOW JACK THANKED BESS.

Rely ill the evening, when

the common sort had all

gone away, well filled with

r^^A the Admiral's best October,

and before the gentlemen arrived, Jack left
us, and stole quite unnoticed from the house.
As he left us, so he returned, no one having
observed that he had been absent for a
moment. Yet we were all of us talking and
thinking of no one else, and believed that
he was still among us. So, in a play at the
theatre, when the mind is fully charged and
occupied with the hero, so that one can
think of nothing Int his adventures, we do
not perceive that he is no longer on the
stage before our eyes, and, when he presently
returns, we do not remember that he has ever
been out of our sight, and nil that has passed
seems to have been done in his presence.

But why Jack left us and whither he went,
I have since been told, and that, as one may
say, on credible authority — namely, by the
only person who knows.

In short, he left us to go in search of Bess,
diis heart being, already, inflamed by the thought
of her beauty, and fired with gratitude because,
of all his old friends, she alone recognised him.
Ulysses was recognised by none but his dog.

Why, Jack would have been less than human,
a mere senseless log, had he not been moved
by this circumstance. And so far from senseless
his was a heart as easily inflamed as touchwood.


Bess was sitting on the floor before the fire,
her father being somewhere abroad, I suppose,
in conversation with his friends and cronies,
the sexton and the barber. It was Sunday
evening, therefore she had no knitting or work
of other kind in her hands. She could not
read, and therefore she had not taken one of
her father's books ; and she was alone, therefore
she was not talking. Outside, the night
had already fallen, but she was not one of
those dio waste good money by burning
candle and fire at the same time, unless for the
sake of work. The red firelight played upon
her cheeks, and made them glow ; and upon
her eyes, and made them red balls ; and upon
the walls of the room, which were covered
with specimens of the Penman's art, pasted on
the wainscot; and on the sideboard, where
stood the candlesticks of brass and the snuffers,

VOL. I. u

^oolishecl and bright ; with the house pewter,
which shone like silver, so good a housewife
was this gild. Her hands lay folded in her lap,
and she was leaning forwards as if reading
faces in the red coals, as children sometimes
love to play. I think she saw one face only,
and that a strange wild face, with matted hair
and long beard, and a bloody clout across the
forehead. As to her thoughts — who can read
the thoughts that crowd into the head of a
young girl P I would not dare to say that upto
that time Bess was in love with her old
playfellow ; yet it is certain, because Mr.
Brings spoke so much of him, that he often
occupied her mind. Xor was it, I venture to
say, all on Jack's account that she would listen
to none of Aaron Fletcher's advances. Yet
she inst have been hard-hearted, indeed, had
this home-coming; failed to move her soul. I
have sometimes thought that if at this time
Jack had made no advances to her, she must
presently have taken Aaron and thought no
more of her old playfellow, save as of a gallant
gentleman belonging to a class above her. No

man can speak positively of a woman's mind ;
but I am assured that it is seldom in the nature
of a woman to love any man — though she may
greatly admire him — until he hath first shown
and proved by words and looks that he thinks
of her and loves her. Therefore, if Jack had

made no advances however, it is idle to

talk of advances : such a man as Jack doth not
make advances : they are for cooler and more
cautious men ; he lands, charges, and carries
by storm the fortress which expected to be
besieged by well-known rules.

1^0 w, as she sat there watching the coals
glowing in the fire, Bess suddenly started and
her heart ceased to beat, for at the door she
heard a step. She remembered that step after
six long years ; and the latch Alas lifted, and
Jack himself came in — a thing she had not so
much as ventured to hope, though she expected
that he might in a day or two call to see her
father, if he should still remember his former
instructor.

She sprang to her feet, half-afraid, yet
rejoicing.

u 2

Bess ! ' he cried, hoarsely. ' You had not
forgotten fine ? '

He was dressed now, shaven, and washed ;
a tall and handsome man, though pale and
somewhat hollow in the cheek.

Bess ! ' he repeated, holding out both
hands, ' have you nothing to say to me .^ '

Oh, Jack ! ' she whispered timidly. But
now she was trembling, and really afraid of
him, because there was a look in his eyes
which frightened her ; a strange look it is,
which painters, for the most part, have failed
to catch ; it is one Which makes the eyes soft
and e^lowin^ ; it is the look of love and lonc^-
ins. Bess had never seen that look, and it
frightened her.

'Jack,' she said, 'shall I go and look for
Her?'

Oh ! ' he answered, ' you knew me, Bess ! '
His voice was husky. 'All the rest had forgotten
me ; but you knew me. Look for your
father? Not yet, Bess! Not yet! Oh, Bess!' He
said no more, but caught her hands, drew her
towards him, and kissed her a thousand times. .

Then, in a moment, all her love went out
to ]nm. She gave him all her heart. Thenceforward
she was no longer afraid of him ; yet
she was his servant and his slave, though lie
called her mistress.

'My dear,' he said presently, 'let me look
at my sweetheart. Nay, the firelight wull do to
light those eyes ; no need of a candle. Oh, the
sweet slice ! And what a tall girl she is ! Is
it the fireli^it.or her cheeks, or is she blushing
because her lover hath kissed her? And oh,
the rosy lips ! Kiss me, Bess. Kiss me, and
tell me that you love me. My dear, I had
forgotten no one at home — no one ; but until
you caught my hands to-day, I did not know
how much I loved you. And now, tell me,
pretty, hast thou sometimes thought of Jack .^ '

dh, yes,' she told him. ' I have never
forgotten, never ; and I knew you were not
drowned, whatever they said, and Mr. Brings
always declared that some day you would come
home again. Often and often have I gone to
Philadelphy and inquired of her concerning a
young sailor — meaning you, Jack — but I did

not tell her ^vlio it was, and always her reply
was that he was safe, and would come home
again, though to be sure, she said, there were
dangers in the way. She is a proper witch,
and knows. But, oh ! Jack, go away ; this is
foolishness ; you must not kiss me any more,
because you are a gentleman, and I am only a
simple girl, and the daughter of a plain man.
You must not talk of love to me ; you must
not think of me. Jack. I know you would not
laugh at me, and mock me ; but you must not
thhik of me. Jack. Why, there are fine ladies
in plenty who would die for love of you ! '

And could you die for love of me, Bess ?
Oh ! how could I live so long without thee ? '

Oh, Jack ! ' she murmured, laying her
head upon his shoulder, ' I would rather die
of love for you than live for the love of someone
else ! and oh ! if you left off loving me I
should sit down and pray to die at once.'

He kissed her again — I know not how
many times he kissed her — telling her, which
was quite true, because his thoughts ran not
that way, that he cared not a fig for all the

fine ladies in London town, with their nimb}'-
namby, pining ways, and their loops and
paint ; but lie loved an honest girl with roses
of her own in her cheeks, who would love him
in return. And so their pretty love-talk went
on, with thee and thou, and kisses sweet as
honey to this girl, who knew not how or wdiy
she should conceal her j 03^ and her love.

I never knew,' Bess told me afterwards,
no, I never knew what happiness could be
until I sat that evening with my sweetheart's
arms round my waist, and my face upon his
shoulder, so that he could kiss me as often ashe
pleased and whisper that he loved me. Oh,
why — why should he love me ; he so handsome
and so splendid, and I so simple a maid?
What are a girl's good looks compared with a
man's ? And how should he be able to love
one who is not a gentlewoman — he who might,
had he chosen, have married a countess ? '

When he left her, which was all too soon,
because the Admiral would be expecting him,
the girl fell upon her knees and prayed. This
was a thing (she confessed it to me herself)

which she had never done before in her life,
.except in church, and according to the Forms
contained in the Book of Common Prayer. If
one may venture so to speak of a Book which
hath engaged the thoughts and kbours of
learned and pious men since the foundation of
the Church — I mean the Book of Common
Prayer— there is one unfortunate omission in
its forms : it provides, that is to say, for all
the other great events in life — namely. Birth,
Baptism, Marriage, the Arrival of Children,
Sickness, and Death ; but there is no Form of
Prayer for the Betrothal of a man and a maid.
Yet there are many appropriate Lessons that
might be taken for it from the Old and New
Testament ; and there are many grateful and
joyful Psalms ; and there are love-sick verses —
better, surely, were never written — especially
in the Song of Solomon ; and, without doubt,
if ever there were occasion for prayer and
praise, it is when a pair of lovers promise in
private what they will presently promise in the
sight of the congregation. Bess, poor chill,
knew no prayer fit for the occasion ; but she

knelt upon the floor and with tears she thanked
God for the safe return of her lover, and implored
Him to extend His conthmal protection
over him.

When Mr. Westmoreland came home at
half-past eight, he was astonished to find that
his daughter had forgotten to put out the bread
and cheese and beer. Heard one ever of housewife
forgetting to lay the supper ? And though
he talked about nothings but Jack Easterbrook
his unexampled sufferings and his wonderful
and providential preservation — this strange
daughter of his was so cold and unfeeling
about her old playfellow that she hardly said
a word, but made haste to go to bed, where
she was removed from her father's chatter, and
could lie contentedly awake all night long, her
foolish heart beating with the joy of this great
happiness.

CHAPTEE XIII.

JACK ASHORE.

HE next day, accompanied by the
Admiral and Captain Petherick,
Jack went to the Navy Office in
Seething Lane to report himself.
And here began trouble he did not expect.
For, seeing that they had long since written off
the ship as cast away, and her company as
dead, at first it appeared as if Jack had lost his
seniority for certain, even if he had not been
removed from the King's service. The latter
view was stoutly maintained by the clerks, dio
argued that if a man has been written off as
dead, he must be dead, or else — a thing impossible
and absurd, if not treasonable — the Navy
Office must be charged with error ; so that, if
he should afterwards be so rash as to return,

he must either be considered out of the service,
or must begin again at the bottom of the
ladder ; otherwise their books would have to
be rewritten ; very likely the Estimates must
be amended, and, perhaps, even a new audit
undertaken. There was much correspondence
on this subject carried on between the various
departments ; and, for aught I know, it may
still be going on. While it was still in agitation,
they began to send him about, like a ball
at the game of cricket, from one office to
another. First they sent him to the Surveyor's
Department, which required him to make a
return of the ship's stores and their expenditure
up to the conclusion of the voyage ; and asked
him, also, to produce the purser's, bo's'n's, and
carpenter's accounts, the muster-book and the
log-book, these books being always, by regulation,
required of the Captain on his return.
The clerks in the Navy Office, who receive
fifty pounds a year, and live at ten, or even
twenty, times that rate in wear time — thus
showing how an honest man may prosper
merely by the handling of ship's books and

the passing of the Captain's papers — gave this
young officer, from whose handling no profit
could be obtained for themselves, as much
trouble as Jacks-in-ofhce possibly can ; and,
being themselves bound and tied by all kinds
of rules, they are able to hamper grievously
any officer who doth not first grease their
palms.

Next, Avhen Jack expected to receive the
six years' pay which was certainly due to him,
there was trouble with the Comptroller's Department,
which contended that, as he had not
served for more than two years, he was entitled
to no more than so much pay, and that only
when it could be proved that he had served to
the satisfaction of the Captain, dio, Ave know,
was dead and gone ; and that, as regards the
four years of wandering and captivity, they
must not count as service at all.

Thirdly, when Jack asked permission to
pass his examination in seamanship for Lieutenant's
rank, it was objected by the clerks of
the Secretary's Department, first, that he had
not, in accordance with the regulations, put in

his log-books or journals ; secondly, that he
could not slow the certificate of the Captain ;
and, thiixlly, that he had not served for the six
years required by the rules of the service. At
all these vexatious delays Jack lost his temper,
and would, in the Navy Office itself, give the
clerks, in good fo'ks'le English, his opinion as
to their motives and their honesty, which, of
course, exasperated these gentlemen, and made
them stand out still more stiffly for the letter of
the law.

Now, while these things were under consideration,
the Commissioners themselves, being
informed of what had happened, sent for Jack
and examined him personally concerning the
ship's course, the discoveries she had made, the
natural riches of the Islands among which he
had sailed, and the possibility of establishing
settlements and posts upon them which might
prove effective in restraining the insolence of
the Spanish, and in preventing the establishment
of the French power in those regions. Finally,
they instructed him to draw up, without further
delay, a Eeport upon the voyage, as full as his

memory would allow, for the information of the
Commissioners and the Government, containing
all that he could remember of the course, and
what he had observed concerning those islands,
and especially on the force of the Spaniards on
the South American shores ; and, wdiicli Alas
no doubt gall and wormwood to the clerks,
my Lords the Commissioners were graciously
pleased to order that the rules of the service
should in this case be suspended, and that, inconsideration
of Mr. Easterbrook's previous good
character, and undoubted sufferings after the
wreck of his ship — for which he could not beheld
in any way accountable — his seniority
should be restored to him, his years of wandering
and captivity should be all counted as years
of service, and that he should therefore receive
full pay for the whole six years of service as
midshipman on board a first-rate — namely, at
two pounds five shillings a month, which made
the handsome sum of one hundred and sixty-two
pounds ; and, lastly, that he should be permitted,
on passing his examination, to assume
the rank and uniform of Lieutenant, with the

assurance of a commission to a ship as soon as
it was possible to find one for him. This promise
was given him so gravely, and by so great
a personage, that Jack placed the most certain
trust in it.

It Alas easier for Jack to pass his examination
in seamanship and navigation, and to put
on his new uniform, than to write the Eeport
asked of him ; for he had never the pen of a
ready writer, nor had lie the least knowledge
of the art of composition ; he had forgotten how
to spell even simple words, having been deprived
of books for four years ; and he had almost
forgotten how to write. He therefore, by the
Admiral's advice, sought the help of my father,
who questioned him minutely on every point ;
and then, with the assistance of the charts, drew
Tip, with his own hand, the required Eeport ;
though, with pardonable license, it purported
to be written by none other than Mr. Easter-brook.
It contained all the information which
the author could elicit by careful and repeated
examination, and, if published, would have
proved a work of the greatest curiosity and instruction,

embellished with the charm of learned
and scholarly style which was so much admired
in my father's sermons, enriched with reflections
proper for the various scenes and adventures
through which the (supposed) writer
passed, and made useful for meditation by
scriptural references. The Eeport was accompanied
by a chart showing part of the western
coast of New Holland, with that portion of the
Pacific Ocean lying south of the Equator over
which the ' Countess of Dorset ' had sailed. This
part of the sea was depicted, by the hand which
drew the chart, as covered with islands, on both
sides of the ship's way, lying as thick as daisies
on a grass border. Mr. Westmoreland it was
who drew the chart ; but he was advised and
assisted by Jack himself, and by Mr. Brings.
He painted the water blue, and the islands and
coasts red. Another hand — I say not whose —
decorated those parts of the ocean where no
ship hath yet sailed, and nothing is yet known,
with spouting whales, dolphins at play, sea-lions
sporting on rocks, and canoes filled with
black men. The same hand designed and

painted in the northern part of the ocean, off
the Island of California, the lively representation
of an eno'ao-ement between the erect seven-decked
Spanish galleon from Manila and a small
English vessel, the former striking her colours,
and the latter flying the flag of her country,
and not the ' Jolly Eoger,' as Mr. Brings desired.
In the left-hand corner Mr. Westmoreland drew
the mariner's compass, below which he wrote a
respectful dedication to my Lords the Commissioners,
signed with the name of John Easter-brook,
midshipman on board the ' Countess of
Dorset.' The whole was finished and adorned
with many flourishes, and in the Penman's
finest style. He was so proud of his work
that, I believe, he expected nothing less thana
public commendation of it in the 'London
Gazette,' with a handsome reward in money.

Strange to say, this Eeport, which we hoped
would have been published by order of the
Admiralty, was received in silence, and was
never afterwards noticed at all. I know not
what became of it, for Jack obtained no acknowledgment
of it, nor was any praise or reward,

VOL. I. X

that I ever heard of, given to the Penman, and
I suspect that the Eeport has never been read
at all, but still lies on the shelves of the JSTavy
Office. But, in truth, the wreck of the ' Countess
of Dorset ' made little stir at the time, because
this intelligence arrived when the public mind
was greatly agitated by the depredations of the
French privateers which were now sweeping
the Channel and picking up our merchantmen,
and with the efforts made by the Government
to protect our coasts and the seas, so that the
loss of this sJiip more than three years before,
even in so lamentable a manner, affected people
little. All this done, however, Jack returned
to Deptford, taking up his quarters with the
Admiral, and in very good spirits, being well
assured that before long he would have his
commission, and that there was going to be a
long and spirited war, the French having begun
with great vigour, and being already flushed
with success., so that they would take a great
deal of beating. He had also jingling in his
pocket — no sweeter music, while it lasts — the
whole of his pay for six years. With this

money lie was enabled to purchase a new outfit
for himself, having landed, as we have seen,
with nothing in the world — no, not even so
much as a shirt. However, he very soon procured
a sea-chest, and filled it once more with
instruments, books, and a new kit, including
his Lieutenant's uniform, in which it must be
confessed he looked as gallant and handsome an
officer as ever put on the blue and white, with
none of the effeminacy and affected daintiness
which too often spoil the young soldier as well
as the London beau. Father did Jack incline
to the opposite vice, being, as his best friends
must admit, quite deficient in his graces, ignorant
of polite manners and conversation, unused to
the society of ladies, and, among men, knowing
but little of Avhat some have called the coffeehouse
manner — that, I mean, which one learns
by intercourse with strangers and general company,
in which it is necessary to concede as well
as demand, to yield as well as to maintain.
Yet no swaggerer, or offender against the peace
of quiet men, though he certainly walked with
his head in the air, as if the whole world

X 2

belonged to him, and, as if it was his right,
took the wall of everyone, unless an old man, a
cripple, or a woman, and that with so resolute
an air that even the bully-captains of the street
who are always ready to shoulder and elbow
peaceful men into the gutter, and, on a mild
remonstrance, to clap hand to sword-hilt, and
swear blood and murder — these worthies, I say,
stepped meekly, and without a word, into the
mud when they beheld this young sea-lion
marching towards them, over six feet in height,
with shoulders and legs like a porter's for
breadth and strength, splendid in his blue coat
with gold-laced hat, his crimson sash, his white
silk stockings, and white breeches. One thinoj
I commended in him, that he wore his own
hair, having it powdered decently, and tied ina
ba^x with a black ribbon, a fashion which
especially becomes a sailor, first, because a wig
at sea, where everything should be taut and
trim, must be troublesome ; and secondly,
because if it be blown overboard what is a man
to do for another P

Fortunately for the street captains, Jack

went seldom to London, where the noise of the
carts and the crowd in the streets offended him.
He loved not to be jostled. And the amusements
of the town pleased hmi not. Once we
went together to see the play at Drury Lane ;
the piece was a comedy, very ingenious and
witty, representing modern manners, or that
part of modern manners which belongs to the
nobility, where, I suppose, there is always
intrigue, and the conversation always sparkles
with epigram ; the meaner kind know not this
kind of life. It is pleasant to look on, and the
house laughed and applauded. But Jack sat
glum, and presently grew impatient and went
out, and would have no more of it.

Why,' he said, ' call this a play of
modern life ? If a man were to say to me
one-half of what these people continually say
to each other — one calHmr the other, though
in fine words, ass, rogue, liar, or clown — I
would have cleared the whole stage long ago.
Where is the English spirit gone ? Let us
get away.'

I asked him whether he did not think the

theatre made a fine siolit, with the beautiful
dresses of the ladies. But even this did not
please him.

Dresses ? ' he said, ' why, they are designed
for no other purpose than to make the poor
souls hideous. Hoops, powder and paint, hair
dressed up — I should like, my lad, to show
you beside them a bevy of South Sea Island
girls, barefooted, Avitli a simple-petticoat tied
round them, and their long hair flying loose.
Then would you understand how a woman
should look. I know a girl ' — he checked
himself — ' well, put her, dressed as she is in a
box at the theatre, and she would be like the
full moon onions the twinkling stars.'

I might have replied (which is, I suppose,
the truth) that women have no thought of
form, and cannot understand that curve which
Hogarth has drawn. Therefore, they understand
not why men love a woman's figure, and
regard Fashion as nothing more than an
exhibition of costly and beautiful stuffs, silk,
lace, and embroidery, to set off which the figure
serves as a frame or machine, on which they

limy be hung. Otherwise women would strive
for a fashion at once becoming; and fitted to
the figure, which they would then never alter,
as the Greeks retained always the same simple
mode.

With these views as to ladies' dress, it is
easy to understand that Jack found very little
pleasure in visiting Eanelagh, or Yauxhall,
though the freedom of Bai]fnifzse Wells was
more to his taste. Nor did he delight in the
coffee-houses. I took him to the Smyrna,
where the politicians resort ; and to the Rainbow,
where the wits and templar are found ;
and to the White Lion, Wych Street, where
they have concerts and women who sing. But
he found the conversation insipid and the
manners affected.

There was only one place of public resort
which he heartily approved. It was the
famous madhouse in Long Lane, whither one
evening we went, Mr. J3rooking, the painter,
taking us thither. It is frequented by many
brethren of the brush, who for some reason are
always more inchncd to mirth and gaiety than

the sober merchant. In this room there are
fiddles and a harp : the room is divided into
small tables which drink to each other ; a
president calls for a song, and one song is
followed by another till midnight, the company
drinking to each other from table to table,
some taking strong beer, some flip, some rnmbo,
and some mich. Jack admired greatly the
freedom of conversation, which had nothing of
the coffee-house stiffness ; the heartiness with
which one table would drink about with
another ; the tobacco and the singing, for
which this madhouse was then famous, and all
with so many jokes and so much laughter, that
it was a pleasure to think there was so much
happiness left in the world.

But most of his time Jack spent at
Deptford : his mornings in the Yard among the
ships, and his evenings at the Sir John Falstaff
with the Admiral, or in the Officers' Eoom at
the Gun Tavern, whither the Lieutenants and
the Midshipmen resorted for tobacco and
punch.

There remained the afternoon, which, had

he chosen, lie might have spent with the
Admiral's lady and Castilla.

Our conversation,' said that sweet girl,
hath no attraction for Jack. He loves sailors
better than ladies, and tobacco better than tea ;
and he would rather hear the fiddle than the
harpsichord, and the bawling by a brother-officer
of a sea-song than a simple ditty from
me.'

I suppose that Castilla was naturally a
little hurt that Jack showed no admiration for
those accomplishments, of which she was justly
proud. No one played more sweetly, or sang
more prettily, the songs which she knew than
Castilla. Every girl likes a little attention ;
but this young sea-bear gave Castilla none.
Every girl likes to think that her conversation
is pleasing to the men : Jack showed no pleasure
at all in Castilla's talk. He was thinking,
though this we knew not yet, of another girl,
whose charms bewitched him and made him
insensible to any other woman.

At this period of his life it is certain that
Jack loved not the conversation of ladies.

finding it perhaps insipid after the fo'ks'le talk
he lead lately experienced in the French prison
and his savage life among the Indians. ' If
a man,' he said, ' must needs associate with
women at all, give me a woman ivho is not
squeamish over a damn or two, and lets a man
tell his story through his own way, without
holding np her hands to her face and crying
lie upon him for naughty words ; and one who
can mix him a glass of punch — ay, and help
him to drink it — and won't begin to cough
directly his pipe of tobacco is lit. As for your
cards, and your music, and your drinking of
tea, it is all very well for landsmen. I dare say
you like handing about the cups for Madame
and passing the cream and sugar to the young
misses.'

'You can take your tea as the Admiral
takes his, Jack, with a dram of rosa solis
after it.'

What is it at best, but a medicine ? Why
not ask people to come and drink physic together
? Why not ask Mr. Brings to prescribe,
as he docs, his tea of betony, speedwell, sago,

or camomile ? Or, if you must drink messes,
there is chocolate, as the Spaniards have it.
But as for tea, with the strung of a harpsichord,
and playing at cards for counters, and
ladies talking fiddle-faddle, and Castilla asking
you if you like this, or you would rather
choose the other, I confess, my lad, I cannot
endure it.'

'Castilla, Jack? Surely, she is to your
taste ? '

Why, as for that, she is a pretty, delicate
slip of a girl ; she has got soft cheeks, it is
true, and brown hair. Give me a tall, strong
woman, who knows lier own mind and what
she likes, and likes it in earnest. Give me a
woman with a spice of the Devil.'

Well, Jack,' I said, surprised that he was
not already in love with Castilla, ' there are
plenty of women in Deptford who are all Devil,
if they can tempt you.'

He had got already, though I knew it nota
woman who possessed her ftdl share of the
clement he so much desired.

In the afternoons, therefore, he did not court

the society of Castilla, but he went back to his
old custom, and sat for the most part in the
apothecary's parlour : not so much for the
pleasure which he took in the conversation of
that worthy and experienced gentleman, as that
in this way he could enjoy the company of
another person, who generally came in accidentally
about the same time, but through the
garden gate and the back door, while the
Lieutenant marched in boldly, for all the world
to see, through the slip. As Mr. Brings slept
for the greater part of the afternoon, these two
could say what they pleased to each other
without fear of being overheard. And nobody
so much as suspected that they were in this
room except the assistant, who stood all day at
the counter rolling bodies, pounding drugs,
and mixing nauseous draughts. One might
have chosen a sweeter smelling place for love-making,
but then it had the look of a cabin,
and something of its smell, and Jack found no
fault with it.

We talked,' Bess told me, in the time when
her only pleasure was to think and talk about

Jack, and when there was no one but myself
with whom she could speak about him, ' We
talked all the afternoon in whispers so as not
to wake up Mr. Brings, who slept among his
pillows. We sat in the window seat, my head
on his breast, and his fingers played with my
hair, and sometimes he kissed me. Jack told
me all he was ^oino- to do : he was to ^Qi his
commission, and iso fiditin^^ ; he would cfo for
choice where there were the hardest knocks ;
they would make a vast deal of prize money,
and he would get promoted, and made
Captain, with twelve pounds a month, and
then, when he came home, he would marry
me.'

'And did Mr. Brings,' I asked, 'never
wake lip, and interrupt this pastime P '

She laughed. 'Why, when he woke up,
he would say, " Kiss her again. Jack. She is
the best girl in Deptford. I have saved her for
thee. Kiss her again." He has always been
kind to me, and Avould never believe that Jack
was drowned, and would still be talking of him,
which was the reason why I knew him again

when lie came back. And then, Mr. Brings
would sit up and talk about his treasure, and
how he shall some day fit out a ship, and weare
all to go sailing after the treasure, which is
to be my marriage portion, when it is recovered,
so that Jack will marry, after all, the greatest
heiress in England.'

These things I heard, I say, after Jack went
to sea again, and while Bess, like so many
women, sat at home waiting and praying for
her lover's safe return. All that time, no one
knew, or so much as suspected, what was
going on. Otherwise, I fear, hard things
would have been said of poor Bess by those
of her own sex. Men, in such matters,
judge each other more leniently, and with
less suspicion.

If, now, Jack had not been first recognised
by Bess ; if he had not gone to see her the first
day of his arrival ; if — but what doth it profit
to say that if such and such things lead not
happened other things would have turned out
differently ? It is vain and foolish talk. Our
lives are not governed by blind chance ; and

we must not doubt that, for some wise end
which we know not and are not expected to
know, or even to guess, all that happens to us
is ordered and settled for us beforehand.

End OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

rni.XTED BY

SrOTTISWOODE And CO., New-street Square

LONDON

^^

I

%-.n' >y^^w^ i^ :

i?^^4##ri«

S^6^

ma^^' -^

i«4ife

5^***SS^

^#!^¥^

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

WELL THEN
II.

BY

WALTER BESANT AND JAMES RICE.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3^. dd. each ; post 8vo. illus,
boards, 2.s. each ; cloth limp, 2j. (id. each,

Ready-money Mortify.

WITH HARP AND CROWN.

THIS SON OF VULCAN.

MY LITTLE GIRL.

THE CASE OF MR. Craft.

THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY.

BY CELIA'S ARBOUR.

THE MONKS OF Helena.

'TWAS IN TRAFALGAR'S BAY.

THE SEAMY SIDE.

THE TEN YEARS' TENANT.

THE CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

NOVELS BY WALTER BESANT.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3J-. 6^. each ; post Svo. illus.
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, is. 6d. each.

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN: an

Impossible Story. With Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

THE CAPTAINS' ROOM, &c. With Frontispiece

by E. J. Wheeler.
ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR. With 6 Illustrations

by H. Furnish.

DOROTHY FORSTER. With Frontispiece by

Charles Green.
UNCLE JACK, and other Stories.

CHILDREN OF GIBEON. Three Vols.

THE Would WENT VERY WELL THEN.

Three Vols.

THE ART OF FICTION. Demy Svo. is.

London : CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

X " W"~

d\.:f S5|., i; ■ ^

Room /or the Doctor, gentlemen .

BY

WALTER BESANT

AUTHOR OF

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN ' ' DOROTHY FORSTER
CHILDREN OF GIBEON ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IL

WITH A PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR BY JOHN PETTIE, R.A.
AND ILLUSTRATIONS BY A. FORESTIER

ITonbou

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



the right of translation is reset ved'\

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

\/. 2

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER - PAGE

Xii. THE MEDDLESOME Assistant 1

XY. Horn FAIR 19

Xii. IN THE SrSOIER HOrSE 59

XYH. T^ Richer EOW . . . . . . . EO

Xviii, A Dark night's JOB 99

XIX. IN THE crimp's HOUSE 119

XX. or jack's ESCAPE 137

XXI. A RUDE AWAKENING 154

XXn. THE Privateers 181

XXIII. A sailor's charm . . . . 196

Xxii. AFTER JACK's DEPARTURE . . . .219

Xxi. LIEUTENANT AARON FLETCHER . . . . 244

Xxii. HOW MR. BRINJES EXERCISED HIS POWERS . 255

Xxiii. IN COMMAND 271

Xxviii. HOW BESS LISTENED FOR HIS STEP . . .282

XXIX. * HE HATH SUFFERED A SEA CHANGE ' . . . 303

PAGE

ROOM POR THE DOCTOR, GENTLEMEN ! ' . Frontispiece

SHE GAVE HJM A CUP WITH HER OWN HANDS ' . . . 309

Chapter XIV.

TilE MEDDLESOME Assistant.

HE first trouble came to the
lovers through the meddled



sameness and malignity of
the Apothecary's assistant.

VOL. II.

even brave men, are apt to consider whether
another woman may not be found as beautiful.
Therefore, for some time, those who would
willingly have courted Bess kept away from
her, and, in the long run, I am sure that Aaron
would have triumphed, being constant in his
affections, as he was strong and brave. Unhappily
for him. Jack Easterbrook returned.
First of all, when Aaron came up from Gravesend,
a few days later, and became a peaceful
boat-builder again, in place of a smuggler, he
began to watch and to spy upon the movements
of Bess, employing a girl whose father worked
for him at his boat-building, and lived in a
house nearly opposite to that of Mr. Westmoreland.
She reported that Bess stayed at home
all day long, and though Lieutenant Easter-brook
had been to the house, it was only to
see her father, who came to the door and spoke
with him there, and Bess never met him. So
that, although Aaron heard the story of her
recognising him in his rags, he thought little of
that, and made up his mind that the Lieutenant
had quite forgotten the girl, and cared

no more about her, even if he Ind ever thought
of her ; and when Jack, by the grace of my
Lords the Commissioners, appeared in his new
uniform, he seemed to be so much raised above
Bess in rank that it was impossible he shoukl
any longer think of her. Moreover, Aaron
discovered that the Lieutenant's mornings vere
spent in the Yard, his afternoons with Mr.
Brings, and his evenings at the tavern ; so that,
except for the fact that there was no woman at
all in the daily history of the Lieutenant — a
suspicious circumstance Avhere a sailor is concerned
— he felt satisfied. This officer would
go away again soon ; meantime he thought no
more about Bess. When the Lieutenant was
gone, his own chance would come. For my
own part, I sincerely wish that things had been
exactly as Aaron wished them to be — namely,
that Jack had quite forgotten the girl, and that
he had fallen in love with Castille or someone
else, and that Bess — weary of much importunity
or softened in heart — had accepted the hand of
this great burly fellow, who loved her so constantly.
Whereas — but you shall see.

It liappeiied, however, one evening about
eight o'clock, when Jack had been at home
some three Aveeks, that Aaron, sitting alone
in his house, which stood on one side
of his boat-building yard, overlooking the
river between the Upper and the Lower
Water Gate, heard footsteps in this yard without.
He rose, and opening the door called to
know who was there at that time, and bade
the visitor come to the house without more
ado.

His visitor proved to be the man Hallow.

What the devil do you want ? ' asked
Aaron. Mr. Brings himself was a man to be
treated with the greatest respect, but his assistant,
who was not credited with any magical
]towers, and could certainly not command
rheumatics or give any more pain than is
caused by the drawing of a tooth, was regarded
with the contempt which attaches to the trade
of mixiuG^ nauseous medicines. ' What do you
want here, at this time ? I have not sent for
any of your bottles, and I don't want any of
your leeches.'

I liiimbly ask your pardon, Mr. Fletcher.
I have brought no bottles and no leeches.'

Then what are you come for ? '

I humbly ask your pardon, again, Mr.
Fletcher, seeing that I am but a poor well-wisher
and admirer '

Here Aaron discharged a volley of curses
at the man, which made his knees to tremble.

I have come, Mr. Fletcher, desiring todo
my duty, though but a poor apothecary's
assistant, who may one day become an
apothecary myself; when. Sir, if a tooth wants
to be drawn, or a fever to be reduced, or a
rheumatism '

Here Mr. Fletcher gave renewed proof of
impatience.

Then, Sir, I have come to tell you a thing
which you ought to know.'

Say it out then, man.'

First, I am afraid of angering you.'

Mr. Fletcher turned and went back into
his room, whence he emerged bearing a thick
rope's-end about two and a half feet long.
This, in the hands of so big and powerful a

man as Aaron Fletclier, is a fearful weapon.
He used it for the correction of his 'prentices ;
and it was very well known that there was
nowhere a workshop where the 'prentices were
better behaved or more monstrous. Such
was the wholesome terror caused by the
brandishing of a rope's-end in the hands of this
giant.

'Hark ye, mate,' he said, balancing this
instrument, so that the assistant turned pale
with terror, and his eyes rolled about all ways
at once, 'you have angered me already, and, if
you anger me more, you shall taste the rope's-end.
Wherefore, lose no more time.'

It is about Bess Westmoreland. Oh, Mr.
Fletcher I ' for the boat-builder raised his arm.
Patience ! Hear me out ! ' The arm went
down. 'It is about Bess Westmoreland.
Everybody knows that you have ' — here the
arm went up again. ' And it is about Lieutenant
Easterbrook. Bess and the Lieutenant
- — oh, sir ! have patience till you hear what I
have to tell you ! '

My patience will not last much longer.

Death and the Devil, man ! what do you mean
by talking about Bess Westmoreland and Lieutenant
Easterbrook ? He has seen her but
once since his return.'

By your leave, sir, he sees her every day.'

Aaron threw the rope's-end from him with
an oath. Then he caught the man by the
coat-collar, and dragged him into the room.

Come in here,' he said. ' By the Lord, if
you are fooling me I will murder you ! '

If that is all,' the man replied, ' I have no
fear. I am not fooling you, Mr. Fletcher ; I
am telling ^^ou the sober truth.'

Man, I know how the Lieutenant spends
this time. He is all the morning in the Yard,
looking at the ships and talking to the officers.
In the afternoon he sits with Mr. Brings, and
in the evening he drinks at the tavern. And
as for the girl, she never sees him.'

You are wrong, sir. But oh ! Mr. Fletcher,
don't tell anyone I told you ! The Lieutenant
is the strongest man in the town — next to you,
Sir — next to you — and the master can do
dreadful things, if he chooses ; and Bess herself

in a rage — have you ever seen Bess in a rage ?
oh, Sir, first promise me not to tell who gave
you the intelligence.'

Do you want a bribe ? '

No ; I want no bribe. I hate 'em — I hate
'em. And the one I hate most is the Lieutenant,
because if I was nothing better than the
dust beneath his feet, he couldn't treat me with
more contempt.'

Go on, man. Tell me what you have to
say and begone.'

He goes every afternoon to Mr. Brings.'

I know that.'

You think he goes to talk to the old man,
I suppose .^ He does not, then. My master
sleeps all the afternoon. If he didn't sleep, he
would die. He says so. The Lieutenant goes
there to make love to Bess.'

Aaron turned pale.

She comes in every day by the garden gate
and the back door, so that no one should
suspect. And no one knows except me. But
I know ; I have looked through the key-hole.
Besides, I hear them talking. Every day she

comes, every day they sit together, he with his
arm round her waist, or round her neck playing
with her hair, and she with her head upon his
shoulder — kissing each other, and making love,
while the master is sound asleep by the lire.'

Go on.'

When the master w^akcs up he laughs, and
he says, " Kiss her again, Jack." Then he laughs
again, and he wishes he was young again.'

- Is that all ? '

'That is all. For the Lord's sake, Mr.
Fletcher, don't let anyone know who told you !
Mr. Brings would kill me, I think ; and mind
you, Mr. Fletcher, whatever you do, remember
that the master is able to kill you, and will too,
if you harm the Lieutenant. He knows how to
kill people by slow torture. There's a man in
the town now, covered With boils and blains
from head to foot, says it's the Apothecary
hath bewitched him. Don't offend Mr. Brings,
Sir.'

My lad,' said Aaron grimly, ' I doubt
whether I ought not to take the rope's-end to
your back for interfering with me and my

concerns. Now, if you so much as dare to talk
to any man in this place about what you have
seen and told me — whatever happens afterwards
remember, whatever happens afterwards —
it is not a rope's-end that I shall take to you,
but a cudgel ; and I shall not beat you black and
blue, but I shall break every bone in your
measly skin. Get out, ye miserable, sneaking',
creeping' devil ! '

That was all the thanks that the poor wretch
Hallow ever got for the mischief he had made ;
but the thought that he had made mischief
consoled him. Something was now going to
happen. So he went his way, contented with
his evening's work.

Then Aaron sat down, and began to think
what he should best do. He had been full of
Christian charity towards the man who was
not, after all, as he feared, his rival ; there would
be no more talk of quarrelling and fighting
between them ; the shilling need not be fought
for; the Lieutenant belonged to a different
rank ; in course of time Bess would tire of her
resistance, and would yield. Now all was

altered again. His old rival was still a rival,
and there nuit be fishing.

Presently he rose, and walked up the street
to the Penman's house.

Mr. Westmoreland was at the tavern with
his friends the Assistant Shipwright, the Sexton,
and the Barber. Bess was sitting alone, with a
candle and her work.

Bess,' said Aaron, ' I want to have a serious
talk with 3'ou ; may I come in ? '

No, Aaron. Stand in the doorway, and
talk there. I am not going to let anybody say
that I let you into the house when father was
out of it ; but, if you want to talk foolishness,
you can go away at once. It is high time to
have done with foolishness.'

Aaron obeyed — that is to say, he remained
standing at the open door, and lie said what he
had to say.

It is for your own good, Bess ; though
you won't believe that anything I say is for
your own good.'

What is it, then ? '

'It is this. Every afternoon you go to

Mr. Brings' parlour to meet Lieutenant Easter-brook.
You go out by your garden gate, so
that no one may see or suspect, and the Lieutenant
goes in by the shop. Li the parlour,
while the old man is asleep, you kiss each other
and make love.'

She sprang to her feet.

Aaron, you are a spy ! '

I have been told this, but I did not spy it
out for myself. Very well then, spy or not,
think, Bess. The Lieutenant has never yet got
appointed to a ship ; perhaps he never will ; he
has got no money ; he cannot marry you if he
would ; if he were to marry you the Admiral
would never forgive him ; if he doesn't want to
marry you — Why — there — Bess.'

Is that all you have to say ? ' she asked,
trying not to lose her temper, because she had
the sense to perceive that it would please her
lover if she quarrelled about him with this n:ian.
Is that all, Aaron ? '

Why, I might say it a thousand times
over ; but it wouldn't amount to much more
than this. He can't marry you if he wants to ;

and if lie doesn't want to, a girl of your spirit
ought to be too proud to listen to his talk.'

Aaron, you shall pay for this,' cried Bess,
with flaming eyes.

You a lady, Bess ? You to marry a
King's officer .^ Know your own station, my
girl. You are the daughter of the Penman,
and you can neither read nor write. But
there's a chance yet : send him packing hast,
and then you shall see.'

Aaron, you shall pay,' she repeated ; ' you
shall pay.'

I say, Bess, I will give you another chance.
Before your name gets dragged in the mud and
you become the town talk, send him packing,
and you shall have me if you please. Bess, I
love you better than the Lieutenant, for all he
wears silk stockings. I love you in spite of
yourself, Bess. You've been a fool, but you've
been carried away by your woman's vanity,
and there's not much harm done yet. Give
him up, Bess, and you shall find me loving and
true.'

In his emotion his voice grew hoarse and

thick. But lie meant what he said, and it
would have been better if Bess had taken him
at his word on the spot. But she did not.
She was carried away by her wrath, but yet so
governed that she knew what she was saying.

It is six years,' she said, ' since I looked
on while you fought him and were beaten. I
liked nothing better than to see you defeated
and Jack victorious. Because, even then, you
pretended to have some claim upon me, though
I was but a little girl. Now, Aaron, I should
like nothing better than to see Jack beat and
bang you again until you cried for mercy.'
Her eyes were flashing and her cheek red, and
she stamped her foot upon the ground. ' Oh,
I should like nothing better ! '

Should you, Bess, should you ? ' he replied,
strangely, not in a rage at all, but with a great
resolution.

'To see you lying at his feet. You, his
rival ! — you ! Why, you may be bigger— so is
a collier bigger than a little sloop. That is a
great matter, truly ! You his rival ! To think
that any woman whom he has once kissed

should ever be able so much as to look at you
oh ! Aaron I But you don't know ; you are
too common and ignorant to know the difference
there is between you.'

You would like to see him beat and bano^
me, would you, Bess ? Why. then, it is as easy
as breaking eggs. You shall have the chance.
All you have to do is to tell your fine lover
that, as regards that shillings — he will know
Avhat shilling I mean — I am waiting and ready
to have that repaid, or to take it out in another
way — lie will know the Away I mean. And
then, my girl, if sou like to be present, you can.
But I promise you the beating and the banging
will be all the other way, and your fine lover,
gentleman and King's officer though he is, shall
be on his knees before he finds time to swing
his staff. You tell him that about the shillings
you will not, 1 will send a message by
another.'

'I will tell him. Xow go away, Aaron,
lest you say something which would anger me
still more.'

So he went away. But Bess told her lover,

VOL. II. c

who laugliecl, and said that Aaron was a greedy
fellow whom there was no satisfying, but he
should do his best to let him have a good
shiUing's^worth, and the full value of his money.

CHAPTEE XY.

Horn FAIR.

5i|[HIS conversation happened in the

second week of October. The

opportunity of repaying the shilling

occurred on the 18th of that month,

which is St. Luke's Day, and consequently the

first day of Horn Fair.

All the world has heard of this fair. It is
not so famous a fair as that of St. Bartholomew's,
the humours of which have been set
forth by the great Ben Jonson himself ; it has
never, like that fair, been honoured by the presence
of the Prince of Wales ; nor has so ingenious
a gentleman as Mr. Harry Fielding
ever written plays to be acted at Horn Fair, ashe
hath done for Bartholomew. Nor is it as
good for trade as the ancient Stourbridge Fair.

c 2

Yet for noise, ribaldry, riot, and drunkenness
it may be compared with any fair held in the
three kingdoms, even with the old May Fair,
now suppressed, which they say was the abode
of all the devils while it lasted. As for trade,
there is never anything sold there — neither
horses, nor cattle, nor cloth, nor any pretence
made of selling anything, except horns and
thing-s made of horn, with booths for children's
toys, penny whistles, and the like, gingerbread,
cockles, oysters, and so forth, together with
strong drink, and that the worst that can be
procured of every kind.

It is frequented by a motley crew, consisting
of a noisy London rabble : rope-makers
from St. George's, Radcliffe Highway ; sail-makers
from Limehouse, shipwrights from
Eotherhithe, sailors from Wapping, all the City
'prentices who can get holidays the shabby
gentry of the King's Bench rules, together with
a sprinkling of beaux and gallants who come
here to riot. Hither flock also a great concourse
of men and women from the country,
who come in their smock-frocks and new white

caps, to drink, dance, look on and gape, bawl,
laugh, and play upon each other those rough
jokes which commonly lead to a fight. There
is not, in flint, anywhere in the world a i\dr
which hath a more evil reputation than Horn
Fair. Yet I dare affirm that you shall not fid
a single London citizen dio hath not paid one
visit at least to Horn Fair ; while there are
many London dames — ay, of the finest — dio
have been tempted by the curiosity of their sex,
and, in order to see the humours of famous
Horn Fair, have dared the dangers of a rabble
seeking enjoyment after their kind, and in the
manner which best pleases their brutish nature.
Yet it was in such a place as this, and
among such people, that the Lieutenant was
called upon by Aaron to redeem his promise
and to light him for the shilling ; and, although
he might very well have refused to answer the
challenge in such a place. Jack thought it incumbent
upon his honour to fight, even tliougli
it should be like a Pitman gladiator in the
arena. Had he been invited to take a odass ina
booth at the fair, or to eat hot cockles with

bumpkins, lie would have treated the proposition
with scorn ; but because he was asked to
fight, his honour, forsooth ! was concerned, and
he must needs go—^so sacred a thing is the law
of honour concerning the duello. No doubt
in this case his delicate sense of honour and his
inclination jumped, as they say, and he was by
no means displeased to try his courage, strength,
and skill against so doughty a champion as
Aaron Fletcher. Yet I do not think there was
another officer in the King's Navy Avdio would
have done what he did.

All sorts of ridiculous stories are told of
Horn Fair and its origin, with a foolish legend
about King John, which I pass over as unworthy
of credence, because every painter who
hath studied Italian and ecclesiastical art, and
the symbolical figures with which saints are
represented, knows very well that Luke, the
Evangelist, was always figured in the pictures
having with him the horned head of an ox, for
which reason, and no other, the Charlton Fair
was called Horn Fair, being held on St. Luke's
Day. It is a pity that the mob cannot be

taught tins — though, for my own part, I know
not why an ox shonlcl go with the head of
St. Lnke — and so be persuaded to carry their
horns soberly, in memory of the Saint who
wrote the third Gospel.

The visitors, if the day is fine, begin to
come down the river as early as eight in the
morning, and for the most part they remain
where they land, at Cuckold's Point, Eedriff,
eating and drinking until the procession is
formed, which starts at eleven or thereabouts,
and by that time there is a vast crowd, indeed,
gathered together about the stairs, and the
river is crowded with boats carrying visitors
from London Bridge, or even from Chelsea.
As for the quarrels of watermen and the splashing
of the passengers and the exchange of
scurrilous jokes, abuse, and foul language, it
passes belief However, the passengers mostly
get safe to the stairs at last, and, after a quarrel
with the waterman over the fare, they are permitted
to land. Those who join in the procession
array themselves in strange garments :
some are dressed like wolves, some like bears,

some like lions, some again like wild savages,
and some like Frenchmen, Spaniards, Russians,
or the lusty Turk, and some wear fearful masks ;
but all are alike in this respect, that they wear
horns tied upon their heads in various fashions.
The women among them, however, who ought
rather to be at home, do not wear horns upon
their heads, but masks and dominoes. Those
who can afford it have ribbons round their
hats, the streaming of which in the breeze
greatly gratifies them ; some carry flags and
banners, all together shout and bellow continually,
and the procession is followed by all
the boys, to judge from their number, who can
be found between Westminster on the west
and Woolwich on the east.

This magnificent procession, which is almost
as good as the Lord Mayor's Show, leaves
Eotherhithe, headed by drum and fife, at
eleven in the forenoon, and marches through
Deptford, across the bridge by way of the
London Road, through Greenwich to Charlton
Common.

Jack stood with me at the gate of the

Admiral's house, looking on as these Tom
Fools passed, playing their antics as they went
along. It seemed to me strange that a man of
his rank should take any pleasure in witnessing
the humours of the mob ; but I thought asa
fool, because there is something in every
sailor, whether he be an officer or not, Avhicli
makes him delight in singinj]^ and dancing, and
causes his ears to prick up at the sound of a
fiddle or a fife. Besides, as regards this saik:)r,
it was six years and more since he had seen
any merry-making at all, unless, which 1 know
not, the half-starved Indians who entertained
him had any songs and dances of their own.

I must go to the fair this afternoon, Luke,'
he said ; ' will you come with me, lad P '

What will you do at the fair. Jack ? It
is a rude, rough place, not fit for a gentleman.'


Do you remember the last time we went ?
It is seven years ago. Ever slice I came home
I have felt constrained to visit again the places
where we used to play. There is the crazy
old summer-house in the gardens. I have been

there again. The place is not yet filled into
the Creek, though it is more crazy than ever.'

'And Mr. Brings' parlour? Have you
been there ? '

I have been there,' he replied, with hesitation,
' once or twice — to look at his charts. His
treasure is on an island in the North Pacific,
whither our ship did not sail. Yes. I have
been there — to see his charts, in the evening.
In the afternoon, I find, he sleeps, and must not
be disturbed.'

And now, you must needs visit Horn Fair
again. Well, Jack, I am a man of peace, and,
very like, there may be a fight. So take with
you a stout cudgel.'

There is another reason also for my going
he said. ' It is because Aaron Fletcher will
play all-comers at quarterstaff.'

Why, Jack, surely you would not play
with Aaron before all this mob of rustics and
common men ? '

I must, brave boy. For, look you, Aaron
saved my life. There is no question about
that. The boat must have gone down in half

an hour, and I with it, if he had not hugged me
out. Therefore, if he asks me to do so small a
thing as to fight him, the least I can do is to
gratify him, and to fight him at such place, and
in such manner, as he may appoint. I promised
him this, and now he sends me word to remind
me of my promise.'

'But the man is a giant. Jack.'

He is a strapping fellow. But, if he is six
foot four, I am six foot one and a half. His
reach is longer than mine, it is true. But do
not be afraid. I have got back my strength,
and I think I shall give a good account of him.
However, my word is passed to fight him when
he washes ; and, whatever happens, I must go.
He thinks to defeat me before all his friends.
He is a braggart fellow, and we shall see, my
lad.'

We walked over to Charlton after dinner ;
Jack in his Lieutenant's uniform, with new laced
ruffles and laced shirt and cravat, very noble.
He carried his sword, but, following my advice,
he provided himself as well with a stout cudgel,
in which, I confess, I placed more confidence

than in his sword. For why ? A man thinks
twice about using a sword upon a mob as he
would upon an enemy, but an oaken cudgel
does not generally kill, though it may stun.
Therefore, he lays about him lustily if he have
a cudgel, and spares not.

There was no hurry about the quarterstafF
play, which would not begin until three o'clock,
and we strolled about the fiiir among the crowd,
looking at the shows, of which there were many
more than I expected to find. But Horn Fair
is happily placed in the almanac, so that the
people who live by shows, rope-dancing, and
the like, can go from Stephen Fair to Charlton,
and so from Charlton to Croydon Fair. There
was, to begin with, a most amazing noise, with
beating of drums, blowing of trumpets, banging
of cymbals, ringing of bells, dashing of great
hammers upon the boards, whistling, marrowbones
and cleavers, each one thinking that the
more noise he made the more attractive would
be his show. The booths were filled with
common things, but these gimlet, tied with
bright ribbons and gay-coloured paper, so as to

look valuable, and with wheedling girls, in
tawdry finery, to sell them. And here I found
that my companion speedily forgot the dignity
of an officer and became like a boys, buying
things he did not want, because some black-eyed
gipsy girl pressed them into his hand With a
Sure your Honour will never regret the trifle
for a fairing for your Honour's sweetheart. A
proud and happy girl she is this day, to have
her Captain home again.' And so on, he laughing
and pulling out a handful of silver and
letting her take as much as she pleased, whether
for shoes, patterns, leather breeches, gingerbread,
cheap books, or toys in horn, whatever
she pleased to sell him. Jack bought enough
of everything? to stock a Foundling Hospital,
but mostly left his purchases on the stalls where
he found them, or gave them to the first pretty
girl he met in the crowd. There certainly is
something in the air of the sea which keeps ina
man for a long time the eagerness of a boy.
A London-bred young man of three-and-twenty,
which was Jack's age, is already long past the
enjoyment of things so simple as the amusements

of a fair ; he despises the shows, gauds,
and antics which make the rustics and the
mechanics gape and laugh. As for Jack, he
must needs go everywhere and see everything ;
and this year there were a wonderful number of
shows.

There was, for instance, the young woman.
of nineteen, already seven feet ten inches high,
and said to be still growing, so that her wellwishers
confidently expected that when she
should attain her twenty-fifth year, she would
reach the stature of nine feet, or, perhaps, ten.
We also saw the bearded woman. This lusiis
natuTce^ or sport of nature, presented for our
admiration a large full beard, a foot long and
more, growing upon the whole of her face,
cheeks, chin and lip, so that her mouth was
quite hidden by it. She was, by this time,
unfortunately, fully fifty years of age, and her
beard well grizzled, so that we had no opportunity
of knowing how a woman in her youth
and beauty would look with such an ornament
to her face. It would then, I suppose, be soft
and silky, and brown in colour. But perhaps

she would look not otherwise than a comely
young man. This woman was a great strong-creature,
who might have felled an ox with her
fist ; she had a deep voice and a merry laugh,
and made no opposition when Jack offered hera
cheerful glass. We saw the Irish giant, also,
who was a mighty tall fellow, but weak in the
knees ; and the strong woman who tossed
about the heavy weights as if they had been
made of pasteboard, and lifted great stones
with her hair. And, since where there are
giants there must also be dwarfs, we saw the
Italian Fairy, a girl of sixteen, no taller than
eighteen inches, and said to be a princess in
her own country. It has been remarked by
the curious that whereas oiaiits have always
something in their carriage and demeanour as
if they were ashamed of themselves, so dwarfs,
on the other hand, are the most vainglorious
and self-conceited persons imaginable. This
little creature, for instance, dressed in a
flowered petticoat and a frock of sarcenet,
walked about her stage, carried herself and
spoke with all the airs of a Court lady or a

fine city madam, though where she learned
these arts I know not. As for other shows,
there was a menagerie wherein were exhibited
a cassowary, a civet cat, a leopard, and a double
cow — a cow, that is, with one head and two
fore legs, but four hind legs. There was a
theatre, where they performed the ' Siege of
Troy ' in a very bold and moving manner, and
with much shouting and clashing of swords,
though the performance was hurried, on account
of the impatience of those without. There
were lotteries in plenty, where one raffled for
spoons of silver and rings of gold ; but as for
us, though we essayed our fortune everywhere,
Ave got nothing. There was a fire-eater, who
vomited flames, and put red-hot coals into this
mouth ; there was excellent dancing on the
slack-rope, which is always to me the most
wonderful thing in the world to witness ; there
was a woman who danced with four naked
swords in her hands, tossing and catching them,
presenting them to her breast, and all with so
much fire and fury that it seemed as if she was
resolved and determined to kill herself. Jack

rewarded her after the dance with a crown and
a kiss, both of which she received with modesty
and gratitude. There was also a ladder-dance,
in which a young man got upon a ladder and
made it walk about, and climbed up to the top
of it and over it, and sat upon the topmost
rung, and yet never let it fall — a very dexterous
fellow.

Why,' said Jack, presently, ' what have
you and I learned, Luke, that can compare
with the things which these people can do ?
Grant that I know the name and place of every
bit of gear in a ship, and that you can paint a
boat to the life ; what is that compared with
dancing on the slack-rope, or balancing a
ladder as this fellow does it ? '

At the time I confess I was, like Jack,
somewhat carried away by the sight of so much
dexterity, and began to think that perhaps
showmen, mountebanks, and jugglers have
more reason for pride than any other class of
mankind. Afterwards I reflected that the
wisdom of our ancestors has always held in
contempt the occupations of buffoon and

VOL. II. D

juggler, SO that, though we may acknowledge
and even praise their dexterity, we are not
called upon to envy or admire them.

Outside the booths, and apart from the
theatres and shows, there was a stage, on
which, at first sight, one only discerned a
fiddler, a fifer, a drummer, and a fellow
dressed in yellow and black, with a long tin
trumpet. This was the stage of the great High
German Doctor; his name I have forgotten,
but it was a very high and noble sounding
one. There were tables on the stage, and beside
the musicians were the Doctor's zanies, who
tumbled and postured, and danced the tightrope
; and his shell-grinders and compounders,
every one of whom in turn harangued and
bamboozled the mob. As for the Doctor
himself, he vas not at first on the stage at all :
but presently the man with the tin trumpet
blew a horrid blast, and bawled out, 'Eoom
for the Doctor, Gentlemen ! Eoom for the
Doctor ! ' and the people parted right and left,
while, mounted on a black steed, that learned
person rode very slowly towards the stage.

The saddle was covered with red velvet ; it
was provided with a kind of lectern, on which
was a big folio volume, which the Doctor was
reading, paying no heed to the crowd, as if no
moment could be spared from study. A fellow
dressed in crimson led the horse. The Doctor
was a tall and stout man, with an extraordinary
dignity of carriage, and solemn countenance,
dressed in a o-own of black velvet and a
crimson velvet cap, like unto the cap of a
Cambridge Medicine Doctor. Then the man
with the tin trumpet hung out a placard upon
the stage, on which was the great man's style
and titles, and these he bellowed forth, for the
information of those who could not read. eye
learned, partly from the placard, and partly
from this fellow, that the great man was
Physician to the Sophy of Persia, and to the
Great ]\Iogul, tooth-drawer to the Kmg of
Morocco, and corn-cutter to the Emperor of
Trebizond, the Grand Turk, and Prester John ;
that he was the seventh son of a seventh son ;
that it was seven days before he sucked, seven
months before he cried, and seven years before

he uttered a single word — so honos was this
wonderful genius in preparing for his duties.
As for his medical studies, we were told that
they had occupied his attention for five times
seven years, in the cities of London, Leyden,
Ispahan, Trebizond, and Constantinople ; and
that he was at that moment twelve times seven
years of age, without a grey hair or a missing
tooth, and with children not yet three years
old, so efficacious were his own medicines
as proved upon himself, while his servants
never knew an illness or even an ailment (the
drummer, I observed, had his face tied up for
toothache). Alien this fellow had done, the
music began, and the zanies tumbled over each
other, and turned somersaults, while the miners
of the medicines bawled out jokes and made
pretence to swallow their pills. Finally, the
Doctor himself stood before us, and made his
oration.

Gentlemen all,' he said, ' I congratulate
you on your good fortune in coming to Horn
Fair this day, for it is my birthday ; and on this
anniversary I give away my priceless medicines



for no greater charge than will pay for the
bottles and boxes in which they are bestowed.
On all other days they are sold for their weight
in gold. I have here ' — he held up a plaister
■' the Cataplasma Diabolical, or Vulnerary
Decoction of Monkshood, which heals all
wounds in twenty four hours if applied alone ;
if taken with the Electuary Pacific — show the
Electuary, varlet ! — it heals in a couple of
hours. I have the Detersive, Eenefying, and
Defeating Ophthalmic, which will cure cataracts
and blindness, and will cast off scales as
big as barnacles in less than a minute. I have,
for earache, toothache, faceache, and tic, a truly
wonderful vegetable, an infusion of peony, black
hellebore, London pride, and hly root. Here is
a bottle of Orvietans, for the expulsion of poison,
price one shilling only. Here is the Balsam
Arthritis ; here the Elixir Cephalic, Asthmatic,
Nephritis et Cathartics. Gentlemen,
there is no disease under the sun ' — here
the trumpeter blew the tin trumpet — 'but I
can cure it. Rheumatics' — bang went the
drum — ' Asthma ' — bang went the drum between

every word — ' Gout — Sciatica — Lumbago
Pleurisy — Melancholy : in a word, there is
nothing that I cannot cure at a quarter the cost
of your town doctors. No more disease,
Gentlemen, no more pain ; step up and try the
Cataplasma Diabolical, the Electuary Pacific,
the Detersive Ophthalmic, and the Vegetable
Infusion. Step up and buy the medicines that
will make and keep you in hearty good health
so that you shall live to a hundred and fifty —
ay, even, with care, to two hundred and fifty —
knowing neither age, sickness, nor decay.'

The people laughed incredulously, and yet
believed every word, which I suppose will
always be the case with the mob, and began to
push and shove each other in their eagerness
to buy the wonderful medicines. For his part,
Jack listened open-mouthed.

Why,' he said, ' what fools we are, Luke, tolet
this foreign fellow go, who hath so many
secrets? Why do not we keep him and get
his secrets out of him, and so let there be no
more sick lists to be kept ? '

Then he would have gone on the stage and

bought everything the Doctor had to sell, but I
dissuaded him, pointing out that' the fellow was
only an impudent impostor.

And before every show were ballad-singers
bawling their songs. Their principal business
at fairs is not, I am told, to sell their ballads so
much as to attract a crowd and en^ac^e their
attention while the scoundrel pickpockets go
about their business unwatched (one was caught
in the fair while we were there, and, for want
of a pump, was put head first into a tub of cold
water, and kept there till he was well-nigh
drowned) ; and everywhere there were men
who grinned and postured, girls who danced,
boys who walked on stilts, gipsies who told
fortunes, women bawling brandy-balls and hot
surety; there was the hobby-horse man, with
his trumpet and his 'Troop, every one, one,
one ! ' and a hundred more, too numerous to
mention. And for food, they had booths where
they sold hot roast pork, with bread and onions
and black porter, a banquet to which the
gentry at the fair, whose stomachs are not
queasy, did infinite justice.

We saw so many shows and booths, and
Jack appeared so contented and happy in
looking at them, that I confess I was in hopes
he would forget his promise to fight Aaron, the
prospect of which, in this fair, crowded with
the rudest and roughest men, pleased me less
every moment. But, if you please, his honour
was concerned. Therefore, when the hour approached
he remembered it — to be sure, one
might be expected to remember a promise to
meet and to fight so big a man as Aaron
Fletcher — and he cast about in order to find
the amphitheatre or booth where the duello
was to be held. We presently found it, on the
skirts of the fair, and a little retired from the
noise. It proved to be nothing more than a
square inclosure of canvas, fastened to upright
poles, with no roof. Those who came to seethe
sport paid an admission fee of one penny.
Within the booth there were rough benches
set along the sides, and in the middle a broad
stage two feet high. There was music playing
as we went in, and on the stage a little girl often
dancing very prettily and merrily. The



place was filled: I knew many of the faces:
those, namely, of the Deptford men, come to
stand by their champion. It appeared as if
they knew what was going to take place, for
at the sight of the Lieutenant there were passed
round looks and nods and every indication of
heartfelt joy. Drawers ran about with tankards
and mugs of ale, and most of the men were
accommodated with pipes of tobacco. There
were also some women present, and of what
kind may be easily imagined. Sufficient
to say that they were fit companions of the
men. The people did not greatly care for
the dance, which was too simple and innocent
for them. When the little girl finished
and jumped down from the stage, there came
forward a scaramouch dressed in the Italian
fashion, who played a hundred tricks, posturing
and twirling his legs about as if they had
been without bones or joints. But the people
were impatient, and bawled for him to have
done. Wherefore, he, too, retired, and then
they roared for Aaron Fletcher, the Deptford
men being foremost in their desire for his

THE WORLD WENT

appearance. He leaped upon the stage, therefore,
quarterstaff in hand, stripped to his shirt,
and twirling his weapon over his head as if it
had been a little walking-cane. Then the place
became hushed, as happens when there is going

to be a fight of any kind, because fighting goes
to the heart of every man, and makes him
serious and anxious at the beginning, but full
of fury as the fight goes on. Aaron was a

terrible great fellow to look at, thus stripped
of his coat and standing on the stage before
lis all.

I challenge the best man among ye,' he
said, looking at the Lieutenant, ' gentleman or
clown, King's officer or able seaman, for a
guinea or a groat, as ye please.'

Then he twirled his staff again, and walked
round the stage, like a gamecock before the
battle.

'Shall I sive him a chance with the meaner
kind first, to show his mettle and to breathe
him ? ' said Jack. ' 'Twould be charitable.'

There sprang upon the stage, from the
crowd, a stout and lusty youth, not so tall as
Aaron, but of good length of limb and resolute
face. 'Twas the champion of Eltham, as we
learned from the crowd. He was clad in a
smock-frock, which he laid aside.

I will play a bout for a crown,' he said,
lugging out the money, while his friends
shouted.

Then they began ; but. Lord ! the countryman
was no match for the Deptford player, and

the shouting? of our townsmen was loud to seethe
play that Aaron made, and the dexterity
with which his staff, as quick as lightning,
played on his adversary's head and ribs, his
legs and arms. So that very soon, throwing
down his staff, the fellow leaped from the stage,
and woidd have no more.

It was pretty,' said Jack. ' The rustic
hath had his lesson.'

Then another : this time one who had
played and won at Bartholomew Fair, and now
advanced with confidence, trusting to his activity
and the rapidity of his attack, which were,
indeed, astonishing. But, alas ! his leaps and
bounds were of little avail against the long
reach and the heavy hand of the giant ; and
he fell, to rise no more.

Then the mob roared and shouted again.

'This fellow is soon satisfied,' said Jack.
'It is my turn now.'

He laughed, and took off coat, waistcoat,
and hat ; giving them to me for safety. Thus
reduced to his shirt, he stepped forward and
mounted the stage, the crowd being overjoyed

and beyond themselves in the anticipation of a
light between their champion and a gentleman in
lapsed ruffles, white silk stockings, and powdered
hair. Certainly, nothing so good as this had
ever before been seen at the fair.

Then I became aware of a strange thing.
There stood within the door — not sitting down,
but standing — just within the folds of the canvas,
no other than Bess Westmoreland and her father.
Who would have thought to see the Penman
at Horn Fair? Nothings could be more out of
place than this pair among the waterside men
and the ruffians in the booth. Bess stood
upright, holding her father's hand, not for her
own protection but to assure him of his safety,
while he, stooping and round-shouldered, looked
about him as if fearing violence of some kind.
I now perceived that Bess was come for no
other purpose than to see this light — to be sure,
it was arranged beforehand, and there was no
reason why she should not hear of it from
Aaron ; but I had not thought Bess would
have come to such a place to see such a sight.
I declare I had not the least suspicion of the

truth, so carefully had the lovers kept their
secret. Bess took no notice at all of the rabble,
her eyes fixed upon the stage as if the people
were not even present ; no great lady waiting
at the door of the theatre for her chair could
look more proudly upon the common herd —
the link-boys, chairmen, and lookers-on — as if
they were beneath her notice. Her lips were
set, and her brow contracted, and her cheek
was pale ; but I knew not the cause, unless it
were from terror at the approaching battle.
Yet why did she come to see it ?

She came, as I learned soon afterwards,
confident in her lover's triumph, and anxious
to increase the discomfiture of his adversary,
and her rejected suitor. Since that day I have
ceased to wonder why the Eoman ladies and
matrons took pleasure in witnessing the fights
of gladiators, and why in the days of tournaments
gentle ladies went to see their lovers tilt. The
joy of battle, I am sure, is as great in the heart
of woman as in that of man. Certainly, no
one in the crowd watched the combat with
more eagerness and interest than did Bess, whose

eyes flashed, lips parted, and bosom heaved
with the passion of the fight. As for her whither,
in the hush before the battle beo-an, I heard
him exclaim, ' It i^ the Lieutenant and Aaron !
Oh ! dear ! . . . dear ! they will do each other
some grievous harm. Bess, ask them to desist.
Is it for this you brought me here, Wilful girl?
Grievous bodily hurt they will do to each
other.'

Into one paid any heed to that poor man.
Even the drawers ceased to run about with
tankards, and no man called for drink.

Jack took the quarterstaff, which had already
been used twice ineffectually, poised it in his
hands, and turned a smiling face to his adversary.


'I have kept my promise, Aaron,' he said;
but this the mob did not hear. ' We will fight
for that shilling. Bess is in the doorway, looking
on. It seems as if we were fidatinsr for more
than a shilling, does it not ? '

Aaron made no reply in words, but he
laughed aloud. Perhaps he remembered how,
seven years before, when last he fought with

Jack, Bess was looking on at his defeat. This
time he was confident in his strength. She
was come again, looking to see him worsted.
She should be disappointed.

There was no lack of courage about the
man. Courage he had, and plenty. He was
a good three inches taller than his adversary,
which at quarterstafF gives a great advantage ;
he was quick of eye and of fence; he was
heavier and stronger; and his two first combats
had scarcely breathed him. On the other hand,
he was opposed to a man who for six years
and more had led the hardest life possible,
with no indulgences — wine, beer, tobacco, indolence,
or anything to soften his muscles or
dim the eye. Now Aaron, as everybody knew,
was fond of a glass; and though no sot, once
a week or so was drunk. And he had already
begun to put on flesh. As they stood, face to
face, one might have gone a hundred miles and
never seen so fine a couple.

And then, at tap of drum, the light began,
and for awhile everybody was mute.

Jack, I perceived, was resolved at first to

stand on the defensive, for two reasons. First,
because his enemy showed wrath in his scowling
eyes, and therefore would, perhaps, spend his
breath and strength m furious onslaught. Next,
because, as he told me afterwards, it was not
until he held the weapon in his hands that
he remembered he had not played for four
years and more. One would think he might
have remembered so important a fact before.
It is an admirable custom in some ships for
the crew, both officers and men, to amuse
themselves daily at quarterstaff, candlestick, and
boxing; but Jack had been out of a ship for
four years. Still, if his hand was a little out,
his eye was true. Aaron's game was twofold.
First, he would beat down and overpower his
man by superior strength and advantage in
reach ; and secondly, by feints and leaps, shifting
his ground, and changing the length of his
weapon, by coming to close quarters and then
retreating, to cheat his adversary's eye and
disconcert him even for a single moment, when
he would deal him a decisive stroke. This
was a very good design, and hath often served.

VOL. II. E

But Jack was not to be so caught. JSio man at
quarterstafF, however strong, can beat clown
an adversary who has learnt the art of parry,
which is more than half the battle; no man,
however quick and active, can disconcert an
enemy who knows how to follow his eyes
steadily. Jack, therefore, lost no ground and
was never touched, so that, though he delivered
no stroke, the ease with which he met Aaron's
bloAvs presently caused the spectators to roar
with admiration. In all kinds of fighting there
are two first principles, or rules, to be carefully
learned. The first of these is never to lose
sight of your enemy's eye, and the next is never
to lose your temper. A third is to know how to
strike when the occasion comes. If a man at
this rough game chance to lose his temper, he
loses the game. This is what Aaron did. It
maddened him that he could not strike his
enemy, and it maddened him still more to hear
the roars of the people at the dexterity which
defeated him. Moreover, he knew that Bess
was looking on ; therefore he became more
furious, and delivered his blows more rapidly,

but with less precision. ' Don't iiglit wild,
Aaron ! ' shouted his friends, but too late ; while
the fellows in the booth began to jeer and
laugh at him, asking why he did not strike his
man with a ' Now, Aaron ! now's your turn !
Hit him on the head ! There's a brave stroke
missed ! ' and so on, foreseeing that if the
Lieutenant could only keep cool, and wait for
his chance, the victory Avould be his.

Jack told me afterwards that, while they
played, the old skill came back to him, and
his confidence; so that he could afford to play
with his man and bide his time, receiving all
the blows, whether at full length, half length,
or close quarters, with patience and good temper.


This strange duel, in which one man struck
and the other only parried, lasted long : insomuch,
that the spectators left off shouting, and
looked on with open mouths. It lasted so
long that Aaron was now raging and foaming,
breathing heavily, and plunging as he struck
with the staff. As for me, I wondered why
Jack did not strike. He had his reason : he

LIBRARY E 2

UNIVERSITY OF lOINOlS

wished to strike but once, and therefore he
waited. At last the chance came. Aaron left
his head exposed, and then, with a thud which
might have been heard outside the booth, the
Lieutenant's staff resounded on the side of his
enemy's head, and Aaron fell prone upon
the stage — senseless.

It is said that, when a gentleman fights
a common fellow, the mob is always pleased
that the gentleman shall be victorious. I know
not if this be true, but I know that the fellows
in the booth rose as one man, even the Dept-ford
men, and cheered the victor to the
sky.

Jack stepped from the stage, a little heated
by the fight, and put on his coat, waistcoat,
and hat.

'Aaron is a very pretty player,' he said,
but he should not have challenged me until
he was in better condition. There were half
a dozen poor fellows aboard the " Countess of
Dorset " who would have beaten him. Here,
my lads' — he now became again an officer —
Aaron is a Deptford man, like me. Take

care of him, and spend this guinea in drinking
the King's health.'

So the fellows tossed their greasy caps in
the air, and the tapsters tied their apron-strings
tighter, and beoran to run about with tankards
and mugs while the guinea was drinking out,
and Jack strode down the booth, the men
making a lane for him, and crying, ' Huzza !
for the noble Captain ! ' Meanwhile, no one
took any notice of the fallen champion, who
presently recovered some of his senses, and
sat up, staring about him with distracted
eyes.

'Why, Mr. Westmoreland,' said Jack, at
the door, as if he had not seen him before,
you at Horn Fair ? I might as soon have
expected to see you at Vauxhall.'

Nay, sir, your Honour knows I value not
such merriment. But Bess would bring me
here. 'Tis a wilful girl. Nothing would serve
her but she must see the humours of the fair.
Girls still crave for mirth.'

You ought to be at home among your
books, Mr. Westmoreland. Go home. Luke

will walk with you, and I will take care of
Bess — good care, good care — and bring her
safe home, after she has seen the fair. Come,
Bess, will you see the wild beasts, or the slack-rope
dancers? Take him home, Luke; take
him home.'

So saying, he seized Bess by the hand, and
drew her away, leaving the old man, her father,
with me. I observed that, though Bess cried
Oh ! ' and ' Pray, Lieutenant,' and ' Don't,
Lieutenant,' and ' Fie, Lieutenant,' she laughed,
and took his hand without any reluctance,
but rather a visible satisfaction, because she
had certainly got the properest man in all the
fair.

The Lieutenant,' said Mr. Westmoreland,
is strong enough to protect any girl — though,
as for Bess, Mr. Luke, she is strong enough
to protect herself. Nevertheless ' — he broke off
and sighed — ' nevertheless, a motherless girl
is a great charge for a peaceful man, especially
when she is strong and determined, like my
Bess. What am I to do, sir ? I cannot Avhip
and flog her ; I cannot lay my commands upon

her if she doth not choose to obey me. I
cannot make her marry if she still says nay.
And the men, they are afraid of her pride and
wilfulness. Such a headstrong girl will never
make an obedient wife

'It is a situation, Mr. Westmoreland,' I
said, ' full of danger.'

'What is worse, Mr. Luke,' he went on,
what is worse is that she scorns the man
Aaron Fletcher himself — a substantial man,
though they do say he knows the coast of
France. Yet he would cheerfully take the
risk of her masterful temper and her wilful
ways, if she would but say him yea.'

'Why, Mr. Westmoreland, as for that, I
am sure there are plenty of men ready to be
fired by such charms as your daughter Bess
possesses.'

He shook his head.

'Charms? I know not what they are.
Black hair and black eyes may please some,
but I know not whom. Let us go from this
wicked and riotous place, Mr. Luke. Peaceful
men have no place here. The Lieutenant will

bring her home; though, more likely than
not, they will quarrel on the way, both of
them being masterful, and Bess will have to
find her way back without him. Yet she
ought to be proud of the honour lie hath done
her, and perhaps she will be meek fbr once,
and behave pretty.'

So we turned and made our way out of
the throng, and so home.

I am sorry,' said Mr. Westmoreland
presently, ' I am very sorry that Mr. Easter-brook
hath fought and vanquished Aaron
Fletcher. I would rather have seen Aaron
the conqueror.'

Why ? '

Because Aaron is a cruel and a vindictive
man. He was brao:f?ing: amono^ his friends of
the sport they would witness at the fair, and
he has been humiliated. Now he will have
his revenge, if he can, for the disgrace put upon
him in the presence of his friends ; and Bess
hath been at the fair With the Lieutenant, and
I know not what will happen. He is a
revengeful man, Mr. Luke ; and, unhappily.

lie is ill love with Bess, and wants to many hera
thing that, with my experience, I cannot
understand. Well — it is a terrible thing, a
terrible thing, for a peaceful man like me to
have such a daughter. A humble man should
pray for ugly daughters, who are also meek
and obedient. They may wait for their beauty
till they get to Heaven. I want nothing but
peace, Mr. Luke, so that I may continue my
studies in aljj;ebra and logarithms, for which
end, and no other, unless it be the furtherance
of goodly writing, I was sent into this troubled
world. '

The next day I learned from Jack that he
had taken Bess to every show at the fair ; that
he had given her as noble a supper as the
place afforded; that he had fought and overthrown
three fellows who waylaid them on
the road home, and would have robbed him
of his money as well as his fair charge; and
that he safely convoyed her, about midnight,
to her Hither's door. The Admiral heard of
the evening's adventure, and laughed, saying
that Bess was a lucky girl to get such a proper

fellow to show her the fair. But I do not
think that either Jack or the Admiral related
the story of the fight, and the subsequent
doings, to Madame and Castilla.

CHAPTER XVI.

IN THE SUMMER-HOUSE.

AM a dull person in suspecting or
guessing at passages of love. Yet
I had seen Bess dragging her father
to Horn Fair in order to witness
the fight, and I marked the flash of triumph
in her eyes when Aaron fell, and the unconcealed
pleasure with which she accompanied
the victor.

On Sunday morning, a day or two after
the hair, another thing happened which ought
to have made me suspect. It was in church.
Soon after the service of Morning Prayer
began, I observed an unwonted agitation
among the feminine part of the congregation,
and presently discovered that the eyes of all
were, with one consent, directed upon a certain
seat in the north aisle, occupied by Bess

Westmoreland and her father. The reason
of this phenomenon was that Bess had come to
chmxh attired in a very fine new frock made
of nothing less than sarcenet, with a flowered
petticoat, a lawn kerchief about her neck, and
a hat trimmed with silk ribbons, so that among
t]]e women around her in their scarlet flannel,
and the girls in their plain cable, linsey-woolsey,
and russet, she looked like a rose
amonc^ the weeds of the hedfj^e. Few of the
gentlewomen in the church were more finely
dressed. As to them, their eyes plainly said,
if eyes can speak, ' Saw one ever such presumption
? ' And as for the baser sort, they first
gazed with admiration and envy unspeakable,
and then sniffed and tossed their heads, as if
nothing would have induced them to put on
such fine things : and then they looked at each
other, each with the same question trembling
on her tongue, each one longing to ask aloud,
Who gave her the things ? ' For there is
some strange quality in the female conscience
(I mean only in a seaport town), which enables
every girl to accept joyfully and gratefully

whatever a man may give her, and at the
same time to flout and scorn all other girls
for doing the same thing ; so that what is
a virtue in herself inst be a clear sign of
immodesty or forwardness in another.

One would not deny that the girl was
worthy of blame ; for, though there are no
longer sumptuary laws, set every woman
knows how far she may in decency, and with
due regard to her station, carry her love of
finery. Bess, however, Adore these things not
of her own will, but by desire (say, rather,
command) of a certain person. There is, again,
nothing strange in a Deptford girl suddenly
appearing in the colours of a rainbow, especially
after a ship has been paid off, though very soon
the silks and satins go to the Jews who buy
secondhand clothes, together with the trinkets
and the ribbons ; and Madame returns to her
russet frock, her blue apron, and her speckled
handkerchief. But this, which is of daily occurrence
among the common sailors' wives, one
would not expect of a respectable girl, such as
Less. It is quite certain, and one must not

excuse her conduct, that she should not have
ventured to church thus attired. Yet I, for
one, was ready to forgive her, first because she
looked so marvellously beautiful in these fine
feathers, and next because she bravely bore
the artillery of these eyes and held herself tall
and upright, looking straight before her, as if
no one was gazing at her, and as if she wore
what belonged to her. Women are your true
levellers : they have no respect for rank : even
a Peer is but a man to them, and a Countess is
but a woman ; they are ready to measure their
own beauty beside that of any lady in the land;
there is no girl, however lowly, who would
refuse, for conscience sake, the honourable
attentions of a gentleman; and the silly
creatures, I am told, whisper continually to
each other tales of humble girls raised to the
condition of Princesses.

There was another person in the church,
besides myself, who seemed as if leniency and
readiness to forgive this presumption possessed
his heart as well. This was the Lieutenant,
who, from his place in the Admiral's pew (the

corner nearest the reading-desk, with his back
to the altar), regarded the girl steadfastly during
the whole service, insomuch that I feared lest
Madame or Castilla herself should observe it,
and be offended at so indecent a proof of admiration
in Divine service. But Castilla did not
discover it, partly because she hath never been
able to understand how a gentleman can regarda
common girl with admiration (she still considers
that Jack's passion for Bess was caused
by the sorcery and craft of Mr. Brings), and,
therefore, was not likely to suspect such a thing ;
and partly because Castilla's eyes in church were
always fixed upon her book, as she followed
the words of the service, or they were humbly
dropped upon her lap during the sermon, as if
she closely followed the argument, and was being
convinced by my father's reasoning. Now, as
hath been already explained, the Vicar's sermons
were written for the perusal of scholars rather
than for the understanding of the unlearned.

The service over, we walked out in due
order, and so by the gate into Church Lane, as
we had done on that day, three weeks before.

when our prodigal came home to us in rags.
And then, after a little talk, we separated. Jack
going with the Admiral's party, and I returning
to the Vicarage to dinner.

After dinner, the afternoon being warm
and sunny, I took my hat, and walked leisurely
towards those gardens of which I have already
spoken, where were the orchards of plum, pear,
apple, and cherry, and where the old summerhouse
overlooked the Creek. It would be, I
thought, pleasant in the gardens with no one
but myself, and I could walk about among the
trees, watching the grey lichen on the bark
and the sober tints of the autumnal leaves, and
perhaps find, in the view of the Greenwich
Eeach, something new to observe and note.
One whose profession is to paint ships of all
kinds can never grow weary of watching them,
whether at anchor or in motion ; just as one
who paints figures loves to be for ever contemplating
the human figure, whether in action orin
repose.

The air was still and soft, the day warm,
although it was already the twentieth day of

October. The fruit was all picked now, and the
leaves beginning to dry at their stalks : because
the leaves of apple, plum, and cherry do not turn
brown, but drop off while they are yet green ;
yet the green is quite another hue than that presented
in spring and sinner, and I wonder that
no painter has painted the greens of autumn, as
well as the yellow, red, and brown. I have
myself attempted a sketch, in April, showing
parts of that long stretch of garden all the
way from these gardens to Greenwich Hospital,
which at that season look like a vast cloud of
white and pink blossom resting on the green
branches which here and there peep out.

This afternoon the tide was high. There
was moored close to the mouth of the Creek,
and on the opposite bank, a barge, which, with
its brown sail lowered, its thick mast, and its
hanging ropes, formed so pretty a set-off to the
trees of the orchard beyond, that I stood awhile
to gaze upon it. I have drawn many barges ;
below the bridge at Wapping Stairs, and in
Chelsea Eeach and in other places, but I never
drew any prettier picture than that of the barge

VOL. II. F

ill the Creek at high tide, the woods behind it :
only, as artists can, I made a change. For I
presently sketched the barge, and waited until
the following spring, when I painted a background
of apple and cherry orchards in
blossom.

Well, when I had looked at my barge and
made a note of it, and of one or two other
things, being in a leisurely mood, and quite
certain that I was alone in the garden, I lifted
the latch of the summer-house door and walked
in.

I declare that I suspected nothing. If I
had known who were in the place I should
have beat a drum, or blown a trumpet, or fired
a cannon to announce my approach, sooner
than steal thus unawares upon them. But I did
nothing ; and pushed the door open without
ceremony. Heavens ! There was Bess Westmoreland,
her head upon Jack's shoulder, while
his hand clasped her waist, and his lips kissed
her cheek ! Who would have suspected this ?
I was so surprised that I stood speechless, I
dare say with mouth wide open, as one sees on

the stage, where gestures of all kinds are exaggerated.
Yet not so amazed but I saw what a
pretty picture they made, he in his blue coat
and crimson sash, and his hat with the King's
cockade : she in the pretty frock for which the
women were now railing at her behind her
back. A young man and a beautiful girl embracing
cannot but make a pretty picture. As
for this, I made a sketch in oils six months later.
Bess stood to me for her portrait very willingly
when I promised that the picture should be given
to her sweetheart when he should return. As
for the Lieutenant, I got a fellow, for a shilling
or two, to stand in the attitude I wanted, while
the face I drew from memory, with the assistance
of Bess. I painted them in the summer-house,
and through the window you can see a ship
slowly going down the river. Tor a reason,
which you will presently learn, I never gave
that picture to Jack ; and, for my own reason,
I have not sold it, but keep it hung up at home
in my studio, though Castilla loves it not, and
will never, if she can help it, look upon it —

F-2

perhaps because the picture renders scant
justice to the beauty of Bess, Avhose flushed
cheeks, painted hips, and heaving bosom I endeavoured,
but perhaps with insufficient success,
to portray upon the canvas. Nor, I am
aware, is justice done to the passion expressed
in the lover's eyes, in this bending head — nay,
even in the arms with which he held the nymph
to his heart.

Zounds ! ' cried Jack, as Bess screamed
and started, and pushed him back, and sunk
upon the bench, her face in her hands.
Zounds and fury ! ' He stepped forward, his
fists clenched, fire and distraction in his eyes.
He was so carried away with his wrath that he
did not at first even recognise me, and made
as if he would draw his sword and make an
end of me.

Why, Jack,' I cried, ' I knew not thou
wert here ! How should I know .^ '

Upon this he let fly a round dozen or so of
sailors' oaths, such as may be heard in Flagon
Eow or Anchorite Alley, sound and weighty
oaths, every one more profane than its predecessor.

The language of the fo'ks'le is, we
know, readily and greedily acquired by every
officer, and is too often adopted as his own to
the end of his days.

I knew not, Jack, indeed,' I repeated,
that anyone was here. What ? Should I
spy on your actions? As for what I have
seen '

'Let me go. Jack!' cried Bess; 'oh, let
me go ! He will tell my father, who will send
me away for a servant. And perhaps he will
tell Aaron, who would murder you, if he could,
without beings handed ! Oh. Jack ! what shall
I do?'

I shall tell no one, Bess,' I said. ' Wh}^,
it is no business of mine to go repeating what
I have seen accidentally. Am I the town
barber ? '

Jack looked doubtfully ; then he laughed.

Cheer up, Bess,' he said ; ' no harm is
done. Luke will never betray an old friend.
He came here to draw the ships, which is all
he thinks about. He will go away, and he will
forget all about it.'

Nay,' I said ; ' I shall not forget. But I
shall hold my tongue.'

I won't trust no one — only you. Jack,' said
the girl.

Hark ye, Luke.' Jack drew her closer
to himself, and laid his arm round her neck.
Hark ye, lad. Thou hast discovered what
was not meant for thee — nor for anyone — to
know. That signifies nothing for a lad of
honour. But for Bess's sake, swear it. Take
an oath upon it.'

I swear, Bess,' I declared to her, ' that I
will speak no single word of what I have seen
and learned. If there were a Bible here, I
would kiss the book to please you. You may
trust me, Bess.'

You may, indeed, Bess,' said Jack. ' Hands
upon it, lad.'

So we shook hands, and in all that followed
afterwards I told nobody what had happened ;
and the thing was so managed that it was
never suspected by anyone except Aaron. It
seems wonderful that no one in Deptford found
it out, because it is a place where one half the

women are continually employed in watching
and spying upon the other half, and find their
chief happiness in detecting things which it was
desired to keep secret, forgetting that others
are employed in exactly the same inquiry after
their secrets. Just so one hath observed a
row of monkeys in cages each thieving from
one neighbour's dish, while the other steals
from his.

^ Trust all or none, Luke,' said Jack. ' Thou
shalt know all, and be a witness between us.
Listen. I have told Bess that I love her, and
that when I come home again I will marry her.
If I had not fallen in love with so much beauty
and loveliness I should have been a most insensate
wretch, unworthy to be called a man.
Was there ever a more charming nymph ? '
He kissed her again, while her great eyes swam
with the pleasure of so much praise. ' Thou
shalt paint her for me, Luke. And as for Bess,
she says that she loves me. I believe she lies,
because how such a girl, so soft and tender,
can love a rough sea-bear like me, who knows
none of the ways to please a woman, passes

understanding. But she says she does, and I
will question her farther upon this point when
thy great ugly phiz is no more blocking up the
gangway. And she will not believe that I amin
earnest, Luke. That is my trouble with
her. She will have that I shall go away and
forget her, as many sailors do.'

So he will,' said Bess. ' They all go away
and forget the girls who loved them. And
then I shall break my heart and die ; if I
don't, I shall hang myself.'

So, Luke, listen and be a witness. What
do I care who her father is? Such a girl
deserves to be the daughter of a Commodore.
Talk not to me of gentlewomen born. Where
is there any woman, gentle or simple, with
such eyes as Bess, such lips as Bess, such hair
as Bess ? ' I declare he kept kissing her at
each sentence, she making no manner of resistance.
' So I will swear to her, in thy
presence, Luke, to make it more solemn, and
to make her believe my word. I, Jack
Easterbrook,' he took her hand at this point,
as if he was actually marrying her in church.

and by the minister or priest. 'I, Jack
Easterbrook, do solemnly promise and vow
that I will never make love to any other
woman and never marry any other woman
than Bess Westmoreland ; and that I will
never think of any other woman at home orin
foreign parts. First, I inst get commissioned
; and then, when the war is over, I will
come back and marry my Bess. Kiss me
again, girl. This is my solemn promise and
oath, in which I will not tail, SO HELP ME,
GOD ! '

I have often, since that day, wondered at
the amazing force of the passion ^vhich could
make so young a man call down upon himself
the awful vengeance of offended Omnipotence
if he broke a vow of constancy towards a girl
he had seen but twice or thrice ; for I count as
nothing the time when she was a child, and he
came to her father for lessons.

As he spoke the last words, his eyes grew
dim with tenderness, and he stooped and kissed
the girl on her forehead, as if to seal and
consecrate the vow. As for her, she was

transfigured. I could not believe that love
could so powerfully change a woman's face.
She had reason for triumph ; but it was not
triumph in her eyes ; rather was it a kind of
humble pride — a wondering joy that so gallant
a man should love her, with a doubt whether
it was not, after all, a passing fancy, and a fear
that she should not fix his affections.

'Oh!' she sighed. 'Oh! Jack!' and
could find no more words.

Bess,' I said, ' vows ought not to be all on
one side. If Jack promises so much, what hast
thou to promise, in thy turn ? '

Tell me what to say. Oh ! I am only a
poor girl ! What can I promise him ? I am
so ignorant that I do not know what to
promise. Jack, do you want me to say that
I will be faithful ? Ko — you cannot. Why,
is there any man in the world to compare with
you ^ If a woman cannot be true and constant
to you, she cannot be true to any man. As for
the rest of them, I value not one of them a
brass farthing. Oh ! ' she laughed and clasped
her hands. ' Why, I am content to be his

slave, Luke — yes, his slave, to toil and work
for him all day long — his slave — his servant.'
She fell on her knees before him. ' Oh !
Jack, command me what you please. I want
nothing more than to obey your orders.'

Wonderful it was how love made this
ignorant and wilful girl at once eloquent and
humble. Jack lifted her up, and held her by
both hands.

You are a King's officer. Jack,' she went
on, speaking rapidly ; ' I must try so that you
shall not be ashamed of your wife. I am but
the daughter of a Penman, I know. He writes
letters for sailors, and teaches mathematics to
midshipmen and young sailor officers, if there
are any. But I have time to learn, and I will
find out how to lear myself like a gentlewoman,
and to talk like one, and to dress
myself as a gentleman's wife ought to dress
herself. I will make my father teach me to
read and to write, and as for manners — I will
go to Mr. Brings. He will do anything in the
world for you. Jack, and for the woman of
your choice.'

One could not choose but laugh at thinking
of Mr. Brings as a teacher of porte manners
and conversation. He had learned the most
approved fashion, no doubt, among the meninges
and the Coromantyns. Yet the earnest
and serious manner in which the girl spoke,
made the matter moving. However, enough
was said, and I offered to go, but she caught
me by the hand.

Stay, Luke ! ' she whispered. ' Jack, some
of you break your vows ; but you will not.
Jack — you will not ? As for me, I need not
promise : for I cannot choose but be true to
mine.'

She laid her head upon his breast, and I
left them, shutting the door behind me, and
going very softly.

In the evening; I saw Jack asjain.

'Luke,' he said, ' I am the happiest man in
the world, because I have got the best girl in
the world. What do I care that her father is
but a Penman ? What does it signify that she
cannot read or write ? Reading does no good
to any girl that ever I heard of, but fill her

head with fond desires. But one thing sticks :
when I am away, who will keep the men from
her ? There is Aaron Fletcher — him I knocked
on the head ; I wish I had beaten out his brains
for him. They tell me he is mad for love of
her, though lie would never say a word to
him. I doubt I may have to fight him again
before I go. To be sure, Mr. Brings ]promises
to protect her ; but lie is old and feeble.'

'Why,' I said, 'he will protect her by the
fear with which he is regarded. One must
needs respect a man who can scatter rheumatics
amours those who offend him.'

However, I presently promised him that, in
his absence, I would sometimes visit the girl,
and comfort her, and keep up her heart ;
although, if it came to a fight with Aaron, he
was able to work me to an anvil, as they say,
with fist or cudgel.

Then I begged him to consider seriously
what he was about to do. First, that he was a
gentleman by birth and rank, who might look
to marry a gentlewoman ; next, that he had no
fortune, and as yet no prize-money, and only

a Lieutenant's half-pay ; and lastly, that if he
married, he was likely to lose the Admiral's
favour.

Truly,' he replied, ' I have considered all
these things.' I don't believe that he had considered
one of them before that moment. 'And
I am resolved that there is no other happiness
but in marrying Bess. As for duty, it points
the same way, because I am promised to her.
When duty and inclination point the same way,
my lad, what room is there left for doubt .^
Answer me that. Why, if I lived a thousand
years, I should never love any other woman as
I love my Bess. What puzzles me,' he went
on, ' is why the landsmen haven't fallen in love
with her long ago. None of your mincing,
mealy-mouthed, line ladies, all patches and
powder, made up so that you know not what
they are like, with hoop and petticoat ; but an
honest lass, true and loyal — you can see what
she is like, for she wears neither hoop nor
powder ; and she tells no lies, and you know
her mind directly she speaks. That is the girl

for me, Luke. Hang me if I understand why
she wasn't, long ago, the gh^l for you.'

Fortunately for me,' I said, ' your indications
and mine are not set on the same woman.'

Why, if I had been in your place, Luke, I
would have carried off the girl, if I could have
got her in no other way. If she were to change
her mind now, and to refuse me, I would carry
her off, whether she liked it or not. There
would be a prize to tow into port, and all for
myself, Luke— all for myself ! '

CHAPTER XVII.

IN BUTCHER EOW.

^^^^^^^APiOJST,' Mr. Westmoreland said, Ms
a cruel and revengeful man.'

Afterwards I remembered these
words. For my own part I did not
understand this judgment, though I had known
Aaron all my life, first as a great hulking boy,
and then as the strong-est and bis^o^est man in
Deptford. On what grounds did Mr. Westmoreland
consider him cruel and revengeful ?
The judgments of weak and timid men, like
those of Avomen, are shrewd, and often true.
Yet Aaron had done nothing, so far as the
world knew, on account of which he could be
called cruel and revengeful. Masterful and
headstrong he was, and the world accounted
him a brave man, but not revengeful. The

present moment, however, was likely to bring
out whatever evil passions lay in his soul, for
he had been publicly humiliated and brought
to shame by the man who had taken from him
the woman he loved ; and when he met his
friends in the street they seemed to be laughing
in their sleeves at him. Therefore, Aaron conceived
an act of revenge which was as audacious
as it was villainous. If he was revengeful,
it must be admitted that he was also bold.

He first showed his teeth on the Monday
morning after the fight at Horn Fair. Less
was engaged in making a beef-steak pudding
for dinner, her sleeves rolled up, singing over
lier work. Her father sat at his desk before
the window, bent over his work, with round
spectacles on nose, undisturbed by his daughter's
singing. A sudden diminution of the light
caused both to look up. Aaron Fletcher's great
body was blocking up the doorway.

Bess,' he said, roughly, ' come out to me.'
Good-morning, Aaron,' said Mr. Westmoreland.
' The weather still holds up, and
keeps fine for the season.'

VOL. II. G

Come out, Bess,' he repeated, taking no
notice of her father.

Wliat do you want to say to me, Aaron ?
If it is the old thing; '

No ; it is not the old thing. Come out, I
say.'

She obeyed, rolling her apron over her bare
arms, and came out into the street ; her father
looking after her, apprehensive of mischief.

'Well, Aaron?'

He looked upon her with love in his eyes,
had she been able to perceive it, and to be
moved by such a gaze. But she had no pity
for him, and no feeling.

It is not the old story, Bess,' he said. ' As
for that, I've had my answer. What I came
to say was this. I asked a simple question —
twenty times I asked that question. 'Twas not
only by reason of thy good looks, Bess, though
they go for something. 'Twas because, of
all the Deptford girls, there was none so
quiet and so steady. Well, the time has come
when no honest man will ask thee that question
again.'

'Have a care, Aaron,' lie replied, with
flaming cheek, because she knew what he meant
very well ' Have a care, Aaron. You'd best.'

Bess, it is because I love thee still that I
came to say this. No one else will say it,
though they may all think it. You were with
him at the fair all the evening. It was not
till nigh upon midnight that he brought thee
home. Is that an hour for a respectable girl ?
You meet him secretly at the apothecary's everyday.
Therefore, I say again — Bess — beware.'

Oh ! If I were to tell him,' she began, ' if
I were only to tell him what you have dared to
say!'

Nay . . . tell him all. I care not a brass
button. Tell him I said he is fooling thee. I
will tell him that to his slice. What care I for
any Lieutenant of them all .^ He to marry !
Why, he has got nothing. He is fooling thee.
Mischief will come of it, Bess. Thou art too
low for him, and yet too high.'

Thank you for your pains,' she replied.
As for me, I can take care of myself, even if
all the world should take to spying through

g2

keyhole. As for trusting myself with the
Lieutenant, I think I am safer with him than
with a smuggler — yes, a mere tarpaulin smuggler.
You can go, Aaron. 'Tis a fine morning
for a run down the river, and I dare say a sail
across the Channel will do you good, and cure
the headache from last Friday's cudgelling, but
take care, Aaron. Some day, perhaps, we may
see thee, if thou art not prudent, dangling in
chains over there '• — she pointed to the Isle of
Dogs, where there were then hanging on the
gibbets three poor wretches — ' or walking after
a cart-tail with the whip across your shoulders ;
or, maybe, marched aboard ship in handcuffs
for the plantations. Get thee gone, meddler ! '

I have said what T came to say. As for
thy fine lover, Bess, he crows now, but it will
be my turn next, and that when he little looks
for it. He has not yet done with me.'

She laughed scornfully, and returned to her
pudding, tossing her head, and murmuring with
wrath that bubbled and boiled over into broken
Avords, insomuch that lier father trembled.

As for Aaron, he stood still for a moment.

looking wistfully after the girl. I think he bore
no malice on account of the joy with which she
witnessed his downfall — nay, I verily believe
that this morning: he meant the best for her,
and only mistrusted the Lieutenant. Then he
turned and walked slowly towards the town.

Everybody knows that there are streets in
Deptford where honest and sober people would
not willingly be seen. They are the resort of
the vile creatures which infest every seaport
town, and rob the sailor of his money. Barnes
Alley, French Fields, and the Stowage are full
of these people, the best of whom are oyster
wenches, ballad-singers, and traders in smuggled
goods. The houses are chiefly of wood,
black with dirt ; every other door hangs out
the chequers as a sign of what is sold within.
Here and there may be seen the lattice of the
baker or the pole of the barber. The men in
these streets wear for the most part fur caps,
with grey woollen stockings, and speckled
breeches. Their shoes are tied with scarlet
tape, and they are never without a cudgel.
The women have flat caps, blue aprons, and

draggled petticoats. The talk of the people
corresponds to their appearance. One of these
streets is called Butcher's Eow. In the midst of
it, on the north side, stands a house superior to
the rest, having an upper storey, and a sign
carved in wood over the door — that of the
Hope and Anchor.' There is a broad staircase
within, also rich with wood carving, and a room
wainscotted with dark oak, where those sit who
drink something better than the common twopenny.


Every tavern hath its own class of frequenters
: those who use the Hope and Anchor are
the men whom Custom House officers, the
clerks of the I^avy Offices, and police magistrates
agree in regarding with suspicion. They
are, for instance, men who have dealings with
smugglers, yet never venture their skins across
the Channel ; men who traffic in sailors' tickets,
and defraud sailors' wives of their pay ; men
who sell ship stores of all kinds, and are
modestly reluctant to show where they got
them ; men who buy up, before the Navy
Office is ready to pay, sailors' prize-money ;

those who live bv finding recruits for the East
India Company's service, and keep crimps'
houses, where, according to common report,
murder is as common as drunkenness and theft.
Into that house, therefore, Aaron walked,
and, without any questions, for he knew the
place, made his way into the parlour, where
was sitting a man who, to judge by this friendly
greeting, expected him. He was in an armchair
before the fireplace, where, though it was
a sunny day and warm for the season, a great
coal fire was burning. He was provided with
a tankard of small ale and a pipe of tobacco,
though it was still the forenoon, when industrious
men have not bes^un to think of tobacco.
In appearance he was about fifty years of age ;
his cheeks were purple and his eyes were fiery ;
his neck was swollen ; as for his nose, it was
battered in the bridge, so that the original
shape of it could no longer be guessed. And
there was a deep red scar across his cheek,
which might be a' glorious proof of valour in
some great action, and might also be a mark
by which to remember some midnight brawl.

He wore a scratch wii^ and a brown coat with
metal buttons, worsted stockings, and a muffler
about his neck.

This man was a familiar figure in Deptford,
whither he came by boat once a month or so
for the transaction of business. The nature of
his business was not knowui for certain, and
there were different reports. It was whispered
that he stood in with Aaron Fletcher, receiving
and selling for him those cargoes of his which he
brought across the Channel and landed on the
coast of Essex ; by others it was said that he
ventured on his own account; and again, it
was reported that he was a Government spy,
who ought to have his ears sliced; and by
others that he procured information for the
Navy Office when there was going to be a Press,
and therefore, if justice was done, should be
carbonate. All this might have been true.
What everyone could observe With his own
eyes was — that he bought, and paid a good
price for, all those things which sailors bring
with them from foreign points, such ns embroidered
cloths, brass pots, figures in china,

silver ornaments and idols, or even living
creatures, as hyenas, wolves, monkeys, parrots,
mangroves, lemurs, and the like. He was
liberal With his money, and generous in the
matter of drink ; yet he was not regarded with
friendly eyes, perhaps on account of that suspicion
regarding the Navy Office and the Press.
As for his name, it was Jonathan Payment.

He nodded his head when Aaron appeared
at the door, and, lifting the tankard, drank to
him in silence.

How goes business ? ' asked Aaron.

Business,' Mr. Eayment replied, mournfully,
' was never worse. Honest merchants
are undone. My next ship sails in a week,
and as yet I have but a poor half-dozen in the
price.'

That is bad.'

And a sorry lot they are. One is a young
parson who has spent his all, and, in despair,
took one night to the road, and now thinks the
Hue and Cry is out after him. Another is a
'prentice who hath robbed his master's till, and
will be handed if he is caught, and yet swivels

all clay because he fears the Great Mogul's
black Spahis almost more than he fears the
gallows. One hath deserted twenty-one times
from the Army, twice from the Navy, and once
from the Marines,. but a dissolute fellow, and
rotten with disease and drink ; the wind whistles
through his bones. Yet he would rather cross
the seas and fight for the Honourable Company
than be taken, and receive the live hundred
lashes which are waiting for him. lie might
as well die that way as by disease, for he will
certainly drop to pieces before he reaches Calcutta.
Another is a lawyer's clerk who, I
believe, hath forged his master's name — a
roo'ue who will fio'ht, though small of stature.
Another is a footpad, for whose apprehension
ten guineas reward is offered, and so mean and
chicken-hearted a rascal that I must e'en give
up the fellow and content myself with the
reward. Sure I am that the first smell of
powder will kill him. A sorry lot, indeed.
Well, if the war continues, I am ruined. For
every lusty fellow can now find employment,
either in a regiment or on board a ship, and

there will soon be no debtors or footpads.
Alas ! Aaron, I remember, not so long ago,
when the peace was proclaimed, and the regiments
disbanded, and the ships paid off. Then
we had for nothing our choice of the best.
Rogues are cheap when 'tis their only choice
between the gallows and the Company.'

The meaning of all this was that the respectable
Mr. Eayment was nothing more or
less than a crimp by trade : one, that is, who
seeks out and deludes, inveigles, or persuades
recruits for the service of the East India Company,
whether for their land or sea service,
keeping them snug in the house till the ship
sails. As regards their navy, the Company
hath, I have been told, a fleet of a hundred ships
afloat, to man which is difficult, and requires
the service of many such men as Mr. Eayment,
whose methods are, as is well known, to decoy
or persuade young men, and especially young
men who are friendless or in trouble through
some folly or crime, into their houses, and
there keep them, whether they will or no, by
violence if necessary, but more often by keeping

them continually drunk, so that they know
not what they have undertaken, or what papers
they have signed, until the time comes when
they can be put aboard. As for the service of
the Company, the young gentlemen who are
sent out by the Honourable Council to Calcutta
or Madras as writers or clerks, do frequently,
as everybody knows, arrive at great
riches, and come home nabobs. But I never
yet heard that any of the poor fellows who
have been decoyed into the crimps' houses, and
shipped on board an East Indiaman for foreign
service in the Company, have ever returned at
all, rich or poor.

Between Aaron and this man there was
some understanding or partnership, but of what
nature, or to what extent, I have not learned.
Eayment had a shop in Leman Street (quite
apart from the houses in which he kept his
recruits), where he sold many things besides the
curiosities which he bought of the sailors in
Wapping and Poplar, as well as at Deptford.
Perhaps he disposed of Aaron's cargoes for him
after a run. Perhaps he arranged, with Aaron's

help, for the passage of those gentlemen,
Whether Jacobites or Frenchmen, who are
anxious to get backwards and forwards between
England and France without the observation or
the knowledge of the Government of either
country. There is abundant occupation for
such gentry as Mr. Eayment, whose end is
often what rogues call a dance in the air. And
just as Aaron lead his boat-building yard, which
is a most innocent and harmless business, so Mr.
Eayment had his innocent shop in Leman
Street, and was to outward seeming an honest
citizen, who went forth from his shop to church
on Sunday morning, dressed in black cloth,
white silk stockings, and japanned shoes, with
a newly curled and powdered wig, like the best
of them, and was permitted to exchange the
time of day and the compliments of the season
with gentlemen of reputation and known piety.
Thus may villains walk unsuspected among
honest men.

Well,' said Aaron, ' I dare say you will not
starve. What do you say now to a tall recruits?'


What do you want for him, Aaron ? '

You shall have him for nothing.'

Mr. Eayment looked suspicious, as one that
feareth the gifts of his friends, and shook his
head.

For nothing, Aaron ? What do you want
me to do for you, then ? '

Nothing. I will give you a tall and lusty
recruit. That is plain, is it not ? '

The door is shut, Aaron. Tell me what
you mean.'

Give me the men to take him, and he is
yours.'

'To take him?' Mr. Payment leaned
forward and whispered, ' Is he not a willing
recruit, then? I love a fellow who is in
trouble, and desires to be put into a place of
safety.'

I don't know about his willingness,' said
Aaron, grimly.

If he is not willing, is he a fellow to be
persuaded easily ? As far as a skinful of punch
is concerned, I care not about the expense, as
long as I get a lusty fellow.'

He is in no trouble, and he is not willing
will take half a dozen men to carry him
along, and a Aveek's starvation to make him
even pretend to be willing.'

'tis dangerous, Aaron. I like not this
kidnapping work. We crimps have got a
bad name, though everyone knows my own
honesty. Yet we must not openly rival the
Press.'

Why, you have done it hundreds of times.'

Ay, for the picking up of a starving rustic,
or a drunken sailor, or a disbanded soldier, and
swearing, when they are sober again, that they
have enlisted : that is neither here nor there.
And it is for the good of the poor fellows.
Their pay is regular, and the climate considered
by some to be wholesome. It is playing the
part of Providence to help the poor men with
the service of the East India Company.'

No doubt,' said Aaron.

Give me your recruit who comes red-handed,
the runners after him, and asks for
nothing but to be shipped safe out of the country
as soon as possible. I care not how many

roo-series he hath committed. Give me your
lusty villain, who hath stolen his master's horse ;
.or the gallant who hath squandered all his
stock. These give no trouble. But with
]pressed and kidnapped men it is different

I doubt if you could persuade this fellow,'
said Aaron, ' not if you made him drink a cask
of brandy.'

We have had misfortunes, too,' Mr.
Eayment continued. ' Only last May there was
brought to my house as sweet a country lad as
you would desire to see. He was in trouble
about a girl, and desired to serve the King.
Well, in the morning, when he got sober, and
learned that he Alas enlisted in the service of the
Company, he behaved shamefully. Nothing
would do but he must go free or fight for it.
So my honest fellows tried persuasion, and in
the end there were collations and ribs broken,
and that country lad was carried out and laid
upon Whitechapel Mount, stripped, and as dead
as any gentleman can wish to be. Think of the
loss it was to me.'

Well,' said Aaron, ' your fellows must not
persuade my man this way.'

What does it mean, Aaron ? '

It is a private matter. You need not have
anything to do with it. Send me half a dozen
stout fellows, and you shall know nothing at all
about it, except that another recruit was
enlisted, who stayed at the house till the slip
sailed, and was taken on board drunk and
speechless. You will have nothing to do
with it but to lend me your men and your
house.'

I don't like it, Aaron. It may turn out
bad. Has the man friends ? '

He has. Yet this his friends will never
suspect.'

I don't like the job, Aaron. Kidnapping
should only be practised on strangers and rustics.
Is he a tradesman ? '

K'o. It is a private grudge, Jonathan. I
will make it worth your while. I must have
this man put out of the way. He is a Lieutenant
in the King's Navy.'

Mr. Eayment jumped from his chair.

VOL. II. 11

A King's Lieutenant ! Aaron, would you
hang us all ! '

Sit do\yn, you fool. It is a safe job.
Besides, you shall have nothing to do with it.
Sit down, and listen.'

CHAPTER XVIII.

A DARK night's JOB.

she evenings, towards the end of
October, set in early ; and when
there is no moon, the nights areas
dark as in midwinter. It is,
therefore, a favourable season for the footpads
who molest the roads outside great toAvns, the
thieves who prowl the streets, and the highwaymen
who stop the coaches. At Deptford there
are neither footpads nor street-prowlers, though
robbers enough. Lord knows ; but they rob, for
the most part, on a different plan, and within
the houses. In times of peace, when a sailor
cannot readily find a ship, or a disbanded
Marine cannot find work, there have been
known cases of robbery about Deptford and
Greenwich. But in such a year as 1756, when

H 2

the sailors were all too few for the King's ships,
and they were continually enrolling new
regiments of Marines, no one in these towns
gave a thought to the changes of footpads, and
a child might have carried, by day or by night,
a bag full of guineas from the dockyard gate to
the bridge, without fear of molestation. Least
of all would such a man as Jack Easterbrook
trouble his head about robbers.

He left the Gun Tavern, where he had

spent the evening with the Lieutenants and

Midshipmen who used the house, at a quarter

before ten or thereabouts, carrying no other

weapon than his hanger, and began leisurely to

walk home down Church Lane. The upper

part of this road, when you have passed the

church and the Trinity Almshouses, is darker

than the lower part, by reason of great trees and

a high hedge on either hand. Light or dark,

'twas all the same to Jack, who marched along

the middle of the road, head in air, his thoughts

turned on Bess, as they commonly were at this

time, or else wondering how long before he

should receive his promised commission. Soon

it certainly would be, even though, through
favouritism and lack of interest, he should, for
the present, be passed over, because officers and
men were growing scarce, and my Lords the
Commissioners wanted all they could get. And
once afloat again, with, if kind Heaven willed,
a fighting Captain, there would be prizes and
prize-money, and, perhaps, swift promotion.
And then home again, to the arms of this dear
girl. This, I take it, is the dream of every
sailor ; whereas, for many, instead of returning
to the arms of a fond mistress, they are lowered,
with a cannon-shot at their heels, into the cold
ocean, or come home lopped of half their limbs,
only to find their inconstant mistress in another's
arms.

Now, as he was thus striding along, swinging
his arms as lie went, he became suddenly aware
of shuffling footsteps and whispers, which betoken
the presence of men lurking behind the
trees ; but before he had time to ask himself
what this might mean, a fellow rushed out
from the darkness, armed with a pistol in one
hand, which he pointed at Jack's head, and a

lantern in the other, which he turned, unsteadily
in the manner of one who is afraid,
upon his face, crying, 'Your money, or your
life ! '

Jack was so astonished that, for a moment,
he made no reply. Then he sprang upon the
fellow, and caught him by the throat. 'My
money or my life? Impudent dog, I will
squeeze thine own life out ! ' And so shook
him in his grasp — thumb on breathing-pipe —
as a terrier shakes a rat, so that the man dropped
pistol and lantern, and would have experienced
the fate of the rat in another minute
but for the help of his friends. As it was, he
would have cried for mercy, but he could
neither cry out nor breathe, so tight were the
fingers at his throat. Indeed, when he was
rescued, half a minute later, his face was already
purple, his eyes starting from his head like a
shrimp's, and his tongue swollen, so that he was
fain to sit upon the ground awhile ; and, for
ten minutes or so, he knew not whether he were
really dead and in the next world, and therefore
about to reap the reward of his many

villainies, or whether he were still living and
ready, for his greater damnation, to swell that
long list.

When the light of the lantern fell upon
Jack's face, there followed a sharp short whistle ;
and, upon that signal, half a dozen lusty fellows
sprang upon him at the same moment from both
sides of the road. He had no time to draw his
sword or to make any resistance of any kind,
for one of them fetched him from behind, while
the others threatened him in front, so foul a
stroke with an oaken cudgel that he fell like
a log, and without a word, senseless upon the
ground, dragging with him the man whom he
held by the throat.

Then the men all crowded over him ready
with their cudgels, and as courageous as you
please, their man being down. But it is of no
use to cudgel a senseless man.

They were joined by another man — it was
Aaron — a tall fellow, truly. He seemed like a
giant among these ruffians, who, after the kind
of riverside villains, were short of stature,
though stout. This man stood over the fallen

Lieutenant and looked upon the prostrate body
with eyes of satisfaction.

He fell at once,' said Aaron, as if dissatisfied.
' I looked for more fighting. I thought
there would be much more fighting. I hoped
to see him do his best before he was overpowered.
Show a light here.' One of them
not the first villain, who was now sitting on
the ground slowly getting his breath and still
wondering whether he were dead or not — held
the lantern before Jack's face. The eyes were
closed and his cheek white.

Master,' said the man, ' I doubt the gentleman
is killed outright. This is a bad job for
all of us.'

'Killed! Saw ever one a man killed by a
stroke of a cudgel ? I wish he was killed. I
wish he was dead and buried. Yet he shall
never say that I caused him to be killed. Such
a man as this does not die of a cracked skull.
Show the light again.'

This time he looked more carefully. The
Lieutenant was in a dead swoon, just as Aaron
himself had fallen into at Horn Fair, but it was

a far shrewder knock and a deeper faint. Aaron
raised an eyelid, but there was no sign of life
or any shrinking from the light. And now he
saw that blood was flowing from the wound.

He will He quiet for awhile yet. Well, men,
here is your new recruit.'

The men looked at each other, and murmured
that with King's officers — for now they
saw the uniform by the light of the lantern — ■
they would not meddle.

Not meddle, ye villains ? ' cried Aaron ;
why, you have meddled with him already, and
have well-nigh murdered him, and weill very
likely hang, every mother's son, for this night's
job. Wherefore, take him up and carry him
away ; 'tis your only chance to save your own
necks. Get him across the river with all despatch,
and snug indoors.'

The men hesitated. One of them murmured,
with an oath, that they would not hang
alone.

When he comes to his senses,' Aaron continued,
taking no notice of this threat, ' tell him
that at the least movement you will brain him.

But you are not to brain him, remember, or
your master will lose the very best recruit he
ever had, and will cause you all to swing.
What ? There is enough against you for every
man to swing.' This assurance was made more
emphatic by the language which this sort most
readily understood. Still the men hesitated.
The King's uniform frightened them. They
had often enough kidnapped a poor drunken
sailor, but never before a Lieutenant. Then
Aaron swore at them, and stamped his foot
upon the ground.

Quick, I say. What ? You dare to argue ?
Take him up. So. Cover him with a jacket
to hide his white stockings and breeches, though
the night is dark. That will do — now — with a
will.'

They took him up, the whole six sullenly
lending a hand, and carried him as men carry
a drunken man.

Carry him to the Stairs, and row him across
the river as quickly as you may. Bestow him
in the upper room at the back, where you keep
the chains and the bars for your unruly recruits.

Watch him by clay and night. He will try to
escape, that is certain ; as soon as he recovers
consciousness he will try to escape. Let him
understand that he will be knocked on the head
if he makes the attempt. And, remember, he
is a match for any three of ye — ay, the whole
six, I verily believe — for he is as strong as
Samson. If he succeeds in escaping he will
have you all in Newgate. He will drag the
house down, if he can, in order to escape. You
are in great danger, my friends, whatever
happens. Yet I would not have him murdered.
If he is not put on board alive, there will be a
warrant out against you for highway robbery
and violence, and hanged you will be, every
man. Therefore, I say, take care of him.'
Thus he spoke : now showing that he wished
the man dead, and then warming them not to
kill him. ' It is but three or four days' nursing,
with chains and a watch set day and night, and
then you shall hocus his drink and put him onboard,
and shove the drunken beast down the
companion to the lower deck with the recruits,
and the bo's'n's rope's-end first, in case he complaints

; and the triangles next, in case he is
stubborn and mutinous. I should like to see
him tied up for three dozen. Now, march.'

The men replied nothing, but slung their
burden and prepared to obey.

'March, I say; and, look ye, the Press was
last night out on Tower Hill, and the night
before they were busy at EedrifT, where there
was fighting and warm work, so that the men's
spirit is up and they will brook no resistance.
Perhaps — I know not — they are out to-night at
Deptford. If the Press should take you, carrying
a King's officer unconscious and with an
open wound in his head, my mates — why — you
are dead men, and already little better.'

The men needed no more, but marched off
at the double, as they say, the thought of the
Press lending wings to their heels.

To knock down,' said Aaron, when they
were gone, ' and to kidnap a Lieutenant in the
King's Navy, and to ship him, drugged and
drunk, on board an East Indiaman for a recruit,
is, I should say, high treason, at the least. But,
none of the fellows know me, and who is to

prove that I gave the orders ? If the Lieutenant
is dead ah-lady, they will throw his body
into the river. If he is not dead, most of these
poor fellows will surely hang, for one or other
of them is certain to turn King's evidence.
Yet, if he tries to escape they will kill him,
being used to murder, and thinking little of it.
If they knew it, this is their best chance. If
they do not kill him — what then? He goes
aboard. And then ? I know not. He will
be put on board in rags. No one will believe
him if he calls himself an officer. I doubt if
the Lieutenant will come back again to Dept-ford.
Whether he comes back or not, they
cannot charge the thing on me.'

Certainly, there never yet was conceived a
more diabolical plot, or one of greater impudence,
than to waylay and kidnap an officer
bearing His Majesty's commission, to keep him
close prisoner in a crimp's house, chained and
half-starved, watched day and night, and then,
as was intended, to thrust him down into the
hold of an East Indiaman, seemingly stupid
with drink (but in reality bereft of his senses

by some noxious drug), and to pretend that
he was a volunteer recruit. It is very well
known, and matter of common notoriety, that
many men have been thus kidnapped and kept
prisoners and then shipped under this pretence.
They are carried below, apparently drunk, and
laid among the other recruits, for the most part
a most desperate, villainous company. Here
they lie, and, when they partly recover they
are already out to sea, in the gloomy 'tween
decks, most likely speechless with sea-sickness,
among strange and horrible companions, and
no one on board who will so much as listen to
their story. Here was revenge, indeed, if only
it could be carried out ! And what was to
prevent? I have never heard that a King's
officer hath been thus treated, which makes it
the more wonderful for Aaron to have devised
so bold a scheme. Yet not so bold as it seems,
because, if Jack could thus be carried on board,
in rags, unwashed, unshaven, his hair about his
ears, who would believe his affirmation that he
was a commissioned officer? Why, if such a
ragamuffin told this tale to the petty officers

he would be rope's-encled, and if to the First
Lieutenant or to the Captain himself, he would
most likely be tied up and accommodated with
three dozen, or perhaps six dozen, for insubordination
; for the officers of the Company
are said to be ready as those of the King's
service — who, Heaven knows, are never too
lenient — in dealing with refractory recruits.
Yet sooner or later, one would think, the thing
would be discovered ; though not on board the
ship. Then the Lieutenant would return home
and prefer his complaint, and punishment
would follow. But Aaron, only an ignorant
fellow, thought of nothing but revenge. There
are some men to whom the most terrible
punishment in the future seems as nothing
compared with the gratification of present

revenge.

The gang of rogues had not gone farther
towards the town than St. Paul's Church,
marching quickly along the middle of the
road, ready at the least alarm of the Press to
drop their burden and to run in all directions,
when they encountered another party, consisting

of three negroes — one carrying a
lantern — and a gentleman with a wooden
leg. The negroes were, like these villains,
armed with cudgels, but they also carried
cutlasses.

Halt ! ' cried the gentleman, who was
none other than the Admiral. ' Turn the
lantern on these men, Cudjo.'

The negro valiantly advanced and showed
a light upon the party. They wore sailors'
clothes — namely, slops or petticoats, short
jackets, and hats turned up straight on all
three sides ; and their hair was long, and
hung about their necks. It was, indeed, their
business on the Tower Hill, and in the neighbourhood
of Radcliffe, Shadwell, and Wapping,
to pretend to be honest sailors, and therefore
to wear their dress.

Why,' said the Admiral, ' they are sailors !
Whither bound, my lads, and what are you
carrying ? '

By your leave, your Honour,' said one of
them, ' we are carrying a comrade who is too
drunk to walk, and we are fearful of leaving

him in the hedge-side by reason of the
Press.'

Ay . ay . . . the Press — well — my
lads, I would that the Press could take you all,
and confound you for a poor lousy chicken-hearted
crew. I wish I knew where the Press
is this night, that I might set them on to you.
I wish my negroes were six instead of three.
Go your ways. March, Cudjo.'

The men made no reply, but hurried away
as quickly as they could. The Admiral looked
after them awhile.

I doubt,' he said, ' that all was not right.
They looked a plaguey cut-throat set of rascals.
Perhaps 'twas not a drunken comrade after all'

Then he continued his way home in the
usual marching order, but slowly, because a
wooden-legged man who has twinges of gout
in his remaining toes, does not Avalk fast.
Presently, the man who held the lantern spied
something in the road which glittered. He
picked it up. 'Twas a gold-laced hat with the
King's cockade.

Men,' said the Admiral, * this is the hat

YOL. II. I

of an officer. What does this mean ? Look
about you, every one.'

The road Alas quite dark, owing to the trees
and the cloudy night. Presently, however, the
men found a pistol in the roach, and, beside it,
the traces of scuffling feet and torn lace, and,
worse still, plain marks of blood upon the road.

Here,' said the Admiral, ' hath been wild
work. Torn ruffles — a gold-laced hat — a pistol
and a gang of bloodthirsty cut-throats carrying
a body with them. A drunken comrade,
forsooth ! And afraid of the Press ; would to
God the Press might take them red-handed !
Whom have they murdered? For murder,
surely, it is, and nothing less. Men' — he
turned to his negroes — ' I am wooden-legged,
and cannot run. Wherefore, do you leave me
here, and with wdiat speed you may, hasten
after that company, and call upon them to
surrender, and, if they will not, raise the town
upon them. Draw cutlasses — shoulder cutlasses
— quick march — double. Eun, ye black
devils, as if your horny grandfather himself was
after you ! '

If the Admiral liacl ordered this negroes to
jump from London Bridge or the Monument
they would have done it, I am quite certain, so
great was the terror with which they regarded
him. Therefore, at the word, they drew their
weapons, and set off running with the greatest
resolution, and at a pretty brisk pace, showing
all the outward signs of zeal and of courage.

Alas ! negroes are in essentials all alike.
No man ever yet found courage in the black
African, any more than industry, patience, or
honesty, unless the white man was behind him
with Father Stick for encouragement.

The night was dark. Nothing more daunts
a negro than darkness, because to him the
night is peopled — especially when there is no
white man present — with all kinds of fearful
and terrible creatures ; therefore, in their
running, they presently began to feel the
gloomy influence of the hour, and their speed
slackened gradually. Next they were no
longer young ; and it would be foolish to expect
of those whose wool is grey the courage
which they never possessed when it was still

I 2

black. Thirdly, the Admiral was out of sight
and out of hearing. And, again, if the enemy
refused to surrender, whom were they to
alarm ? What were they to say ? What road
were they to take ? Lastly — a consideration
wliicli weighed with them above all others —
what if they were, unhappily, to overtake the
men ? They were but three to six — and three
feeble old blacks to six lusty young whites !
Then might occur difficulties unforeseen by the
Admiral, who naturally thought that his own
crew must always gain the victory.

These doubts and difficulties suggested
themselves to the brave fellows at one and
the same moment — namely, the first moment
when they thought their footsteps out of the
Admiral's hearing. They halted and looked at
each other.

Brethren,' said Snowball, ' let us stop and
deliberation ourselves. Where am de enemy ?
Fled — flown— yah ! De poo' coward ! —-run
clean out ob our sight ! — 'afraid to face brave
black man ! '

'S'pose,' said Cudjo, * we wait just quarter

ob an hour ; den go back and tell his Honour
men clean gone ; run away before us, for fear
ob us?'

This was agreed to. Nothing more was
said, but all three sat on a doorstep and waited
until they thought the quarter of an hour seemed
to be passed, and so they might safely return.

Even if they had followed the party across
to the Stairs, supposing they knew which
direction to take, they would scarcely have
overtaken them, so expeditious were the menin
getting to the river and in pushing off, the
bank being at this time quite deserted.

Therefore, when a reasonable time had
elapsed, the valiant negroes began to return
slowly, but still brandishing their cutlasses.
Arrived within five minutes of the house, they
broke into a quick trot, so that they reached
the doors in a panting and breathless condition,
as happens to those who very earnestly and
zealously carry out instructions.

They reported that at the bottom of Church
Lane they came upon the enemy, and called
upon him to surrender at discretion or take

the terrible consequences. The enemy chose
the latter, and retreated rapidly. In other
words, they all vanished, but whether down
Butcher Eow or in the direction of Rogue Lane,
which leads into the ojoen fields, south of
Eotherhithe, they could not tell, and, in the
darkness and uncertainty, they thought it best
to return for further orders.

Why,' said the Admiral, ' 'tis a dark night,
truly. And if they have sailed out of sight,
and we have lost them, there is no more to be
said,' and so put away the torn ruffles, the
laced hat, and the pistol, in case they might be
wanted for evidence of robbery and violence,
if not of murder, and ordered the men an extra
ration of rum, and so to bed. Fortunately, he
had no suspicion that the hat and the ruffles
belonged to Jack Easterbrook, otherwise his
nidit's rest would have been disturbed. As
for the pistol, however, that, he discovered on
examination, had not been discharged.

CHAPTEE XIX.

IX THE crimp's house.

E. JONATHAN Payment was
not only a crimp (though at his
shop in Leman Street they knew
not this, and in his houses they
knew not this name), but he was a crimp ina
large way of business, as they say of honest
trades, being the possessor of half a dozen
houses in different parts of London, all kept
for no other purpose than the receiving of
recruits for the East India Company. There
is no concealment about this business ; everybody
knows that they are crimps' houses. One
of them was in High Street, Wapping ; one in
Chancery Lane ; a third in Butcher Eow, at the
back of St. Clement's Church ; and another in
Tothill Fields. He employed a good many men

to decoy and entrap his pres. Some among
them went dressed soberly, like substantial
citizens, or in scarlet, like half-pay captains,
and frequented the gaming-houses, where they
made the acquaintance of those who were
driven to despair by losing all ; some haunted
the coffee-houses, taverns, theatres, and mug-houses.
Here they picked up young countrymen
who had run through their money,
'prentices who had robbed their masters, and
even young gentlemen of quality who had
wasted their substance in riotous living, and now
saw nothing before them but a debtors' prison.
Others, again, worked chiefly in the neighbourhood
of Wapping and the town, being always
on the look out for rustics and labouring men
out of work, disbanded soldiers, paid-off sailors,
men discharged for misconduct, and rogues in
hiding. These they either bought or entrapped,
and sometimes when they could not persuade,
they hesitated not to kidnap. It was from this
gang that the six fellows came who assaulted
Jack.

When they got to the riverside, still running

at the double, being horribly afraid of the
Press, and knowing not whether they might
encounter the gang face to face, they made all
haste to deposit their charge in the boat, and
rowed off. Presently the cold air playing on
Jack's bare head began to revive him, and he
half opened his eyes and began to collect his
senses. Fortunately, the men paid no attention
to him, or it might have been all over with him.
At first he understood nothing except that he
was in a boat, but on what water he knew not.
Next he understood that the men were rowing?
up stream. And so, little by little, some
knowledge of what happened came to him, and
he wondered whither they were taking him,
and why he was thus treated. He understood,
that is to say, that he had been attacked, and
perhaps robbed, and that he had been in a
swoon. More he knew not. ' No voyage,' he
told me afterwards, ' ever seemed longer to me
than this three-quarters of a mile from Deptford
to Kino' Edward's Stairs. And I knew not
whether to rejoice or to tremble when the men
shipped oars and the boat's bows struck the

stairs.' The event was doubtful, and only one
thing certain — namely, that he was in hands
which meant no good to him ; that he had
been knocked silly for a time, and was still
incapable of making resistance ; that it was
growing late, and good people were abed ; and
that he had been conveyed to the other side of
the river, where honest people are scarce. For
all these reasons he resolved upon continuing
senseless as long as possible. If, he thought, it
had been intended to kill him, why had they
not done so right out? Why had they not
tumbled him into the river ? Why had they
taken all the trouble of carrying him to the
riverside and so across the water if they were
going to kill him? And if not, what were
they going to do with him ?

King Edward's Stairs, whither they brought
him, are the next but one, going down the
river, to Execution Dock. These stairs are at
no time in the day so well frequented as
Wapping Old Stairs and Wapping New Stairs,
higher up, or Shadwell Stairs, lower down.
After dark, they are for the most part deserted,

or simply used by the river pirates and night
plunderers for the landing of the booty they
have gotten from ships and barges. On this
night there were no watermen on the stairs,
and only, at the head, clustered together for
warmth, under a pent-house, which would keep
off rain, if not wind and cold, half a dozen of
the miserable boys who pick up their living in
the mud of the river, and are called mudlarks
or flycatchers. When they grow up, they
may perhaps become lumpers or scuffle-hunters,
if they are lucky, and so get a chance of dying
in their beds. But for the most part they are
destined to become what are called limit horsemen
(that is, robbers of ships lying in the river)
and plunderers working for the receivers of
Wapping and Shadwell, and pretty certain to
be either knocked on the head in some brawl
or hanged for robbery.

The boys looked up on hearing the steps ;
but, seeing a dead body (as it seemed) being
carried by half a dozen men, they prudently
observed silence, and lay snug, lest they themselves
might be put into the condition of being

unable to give evidence. The men carried
their burden up the steps, cursing and
grumbling at the weight — a body measuring
six feet one is not a light weight even for six
men to carry. Then they turned the lantern
once more upon his face.

He is stark dead,' said one. ' Let us
empty his pockets and chuck him into the
river.'

No — no,' said another. ' Bring him along.
He is not dead.'

So they lifted him up and carried him
along the streets, where by this time the
taverns were closed, and the people all gone to
their beds. Jack knew very well that they
must be somewhere among those streets of
sailors' houses and sailors' shops which lie
between the riverside and the market-gardens
of Shadwell and Wapping. Bat still he understood
not what was intended by carrying him
here.

Presently they halted at a house — it was in
the High Street, Wapping. By this time Jack
had cautiously opened his eyes. He saw that

he was in the hands of a company of six.
What had these fellows to do with him?
Why did they take all this trouble ?

Then the door was opened, and they
carried him into the house and up the stairs
into a room at the back. Here they flung
him down upon the floor, and that so roughly
that his wound was opened and he swooned
away once more.

When he recovered, he found that they
were dragging his clothes from him.

'Now,' said one of them, ' throw a blanket
over him. Parson. Lay them things ready for
him to put on ; they're the clothes of the poor
devil who died here last week. If he wants to
escape, he will have either to run naked or to
put on these duds, instead of his fine uniform,
which will change him so as his own mother
won't know him again. Perhaps she won't
get the chance of setting eyes upon her boy
for many a year to come. Now then, smart's
the word, ye lubbers ; we've got our man snug
and safe, and now we'll have some supper, and
watch turn about.'

Jack was now wide-awake, but this head
was still heavy. Things looked black. He
was in a house at Wapping, and he was
stripped naked ; he had an open and bleeding
wound in the head ; a bundle of rags was
lying beside him in place of his own clothes ;
he was guarded by half a dozen ruffians, as
ugly and villainous-looking a crew as one may
desire. In looking at them, being, perhaps,
a little light-headed with his wound, he began
to think about Mr. Brings' piratical crew, and
how they fought and killed each other. Perhaps
these gentlemen might begin to fight
after they had taken their supper. Perhaps
they would all kill each other. Meanwhile he
lay perfectly still, with one eye half-open.

Then the man they called 'Parson' came
upstairs, bringing food and drink, which he set
upon the table, and they took their supper for
the most part in silence, or, if there was any
talk, it was disguised and rendered unintelligible
by the oaths and cursing which wrapped it up.
The fellows, in fact, Avere uneasy ; they had
faithfully carried out their orders, but they

knew not what might happen in consequence
to themselves. It is the punishment of such
men as these that they must needs do what
their master bids them, as much as if they were
bound hand and foot to the Devil, because they
are one and all in his power, and he might
cause every man to be hanged, if he chose.
The ' Parson ' had now lit the fire, which was
blazing cheerfully, and there was a candle on
the table. The room was small, and the
windows were barred ; the air was heavy and
stinking. As for the ' Parson,' Jack observed
that he was a young man, whose face bore the
marks of deep dejection, but not of the brutal
habits which were stamped upon the faces of
his associates. And he was dressed in a cassock.
What was a clergyman doing in such a house ?
When the men had eaten their supper, they
began to pass round the pannikin They
passed it so quickly that Jack hoped they would
speedily get drunk, so that the fighting might
begin. They did get drunk, but they did not
fight. One after the other, they fell asleep,
until two only were left awake. These

were to take the first watch, and had therefore
been obliged to spare the pannikin. The Parson
quietly laid the four who were asleep upon the
Poor, their feet to the fire. Then he took the
candle and looked at Jack.

Our new recruit,' he said, speaking with
the voice of a scholar, and not in the coarse
and rude speech of his companions, ' our new
recruit appears to be overcome with fatigue.
Zeal for the service hath, doubtless, laid him
low.'

He laid aside the hair, and looked at the
wound. 'It is more than fatigue,' he said.
I perceive that he hath received a hurt. It is
not uncommon with those who come to this
house.'

« He fell down,' one of the men replied ;
'and he fell down so gallus hard that he
knocked his head upon a stone, and hasn't
opened his eyes nor his mouth since.'

Gentlemen, the man hath an ugly wound.
'Twere a pity — his Honour would take it ill —
if anything happened to this man, a tall and
proper fellow, for want of a little care. By

your permission, I will bring cold water and
dress the wound.'

They made no objection, and the Parson
presently returned with a clout and cold water,
with which he washed the blood, and applied
plaister to the wound. As for the bleeding, it
was caused by the cutting of the ear rather than
the blow on the skull. This done, he laid a
blanket over Jack's bare limbs.

He will now,' said the Parson, ' when he
recovers, lie easier. It is long since you
brought in so brave a recruit. Call me, gentlemen,
when he recovers ; the pulse is quick and
strong ; he will not lonsj be senseless. I am butin
the next room. Shall I bring you some more
rum, gentlemen ? '

You may, Parson. The jug is out. Fill
it up. We have four hours' watch before us.
And more tobacco.'

The fire was now burning low. Through
the bars of the windows Jack could see the
stars, and presently a clock hard by struck
twelve. He was a recruit, he now understood.
In other words, he had been; kidnapped, and

VOL. II. K

was in the house of a crimp. Everybody lias
heard of such places, but they do not generally
kidnap officers of the King's Navy. However,
it seemed as if they were not going to nnnder
him, which was a comfort. No man, not even
the bravest, likes to be knocked on the head, ina
house of crimps, while helpless and faint.

The men who were on watch filled and lit
their pipes, and began to talk in low voices.

I'm queerly sleepy, mate,' said one. ' How
hard they breathe, don't they ? '

There were no orders about his purse,'
said the other. ' Five guineas and a crown.
That's a guinea and a shilling apiece. Little
enough, too, for our trouble. What about the
clothes?'

There's no orders about the clothes. Let
us have them too.'

No, No. Let us burn the clothes. Guineas
can't tell no tales. But a King's uniform can.
Best burn 'em.'

Mate,' said the other, * I don't like the job.
It's no laughing matter, I doubt. Let us cut
his throat at once, while the others are asleep.

Wc can slash his face, and lay him naked in
the fields, so as no one won't know him
again.'

'Same as we did that other fellow who
tried to get away. We took him to Whitechapel
Mount, though.'

We've knocked many on the head before.'

But never a Kings's officer. This one
won't order up no man again for six dozen,
will he?'

Perhaps he is dead already.'

The speaker rose and took the candle.
Then he stooped beside the motionless figure
and slowly passed the candle across the eyes.
If you do this before a man who is sound
asleep, he will become restless and uneasy even
if he is not actually awake ; if you do it to a
waking man it is difficult indeed for him
not to open his eyes or wink them. But Jack
made no sign.

He is still senseless,' said the man. ' I
wonder if he is really dead.' He felt his heart.

No ; his heart is beating.'

Mate ? ' asked the other. Jack under

2

stood, though his eyes were closed, that there
was a gesture as of a knife across the throat.

'Twould make all sure,' he said ; ' dead men
tell no tales. Suppose Ave were to ship him,
what is to prevent their finding out that they've
a King's officer on board ? Suppose we finish
him off now, who will be able to split onus
? Let us take and do it — you and me,
while he's unconscious. What is it? One
slice of the knife, and we've done with him, ina
neat and workmanlike manner.'

*Hold hard a bit, mate. What about the
tall fellow on the other side ? You ]heard what
he said. Besides, the Parson knows. We
can't cut the Parson's throat as well. But it's
the tall fellow I fear, not the Parson.'

If it comes to hanging,' said the other,
swearing horribly, ' damme if I swing alone.'

You'll have me kicking alongside of you,
mate, and the rest of us. We shall all swing
in a row.'

Ay, and he shall kick with us. Oh ! I
know who he is.'

^ Who is he?'

'That's my secret. I know him. And
that is enough.'

Tell me, my hearty.'

His name is Fletcher — Aaron Fletcher.
He's a boat-builder by trade, but he's got a
boat of his own, which he keeps sometimes at
Gravesend, and sometimes up the Medway, and
sometimes she lays off Leigh, in Essex, where
i've unladen many a cargo for him. If so be
we are brought into trouble by this night's job
pass the word for a warrant to arrest Aaron
Fletcher. Don't you forget the name — Aaron
Fletcher, of Deptford, him as give the orders,
and stood behind a tree, ready to whistle when
the lantern showed we'd got him.'

I won't forget, mate. Let us leave the
job till tomorrow. If it's to be a throat job,
take in the rest : make 'em all have a hand in
it — Parson and all. Every man shall have his
hand in it. What! Are we two to be honored

o

and the rest get off ? '

They went back to their pipes and their
rum.

The ship sails next Saturday at noon,'

said one. ' We've got but ten recruits, counting
the Parson, and I doubt if the Captain will
let him go. Because why? 'Tis useful and
handy to have a man in the place like the
Parson, who won't get drunk, and does the
house-work beautiful, and doesn't look outside
the doors for fear of being taken. There's the
'prentice and the footpad, and the fellow who
sits and swivels all day long. What with the
war and the new ships and the new regiments,
the Company's service will go to the dogs ; and
what is to become of us ? It is a poor show
after the stout fellows we used to hale on board,
all so drunk that they couldn't stand.'

'The Captain says business must get better,
and he can't have a set o' lazy rogues eating
their heads off. Why did the Captain send us
to Deptford ? He must be in it as well.'

If he is, who's to prove it ? He didn't
give no orders. Pass the pannikin.'

Their pipes being now out, they began to
drink faster. Jack looking on, half-tempted to
pretend recovery and to ask for a tot of the
drink. Fortunately, he refrained. For, in a

short time, lie perceived that their heads began
to drop and their eyes to swim. ' Never,'
thought Jack, ' have I seen men get drunk in
this fashion before.' Then they caught at the
table to prevent falling, and poured more rum
from the jug into the pannikin and drank it,
but with unsteady hand. Then their heads
nodded heavily at each other, with wild eyes,
as if they would fain keep sober ; and then one
of them fell from his chair upon the floor, and,
with a drunken curse upon his lips, fell instantly
fast asleep. ' The rum must have the Devil in
it,' Jack said to himself.

There was now only one man left of the
whole six. It was the man who was so anxious
to finish off the job in workmanlike fashion.
He looked round him stupidly. His ^nq^ comrades
were lying on the floor, breathing heavily.
His eyes fell upon the corner where Jack lay.
He rose up, and opened the sailor's knife which
hung round his neck.

I'll cut his throat,' he said with drunken
cunning ' while the others are asleep. In the
morning I shall say they did it, and I looked

on, but couldn't prevent, so drunk they were,
and me the only sober one. The Captain, he
won't let 'em all be hanged, poor devils ! when
I tell him how they got drunk, and would doit,
whatever I could say.' Here he rolled, and
nearly fell. He reached for the jug, and drank
from it. Then his legs gave way beneath him,
and he fell upon his back. He tried to get up,
still holding his knife in his hand, and meditating
the murder. But he fell back, his head
pillowed upon a sleeping brother's leg.

I'll cut his throat,' he said, ' first thing
in the morning, before the others wake. If
Aaron — Aaron— comes to ask — I'll cut his
throat, too — and the Parson's, too — and the
Captain's. I'll cut all their throats.'

He said no more, and then there was nothing
heard but the heavy breathing and snoring
of the whole six. And Jack heard the
clock of St. John's strike two. He was not
killed yet, and the murderers were dead drunk.
If only he could find the strength to get up,
and to put on the rags which lay beside him in
place of his own clothes !

CHAPTER XX.

OF jack's escape.

this resolution of the doubt whether
he was to be immediately slaughtered
or not naturally gave the
Lieutenant considerable satisfaction.
The villain who was chiefly set upon his murder
was fast asleep, breathing heavily, the knife
still in his hand with wdiicli he had intended to
carry out his diabolical design had not the rum
overmastered him.

He tried to sit up. Alas ! his head was
like a heavy lump of lead which he could not
lift. That he was stripped naked would have
mattered little ; he had a blanket, and the
fellows had not taken off his shoes, so that
had he got out into the street, he would have
appeared bareheaded, wrapped round the body

with a rug, like a savage, yet, as to his feet,
dressed in white silk stockings and silver
buckled shoes. Sailors have been turned out
into the street in even worse plight than this,
and certainly one would rather escape naked
than not at all.

So he lay, listening and watching, for two
hours and more. Then the candle, which had
been flickering in the socket, went out suddenly,
and there was no light except a dim red glow
from the dying embers in the fireplace, and
the house seemed perfectly quiet.

This,' said Jack, listening, ' looks more
hopeful. If only I could sit up.'

He confessed afterwards, and was not
ashamed to confess, that he was greatly
moved with fear during this uncertainty of
his fate, and that no action at sea could compare
for dreadfulness with this helpless lying
in a corner, expecting at any moment to be
slaughtered like a poor silly sheep. ' For,' he
said, ' if a man cannot fight, he must needs bea
coward. There is no help for him. I shall
never laugh at cowards more. I had no

strength left iii me to make the least resistance
— no, not so much as a girl. And T
looked every moment to hear one of these
villains stir and wake up.'

They did not stir or make the least sign of
waking ; but Jack heard footsteps on the stairs.
Here comes another murderer,' he thought ;
it is nov all over with me, and I shall see my
Bess no more. Poor girl ! Will she murder
Aaron in revenge? Or will she never find
out, and marry him ? Oh ! for ten minutes of
my old strength and a cudgel ! '

The extremity of his agitation gave him
power to lift his head and sit upright, leaning
against the wall, and looking for nothing less
than immediate death.

The footsteps were those of the man in the
cassock, whom they called the Parson. He
carried in his hand a candle, with which he
surveyed the room and the sleeping men.
Then he turned to the prisoner.

So,' he said, ' you have come to your
senses, and can sit up. Do you think you can
stand and walk ? '

'If you mean to murder me,' said Jack,
do it at once, without more jaw — of wliicli
we have had enough.'

'I have no such thought, sir. Murder
you ? Heaven forbid ! Why should I murder
you?'

Then hush ! or you will wake these
fellows.'

'Wake them?' The Parson kicked the
man who lay nearest him. 'Wake them? If
the house was in flames, they would not wake
up till they were half-burned. In this place,
Sir, we know our business and how to doctor
the drink, so as to produce as sound a sleep as
is thought necessary. For instance, you may
sing or dance, or do anything you please,
but you shall not wake up these fellows. I
have done the job for them, and they are safe
for six hours and more to come.'

What do you want with me, then ? '
asked Jack. 'You are one of them, and
yet '

I am in this house for my sins and for my
punishment, not for my pleasure. Ask meno

more. As for what I want with you, I
am come to set you free.'

To set me free ? Is it possible ? '
Sir,' said this strange creature, ' you are
astonished to find any conscience at all in
such a place, which is, indeed, truly the
habitation of devils. Yet I would not have
your murder added to my guilt, and, upon
my word. Sir, when these villains come to
their senses, I believe there is no chance for
you whatever. For, Sir, consider. The kidnapping
of a King's officer, and the shipping
of him on board an East Indiaman, is a thing
which cannot flail to be discovered, and it is
certainly a hanging matter. I know not wdiat
madness possessed them to attempt it. Therefore,
they are mighty uneasy, and though
they have put off the matter for the night,
because you were senseless, and no man likes
to kill another in his sleep, yet tomorrow
morning, when they come to themselves and
consider the dangers they are in, they will,
I am certain, resolve to despatch you in order
to make all sure, and then, after slashing your

face, they will lay you in some open and
exposed spot, as Whitechapel Mount or the
market gardens, or very likely, if it seems easier
done, they mil lie a stone to your feet and
drop you into the river. Because, Sir, the
body once out of the way, and not to be
recognised, who is to prove the murder, unless
one of the villains turns informer? '

To this Jack could make no reply, but still
he marvelled greatly that such a man should
be in such a place.

Certain I am,' the Parson continued, ' that
never man had a more narrow escape than
you. And had you been conscious or showed
any signs of life, they would have brained you.
Therefore I kept coming and going, because,
though the house reeks with murder, I think
that they would not go so far as to murder
you before my eyes. But come. Sir, it is close
upon early morning, and already nearly three
of the clock. Else, if you can, and dress
yourself in these rags that are left out for you.
Indeed, Sir, I cannot restore to you your
clothes, which are downstairs, because I wish

it to appeal' that you have escaped by your
own wit and daring. Quick, then, and put
on these things.'

Then, as Jack was unable of himself to
stand, this Samaritan, for he was nothing short,
brought him a chair, and helped him to raise
himself into it, and clothed him as if he were
a child. The things which he had to put on
were so old and ragged that they would scarce
hold together ; and they were so dirty that no
ragamuffin of the street would have picked
them out of the gutter; no scarecrow in the
fields ever had such clothes. They consisted
of nothing more than a pair of corduroy
breeches, and a dirty old knitted waistcoat,
both in tatters and full of holes. Nevertheless,
when Jack had them on, his courage came
back to him. A man feels stronger when he
has put on his clothes. Also, perhaps, he was
already somewhat recovered of the blow.

I feel,' he said, ' as if I could now make
some fight.'

It needs not,' the Parson replied. ' Talk
not of fighting, but lean on me, and we will

try to get down the stairs. Eemember, it is
your only chance to get out of the place before
these fellows awake. I have, below, something
that may revive you. Try now if you can
stand.'

He could, though with great difficulty.
Surely never was there stranger figure than
Jack at this moment. The ragged waistcoat
was too tidit to button round his chest; the
corduroy breeches were too short for so tall
a man, and showed his bare knees ; the white
silk stockings and the silver buckles ill-assorted
with a dress so sordid; and, to crown all, one
side of his head, where the Parson had partly
washed it, showed his natural hair, with
streaks of blood upon the neck ; but the other
side was powdered and tied back with black
ribbon. But Jack thought little of his
appearance.

Good,' said the Parson. 'Now lean your
hand upon my shoulder, and wee will go slowly.'

I wish I was strong enough first to handcuff
and make fast these rogues,' said Jack.

Come, Sir, your life is at stake, and mine

too — if that mattered. Think not upon revenge.'


Aaron,' said Jack, ' my turn will come.
As for revenge, I say not. I would not kill
him; but tit-for-tat is fair. Easy, Aaron; easy.
You would make me prisoner, and ship me
for a recruit ! Very well, Aaron, very well.
I shall get my turn soon ! Come, Parson, if
that is what you wish to be called.'
^ So this strange Parson supported him
slowly and gently down the stairs and into the
kitchen, where he found a chair for him, and
set upon the table cold meat and bread, and
poured from a jar a glass of rum.

This,' he said is not druorored. ' You

Co

can drink it without fear. Yet be moderate,
for you are still weak. So, now eat a little,
but not much, and then you shall go away in
safety. But forget not to thank God, who
hath delivered you from death and from a den
where murders and villainies call aloud for
the vengeance which will certainly fall upon it.'
Who, thought Jack, would expect an
exhortation to religion in a crimp's house .^

VOL, II. L

As lie ate aucl drank, this strength came
back to him, although he still remained dizzy,
and somewhat uncertain of step.

'Man,' he said, when he had taken his
supper, ' who and what are you, and why do
you live here among these people ? '

I came here because I am a villain, like
my masters ; and I stay here because, like them
also, I have no other way of escaping the
gallows. Is that reason enough ? '

They call you Parson ; you wear a cassock ;
you talk like a scholar. What hath brought
a scholar to such a place ? '

They may call me Bishop, if they please.
I am the servant of these men. They say
unto me " Go," and I go ; or " Come," and I
obey; if there be any greater degradation fora
scholar than to live as cook and servant to
fetch and carry drink for a crew of cut throat
crimps, I would fain know what it is. Methinks
I would offer to exchange.'

Why,' said Jack, ' for the matter of an
exchange, you might ship as purser's mate and
see how you like that; but hang me if I

understand how a clergyman should get to
such a place.'

Jack now considered his rescuer more
carefully. He was a young man not more
than five or six-and-twenty ; his cassock was
not old, but it was battered and stained with
grease : his shoes had no buckles, but were tied
with string and were down at heel; his wig
was not one which consorted with his sacred
calling, being nothing better than an old
'prentice's bob minor, short in the neck, in
order to show the buckle of the stock, and as
old as any of the worn-out scratches, jemmies,
and bob majors which the people fish for at a
penny a dip in Petticoat Lane, and even a boy
who blacks boots might scorn for the purposes
of his trade; but his face was delicate and
handsome — a face very far from the dissolute
looks of the fellows upstairs.

'Look ye, brother,' said Jack, 'you have
saved my life. What can I do for thee .^ '

Nothing,' the Parson replied. ' I am a
lost rogue, though not, I hope, beyond the

l3

reach of pardon, and you can do nothing, I
thank you.'

Thou hast saved my life. Damme, rogue or
not, take my hand. Nay,' for the other hesitated,
' I will have it. Give me thy hand. Now,
then, we are brothers. What hast thou done ? '

It is true,' he said, ' that I am an ordained
clergyman of the Church of England. Unworthy
that I am, I may call myself a clerk in
holy orders.'

I am in a very pretty rig for an officer in
the King's service ; but, hang me, if you are
not in a worse for a parson.'

Sir,' the poor man began, with, hanging
head, ' I lost my curacy by the death of my
Rector, and I could get no other, nor any preferment
at all, not even the smallest, having no
interest and being unknown to any Bishop or
private patron. Then I quickly spent my little
stock — not, I can truthfully avow, in extravagance,
or waste, or vicious courses ; and I presently
found that I had nothing left but one poor
shilling. This I was unwilling to spend, and I

walked about the streets, picking up crusts or
turnips that had been dropped into the gutter,
until I became well-nigh desperate. Sir, you
see before you a common footpad. Dressed
as I was in the cassock of my profession, I
ventured to stop a gentleman in the street, and
to demand his money or his life.'

Did he give you his money ? '

'Neo. He turned out to be a man of
courage — a thing which I had not looked for.
Therefore, lie drew his sword, and I fled, he
running after me, crying, '' Stop thief! Stop
thief! " I escaped, and got home unperceived,
as I thought, to my lodging. Never again
shall I hear that cry without a knife piercing
my heart. The next day I went to the nearest
coffee-house, meditating death by my own
hands. It is a terrible thing to be a suicide,
but worse is it to live smoothest rogues.
I fell in with the Captain, as they call him, the
owner of this house and another like it in
Chancery Lane. He, perceiving my trouble,
accosted me, and presently brought me here

and gave me strong drink, under which I told
him all.'

But why do you stop here against your
will ? '

Because, alas ! the Hue and Cry is out
after me. In some way — I know not how —
the gentleman I thought to rob found means
to know my name. If I venture forth I shall
be arrested, and presently hanged. For that I
must not complain, because the punishment
might be taken mercifully in atonement for
my offence. But there are others ' — here he
choked, and the tears came into his eyes.

He drew a paper from his pocket, and gave
it to Jack. It was a piece of a Gazette.

Last evening we hear that a robbery was
attempted about ten o'clock in Chancery Lane
by a man dressed as a clergyman, who stopped
a gentleman and demanded his money or his life,
but, being confronted by a drawn sword, ran
away. The villain succeeded in escaping, but
will, it is hoped, be discovered, the gentleman
being confident that he knows who he is, and
can swear to him.'

How long ago was this ? '

It is now six months. I have entreated
the Captain to ship me with the rest, but he
will not, saying that he hath never before had
in the house a servant who would neither steal
nor drink.'

Six months. Why, man, a Hue and Cry
that is six months old ! Courage ! Tell me thy
name.'

The poor man made a clean breast of all,
telling him his name, and trusting him, in short,
with his neck. But no one could converse
with Jack, or look into his face, without trusting
him. As for his name, it must not be set
down. For the man who had thus sunk to
the lowest ignominy was presently enabled to
return to his own station and his sacred profession,
no one knowing;' aught of what had
happened. Not only did he resume his
ministry, but he obtained a curacy, and in time
received preferment, being now the Incumbent
of a London church, and greatly beloved for
his devotion, eloquence, and learning ; so that
it is thought by many that, if promotion goes

by merit, he may soon become aBisliop. And,

since no one knows, except myself, this episode

of his early manhood, let the thing remain forever

a secret.

And now,' said the clergyman, ' the time

is getting on. Go, while the way is clear.

Go, Sir. And forget this vile house and the

unhappy men that are in it.'

As for forgetting the house,' said Jack,

you shall see how I will forget the house.'
You must go away dressed as you are,

because I would not be suspected. Wherefore

I shall leave the door unlocked and unbarred.

Here is a cudgel for you, but you will not need
it. All the rogues of Wapping — whose name
is Legion — are asleep at this hour. Go then,
and remember that never, even in battle, will
you be nearer unto death than you have been
this night.'

He opened the door, which was carefully
locked and bolted, and set the prisoner free.
Then leaving the door unlocked, as if it had
been left so by the escaping captive, the Parson
crept upstairs to his own pallet.

It was now past three o'clock in the morning,
and still quite dark. The cold air made
Jack shiver in his rags, but it revived and refreshed
him. He looked up and down the
street. There were no passengers at that hour
save the market gardeners' carts, which were
already lumbering along, filled with vegetables,
to the markets of the Fleet and Co vent Garden ;
the rest of the world was still sleeping. Then
he surveyed the house carehdly.

Forget this house, quoth his reverence ?
I shall first forget Aaron Fletcher.'

It was too dark to observe particularly any
distinguishing; marks. There was no sion huno-
out. The ground floor was lower than the
street, and the upper storey, which projected
two feet and more, and looked as if it was
going to fall at any moment, had thick bars
outside the windows. ' I shall know the house
again,' said Jack, ' by the bars. And now,
gentlemen, sleep on and dream — I wish you
pleasant dreams — until I come back, which will
be, I take it, before you have yet awakened.'

CHAPTER XXI.

A Rude AWAKENING.

BOUT six o'clock in the morning,
when, lit this time of year, it is
^ already daylight, there marched
down the High Street of Wapping
a company seen there often enough in the
evening, when they are expected and men are
prepared for them, but seldom, so early. Who,
indeed, expects a Pressgang at daybreak .? The
party consisted of a dozen sailors, armed each
with a short cudgel, and a Lieutenant in command,
with a drawn cutlass. With the officer
walked a tall man, young, bareheaded, and
strangely attired in a ragged knitted waistcoat,
tattered breeches tied up with string and loose
at the knees, and yet with white silk stockings,
shoes with silver buckles, and, on one side only

powdered hair. The streets at this time are
already full of those who are hastening to the
day's work ; most of the houses are open, and
the maids are at the doors twirling their mops,
or at the windows throwing open the shutters ;
or, in the more genteel houses, they are plastering
the door-steps with yellow ochre.

'Twas, indeed, the Pressgang, more dreaded
than revenue officers or Bow Street runners,
and its appearance at this early hour caused
everywhere the liveliest curiosity and the
greatest consternation. Those who met them
either stopped still to look after them, their
faces full of apprehension, or they ran into
open houses, or they fled Without a word, or
they turned into a side street or court, for fear
of being taken for sailors. Many of those Who
fled were landsmen, and honest mechanics,
because, when the Press is hot, it does not
always respect landsmen, although the law is
peremptory against taking any but sailors.
This company, however, paid no heed to any,
whether they ran or whether they stood,
marching along without attempting to seize

them, tlioiidi some of the men were Thames
watermen, and others were hghtermen, and
some workmen, and others mere river plates
and plunderers, or, as they call them, receivers,
coleman, flycatchers, coopers, mudlarks, light
horsemen and lumpers, all of whom have been
held to be sailors within the meaning of the
Act.

Presently the man in rags, who seemed to
be leading the party, stopped, and looked
about him.

Ay,' he said, ' I believe this to be the
house. Now, my lads, steady all ; for we have
'em, neat and tidy, just as if they were so many
rats caught in a bag.'

- As soon as the people in the street understood
— this took them no long time — that the
Press, out, no doubt, on some special and unusual
business of the greatest importance — was
actually going to visit the crimp's house, probably
in search of the wanderers, deserters,
or cowardly skulkers often lying there, in hope
to be snug and out of the way, there was a
lively curiosity. For skulkers these people

entertain a mingled curiosity and contempt —
the former on account of their cunning at
disguise and hiding, and the latter because, the
sea being their trade, they will not bravely
follow it. The workman, no honour fearful of
his own safety, stopped to look on, his tools in
his bag, careless if he should be late at his
shop ; the waterman, who, at first sight of the
party, trembled for himself, stopped on his way
to the Stairs where he plied, though he might
thereby lose an early fare, and stood curious
to see what might happen, blowing into his
fingers to keep them warm ; the maids came
out from the house-doors and stood around,
mop in hand, expressing at first their opinions
of the Press, without any fear of the Lieutenant,
or respect to authority — there are certainly no
such enemies of good government as the
women. But, when these honest girls found
that the Press was not come to carry off their
lovers, but in order to visit the house about
which there was so much mystery, and concerning
which there were told so many stories, they
stopped their abuse and waited to see what

would code of it. Within those barred
windows strange things were carried on.
Terrible stories are told of crimps' houses.
Fearful sounds had been heard proceeding
from this house ; shrieks and cries for mercy,
and the trampling of feet ! Sometimes there
was singing, with laughter, and the noise of
men making merry over drink ; sometimes
there were loud quarrels, with the noise of
fighting. Those who entered this house were
generally carried in ; those who came out were
generally carried out. It was said that sometimes
those who were carried out were not
drunk, but dead ; and that they Avere not put
into the boat to be shipped on board an East
Indiaman, but to be dropped into the river at
mid-stream, with a stone tied to their feet.
Therefore, the crowd, which increased every
moment, looked on with satisfaction. They
might now be enabled to see, for themselves,
what manner of house this was.

I think, Sir,' said Jack to the Lieutenant
in command, ' that if you would leave two
men at the door, we can with the remainder

very easily dispose of the rogues in the house,
whether they are awake or asleep.'

The house was not astir yet ; the door was
not yet opened ; the shutters of the ground-floor
windows were not yet thrown back. It
looked, in the broad daylight, a dirty, disgraceful
den ; the doors and shutters black
with dirt and want of paint ; the windows of
the upper storeys seemed as if they had
never been cleaned since they had first been
put up, and some of the panes of glass were
broken.

'If they are awake, they will light,' said
Jack. ' But they have no pistols, so far as I
could see.'

The door yielded to a push. The Parson
had, therefore, left the door as if Jack had
escaped by unlocking and unbarring it.

Jack led the way upstairs, and threw open
the door of the room in which he had so
nearly met a horrid and violent death. Behold
! All the men vere lying just as they had
fallen, some on their faces, some on their backs,
their mouths open, and breathing heavily.

The fire was out, and the air of the place was
horribly close and ill smelling.

Here they are,' said Jack, as the Lieutenant
followed him. ' Saw one ever lustier rogues ?
Here is a haul for you.'

'They are dressed like sailors,' said the
Lieutenant, looking at them with curiosity and
misgiving. ' But I doubt it. I have never
known crimps' men to be sailors. Mostly this
sort are riverside rogues, and to take them onboard
would only be to put into the fo'ks'le so
many past-masters in all villainy.'

That is true,' Jack replied, ' and I doubt
they will want continual smattering from the
bo's'n : and such mutinous dogs that they will
at first spend half their time triced up to the
gratings. Yet, if you refuse them, I must needs
have them hanged ; and this I am not, I confess,
willing to do, because there is one other
who must then hang with them. And I would
not, if I could avoid it, compass his death.'

Then I will press them,' said the Lieutenant,
making up his mind. ' Ready with the
handcuffs ! Stand by ! Handcuff every man I '

The sailors pulled them up one after the
other, waking them with kicks and cuffs, and
made each man safe. Thus, shaken violently
out of their sleep, they stood gazing stupidly
at each other, still only half awake, and not
knowing wdiat had befallen them, or where
they were, or anything at all.

Bring them downstairs, and into the
open,' the Lieutenant commanded. 'House up
every one of them with the pump. K'ow^ for
the rest of the house.'

I believe there are no other sailors here,'
said Jack ; ' only two or three poor devils in
hiding till they can be shipped for the East
Indies.'

The men went through the house, and
presently returned, bringing four or five
prisoners — namely, the recruits of the Company.
A most valuable addition they would
have made to the Service, truly, for a more
scarecrow terrified crew could not be found
anywhere. As for the 'prentice, a white-faced
puny wretch, who had robbed his master's till,
at the sight of the officer with a drawn sword,

VOL. II M

and the men, their faces fierce and unrelenting,
standing around, he immediately imagined that
they were all come for his own arrest, and that
this was the first step towards Newgate and the
gallows. Wherefore he fell upon his knees
blubbering.

Alas ! ' he cried. ' I am a miserable
sinner! I confess, all. I have robbed my
master. Oh ! let me have mercy. Let me
live, and I will pay all back ! Only let me
live ! ' And so on, as if the noose was already
ready for him, and the rope hitched to the
gallows.

The next was a sturdier rogue. He would
have been hanged for coining false money had
he been caught. But he understood that a
company of sailors is not sent forth to arrest
men charged with civil offences. Therefore,
and in order to save his neck, he very readily
volunteered, and, being a brisk, smart lad,
though a rogue from childhood, and a thief,
forger, coiner, and pickpocket, I dare say he
turned out as good a sailor as can be expected
of a landsman ; and if he could not go aloft to

bend or reef a sail, he could help to man a gun
and carry a pike. The third man was the
deserter, who represented himself as a man
milliner, and was suffered to go free, because
milliners are of little use on a man-o'-war ; the
next was a bankrupt, once a substantial tradesman,
who had ruined himself with drink and
vicious courses, and came voluntarily to the
crimp's to be enlisted in the Company's service,
in order to escape his creditors. But his face
was so puffed and purple with drink, his limbs
so trembled beneath him, that I doubt whether
he would have lasted the voyage. There was
another, whose wife was a termagant, and
extravagant to boot, and he was flying from
her and from her debts. He, too, offered to
volunteer, saying that he would rather dwell
with the Devil than with his wife ; but the
Lieutenant would not have him. And another
there was who was a broken gamester, a
gentleman by birth, and a ' physician from
Glasgow University, a native of Jamaica,
where he had at first a good fortune, but was
now fallen from his former condition, without

friends, estate, or money, and held no other
hope except to take service with the Company.
There were one or two others, but all of them,
except the false coiner, the Lieutenant, without
inquiring further into their characters or their
histories, ordered to go about their business ;
but as for the 'prentice, who still blubbered
that he was a repentant sinner, and asked
permission only to live, he fetched him a box
o' the ears and a kick, and bade him go his
way, and be hanged.

This poor wretch, who had been torn
partly with terror at the thought of going to
the Indies to fight, being a desperate coward,
and partly with remorse, made haste to obey
the Lieutenant, and departed, and what became
of him, whether he went to his master
and confessed and obtained pardon, or whether
he was thrown into Newgate and hanged, or
whether he fell into worse courses, I know not
' the way of transgressors,' saith Holy Writ,
is hard.'

There remained the Parson, who said
nothing, but waited patiently sot his fate,

As for this man said Jack, laying his
hand upon his shoulder, ' he is my prisoner.
Leave him to me.'

This, then, was Jack's revenge. He might
have seen the men swing — and they deserved
nothing short of hanging — but it pleased him
better to think of these fat, tender-skinned,
delicate, over-fed, and drunken rogues, as
cowardly as they were pampered, howling
under the lash, and mutinously grumbling
under the discipline of a King's ship. They
were mere landsmen, who had never been to
sea at all, even if they had ever been on board
a ship (if they had, it was only to look for
something to steal). But they had lived on
the riverside all their lives, and knew the talk
of sailors ; and they equipped themselves — a
part of their trade — in slops and round jackets,
the better to decoy their victims.

The men were still so stupid with the drug
they had taken that they understood nothing
of what was done until they had first had their
heads held under the pump for a quarter of an
hour. Then they began to remember what

had happened ; and, seeing their late prisoner
with the party of captors, they cast rueful looks
at one another, and, like the poor 'prentice,
looked for nothing short of Newgate, and for
the fatal cart and the ride to Tyburn — which,
indeed, for this and many other crimes, they
richly deserved.

It would have gone hard with Aaron had
this been the destination intended for them by
their victim. Nothing is more distasteful to a
rogue than to hang alone, when his brother
rogues have escaped. It offends his sense of
justice. Perhaps, however, the going out of
the world in so violent a manner, in company
with an old friend, is felt to be less cold and
comfortless than to go alone. But Aaron, as
well as these men, was reserved for another
fate.

This business despatched, and the men, now
fully awake, drawn up two and two in readiness'
to march, Jack addressed them with great
courtesy, though the sailors of the Press grinned
and put tongue in cheek.

Gentlemen,' he said, ' last night your

honours were good enough to offer me the
hospitality of your house; you also debated
very seriously whether you should not murder
me ; that you did not do so is the cause why
your honours are now handcuffed. You will
go with these honest sailors, and you will thank
me henceforth every day of your lives for my
goodness in getting you impressed. Such
brave lads as you will rejoice to run up aloft
in a gale of wind ; and the enemy's shot you
will value no more than a waterman's jest.
You are so smart that the bo's'n's supple-jack
will never curl about your shoulders, nor his
rope's-end make your fat legs jump. As to
drink, I fear there has been more punch served
out in this house than is good for your health ;
that is better ordered aboard. And it will do
your honours good to see each other brought
to the gangway for the cat-o'-nine-tails sweetly
to tickle his fat back. Perhaps you freshwater
sailors know not the tickling of the cat.
Gentlemen, you have a truly happy life before
you : I wish your honours farewell.'

It was the first speech Jack ever made. If

it was not eloquent, it was to the point, and
intelligible.

I do not think that the fellows understood
one word of what he said, being fully possessed
with the belief that they were going to
Newgate and afterwards to be hanged. And
when they presently found themselves taken onboard
the tender and shoved below deck, and
understood that they were pressed for sailors,
at first they grinned with joy. One who is
threatened with death counts escape on any
conditions, even the hardest, a thing to be
welcomed with joy unspeakable. But when
they discovered, after a few days' experience
on board, what was meant by service at sea —
a life of little ease, hard work and short time
for sleep, and rough food, with the kicks and
contempt which all true man-of-war's men show
for lubbers, a limited ration of rum, and the
necessity of immediate obedience, some of them
fell into despair, and would skulk below till
they were driven upwards by the bo's'n's
supple-jack and the gunner's rattan, and these
laid on in no stinted or niggard spirit. Some

became mutinous and insubordinate : none of
them knew anything of a seaman's duties, in
spite of their sailor's dress, and were useless
save for the simplest work. Therefore, it
naturally came to pass that, before long, one
after another, they were tied up at seven bells,
and soundly trounced, whereupon, their backs
being soft and tender and unused to the lash,
and their dispositions cowardly, and being
ignorant of discipline and respect to their
officers, when prayers for pity failed, they fell
to cursing the captain and the lieutenants, the
bo's'n, and the ship's crew, shrieking and
screaming like mad women. So that they
stayed where they were for another six dozen,
and this admonition and instruction were
repeated until they were finally made to
understand that a man-o'-Avar is not a crimp's
house, nor a tavern at Wapping, where every
man can call for what he chooses, sleep as long
as he pleases, and take his pleasure ; but a
place where work has to be done, orders must
be obeyed, and punishment in default is ascertain
as the striking of seven bells. Whether

any of them ever returned I know not, but the
house was broken up and their old occupation
was destroyed, though no doubt other crimps'
houses were soon established in its place.

When the Pressgang were gone there remained
Jack, still in his rags, and the unlucky
recruits.

'As for you fellows,' he said, 'my advice
is, sheer off. This house is closed. There is
no more shelter for you here. Go and hide
elsewhere.'

'Where shall we go?' asked the poor
gamester. ' Here at least we got meat and
drink. Whither shall we go ? '

They obeyed, however, and went out together,
parting at the door and skulking away
in different directions, perhaps to be picked up
by another crimp.

Brother,' said Jack to the Parson, ' come
with me. First let me put on my own clothes,
and then we will find a lodging for thee. Thou
hast saved my life. Therefore, so long as I
have a guinea left, thou shalt have the half.'

At first the poor man refused. He burst

into tears, declaring that kindness was thrown
away upon a wretch so disgraced and degraded
as himself: that it would be better for him to
stay where he was, and to receive with resignation
the evils which he had brought upon his
own head. ' What,' he asked, ' can be done fora
man for whose apprehension a reward is
offered and the Hue and Cry is out ? '

Hark ye, brother,' Jack repeated : ' thou
hast saved my life. If thou wilt not come with
me willingly, hang me, but I will drag thee
along ! What ! wouldst remain alone in this
den? Come, I say, and be treated for thine
own good. What! There was no robbery,
after all. As for the Hue and Cry, leave that
to me. I will tackle the Hue and Cry, which
I value not an inch of rogues' yarn.'

I do not know what he understood by the
Hue and Cry, or how he was going to tackle
it ; but being always a masterful man, who
would ever have his own way, he overcame
the Parson's scruples, and presently had him
away and safely bestowed in a tavern at
Lydgate, where he engaged a room for him,

and sent for a tailor, making the Parson put
off his tattered cassock and his old wig, and sit
in a night-cap and shirt sleeves until he was
provided with clothes suitable to his profession,
and a wig such as proclaimed it. Then Jack
bade him rest quiet a day or two, and be careful
how he stirred abroad, while he himself
made inquiries into his case, and this matter of
the Hue and Cry.

Now mark, if you please, the villainy of the
man Jonathan Eayment. There never had
been any reward offered for the arrest of this
poor man at all ; there was no Hue and Cry
after him ; the gentleman whom, in the madness
of his despair, he had thought to rob had
not followed and tracked him ; nothing was
known about him at all ; and his friends were
wondering where he was, and why he sent no
letters to them. The story of the Hue and
Cry and the reward was invented by Mr.
Eayment, who was, I believe, eldest son to the
Father of Lies, in order to keep the unhappy
man in his power, so that he could use him as
the servant (or a slave) of the house as long ashe

pleased ; or, if lie thought it would be more
profitable, could ship him as a recruit at anytime.
And while he was persuading this contrite
sinner that the whole town rang with his
wickedness, no one in the world knew anything
about it, and there was no reason why he should
not go openly to the St. Paul's coffee-house and sit
among his fellow Divines, Briefly, Jack shared,
half and half, all the money he had with this
poor man, who presently obtained a lectureship,
and afterwards a City church, and is now,
as I have already stated, a most worthy pious,
devout, learned preacher ; benevolent, eloquent,
and orthodox, justly beloved by all his congregation
; and I dare affirm, none the worse,
because in his youth he experienced the temptation
of poverty, was even suffered to fall into
sin, felt the pangs of remorse and shame, and
endured the torments of companionship with
the most devilish kind of men that dwell among
us in this our town of London.

So they, too, went away. Jack being restored
to his own garments, though his purse, containing
four or five guineas, was not in his pocket.

And now the house was empty. The crowd
had broken up and gone away, but the neighbours
still gathered about, talking over the
strange business of the morning. Presently,
they began to look in at the open door. There
were no sounds or sign of occupation. Then
they opened the doors of the rooms and looked
curiously about them. The lower rooms were
furnished with benches and tables, the wainscot
walls gaping where the wood had shrunk, and
the floors made brown with soot and small
beer, to hide the dirt. There was a kitchen,
with a pot and frying-pan and some pewter
dishes, tin pannikins and some remains of food,
and, which was much more to the purpose,
there was a small cask of rum, three-fourths
full. The neighbours made haste to taste the
rum provided, being curious to discover whether
it was a stronger and more generous liquor than
that to which they were themselves accustomed.
In a few minutes the rumour of this cask spread
to right and left along the street, and everybody
hastened to taste the rum, and continued
to taste it, until there was no more left. It

was strong enough and generous enough to
send them away with staggering legs and
fuddled brains. Upstairs there were bedrooms
with flock mattresses laid upon the
floor, and in one room there were rings and
staples and chains fixed in the wall for safely
securing mutinous recruits. But all the rooms
were foul and filthy.

When the neighbours went out, the boys
came in and took possession joyfully, with no
one to check or hinder their mischief. Never
before had boys such a chance. When they
left the house there was not a whole pane of
glass left in the windows, nor a bench, chair,
or table that was not broken, nor any single
thing left that could be carried away.

Next day the ' Captain ' — that is, the
worthy dealer in curiosities, of Leman Street,
Mr. Jonathan Eayment — himself walked over
to Wapping, in order to inquire into the health
and welfare of his recruits and their numbers :
he was also anxious to know what had happened
in the adventure with the King's officer.

You may understand his surprise and dismay

when lie found everybody gone and everything
broken. They bad even torn away the
wooden banisters of the stairs and ripped up
the wooden steps. Nothing was left at all —
not even those poor helpless creatures, the
'prentice and the Parson. Where could they
be?

He did not dare to ask. Something terrible
had happened. As for himself, he hurried
home to hide himself in his shop until the
danger was over. A curse upon Aaron
Fletcher, and on his own foolishness, in suffering
his men to meddle with Aaron's private
quarrels ! And a good business now broken up
and destroyed ; for how could the house be
carried on without his men ?

He looked to hear an account of his men in
the Gazette ; how they were brought before
the Lord Mayor and charged with highway
robbery, and even sent to Newgate for trial.
Strange! There was nothing. Nor did this
worthy tradesman ever learn what had happened,
for Aaron could tell him nothing, except
that the Lieutenant had escaped ; and he never

dared venture to ask ia Wapping. But he lost
his servants and his recruits, and for a long time
the business of crimping in those parts languished.


One thing remains to be told about this
eventful day. In the evening, work being over,
Aaron Fletcher was sitting alone, his pipe in
his mouth, in the cottage where he lived, at
the gates of his boat-building yard. He was
in good spirits, because the Lieutenant was
reported missing. Perhaps he was dead. It
would be the best thing in the world if he was
dead. What then? No one could say that
he had any hand in it.

Aaron ! ' cried a voice he knew ; * Aaron
Fletcher, open the door ! '

He dropped his pipe and turned pale, and
his teeth chattered. It was the Lieutenant's
voice, and he thought it sounded hollow.
He was dead, then, and this was his ghost
come, to plague him. Aaron was a man of
courage, but he was not prepared to tackle a
ghost.

'Aaron,' the voice repeated, 'open the

VOL. II. N

door, or I will break it in, ye murderous
villain ! Open the door, I say ! '

Aaron obeyed, his cheeks ashy white, and
his heart in his boots.

It was no ghost, however, but the Lieutenant
in the flesh, tall and gallant, and apparently
none the worse for the night's adventure,
who walked in, followed by Mr. Brings. He
was arrayed in his great wig and velvet coat,
in honour of the Club whither he was going.
This splendour added weight to the words
which followed.

Aaron,' said the Lieutenant, ' or Cain,
the Murderer, if you like the name better;
there was, last night, a purse in my pocket containing,
as near as I can remember, the sum of
five guineas and a crown. Your friends have
taken it from me. Give me back those five
guineas and that crown.'

What friends ? I know nothing about any
friends or any five guineas ! What mean you ?
I know nothing about the matter. It was not
I that knocked you on the head. Lieutenant.'

Why — see — you are self-convicted and

condemned ! Who spoke of knocking on the
head ? How should you know what was done,
unless you were one of them ? Five guineas,
Aaron, and a crown, or' — here he swore a
great oath — ' you go before the magistrate tomorrow
with your friends the crimp's men and
answer to the charge of highway robbery, and
thence to Newgate. And so, in due time, to
Tyburn in a comfortable cart. Five guineas,,
Aaron;

He held out his hand inexorably, while
Aaron trembled. This man was worse than
any ghost.

Pay the money, Aaron,' said Mr. Brings,
and thank your good fortune that you have
so far got off so cheap. So far, Aaron. Not
that we have done with you. Look for
misfortune, friend Aaron.' He said this so
solemnly that it sounded like a prophecy.
Men who get crimps to rob for them and kidnap
for them cannot hope to prosper. Therefore,
expect misfortune. You have many irons
in the fire ; you can be attacked on many sides ;
you buikl boats, you run across to the French

x2

coast, you sell your smuggled lace and brandy.
Misfortunes of all kinds may happen to such as
you. But you must pay this money, or else
you will swing ; you will swing, friend Aaron ;
and when you have paid it do not think to
escape more trouble. I say not that it will be
rheumatism, or sciatica, or lumbago, all of
which lay a man on his back and twist his
limbs, and pinch and torture him. Perhaps
but look out for trouble.'

Aaron lugged out his purse and counted
five guineas, which he handed over to Jack
without a word.

'What?' cried Mr. Brings, his eye like a
red-hot coal, ' the Lieutenant forgives you, and
you think you are going to escape scot-free !
Not so, Aaron, not so ; there are many punishments
for such as you. I know not yet but
you must swing for this, in spite of this forgiveness.
Many punishments there are. I know
not yet what yours shall be. Come, Lieutenant,
leave him to dream of Newgate

Chapter Xxii

THE PRIVATEERS.

HE time allowed to a sailor in wliicli
to make love is short, being no
more than the interval between
two voyages. (He generally makes
np for brevity by the display of an ardour
unknown to landsmen.) And now the hour
approached when Jack must tear himself from
the arms of his mistress, and go forti again to
face the rude blast, the angry ocean, and the
roaring of the enemy's guns. Regardless of
his former sufferings, he desired nothing better
than to put to sea once more ; and he was not
one to go away crying because there would be
no more kisses for a spell.

Among the King's ships laid up in ordinary
at Deptford, during the seven years' peace,

was a certain twenty-eight-gun frigate called
the ' Tartar.' I know not what had been her
record up to this period; but that matters
nothing, because it will be allowed that she is
now very well known to all French sailors,
and regarded by them with a very peculiar
terror. She was built on lines somewhat out
of the common, being sharper in the bows and
narrower in the beam than most ships. She
rode deep, but she was so fast a sailer that
nothing could escape her when she crowded
all her canvas and gave chase ; a beautiful
ship she was, to my eyes, even while laid up
in ordinary, with the lower-masts taken out of
her, and a mere hulk.

But,' said Jack, ' you should see such a
ship sailing. What do you landsmen know of
a ship, when you have never seen one running
free before the wind, every inch of canvas set —
studding-sails, flying jib, sky-scrapers, and all ?
You draw ships, Luke; but you have never
even seen a ship at sea.'

That was true ; but, on the other hand, I
never attempted to draw a ship sailing on the

ocean, nor have I ever painted waves or the
open sea.

Wait till you have seen the '• Tartar " in a
brisk nor-wester, her masts bending, she sailing
free, answering the least touch of her helm
like a live thing — for that matter, a ship at sea
is a live thing, as every sailor knows, and hasher
tempers.'

Jack became enamoured, so to speak, of
this vessel from the first day when he revisited
the Yard and saw the carpenters and painters
at work upon her, and desired nothing so
much as to be commissioned to her ; for it
was quite certain that she would be manned
and despatched as soon as they could fit
her out. (At this time they were working
extra hours, and from daybreak to sunset,
the men drawing increased pay, and all as
happy as if the war was going to last forever.)


She is,' he said, ' a swift and useful vessel,
and wants nothing but a fighting Captain, who
will not wait for the enemy, but will sail in
search of him and make him fight. I would

she had such a Captain, and I was on board
with hin.'

He presently got his desire, as you will
hear, and the ship got such a Captain as he
wished for her.

Meanwhile the days passed by, and still
his appointment was delayed, so that, in spite
of his amour, he began to fret and to grow
impatient. The great man on whose word he
relied had made him a clear and direct promise
from which there could be, one would think,
no departing. ' Trust me, Lieutenant,' he
said ; ' I assure you that you shall be appointed
to a ship with as little delay as possible.' Yet
appointments were made daily, and his own
name passed by. What should we think, I
humbly ask, of a plain merchant in the City
who should thus disregard a straightforward
pledge ? Yet what would ruin the credit of a
merchant is not to be blamed in -a great man.
By the advice of the Admiral, Jack once
attended the levee of his noble patron ; but,
being unaccustomed to courtiers' ways, ignorant
of the creeping art, and unused to push himself

to the front, he got no chance of a word, or
any recognition ; though he says his patron
most certainly saw him standing in the crowd ;
and so came away in disgust, railing at those
who rise by cringing, and swearing at the
insolence of lacqueys. He then made a
personal application at the Navy Office, where
the clerks treated him with so much rudeness
and contempt that it was a wonder lie did not
lose his temper and chastise some of them. So
that his affairs looked in evil plight, and it
seemed as if he might be kept waiting for a
long time, indeed, and perhaps never get an
appointment or promotion. For, though the
Peace Estimates had reduced the Navy from
the footing of 50,000 officers and men to that
of 10,000 — so that, when the war broke out
again, the Admiralty were wanting officers as
well as men — yet, as always happens, the
applicants for berths were more numerous than
the berths to be given away ; and the favouritism
which is everywhere unhappily in vogue,
at the Admiralty hath always reigned supreme.
Of one thing,' he declared, ' I am resolved.

If I do not get my appointment before many
months, I will seek the command of a privateer,
or at least the berth of Lieutenant on board
of one. There is, I know, no discipline aboard
a privateer; the men are never flogged, and
are generally a company of mutinous dogs,
only kept in order by a Captain who can
knock them down. But they are sturdy
rascals, and will fight. I hear they are fitting
out a whole squadron of privateers at Bristol ;
and there is a craft building at Taylor's yard,
in Eedriff — I saw her yesterday — which is
never intended to carry coals between Newcastle
and London, or sugar between Kingston
and Bristol. She means Letters of Marque,
my lad. Perhaps I could get the command
of her. I am young, but I am a King's officer ;
and if you come to navigation — well, one must
not boast. I will not stay at home doing
nothing — what ! when there is fighting ? No.
I must go, too, and take my luck. If they
will not have me either in the King's service,
or on board a privateer, or in the Company's
navy, why, my lad, there is nothing left but to

volunteer and go before the mast. They

would not refuse me there, I warrant, and

many a poor fellow has done as much already.'

It is true that, on the reduction of the

naval force, there were many unfortunate

young men, chiefly among midshipmen, who

saw no hope of employment, being without

interest, and therefore were obliged to give up

the King's service, and either to get berths on

merchantmen or to take commissions in the

Company's service; or even, as certainly

happened to some, to volunteer for service

before the mast. Some became smugglers ;

some — but these were chiefly officers from the

disbanded regiments — became town bullies and

led captains ; some strolling actors, " and some

highwaymen. The fate of these poor fellows

was much in the mouths of the young officers

waiting, like Jack, for a ship, who met and

talked daily at the Gun Tavern.

Fortunately, our Lieutenant was not called
to embark on board a privateer, for he found
a friend who proved able and willing to assist
him. This was the Eesident Commissioner of

the Yard, Captain Petherick, who took up
Jack's case for him, and that so effectually,
though I know not in what way, that he
presently procured for him the appointment
promised him, and which most he desired-namely,
that of third lieutenant to the frigate
Tartar,' to whom Captain Lockhart was now
appointed. And he was a fighting captain,
indeed, if ever there was one.

I am sure that on the day which brought
him his commission, there was no happier man
in Deptford than Lieutenant Easterbrook. He
had now been in the service for nearly ten
years, and for seven of them had been, through
no fault of his own, debarred from every
opportunity of distinction. Behold him, therefore,
at last with his foot well on the ladder,
albeit very near the lowest rung, holding His
Majesty's commission as Lieutenant to Hem.
frigate ' Tartar.' On that day it happened that
the bells were ringing and the guns firing — to
commemorate I know not what event. To
Jack and to his friends it seemed as if the
bells were ringing and the cannon were fired

in Ills honour, and to celebrate his appointment.


As for her orders,' said Jack, ' I care Httle
whither we are sent, because it is certain that
there will be hot work to do, wherever we go.
The French, they say, are strong in North
American waters, and they are reported to befitting
out a great fleet at Toulon ; they are also
reported to be collecting troops at Bologna
and at Havre for embarkation, no doubt for the
invasion of the English coast, if they pluck up
spirit enough. Well, Bess, we shall be among
them, never fear.'

There was, as many will remember, a great
scare at this time that the French were preparing
to invade us, and there were some who
talked mournfully of another Battle of Hastings
and of KinfT Louis coins over to be crowned
at Westminster Abbey. The smugglers (who
in times of peace are hanged but in times of
war are courted) reported great preparations
along the French coast, though not, so far as
could be learned, comparable with the gathering
of men and material they made in the year

1745, when they were preparing to back up
the Pretender. Nevertheless, the danger was
thought to be so pressing that everything else
must be neglected while the Government provided
for the home defence ; and the ' Tartar '
(though this we knew not yet) was destined to
join the Channel Fleet. Meantime, as is mere
matter of history, the French very leisurely put
to sea from Toulon, with the finest fleet, I
think, that the world had ever seen, and had
plenty of time to take Minorca. Then followed
the unlucky Admiral Byng's famous engagement
with the Marquis de la Galissonniere, which,
though we call it an inconclusive action, the
French have construed into a most glorious
victory. Never can one forget the rage of the
people, and the cry for revenge that rose up
from every coffee-house, from every tavern,
from the Eoyal Exchange, filled with great
merchants, and the mug-house, filled with porters,
and wherever men do assemble together.
A bad beginning of the war it was ; and all that
year, except for the execution of the Admiral,
we had nothing to cheer us. Even this, though

a sop for the rage of the nation, was a poor
consolation, because no sooner was it done
than men began to ask themselves whether,
after all, the Admiral had not done his duty.
There were floods of epigrams and verses
written, it is true, both upon Byng and De la
Galissonniere — if they may be considered a
consolation. In time of defeat and disgrace,
the soul is soothed, at least, when something
biting has been said upon the cause or author
of the shame. This is an art greatly practised
by the French, dio have always found in its
exercise a peculiar satisfaction for their many
disgraces both by sea and land, and for the loss
of all their liberties. And for the sake of a
good epigram they are said to go cheerfully
even to the Bastille.

At this time, besides the preparations for
invasion, which were perhaps exaggerated, the
Channel swarmed with French privateers, and
these full of courage and spirit. At the first
outset, and until we had taught them a lesson
or two, they were bold enough to attack anything,
without considering disparity of numbers.

that flew the English flag. Had the French
King's Navy been handled with as much resolution
as these privateers, commanded and
manned often by simple fishermen, the result
of the war might have been very different.
They put to sea in vessels of all kinds : nothing
came amiss for a craft of war with Letters of
Marque when these rogues first went privateering
; nothing, in their earliest flush of success,
seemed too small or too badly armed fora
venture against the richly laden, slow-sailing
English merchantmen, which, taken by surprise,
offered at the beginning of the war, it must be
confessed, but a cowardly resistance. Again,
nothing was too big to be fully manned and
equipped. Every craft that lay in the ports,
from Dunquerque to Bordeaux, became a
privateer, from a simple fishing smack, a fast-sailing
schooner, an unarmed sloop carrying
two or four six-pound carronades and thirty or
forty men, to a tall frigate of thirty guns, well
gunner, and manned by three hundred sturdy
devils, emboldened by the chance of plunder,
and eager to attack everything, from an East

Indiaman to a potato coaster. Very good
service was done during the course of this war
by our own privateers, of whom there were presently
a great many, though it must be owned
that the French beat us both for the number of
their piratical craft and their success. Certainly,
they had a better chance, since for
every French merchantmen there are fifty
English. We were always' capturing their
privateers, but their number never seemed to
lessen, however many lay in our prisons. Why,
in one year — I think it was the year 17 Gl — we
took no fewer than 117 privateers, manned by
5,000 sailors ; yet, in the same year, in spite of
our conquests, we lost over 800 merchantmen,
taken from us by these hornets swarming under
our very noses.

'Kiss me, Bess,' said Jack; 'we sail on
Sunday, or Monday at latest. Kiss me again,
my girl. Our orders have come. We join the
Channel Fleet, where there will be rubs for
some, as is quite certain.'

Among the privateers, Jack ? ' Bess was
VOL. II.

as brave a girl as any — yet she shuddered,
thinking of this dangerous service, in which one
has not to take part in a great battle once in
the cruise, and so home ao*ain to brace about
the broadsides and the grape-shot, but to fight
daily, perhaps, and always with a desperate
crew, whose only chance is victory or escape.
Well ' — for his eyes clouded at the first appearance
of fear in her face — ' if thou art happy.
Jack, then will I try to be happy too. Alas !
why cannot women go into battle with their
lovers I could fire a pistol, and I think I
could thrust a pike with any who threatened
thee. Jack. But we must still sit at home and
wait.'

'Now you talk nonsense, Bess. Do you
think I could fight with thee at my sides
Why, I should tremble the whole time, lest a
splinter should tear thy tender limbs. Nay,
my dear ; sit at home and wait, for there is nothing
else to do. And sometimes think of thy
lover. Let me read the future in thine eyes.'
She turned them to him obediently, and as if
the future really could be read in those great

black eyes. ' I see, my clear, a sailor coming
home again, safe and sound, prize-money in his
pocket, promotion awaiting him. His girl
waits for him at home. He rushes into her
arms and kisses her — thus, my dear, and thus,
a thousand times. Then he buys her a house
as fie as the Admiral's, and furnishes it for her
with his prize-money ; and there is a garden
for salads and for fruit. She shall eat of!' china
no more pewter then. She will have the
finest pew in church and the most loving husband
at home, and — what ? I see a dozen
boys and girls ; and every boy in His Majesty's
service, and every girl married to a Sailor.
There shall be no woman in the world handsomer
or happier. Give me a kiss again, my
dear.'

o2

CHAPTER XXIII.
A sailor's charm.

that evening Bess did a thing which

is forbidden by the Church ; in what

part of the Prayer-book I do not

know, but I have always understood

that it is prohibited as a grievous sin. She

went to seek the advice of a witch.

The sailors and their wives sometimes importuned
Mr. Brings to bestow upon them, or
to sell them if he would, some kind of charm
or amulet, either to maintain constancy in separation
(this charm, though largely in request,
is, if all reports are true, of small efficacy), to
prevent drowning, against incurring the wrath
of the captain, and punishment by the cat-o'-nine-tails,
against being killed or wounded inaction,
and against hanging : which may happen

to any, though there are fewer sailors hanged
than landsmen. Sometimes, if he was in good
temper, or if the applicant was a young woman
of pleasing appearance, Mr. Brings would consent,
and send her away happy, with something
in a bag which he called a charm. Whether
he himself believed in his charms I know not,
but there are still living; some who declare that
they have escaped hurt or drowning wholly
through the efficacy of the apothecary's charm.
Yet if a man hath this power, why should he
not be so patriotic and benevolent as to extend
it over the whole of His Majesty's Navies, so that
not a sailor among them all should ever be shot,
drowned, flogged, or cast away ? It is like the
arrogance of the Papist priests, who profess to
be able to forgive sins. Why not then forgive
at once, both great and small, mortal and venial,
all that the world, living or dead, hath committed,
and so make mankind whole ? Whatever
his belief concerning his own powers, Mr.
Brings, without doubt, entertained a high
respect of those of Castilla's black nurse Philadelphia
— a true witch if ever there was one.

I know not,' my father once said on this
subject, ' whether the practice of magic hath in
it anything real, or whether the whole is imposture
and superstitious credulity. The Bible
doth not teach us clearly one way or the other.
Yet, by implication, we may understand that
the arts of sorcery were in old times practised
successfully, otherwise there would not have
been promulgated commandments so express
against those Who work hidden arts, practise
divination, inquire of a familiar spirit, consult
the dead, or fabricate charms. And certainly
it hath been the belief in all ages, and among
every race of whom we have knowledge, that
power may be magically obtained by men
whereby they may compel the help of demons
and spirits, and in some way foretell the future.
Nebuchadnezzar divined with arrows ; the false
prophets deceived the people with amulets ; the
Bene Kedem, the Chaldeans, the Philistines,
and the Chosen People in their backsliding
worked hidden arts; Pharaoh's magicians turned
their rods into serpents ; Rachel carried away
his Teraphim from her father, Laban. What

forbids us to believe that sorcery may still be
living' in our midst, tliougli lurking in dark
corners for fear of the law and of the righteous
wrath of pious men ? '

The old negro woman knew, of a certainty,
many secrets, whether they were those of the
Black Art or no. Mr. Brings would talk to
her in her own Mandingo language, which he
had acquired while on the West Coast of Africa.
She it was who assisted him in the compounding
of those broths which used to simmer on his
hob, to be tasted by the shuddering assistant.
By these and other secrets of which he was
always in search, and forced the woman to
reveal by terror of his magic stick with the
skull, he hoped to cure disease, to arrest decay,
and to prolong life. I suppose that it was
by conversation with him that Bess was led
to consider Philadelphy as much wiser in
witchcraft than Mr. Brings. Therefore, she
resolved to consult her, and went to her that
very evening with all the money she had
in the world — namely, a crown-piece and a
groat.

The negroes of the Admiral's household
occupied quarters of their own, built for them
without the house, in West Indian fashion, containing
a common kitchen and sleeping-rooms.
Here Bess found three of the men, one of them
being on guard, with the old woman. They
were squatted on the floor, in the kitchen, round
a dish containing their supper — a mess of cuss
which is made of Hour roasted by some
art, in small grains, and served with salt fish,
onions, red pepper, and butter ; a strong-tasting
food, but not displeasing to the palate nor unwholesome.
Every race has its own dish. The
Spaniards have their olla podrida ; the Hindoo,
their rice ; the Chinese, their birds-nest soup
and dried sea-slugs ; and the Meninges, their
cuscoosoo. There was no other light in the
room than the glow of a great coal lire which
these negroes love to have burning all the year
round, and in the winter never willingly leave.
As for candles, why should negro servants have
luxuries which poor white folk cannot afford to
buy ? Candles are for those who wish to read,
play music, cards, and practise the porte accomplishments

; not for those who sit about the
fire for warmth.

'Hi!' said Philadelphy, looking up curiously,
' 'tis Bess, the Penman's girl.'

I want to speak with you, Philadelphy,'
said Bess.

The old woman nodded, and the men rose,
took up the dish of cuscoosoo and retired, as if
they were accustomed to these consultations,
and knew that their absence was expected. A
witch must, in fact, be quite alone with those
who inquire of her.

When they were gone, the old woman crept
closer to the fire, the light of which seemed to
sink into her skin, and there to become absorbed
(the blackness of Philadelphy 's cheeks not being
shiny, as is that of some negresses, but dull) ;
while her eyes shone by the firelight like two
balls of hire.

What is it, dearie ? ' she asked. ' Is thy
lover inconstant ? '

How do you know I have a lover ? '

It is written on thy face and in thine eyes,
dearie.'

I have come for a charm,' she replied,
blushing to think that she carried her secret
written on her face so that all could read.

Hush ! The Admiral, he say, " No charms
here, Philadelphy." Whisper. What kind of
charm ? Is it a charm to make thy sweetheart
love thee ? '

He loves me already.' Bess hesitated a
little. Then she added, ' He is a sailor. I want
a charm for a sailor.'

I sell very fine charm — proper gri-gri
charm. Eh! When Massa Brings wants
powerful charm for gout and toothache he sends
for Philadelphy, and puts his skull-stick on the
table. Then I give him what he wants. I got
charm for most everything. Massa Brings very
good Obeah Doctor: he learn in Mandingo
country when he live among the rovers. Hi !
Fine times the rovers had before they were all
han<'»-ed up. Hi ! But he dunno so much as
ole Philadelphy. When he want to learn mus'
come to de ole woman. Hi ! ' As she spoke,
her eyes rolling about so that the whites in the
firelight were glowing red, she held out her

hand for the money, but went on talking and
asking questions without waiting for a reply.
Mus' come to de ole woman. Everybody come
to de ole woman. Some day I die — what you
do then ? Hi ! What kind of charm you
want? I sell very fine charm. Will you buy
charm for true love ? Once your man get that
charm upon him he can't even look at another
woman. That charm make all other women
ole and ugly. Hi ! Tell me, dearie, will you
have that charm ? I sell charm again' drowning
— no man drown with my charm on him.
Will you buy that charm ? I sell charm again'
shot and sword. Xo man ever killed who
carry my charm. I sell charm to bring him
home again. Hi! You like your sweetheart
come home again ? How much money you got
for de ole woman, dearie ? '

'I've got a crown and a groat. Is that
enough ? '

Give it to me ! ' She clutched the money
greedily. ' S'pose you rich lady, too little.
S'pose you poor girl, 'muff for kind ole Philadelphia.'


Will the money buy all the charms ? '

Buy all ? ' The old witch laughed scornfully.
' She think she a queen, this girl, for
sure. Buy all? Dearie, if your crown and
your groat was a bag of golden guineas you
couldn't buy but only one charm.'

Then, if I can only have one, which shall
it be ? '

Take the love charm, dearie. That the
best for ev'ry girl.'

No,' said Bess, proudly, ' I will not buy a
love charm. If my sweetheart cannot ream
constant without a charm to keep him, I want
no more of him. Well then he
micjht be drowned. But he has passed through
so many dangers already that I do not think
he will ever be drowned. He might be killed
in action. Let him come home safe and sound,
whether he loves me or not. Yes ; I will have
the charm against killing and wounding.'

'Most girl,' said the old woman, 'rather
see their sweethearts die than be false.'

I will have the charm against shot and
cutlass,' said Bess.

Very well. I make fine gri-gri — powerful
charm. Hi ! charm to turn aside every bullet.
You wait.'

Then the old woman rose slowly, being, in
spite of her magic powers, unable to charm
away her own rheumatism, and fumbled in Lier
pocket, a vast sack hanging beneath her dress,
which contained as many things, and as various,
as a housewife's cupboard. From the rubbish
lying in its vast recesses she produced a small
leather bag, apparently empty, tied with a long
string, which, after securing the bag with half
a dozen knots, was long enough to be slipped
round the neck. To untie these knots and to
open the bag was to destroy the whole charm.
More than this, it was to invite the very danger
which was sought to be averted. Two or three
years afterwards I was present when the bag
was opened. It contained nothing more thana
small piece of parchment, inscribed with
certain characters, which I believe to have been
Arabic, and very likely a verse of the False
Prophet Mohammed's book, the Koran ; there
was the head of a frog, dried ; the leg-bone of some

animal, which may have been a cat or a rabbit ;
the claw of some wild creature, a nutmeg, and
a piece of clay. This was a famous collection
of weapons to interpose between a man's body
and a cannon-shot.

Take the bag in your hand,' said the old
woman. 'Now go down on your knees and
shut your eyes, and take care not to open
them whatever you hear or feel, while you say
the words after me —

Shot and bullet pass him by ;

Pike and cutlass strike in vain ;
Keep him safe though all may die ;

Bring my sweetheart home again.'

Bess did as she was commanded, holding
the bag in her hand, and keeping her eyes
tightly closed, while she repeated these words
on her knees. She declared afterwards that
while she said the words there was a rushing
and whirling of the air about her ears and a
cold breath upon her face, and, which was
strange, though she held the bag tightly by the
neck, she felt that things were being dropped
inside it.

'Now, honey,' said the old woman, 'gi'i-
gri done made. You open eyes, and stand up.'

So Bess obeyed, looking about her, fearfully.
But there was nothing to see, and the
old woman was now crouching beside the hire
again. But the bag, which had been empty
when she took it in her hand, was now filled
with something.

Give your lover,' said Philadelphia, ' this
bag. Hang it round his neck. And say the
words again, with your eyes shut and his as
well. Let him never take it off or look inside
it, or tell anybody of it. Hi ! you very fine
girl, for sure ; yet sometimes men go away and
forget. Hi! Den you fly round' like a wildcat
in a trap. Well, dearie, come to me repose
he does go untrue. I make beautiful figure
for girls when sweethearts prove false : put
them fo' the fire, an' stick pins into him. Den
he all over pain.' Bess told me that she
thought of Aaron, and of a way to punish him ;
but, fortunately, she had no more money, else
I fear that Aaron would have passed a bad
winter.

When she had the charm, the old woman
offered to tell her for nothing, by several
methods, the fortune of her lover. All her
methods led to surprising results, as you shall
hear ; and then Bess went away, carrying with
her the precious bag. The next tiling was to
persuade Jack into putting it on. Now, every
sailor is full of superstition ; and the bravest
man afloat is not above carrying a charm if
one is given to him. But, of course, he would
not have it known.

Jack,' said Bess, ' don't be angry with mc
for what I have done.'

What have you done, child ? '

I've been I've been — Jack— to a
witch. Oh ! a real witch ! But she does not
know your name or anything about you. And
I've got a charm for you ! Here it is ! ' She
lugged the precious thing out of her bosom.
'No, Jack; don't touch it yet. You must
never try to open it or to find out the secret
of what is inside it, or else the charm will be
broken. And, Jack — promise me — promise
me If you will wear this round your

neck, close to your skin, you shall never be
hit by shot nor shell.'

Jack laughed : but he took the little black
bag out of her hand, and looked at it doubtfully.


'Why,' he said, 'as for such a trumpery
thing as this — is it worth the trouble of hanging
it about one's neck ? '

'I might have had a charm to keep you
safe from drowning, Jack ; but I thought that
you have had so many dangers already that
there can be no more for you. And I might
have had one to keep you true to me ; but oh !
Jack, what good would it do to me if you are
true only to be killed? Besides, if you cannot
keep true to me without a charm, you
cannot love me as you say you do — yes. Jack,
I know you do. I scorn witchery to keep my
lover true.'

A lock of thy hair, Bess, is all I ask. I
will tie that round my wrist. 'Twill be quite
enough to keep me true, and to save me from
drowning, and to turn aside the bulks.'

There is, indeed, a common superstition

VOL. II. p

among sailors that a lock of their mistress's
hair tied round the wrist will carry them safely
through the action.

You shall have a lock of my hair as well,
Jack. Oh ! you should have it all if I thought
it would keep you safe. Only let me hang
this round your neck. There : now I take off
the cravat and unbutton the shirt, and drop it
in — so. Shut your eyes, and keep them shut,
while I say —

Shot and bullet pass him by ;

Pike and cutlass strike in vain ;
Keep him safe though all may die j

Bring my lover home again.'

No phenomena attended this incantation.

And now. Jack,' Bess said, ' you can open
your eyes again. Cannon shot shall not harm
thee ; bullet shall turn aside ; sword and pike
shall not be able to do my dearie hurt.'

'Tis woman's foolishness, Bess. Yet have
I heard strange stories about these old
negresses. They are sold to the Devil, I
believe. The charm can do no harm, if it dono
good. One would not go into action with

an advantage over one's shipmates. Yet it is
well to be on the safe side ; no man knows
what power these old women may have
acquired ; and every man has his true-love knot
for a charm. Well, Bess, to please thee, my
dear, I will wear it.'

'Then, Jack, I can let thee go with a
lighter heart. When the wind blows I shall
tremble, but not when I Jiear of sea-fights and
the roaring cannon.'

Some men carry a Testament,' said Jack.
Many a bullet has been stopped by a Testament,
which is natural, as against the Devil
and all his works, of which the Frenchman and
the Spaniard are the chief. Some of them
carry a caul to escape drowning. But they
commonly get shot ; though why a caul should
attract the bullets, or whether it is better to be
shot or drowned, I know not. But give me a
true-love knot, my girl, to keep me safe, with
a lock of thy black hair to tie about my arm,
and a kiss of thy dear lips for charm to keep
me true. And tell no one about this charm of
the black witch.'

p 2

She lot down lier long and beautiful hair,
wliicli fell below her waist, and cut off a lock
three feet long. Then Jack bared his arm —
why, the love-sick lad had tattooed it all over
v^ith the name of Bess. There was Bess
between an anchor and a crown, Bess between
two swords, Bess under a Union Jack — well,
there could be no denying, for the rest of his
life, his vows of love for Bess. She laughed to
see these signs of passion, and tied her lock of
hair round and round this arm, securing the two
ends tightly with green silk. With this, which
is every woman's amulet, and the old witch's
charm, surely her Jack would be safe.

In everything that followed Jack continued
to wear this charm about his neck both by day
and night. It is, we know, most certain that
this superstition concerning amulets is vain and
mischievous. How can a witch by any devilry
preserve a man from lead and steel ? How
can a leopard's claw and a verse from a so-called
sacred book stand between a man and the
death that is ordered for him ? To think this is
surely grievous sin and folly. Besides, it is

strictly forbidden to have any doings with
witches ; and what was forbidden to the people
of old cannot be lawful among ourselves. Yet
one cannot but remark, as a singular coincidence,
that in all his fighting Jack had never a
wound or a scratch. Perhaps, however, this
escape had nothing to do with the gri-gri.

'When I had gotten the charm,' the girl
went on, ' I asked Philadelphy to tell my
sweetheart's fortune. So she said she would
read me his fortune for nothing, and she drew
the cards from her pocket, and spread them
out upon the table, and began to arrange them.
Then she pushed all together and began
again. Then she told me she would go
no further until I told her who was my
sweetheart, because she saw an officer with a
sword.'

Go on,' said Jack.

Oh ! It is wonderful ! I told her he was
a sailor ; but as for his name, that mattered
nothing. So she began again, and told me.
The fortune began so well that it was marvellous
; and then she stopped and mumbled something,

and said that there was a coil which she
did not understand, but she thought she
saw — she said she thought she saw — the
Devil, Jack, and herself as well. And she
could not read the fortune because she could
not understand any word of it. But it was the
most surprising fortune in the world, whether
good or bad. Then she asked me to look in
her eyes, and she would read my own fortune
there. Can you read my fortune there.
Jack?'

I see two Lieutenants of His Majesty's
Navy in those eyes, Bess. Is that fortune
enough for you.^ One in each eye. Is not
that enough for a girl ? '

They are but one, my dear,' she said.

And what was the fortune that she told
you, Bess ? '

She said, " Come what may come, thou shalt
marry thy lover." So I am satisfied. Come
what may come. What care I what may
come ? — oh ! what can come that will harm
me ? — so that I keep the man I love ? What
more can I desire .^ What more can I asks

I am so poor that I can lose nothing. Fortune
cannot hurt me. And come what may come,
I shall keep the man I love. You will come
back to me, Jack, and I shall have — oh ! I
shall have — my heart's desire.'

It was on Saturday morning that the ship
dropped down the river with wind and tide,
her company and armament complete, new
rigged, new painted, fresh and sweet as a lady
just from her dressing-room, while the cannon
roared the parting salute. I remember that it
was a misty morning in December, a light southwest
breeze, and the sun like a great red copper
pan or round shield in the sky. And as the
ship slowly slipped down Greenwich Eeach the
shrouds and the sails shone like Gold, and were
magnified by the mist.

The Admiral stood on the quay with
Castilla, and with them Mr. Brings.

'Go thy way. Jack,' said the old sailor.
Go thy way, and do thy duty. Castilla, my
dear, there is only one good thing for a man —
'tis to sail away from the land of thieves and

land sharks, out into blue water to fight the
French.'

And what is good for a woman, Sir ? '
Why, my child, to marry the man who
goes to sea. Farewell, Jack ! Maybe we shall
never see thee more. Let us go home, Castilla.'
I went on board, an hour before they sailed.
Jack could do no more than whisper a word ashe
held me by the hand. Oh ! Heavens ! my
heart leaps up within me, even now, as I
remember those eyes of his, so full of love and
tenderness. ' Take care of her, Luke ' — this
was what he said — ' take care of her until I
come home to marry her. My pretty Bess !
'Tis a loving heart, Luke. She is thy charge,
lad. Good-bye, dear lad, good-bye ! '

I knew that she must be sittings in the old
summer-house waiting to see the ship go by ;
and there, indeed, I found her. Jack parted
with her early in the morning. I know not
what passed between them ; but it was surely
very moving, because no pair loved each other
more deeply than these two.

He is gone,' she said. ' It is all over. But
he loves me. Oh I I am sm^e he loves me.
Yet something will happen. Philadelphy saw
the Devil and herself. Between the two something
is sure to happen. Oh ! wee shall never
be so happy again together — never again.'

Why,' I told her, ' people always think
that the future can never be like the past.
There are plenty of happy days before you,
Bess. Jack will come home again sometime,
maybe a First Lieutenant — who knows ?
or a Captain in command. Then we shall
have peace, I suppose, once more, and Jack
will remain ashore, and you will be his
wife.'

Yes. What did Philadelphy say ? Come
what may come, thou shalt marry thy lover.
Oh! I am not afraid. I saw him on the
quarter-deck as the ship sailed past. Oh ! he
is the bravest and the handsomest man in all
the King's service ; and who am I diet lie
should love me ? Luke, you know how ladies
talk and what they say. Teach me that way.
Oh ! Luke, teach me, so that he shall never be

ashamed of his sweetheart. My Jack ! my
sailor Jack ! Steel nor lead shall not harm
him ; but the ship may wreck or sink. Oh !
my heart, my heart! When shall I see thy
dear face again ? '

CHAPTEE XXIV.

AFTER jack's DEPARTURE.

HEN Jack was gone I suppose that
Deptford remained just as full of
noise and business as before. As
much hammering went on in the
Yard : there was as much piping and shouting
on the river ; there was as much drinking and
bawling in the town. But to some of us the
place seemed to have become suddenly and
strangely quiet. Our Lieutenant had been
ashore three or four months in all, yet he filled
the town with his presence, a thing which only
strong and masterful men can do. Most of us
when we go are not missed at all, and our
places are quickly filled up, whether we sail
away to sea upon a cruise or are carried to the
grave.

Whoever is absent, the events of the clays
continue to follow each other and to occupy
the minds of those who wait at home. 'Twas
a stirring time, and though others, and worse,
have followed, and Ave are even now in a great
war, the issue of which no man can predict, it
seems to me that those years were more full of
interest than any which have followed. Why,
one remembers even the things that are most
readily forgotten : how, for instance, the ' Speedwell
' yacht moved against wind and tide, and
beat four miles an hour ; how four tradesmen
of the City were in a pleasure-boat off Margate
when they were picked up by a French privateer
and ransomed for three hundred and
twenty pounds ; how the wounded soldiers
were brought home and carried thrush the
town in waggons ; how the recruits quartered
in the Savoy mutinied, and were quickly shot
down ; how Mary Walker, of Eotherhithe, was
barbarously murdered and her niece hanged for
the crime (though there were many who wept
for the poor girl, and believed her protestations
of innocence, which she continued, with cries

aud tears, to the very end) ; how seventy men
of the ' Namur ' walked all the way from Portsmouth
to the Admiralty to complain of their
rations, and fifteen were hanged for punishment
; and how — a thing which pleased me
much — til ere was a great sale of pictures, at
which a Claude Lorraine fetched as much asa
hundred guineas, a Correggio £40, a Rubens
£79, and a Raphael over £700. But these are
now old stories, though then they made talk for
the world.

Bess, keeping mostly at home, applied herself
diligently to acquire the arts of reading and
writing, so that her lover might never be accused
of marrying an illiterate woman. These
arts, mastered even in childhood with great difficulty
and painful labour, are far more difficult
to acquire after one has arrived at maturity. By
great patience, however, Bess so far succeeded
that, after two years' application, she was able
to make her way slowly through a page of
large and clear print, leaving out the hard
words. This achievement satisfied her, because
she was not in the least degree curious concerning

the contents of books, and did not desire
information on any subject whatever. She also
learned to write her own name, her father
teaching her ; 'twas, I remember, in a fine
flowing hand, with flourishes after the Penman's
style ; but she could write nothing else, nor
could she ever read the written character. To
one who considers the ignorance of such a girl
as Bess, who neither reads nor writes, doth not
hear the talk of exchanges and coffee-rooms,
and has never been to school, her mind must
seem a state of darkness indeed. The whole
of the world's history, except that portion of
it which is connected with our Redeemer, is
entirely unknown to her. Geography, present
politics, the exact sciences, the fine arts, poetry,
and letters — all these things are words, and
nothing more, to her. Such was this girl's
ignorance, and such was her apathy as regards
knowledge, that she desired to learn nothing
except what would please her sweetheart.
With this end in view she used to lay out the
charts on the apothecary's table, and would
make Mr. Brings tell her about all the ports at

which Jack had touched and the seas over
which he had sailed. ' I love Jack,' was all
the burden of her song. He was never out of
her mind : the world might go to wrack and
she would care nothing if only her lover remained
in safety and was brought back to her
arms.

She begged me to tell her what other
things, if any, a gentlewoman generally learns,
so that she might teach herself these things as
well. Willingly would I have done this, but
on inquiry I could not discover anything — I
mean any serious study — which was necessary
or possible for her to undertake. I knew but
one gentlewoman with whom to compare Bess.
This was Castilla. Certainly, Castilla had commenced
the study of the French language ; but
I know not how far she advanced, and I have
not learned that she was ever able to read a
book in that tongue. Then, in the matter of
arts and sciences, Castilla was certainly as
ignorant as Bess. And when I came to consider
the subject, I could not discover that she
was any fonder than Bess of reading or

more desirous to extend her knowledge by
means of books. There are, it is true, certain
accomplishments in which a young gentlewoman
is instructed. Castilla had learned to
dance, and in the Assembly there were none who
performed a minuet with more grace, though
some perhaps with more stateliness, because
she was short of stature. In a country dance
she had no equal. But Bess, for her part, who
had never been taught by any dancing-master,
could dance a jig, a hay, or a hornpipe, rolling
like a sailor, snapping her fingers, and singing
the while, so as to do your eyes good only to
see the unstudied grace and spirit of her movements.
Then Castilla had been taught the
harpsichord, and could play at least three, if
not four, tunes. But Bess had never even seen
a harpsichord, and as she did not possess one
she could not be taught to play upon it. Then,
there is singing. Nothing is more pleasant to
the ear than the singing of a beautiful woman.
Castilla had a low voice, but it was sweet and
musical ; she had been taught to sing by the
same master who had taught her the harpsichord,

and she could sing several songs. To
please my father, she used to sing, ' Drink tome
only with thine eyes ' ; to please the
Admiral she sang, ' To all you ladies now on
land' ; to please me she sang, 'Sweet, if you love
me, let me go ' ; and all so charmingly, never
dropping a note, making no mistakes in word
or tune, and with such grace of voice and pretty
gentle way that it ravished those who heard
her. But as for Bess, she had a full rich voice,
and she sang out loud, so that she might have
been heard half-way across the river. She
knew fifty songs, and was always learning new
ones. She would listen to the ballad-singer in
the street, and to the sailors bawling in the
taverns, and would then go away and practise
their songs by herself till she was perfect. She
sang them all to please Jack ; but after he was
gone she sang no more — sitting mum, like a
mounting canary-bird. It was pretty to listen
while she sang, sitting with one hand upon
Jack's shoulder, and the other clasped in his
lovesick fingers —

VOL. II. Q

The landlord he looks very big,

With his high cocked hat and his powdered wig ;

Methinks he looks both fair and fat,

But he may thank you and me for that.

For oh ! good ale, thou art my darling,
And my joy both night and morning.

Or, sometimes, ' Why soldiers, why, should we
be melancholy, boys ? ' or, ' Come all ye sailors
bold, lend me an ear.' Another was a plaintive
ditty, the choice of which we may believe to
have been inspired in some prophetic mood —

Early one morning, just as the sun was rising,
I heard a maid sing in the valley below :

Oh ! don't deceive me. Oh ! never leave me.
low could you use a poor maiden so ? '

As regards housewifery, Castilla could make
conserves, cakes, puddings, and fruit-pies, and
she could distil strong waters for the stilkroom.
Bess, for her part, could make bread, pies of all
kinds, including sea-pie, onion pie, salmagundy,
and lobscouse ; she could cook a savoury dish of
liver, lights, and bacon, of beefsteak and onions,
of ducks stuffed ; she could make tansy puddings,
and many other pleasant things for dinner.
She could also brew beer, and had many

secrets in flavouring it with hops, ivy-berries,
wherries, and other things. As for needlework,
Castilla could, it is true, embroider
flowered aprons, and do Turkey work, and
tent-stitch, work handkerchiefs in catgut, and
such pretty things. But Bess could knit
stockings for her father or herself; she made
her own frocks and trimmed her own straw hats.
As to playing cards, Castilla knew a great many
games, such as Quadrille, Whist, Ombre, Pope
Joan, and Speculation ; but Bess, for her part,
could play All-fours, Put, Snip-snap-snorum,
Laugh-and-lie-down, and Cribbage. Then, but
this signified little, Castilla collected shells,
which where brought to the house by sailors,
and made grottoes ; she could also cut out
figures, and even landscapes, in black paper ;
she could make screens by sticking pictures on
paper; and lie knew several pretty girls'
games, such as Draws-gloves, and Questions and
Command. Bess knew none of these little
accomplishments, and as for games, she loved
best the boys' sports, such as Tang and Thrush-thrush,
which she used to play with Jack and

me when we were young. The chief difference,
so far as I could understand, in the education
of the two girls, was that one could carry a
fan, manage a hoop, and behave after the
manner of gentlewomen, which the other could
not do. And I could not recommend Bess
either to put on a hoop, or to buy a fan, or to
powder and paint, or to lay on patches, by all
of which things she would have made herself
ridiculous.

There are some things, however, which
cannot be learned. Such are sweetness of disposition,
that finer kind of modesty which
belongs to gentle breeding, grace of carriage,
respect to elders, and the equal distribution of
favours and smiles, so as not to show too
openly the secret preferences of the heart. In
all these things Bess was naturally inferior to
Castilla, and these, unfortunately, I could not
teach her, nor could Mr. Brings.

I could therefore advise her nothing but to
study at every opportunity, and especially in
church, the carriage and demeanour of the
quality and the fashion of their dress, which I

recommended her to adopt at such a distance
as her means and station would allow.

You may be sure that there were many at
Deptford who waited anxiously for news of the
Tartar ' — most of the crew belonging to the'
town, and none of them being pressed men,
but all volunteers, who took the King's bounty.
But for three or four months we heard nothing.
Then news came to the Dockyard, and was
taken to the Club in the evening by the
Eesident Commissioner.

'Admiral,' he said, 'and gentlemen all, I
bring you good news. 'Tis of the " Tartar." '

Good news ? ' cried the Admiral. ' Then
the boy is well. Bring more punch, ye black
devil ! '

'The "Tartar" has put into Spithead with a
thumping prize. Twelve men killed, and the
master and mate. Twenty wounded ; but only
the Second Lieutenant among the officers, and
he slightly.'

This is brave hearing; gentlemen,' said the
Admiral.

The prize is a privateer from Eochelle, 20
guns and 170 men. Lie made, it is reported,
a gallant resistance. No doubt, we shall have
further particulars by private despatches.'

In two days there came by the post two
letters, both from Jack. One of these was
for the Admiral, which I do not transcribe,
although I was privileged to read it ; and
another, for me. I knew very well that the
letter was not for me, but for another. Wherefore
I made an excuse for not opening it before
the company, and carried it off to Mr. Brings,
where I found Bess sitting, as was her wont in
the afternoon.

I have heard,' she said, ' that there lias
been fio-sting; on board the " Tartar." The
people in the town are talking about it.'

Jack is safe, and the '* Tartar " has taken
a prize, Bess ; and here is a letter.'

So I tore it open in her presence. It was
exactly as I thought. That is to say, there
were a few words directing me to give the
inclosed packet to his dear girl, the mistress of
his heart ; and she very joyfully received it,

snatching it out of my hands with a strange
jealousy, as if she grudged that anybody should
have in his hands, even for a minute, what
belonged to her and was a gift from her lover.
It was the same with everything, down to the
smallest ribbon which Jack o-ave her — she could
not bear that another should so much as touch
it, even a man. As for a woman being allowed
to look at her lover's gifts — well, it was a
jealous creature, but she loved him.

First, like a mad thing, she fell to kissing
the letter. ' Oh ! ' she cried, holding it with
both hands, but kindly permitting me to scent
its fragrance, which was, to say the truth, like
a mixture of bilge-water, lamp-oil, cheese, rum,
and gunpowder. ' Oh, it actually smells of the
ship ! ' In fact, the letter, no doubt from
having been written on paper long kept below
with the purser's stores, smelt of that part of
the ship where the stores are kept. ' It is just
like violets,' she added ; but the smell of Jack's
ship was better to her than that of any violets.
And so she kissed it again.

Shall we read it ? ' I said. ' The letter. I

suppose, was meant to be read as well as to be
kissed.'

She gave it to me reluctantly. I do not
think she wanted to know the contents.
Enough that Jack had written her a letter.
What greater proof of love could be given to
any girl .^

Do you think he wanted it to be read ? '
she asked. ' Wouldn't lie be contented if
he knew that I lead it safe and was keeping
it next to my heart, against his coming
home ? '

You are a fool, Bess,' said Mr. Brings ;
let Luke read it. Why, the letter will tell us
all about the fighting. Why else should lie
take the trouble to write a letter at all ? Do
you think a man likes writing letters ? As forme,
I never received a letter in my life, and I
never wrote one.'

She gave up the letter with a sigh. If she
had been able to read it herself, no one else
would have seen it.

Jack having taken so much trouble,' Mr.
Brings continued, ' 'twould be disrespectful not

to read it. What he writes to you, my girl, he
writes for me as well'

'Mistress of my heart,' I began, reading the
letter. ' Is that meant for you, Mr. Briujes? '

Except a word or two just to show that he
hasn't forgotten you, Bess, of course. Why, as
for that, such words mean nothing except that
the boy is in love. I've known a man so
bewitched with love as to call a half-naked
black wench his goddess and his nymph. Yet
it seemed to please the girl. Go on, Luke.'

Mistress of my heart ' — while I read, Bess
sat in the window seat, her hands clasped, her
eyes soft and melting, her breath caught short
and quick, and continually interrupting with
ejaculations — such as, 'Oh, Jack!' and 'Oh,
my brave boy ! ' — wrung from her heart by the
joy of loving and being loved. But these I
omit.

'Mistress of my heart and queen of my
soul! My dearest Bess, — Since I sailed from
Deptford, I have thought of you every day and
every night. If I where by your side I should
give you a thousand hugs and kisses. There

never was a more lovely maid than my Bess.
My dear, we have had our first tussle, and
warm work it was ; but the enemy is now snug
and comfortable inter hatches, where he will
remain until we come to anchor in the Solent,
and carry him up Dorchester Creek to rest
awhile. I think he has got a headache, Bess,
after the noise of the guns; and, perhaps, the
small shot have given him a toothache, and
the cannon-balls have very likely made ]sis
legs rheumatic. We had a fine time the last
bout ashore, hadn't we, Bess ? I shan't forget
the room behind the shop, nor the summerhouse
where Luke caught us kissing, and you
blushed crimson. Well, I dare say I shall get
ashore again some time, though not, I hope,
like our poor carpenter's mate, who has had
both legs amputated, and will now for ever goon
stumps. If your Jack came home on stumps,
would you send him about his business, Bess?

We fell in with the enemy '

Here the letter begins,' said Mr. Brings.
What went before was like the froth on a pot
of stingo.'

We fell ill with the enemy 011 the morning
of the Isti, this being February the 20th.
Wc should have missed her altogether, but,
by the blessing of Providence, the fog cleared
away and showed us the ship, half a mile or
thereabouts on the weather-bow. 'Twas in
full Channel. She hoisted the French flag,
and Ave returned the compliment — such was
our politeness — with a cannon-shot, pitched a
yaixl or two wide of her. The enemy scorned
to show her heels (wherefore I honour her,
and give her what is due); perhaps because
she carried heavier weight of metal and a
larger complement than the " Tartar." As for
the engagement which followed, it lasted for an
hour or thereabouts ; and then, on our coming
to close quarters and preparing to board,
Monsieur hauled down his colours, smiling he
had no stomach for pikes and cutlasses. Which
was his stratagem; and mark the treachery of
this bloody villain. For, while we prepared
leisurely and unsuspecting to take possession,
he bore up suddenly and boarded us. Fortunately,
he had to deal with a well-disciplined

crew; but the fighting was hand-to-hand for
awhile before they gave up the job and tried
to back again to their own deck. There were
fifty of them in the boarding-party, and not
one got back, nor never a prisoner made, such
was the rage of our men. So we gave them
no more chance for treachery, but boarded in
om turn; and hand-to-hand it was again, till
all that was left of them were driven under
hatches, where they now remain. There were
a hundred and seventy of them when the
action began, and we've thrown eighty bodies
overboard. Consequently there are ninety
prisoners. Our master, who is as tough a sea-dog
as lives, calculates that at this rate —
namely, and that is to say, every ship in the
King's service taking one French ship a week,
killing or disabling half the crew, and taking
prisoner the other half — we shall in less thana
twelvemonth leave his French Majesty never
a sailor or a ship to his back, so he must
surrender at discretion. But I doubt, for my
own part, whether we shall have such good
luck as this ; and it may be a year and a half

or even two years before we are able to make
an account of all the French fleets. We have
lost twelve, killed and wounded; the second
Lieutenant has parted with half an ear, sliced
off by a French cutlass, and the master's mate
is killed, his brains being blown out by a pistol
hired in his face. But we have reversed him,
my dear Bess. When the fight was over I
drank your health in the gun-room in a tot of
rum, being, thank God, without a scratch.'

Here was a gap, as if the letter had been
interrupted at this point, and resumed later on.

'We are now, my dearest Bess, anchored
at Spithead, and about to transfer our prisoners
up the harbour to Dorchester Castle, where
they are to lay by until the war is ended or
they are exchanged. 'Twill be a change for
them and a rest, and no doubt they will be
glad to be out of danger. 'Tis a convenient
place for a prison, having two great towers,
besides a smaller one, with a high wall all
round and a ditch. And if the prisoners do
escape, they will find the country-side rejoiced
of the opportunity to murder them, being a

savage people, and much incensed with all
French privateers. So, my sweetheart, no
more at present from thy faithful Jack.

Postscript. — Thy true-love knot is round
my arm, and I wish my arm was round thy
neck. I forgot to say that the prize is the
Montpelier," of La Eochelle; she is, we hope,
to be purchased for the King's Navy — a handy
useful ship, well found. Her captain Alas
killed in the second part of the action. Otherwise,
I think he woukl have been hanged
for treachery. I love thee, Bess — I love
Thee ! '

There was a beautiful letter for anv Q'irl
to receive; full of love and kisses, and of
o-ahant fio'htinfr! When I had read it through,
she sat awhile perfectly still, the tears running
down her cheeks. Then she made me read it
again, more slowly, and bade me mark with
pencil the passages which most she fancied.
She could not read the writing, but could rest
her eyes on those places and remember them.
She was quick at catching up and remembering
things, and when she had heard the letter

read a third time, slice knew it all by heart, and
never forgot it.

This was the only letter which Jack ever
wrote to his mistress. Other letters he wrote
to the Admiral, telling him of the wonderful
exploits of the ' Tartar,' and of his share in the
actions, but never a word more to Bess. The
days passed on, and the girl sat, for the most
]part, in silence, Availing. So sat Penelope,
expectant of her lord. Still she spoke of him ;
still she carried his letter in her bosom,
wrapped in silk, and would take it out and
gaze upon it, the tears rolling down her cheek.
If she hoped for another letter, if she felt
herself neglected, if she doubted his fidelity,
I know not ; for she said nothing.

In that interval she grew more beautiful.
Lier face, thus set upon the contemplation of
one thing, became pensive, and her eyes grave.
She smiled seldom, and the loud laugh which
Jack loved, but which reminded others too
much of her former associates, v\^as no more
heard. By constant endeavour, by imitation,
by refraining from her old companions, and by

keeping guard over her speech, she softened
not only her manner but also her appearance.
Poor Bess ! What would she say and suffer
if she should learn that her Jack had ceased to
love her ? Yet, what other interpretation could
be put upon his long silence? It was at
Christmas, 1756, when the 'Tartar' sailed. It
was in June, 1760, that Jack returned, and
all that time only this one letter, though there
had been many written to the Admiral.

He will lind,' said Bess, ' when he comes
home, that I can read very well. And I
know the charts of the seas where he has
sailed. If only he still will think me beautiful.'


'Why, Bess,' I told her, 'as to beauty,
there is no doubt about it. So if that is all
there is to fear, have no pain on that score.'
There was, however, a great deal more to fear;
but this one dared not so much as to hint in her
presence.

There is a storm brewing,' said Mr. Brings ;
I feel it in the air. I know not what he may
think when he comes home : she is a handsome

creature, and he may be for beginning all over
again. Yet my mind misgives me. Why is
there no letter, nor never a word to boundless
he has forgotten her ? As for falling in love with
another woman, that is hardly likely, seeing
the busy life the poor lad hath led. But he
hath forgotten her, Luke. Most women look
for nothing else than to be forgotten when
their husbands and lovers go to sea ; they forget
and are forgotten. Well — why not ? Better
so ; then they suffer the less when one of the
men is knocked o' the head and another goes
off with someone else when his ship is next
paid off. But Bess is different ; and we have
encouraged her ; there will never be any other
man in the world for her, except Jack. So,
my lad, look out, I say, for squalls.'

Of course, we heard news of the ' Tartar.'
Did she not fdl half the Gazettes There
never was so fortunate a ship, nor one more
gallantly commanded. One cannot enumerate
or remember half the prizes that she made in
her first year's cruise in the Channel. A
month after taking the ' Mont Easier,' she

VOL. II. R

encountered the ' Maria Victoria,' twenty-four
guns and 226 men ; and, after a sharp engagement,
compelled her to strike. The ship was
taken over into the King's Navy, under the
name of the ' Tartar's Prize.' Then, in April,
Captain Lockhart fought the privateer 'Due
d'Aiguillon,' of twenty-six guns and 254 men.
The French did not surrender till they had lost
upwards of fifty killed and wounded. In May
the privateer ' Penelope of eighteen guns and
181 men, was taken; and in October the
Comtesse de Grant,' eighteen ijuns and 155
men. She also Alas purchased into the Navy.
But the crown of the 'Tartar's' exploits this year
was the chase and capture of the 'Melampus,'
of Bayonne, one of the finest privateers ever
sent out from port. She was mounted
with thirty-six guns, and had a crew of 330
men. The ' Tartar ' chased her for thirty hours,
and fought her for three hours before she
struck. She also was added to the King's
Navy, as a thirty-six-gun frigate ; and a very
useful vessel she proved.

Such achievements as these greatly disheartened

the French, and raised our own
spirits. They did not, it is true, quite reach
the ambitious aims of the master of the ' Tartar ' ;
yet they called forth the gratitude of the nation.
Therefore, at the end of the year, the merchants
of London and Bristol combined to present
Captain Lockhart Avitli pieces of plate ; the
First Lieutenant of the 'Tartar' writ transferred
to the command of the ^ Tartar's ' prize, the
Melampus,' which was renamed the 'Sapphire';
Jack was transferred to this ship with the First
Lieutenant ; and the Master of the ' Tartar '
was promoted to be Lieutenant. As for the
prize-money due to the officers and men, that
amounted to a very pretty sum ; but I do not
know how much fell to Jack as his share.

K 2

CHAPTER Xxi.

Lieutenant Aaron FLETCHER.

his;

E who are always slower than the
French — ' but,' said Jack, ' we
hold on the tighter ' — now began
to send out privateers on our own
account, though for the most part neither so
numerous nor so well found as the French.
The men were not wanting, nor the spirit, but
the prizes were not so many, and the prospect
of gain not so attractive to our Enghsli seacoast
men as to the French. Mention has been
made of a ship building in Mr. Taylor's yard
at Eotherhithe ; Jack was right when he pronounced
her lit for something better than a
lubberly sugar-ship. She was, in fact, the
venture of a company of London merchants,
and she was intended from the first for Letters

of Marque. A dangerous venture ; but there
was revenge in it, as well as the hope of profit ;
and, besides, two or three successful cruises
will sometimes cover the whole cost of ship and
crew, even if on the next voyage the ship is
wrecked or taken. As for a crew, there is not
much difficulty in getting volunteers for a
privateer, where there is no flogging, and for
the most part no discipline, and an officer has
very little more authority than he can command
with hist and rope's-end. The prospect
of taking some rich merchantman from Martinique,
laden with a great cargo of spices and
sugar, is attractive, to say nothing of the lighting,
the chance of which, happily, ever inflames
a Briton's heart. Neo such desperate actions are
recorded during this war, as those in which our
privateers were engaged. The best privateers-men
are said to be, not the regular seamen, to
whom an action comes as part of the day's
work, but those amphibious creatures found
all round our coast, and especially about the
Channel, who pretend to be eno-aored in the
most innocent and harmless pursuits, and maybe

found following the plough or driving the

quill, or with an apron in a barber's shop,

flouring a wig, or even behind a grocer's

counter, weighing out pounds of sugar. Yet

this is but a show and pretence, and their real

trade takes them to and fro across the Channel,

to the great detriment of His Majesty's revenue.

Privateering, to such as these, is a kind of

smuggling, but a finer kind, which one follows

without the necessity of sometimes fighting the

King's officers, and sometimes murdering an

informer. Moreover, a fat ' merchantman is a

far richer prize to bring home than a boat load

of kegs. Therefore, when the-porcupine' (so

they called her) was launched, and fitted, and

armed with eighteen nine-pounders and two

six-pounders for her quarter-deek, there was

no difficulty in finding a crew of picked menas

good as any on board a King's ship, though

lacking in discipline — a hundred and twenty

in all. The crew of the 'Porcupine,' indeed,

showed the stuff of which they were made

before the ship sailed. It eras in September

of the year 1757, when the hottest Press ever

known in the Thames was undertaken, and not
only were the Lanes and alleys of Deptford,
Wapping, and EatclifF scoured for skulking
watermen and seamen — the river being wholly
deserted for fear of the Pressgang — but also
the colliers and ships in the Pool were boarded
and their men taken, leaving no more than two
able seamen for every hundred tons, according
to William the Third's Act. The gang boarded
the ' Porcupine,' but the men seized their arms
and threatened to fight for their liberty, whereat
the lieutenant in command withdrew his men
and sheered off, judging it prudent not to
engage his company of a dozen or twenty
with six score resolute fellows.

Meantime, Mr. Brings' prediction of misfortune
as regards Aaron Fletcher came true —
one knows not whether he did anything by his
own black arts to bring about the calamities
which fell upon him at this time. For, hast
of all, his boat, as fast a sailer as might be found
for crossing the Channel, was picked up by a
French privateer, who cared nothing for her
being' enixafred in smuadinc: or in conveying'

information or spies backwards and forwards
from France to England or from England to
France. All is lish that comes to the Frenchman's
net. Therefore the ' Willing Mind ' was
taken in tow, and presently sold at auction in
Bologna Harbour ; and so Aaron lost not only
his boat but also his crew of three men, who
were like rats for wariness, and could speak
both French and English.

Thus went the greater part of his business ;
and he hung his head, going in great heaviness,
and in his cups cursing the Apothecary, whose
blood he threatened to spill, for causing his
boat to be taken. But worse followed. His
boat-building yard had become slack of work,
and most of his hands were discharged. This
was caused by his own neglect, and might
have been repaired by steady attention to
business. Unhappily, one night the yard took
fire, and everything was burned except the
little cottage within the gates, where Aaron
lived alone. And then, indeed, he raged like
a lion, swearing that he would kill, maim, and
torture that devil of an Apothecary, who thus

pursued him. But Mr. Briujes was no whit
terrified.

Despite these things, we were all surprised to
hear that Aaron Alas going on board the ' Porcupine
' privateer ; and still more astonished
when we learned that lie was appointed Third
Lieutenant, his proper place being before the
mast, or, at best, bo's'n's mate, or gunner's
mate, for he was quite an illiterate fellow, who
had learned nothings of taking' an observation,
except how to make it noon, and knew nothing
save by rule of thumb of navigation. However,
he knew the coast of France as well as any
Frenchman, which was, I suppose, the reason
why he was appointed an officer ; and besides,
he had acquired (and truly deserved), in Dept-ford,
Greenwich, and Eotherhithe, the reputation
of being a brave, reckless dog, who would
fight like a bull-dog. For such work as was
wanted of him, no doubt he was as good as
any man Who had passed his examination in
Seething Lane.

Then Aaron got himself a coat of blue, like
that worn by the King's officers (but without

the Avliite fciciugs), edged with gold — very fine.
This he put on, with white stockings, white
breeches, and a crimson sash, with a hanger —
for all the world as if he were Lieutenant of
the Eoyal Navy — and a hat trimmed with gold
lace. Thus attired, he strutted up the street,
the boys shouting after him, till he came to
Mr. Westmoreland's shop, where Bess sat at
the door, her work in her hand. ' Well, Bess,'
he said, ' nothing was good enough for thee
but an officer and a gentleman. I am an officer
now, and if any man dares to say I am not a
gentleman, I will fight him with any weapon
he pleases. Since one officer has gone away,
Bess, take on with another. Don't think I
bear a grudge. Nay, I love thee still, lass, in
spite of thy damned unfriendly ways.'

You an officer, Aaron ? ' Women like line
feathers for themselves, but they are never
dazzled with line feathers in others. ' You an
officer .^ ' She surveyed him calmly from head
to foot. ' White stockings do not make a
gentleman. Your clothes are grand, to be sure.
Pity you have not a better shirt to match so

fine a coat.' Aaron's linen, in trntli, lead
neither lace nor ruffles, and his cravat was buta
speckled kerchief. ' Go change thy linen,
Aaron, before pretending to be a gentleman.
Well,' she continued, perceiving that he was,
as lie desired him to be, abashed by the discovery
of this deficiency, ' as for tliy dress,
'twill serve for a privateer. Go light the
French, Aaron, and bring home plenty of
prize-money. Bat think not thyself a ■ gentleman.'


So she went indoors, and left him. I know
not whether he bought himself a shirt to
match the coat, but I am sure that on board
the white stockings and the white breeches
were safely stowed away, and a homelier garb
assumed.

Aaron's sea going lasted no great while.
The Captain of the ' Porcupine ' was a certain
Stephen Murdon, who had commanded an
armed merchantman in the China trade, in
which he had seen fighting with the pirates,
Chinese and Malay, which infest the narrow
seas. He was a very brisk, courageous fellow,

skilful in handling this slip ; and she being a
fast sailer, he was generally able to choose or
to decline an engagement, as suited him best.
For instance, he would not engage a French
privateer if he could avoid so doing, on the
principle that it is foolish for dog to bite dog,
and because it is the business of the Kind's
ships to clear the Channel of privateers ; but
with a merchantman, however strong, he was
like a bloodhound for the chase, and a bull-dog
for fighting. I do not know how much prize-money
he would have made for himself, but
his owners were at first very much pleased with
their venture, and promised themselves great
returns. Unfortunately, a circumstance happened
which brought the ' Porcupine's ' cruise
to an untimely end. There were many complaints
from Holland against the English privateers,
who mistook Dutch for French colours,
and treated them accordingly. Captain Murdon
was one of those who were suspicious of Dutch
colours. Unfortunately, he one day overhauled
a Dutch vessel conveying to Amsterdam no less
a personage than the Spanish Ambassador;

and, on the pretence that she was sailing under
false colours, plundered the ship, taking out of
her, as the complaint of the Captain set forth, a
purse containing seventeen guineas, twenty deal
boxes containing valuable stuffs, and three bales
of cambric, the whole valued at two hundred
guineas. Nor was this all, for this audacious
Captain Murdon helped himself as well to His
Excellency's chests and cases containing jewels
and treasure.

There was a great outcry about this affair,
and Captain Murdon (who was very well
known to have done it, but it was pretended
there was no evidence) hastened to hand over
the ' Porcupine ' to her owners, paid off his crew,
and recommended this officers to lie snug for
awhile. I know not who had the booty, but
the officers and crew had none. As for himself,
he was provided with a ship in the East
India trade, so as to get more speedily out of
the country. The Government offered twenty
pounds reward for the discovery of the ship
which had thus insulted a friendly Power ; but
no one took the offer seriously, and war immediately

afterwards breaking out with Spain, no
further trouble was taken in the matter. But
thus Aaron's chances of prize-money were lost,
and lie himself returned to Deptford little
richer than when he went away. Captain
Murdon offered him, it is true, a berth onboard
his new ship ; but Aaron had no desire
to go fighting Chinese pirates, and therefore
stayed at home. Then he began to pretend
that he was putting up his building-sheds
again ; but, as you shall see, he had no luck :
his fortune had deserted him.

CHAPTER Xxii.

HOW MR. BRINJES EXERCISED Ills TOWERS.

T was on Saturday, the last day of
June, in the year of grace 1760
(our Lieutenant having then been
away at sea two years and a half),
and. on the stroke of seven, that Mr. Brings
sallied forth from his shop. He was dressed —
being now on his way to the Club at the Sir
John Falstaff — in his black velvet coat with lace
ruffles ; lie carried, his laced hat under his arm,
and. had. upon his head his vast wig, whose
threatening foretop, majestic with depending
knots, before and behind the shoulders, proclaimed
his calling. In his hand he bore his
gold-headed stick (not the famous skull-stick) ;
his stockings, which in the morning were of grey
woollen, knitted by the hands of Bess, were now

of white silk ; and his shoes were adorned with
silver buckles. He was no longer Apothecary
to the scum of Deptford : he was in appearance
a grave and learned Physician. Yet, if one
looked more closely, it might be discerned that
the wig was ill-dressed ; the ruffles at his wrist
torn ; that one or two of the silver buttons had
fallen from his coat-sleeves ; that his stockings
were splashed a little, and there was a rent in
one ; and that his shoes where only smeared,
not brightened. These, however, were defects
which Mr. Brings did not heed. It was
enough for him to possess and to wear a coat
and a wig which became the company which
met at the Sir John Falstaff.

He stood awhile looking up nd down the
street, first casting his eye upwards to note the
weather, a thing which no one dio has been a
sailor neglects, whether he goes upon deck or
leaves the house. The sky was clear, the
wind southerly, and the now declining sun
shone upon the houses, so that, though mean
and low, they glowed in splendour, and the
Apothecary's silver pestle showx^l as if it were

of pure solid silver, and the Pei] man's golden
quill as if it were indeed of burnished gold,
and the Barber's brass vessels across the way,
catching the sun by reflection, shone as if they,
too, were of gold ; while the diamond panes of
the upper lattice windows were all on lire, and
one's eyes could not brook to gaze upon them ;
the red tiles of the gables, though they were
overgrown with moss, seemed as if they had
newly left the potter's hands ; and the timberwork
of the house fronts was like unto black
marble or porphyry. No painting eras evermore
splendid than those mean houses under
the summer evening's sunlight. At the Barber's
door there arose a curious cloud, which
produced an cfTect as of a white mist rising
from the ground. It was, however, nothing
but one of the 'prentices flouring the Yicar's
wig for Sunday. Lower down the street there
was leaning against a post the tall form of
Aaron Fletcher. He had nothing now, in his
appearance, of the gallant privateer, being
dressed as becomes a tradesman, in a fur cap,
grey stockings, round shoes, and a drugget

VOL. II. S

waistcoat ; yet there was in him something
that looked like a sailor : however you disguise
him the sailor always betrays himself. His
hands were in his waistcoat pockets, and his
eyes were fixed upon the Golden Quill, because
he hungered still for a sight of the girl who
lived beneath that sign. In spite of his
strenortli and his coia-ao-e, one word from Bess
would have made this giant as Aveak as a reed.
But as for her, she would no more so much as
speak friendly with him, being angered at his
importunity.

Bess sat in the open doorway, partly
screened from the glare of the evening, and
partly sitting in the open sunshine, because
she was not one of those who fear to hurt her
complexion. She was working at something
which lay in her lap, and sat with her back
turned to Aaron, as if she knew that he was
there, and would not so much as look at him.
Through the door one might see her father at
his work, spectacles on nose.

Mr. Brings looked at her, still standing
before his own door. Then she raised her

head, hearing his footstep, and laughed. She
always laughed at sight of Mr. Brings in the
evening, because, in his great wig and velvet
coat, on his way to the Club, he was so
different from Mr. Brings in his scratch or his
night-cap, sitting in his parlour or his shop.

Saucy baggage ! ' said the Apothecary.
Stand up, Bess, and let me see how tall thou
art.'

She obeyed, and stood up, overtopping Mr.
Brings by more than the foretop of his wig ;
she was, in fact, live feet eight inches in height,
as I know, because I measured her about this
time. It is a great stature for a woman. She
was now past her twenty-first year, and therefore
full grown, and no longer so slim and
slender in figure as when Jack sailed away at
Christmas, in the year seventeen hundred and
fifty-six. She was now a woman fully formed;
her waist not slender, as fine ladies fondly love
to have it, but like the ancient statues for
amplitude; her shoulders large and square
rather than sloping, her neck full and yet
long, her skin of the whitest, her hair and eyes

of the blackest; as for the eyes, they were
large and full and slow rather than quick of
movement, a thing which betokens an amorous
or passionate disposition ; her face, as one sees
in the faces of certain Italian painters, with an
ample cheek, full and rosy lips, with a straight
nose and low forehead. About her head she
had tied a kerchief. Fcr my own part, I have
always maintained that Less was the most
beautiful woman I have ever looked upon in
Deptford or anywhere else, though one may
admit, what Castilla insists, that, however
beautiful a girl may be, she belongs to her
owen class. Truly, all poor Bess's troubles
came to her because she loved a gentleman.

Mr. Brings surveyed her critically. Then
he sighed and said, ' Thou art, I swear, Bess,
fit for the gods themselves ! Well, child ? ' —
and then he sighed again.

Is there news? ' she asked.

I hear of none,' he replied, gravels
Bess, the time goes on. Is it well to waste
thy youth on a man who comes not back?
There are other men '

Talk not to me,' lie cried, impatiently ;
talk not to me of other men. There is no
other man in the world for me but Jack. As
for other men — I scorn 'em.'

She drew from her bosom half a sixpence,
tied to a piece of black ribbon. This she
kissed, and put back again.

It is long since we had news of him,' Mr,
Brings went on, doubtfully and dropping his
voice, because Mr. Westmoreland sat within,
poring over his books.

He loves me,' she replied in a whisper.
And the thought caused her cheek to glow,
and her eyes became humid. ' He told me he
should always love me. Why, a man cannot
be continually writing letters. He wrote tome
once — which is enough — to tell me again
that he loves me. And I think of him all day
loniT.'

Well said, girl ! That is only wdiat is due
to so gallant a lover.'

I belong to him — I am all his. Why else
should I desire to live ? Why do I go to
church, if not to pray for him ? '

Good girl ! Good girl ! Would that all
women had such constant hearts ! I have
known many women, whether at home or at
Kingston, or on the ' Guinea Coast. Some I
have known jealous ; some full of tricks and
tempers : but never a one among them all to
be constant. Good girl, Bess ! '

Sometimes I think — oh ! — suppose he
should never come back at all ! or suppose I
should learn that another woman had entrapped
him with her horrid arts ? '

Mr. Brings smiled, as one who knows the
world.

Sailors do sometimes fall into traps,' he
said. ' They are everywhere laid for sailors.
Perhaps in another port — nay, in half a dozen
ports, he may have found — nay, child, be not
uneasy. Why ' — here he swore as roundly as
if he had been an Admiral at least — ' a thousand
girls shall be forgotten, when once he sees
thy handsome face again. What though his
thoughts may have gone a-roving — though I
say not that they have — they will come home.
The Lieutenant will be true. Gad! There

cannot be a single Jack of all the Jacks afloat
who would not joyfully come back to such a
sweetheart.'

Oh, yes ! ' She made as if she would draw
something else from her bosom, but reframed.
I have his letter, his clear letter. Jack is true.
He swore that no one should ever come between
him and me.'

There is another thing, child. He left
thee, Bess, a slip of a girl seventeen years old,
with little but great black locks and roguish
tricks. When he comes back he will find
another Bess.'

Oh ! ' she cried in alarm. ' But he will
expect the same.'

And such a Bess — such a beautiful Bess —
fit for a Prince's love.'

I want no Prince but Jack,' said Bess, her
eyes soft and humid, and her lips parted.

He will be satisfied. Easy lips and black
eyes, shapely head and apple-cheek, dimpled
chin and smiling mouth, and such a throat ! I
have seen such, Bess, in the girls of the Guinea
Coast when they are young ; just such a throat

as thine — as slender and as round, though
shiny black. For my own part, I love the
colour.'

Happy boy ! happy girl ! ' he cried, after
sio'hinor heavily ; ' I would I Avere ounce again
to fight this lover for his mistress. Tedious it
is to look on at the game which one would still
be praying.'

There is one thing which troubles me,' she
said. ' It is the importunity of Aaron, who
will never take nay for his answer. He comes
every evening — nay, sometimes in the morning
telling me the Lieutenant has forgotten me,
and offering to take this place. And lie will
still be saying things of Jack (v;ho cudgelled
him so famously). If I were a man I would
beat him till he roared for mercy.' Her eyes
now flashed fire, I warrant you, sleepy and calm
as they had looked before. ' But I can do
nothing ; and Luke is too small and weak to
fight so great a man. He stands there now — •
look at him ! '

Patience, my girl ; patience ! I will tackle
this love-sick shepherd.'

More lie would have said, but Mr. Westmoreland
himself came to the door, his quill
behind his ear, wide round spectacles on his
nose, blinking in the sunshine like an owl or a
bat, as if the light was too much for him. He
was dressed in a rusty brown coat, worn so long
that the sleeves had exactly assumed the shape
of his arms ; the cuff of the right arm was shiny,
where it had rubbed against the table ; and the
back was shiny, where it had rubbed against
his chair. On his head was a nightcap of
worsted. Strange it was that so feeble a creature
shoidd be father of such a tall, strong, and
lovely girl. Yet these contrasts are not unknown.


A fine evening, Mr. Brings,' he quavered,
in his squeaky voice ; ' a fie evening, truly.'

Truly, Mr. Westmoreland.'

Is there news of the Lieutenant .^ '

'I have none, sir.'

Pray Heaven he be not killed or cast away.
Many brave youths are nowadays killed or castaway
at sea. You remember Jack Easterbrook,
Bess .^ ' She looked at Mr. Brings and smiled.

I have never had a scholar (to call a scholar)
like unto him. Dolts and blockheads are they
all, compared with him. Never such a lad —
never such a lad for quickness and for parts.'

Mr. Brings nodded and went on his way.
Mr. Westmoreland spread his hands out in the
sunshine as one who stands before a warm fire,
and he pushed back his nightcap as if to Alarm
his skull. But his daughter sat still, the 
idle in her lap and her eyes fixed
as one who hath a vision, and her lips parted,
as in a dream of happiness. Poor child ! It
was her last.

Mr. Brings walked slowly down the street
until he came to Aaron Fletcher. Then he
stopped and surveyed the man from head to
foot.

'Aaron,' he said, 'have a care; have a
care. Thou hast been Learned already. A
certain girl, who shall be nameless, is food for
thy betters, master boat-builder. Food for thy
betters ! '

Aaron muttered something.

Why, it is but two years and a half agone,

if thou wilt remember, good Aaron, that a certain
tiling happened wherefore I warned thee
that trouble would follow. Has it followed ?
Where is the " Willing Mind ? " Captured by
the French. Where is the prize-money thou
vast to get from the privateer .^ Her cruise was
cut short. Where is thy building-yard .^ It is
burned down. Where is thy business? It is
gone. Thus would-be murderers are rightly
punished. Wherefore, good Aaron, again I say
Have a care.'

Aaron made no reply, but shuffled his feet.

And what do we here ? ' Mr. Brings asked
sternly. ' Do we wait about the street in hopes
of catching a look — a covetous and a wanton
look — upon a face that belongs to another man ?
Aaron Fletcher — Aaron Fletcher, I have warned
thee before.'

With submission, sir,' said the young man,
the street is free to all. As for my betters, a
boat-builder is as good as a penman, I take it.'

'Go home, boy; go home. Leave Bess
alone, or it will be the worst for thee.'

I take my answer from none but Bess.'

She liatli given thee an answer.'
Here the young man plucked up courage,
and fell to railing and cursing at Mr. Bronzes
himself — a thing which no one else in the whole
town would have dared to do — not only for
losing him his boat and building-yard by wicked
machinations and magic, but also for standing,
he said, between him and the girl he loved, and
keeping her mind filled with nonsense about a
King's officer, dio had gone away and forgotten
her ; whereas, if it had not been for this
meddlesome old Apothecary — the devil fly away
with him and all like unto him ! — the girl would
have been his own lonc^ acfo, and he Avould have
made her happjT-.

'Here is fie talk!' said Mr. Brings, at
length, and after hearing him without the least
signs of anger. ' Here is a proper gamecock !
Aaron, thou must have a lesson. So ! That
hollow tooth of thine, my lad : the one at the
back, the last but one in the left hand lower
jaw ! ' The fellow started, and turned pale.
Go home now, quickly.' Here Mr. Brings
shook the gold head of his walking-stick

threateningly, while his one eye flamed up like
a train of powder. ' Go home ; on thy way
the tooth will begin to shoot and prick as with
fiery needles. Go, therefore, to bed immediately
It will next feel as if a red-hot iron
were clapped to it and held there, and thy
cheek will swell like a hasty pudding. The
pain will last all night. In the morning, come
to me ; and, perhaps, if I am merciful and thou
slowest signs of grace and repentance, I may
pull out the tooth. Thou canst meditate, all
night long, on the incomparable graces of the
girl who can never be thy sweetheart.'

The young man received this command with
awe-struck eyes and pale cheek. Then he
obeyed, going away with hanging head and
dangling hands — a gamecock with the spirit
knocked out of him.

Strange, that a doctor should be able to
cause, as well as cure, disease. As Aaron
Fletcher drew near to his workshop, he felt the
first sharp pang and pricking of toothache.
When he reached his bed, the misery was intolerable.
All night long he rolled upon his

pallet, groaning. In the morning he repaired
to Mr. Brings, dumbfomidecl, his face tied up,
seeking for nothing but relief.

'Aha ! ' said Mr. Brings. ' Here is our lad
of spirit — here is our lover. Love hath its
thorns, Aaron, as well as its roses. Sit down,
sit down. The bashi, James — and cold water.
It is a grinder, and will take a strong pull.
Hold back this head, James — and his mouth
wide open. So — with a will, my lad. It is
done. Go no more to the neighbourhood of
Bess Westmoreland, my lad. 'Tis a brave
tooth, and midst have lasted a lifetime. The
neighbourhood of Bess Westmoreland is
draughty, full of toothaches and rheumatism.
I think I saw another hollow grinder on the
other side. Take great care, Aaron. Avoid
Church Lane, especially in the evening. Go
thy way now, and be thankful that things are
no worse.'

CHAPTER XXVII.

I^ COMMAND.

^HEX Mr. Bridles had disposed of
this importunate swain, he went
on his way, and presently entered
the Hie Parlour, where some of
the gentlemen were already assembled, waiting
for the arrival of their president or chairman,
the Admiral, who was not long in coming, with
his escort of negroes.

When he had taken his seat, his pipe filled,
his gold-headed stick within reach, he rapped
upon the table once.

Gentlemen,' he said, ' good evening, one
and all

Then he rapped upon the table twice.
Immediately the landlord appeared at the
door, bearing in his hand a great steaming bowl

of punch, which he placed before the president.
One of the negroes filled a brimming nrlass and
gave it to this master. Then he filled for the
others and passed the glasses round ; and the
Admiral, standing up, shouted, * Gentlemen,
His Majesty's health, and confusion to his
enemies ! '

This done, he sat down and prepared to
spend a cheerful evening.

By this time it was eight o'clock, though
not yet sunset — though the western sky was
red and the sun low in the west. With much
whistling of pipes and ringing of bells the day's
work at the Yard hard by was brought to a
close. Whereupon a sudden stillness fell upon
the air, broken only by the hoarse cries and
calls from the ships in mid-river now working
slowly up stream, with flow of tide and a light
breeze from the south or south-east.

Gentlemen,' said the Admiral, with importance,
' J. have this day received despatches
from Jack Easterbrook, my ward, which I have
brought with me to gladden your hearts, as
they have gladdened mine.' He tugged a

packet out of his pocket, and laid it on the
table before him. ' He writes,' continued the
Admiral, ' from his ship, the " Sapphire " frigate,
Captain John Astrachan ; and, to begin with, the
letter is dated November, but appears to have
been written from time to time as occasion
offered. At that time he was with Admiral
Sir Edward Hawke, whose health, gentlemen,
we Avill drink.'

They did so. The Admiral proceeded, with
the deliberation which belongs to one-armed
men, to open the letter, and, after, calling for a
candle, to read it.

'^'Xov. 22, 1759."— The boy writes,
gentlemen, as I said before, from aboard the
frigate " Sapphire," Captain Astrachan, then forming
part of Commodore Duff's squadron, and of
Sir Edward Hawke's fleet, blockading the port
of Brest. It is his account of the action
whereof intelligence reached the Admiralty six
months ago. Humph ! At the beginning, the
boy presents his duty and respect, which is
as it should be. He is well, and without
a scratch. But the news is six months old,

VOL. II. T

and of the stalest. Yet it is welcome. Now
listen.

" I wrote to you last when we were
driven by stress of weather to raise the
blockade of Brest and put in at Torbay." — He
did, gentlemen, and you heard his letter read.
" I hope my letter came to hand." — Tt did. —
By stress of weather to raise the blockade of
Brest." — This letter-reading is tedious work.'
The Admiral took another drink of punch, and
proceeded, folding the letter so as to catch the
light, and reading very slowly. ' " When the
gale abated we put to sea again, but found that
the Frenchman had slipped this cables and was
off. 'Twas a fisherman of Beer, a little village
on the Devonshire coast, Who saw the French
fleet under full sail, and brought the news.
We found out, afterwards, there were twenty
sail of the line and five frigates that sailed out
of Brest, being bound, as was conjectured, for
Quiberon Bay. But this we could not rightly
tell. However, we crowded sail and after
them, the wind blowing fresh, the water lumpy
and the weather thick, so that we made a poor

reckoning, and the fleet was niucli scattered.
However, on the sixth day, being the morning
of the 20th, the signal was hoisted of the
enemy's fleet, and the Admiral gave his signal
to close up for action. Well, there they were
in full sight, but apparently with mighty little
stomach for the fight ; and, instead of shortening
sail and accommodations like gentlemen,
they scudded before us. However, towards
eight bells, when the men had taken their
dinners and their rum, and were in good fighting
trim, and ready to meet the Devil himself on
his three-decker " — 'tis a deuce of a boy, gentlemen
— *' the ' Warspite ' and the ' Devastation '
had the good luck to come up first with the
French rear, and the action began. Very soon
we all drew up, and pounded away. As for the
Sapphire,' we, with the ' Resolution,' seventy-four,
were speedily engaged with the ' Formidable,'
eighty, Eear- Admiral Verger ; and a very
brisk engagement it was, the Frenchman beings
of spirit. But he had the sense to strike
after three hours of it, and after losing 200 men
killed and wounded. There was a very good

account made of the other ships, though not
without misfortunes on our part. The ' These,'
seventy-four, thinking to fight her lower-deck
guns, shipped a heavy sea, and foundered, withall
her crew. She would have made a splendid
prize, indeed, and a magnificent addition to His
Majesty's Fleet. But it was not to be." — The
decrees of Providence, gentlemen said the
Admiral, 'are not to be questioned or examined.
But it passes human understanding to see the
sense of sinking the " These," instead of letting
her become a prize and an ornament to King
George's Navy, and usefid for the cause of
justice.' Then he continued reading; 'the
French ship ' Superbe,' seventy, also capsized " —
Dear, dear, gentlemen! another loss to us—
and went down, I think, from the same cause.
So here were two good ships thrown away, as
one may say, by lubberly handling. We had
bad luck with two more noble ships : one of
them, the ' Heros,' as beautiful a seventy-four as
you ever clapped eyes on, struck ; but the
waves were, unluckily, running too high for a
boat to be lowered, and in the night she ran

aground. So did the ' Soleil-Eoyal/ eighty ; and
next day we had to set fire to them, though it
was enough to bring tears to the most hardhearted
for thinking how they would have
loosed sailing up the Solent, the Union Jack at
the stern, above the great white Eoyal. Our
misfortunes did not end here ; for H.M.S. ' Resolution
' unfortunately went ashore, too, and now
lays a total wreck, and all her crew drowned.
The ' Essex,' also, went ashore and is lost, but
her crew saved. As for us, it was stand by,
load and fire, for nearly three hours, but only
two officers killed and three wounded, with
twenty men killed and thirty wounded. I
think the Monsters, who were safe within the
bar of the river, will stay there so long as weare
in sight. For though they pounded us,
we've mauled them, as I hope you will allow.
'Tis thought that we may be despatched in
search of Thurot's squadron. So no more at
present from your obedient and humble John
Easterbrook." Well, gentlemen, there is my
letter, and what do you think of it ? '

Always without a scratch,' said Mr.

Brings. ' Well, the lad is as lucky as he is
brave. Every bullet lias its billet. Pray that
the bullet is not yet cast which will find its
billet in Jack. Admiral, let us drink the health
of this gallant lad.'

And then they fell to talking of Jack's
future, and how they should all live to see him
an Admiral and a Knight, and in command of
a fleet, and achieving some splendid victory
over the French. But Mr. Brings checked
them, because, he said, that to anticipate great
fortune is, as the negroes of the Gold Coast
know full well, to draw down great disaster.
But still they talked of the brave boy who had
grown up among them, and was now doing his
duty like a man.

Now, in the midst of this discourse, the
landlord ran into the room, crying, ' Admiral
and gentlemen, here comes a French prize up
the river ! ' And all, leaving their pipes and
punch, hurried forth into the garden.

There is no more gallant sight than the
arrival of a prize, especially when, as then
happened, she comes up the river at the sunset

of a glorious sublimer day, when the yellow
light falls upon her sails, and colours every
rope of her rigging, and when, as then happened,
she bears about her all the marks of a
long and terrible battle — her bulwarks broken
away, her mainmast gone, great rents and holes
in her side, her sails shattered, and even the
beautiful carved group which once served for a
figure-head, such as the French love, broken
and mutilated.

A French prize, truly, gentlemen,' said the
Admiral. ' There is a French cut about her
lines — and look ! there is the white flag with
the Union Jack above.'

Lie came up Greenwich Reach, her heavy
sails barely drawing, as if she was ashamed of
being seen a prisoner in an English port. At
her stern floated the flag of the French Xavy,
the great Avhite flag with the Pioyal arms in
o'old. But above this flail there floated the
British Ensign. And every gentleman in the
company tossed his hat and shouted at the
sight.

Landlord,' said the Admiral, ' fetch me

your glass, and quick. The evening falls
apace.'

The landlord brought a sea telescope.

She's a fifty-eight gun-ship, gentlemen.
There has been warm work. Mainmast gone,
mizen topmast carried away, bows smashed,
rigging cut to pieces. Seems hardly worth the
trouble of bringing up the Channel. But ' —
here he wiped the glass with his coat-sleeve,
and applied it more curiously, ' who is that
upon the quarter-deck? Gentlemen — gentlemen
all — it is . it is . it is none other
than Jack Easterbrook himself in command !
Damn that boy for luck ! Cudjo, ye lubber,
bring me my stick ! Gentlemen, we will all
hasten to the Yard, and board the ship as soon
as she drops her bower. Landlord, more
punch ! Jack's home again, and in command
of a prize ! And, landlord, if I find my negroes
sober when I come back, gad ! Ill break every
bone in your body ! '

In this triumphant way did Jack come
home, in charge of a splendid frigate, the
Calypso,' taken after as obstinate an action as

one may desire or expect, by the ' Sapphire,' in
the Chops of the Channel, and sent to Deptford
under command of Lieutenant John Easter-brook,
to be repaired and added to Isis
Majesty's Navy.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

HOW BESS LISTENED FOR HIS STEP.

JJ|5T was not until nearly midnight that
^^ Mr. Brings came home — a late

gl hour even in London, where they
turn night into day ; but at Dept-ford
there is not so much as a sin ode drinking
open at that hour, and everyone, rogues
and honest men, the virtuous and the abandoned,
are all alike in bed and asleep. The
moon was full and the street Alas as light as
day. Over the Penman's shop the lattice-window
was partly open.

It is Bess's room,' said Mr. Brings. ' She
is asleep, and dreaming of her Lieutenant.
And he hath forgotten her. 'Tis pity she had
not listened to Aaron's voice. He hath surely
forgotten her, seeing; that he hath well-nigh forgotten

me, and asked no questions at all concerning
her. Sleep on, Bess ; sleep on, my
girl. To-morrow thou wilt not sleep at all :
and the next day, or the next, will come the
whirlwind ! Perhaps the sight of thy charms . . .
but I know not. Our honest lad is changed.'

He opened the door of his shop, and went
into his own den.

At nine of the clock, or thereabouts, when
the early chins had been shaved, and the wigs
dressed and sent round to the gentlemen, Mr.
Peter Skip worth, the Barber, found time to run
across the street to his gossip and neighbour
the Penman.

Great news, Mr. Westmoreland I ' he cried.
Great news for Deptford ! '

'Why?' asked the Penman. 'Is another
Czar coming here P '

'Xo — no. But the Lieutenant has come
home.'

Lieutenant Easterbrook .^ '

'What other? He came up the river last
nio-lit, in command — think of that ! the Lieutenant
in command I — of a prize sent here to

be repaired and added to His Majesty's Navy.
The Admiral ordered his negroes to o-et drunk,
so great was the worthy gentleman's joy ; and
now they lie like hogs at the Sh John Falstaff,
and cannot yet be awakened, though 'tis nigh
twelve hours since they rolled over.'

Lieutenant Easterbrook, who once was
Jack, whom I taught the elements of navigation
— he hath returned?' Mr. Westmoreland
was slow of catching news, being always
wrapped in the study of mathematics.

Bess stopped her work at the first mention
of his name, and listened — her heart beating,
and her cheek now flushed, now pale. Oh !
he was come home again !

We have not yet seen him,' the Barber
continued ; ' though I expect he will come to
have his hair dressed and his chin shaven.
None other hand but mine shall touch him, I
promise you. The landlord of the Sir John
Falstaff says that a more gallant gentleman he
hath never set eyes upon.'

Ha ! ' said Mr. Westmoreland. ' That the
Lieutenant is safe and sound, I rejoice. But

the brave boy who was so good at his figures,
he, neighbour, will no more return to us. He
is gone, and will never come back again.
Where is he now — that boy ? Where are now
all the boys who have since grown into men?
What has become of them ? I doubt he will
forget his humble friends and well-wishers.'
The Barber ran back to his own shop. ' Dost
remember the Lieutenant, Bess ? '

But Bess made no reply. He was come
back — her splendid lover ! How could she
answer her father's prattle, or think about anything
but Jack and love ? Already she felt his
arms about her neck, and his kisses on her
cheek ; and she was suffused with blushes and
the glow of happiness.

She would not, she thought, betray her
eagerness and her joy. Therefore, she went
about her household work as usual, yet with a
beating of her heart and expectancy, as if he
might send the Apothecary's assistant for herat
any moment. When all was done, and the
whole house as neat and clean as my lady's
tea-table, Bess went upstairs to her bedroom,

and began to prepare for her sweetheart, her
heart filled with gladness and pride that he
was come home again in a manner so glorious ;
and with terror, also, lest she might have lost
some of her charms. She looked in her glass.
Nay, she was more beautiful, she saw plainly,
than when he left her nigh upon three years
ago : her eyes were brighter, her figure fuller,
her lips ruddier, her skin whiter, her cheeks
rosier. If Jack loved her for her beauty he
must needs, she knew, and smiled at the plea-shoe
thought, love her now much more. Then
she drew his letter from her bosom, where it
lay wrapped in its silken bag, and read it allover
again, knowing the words by heart.
There is not,' it said, ' in all the world a more
beautiful girl than my Bess, nor a fonder lover
than her Jack.'

She put on her finest and best — with the
coral beads which Jack had given her to hang
round her neck, and the ribbons — also his gift —
would he remember them as well ? She dressed
her hair in the way that he used to love, and
then, when all was ready, she stole down the

stairs, and so out by the back way to the
Apothecary's parlour, that bower of love,
though it was not also a bower of roses and
fragTcint flowers.

The room was enipty. In the shop sat Mr.
Brings, in his place, the great book before him;
the assistant, James Hallow, stood at the
counter, rolling and mixing, and the shop was
filled with women who had brought sick
children.

Mr. Brings,' cried Bess.

Ay. . . . Ay, my girl,' he replied.

He has come home,' she cried, heedless
now of the women and their gossip.

Very like — very like — so they tell me.'

So they tell me!' she echoed, laughing.
As if it mattered nothing Yet he will buto



shake hands with the Admiral and come here.
So they tell me," he says.'

I come, Bess,' he replied, looking at her
sadly ; ' I come in a few minutes. Now, you
women who have had your answer and yom-physic,
take your brats away. This morning
I am benevolently disposed, and will cure them

all. Go away, therefore, and prate no more.
I come in a few minutes, Bess.'

So she waited, glowing with the anticipation
of her lover's welcome, her eyes soft and
humid, her bosom heaving ; and what with the
tumult of her soul and her finery — for, as I
have said, she lead put on her coral and her
ribbons — and all his gifts, looking truly a most
beautiful creature. At half-past twelve Mr.
Brings closed his great book, descended from
his stool, and came into the parlour.

I have seen him, Bess,' lie said. ' I saw
him last night.'

Oh ! you have seen him, and you did not
wake me up to tell me. You have spoken to
him. What did he say? How doth he look?
What did he ask about me ? What messages
did he send ? And is he wounded ? Is he safe
and well ? Oh ! but he will be here directly.
Even now his step may be in the street —
Listen ! — no — not yet — he will come to tell
me ! Wiry — you tell me nothing. Once you
said that my Jack might forget me. I Avill
not tell him that, Mr. Brings, because he is

masterful, and I would not auger him against
you. Why, you tell me nothing. I have put
on all the things he gave me. Am I looking
well ? Do you think he will find me
changed .^ '

For your questions, Bess, he looks strong
and well, though somewhat changed in manner,
and colder than of old ; and to some of us he
might have shown more civility. For me, I
complain not, though he gave me but a cold
hand ; but Mr. Shelvocke may justly complain,
and Mr. Underhill — though one, truly
but a supercargo, and the other but the
purser.'

Jack can never forget his old friends,' said
Bess, ' any more than he can forget his old love.
But he is now in command of a prize.'

'Bess, my girl,' said Mr. Brings, very
earnestly, ' don't build hopes on the promise of
a sailor. My dear, I know the breed, all my
life, being now past four score and ten. I have
lived among sailors. I tell thee, child, I know
them. With them, it is out of sight out of
mind. When a man goes fighting, hath he

VOL. II. U

room ill this mind for a woman ? And the morea
woman loves a sailor, the less he loves her.
If he hath forgotten thee, my dear, let him go
without a tear or a sigh, for there are plenty
other men in Deptford who would gladly
possess thy charms.'

Stop ! ' she cried, flying out suddenly.
Why, you are talking like a mad thing ! You
don't know my Jack. How should you know
him ? How should you know any men except
the pirates, your old friends, and the rough
tarpaulins who come here to be healed ? Who
are you, a little common apothecary, to talk of
men like the Lieutenant? How are you to
know the ways of the King's officers ? Wliy,
if you have been to sea in a King's ship, 'twas
only to mess with the Midshipmen and the
Purser's Mate.' .

'Well, Bess, well,' he replied, not angry,
but bearing the attack with meekness. ' That
shall be as you please. If your man is constant
he will seek thee here, in the old place. If he
is not, we will, I say, be reasonable, and expect
no better than others receive.'

Oh ! If you were a young man— a manlike
Aaron,' cried Bess, 'Jack slioukl beat you
to a jelly for this.'

'A}^, ay — very like, very like. You shall
beat me if you like, my girl. Bess,' said Mr.
Brings, looking her earnestly in the face, ' if it
would give you any pleasure, and bring your
lover back, you should beat me yourself till
you could lay on no longer.'

My lover will come back to me,' she replied.
' He will be here this morning or this
afternoon. Of course, he will come as soon ashe
can.'

Perhaps. But he is changed. He sat
among the gentlemen of the Club last night,
but it was to please the Admiral, not himself.
He wanted none of our company. I sat beside
him, but he asked me no question at all.
What ! — should I not know the lover's eyes ^
Bess, he hath forgotten thee.'

You are a liar ! ' she replied, springing to
her feet, as if she would take him at his word
and lay on till she could lay on no longer.
*You say this because you are old and ill

2

tempered, and envious of younger people's
happiness. Who are you that Jack should
remember you ? Who but a common sailors'
apothecary — and he a Lieutenant in Command?'


Ay, ay, my girl ; pay it out. I am a
sailors' apothecary. I am old and envious.
Pay it out. I value not thy words — no, not
even a rope's yarn — because, Bess, I love thee,
my dear, and I would not see thee unhappy
about any man. What is a man worth beside
a lovely woman ? If I were a woman, would I
throw my love away upon a single man ? Two
years and more hast thou wasted upon this
fine lover, who, when he comes back, hath
never a word to ask — not even, " How fares my
Bess"'

Why,' said Bess, ' how could he ask
concerning me, before those gentlemen ? Say
no more, Mr. Brings, for I would not be
angered and show a red cheek when he comes.
You know that I am easily put out. Besides,
you are only laughing at me, and I am a fool
to fly out. Jack will come to me as soon as he

can leave this ship. Very likely he will not get
away until the evening.'

So she sat down on the window-seat, and
recovered her spirits, feeling no doubt at all, nor
any misgivings, and began talking merrily of
what she would say when he came, and what
he would say to her, and how they would brew
him a glass of punch such as he loved, before
they suffered him to say a word of his own
adventures, and how she would fill for him a
pipe of tobacco, thinking — poor Wretch ! — that
her lover was unchanged not only in this affections,
but also in his manners.

Then Mr. Brings made his dinner. That
is to say, he fried his beefsteak and onions, and
presently ate them up, with a tankard of black
beer. After dinner he took a glass of punch,
filled and smoked a pipe of tobacco, and then,
rolling himself in his pillows, fell fast asleep, as
was his wont.

Bess meantime, her wrath subdued, sat in
the window-seat, waiting. But the step she
looked for came not.

So passed the afternoon.

Towards three o'clock. Mr. Westmoreland,
who had been so much occupied with his work
that he forgot his dinner, began to feel certain
pangs in the internal regions, which he at first
attributed to colic, and blamed himself for
greediness at meals ; but as the pain increased
and became intolerable, he pushed away his
papers, and sat up, suddenly remembering that
he had not had any dinner at all, and that these
Avere pangs of hunger. Three o'clock and
no dinner ! Where in the world was Bess ?

He was accustomed, however, to small
consideration from women, and proceeded to
rummage in the cupboard, where he found some
cold provisions, oft' which he made a very good
dinner. Then, as the day was fine, and the sun
shining, he stood in the doorway enjoying the
warmth.

As he stood there, he saw marching up the
street, no other than the Lieutenant himself,
whom he recognised, though he was greatly
changed, having now not only filled out in
figure, and become a man, who when last seen
was a stripling, but having acquired the dignity

of the quarter-deck, and the assurance wliicli
conies of exercising authority.

However chanced, Jack did not forget this
old friend.

'What!' he said, 'Mr. Westmoreland!
Thou art well, I hope, my friend ? '

I am better than I deserve to be, sir, and
glad to see your Honour safe home again.'

'Why, Mr. Westmoreland, the bullet that
has my heart for its billet hath not yet found
me, though it may be already cast for aught I
know. Thou art still busied with logarithms? '

By the blessing of Heaven, sir,' said Mr.
Westmoreland, ' I have had much to do,
both in the advancement of fine penmanship
and the calculation of the logarithmic
tables.'

Jack nodded and passed on ; but he
remembered something, and laughed. Then he
hesitated, and looked back into the Penman's
room.

You had a daughter, Mr. Westmoreland —
Bess, her name was, and a comely girl. I hope
she is well. But I see her not in the shop.

No doubt she is inarriecl long ago, and the
mother of thumping twins.'

He laughed, and nodded, and went on his
way.

My daughter, your Honour,' Mr. Westmoreland
began, but the Lieutenant was already
out of hearing.

Now,' said the Penman, ' saw one ever a
better heart? He not only remembers me,
which is natural, seeing that I was his instructor,
but he remembers my girl as well. Where is
Bess ? She will laugh when I tell her. Mother
of twins ! Ho, ho ! " Thumping twins ! " he
said ; Bess will laugh.'

About four in the afternoon Mr. Brings
woke up, and slowly recovered consciousness,
until he felt strong enough to take his afternoon
punch ; after which he sat up, and became brisk
assail. looking about the room, and remembering
all that had been said.

Bess,' he cried, ' hath your lover come ? '

She shook her head.

Courage, my girl, courage. Perhaps
when he sees thy comely face again he will

remember. What ! To be loved by such a
girl would fire an Esquimaux or a Laplander.
Take courage, therefore. There is no more
beautiful woman in Deptford, Bess. Take
courage.'

'I am waiting for my sweetheart,' she
replied, coldly. ' Why should I take courage ?
He hath been delayed by this affairs. He will
come presently.'

Bess,' Mr. Brings whispered, ' there is a
way to bring him back.'

To bring him back ? This old man will
drive me mad ! '

There is a way, Bess. The old negro
woman gave thee a charm to keep him safe
from shot and steel. She will give thee one, if
I compel her, to bring him to thy knees. Nay,
she will not at thy bidding. And for why?
Because she wants Miss Castilla to marry the
Lieutenant. Yet, if I compel her, she will
make thee such a charm. Then lie must needs
come straight to thee, his heart mad with love,
though a hundred line ladies tried to drag him
back.'

I know not what you mean.'

Mr. Brings took up his famous magic
stick, the stick with the skull upon it. * It is
by virtue of this stick, which gives its possessor,
she believes, greater Obeah wisdom than she
hath herself attained unto. Wherefore, if I
order her to do a thins she cannot choose but
obey, else 1 might put Obi upon her. Lie
hath given me the secrets of all her drugs, by
means of which, if I live long enough, I may
find out the greatest secret of all, and be like
unto the immortal angels. She shall obey mein
this as well, Bess. Say but the word, and
she shall bring him back, though Castilla die
for love of the handsome Lieutenant.'

No, no,' said Bess. ' He has not forgotten
me.'

Child, I know that he has. Why, when
he went away, if he thought of you his eyes
softened. He could not look upon me without
remembering his days spent in this room. Yet
his eyes softened not. Behave me, he Avill
come here no more. It is strange. . I
know not what will happen. . . . Sure I am

that I shall sail once more upon the Southern
Seas, with Jack upon the quarter-deck. A
dozen times or more have I inquired of Philadelphia,
and still she sees a ship with Jack —
and me — and you, Bess — you. Why, I am
ninety years of age, and more, girl. Shall I
o;et that charm for thee ? If I could o;et it no
other way I would even bribe her with this
stick, when all my Obi leaves me, and I shall
cause and cure diseases no better than the
quacks of Horn Fair and of Bartholomew.'

But Bess shook her head.

I will have no charm,' she said. ' If Jack
Avill forget me, let him forget me. But he has
got my name tattooed upon his arm and he has
got my lock tied round his wrist. If these will
not charm him back, nothing else shall.'

So she fell into silence. But at seven in the
evening, when Mr. Brings put on his wig and
coat for the Club, she arose and went
home.

Why,' said her father, ' where hast been
all day, girl ? There was no dinner. Well ; it
matters not ' — because her face warned him not

to rebuke her — ' it matters not, and, indeed, I
found enough cold bits in the cupboard. But,
Bess, thou hast missed a sight.'

What sight ? '

The sight of a gallant gentleman. I have
seen the Lieutenant. He passed by this way
to the Admiral's. 'Tis a brave officer now, no
taller, perhaps, than when lie left us last ; but
then he was a stripling, and now he is well
filled out and set up as brave and comely as
one would wish to set eyes upon.'

And he came to the shop to see me,
then?'

You, Bess .^ Why should he wish to see
you? No — no. . A gentleman like that
cannot be expected to remember a mere girl.
But he had not forgotten me, for when I saw
him and took off my cap to him, he stopped
and kindly asked me how I fared. His Honouris
not one who forgets his humble friends.'

Did he ask after me ? '

He did, I warrant. He said, " You had a
daughter, Mr. Westmoreland." So he looked
into the room as if he would give you, too, a

greeting ; but no one was there. So he said,
"But she is married long ago, I dare swear,
and hath thumping twins by this time."
Thumping twins," he said, Bess. His
Honour was always a merry lad. He remembered
me directly ; and he hath not even
forgotten thee, Bess. Do not think it.'

He had not, indeed. But his remembrance
was worse than his forgetfulness. Better to
have been forgotten than to be tuis remembered.


Then her father left her, to take his pipe
and have his evening talk with his cronies ; and
Bess was left alone in the house. Just so,
nearly three years before, she lead been lei't
sitting by the fire, when her lover came to her
and embraced her, with words which he lead
now forgotten but she remembered still ! Oh,
if he should now, as then, lift the latch, and
fid her there alone, and she could fall upon
his breast and tell him all the things in her
heart !

She listened for his footstep. Other steps
passed by the house, but not the step she

looked for ; and then her father came lionie,
cheerful and full of talk about the gallant
deeds of the Lieutenant, and she must needs
give him his supper and listen and make reply.
The Apothecary was right when he said,
Sleep on, Bess, sleep on. Thou wilt sleep but
little tomorrow night.'

CHAPTER XXIX.

HE HATH SUFFERED A SEA CHANGE.'

'UR Lieutenant was encored all the
morning with the Port Admiral and
with the Xavy Office, but in the
after part of the day the Admiral
made a great feast for him, as he had done on
his last return, to which I was bidden with the
rest. But the change which I perceived in
him greatly surprised me, and, indeed, all of
us. For the young sea-cub, rude in speech and
careless of behaviour, was quite gone. Behold
in his place a gentleman of polite manners, and
as careful of his speech as if he had been all
his life in St. James's Street. This was indeed
astonishing.

There are, it is certain, too many Captains
in the King's ships who have never known

better company than they find in a Portsmouth
tavern, so that the ridicule which has been
lavished upon naval Captains is not undeserved ;
there are also ships which are no better, as a
school of manners for the young officers, than
Ports Hard, so that the Lieutenants and
Midshipmen in such vessels hear nothing but
rough language with profane swearing, and,
even at the Captain's table, which is copied in
the wardroom and the groom, find the
manners of a Newcastle collier. There are also
Captains who should never have left the polite
part of town, because they pine continually for
the pleasures of the theatre and Eanelagh, the
clubs of St. James's Street, Covent Garden
suppers and gambling-houses ; who reek of
bergamot, and appear daily on the quarter-deck
dressed as if for the Park, and in their hair nota
curl out of place, or a single touch of
pomatum and powder abated. These men are
not those who crowd all sail in pursuit of the
enemy, and hasten to lay yard-arm to yard-arm.
The sailors call them Jacky Fal-las, and respect
nothing in them but their authority over the

cat-o'-niiie-tails. Other Captains again there
are (under one of them it was Jack's good
fortune to serve) who possess such manners,
and in their cabins exhibit and expect such
conversation and behaviour, as one fmds in the
most polite assembly, yet are no whit behind
the most old-fashioned sea-dog in courage.
What could we expect of Jack when he came
home to us, after four years spent in wandering
among savages, and in a French prison among
common sailors, but that he should be rude and
rough? What else could we expect, after
sailing under a commanding officer of good
birth and breeding, than that he should return
with polished manners and softened language r

This fact explained part of the change
which had taken place in him. But it did not
explain all, for Jack, who had formerly avoided
the society of ladies, now astonished us by his
demeanour towards Madam and Castilla, especially
the latter, whose conversation he courted,
addressing himself to her continually, so tha'
she was fain to blush under his manifest and
undisguised admiration.

VOL. ir. X

This would not have been wonderful in any-other
man, because eyes of heavenly blue, light
brown curls, delicate features, a lovely shape,
and the sweetest complexion in the world,
midst well call forth admiration. But Castilla
could boast the same charms, though not so
ripe, three years before, when they moved him
not a whit. Father, he regarded them with
the contempt of one who has only eyes for the
darker charms. Alas ! the same look was
gathering in his eyes — the look of tenderness
and of a hungry yearning — while he gazed
upon Castilla which had once been kindled by
the black eyes of our poor Bess.

Now,' cried the Admiral, when Madam
retired with Castilla, ' fore Gad ! we'll make a
night of it. Clean glasses, ye black devils, and
brisk about ! Jack, I hope the liquor is to
your liking. I love the Mediterranean, for my
own part, because the wine is cheap, and strong,
and plenty. Drink about, gentlemen, and when
you are tired of the port we will have in the
the punch. Gentlemen, let us drink the health
of the Lieutenant ! '

So the bottle began to fly, and the company
presently grew merry, and all began to talk
together, every man speaking of the glorious
actions in which he had taken part ; and, as is
natural when the heart is uplifted with generous
wine, every man thinking that the victory
was won by his own valour. Thus, the Admiral
related how he had planted the British flag on
the island of Tobago ; and before he had finished
the narrative Mr. Shelvocke interrupted in order
to tell the company that it was he alone who
had, with his own hand, sacked and burned
the town of Payta, and it was he who boarded
the Spanish ships on their escape from Juan
Fernandez ; next, the good old Admiral struck
in again to explain who it was that had made Sir
Cloudesley Shovel's victories possible. Captain
Mayne, at the same moment, remembered that
the powerful assistance he had lent to Admiral
Vernon at Portobello had never been properly
set forth by historians ; and so on. But our
hero, who had seen already more engagements
than any man present, though he was not yet
twenty-four, spoke little, and I observed, which

was indeed remarkable in a naval officer, and
would be, in this drinking age, remarkable in
any man, that he did not drink deep. Presently,
when the others were flushed in the
cheeks, and some of them thick of speech —
the first signs of drunkenness — Jack rose,
saying :

'By your leave. Admiral, I will join the
ladies.'

'What?' said the Admiral. 'Desert the
company? Exchange the bottle for a parcel
of women? For shame, Jack, for shame!
The punch is coming, dear lad : sit down —
sit down.'

But Jack persisted, and I rose too.

'Go, then!' the Admiral roared, with
a great oath. ' Go, then, for a brace of
gulping ! '

The ladies, who expected nothing but an
evening to themselves, as is generally their lot
when the men are drinking together, were
greatly astonished at our appearance.

'Indeed, Jack,' said Castilla, 'Luke, we
know, does not disdain a dish of tea with us.

But you — oh! I fear you will find our beverage
as insipid as our conversation.'

Formerly, Jack would have replied to this
sally that, d'ye see, Luke was a grass comber
and a land swab, but that for himself, there
was no tea aboard ship, and a glass of punch
or a bowl of flip was worth all the tea ever
brought from China — or words to that effect.
Now, however, he laughed, and said, ' Xay,
Castilla, was I ever so rude as to find your
conversation insipid? As for your tea, it will,
certainly, since you make it, be more delicious
than all the Admiral's port.'

At this she blushed again, and presently
made the tea and gave him a cup with her
own hands, hoping it was sweetened to his
liking ; and he drank it as if he was accustomed
to taking it every day, though I know not when
he had taken tea last. He would not, however,
drink a second cup, which shows that he did
not greatly admire its taste. Now, at the Rainbow,
in Fleet Street, I have seen gentlemen
who will take their six or seven cups of tea
one after the other at a sitting. And the same

thing may be seen with ladies when the hissing
nrn has been brought in and the tea goes
round.

Then Castilla asked him a hundred questions
about his cruise and his battles, which Jack
answered modestly and briefly, while still in
his eyes I marked that look of admiration — ■
I knew it well — growing deeper and more
hungry, and Castilla, observing it too, continually
blushed and stammered, and yet went
on prattling, as if his looks fascinated her, as
they say that in some countries a snake will so
charm a bird that it will sit, still singing, until
he darts upon it and swallows it up.

After this, he asked her to sing. Her
voice was gentle and sweet, but of small power,
and in the old days it had no charms for him,
compared with the strong full voice which was
at his service in the Apothecary's parlour.
But she complied, and sang all the songs she
knew in succession.

Jack listened, enthralled. ' 'Tis well,' he
said, with a deep sigh, ' that we have no
Castilla on board.'

'Why, Jack?'

'Because life would be so sweet that the
men would not fight, for fear of being killed.'

"Thank you. Jack,' she said. 'I never
expected so fine a compliment on my poor
singing.'

'There never were any Sirens on board
ship,' I said, clumsily. ' They are always on
land, and sing to lure poor sailors to destruction.'


'Fie for shame, Luke!' cried Castilla.
That was not prettily said. Am I trying to
lure Jack to his destruction, pray ? '

We all laughed ; and yet, when one comes
to think of that evening, I perceive that this
innocent creature was actually and unconsciously
playing the part of the ancient Siren,
because she certainly lured the Lieutenant to
the fate that awaited him.

Then Jack offered to sing, somewhat to my
dismay, because I remembered certain songs
which he had formerly bawled at the Gun Tavern
and in the Apothecary's parlour. However, he
now sang, his voice being modulated and greatly

softened, an old sea song with a burden of ' As
we ride on the tide when the stormy winds do
blow ' very movingly, so that the tears stood in
Castilla's eyes.

We heard, in the next room, the voices of
the Admiral and his guests growing louder and
faster, and conjectured that the evening would
be a short one. This speedily proved true, and
the negroes wheeled every man home to his
own house, except the Admiral, whom they
carried upstairs. As for us. Madam went to
sleep in a chair, and we sat down to a game of
Ombre, Jack showing himself as pleased with
the simple game we played as he had been with
the tea and the singing. At the same time his
eyes wandered from his cards to Castilla's face,
and he played his cards badly, losing every
game.

I cannot remember, Jack,' said Castilla,
when we finished, ' that you were fond of cards
when last you were at home, unless it were All-fours.'


He also played,' I said, ' Cribbage, Put,
Laugh-and-lie-down, and Snip-snap-snorum '

—all of these being games over which,
when played with Bess, he had shown great
interest.

Nay,' he replied, earnestly, ' I entreat you,
Castilla, to forget wholly what manner of man
that was who came home to you in rags. Think
that he had been for two years among the Midshipmen,
and then for three years among the
savages and the Spaniards, and then was thrown
into a French prison to mess with common
sailors. If you do not forget that rude savage,
forgive him, and understand that he has gone,
and will no more be seen. As for the things he
did, I look upon them with wonder. Why, if I
remember aright, Luke, that sea-swab did not
disdain to light a smuggler fellow at Horn Fair
before all his friends.'

He did not, Jack,' I said. ' But we loved
the sea-swab.'

We should have loved him better, Luke,'
said Castilla, gently, ' if he had given more of
his company to ourselves and less to the
Apothecary. I know how his afternoons were
spent, sir.' She nodded and laughed, and he

Jack, Castilla lias nothing to remember or
to forgive. Do you think she harbours resentment
for the little rubs of her childhood ? '

She is all goodness, Luke ; of that I am
convinced. She is as good as she is truly beautiful
; of that I need not to be told. As for
her beauty, there is nothing in the world more
lovely than the English blue eyes and fair hair.
It is by special Providence, I suppose, and to
reward us for hating the Pope and the French,
that they are made as good as they are beautiful.'


Did you always prefer fair hair to dark.
Jack .^ ' I asked, in wonder that a man should
have so changed and should have forgotten so
much.

As for what I used to say and think, dear
lad, let that never be mentioned between us.
Why, it shames me to think of what an unmannerly
cur I must have seemed to all, in
those days. Talk not of them, Luke, my lad.'

Poor Bess ! She was included among the
things belonging to those days. I dared not
question him further.

It is our unhappiness,' he went on, ' that,
though we would willingly remain on shore,
honour and our own interest call us to go to
sea ac^ain. Therefore, I know not how for a
man who is at present only a Lieutenant might
hope to win so fair a prize as Castilla. To be
sure, she is a sailor's daughter, and knows what
she would expect as a sailor's wife. Yet to
leave her alone, and without protection ! She
would have you, to be sure, for her protector,
while I am sone.'

Heavens ! It was not yet three years since
he had solemnly committed another woman to
my care. Had he quite forgotten that ?

In a word. Jack,' I said, with bitterness in
my heart, ' you have seen Castilla, since your
return, but tJu'ce or four hours, and you are
already in love with her.'

That is true,' he replied. ' I am in love
with her. Why,' he laughed, ' you are thinking,
I dare swear, of three years ago, when you
caught me in a certain summer-house, kissing
another girl.'

I acknowledged that I remembered the fact.

Jack, Castilla has nothing to remember or
to forgive. Do you think she harbours resentment
for the little rubs of her childhood ? '

She is all goodness, Luke ; of that I am
convinced. She is as good as she is truly beautiful
; of that I need not to be told. As for
her beauty, there is nothing in the world more
lovely than the English blue eyes and fair hair.
It is by special Providence, I suppose, and to
reward us for hating the Pope and the French,
that they are made as good as they are beautiful.'


Did you always prefer fair hair to dark,
Jack ? ' I asked, in wonder that a man should
have so changed and should have forgotten so
much.

As for what I used to say and think, dear
lad, let that never be mentioned between us.
Why, it shames me to think of what an unmannerly
cur I must have seemed to all, in
those days. Talk not of them, Luke, my lad.'

Poor Bess ! She was included among the
things belonging to those days. I dared not
question him further.

It is our unhappiness,' lie went on, ' that,
tliougli we would willingly remain on shore,
honour and our own interest call us to go to
sea again. Therefore, I know not how for a
man who is at present only a Lieutenant might
hope to win so soir a prize as Castilla. To be
sure, she is a sailor's daughter, and knows what
she would expect as a sailor's wife. Yet to
leave her alone, and without protection ! She
would have you, to be sure, for her protector,
while I am gone.'

Heavens I It was not yet three years since
he had solemnly committed another woman to
my care. Had he quite forgotten that ?

In a word, Jack,' I said, Avitli bitterness in
my heart, ' you have seen Castilla, since your
return, but tJu'ce or four hours, and you are
already in love with her.'

That is true,' he replied. ' I am in love
with her. Why,' he laughed, ' you are thinking,
I dare swear, of three years ago, when you
caught me in a certain summer-house, kissing
another girl.'

I acknowledged that I remembered the fact.

Is lie,' I asked, ' quite "forgotten ? Yet you
swore that you loved her, and vowed constancy.'


Well, my lad, every sailor is allowed to be
in love as often as lie comes ashore, for that
matter. And, as for the girl — what was her
name ? — I believe T did make love to her for
awhile. And now I hear that she is married,
and already the mother of twins.'

Who told you that ? '

Her father, the Penman.'

But it is not true, Jack. How could he
have told you such a thing ? Bess hath never
forgotten you.'

True, or not true, I care not a rope's-end.
I am in love with Castilla. Already, you say ?
Why a man who did not fall in love with this
sweet creature at the very first sight of her
would not be half a man. I expect to fight my
way through a hundred suitors, to get her hand.
The Admiral loves me, and I think he would
willingly make me his son-in-law. But I must
go to sea once more, before I can offer to marry
her. Therefore, for her sake, I shall go to

London, and turn Courtier. I shall attend the
nobleman who once promised me an appointment.
He hath now, doubtless, forgotten both
the making and the breaking of that promise.
That matters nothing. I shall pay my court to
him. I shall practise those arts by which men
creep into snug places : it needs but a supple
back and an oily tongue. Come to see me ina
week or two, and I will wager that I shall be
his Lordship's obedient servant, and that he
will presently give me a command, if only of a
pink; and that Castilla shall be promised tome.'


All these things came to pass, indeed. Yet
the result was not, as you shall learn, what he
looked for.

END OP THE SECOND VOLUME.

rniXTKD BY

SrOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street Square

London

l^»^

^fc.

iiifc-k*SK«

g,»Mi.^A:s;:ji»»

i^«y»4IJ«^*^ii^i

which it was withdra:.„'°o^orter;^r
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result ,n dismissal from the University

O-1096

WELL THEN
111.

BY

WALTER BESANT AND JAMES RICE.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3j'. (>d. each ; post 8vo. illus.
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s, 6d. each.

Ready-money Mortify.

WITH HARP AND CROWN.

THIS SON OF VULCAN.

MY LITTLE GIRL.

THE CASE OF MR. Craft.

THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY.

BY CELIA'S ARBOUR.

THE MONKS OF Helena.

'TWAS IN TRAFALGAR'S BAY.

THE SEAMY SIDE.

THE TEN YEARS' TENANT.

THE CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

NOVELS BY WALTER BESANT.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 2>^. dd. each ; post 8vo. illus.
boards, is. each ; cloth limp, 2.s. hd. each.

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN : an

Impossible Story. With Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

THE CAPTAINS' ROOM, &c. With Frontispiece
by E. J. Wheeler.

ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR. With 6 Illustrations
by H. Furnish.

DOROTHY FORSTER. With Frontispiece by
Charles Green.

UNCLE JACK, and other Stories.

CHILDREN OF GIBEON. Three Vols.

THE WORLD WENT VERY WELL THEN.

Three Vols.

THE ART OF FICTION. Demy 8vo. i^.

London : CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

BY

WALTER BESANT

AUTHOR OF

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN' 'DOROTHY FORSTER '

'CHILDREN OF GIBEON ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Il

WITH A PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR BY JOHN Penis, R.A.
AND ILLUSTRATIONS BY A. FORESTIER

ITonboir
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[The right of translation is reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER Page

XXX. ALAS ! POOR BESS ! 1

XXXI. AN AMBASSADOR OF LOVE 17

XXXII. HOW THE APOTHECARY DID HIS BEST . . 37

XXXIII. AN INTERESTING CASE . . . . 52

XXXIV. HOW CASTILLA WAS BETROTHED . 68

XXXV. Hoar PHILADELPHY KEPT THE SECRET . . 74

XXXVI. HOW BESS WENT OUT OF HER WITS . . 86

XXXVII. HOW BESS RECOVERED HER SENSES . . . 109

XXXVIII. HOW PHILADELPHY REFUSED A BRIBE . . 127

XXXIX. HOW BAD NEWS CAME HOME . . . . 140

XL. Hoar THE NEWS WAS RECEIVED . . ,159

XLI. HOW THE ' CALYPSO ' CAME HOME AGAIN . . 177

XLII. OF THE Court-martial . . . . .199

XLIII. AFTER THE COURT-martial . . . . 232

XLIV. HOW BESS WENT AWAY 249

XLV. THE CONCLUSION 269

PAGE

'her beautiful black hair pell upon her shoulders'

Frontispiece

'the admiral moved towards the door' . . .152

'hand under hand, our prisoner came swiftly down ' 266

CHAPTER XXX.

ALAS ! POOR BESS !

;LAS ! poor Bess !

You have heard how she spent
the first day, and with ^vliat a
heavy heart she went to bed. In
the morning she plucked up heart a little. As
for what the Lieutenant said to her father,
what matter if he did say that she was already
married? It was his joke — Jack would ever
have his joke. He had been busy all day.
The evening he must needs spend With the
Admiral, his patron and benefactor. But he
would not — he could not — fail to see her the

VOL. III. B

second day. So again she dressed in her best,
and repaired early to her place in the Apothecary's
parlour, where she took her seat and
waited. But she laughed no long-er, nor did
she prattle. Jack came not ; he was in
London, taking a lodging in Eyder Street, and
buying brave things in Which to wait upon his
Lordship. And the third day she went again
but now with white cheeks and heavy eyes,
and she rocked herself to and fro, replying
nothing, whatever Mr. Brings might says to her.

In the afternoon of that day I went in
search of her, being anxious, and dreading
mischief.

I know not,' said Mr. Westmoreland,
getting off the stool, ' I know not, indeed, Mr.
Luke, what hath happened to the girl, nor
where she is, unless she is in Mr. Brings'
parlour, where most of her days are spent.
These three days she hath forgotten to give meany
meals, and hath left me alone all day ;
while in the evening, when I come home, she
either sits mum or she goes upstairs. Nothing
disturbs the mind in the midst of logarithms

more than a doubt whether there will be any
dinner to eat or any supper. At this time of
the year I commonly look for soft cheese and a
cucumber. But now I have to get what I can.
I know not Avhat ails her. If I did know I
question whether I could find any remedy,
seeing' that she is so headstrong. Sometimes I
doubt whether there is some love trouble on
her mind. Yet I know not with whom. It
cannot be with Aaron Fletcher, because she
has refused the young man several times.
Besides, his affairs are said to be well-nigh
desperate, his boat being lost, his yard burned
down, his boat-building business thrown away ;
yet, if it is not Aaron, who can it be ? Because,
Sir, though my daughter hath her faults,
and those many, being as to temper equalled
only by her mother, nov in Abraham's bosom,
or — or — perhaps elsewhere,' he added, being a
truthful man ; ' yet, she is not one who courts
the company of men, nor listens willingly to
the voice of love.'

Mr. Brings, though it was in the afternoon,
was talking with his assistant in his shop.

b2

You ^vill find her he said, ' within. I
have left her for live minutes, for it teases me
to see her thus despairing. The worst has yet
to come, because she is not a girl to sit down
peaceably under this contempt. Well, for that
matter, every sailor is inconstant, if you please;
and the women know it, and expect it. But
Bess is no common Poll o' the Point, who looks
for nothing else than to be forgotten. Nor did
she first seek him out. Yet I knew what
would happen, because such love as his was
too hot to last — else Avould it burn him up.
There was a Bristol man in Captain Roberts'
company was consumed for love of a young
Coromandel girl, wasting away and crying out
that he was on fire, yet never happy unless she
was at his side. It is a natural witchery which
a few women possess, by which they make
men love them, and draw the very soul out of
the man they love. Bess hath this power : she
can make any man love her, and when she
loves a man she can bewitch him so that he
shall never be happy but at her feet. Why,
Jack hath forgotten her. Yet it is most true

that, if he but come back to her for a since
day, he would fall at her feet again.'

'Nay,' I said, 'he is already in love with
another .woman.'

Miss Castilla, the Admiral's daughter.
It is a passing fancy, because she is a pretty
creature, small and slender. But to compare
her with Bess ! — to think that a man can love
her as he can love Bess ! There, you know
nothing of love. Go in there, and I will
follow. I have known,' he continued, being
garrulous, as old men often are, ' I have known
such cases as this of Bess — the jealous woman
who hath been forgotten — ay, I have known
them by the hundred. Sometimes they take it
with a sudden rage ; sometimes they cry out
for a knife, and would kill their faithless lover
first and themselves next ; sometimes they
throw themselves into the water ; sometimes
they murder the other woman ; sometimes
they laugh, and lay by for a chance of revenge.
One woman I knew who concealed her wrath
for twenty years, but revenged herself in the
end. Sometimes they make up their minds

that it matters little. This case is peculiar ;
for the patient is not in a rage-as yet ; nor
has she called for a knife — as yet ; nor has she
promised to hang herself — as yet ; but she sits
and waits ; and all the time the humours are
mounting to the brain ; so that we are only at
the beginning of the disorder, and my forecast
as to this disease is, my lad, that we shall have
trouble. What ? Is a fie high-spirited girl
to be shoved aside into the gutter without a
word said, or any cause pretended ? Not so,
Sir ; not so. There will be trouble.'

I passed into the parlour with trepidation.
Bess lifted her head. Her face was pale and
haggard ; wildness was in her eyes.

Where is he ? ' she cried. ' You call
yourself my friend, yet you come without him.
Where is he ? '

I do not know, Bess, where he is, unless
that he is somewhere in London.'

I believe it is you who have kept him
from me — yet }'0u call yourself my friend.
You have set him against me. Though what
you have found to say I know not. I have



not so much as looked at another man since
lie went away, and I have kept his secret for
him, so that no one suspects. How dare you
put yourself between my sweetheart and me ? '

Indeed, Bess,' I told her, ' I have said
nothing against you. I have not put myself
between Jack and you. I have said nothing.'

Then she began to rail at me for ni' silence.
Why had I not spoken of her ? Why had I
not reminded him of his faith and promised
constancy ? ' And where is he,' she repeated,
that he does not come to me ? Is he afraid
of me? Doth he try to hide himself out of
my way ? '

I told her that he was in lodoin^^s in town,
and that his time was taken up with his affairs.
And then, because she began to upbraid me
again, I thought it was better to tell her the
truth, and, therefore, said ]plainly that the
Lieutenant loved her no longer ; that he had,
indeed, given me to understand, without the
possibility of a mistake, that the past was clean
forgotten, and gone out of his mind.

I was sorry — truly, I was sony — for the

poor creature. For every word I said was
notliiiio; less than a da^^o-er into her heart. A
man must have been as hard-hearted as a
Romish inquisitor not to have felt sorry for her.
She heard me with parted lips and panting
breath. Is there, I wonder, a more dreadful
task than to be the messenger to tell a fond
woman that the man she loves now loathes her?
Seeing that she received my information
with no more outward symptom of wrath, I
began to polit out, to the best of my ability,
that Lieutenant Easterbrook, when he fell in
love with her, was still less than twenty years
of age, who had been for six years separated
from his countrywomen, and had forgotten
what an Englishwoman should be ; that he
might have fallen in love with one of his own
rank, but for his longs wanderings amon
savages, and his imprisonment with common
sailors, which had left him rough and rude in
manners ; that things were now quite changed,
because he was not only an officer of some
rank, but was now a gallant gentleman, keeping
company of the best, and might, if he

desired, marry an heiress ; that his long silence
ought to have prepared her for the change in
his disposition ; and that, seeing nobody except
Mr. Brings and myself knew of what had
happened, a wise and prudent girl would show
her pride, and take her revenge by showing
that she cared nothing for his neglect. In fact, I
said on this occasion all that was proper to be
said. Mr. Brings sat silent in his chair, but
kept his eye upon Bess, as if expecting that
something would happen.

Then, long before I had finished all I had
to say, Bess suddenly sprang to her feet with
a cry, and burst forth into wild and ungoverned
wrath. I have seen fishwives fiirhtinf]^ at Billingsgate,
a ring of men and women round them,
and a truly dreadful thing it is to see women
stripped for battle and using their fists like
men ; never before, or since, have I seen a
young and beautiful girl thus give way to passion
uncontrolled. At first she could find no
words to express her wrath ; she clutched at
her heart ; she tore down her hair ; she gasped
for breath ; she swung her arms abroad ; she

swayed lier body backward and forward. I
looked to see Mr. Brings go seek his lancet,
and give her relief by breathing a vein. But
he did not. He sat looking on coldly and
anxiously, as if he was watching the progress
of a fever. Presently she found words.

I will not write down what she said, because,
as regards myself and Mr. Brings, her reproaches
were wholly undeserved, and, indeed,
we had been throughout her best friends.
Besides, the ravings of a semina furent, or
woman mad with jealousy and disappointed I've,
ought not to be set down, any more than those of
a man in delirium. When she came to speak
of her faithless lover she choked, and presently
stopped and was silent. But, poor soul ! all
the while she looked from one to the other of
us as if to find hope in join* faces, but saw none.
Finally, she shrieked aloud, as if she could no
longer bear this agony, and hurled herself
headlong upon the floor, and so lay, her head
upon her hands, her whole body convulsed.

'Let be, let be,' said Mr. Brings; 'after
this she will be better. The storm was

bound to burst. Better that it should rage iu
this room tliau that she should go to a certain
house we know of — he jerked his finger in the
direction of the Admiral's. ' Say nothing to
her; if you speak you will make her worse.
Presently she will come round. What ? Nature
can go no farther, unless she would wear herself
to pieces. And they never go so far as
that, whatever their wrath, because the pain of
the body becomes intolerable.'

He spoke as if she could not hear or was
insensible, which I take to have been the case,
for in five minutes or so she sat up, taking no
notice of what had been said, and became
partly rational, and said calmly, sitting on the
floor, that she should go away and kill Jack
first, and herself after arts ; and she declared
that, if he dared to address any other Avoman,
she would tear her limb from limb. So that I
trembled for Castilla. But Mr. Brings looked
on without surprise or terror, murmuring,
Let be, let be ; it will do her good. And I
have seen them worse.'

And, indeed, presently she arose from the

ground and tied up her beautiful hair, which
had i\illen about her shoulders, and smoothed
her disordered frock, and sat down again in
the window-seat, clasping her knees with her
hands, moaning and weeping, and rocking
herself to and fro. And at this symptom of
progress or development of the 'case,' the
Apothecary nodded and winked at me, as much
as to say that the disease was taking a favourable
turn.

He knew the symptoms, this learned physician,
who had studied woman's nature where
it is the most ungovernable and the most
exposed to observation, among the negresses,
and, I suppose, applied to more civilised
women the rules he had learned among these
artless pagans. For, in fact, she speedily
ceased either to weep or to moan, but sat
upright, drew a long breath, and spoke quite
gently and prettily, like a little child who has
been naughty, and now promises to be good
again.

I am sorry,' she said, ' that I have given
so much trouble — I will never do it again.

Mr. Brings, you have not had your nap, nor
your afternoon punch, through my fluilt. I
will mix you a glass, and then you shall go to
sleep.' She did so, and arranged his pillows
for him, and in a few minutes afterwards the
old man was sound asleep. Then Bess turned
to me. ' Forgive me, Luke,' she said, giving
me her hand ; ' you are my best friend —
except this poor old man, you are my only
friend. You have never been weary of teaching
me low a gentlewoman should behave, so that
I should be worthy of a gentleman : and now
it has ended in this. He has forgotten me,
who have never forgotten him — no, not for a
moment, since the day when first he told me —
oh ! the happy day ! He came into the room
where I was sitting before the fire and took mein
his arms — oh ! in his arms ! Could I ever
forget him ? No — no ; not for a moment.'

My poor Bess ! ' I said. ' What can I say
what do — for you in this dreadful trouble ? '

The tears stood in her eyes, but she wept
no longer.

I know,' she said, after a ^^'hile, ' what I

will do. Here is his letter to me.' She drew
it from her bosom. It went to my heart to seethe
prettily-worked silken bag she had made
for it with her own hands. ' First, you shall
take it to him, Luke, and give it to him yourself.
Will yon do so much for me ? It is nota
great thing to ask you, is it ? Give it to him
and tell him that he must read it, and then
bring it back to me. And Lnke, dear Lnke,
you have always been kind to me, always my
friend, though you know nothing about love,
do you? Else you would understand that a
woman woidd rather die than lose her lover.
Give him the letter. When he reads it, he will

remember, and then then, Luke ! You

will tell him — oh! tell him' — she laid her
hands upon my arm, and gazed upon me with
imploring eyes — 'tell him, dear friend, that I
am more beautiful than ever — Mr. Briiijes says
I am — and that I have tried to teach myself
the ways of a gentlewoman, for his sake ; and
that I can read and write, a little, so that he
shall not be ashamed of me ; and that I associate
no more with the other girls, and have

been true to him ever since he went away. Tell
him all, Luke, and everything else that you can
think of that is kind and friendly, and that will
make him want to see me aa'ain. Oh, if he were
here in this room with, me for one hour he would
love me again ! '

I will take the letter, Bess,' I told her,
moved to tears ; ' and I will give it to him
myself, and tell him all that you wish ; and
more — more, my poor Bess ! '

When will you give it to him ? '

To-morrow. Will that do ? '

So with that promise she appeared to be
more contented, and went away, though with
hanging head — the poor, fond, loving girl !

You may give the Lieutenant that letter,'
said the Apothecary, ' and you may tell him
what you please. But, if I know Jack Easter-brook,
you might as Avell try to knock him
down with a feather. As for makiuc^ her his
wife, it is out of the question ; and to become
his mistress without being his wife, Bess would
not consent ; nor, I think, would Jack ask her.
Because, d'ye see, he no longer cares a rope's

3'arn about her. Yet, if he would coin here
for a single hour — Bess knows her power —
trust a woman who has that power. But I
think he will not come. And so there will be
trouble — I know not yet of what kind — there
will be trouble.'

CHAPTER XXXI.

AN AMBASSADOR OF LOVE.

PlEADILY accepted the mission ; but,
like many other ambassadors, I hesitated
when the time came to discharge
ray trust. For Jack was like
those Oriental Bashaw who cut off the heads
of messengers that brinoj uncomfortable tidings.
First, I thought it would be best to give the
letter to him at Deptford, so that, if he was moved
by pity, or by love, he might go straight to the
poor girl and offer her consolation. But I had
promised to give it the verj- next day. Therefore,
I plucked up courage, and made my way
to his lodgings, the letter in my pocket, knowing
full well that he would take my interference ill,
being too masterful to brook counsel, advice,
or admonition from anyone, unless it came as
an order from a superior officer.

VOL. III. c

It was about ten o'clock in the morning
when I reached his lodging in Eyder Street.
He was sitting wrapped in a sleet, while the
barber was finishing his hair with the powder
pufF. On the table stood his morning chocolate
and cream.

Ho ! ' he cried. ' Here is the Prince of
Painters. Art come to paint me a portrait,
Luke?' (N.B. — I did paint his portrait, and
have it still, a speaking likeness, and a better
piece of work I never did.) ' Wait a moment,
my hearty, till this lubber hath finished
the top dressing.'

Presently the man finished, and removed
the sheet, showing beneath it a full-dress Lieutenant's
uniform — to my mind the blue of the
Navy is far more becoming to a handsome man
than the scarlet of the Army. Just as he rose
from the barber's hands, the man still standing
before him, the implements of the trade in his
hand and I beside him — I heard a rustling of
petticoats outside, and the door was opened by
a lady. She was wrapped fran head to foot
in a hood, and wore a domino.

Madam ! ' said Jack, bowing low.

The lady removed her domino, and laughed,
and threw off her hood. Truly a most beautified
creature she was, and most richly dressed.
'Twas the merriest, most roguish face that one
ever saw, with dancing eyes and laughing lips.
I ought to have known the face, because I had
seen it several times ; but I did not, because an
actress dressed for a Queen or a Sultana seems
to change her slice as well as her frock. She
was, indeed, an actress — very well known
to the world, as you would acknowledge did
I write down her name, which I shall not do,
for many reasons.

I have found my hero, then,' said the lady,
in his own — cabin — or is it on his own
quarter-deck? Are the decks cleared for
action? Are you ready, Sir, to engage the
enemy ? '

Alas ! Madam,' said Jack, ' I haul down my
colours, and give up my sword.'

He fell upon one knee and kissed the hand
which the lady graciously extended to him.
Now, observe that she took no kind of notice of

the barber or of myself, whom she mistook,
doubtless, for an assistant or some other kind of
tradesman. I mean that in what followed my
presence was not the slightest restraint upon
her.

I am a rash creature,' she said, ' to imperil
my reputation by visiting a Lieutenant of the
King's Navy alone in the morning. Suppose I
had been observed.'

Madam ' — Jack made her so fine a bow
that I could not help thinking of the Jack who
had come home in rags three years before —
could I desire a more delightful task than the
defence of your reputation ? '

'I thank you. Lieutenant. But I have a
readier defence in my hood and donnno. A
woman's reputation is quite safe, I assure you,
so long as she is not seen. It is in this respect
unlike so many gentlemen's honour, which is
only safe so long as they are seen. I came
not, however, for compliments. First of all, I
came to say that I shall be alone this afternoon.
You can visit me, if you please. Next, my
Lord is coming to supper with me after the

theatre. He will presently call here himself,
or send a letter, and will invite you to come
with him. To oblige me, Lieutenant, you will
come.'

Madam,' said Jack, with a smiling face,
you were born, sure, to make me the happiest
of men.'

The happiest of men! ' she repeated, merrily
lauo'hinfr. 'Oh! what creatures we women
would esteem ourselves, since, with such little
trouble, we can make men happy ! And how
miserable are we that it takes so much more to
make us happy ! Height ! You are made happy
with a smile, or a kind word, or a hand to kiss,
or permission to take supper with us — while
we. . Oh ! we know how little these things
are worth. Therefore. . . . No, Sir, you have
kissed my hand already.' At this point the
barber, who had now gathered up his tools,
retired from the room. I retreated to the
window, and gazed upon the street, as if I was
anxious not to listen. She, however, took no
notice of my presence. ' Come this afternoon,
then, and this evening, after you have seen me

from the front, you can join my Lord. But
that is not all I had to say, oh, happiest of
men ! ' She laughed again. ' This will make
you indeed a happy man, if the roar of the
cannons and the groans of wounded men are
sweeter than the smiles of women.'

Indeed, Madam, I cannot understand '

What I have now to tell will, I dare say,
make a round dozen of women miserable, for
my hero is a handsome hero. But not me. Sir.
Oh, pray do not think that ! An actress,
everybody knows, hath no heart. She is but a
toy, to be laughed at and played with, until the
men find another which is newer, and hath less
of the gilt rubbed off. Yet I shall be sorry.
Jack — do your friends call you Jack ?— though
it is but the day before yesterday that I made
your acquaintance. Sir.'

Still, Madam,' he persisted, ' I know
not '

This is a very fine coat, Jack,' she went on,
laying her hand, covered with a Avhite glove,
upon his sleeve. ' I love the colour. 'Tis a
new coat, too, so that 'twill be a pity to buy

another. Perhaps, however, this may be made
to do, and methinks it will be greatly improved
if we put a little lace upon the lapels and
cuffs, and change the button for one with a
crown instead of an anchor.'

Madam ! ' He started, and changed countenance,
because these additions mark the rank
of Captain. ' Madam ! Is it possible ? '

Why, Jack, when a handsome lad does a
woman so great a service, and for all his reward
wants nothing but to be sent away from her
sight, I doubt whether she is not a fool for her

pains if she help him — yet ' here she

sighed. ' His Majesty's frigate " Calypso," the
Sapphire's" prize, is to be refitted without delay
and commissioned. Go, take possession of your
own quarter-deck. Captain Easterbrook. Perhaps
the next lady whose jewels you save from
robbers may make you an Admiral.' With this
she curtseyed, so as to sweep the ground, as
they are wont to do upon the stage.

Oh ! Madam,' he cried, ' how can I show
my gratitude ? '

You will not set sail for a week or two

yet, I suppose. Come to see me as often as
you please. To my brave defender I am
always at home.'

She held out her hand, but Jack did not, as
I expected, stoop to kiss it. On the contrary,
he disregarded it altogether, and caught her in
his arms, kissing her lips and cheeks. I looked
to see her resent this familiarity with the
greatest show of displeasure, for here was no
simple girl of the lower sort, like poor Bess,
but a very grand lady indeed, who, for all she
was an actress, had all the noblemen of London
at lier feet. But, to my astonishment, she only
laughed, and gently pushed him from her.

Jack,' she said, ' thou hast truly a conquering
way. Let me go. Sir ! '

She laughed again, in her merry, saucy
way ; put on lier domino, pulled the hood over
her head, and suffered Jack to conduct her to
her chair, which waited without.

Hang it, Luke ! ' cried Jack, when he
came back. ' I forgot that thou wast here ;
and I dare swear Madam never saw thee.
Must I never kiss a pretty woman but this

virtuous fellow must still be looking on, with
open mouth ? '

Shall I tell Castilla, Jack ? 'thinking of
what might have happened had Bess been there.

Why, in a kiss there is no harm, surely ;
therefore, there is no need to tell Castilla. If
this news be true — and it must be tribe — Luke,
thou art a Puritan. As for a simple kiss which
is snatched, they like it, man. Every woman,
except Castilla, who is a miracle of goodness,
likes such kisses.'

Who is the lady, Jack .^ '

Why, she is a great actress ; and the other
night, by a lucky chance — I was going home
at midnight — I heard a woman's scream and a
trampling of feet. 'Twas but an attack upon
a lady's chair by footpads, whom it was nothings
to drive off without more trouble than to
draw and to slash one of them across the face.
Then I saw her safe to her lodgings. 'Tis a
grateful creature.'

She seems grateful,' I said. ' Do actresses
often appoint commanders to His Majesty's
ships?'

No, Luke ; no, my lad, they do not.
These appointments are given according to
merit, seniority, courage, seamanship, and
patriotism. That is very well understood, and
it is the reason why everybody is so contented
who wears the King's uniform. But suppose
that one of my Lords the Commissioners
should take a particular interest in a certain
lady, and suppose this lady should have eyes to
see all these virtues combined in one man ; and
suppose she should be able further so to persuade
his Lordship, who, we will again suppose,
knows already something of this man. Confess,
then, that it would be a lucky tiling for
this man were this lady to single him out for
the favour of recommendation.'

Truly, it would be lucky for him.'
Captain of the " Calypso," ' he exclaimed.
Why, have I done badly to command a frigate
at twenty-four ? What care I who appoints
me so that I get my chance 1 Will the world
know ? Have I done anything dishonourable ?
My Lord hath already promised me promotion.
I looked to be First Lieutenant perhaps— and

now. . . . Luke, my lad, I am so happy that
I could e'en go back to Deptford and fight
Aaron Fletclier again, as I did three years ago
at Horn Fair.'

Yes, Jack ; I could wish in my heart that
you would light him again, if it were about the
same woman.'

He changed countenance, but quickly recovered.


Come lad,' he said, ' ease thy mind, which
is full of something. Let me hear it.'

Put out of your mind,' I said, ' Castilla
and this actress and all Avomen, except one. I
have been asked by one whom you should remember
to bring to you a certain letter, and to
beg, first, that you ^vill read it, and next, that
you will, with your own hand, restore it to the
owner.'

With this I took the letter from my ];)ookct
and gave it to him in its silk bag.

'Why,' he said, breaking into a laugh, as if
the matter was not serious at all, ' tins is my
own letter. I wrote it, I remember, one afternoon,
off Cape Finisterre — I remember the day

very well. Did the girl — Bess Westmoreland
was lier name — give it to thee, Luke ? Oh !
I remember — I was in love with her. A
devilish fine girl she was, with eyes like shoes.'

He read the letter through. ' To think
that I wrote that letter, and that she believed
it ! '' Most beautiful woman in the world."
. . Fondest lover ! " Oho ! I wonder how
many such letters are written aboard-ship the
first week after sailing? As for this — why,
Luke, you had better give it back to the girl,
if she wishes to keep it. Tell her to show it to
her friends as the work of a fool. Perhaps her
new lover or her husband might like to have
the letter. But, indeed, I think she had better
burn the thing, in case of accidents. Husbands
do not like, generally, to read such letters.'

She has had no other lovers. Jack, on
your account.'

Pretty fool ! Bid her waste good time no
longer.'

She will suffer no man to speak to lier,
saying that she belongs to you alone, and thinking
you would come home to marry her.'

I suppose,' said Jack, his face darkening,
that the meddlesome old Apothecary is at the
bottom of this foolishness? '

And myself, too. Why, Jack, you
solemnly placed her in my charge. You
begged rae to take care of her. You tattooed
lier name upon your arm. Look at your arm.
What could we think ? She has learned things
for your sake. Jack-such as gentle manners,
and to restrain her tongue, and to govern herself
— generally, that is,' because I remembered
the scene of yesterday. ' You would not know
her again.'

Well, Luke, she has therefore been so far
kept out of mischief, which is good for every
girl. And this is a wicked world, and seaports
are full of traps for girls. Tell her, however,
that now she had better lose no time in looking
for a husband in her own station. The
fellow Aaron Fletcher would, perhaps, make
a good husband, provided he kept decently
sober.'

'Do not blame Mr. Brings. He hath
warned her continually that sailors go away

and break their promises. But will you see
her, Jack ? '

No. What the devil woidd be the use of
tiny seeing her ? '

I told him how she had put on her best,
and gone to wait for him at the Apothecary's,
and there waited for three long days. But he
was not softened a whit.

It is their foolish way,' he said. ' We say
fond things and promise whatever will please
them, and they believe it all. Why they believe
the nonsense, the Lord knows. As for
the men who say it, and make the promises,
they believe it too, I dare say, at the time. 'Tis
pretty, too, to see them purr and coo whatever
extravagances you tell them. I remember now '
but here he stopped short in his recollections.

Jack,' I said, ' will you pull up your
sleeve, and show me your arm .^ '

He laughed, and obeyed. It was his left
arm, and, as we know, it was tattooed all over
with the once-loved name of Bess.

'Tis like the arm of any fo'k'sle tar,' he
said. ' What was I, in these days, better .^ Yet,

lad, the name hath no longer any meaning to
my eyes.'

Meaning or not,' I insisted, ' will you give
her the letter with your own hand ? Jack, only
let her tell you what is in her mind. That is a
small thing to do.'

It would be more cruel than to refuse
to see her at all. Trust me, if this girl gives
trouble I shall know how to deal with her. If
you have any regard for her, bid her spoil her
market no longer, and put maggots out of her
head. She would marry me, would she ?
Kind soul, I thank her for it with all my heart.
She would marry me, would she ? I will tell
thee a thing, my lad, Which thou wilt never
find out for thyself with all thy paint-brushes —
there is no woman in the world more hateful
to a man than a woman whom he hath once
loved and now loves no longer. It is like
coming back to a half-finished banquet Avhen
the dishes are cold and the wine is stale. Yet
the foolish women believe that once in love,
always in love. Better she should learn the
truth at once, and so an end.'

He gave me back the letter, and would say
no more upon the subject. But he said I
must make a picture of him before he went
away, and lie would be painted in the new
uniform, which he would order immediately ;
and I must go instantly and tell Castilla of his
ixood fortune. Thus was I made a oro-between,
first to one and then to the other.

And now, Luke, my fortune is made, if I am
only moderately lucky. He who is Captain at
twenty-four may well be Eear- Admiral at thirty,
and command a fleet at thirty-five ; at forty lie
is certainly a Knight, and perhaps a Viscount ;
and at seventy he lies in Westminster Abbey.
What could I hope for better,' he asked, glowing
with the joy and elation of his appointment,
than to command a frigate, easy to handle, swift
to sail ? Why, it will be the " Tartar" over again
in the Captain's cabin instead of the ward-room.
That was warm work ; but I hope to show
warmer work still. God knows, Luke,' he said,
earnestly, ' I say it not in boastfulness, I can
handle a ship as well as the best man afloat.

Zl

and I can take lier into action, I promise you,
as bravely.'

So he talked ; thinking no more at the time
of the actress, or of Castilla, or of Bess, for the
thought of any ship was enough to turn his
mind from a woman, though he so easily fell
in love with a pretty gh^l. And while he was
thus talking of his promotion and the things
he hoped to do with his vessel, there drove to
the house a chariot, with footmen, and gold
panels, very splendid, and two gentlemen got
down. They came to visit Jack. One of them
was a man no longer young, yet erect and tall,
with aquiline nose and proud eyes. He wore
a satin coat, with a sash, and a star blazing with
diamonds. The other was in the uniform of
the Army.

Jack sprang to his feet, and bowed to the
ground. ' My Lord,' he said, ' this is an extraordinary
honour. Indeed, I could never have
expected it.'

'I have come, young gentleman,' said his
Lordship, speaking slowly and with the dignity

yoL. III. D

which became his rank, ' to tender you my
thanks for the service which you performed the
night before last to a certain lady.'

My services, my Lord, were trifling,
though, fortunately, opportune.'

Had it not been for your assistance the
lady would have lost the jewels which she had
worn at the theatre. What other loss or insult
she escaped, I know not. I learn that, at her
request, you have ahx^uly paid a visit upon
her.'

At her request, my Lord, I had that
honour yesterday afternoon.'

Believe me, Sir, that in return for such a
service there is nothing that I can refuse you.'
Jack bowed a^^ain very low. ' And since
nothing will please you so much as to go back
as quickly as possible to the fighting '

Nothing so much, my Lord.'

Then you must go. Your name, I find, is
already favourably known. I have therefore
the pleasure of promoting for the sake of merit
alone, which is not always possible for a Commissioner.
You are promoted. Sir, to the

command of the '' Calypso," the '* Sapphire's "
prize.'

My Lord,' said Jack, again bowing low,
I have no words, indeed, to express my gratitude
for this great, this unexpected, and undeserved
favour.' Looking' on from the corner
of the room, beside the window, I confess I
could not help thinking that it would be best
for Madam to say nothing about that salute
upon her lips.

Then,' said his Lordship, ' no more need
be said.' He rose, and added, smiling, ' Since
you will have to go back in a few days to salt
junk and pea-soup. Captain, make the most
of your time ashore. There will be a supper
after the play this evening. I will, if you
please to honour me with your company,
carry you thither in my coach.'

I am honoured to be one of your Lordship's
guests,' said Jack.

A rolling deck, a wet cabin, the smell of
tar everywhere, great sea-boots, the waves
flying over the ship, the enemy pitching
cannon-balls on board — this is what you like,

Captain Easterbrook. Well, Sir, you will have
plenty of it, for there will be a long wear, if all
I hear is true. I shall see you, then, this evening.
Come, Colonel.'

CHAPTER XXXII.

now THE APOTHECARY DID HIS BEST.

ELL her plainly,' said Mr. Brings,
what he said, and how he looked
while he said it. Spare her in
nothing ; so will she the more
quickly come to a right mind. What ? Didst
ever see a surgeon take off a man's leg ? Doth
he chop here a cantle, and there a snippet, for
fear of causing pain ? Not he ! He ties his
bandages and takes this saw, and in live minutes
off goes leg ; and, though the man may bellow,
yet his life is saved.'

There was little hope in her face when I
went in to her ; the trouble of it made my heart
bleed. To think that a woman should still so
much love a man who had thrown her away
with as little thought as one throws away the

rind of an apple. . I thought she would
have hated him. But no ; at a word, she
would have arisen to follow and obey him
like a slave.

'Bess,' I said, ' be brave.'

Where is he P '

He is in London, at his lodgings.'

Did you give him the letter ? '

I did. He sent it back to you. Here it
is. Courage, Bess. No man is worth so much
crying over. It is as I told you before. He
loves you no longer. When he thinks of the
past, he wonders at himself. When he remembers
how much he was once in love,
he laughs.'

'Doth he laudiP Oh! Luke, can he
laugh? ' It was wonderful to her that the thing
which destroyed all her happiness could be to
him only the cause of laughter.

Bess, my dear, I am grieved to the soul
that I must tell you this. Alas! he laughs.
He can never love you any more. Forget him,
therefore. Put him cut of your thoughts.'

He laughs at the girl to whom he wrote

this letter — oh ! this clear letter. Why doth
he laugh ? I cannot laugh, because I loved
him.'

She rose, and sighed heavily. ' Well,' she
said, ' there needs no more, Luke. I have lost
my sweetheart. That matters nothing, does it ?
Thousands of poor women lose their sweethearts
every year, in action and in shipwreck. Xo
one pays heed to the women. What matters
one more woman ? Oh ! I would to God that
he was lying dead at the bottom of the sea ;

and I — and I — and I ' She rushed from

the room with distraction in her looks.

There was great rejoicing at the Admiral's,
whither I carried the glad news of Jack's promotion.
Castilla attributed it entirely to the
extraordinary discernment of his Lordship, who
deserved, she thought, the highest credit for
discovering Jack's real ability and courage, so
that lie should be promoted, over hundreds of
heads, to the command of a frigate, before lie
was four-and-twenty years of age. Truly, it
makes one no happier to be wiser, and Castilla
knew nothing about the great lady of Drury

Lane. Heaven forbid that lie should learn
anything about that ravished kiss !

The day was marked at the Club in the
usual manner — viz., by an extra bowl of punch ;
and I sat beside the Admiral and told the company
how his Lordship, in a splendid satin coat,
with a red sash and a diamond star, had condescended
in person to inform this fortunate
young Commander of his promotion. But you
may be sure that I told nothing about the
actress, even to the Admiral, who marvelled
greatly at the boy's success, and wondered,
being wise by experience, by whose private
interest he had been promoted.

But the woman who ought most to have
rejoiced was wandering all night long, in wind
and rain, over the desolate moor called Black-heath,
raging and despairing because the man
who once loved her so tenderly had now forgotten
her, and laughed to think that he could
ever have thought lie loved her. In the morning
she came back, mud-stained and draggled,
hollow-eyed and wan of cheek, to the parlour
behind the Apothecary's shop ; and here, presently,

she fell asleep, being wholly spent with
sufferings and fatifj^ue.

Now, when Mr. Brings came from his shop
and saw her thus asleep and so pale of cheek,
he was moved with compassion, and resolved,
though he had not visited London for twenty
years, that he would himself try to move the
hard heart of her lover. Accordingly, he put
off his worldly clothes, and reached down his
great wig and the . coat in which he sat at the
Club (both of which belonged to the early years
of George I.), and so, fully persuaded that he
Alas dressed quite in the modern fashion of a
Court physician, he took oars for Hungered
Stairs, whence he walked to Eyder Street.

On the way, the boys shouted at him, for
he cut the queerest figure, his velvet coat being
so old that it had turned green in places, his
lace in rags, his old-fashioned wig unkempt and
shabby. But he walked briskly, careless of the
boys, and carried his gold-headed stick with an
air of majesty.

Jack,' he said, dropping into a chair, ' thou
art now, I hear, a Captain. Give me a glass of

brandy — 'tis a long journey from Deptford —
and I will drink to thy good-luck. So — this is
a pretty, commodious lodging, Jack. I passed
some fie women on the way from Hungered
Stairs. Have a care, my boy. Do not suffer
any of the fine birds to bring theh^ fine feathers
here ; else it may cost thee dear. Be content
with some honest wench who Avill love thee
and not try to rob and plunder all the' prize-money.'


Well, Mr. Brings ' — Jack was not, I think,
best pleased to see the old man at his lodgings,
and more than suspected the errand on which
he came — ' can I be of any service to my old
friend ? '

'That depends, Jack — that depends. The
greatest service you could do for me would be
not to foro'ct old friends.'

Indeed, I have forgotten no old friends.'

Or old sweethearts ? '

Why, as for old sweethearts, my old friend,
they may go on so long as to become stale.
This, you have often assured me as matter of
your own experience.'

It is quite true,' replied the Ever, who
had not looked to have his own maxims thrown
in his face ; ' it is quite true, I say, that woman
is by nature a jealous creature — the nearer to
nature you get the more jealous you will fid
her. Something of the tigress in every one.
Wherefore Bess, who is as passionate as a negro
woman, is more jealous, I dare say, than a
London fie lady, who hath not the heart to
be greatly jealous. Also, a woman can never
be made to understand such a simple thing
as that she ought to be contented with the
half-share of a man, or the quarter-share, or
even a short six months of his life ashore.
Nor doth she ever perceive dien the time
arrives that she should cheerfully make way
for another. Yet — poor Bess ! I am sorry
for the wench.'

'In South America,' said Jack, talking in
the same strain, ' where they smoke the cigar,
one that hath been half-smoked and thrown
away is nauseous if it be taken up and lighted

assam.

It is so,' said Mr. Brings. ' Everyone who

hath been in Guayaquil, which is nig1i unto
South America, knows that it is so.'

Wherefore,' said Jaclv ; but left the conclusions
to be drawn by the philosopher.

'The thing is so,' Mr. Brings repeated.
Jack, when thy first letter came I knew that
the fit was too hot to last. And when no
more came I understood very well what had
happened. For my own part, I never loved
any woman more than four-and-twenty hours
after leaving port. Why, I have seen sailors
marrying the day before they sailed, and yet
coming on board unconcerned. This forge fulness
is a special gift of Providence, intended
for sailors alone. But as for Bess, while you
thought no more upon her, she had that letter
wrapped in a silken bag, and hung about lier
neck ; and every day she kissed and hugged it,
thinking — poor, fond soit ! women are fools,
yet wee needs must feel pity for them ! — that
the writer, like herself, would never change.
She began to learn things for her lover's sake ;
she learned to read and write ; she watched the
ladies in church to see how they dress, and

how they carry themselves ; she made Luke
teach her some of their finickin', delicate ways,
which don't go down with a sea-pie and black
beer, such as you used to love in the days
before your breeches were white, and your
stockings of silk, and while your buttons
carried a simple anchor. Moreover, Bess woukl
no longer consort with her okl friends, and
would suffer none of the men so much as to
have speech with her. And she made Luke
tell her what words and sayings of hers would
offend the ears of gentlewomen. Li short,
there she is, my lad, a woman ready for you ;
as to manners, so far as I understand the
matter, as fine as a countess ; as to good looks,
not a countess of them all can touch her ; as to
figure — Lord ! a finer figure was never made ;
as to temper, a noble temper, my lad, quick
and ready to flame up. What ? One that will
keep her husband alive, I warrant, and stirring.
Why, Jack, we talked of a half-burned cigar.
This one is not yet even lighted. Try it again,
dear lad. 'Tis made, I swear, from the finest
leaf of Yiro;inia. In South America they have

none such. As for truth and constancy, I will
answer for them with my life : and for affection
why, 'tis nothing less than a madness she
hath for thee. Come, what want you with line
ladies? They will but play with you when
you are ashore, and forget you when you are
at sea, while, as for Bess, Bess will keep your
house while you are away, and when you come
home, she shall be the tenderest wife in the
world and like a faithful slave for service.
What P You would say that by birth she is
below the rank of a Commander ? Jack, harkye
! ' — here he whispered, as if imparting a
great secret — ' a beautiful woman hath no
rank. There must be rank for men, otherwise
there would be no discipline on board the ship.
Rank was invented for that purpose ; and the
pretence is necessary for order's sake, whether
we call each other Duke, Earl, and noble Lord,
or Captain, Lieutenant, and Master. Yet it is,
even with men, nothing but pretence at bottom.
But for women there is no rank at all, whatever
they may themselves pretend. Which is
proved, Jack, by the fact that great men do

constantly fall in love with women of the
meanest origin, as witness Charles II. and Nelly
Wynne. You may put Bess upon a throne,
and, my word, there is not a Queen among
them all would outshine her black eyes and
beauteous face. Whereas you will never see a
woman of gentle birth fall in love with a clown.
Rank is for the ugly women to console themselves
withal, by walking in front of each other.
Give me another tot of brandy, Jack ; and
think of her again, I say. Why, I can never
get out of my mind that we shall all three —
you and Bess and I — we shall all three sail together
across the broad Pacific to pick up my
treasure, and to burn the town of Guayaquil,
where they made me a slave. I cannot die
until that town is burned.'

I know nothing,' said Jack, ' about your
dreams. But, for the rest, you are too late,
Mr. Brings. I have forgotten the girl. All
the past foolishness is over and finished.'

Yes,' said Mr. Brings, looking at him asa
physician when he feels the pulse, 'yes': he
spoke slowly and sadly, ' I now perceive plainly

that it is all over. The symptoms are clear.
Your eyes warm no more at the thought of the
girl. Her chance is gone. The poor child
hath had her time. Well — I shall go home
again. Pray Heaven, my assistant hath not
already poisoned a customer or two. Jack,
keep out of her way. There will be trouble
yet.'

'Why, Mr. Brings,' he laughed, 'you do
not think that I am afraid of a woman ? '

Xay — I said not that. But — well — we
shall have trouble yet. And for these Southern
Seas, sure I am that I shall see them again
before I die.'

So the Apothecary went away, liavinjj; done
what he could, and having failed.

We sailors,' said Jack to me presently,
are great fools in our love for taverns and
drinking bouts and low company, so that
those are right who represent us as so many
dull dogs who have no manners, and can do
nothing ashore but drink about. Why, when
I came home, three years ago, the Gun Tavern
was the height of civilisation, the Apothecary's

dirty parlour was the abode of politeness, and
poor Bess was the finest lady in the land.'

We are mostly such mere tarj^aulias,' he
continued, after a space, ' that landsmen do
well to despise us, though we fight their battles
for them, and care not how we are treated,
nor how many hundreds they pass over when
they make appointments. Then we fall to
cursing the service, instead of our own common
habits. There was on board the " Tartar " one of
the lieutenants (he is now dead) who was a
gentleman — I mean by taste and education, as
well as by birth — who sometimes, talked with
me, saying " that 'twas a pity a lad of my appearance
and figure (which he flattered) should
not study polite manners for the sake of my
own advancement, because, with a little trouble,
I might certainly attract attention in high
places, and so receive promotion." In this he
was partly right, though I now find that great
men think they can pay for the service of
flattery in promises, as a merchant pays for
goods with a piece of paper. But there is a

VOL. III. E

difference, because, if the merchant do not redeem
his promise when the day comes, he is
dishonoured ; whereas if a nobleman doth not
redeem his promise, no one throws the fact in
his teeth. And if I had not been so hicks as
to rescue a certain friend of my Lord, I doubt
whether I should have got any appointment, to
say nothing of promotion.

But, lad, consider. Here I hive among
the best ; I am received at a great man's table ;
I sit in the coffee-house among the wits or
the fops, as I please ; I go to the theatre, to
Eanelagh, and to Vauxhall ; there is the gam-unstable,
if I choose to risk a few pieces ; if I
am ever disposed for a quiet evening, there is
the society of Castilla, the sweetest girl in the
world ; if for a sprightly party, there are the
suppers of my friend — my patron, if you please
and this actress. Think you that after these
things I can go back to Mr. Brings' stinking
parlour, and the Penman's daughter ? She
may be as beautiful as he says — I care not.
She is certain to have coarse hands, rude

speech, and plain manners. You might as soon
expect me to go back to the cockpit, and to
mess again with the midshipmen, the volunteers,
and the surgeon's mates ! '

«>-"

K-j

CHAPTER XXXIII.

AN INTERESTING CASE.

HAT would be done next I knew
not, yet feared something desperate,
the case lying (on the
one hand) between a woman
driven A\^ell-nigh mad with love and disappointment,
and (on the other) a man of great
determination, inflexible to tears and entreaties,
and, besides, one who now regarded this poor
girl, as he himself confessed, with as much
loathing as he had once felt love. I have read
in some book of travels that there are certain
hot fountains in Iceland which burst forth from
time to time with incredible force, and either
scald to death those upon whom they chance
to play, or, by the ground sinking beneath
their footsteps, do suddenly engulf them. We

were now — that is, Mr. Brings and myself,
who alone knew what was threatening — like
unto those who walk upon ground where these
fountains break out ; for we knew not what
ruin might fall upon us at any moment, caused
by the hand of a desperate woman.

Ko one knows the trouble the poor girl
gave us at this time, with her changing moods,
her fits, and her despair. For sometimes she
would sit for many hours swinging her body
backwards and forwards, tearing a ribbon ora
handkerchief with her teeth ; sometimes she
would sit quite still, her eyes fixed and glowering
; then she would suddenly spring to her
feet, and cry aloud that she could bear it no
longer ; sometimes she would threaten death
and murder to lier false lover, and to any
woman who should dare to take him from her ;
sometimes she would rush from the room and
wander away, till she was forced to come back
for weariness ; and sometimes she would become
gentle again, acknowledge her wilfulness,
and beg forgiveness for her bad temper and
her wild words. But these occasions were

rare. She spent the whole day in Mr. Brings'
house — that is, when she was not in one of
her restless moods, wandering over Blockhead,
or farther a-field, in the woods and fields of
Eltham or Wormwood. More than once she
spent the whole night out, returning in the
morning spent w^itli fatigue, her fury only
appeased for a time by the weakness of her
body. As for her father, she neglected him
altogether, so that the poor man was now
obliged to provide his own meals, sweep and
keep clean this room, and make his own bed.
Yet,' he said, ' I dare not say a word in remonstrance
or rebuke, so terrible is her temper,
in which she nov\r seems to surpass lier mother,
though I confess she doth not beat me over the
head with the frying-pan, as my wife was wont
to do. Mr. Brings, before whom I have laid
the case, advises patience. Well, Mr. Luke,
I am a patient man. Of that I am very sure.
I have been patient all my life — when I was a
boy and the stronger boys hectored it over me ;
and when I was a prentice, and my master
half-starved me ; when I was a married man

and my wife scratched, beat, and cuffed me
daily ; and now when my daughter is grownup.
It is not recorded of the Patriarch Job
that his wives and daughters were thus ungoverned.'


Sometimes she would speak of her wrongs,
and mostly she was grieved because Jack
laughed at her.

If he were dead,' she cried, ' I could weep
for him all the days of my life, thinking he
loved me to the end. Oh ! I am a fool to care
for such a man or to cry over him. He laughs
at me. I am a fool. He laughs at me. Why
did I not forget him the moment his ship was
out of sight, and take another sweetheart ? '

Pity,' said Mr. Brings, slinking his head.
A thousand pities you did not.'

Hold your tongue ! ' she turned on him
fiercely. ' How dare you speak ? You were
all in league to mock at me. Why, 'twas thus
you beguiled the poor black negro girls, you
and your pirate crew. And then you laughed
at them.'

Faith ! ' said Mr. Brings, ' if a man

desert a black girl she generally murders him
for it;

She looked at him strangely, and rushed
away, saying nothing.

I am sorry,' said Mr. Brings, ' that I told
her about the negress's revenge, for she is now
capable of everything ; and perhaps she will
go away and put a knife into his heart.' This
he said calmly, as if murder was too common a
thing to surprise him. ' There was once a girl
'twas at Providence — whose lover — a smart
fellow, too, and one of our crew — deceived her.
What did she do ? Pretended to forgive him ;
passed the thing over ; treated it as a joke,
and played the loving sweetheart to the life,
laughing and singing while she served up the
poisoned meat that was to kill him. She put
in it the herb stramonium, which there grows
wild ; and the women know its properties very
well. She laughed the louder afterwards,
while he twisted and rolled on the ground
and bellowed in his agony. The men burned
her alive for it, because this was an example
that might affect them all ; but she cared

nothing for the torture, for she had her
revenge ; and, whatever was done to her
afterwards, nothing would hurt her, so long as
she could think of that. Look you, Bess is
such another as that negro girl. She is as
passionate and she is as jealous. There lias
been murder in her mind ever since Jack came
home. I have read the thought in her eyes,
and now I have put it into words for her.
Trouble will come.'

It was not this crime that I feared, because
our women know not, happily, the use of
poisons ; and the worst among them shrink
from taking life. But I feared that she might
rashly and in despair kill herself; or commit
some act of violence towards Castilla, if she
suspected that Jack was paying lier attentions ;
or that she mio-ht lose her reason altogether.
And indeed, in those days, I am sure that she
was partly mad.

You shall learn what she did.

First, she would hear from her former
lover's own lips the sentence of her dismissal.
She would read her fate in his eyes. Therefore,

one morning, without informing anyone of
her intention, lie took boat and was carried up
the river, and so made her way to his lodging
in Eyder Street. No neglect of dress could
hide the girl's wonderful beauty, but it was
unfortunate, the Captain being now daily in
the society of ladies who omit no point in their
attire which may help to enhance their charms,
that she came to him in a common stuff frock,
that in which she was accustomed to do the
housework, and a plain straw hat, so that she
looked exactly what she was, the daughter of
some tradesman of humble station. This, I
say, was unlucky for her. Another unlucky
thing was that the Captain was not alone in his
lodging ; and it shamed him that a girl, so
common in her dress and appearance, should
thus present herself and call him Jack, and
remind him of his broken vows. You will
expect, when you hear that Bess found a lady
in the room, a scene of mad and violent
jealousy. But nothing of the kind happened.
And yet the situation was one which might
very well have caused a jealous woman to fly

out, for the lady, who was none other than the
Drury Lane actress, was sitting in a chair, and
Jack was standing over her. She was looking
up at him with her merry laughing eyes, her
hair curled over her forehead, and her face as
if it was always and naturally bright and
joyous (this thing one constantly sees in women
who play upon the stage, though I know not
why they should be happier than other folk).
Her hood, in which she had been wrapped, and
her domino, lay upon the table, and she was
dressed most daintily in some flowered silk,
with laced petticoat and kid gloves. Xow,
like a true woman, Bess no sooner saw this
finely dressed lady than she began to think
with shame of her own common frock, her hair
so rough, and her coarse hands, and to wish
that she had put on her best before she left
home. I know not what they were talking
about, but though the lady was merry, Jack
was serious; to be sure he never passed jests
with women, and was not even as a boy overfond
of laughing with girls ; perhaps — some
philosopher hath remarked — women like best

the men who treat them seriously, and as if
every interview with them gave birth to what
the French call a grand passion.

At sight, however, of Bess as she stood in
the open doorway, Jack started and stepped
forward as if to protect his visitor, with a
round quarter-deck oath.

Oh ! my poor ears ! ' cried the actress,
are we on board ship already .^ '

Then she marked the face of the woman
at the open door, and there was something in
her eyes and attitude which made her silent.
There is a kind of despair which makes itself
felt, even by the lightest. This woman she saw
had a pale face and large black eyes, which
were fixed, steadfastly and piteously, upon the
Captain.

Why do you come here ? ' asked Jack.

I came to see you. Oh ! Jack I ' she
gasped, and caught at her heart.

I have sent you an answer already.'

I have come to hear your answer from
your own lips,' she rephcd, with trembling
voice. f

Come, Bess,' he said coldly, but not unkindly,
' you are a foolish girl ; the past is gone.
We cannot bring back again what has been.

Forget it and me. And go away. This

is no place for you.'

Forget it ? You think I can forget ? Have
you forgotten, Jack ; tell me, have you
forgotten ? ' She clasped her hands and threw
them out in a gesture of pain and trouble.
Oh ! have you forgotten — you ? '

'I have quite forgotten,' he replied.
Everything has clean gone out of my mind,'
but, of course, his very words betrayed his
memory. 'Of course, I remember who you
are. Your whither taught me arithmetic and
writing. You are Bess Westmoreland. We
used to play together when we were children.
Then I went away to sea, and I remember
nothing more.'

Nothing more she murmured. ' Oh ! he
remembers nothing more. Oh I is it possible ?
Can he forget ? '

The actress looked on wuh grave attention.
She could read the story without being told.

Partly, she was studying a delineation of the
passion of disappointed love, rendered better
than anything she had ever seen upon tl^.e
stage ; partly, she was filled with pity. An
ordinary gentlewoman would have felt, as
Castilla feels, that such a girl has no business
to suppose that a gentleman can love her, the
thing being, in her opinion, contrary to Nature.
But the actress knew better. Besides, she
understood, which ordinary gentlewomen do
not, that beauty is not altogether a matter of
dress. A woman who is always dressing herself
in different fashions knows that very well.

'If you wish,' Jack went on, 'I will tell
you something more that I remember. But
you had better not ask me to tell you that.
Best to go away now, and before harder things
are said.'

There can be no harder things said. Tell
me what you please.'

I remember a young girl and a boy. The
boy had been six years at sea and among
savages, and knew not one woman from
another. So he thought he was in love with

the girl, who Alas no proper match for him.
And when he had been at sea a£rain for six
weeks, of course he had clean forgotten her.'

And now you have returned, Jack ' — she
drac^^ed ofl' her hat, and her beautiful black
hair fell in long curls upon her shoulders —
look upon me. Am I less beautiful than I
was ? You, woman ' — she turned fiercely upon
the actress — ' tell me, you, are you in love with
him ? No : I see it in your eyes ; you do not
love him. Then you will speak the truth, and
perhaps you will pity me. Tell me, then, am I
beautiful ? '

'You are a very beautiful girl, indeed,' said
the Queen of Drury Lane. ' Upon the boards
you would be a dangerous rival. Your hair
and eyes are splendid ; your shape is faultless.
Unfortunately, you have not learned to dress.'

You hear. Jack, what this lady, who is not
in love with you, says of me. I have learned
things, too, since you went away. I am no

longer so plain and rustic, and Oli !

Jack ' She threw herself at his feet,

reo-artless of the other Avoman. She must

have known that it was a useless humiliation,
yet perhaps she was resolved to drink the cup
to the dregs. 'Jack, look upon my name
printed upon thy arm ; think of my hair tied
about thy wrist ; think of all thy promises !
Jack, think of everything. Oli ! Jack, be
not so cruel I '

Alas ! his face was hard and cruel. As she
held up her arms in this humility, he made as
if lie woidd push her from him, and in his eyes,
once so soft to her and full of love, she read
now scorn and loathing.

Go ! ' he said. ' You have lead my answer.'

Then she rose meekly, and drew from lier
pocket certain presents he had given her — a
necklace of red coral, a packet of ribbons, a
roll of lace, the gloves, a broken sixpence, and
laid them on the table.

'You shall have again,' she said, 'all that
you have ever given me, except one thing. I
keep your letter, and your promise. That I
will never give you back so long as I live. I
know not yet wdiat I shall do. . I know
not ' She grew giddy, and looked as if

she would fall, but presently recovered, and
without another word she left the room.

'Are there many such girls in love with
you, Captain Easterbrook ? ' asked the actress.
There were tears in her eyes, but she put up
her handkerchief. ' Are there many such in
the world, I wonder? They come not to this
end of town. Do you write the names of all
the women you love upon your arms? Then
they will be a pretty sight for a jealous wife.
Jack, when you marry.'

'Let her go.' He swept the poor tribes,
mementoes of bygone love, upon the floor.
Let us talk of something else.'

She is a very beautiful woman,' the actress
continued, disregarding his words. ' There is
no woman now upon the boards who would
better become the part of a queen ; and most
certainly none who could better act the part
she has just played. 'Twas a moving situation,
Captain, though it moved you not. I wonder
how many women's hearts thou hast broken,
Jack?'

Why, if we come to questions, I wonder
VOL. III. i''

how many men would like to make love toyon,
fair lady P '

Captain Easterbrook, it cannot escape your
penetration that there is not a pretty woman
in the world to whom all men would not willingly
make love, if they could. As for constancy,
they laugh at it ; and promises they
despise ; they trample upon the hearts of the
foolish women who love them ; and they consider
jealousy in a woman a thing past comprehension.'
She laughed, but her eyes were
not so merry as when Bess opened the door.
Well — I am resolved not to have my heartbroken,
because I have but one, and if it chance
to be broken, I doubt if I could piece it together
again. Therefore, my gallant Captain,
my brave Jack, I doubt whether it were wise
of me to come here any more. You may, if
you please, come to my suppers, to meet my
Lord and his friends. Look not so glum,
Captain. Well, perhaps I may see thee once
more before thy ship sails. If I do, promise to
pretend a little love for this unhappy love-sick
nymph ! She is a sea-nymph, I take it — one

of those whom the poets call Naiads. Comfort
her poor heart a little, and perhaps when thou
art gone she may very likely console herself.
Alas ! always one loves and one is loved.'

I loved her once. Can she expect '

Women are such fond creatures, Captain
Easterbrook, that they are not even contented
to be a toy for a month or two. As for me, I
make men my toys, and as for my heart, it
is still mine own. Adieu, thou conqueror of
women's hearts and compelled of women's
tears. But, Jack' — she laid her hand upon his
arm — ' look that this poor distracted creature
doth not do a mischief to thee or to someone.
There was madness in her eyes. I now know
low the passion of jealousy should be rendered.
It is to stand so, and to look so ; and thus to
use the hands.' She lost her own face, and
became Bess, so clever was she at impersonation,
and, in dumb show, went through the
pantomime of a scorned and jealous woman.
Then she put on her domino, took her hood,
and ran downstairs.

F 2

CHAPTER XXXIV.

now CASTILLA WAS BETROTHED.

DO not think there is anything in
this history more distasteful to
Castilla than a certain episode in
it, which one cannot choose but
narrate. To omit the incident would be the
concealment of a thing which clearly shows
the disposition of our hero at this juncture of
his affairs, dien all seemed prosperous with
him, but when his fate Alas already sealed, and
destruction about to foil upon him.

Castilla reproaches me with concealing from
the Admiral and her mother, first, the previous
engagement with Bess, and, next, the acquaintance
of the Captain with the actress, of whom
mention has been made ; and declares that, if
the Admiral had known it, he would have forbidden

the house to so gay a Lothario. Castilla's
general opinion as to her father's character is
doubtless correct; but as to her father's conduct
under certain circumstances, I prefer my
own judgment. Certain I am that if the
Admiral (now in Abraham's bosom) had known
both these facts — indeed, I am sure that he
knew a good deal of the first — he would not
on that account have shut Jack out of the
house, nor would he have forbidden him to
pay his addresses to Castilla.

As for me,' she still says, indignant, even
after so many years, 'had I suspected the things
which you very well knew at the time, Sir, I
should have spurned his proposals. I have
now forgiven him, because, poor boy ! he was
punished for his weakness in the matter of that
witch and lier adviser, the Apothecary, whom
I believe to have been sold to the Devil! I
forgive him freely, and, you know Luke, that
I have long since forgiven you for your part in
the deception. But there are things which can
never be forgotten, though they be forgiven.' '

As for my own conduct in the business, I

know not why I should have told the Admiral,
or Castilla either, that a celebrated actress and
toast had been rescued from lbot})ads by Jack
Easterbrook ; that he supped at her house, in
company with other gentlemen ; and that she
visited him twice, to my knowledge, in his own
lodoinir, the first time in order to communicate
to him the news of his promotion, and the
second time — I know not why. I was not a
spy upon Jack ; and, on reflection, I think that
if the thing had to be done again I should
leave exactly in the same manner.

Nor do I know why I should have warned
Castilla about the old love affair. It was over,
and finished. Surely a woman would not be
jealous because a Lnd of nineteen had made an
imprudent promise which he afterwards broke,
or because he then fell in love with, and afterwards
ceased to love, a certain girl, whether
below or above his own rank in life ? To
be sure, I was certain that some trouble
would happen, though of what nature I knew
not.

Suffice it to say, therefore, that I heard no



more al:oiit the actress, but that Jack came
often, ill those weeks between his appointment
and his saiKng orders, to the Admiral's, and
that he made no secret to me of his passion for
Castilla. Also, he took the ladies to various
fashionable places of resort which they had
never before seen, because there was no one
to take them. Thus, we went one evening to
Eanelagh, where there Alas a very pretty
concert in the round room, with dancing afterwards,
and a great crowd of ladies beautifully
dressed, though none prettier than Castilla, to
my simple taste. And on another evening we
went to Drury Lane, where the actress, Jack's
friend, was playing the principal part ; and a more
merry, light-hearted creature one never beheld
upon the stage. I observed that Jack showed
no sign of any acquaintance with her, but discussed
her performance as a stranger might be
expected to do, calling her pretty well as to
looks, but then, she was painted up ; while as
for beauty, give him blue e3^es and light hair,
at which Castilla blushed. And so home by
moonlight, when the watermen are niostlv crone

to bed, and the river is comparatively quiet.
Castilla sat beside Jack in the boat, and I
behave he held her hand.

And, on the day after the play, the Admiral
was asked and gave his consent to his daughter's
engagement with Jack. He gave it with a
livelier satisfaction, he said, than he had felt in
any previous event of his life. ' Castilla,' he
said, ' this is the greatest day of thy life. For
thou art promised to the most gallant officer in
the King's Navy. I say, to the bravest and the
comeliest lad, and to the best heart, though he
shirks the bottle and leaves me to finish it. If
thou art not proud of him, thou art no daughter
of mine.'

Indeed, sir,' said Castilla, ' 1 am very
proud of him.'

Jack threw his arms round her, and kissed
her on both cheeks, and on the forehead, and
on her lips.

I say no more. Castilla declares, now, that
lie never really loved him, though she confesses
that she was carried away by so much
passion and by her admiration of his bravery.

Yet I know not. He was a masterful man,
who compelled women to love him, and, as
the actress said, he had a conquering way with
him. I think that if events had turned out
otherwise, Castilla would have become a loving,
as well as an obedient, wife. But let that pass.
They were engaged, and the club at the Sir
John FalstafF had a roaring night, in which Mr.
Brings heartily joined, because at his age
'twoidd have been a sin to suffer the fear of
approaching disaster to stand between himself
and a nicest of i:)unch and singing' and the
tellini]^ of sea stories.

CHAPTEE XXXV.

now nilLADELPIIY KEPT THE SECRET.

HEX one reflects upon this time and
upon the conduct of Jack Easter-brook,
it seems as if at each successive
step the unfortunate man
advanced one step nearer to his own destruction.
Surely, knowing the grief, the resentment, and
the indignation which filled the heart of the
woman he had cast aside, with no more consideration
than if she had been a hecl<]^ero\v
weed, he might well have reflected before
sending her intelligence Avhicli was certain to
drive her into despair. But, such as he do
never reflect.

Therefore, on the very day when he was
affianced to Castilla, he took the surest steps to
make Bess acquainted with this certain proof of

his desertion. For he led aside the old negro
nurse, Philadelphia, and told her that he had a
most important thing to connnnnicate, and one
which very much concerned lier own happiness,
and a thing which everybody would be anxious
to know ; but that it was a profound secret,
and must be told to no one, and especially Alas
not to be communicated to any person outside
Madam's household.

'I know,' he said, ' that you desire nothing
in the world so much as the happiness of your
young mistress.'

That she assured him, truthfully, was the
case.

So that I am certain you will rejoice when
I tell you the secret. Now, Philadelphy, what
should you say if Miss Castilla had a lover? '

'Pends on de young gentleman, sal.'

So it does. You are always wise, Philadelphia.
What should you say, then, if lie was
going to be married ? '

'Pends on de young gentleman, sal.'

You are indeed a wonderful woman, Plhla-
delphi. What should you think, then, if I

were going to be that happiest of mortals, Miss
Castilla's Island ? '

The old woman looked at him admiringly.
Then she began to laugh. Negroes are easily
tickled with laughter: they laugh if anyone is
luirt ; they laugh if misfortunes fall upon their
friends ; and when they are pleased they laugh :
Philadelphy, therefore, laughed for satisfaction
and joy, not, as Sarah of old laughed in derision.

Is dat de proof, Massa Jack ? '

It is the truth, Philadelphy.'

Ho ! ho ! ' she laughed again. ' Berry fine
lover for Miss Castel. Berry fine young man
for my young mistress.'

'It is a secret, Philadelphy,' he told her
again. ' No one knows it except Madam, and
the Admiral, and Castilla, and me. You have
been told first of all. That is a great honour
for you. But it is a secret as yet. I am to goon
board in a few days, and the Lord knows
when I shall return. So while I am away do
you take care of her, and put in, every now
and again, a word for me — you understand ? '

She understood very well, and without the

aid of die two guineas which he slipped into
her hand, that she was to sing the praises of
a certain young gentleman. She folded the
money in the corner of her handkerchief, and
nodded and laughed again. As a secret
messenger, or go-between, I think Philadelphy
would have had no equal. Her taste, as well
as her genius, lay in this art ; but, unfortunately,
it was not called into practice, because Castilla
had but two lovers, one of whom she lost in the
manner you are going to hear, and the other
she married without any necessity for a go-between
at all.

'You understand,' Jack repeated, 'that it
is a secret. You are not, therefore, on any
account to tie up your head in your red turban,
and to carry the news into the town. You
must not think of telling the old fellows at the
Trinity Hospital. You must not go to Mr.
Skipworth, the Barber, with it ; and if you tell
Mr. Westmoreland, the Penman, or his daughter
Bess, you will make me angry. I quite depend
upon your secrecy, Philadelphy.'

The old woman nodded and lauded, and

laughed again, promising that nothing should
draw; the secret from her. But when the
Captain left her, she hastened to tie her red
handkerchief round her head, Which was her
way of preparing to sally forth from the house ;
and then lie began to mutter with her lips.
Next she sat down, and laughed again. While
she was laughing, two of her fellow black servants
came upon her ; and, being of a quick
and sympathetic mind, they sat down and
laughed with her, all three rolling about,
diofoinn; their hands into their sides, and
lauHnn^ in each others' faces, while the
tears ran down their cheeks. When they
were quite tired of this exercise, they left off,
and the two old men went away about their
own business without so much as asking why
she had set them off into this mirthful fit ; and
the old woman, setting her turban right, walked
off slowly in the direction of the town.

She did, in fact, and as Jack fully expected
she would do, everything that she had been
carefully told not to do. First, she looked into
the gateway of Trinity Hospital. On the sunny

side there walked half a dozen of the old men
warming themselves. She exchanged a few
words with them, admonishing them to keep
the secret, and then went on her way. ^""ow,
there are no more ingrained gossips than these
old albumen, who have nothing to do all day
long except to tell each other stories, for the
most part old and well worn, and to retail news.
Therefore, as soon as Philadelphy had gone,
these veterans, one after the other, left the
hospital and made their way, some to the Stairs,
and some to the taverns in the town, and some
to the Dockyard, spreading the news, for there
was no officer in the King's Navy better known
than Captain Easterbrook, whom all regarded
as a Deptford man, and greatly respected for
his courage and his gallant bearing. Moreover,
he had among them all the reputation of being
a lucky officer. He had gone through so much
danger, and hitherto lead so miraculously
escaped from every kind of peril, that he must
needs be a lucky officer to sail with. And now
he was soinf^ to take command on board as fine
a frigate, the French-built ' Calypso', as there was

afloat, and not a sailor but would have liked
well to sail with him.

When she left the hospital, Philadelphy
looked into the kitchen of St. Paul's Vicarage,
just to whisper the news to the maids. Thence
she went on her way to the Barber's, and,
calling Mr. Skipworth to the door, she imparted
the news to him, with many injunctions to
profound secrecy, which he faithfully and
joyfully promised, and kept his promise in the
way common among barbers — namely, that he
passed on the news in strict confidence and a
whisper to every customer in turn who came to
be shaved.

Philadelphy next crossed the street and
looked in at the Penman's. Mr. Westmoreland
was in the shop, writing a letter for one girl to
her sweetheart, somewhere at sea, while another
waited her turn. In the corner of the room,
beside the fire, sat Bess, her hands folded in
her lap, doing nothing and paying no heed to
what went on. The girls disputed what should
be said ; the scribe listened, and from time
to time put down a sentence, catching at

their meaning rather than taking down their
words.

Say I keep true and constant,' said one.
though all the men in Deptford are asking me
to give him up. Tell him that. Tell him I
expect as much from him when he comes home
else, he shall see. And if he dares so much
as to look at. . . .'

'I wouldn't tell him that,' said the other
girl. ' Tell him that nobody in the town cares
a button for him or even thinks about him but
yourself. He'll think all the more of you for
that. Don't never let him think you care a
rope's-end whether he goes after the other
women or not.'

Mr. Westmoreland went on writing while
they talked. He civilised, so to speak, their
letters for the ladies, taking out the threats,
the ejaculations, the accusations, the protestations,
and the profane words, whereby he
certainly did much to strengthen and to
sanctify the bond of affection between the
sailor and his mistress, since a lover could not
but be moved at receiving a letter so movingly

VOL. III. G

and so religiously expressed. It must surely be a
great thing for a man to think of his sweetheart
as a quiet, sweet-tempered, and well-conducted
woman (as always appeared from these letters),
capable of expressing the fniest sentiments in
the choicest language, and full of gentle piety.
Pity it was that when the men came home
their mistresses should always fail to talk and
to behave up to the standard of their letters.

Without troubling herself about the girls,
Philadelphy took a chair beside Bess, and
began to whisper. Now, so carefully had Bess
kept her secret that no one in the place knew
a word about it except Aaron Fletcher, and,
for reasons of his own, he spoke of it to none.
Least of all did this old negro woman suspect
it. She whispered what she had to say, and
then, with a hundred nods and winks, used assigns
of mystery and secrecy, she got up and
went away.

Bess sat still awhile. The two girls famished
their business with her father, and went away.
Mr. Westmoreland looked timidly at his
daughter.

Bess, my clear,' lie said.

She shook her head impatiently

Is there any chance that you will come
round soon, my dear ? I wouldn't hurry any
woman's temper on my account, though I may
say that it is a month and more since I have
had any dinner.'

If I had a knife in my hand this moment,'
she cried, springing to her feet and tossing her
arms in the air : ' if I had a knife, I would
drive it into my heart — or into his ! '

Her father made haste with trembling knees
to return to his writing.

That there are times when the Evil One is
permitted to have power over us we are well
assured, not only from Holy AYrit but from
the teaching of learned doctors. I say not
that we are to be excused from the consequence
of sins committed during such times, because it
is on account of our sins that they are permitted.
This poor girl, I am very certain, was possessed
by the demons of jealousy, rage, and despair.
Else the great wickedness into which she now
fell would never have been possible to her.

Heaven forbid that I should attempt to excuse
her ! But this day she was mad. On this
day, as you will presently confess, she nest
have been mad.

She continued to sit in the same place,
hands clenched, with set eyes gazing straight
before her, and cheeks white. From time to
time her father looked furtively round. But
seeing no change, he went on with his work.
Presently he became afraid to sit alone with
her. He thought she was mad ; he feared that
she might get up suddenly and stab herself to
death, or, perhaps, stab him in the back. He
was never a brave or a strongman, and besides,
he had already suffered so much from feminine
wrath that he considered a raging woman
worse than a tigress, and would cheerfully
have fought a lion in the arena rather than
face his own wife in one of her angry moods.
But he had never before seen Bess so bad as
this. It wanted a good hour of his usual time
of leaving off work, but he got down from his
stool, changed his coat hurriedly, and went out
to his tavern.

If he went there an hour before his usual
tune, it was fully an hour after his usual lime
that he returned. Bess was still in her chair,
but she no longer sat upright, scowling and
fierce. Her head was buried in lier hands,
and she was weeping.

Mr. Westmoreland was afraid to speak to
her. He crept silently upstairs, and went to
bed supperless.

For in truth, something very strange lead
happened between the time when the Penman
laid down his work and the time when he came
home. The jaws of Death and the gates of
Hell had been opened.

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

HOW BESS WENT OUT OF Lieu WITS.

r^MMEDIATELY after lier father had
left the house — perhaps he waited
until the Penman's departure — a
man came to the door and stood
without. For a few moments he watched and
listened. Then he pushed the door open and
looked in. The room was dark, and lie could
see nothing.

Bess,' he cried — it was Aaron Fletcher —
Bess, I know you are here, and it is no use
liidinu^. Come out this instant and talk with
me, or I will come in.'

There was no answer, and he stepped into
the room.

You can pio out no-ain, Aaron,' said Bess.
I have nothing to say to you.'

I ^vill 2:0 out when 1 have said what I
came to say, and not before,' he replied. ' If
you will listen, Bess, I have a good deal to
say.'

Say, then, what you have to say, and
begone.' He hardly knew her voice, which
was hard. ' Of course, I know very well what
you have come to say. When you have said
it once, you can go. If you dare to say it
twice, I think I shall have to kill you. But,
before you take the trouble to say it, or anything
else, I tell you that it is no use. There
is no man in the world for me now. Don't
think of trying.'

^ Bess ' — the man understood wdiat she meant
' d'ye think that I woukl come to crow over
your trouble? Why — but 3'ou don't understand
: you never did understand. A man as
loves you true can't choose but be sorry for
your trouble. I love you that true that I
should even like to see you married to him,
if he would have you. But he won't ; he
won't. Don't go to think now, Bess, that I'm
odd ; though I always kncAv what would

happen, and I hoped that you would perhaps
throw him over and take a better man, and
then we might have seen him crying and
lamenting, instead of you. Pluck up spirit,
Bess. Curse him. . . . With his head in the
air and his step as if he was on his quarterdeck,
and us men were all his crew, and you
women were all for his own pleasure ! Curse
him, I say, for a villain ! He went through
the town just now dressed as if he was a nobleman,
at least, with the people crying after ]him
for luck, and the fools of women calling blessings
on his head for a handsome man, if ever
there was one. Curse him ! Bess, why don't
you curse the man who has played you false ?
Hast never a tongue in thy head ? '

It was too dark to discern her face, otherwise
Aaron might have been well pleased with
the jealous madness which filled her eyes.

Then he cursed the Captain again, and
with stronger words ; but she answered nothing.


I knew what he would do. I always knew
it. I hate him, Bess ! I have always hated

him as miicli as you hate him now ; or almost
as much, because you must hate him after all
lie has done so that there is no evil you would
not rejoice to see falling upon him.'

He paused for some effect to be produced
by his words, just as an angler throws his line
and stops to watch his float. But Bess made
no sion.

'Who is he?' Aaron went on. 'Who is
lie that he should have all the good luck and I
should have the bad ? Why, when he came to
the town he was in races. I saw him come.
He was a boy in rags. And now he is a

Captain, with a gold-laced hat, and I

Well, Bess, I am a bankrupt. That is what I
have come to. And it is through him ! Yes,
through him and through that one-eyed Devil,
who is Old Nick himself, or sold to him, I ama
bankrupt — I am broke ! First, through him,
I lost my boat, the " Willing Mind," took by a
privateer ; and then, through him, I lost the
prize-money I looked to make; and then,
through him, my building-yard was burned.
And now I have spent all my money, Bess,

and am broke. And all throng him ! I
Avill be even with him, some day, if I swing
for it;

Say what you have to say, Aaron, and go
away.'

I came to say, then, Bess ' — he lowered his
voice — * will you have revenge ? '

'What revenge? '

'I tried to take it for myself three years
ago. Did he never tell you who got him
knocked o' the head and carried off to the
crimp's? 'Twas the sweetest moment of my
life, when he lay senseless at my feet. I done
it, Bess. 'Twas none but me. He got off that
time. He won't this.'

Revenge ? Do you think I will let you
take revenge for me ? '

Bess — think ! He hath deserted you, and
broken his promise. And me he has brought
to beggary, with the help of his friend the Devil
with one eye.'

I will have no revenge taken for me, I
say. Go, Aaron. If that is all you have to
say, go, and leave me alone. Revenge will not

brini];' Jack his heart to me. He loathes me
now as much as once lie loved me. I saw it
in his eyes. Will revenge change his eyes?
There is nothings for me lout to bear it till I
die.'

Aaron sat down on the table. The tempter
to evil was not to be sent away by a single
word.

Wliat I ' lie asked. ' A woman of spirit,
and do nothing, though her sweetheart proves
false to her, and mocks and laughs at her !
Have they told you Iioav lie laughs everywhere
about you?' (This was a lie: Jack never
spoke about her among his friends.) ' Why,
the gentlemen all do it ; they make bets with
each other about such girls as you ; and then
they go away and tell each other, and laugh
about her. Oh ! you forgive him. 'Tis sweet
Christian conduct. I suppose I should forgive
him as well for the loss of the '' Willing Mind,"
and the burning of my boat-yard ? ' He stopjjcd
to see if his words had produced any effect upon
her : but she cave no shin. ' You will dance
at his wedding. I dare sav. He is ixoino- to

many the daughter of the Admiral — him with
the wooden les.'

He is not married yet.'

He is Coins to be married,' said Aaron —

Co '

but this was also a lie — ' by special license, and
without banns, tomorrow ; for his ship is under
orders, and the Captain will set sail in a few
days. He wants to be married before he goes.
'Tis a pretty little lady, and he will make her
happy. They say he is head and ears in love
with her, and nothing too good for her. I
dare say he was always a fond lover. You
found him a fond lover, didn't you, Bess, in the
old days ? '

Are you sure ? ' she asked. ' Oh ! the old
woman did not tell me this. Are you quite
sure? To-morrow? He will marry her tomorrow
? So soon. Oh ! is there no hope left
at all ? '

The neo^ro woman went about the town
to-day telling everybody. You can ask her if
it is true. What do I know ? The Captain
was not likely to tell me, was he ? Well, Bess,
it must be a pleasant thing for you to be thinking'

that his arms are now round her neck,

which used to be round yours. He is kissing

lier red-and-white cheek now, just as he used

to kiss yours, in the old days when he used to

make a fool of you. And tomorrow, he will

be happy with his bride. That is something to

make you feel forgiving and well-wishing, isn't

it?'

Oh ! I shall cfo mad ! ' she cried. ' I can—


not bear it ; I shall go mad ! '

To be sure, there are differences. She is
a gentlewoman, and you are only a tradesman's
daughter. She is soft, and has pretty manners,
I dare say, though her father is an old salt.
Whatever you are, Bess, no one ever called you
soft. She is fair, and you are dark. She loves
him, I dare say, better than you ever could.
She can wear a hoop, and can a fan, and

paint her face, and, as for you, Bess Why,

what is the matter ? '

I will kill him first ! ' she cried, wildly.
Aaron, I will kill him with my own hand ! '

Nay, Bess, why with your own hand, when
There is mine ready for your service ? And as

for that, you are in such a rage that you would
surely bungle it ; ten chances to one you would
botch and bunaie it. Now, I am calm. If I
take it in hand, I shall make as pretty a job of
it as anyone can desire. Besides, Bess, if anyone
is to swing for putting such a villain out of
the way, it shall be me, not you, my girl. For
love of you, and hate of him, I should be
content to swing. But maybe. . . . Why,
Bess '

Aaron ' — she laid her hand upon his
shoulder, catching her breath short — ' oli ! I
would rather see him dead and in his grave
than let him marry her.'

He must be dead to-night then, or he will
marry her to-morrow Hark 3^e, Bess, the
time has gone for crying. We must do it at
once — this very night. To-morrow he will be
married. The next day, or the day after, he
takes the command of his ship. This very
evening he hath gone to the Club with the
Admiral. He will but drink a single glass of
punch with the gentlemen, dio will wish him
joy, and will then return to this new mistress,

with whom he thinks to spend the evening
kissing and making love. Do you park my
words ? '

'Yes yes I am listening.'

In half an hour or so he will be returning
by this road. Suppose, Bess, he should meet
us on the way — the woman he has deserted
and \\\<i man he has ruined ? '

Let us go ! ' she cried. ' Let us go at once.
He shall never marry her. Let us go ! Why,
Aaron, are you for handno' back ? '

There is time enough — no hurry. See,
my girl, I have brought with me — 'tis all I
have left of my privateering — a pair of ship's
pistols.' He lugged them out of his pockets
and laid one on each leg, still sitting on the
table. ' They are loaded ; I loaded them half
an hour ago, a brace of bullets in each, and
the flints are new. Xo hurry, Bess. Let us
consider.' She was already more than half-mad,
but he thought to madden her still more.
Let us consider. All the world knows thy
history, Bess.' This, too, was a lie, because no
one knew it, ' When you go forth again the

women will point and say after you, " There
goes the girl who thought to marry the handsome
Captain ! There goes Bess, who thought
to be the wife of Captain Easterbrook ! Pride
goes before a fall. Now she will have to marry
some honest tarpaulin, like the rest, if any be
found to have her." 'Tis a hard flite, Bess.
Whereas '

Aaron, let us go. Quick ! quick ! Give
me the pistols.'

Nay — nay. You to have the pistols ? ' he
replied, in no hurry, and still trying to madden
her. ' Whereas, if we take care that he shall
marry no one, they cannot cry out after you,
and he shall not have another wife.'

I would rather he were dead,' she said.
Aaron, let me kill him with my own hand ! '

Will you come with me .^ ' — he put up his
]pistols — ' or will you stay with me ? 'Tis but
live minutes' walk to the dark place in the road
Avhere we stopped him once before. But come
with me. If you stay here, you will know
nothing till I come back, when the job is done.
If you come with me, you shall see it done,

Why, your revenge will be doubled if yoii
stand by and see it done. And when he falls,
Bess, cry out quick that it was thy doing. Soin
his last moments, he shall feel that thou hast
revenged thyself.'

Come — quick — before I repent ! Let us
kill him quickly ! Oh ! Aaron, I am all on fire !
I burn. Come '

Aaron nodded his head, and leisurely rose,
satisfied at length with the spirit of murder
which he had called up. It made her pant
and gasp and tear at his arm to drag him
along.

One word, first,' he said. ' I am not
going to do this all for nothing. When the
job is done, Bess, you will marry me ? '

Yes. You may marry me, or you may
murder me. I care nothing which. Oh ! he
shall never marry her — never ! Come, Aaron,
come ! We shall be too late ! '

I say that she was mad. It could not be
in any other mood but madness that Bess would
become a murderess. Truly, Aaron was a
crafty and cunning man, tuis to turn her

VOL. III. II

thoiialits to revenge, and to make a murder
done for private wrongs — but did Jack set fire
to his boat-yard, or take the ' Wilhng Mind ' ? —
seem as if it was a righteous act of retribution
for lier sake. Why could he not murder his
enemy without dragging Bess into the crime
with him ? I know not : but I suppose that
he thought to bind her to him by the guilty
secret which the two would have between them ;
as if the knowledge would not keep them
apart : for, with such a secret, the whole
breadth of the world should not be wide
enough to keep the two asunder. But it is
impossible so much as to guess at the secrets of
Aaron's mind at such a moment. One thing is
certain, that, like Bess, he was driven well-nigh
desperate by his misfortunes, which, however,
he was not justified in laying on the Captain.
Perhaps he had no thought at the time, except
of revenge, and no other desire than to gratify
Bess — whom still, I believe, he loved, after his
manner — and himself in the same manner, and
at a single blow.

bme,' he said.

'C(

Then he directed her to go on in advance,
so that if anyone should pass her on the road
they might not connect him with her as a companion,
and ordered her to avait for him in that
place where the grass strip broadened into a
little roadside green planted full of trees. Here
she was to await him.

'Twas the same place where, three years
before, Aaron lead made his first attempt, the
failure of which might have deterred him, one
would think. But it did not. Here he presently
joined the girl.

Xo one is abroad,' he said. ' I have
passed none upon the road. That is well.
Heart up, Bess ! In a few minutes thou shalt
be happy, if revenge can make tjiee happy.
He will kiss his fine mistress no more.'

Happy ! There is no more happiness forme.
Oh ! Aaron — quick — do what lion hast
to do quick, lest I repent and stop thee. Oli !
Jack— my Jack — must I murder thee ? '

Keep dark,' said Aaron. ' Why, you are
losing heart already. I am sorry you came
with me. Keep dark, I say, and look not forth

H 2

until the shot is fired. As for me, I scorn to
hide. I am here to kill him if I can, or let
him, if he can, kill me. He has a sword, and
I have my pistols. Let him fight it out. It is
a fair battle between us. But keep back, Bears,
and keep dark. I think I can hear his footstep.'


When, three years before. Jack Easterbrook
had walked along the same road at the same
time, his head was full of love for the very
woman dio now stood in the shade of the trees
waiting to see him done to death. From the
madness of jealous women, good Lord, deliver
the men ! And from the inconstancy of perjured
lovers, good Lord, deliver the women !

As she stood and listened, the sound of his
footstep — she could not be mistaken in the step
fell upon Bess's ear, and immediately the
Captain himself was to be plainly seen in the
twilight, walking briskly along the road. As
for Aaron, in spite of his brave words, he kept
in the shade of the trees, feeling, doubtless,
as is the way with murderers, more confidence
while in hiding than in the open.

Before she heard his footstep, the poor gW,
the prey of all the evil passions, stood breathing
quickly, her hands clenched, burning with
rage, and mad for revenge. Yet, mark what
happened. At the very first footfall, at the
first solid of the step which still she loved,
the whole of her madness fell from her as a
woman's cloak may fall from her shoulders ;
her heart stood still, her knees trembled, and
her love went out again to him. Also she saw
now, was not this a thought sent to her
direct from Heaven's throne of mercy in order
to save a poor sinner from a dreadful crime. ^ —
she saw, I say, in imagination, her lover lying
dead upon the ground, his pale face turned upto
the stars, never to come back to life again,
and she herself standing over him — who had
murdered him. Already she felt upon her
forehead the seal of murder as it was placed
upon the front of Cain. Already she felt the
terrible remorse of murder. Near every crime
can be atoned for, except murder. You may
rob a man ; you may slander him ; things stolen
may be replaced ; things said may be withdrawn

: but this life you cannot restore to a
man. Therefore there is no crime so dreadful
as murder, and no remorse so fearful as that of
a murderer, even when his conscience is as
hardened as that of Aaron Fletcher himself.
Oh ! ' Bess told me afterwards, though the
poor girl knew not how to put all these
her thoughts into words, but could only
speak of them brokenly, 'I thought that if he
were to die, I must die too, and that with no
hope of forgiveness, so that I should never
sit beside him in Heaven, and never ask his
mercy. And I saw that if he would leave me,
he must ; and, oh ! how could I be so
wicked ? How could I ? No ; it was not
Aaron's fault ; 'twas my own mad, jealous
heart.'

There wanted but a moment when Aaron
would have stepped out and discharged his
pistols. There was no relenting in him ; he
had no qualms of conscience and no forebodings
of remorse. He had lost everything
this sweetheart, his boat, his business, his
fortune — by this man, he thought ; 'twas little

revenge indeed, in return for so much injury,
to kill liii. Perhaps, afterwards, with the
gibbet in sight and the irons on his legs, he
might have felt remorse. But one doubts,
seeing how hardened are most of the villains
who. go forth to Tyburn to the fatal tree, and
how little true repentance the Ordinary doth
witness.

He was waiting, then, the pistol cocked.
His enemy was almost within his reach when
Bess rushed out from her hiding-place, crying,
' Jack ! Jack ! Save yourself ! Save yourself
! '

He stopped, and drew his sword.

Fly ! ' she cried ; ' Aaron is among the
trees with his pistols. We came to murder
thee. Oh ! fly for thy life. Let him kill me
instead. He shall shoot at thee through my
body!'

She stood before him, her arms out as if
to stop the pistol-bullet.

'Stand aside, Bess,' said Jack. 'Now,
Aaron, ye cowardly, skulking dog, come out!
Show yourself. man ! Bring out yom' pistols,

I say ! Come, ye sneaking, murdering villain!'


Aaron might have shot him on the spot
where he stood, breast bared, so to speak, for
the pistol But he did not, because so great
is the power of authority over such men as
Aaron, when one speaks who is in the habit
of command, that he obeyed and came forth
meekly, his pistols in his hand, like a dog who
comes at call to be whipped.

Lay down your weapons,' said Jack,
sword in hand.

Aaron obeyed, saying nothing

So,' said the Captain, ' this is now the
second time that thou hast attempted my life.
Man, if I had thee on board my ship I would
keel-haul thee, or maybe hang thee for mutiny.
Know, sirrah, that the mere conspiring to
murder hath brought many a poor rogue to the
gallows. Now, I know not wherefore thou
didst resolve to make this second attempt.
Eemember, however, that the first score is not
yet paid off. Yet I heard some talk of losses
and the burning of boat-yards, Whereby it

seems as if some greater Power had interfered
to punish thee. Go, now. Perhaps tomorrow
I shall determine what further may be done.'

Aaron obeyed, walking away slowly and
sullenly, the pistols lying on the ground.

Then Jack turned to the girl who had
saved his life. ' So, Bess,' he said, ' you came
out to murder me, did you ? '

"• Yes,' she confessed.

I was in hopes that you had laid my
words to heart, and had forgotten the
past.'

'I can never forget the past. Oh, Jack! 'tis
too much to ask of any poor woman. 'Tis
too much ! ' She burst into crying and weeping.
Oh ! I am an unhappy wretch, who would
even murder the man I love better than all
the world.'

'Nay,' said Jack, 'there is no harm done,
because — d'ye see — I am unhurt, and you
changed your intention in time. If I did not
know thee better, Bess, I might think that this
was a trick of thine. But Aaron hates me
of old; and you — since I came home.'

I have never hated you, Jack. God
knows I wish I was dead, and out of your
why.'

My poor girl, you are already out of my
way, if you would only think so. For the
sake of a few love-passages three years ago,
way waste and spoil your life ? '

I cannot take back what I have given. Tonight
they told me that you are to marry Miss
Castilla. That made me mad. But I am not
mad any longer. Go to your new mistress,
Jack. I will give you no more trouble — no
more trouble. Make love to her as you did
to me. Tear her heart out of her as you tore
mine. I will give you no trouble — no trouble
at all. I will not try to stand between her
and you.'

Foolish girl ! Forget me, Bess, and find
another lover.'

I have tried to curse thee, Jack, but I
cannot. Oh ! I cannot. I have tried a
dozen times. My lips will not form the words,
nor would my heart mean them if I could
say those words. I have tried this night to

kill thee. But I could not. Therefore it is
certain that I am not to do thee any harm.
This is better, because, whatever happens, thy
heart will not be thereby the more hardened
against me.'

Jack made no reply. Perhaps he was
touched by what she said.

Go, Jack. Go to th}^ mistress.' This
she said, not rudely or scornfully, but quietly.
Jack, I know now what has been lying in my
mind. It is that' I have a message for thee.
It is that God Himself will punish thee, and
that in the way that icill touch thee the
deepest. I know not how that Avill be, and, for
myself, I desire no harm for thee. I will
henceforth neither speak nor think hard things
of thee. But remember : no other man shall
ever kiss me, because I am thine. Jack — I
belong to thee. Oh ! Jack, my sweetheart,
my love, GoD Himself will punish thee, unhappy
boy ! and that in the icy that most
icill touch thee ! '

Jack laughed lightly— yes, he laughed —
and went his way.

This is what happened between the time
when the Penman left his daughter and the
time when he returned. Said I not that the
jaws of Death and the gates of Hell were
opened on this night?

CHAPTER Xxxiii.

HOW BESS RECOVERED HER SENSES.

loan is a variable and a changeable
creature. Many poets and
philosophers have insisted upon
this maxim. Mr. Westmoreland,
as well as Socrates, had good reason to feel the
truth of it, and could testify to it from his own
experience, under the rule of wife first, and of
daughter afterwards ; though the capricious
nature of the latter empress was a kind of
heaven compared with the clapper-clawing.s
rubs, and bullets which marked the reign of the
former. The next morning the Penman came
downstairs meekly resigned to do the daily
necessary house-work, which his daughter
should have done — namely, to lay his desk in
order for the day's work, fid something for

breakfast, and, towards the hour of noon,
interrupt his calcinations in order to prepare
dinner of some kind — which had been his lot
for the last two months : in fact, though he had
not the wit to connect the two events, ever
since the return of the Lieutenant on board the
French prize. He was, therefore, truly astonished
when he saw that the room was already
swept clean and tidy, a coal fire lit, for the
autumn morning was cold, and his breakfast
set out upon the table, just as he loved to have
his food, read}'^ to his hand, without any
thought or trouble about it ; both plenty as
regards quantity, and pleasing as regards
quality. More than this, his daughter Bess was
busy with a duster among his papers — no one
but Bess knew how to take up a sheet of paper,
dust the desk about and under it, and lay it
down again in its place. She wore a Avhite
apron, her sleeves were turned up above her
elbows, and she was going about her work
steadily and quietly, as if nothing at all had
happened. More again, when she saw her
father, she smiled, and saluted him. Now, she

had not smiled, or said a since gracious think' to
him for two months and more.

Come, father,' she said, ' take your breakfast
while the beer is fresh and hath still a
head. The cask is well-nigh out, and I must
have another brew. The knuckle of pork has
got some good cuts left yet ; as for the bread,
it is dry, because it is baker's bread, and last
week's baking. But tomorrow you shall have
some new home-made.'

This was a very strange and remarkable
change. Nothing at all had happened to make
her happier. On the contrary, her lover was
certainly going to marry Castilla, and lie was
going away: her affairs were as hopeless as
they could well be. Yet now her soul Alas
calm. It may be that one cannot go on forever
at a white heat of wrath ; but some have
been known to brood over their wrongs all the
days of their lives. Her soul was calm. That
was the change which had fallen upon her ;
her eyes were no longer fierce, and her cheek
was no more alternately flaming red and deathly
white. Nor did her lips move continually as if

she were vehemently reproaching someone.
Her face was soft again. She told me afterwards,
speaking humbly and meekly, that when
she had tried to curse her unfaithful lover, her
lips refused ; and when lie had tried to murder
him — her heart failiuo^ her at the last — the
words that she said to him — namely, that she
would seek no more to harm him, and would
think no more of him with bitterness, feeling
assured that God would bring the thing home
to him in such a way as Avould touch him most
surely — these words seemed as if they were
whispered in her ears or put into her mouth ;
and then suddenly, as she uttered them, all the
rage and madness which had torn her for two
months left her, and peace fell upon her heart.
Those who please may put upon this confession
any other meaning ; for my own part, I can
see but one. What that interpretation is, I
leave to the reader.

Mr. Westmoreland, however, when he observed
this change, fell to shaking and shivering,
betraying in his looks the most vivid apprehensions.
The reason of this phenomenon

was that in the old days before his wife ran
away from him — Bess during the hist two
months had in other respects greatly resembled
her mother as to temper — whenever a domestic
storm of greater fury than usual was brewing, it
was always preceded by a period of unusual
activity in the house, with a strange and unnatural
zeal for cleanliness and tidiness. The
memory of this fact, and of the terrible storms
which afterwards used to break over the poor
Penman's head, caused tins awakening of terror.
Was Bess in this respect also going to take
after her mother?

Child,' he stammered, ' what — what —
what in Heaven's name hath happened to thee ?
Have I wronged thee in any way ? Tell me,
Bess, only tell me, what have I done to
thee ? '

Why, father, nothing. I have been ill
lately. Now I am better. Sit down and take
your breakfast. For dinner you shall Jive
something better than cold knuckle of pork.'

He obeyed, wondering and distrustful.

I've been ill of late, father,' she repeated ;

VOL. III. I

and you've been neglected and uncomfortable.
It's my fault that the room was this morning
up to my ankles in dust and dirt. But I've
been very ill, and couldn't do anj^tliing but
think of the pains in my head.'

Well, Bess,' he replied, rallying a little,
to be sure you've been a bit — so to speak —
haughty, for the last two months. It came on,
I remember, about the time when the Lieutenant
came home.'

'It was about that time, father. Two
months ao'o I first began to have these dreadful
pains in the head.'

If it was toothache you should have gone
to Mr. Brings, and had it out. If it was tic,
there's nothing; to held it but a clmrm. But
why not ask Mr. Brings to charm it away? '

It was not toothache. I dare say it was
tic. But now it has almost gone.'

Was it, Bess — was it ' — he dropped his
voice — 'was it anything to do with Aaron
Fletcher? Sometimes I've thought there might
have been a love disappointed went. Was it
Aaron Fletcher ? '



Aaron Fletcher is nothing to me, and
never will be.'

Well, I'm glad to hear that, Bess, because
Aaron is a bad man — a man of violence ; a
crafty man, my dear — a headstrong man — a
man without virtue or religion — and an unforgiving
man as well. I've watched Aaron,
man and boy, since he was born. Aaron will
end badly. Of late he has been drinking, and
his business is broken up. Aaron will come to
a bad end.'

Well — that's enough said about me, father.
Go on with the cold knuckle.'

And now shall I hear thee sindno^ about
thy work again, Bess .^ and laughing again just
as before ? It does my old heart good to hear
thee sing and laugh. Nay, that doth never
put me out, though I be struggling with the
sine and tangent and even with the versed sine.
'Tis when I hear thee weep and groan, and
when to all my questions I get no answer, and
when thine eyes are red and thy cheek pale,
and when all day long I see thee sitting neglectful
and careless — 'tis then, my dear, that ther

-1

figures swim before my eyes and the result
comes all wrong. 'Tis then that if I try to
write, my flourishes are shaky, and the finials
lack firmness.'

Nay, father,' she replied, ' I fear I shall
not laugh and sing again all my life. The kind
of tic which I have had takes away the power
of laughing and the desire for singing. But I
hope never again to be so troubled.'

Alas ! ' said her father, ' I would I were a
preacher, so that I could exhort women to good
temper. Sometimes when the learned and
pious Vicar is expounding the wisdom of the
Chaldees — which is, no doubt, a most useful
subject for the Church to consider — I venture
to think that a word might be spared on the
sins of temper and on the hasty tongue and the
striking hand. Truly, for my own part, in all
things but one have I been singularly blessed,
yea, above my fellow-creatures For I have a
house convenient and weather tight ; I belong
to the one true Church, being neither a Papist
nor a Schismatic ; I am assured of my salvation,
throiioh no merits of mine own ; I am not of

lofty station but obscure, yet not of the vilest
herd ; I live sufficiently, and, when my daughter
pleases to exercise her skill of housewifery, with
toothsoraeness ; no man envies me, and I have
no enemies ; 'tis true my shoulders are round
and I am weak of arm, but what of that? To
crown all, I have been endowed by beneficent
Providence with the love of divine mathematics
and the gift of fine penmanship, so that my
work, whether I copy, or engross, or write
letters, or work out logarithms, or consider the
theses, lemma, corollaries, problems, and curious
questions advanced by ingenious professors
of the exact sciences, I live all day long in continual
happiness. I would not change my lot
for any other, save and except for one thing.
I am filled with pride, which I hope is not sinful,
because it is in gratitude for the gifts of
Heaven. But there is one thing, my child. I
have wanted no blessing in this life, which to
many of my fellow-creatures is, for no seeming
fault of theirs, a vale of misery and of tears.
But, alas ! I still found my comfort spoiled by
the temper of thy mother while she remained

with me. And I feared, Bess — I say that I
feared — lest thou might also take after her,
and so the scolding, the peevishness, the discontent,
and the violence mic^ht begin au'ain.
I am not so young as I was then, and I
doubt whether I could endure that misery
again.'

Fear nothing, father. Why, whenever
did I ask or do aught to make you think that
I should upbraid you? As for my temper,
I will try to govern myself Fear nothing,
father. To-day you shall have as good a dinner
as you can desire, to make up for the past
shortcomings. What will you have ? ' She
spoke so gently and softly that Lier father was
quite reassured, and plucked up his courage.

Well, child, since thou art in so happy a
disposition — Lord, grant that it continue ! — I
would choose, if I may, a hodge-podge, with
an onion pie. They are the two things as thou
knowest well, which most I love. With hodgepodge,
onion pie, and a merry heart, a man
may make continual feast.'

It was not a merry heart that returned to

poor Bess, but it was the outward seeming or
slow of cheerfulness wliicli not only returned
but remained with her, so that she now listened
to her father's garrulous prattle with apparent
interest, and gratified his love of good feeding
by toothsome dishes, of which there was no
more notable compounder than herself. This
day especially she regaled him with a most
excellent hodge-podge, in itself a dish fit fora
king, and also with an onion pie, a thing
counted dainty by those of a strong digestion,
tliouo'h to some who have a delicate stomach it
may be thought of too coarse a flavour, being
composed of potatoes, onions, apples, and eggs,
disposed in layers in a deep pie-dish, and
covered over with a light crust of flour and
suet.

While Bess was engaged in the preparation
of this banquet, the Barber came running across
the road, as was his v»^ont when the morning
business was completed, and he hai any ne^vs
of importance to communicate — for the spread
of news at Deptford is in this way. First it is
whispered at the Barber's shop, then it is

whispered by the Barber to his customers and
his cronies, and next it is carried by them in
all directions around the town.

Have you heard the news, friend Westmoreland
? ' he asked, with the air of one who
is the possessor of an important secret.

Why,' Mr. Westmoreland replied, ' since I
have not seen you before this morning, gossip,
how should I hear any news ? '

You will be astonished,' said the Barber.
Those who hold their heads the highest fall
the soonest. One whom you know well, friend,
and have known long, is broke. Ay, you may
well look surprised and ask who it is. He is
broke, who, but a short time ago, Alas master of
a thriving business, and seemed as if he would
save money.'

Who is it, then ? '

I have myself suspected a great while what
would happen. For, thank Heaven, I can see
as far as most men, and can put two and two
together, and am no babbler of secrets, but
keep them to myself, or talk of them with my
friends over a pipe of tobacco and a glass,

being a discreet person. Wherefore, when I
heard of certain accidents, and saw in wdiat a
spirit they were received, I made up my mind
what would happen.'

Who is it ? ' asked Mr. Westmoreland, when
this garrulous person had partly talked himself
out of breath.

It is a man whom you know well ; and
Bess, here, knows him very well, too.'

If, Mr. Skipworth,' said Bess, ' you would
tell my father your news, we could tlicn talk
about it afterwards.'

Why, then, Aaron Fletcher is broke.
That is the first news. Since the burning of
his yard, he hath done no work, not even to
putting up some she and carrying on the business.
What were we to think of that ? When
lie went privateering lie made but little prize-money,
but had quickly to come home again.
Thenceforth he hath been living on his stock,
and hath now come to an end, and is broke.
This morning he was to have been arrested.
The writs are out for him, and the officers came
to seek him with intent to take him to the

Marsh alsea, where his case would have been
tried at the Palace Court.'

Would have been tried ? ' asked the
Penman. ' Is it not to be tried, then ? '

I said would because for one tiling which
his creditors thought not of — he hath escaped
them. Otherwise he would have languished
in jail until his death.'

Here the Barber wanted to be asked further
what was that happy incident which had enabled
Aaron to 'scape prison ; for one who is a
retailer of news loves not to expend it all at a
breath, but must still keep some back.

His father,' he continued, ' was a substantial
man, and saved money, which the son has
spent. He inherited, besides the building-yard,
a good business, and a fast smack, the " Willing
Mind," for his trade across the Channel. Xow
the smack is lost, the yard is burned, the business
is ruined, and the money is spent.'

An idle fellow,' said Mr. Westmoreland ;
a fellow who loved not work. But how hath
he escaped his creditors ? '

He will not go to prison ; for in the night.

we now learn from certain authority, lie walked
over to Woolwich, where he hath enlisted in
the Marines, and so is beyond the reach of his
creditors, who cannot now arrest him. So he
escapes the prison, and exchanges the Marshalsea
for a man-o'-war. Maybe 'tis better to be
killed by a cannon-shot than to be starved in a
debtors' gaol.'

So, after more reflections on the folly of
young men and the certain end of laziness and
extravagance — which have been put more concisely
by King Solomon the Wise — the Barber
returned to his shop ; and before noon everyone
in Deptford had heard the surprising news
of Aaron's fall.

This intelligence made Bess tremble, thinking
on the madness of the last night, when this
young man was so desperate, being now assured
that he was bankrupt, that he was ready to
commit a murder, caring little whether he was
found out and hanged, or no ; and she herself
was so desperate in her wrath and jealousy,
that she was ready to commit murder in order
to prevent another woman's happiness. Wliy,

what would be the condition of that guilty pair
now, were Jack lying dead ? Since, however,
Aaron was bankrupt it was now certain that he
had already resolved to go away and enlist in
the Marines, when he came to her and proposed
the crime ; and that he intended to leave the
dreadful secret of the murder, had it been
committed, to herself alone — a burden greater
than she could bear.

For Aaron, 'twas the only way of escape, to
'list in one of His Majesty's regiments. Naturally,
he chose the Marines as the branch
belonging to the sea. To carry a musket onboard
a King's ship, after being a Lieutenant
in a privateer, not to speak of commanding the
Wilhng Mind,' is to come down in the world,
indeed. Yet that he cared for little, considering
the alternative of a debtors' prison, terrible
to all, but most terrible to a man who, like
Aaron, had spent all his life in the open air,
and most certainly it is better for the country
that a stout and active fellow should be lighting
her battles than that he should be laid by
the heels in a prison doing nothing. Mark,

however, what followed. Aaron Walked to
Woolwich that night, where there is a depot
for Marines, which in that wear represented
twenty-five companies. He enlisted in the
morning. When they began to teach him his
drill it was found that he already knew as
much as is expected of any recruit when he is
passed for service. Therefore he was, with
others, marched to Chatham ready for embarkation.
There are many remarkable coincidences
in this history, but there is none more
remarkable than the fact that Aaron should
have been shipped as a Marine on board the
very ship, the ' Calypso,' of which the man he
had tried to murder was Commander. This
circumstance, with the consequences which followed,
I can regard as nothing but providentially
ordered.

When Aaron discovered who was the
Captain of the ship, he fell at first into despair,
and was ready to throw himself overboard,
looking for flogging continually and on
the merest pretext, with keel-hauling and
every kind of tyranny, oppression, and punishment.

But lie presently found that the Captain
took no kind of notice of him, even when he
was on sentry duty on the quarter-deck, and
seemed not even to know that he was onboard.




CHAPTEE XXXVIII.

HOW PHILADELPHY REFUSED A BRIBE.

HEN Bess had given her whither his

hodge-podge and onion pie, which

he received as some compensation

due to him for all past privations

and recent neglect, she left him, and repaired

to the Apothecary's,

Mr. Brings was already wide-awake, and
in earnest conversation with Philadelphy. On
the table between them lay the famous skull-stick,
object of the deepest veneration and awe
to the negro woman.

What will you do for me,' he was saying,
if I give you this stick ? I am old now, and
I have no enemies to punish, nor many friends
to protect, and I want nothing for myself
except that which not even an Obeah man can

procure for himself — bis lost youth. . . . What
will you do for me, Philadelphy, if I give it
to you ? '

Massa Brings ' — she clutched at the stick,
and held it in her arms, kissing the skull —
horrid thing ! — which grinned at Bess as if it
were alive, ' I will do everything. Ask me —
tell me — I will do everything.'

We shall see. Those who possess this
stick — it must be given, not stolen, or the
virtue vanishes — can do whatever they please.
Why, if it were your own, there would be no
woman in the country so powerful as you. If
you have enemies, you could put Obi on them,
and go sit in the sun and watch them slowly
dying — Ha? I have seen the wise women on
the West Coast sitting thus, and watching
outside the hut wherein their enemy lay wasting
away. And if you have friends, think of
the good fortune you could bring them. Why,
Miss Castilla you could marry to a Lord ; nota
beggarly ship Captain, but a rich Lord.'

No — no,' said Philadelphy. ' She shall
marry Mas' Jack. No one like him.'

You could make her as rich as you could
desire. If she wants children, you could send
them to her. No need, then, to consult the
cards, or to watch the birds, because you could
have everything your own way to command,
once you get the skull-stick. As for wind and
rain, you could call for them when you pleased.
See' — he rose and looked up at the sky, which
was covered with driving clouds, the wind
being fresh. ' See — you would like rain !
'T would be good for Madam's garden, would it
not ? I call for rain.'

Strange ! As he spoke, the drops pattered
against the windows. Though 'twas a light
and passing shower, yet it seemed to fall in
reply to his call. He might have seen it on
the point of falling, and prophesied after the
event was decided: truly, Mr. Brings was
crafty and subtle above all other men. But
Philadelphy jumped, and kissed the stick again.
You see, Philadelphy,' he went on, ' what you
could do with this stick. It is wasted on me,
because I am too old to want anything. I am
past ninety, and you, I should think, are not

VOL. 111. K

miicli over seventy. If I die before I give the
s-tick away, it is lost : its virtue is gone. But
there is still time. What will you do for me if
I give you the stick .^ ' He paused and considered
a little before he went on again. ' Perhaps
you think it will only compel rain, and is
of no use as regards persons. Well, here is
Bess to testify that I put Obi on Aaron
Fletcher. He was formerly a thriving man,
until he offended me. What hath happened to
him since ? First, he was tortured with toothache
; next, his smack was taken by French
privateers ; then he went privateering himself,
and did no good ; then his boat-building sheds
were burned, with all his tools and timber ;
lastly, he went bankrupt, and hath now, I fear,
enlisted in the Marines to escape a prison. I
have removed the Obi, and now leave him to
his fate. What will you do for me if I give
you the stick ? '

Again the old woman clutched it and kissed
it, with the unholy light of witchcraft in her
eyes. I wonder if the Sorceress of Ensor had
a skull-stick.

Stop a moment, Philadelphy. What will
you do for me ? '

'Everything, Massa Brings. Nothing in
the world that I will not do for you.'

'There is only one thing that I cannot
make my stick do for me. Everything else in
the world I can do. But this things I cannot
do, and you can.'

Still clinging to the stick, the old woman
implored him only to let her know what that
was, in order that she might instantly go away
and do it.

'Bess hath a sweetheart, and he hath
proved a rover, as many sailors do. Bring
him back to her arms and keep him constant,
and I will bestow the stick upon thee.'

Nay,' Bess cried quickly, ' since my
sweetheart loves me no longer, I will have
no charms to make him. I have promised
besides, that I will trouble him no more.'

Tell me his name,' cried the old woman,
regardless of Bess. ' Only tell me his name,
and I will do it for her.'

Can you bewitch a man at sea ? '

•

I can, I can,' she cried. ' I will make his
heart soft for her, so that he will forget every
Other woman, and want none but Bess. Why,'
lie said, ' every negro woman knows a love
charm.' This with some wonder that a wizard
of Mr. Brings' power, and possessed of an
Obeah stick, should not be able to do so simple
a thing. 'I can make him love her all the
same as he loved her at first. I can make him
lieve her so as he shall never love another
woman. If that is all, Massa Brings, let me
carry away the stick.'

Softly, softly. The thing is not done yet.
If I give thee this stick I shall never get it back
again. Wherefore, let us have it paid for
first.'

'Tell me his name, then.' Philadelphy
turned eagerly to Bess, 'Only tell me his name,
girl, and I will make the charm to-day.'

Nay,' Bess repeated, ' I want no charm to
bring him back.'

Be not so proud, Bess,' said Mr. Brings ;
you shall have wdiat your friends can get you.
As for you, Philadelphy, be not too ready.

What ? You think I would give such a stick
for a trifle? You think Bess's lover is some
common sea-swab, I dare say — a master's mate,
at best, or a gunner, or perhaps a shipwright.
No, no; her lover is another guess kind, I
promise you.'

'If he was an Admiral, he should come
back to her. Tell me his name.'

Even if he were promised to marry your
young mistress, Miss Castilla ? '

A negro woman cannot turn pale, particularly
one so black as Philadelphy, nor can
her colour come and go like that of a white
woman: yet she changes colour when she is
moved. Philadelphy not only changed colour,
but she gasped and looked upon Mr. Brings as
one astonished and dismayed.

To marry Miss Castilla ?. ' she repeated.

What if Bess's lover had deserted her for
your young mistress ? '

'Don' say that — oh! Massa Brings, I
wooden do it — no — no — I could do anything
else, but I wooden do it even for the stick.'

I say, Philadelphy, what if his name was

Jack Easterbrook ? Why, it is Jack. It is the
Captain who was Bess's lover. Where were
your eyes not to discover that? You, a witch !
Where were your eyes, I say ? '

I wooden do it — no — I wooden do it.'

'Look at the stick again, old woman.
Think of the joy of having the stick your own.
Think of what you could do with the stick to
help you. What is the Captain to you, compared
with the possession of the stick ? '

She looked at it with yearning eyes. Suppose
that the thing which all your life you have
been taught to regard as the symbol and proof
of power was to be offered you at a price.
This was the old negro woman's case — she
could have the Obeah stick in return for —
what ?

At the worst,' said Mr. Brings, ' it would
make her unhappy for a week.'

'No — no — Miss Castilla, lie dun set her
heart upon the Captain.'

'Well,' the tempter continued, 'with the
help of the stick you can not only find a rich
and noble lover for her, one who will make her

happy, but you can also give her a charm and
make her forget the Captain.'

'Xo — no,' said the okl woman, 'Miss
Castilla will never forget the Captain.'

Then, when his fancy returns to this old
love, which it will do before long, your young
mistress will be made unhappy. Come, Philadelphia,
think of this stick ; think of having it
your own — the great Obeah stick.'

Who are you ' — she turned fiercely upon
Bess — ' to take away a youni]^ gentleman officer ?
Stay with your own people, and let the Captain
stay with his. Massa Brings, if I give you the
secret to keep alive — ten — fifty — a hundred
years if you like — will you give me the
stick?'

If you have that secret, old woman,' said
Mr. Brings, ' I will tear it out of you, if I have
to rack every joint in your body with rheumatism.
If YOU know that secret, it is as o-ood as
mine already. No, Philadelphy, it is the Captain
or nothing. Look at the stick again, Philadelphia.
Take it in your hands.'

Oil! I will ixet the girl — what a fuss about

a girl ! As if she was a lady ! — I will get her

any other man in Deptford. Plenty handsome

men in Deptford.'

'I want none of her charms, Mr. Brings,

for Jack or anyone else,' Bess said again.

'Let her have the stick, if you like, and let

her go.'

There ! ' Philadelphy cried, triumphantly.

You see ? She wants none of my charms.

Why, there, take the secret instead, and let me

have the stick, and you shall live for a hundred

years more.'

Here one cannot but admire the way in
which these two magicians believed each in the
other's powers, but were uncertain about their
own. For — first — if Mr. Brings, by means of
his skull-stick, could draw down rain from the
sky, why could he not move the Captain's
heart ? And, next, if Philadelphy could turn
a faithless lover back to his fidelity, why could
she not so order Castilla's heart that she should
resign the Captain without a pang? But this
she could not do. Yet the wizard believed in
the witch, and the witch in the wizard.

'It must be Jack,' said Mr. Brings, 'or
nothing.'

Then,' she replied, sorrowfully, ' it is
nothing. Put away the stick, Mr. Brings,
lest I die of longing', and let me go.'

He replaced the stick in the corner. The
skull grinned at the old woman as if in contempt
because she had missed so magnificent
an opportunity.

Very well, Philadelphy,' said Mr. Briujes,
returning to his pillows. ' I do not believe you
know any charm at all. You know nothing.
You are only an ignorant old negro woman.
In Jamaica they would laugh at you. You are
not a wise woman. You only pretend to make
charms. Why, anybody could make as good
a charm as you.'

She shook her head, but made no reply,
still gazing at the stick.

'All your tricks are only pretence. You
cannot, in reality, do anything. As for your
cards, you cannot even tell a fortune properly.
If you can, tell Bess hers.'

Philadelphy drew from her pocket a pack

of cards, greasy and well worn, and began to
shuffle them and to lay them out according to
her so-called science. Bess, who would have
no charms, could not resist the sight of the
cards, and looked on anxiously while the
old woman laid out her cards and muttered
her conclusions.

The dark woman is Bess,' she said — ' the
fair woman is Miss Castilla — the King of Hearts
is the Captain. Oh ! the dark woman wins ! '
She dashed the cards aside, and would go on
no further, but, with every sign of alarm and
anxiety, rose up, and, tightening her red turban,
she hurried away.

Always,' said Bess, ' she has told me the
same fortune. Always the same. Yet I know
not.'

These divinations by cards,' said Mr.
Brings, ' are known by many women even in
this country, where there is so little wisdom.
I wonder if Philadelphy lied Avhen she offered
to sell me that secret. If I thought she had
such a secret — but I doubt, else why doth she
continue so old and stow so infirm P No ; she

hath not that knowledge, which I must seek on
the African coast. Bess, take courage. We
will sail to that coast — you, Jack, and I ; we will
be all carried away together ; and, first, I will
find that secret, and, next, we will go forth
to the Southern Seas, and there dig up the
treasure of the great galleon.'

She shook her head.

As for me,' she said, ' there will be no
sailing away, with you or with Jack, nor any
happiness at all ; and as for you. Daddy, when
you are carried away it will be with feet first.'

Perhaps ! Yet I doubt ! For I do continually
dream of those seas, and clearly discern
the ship, with myself upon the poop, and
the island not far off, where at the foot of the
palm-tree there lie the boxes. All shall be
thine, Bess — to dispose of as thou wilt.'

Why,' said Bess, simply, ' what should I
do with it but give it all to Jack ? '

CHAPTEE XXXIX.

HOW BAD NEWS CAME HOME.

Nothing at all was heard of the
Calypso ' for three or four months.
It was not even certain whither she
had sailed, except that she was with
Sir Edward Hawke's fleet. But it was known
that M. Thurot had got out of Dunquerque
with five frigates, on board of which were a
large number of troops, with intent to make a
descent upon Ireland, and we conjectured that
perhaps the ' Calypso ' might have been ordered
to join the squadron in chase of that gallant
Frenchman. But that proved not to be the
case.

It was in January — namely, on the evening
of the 15th of January in the year 1760 — that
the news arrived which filled the hearts of all
with shame and confusion. 'Twas a wild and

tempestuous night, fitting the nature of the
intelligence which then arrived. The wind
blew up the river in great gusts, and the
rain drove slanting into the faces of those who
were out. I remembered, afterwards, that I
had met Philadelphy in the morning. The old
woman was always full of omens and prognostications.
Sometimes she had seen a ghost in
the night — surely there was never a greater
ghost-seer than this old negress — and sometimes
she had been warned by one of the many
signs which terrify the superstitious. ' Hi !
Massa Luke,' she said, in her negro way, which
it is unnecessary to imitate, ' there's bad news
coming, for sure. Last night the cock crowed
twice at-midnight, and an owl screeched round
the chimney ; there was a dog barking all
night long, and I saw a ghost. There's bad
news coming ! ' I asked her what the ghost
was like, but she refused to tell me. Well, it
is true that on many other occasions she foretold
disaster (because to this kind of witch
there are never any signs of good luck), and
her prophecies proved naught. But on this

day, alas ! she proved a true prophetess of
eviL

At the Sir John Falstaff some of the company,
inchidhig Mr. Brings, who was never
late, had already arrived, and were hanging up
their hats, the candles being lit, a great coal fire
burning, pipes laid on the table, and the chairs
set.

'There hath arrived bad news,' said Captain
Petherick, the Commissioner of the Yard. ' T
heard talk of it at the Navy House this
morning. It is said that we have lost a
frigate. They say also that we have lost her
cowardly — a thing which one is not ready to
believe. But I have not heard the particulars,
and I know not the name of the craft. 'Tis
pity, but 'tis true, that there should be found
in every war cowardly commanders, in British
as well as in French bottoms. Those of us
dio have memories can remember the last
war, gentlemen. Well, we must quickly build
or capture another ship, and fid a better
Captain. We will give the command to Jack
Easterbrook.'

So saying, lie sat down and began to fill
his pipe leisurely. Just as lie had finished
these words, and before Mr. Brings had time
to do more than to open his mouth, there came
running into the room the landlord, having in
his hand the ' London Post ' of the evening,
brought down the river from town by some
boatman. His face was pale, and his eyes full
of terror.

Oh ! gentlemen,' he cried, ' gentlemen !
Here is such news ! I cannot trust my eyes.
For God's sake read the newspaper ! But
who shall tell the Admiral ? '

Is it news from the Fleet ? ' asked Captain
Petherick.

It is, your Honour.' The man looked as
if he was afraid to tell his news. ' Oh !
gentlemen,' he repeated, ' who shall tell the
Admiral ? '

Is it bad news? ' asked Mr. Brings.

It is the worst news possible. Gentlemen
it is — it is. . . .' he looked about him to
see if the Admiral was, perhaps, present,
hitherto unseen. ' It is news of — of — of

Captain Easterbrook, gentlemen. Of no other,
indeed.'

What ! ' cried the Apothecary ; ' bad
news ? The worst news ? Then is our boy
dead.' He sat down in a chair, and looked
from face to fiice. ' Jack is dead.'

It is the worst news possible,' repeated the
landlord.

Jack is dead,' said all together, looking atone
another in dismay.

'Jack is dead,' repeated Mr. Brings.
There hath been an action, and Jack hath
fallen. Poor Bess ! Yet, now he will never
marry the other.' The company knew not
what he meant. ' Well, every man must take
his chance — I looked for other things — but. . . .
Jack is dead ! Some die young, and some die
old. To those who die old it seems as if their
years have been but a dream. What matters,
therefore, when a man dies ? Wherefore, devil
take all black negro witches with their lying
prophecies ! ' Again the company asked themselves
wdiat Mr. Brings might mean.

The landlord shook his head.

No, sir. No, gentlemen. Oh ! you will
not understand. Head the ' Post.' Captain
Easterbrook hath lost his ship.'

If,' said Mr. Brings, ' he lost his ship, of
course he first lost his life or else his limbs. He
would not be taken below while there was yet
life enough left to fight his ship.'

'Gentlemen,' cried the landlord again,
'your Honours will not listen. It is in the
London Post.'

He held out his newspaper, but no one
offered to take it. Everyone knew now that
something had happened worse than death.
Then they heard the Admiral's step as he
entered the house and stumped along the
passage with his escort of negroes.

Gentlemen,' said the landlord again, ' who
shall tell him ? Again he held out the paper.
They looked at each other and held back. No
one offered to take the paper ; they were
afraid. It is one kind of courage to walk upto
a cannon's mouth, and another to become a
messenger of bad tidings.

Then the Admiral came in, followed by his

VOL. III. L

two negroes. He saluted the company cheerfully,
and gave his hat and cloak to his
servants. This done he took his seat in his
usual place. But the other gentlemen standing
about the fire did not, as was customary,
follow his example. They hesitated, looked
first at the Admiral and then at the landlord.


Gentlemen, be seated,' said the Admiral.

Sir ' — it was Mr. Brings who spoke — * it
appears that bad news hath arrived.'

What news ? '

It is — news of Captain Easterbrook.'

'Is the boy . is the boy dead?' asked
the Admiral.

Sir, we cannot but suppose so. For he
hath lost his ship. But as yet we have not seen
the ' Post.'

'No — no,' the landlord again interposed,
holding out the 'Post,' which no one would
take. ' Gentlemen, stand by me, I beseech
you. Sir, the Captain is not dead.'

Then, poor lad,' said the Admiral, ' he is^^
grievously wounded, and like to die. Our boy,

gentlemen, is grievously wounded, and like
to ' Here his voice failed him.

No, Sir, he is not wounded.'

Then he is shipwrecked and drowned.
Why is the man staring like a stuck pig?
Alas ! gentlemen, our boy is drowned.' Blithe
Admiral looked uncertain, because the
company, now understanding that something
out of the common had happened, looked at
each other and at the landlord, and spoke not.

Sirs ' — the landlord again offered the newspaper
to one after the other, but no one took it
' the news is here printed. Otherwise, God
forbid that I should dare to say such a tiling.
Your Honour, it is here stated that the Captain
struck his colours in the very beginning of the
action.'

Struck his colours ! ' The Admiral caught
the arms of his chair, raised himself as quickly
as a one-legged man may. ' Struck his colours !
Jack struck his colours ! Ye lie, ye drunken
swab ! Ye lie ! ' AVitli that he dehvercd so
sln^ewd a blow with his gold-headed stick that,
had not the landlord dodged, he would have

been enabled instantly to can the news into
the next world. ' Ye lie, I say ! ' Here his voice
failed him, and his face became purple, and he
reeled and would have fallen but Mr. Shelvocke
and Captain Petherick caught him and set him
in a chair, where he gasped and panted and
looked as if he was about to have a fit of some
kind. As for the landlord, he stood in a corner,
pale and trembling.

Give me the paper,' said Mr. Brings, dien
the Admiral had somewhat mastered his passion.
Let us at least read what is here stated.' He
read it silently. ' Gentlemen,' he said, ' this is
a strange business. I understand it not. Here
is more than meets the eye. It is a thing hard
to understand. I will read it aloud. Courage,
Admiral, the story is impossible as it stands.

" Despatches have been received from Sir
Edward Hawke. He reports an afHiir which, unless
later intelligence contradict it, is more discreditable
to British honour than anything which
has been done since the cowardly flight of Ben-bow's
captains. The frigate 'Calypso,' Captain
John Easterbrook, with her consort the ^ Resolute,'

Captain Samuel Boys, fell in at daybreak
with a squadron of the enemy, consisting of
three frigates, one of them being the ' Malicieuse.'
The names of the other two are not
given. The Frenchmen bore away on discovery
of the Union Jack, and the British ships
gave chase. iVfter some hours the ' Calypso '
came up with the ' Malicieuse,' the hindmost
of the three, the ' Resolute ' being then a
quarter of a mile or so astern, though crowding
all sail It is reported by Captain Boys,
he being then on his quarter-deck and glass
in hand, that the engagement was commenced
by the ' Malicieuse ' firing a shot from her
stern-chaser Which struck the * Calypso ' ; that
then he saw Captain Easterbrook strike his
colours with his own hand ; that his officers
ran about him, and he cut one down ; that the
Frenchman immediately lowered a boat and
boarded the prize, driving the crew below ; and
that the other two French frigates backed their
sails, whereupon he withdrew from the chase,
thinking it useless to engage three vessels at

O ~ CI

once ; that he was not pursued ; and that he

knows no reason at all wliy the ship was surrendered
without firing a shot. 'Tis thought
that the ' Calypso ' hath been conveyed to Brest.
This account is the more extraordinary by
reason of the character for gallantry possessed
by Captain Easterbrook, who was one of
Captain Lockhart's Lieutenants on board the
fchtini^ ' Tartar.' " '

This is a very strange story,' said Captain
Petherick. ' By your leave, Mr. Brings, I will
not believe it.'

Thank ye, old friend,' said the Admiral,
hoarsely. 'My boy surrenders Never, sir,
never. Damme, Mr. Apothecary, wilt thou
try to persuade us that such a thing is
possible .P '

Nay. Admiral, nay ; I do but read what is
printed. Lord forbid that I should doubt the
boy. What is this ? Ay, they have begun already
their pestilent verses. 'Twill be just as
it was with Admiral Byng, when the journals
were full of squibs. Listen, now. Oh ! they
care nothing about truth so long as they can
turn a verse and raise a laude. Listen.'

" The following lines have been picked up
at the Rainbow. 'Tis thought they come from
the Temple : —

The Frenchman crowds all sail in fright,
The Briton crowds all sail to fight :
The brave ' Calypso's ' gallant tyke
Claps on all sail in haste to strike.

And these have been recited at Dick's —

The Captain brave his ship would save.
And so this great commander

Cries, ' Heroes, I will scorn to fly
While I can still surrender.

Stay, Frenchman, stay : your shot may play
Too rough among my hearties ;

I fear no foe : but yet I 
strike the better part is." '

Oh ! 'tis a lie — 'tis a lie,' the Admiral
groaned. ' Gentlemen — my boy, Jack ! Gentlemen,
I say. . . .'

We cannot believe it, Admiral,' said
Captain Petherick. ' Yet it is in the despatches.'


'There is something we are not told,'
said Mr. Brings. ' But, without doubt, the
'' Calypso " is taken prisoner, and someone onboard
struck the colours.'

The Admiral stared about him with amazement
and confusion in his eyes. Then he rose
slowly. ' I shall go home, gentlemen. I wish
you good-night. Someone shall swing for this
lie. . . . Someone shall swing.' He moved towards
the door, forgetting his hat and cloak,
which one of the gentlemen reached for him.
Someone, I say, shall swing for this — this diabolical
lie about my boy Jack. We shall see —
damme, I say, we shall see! What, sirrah,
the lantern not ht ? ' Indeed, it was not the
duty of the negro to keep the candle burning
through the evening; but the Admiral belaboured
him so lustily that the fellow roared,
and the company trembled lest he should be
killed. But a negro's head is hard. Then the
Admiral walked away. This was his last night
with the Club ; he came no more to the Sir
John FalstafF.

The gentlemen, without his presence, sat
awhile speechless. But the landlord brought
in the punch, and they presently filled and lit
their pipes and began to whisper.

Do you think, sir,' asked Mr. Brasil of the

Apothecary, ' do you think that the story maybe
in any point of it true ? '

'Why,' said Mr. Brings, 'as for truth, I
suppose that is never got at, and this nut
is hard to crack. How such a man as Jack
Easterbrook could haul down his flag before the
action began passes understanding. But then
how men like Captain Boys and his officers
should be deceived, when only a quarter of a
mile distant or thereabouts, one cannot understand
either. And that the ship is taken one
cannot doubt.'

'If he comes home he will be tried by
court-martial, and for cowardice,' said Mr.
Shelvocke.

That is most certain,' said Captain Pethe-
rick : ' and if he surrendered cowardly, he will
be shot. Gentlemen, this is an event which
affects our own honour. For though the boy
is no blood relation of any here, he hath been
our pupil, so to speak. We have taught him.
He is our son in whom we hoped, and in whom
we believed. It is not the Admiral alone who
is struck. It is this company of honourable

gentlemen who would have maintained to their
dying day that Jack Easterbrook could never
turn out a coward. Why, a more gallant lad
never trod the deck, as witness Captain Lockhart,
of the " Tartar," where he served. I say,
gentlemen, this affects us all. We are brought
to shame by this untoward and unexpected
event.'

Perhaps,' said one of the company, ' the
Captain Alas shot at the outset, and it was the
First Lieutenant who hauled down the flash.'

But that seemed impossible, no one could
fail to discern Captain Easterbrook at so short
a distance, if only on account of his great
stature. Besides, Captain Samuel Boys was
known for a sober and honest man, who would
certainly not invent so grievous a charge against
a brother officer.

Perhaps,' said another, ' the ship was
foundering.'

Then they read the statement again, trying
to extract from it, if possible, some gleam of
hope or doubt. But they found none.

Gentlemen,' said the Apothecary, ' I hope

I shall not be thought to be a man over-ready
to believe this monstrous thing if I submit that
it may be true, and that the act was made
possible by one of those sudden madness
which the people believe to be the possession
of the Devil. We read cf poor women, in such
fits, murdering their own tender children ; and
of husbands beating to death their wives,
without a cause ; and of learned scholars who
have gone forth from their books to hang themselves
without any reason for despair. No man
is at all times master of his own actions ; and
doubtless there are in the brain, as in the body,
weak places, so that just as one man falleth
into an asthma, or a rheumatism, or the gout,
by reason of bodily imperfections, so may a man
by mental disorder commit acts of false judgment,
foolish conclusions, and mad acts for which
there is no accounting. Astor can we anticipate
or prevent such attacks. I once knew as brave
a fellow as ever stepped, to snivel and cry for
an hour together : and why ? Only because he
was sentenced to be hanged. Yet he walked
manfully to the gallows in the end. And

another, who fell on his knees and wept aloud
because he was to have a tooth out, which he
dreaded more than he did the three dozen he
had received a month before.'

'Then, you think, sir,' said Captain Pethe-
rick, ' that the boy may have been mad ? '

I know not what to think. I tell the
company what I have seen. Some acts, I
declare, are not consistent with what we know
of the man's previous life. What should we
think did the Reverend Vicar of St. Paul's
suddenly fall to singing a roaring tavern song
of Poll and Nan ? Yet that would be no whit
the worse than for Jack to become suddenly
coward. There are some who say that men are
thus afflicted by Divine Visitation. That maybe.
A congestion of the liver and the mounting
of vapours to the head may likewise produce
such effects. Yet we do not call a liver disease
a Divine Visitation. I remember once, being
then on the coast of Yucatan, a very singular
thing. Landlord, the bowl is out. I say,
gentlemen, that I once witnessed a very singular
thing. There was a young fellow with us of

five or six-ands twenty ; a daredevil dog who
had faced death so often that he feared him no
longer, and was looked to lead the way. The
enemy showed fight, and wee came to close
quarters, when the word was given to board.
What happened? He leaped upon the enemy's
deck with the greatest resolution, and then, to
our surprise, he turned tail and fled like a cur,
dropping his arms and crying out for fear. We
tried that man, gentlemen, when we landed,
and we shot him for cowardice, just as Jack
Easterbrook will be tried and shot, if he be fool
enough to come home. 'Twas a pity, too, for
after he was dead we found out the reason of
this strange behaviour. He was bewitched by
an old woman to revere her o-rand-daufyhter,
this sweetheart, who was mad with him on
account of his many infidelities. The girl came
out and laughed in his face while Fie was led
forth to execution. Afterwards, she confessed
the crime to some of the girls ; and when they
began to talk of it, she took to the woods,
where, no doubt, she presently perished. The
old woman we punished. The night before she

was executed, I went privily to her and offered
her poison, if she would give me her secrets,
and especially the secret by which she knew
how to prolong life as much as she pleased.
But she refused, being an obstinate old woman ;
and next day the men gave her a bad time,
being mad with her. Gentlemen, we are not
on the Spanish Main ; and there is no witch
among us, except Philadelphy, the Admiral's
negro woman, who would not, if she could, put
Obi on Jack. Yet if this story be true, then I
doubt not that our boy was clean off his head,
and no longer master of himself, when he struck
his flag.'

CHAPTER XL.

HOW THE NEWS WAS Received.

she next despatches brought confirmation
of the news. There could
now be no doubt at all that the
Calypso ' had been surrendered by
the Captain, and that without striking a blow.
The consternation and shame which fell upon
us cannot be described ; nay, not upon us onlj^
but upon the whole town of Deptford, to whom
Jack was nothing short of a hero.

'There is nothing,' said my father in the
next Sunday's sermon, ' there is nothing, my
brethren, upon this earth which is stable. Our
riches make themselves wings and fly away;
disease falls upon the stoutest and strongest of
us ; old age palsies our limbs ; death snatches
away the youngest and brightest. Even in the

very spring and heyday of life, when promise
is strongest and hope most assured, the qualities
of which we are so proud may fail us suddenly,
and without warning — so that the brave man
may lose his courage, the loyal man become a
traitor, and the strong man fall into the weakness
of a girl. Eemember this, my brethren,
and in the day of your strength be humble.'
Those who listened applied the words to the
disgraced Captain, and hung their heads.

But the Admiral and his household were
not in church. They sat at home, the Hag
half-mast high. Madam and Castilla, by the
Admiral's orders, in black, as if in mourning
for one who is lately dead.

He is dead, Luke,' said the brave old man.
My gallant boy, the son of my old friend, my
son-in-law who was to be, is truly dead. How
he died, and where, I know not. But he is
dead, and his body is occupied by an evil
spirit. What ? Shall we be ashamed because
this cowardly Devil hath struck the colours?
'Tis not our boy. He is dead. Castilla weeps
for him ; but, as for me, I always looked that

he might die early, as so many others do —
being killed in action, or cast away. As yet
we know not how he died, or how the Devil
was permitted to walk about in this body.
Perhaps we shall never learn.' But here he
broke off, and choked. '" What an ending !
What an ending is here I — truly, what an
ending ! Why, if one had foreseen it, 'twould
have been a Christian act to put a knife into
the boy's heart when he came here sixteen
years ago ; and a joyful thing, had one only
known beforehand what would happen, to be
hanged for it afterwards.'

I said that I hoped he would be able to
write us some words of consolation.

Consolation ? Why, the Captain struck
his flag without firing a shot ! Consolation ?
There are some things, my lad, which can
never be forgiven or forgotten. Cowardly to
surrender is the chief of these. Cowardly !
Oh ! that it should seem possible to use that
word of our boy ! '

Then I said that it would be best for him
to stay abroad, and never to return to England.

VOL. III. M

Ay said the Admiral, ' unless lie should
resolve to come back and be shot. The
women say he is bewitched. But who should
bewitch him ? No : our boy is dead, and some
evil spirit is in his body.'

This was the only consolation that the
poor old Admiral permitted himself. Yet it
did not console. He stayed at home, being so
covered with shame that he durst not venture
forth, lest the boys should point at him. He
told me so; and it went to my heart thus to
see this brave old man wounded and bleeding,
yet to know no single word of consolation.

Luke,' said Castilla, ' do not, if you please,
mention his name to me. We must resign
ourselves to the Heavenly Will. No doubt
this affliction hath been designed for some wise
end.'

This must always be the Christian's view ;
yet, in my ignorance, I have sometimes questioned
the course of events which thus afflicted
and presently destroyed a brave man in his
old age, undeserving of this disgrace.

I knows not who first started the rimiour-^

perhaps it was Mr. Brings himself — but it was
presently spread over all the town, that the
Captain was bewitched. And so great was
the popular indignation that, had the people
known what had passed with Bess Westmoreland,
I make no doubt they would have
murdered her. Fortunately, there was no
suspicion at all. Xo one had seen them
together, or knew that there had been any
love-passages between tlicm, or any jealousy.
Most certainly they would have murdered her,
the women especially being full of wrath
against the unknown author of this misfortune.
But I vas uneasy — listening to the talk
of these termagants, as they gathered in the
streets, and cried out what should be done to
the witch — lest someone should turn suspicion
upon Bess. As for Philadelphy, who would
have been suspected, it was known that the
Captain was to marry her young distressed
therefore she could not be the Avitch. Now,
of wise women, who know the properties of
simples, and can read the signs of good anal
bad luck, and tell fortunes by cards, there are

always plenty; but of witches there was in
Deptforcl only one, and of wizards only one,
and both of them known to be friends of the
Captain.

It is true, Luke,' said Bess Westmoreland,
when I found her in the usual place. ' Do
not talk as if it were not true, because I am
assured that the news is true. Why, I knew
that something terrible was going to fall upon
him. Mr. Brings says there may be some
mistake in the evidence of Captain Boys ; but
I know better. It is quite true. What will
happen next, I know not. But I shall have
my lover back again, whatever happens. The
fortune always ended in the same way vrith
love at last.'

Whatever happens, Bess? Why, he is now
a prisoner of war, and, unless exchanged, will
remain a prisoner till the war is ended. And
if he ever return he will be tried and shot.'

Then he will stay where he is, and send
for me,' she replied, as if the recovery of her
lover, should that be brought about, would be
cheaply purchased at the cost of his honour.

But women know little of man's regard for
honour. ' He will send for me ; and if it were
to the ends of the earth, I would go to him.'

Bess,' I whispered, ' it is rumoured abroad
iu the town that he was bewitched. Is there
anyone who knows what passed between him
and you when last you saw him ? '

Xo one knows except you, Luke. Aaron
knows, but he is away.'

Then speak to no one about it. Let it
not be suspected that you predicted this
disaster, or the people, I verily believe, would
burn you for a witch, Bess.'

Why, are they such fools as to think that
I would suffer a hair of his head to be touched
if I could help it ? For Jack loved me once
how he loved me once ! — three years ago I
And I — oh ! I love him always. What do I
care what he has done? Let him but hold up
his linger to me and I will go to him. I will
be his slave. Oh ! Luke, I Avould suffer gladly
that he kicked and flogged me daily so that he
loved me. What do I care about his disgrace .^
That touches not me. My Jack will always be

the same to me, whatever people may say of
him.'

My poor Bess,' I said. ' Indeed, he hath
a constant mistress. But, my dear, do riot
look to see him more. I fear we shall never
be able to set eyes on his face again, for he
cannot show his face among his fellows. The
common fellow ]:»ays for his sins with a flogging,
and when his back is healed, he thinks
no more of the matter. But the Captain — ■
look you, Bess — it is a most dreadful thing.
For, whatever happens, he can never more sit
among; honourable men.'

He shall sit with me, then,' said Bess.
As for wdiat I told him, the Avords were put
into my head — I know not how. They v;cre
a message. I was made to tell him. They
were not my words; wherefore I knew that
they would come true.'

Thus, while the rest of us were overwhelmed
with shame, lie who loved him best
(because now I clearly understood that Castilla
had never loved him so well, else she could
not have been so quickly and so easily resigned

to her loss) thought Httle of the deed and much
of the man. Thus it is that a woman may-love
a man, so that whatever he does, whether
he succeed or fail, even if he does disgraceful
and shameful things, she will love him steadfastly.
In Bess's simple words, he is always
the same man for her.

As for me,' said Mr. Brings, ' I am very
sure that the lad was bewitched. I know not
by whom, because Philadelphy would work all
the charms she knows for his help, for Miss
Castilla's sake. But bewitched he was. Wherefore,
Luke, my lad, I shall wait until we learn
where he is at present bestowed, and then I
shall send him a letter. He must not look fora
return to England at any time, unless he joins
himself with the Pretender, and hopes to return
with him. But no : he must never return at all.
And as for that young man, he is now near forty,
and will never come to England again, I take it.
But though Jack cannot come back here, I see
no reason why we should not go to him ; and
so we might together set sail for the Southern
Seas, and there dig up my treasure, and equip

and man a stout squadron for the harassing of
the Spanish fleets.'

Why, Mr. Brings,' I told him, ' you are
now an old man — ninety years and more, as
you have told us often. Is it for a man of
ninety years to brave the hardships of the sea
once more ? '

Hardships ! Little you know of peaceful
sailing among the sunny waters of the islands.
There are no hardships and no discomforts.
Why, 'twould make me twenty years younger
to be back ac^ain in the Pacific Ocean and in
those latitudes. I should be little more than
seventy. What is seventy ? A man is still
green at seventy : he is in the full vigour of his
manhood ; there is nothing that I could not doat
seventy, ay, and as well as the youngest of
them all, save that my limbs were a trifle stiff,
and I no longer cared to run and jump. But
that stiffness sometimes falls on a man at six-and-thirty,
wherefore I could not complain.
Seventy ! Ah ! To be seventy again, with
thirty years more to live ! And then, if one
were so lucky as to fall upon the great secret,

another tliirt}^, and another thirty after that,
and so on as long as one chose to live. And
that, my lad, I promise you, would be until I
understood clearly what was on the other side.'
Thus he went on chattering, having almost forgotten
how we bec^an to talk : to forget the

O I-'

things of the present day is ever a sign or proof
of great age. ' Ah ! ' he sighed, heavily,
would to God that I could find myself once
more aboard a tight vessel on the Pacific
Seas, with plenty of men and lemons, and
some music for the lads in the evenings, and,
for amusement, taking a ship now and then,
and making the Spaniard walk the plank.
Jack should be our Captain, and Bess should go
with us — I could not go away from Deptford
without Bess, and her heart is always set on
Jack. Yet, I do not remember any women
among the Lovers except Mary Head and Ann
Bonny, and they dressed like men, and pretended
to be men. They sailed under Captain
Eackam, and a brave pair of wenches they
were. I dreamed last night that we were all
three on the poop of as fine a schooner as one

could wish, bound for the South Seas, by way
of the Indian Ocean.'

So we lost our hero. At least so we
thought we had lost him. He was taken to a
French prison. He would never be so mad
as to return to England, where certain death
awaited him. We should never see him again.
And, as Captain Petherick truly said, we were
all ashamed by an act as truly cowardly as
ever British sailor committed. The newspapers
continued to speak of it ; the evidence
of Captain Boys was printed in full, and there
were more epigrams. And then other things
happened ; and the loss of the 'Calypso ' would
have been speedily forgotten but for a surprising
and unexpected turn, which was, so to speak,
a second act in this tragedy of Jack Easter-brook's
end.

Truly surprising and unexpected it was, and
the intelligence of it threw us all into an
agitation worse, if possible, than the first. For
we were assured that the worst was over. The
first blow fell upon us like a thunderbolt from

a clear sky, and now we were rising to our
feet again (except the Admiral), stunned and
confused, yet in a fair way of recovery, as
happens in every earthly calamity, else 'twould
be impossible to live. The child we love — •
nay, the woman we love — dies, yet behold the
sun rises and sets, and presently the daily life
goes on as before, and the loss is partly forgotten.
Suppose, however, the woman was not
dead, but came to life again, only to die with
more cruel suffering and with shame !

What happened, in a word, Alas this.

The crew of the prize had orders to take
the ' Calypso ' to Brest, which was the nearest
French port. They ordered their prisoners
below to the quarters always designed for menin
that unhappy position — namely, the forward
portion of the cockpit, where they have to sit
in gloom, lit only by one great ship's lantern
all day and all night, save for such times as
they are allowed on deck for fresh air, in gangs
and small companies. When the Englishmen
were driven below, and the prize crew appointed,
the ' Malicieuse ' parted company.

and the ' Calypso ' was left to make lier own
way to Brest.

On the second day,' we read in the
'London Post,' ' the prisoners rose, and became
again masters of the ship, which was brought
into Spithead under the First Lieutenant, the
Captain being kept a prisoner in his cabin.
This extraordinary reversal of fortune, and
other circumstances attending the case, have
excited the greatest interest. The Lords
Commissioners have ordered the ship to be
brought to Deptford, where the court-martial
on Captain Easterbrook will be held.'

As is usual in news published by authority
in the ' Gazette,' and copied by other newspapers,
there were no particulars of the manner
in which the ship was recovered, except that
she was navigated by the First Lieutenant.
Had the crew, then, mutinied against their
Captain, and confined him to his cabin ? If
not, how w' as he a prisoner ?

It was impossible for me, who knew the
Avhole circumstances of the case, not to feel
that in this surprising reversal of fortune and

in the ordering of the court-martial, there was
a direct interposition of the hand of Providence,
such as may well make the guilty tremble. To
lose life, and honour as well, which is dearer
than life, as a penalty for broken vows, seems
a terrible punishment, and out of proportion to
the offence. But it is not every inconstant
lover who hath expressly called down upon his
own head, as Jack did, the wrath of God incase
of his inconstancy. Man cannot with
impunity call upon the name of the Lord.
There is a story of one who learned how to
draw the lightnings out of Heaven, but he drew
them upon himself, and so perished. Was not
this the fate of Jack Easterbrook ?

Alas ! we were now wholly without hope.
For needs must that he be tried ; and he was
condemned already, and as good as shot.
While he was prisoner with the French, his
life at least was safe ; and if he chose never to
return, he could certainly never be tried ; and
so his case would be in the course of time forgotten.
But now he must be tried, and he *
must be condemned.

But,' said Mr. Brings, 'lie shall call me asa
Witness ; and I will prove from books and
from mine own experience that there have
happened many cases of sudden madness, and
that in such an access or seizure a man is not
master of himself. And those who have
travelled much in countries where the sun is
hot, and especially those who have wandered,
as the boy did, among savages, with insufficient
food, and perhaps no covering for the head, are
more than others liable to such fits — instances
of which I can produce. It will also be set
forth that the Captain, not long before he
sailed, received so heavy a blow upon the head
that he was carried senseless through the town
and across the river. Such a blow may of
itself produce the effect of sudden madness.
Men Who have proved themselves brave sailors
and fond of fight do not, unless from this
cause, suddenly become cowardly. Why, he
crowded all sail to get within range of the
enemy.'

Yet he struck his flag,' I said. ' Is every
man who runs away, after marching resolutely

to meet the enemy, to plead that he was
smitten with a sudden madness ? '

As for the value of such evidence, I know
not what it would have availed, but I think it
Avould have availed nothing in the eyes of the
officers who formed the Court. 13ut, as you
will presently see, it never was produced.
Perhaps the knowledge of what lie could testify
gave the Apothecary an inward assurance
which comforted him. For he showed no
alarm, and maintained stoutly that his own
evidence, with the prisoner's previous good
conduct, would get Jack acquitted, if it did not
get him reinstated in command.

But Courts, whether martial or civil, do not
thus examine into motives and causes. If a
Judge were to hear wJiy a pocket came to be
picked, or by what train of circumstances an
honest man has been turned into a rogue, there
would be no punishment at all, but rather
general commiseration for sin, and forgiveness
of all sinners, on the score of human weakness
and the strength of temptation.

As for Bess, when she heard that the

Captain was a prisoner and on his way to meet
this trial, lie said nothing, except that whatever
happened the end was certain ; and she
waited. Her wrath and fierceness were all
gone ; lie was now gentle and calm, though
her cheek was pale, and round her ej'es a black
ring, by which I knew that she slept little and
thought of Jack continually.

CHAPTER XLI.

I10\y THE ' Calypso ' CAME HOME Again.

lieu we awoke in the morning,
the ' Calypso ' herself was lying in
^ the river, moored nearly opposite to
the mouth of the dock.
I made haste to the King's Yard, in order
to hear the news, and there, as I expected, I
found a little knot of gentlemen, including
Captain Petherick, the chief officer of the Yard,
and a few who, like myself, were brought
thither by anxiety and curiosity. They Avere
earnestly conversing with the First Lieutenant
of the ship. He was a man whose hair was
now grown completely grey (wherefore lie no
longer used powder), being some fifty-five years
of ag-e, but for want of interest never having
got any higher. By birth he was a Scotchman ;

VOL. III. N

he had, like many of his countrymen, a hard
and strongly marked face, and his manner of
speech was hard and slow, so that, though he
had such a tale to tell as surely never was heard
before, his manner of telling it never varied even
in the most astonishing parts of his narrative,
except that now and then he broke off to express
his own opinion on the matter. We presently,
however, discovered that he felt great
commiseration for the unhappy fate of his
Captain, young enough to be his son, and that
he held much the same view as the townspeople
— namely, that there must be witchcraft
at the bottom of the affair. We learned also
that the recapture of the ship would now present
a very different complexion, being due,
not as had been supposed, to a general rising
of the crew, but to the most astonishing courage
of the Captain himself, and the display of reckless
daring in a single handed attack upon the
prize crew, such as one had never read of or
heard of before.

As regards the striking of the colours, there
was nothing new in what we learned. The

Captain with Lis own Land did certainly Paul
down tLe flag without firing a sLot. Against
that damning and capital fact nothing could be
said. But as for what followed, you shall hear
the First Lieutenant's story.

When the Captain struck his colours, which
he did with his own hand, tLe men looking on
in sheer amazement, I myself ran to Lin, crying,
" For God's sake, Captain ! for God's sake.
Sir, consider what you do ! " But tLe Captain
drew Lis Langer and slashed at me, so that,
tliougli tLe flat of tLe sword only struck me, I
fell senseless. Then, as I Lave since been told,
those officers whose place was on deck stood
back, terrified by tLe wild looks and furious
gestures of tLe Captain. So great was tLe
authority wLicL Le possessed, that not a man
among them all dared so much as to murmur.
Then tLe Frenchmen boarded us, and all, except
the Captain, wLo was suffered to remain on
deck, and myself, because I was senseless, were
bundled below, and tLe LatcLcs clapped down.
When I presently recovered, I too was allowed
to remain above. Now, for two nights and two

N 2

days, twig Captain sat on the quarter-deck upon
the trunnion of a carronade, his hat off, ]his
hands upon this knees, this e3^es blood-red, his
face pale. Gentlemen,' cried the First Lieutenant,
breaking off suddenly at this point,
'twould have moved a heart of stone only to
look upon the Captain in this misery of shame.
Despair was in his eyes as lie turned them from
the sea to the ship, and from the ship to the
sea. As for what the men think, there is but
one opinion : that it Alas the work of the Devil.
He was bewitched, or possessed. I know not
if we have the right to try a man for an act
done under demoniac possession, wdiicli we
know to be sometimes permitted. But the
madness had now left him, and he was in his
right mind again.'

There was not one of those present who
heard this with a dry eye. But more moving
things still were to follow.

It was on the third day after the surrender,'
the First Lieutenant told us, ' and in
the forenoon, the usual guard being set, the
French officers and sailors all armed, and their

Commander on the quarter-deck. In the waist
was gathered together a small party of prisoners
taking their spell of fresh air ; they Avere
lolling in the sun, or looking over the bulwarks
in the hope of discovering an English flag.
Nothing was further from their thoughts than
an attempt to recapture the " Calypso." On that
point there could be no doubt. They talked
with each other in low voices, being very much
dejected at the position of their affairs, and the
prospect of a French prison, and they looked
at their Captain, who sat bareheaded on the
quarter-deck. He, too, like themselves, was
unarmed, and he sat without movins^or making
any sign of life.

Suddenly he sprang to his feet and caught
the French officer, a much smaller man than
himself, by the throat, tore his sword from him,
and cut him down. The two sentinels rushed
upon him with their bayonets, but he lightly
leapt aside, and cut them down too. Then,
armed with the sword, he sprang into the waist,
and crying, " Men of the ' Calypso,' to the rescue
of your ship ! " he attacked the Frenchmen,

cutting them down and driving all before him
like a madman.

There is a tall stout fellow aboard, one of
our Marines. He was on deck at the time,
and was the first who recovered presence of
mind (the rest being clean taken aback by the
suddenness of the thing). He seized a rammer
and sprang to the side of the Captain, fighting
with him and protecting him. Mark you, if it
had not been for that brave fellow the Captain
would have been killed a dozen times over — as
I doubt not he wished to be, seeing the reckless
way in which he attacked the enemy. Nay, I
wonder that in spite of this help he was not
killed, seeing that they fired their pistols in his
very face, and thrust at him with bayonets, and
cut at him with swords ; but all in vain. A
fine sight it was, and such as will never be
witnessed again by any of us, to see this hero
fighting the whole of the prize crew single-handed,
save for the Marine, dio seemed to
have no other thought than to protect his
Captain, and laid about him with his rammer
as if it had been a quarterstafF.

Well, gentlemen, you may be very sm^e it
was not very long before the rest of the English
sailors on deck joined in with a true
British cheer, fighting with whatever weapons
they could pick up — namely, one with a ,
one with a hammer, one with his fist,
one with a dead Frenchman's bayonet, and soon,
until in a few minutes we had the satisfaction
of driving our conquerors under hatches,
calling up our crew, and running up the Union
Jack. The Captain it was who hauled it up
with his own hand. His face was black with
powder, and streaked with blood, though he
had not received a scratch ; his hands were red
with blood, and his sword streaming ; on the
deck lay a dozen dead and Abounded, though
some of them only stunned with the Marine's
rammer. When the flag was up, the Captain
saluted it, and called on his men to give three
cheers, which they did with a will. After that
he ordered a double ration of rum, and every
man to his duty.

Then he turned to me. "Mr. Macdonald,"
he said, " I would to God you' Captain was

lying dead among those poor wretches," pointing
to the slain. I told him to take courage, because
it was by this act, and his alone, that the
vessel was recaptured. Tien he hesitated
awhile, and fetched a sigh as if his heart was
breaking.

•' Whose hand hauled down the flag? " he
asked.

I waited to hear what more he had to say.

" Where is the man," he asked, " who
fought beside me just now ? I mean the man
who interposed to save my life ? "

I called the man, who stepped forward
and saluted.

" So," said the Captain, " 'tis my old friend.
Sirrah, twice hast thou endeavoured to take
my life, out of revenge. Once hast ilion saved
it. Thou hast thy revenge at last, and in full
measure. Return to duty."

I know not, gentlemen,' continued the
First Lieutenant, ' what the Captain meant by
those words, for the man saluted and stepped
back to his place, making no reply, either by
look or speech. Then the Captain gave me his
last orders. '' You will take the command ot

this ship, Sir," he said. '• You will enter in the
Captain's log a full account of the circumstances
connected with the surrender and the recapture
of the ' Calypso.' Disguise nothing, Sir. Nothing
must be omitted. Write that the Captain
hauled down the flag. Write that the Captain
cut down the First Lieutenant, who would have
remonstrated. Write that there was not a
single shot fired, and the enemy carried less
weight of metal and a smaller crew."

'• With respect, Sir," I told him, " I shall
also write that the Captain also retook the
vessel single-handed."

" Write further — that the Captain gave
over the command to you, with instructions to
take the ship to Spithead, the whereabouts of
the Admiral not being known, there to report
on what has happened, and to await the instructions
of my Lords the Commissioners."

Gentlemen,' the First Lieutenant concluded,
' I obeyed orders. I sailed to Spithead,
and reported the circumstances of the
case. The Commissioners have ordered me to
bring the ship round to Deptford, the Captain
aboard her, prisoner, waiting this court-martial.

We hope that, though he certainly struck the
colours, his subsequent conduct may save his
life. For most certainly he was mad when he
did it, or bewitched, or possessed of a devil.
But he is mad no longer. I forgot to say,
gentlemen, that although for two days he
refused to take anything, and I verily believe
he intended to starve himself to death, he has
since eaten and drunk heartily.'

This was the story as the First Lieutenant
told it.

Now, when we heard it we were in a
doubt what to do. For to neglect the unhappy
prisoner altogether would seem heartless,
whereas, to try and see him, unless he manifested
a desire to see us, would seem like
intrusion. He sat in his cabin, we heard, all
day, and at night, when it was dark, walked
upon the quarter-deck. He spoke with no one
save the First Lieutenant, and made no reference
to the approaching trial — the day for
which they expected would be fixed very
shortly.

First, however, my father wrote to him, and

asked if he would wish to see him ; but
received a letter thanking him, indeed; and
putting off his visit until, the Writer said, he
should be forced to contemplate the near
approach of Death. Next, Mr. Brings sent a
message that ]ie wished to see him as his
physician (a title which he assumed when he
pleased) ; but the Captain returned word that
he had never been in better health.

As for myself, I waited for some days, not
venturing to intrude upon his suffering, yet
desirous of seeing him. At last I wrote a
letter, begging him to tell me if I could do
anything for him. To which he replied that
he would take it kindly if I would come
aboard and see him in his cabin. I obeyed
with a sinking heart, for, indeed, what consolation
could I administer, or with what countenance
could I greet him, or could I pretend that
lie was not overwhelmed with shame ?

When I went on board, I was astonished to
find, acting as sentry at the top of the companion,
no other than Aaron Fletcher. I knew
not that he was on board the ' Calypso.'

Strange, indeed, that he should now be mounting
guard as Marine over the man whom lie
had many times fought, and twice tried to
murder. He made no sign of recognition as I
passed him.

Jack was in this cabin, sitting at his window,
leaning his head upon his hand, and gazing
upon the river, with the crowd of craft upon it.
He turned his head when I opened the door,
and rose to meet me.

Luke,' he said, ' canst take the hand of a
coward wretch who hath surrendered his ship
without a blow ? Nay — nay — lad ; tears will
not help, and I am not worth a tear, or anything
now but to be shot like a cur, and rolled
up in a bit of sacking, and so tossed into the
water, and forgotten.'

I asked after his health, but he put me off.

'Health?' he cried. 'What matters my
health ? If you can pick up a smallpox, or a
galloping consumption, or a fever, and send it
to me — the worse the complaint, the better I
shall like it ; or if Mr. Brings, who can cause
all diseases, will send me one that will suddenly

tear out my heart, or stop my breath, it would
be very much to the pout at the present juncture.
My health ? Why, as the Devil will have
it, it was never better.' He laughed. ' Go
tell Mr. Brings, or his swivel-eyed assistant, to
make me up a disease or two in that saucepan
of his that is always on the hob. 'Tis a crafty
old man, and first cousin, I verily believe, to
the Devil.'

He paused awhile, thinking what next to
tell me.

Tell the Admiral . . . Xo, not yet ; after
my death thou shalt tell him all the truth,
which I will tell thee directly'. I cannot write
to that good old man ; yet, Luke, I must send
him some message. Therefore but nc,
there are no words that I can send him. I
cannot ask his forgiveness, because he can never
forgive me. 1 cannot thank him for all his
kindness, because I am not worthy now so
much as to send a word of gratitude. Let be,
let be. When I am dead thou shalt tell him
the truth. As for Castilla, she must forget me.
Tell her that, Luke. I am certain that lie

will soon console herself. She never loved
me as poor Bess used to love me. There
is Mr. Brings — tell him — why, tell him that
he must look for another sailor to steer
his ship among the islands of the Southern
Seas.'

Jack,' I said, ' it is terrible.'

Yes ; it is terrible. It is very terrible,
lad. But it must be endured. Trust me, that
I shall not stand snivelling? before the hie of
Marines at the end. That is, unless there be

another ' Here he paused, and in his eyes

there was apparent a look of such terror as I
have never since seen in any man's eyes, while
his cheeks turned white, and drops stood upon
his brow. ' Unless,' he said again, ' there come

another ' Here he broke off again. ' Luke,'

he said, ' if at the end I die craven, know of a
surety that I die unforgiven, and that my soul
is lost. But it cannot be that death will not
atone.' So he paced his cabin once or twice,
and then, becoming more calm, he sat down
again. ' Luke, dear lad, I wished to see thee,
but only thee, for the present. I have much

to say. And first — of Bess. Do you know
the words she said to me before I sailed .^ '

I know them. Bess told me herself.'

Does any other person know them ? '

'No one, I believe.'

Let her hold her tongue, then, lest they
take her for a witch. Why, I know full well
that she is no witch ; and as for those words,
they were spoken by her, but yet Avere not her
own. I laughed when I heard them. The
second time I heard them I laughed no longer.
And now I will tell thee the whole truth, Luke ;
but keep it to thyself until I am dead, when I
wish thee — nay, I charge thee — to tell the
Admiral and thy father. I crowded all sail in
pursuit of the enemy ; I prepared for action
with as lio^ht a heart as a man can have who
has a stout ship and a lusty crew. My guns
they were loaded, and my men were at quarters,
every man stripped to the skin, a good ration
of rum served round, and as hearty a spirit as
ever animated a British crew. I was as certain of
making a prize of the " Malicieuse " as I am now
certain of being tried and sentenced to death.

Suddenly, we being by this time well within
range, and our men prepared to give the enemy
a broadside, a shot from the Frenchman struck
our bow, and sent the splinters flying. Then
there came upon me a kind of dizziness, and a
voice shouted — yea, shouted in my ears —
though none but me heard it. ." Thou
shalt be struck where thou shalt feel the blow
most deeply." I tell thee the truth, Luke.
But tell no one, lest they seize poor Bess for a
witch. Something — I know not what — caught
my hand, and dragged me — whether I would
or no — yea, compelled me — to the mainmast,
and placed the halliards in my hand, and forced
me to haul down the flag. I know not very
well what happened afterwards ; my men, I
believe, were all smitten with stupid amazement,
and made no resistance : how should they when
the flag was struck ? They tell me that I cut
down the First Lieutenant. Thank God I did
no more than stun him ! And presently, when
I came to myself, I was sitting on a carronade,
and the ship was a prize, and the French
Commander was on the quarter-deck.'

'But you recaptured the slip?'

Why, 'twas a desperate attempt. I
thought first that I would starve myself to
death. But a man does not like to kill himself.
And then, seeing the Frenchmen on the deck,
and some of my lads forrard under the sentries,
I thought to make them kill me. Alas ! they
were not suffered to kill me. Some of my men
were wounded, and a good many of the Frenchmen
knocked o' the head ; but I came out of
the fight without a scratch, and the ship was
ours again. That is my story, lad, in its truth.'

What could a man say in consolation to a
man thus afflicted ? Was there ever a worse
case ? My father, for his part, found the case
of Job worse, ' because,' he said, ' not only did
the Patriarch lose wife and children, and substance
and health, but he also lost that which
made the patriarchal life more desirable than
any which hath followed it — namely, the daily
walk with God, compared with which a man's
reputation among his fellows is naught indeed.'

'Tell Bess,' Jack went on, 'what hath
happened. Let her know that she is revenged,

yoL. III.

and I am pimisliecl. She did not desire my
punishment. It will grieve the poor, tender
creature, who always loved me better than I
deserved. Yet it is the punishment — nay, I
know it now — it is the punishment of GOD
Himself.'

He then told me, what indeed I knew
already, the history of his passion for Bess, which
was as brief as it was violent, sparing himself
not at all.

Never,' ho swore, ' was a man more madly
in love with any woman than I with Bess, and
never, I am sure, did woman love man better
than she loves me. I confess, lad, that I made
her a thousand promises the most sacred I knew,
even upon the Holy Bible, that I would never
forget her, but would marry her when I returned.
The man Brings was witness a dozen
ties to these protestations. As for him, he is,
I think, a devil. For he egged her on to meet
me as often as I wished in his own house ; and
he laughed when I swore constancy, telling me,
when she was not present, that I knew the
lesson as well as if I were five-and-thirtv, instead

of four-and-twenty, and that every sailor was
the same, but I the most fortunate of all, because
I had so beautiful a girl. I meant not,
however, Luke, to deceive her. I intended
when I sailed away to keep my word. I was
full of love to her. Yet, which is strange, dien
we had been at sea for two or three months, I
thought of her no longer. When I came home
with the prize I declare that I had clean forgotten
her ; and when I saw her, I looked upon
her no longer with love, and wondered how I
could ever have loved her.'

Poor Bess ! '

It is strange, Luke, since I took the ship
ao-ain, the image of the girl hath returned to
my heart. I have thought upon her daily, and
I remember once more all the things that passed
between us while I was waiting for my appointment
to the " Tartar." Poor Bess ! She deserved
a better lover. How coidd I ever forget her
brave black eyes ? See, Luke ! ' He drew up
his sleeve and showed his left arm — he had
forgotten when last he exhibited that tattoo.

o 2

See, lad, her name is ever before me. Yes ;
a better lover she deserved.'

She desires no better lover, Jack.'

What .^ ' he asked. ' Doth she not curse
my very name ? '

Nay ; she hath never cursed thee. Jack.
She loves thee still : she hath always loved
thee.'

A woman cannot love a man who is disgraced.'


Why ? She loves the man : it is not his
honour or his reputation she loves. That I
have heard, but I have never understood it,
concerning women, before ; but now I perceive
it very plainly. It is strange to us, because a
man cannot love a woman without thinking of
her beauty ; and so we believe that a woman
cannot love a man without thinking of his
honour and reputation, his strength and his
name. Jack, will you see this poor girl? —
will you let her come to you? — and tell her
kindly, in your old way, that you love again,
as in the past time, and so heal her bleeding
heart?'

'See her? Truly, I never thought,' said
Jack. ' that she would any more come to me.
I thought that she must be like Aaron Fletcher
only anxious to see me swing. Why, if the
poor child can find any comfort or happiness
in coming here, let her come, in God's name.
As for me, dear lad, there is a load upon my
heart which I thought would be with me till
my death. But if she will forgive me, I think
that load will be removed, and I can die with
easier mind. Poor Bess ! she will but get her
lover in time to see him die. My heart bleeds
for her ! Go quick — bring her to me. Let meat
least ask her forgiveness.'

You may be sure that I lost no time intaking
this fond message to Bess.

I looked that she would burst into weeping
and sobbing. But she did not.

I knew,' she said, ' that I should get my
lover back. Xow care I for nothing more.
For if he must die, so must I die also. Death
itself shall not have power — no — death shall
have no power to separate us. On the day
that he dies shall I die too. He loves me again.

Why — clo you think I care what may happen
to either of us, since he loves me still ? '

I led her on board, and took her to the
Captain's cabin, but at the door I turned away,
and so left them alone.

Oh ! behind that closed door what prayers
and vows were uttered ! what tears were shed !
what tender embraces were exchanged ! when,
in the presence of Shame and Death, those
hapless lovers met again !

CHAPTER XLII.

OF THE COURT-iAIARTIAL.

lEAELY all that follows is matter of
history, and may be read in the
gazettes and papers of the day.
Yet for the sake of completing
the history, it shall be set forth in order.

The court-martial was appointed to be held
on board the ' Calypso,' on the forenoon of
Monday, February 2.

On that day it was accordingly held, the
Hon. Holm Cheerily, Dear-Admiral of the
White and Admiral of the Port, being the
President. The Court consisted of Captains
Pilchard Orde, Frederick Drake, Saltem willet,
Peter Denis, and Joshua Eowdey. Captain
Petherick should also have sat, but he begged
to be excused, on the ground of personal friendship

with the defendant. He was present,
however, and sat at the back of the court,
with as sad a countenance as ever I beheld.
(As for our Admiral, he was in his bedroom
with an attack of the gout, which even Mr.
Brings could not cure.) The court was thrown
open to all. Pew of the friends of the accused
officer were present, but there was a great
throng of people, not only from Deptford
Town, but also from London. Truly, a court-martial
on whose decision rests the honour,
if not the life, of a man, is a species of judicial
investigation which strikes awe upon the
beholder, even more than the aspect of the
judge, jury, and counsel in a civil court, the
solemnity of the occasion being heightened and
set off by the uniforms of the Judges and the
naked weapons of the sentries and guards.

The Court was opened by the Deputy
Judge Advocate. He was only an attorney of
Deptford, by name Eichard Pendlebury, but he
wore a black gown over his coat, and, being
provided with a full wig, which might have
been proper even to a serjeant-at-law, and wearing

miicli lace to his bosom and his sleeves,
and beings a bio burly gentleman with a full
round voice, he looked as full of authority as a
Kmg's Counsel. He began the proceedings by
reading; the warrant of the Eii^ht Honourable
the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty,
empowering the Admiral to assemble courts-martial.
This done, the President ordered that
Captain Easterbrook should be brought before
the Court. My heart beat fast and my throat
choked when he appeared, bearing himself
proudly, but with pale cheek, dressed, if one
may say so, like a bride for her wedding,
wearing his best uniform, his richest lace, and
white leather gloves. Never, surely, did officer
of the King's Navy bear himself more gallantly.
Once only I saw his cheek flush scarlet. 'Twas
when, in the old familiar way, he clapped his
hand to his side for the adjustment of his sword.
Alas ! he had no sword. That had been taken
from him, and was now Ijicg on the table
before the President, the hilt towards the
prisoner. Then he bowed to his judges and
stood upright, and, to outward show, calm and

collected, though a tempest of shame and despair
was raging within.

Then the Deputy Judge Advocate administered
the oath to the members of the Court
and took it himself in the form prescribed,
after which he read the charge against the
defendant, as follows :

'Gentlemen, — The charge against Captain
John Easterbrook, Commander of t'lie " Calypso,"
here present before your honourable Court, is
that on the 4th day of December, 1759, he
did cowardly and treacherously surrender and
yield up his ship to the enemy, and he is hereto
answer this charge accordingly.'

He then read the Fifteenth of the Articles
of War, as follows :

Every person in or belonging to the fleet
who shall desert to the enemy, pirate, or rebel,
or shall run away with any of His Majesty's
ships or vessels of war, or any ordnance,
ammunition, stores, or provision belonging
thereto, to the weakening of the service, or
shall yield up the same, cowardly or treacherously,
to the enemy, pirate, or rebel, being

convicted of any such offence by the sentence
of the court-martial, shall suffer death.'

These preliminaries being completed, the
Deputy Judge-advocate proceeded to call his
witnesses, and to each in turn administered an
oath which is more awful than that used in the
civil courts, because it lays upon the witness an
obligation to reveal everything that he knows
concerning the case. The form is this :

'I, A. B., do most solemnly swear that in
the evidence I shall give before the Court respecting
the present trial I will, whether demanded
of me by question or not, and whether
favourable or unfavourable to the prisoner,
declare the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth. So help me, GOD ! '

The deposition of the officers had already
been taken at Portsmouth for the information
of the Lords Commissioners, and in every case
these were first read aloud, and then confirmed
by the witness, who added what he chose, and
answered such questions as were put to him.
And in the putting of these questions it seemed
to me as if the Deputy Judge-advocate was

desirous of pressing and dwelling upon every
fact which might make the crime appear blacker,
and of concealing or passing over every fact
which made in favour of the accused.

The first witness called was Lieutenant
Colin Macdonald, First Lieutenant of the
'Calypso.'

His deposition was short, and was as
follows :

At daybreak on the morning of December
the 4th, being then in company with the frigate
"Eesolute," Captain Boys, we sighted three ships,
which we presently made out to be a squadron
of three French frigates, apparently of about
the same armament as ourselves. They bore
away at sight of us, as not wishing to fight.
Captain Easterbrook gave the word to crowd
all sail and up hammocks, the wind being then
fresh and nearly aft and the sea lively, but the
ship sailing free and not lying down, so that all
her ports could be opened and all her guns
fired. We presently found that we gained upon
the Frenchmen, and about noon we were nearly
come up with the '' Malicieuse," the slowest

of the three, the " Eesolute " being then half a
mile or so astern, and the other two French
ships about as much ahead of us. We were
by this time cleared for action, the men at
their quarters, and everything reported in
readiness, looking for nothing but a close engagement,
and a pretty hot one, with the three
ships. The Captain's plan, he told me, was
to range alongside of the enemy, pour in his
broadside, grapple, and board, thinking that
the " Eesohite " would do the like, and so we
might capture the squadron. And this we
could have done, having faster vessels than the
enemy, and Captain Easterbrook being, as I
take it, the smartest leander of a ship in the
service, though so young a man. But the
Frenchman was not disposed to allow of this, if
he could help it. Therefore, he began to let
fly with the stern-cleavers, being, like most of
his nation, amply provided with these helps to
running away. His first shot knocked away
part of our figure-head, the splinters flying
about the deck ; but no one harmed. Just
then, to our utmost consternation, the Captain

turned pale, and ran to the mainmast, wherewith
his own hands, lie began to lower the
colours. I ran to him, crying, '' Captain, for
God's sake, consider what you are doing ! "
Whereupon he drew his sword, and cut me
down over the head, but, fortunately, with
the flat of the weapon only, else I had been
a dead man. And I knew no more until the
business was ended, and we were all prisoners.'
Being asked by the Deputy Judge Advocate
what preparations had been made for an engagement,
he replied that nothings was omitted
that is customary on such an occasion ; that
they had ample time during the chase, and that
no ship ever went into action better prepared.
Immediately on sighting the enenjy the bo's'n
and his mates piped to stow hammocks ; the
carpenter and his mates were ready with their
mauls and plugs ; the gunner and his quarter-gunners
examined and reported on all the
cannon. When the ship was within a mile of
the enemy the drum beat to quarters. Then
every man stripped to the waist, and repaired
to his proper place ; a ration of rum was served

out ; the Watches were laid ; the Marines were
drawn up on the quarter-deck and fo'ks'le ;
lastly, \he guns were cast loose, the tompkins
withdrawn, and the guns loaded and run out at
all the ports. In one word, there was no point
omitted that a Commander who knows this
business would neglect, and everything in
such order as the most resolute captain could
desire.

Being asked further, if the enemy's consorts
showed an intention of taking part in the light,
the Lieutenant replied that he was not prepared
to state positively, but he believed that one of
them backed lier sails, while the other appeared
to be hauling her wind ; but he repeated that
it was the Captain's design to neglect these
vessels while he took the ' Malicieuse ' by boarding,
and afterwards to engage her consorts with
the help of the' Eesolute.'

Being further pressed upon the distance of
the ' Calypso ' from the ' Malicieuse ' when the
Captain surrendered, he replied that, to the best
of his knowledge and belief, the '■ Calypso ' was
no more than a hundred and fifty yards astern

of the ' Malicieiise,' and gaining rapidly. Being
asked what was the posture of the enemy sofar
as could be discerned, he replied the men
were at quarters, and ready for action, but that
all sail was crowded, and that the Frenchman, it
was quite certain, had no stomach for the fight,
and would gladly have got clear off.

At this point of the evidence, Captain
Easterbrook was asked if he had any questions
to put to the witness. He replied that he had
none, and that to the best of his knowledge the
evidence given by Lieutenant Macdonald was
true in every particular — a statement which
made the Court look serious, and troubled the
mind of the Deputy Judge-advocate, because
there is nothing which these gentlemen desire
more than to fight a stubborn case ; whereas, if
an officer pleads guilty, and throws himself
upon the mercy of the Court, he has no chance
to show his cleverness.

'With permission of the Court,' said the
First Lieutenant, ' I will now give evidence as
to the recapture of the ship.'

I submit to the Court,' said the Deputy

Jutlge-Advocate, ' that the recapture of the ship
has nothing to do with the charge against Captain
Easterbrook — namely, that lie did cowardly
and treacherously yield np his vessel.'

Gentlemen,' said the Lieutenant, ' with respect.
If the ship had not been recaptured the
Court could not have been held. And if it had
not been for the Captain the ship would never
have been recaptured. Eor he did a thing
which I venture to maintain no other man in
the service would have done, when he engaged,
single-handed, the whole of the crew in charge
of the prize.'

So the Court conferred together, whispering,
and the President ordered the witness to proceed.
Whereupon the Deputy Judge Advocate
sat down and put his hands hi his pockets,
and gazed upwards as if this part of the
evidence did not concern him.

The account which the Lieutenant gave of
the retaking of the ship was exactly the same
which he had already given to the Commissioner
of the Yard, Captain Petherick. It need
not, therefore, be repeated here. Suffice it to

VOL. III. p

say that at the recital there was not a face in
court which was not suffused with emotion,
and as for myself, I thought that surely after
so gallant an exploit his sword would be returned
to him.

Gentlemen,' concluded the First Lieutenant,
' 'twas the most gallant deed I have ever
witnessed. Only by a miracle, and by his own
valour did the Captain escape death. There
were on deck thirty Frenchmen, all armed, and
he with nothing but the sword which he tore
from the French Commander. And to back
him only a dozen unarmed men, who, to tell
the truth, for I was among them, were taken
by surprise, and would never have plucked up
heart save for the example of the Captain. The
first man to join him was a Marine, named
Aaron Fletcher, who seized a rammer, and,
armed with this weapon alone, stood by the
Captain, playing a man's part, indeed; but for
him, the Captain would have been cut down
a dozen times. But, gentlemen, that the ship
was recaptured is due to nobody but to the
desperate valour of the Captain himself.'

The Court asked Captain Easterbrook
whether he had any questions to put on this
head, but he had none. Wherefore, Lieutenant
Macdonald stepped aside, and made
way for the next witness.

Then the Second Lieutenant of the ship was
called, and he gave evidence that he was at his
station on the main deck when the action
began, and testified to the disgust of the men
when they learned that the ship was surrendered.
This was the more astonishing to them, as their
Captain had the reputation of uncommon courage.
At first the men refused to believe that
the vessel was surrendered, and called upon
each other to fight it out.

The Third Lieutenant gave similar evidence,
adding that, had not the men been fully convinced
of the Captain's bravery and judgment,
there would have been a mutiny on board ; and
that they thought the ship must be sinking at
least, or dangerously on hire, or that it was
some stratagem, counterfeit, or design by which
the Captain thought to fool the enemy, and
that they looked at each other and Laughed

r 2

aloud, waiting for the word to lay the guns,
and fire. Further, that the enemy did not
believe it possible that a British ship should
thus cowardly be yielded up, and continued to
fire upon the ' Calypso,' the shot passing through
the rioTDriDCT and the sails, but doini]^ no further
mischief. Xor did the men believe that the
ship was surrendered until the French boat
came alongside and the Captain gave the word
to back the sails and lay down arms, which
they all did with a very bad grace, yet still
persuaded that something fatal had happened
to the ship, and that the colours were struck to
save their lives.

The Lieutenant of Marines deposed that his
men were drawn up in readiness on the
quarter-deck and fo'ks'le, and stated plainly
that he had no doubt of the issue, because the
Frenchmen had only one thought — namely, to
get away ; and, in his opinion, it had been the
Captain's intention to attack and take all three
ships, with the help of the 'Eesolute'; and
that nothing in the world had ever surprised
him more than the strange behaviour of the

Captain, from whom so much had been expected.


Captain Easterbrook declined to ask any
questions of these witnesses. Was he, then,
going to make no attempt at a defence ?

They called the Purser, who put in the
Captain's log-book, which is always done on
these trials, I am told, but I know not why.
And then I thought we should surely proceed
to the defence, because there could be no doubt
of the main fact — namely, that the Captain had
certainly struck the colours.

But they delayed the case in order to call
the Master, who confirmed the First Lieutenant's
evidence as to the preparations for engaging the
enemy ; and the Gunner, who also confirmed
the evidence ; and the bo's'n and the carpenter,
who added little to the evidence already
before the Court, except the fact that when
the men were under hatches and knew what
had been done, the swearing and cursing
of the crew were strong enough to lift the
decks.

Gentlemen,' said the Deputy Judge Advocate,

'there is no other evidence before the
Court.'

Stay,' said the President, ' call the Marine
of whose conduct in the recapture of the ship
Lieutenant Macdonald hath spoken.'

So they called Aaron Fletcher.

When this witness stepped forward, looking,
it must be confessed, a much smarter and finer
man in his scarlet coat than he ever looked asa
landsman. Jack's face flushed. It was his
fate never to be out of reach of this man's
animosity. Twice had Aaron tried to take his
life, when that was most worth having. Once
he had saved his life when lie himself had
most ardently desired to lose it. Now he was
present to give evidence in the hour of his open
humiliation.

'I thought,' he told me afterwards, *that
I had drained the whole cup. But the bitterest
drop was when that man stood before me, as
if Bess, poor girl ! had not yet forgiven me,
and had sent her old lover to gloat over my
discomfiture. She hath forgiven me, however ;
therefore I need not have been troubled.'

The Court ordered the man to be sworn,
and bade him relate all that he knew concerning
the affair, and particularly as to the
retaking of the ship from the French.

'I was on the fo'ks'le,' said Aaron, speaking
boldly, and no whit abashed at the solemnity
of the Court and the rank of the Judges. ' I
was on the fo'ks'le, with the rest of the company
drawn up and armed, the muskets being
loaded and inspected, waiting for the word to
fire, which would have been in a few minutes,
as we expected. Then a shot from the enemy
struck our bows and the wood went flying ;
but no one, that I could see, was hurt. And
then I saw the Captain strike the flag and
cut down the First Lieutenant. "Mates," I
whispered presently, " either the ship is sinking,
or the Captain has lost his stomach for the fight.
If she sinks, we go to Davy's Locker ; if he's
played the coward, lie will swing." ' As he
said these words, he turned his face to Jack
with a look of triumph in his eyes. ' We were
all sent down below,' lie continued, 'when the
Frenchmen came aboard, and there we stayed

with no arms and short rations. Two clays
afterwards I was on deck, taking my spell of
fresh air with the others — about a dozen menin
all. We were leaning against the bulwarks,
wishing the job was over, and cursing the
Captain, who was sitting on the quarter-deck
on the trunnions of a carronade, his hands on
his knees, staring straight before him as if he
saw the rope dangling before his eyes, already
noosed for him. Suddenly I saw him spring
from his place and catch the French officer,
who was walking the deck, by the throat, and
shake him like a dog. Then he threw him on
the deck (where the Frenchman lay stunned
and half-dead) and he tore his sword from
him ; then he rushed upon one of the sentries
and cut him down, and attacked the other :
some of the Frenchmen, seeing what was done,
cried out in their own lingo, and ran aft,
some firing pistols and some drawing cutlasses.
Whereupon I called out to my mates and seized
a rammer, which was the best thing for a weapon
I could come at, and ran after them, and so to
the Captain's side, for I plainly saw that his

design was to kill as many of the Frenchmen
as he could, and to be killed himself, which I
resolved to prevent if I could. And then the
other Englishmen joined me, and in a very few
minutes we had half of the prize crew killed or
wounded, and the other half crying for quarter;
but the Captain was so furious that for sometime
he would give none, throwing himself
upon all such as had weapons and would fight.
Hard work I had to save him. But I did.
When 'twas all over there wasn't a scratch
upon him. I saved him, your Honours. With
a rammer I saved his life.'

Your courage,' said the President, ' does
you credit. I shall take care that it is duly
represented to the Colonel of your regiment ;
and if your conduct is reported as equal to
your gallantry you will not go without your
reward. The Captain, you think, sought for
death ? '

'No one,' said Aaron, 'who did not want
to be killed could have behaved as he did.
Before the enemy called for quarter, we had
driven them together in the waist, where they

were shouting and threatening to charge us
with pikes and bayonets, but we had weapons
by this time, and were ready to receive them.
But they did not charge, because the Captain
leaped into the middle of them with nothing
but his sword in his hand, laying about him
like a madman. He was sober and in his
senses when he cowardly hauled down the
flag, but he was now, when he attacked the
prize crew, gone stark mad. If he hadn't been
mad and not known what he was about, wee
should never have taken the ship.'

And you leaped after him ? ' asked one of
the Court.

I had my rammer, which was almost as
good as a quarterstaff ; and I'd rather have a
quarterstafF than a sword" any day, or a pike
either, if there's room for play.'

And this you did out of devotion or loyalty
to your Captain ? ' asked the President, astonished
at the man's coolness, and the deliberation
with which he gave his evidence.

Nay, nay,' he replied, grinning again, ' I
saved his life because I should have been sorry

to see him die like a brave man. All I wanted
was to see him swing, your Honours, for striking
his colours.'

These words produced a sensation in the
court ; and all eyes were turned upon this
witness who (though but a simple Marine)
carried devotion to his country's, honour unto so
great a height. But the officers of the ' Calypso '
whispered together, and I heard such words
passed from one to the other as ' rascal,' ' six
dozen,' ' the first chance,' ' not good enough for
him,' and so forth, from which I conjectured
that Aaron would find a warm welcome if he
went to sea again on board this vessel. I think
he must have heard the whispers, but he cared
nothing for them. He was now enjoying a
revcno'e sweeter far than to have murdered the
Captain with his own hand.

Therefore, he turned his ugly face to the
prisoner, and grinned with the satisfaction of
his ignoble triumph. The Court, however,
seemed to take the Avords for an outburst of
honest and patriotic feeling which did credit to
this rough and simple fellow.

Captain Easterbrook refused to ask any
questions of this witness either. It was now
between three and four o'clock in the afternoon,
when the President asked the prisoner if he
designed to call any witnesses for the defence,
and proposed to adjourn the Court until the
following day. •

Sir,' said Jack, ' I have no witnesses to
call.'

'Then,' said the President, 'you would
doubtless wish for time to prepare your defence.
It is now late ; wee will adjourn the Court until
tomorrow.'

Sir,' said Jack, ' I thank you. But, with
permission of the Court, I will make my defence
without further delay. I will not trouble the
Court to adjourn.'

The Court conferred, and presently said that
they would hear the prisoner at once, if he
chose.

Gentlemen,' Jack began, ' I have but a
few words to say ; and as for defence, I have
none. I have been at sea since my thirteenth
year, and am now four-and-tw^enty. During

this ting I have been present in many actions,.
and I have never received audit but commendation
from my superior officers. I served first
under Captain Holes, of the "Lenox," and next
on board the " Countess of Dorset," when I was
cast away on the coast of Patagonia, and, after
wandering among the Indians, I was prisoner
hast to the Spaniards, and afterwards to the
French. But I broke prison, and was appointed
Third Lieutenant to Captain Lockhart, of the
'* Tartar." I submit that my character for
courage was never impugned on board any of
these vessels, and Captain Lockhart hath thought
fit to bear testimony in his despatches to my
conduct in the many engagements fought by
his ship. You have also heard how I was
enabled, by the help of those of my crew then
on deck, to take the ship again.'

He paused here, as if he was unwilling to
say what was in his mind.

I submit to the Court,' said the Deputy
Judge Advocate, ' that these facts, which I
think the Court will not dispute, do not constitute
any defence.'

They are no defence,' Jack replied. ' I
state tlieni because they form my only consolation
in this hour. I have no defence. The
charge is true. My officers and crew would
have taken, not only the " Marchese " but the
two other ships as well. Their evidence is true
in every particular. I wish to testify that no
Commander ever had better officers, a handier
vessel, or a heartier crew. I threw all away.
I struck the colours. I cowardly and treacherously
surrendered my ship without firing a
shot. I have but one prayer to make of the
Court. It is that this act, which was wholly
my own, may not in the least degree prejudice
the future of my brave Lieutenants. It was
this shameful hand, and none other, which
hauled down the flag of the " Calypso." '

When he concluded, there was silence fora
space, because the Court and everybody
present were taken by surprise, and because
the contemplation of this tall and handsome
lad (he seemed no more) thus avowing, not
proudly, but shamefully, and yet honestly and
fully, his own dishonour, overwhelmed us with

sadness. From his officers, standing together,
there were whispers, which could be heard allover
the court : ' He was mad. A madman is
not answerable for his doings. Neo one but a
madman would have done it.' And so forth.
And I verily believe, and have been assured,
that there was not one onions them all who
would not gladly have put out to sea again
under Captain Easterbrook, in full confidence
that he would fight the ship as long as a man
was left alive to stand beside him.

As for me, I had looked to see him call
some witnesses. He could not, it is true, call
Bess Westmoreland ; nor could he tell the
whole truth, else he would have stood before
the Court and said, ' Gentlemen, this is none
other than the Hand of GOD which hath
struck me for my sins, and because I broke my
solemn oath, passed to a woman. The Hand
liatk struck me in that way lohich most deeply
and most bitterly I should feel. For I never
feared to die, nor to be wounded, but always
and before all things have I loved and prized
honour and been jealous for my good name,

and longed to distinguish myself and to rise
in the service. Wherefore, now have I been
deprived of the thing which most of all I
prized, and stand before you all, bereft of
honour, a cowardly Commander, so that there
reams for me nothing but death ; and
whether I am hanged or shot, I care not, so
that I may die soon. For there is no place
where I could live whither my shame would
not also follow me and be quickly brazened
forth to all the folk. Sentence me, therefore,
quickly, and let me go.'

This, I say, he felt and knew to be the truth.
Yet he would not say it. But he might have
called Mr. Brings, who would have testified,
which is the truth, though it did not perhaps
touch the case, that men who have been in
places where the sun is hot, especially such as
have wandered about without any covering for
their heads, are often subject to sudden fits of.
madness, during which they know not what
they do ; and that pcrha]:)s this was the case
with Captain Easterbrook. Nay, I have heard
learned physicians, disputing on such points,

argue that sudden fits of madness are often
produced by exposure to the hot sun ; so that
a man who hath once received a sunstroke, as
they call it, may, in such an access, commit
murder or any other crime, and not know
afterwards what he hath done.

The case being then concluded and the
whole evidence completed, with such defence
as the defendant had thought fit to set u]),
order was given to clear the court, which
was done, the guard of Marines taking the
Captain back to Diis cabin, and the Judges
being left alone.

He will die,' said Captain Petherick ; ' I
see in his eyes that there is nothing left for
him to desire but death. The day of his execution
will be welcome to him. Yet I hope that
they will not hang him like a cur, but will
shoot him like a brave man.'

He was certainly mad,' said Mr. Shelvocke.
I remember once, being then off the Ladrone
Islands-;^ '

Ay,' said Mr. Brings, interrupting — I had
not seen him in court ; yet he was there,

VOL. III. Q

dressed as if for the Club — '- Ay. The boy was
mad. What? Would a coward have resolved
upon so desperate an enterprise as to attack
the prize crew single-handed? Death was
before him — death if he failed ; death if he
succeeded ; for to succeed was but to throw
himself into a court-martial. Whereas, if he had
suffered the ship to sail into Brest Harbour, he
might have lived in France all his life in safety,
and no one to know what had happened. Now,
what can they do but sentence him to be hanged
or shot? Luke, my lad, if I had Aaron ashore,
I would make everyone of his teeth like a lump
of red-hot iron ; rheumatic pains should grind
his joints and twist his nerves ; gout should
tear and rend his stomach ; tic should stick
sharp needles into his face. Well — patience !
something will happen unto Aaron yet. If,
now, the poor boy had been suffered to have
his wish, he would have died in the moment
of victory, when he had reconquered the ship.
As for witchcraft' — here he whispered — 'but
that I know the poor wretch loves him still,
and would rather, die than suffer him to come

to any harm, I should believe that Bess was at
the bottom of the mischief. I say not that she
is a witch ; but no one knows what a revengeful
woman can do when once she dabbles in
the forbidden art.'

Bess was, indeed, at the bottom of the
mischief, but in a way which Mr. Brings could
not understand ; for he had not, so far as I
could discover, the fear of the Lord before
his eyes, and was, indeed, little better than a
Pagan.

There is again,' lie said, ' the old black
woman. But, then. Jack was to marry her
mistress, and therefore she would not harm
him. Yet there must be a girl in it, and she
must have put Obi upon him by the help of
some, though I knew not that there were any
other Obeali men in this country, besides myself.
If I were younger, I would go to Portsmouth
and find that woman, and then, Luke,
my lad, she should be made to feel as if it had
been better for her never to have been born.'

'Bess, at least, is no witch,' I said, for the
lire of his one eye was so bright that I feared

a 2

he might have fallen upon her, or, at least,
compelled her to tell him the truth.

'This woman, whoever she may be, hath
robbed the King's service of the most gallant
officer. She hath deprived a lovely woman of
her sweetheart ; she hath covered us all with
shame and confusion. Wherefore, may her
flesh fall rotten from her bones ! May '

Nay, Mr. Brings,' I said, ' when you find
her you can curse her. Let not your curses
loose upon an unknown woman.'

He stopped because at this moment a messenger
came forth from the court, and word
passed that the armourer was sent for, and my
heart sank like lead, and the women began
to sob. It was too true. That petty officer
presently came on deck and Alas passed within
the court. And we heard the noise of his
file. Alas! he was filing Jack's sword, and
the end was now certain. To me the filing of
the sword was like the cutting of the life-threads
at once by the Fates, because — ah ! Bess —
Bess ! how couldst thou survive thy lover ?

Then the court was thrown open and the

prisoner was taken back to hear his sentence.
We learned afterwards that there was a difference
of opinion among the Judges, some
inclining to mercy on the ground of the
Captain's conduct in recapturing the ship.
But in the end the sterner counsels prevailed ;
and, indeed, the commander of a ship can on
no grounds be pardoned for surrendering to
the enemy save in extremity. Suppose a man
commits a forgery, is it any defence that before
and after this act of wickedness he led a o;ood
and virtuous life? Suppose a boy picks a
pocket, is it any defence that he is sorry, and
would fain give back the purse and the money
that was in it ?

^¥e went back to the court. Alas ! If
there had been any room for doubt before,
there was none now, because the prisoner's
sword was reversed, and lay upon the table
the point towards the prisoner, which meant
Death.

Guilty,' whispered Mr. Brings, not looking
at the sword. ' Death is written in their faces.'
It was. And yet the brave officers who had

already passed and signed the sentence of death,
showed compassion in their faces.

As for me, I cannot even nor, after nearly
forty years have passed, think of that moment
without the tears rising to my eyes. The
court was crowded with fine Ladies, who had
come from London to see the trial They
thought, perhaps, to enjoy the spectacle of a
gallant man brought to shame, but they could
not without tears and sobbing look upon this
poor fellow, tall and manly, brought forth to
hear a sentence of death.

The President arose, and read the sentence
in his ]hand, signed by every member of the
Court.

Captain John Easterbrook, the court-martial
duly held upon you for the loss of His
Majesty's ship the " Calypso," find that you did
cowardly surrender your ship. The sentence
of the Court is that on a day to be presently
appointed, according to the will of His Gracious
Majesty the King, you be placed upon the
quarter-deck of the " Calypso " and be there
shot to death. God save the Kin 2^ ! '

Now, before he spoke the lat-t words, he
laid down the paper and took Jack's sword in
his hands, which hehekl for a moment as if loth
to complete the sentence. Then, with the
words, ' God save the King,' he broke the
sword — filed in readiness by the armourer —
across his knee and threw the broken pieces
upon the table. And the women shrieked and
the men groaned, and the officers who composed
the Court hung their heads as if they
dare not face the prisoner. And yet their
sentence was most just and righteous.

Gentlemen,' said Jack, in a clear firm
voice, ' I thank the Court for their patient
hearing of the case. I looked for no other
verdict, and I desire no other. I acknowledge
the justice of the sentence. God save the
King I '

CHAPTER XLIII.

AFTER THE Court-martial.

HITS ended the court-martial ; thus
was made grievous shipwreck of a
gallant youth's ambition, his honour,
and his life ; yet, as to his honour,
'lavas stoutly and steadfastly maintained by all
sailors, and especially by the officers and men
of the ' Calypso,' that the Captain's surrender
(being done in a moment of madness or by
power of witchcraft) was fully atoned for by
this surprising recapture of the ship. That, too,
has always been the opinion of his friends,
though, for my own part, as the only one left
who knows the whole truth, I cannot but
acknowledge that the madness was sent by
Heaven, just as much as that madness which
the ancients feii^^ned to have been inflicted on

the Greek hero who slew cattle and sheep,
thinking they were this enemies. Therefore,
no atonement for his deed was necessary,
seeing that it was itself a punishment
inflicted by the hand of a justly offended
Creator.

I know not who told the truth to the
Admiral, but perhaps it was Mr. Brings, who
went daily to see him on account of an attack
of gout, brought on partly by his distress of
mind and the shame of this untoward event,
and partly by the fault of the poor old gentleman
himself, who tried to drown care with
port wine and punch. This attack obstinately
resisted the Apothecary's remedies. Indeed,
though for the time he presently recovered, yet
he came no more to the Sir John Falstaff, and
never held up his head again, going in great
heaviness, and, I fear, still taking more drink
than is good for any man, until the disease
mounted to his stomach, where, Mr. Brings
being no longer at hand to assuage the pain,
it speedily made an end of him.

On the evening; of the court-martial the

gentlemen of the Club met as usual, though
without their President. The conversation was
enlivened, if one may say so, by the extraordinary
and tragical incidents of the day.
They drank not less, but rather more, in order
to sustain their spirits ; they took their liquor
with whispers, and lowered voice, as is done
in a house where one lies dead ; and they
naturally talked much on subjects akin to what
was in their thoughts, as if seeking consolation
in recalling examples resembling the case which
so much touched tlicir hearts. Thus King
Eichard the Second is represented by Shakespeare
as loving, when in captivity, to talk of
the violent deaths of Princes.

I was present,' said Captain Petherick, ' at
the execution of Admiral Byng, two years and
a half ago. If family influence could have
availed, he would have been spared. Yet he
was shot, and went to his death with a smiling
countenance.'

I remember,' said Mr. Shelvocke — but I
know not whether this was true — ' the death of
Captain Kirkby and Captain Wade for cowardly

deserting Admiral Benbow, and that was fifty-seven
years ago.'

Another recalled the well-known case of
Lieutenant Baker Philips, shot in 1745, for surrendering
the ' Anglesey ' to the ' Apollon,' after
the Captain and the First Lieutenant were both
killed. Xo mercy was shown to him, though
it was proved that he had but 200 men and
forty guns (and of his crew fifty killed and
wounded), against the French crew of 500 men
with fifty guns. Yet they shot him at Spithead
on board the ' Princess Eoyal.' As for other
courts-martial. Captain Fox, of the ' Kent,' was
dismissed his ship for neglect of duty m 1747.
In 1744 Admiral Matters and four Captains
were cashiered for nearest of duty. In the

O 4-'

same year the Master of the ' Northumberland,'
the Captain being mortally wounded, surrendered
the ship before the Lieutenant could
get on deck. Wherefore, he was sentenced to
be confined in the Marshalsea for the remainder
of his life. ' And there, gentlemen,' said Mr.
Underhill, ' he lies to this day, and but last
Monday se'nnight I saw him, and conversed

with him — a poor broken man, who vainly
prays for death.'

In short, the talk ran wholly upon trials
and executions ; the unhappy young man now
lying under sentence of death was, so to speak,
executed beforehand, and in imagination by his
friends, who stood (for him) upon the quarterdeck,
eyes bandaged, arms folded, before the
file of Marines, and hoped (for him) nothing
more than a happy shot through heart or head,
which should put an instant stop to life. Then
the conversation turned upon the various
methods of violent deaths, all of which seem
to be accompanied by great, and some by prolonged,
agonies — such as breaking on the wheel,
the punishment of the knout, or burning alive
and there was much discussion as to wdhch
method of violent death seemed the most
preferable.

It was remarkable that Mr. Brings, generally
one who talked more than any, for the
most part sat apart during this gloomy talk,
taking his pipe of tobacco without much share
in the conversation, whether from excess of

'-37

grief or from the callous disposition of old age,
to which most things seem to matter little. But
he muttered to himself, as old people use,
without heed to those who are about them, and
I overheard him.

Ay . . . ay . . .' he said, ' the boy must
be shot, I suppose, and then Bess Avill not live.
. . She will certainly live no longer when
he is gone. So have I lost both. She will go
drown herself as soon as the shots are fired.
But he is not dead yet — while there is life there
is hope — who knows what may happen ? 'Twill
be three, and perhaps six weeks before the day
of execution. Much may be done in six weeks.
The lad is not shot yet, nor is Bess drowned.
And as for Aaron — but he saved the Captain's
life. Wherefore, though he did it with an ill
design, I harm him not.' Presently he
recovered his spirits, and looked about him,
and began to talk in a more cheerful strain,
though how he could put on a show of cheerfulness,
with the prospect before him of Jack's
certain execution and Bess's self-murder, passes
understanding. ' The lad is not shot yet ! ' he

THE WORLD WENT

said. Why, what could be done for him ?
Nothing. A reprieve Alas past praying for.
Yet it inst be acknowledged that the popular
indignation, which had at first ran high against
the Captain who thus cowardly surrendered,
quickly subsided and changed into compassion
when the circumstances of the recapture became
known, so that perhaps a reprieve might not
have been so impossible had there been any in
high place to ask for it.

As regards the condemned man, whom I
saw many times after the sentence, 1 declare
that I have never known any man more cheerful
and resigned to his fate than was this most
unfortunate Captain during the three weeks
which passed between his sentence and the day
of his execution. Of hope, he had none ; nor
did he desire to live.

If I were reprieved,' he said, ' whither
should I go ? how live ? I am but twenty-four
years of age, and I might live for fifty years to
come, even into the next century, if the world
endure so long, with the accursed remembrance
of one day always in my mind, and among

people who would never tire of pointing at the
Captain who surrendered his ship without
striking a blow — one single blow — the most
co^vardl}^ surrender in the history of the British
Navy. Why, 'twould be every day a thousand
times worse than the pains of death. My worst
enemy could devise no more cruel punishment
than to send me forti free to walk the streets
of an English town. Xay, Bess '■ — for she was
with him — ' 'tis idle to talk. I know Avhat
thou wouldst say, dear girl. For a mad act —
we know, my dear, why that madness was sent,
and for what cause permitted — no man should
be held responsible. Why, my First Lieutenant
was here yesterday, and said as much. But
even he does not know, and the world can
never know, the whole truth.'

In those last days Bess was with him
always. She came at eight in the morning,
and she left him at eight in the evening.
Everybody knew by this time that she was the
Captain's sweetheart; no one found it strange
or wonderful, because Bess was the finest
woman in Deptford, and the Captain was the

comeliest man; and people only sometimes
remembered that lie had been reported as
promised to the daughter of the Admiral. It
astonished me, perhaps because I daily expected
and feared it, that no one so much as hinted
at the possibility of Bess being engaged in
witchcraft, though all were agreed that by fond
practices the Captain had been deprived for
the moment of his courage. It is no longer
the custom to burn witches; yet I am sure that
if any woman had been discovered, or even
suspected, by the good people of Deptford, to
have been concerned in this wickedness, lie
would have suffered every torture they could
have devised. Burning — mere burning — would
have seemed too mild a punishment for a
woman who could thus b}- her villainous
sorceries turn a brave man into a coward.
Again, if things had gone well with this poor
girl, if Jack had returned home triumphant
and victorious, and had then openly sought
his humble sweetheart, there were plenty of
women who would have said liard and cruel
things concerning her, as is their way with

each other. But now, when her lover lay
under sentence of death, they refrained their
tongues; nay, they even said good things of
her, reckoning it to her credit that, for the
sake of the Captain, she would receive the
addresses of no other man, and that she sent
Aaron Fletcher about his business and consorted
with none of her former friends (who were
beneath the notice of a Captain's lady), and
sought in the society of Mr. Baines to acquire
the manners and the bearing of a gentlewoman.
When she went down to the Stairs in the
morning, those women whom she passed on
her way stood aside for her in silence, and
looked after her with compassion in their
eyes, and even with tears; and those, perhaps,
the rudest women of the place, lit companions
for the rudest sailors, abandoned in morals,
sodden with drink, fond of tongue, and ever
ready to strike and to swear. So that pity
may find a home in the most savage breast.

She sat with Jack, therefore, all day long,
in the cabin, which was this condemned celL
For the first day or two she wept continually.

VOL. III. R

Then she ceased her crying altogether, and
sat with dry eyes. She said nothing, but she
looked upon her sweetheart always, as if
huno'erinfT after the sight of this dear face.
But from time to time she rose and flung out
her arms, as if she could not bear herself.
This was natural, when a woman regains her
lover only to lose him by a violent death.
One evening? I walked home with her through
the town, and she told me, poor gvA ! what
was in her mind. ' I shall not live after him,'
she said ; ' of that I am resolved. Why, if it
be as he says, that Heaven Imth punished him
for his inconstancy, was it not through my
mouth that the punishment Alas pronounced ?
Where he goes, I shall go. When he dies,
I shall die. In that same hour when the
bullets tear his dear heart, shall I die too ; and
so my soul shall join his. I know not,' she
said, wildly, 'oh! I know not whither we
shall be sent in the next world; and I care
nothing — no, nothing — so only that we go
there together. I am quite sure that he is
forgiven all his sins, if ever he committed any,

tliougli I know not that they can be worth
considering. And he dies for them. What
can a man do more? As for me, I am not
afraid, because I have always gone to church
every Sunday morning. Oh! I doubt not we
shall go to Heaven together, and sit hand-in-hand,
and side-beside; and perhaps we shall
forget the past, somehow, and then the old
brave look will come back to my boy's eyes.
What would Heaven be to him if I were not
with him — and what to me if my Jack were
not beside me ? And oh ! Luke, he loves me
now more tenderly than ever he loved me
before. And I am happy, though I know that
we have but a day or two more to live. They
tell me that to be shot gives no pain . Else I
could not bear it, and must die first.'

I pointed out to her the wickedness of
self-destruction; but she would not listen,
crying wildly that she cared for no wickedness
not she — so that she could join in death, as
well in life, the man she loved. Surely there
never was woman who loved man with so
violent a passion; and now in these last days,

ii 2

when it was all too late, there never was girl
more truly loved.

'Tis the fondest heart, Luke!' said Jack,
the tears in his eyes. 'Why, for thy sake,
sweet Bess, I would be almost contented to live,
and to forget the past, if we could go somewhere
together, where no man knew or could find,
out my dishonour — if we could go and live on

one of the islands in the Southern Seas

But this is idle talk.'

Then the time drew near when the sentence
must be carried out. We expected from day
to day to hear that the time was fixed.

About a fortnight after the sentence, a
sudden and most surprising change came over
Bess. She left off crying altogether; sometimes,
even, she laughed; she seemed not to know,
or even to care, what she said or did. She
would throw herself into Jack's arms, and kiss
him passionately; at the next moment she
would tear herself free, and stand gasping
and panting, and with wild eyes, as if with
impatience, so that I feared lest she should
lose her reason altogether. I have heard that

persons condemned to the flames by the accursed
Inquisition (which they dare to call holy)
have been known to go mad with the terror
of looking forward to that awful torture.
Sure I am that no fLames of the stake could be
more dreadful to Bess than the thought of the
moment when her lover would fall dead,
pierced by a dozen bullets. Jack at such
times would try to calm her, but she shook
him off, crying, ' No — no. Let me be. Oh !
I am choking. Oh ! Jack — my dear — if you
knew what is in my heart ! Yes — Jack. I
wall be quiet. Oh ! what a wretch am I that
I should add to your trouble at such a time ! '
Then she threw herself at his feet and caught
his hands. ' Jack,' she cried, ' you know that
I am your servant and your slave. Oh ! if
I loved you when all the world spoke well of
you, think ]how much more I love you now
you have got no one — oh ! no one but your
poor fond girl ! '

He raised her and kissed Jicr. Xothinir
now could move him but the sight of lier tears
and suffering, which (I am not ashamed to

write this clown) brought tears to my own
eyes.

Let us pretend,' she said, ' let us talk like
children — oh ! we were once happy children,
and we could pretend and believe what we
please. Why . all this is only pretence.
The cabin is our old summer-house ; you are
only twelve years of age, and I am a little
girl; and we have been playing at court-martial.
. . . No,' she shuddered, ' that is a
dreadful game. We will play at something
else. We are going away — you and I together.
Jack — we shall take a ship and sail far away
from England to the islands you have seen,
and Mr. Brings talks about — we will live there
oh ! no one will ever find us out. . . . We
have long to live. I will work for you, and
you will forget all that has happened. Then
we shall grow old. . Do you think you
would love an old woman. Jack, who had lost
her beauty, and gone grey and toothless?
And then we would lie down and die together.
Why — whatever happens, we will die
together — we must die together. Jack . . .

Jack. . . . Oh ! if we could go away ; oli ! if
we could go away together — to leave it all
behind, and to forget it ! '

Patience, dear heart,' he said. ' Patience,
Bess ; it tears me to see thee suffer.'

I was with them ; and — but who could see
and listen to him without tears ? I am not a
stock or stone.

Patience ? ' she replied. ' Yes, yes ! I
will have patience ! Jack, do you remember
three years ago, the day we were in the
summer-house, Luke being present, you
solemnly made a great promise P '

I remember, Bess. God knows I have
reason to remember, not only the promise but
how I kept it.'

Make me one more promise. Jack.' She
laid her hands upon his arm. ' Make me one
more promise now. Luke is here again to
witness for us.'

'Why, child, what promise can I make
thee now? A dying man can neither make
nor break a promise. Shall I promise to love
thee in the next world ? '

Nay, promise what I shall tell thee. Say,
after me : I, Jack Easterbrook '

I, Jack Easterbrook,' he repeated.

Do swear solemnly, before GOD Almighty
'

He repeated these words.

That I will grant to Bess Westmoreland
one more request, whatever she may ask me,
before I die.'

He said after her, concluding with the
words —

Whatever she may ask me, before I die.'

She fetched a great sigh and kissed him
again ; and, throwing her arms round his neck,
laid her head upon his shoulder.

I could not, for the life of me, understand
what she meant ; and still I thought that her
brain must be wanderings with her troubles.

CHAPTER XLIV.

now BESS WENT AWAY.

T was only three weeks after the
sentence that the condemned man
received a summons to prepare
himself for his execution, which was
fixed for Monday, February the Twenty-third.
This Alas a shorter space between sentence and
execution than was awarded to the unhappy
Admiral Byng, who had eight weeks in which
to prepare himself for death. However, Jack
complained not, and received the announcement
in a becoming spirit, and presently sent a
letter to my father, who lost no time in visiting
him, and continued daily to visit him until the
day of execution.

Now, here I have to write down a strange
thing, and one which is hardly to be credited.

From the day of his trial (when, as I have
said, the court was crowded with ladies) to the
day before the execution, the ship was visited
every day by ladies curious to see, and, if possible,
to converse with, this young and unfortunate
officer. But he would not receive any.
Nay, every day letters came to him, full of
tender messages and of prayers, some of them
entreating him to grant them an interview,
some openly declaring their passion for him,
some humbly asking for a lock of his hair, ora
line in his handwriting, some begging him to
observe secrecy in his replies, and some offering
their services in high quarters to procure him a
pardon or a reprieve. To none of these letters
did Jack reply a word, but tore all up and
threw the fragments from his cabin window.
One day, however (it was after the day had
been fixed for carrying out the sentence), there
came on board a lady who would take no
denial, but wrote down her name upon the
back of a playing card and peremptorily
ordered that it should be taken to the Captain's
cabin. She was so quick, however, that she

followed the messenger, and so forced her
way in.

My handsome Jack ! ' she cried, but
stopped short, because she found another
woman with him.

Madam,' said Jack, rising, ' this is an unexpected
honour.'

'I came. Captain,' she said, 'because weare
old friends, and because I would hin help
thee if I can.'

'No one can. Madam.'

And because if I cannot, thou mayest still
help me.'

You may command me. Madam.'

Nay,' she said, looking still at Bess, ' why
so formal. Jack ? 'Tis terrible to think that ina
few days '

Madam, my time is short ; pray remember
that and be brief.'

Why, Captain,' she laughed, ' 'twas but a
little thing : and perhaps this lady ^vill grant
me five minutes alone '

It needs not,' said Jack ; ' you can speak
openly before her.'

THE WORLD WENT

In that case it will be needless. Yet I
will try. Captain, thou art condemned to die.
'Tis sad, indeed. Yet 'tis true. Now consider
my case. I am deeply in debt. I have
quarrelled with my Lord. Marry me, and so
take my debts off my back. Nay, Madam ' —
for Bess sprang to her feet — ' be pacified. 'Tis
but an empty form that I ask. He shall marry
me, and I will retire with the clergyman, and
so he will free me at a stroke of all my debts.'

'Madam,' said Jack, before Bess could find
time to speak, ' you are unfortunately too late.
It is impossible that I could gratify you in this
request, because I am married already. This
lady is my wife — my most unfortunate wife.'

Oh, Madam ! ' said the actress, with a
deep curtsey, ' I beg humbly to be forgiven !
Believe me, I did not know. Well, Captain ' —
she heaved a sigh — 'of all the men I have ever
known thou hast gone nearest to make me
think I have a heart. My poor Jack ! ' She
seized his hand and kissed it. ' Oh, Madam ' —
she turned to Bess — ' I thought not of this. I
thought I should find him over a bowl of

punch, drinking away his care. Alas ! I remember
you now. You loved him, and . . .
I remember you. . . . Poor child ! Who
shall comfort thee .^ '

So she stole away, weeping, and left them
alone.

It was, indeed, true. The first service
which Jack had asked of my father was to
marry him to Bess Westmoreland. It was
done secretly in the cabin, with no other witnesses
than myself and the First Lieutenant,
Mr. Colin Macdonald. So Bess got her heart's
desire, and the old witch's prophecy proved
true, that in the midst of troubles she should
marry the man she loved. But what a marriage!
After this my father, as I have said,
visited him daily, and every morning asked the
prayers of the congregation for one about to
die.

Then, as day followed day, and there
wanted but two or three more, Bess became
still more strange in her manner, showing a
restlessness and impatience so that she could
no longer remain quiet for five minutes

together, but must needs be pacing backwards
and forwards, not crying or lamenting, but
with burning face and eyes afire.

The sentence was to be carried out on the
Monday morning. On Sunday, with a heart
as heavy as lead, I prepared to say farewell.

I went on board about ten o'clock, at the
time of morning prayers. Bess was already
in the cabin, seated at the window, which was
open, though the morning was cold, her face
pressed against the bars. Jack was at the
table, writing a letter for the Admiral.

'It is nearly finished, dear lad,' he said,
looking up with a smile. ' Courage I The
worst was over when the trial was done. To
die would be nothings but for leaving Bess.
Be kind to her, Luke ; be kind to her.'

I looked to see her burst into tears. But
no — she listened without a tear or even a sob.
This night, after I have parted with her, will
be long, I fear. Your father hath comforted
me greatly in the matter of religion, wherefore
I have now a sure and certain hope, if I may
humbly say so, though hitherto I have thought

little of these matters. It is a blessed things
for thoughtless sailors that we have a Church
to rule our faith, and forms of prayer to save
our souls. He will come tomorrow, for the
last prayers, before seven. At eight, the boats
of the ships in port will surround the ship, the
death-signal will be displayed, a gun will be
fired, the crew Avill be drawn up on the deck,
and the prisoner will be brought out.' Bess
listened without chano-innr her countenance.
Was she, then, turned into stone by sorrow,
like Niobe ?

I cannot write down the words with which
he bade me farewell, nor my own. Suffice it
that we took leave of each other with, on my
side, all that a bleeding heart could find to say,
and on his, with a message which I made haste
to deliver to the Admiral, his patron and benefactor.


Then I left him alone with Bess.

It was arranged that they should part upon
the hour when she must leave the ship and go
ashore. lie was peremptory that she must not
try to see him in the morning, lest the sight

of her might unman him. To stand upon the
deck with eyes bandaged, resolute and firm,
was the only duty left for him to perform.
Therefore Bess must part with him on Sunday
night. She acquiesced, still without a single
tear. But when the hour drew near, instead
of hanging round his neck and weeping, she
took both his hands in hers, and said —

'Jack — dear Jack — my own Jack! — you
made me a promise the other day. The time
hath come to keep it.'

A promise, dear heart ? Why, what can
I do for thee now ? '

You would grant any request that I should
make. The time hath now come.'

'Tis granted beforehand, dear girl.'

My request, Jack, is, that you will live, and
not die.'

Bess ? '

That you will live, and not die. Listen !
We have arranged everything for this evening.
Mr. Brings hath managed all for us. See ! '
She whispered him very earnestly.

He feared at her in a sort of stupefaction.

Wo shall not stay in the country. A Dutch
boat waits us off Barking Creek ; the master, a
boy, and yourself, will sail her across to Holland.
If the wind is fair, we shall make a Dutch point
in a day — oh ! it is all arranged. We shall not
stay in Holland, but take ship to the Dutch
East Indies, and thence to the South Seas,
where we will live — oh ! my Jack — far, faraway
from the world ; and I will work for
thee. So we shall forget the past and Dept-ford,
and — and — everything, and there will bea
new life for us — oh! a new life, whether it be
short or long, with no one to remind us of what
hath happened. Oh ! my poor tortured dear
it is through me — through me — that all this
disgrace hath come upon thee ; yes — and it
shall be through me that thy life shall be
saved ! '

Bess, I cannot ! They would say that it
was fitting that one who could cowardly strike
the flag should also cowardly run away from
punishment.'

What matter vvdiat they say ? Shall we
care Vv^hat they say, when we are sailing together

VOL. III. s

among those islands ? Will it touch our
hearts any more to think of their praise, or
blame ? '

Bess I cannot I — oh ! my tender heart, I
cannot ! '

Then, Jack, thou SHALT. Thy promise is
passed — a solemn promise before GOD. Wilt
thou break that promise too, and go before
Heaven, thy last act another broken pledge ? '

Well, he fought awhile, and he yielded at
length ; and then she kissed him and went
away ; but she held her handkerchief to her
eyes, so that those who saw her might not
suspect.

At the head of the gangway, which, for the
convenience of the court-martial, had been
made into an accommodation-ladder, furnished
with rails and side-ropes, stood Aaron Fletcher
on guard.

Thou art satisfied at last, Aaron ? ' said
Bess.

Not yet, but I shall be tomorrow,' he
replied, whispering, because a sentry must not
talk.

She said no more, but passed down the
steps and into the boat.

In the afternoon, being in great distress of
heart, I went to visit Mr. Brings. He was not
sleeping, but was busied over a great number
of small packages arranged in order upon the
table.

I have seen the last of him,' I said.

Ay ? Is Bess with him ? '

I am troubled about Bess. I think she
hath gone distracted. For she weeps no more,
and once I saw her laugh. She catches her
breath, too, and is impatient.'

For lier distraction I will answer. I know
a remedy for it, and that remedy she shall have.
As for the catching of her breath, that too
shall be cured ; as for her impatience, I cannot
help it, because it was impossible to complete
the job before to-day.'

I asked him what he meant.

Hath not Bess told you, then? Why, she
was to have told you this morning before she
broke the thing to Jack. 'Tis a good girl who
can keep a secret. It is not true, mind ye, thats

2

110 woman can keep a secret. Whiche their
lovers are concerned, they can keep fifty thousand
basketsful of secrets, and never spill so
much as a sino-le one.'

He began to open the packets, and to count
their contents. They contained guineas, about
fifty in each packet, and there seemed to be no
end of them.

This,' he said, ' comes of twenty years
honest industry. If a man takes in his slip
six half-crowns a day and spends only one, in
twenty years he shall be master, look you, of
no less than four thousand pounds.'

Heavens ! could he really be the owner of
so great a property ? When he had counted
the money he dropped it into tlirce or four
leathern bags, which he tied to a belt below his
waistcoat. ' Now,' said he, ' if we capsize, I
shall 12:0 strai'jlit to Davy's Locker. Give me
the skull-stick, my lad — so.' He looked at the
horrid thing with admiration. ' I thought at
first of giving it to Philadelphy, but now I will
not, because she has lied to me about the Great

Secret, which I find she doth not, after all,
possess. So much I suspected. She shall not
have the Obeah stick. Besides, Heaven knows
whither we are going, or what powers we may
want ; therefore, I shall keep the stick.' He
wrapped a cloth about the skull, and tied it up
so that no one should know what it was. Then
he laid it upon the table.

I observed then that everything was ready
OS if for departure. The shelves were empty ;
the fire was out ; there were ashes of burnt
paper in the grate ; the famous charts were
rolled up and lying on the table, beside the
skull-stick. What did it mean ?

Why,' he said, ' since Bess hath not told
you, I will not either. But — I think we can
trust thee, Luke — surely wee can trust thee, if
anyone. Thou lowest Jack, I know, and Bess
too, in thy mihi and milky way. Why, a lad
of spirit would have carried the girl off years
ago. Jack, or no Jack. However — that is
enough. My lad, we want thy help. There
is no other that we can trust. It is life or

death . . . life or death . . . life or death.
Say that to thyself, and forget not to he here at
nine of the clock this evening

What is to 1)0 done at nine ? '

'It is life or death, I say. Life or death !
Now go ; I have much to do. It is life or
death. Two lives or two deaths. Life or
death. Therefore, fail not.'

At nine o'clock I kept my appointment,
wondering what would happen.

Bess was there, wrapped in a cloak and
hood ; in her hand she carried a small parcel.
Mr. Brings was waiting, muffled and cloaked,
his hat tied over his ears, and a roll — containing,
I suppose, his charts and this famous skull-stick
— under his arm.

Come, lad,' he said, ' thou shalt know soon
what it is we have to do.'

It Alas a dark and rainy night ; the wind
blew in gusts; the streets were deserted, save
for some drunken fellow who rolled along,
bawling as he went. Mr. Brings led the way
towards the river, and we were presently at the

Stairs, where the boats lay fastened to the rings
by their long painters.

Take the outside boat of all,' said the
Apothecary ; ' her oars are left in her on purpose.
So, haul her to the Stairs. Step in, Bess.
She is but a dine-ev, but she will serve. Luke,
you have to row. You may shut your eyes, and
keep them shut, if you like, for I shall steer.'

I began to suspect that something serious
was to be attempted, but I obeyed without
question or remonstrance.

'Twas then high tide, or a little on the ebb,
so that at midnight the ebb would be at its
strongest. I cast off the painter and shoved off.
Then I took my seat and the oars, and roved
while Mr. Brings steered.

The river was rough and dark, save for
the lights displayed by the ships. The
Calypso ' was moored very nearly off the
mouth of the dock, but in mid-stream. Mr.
Brings suffered me to road almost across the
river, as if he were making for one of the Stairs
on the other side. Then he put her Iiead upstream,
and steered so that the boat approached

the ' Calypso,' whose lights he knew, not as if
we were boarding her, but as if Ave where
making our way across her bows to the 
Stairs of Eedriff. The precaution
was not necessary, perhaps, seeing how dark it
was ; but the eyes of sailors are sharper than
those of landsmen ; and the watch must not
allow a boat to approach a ship without a
challenge. We crossed the bows, therefore,
of the ' Calypso,' I still rowing, and the
boat apparently heading to the opposite shore.

But while we were still inter the shadow,
so to speak, of the great ship's bows, my
coxswain whispered, ' Easy rowing — ship oars.' ,

I could not guess what he intended. 'Twas
this.

The 'Calypso' lay pretty high out of water.
The tide was running strong. Mr. Brings
turned the boat's head and ran her straight
under the side of the ship. He then, being as
quick and skilful in the handling of a boat as
any man sixty years younger, stepped into the
bows, and with hand and boat-hook worked
the boat alone the side of the vessel to the

stern, where he hooked on, and whispered that
we must now wait.

We have more than two hours still to
wait. I think the watch will have no suspicion,
and 'tis better to wait here an hour or two
than to hurry at the end, and so perhaps be
seen and the whole plot spoiled. Here we lie
snuff.'

We might be lying snug, but we lay more
than commonly cold, and the wind and rain
beat into one's face. Bess sat, however, with
her hood thrown back, careless of cold or
rain ; and Mr. Brings lay muffled up in
the bows. But in his hand he held the boathook.


The ship's bells and the town clocks and
the Greenwich clocks made such a clashing in
our ears every quarter of an hour, as kept us
aware of the time — never before did I understand
how slowly he crawley. Why, there
seemed to me an hour between each quarter,
and a whole night between each hour.

When the clocks bean to strike midnight
Bess looked up and the old man threw off his

cloak. 'Oars out,' he whispered. 'Gently.
Don't splash. Here he is ! '

We were immediately, though I knew it
not, below the windows of Jack's cabin, which
was the Captain's state-room. Below his window
were those of the First and Second Lieutenants,
and Mr. Princes had chosen the time of
midnight, because then the watches would be
changing, and these officers would be on deck
or else fast asleep. It was as he expected.
The end of a rope fell into the water close
beside the boat, and then, hand underhand, our
prisoner came swiftly down. In a moment he
was sitting in the stern. Then Mr. Brings let
go, and the tide, hurrying down the river as
fast as a mill race, carried us noiselessly and
swiftly away.

No one spoke ; but Mr. Brings again took
the ropes, and I began to row. We were very
soon, keeping in mid stream, past Greenwich,
and past Woolwich, I rowing as hard as I could,
and the ebb-tide strong, so that we made very
good way indeed.

Presently we came alongside a small vessel

lying moored off Barking Creek, and Mr.
Brings steered the boat alongside, and caught
a rope.

Xow, Bess,' lie said, ' quick ; climb up.'

She caught hold of the cleats, and ran up
the rude gangway as nimbly as any sailor. Mr.
Brings followed.

Then Jack seized my hand. ' Farewell,
dear lad,' he said, ' I thought not to see thee
again. Farewell.'

So he followed, and left me alone in the
boat.

Sheer off, Luke,' said Mr. Brings looking
over the side ; ' sheer off, and take her back
to the Stairs. Tell no one what hath been
done. Farewell. We sail for the Southern
Seas.'

Then I saw that they were hoisting sail.
She was a Dutch galliot carrying a main and
risen-mast, with a large ix^aff mainsail. This
with a Hying topsail, and the usual fore-and-aft
canvas, would with this wind and tide take her
down to the North Foreland very quickly, after
which, if the wind still continued hair, she might

expect to make the port of Rotterdam in sixteen,
or perhaps twenty hours more.

When I had painfully pulled the boat upstream
and gotten her back in her place at the
Stairs, and was at last in bed, I began to
understand fully what had been done — namely,
that a great crime had been committed in the
rescue of a prisoner sentenced to death, and
that, with my two accomplices, I was liable to

be tried and 1 fell asleep before I could

remember what the punishment would be.

CHAPTER Xli.

THE Conclusion.

^IIE next morning my father was astir
by six ; and I, hearing him, and
remembering suddenly what had
happened, could sleep no more, but
rose quickly, and dressed. He was already in
wig and cassock ; his clerk in readiness with
prayer-book, bible, and the materials wherewith
to administer the Supper of the Lord.

M}^ son,' he said, ' the ministration to a
dying man is the most awful part of a clergyman's
holy duties ; and yet it is that which
should most fill him with gratitude and joy.
Terrible it is at all times to watch the soul take
its flight into the unknown regions : most
terrible of all when death comes violently upon
one still young and strong and in the prime of
his day.'

More lie would have said ; but here we were
interrupted by the arrival of the Admiral
himself, borne in an arm-chair by his four
negroes, his fest swathed in flannel, and himself
wrapped in warm cloaks, for 'twas dangerous
for him to leave the warmth of his own room.

Doctor,' he said, dien the men had set
him down, ' you are now about to comfort
our boy in his last moments Here he paused
awhile, the tears running down his cheeks
'His last moments, poor lad,' he repeated. ' I
could not lie still and think that he should die
without a word from me. Therefore, though I
would not turn his thoughts away from religion,
I cannot let him die with never a word from his
father's oldest friend. 'Twere inhuman. Tell
him, therefore, from me, that I now plainly
perceive that he was mad. Other men besides
himself have gone mad at sea. I know one
who went mad and jumped overboard, in a
storm ; and another who went mad and ran
amuck on the quarter-deck with a cutlass,
wounding many before he was disarmed ; and
another but no matter. He Alas mad.



Tell him that for the act of God, there is nothings
but resignation. The thing might have happened
to any. AVe are fools to feel any shame
ill it. As for all that went before and that
came after his madness, tell him we are proud
of him therefore, and Ave shall remain proud of
him. But for his own sake,we are grieved that
he was not killed in the recapture of the vessel.
Bid him, therefore, meet his death with a calm
heart — a brave heart, I know, will not fail him.
Take him my last blessing, and my undiminished
love. There is no question, tell him, of forgiveness.
The act of God must not be questioned.
But the pity of it — oh! Doctor — the pity of it ! '
and with that he fell to weeping like a child.

And then the two old men wept together,
but I, who knew wdiat had happened and that
there would be no execution that day, had no
tears.

They carried back the Admiral and put him
to bed again, and I accompanied my father as
far as the Stairs. As I returned slowly, my
heart full of strange emotions, the bell of St.
Paul's began to toll the passing knell. No need

to ask for wlioiii that bell was tolling. At the
sound the women came to the doors and be^a-n
to cry, and to talk together, full of pity, the
kind-hearted creatures, shrews as they were,
nd slatterns, and drabs. The old men at the
Trinity Hospital were gathered together in their
quadrangle, talking of the boy they had known
and loved. The Barber and his four prentices
were busy shaving, the shop full, everybody
talking at the same time ; and in his doorway
stood Mr. Westmoreland, looking up and down
the street with troubled f\xce.

Where is she ? ' he asked. ' Mr. Luke,
where is my Bess ? '

'Indeed, Mr. Westmoreland,' I replied,
where should she be if not in her own bed ^ '

She hath not been home all night. I have
heard talk of her and Captain Easterbrook.
But that poor young man is to be shot this
morning. Where can she be ? They tell me
that she spends the days in his cabin. Sir, you
know them both : I' faith he hath played her
false. Who would have daughters ? Yet if
she is all day long with him, needs must that

slip come ashore in the oveninrr, Mr. Luke.
Wlio, sir, I ask you, would have daughters to
plague this old age ? I thought she might have
stayed at the Apothecary's, and I have knocked,
but can make no one hear. Think you that
Mr. Brings is dead P He is already of a great
old age. This is a terrible morning. That
poor young gentleman must die ; he must be
cut off in the pride of his life and strength, the
comeliest man I have ever seen, and he hath
stolen my daughter's heart away. Why, what
shall I do with her when he is dead ? How
shall I endure her despair and her grief? how
find consolation to assuage her Avrath when he
is gone ? '

I knew very well how that question would
be answered. But I could not tell him what
had happened.

•• It is his passing bell,' the Penman continued.
' Lord, have mercy upon his soul ! He
is young, and hath doubtless committed some
of the sins of youth ; the Lord forgive him !
He hath often used profane language, and that
in my heaiinir. The Lord forgive him! As

VOL. III. T

for his striking bis colours, that will not, I am
sure, bo laid to his charge. Besides, he hath
atoned for this sin by his death. The Lord
forgive him for an honest and brave lad !
'Twas once a joy to see him handle his logarithms.
Will they bury him in St. Paul's
churchyard? Poor lad! Poor lad! What
shall I say to Bess to comfort her when she
comes home ? '

Thus he went on prattling ; but I left
him.

At the door of Mr. Brings' shop stood his
assistant, knocking.

Sir,' he said, ' I am afraid that something
hath happened to my master, for I have knocked
and cannot make him hear.'

I advised him to wait half an hour or so,
and then to knock again.

It was impossible to rest. I went again to
the Stairs, where the watermen should be hanging
about. There was not one man there, nora
single boat. Pound the ' Calypso ' there was
a great fleet of ships' boats, and Thames boats,
all waiting for the execution. People had

come down from London — even, they said, as
far as from Chelsea — to see the sight. Why,
they could see nothing from the river. True,
they might have the satisfaction of hearing the
roll of the muskets. There never was so great
a concourse on the river, even on the day of
Horn Fair.

At eight o'clock — the time of execution —
everybody listened to hear the rattling of the
guns. But there was silence. Presently, I
know not how it began, there sprang up a
rumour — only a rumour at first — that the sentence
would not be carried out that morning ;
then it became certain that there would be no
execution at all ; and it was spread abroad
that at the last moment, the Captain had been
respited. About eleven o'clock the boats dispersed
and returned again, the people disappointed.
It was not until later that it was
known — because at first no one, not even my
father and his clerk, were allowed to leave the
ship — that Captain Easterbrook could not be
shot because he could not be found.

I found the Apothecary's shop open — they

had broken in at the back — and the assistant
vas mixing medicines and prescribing.

Sir,' he said, ' my master is gone. He
hath not slept in his bed. He hath taken his
money and his charts, but nothing else.'

His money and his charts ? How do you
know that he has taken his money ? '

I know where he kept it and I looked
to see if it was gone. Because, I said, if my
master's money is still there, he will return.
But it is gone ; therefore I know that he has
gone.'

Whither hath he gone, sirrah ?'

I know not, sir ; any more ' — here he
looked mighty cunning — ' than I know whither
Captain Easterbrook hath gone, or Bess Westmoreland,
or what you were doing with my
master and Bess on the Stairs last night at nine
o'clock.'

Now, I have never learned if this man
knew more than the fact that we were upon
the Stairs at that time. Certainly, he could not
know the whole truth.

'I think,' I said, 'that if I were you, I

would continue to carry on the business without
asking any questions, until your master
returns.'

'I will, sir,' he replied; and he did. His
master did not return, and this fortunate young
man succeeded to a good stock and a flourishing
trade, and would doubtless have become
rich but for the accident of being killed by
a drunken sailor.

When it became known that Mr. Brings,
Bess, and the Captain had all disappeared on the
same evening, it was impossible not to connect
these three events ; and all the world believed
(what was perfectly true) that the girl had runaway
with the Captain, and that Mr. Brings
had gone, too, out of pure affection for them.

The Admiral presently recovered from his
attack, but he went no more to the Sir John
Falstaff, and entirely lost his former spirits ;
and, as I have already said, within a year or
two was carried off by an attack of gout in tl:e
stomach. Shortly afterwards I was so happy as
to win the affections of Castilla. She informed

me that, although she was earned away by
natural pride in so gallant a wooer as Jack,
she had never felt for him such an assurance in
his constancy as is necessary to secure happiness,
and that when she heard of this infatuated
passion for so common a creature as Bess Westmoreland,
she was thankful for her release,
though she deplored the sad cause of it. ' We
no longer,' she often says, ' burn women for
witchcraft, but such a girl as Bess, who canso
bewitch a gallant man as to make him invoke
the curse of Heaven upon himself if he prove
inconstant, and thereby bring him to shame and
disgrace, ought to be punished in some condign
and exemplary manner.' It is not my practice
to argue with my Avise, especially on points
where we are not likely to agree ; and as Bess
will probably never return, and cannot, therefore,
be punished, Castilla may say anything
she please about her. For my own part, my
heart has always been with that poor girl, who
did not seek for or expect the honour of Jack's
affections, and whose witchery was in her beauty
and her black eyes.

On the conclusion of peace in 1702, Aaron
Fletcher, with many other Marines, was disbanded,
but he was afraid to venture back into
Deptford, where his creditors would have arrested
him. I know not for a certainty what
he did to bring the arm of the law upon him ;
but I know what became of him. For one day,
being: at Limehouse, I saw o^oinri^ along the road
on the way to the Stairs, where were waiting
several ships' boats, a dismal company of convicts,
for embarkation to the plantations of
Jamaica, or Barbadoes, or some other West
Indian Island. There were at least a hundred
of them, walking two and two, handcuffed in .
pairs. Some of these were in rags, some
shaking with prison fever, some dejected,
some angry and mutinous, some were singing
there are wretches so hardened that they
will sing ribakl songs on their way even to the
gallows. One there was of appearance and
bearing superior to the rest, by whose side
there walked a young woman, his wife or
mistress, bearing a baby, and crying bitterly ;
another, beside whom walked a grave and

sober citizen, the brother or cousin of the
convict, the tears in his eyes. But mostly
there were no friends or relations to mourn
over this outcast crew. And at the head
marched a band of fifes and drums, playing
Through the woods, laddie ' ; and a crowd
of boys followed, whooping and hallooing.
When the procession was nearly past, I was
surprised to see among the men, handcuffed
together, no other than Aaron Fletcher and Mr.
Jonathan Eayment, the crimp. The latter was
pale, and his fat cheeks shook, and all his limbs
trembled with fever. 'Twould have been merciful
to let him lie till death should carry him
off. But Aaron walked upright, looking about
him with eyes full of mutiny and murder. I
know not if he saw me ; but the procession
filed past, and the band went on playing at the
head of the Stairs while the wretches embarked
on board the boats. As for the chimes wdaich
Aaron and his companion had committed, I do
not know Avhat they were, but I suspect kidnapping
formed part. I have never learnt
what became of Mr. Eayment ; but concerning

Aaron there afterwards came intelligence that
he could not brook the overseer's his and the
hot sun, and find, with intent to join the wild
Maroons, but was followed by bloodhounds,
and pursued, and, being brought back to
his master, was naturally Hogged. He then
sickened of a calenture and died. He was
a bad man ; but he was punished for his
sins. Indeed, it is most true that the ^vay of
transgressors is hard.

Lastly, to complete this narrative, I nuit
tell you of a message which came to me live
or six years after the court-martial. It was
brought even from the Southern Seas. Heard
one ever of a message or letter from that remote
and unknown part .^

There was a certain wild fellow, Deptford
born. Will Acorn by name. This young
man, for sins of his which need not delay
us, left his native town, where he had been
brought up as a shipwright, and event to sea.
Nor did he come back again for several years,
when he reappeared, the old business being now
blown over and forgotten. And presently he

came to my house, I then living in St. Martin
Street for convenience of business, and told mea
strange story.

With some other privateers of Jamaica,
where these fellows are mostly found, he must
needs try his fortune in the South Seas. Accordingly,
they got possession of a brig, or bar-colonel,
as they call this kind of ship in the
West Indies, and they armed her Avitli certain
carronades and peteraroes, and to the number
of eighty or ninety stout men, all fully armed,
put out to sea. In short, they proposed to go
a-pirating among the Spanish settlements, as
many have done before them.

It matters not here what was the success of
their voyage— Will Acorn, at least, returned
home in a very ragged-and penniless condition.
This, however, was the man's story.

We sighted one morning at daybreak,
being then not far from Mass Funera, a large
brigantine flying Spanish colours. She was
much too big for us to tackle, therefore we
hoisted the Spanish flag, too, and bore away,
hoping that she would let us alone, and go on

her own course. But that woukl not suit her,
neither, and lie fired a shot across our bows,
as a signal to back saiL This we did, expecting
nothiuf]^ short of hang-vino;, for she carried
thirty guns at least and we could see that she
was well manned, and looked as if she was
handled by a French Captain, under whom
even a Creolian Spanish crew will fight. Well,
she spoke us dien she was near enough, and
ordered, in Spanish, that the Captain was to
come aboard. sow, as I was the only man
who lead any Spanish, our Captain bade me
come with him. So I went ; aud we thought
wee were going to instant death, the Spaniards
beaus; born devils when they ire an English
crew in their power.

Sir,' this honest fellow continued, ' think
of our astonishment when, on climbing the
vessel's side, they ran up the pirate's flag ; to
be sure, we were little else than pirates ourselves
; but we knew not what countrymen
these were. As for the crew, they were nearly
all black negroes, and a devilish fighting lot they
looked, being armed with pistols and cutlasses,

while the decks were cleared for action, and
every man to quarters, and the whole as neat
and clean as aboard a British man-o'-war. And
on the quarter-deck there stood, glass in hand,
none other than Captain Easterbrook himself,
the same as was tried by court-martial, sentenced,
and escaped. He was dressed very fie,
in crimson silk, with a gold chain, and pistols
in his belt. I knew him directly ; but his face
is changed, for now it is the face of one who
gives no quarter. A fiercer face I never saw
anywhere.

But the strangest tliino: was that I saw
lying in the sun, propped up by pillows and
cushions, the old Deptford Apothecary, Mr.
Brings. He looked no older, and no younger; .
his one eye twinkling and winking, and his face
covered with wrinkles.

'' Will Acorn, ahoy I " he sings out.
'' Will Acorn, by the Lord ! "

When he said this there came out from the
Captain's cabin a most splendid lady, dressed
in all the satins and silks you can think of, with
gold chains round lier neck, and jewels sparkling

in her hair. Behind her came two black
women, holding a silken sunshade over her
head. Why, Sir, 'twas none other than Bess
Westmoreland, the Penman's daughter, and
more beautiful than ever, though her cheek
was pale, and her eyes were somewhat anxious.

" Will Acorn ? " she cried. " Is that Will
Acorn, of Deptford Town ? "

So with that the Captain called us from
the poop. " Hark ye," he said, "you seem to
be Englishmen. What ship is you's ? "

So we told him wljo we were, and why we
were cruising; in those seas. He listened — 'tis
a terrible fighting face — and heard us out, and
then bade us drink and go our way.

" I war not with Englishmen," he said ;
'• Jut for French and Spaniard I know no
quarter."

He said no more, but his lady — Bess
Westmoreland that was — stepped out to us, and
asked me many questions about Deptford folk.
And then she put into my hands this parcel,
which I faithfully premised to deliver into your
hands, Sir, should I ever return home again.

And I was to tell you that they had found Mr.
Brings' island, and she was as happy as she
could expect to be. And then Mr. Brings
lifted his head, and said, in a piping voice,
And tell him," he said, with his one eye like a
burning coal, " tell Luke Anguish, man, that we
committed the town of Guayaquil to the flames.
'Twould have done his heart good to see the
town on fire, and the Spaniards roasting like so
many heretics at the stake ! " '

This was the message. The parcel contained
a gold chain and cross, set with precious stones,
which I gave to Castilla, hoping thereby to
make her think less hardly of poor Bess. Butin
vain ; though she wears the chain, which,
she says — though this is not the case — was sent
to her by Captain Easterbrook, in token of his
repentance, and of his unhappiness with the
woman who bewitched him, and of his continual
sorrow for the loss of her own hand.

It is now more than thirty years ago, and
since then we have heard nothing more. I
conjecture that cither they have long since

been swallowed up in a hurricane, Bess dying,
as she wished, at the same moment as Jack, or
that they are still living somewhere in those
warm and sunny islands of which the Apothecary
was never wearied of discoursing.

THE END

Plinth BY

SrOTTISTVOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

London

A List of Books

PUBLISHED BY

CHATTO & Winds,

214, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.

Sold by all Booksellers, or sent post-free for the published price by the Publishers.

About. — The Fellah: An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal, Roberts.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Adams (VV. Davenport), Works
by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
cf the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound.
12s. 6d. preparing.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Carr of Carrion.
Confidences.

Alexander (Mrs), Novels by:

Maid, Wife, or Widows ? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Valerie's Fate. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2a.

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
The Evolutionist at Large. Second

Edition, revised.
Vignettes from Nature.
Colin Clo ut's Calendar.
Strange Stories. With Frontispiece

by George Du Maurier. Cr. ^^q,

cl ex., 6s. ; post 8vo, illust. bds £S.
Piiiiistia: A Novel. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 33. 6d ; post 8vo, illus. bds., 2s.
Babylon : A Novel. With 12 Lusts.

by P. Macnab. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
For Maine's Sake: A Tale of Love

and Dynamite . Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.
In all Sliadesl"A Novel. "Three Vols.,

crown cvo. [Short y.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook
of. Translated from the German
of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collects
Crown Svo, cloth extra, with
63 9 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Arte m us Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farrer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the
IVIormons. With 32 Illustrations.
Edited, with Preface, by Edward P.
Kingston. Crown 8vo, 6d.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Kingston. With a
Fr ontispi ec e. Cr. 8 vo, cl. extra a, 33. 6d .

Art (The) of Amusing : A Collection
of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Bkllew. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
A History of the Chap-Books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illustrations, engraved in lac-simile
of the originals-social
Life In the Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illustrations.
Humour, Vit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. Withnearly
100 Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 120 Illustrations
from Originals. Tv/o
Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 28s.

Bacteria— A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species. By W. B. Grove, B.A. With
87 Iliusts. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d,

Bankers, A Handbook of London;
together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Barclsley (Rev. C.W.),Wopks by :

Crown 8vo., cloth extra, 7s. cl. each.

English Surnames: Their Sources and
Significations. Third Ed., revised.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.


Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry Morley. With 100
lusts. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6(1.

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. Sixth
Edition, v/ith a New Preface. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. Gd.

Beauchamp. — Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp, Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists: A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. In Two
Series. All engraved on Steel in the
highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney
Armytage, M.A. Imperial 4to, cloth
extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per Vol.

Bernstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Iliusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm. — Wanderings in

Patagonia ; or. Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beeubohm. With
Iliusts. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1886. — One

Shilling Monthly. Illustrated by P.
Macnab.— The first Chapters of IVIo-
hawks, a Nev Novel by RI. E.
Braddon, Author of " Lady Audley's
Secret," appeared in the January
Number, and the Story will be continued
throughout the year. This
Number contained also the Opening
Chapters of a New Novel entitled
That other Person; and several of
those short stories for which Belgravia
is famous.

\* Nov ready, the Volume for March
to June i8S6, cloth extra, gilt edges,
7s. 6d. ; Cases for binding Vols., 2s. eac h.

Belgravia Annual for Christmas,
1886. Demy Svo, with Illustration
s. Is. prepare ng.

Ben7iett(W,C.,LL.D.),Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
A Ballad History of England
Songs for Sailors. j

Besant "walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Crown Svo. cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post Svo, illust.

boards, 2s. each; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

each.
Ready-money IVlortiboy.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet .

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each ;
cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.

All Sorts and Conditions of Men:
An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Captains' Room, &c. With
Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.

Ail in a Garden Fair. With 6 Iliusts.
By H. Furnish.

Dorothy Foster. With Frontispiece
By Charles Green.

Uncle Jack, and other Stories.

Children of Gibeon: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown Svo. [Shortly.

The Ap*; 9f Fiction Demy Svo, la.

Bethany Edwards (M.), Novels

by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
each. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. each.
Felicia. | Kitty.

Bewick (Thousand his Pupils.

By Austin Dobson. With 95 Illustrations.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 61.

Birthday Books: —

The Starry Heavens : A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 23. cl.

Birthday Flowers Their Language
and Legends. By W. J, Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton. In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 63.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
lusts. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform
in size for binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1885, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1886. With numerous
Illustrations. l3.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 Illusts. in
Facsimile. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 63.

Academy Notes, 1880-84. Complete
n One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. Cloth limp, 63.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1885, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 18S6. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
Svo, cloth limp, Gs.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illusts. Is. \ New Edit, preparing.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. 12S Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 243
Illusts. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 3s.

Illustrated Catalogue of the Luxembourg
Gallery. Containing about
250 Reproductions after the Original
Drawings of the Artists. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy Svo, Ss. 6d.

The Paris Salon, 1885. With about
300 Facsimile Sketches. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy Svo, Ss.

Art Handbooks, continued —

The Paris Salon, 1 886. With about 300

Illusts. Edited by F. G. Dumas.

Demy Svo, 3s.
The Art Annual, 1883-4. Edited by

F. G. Dumas. With 300 full-page

Illustrations. Demy Svo, 5s.

Blake (William): Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 2l3.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6 d.

Bov/ers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s. each.
Canters in Hampshire.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.

Coloured in facsimile of the originals.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America.

Savage Life : Adventures of a Gloss


Chronicles of No-Man's Land.
Post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

Braddon (M. E.)— Mohawks,

a Novel, by Miss Braddon, Author
of " Lady Audley's Secret," was begun
in Belgravia for January, and will be
continued throughout the year. Illustrated
by P. Macnab. Is. Month ly.

Brand's Observations on Popular
Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with
nu serous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :
Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.

Complete in Five Vols., crown Svo,

cloth extra, 6s. each.

Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.

Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
—Bohemian Papers — Spanish
and American Legends.

Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts
Eastern Sketches.

Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.

Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, &c.

Bret Harte, continued —
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in

Prose and Poetry. With Introductory

Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait

of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Bret Harte's Complete Poetical

Works. Author's Copyright Edition.

Beautifully printed on hand-made

paper and bound in buckram. Cr.

8vo, 4s. 6d.
Gabriel Convoy: A Novel, Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other

Stories. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,

23.

The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.
8vo, picture cover. Is.

Luck of Roaring Camp, and other
Sketches. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. 8vo,
picture cover, Is.

Flip. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. ci.

Californian Stories (including The
Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff
Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

IMaruJa: A Novel. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. ed.

The Queen of the Pirate isle. With
25 original Drawings by Kate
Greenaway, Reproduced in Colours
by Edmund Evans. Small 4to,
boards, 53. [Shortly,

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
v^ith a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pp., cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. Svo, cloth limp, 23.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Brewster(SlrDavicl),Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
Svo, cloth extra 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
f , A. Smith. Post Svo, cl. ex., 4s. 6d.

Briggs, Memoir of Gen. John.

By Major Evans Bell. With a Portrait.
Royal Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Brilliant-Savarin.— Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes.

Undertones.

London Poems.

The Book of Form.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Selected Poems Robert Buchanan.
With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by William
Small.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan.

The Earthquake: or, Six Days and
a Sabbath. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. \V. Cooper.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab.

Annann Water.

The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Caravan.

The Master of the Mine. With a
Frontispiece by W. H. Covered.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d .

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard engraved
by GooDALL, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown Svo. cloth extra, gilt. 73 . cl.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by :

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Fcap. Svo, picture cover, Is. each,
Kathleen Mavourneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Varney Lovett Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2l3.

The Book of the Sword: Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
8vo. cloth extra. 323.

Burton (Robert):
The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomise: Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Byron (Lord) ;

Byron's Chide Harold. An entirely
New Edition of this famous Poem,
with over One Hundred new Illusts.
by leading Artists. (Uniform with
the Illustrated Editions of "The
Lady of the Lake " and " Marmion")
Elegantly and appropriately bound,
small 4to, 16s.

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 73. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Caine. — The Shadow of a

Crime: A Novel. By Hall Caine.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated bo arts, 2 s.

Cameron (Comers), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold: A

Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Lovett
Cameron. With Frontispiece and
Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 2l3.
The Cruise of the "Black Prince"
Privateer, Commanded by Robert
Hawkins, Master Mariner. By
Commander V. Lovett Cameron,
Ren., Cab., D.C.L. With Frontispiece
and Vignette by P. Macnab.
Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 53. [ Seps. 15.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Lovett)

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Juliet's Guardian. | Deceivers Ever. I

Carlyle (Thomas) :

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson.
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, Miss. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Chatty 5c Jackson.— Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and

Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 line Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition, Large
4to, half-bound, 283.

Chaucer:

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 63.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 2s, 6d.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.
Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [7» the press,

Cloud. — Myths and Dreams.

By Edward Cloud, F.R.A.S., Autliot'
of "The Childhood of Religions," &c
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Cobban. — The Cure of Souls;.

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Coleman.— Curly: An Actor's
Story. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman. Crown 8vo, Is.
cloth, Is. 6 d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Crovi^n 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; pos

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Sweet Anne Page.

Transmigration.

From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post 8vy»
illustrated boards, 2a.

Collins (Mortimer & Frances),

Novels by :
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet and Twenty.

Frances.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra. Illustrated,
3s.6d. each ; post Svo.illustrated bds.,
23. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonina. Illust. by SirjoHNGiLBERX.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

byG. Du MAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and ' Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs.? With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDEsand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du Maurier and C.S.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story of the

Present Time.
I Say No/^

The Evil Genius: A Novel.
Vols., crown Svo.

Three

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Co loins. Po st Svo, illustrated bds. ,23.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins'' " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
Svo cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine:
Ryan. Crown Svo, Is.; cloth, ls.6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:
Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal Svo. with 65 Illusts.,28s.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated
by W. J. Hennessy. Square Svo,
cloth extra, 63.

Cook (Dutton), vvorks by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Hours with the Players. With

Steel Plate Frontispiece.
Nights at the Play : A View of the

English Stage.

Leo: A Novel. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 33. Gd. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Copyright. —A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By

Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall. — Popular Romances

of the West of England; or. The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. Gl.

Cra.dclock. — The Prophet of

the Great Smoky Mountains By
Charles Egbert Craddock. Pest
Sro, illust. bds., 23. ; cloth him p, 2s. Gd

Creasy. — Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the Vs'^orld.''
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series: the First frost 1835
to 1S43 ; the Second from 1S44 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'B ckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

Cruikshank (George), continued.
The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Jekrold, Author ol
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &:c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruihshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6a.

Cummings. F. Gordon),Works

by:

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 83. ci. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.


hi the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.


Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece, Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry;

with instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra. 7s. 6d.

Cycles.— Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated bo arts, 2s.

Daniel. — Menrie England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
Skin K. Crown gvo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d.

Daudet.— The Evangelist ; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

Covenant. — What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Covenant,
M . A. Post Svo , cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies (Or. N. E.), Works by:

Crown Svo, Is. each ; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each.
One Thousand Medical iVIaxims.
Nursery Hints: A JMothe r's Guide.
Aids to Long Life. Crown Svo, 23. ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sin John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown Svo, cloth boards, 12s.

De iVlaistre.— A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maitre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

De Mille.— A Castle In Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
».■>. Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 23.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. I NicholasNickleby.
Pickwick Papers. I Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens

1S41-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. —
Also a Smaller Edition, in the
May fair Library. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 23. 66
About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. Svo, cloth
extra, lOs. ci.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6cl.; hf.-bound, 9s.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Fifth Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown Svo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. By the Rev. Dr.
Brewer. Crown Svo, cloth limp, 2s,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dictionaries, continued-familiar'

Allusions; A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names oi Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curios-itics,
and the like. By Wm. A: Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6(1.

Short Sayings of Great Men. With
Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Demy
tJvo, cloth extra, 7s. cl.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. By Frances Hays. Cr.
Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters, By Believer
Edwards. Nev and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 9s.

Diderot.— Ti.v Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedies," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. Svo, in parchment, 43. 6(1.

Dobson (VV. T.), Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.


Dora. — Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Ed., cr. Svo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
"Reader's Handbook") Crown Evo,
half-bound, 12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr. Svo,

cl. ex Vignette Portraits, 63. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations, with IntroductoryEssay
byA. C.Svv'inburne; Vol. III., Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Coi. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col,
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. — Thee Folk - Lore of

Plants. Fy Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B.Grosart, D.D. Crown
Evo, cloth boards, 63. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert (Lord) of Carbury's Poems.
Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Wharton Collins. Crown Svo,
parchment, Ss.

Edwardes(Mrs. A.), Novels by:
A Pci.-.t of Honour. Post Svo, illustrated

boards, 23.
Archie Love!. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. has., 23.

Eggleston.— Roxy: Novel. By

Edward Eggleston. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and

Precious stones: their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

Englishman's House, The : A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, v/ith
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition,
Nearly 600 Illu^its. Cr. Svo.cl. ex ,7g Cd.

English Merchants: Memoirs
in Illustration of the Progress of British
Commerce. By H. R. Fox Bourne.
With lists. New and Cheaper Edit,
revised. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6(1.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:

The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the You-ng Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 61.

Stories from tens State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile, Crown
8vo, cloth extra* Gs.

Studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy Svo cloth extra, 12s.

Eyes, The. — How to Use our

Eyes, and Kcw to Preserve Thc-m. Ey
John Browning, F.R.A.S. , &c. Fourth
Edition. With 55 Illustrations. Crown
Svo, cloth, Is.

Fairport. — Tobacco: Its History
and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
Fas \. With upwards of 100
Illustrations by the Author. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the

like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6(1.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

Post Svo, cloth extra, 4g. ci. each.
The Chemical! History of a Candle :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F'.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.
On the Various Forces of Nature,

and their Relations to each other :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.

Farrer. — Military Manners

and Customs. By J. A, Farrer,
Author of "Primitive Manners and
Customs," &c. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Fin Sec. — The Cupboard

Papers: Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. Gd.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Manor,
Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr.Svo, cloth extra, Gs.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
Svo, clot h him p, 23. 65.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. TiMotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Srantorne.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Cornu
plate Poems: Christ's Victoria in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. Svo, cloth bds., 63.

Fonblanque. — Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post Svo, iilustra ted boards, 2 s.

Francisco (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Ss. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.
One by One. I A Real Queen.

Queen Cophetua. |

Olympia. Post Svo, illust. boards, 23.
Esther's Glove. Fcap. Svo, Is.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy Svo, cl. bds., 7s. 6d. each

Free. — Pandurang Hard ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Frisked I.— One of Two: A NoveL

By Hair Friswell. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2 s.

Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry's (Herbert) Royal Guide

to the London Charities, 1886-7.

Showing their Name, Date of Foundation,
Objects, Income,Officials,&c. Published
Annually. Cr. Svo, cloth, Is. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Gardening Books:

Post Svo, is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each.

A Ycai^'s Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Blenny.

Ol!P Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
J'erroi.d. Illustrated.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol.

My GarderTWiid, and What I Grew
there. By F. G Heath. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 53. ; gilt edges, Gs.

Garrett.— The Cape! Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. Svo,
cl. ex., So 6 d. ; post 8vo, ilia st. bds,, 23.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1886. One Shilling Monthly. In
addition to the articles upon subjects
in Literature, Science, and Art, for
which this Magazine lias so high a
reputation, "Science Notes," by W.
Mattie Williams, F.R.A.S., and
"Table Talk," by Sylvanus Urban,
appear monthly.
\* Nov ready, the Volume for January

to June, iso, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d. ;

Cases for binding, 2s. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The) for

Christmas, 1886. Containing a Complete
Novel, "Wife or No V/ife.^" by
T. W. Speight, Author of "The
Mysteries of Heron Dyke." Demy
Sv o, Is. I Preparing.

German Popular Stories. Collected

by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin,
V/ith 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square Svo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 73. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels byT^

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Robin Gray,

For Lack of Gold.

What will the

World Say?

Braes of Yarrow.
The Flower of the
Forest. [hem.
A Heart's Robin

Honour Bound. I TheGoidenShaft.
Queen of the I Of High Degree.

Meadow. I Fancy Free.

Post Svo, illustrated board's, 2s. each.
For the King. I In Pastures Green
in Love and War.
By Mead and Stream.

Heart's Delight. [Preparing.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Loving a Dream. | A Hard Knot.

Gilbert (William), Novels by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Ccstermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains — The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and Galatea
— Charity — The Princess — The
Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains — Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen — Dan'l Bruce — Tom Cobb —
H.M.S. Pinafore— The Sorcerer— The
Pirates of Penzance.

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
by \V. S. Gilbert. Containing:
The Sorcerer— H.M.S. "Pinafore"
• — The pirates of Penzance — loathe
Patience — Princess Ida — The
Mikado — Trial by Jury. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Blenny. — A Year's Work In

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Blenny. Post Svo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Godwin. — Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Golden Library, The:

Square i6mo(Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Chub.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's V^'hims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

XI

Golden Library, confined.

Alloy's (Sip Thomas) Most
d'Arthup: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes,byT.M'CRiE,D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hunt.

Shelley's Late Poems: Lion and
Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the
Shelley Papers, &c,

Shelley's Prose Works, including A
Refutation ol Deism, Zastrozzi, St.
Irvine, &c. ^^^

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The: An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown Svo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo," picture cover, Is.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. 545 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edit., demy Svo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Greensward (Kate) and Bret
Harte. — The Queen of the Pirate
Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25
original Drawings by Kate Greens
Reproduced in Colour's by E.
Evans. Sm. 4to, bds., 5s. shortly.

Greenwood (James), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Ss. 63. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fis h to be Found d There.

Dick Temple: A N )vel. Post Svo,
i 1 1 us t r a t t-.d boards, 2s.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor.

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 43, 6d.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
PiNCUS. Crown Svo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d .

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of the Mo prow.
The Serpent Play.

Maiden Ecstasy.
extra, 83.

Small 4to, cloth

Hall.— Sketches of h-'ish Character.
By Airs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikskank. Medium Sro,
cloth extra, gilt, 73. 6d .

Holiday.— Everyday Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23 ^

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory

Text. By Don Felix de

S A L A M A nca. Post Svo , cl. limp, 2s. 6d .

HankyPanky: A Collection of
Very EasyTricks,Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extras. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus). — Paul

Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post Svo, illust.
bo arts, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas). — Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Haywood. — The Tenth Ear!.

By J. Berwick Haywood. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23^

Hawes (Mrs. H. R.), Works by -.

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small Svo, illustrated
cover, Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6'd.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extras
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts. 6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, lOs. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. N(nv
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy 8vo
cloth limp, 2s. cii. '

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hav/eis(Rev. H. R.).— American

Humorists. Including; Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward, Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R, Haweis, M.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Hav/thopne(JLiiian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth eN-tra, 33. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Garth. I Sebastian Stroke.

Ellice Question. | Dust.

Prince Saroni's Wife.

Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. od. each.

Miss Madonna.

Love — or a Name.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. bvo, illustrated cover, Is.

Hays.— Women of the Day: A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Heath (F. G.). — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, Cs. ; cl. gilt, gilt edges, 63.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social Pr assure.

Ivan de Biron: A Novel. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 33. 6d.; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Heptalogia (The) ; or. The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B,
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth, 183.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 33. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, Nev Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy Svo, cloth extra,
14s. (./» prep lira t ion.

Herbert. — The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.
Crown Svo, bound in parchment, 83.

Hindley (Charles), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings: In
eluding the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Holy.— The Lover's Creed.

By Mrs. Castel Holy. With Fron(-:s-
piece P. Macnab. New and Cheaper
Edit. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by:

The Autocrat of the Breakfasts
Illustrated by J, Gordon
Thomson. Post Svo, cloth limp,
23. 6d. — Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Holmes. — The Science of

Voice Production and Voice Preservation
: A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth, l3. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post Svo, cloth li:-^p, 23.

Hood (Tom), Works by:

From Nowhere to the North Pole:

A Noah's Arkoe logical Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.
A Golden Heart: A Novel. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous

Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures, Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Illusts. Cr. Svo. cl, extra, gilt, 73, 6'^



Hooper, — The House of Ray :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Poorer.
Post 8vo, illustrated boat Js, 23.

Hopkins—" 'Twixt Love and

Duty:" A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Hope.— Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
HoRNE. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73.

Howell.— Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered: Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
oi Great Britain. By Geo. Howell
M.P. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hugo. — The Hunchback of

Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Hunt. — Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Thornicroft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

Seif Condemned

That other Person. Three Vols.,
crown Svo. [shortly.

Indoor Paupers. By One of

Them. Crown Svo, is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Angelo.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post Svo, cloth limp,
23. 6d.

Irving — Tales of a Traveller.

By ^VA'^HI^■GTON Irving. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 23.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by:

The Dark Colleen. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, £-3.

The Queen of Connaught. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6(1.; post Svo,
illustrated boards. 23.

Janvier.— Practical Keramlcs

for students. By Catherine A.
J A., V her. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.
Nature near London.
The Life of the Fields.
The Open Air.

Jennings (Hargrave). — The

Roslcrucians: Their Rites and Mysteries.
With Chapters on the Ancient
Fire and Serpent Worshippers. By
Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.
A New Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. With a Photograph-portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Ferrol (Tom), Works by :

Post Svo, Is. each ; cloth, Is. 6d. each.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants

we Grove, and How we Cook Them.

Jesse. — Scenes and Occupations

of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Jeux esprit. Collected and
Edited by Henry S. Leigh. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations: A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred illustrations


Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown Svo,
cloth extra, Pisa. ; or separately, 62. each,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Jossphus.TheCompleteWopks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews" and "The Wars of the Jews'*
Two Vols,, 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 143.

Kempt. — Pencil and Palette :

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Kershaw. — Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

King (R. Ashe), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Drawn Game.
"Time Wearing of tine Green."

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by:

Oaksfiott Castle. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 33. 6 d.

Knight.— The Patient's Vade

iViecum : How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice, By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth. Is. 6d.

Lamb (Charles):
Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose

and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s, 6d

The Essays of Ella, Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 23.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 53.

Little Essays: Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lares and Penates; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Gs.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3 3. 6d.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d, each,
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatrical Anecdotes.

Lane's Arabian Nights, Sec:

I he Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Arabian Society in the IVliddle Ages:
Studies from " The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Life in London ; or, The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
73. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

The True Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Lean Dunham
The World Well Lost,
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread,
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! " j lone,

Longfellow:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. Gd. each,
Longfellow's Complete Prose Works,
Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
" Kavanagh," "The Poets and
Poetry of Europe, "and "Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley,
Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,
Dietetic, and General Guide in
Health and Disease. By N. E.
Davies, L.R.C.P, Crown Svo, 23. ;
cloth limp, 23= 6d,



Lucy.— Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. ed.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s.

Machine. — Teresa Itasca,

and other Stories. By Avery machine.
Crown Svo, bound in canvas,

McCarthy (Justin, i\/I.P.),Wori<s

by:

A History of Ouf Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of 18B0. Four
Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. — Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 6s each.

A Short History of Soup Own Times.
One Vol., crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 123.
each. [Vol. I. now ready.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6cl. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Watergate Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon. I Miss Misanthrope.
Linley Rochford. I Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.

Camilla: A Girl with a Fortune.
New and Cheaper Edition. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 33. Cd.

"The Right Honourable:" A Romance
of Society and Politics. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs.
Campbell - Prayed. Three Vols.,
crown Svo.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),

V/or'KS by:
An Outlines the History of Ireland,

from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

A History of Ireland from the Union
to the Introduction of Mr. Gladstone's
Bill. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
6s. [/'« ic press.

England under Gladstone, 1880-85.
Second Edition, revised and brought
down to the Fall of the Gladstone
Administration. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 63.

McCarthy (Justin H.), continued —
Doom ! An Atlantic Episode. Crown

Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. McCarthy. Crown Svo,

Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Hafiz in London. Choicely printed.

Small Svo, gold cloth, 3s. 6d.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :
The Princess and Curdle. With 11

Illustrations by James Allen. Small

crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.
Guttapercha Willie, the Working

Genius. With 9 Illustrations by

Arthur Hughes. Square Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.

Works of Fancy and Imagination.

Pocket Edition, Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 21s. Vol. i.
Within and Without. The Hidden
Life.— Vol. 2. The Disciple.
The Gospel Women. A Book of
Sonnets. Organ Songs. — Vol. 3.
Violin Songs. Songs of the Days
AND Nights. A Book of Dreams.
Roadside Poems. Poems for
Children. Vol. 4. Parables.
Ballads. Scotch Songs.— Vols.
5 and 6. Phantasies: A Faerie
Romance. — Vol. 7. The Portent. —
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows. — Vol.
9. Cross Purposes. The Golden
Key. The Carson. Little
Daylight. — Vol. 10. The Cruel
Painter. The Wow o' Riven.
The Castle. The Broken Swords.
The Gray Wolf. Uncle Corne
Lies. Ready

The Volumes are also sold separately
in Grolier-pattern cloth, 2s. 6d. each.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. Millais.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate. With a
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.

Macdonald. — Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor, Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. Gd.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Cl-characters;
with Memoirs — Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal— illustrative
ol the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Mackay. — Interludes and Undertones:
or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

d'Arthup : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d, each.

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid.

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost Rose.

Magician's Own Book (The) :

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 4s. 6d .

Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown Svo. Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
em blazoned in Gold and C colours. Es.

MaTlock (W. H.), Works~b7i

The New Republic ; or. Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s,

The New Paul and Virginia ; or. Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 8s.

Is Life worth Living? Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 63.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s.6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open ! Sesame !
Written in Fire

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman. — Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. Gd.

The Innocents Abroad ; or. The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by
F. A. Eraser. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. Gd.

The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 212 Illustrations by T. Coppin.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With III Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
—Cheap Edition, post 8vo,illustrated
boards, 2s.

The stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

t?

Mark Twain's Works, continued —
Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 73. 61.— Cheap Edition, post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Massinger's Plays. From the
Text of William Gifford. Edited

cloth extra, 6s.

Matthews.— A Secret of the

Sea, &.C. By Brander Matthews.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23 ; cloth,

93 Crl

.23. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6cl. per Volume.

A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maitre. Translated
by Henry Attwell.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W
Davenport Ai:!.\ms.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams.

The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an
Introduction, by Alice Clay.

Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular
Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin,

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.
Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bf,c.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea— Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing : Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce — Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Mayfair Library, continued —

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry

J. Jennings.
The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from
his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.

Forensic Anecdotes; or. Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men of
Law. By Jacob Atwood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Jeux esprit, Edited by Henry S.
Leigh.

True History cf Joshua Davidson
By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Ourselves: Essays on Women. By
E. Lynn Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia By
W. H. Matlock.

New Republic. By W. H. Matlock.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-
ley-penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-
mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by
George Du Maurier.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.
Cholmondeley-Fennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By
H. A. Page.

Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Retold. By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Mathew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
L.R.C.P. Lord. Cr. 8vo, Is,; cl., l8.6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Meppy Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 43. Qd.

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex. E. Sweet and
J. Army Knox, Editors of " Texas
Sittings." With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

iviiddlemass (Jean), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Touch and Go.
Mr. Dorillion.

Miller. — Physiology fop the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Miller. Small 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d

Milton (J. L), Works by:

Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d each.

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise

Set of Rules for the Management of

the Skin; with Directions for Diet,

Wines. Soaps, Baths, &c.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.

The Laws of Life, and their Relation

to Diseases of the Skin.

Moleswopth (Mrs). — Hathep-

court Rectory. By Mrs. Moles-worth,
Author of "The Cuckoo
Clock," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Muppay (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo,cloth extra, 3s. 6(1. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement.

A IVlodei Father.

Joseph's Coat.

Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.

Val Strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the Word.

A Bit of Human Nature.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Ss. 6d. each.
First Person Singular: A Novel.

With a Frontispiece by Arthur

Hopkins.
Cynic Fortune: A Tale of a I^Ian with

a Conscience. With a Frontispiece

by R. Canon Goodwill e.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.
Commons Carr. Illustrated by Randolph
Caldecott. Square 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J,
Moor Smith. Post 8vo, cl, extra," 5s,

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N,
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is
cloth, Is. 6d.

O'Connor. — Lord Beaconsfield

A Biography. ByT. P. O'Connor, M. P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface,
bringing the work down to the Death
of Lord Beaconsfield. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

O'Hanlon. — The Unforeseen:

A Novel. By Alice O'Hanlon. New
and Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by
Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Primrose Path.

The Greatest Heiress in England.

Reilly.— Phoebe's fortunes:

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

O'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 73. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. each ; post 8vo, illus-each.


treated boards, 2s.
Held in Bondage.
Stratford.
Chances.
Under Two Flags.
Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Italia.
Tricotrln.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

Signa,

In a Winter City

Ariadne

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi.

In Maremma

Wands.

Frescoes.

Princess Naprax*
fine.



OuiDA, Novels by, continued —
Othman: Novel. Cheaper Edition.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.
Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected

from the Works of Ouida by F.

Sydney Morris. Small crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 5s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With a Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d,

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Principle. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 5s. [Shortly.

Parliamentary Elections and

Electioneering in the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures ot
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of " Rowlandson and his Works,"
The Life of Gillray," &c. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, with a Frontispiece
coloured by hand, and nearly 100
Illustrations, 163. One Hundred Large
Paper Copies (each numbered) have
also been prepared, price 3 2s. each.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s^

Patient's (f he) Vade M ec u m :

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By William Knight,
M.R.C.S,, and Edward Knight,
L.R.C.P. Cro wn 8vo, Is.; cloth, ls.6d.

Paurperroll :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul FeiToIl: A Novel,
W hy Pa ul Ferrolll Ki lied his Vv^ife.

Paul.— Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated board s. 2s.

Pay n (J am es), Novel s by.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Lost Sir IVlassingberd.
The Best of Husbands.
Walter's Word. | Halves.
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than vje're Painted.
By Proxy. I High Spirits.

Under One Roof. I Carlyon's Year.

Pain (James), Novels by, continued —

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only. | From Exile.

Kit: A Memory.

The Can on's Ward.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor. Murphy's Master.

Fallen Fortunes.

A County Family. | At Her Fv^ercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The ClyfTards of ClyfTe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gv/endoiine's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hun died Pounds R edward.

In Peril and derivation : Stories ot
Marine Adventure Re-told. A Book
for Boys. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth gil, 63.

The Talk of the Town: A Novel.
With Twelve Illustrations by Harry
Furnish. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

The Fly on the Wheel : Humorous
Papers. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
6s, [In the press .

Pears. — The Present Depression
in Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(of One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
Goodby and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F.S.A., F.S.S. Demy Svo, Is.

Penned! (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.
Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten fuil-

page lusts. by G. Du Maurier.
The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de

Societe, Selected and Edited by H.

C. Penned,

Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each,
beyond the Gates. By the Author

of " The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise.
Burglars in Paradise. [Shortly,

Plrkls (Mrs. C. L.), Novels by:

Trooping with Crows. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is.
Lady Lovelace, Post Svo, illustrated

boards, 2s. 'preparing.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Pfanch6 (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 66

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Tv/o Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 61.

Roe (Edgar Allan:—

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post 8vo. illust.bds.,23.

Popes Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 23.

Prayed (Mrs. Campbell) "The

Right Honourable'' A Romance of
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M.P. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Valentine. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Plan caster's Rival .
Gerald. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by ;

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illusts.
Small crown Svo, cloth extra, 43. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
'^ Familiar Science Studies. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illusts. Cr. 8vo. cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crow n Svo, I s. 6d.

PyrotechnTst'sTreasu ry (T h e) ;

or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 4?. Gd.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson.— Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown Svo, cloth gilt,
numerous Illusts., and a beautifully
executed Chart of Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles), Novels by:

Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, illustrated,3s.6d.

each ; DOst 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. each.
Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L.

Fildes, a. R.A.
Christie Johnstonee, Illustrated by

William Small.
It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. PiNWELL.
The Course of True Love Never did

run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen

Paterson.
The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack

of all Trades; and James Lambert.

Illustrated by Mate Stretch.
Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.
The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir

John Gilbert, R.A.,andC. Keene.
The Cloister and the Hearth. Ils

illustrated by Charles Keene.
Hard Cash. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.
Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.

Fildes, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.
Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.
Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.
A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated

by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by

H. Paterson, S. L. Fildes, Ar. A. ,

C. Green, and H. Woods, A.R.A.
A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate

Crawford.
A Woman-hater. Illustrated by

Thos. Coulter.
Singleheart and Doubleface: A

Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated

by P. Macnab.
Good Stories of Men and other

Animals. Illustrated byE. A. Abbey,

Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.
Theist, and other Stories. Illustrated

by Joseph Nash.
Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait

of Charles Reade.

Readers Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Filth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth e:-:tra, 73. 61.

Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ridded (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party
Weird Stories.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square 8vo, cloth gilt, 103.61 each.
Our Old Country Towns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

With 50 Illustrations.
About England v/ith Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoof.

Robinson Crusoe: A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra a, 7s. 6d.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6(1. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The Poets' Birds.

The Poets' Beasts.

Poets' Nature al History. [Prepare ng.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 5s.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puna n a. Prof usely Illustrated.

Runciman (James), Stories by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each;

cloth limp, 2s 6d each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart

Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each ; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Round the Galley-Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head : A Collection
of Yarn s and Sea Descry nations.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.
In the Middle Watch.
A Voyage to the Cape .

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight

By George Augustus Sala. Posh
Svo, illustrated board s, 2s.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the

Sanson Family (i5S8 to 1S47). Edited

b y H enrySanson. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.3s.6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

One Ag-just the World.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion in the Path.

The Two Dreamers.

Saunders katharine), Novels

by. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Joan Merryweather.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The Hi gh Mills.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.
Gideon's Rock.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated

Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
6s. per year, post free. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XXI. (i8S5\ at 5s. each.
Cases for Binding g, Is. 6d. each.

Scott (Sir Walter), Poems by :

Marmion. With over 100 new Illustrations
by leading Artists. Small
4to, cloth extra. 163.

The Lay of the Last Minstrel. With
over 100 new Illustrations by leading
Artists. Sm.4to, cl.ex.,163. Short w

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
4s. 6d. each.
The Secret Out : One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations;
with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or "White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Secret Out " Series, continued-the
Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or.

Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Graceful Arts,Games,Tricks,Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww.
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. Many Illusts.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Senior.— By Stream and Sea.

By William Senior. Post 8vo, cloth
1 mp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Shakespeare:

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.

V/iLLiAM Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. — A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moor Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
rom the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time, By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vOj cloth esLr^ 83,

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s. ;
or separately, 2s. each. Vol. I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c., v/ith an Introduction by Leigh
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems,the Shelley Papers,
&c. ; Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi. St. Irvine, &c.

Sheridan: —

Sheridan's Complete Works, with
Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and 10 full-page Illusts.
Demy 8vo, half-parchment. 12s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

V/ith Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A.
Demy 8vo, cloth ext ra, 7s. 6d.

S ! d n e y ' s7S \v~P h i I i p ) C o m p I e te

Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c., by the Rev,
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols.,

crown 8vo, cloth boards, 18s.

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Rotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (George R.), Works by : ~

How the Poor Live. V/ith 60 Illusts.

by Fred. Barnard. Large 4to, Is.
Rogues and Vagabonds. Post Svo,

illust. boards, 2s.; cloth limp, 2s Gd.
The Ring o' Bells. Post 8vo, illust.

bds., 2s. ; cloth, 23. Sd.

Sketches— A iVia.tch in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

S 1 an g~D 1 ct i o n army ,^T hee : Etymological.

Historical, and Anecdotal,
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moor), Works by :

The Prince of .Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small Svo,
cloib extra, with 130 Lusts., 3s. cl.



Smith (J. Moor), Works by, continued—
Tales of Old Thus. With numerous

Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt.Gs.
The Wooing of the Water "Witch:
A Northern Oddity. With numerous
illustrations. Small 8vo, cl, ex., 6s.

Society in London. By A

Foreign Resident. New and Cheaper
Edition, Revised, with an Additional
Chapter on Society among the
Middle and Professional Classes.
Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Spalding.-Elizabethan 

: An Essay in Illustration oi the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by them. By T.
Spalding, LL.B. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 5s.

Spanish Legendary Tales. By

Mrs. S. G. C. MiDDLEMORE, Author of
'• Round a Posada Fire." Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:

The Mysteries of Heron Dyke,

With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen

Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,

Ss. ci. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

A Barren Title. Cr.8vo, Is. ; cl., ls.6cl.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Colour ed Illustrations, cloth gilt, 63.

Staunton. — Lave's and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Gaines. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B. World. New
Edition, small cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Seaman. — The Poets of

America. With full Notes in Margin,
and careful Analytical Index. By
Edmund Clarence Seaman, Author
of " Victorian Poets." Cr. Svo.cl. ex., 93.

Stern dale. — T h e Afg h an K n if e :

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr, 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post
8vo, illust rated boards, 23.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :
Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Fifth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s. 6(1.
An Inland Voyage. With Front, by

W. Crane. Post Svo, cl, Ip., 2s. 6d.
Virginius Puerlsque, and other

Papers. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Familiar Studies of iVlen and Books.

Second Edit, Crown Svo, cl. ex., 6s,
New Arabian Nights. Crown Svo,

cl. extra, 6s. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.
The Silvered Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cheap Edition, post Svo, picture

cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d,

Stevenson (R, Louis), continued—

Prince Otto: A Romance. Fourth

Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Merry iVlen, and other Tales and

tables. Cr. Svo,cl. ex.,6s. [Shortly.

St. John. — A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Stoddard. — Summer Cruising

in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
Mackay. Crown Syo, cl. extr.i. 3s. 6(1.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice ZiM-
Men. Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, Ss. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

St. Pierre, — Paul and V i rg i n i a^

and The India-in Cottage. By Bernardin
St. Pierre. Edited, with Life,
by Rev E. Clarke. Post Svo, cl.lp ,2s.

Stputt's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c.,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited
by William Hone. Crown Svo, cloth
ex tra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.Svo,cl.ex.,7s.6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose
and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
The Queen Mother and Rosamond

Fcap. Svo, 53.
Atlanta in Corydon. Crown Svo, 6s.
Chastened. AATragedy. Cr. Svo, 7s.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. Svo, 93. Cr. Svo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. Svo, 9s. Cr. Svo, same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. 8vo,l3.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr. Svo, lCs.6d.
Bothwell: AATragedy. Cr.8vo,12s.6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

Svo, 7s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown Svo, 12s.
Erechtheus: AATragedy. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, Ig.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Swinburne's (A. C.) Works, continued —

Note on Charlotte Bronze. C^r.Svo, 6s.

A Study of Shakespeare. Cr. Svo, 8s.

Songs of the Springtide. Cr.Svo, 6s.

Studies in Song. Crown Svo, 7s.

Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr, Svo, 8s.

Tristan of Lioness, and other
Poems. Crown Svo, 9s.

Century of Roundels. Small 4to, 8s.

A Midsummer Holiday, and other
Poems. Crown Svo, 7s.

Marino Falter: AATragedy. Cr.Svo, 6s.

A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. 8vo,6s.
Miscellanies. Crown Svo, 12s.

Symonds. — Wine, Women and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students'
vents. Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small Sv o , parch went, 6s.

Syntax's (Dp.) Three Tours :

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
H often. M ed. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

T ain e's Hi st o ry of E ng 1 J s h

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small Svo,
cloth boards, sos.— Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 15s.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post Svo, cl. limp, 28 .

Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works

by. Crown Svo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d. each.

he Sagacity and Morality of
Plants : A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
ColouredFrontispiece and loo Illust.

Cur Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them: A Handbook
f or Student ts. Wit h 331 I illustrations.

Taylor's "(^omj "Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The
Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and Passion*'
One Vol., cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
*^,* The Plays may also be had sepa-

r,it,5!y, at Is. each.

Tennyson (Lordyi A~^Biogra-
phicai Sketch. By H. J. Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
8 V o , cloth extra , 6s.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading'. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 73. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida. | Proud Maisie.

The Violin-Piayep.

Thomas (M.).— A Fight for Life :

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Vv^ood, Crown Svo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s, 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairport, F.S.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellows Academicians.
With numerous Illusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Old stories Re-told. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Times (John), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
In London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men ot
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, S3. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. I Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The Land-Leaguers.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Candidate. | American Senator

Trollope(FrancesE.), Novels by

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

Mabel's Progress. ( Anne Furness.



Trollope. A.).— Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post 8vo,
i illustrated boards . 2s.

Trowbridge.— Parnell's Foamy:

A Novel. By J. T. Trowbridge. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 25.

Turgenieff. — Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
^ 33. 6d.; post 8vo, il illustrated boards, 2s.

Tatler (C. C. Fraser). — Mistress

Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, ill st. boards, 2s.

Tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Sd. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Wliat She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast. With a
Frontispiece by P. Macnab.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Noblesse Oblige. With Illustrations

by F, A. Eraser.
Citoyenne Jacqueline. Illustrated

by A. B. Houghton.
The Huguenot Family. With Illusts.
Lady Bell. Front, by R. Macbeth.

Buried Diamonds: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By II, Van Laun. Three
Vols., demy Svo, cl. bds. , 7s. 6d. each.

Villars. — A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villars. Fcap.
Svo, picture cover, Is.

Stafford (Edw., !VI.A.),Works by :

The County Families the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty sixth Annual Edition,
for 1S86, cloth gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth, Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1886).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c, same,
cloth. I3.

Walford's (Edw.) Works, co;!//«;/f.i'—

The Shilling Knightage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32ino,c!.,ls.

The Shilling House of Commons
(1886). Containing a List of all the
Members of Parliament, their Town
and Country Addresses, &c. Neve'
Edition, embodying the results of
the recent General Election. 32mo,
cloth. Is. Published annually.

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1886). In One Volume,
royal 32 mo, cloth extra, gi lt edges, 53.

Haunted London. By Vv'alter

Tkornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairport, F.S.A. Crown
Svo, cloth e extra, 7s. 6d.

Walton and Cotton'sComplete

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicolas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crow n 8v o, cl both ant que, 7s. 6d.

Walt Whitman,^Poems~by.

Selected and edited, with an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown 8vo, printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram,
63^

Wanderer's Library, The

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or. Life
among the Ostrich-Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden Time
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by P.OBT. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. Ev
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued —

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings:
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With lusts.

The Genial Showman : Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. ByE. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners :
Memoirs of the Sanson Family (1688
to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.

Summer Cruising In the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.
Illustrated by Wallis Mac kay .

Warner. — A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Warrants, fcc. : —
Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 23.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
ot the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Price 6s.

WeatherVHovv^to Foretell the,

with the Pocket Spectroscope. By

F. W. Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
See. &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain ; or, History of
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List ot
Marks, Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. cl.

Whistler's (Mr.) "Ten o'clock."

Uniform with his " Whistler v. Ruskin :
Ar t and Art Critics." Cr.Svo,ls.[S/io;-i'/.v .

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),

Works by ;
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 73. Gd.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 23. 6d.
The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

8vo, c loth extra, 6s.

Wilson (DrTXndrew, F.R.S.E.),

Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Third Edition. Crown Svo", cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. Gd.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., with Illusts,, 6s.

Studies in Life and Sense. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, Gs. \ Preparing.

Common Accidents, and How to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth
limp, l3. Gd.

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Cavalry Life. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

Regimental Legends. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

V\/ood.^^Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post 8vo, ill st. bds., 2s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases":

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and

Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer

Edwards. New and cheaper issue,

cr. 8vo,cl. ex., 75. Gd. ; half-bound, 9 s.

Wright (Thomas), Works byT

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 7s. Gd. each,
Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c.
History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illus acted b y Few. Fa i rho lt.F.S.A.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Castaway. ! The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.



Three-volume NOVELS IN THE PRESS.

MRS, HUNT'S NEW NOVEL.
That other Person : A Novel. By Mrs.
Alfred Hunt, Author of " Thorns
Model'' "The Leaden Casket,"
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

GRANT ALLEN'S NEW NOVEL.
\n all Shades: A Novel. By Grant
Allen, Author of " Strange Stories,"
"Philistia," "Babylon," &c. Three
Vols., crown 8vo.

WILKIE COLLINS'S NEW NOVEL.
The Evil Genius: A Novel. By Wilkie

Collins, Author of "The Woman in

White." Three Vols., crown 8vo.

WALTER BESANTS NEW NOVEL,
Children of Gibeon: A Novel. By
Walter Besant, Author of " All Sorts
and Conditions of Men," "Dorothy
Forster," &c. Three Vols., crown
8vo.

HALL CAINE'S NEW NOVEL.
A Son of Hagar: A Novel. By T. Hall Caine, Author of "The Shadow oi a
Crime," &c. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

.Popular Stories by the Best Authors. Library Editions, many Illustrated,
crown 8ro, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow?

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Philistia.

BY BASIL.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.

Ready-money Mortify.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft.

This Son of Vulcan.

With Harp and Crown

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay,

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.
BY WALTER BESANT.

All Sorts and Conditions of Men.

The Captains' Room

All in a Garden Fair

Dorothy Forster.

Uncle Jack.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,

A Child of Nature.

God and the Man.

The Shadow of the Sword.

The Martyrdom of Madeline.

Love Mc for Ever.

Annann Water. I The New Abelard.

Matt. I Foxj^Iove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.
BY HALL CAINE.

The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.

Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS,
Blacksmith and Scholar*.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles
Hearts of Gold

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J LEITH DERWENT
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. I Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Queen Cophetua. I A Real Queen.
One by One. |

Prefaced by Sir Battle Free.
Pandurang Harl.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capet Girls.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BV

Piccadilly Novels, conHnue4 —
BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. | For Lack of Gold.
What v/ill the World Say?
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
TheGoldenShaft.lOf High Degree.
Fancy Free. Loving a Dream.

A Hard Knot. 1 Fancy Free.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. | Ellice Question.

Sebastian Stroma.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust. I Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph.
Miss Madonna.
Love — or a Name.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. CASH EL Holy,
The Lover's Creed.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self Condemned.

BY JEAN INGE LOW,
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught

BY HENRY KINGS LEY,
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World V/ell Lost.
Under which Lord P
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
"My Love!" I lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

The Watergate Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

Linley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope. | DonnaQuIxote

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Camilla.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written in Fire
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. I Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Val Strange.

A Model Father. I Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Parson Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massing 1 A Confidential

herd.
Best of Husbands

Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Hep
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
Carlyon's Year.

BY E. C.

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Some Private

Views.
Kit: A Memory.
The Canon's

Ward. [Town.
The Talk of the
PRICE.

Valentine. | The Foreigners

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend,
Hard Cash.
Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt. | Foui Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir, I A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. j Readiana.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.
BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's GardenParty.
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON,
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
Two Dreamers.
One Against the World.
The Lion In the Path.



Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweathep.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Roche. I Heart Salvage.
The High Civilis. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS,
Proud Aisle. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way we Live Now.
Frau Frohmann. ] Marion Fay.
Kept In the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and ths Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.
The Huguenot Family.
Lady Bell.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY y. S. WINTER.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF

Post 8vo, illustrated
BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Carr of Carrion. I Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow P
Valerie's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN,
Strange Stories.
Philistia.

BY BASIL.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."
BY SH ELS LEY BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortlboy.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.

POPULAR NOVELS.

boards, 23. each.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.
Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Convoy. J Flip.
Maruja.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
The Shadow of I The Martyrdom

the Sword. | of Madeline.

A Child of Nature. I Annann Water.
God and the Man. I 1 he New Abelard
Love Me for Ever, j Matt.
Foxglove Manor. I

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian

BY MACLAREN COBBAN,
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS,
The Bap Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonina. | Queen of Hearts.

Basil. My Miscellanies.

Hide and Seek. Woman in White.
The Dead Secret. I The Moonstone.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued —
WiLKiE Collins, continued.

Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No."

Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs.?
Hqvj Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
Law and the Lacey.
TheTwo Destinies

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. I From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky
Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. I Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. 1 Nicholas Nickleby

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. I Archie Lovell
BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. 1 Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. I Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street,
The Lady of Ransome.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. 1 A Real Queen.
Prefaced by Sir H. Battle Free.
Pandurang Hard.

BY MAIN FRISIVELL,
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capet Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
CHARLES GIBBON.

The Flower of the
Forest.

A Heart's Problem

The Braes of Yarrow.


The Golden Shaft

Of High Degree.

Fancy Free.

By Mead and
Stream.

Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
What will the

World Say
In Honour Bound.
In Love and War.
For the King.
In PasturesGreen
Queen of the meadows.


BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW Holiday,
Every-Day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Vv'ynter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY y. BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

Ellice Quentln. j Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.

BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. CASH EL Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER,
The House of Ray.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN INGE LOW.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY,
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK Persia W.
Colonial Facts and Fictions.

BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World V/ell Lost.
Under which Lord ?



Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
Lynn Linton, continued —
Vv'ith a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

Dear LadyDlsdain
The Watepdale

Neighbours.
Ivy Enemy's

Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford.
MissIVlisanthrope
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a

Season.
Maid of Athens.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Qualms Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.

Open! Sesame I A Little Stepson.

A Harvest of Vv'ild Fighting the Air

Oats. I Written in Fire.

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.
BY BRANDER MATTHEWS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion.
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.

Val Strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the

World.
A Bit of Human

Nature.

ALIfe'sAtonement
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coats of Fire.
By theGate-ofthe
Sea.

BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT,
Whiteiadies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phcsbe's Fortunes.

BY QUID A.

Held in Bondage.

Strath more.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Id alia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Tricotrin.
Tuck.

File Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.
Signa.

TwoLittlsWooden
Shoes.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrallo.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi.

In Ma.rem.ma.
1 Wands.
I Frescoes.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued —
BY MARGARET AGNES Rail.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Like Father, Like

Son.
A Marino Residence.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Wen.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under On . Roof.
High Spi;^ii3.
Carlyon's "lear.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Kit: A Memory.
The Canon sward

Princess Napraxine.

Lost Si!" Massing
bert.

A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's 1 rest.

ClytTards of Clyffe

The FarnilyScape-
grace.

Foster brothers.

Found Dead.

Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her

HumorousStories

Gwendolen's Harvest.


£200 Reward.

BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentine. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
Gerald.

BY CHARLES READE.
it is Never Too Late to Mend
Hard Cash. ] Peg V/ofiington.

Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Mo Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton. I A Woman-hater.
Readiana. | The Jilt.

Singleheart and Dcubieface.
Good Stories of Men and ether
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Weird Stories.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Viator.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

BY F. W. ROBINSON,
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO cs WINDUS.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY JAMES RUNCIMAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
BY ]V. CLARK RUSSELL.
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS,
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS,
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High Mills.

BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON, p
New Arabian Nights. ^

Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Aisle.

The Violin-Player.

BY IV. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORN BURY.
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frail Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.
The Golden Lion of Granpcre.
John Candidate.
By ERA Ces ELEANOR TROLLOPE
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY J. T. TROWBRIDGE.
Parnell's Folly.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY MARK Tv A IN.
Tom Sawyer.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.
Huckleberry Finn.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler,
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrolll.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed hia Wife.

POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Dy

Bret Harte,
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. Ey

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Policy Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

PiRKIS.

The Professor's Wife. By Leonard

Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco.
The Garden that Paid the Rcr.l.

By Tom Ferrol.
Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman.
Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps.
An Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S.

PntLPS.
Burglars in Paradise. ByE. Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. MacCartky, ^LP.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.V.
A Barren Title. By T. W. Speight.
The Silvered Squatters. By R.

Louis Stevenson.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, 2g, 3O AND 3I, GREAT

saffron K!L!

«»
